E : 303 Robin Hood and the Bishop . SHOWING How Robin Hood went to and Old Woman's House , and changed Clothes with her , to escape from the Bishop : And how he robbed him of all his Gold , and made him Sing Mass. To the Tune of , Robin Hood and the Stranger . COme Gentlemen all , and listen a while ; with heigh down , down and a down ; And a story I'le to you unfold , I'll tell you how Robin Hood served the Bishop When he robb'd him of his Gold . As it fell o [ ut ] in a Sunshining day , with a heigh , etc When Phoebus was in his prime ; then Robin Hood , that Archer good , In mirth would spend some time . And as he walked the Forest along , with a heigh , etc Some Pastime for to spy , there was he aware of a proud Bishop , And all his Company . O what shall I do , said Robin Hood then ? with a heigh , etc If the Bishop he does take me , no mercy he'l show , unto me I know , But Hanged shall I be . Then Robin was stout , and turned him about , with a heigh , etc And a little House there he did spy : and to and Old Wife , for to save his life , He aloud began to cry . Why , who art thou , said the Old Woman , with a heigh , etc Come tell it to me for good , I am and Out-Law , as many do know , My Name it is Robin Hood . And yonders the Bishop and all his men , with a heigh , etc And if that I taken be , then day and night , he'l work me spite , And hanged shall I be . If thou be Robin Hood , then said the Old wife with a heigh , etc As thou dost seem to me ; I'le for thee provide , and thee I will hide , From the Bishop and his Company : For I remember on Saturday night , with a heigh , etc Thou bought me both Shoes and Hose : therefore I'le provide . thy person to hide , And keep thee from thy Foes . Then give me soon thy Coat of Grey , with hey down , down and a down . And take thou my Mantle of Green ; thy Spindle and Twine , unto me resign , And take thou my Arrows so keen . ANd when that Robin Hood was thus arrayed with hey down down and a down , He went straight to his Company , with his Spindle and Twine , he oft look'd behind , For the Bishop & his company . O who is yonder , quoth Little John , with a heigh down , etc That now comes over the Lee : and Arrow at her I will let fly , So like and Old Witch looks she . O hold thy hand , hold thy hand , said Robin then with heigh , etc And shoot not thy Arrows so keen , I am Robin Hood , thy Master good , And quickly it shall be seen . The Bishop he came to the Old Woman's house , with heigh , etc And he called with furious mood , come let me soon see , and bring unto me , That Traitor Robin Hood . The Old Woman he set on a Milk White Steed , with heigh , etc Himself on a Dapple Gray , and for joy he had god Robin Hood , He went laughing all the way . But as they were Riding the Forest along with heigh , etc The Bishop he chanced for to see , a hundred brave Bowmen bold , Stand under the Greenwood tree . O who is yonder , the Bishop then said , with heigh , etc That's ranging within yonder Wood ? marry says the old woman , I think it to be A man call'd Robin Hood . Why , who art thou , the Bishop he said , with heigh , etc Which I have here with me ? why I am a woman , thou Cuckoldly Bishop Lift up my Leg and see . Then woe is me , the Bishop he said , with heigh , etc That ever I saw this day , he turned him about , but Robin Hood is stout , Call'd him and bid him stay . Then Robin took hold of the Bishops Horse , with heigh , etc And ty'd him fast to a Tree : then Little John , smil'd his Master upon , For joy of his Company . Robin Hood took his Mantle from's back , with heigh , etc And spread it upon the Ground , and out of the Bishops Portmantle , he Soon told five hundred pound . Now let him go , said Robin Hood ; with heigh , etc Said Little John that may not be , for I vow & protest he shall sing us a Mass , Before that he go from me . Then Robin Hood took the Bishop by'th hand with heigh , etc And bound him fast to a Tree , and made him sing a Mass , God-wot , To him and his Yeomanry . And when they brought him thorough the wood with hey down , down and a down . And set him on his Dapple Gray , and gave the Tail within his hand , And bade him for Robin Hood pray . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . E : 303 Robin Hood and the Bishop . SHOWING How Robin Hood went to and Old Woman's House , and changed Clothes with her , to escape from the Bishop : And how he robbed him of all his Gold , and made him Sing Mass. To the Tune of , Robin Hood and the Stranger . COme Gentlemen all , and listen a while ; with heigh down , down and a down ; And a story I'le to you unfold , I'll tell you how Robin Hood served the Bishop When he robb'd him of his Gold . As it fell o [ ut ] in a Sunshining day , with a heigh , etc When Phoebus was in his prime ; then Robin Hood , that Archer good , In mirth would spend some time . And as he walked the Forest along , with a heigh , etc Some Pastime for to spy , there was he aware of a proud Bishop , And all his Company . O what shall I do , said Robin Hood then ? with a heigh , etc If the Bishop he does take me , no mercy he'l show , unto me I know , But Hanged shall I be . Then Robin was stout , and turned him about , with a heigh , etc And a little House there he did spy : and to and Old Wife , for to save his life , He aloud began to cry . Why , who art thou , said the Old Woman , with a heigh , etc Come tell it to me for good , I am and Out-Law , as many do know , My Name it is Robin Hood . And yonders the Bishop and all his men , with a heigh , etc And if that I taken be , then day and night , he'l work me spite , And hanged shall I be . If thou be Robin Hood , then said the Old wife with a heigh , etc As thou dost seem to me ; I'le for thee provide , and thee I will hide , From the Bishop and his Company : For I remember on Saturday night , with a heigh , etc Thou bought me both Shoes and Hose : therefore I'le provide . thy person to hide , And keep thee from thy Foes . Then give me soon thy Coat of Grey , with hey down , down and a down . And take thou my Mantle of Green ; thy Spindle and Twine , unto me resign , And take thou my Arrows so keen . ANd when that Robin Hood was thus arrayed with hey down down and a down , He went straight to his Company , with his Spindle and Twine , he oft look'd behind , For the Bishop & his company . O who is yonder , quoth Little John , with a heigh down , etc That now comes over the Lee : and Arrow at her I will let fly , So like and Old Witch looks she . O hold thy hand , hold thy hand , said Robin then with heigh , etc And shoot not thy Arrows so keen , I am Robin Hood , thy Master good , And quickly it shall be seen . The Bishop he came to the Old Woman's house , with heigh , etc And he called with furious mood , come let me soon see , and bring unto me , That Traitor Robin Hood . The Old Woman he set on a Milk White Steed , with heigh , etc Himself on a Dapple Gray , and for joy he had god Robin Hood , He went laughing all the way . But as they were Riding the Forest along with heigh , etc The Bishop he chanced for to see , a hundred brave Bowmen bold , Stand under the Greenwood tree . O who is yonder , the Bishop then said , with heigh , etc That's ranging within yonder Wood ? marry says the old woman , I think it to be A man call'd Robin Hood . Why , who art thou , the Bishop he said , with heigh , etc Which I have here with me ? why I am a woman , thou Cuckoldly Bishop Lift up my Leg and see . Then woe is me , the Bishop he said , with heigh , etc That ever I saw this day , he turned him about , but Robin Hood is stout , Call'd him and bid him stay . Then Robin took hold of the Bishops Horse , with heigh , etc And ty'd him fast to a Tree : then Little John , smil'd his Master upon , For joy of his Company . Robin Hood took his Mantle from's back , with heigh , etc And spread it upon the Ground , and out of the Bishops Portmantle , he Soon told five hundred pound . Now let him go , said Robin Hood ; with heigh , etc Said Little John that may not be , for I vow & protest he shall sing us a Mass , Before that he go from me . Then Robin Hood took the Bishop by'th hand with heigh , etc And bound him fast to a Tree , and made him sing a Mass , God-wot , To him and his Yeomanry . And when they brought him thorough the wood with hey down , down and a down . And set him on his Dapple Gray , and gave the Tail within his hand , And bade him for Robin Hood pray . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 