The cunning Northern Beggar Who all the Bystanders does earnestly pray , To bestow a penny upon him to day . To the tune of Tom of Bedlam . I Am a lusty beggar , and live by others giving , I scorn to work , But by the highway lurk , And beg to get my living : I'le 'ith wind and weather , And wear all ragged Garments . Yet though I'm bore , I'm free from care , A fig for high preferments . For still will I cry good your worship good sir , Bestow one poor denier sir : Which when I've god At the Pipe and Pot , I soon will it casheere sir . I have my shifts about me , Like Proteus often changing My shape when I will , I altar still , About the Country ranging : As soon as I a Coach see , Or Gallants by come riging , I take my Crutch , And rouse from my Couch , Whereas I lay abiding . And still do I cry , etc Now like a wandering Soldier ( That has 'ith wars been maimed , With the shot of a Gun ) To Gallants I run , And beg sir help the lamed , I am a poor old Soldier , And better times once viewed , Though bore now I go , Yet many a foe , By me hath been subdued . And therefore I cry , etc Although I never was further Then Kentish street in Southwarke , Nor ere did see A Battery Made against any Bulwark , But with my Trulls and Doxes , Lay in some corner lurking , and never went abroad But to beg on the road , To keep my self from working . And always to cry , etc Anon I'm like a sailor , And wear old Canvas clothing , And then I say The Dunketks away , Took all and left me nothing : Sixe ships set all upon us , 'Gainst which we bravely ventur'd , And long withstood , Yet could do no good , Our ship at length they enter'd . And therefore I cry good your worship good sir Bestow one poor denier sir : which when I've god , at the pipe and pot , etc The second part , To the same tune . SOmetime I like a Cripple Upon the ground lie crawling , for money I beg , as wanting a leg To bear my corpse from falling , Then seem I weak of body , And long t'have been diseased , And make complaint , As ready to faint , And of my griefs increased , And faintly I cry good your worship good , sir . Bestow one poor desire sir , which when I've god , at the Pipe and Pot , I soon will it casheere sir . My flesh I so can temper , That it shll seem to feister , And look all or'e , Like a raw soar , Whereon I stick a plaster . With blood I daub my face then , To feign the falling sickness , That in every place They pity my case , As if it came throuh weakness . And then I do cry , etc Then as if my sighed I wanted , A Boy does walk beside me , Or else I do Grope as I go , Or have a Dog to guide me : And when I'm thus accounted , To th' highway side I high me , and there I stand with cords in my hand , And beg of all comes nigh me . And earnestly , cry good your worship good sir Bestow one poor denier , etc Next to some Country fellow , I presently am turned , And cry alack With a child at my back , My house and goods were burned : Then me my Doxes follows , Who for my wives believed , and along we two together go , With such mischances grieved . And still we do cry good your worship , etc What though I cannot labour , Shall I therefore-pine with hunger No , rather then I Will starve where I lie ? I'le beg of the money monger , No other care shall trouble My mind , nor grief disease me , Though sometime the slash I get , or the lash , 'Twill but a while displease me , And still I will cry good your worship good [ sir ] Bestow one , etc No tricks at all shall escape me , But I will by my manding , Get some relief To ease my grief , When by the highway standing : This better be a Beggar , And ask of kind good fellows , And honestly have What we do crave , then steal and go to' th' Gallows : Therefore 'Ile cry good your worship good sir , Bestow one poor denier sir . Which when [ I've ] god At the Pipe [ and Pot , ] I soon will it cash [ ere sir . ] Printed at London for F. Coules . The cunning Northern Beggar Who all the Bystanders does earnestly pray , To bestow a penny upon him to day . To the tune of Tom of Bedlam . I Am a lusty beggar , and live by others giving , I scorn to work , But by the highway lurk , And beg to get my living : I'le 'ith wind and weather , And wear all ragged Garments . Yet though I'm bore , I'm free from care , A fig for high preferments . For still will I cry good your worship good sir , Bestow one poor denier sir : Which when I've god At the Pipe and Pot , I soon will it casheere sir . I have my shifts about me , Like Proteus often changing My shape when I will , I altar still , About the Country ranging : As soon as I a Coach see , Or Gallants by come riging , I take my Crutch , And rouse from my Couch , Whereas I lay abiding . And still do I cry , etc Now like a wandering Soldier ( That has 'ith wars been maimed , With the shot of a Gun ) To Gallants I run , And beg sir help the lamed , I am a poor old Soldier , And better times once viewed , Though bore now I go , Yet many a foe , By me hath been subdued . And therefore I cry , etc Although I never was further Then Kentish street in Southwarke , Nor ere did see A Battery Made against any Bulwark , But with my Trulls and Doxes , Lay in some corner lurking , and never went abroad But to beg on the road , To keep my self from working . And always to cry , etc Anon I'm like a sailor , And wear old Canvas clothing , And then I say The Dunketks away , Took all and left me nothing : Sixe ships set all upon us , 'Gainst which we bravely ventur'd , And long withstood , Yet could do no good , Our ship at length they enter'd . And therefore I cry good your worship good sir Bestow one poor denier sir : which when I've god , at the pipe and pot , etc The second part , To the same tune . SOmetime I like a Cripple Upon the ground lie crawling , for money I beg , as wanting a leg To bear my corpse from falling , Then seem I weak of body , And long t'have been diseased , And make complaint , As ready to faint , And of my griefs increased , And faintly I cry good your worship good , sir . Bestow one poor desire sir , which when I've god , at the Pipe and Pot , I soon will it casheere sir . My flesh I so can temper , That it shll seem to feister , And look all or'e , Like a raw soar , Whereon I stick a plaster . With blood I daub my face then , To feign the falling sickness , That in every place They pity my case , As if it came throuh weakness . And then I do cry , etc Then as if my sighed I wanted , A Boy does walk beside me , Or else I do Grope as I go , Or have a Dog to guide me : And when I'm thus accounted , To th' highway side I high me , and there I stand with cords in my hand , And beg of all comes nigh me . And earnestly , cry good your worship good sir Bestow one poor denier , etc Next to some Country fellow , I presently am turned , And cry alack With a child at my back , My house and goods were burned : Then me my Doxes follows , Who for my wives believed , and along we two together go , With such mischances grieved . And still we do cry good your worship , etc What though I cannot labour , Shall I therefore-pine with hunger No , rather then I Will starve where I lie ? I'le beg of the money monger , No other care shall trouble My mind , nor grief disease me , Though sometime the slash I get , or the lash , 'Twill but a while displease me , And still I will cry good your worship good [ sir ] Bestow one , etc No tricks at all shall escape me , But I will by my manding , Get some relief To ease my grief , When by the highway standing : This better be a Beggar , And ask of kind good fellows , And honestly have What we do crave , then steal and go to' th' Gallows : Therefore 'Ile cry good your worship good sir , Bestow one poor denier sir . Which when [ I've ] god At the Pipe [ and Pot , ] I soon will it cash [ ere sir . ] Printed at London for F. Coules . 