The Dutch Damnified : OR , The Butter-Boxes Bob'd . Being a brief and true account how Sir Robert Holmes , Sir Phillip Howard , and Sir Willi [ a ] m Jennings , with Eleven Companies of Foot , Five Fireships , and some Ketches , and Boats , Burned and Destroy'd near a Hundred and Sixty Sail of Dutch Ships in the Uly , As also they Burned the rich Town of Bran - daris , in the Icland of Schelling , consisting of above A Thousand Houses , Richly Fur - nisht , with Goods of extraordinary valve . Our Seamen and Soldiers returning Richly laden with their Enemies Spoil , being sufficiently rewarded for their Noble enterprise , and all this performed ( by Gods Providence ) with the loss of Ten Men on our side . The Tune is , A Fig For France , and Holland too , etc RIng Bells' for joy , let none be sad , For now we have news will make you glad Will make you blithe and merry too , To see how the Dutch are forc'd to bow : Their brags and boasts will not prevail , We'le teach them for to lower their Sail . Then Hogan Mogans b'ware your Pates , For now we shall make you distressed States . We paid you home in July last , And soundly did your sides bombast , If that you had not swiftly run , You surely had been quite undone : But now we landed on your shore , And found the way to make you poor . Then Hogan Mogans b'ware your Pates , For now we shall make you distressed States . For all your idle vain excuses , E're long we shall pull up your Sluices , Our men have found the way to land As you by this will understand : It will be but a bitter Pill , When such sad news your hearts do fill . Then Hogan Mogans b'ware your Pates , For now we shall make you distressed States . You in your Harbours lurk for fear , Not thinking such bad news to hear , We scorn to come and steal your Sheep , And then like Thieves away to creep : Your Towns to Burn , and Ships to fire Is work that Englishmen desire . Then Hogan Mogans b'ware your Pates , For now we shall make you distressed states . SIr Robert Holmes that Valiant Knight , Had order upon Tuesday night , The Uly Icland for to burn , And quite destroy't ere he return : Sir Philip Howard did him assist , Sir William Jennings he did his best . Then Hogan Mogans curse your Fates , For now we shall make you distressed States . They chosen eleven hundred men , To pull the Dutch out of their Den , With Fireships , Ketches , Boats & Hoys Well mann'd with lusty English Boys : With joyful hearts they leave the Fleet , And sail away their Foes to meet . Then Hogan Mogan curse your Fates , For now we shall make you distressed States . At length they spy'd without all fail One hundred and seventy Sail . Of Merchant Ships which anchored were , In Uly road , being void of fear , Sir Robert Holmes he thought it meet , With Fire-Ships to destroy that Fleet. Then Hogan Mogans 'ware your pates , For now we shall make you distressed States . So hotly they pursued the game , That straight the fleet was on a flame , Some Frigates which the rest did guard , Just like their Neighbours so they far , worser ; Our men most furiously were bent , And burned them down incontinent . Then Hogan Mogans 'ware your pates , For now we shall make you distressed States . This being done away we haste , The Schelling Island for to waste , And there we fright our Cowardly foes , And land our men where none oppose . Then up we march into the Isle , Our crafty foes for to beguile . Then Hogan Mogans [ ' ] beware your pates , For now we shall make you distressed States . When they herd of our coming nigh , Away they fled , all that could fly , And left their goods and all the rest , To be dispos'd as we thought best . The bravest Town in all that place , We burned quite down , and did deface . Then Hogan Mogans beware your pates , For now we shall make you distressed States . Our men had plunder there good store , To make them rich , they'l ne'r be poor , They brought away great store of plate , And now they quaff their cups in state ; Their Cabins are like Goldsmith shops , God send us many such like crops . Then Hogan Mogans curse your fates , For now we shall make you distressed States . Their trugtaild' Frows were in a maze , To see their town all on a blaze , They wept and wailed , & wrung their jaws , And cursed their States , which was the cause , May all that's enemies to our King , Be brought to such like banqueting . Then Hogan Mogans curse your Fates , For now we shall make you distressed States . With Allowance . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. wright . The Dutch Damnified : OR , The Butter-Boxes Bob'd . Being a brief and true account how Sir Robert Holmes , Sir Phillip Howard , and Sir Willi [ a ] m Jennings , with Eleven Companies of Foot , Five Fireships , and some Ketches , and Boats , Burned and Destroy'd near a Hundred and Sixty Sail of Dutch Ships in the Uly , As also they Burned the rich Town of Bran - daris , in the Icland of Schelling , consisting of above A Thousand Houses , Richly Fur - nisht , with Goods of extraordinary valve . Our Seamen and Soldiers returning Richly laden with their Enemies Spoil , being sufficiently rewarded for their Noble enterprise , and all this performed ( by Gods Providence ) with the loss of Ten Men on our side . The Tune is , A Fig For France , and Holland too , etc RIng Bells' for joy , let none be sad , For now we have news will make you glad Will make you blithe and merry too , To see how the Dutch are forc'd to bow : Their brags and boasts will not prevail , We'le teach them for to lower their Sail . Then Hogan Mogans b'ware your Pates , For now we shall make you distressed States . We paid you home in July last , And soundly did your sides bombast , If that you had not swiftly run , You surely had been quite undone : But now we landed on your shore , And found the way to make you poor . Then Hogan Mogans b'ware your Pates , For now we shall make you distressed States . For all your idle vain excuses , E're long we shall pull up your Sluices , Our men have found the way to land As you by this will understand : It will be but a bitter Pill , When such sad news your hearts do fill . Then Hogan Mogans b'ware your Pates , For now we shall make you distressed States . You in your Harbours lurk for fear , Not thinking such bad news to hear , We scorn to come and steal your Sheep , And then like Thieves away to creep : Your Towns to Burn , and Ships to fire Is work that Englishmen desire . Then Hogan Mogans b'ware your Pates , For now we shall make you distressed states . SIr Robert Holmes that Valiant Knight , Had order upon Tuesday night , The Uly Icland for to burn , And quite destroy't ere he return : Sir Philip Howard did him assist , Sir William Jennings he did his best . Then Hogan Mogans curse your Fates , For now we shall make you distressed States . They chosen eleven hundred men , To pull the Dutch out of their Den , With Fireships , Ketches , Boats & Hoys Well mann'd with lusty English Boys : With joyful hearts they leave the Fleet , And sail away their Foes to meet . Then Hogan Mogan curse your Fates , For now we shall make you distressed States . At length they spy'd without all fail One hundred and seventy Sail . Of Merchant Ships which anchored were , In Uly road , being void of fear , Sir Robert Holmes he thought it meet , With Fire-Ships to destroy that Fleet. Then Hogan Mogans 'ware your pates , For now we shall make you distressed States . So hotly they pursued the game , That straight the fleet was on a flame , Some Frigates which the rest did guard , Just like their Neighbours so they far , worser ; Our men most furiously were bent , And burned them down incontinent . Then Hogan Mogans 'ware your pates , For now we shall make you distressed States . This being done away we haste , The Schelling Island for to waste , And there we fright our Cowardly foes , And land our men where none oppose . Then up we march into the Isle , Our crafty foes for to beguile . Then Hogan Mogans [ ' ] beware your pates , For now we shall make you distressed States . When they herd of our coming nigh , Away they fled , all that could fly , And left their goods and all the rest , To be dispos'd as we thought best . The bravest Town in all that place , We burned quite down , and did deface . Then Hogan Mogans beware your pates , For now we shall make you distressed States . Our men had plunder there good store , To make them rich , they'l ne'r be poor , They brought away great store of plate , And now they quaff their cups in state ; Their Cabins are like Goldsmith shops , God send us many such like crops . Then Hogan Mogans curse your fates , For now we shall make you distressed States . Their trugtaild' Frows were in a maze , To see their town all on a blaze , They wept and wailed , & wrung their jaws , And cursed their States , which was the cause , May all that's enemies to our King , Be brought to such like banqueting . Then Hogan Mogans curse your Fates , For now we shall make you distressed States . With Allowance . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. wright . 