A most Notable Example of and ungracious Son , who in Pride of his heart denied his own Father , and how God for his offence turned his meat into loathsome Toads . To the Tune of , Lord Derby . IN searching famous Chronicles , it was my chance to read , A worty story strange and true , whereto I took good heed : Betwixt a Father and a Son , this rare example stands , Which well may move the hardest hearts to weep and wring their hands . A Farmer in the Country liv'd , whose substance did excel , He sent therefore his eldest son in Paris for to dwell . Where he became a Merchantman , and traffic great he used , So that he was exceeding rich , till he himself abused . For having now the world at will , his mind was fuliy bent , To Gaming , Wine , and wantonness , till all his goods were spent . Yet such excessive riotousness , by him was showed forth , That he was three times more in debt , then all his wealth was worth . At length his credit clean was cracked , and he in Prison cast , And every man against him then did set his actium fas Then he lay locked in irons strong , for ever and for aye , Unable while his life did last , this grievous debt to pay . And living in this woeful case , his eyes with tears he spent , The lewdness of his former life too late he did repen And being void of all relief , of help and comfort quite , Unto his father at the last , he thus began to write . Bow down a while your heedful ear , my loving father dear , And grant I pray in gracious sort my piteous plaint to hear : Forgive the foul offences all of your unworthy son , Which through the lewdness of his life , hath now himself undone . O my good father take remorse , on this my extreme need , And succour his distressed case , whose heart for woe does bleed , In direful Dungeon here I lie , my feet in fetters fast , Where my most cruel Creditors in prison have me cast . Let pity therefore pierce your breast and mercy move your mind , And to release my misery , some shift dear father find . My chiefest cheer is bred full brown , the boards my softest bed , And flinty stones my pillow serve to rest my troubled head . MY garments all are worn to rags my body starves with cold , And creeping vermin eat my flesh , most grievous to behold : Dear father come therefore with speed , and rid me out of thrall , And let me not in Prison die , sith for your help I call . The good old man no sooner had perus'd this written scrowl , But trickling tears along his cheeks , most plenteously did roll . Alas my son , my son , quoth he , in whom I joyed most , Thou shalt not long in prison be , what ever it me cost . Two hundred head of well-fed beasts , he changed into gold , Four hundred quarters of good Corn , for silver eke he sold . But all the same could not suffice this heinous fact to pay , Till at the last constrained was to fell his Land away . Then was his son released quite , his debts discharged clean , And he like as well to live , as he before had been . Then went his loving father home , who for to help his son , Had sold his living quite away , and eke himself undone . So that he lived poor and bore , and in such extreme need , That many times he wanted food , his hungry corpse to feed . His son mean time in wealth did swim , whose substance now was such , That sure within the City then , few men were found so rich . But as his goods did still increase , and riches it did slide , So more and more his hardened heart , did swell in hateful Pride . But it fell out upon a time , when ten years woo was passed . Unto his Son he did repair , for some relief at last . And being come unto his house , in very poor array , It chanced so , that with his son , great store should dine that day : The poor old man with hat in hand , did then the Porter pray , To show his son that at the gate his Father there did stay : Whereat this proud disdainful wretch , with taunting speeches said , That long ago his father's bones , within the grave was laid . What Rascal then , is that ? quoth he , that stains thus my state , I charge thee Porter presently , to drive him from my gate . Which answer when the old man herd , he was in mind dismayed , He wept , he wail'd , he wrung his hands , and thus at length he said : Oh cursed wretch , and most unkind , and worker of my woe , Thou monster of humanity , and eke thy Father's Foe . Have I been careful of thy case , maintaining still thy state , And dost thou now most doggedly , enforce me from thy gate : And have I wrong'd thy brothers all , from thrall to set thee free , And brought myself to beggars state , and all to succour thee : Woe worth the time that first of all , thy body I espy'd , Which hath in hardness of thy heart , thy father's face deny'd . But now behold how God that time , did show a wonder great , Even when his son and all his friends , were sitting down to meat . For when the fairest Pie was cut , a strange and dreadful case , Most ugly Toads came crawling out , and leapt in his face : Then did this wretch his fault confess , and for his father sent , And for his great ingratitude , full soar he did repent . All virtuous Children learn by this obedient hearts to show , And honour still your Parents dear , for God commanded so : And think how he did turn his meat , to poisonous Toads indeed , Which did his father's face deny , because he stood in need . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wrig [ ht ] and J. Clarke . A most Notable Example of and ungracious Son , who in Pride of his heart denied his own Father , and how God for his offence turned his meat into loathsome Toads . To the Tune of , Lord Derby . IN searching famous Chronicles , it was my chance to read , A worty story strange and true , whereto I took good heed : Betwixt a Father and a Son , this rare example stands , Which well may move the hardest hearts to weep and wring their hands . A Farmer in the Country liv'd , whose substance did excel , He sent therefore his eldest son in Paris for to dwell . Where he became a Merchantman , and traffic great he used , So that he was exceeding rich , till he himself abused . For having now the world at will , his mind was fuliy bent , To Gaming , Wine , and wantonness , till all his goods were spent . Yet such excessive riotousness , by him was showed forth , That he was three times more in debt , then all his wealth was worth . At length his credit clean was cracked , and he in Prison cast , And every man against him then did set his actium fas Then he lay locked in irons strong , for ever and for aye , Unable while his life did last , this grievous debt to pay . And living in this woeful case , his eyes with tears he spent , The lewdness of his former life too late he did repen And being void of all relief , of help and comfort quite , Unto his father at the last , he thus began to write . Bow down a while your heedful ear , my loving father dear , And grant I pray in gracious sort my piteous plaint to hear : Forgive the foul offences all of your unworthy son , Which through the lewdness of his life , hath now himself undone . O my good father take remorse , on this my extreme need , And succour his distressed case , whose heart for woe does bleed , In direful Dungeon here I lie , my feet in fetters fast , Where my most cruel Creditors in prison have me cast . Let pity therefore pierce your breast and mercy move your mind , And to release my misery , some shift dear father find . My chiefest cheer is bred full brown , the boards my softest bed , And flinty stones my pillow serve to rest my troubled head . MY garments all are worn to rags my body starves with cold , And creeping vermin eat my flesh , most grievous to behold : Dear father come therefore with speed , and rid me out of thrall , And let me not in Prison die , sith for your help I call . The good old man no sooner had perus'd this written scrowl , But trickling tears along his cheeks , most plenteously did roll . Alas my son , my son , quoth he , in whom I joyed most , Thou shalt not long in prison be , what ever it me cost . Two hundred head of well-fed beasts , he changed into gold , Four hundred quarters of good Corn , for silver eke he sold . But all the same could not suffice this heinous fact to pay , Till at the last constrained was to fell his Land away . Then was his son released quite , his debts discharged clean , And he like as well to live , as he before had been . Then went his loving father home , who for to help his son , Had sold his living quite away , and eke himself undone . So that he lived poor and bore , and in such extreme need , That many times he wanted food , his hungry corpse to feed . His son mean time in wealth did swim , whose substance now was such , That sure within the City then , few men were found so rich . But as his goods did still increase , and riches it did slide , So more and more his hardened heart , did swell in hateful Pride . But it fell out upon a time , when ten years woo was passed . Unto his Son he did repair , for some relief at last . And being come unto his house , in very poor array , It chanced so , that with his son , great store should dine that day : The poor old man with hat in hand , did then the Porter pray , To show his son that at the gate his Father there did stay : Whereat this proud disdainful wretch , with taunting speeches said , That long ago his father's bones , within the grave was laid . What Rascal then , is that ? quoth he , that stains thus my state , I charge thee Porter presently , to drive him from my gate . Which answer when the old man herd , he was in mind dismayed , He wept , he wail'd , he wrung his hands , and thus at length he said : Oh cursed wretch , and most unkind , and worker of my woe , Thou monster of humanity , and eke thy Father's Foe . Have I been careful of thy case , maintaining still thy state , And dost thou now most doggedly , enforce me from thy gate : And have I wrong'd thy brothers all , from thrall to set thee free , And brought myself to beggars state , and all to succour thee : Woe worth the time that first of all , thy body I espy'd , Which hath in hardness of thy heart , thy father's face deny'd . But now behold how God that time , did show a wonder great , Even when his son and all his friends , were sitting down to meat . For when the fairest Pie was cut , a strange and dreadful case , Most ugly Toads came crawling out , and leapt in his face : Then did this wretch his fault confess , and for his father sent , And for his great ingratitude , full soar he did repent . All virtuous Children learn by this obedient hearts to show , And honour still your Parents dear , for God commanded so : And think how he did turn his meat , to poisonous Toads indeed , Which did his father's face deny , because he stood in need . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wrig [ ht ] and J. Clarke . 