The dying Youngman , and the obdurate Maid , OR , A strange and wondered Relation of a Youngman that died for love about the midst of this present June , with the Maids per - plexity for loss of her love , and how likely she is to die for the same cause worthy the view of all youngmen and Maids both in Country and City , delightful to all , hurtful to none . To the Tune of , Fancies Phoenix . COme you young men and maidens fair For unto you I will now declare , And likewise I will hear unfold , As true a tale as ere was told , Of a young man that oft did cry , Sweet grant me love or else I die . Fair Maids I pray you lend and ear , And you the truth thereof shall hear , And of these lines come take a view , No damage thereby will ensue , ' Admit not your love too oft to cry , Sweet yield Relief or else I die . The young men Complaint . Dear love when first I cast mine eye , Upon thy feature and beauty My heart did burn in such a flame , That I could never quench the same , And does continue constantly , Sweet yield Relief or else I die . Maids reply . King Sir your mind I will make known , The less your mine the more your own , For on that side I cannot hear , Yet thank you kindly for your fear , No cause at all I can espy , For to give credit to your cry . Man. Dear Love thou lodgest in my heart , And from thence shall ne'r depart , Dread Cupit hath wounded me so , Then do not prove my mortal foe , Which forceth me inceasantly , To cry sweet love me or I die , Maid . Sweet Sir your suit is all in vain , Without a cause you do complain , Youngmen I know can counterfeit And seem to be lovers complete Us silly Maidens for to try , But we their actions do defy . Man. Dear love do not obdurate prove , But this my woe and grief remove , And ease me now that am oppressed , So that I may have peace and rest , For in thy love my heart does fry , Sweet yield relief or else I die , Maid . Sir to me you a stranger are , Then wherefore for me should you care , Some thing to mitigate your pain , Come home I will you entertain , If I may prove the remedy , You for love shall never die . Man. Then receive this kiss my dear , That I give thee in token here , I love thee dearer then my life , Intending to make thee my wife Ten thousand times happy am I , That thou lovest me assuredly . The second part , To the same Tune HE kept his time and to her came But she proved a scornful dame , Her entertainment was harsh and course And her reproaches ten times worse , Farewell deer heart thus did he cry , This for thy love that I must die . Straight home he came and went to bed , Whereupon fancies still he fed , And for twelve days he there did lie , In grievous woe and misery , And ever and anon did cry , This for thy love that I must die . Four lines apiece of the four following verses , was found written in his own Trunk , since his departure . His Complaint . THy heart is harder far then flint , And will not suffer Cupits plint , But veers his Arrows back to love , Hard hearted thou that canst not love , My life is now in Jeoperdy , This for thy love that I must die . And when I die true lovers mourn , Deck all your heads with withered corn , Wear on each hand a sable glove , To testify I died for love , Proclaim it in the strees and cry , It for her love that I did die . Then hear me softly by her door , And with your mourning breads deplore , Cry loud look down you gods above , On her that kills him for her love , To all the world go testify , It for her love that I did die . Last built my Tomb of lovers bones , Laid round about with marble stones , My Schothon being a Venus Dove To signify I died for love , For while I live in flames I fry , And so farewell lo here I die . Imediately in came the Maid , His Cofin made heart to dread , And to inquire who there did die , That within that house did lie , She being told wept bitterly , And said I do deserve to die . And since that hour continues still , Beyond any Physicians skill , Her sorrows daily do increase , Her burning favors do not cease , She frets and grieves unceasantly , Confessing she deserves to die . Young men and maids that love intend , These lines unto you I commend , To those that love you prove most true , And do not change them for a new , Give ear to those that truth does tell , And so I bid you all farewell . London , Printed for John Andrews , at the White-Lyon near Py-Corner . The dying Youngman , and the obdurate Maid , OR , A strange and wondered Relation of a Youngman that died for love about the midst of this present June , with the Maids per - plexity for loss of her love , and how likely she is to die for the same cause worthy the view of all youngmen and Maids both in Country and City , delightful to all , hurtful to none . To the Tune of , Fancies Phoenix . COme you young men and maidens fair For unto you I will now declare , And likewise I will hear unfold , As true a tale as ere was told , Of a young man that oft did cry , Sweet grant me love or else I die . Fair Maids I pray you lend and ear , And you the truth thereof shall hear , And of these lines come take a view , No damage thereby will ensue , ' Admit not your love too oft to cry , Sweet yield Relief or else I die . The young men Complaint . Dear love when first I cast mine eye , Upon thy feature and beauty My heart did burn in such a flame , That I could never quench the same , And does continue constantly , Sweet yield Relief or else I die . Maids reply . King Sir your mind I will make known , The less your mine the more your own , For on that side I cannot hear , Yet thank you kindly for your fear , No cause at all I can espy , For to give credit to your cry . Man. Dear Love thou lodgest in my heart , And from thence shall ne'r depart , Dread Cupit hath wounded me so , Then do not prove my mortal foe , Which forceth me inceasantly , To cry sweet love me or I die , Maid . Sweet Sir your suit is all in vain , Without a cause you do complain , Youngmen I know can counterfeit And seem to be lovers complete Us silly Maidens for to try , But we their actions do defy . Man. Dear love do not obdurate prove , But this my woe and grief remove , And ease me now that am oppressed , So that I may have peace and rest , For in thy love my heart does fry , Sweet yield relief or else I die , Maid . Sir to me you a stranger are , Then wherefore for me should you care , Some thing to mitigate your pain , Come home I will you entertain , If I may prove the remedy , You for love shall never die . Man. Then receive this kiss my dear , That I give thee in token here , I love thee dearer then my life , Intending to make thee my wife Ten thousand times happy am I , That thou lovest me assuredly . The second part , To the same Tune HE kept his time and to her came But she proved a scornful dame , Her entertainment was harsh and course And her reproaches ten times worse , Farewell deer heart thus did he cry , This for thy love that I must die . Straight home he came and went to bed , Whereupon fancies still he fed , And for twelve days he there did lie , In grievous woe and misery , And ever and anon did cry , This for thy love that I must die . Four lines apiece of the four following verses , was found written in his own Trunk , since his departure . His Complaint . THy heart is harder far then flint , And will not suffer Cupits plint , But veers his Arrows back to love , Hard hearted thou that canst not love , My life is now in Jeoperdy , This for thy love that I must die . And when I die true lovers mourn , Deck all your heads with withered corn , Wear on each hand a sable glove , To testify I died for love , Proclaim it in the strees and cry , It for her love that I did die . Then hear me softly by her door , And with your mourning breads deplore , Cry loud look down you gods above , On her that kills him for her love , To all the world go testify , It for her love that I did die . Last built my Tomb of lovers bones , Laid round about with marble stones , My Schothon being a Venus Dove To signify I died for love , For while I live in flames I fry , And so farewell lo here I die . Imediately in came the Maid , His Cofin made heart to dread , And to inquire who there did die , That within that house did lie , She being told wept bitterly , And said I do deserve to die . And since that hour continues still , Beyond any Physicians skill , Her sorrows daily do increase , Her burning favors do not cease , She frets and grieves unceasantly , Confessing she deserves to die . Young men and maids that love intend , These lines unto you I commend , To those that love you prove most true , And do not change them for a new , Give ear to those that truth does tell , And so I bid you all farewell . London , Printed for John Andrews , at the White-Lyon near Py-Corner . 