A most Godly and comfortable ballad of the Glow - rious Resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ , how he triumpheth over Death , and Hell and since , whereby we are certainly persuaded of our rising again from the dead The tune is , Rogero . WHat faithless froward sinful man , so far from grace is fled , That does not in his heart believe , the rising of the dead . Or why wicked mortal men , their lives so vainly frame , Which being dead they do suppose , they shall not rise again . For why if that the dead indeed , which now consuming lies . Shall not by God be rais'd again , then Christ did never rise . And if so be our Saviour sweet , did not rise from the death Our preaching is of no effect and vain is hope on Earth . If Christ rose not again I say , then are we yet in since , And they that fallen asleep in him no part of joy shall win . Of all the creatures living then , which God on earth did frame , Most wretched are the states of men , which spend their days in vain . But Christ is risen up from dead , as it was right and meet , And thereby trod down death and hell , and since under his feet . And that the same to simple men , the plainer might appear , The gracious rising of the Lord , his word declareth clear . When he within the grave was laid , the Jewes did watchmen set , Left by his friends his corpse from thence should secretly be sent . A mighty stone likewise they did , on his sepulchre role , And all for fear his body should , away from thence be stole . But in the dead time of the night , a mighty earthquake came , The which did shake both Sea and Land and all within the same . And then the Angel of the Lord , came down from heaven so high , And rol'd away the mighty stone , which on the Grave did lie . The second part to the same tune , His face did shine like flaming fire , his Clothes were white as snow , Which put the watch men in great fear , who ran away for woe . And told unto the High Priest plain , what I do now rehearse , Who hired them for money straight , that they would hold their peace . And say quoth he his Servants came , which he sometime did keep , And secretly stole him away , while we were found asleep . And if that Herod hear thereof , we will persuade him so , That you shall find no hurt at all , where ever you do go . But faithful Mary Magdalen , and James , his Mother too , had brought great store of ointment sweet as Jesus were wont to do . Who rose up early in the morn , before that it was day , The body of the Lord t'noynt . in G [ r ] have whereas he lay . And then unto the Grave they ran , they were in wondrous fear , They saw a Youngman in the same , but Christ they saw not there , Then said the Angel unto them why are you so as naid , The Lord whom you do seek I know , is risen up he said . Then went the women bo th away , who told these tidings then , To John and Peter who in haste , to the sepulshre ran , Who found it as the woman said , and then away did go , But Mary stayed weeping still , whose tears decar'd her woe . Who looking down into the Grave , two Angees there did see , Quoth they why weeps this woman so , even for my Lord quoth she . And turning then herself aside , as she stood weeping so , The Lord was standing at her back , but him she did not know . Why does this woman weep he said , whom seeks she in this place , She thought he had a Gardner been , and thus she us her case . If thou hast born him hence she said , then tell me where he is , And for to fetch him back again , besure I will not miss . What Marry then our Saviour said , dost thou lament for me , Oh Master livest thou again , my soul does joy in thee , Oh Marry touch me not he said . ere I have been above , Even with my God the only God , and Father whom we love . And often times did Christ appear , to his Disciples all , But Thomas would not it believe , his Faith it was so small . Except that he might thrust his hand into the wound so wide , And put his finger where the Spear , did pierce his tender side . Then Christ which knew all secrets , to then again came he , Who said to Thomas , here I am , as plainly thou mayest see . See here the hands which nails did pierce and holes are in my side , And be not faithless O thou man , for whom these pains I bide , Thus sundry times Christ showed himself when he did rise again . And then ascended into Heaven , in Glory for to reign , Where he prepaires a place for those , whom he shall raise likewise , To live with him in heavenly bliss , above the lofty Skeys . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , TO . Vere , and W. Gilbertson . A most Godly and comfortable ballad of the Glow - rious Resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ , how he triumpheth over Death , and Hell and since , whereby we are certainly persuaded of our rising again from the dead The tune is , Rogero . WHat faithless froward sinful man , so far from grace is fled , That does not in his heart believe , the rising of the dead . Or why wicked mortal men , their lives so vainly frame , Which being dead they do suppose , they shall not rise again . For why if that the dead indeed , which now consuming lies . Shall not by God be rais'd again , then Christ did never rise . And if so be our Saviour sweet , did not rise from the death Our preaching is of no effect and vain is hope on Earth . If Christ rose not again I say , then are we yet in since , And they that fallen asleep in him no part of joy shall win . Of all the creatures living then , which God on earth did frame , Most wretched are the states of men , which spend their days in vain . But Christ is risen up from dead , as it was right and meet , And thereby trod down death and hell , and since under his feet . And that the same to simple men , the plainer might appear , The gracious rising of the Lord , his word declareth clear . When he within the grave was laid , the Jewes did watchmen set , Left by his friends his corpse from thence should secretly be sent . A mighty stone likewise they did , on his sepulchre role , And all for fear his body should , away from thence be stole . But in the dead time of the night , a mighty earthquake came , The which did shake both Sea and Land and all within the same . And then the Angel of the Lord , came down from heaven so high , And rol'd away the mighty stone , which on the Grave did lie . The second part to the same tune , His face did shine like flaming fire , his Clothes were white as snow , Which put the watch men in great fear , who ran away for woe . And told unto the High Priest plain , what I do now rehearse , Who hired them for money straight , that they would hold their peace . And say quoth he his Servants came , which he sometime did keep , And secretly stole him away , while we were found asleep . And if that Herod hear thereof , we will persuade him so , That you shall find no hurt at all , where ever you do go . But faithful Mary Magdalen , and James , his Mother too , had brought great store of ointment sweet as Jesus were wont to do . Who rose up early in the morn , before that it was day , The body of the Lord t'noynt . in G [ r ] have whereas he lay . And then unto the Grave they ran , they were in wondrous fear , They saw a Youngman in the same , but Christ they saw not there , Then said the Angel unto them why are you so as naid , The Lord whom you do seek I know , is risen up he said . Then went the women bo th away , who told these tidings then , To John and Peter who in haste , to the sepulshre ran , Who found it as the woman said , and then away did go , But Mary stayed weeping still , whose tears decar'd her woe . Who looking down into the Grave , two Angees there did see , Quoth they why weeps this woman so , even for my Lord quoth she . And turning then herself aside , as she stood weeping so , The Lord was standing at her back , but him she did not know . Why does this woman weep he said , whom seeks she in this place , She thought he had a Gardner been , and thus she us her case . If thou hast born him hence she said , then tell me where he is , And for to fetch him back again , besure I will not miss . What Marry then our Saviour said , dost thou lament for me , Oh Master livest thou again , my soul does joy in thee , Oh Marry touch me not he said . ere I have been above , Even with my God the only God , and Father whom we love . And often times did Christ appear , to his Disciples all , But Thomas would not it believe , his Faith it was so small . Except that he might thrust his hand into the wound so wide , And put his finger where the Spear , did pierce his tender side . Then Christ which knew all secrets , to then again came he , Who said to Thomas , here I am , as plainly thou mayest see . See here the hands which nails did pierce and holes are in my side , And be not faithless O thou man , for whom these pains I bide , Thus sundry times Christ showed himself when he did rise again . And then ascended into Heaven , in Glory for to reign , Where he prepaires a place for those , whom he shall raise likewise , To live with him in heavenly bliss , above the lofty Skeys . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , TO . Vere , and W. Gilbertson . 