A most Notaple Example of and ungracious Son , who in the pride of his heart denied his own Father , and how God for his offence turned his meat into loathsome Toads . To the tune of , Lord Darby . IN searching famous Chronicles , it was my chance to read A worthy story strange and true , whereto I took go [ oh ] worser heed , Betwixt a Father and a Son this rare example stands , which well may move the hardest hearts to weep wring their hands . This Farmer in the Country liv'd , whose substance did excel He sent therefore his eldest Son in Paris for to dwell , Where he became a Merchant man , and traffic great he used , So that he was exceeding rich till he himself abused . For having now the world at will his mind was wholly bent , To Gaming wine and wantonness , till all his goods was spent , Yea such excessive Ryotousnesse , by him was show [ e ] worser forth , That he was three times more in debt then all his wealth was worth . At length his credit clean was crakt and he in prison cast , And every man against him then , did set his act [ i ] on fast , There he lay locked in Irons strong , for ever and for aye , Unable while his life did last , his grievous debt to pay . And living in this woeful case , his Eyes with tears he spent ; The lewdness of his former life too late he did repent , And being void of all relief , of help and comfort quite , Unto his Father at the last he thus began to write . Bow down a while your heedful ears my loving Father dear , And grant I pray in gracious sort my piteous plaint to hear , Forgive the foul offences all , of your unworthy son , Which through the lewdness of his life hath now himself undone . O my good Father take remorse on this my extreme need , And succour his disteessed state whose heart for woe does bleed , In direful Dungeon here I lie my feet in fetters fast . Whom my most cruel creditors , in Prison have me cast . Let pity therefore pierce your breast , and mercy move your mind And to release my mesery . some shift dear Father find , My chiefest Cheer is bred full brown the boards my saftest bed , And flintly stones my pillows serve , to rest my troubled head . MY garments all are worn to rags my body starves with cold , And crawling Vermin eat my fl [ e ] sh most grievous to behold , Dear Father come therefore with speed and rid me out of thrall , And let me not in prison die , sith by your help I call . The good old man no sooner had p [ e ] rus'd this written Scrowl , But trickling tears along his cheeks , most plenteously did roll , Alas my son , my son quoth he , in whom I joyed the most , Thou shalt not long in prison be what ever it me cost . Two hundred heads of well fed beasts he changed into gold , Four hundred quarters of good coin , for silver eke he sold , But all the same could not suffice this heinous fact to pay , Till at the last constrained was to fell his land away . Then was his son released quite his debts discharges clean , And he like as well to live , as he before had been . Then went his loving Father home who for to help his son Had sold his living quite away and eke himself undone . So that he lived poor and bore and in such extreme need , That many times he wanted food his hungry corpse to feed , His son mean time in wealth did swim , whose substance now was such That sure within the City then few men were found so rich . But as his goods did still increase and riches in did slide So more and more his hardened heart did swell in hateful pride , But it fell out upon a time when ten years woe was passed , Unto his son he did repair , for some relief at last And being come unto his house in very poor array , It chanced so that with his son great state should dine that day The poor old man with hat in hand , did then the Porter pray , To show his son that at the gate his Father there did stay . Whereat this proud disdainful wretch with taunting speeches said , That long ago his Father's bones within the grave was laid , What Rascal then is that quoth he , that stains so my state ? I charge the Porter presently , to drive him from my gate , Which answer when the old man herd he was in mind dismai'd , He wept , he wailed he wrung his hand , and thus at length he said , Oh cursed wretch , and most unkind , and worker of my woe Thou monster of humanity , and eke thy father's Fo. Have I been careful of thy case , maintaining still thy state , And dost thou now most dogged [ lie ] enforce me from thy gate . And have I wrong'd thy brethren [ n ] from thrall to set thee free , And brought my self to beg [ e ] rs sta [ te ] , and all to succour thee . Woe worth the time when first of all [ l ] thy body I espi'd : Which hath in hardness of thy hea [ rt ] thy father's face deni'd But now behold how God that time [ e ] did show a wonder great , Even when his son and all his friendship [ ends ] were settled down to meat . For when the fairest pie was cut a strange and dreadful case , Most ugly Toads came crawling o [ ut ] and leapt in his face , Then did this wretch his fault conf [ ess ] and for his Father sent , And for his great ingratitude full soar he did repent . All virtuous children learn by this obedient hearts to show , And honour still your Parents dea [ r ] for God commanded so And think how he did turn his mea [ tO ] to poisonous Toads indeed , Which did his Father's face deny because he stood in need . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gilberston . A most Notaple Example of and ungracious Son , who in the pride of his heart denied his own Father , and how God for his offence turned his meat into loathsome Toads . To the tune of , Lord Darby . IN searching famous Chronicles , it was my chance to read A worthy story strange and true , whereto I took go [ oh ] worser heed , Betwixt a Father and a Son this rare example stands , which well may move the hardest hearts to weep wring their hands . This Farmer in the Country liv'd , whose substance did excel He sent therefore his eldest Son in Paris for to dwell , Where he became a Merchant man , and traffic great he used , So that he was exceeding rich till he himself abused . For having now the world at will his mind was wholly bent , To Gaming wine and wantonness , till all his goods was spent , Yea such excessive Ryotousnesse , by him was show [ e ] worser forth , That he was three times more in debt then all his wealth was worth . At length his credit clean was crakt and he in prison cast , And every man against him then , did set his act [ i ] on fast , There he lay locked in Irons strong , for ever and for aye , Unable while his life did last , his grievous debt to pay . And living in this woeful case , his Eyes with tears he spent ; The lewdness of his former life too late he did repent , And being void of all relief , of help and comfort quite , Unto his Father at the last he thus began to write . Bow down a while your heedful ears my loving Father dear , And grant I pray in gracious sort my piteous plaint to hear , Forgive the foul offences all , of your unworthy son , Which through the lewdness of his life hath now himself undone . O my good Father take remorse on this my extreme need , And succour his disteessed state whose heart for woe does bleed , In direful Dungeon here I lie my feet in fetters fast . Whom my most cruel creditors , in Prison have me cast . Let pity therefore pierce your breast , and mercy move your mind And to release my mesery . some shift dear Father find , My chiefest Cheer is bred full brown the boards my saftest bed , And flintly stones my pillows serve , to rest my troubled head . MY garments all are worn to rags my body starves with cold , And crawling Vermin eat my fl [ e ] sh most grievous to behold , Dear Father come therefore with speed and rid me out of thrall , And let me not in prison die , sith by your help I call . The good old man no sooner had p [ e ] rus'd this written Scrowl , But trickling tears along his cheeks , most plenteously did roll , Alas my son , my son quoth he , in whom I joyed the most , Thou shalt not long in prison be what ever it me cost . Two hundred heads of well fed beasts he changed into gold , Four hundred quarters of good coin , for silver eke he sold , But all the same could not suffice this heinous fact to pay , Till at the last constrained was to fell his land away . Then was his son released quite his debts discharges clean , And he like as well to live , as he before had been . Then went his loving Father home who for to help his son Had sold his living quite away and eke himself undone . So that he lived poor and bore and in such extreme need , That many times he wanted food his hungry corpse to feed , His son mean time in wealth did swim , whose substance now was such That sure within the City then few men were found so rich . But as his goods did still increase and riches in did slide So more and more his hardened heart did swell in hateful pride , But it fell out upon a time when ten years woe was passed , Unto his son he did repair , for some relief at last And being come unto his house in very poor array , It chanced so that with his son great state should dine that day The poor old man with hat in hand , did then the Porter pray , To show his son that at the gate his Father there did stay . Whereat this proud disdainful wretch with taunting speeches said , That long ago his Father's bones within the grave was laid , What Rascal then is that quoth he , that stains so my state ? I charge the Porter presently , to drive him from my gate , Which answer when the old man herd he was in mind dismai'd , He wept , he wailed he wrung his hand , and thus at length he said , Oh cursed wretch , and most unkind , and worker of my woe Thou monster of humanity , and eke thy father's Fo. Have I been careful of thy case , maintaining still thy state , And dost thou now most dogged [ lie ] enforce me from thy gate . And have I wrong'd thy brethren [ n ] from thrall to set thee free , And brought my self to beg [ e ] rs sta [ te ] , and all to succour thee . Woe worth the time when first of all [ l ] thy body I espi'd : Which hath in hardness of thy hea [ rt ] thy father's face deni'd But now behold how God that time [ e ] did show a wonder great , Even when his son and all his friendship [ ends ] were settled down to meat . For when the fairest pie was cut a strange and dreadful case , Most ugly Toads came crawling o [ ut ] and leapt in his face , Then did this wretch his fault conf [ ess ] and for his Father sent , And for his great ingratitude full soar he did repent . All virtuous children learn by this obedient hearts to show , And honour still your Parents dea [ r ] for God commanded so And think how he did turn his mea [ tO ] to poisonous Toads indeed , Which did his Father's face deny because he stood in need . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gilberston . 