The Dub'd Knight Of the Forked Order . OR , The old wanton Lady as I will recite , And Sen John the Serving-Man her hearts delight , Their doings and actions , If you will attend , In Moeter , they are by a Poet Pen'd . The subtlety of women either old or young , And what cunning excuses they have with their tongue . That will play with their Husbands and laugh them to scorn , Stroke up there brows , and there place a horn . The Tune is , I am fallen away . It a Lady born of high degree , In her aged days was youthful , yet she , So youthful was at threescore years old , A young Man she esteemed more precious then Gold : So old , so old , so wondrous old , Till threescore years and ten Old women are willing to play with young Men . This Lady one day in her Parlour did walk , Unto her head-serving-man she began to talk , She told him his feature was comely and rare , Few men that she looked on might with him compare , So old , etc A Lily-white hand fair face and a nose , Hair crisping and curled his breath like a Rose , Straight leg and a foot and his body tall , But that in the middle is the rarest of all , So old etc Madam he said , as I am alive , Unto and ancient Lady 'tis a present revive : It will make them merry either at night or by day , And clear every Vain like the due of May . So old , so old , so wondrous old , Till threescore years and ten , Old women are willing to play with young Men . THen note what I say and obey my command , For I'le make use of thee , now straight out of hand , The bargain was made unto their own Will , The Servingman had and the Lady her fill : So old , etc When the Jig was ended , the Lady threw down , Unto her good Servingman , sevenscore pound : She gave this Gold freely , his courage to maintain , That he will but Ride in the Saddle again : So old , etc Then the wanton Lady to her Knight she did high , And like to Ameretrix she did reply , That she was much alter'd , and she had caught harm , Why then quoth the Knight ; Lady keep thy self warm ; So old , etc I'le send for a Doctor the grief for to find , For to ease thy body , and troubled mind , I will have no Doctor my grief for to ease , But only one Man sweetheart if you please : So old , etc Let me see this Artist , the Knight did reply , Oh quoth the Lady , lo here he stands by ; That can give me cure with a Syrup that he , Brought from the Venetian and from Italy ; So old , etc How came you acquainted with your men rarity ? Sir , in a sad passion , being ready to die , I dream'd that his judgement was right I do find , And his physic was healthful to old Women kind . So old , etc And if by the virtue thou pleasure do find , I doubt then by Venus that I am made blind ; I dream'd I was hunting and pleasure did see , But a vision mine eyes much troubles me , So old , etc The Deer did run swiftly , and Hounds after rang'd And I like Acteon most strangely was chang'd I though that my lower part seem'd like a Man , My head like a Buck , and Horns like a Ram , So old , etc And riding on swiftly , sweet pleasure to find , And Oak burst my horns and his blood made me blind , The Hunstman did hollow , and great shouts did make , And forth of my dream , I strait did awake : So old , etc I told my fair Lady of my dream so strange , Quoth she 'tis the better when thy Life does change , For the Forked Order the evil does expel , And being a dub'd Knight , thou need'st not fear Hell . So old , etc From the Poor to the Rich , even to the Ladies Gay , Young Women are wanton old Women will play : And mumble their Husbands and jeer them to scorn , And point them a Beaker and give them a Horn : So old , so old , so wondrous old , Till threescore years and ten , Old Women are willing to play with young Men . By Abraham Miles . Printed for W. Whitwood at the Golden Bell at Duck - Lane and in W [ estsmithfield . ] The Dub'd Knight Of the Forked Order . OR , The old wanton Lady as I will recite , And Sen John the Serving-Man her hearts delight , Their doings and actions , If you will attend , In Moeter , they are by a Poet Pen'd . The subtlety of women either old or young , And what cunning excuses they have with their tongue . That will play with their Husbands and laugh them to scorn , Stroke up there brows , and there place a horn . The Tune is , I am fallen away . It a Lady born of high degree , In her aged days was youthful , yet she , So youthful was at threescore years old , A young Man she esteemed more precious then Gold : So old , so old , so wondrous old , Till threescore years and ten Old women are willing to play with young Men . This Lady one day in her Parlour did walk , Unto her head-serving-man she began to talk , She told him his feature was comely and rare , Few men that she looked on might with him compare , So old , etc A Lily-white hand fair face and a nose , Hair crisping and curled his breath like a Rose , Straight leg and a foot and his body tall , But that in the middle is the rarest of all , So old etc Madam he said , as I am alive , Unto and ancient Lady 'tis a present revive : It will make them merry either at night or by day , And clear every Vain like the due of May . So old , so old , so wondrous old , Till threescore years and ten , Old women are willing to play with young Men . THen note what I say and obey my command , For I'le make use of thee , now straight out of hand , The bargain was made unto their own Will , The Servingman had and the Lady her fill : So old , etc When the Jig was ended , the Lady threw down , Unto her good Servingman , sevenscore pound : She gave this Gold freely , his courage to maintain , That he will but Ride in the Saddle again : So old , etc Then the wanton Lady to her Knight she did high , And like to Ameretrix she did reply , That she was much alter'd , and she had caught harm , Why then quoth the Knight ; Lady keep thy self warm ; So old , etc I'le send for a Doctor the grief for to find , For to ease thy body , and troubled mind , I will have no Doctor my grief for to ease , But only one Man sweetheart if you please : So old , etc Let me see this Artist , the Knight did reply , Oh quoth the Lady , lo here he stands by ; That can give me cure with a Syrup that he , Brought from the Venetian and from Italy ; So old , etc How came you acquainted with your men rarity ? Sir , in a sad passion , being ready to die , I dream'd that his judgement was right I do find , And his physic was healthful to old Women kind . So old , etc And if by the virtue thou pleasure do find , I doubt then by Venus that I am made blind ; I dream'd I was hunting and pleasure did see , But a vision mine eyes much troubles me , So old , etc The Deer did run swiftly , and Hounds after rang'd And I like Acteon most strangely was chang'd I though that my lower part seem'd like a Man , My head like a Buck , and Horns like a Ram , So old , etc And riding on swiftly , sweet pleasure to find , And Oak burst my horns and his blood made me blind , The Hunstman did hollow , and great shouts did make , And forth of my dream , I strait did awake : So old , etc I told my fair Lady of my dream so strange , Quoth she 'tis the better when thy Life does change , For the Forked Order the evil does expel , And being a dub'd Knight , thou need'st not fear Hell . So old , etc From the Poor to the Rich , even to the Ladies Gay , Young Women are wanton old Women will play : And mumble their Husbands and jeer them to scorn , And point them a Beaker and give them a Horn : So old , so old , so wondrous old , Till threescore years and ten , Old Women are willing to play with young Men . By Abraham Miles . Printed for W. Whitwood at the Golden Bell at Duck - Lane and in W [ estsmithfield . ] 