And Excellent new SONG ; OR , A true Touch of the TIMES , Giving you a full and true Account of the Transactions , from King James the First , to the pre - sent Reign of our Sovereign Lord King James the second . To the Tune of , The Loyal Health . Or , Why are my eyes still flowing , etc This may be Printed , R. P. KIng James the first was a Gallant King , No Edward , no Richard , nor Henry like him ; He preserv'd his Kingdoms in Peace all his days , He was pious , religious and virtuous always : He had love to his Subject's , and they love to him , And in all things he was fit for a King . When as he went to Heaven , he left Peace and Wealth , And he left Posterity like to himself . Charles his Son , which was murdered by harms , Despis'd by some Subject's , who soon took up Arms , And then in the Rebellion a great many rose , And would take upon them their King to oppose : Some malignant humours would needs fight the Crown And Murdered King Charls to keep Monarchy down , [ TO ] he Subject's Persecution in this it was shown , For what it cost England it's very well known . If I his Transactions to your should repeat , It would be a Volume too large and too great , What dismal distractions this Prince waded through By Rebellious actions was more than a now , Yet he for his Foes most heartily pray'd , And told them to die that he was not afraid : His Blood cries like Abels from the ground to this day , Against all those Rebels that took it away . Then Charles the second was King in his place , But they took Crown in possession , and thought him too base They a new Power would needs have set up , They stil'd Oliver Cromwel , but he lasted no The Crown then lay useless , which was worn so long , Some would fain have a worn it , but durst not put it on ; The King then was absent though here he did Reign , And the Crown it lay lurking till Charles came again . Young Charles brought the Banner of Peace in his arms , His sighed caus'd a whole Army to lay down their Arms. He brought joy and freedom to each true Cavalier , Brought that i'th front which had long been i'th rear This Nation distracted again he did cure , The Laws bravely acted and rul'd by his power , His griefs was our trouble though we durst not complain ; But our joys they did double when Charles came again . For passing of wrongs he a David might be , For meekness a Moses at all times was he , Like Job for his Patience was he all along , For Wit and for Wisdom a King Solomon ; But he's gone to Heaven , with Saints for to Reign , And there to be Crown'd with a new Diadem , His obliging Presence I cannot forget , There's thousands in the Nation that mourn for him yet . And now James the second Rule thou in his place , Since thou art to the Crown and the Kingdom a grace , Thou art one of the Line and I greatly conceit , Thou wilt never decline nor degenerate : Thou art garnished with faculties fit for a Prince , With wit , learning , valour , the same to advance ; God bless thee from foes , and increase thee in wealth , And let Angels attend and bless thee in health . Now lets our Allegiance show to James our King , Then we shall have friendship and favour from him , When the head and the Body unites it is brave , I hope that great mercy among us wee'l have : I hope that brave England will flourish again , For the King has granted Liberty our peace to maintain , And we will serve him as long as we can , To wait on our Prince wee'l be free e'ry man . But when Subject's like Absalom would be in Rule , And are so audacious their King to control ; Divisions b [ r ] eak Unity , and spoils it quite , A Kingdom that's Divided to stand is not like : Then let e'ry man be content with his place . For that [ ' ] s the best way for a man to keep safe , But when Servants turn Master's , I like no such thing We should soon have no Subject's , but all would be King . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . And Excellent new SONG ; OR , A true Touch of the TIMES , Giving you a full and true Account of the Transactions , from King James the First , to the pre - sent Reign of our Sovereign Lord King James the second . To the Tune of , The Loyal Health . Or , Why are my eyes still flowing , etc This may be Printed , R. P. KIng James the first was a Gallant King , No Edward , no Richard , nor Henry like him ; He preserv'd his Kingdoms in Peace all his days , He was pious , religious and virtuous always : He had love to his Subject's , and they love to him , And in all things he was fit for a King . When as he went to Heaven , he left Peace and Wealth , And he left Posterity like to himself . Charles his Son , which was murdered by harms , Despis'd by some Subject's , who soon took up Arms , And then in the Rebellion a great many rose , And would take upon them their King to oppose : Some malignant humours would needs fight the Crown And Murdered King Charls to keep Monarchy down , [ TO ] he Subject's Persecution in this it was shown , For what it cost England it's very well known . If I his Transactions to your should repeat , It would be a Volume too large and too great , What dismal distractions this Prince waded through By Rebellious actions was more than a now , Yet he for his Foes most heartily pray'd , And told them to die that he was not afraid : His Blood cries like Abels from the ground to this day , Against all those Rebels that took it away . Then Charles the second was King in his place , But they took Crown in possession , and thought him too base They a new Power would needs have set up , They stil'd Oliver Cromwel , but he lasted no The Crown then lay useless , which was worn so long , Some would fain have a worn it , but durst not put it on ; The King then was absent though here he did Reign , And the Crown it lay lurking till Charles came again . Young Charles brought the Banner of Peace in his arms , His sighed caus'd a whole Army to lay down their Arms. He brought joy and freedom to each true Cavalier , Brought that i'th front which had long been i'th rear This Nation distracted again he did cure , The Laws bravely acted and rul'd by his power , His griefs was our trouble though we durst not complain ; But our joys they did double when Charles came again . For passing of wrongs he a David might be , For meekness a Moses at all times was he , Like Job for his Patience was he all along , For Wit and for Wisdom a King Solomon ; But he's gone to Heaven , with Saints for to Reign , And there to be Crown'd with a new Diadem , His obliging Presence I cannot forget , There's thousands in the Nation that mourn for him yet . And now James the second Rule thou in his place , Since thou art to the Crown and the Kingdom a grace , Thou art one of the Line and I greatly conceit , Thou wilt never decline nor degenerate : Thou art garnished with faculties fit for a Prince , With wit , learning , valour , the same to advance ; God bless thee from foes , and increase thee in wealth , And let Angels attend and bless thee in health . Now lets our Allegiance show to James our King , Then we shall have friendship and favour from him , When the head and the Body unites it is brave , I hope that great mercy among us wee'l have : I hope that brave England will flourish again , For the King has granted Liberty our peace to maintain , And we will serve him as long as we can , To wait on our Prince wee'l be free e'ry man . But when Subject's like Absalom would be in Rule , And are so audacious their King to control ; Divisions b [ r ] eak Unity , and spoils it quite , A Kingdom that's Divided to stand is not like : Then let e'ry man be content with his place . For that [ ' ] s the best way for a man to keep safe , But when Servants turn Master's , I like no such thing We should soon have no Subject's , but all would be King . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . 