And excellent new Ballad of the Birth and Passion of our Saviour Christ . To the tune of Dulcina . JUry came to Jerusalem , ( all the world was taxed then ) Blessed Mary brought to Bethelem , more then all the world again : A gift so blessed , So good the best that e're was seen , was herd , or done , A King , a Christ , Prophet and Priest , a Jesus , God , a Man , a Son. Happy night , a day was never half so happy sweet and fair ; Singing Soldiers blessed ever , fill the sky with sweetest air . Amaz'd men fear , They see , they hear , yet doubt and ask how this was done , 'Twas bid behold , It was foretold , This night hath God himself a Son. There appears a golden Usher , Kings attending on his train ; The bright Sun could not out-blush her , such a Star ne're shone again . See now it stays , Seeming it says , go in and see what there is done , A Child whose birth , Leagues Haven and Eearth , Jesus to us , to God a Son. Subtle Herod sought to find him , with a purpose black as Hell ; But a greater power confin'd him , and his purpose did repel : Who should betray , Do all obey , as fitting was it should be done ; They all adore , And kneel before , this God and Man , to God a Son. 'Twas upon a Comets blazing , Cuma to Augustus said , This foreshews and act amazing , for a Mother still a Maid , A Babe shall bear , That all must fear , and suddenly it must be done : Nay Caesar thou To him must bow , he's God , a Man , to God a Son. Is not this a blessed wonder , God is Man , and Man is God ; Foolish Jews mistook the thunder , should proclaim this King abroad : Angels they sing , Behold the King , in Bethelem where this was done : Then we as they Rejoice and say , We have a Saviour , God a Son. The second Part , to the same Tune . TUrn your eyes that are affixed on this world's deceiving things , And with joys and sorrows mixed look upon the King of Kings ; Who left his Throne , With joys unknown , took flesh like ours , like us drew breath , For us to die , Here fix your eye , and think upon his precious death . See him in the Garden praying , whil'st his sad Discip [ l ] es slept ; See him in the Garden sweating , drops of blood and how he wep'd : As Man he was , He wept ( alas ) and trembling fear'd to loose his breath : Yet to heavens will He yielded still , then think upon his precious death . See him by the Soldiers taken when with Have and a kiss , He that Heaven had quite forsaken , had betray'd him , and with this , Behold him ( bound And guarded round ) to Cajaphas born to loose his breath : There see the Jews Heavens King abuse , O! think upon his precious death . See him in the hands of Pilate , like a base offender stripp'd See the moan and tears they smile at , while they see our Saviour whipp'd , Behold him bleed , His purple weed , record while you have life and breath : His taunts and scorns , His Crown of thorns , O! think upon his precious death . See him in the hour of parting , hanging on the bloody Cross ; See his wounds conceive his smarting , and our gain by his life's loss . On either side A felon dy'd , the one derides him leaving breath , Te other prays And humbly says , Oh save me by thy precious death . See how in these pangs he thirsted , and that heat to cool did call . How these Jews ( like Judas cursed ) bring him Vinegar and Gall : His Spirit then To heaven again , commending with his latest breath : The world he leaves , That man deceives , Oh think upon his precious death . FINIS . London , Printed for F. Coal , M. Wright . T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson . And excellent new Ballad of the Birth and Passion of our Saviour Christ . To the tune of Dulcina . JUry came to Jerusalem , ( all the world was taxed then ) Blessed Mary brought to Bethelem , more then all the world again : A gift so blessed , So good the best that e're was seen , was herd , or done , A King , a Christ , Prophet and Priest , a Jesus , God , a Man , a Son. Happy night , a day was never half so happy sweet and fair ; Singing Soldiers blessed ever , fill the sky with sweetest air . Amaz'd men fear , They see , they hear , yet doubt and ask how this was done , 'Twas bid behold , It was foretold , This night hath God himself a Son. There appears a golden Usher , Kings attending on his train ; The bright Sun could not out-blush her , such a Star ne're shone again . See now it stays , Seeming it says , go in and see what there is done , A Child whose birth , Leagues Haven and Eearth , Jesus to us , to God a Son. Subtle Herod sought to find him , with a purpose black as Hell ; But a greater power confin'd him , and his purpose did repel : Who should betray , Do all obey , as fitting was it should be done ; They all adore , And kneel before , this God and Man , to God a Son. 'Twas upon a Comets blazing , Cuma to Augustus said , This foreshews and act amazing , for a Mother still a Maid , A Babe shall bear , That all must fear , and suddenly it must be done : Nay Caesar thou To him must bow , he's God , a Man , to God a Son. Is not this a blessed wonder , God is Man , and Man is God ; Foolish Jews mistook the thunder , should proclaim this King abroad : Angels they sing , Behold the King , in Bethelem where this was done : Then we as they Rejoice and say , We have a Saviour , God a Son. The second Part , to the same Tune . TUrn your eyes that are affixed on this world's deceiving things , And with joys and sorrows mixed look upon the King of Kings ; Who left his Throne , With joys unknown , took flesh like ours , like us drew breath , For us to die , Here fix your eye , and think upon his precious death . See him in the Garden praying , whil'st his sad Discip [ l ] es slept ; See him in the Garden sweating , drops of blood and how he wep'd : As Man he was , He wept ( alas ) and trembling fear'd to loose his breath : Yet to heavens will He yielded still , then think upon his precious death . See him by the Soldiers taken when with Have and a kiss , He that Heaven had quite forsaken , had betray'd him , and with this , Behold him ( bound And guarded round ) to Cajaphas born to loose his breath : There see the Jews Heavens King abuse , O! think upon his precious death . See him in the hands of Pilate , like a base offender stripp'd See the moan and tears they smile at , while they see our Saviour whipp'd , Behold him bleed , His purple weed , record while you have life and breath : His taunts and scorns , His Crown of thorns , O! think upon his precious death . See him in the hour of parting , hanging on the bloody Cross ; See his wounds conceive his smarting , and our gain by his life's loss . On either side A felon dy'd , the one derides him leaving breath , Te other prays And humbly says , Oh save me by thy precious death . See how in these pangs he thirsted , and that heat to cool did call . How these Jews ( like Judas cursed ) bring him Vinegar and Gall : His Spirit then To heaven again , commending with his latest breath : The world he leaves , That man deceives , Oh think upon his precious death . FINIS . London , Printed for F. Coal , M. Wright . T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson . 