And Excellent Ballad of Patient Grissel . To the Tune of , The Brides Good-Morrow . A Noble Marquis As he did ride a hunting hard by a forest side , A fair and comely Maiden As she did fit a spinning his gentle eye espied , Most fair and lovely And of a comely grace was she , although in simple attire , She sung full sweetly With plea [ s ] ant voice melodiously , which set the Lords heart on fire : The more he loved the more he might , Beauty bred his hearts delight And to this Damsel then he went [ w ] ith speed , Godspeed quoth he thou famous flo [ w ] er , Fair Mistress of this homely Bower , Where Love and Virtue , worser [ w ] else [ w ] ith sweet content , With comely gesture And modest mild behaviour , she bod him welcome then , She entertained him , [ I ] n faithful friendly manner , and [ worser ] all [ h ] is Gentlemen : The Noble Marquis , In [ ' ] s he [ a ] rt felt such a flame , w [ h ] ich s [ e ] tO his senses at strife , Quoth he fair Maiden , Show me soon what is thy name , I mean to make thee my Wife , Grissel is my name quoth she , Far unfit for your degree , A silly Maiden , and of Parents poor : Nay Grisel thou art rich he said , A virtuous , fair , and comely Maid , Grant me thy Love , and I will ask no more : At length she consented , And being both contented , they Married were with speed : Her Country Russet Was changed to silk and velvet , as to her state agreed ; And when that she Was trimly tired in the same , her beauty shined most bright , Far staining every Other fair and Princely Dame , that did appear in her ss [ ig ] ht . Many envying her therefore , Because she was of Parents poor , And betwixt her Lord and she great s [ tO ] rife did raise : Some said this , and same said that , And some did call her beggars brat And to her Lord they would her oft despise . O noble Marquis Quoth they why dost thou wrong us thus basely for to wed : Who might have got , And Honourable Lady , into your Princely bed , Who will not now , Your noble issue soon deride , which shall hereafter be born , That are of blood so base , Born by the mother's side , the which will bring them in scorn . Put her therefore quite away , And take to you a Lady gay , Wherein your Lineage may renowned be Thus every da [ y ] they seemed to prate , That maliced Grissels good estate . Who all this while took it most patiently . When [ tO ] hat the Marquis Did see that the [ y ] were bent thus , against his faithful wife , Whom he most dearl [ y ] , Tenderly and entirely , he loved as his life , Minding in secret for to prove her patient heart . Thereby her foes to disgrace ; Thinking to show her a hard discourteous part . That men might pity her case , Great with child this Lady was , And at last it came to pass , Two goodly children , at one birth she had , A Son and a Daughter God had sen Which did their Mother well content , And which [ worser ] id make their Father's heart full glad . Great Royal [ F ] easting Was at these children's Christening , and Princely triumph made . Six weeks together All Nobles that came thither , were entertained and stayed , And when that all this pleasant Sporting quite was done , the Marquis a Messenger sent , For his young Daughter And his pretty smiling Son , worser [ e ] claring his full intent . How [ tO ] hat the babes must murdered be For so the Marquis did decree . Come let me have tO [ h ] e Chi [ l ] dren then he said , With that fair Grissel wept full soar , She wrung her hands & said no more , My Gram [ c ] jous Lord must have his will obeyed . The second part to the same Tune . SHe took the Babies , Even from the nursing Ladies , Between her tender arms , She often wishes , With many sorrowful kisses , that she mihht ease their harms . Farewell , farewell , A thousand times my Children dear , never shall I see you again , This long of me Your sad and woeful Mother here , for whose sake both most be slave , Had I been born of Royal raze , You might have lived in happy case , But you must die , for my unworthiness , Come Messenger of Death quoth she , Take my dearest babes to thee , And to their Father my complaints express , He took the children , And to his Noble master , he boar them then with speed , Who in secret sent them , Unto a Noble Lady , to be brought up in deed . Then to fair Grissel With a heavy heart he goes . where she sat mildly all alone , A pleasant gesture , And a lovely look she shaws , as if no grief she had known . Quoth he my children now are slave , What thinks fair Grissel of the same , S [ w ] eet Grissel now , declare thy mind to me , Sith you my Lord are pleasant [ e ] worser with it , Poor Grissel thinks the actium fit , Both I and mine at your command will be . My Nobles murmer , Fair Grissel at thy honour and I no joy can have , Till thou be banished Both from my court and presence as they unjustly crave , Thou must be stripped Out of thy stately garments all , and as thou camest to me . In homely grey , Instead of biss and purest pall , now all thy clothing must be My Lady thou must be no more , Nor I thy Lord which grieves me soar The poorest life must now content thy mind , A groat to thee I must not give , Thee to maintain while I do live , Against my Grissel such great foes I find . When gentle Grissel Did hear these woeful tidings , the tears stood in her eyes , Nothing she answered , No words of discontentment , did from her lips arise , Her Velvet Gown Most patiently she stripped off , her kirtle of silk with the same , Her Russet Gown was brought again with many a scoff , to bear them her self she did frame ; When she was dressed in this array , And ready was to part away , God send long life unto my Lord quoth she . Let no offence be found in this , To give me Lord a parting kiss With watery Eyes farewell my Dear said she . From Princely Palace , Unto her father's Cotta [ g ] e , poor Grissel now is gone , Full sixteen winter's , She lived there contented no wrong she thought upon , And at that time through All the Land the speeches went the Marquis should married be . Unto a Noble Lady great And of high Descent and to the same all Parties did a [ g ] ree , The Marquis sent for Grissel fair The brides bedchamber to prepare , That nothing therein might be found awry . The bride was with her brother come , Which was great joy to all and some , But Grissel took all this most patiently , And in the morning When as they should be wedded , her patience there was tried , Grissel was charged , Herself in friendly manner for to attend the bride , Most willing She gave consent to do the same the bride in bravery was dressed , And presently The Noble Marquis thither came with all his Lords at his request . O Grissel I will ask of thee , If to this match thou wilt agree , Methinks thy looks , are waxed wondorous coy , With that they all began to smile , And Grissel she replied the white God send Lord Marquis many years of joy . The Marquis was moved , To see his best beloved thus patient in distress . He stepped unto her And by the hand he took her these words he did express . Thou art the bride And all the brides I mean to have , these two thine own children be . The youthful Lady , On her knees did blessing crave , her brother as well as she , And you that envied her estate , Whom I have made my chosen Mate . Now blush for shame , and honour vertu [ oh ] us life , The Chronicles of lasting Fame . Shall ever more extol the name , Of patient Grissel my most constant wife : FINIS . London Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gi [ l ] bertson . And Excellent Ballad of Patient Grissel . To the Tune of , The Brides Good-Morrow . A Noble Marquis As he did ride a hunting hard by a forest side , A fair and comely Maiden As she did fit a spinning his gentle eye espied , Most fair and lovely And of a comely grace was she , although in simple attire , She sung full sweetly With plea [ s ] ant voice melodiously , which set the Lords heart on fire : The more he loved the more he might , Beauty bred his hearts delight And to this Damsel then he went [ w ] ith speed , Godspeed quoth he thou famous flo [ w ] er , Fair Mistress of this homely Bower , Where Love and Virtue , worser [ w ] else [ w ] ith sweet content , With comely gesture And modest mild behaviour , she bod him welcome then , She entertained him , [ I ] n faithful friendly manner , and [ worser ] all [ h ] is Gentlemen : The Noble Marquis , In [ ' ] s he [ a ] rt felt such a flame , w [ h ] ich s [ e ] tO his senses at strife , Quoth he fair Maiden , Show me soon what is thy name , I mean to make thee my Wife , Grissel is my name quoth she , Far unfit for your degree , A silly Maiden , and of Parents poor : Nay Grisel thou art rich he said , A virtuous , fair , and comely Maid , Grant me thy Love , and I will ask no more : At length she consented , And being both contented , they Married were with speed : Her Country Russet Was changed to silk and velvet , as to her state agreed ; And when that she Was trimly tired in the same , her beauty shined most bright , Far staining every Other fair and Princely Dame , that did appear in her ss [ ig ] ht . Many envying her therefore , Because she was of Parents poor , And betwixt her Lord and she great s [ tO ] rife did raise : Some said this , and same said that , And some did call her beggars brat And to her Lord they would her oft despise . O noble Marquis Quoth they why dost thou wrong us thus basely for to wed : Who might have got , And Honourable Lady , into your Princely bed , Who will not now , Your noble issue soon deride , which shall hereafter be born , That are of blood so base , Born by the mother's side , the which will bring them in scorn . Put her therefore quite away , And take to you a Lady gay , Wherein your Lineage may renowned be Thus every da [ y ] they seemed to prate , That maliced Grissels good estate . Who all this while took it most patiently . When [ tO ] hat the Marquis Did see that the [ y ] were bent thus , against his faithful wife , Whom he most dearl [ y ] , Tenderly and entirely , he loved as his life , Minding in secret for to prove her patient heart . Thereby her foes to disgrace ; Thinking to show her a hard discourteous part . That men might pity her case , Great with child this Lady was , And at last it came to pass , Two goodly children , at one birth she had , A Son and a Daughter God had sen Which did their Mother well content , And which [ worser ] id make their Father's heart full glad . Great Royal [ F ] easting Was at these children's Christening , and Princely triumph made . Six weeks together All Nobles that came thither , were entertained and stayed , And when that all this pleasant Sporting quite was done , the Marquis a Messenger sent , For his young Daughter And his pretty smiling Son , worser [ e ] claring his full intent . How [ tO ] hat the babes must murdered be For so the Marquis did decree . Come let me have tO [ h ] e Chi [ l ] dren then he said , With that fair Grissel wept full soar , She wrung her hands & said no more , My Gram [ c ] jous Lord must have his will obeyed . The second part to the same Tune . SHe took the Babies , Even from the nursing Ladies , Between her tender arms , She often wishes , With many sorrowful kisses , that she mihht ease their harms . Farewell , farewell , A thousand times my Children dear , never shall I see you again , This long of me Your sad and woeful Mother here , for whose sake both most be slave , Had I been born of Royal raze , You might have lived in happy case , But you must die , for my unworthiness , Come Messenger of Death quoth she , Take my dearest babes to thee , And to their Father my complaints express , He took the children , And to his Noble master , he boar them then with speed , Who in secret sent them , Unto a Noble Lady , to be brought up in deed . Then to fair Grissel With a heavy heart he goes . where she sat mildly all alone , A pleasant gesture , And a lovely look she shaws , as if no grief she had known . Quoth he my children now are slave , What thinks fair Grissel of the same , S [ w ] eet Grissel now , declare thy mind to me , Sith you my Lord are pleasant [ e ] worser with it , Poor Grissel thinks the actium fit , Both I and mine at your command will be . My Nobles murmer , Fair Grissel at thy honour and I no joy can have , Till thou be banished Both from my court and presence as they unjustly crave , Thou must be stripped Out of thy stately garments all , and as thou camest to me . In homely grey , Instead of biss and purest pall , now all thy clothing must be My Lady thou must be no more , Nor I thy Lord which grieves me soar The poorest life must now content thy mind , A groat to thee I must not give , Thee to maintain while I do live , Against my Grissel such great foes I find . When gentle Grissel Did hear these woeful tidings , the tears stood in her eyes , Nothing she answered , No words of discontentment , did from her lips arise , Her Velvet Gown Most patiently she stripped off , her kirtle of silk with the same , Her Russet Gown was brought again with many a scoff , to bear them her self she did frame ; When she was dressed in this array , And ready was to part away , God send long life unto my Lord quoth she . Let no offence be found in this , To give me Lord a parting kiss With watery Eyes farewell my Dear said she . From Princely Palace , Unto her father's Cotta [ g ] e , poor Grissel now is gone , Full sixteen winter's , She lived there contented no wrong she thought upon , And at that time through All the Land the speeches went the Marquis should married be . Unto a Noble Lady great And of high Descent and to the same all Parties did a [ g ] ree , The Marquis sent for Grissel fair The brides bedchamber to prepare , That nothing therein might be found awry . The bride was with her brother come , Which was great joy to all and some , But Grissel took all this most patiently , And in the morning When as they should be wedded , her patience there was tried , Grissel was charged , Herself in friendly manner for to attend the bride , Most willing She gave consent to do the same the bride in bravery was dressed , And presently The Noble Marquis thither came with all his Lords at his request . O Grissel I will ask of thee , If to this match thou wilt agree , Methinks thy looks , are waxed wondorous coy , With that they all began to smile , And Grissel she replied the white God send Lord Marquis many years of joy . The Marquis was moved , To see his best beloved thus patient in distress . He stepped unto her And by the hand he took her these words he did express . Thou art the bride And all the brides I mean to have , these two thine own children be . The youthful Lady , On her knees did blessing crave , her brother as well as she , And you that envied her estate , Whom I have made my chosen Mate . Now blush for shame , and honour vertu [ oh ] us life , The Chronicles of lasting Fame . Shall ever more extol the name , Of patient Grissel my most constant wife : FINIS . London Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gi [ l ] bertson . And Excellent Ballad of Patient Grissel . To the Tune of , The Brides Good-Morrow . A Noble Marquis As he did ride a hunting hard by a forest side , A fair and comely Maiden As she did fit a spinning his gentle eye espied , Most fair and lovely And of a comely grace was she , although in simple attire , She sung full sweetly With plea [ s ] ant voice melodiously , which set the Lords heart on fire : The more he loved the more he might , Beauty bred his hearts delight And to this Damsel then he went [ w ] ith speed , Godspeed quoth he thou famous flo [ w ] er , Fair Mistress of this homely Bower , Where Love and Virtue , worser [ w ] else [ w ] ith sweet content , With comely gesture And modest mild behaviour , she bod him welcome then , She entertained him , [ I ] n faithful friendly manner , and [ worser ] all [ h ] is Gentlemen : The Noble Marquis , In [ ' ] s he [ a ] rt felt such a flame , w [ h ] ich s [ e ] tO his senses at strife , Quoth he fair Maiden , Show me soon what is thy name , I mean to make thee my Wife , Grissel is my name quoth she , Far unfit for your degree , A silly Maiden , and of Parents poor : Nay Grisel thou art rich he said , A virtuous , fair , and comely Maid , Grant me thy Love , and I will ask no more : At length she consented , And being both contented , they Married were with speed : Her Country Russet Was changed to silk and velvet , as to her state agreed ; And when that she Was trimly tired in the same , her beauty shined most bright , Far staining every Other fair and Princely Dame , that did appear in her ss [ ig ] ht . Many envying her therefore , Because she was of Parents poor , And betwixt her Lord and she great s [ tO ] rife did raise : Some said this , and same said that , And some did call her beggars brat And to her Lord they would her oft despise . O noble Marquis Quoth they why dost thou wrong us thus basely for to wed : Who might have got , And Honourable Lady , into your Princely bed , Who will not now , Your noble issue soon deride , which shall hereafter be born , That are of blood so base , Born by the mother's side , the which will bring them in scorn . Put her therefore quite away , And take to you a Lady gay , Wherein your Lineage may renowned be Thus every da [ y ] they seemed to prate , That maliced Grissels good estate . Who all this while took it most patiently . When [ tO ] hat the Marquis Did see that the [ y ] were bent thus , against his faithful wife , Whom he most dearl [ y ] , Tenderly and entirely , he loved as his life , Minding in secret for to prove her patient heart . Thereby her foes to disgrace ; Thinking to show her a hard discourteous part . That men might pity her case , Great with child this Lady was , And at last it came to pass , Two goodly children , at one birth she had , A Son and a Daughter God had sen Which did their Mother well content , And which [ worser ] id make their Father's heart full glad . Great Royal [ F ] easting Was at these children's Christening , and Princely triumph made . Six weeks together All Nobles that came thither , were entertained and stayed , And when that all this pleasant Sporting quite was done , the Marquis a Messenger sent , For his young Daughter And his pretty smiling Son , worser [ e ] claring his full intent . How [ tO ] hat the babes must murdered be For so the Marquis did decree . Come let me have tO [ h ] e Chi [ l ] dren then he said , With that fair Grissel wept full soar , She wrung her hands & said no more , My Gram [ c ] jous Lord must have his will obeyed . The second part to the same Tune . SHe took the Babies , Even from the nursing Ladies , Between her tender arms , She often wishes , With many sorrowful kisses , that she mihht ease their harms . Farewell , farewell , A thousand times my Children dear , never shall I see you again , This long of me Your sad and woeful Mother here , for whose sake both most be slave , Had I been born of Royal raze , You might have lived in happy case , But you must die , for my unworthiness , Come Messenger of Death quoth she , Take my dearest babes to thee , And to their Father my complaints express , He took the children , And to his Noble master , he boar them then with speed , Who in secret sent them , Unto a Noble Lady , to be brought up in deed . Then to fair Grissel With a heavy heart he goes . where she sat mildly all alone , A pleasant gesture , And a lovely look she shaws , as if no grief she had known . Quoth he my children now are slave , What thinks fair Grissel of the same , S [ w ] eet Grissel now , declare thy mind to me , Sith you my Lord are pleasant [ e ] worser with it , Poor Grissel thinks the actium fit , Both I and mine at your command will be . My Nobles murmer , Fair Grissel at thy honour and I no joy can have , Till thou be banished Both from my court and presence as they unjustly crave , Thou must be stripped Out of thy stately garments all , and as thou camest to me . In homely grey , Instead of biss and purest pall , now all thy clothing must be My Lady thou must be no more , Nor I thy Lord which grieves me soar The poorest life must now content thy mind , A groat to thee I must not give , Thee to maintain while I do live , Against my Grissel such great foes I find . When gentle Grissel Did hear these woeful tidings , the tears stood in her eyes , Nothing she answered , No words of discontentment , did from her lips arise , Her Velvet Gown Most patiently she stripped off , her kirtle of silk with the same , Her Russet Gown was brought again with many a scoff , to bear them her self she did frame ; When she was dressed in this array , And ready was to part away , God send long life unto my Lord quoth she . Let no offence be found in this , To give me Lord a parting kiss With watery Eyes farewell my Dear said she . From Princely Palace , Unto her father's Cotta [ g ] e , poor Grissel now is gone , Full sixteen winter's , She lived there contented no wrong she thought upon , And at that time through All the Land the speeches went the Marquis should married be . Unto a Noble Lady great And of high Descent and to the same all Parties did a [ g ] ree , The Marquis sent for Grissel fair The brides bedchamber to prepare , That nothing therein might be found awry . The bride was with her brother come , Which was great joy to all and some , But Grissel took all this most patiently , And in the morning When as they should be wedded , her patience there was tried , Grissel was charged , Herself in friendly manner for to attend the bride , Most willing She gave consent to do the same the bride in bravery was dressed , And presently The Noble Marquis thither came with all his Lords at his request . O Grissel I will ask of thee , If to this match thou wilt agree , Methinks thy looks , are waxed wondorous coy , With that they all began to smile , And Grissel she replied the white God send Lord Marquis many years of joy . The Marquis was moved , To see his best beloved thus patient in distress . He stepped unto her And by the hand he took her these words he did express . Thou art the bride And all the brides I mean to have , these two thine own children be . The youthful Lady , On her knees did blessing crave , her brother as well as she , And you that envied her estate , Whom I have made my chosen Mate . Now blush for shame , and honour vertu [ oh ] us life , The Chronicles of lasting Fame . Shall ever more extol the name , Of patient Grissel my most constant wife : FINIS . London Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gi [ l ] bertson . And Excellent Ballad of Patient Grissel . To the Tune of , The Brides Good-Morrow . A Noble Marquis As he did ride a hunting hard by a forest side , A fair and comely Maiden As she did fit a spinning his gentle eye espied , Most fair and lovely And of a comely grace was she , although in simple attire , She sung full sweetly With plea [ s ] ant voice melodiously , which set the Lords heart on fire : The more he loved the more he might , Beauty bred his hearts delight And to this Damsel then he went [ w ] ith speed , Godspeed quoth he thou famous flo [ w ] er , Fair Mistress of this homely Bower , Where Love and Virtue , worser [ w ] else [ w ] ith sweet content , With comely gesture And modest mild behaviour , she bod him welcome then , She entertained him , [ I ] n faithful friendly manner , and [ worser ] all [ h ] is Gentlemen : The Noble Marquis , In [ ' ] s he [ a ] rt felt such a flame , w [ h ] ich s [ e ] tO his senses at strife , Quoth he fair Maiden , Show me soon what is thy name , I mean to make thee my Wife , Grissel is my name quoth she , Far unfit for your degree , A silly Maiden , and of Parents poor : Nay Grisel thou art rich he said , A virtuous , fair , and comely Maid , Grant me thy Love , and I will ask no more : At length she consented , And being both contented , they Married were with speed : Her Country Russet Was changed to silk and velvet , as to her state agreed ; And when that she Was trimly tired in the same , her beauty shined most bright , Far staining every Other fair and Princely Dame , that did appear in her ss [ ig ] ht . Many envying her therefore , Because she was of Parents poor , And betwixt her Lord and she great s [ tO ] rife did raise : Some said this , and same said that , And some did call her beggars brat And to her Lord they would her oft despise . O noble Marquis Quoth they why dost thou wrong us thus basely for to wed : Who might have got , And Honourable Lady , into your Princely bed , Who will not now , Your noble issue soon deride , which shall hereafter be born , That are of blood so base , Born by the mother's side , the which will bring them in scorn . Put her therefore quite away , And take to you a Lady gay , Wherein your Lineage may renowned be Thus every da [ y ] they seemed to prate , That maliced Grissels good estate . Who all this while took it most patiently . When [ tO ] hat the Marquis Did see that the [ y ] were bent thus , against his faithful wife , Whom he most dearl [ y ] , Tenderly and entirely , he loved as his life , Minding in secret for to prove her patient heart . Thereby her foes to disgrace ; Thinking to show her a hard discourteous part . That men might pity her case , Great with child this Lady was , And at last it came to pass , Two goodly children , at one birth she had , A Son and a Daughter God had sen Which did their Mother well content , And which [ worser ] id make their Father's heart full glad . Great Royal [ F ] easting Was at these children's Christening , and Princely triumph made . Six weeks together All Nobles that came thither , were entertained and stayed , And when that all this pleasant Sporting quite was done , the Marquis a Messenger sent , For his young Daughter And his pretty smiling Son , worser [ e ] claring his full intent . How [ tO ] hat the babes must murdered be For so the Marquis did decree . Come let me have tO [ h ] e Chi [ l ] dren then he said , With that fair Grissel wept full soar , She wrung her hands & said no more , My Gram [ c ] jous Lord must have his will obeyed . The second part to the same Tune . SHe took the Babies , Even from the nursing Ladies , Between her tender arms , She often wishes , With many sorrowful kisses , that she mihht ease their harms . Farewell , farewell , A thousand times my Children dear , never shall I see you again , This long of me Your sad and woeful Mother here , for whose sake both most be slave , Had I been born of Royal raze , You might have lived in happy case , But you must die , for my unworthiness , Come Messenger of Death quoth she , Take my dearest babes to thee , And to their Father my complaints express , He took the children , And to his Noble master , he boar them then with speed , Who in secret sent them , Unto a Noble Lady , to be brought up in deed . Then to fair Grissel With a heavy heart he goes . where she sat mildly all alone , A pleasant gesture , And a lovely look she shaws , as if no grief she had known . Quoth he my children now are slave , What thinks fair Grissel of the same , S [ w ] eet Grissel now , declare thy mind to me , Sith you my Lord are pleasant [ e ] worser with it , Poor Grissel thinks the actium fit , Both I and mine at your command will be . My Nobles murmer , Fair Grissel at thy honour and I no joy can have , Till thou be banished Both from my court and presence as they unjustly crave , Thou must be stripped Out of thy stately garments all , and as thou camest to me . In homely grey , Instead of biss and purest pall , now all thy clothing must be My Lady thou must be no more , Nor I thy Lord which grieves me soar The poorest life must now content thy mind , A groat to thee I must not give , Thee to maintain while I do live , Against my Grissel such great foes I find . When gentle Grissel Did hear these woeful tidings , the tears stood in her eyes , Nothing she answered , No words of discontentment , did from her lips arise , Her Velvet Gown Most patiently she stripped off , her kirtle of silk with the same , Her Russet Gown was brought again with many a scoff , to bear them her self she did frame ; When she was dressed in this array , And ready was to part away , God send long life unto my Lord quoth she . Let no offence be found in this , To give me Lord a parting kiss With watery Eyes farewell my Dear said she . From Princely Palace , Unto her father's Cotta [ g ] e , poor Grissel now is gone , Full sixteen winter's , She lived there contented no wrong she thought upon , And at that time through All the Land the speeches went the Marquis should married be . Unto a Noble Lady great And of high Descent and to the same all Parties did a [ g ] ree , The Marquis sent for Grissel fair The brides bedchamber to prepare , That nothing therein might be found awry . The bride was with her brother come , Which was great joy to all and some , But Grissel took all this most patiently , And in the morning When as they should be wedded , her patience there was tried , Grissel was charged , Herself in friendly manner for to attend the bride , Most willing She gave consent to do the same the bride in bravery was dressed , And presently The Noble Marquis thither came with all his Lords at his request . O Grissel I will ask of thee , If to this match thou wilt agree , Methinks thy looks , are waxed wondorous coy , With that they all began to smile , And Grissel she replied the white God send Lord Marquis many years of joy . The Marquis was moved , To see his best beloved thus patient in distress . He stepped unto her And by the hand he took her these words he did express . Thou art the bride And all the brides I mean to have , these two thine own children be . The youthful Lady , On her knees did blessing crave , her brother as well as she , And you that envied her estate , Whom I have made my chosen Mate . Now blush for shame , and honour vertu [ oh ] us life , The Chronicles of lasting Fame . Shall ever more extol the name , Of patient Grissel my most constant wife : FINIS . London Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gi [ l ] bertson . 