DEVOL's last Farewell : Containing and Account of many frolicsome Intrigues and notorious Robberies , which he committed : Concluding with his mournful Lamentation , on the Day of his Death . To the Tune of , Upon the Chnnge . Licens'd according to Order . YOu bold undaunted Souls attend To me , who did the Laws offend ; For now I come to let you know What prov'd my fatal overthrow , And brought my Glory to decay ; it was my Gang , for whom I hang , Welladay , welladay . Unto a Duke I was a Page , And succour'd in my tender Age , Until the Devil did me entice , To leave of Virtue , and follow Vice ; No sooner was I led astray , but Wickedness , did me possess , Welladay , welladay . If I my Crimes to mind shou'd call , And lay them down before you all , They would amount to such a Sum , That there is few in Christendom , So many wanton Pranks did play ; but now too late , I mourn my fate , Welladay , welladay . Upon the Road , I do declare , I caus'd some Lords and Ladies fair , To quit their Coach , and dance with us ; This being done , the Case was thus , They for their Music needs must pay ; but now at last , those Joaks are past , Welladay , welladay . Another time , I and my Gang , We fell upon a Nobleman ; In spite of all that he could do , We took his Gold and Silver too And with the same we rid away ; but being took , for death I look , Welladay , welladay . When I was mounted on my Steed , I thought myself a Man indeed ; With Pistol cock'd and glittering Sword , Stand and deliver , was the word , Which makes me now lament and say , pity the Fallen of great Devol , Welladay , welladay . I did belong unto a Crew , Of as swaggering Blades as ever drew , Stout Whitherington and Dowglis both , We were all three engag'd by Oath , Upon the Road to take our way ; but now Devol , must pay for all , Welladay , etc Because I was a Frenchman born , Some Persons treated me with scorn ; But being of a daring Soul , Although my Deeds was something foul My gaudy Plumes I did display , but now my Pride , is laid aside , Welladay , etc I reign'd with and undaunted mind Some years , but now at last I find , The Pitcher that so often goes Unto the Well , as Proverb shows , Comes broken home at last we say ; for now I see , my Destiny , Welladay , etc Then being brought to Justice-hall , Try'd and condemn'd before them all ; Where many noble Lords did come , And Ladies for to hear my Doom , Then Sentence pass'd , without delay , the Halter fast , and Tybourn last , In one Day , in one Day . London : Printed for C. Bates , in Pye-c [ orner ] DEVOL's last Farewell : Containing and Account of many frolicsome Intrigues and notorious Robberies , which he committed : Concluding with his mournful Lamentation , on the Day of his Death . To the Tune of , Upon the Chnnge . Licens'd according to Order . YOu bold undaunted Souls attend To me , who did the Laws offend ; For now I come to let you know What prov'd my fatal overthrow , And brought my Glory to decay ; it was my Gang , for whom I hang , Welladay , welladay . Unto a Duke I was a Page , And succour'd in my tender Age , Until the Devil did me entice , To leave of Virtue , and follow Vice ; No sooner was I led astray , but Wickedness , did me possess , Welladay , welladay . If I my Crimes to mind shou'd call , And lay them down before you all , They would amount to such a Sum , That there is few in Christendom , So many wanton Pranks did play ; but now too late , I mourn my fate , Welladay , welladay . Upon the Road , I do declare , I caus'd some Lords and Ladies fair , To quit their Coach , and dance with us ; This being done , the Case was thus , They for their Music needs must pay ; but now at last , those Joaks are past , Welladay , welladay . Another time , I and my Gang , We fell upon a Nobleman ; In spite of all that he could do , We took his Gold and Silver too And with the same we rid away ; but being took , for death I look , Welladay , welladay . When I was mounted on my Steed , I thought myself a Man indeed ; With Pistol cock'd and glittering Sword , Stand and deliver , was the word , Which makes me now lament and say , pity the Fallen of great Devol , Welladay , welladay . I did belong unto a Crew , Of as swaggering Blades as ever drew , Stout Whitherington and Dowglis both , We were all three engag'd by Oath , Upon the Road to take our way ; but now Devol , must pay for all , Welladay , etc Because I was a Frenchman born , Some Persons treated me with scorn ; But being of a daring Soul , Although my Deeds was something foul My gaudy Plumes I did display , but now my Pride , is laid aside , Welladay , etc I reign'd with and undaunted mind Some years , but now at last I find , The Pitcher that so often goes Unto the Well , as Proverb shows , Comes broken home at last we say ; for now I see , my Destiny , Welladay , etc Then being brought to Justice-hall , Try'd and condemn'd before them all ; Where many noble Lords did come , And Ladies for to hear my Doom , Then Sentence pass'd , without delay , the Halter fast , and Tybourn last , In one Day , in one Day . London : Printed for C. Bates , in Pye-c [ orner ] 