A dainty new Dialogue between HENRY and ELIZABETH . Being the good Wives Vindication , and the bad Husbands Reformation . This new composed gallant Ditty , is to be sung in Town and City . This Ballad is both compriz'd and penn'd To teach bad Husbands how their lives to mend : All you good Wives , the which bad Husbands have , For your own good , let me this favour crave , One Penny on this Ditty to bestow , And carry it to your Husbands for to show ; It may in time make you twice over glad , When as you see him good that was so bad . The Tune is , The Tyrant . Bess. COme hither sweet Husband and listen to me , Thou know'st I have always been faithful to thee ; A noble mind to thee , I ever did carry , Since first I came acquainted with my loving Harry : Moreover thou know'st , I lov'd of my life , To keep thee alive , since thou mad'st me thy Wife . Harry . Me thinks Bess your tongue runs a little too large , That you should lay such bitter things to my charge ; As to say that my life , you did preserve and save , Or else I had been dead , and so laid in my grave : Pray tell me the reason , why you did say so , That people may hear it , before we do go . Bess. Then in the first place , I will tell thee my mind ; To me and my Children , thou hast been unkind : And what should have serv'd us at home to maintain , Thou hast in the Alehouse waited in vain : among merry fellows , and such as thou art , Whilst I sat at home with a sorrowful heart . Harry . Why , this of a truth Bess is far and n [ e ] are known , I never spent any men Goods , but mine own ; Nor are they alive , that of me can say , That I have took from them one penny away : I never did stranger , nor neighbour no wrong , With thought of my heart , or with word of my tongue . Bess. In spending thy own Goods , thou also spend'st mine , Which has done much injury to thee and mine ; Thou hast pawn'd our best clothes when thou money didst lack , The Cloak from thy shoulders , and the Gown from my back : Thou hast spent all thy money thou get , st , in excess , In Dicing and Drabbing , and foul Drunkenness . Harry . Indeed it is true , I have some [ e ] times been drunk , among honest good fellows , but I never lov'd Punk Though my credit be cracked , and my Garments be poor , It came not with spending my means on a Whore : Therefore speak the best , and the worst that you can , I have been , and will be a true honest man . Bess. WHen as in the Counter for Dept thou did'st lie . Thy friends all forsook thee , save only I ; Thou know'st I took pains , and did every day strive , To comfort my Harry , and keep him alive : And now let the world judge between you and me , If I was not faithful and honest to thee . Harry . Why now loving Wife , I am forc'd to confess , When I was in prison , in woe and distress ; Thou didst work to maintain me like a true hearted Wife , Thou wrought'st my redemption and so sav'd my life : And now demand of me what ever thou will , I'll do my endeavour , thy mind to fulfil . Bess. Then thus I would have thee , where ever you be , Remember your Children , and think upon me ; Look well to thy business , take heed what you spend , And have a care how you do borrow or lend : At no time be idle , but follow thy labour , And so thou shalt see , God wi [ l ] l bless thy endeavour . Harry . Thy counsel is good wife , a course I will take , All kind of good fellowship quite to forsake ; If I by chance peep in at the Alehouse door , When I have spent two pence , I will spend no more : I know this , that alewives like Bees will suck honey , But they shall henceforth have but little of my money . Bess. Keep promise sweet Harry , and see to thy self , When poor men spend all , alewives get the more wealth : But if all good fellows , will be ruled by me , Some alewives should not go so fine as they be : They should work for their liveings , as other folks do , Both knit , sow , and spin , and doe other things too . Harry . Indeed some proud Hoastesses wears Gay gold Rings , Their Gowns lac'd with silver , and other rare things ; While honest pain-takers do travel about , With the knees of their breeches and elbows worn ou But to conclude , Betty , to make thee amends , I'll be a good Husband , let's kiss and be friends . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . A dainty new Dialogue between HENRY and ELIZABETH . Being the good Wives Vindication , and the bad Husbands Reformation . This new composed gallant Ditty , is to be sung in Town and City . This Ballad is both compriz'd and penn'd To teach bad Husbands how their lives to mend : All you good Wives , the which bad Husbands have , For your own good , let me this favour crave , One Penny on this Ditty to bestow , And carry it to your Husbands for to show ; It may in time make you twice over glad , When as you see him good that was so bad . The Tune is , The Tyrant . Bess. COme hither sweet Husband and listen to me , Thou know'st I have always been faithful to thee ; A noble mind to thee , I ever did carry , Since first I came acquainted with my loving Harry : Moreover thou know'st , I lov'd of my life , To keep thee alive , since thou mad'st me thy Wife . Harry . Me thinks Bess your tongue runs a little too large , That you should lay such bitter things to my charge ; As to say that my life , you did preserve and save , Or else I had been dead , and so laid in my grave : Pray tell me the reason , why you did say so , That people may hear it , before we do go . Bess. Then in the first place , I will tell thee my mind ; To me and my Children , thou hast been unkind : And what should have serv'd us at home to maintain , Thou hast in the Alehouse waited in vain : among merry fellows , and such as thou art , Whilst I sat at home with a sorrowful heart . Harry . Why , this of a truth Bess is far and n [ e ] are known , I never spent any men Goods , but mine own ; Nor are they alive , that of me can say , That I have took from them one penny away : I never did stranger , nor neighbour no wrong , With thought of my heart , or with word of my tongue . Bess. In spending thy own Goods , thou also spend'st mine , Which has done much injury to thee and mine ; Thou hast pawn'd our best clothes when thou money didst lack , The Cloak from thy shoulders , and the Gown from my back : Thou hast spent all thy money thou get , st , in excess , In Dicing and Drabbing , and foul Drunkenness . Harry . Indeed it is true , I have some [ e ] times been drunk , among honest good fellows , but I never lov'd Punk Though my credit be cracked , and my Garments be poor , It came not with spending my means on a Whore : Therefore speak the best , and the worst that you can , I have been , and will be a true honest man . Bess. WHen as in the Counter for Dept thou did'st lie . Thy friends all forsook thee , save only I ; Thou know'st I took pains , and did every day strive , To comfort my Harry , and keep him alive : And now let the world judge between you and me , If I was not faithful and honest to thee . Harry . Why now loving Wife , I am forc'd to confess , When I was in prison , in woe and distress ; Thou didst work to maintain me like a true hearted Wife , Thou wrought'st my redemption and so sav'd my life : And now demand of me what ever thou will , I'll do my endeavour , thy mind to fulfil . Bess. Then thus I would have thee , where ever you be , Remember your Children , and think upon me ; Look well to thy business , take heed what you spend , And have a care how you do borrow or lend : At no time be idle , but follow thy labour , And so thou shalt see , God wi [ l ] l bless thy endeavour . Harry . Thy counsel is good wife , a course I will take , All kind of good fellowship quite to forsake ; If I by chance peep in at the Alehouse door , When I have spent two pence , I will spend no more : I know this , that alewives like Bees will suck honey , But they shall henceforth have but little of my money . Bess. Keep promise sweet Harry , and see to thy self , When poor men spend all , alewives get the more wealth : But if all good fellows , will be ruled by me , Some alewives should not go so fine as they be : They should work for their liveings , as other folks do , Both knit , sow , and spin , and doe other things too . Harry . Indeed some proud Hoastesses wears Gay gold Rings , Their Gowns lac'd with silver , and other rare things ; While honest pain-takers do travel about , With the knees of their breeches and elbows worn ou But to conclude , Betty , to make thee amends , I'll be a good Husband , let's kiss and be friends . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . 