And excellent Ballad , Entitled , the unfor [ tO ] unate love of a Lancashire Gentleman , and the hard fortune of a fair young Bride . The tune is , Come follow my Love . LOo [ k you ] faithful Lovers [ oh ] n my unhappy state , See my tears distlling , but powered out too late . And buy not foolish fancy at too dear a rate , Alack for my love I shall die . My father is a Gentleman well known of high Degree , Tender of my welfare evermore was h [ e ] : He sought for reputation but ah the worse for me , a lack etc There was a proper Maiden , of favour sweet and fair , To whom in deep aff [ e ] ction I closely did repair , In heart I dearly lov'd her lo thus began my care , a lack etc , For Nature had adorned her with qualities Divine , Prudent in her actions' and in behaviour fine Upon a sweeter Creature the Sun did never shine alack etc Nothing wanted in her but this the grief of all , Of birth she was but lowly of substance very small A ssimle hired servant and subject to each call . all [ a ] ck , etc Yet she was my pleasure my joy and hearts delight More r [ i ] changed then any treasure , more preci [ oh ] us in my sighed , At leangth to one another our promise we did plighted , alack . etc , And thus unto my Fath [ e ] r the thing I did re [ v ] eal WORSER [ e ] siring of his favour nothing I did conceal , But he my dear affection regarded never a deal alack . etc Qd. he thou graceless fellow thou art my only Heir And for thy own preferment hast thou no better care , To marry with a beg [ e ] r that is both poor and bear . alack , etc I charge thee on my blessing thou do her sighed refrain , And that into her commany you never come again . That you should be so married I take it in disdain . alack , etc , Is there so many Gentlemen of worshipful Degree That have most honest daughters of beauty fair and free , & can none but a beggars brat content and pleasure thee , alack , etc By God y made all creatures this vow to thee I make If thou do not this Beggar refuse and quite forsake From thee thy du inheritance I wholly mean to take , alack , etc These his bitter speeches did soar torment my mind Knowing well how greatly he was to wrath inclin'd My heart was slave with sorrow no comfort I could find . alack etc Then did I write a Letter and send it to my Dear Wherein my first affection a [ l ] l changed did app [ e ] are , which from her fair eyes forced they pearled water clear alack etc For grief unto the Messenger , one word she could not speak Those doleful heavy tidings her gentle heart did break . yet sought not by her speeches on me her heart to wreak alack etc This deed within my conscience tormented me full soar To that [ i ] nk upon the promise I made her long before . And for the true performance how I most deeply swore . alack etc I could not be in quiet till I to here did go Who for my sake remained in deadly care and woe And unto her in secret my full intent to show , alack etc My sighed rejoiced greatly her sad perplexed heart From both her eyes on sudden the trickled tears did start . And in each others bosom we breathed out our smart , alack etc Unknown unto my Father or any friends beside . Our selves we closely married she was my only Bride Yet still within her service I caused her to abide , alack etc But never had two Lovers more sorrow care and grief No means in our extremity we found for our relief And now what farther happened here follows in brief , alack etc , NOw you Loyal Lovers attend unto the rest , See b [ y ] secret marriage how soar I am oppressed , For why my full misfortune herein shall be expressed , alack for my love shall I die . My father came unto me upon a certain day . And with a merry countenance these words to me did say My son quoth he come hither , and mark what I shall say alack etc , Seeing you are disposed to led a wedded life I have unto thy credi [ tO ] , provided thee a wife , where thou mayest liv delightful without all care and strife alack etc Master Senocks Daughter most beautiful & wise Three hundred pound her portion may well thy mind suffice , And by her friends & kindred thou mayest to credit rise alack , etc This is my son undoubted a match for thee most meet , She is a proper Maiden most delicate and sweet Go woe her then and wed her I shall rejoice to see't , alack , etc Her friends and I have talked and thereon have agreed , Then be not thou abashed but speedily proceed . Thou shalt be en [ tO ] ert [ a ] ined and have no doubt to speed . alack etc O pardon me dear Father , with bashful look he said , To en [ tO ] er into marriage , I sorely am afraid , a single life is lovely therein my mind is stayed , alack etc When he herd my speeches his anger did arise He drove me from his presence my sighed he did despise , And straight to di [ s ] inherit me all means he did devise . alack etc When I myself perceived in that ill case to stand , Most lewdly I consented unto his found demand And married with the other and all to save my Land : alack etc And at this hapless marriage great cost my friends did keep They spared not their Poultry their oxen nor their sheep While joyfully they danced I did in corner weep . alack etc My conscience was tormented which did my joys dep [ r ] ive Yet for to hide them sorrow my thoughts did always strive Quoth I what shame will it be to have two wives alive , alack etc O my sweet Margaret I did in sorrow say Thou knowest not in thy service of this my marriage day , Though here my body rests with thee my heart does stay alack etc And in my meditation came in my lovly Bride With chains and jewels trim'd and si [ l ] ken Robes beside , Saying w [ h ] y does my true love so sadly here abide alack etc Yea tweenty lovely kisses she did on me bestow And forth abread awalking this lovely M [ a ] id did go Yea arm in arm most friendly with him that was her Foe alack etc But when that I had brought her where no body was near I embrace her most faisly , with a most feigned i [ e ] r Unto the heart I stabbed this Maiden fair and clear alack etc My self in woeful manner I wounded with a knife , And laid my self down by her by this my married wife And said that Thieves to rob us had wrought this deadly strife alack etc Great wailing & great sorrow was then upon each side In woeful sort they buried this fair and comely bride And my dissimulation , in this was quickly try'd , alack etc And for this cruel murder to death that I am brought For this my aged Father did end his days in tuought , My Mergaret at these tidings , her own destrution wrought , alack etc Lo here the doleful peril blind fancy brought me in And mark what care & sorrow forc'd marriage does bring All men by me be warned and Lord forgive my since . alack etc FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson . And excellent Ballad , Entitled , the unfor [ tO ] unate love of a Lancashire Gentleman , and the hard fortune of a fair young Bride . The tune is , Come follow my Love . LOo [ k you ] faithful Lovers [ oh ] n my unhappy state , See my tears distlling , but powered out too late . And buy not foolish fancy at too dear a rate , Alack for my love I shall die . My father is a Gentleman well known of high Degree , Tender of my welfare evermore was h [ e ] : He sought for reputation but ah the worse for me , a lack etc There was a proper Maiden , of favour sweet and fair , To whom in deep aff [ e ] ction I closely did repair , In heart I dearly lov'd her lo thus began my care , a lack etc , For Nature had adorned her with qualities Divine , Prudent in her actions' and in behaviour fine Upon a sweeter Creature the Sun did never shine alack etc Nothing wanted in her but this the grief of all , Of birth she was but lowly of substance very small A ssimle hired servant and subject to each call . all [ a ] ck , etc Yet she was my pleasure my joy and hearts delight More r [ i ] changed then any treasure , more preci [ oh ] us in my sighed , At leangth to one another our promise we did plighted , alack . etc , And thus unto my Fath [ e ] r the thing I did re [ v ] eal WORSER [ e ] siring of his favour nothing I did conceal , But he my dear affection regarded never a deal alack . etc Qd. he thou graceless fellow thou art my only Heir And for thy own preferment hast thou no better care , To marry with a beg [ e ] r that is both poor and bear . alack , etc I charge thee on my blessing thou do her sighed refrain , And that into her commany you never come again . That you should be so married I take it in disdain . alack , etc , Is there so many Gentlemen of worshipful Degree That have most honest daughters of beauty fair and free , & can none but a beggars brat content and pleasure thee , alack , etc By God y made all creatures this vow to thee I make If thou do not this Beggar refuse and quite forsake From thee thy du inheritance I wholly mean to take , alack , etc These his bitter speeches did soar torment my mind Knowing well how greatly he was to wrath inclin'd My heart was slave with sorrow no comfort I could find . alack etc Then did I write a Letter and send it to my Dear Wherein my first affection a [ l ] l changed did app [ e ] are , which from her fair eyes forced they pearled water clear alack etc For grief unto the Messenger , one word she could not speak Those doleful heavy tidings her gentle heart did break . yet sought not by her speeches on me her heart to wreak alack etc This deed within my conscience tormented me full soar To that [ i ] nk upon the promise I made her long before . And for the true performance how I most deeply swore . alack etc I could not be in quiet till I to here did go Who for my sake remained in deadly care and woe And unto her in secret my full intent to show , alack etc My sighed rejoiced greatly her sad perplexed heart From both her eyes on sudden the trickled tears did start . And in each others bosom we breathed out our smart , alack etc Unknown unto my Father or any friends beside . Our selves we closely married she was my only Bride Yet still within her service I caused her to abide , alack etc But never had two Lovers more sorrow care and grief No means in our extremity we found for our relief And now what farther happened here follows in brief , alack etc , NOw you Loyal Lovers attend unto the rest , See b [ y ] secret marriage how soar I am oppressed , For why my full misfortune herein shall be expressed , alack for my love shall I die . My father came unto me upon a certain day . And with a merry countenance these words to me did say My son quoth he come hither , and mark what I shall say alack etc , Seeing you are disposed to led a wedded life I have unto thy credi [ tO ] , provided thee a wife , where thou mayest liv delightful without all care and strife alack etc Master Senocks Daughter most beautiful & wise Three hundred pound her portion may well thy mind suffice , And by her friends & kindred thou mayest to credit rise alack , etc This is my son undoubted a match for thee most meet , She is a proper Maiden most delicate and sweet Go woe her then and wed her I shall rejoice to see't , alack , etc Her friends and I have talked and thereon have agreed , Then be not thou abashed but speedily proceed . Thou shalt be en [ tO ] ert [ a ] ined and have no doubt to speed . alack etc O pardon me dear Father , with bashful look he said , To en [ tO ] er into marriage , I sorely am afraid , a single life is lovely therein my mind is stayed , alack etc When he herd my speeches his anger did arise He drove me from his presence my sighed he did despise , And straight to di [ s ] inherit me all means he did devise . alack etc When I myself perceived in that ill case to stand , Most lewdly I consented unto his found demand And married with the other and all to save my Land : alack etc And at this hapless marriage great cost my friends did keep They spared not their Poultry their oxen nor their sheep While joyfully they danced I did in corner weep . alack etc My conscience was tormented which did my joys dep [ r ] ive Yet for to hide them sorrow my thoughts did always strive Quoth I what shame will it be to have two wives alive , alack etc O my sweet Margaret I did in sorrow say Thou knowest not in thy service of this my marriage day , Though here my body rests with thee my heart does stay alack etc And in my meditation came in my lovly Bride With chains and jewels trim'd and si [ l ] ken Robes beside , Saying w [ h ] y does my true love so sadly here abide alack etc Yea tweenty lovely kisses she did on me bestow And forth abread awalking this lovely M [ a ] id did go Yea arm in arm most friendly with him that was her Foe alack etc But when that I had brought her where no body was near I embrace her most faisly , with a most feigned i [ e ] r Unto the heart I stabbed this Maiden fair and clear alack etc My self in woeful manner I wounded with a knife , And laid my self down by her by this my married wife And said that Thieves to rob us had wrought this deadly strife alack etc Great wailing & great sorrow was then upon each side In woeful sort they buried this fair and comely bride And my dissimulation , in this was quickly try'd , alack etc And for this cruel murder to death that I am brought For this my aged Father did end his days in tuought , My Mergaret at these tidings , her own destrution wrought , alack etc Lo here the doleful peril blind fancy brought me in And mark what care & sorrow forc'd marriage does bring All men by me be warned and Lord forgive my since . alack etc FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson . 