And Excellent Ballad of the Mercers son of Midhurst , and the Clothiers daughter of Guilford . The tune is , Dainty come thou to me . THere was a Wealthy man , in Sussex he did dwell , A Mercer by his Trade , as many yet can tell . He had a youthful Son , whom fancy did so move . He cried night and day , Alack I die for Love . Alack I die for Love , beauty disdains me , The Clothiers Daughter dear , works my extremiy : She hath my heart in hold , that did most cruel prove , Thus cry'd he night and day , Alack I die for Love . Alack I die for Love , fortune so soar does frown , The jewel of my heart , dwells in Guilford Town . There lies the Lamp of life , for whom this pain I prove , Fair Phillis pity me , Alack I die for Love . Alack I die for Love , and can no comfort find , The Clothiers daughter dear bears too high a mind . Sweet beauteous P [ a ] ragone fair Venus silve [ r ] Dove , Fair Philiis pity me , Alack I die for Love . Alack I die for Love , while thou dost laugh and smile Let not thy pleasure be , true Love for to beguile , My life lies in thy hand , then as it does behove , Slay not the Mercers Son ; Alack I die for Love . If that my beauty bright , does grieve thy heart quoth she Then let the Mercers Son , turn still his face from me . I no man disdain , or can I cruel prove , My tongue must still say nay where my heart cannot Love . Where my heart cannot Love , Lovers all must I shun The Clothiers daughter thus , answered the Mercers Son. I bear no lofty mind , yet pity cannot move , My mind to fancy him , where my heart cannot Love . Where my heart cannot love , I must his love deny , For though I laugh and smile , yet falsehood I defy . Thou art too found a man , life danger thus to prove , I'll not wed good friend John , where my mind cannot Love . What good can there befall , to that new married wife , Where goods and wealth is small want causeth deadly strife . But where is wealth at will , experience oft does prove , Though love at first be small , yet goods increases Love . Yet goods increases Love , and I will never wed , But where a Key of gold , opens the door to bed . For she may merry be , what chance so ever hap , Where bags of money come , tumbling within her lap . Tumbling within her lap , while she her gold does tell , With such a husband sir , I should delight to dwell . Were he young were he old , deform'd or fair in show , My pleasure still should be , where Treasure still does flow . Where Treasure still does flow , is that your mind quoth he , My Father will bestow , as much as comes to thee . Hadst thou five hundred pound , five hundred more beside , My Father will bestow , if thou wilt be my bride . If thou wilt be my bride , thus much I understand , My Father will give me , his house and eke his Land. So while that he does live , with us he may remain , What says my hearts delight , is this a bargain plain . This is a bargain plain . quoth she I am content , So he perform this thing , I give the my consent . And I will merry be , my mind shall not remove , Thou shalt be my sweet heart , I'll be thine own True Love . I'll be thine own True Love , then make no more delay , I greatly long to see , our happy marriage day . To Midhurst in all haste , goes the Mercers Son , He told his Father dear . his true Love he had wone . The old man hearing this , conveyed out of hand , Assurance to his Son , of all his house and Land. When he had done this deed , he wept most bitterly , Saying my own dear Son , thou must be good to me . Well worth two hundred pound , this morning was I known , But the clothes to my back , nothing is now mine own . And all this have I done , dear Son to pleasure thee , Think on thy Father's love , and deal thou well with me . Dear Father quoth the Son , if I do not do so , God power upon my head hight vengeance grief and woe . The young man wedded was , to this fair lovely Bride But wondrous grief and care , thereof their did betide . As after you shall hear , in the old men complaint , A tale of greater grief , cannot your hearts attaint A warning by this thing , all men may understand , Lest they do come to live , under their children's hand . FINIS . And Excellent Ballad of the Mercers son of Midhurst , and the Clothiers daughter of Guilford . The tune is , Dainty come thou to me . THere was a Wealthy man , in Sussex he did dwell , A Mercer by his Trade , as many yet can tell . He had a youthful Son , whom fancy did so move . He cried night and day , Alack I die for Love . Alack I die for Love , beauty disdains me , The Clothiers Daughter dear , works my extremiy : She hath my heart in hold , that did most cruel prove , Thus cry'd he night and day , Alack I die for Love . Alack I die for Love , fortune so soar does frown , The jewel of my heart , dwells in Guilford Town . There lies the Lamp of life , for whom this pain I prove , Fair Phillis pity me , Alack I die for Love . Alack I die for Love , and can no comfort find , The Clothiers daughter dear bears too high a mind . Sweet beauteous P [ a ] ragone fair Venus silve [ r ] Dove , Fair Philiis pity me , Alack I die for Love . Alack I die for Love , while thou dost laugh and smile Let not thy pleasure be , true Love for to beguile , My life lies in thy hand , then as it does behove , Slay not the Mercers Son ; Alack I die for Love . If that my beauty bright , does grieve thy heart quoth she Then let the Mercers Son , turn still his face from me . I no man disdain , or can I cruel prove , My tongue must still say nay where my heart cannot Love . Where my heart cannot Love , Lovers all must I shun The Clothiers daughter thus , answered the Mercers Son. I bear no lofty mind , yet pity cannot move , My mind to fancy him , where my heart cannot Love . Where my heart cannot love , I must his love deny , For though I laugh and smile , yet falsehood I defy . Thou art too found a man , life danger thus to prove , I'll not wed good friend John , where my mind cannot Love . What good can there befall , to that new married wife , Where goods and wealth is small want causeth deadly strife . But where is wealth at will , experience oft does prove , Though love at first be small , yet goods increases Love . Yet goods increases Love , and I will never wed , But where a Key of gold , opens the door to bed . For she may merry be , what chance so ever hap , Where bags of money come , tumbling within her lap . Tumbling within her lap , while she her gold does tell , With such a husband sir , I should delight to dwell . Were he young were he old , deform'd or fair in show , My pleasure still should be , where Treasure still does flow . Where Treasure still does flow , is that your mind quoth he , My Father will bestow , as much as comes to thee . Hadst thou five hundred pound , five hundred more beside , My Father will bestow , if thou wilt be my bride . If thou wilt be my bride , thus much I understand , My Father will give me , his house and eke his Land. So while that he does live , with us he may remain , What says my hearts delight , is this a bargain plain . This is a bargain plain . quoth she I am content , So he perform this thing , I give the my consent . And I will merry be , my mind shall not remove , Thou shalt be my sweet heart , I'll be thine own True Love . I'll be thine own True Love , then make no more delay , I greatly long to see , our happy marriage day . To Midhurst in all haste , goes the Mercers Son , He told his Father dear . his true Love he had wone . The old man hearing this , conveyed out of hand , Assurance to his Son , of all his house and Land. When he had done this deed , he wept most bitterly , Saying my own dear Son , thou must be good to me . Well worth two hundred pound , this morning was I known , But the clothes to my back , nothing is now mine own . And all this have I done , dear Son to pleasure thee , Think on thy Father's love , and deal thou well with me . Dear Father quoth the Son , if I do not do so , God power upon my head hight vengeance grief and woe . The young man wedded was , to this fair lovely Bride But wondrous grief and care , thereof their did betide . As after you shall hear , in the old men complaint , A tale of greater grief , cannot your hearts attaint A warning by this thing , all men may understand , Lest they do come to live , under their children's hand . FINIS . 