Englands honour , and Londons glory . With the manner of proclaiming Charles the second King of England , this eight of May , 1660. by the honourable the two houses of Parliament , Lord General Monk , the Lord Mayor , Alderman , and Common-Counsell of the City . The tune is , Vi vel a Roy . COme hither Friends and listen unto me , and hear what shall now related be , For joy and comfort is now come to yea , and happy days in England you see : The King and Parliament now are agreed , to ease our sadness , with joy and gladness , And for to free us from all our annoy as by the Parliament now is decreed . then let us sing boys , God save the King boys , Drink a good health and sing Vi vel a Roy . The first of May to our great comfort , by our good King a Message was sent , the which thee Pairlament receiv'd with concord and sent abroad the Land to content . For so Lords and Commons together agreed with their free consent , and being well bent , For they will suffer none us to destroy , the which does both our joy & comfort breed . then let , etc : The eight of May as my muse does here sing , Royal King Charles with a full consent Was then proclaimed Englands fair King . by Lords and Commons of Parliament . And by the heavenly powers divine , and in Londons City The cause of this Ditty Unto all this Nation now tell of this joy the which unto the same did incline . then let , etc The two houses in the Palace Yard General Monk himself being by , Proclaimed the King with great regard , their acclamation reached the sky , From thence they marched along the Strand , Unto Templebar , whereas they met there The Citizens all with exceeding joy , they generally without command Cry'd God save the King boys , the Earth did ring boys , they cast up their hats and cry'd Vi vel a Roy . The Lord Mayor and Alderman in velvet gowns , and over their heads their hats they did wave , Not caring at all the spending their Crowns rejoicing that Charls his birthright should have The City Horse and their trained Bans this triumph did grace , each man in his place , Did shout for the good we now shall enjoy , the people shouted and clapped their hands , Crying God save the King , etc Through fair London City we well understand thee loud found [ i ] ng trumpets thee same did proclaim The like Echo never hath been in that [ i ] s Land then let these three Nations rejoice for thee same , And all good people that in them remain All men did rejoice with heart and with voice Which all our sorrow [ s ] at once did destroy for joy that Charles his right he shall gain . then let us sing boys God save the King boys WORSER [ r ] ink a good health and cry Vi vel a Roy . The Bells' in the City did answer them then , such gallant music hath seldom been herd , The Trumpets returned their Echo again , no heart from rejoicing at that time was bar'd , For the greatest number were all of one mind , at every stand , the Mayor did command The sounding trumpets to proclaim the joy , the City in this great comfort did find , then let , etc The City so high'y did prize the same , and for to show their ardent desire , The City seemed all in a flame , the which thousand then did admire , Such vast charges men did then bestow , the truth for to tell , the City did excel , So great was their expressions of their joy , no greater Joy could be here below . then let , etc The Lords and Commons likewise were glad , to see the people so soon to comp [ l ] y , Many were reviv'd that were sad , for there were none that to join did deny . This glorious sighed was most triumphant , so great wa [ s ] the noise expressing their joys , And the peoples hearts were fil'd with such joy . not one was herd to make any complaint . then let , etc Many brave Gallents are gone to the King to bear such a present as never was sent Heretofore , and we boy they him will bring for to be crowned by this Parliament Cheer up fair England rejoice and be glad , that [ e ] rights they'l r [ e ] store , as was here . tofore , And all offences they quite will destroy , and no one shall then h [ a ] we cause to be sad , then let , etc This famous City great Jove defend them , their grave Messengers from them are gone , Unto the King for to recommend them unto him the Citizens every one Heaven bless those Messengers that faithful be , trust is reposed , their minds inclos [ e ] worser For his Subject's welfare is all his joy , by his Declaration at large you see . then let , etc , And now to conclude the eight of May , caused [ s ] ed all English-men loud for to sing , It was a joyful and happy day . Bonfires did burn and the Bells' did ring , Then let us praise our great God above , he hath brought to pass , the like never was , Such great acclamations of exceeding joy , by fame performed and the God of love . then let us sing boys , God save the King boys , Cast up your Caps and cry Vi vel a Roy . FINIS , I.W. The true manner of Proclaiming Charles the Second King of England , etc by the two Houses of Parliament , Lords and Commons from Westminster , through all the streets of London , and accompanied by the Lord Mayor , Aldermen , and Common-Counsell of the City of London : With all the City Trained Bans for their guard , and many thousands of Citizens on Horseback . London , Printed for William Gilbertson . Englands honour , and Londons glory . With the manner of proclaiming Charles the second King of England , this eight of May , 1660. by the honourable the two houses of Parliament , Lord General Monk , the Lord Mayor , Alderman , and Common-Counsell of the City . The tune is , Vi vel a Roy . COme hither Friends and listen unto me , and hear what shall now related be , For joy and comfort is now come to yea , and happy days in England you see : The King and Parliament now are agreed , to ease our sadness , with joy and gladness , And for to free us from all our annoy as by the Parliament now is decreed . then let us sing boys , God save the King boys , Drink a good health and sing Vi vel a Roy . The first of May to our great comfort , by our good King a Message was sent , the which thee Pairlament receiv'd with concord and sent abroad the Land to content . For so Lords and Commons together agreed with their free consent , and being well bent , For they will suffer none us to destroy , the which does both our joy & comfort breed . then let , etc : The eight of May as my muse does here sing , Royal King Charles with a full consent Was then proclaimed Englands fair King . by Lords and Commons of Parliament . And by the heavenly powers divine , and in Londons City The cause of this Ditty Unto all this Nation now tell of this joy the which unto the same did incline . then let , etc The two houses in the Palace Yard General Monk himself being by , Proclaimed the King with great regard , their acclamation reached the sky , From thence they marched along the Strand , Unto Templebar , whereas they met there The Citizens all with exceeding joy , they generally without command Cry'd God save the King boys , the Earth did ring boys , they cast up their hats and cry'd Vi vel a Roy . The Lord Mayor and Alderman in velvet gowns , and over their heads their hats they did wave , Not caring at all the spending their Crowns rejoicing that Charls his birthright should have The City Horse and their trained Bans this triumph did grace , each man in his place , Did shout for the good we now shall enjoy , the people shouted and clapped their hands , Crying God save the King , etc Through fair London City we well understand thee loud found [ i ] ng trumpets thee same did proclaim The like Echo never hath been in that [ i ] s Land then let these three Nations rejoice for thee same , And all good people that in them remain All men did rejoice with heart and with voice Which all our sorrow [ s ] at once did destroy for joy that Charles his right he shall gain . then let us sing boys God save the King boys WORSER [ r ] ink a good health and cry Vi vel a Roy . The Bells' in the City did answer them then , such gallant music hath seldom been herd , The Trumpets returned their Echo again , no heart from rejoicing at that time was bar'd , For the greatest number were all of one mind , at every stand , the Mayor did command The sounding trumpets to proclaim the joy , the City in this great comfort did find , then let , etc The City so high'y did prize the same , and for to show their ardent desire , The City seemed all in a flame , the which thousand then did admire , Such vast charges men did then bestow , the truth for to tell , the City did excel , So great was their expressions of their joy , no greater Joy could be here below . then let , etc The Lords and Commons likewise were glad , to see the people so soon to comp [ l ] y , Many were reviv'd that were sad , for there were none that to join did deny . This glorious sighed was most triumphant , so great wa [ s ] the noise expressing their joys , And the peoples hearts were fil'd with such joy . not one was herd to make any complaint . then let , etc Many brave Gallents are gone to the King to bear such a present as never was sent Heretofore , and we boy they him will bring for to be crowned by this Parliament Cheer up fair England rejoice and be glad , that [ e ] rights they'l r [ e ] store , as was here . tofore , And all offences they quite will destroy , and no one shall then h [ a ] we cause to be sad , then let , etc This famous City great Jove defend them , their grave Messengers from them are gone , Unto the King for to recommend them unto him the Citizens every one Heaven bless those Messengers that faithful be , trust is reposed , their minds inclos [ e ] worser For his Subject's welfare is all his joy , by his Declaration at large you see . then let , etc , And now to conclude the eight of May , caused [ s ] ed all English-men loud for to sing , It was a joyful and happy day . Bonfires did burn and the Bells' did ring , Then let us praise our great God above , he hath brought to pass , the like never was , Such great acclamations of exceeding joy , by fame performed and the God of love . then let us sing boys , God save the King boys , Cast up your Caps and cry Vi vel a Roy . FINIS , I.W. The true manner of Proclaiming Charles the Second King of England , etc by the two Houses of Parliament , Lords and Commons from Westminster , through all the streets of London , and accompanied by the Lord Mayor , Aldermen , and Common-Counsell of the City of London : With all the City Trained Bans for their guard , and many thousands of Citizens on Horseback . London , Printed for William Gilbertson . Englands honour , and Londons glory . With the manner of proclaiming Charles the second King of England , this eight of May , 1660. by the honourable the two houses of Parliament , Lord General Monk , the Lord Mayor , Alderman , and Common-Counsell of the City . The tune is , Vi vel a Roy . COme hither Friends and listen unto me , and hear what shall now related be , For joy and comfort is now come to yea , and happy days in England you see : The King and Parliament now are agreed , to ease our sadness , with joy and gladness , And for to free us from all our annoy as by the Parliament now is decreed . then let us sing boys , God save the King boys , Drink a good health and sing Vi vel a Roy . The first of May to our great comfort , by our good King a Message was sent , the which thee Pairlament receiv'd with concord and sent abroad the Land to content . For so Lords and Commons together agreed with their free consent , and being well bent , For they will suffer none us to destroy , the which does both our joy & comfort breed . then let , etc : The eight of May as my muse does here sing , Royal King Charles with a full consent Was then proclaimed Englands fair King . by Lords and Commons of Parliament . And by the heavenly powers divine , and in Londons City The cause of this Ditty Unto all this Nation now tell of this joy the which unto the same did incline . then let , etc The two houses in the Palace Yard General Monk himself being by , Proclaimed the King with great regard , their acclamation reached the sky , From thence they marched along the Strand , Unto Templebar , whereas they met there The Citizens all with exceeding joy , they generally without command Cry'd God save the King boys , the Earth did ring boys , they cast up their hats and cry'd Vi vel a Roy . The Lord Mayor and Alderman in velvet gowns , and over their heads their hats they did wave , Not caring at all the spending their Crowns rejoicing that Charls his birthright should have The City Horse and their trained Bans this triumph did grace , each man in his place , Did shout for the good we now shall enjoy , the people shouted and clapped their hands , Crying God save the King , etc Through fair London City we well understand thee loud found [ i ] ng trumpets thee same did proclaim The like Echo never hath been in that [ i ] s Land then let these three Nations rejoice for thee same , And all good people that in them remain All men did rejoice with heart and with voice Which all our sorrow [ s ] at once did destroy for joy that Charles his right he shall gain . then let us sing boys God save the King boys WORSER [ r ] ink a good health and cry Vi vel a Roy . The Bells' in the City did answer them then , such gallant music hath seldom been herd , The Trumpets returned their Echo again , no heart from rejoicing at that time was bar'd , For the greatest number were all of one mind , at every stand , the Mayor did command The sounding trumpets to proclaim the joy , the City in this great comfort did find , then let , etc The City so high'y did prize the same , and for to show their ardent desire , The City seemed all in a flame , the which thousand then did admire , Such vast charges men did then bestow , the truth for to tell , the City did excel , So great was their expressions of their joy , no greater Joy could be here below . then let , etc The Lords and Commons likewise were glad , to see the people so soon to comp [ l ] y , Many were reviv'd that were sad , for there were none that to join did deny . This glorious sighed was most triumphant , so great wa [ s ] the noise expressing their joys , And the peoples hearts were fil'd with such joy . not one was herd to make any complaint . then let , etc Many brave Gallents are gone to the King to bear such a present as never was sent Heretofore , and we boy they him will bring for to be crowned by this Parliament Cheer up fair England rejoice and be glad , that [ e ] rights they'l r [ e ] store , as was here . tofore , And all offences they quite will destroy , and no one shall then h [ a ] we cause to be sad , then let , etc This famous City great Jove defend them , their grave Messengers from them are gone , Unto the King for to recommend them unto him the Citizens every one Heaven bless those Messengers that faithful be , trust is reposed , their minds inclos [ e ] worser For his Subject's welfare is all his joy , by his Declaration at large you see . then let , etc , And now to conclude the eight of May , caused [ s ] ed all English-men loud for to sing , It was a joyful and happy day . Bonfires did burn and the Bells' did ring , Then let us praise our great God above , he hath brought to pass , the like never was , Such great acclamations of exceeding joy , by fame performed and the God of love . then let us sing boys , God save the King boys , Cast up your Caps and cry Vi vel a Roy . FINIS , I.W. The true manner of Proclaiming Charles the Second King of England , etc by the two Houses of Parliament , Lords and Commons from Westminster , through all the streets of London , and accompanied by the Lord Mayor , Aldermen , and Common-Counsell of the City of London : With all the City Trained Bans for their guard , and many thousands of Citizens on Horseback . London , Printed for William Gilbertson . Englands honour , and Londons glory . With the manner of proclaiming Charles the second King of England , this eight of May , 1660. by the honourable the two houses of Parliament , Lord General Monk , the Lord Mayor , Alderman , and Common-Counsell of the City . The tune is , Vi vel a Roy . COme hither Friends and listen unto me , and hear what shall now related be , For joy and comfort is now come to yea , and happy days in England you see : The King and Parliament now are agreed , to ease our sadness , with joy and gladness , And for to free us from all our annoy as by the Parliament now is decreed . then let us sing boys , God save the King boys , Drink a good health and sing Vi vel a Roy . The first of May to our great comfort , by our good King a Message was sent , the which thee Pairlament receiv'd with concord and sent abroad the Land to content . For so Lords and Commons together agreed with their free consent , and being well bent , For they will suffer none us to destroy , the which does both our joy & comfort breed . then let , etc : The eight of May as my muse does here sing , Royal King Charles with a full consent Was then proclaimed Englands fair King . by Lords and Commons of Parliament . And by the heavenly powers divine , and in Londons City The cause of this Ditty Unto all this Nation now tell of this joy the which unto the same did incline . then let , etc The two houses in the Palace Yard General Monk himself being by , Proclaimed the King with great regard , their acclamation reached the sky , From thence they marched along the Strand , Unto Templebar , whereas they met there The Citizens all with exceeding joy , they generally without command Cry'd God save the King boys , the Earth did ring boys , they cast up their hats and cry'd Vi vel a Roy . The Lord Mayor and Alderman in velvet gowns , and over their heads their hats they did wave , Not caring at all the spending their Crowns rejoicing that Charls his birthright should have The City Horse and their trained Bans this triumph did grace , each man in his place , Did shout for the good we now shall enjoy , the people shouted and clapped their hands , Crying God save the King , etc Through fair London City we well understand thee loud found [ i ] ng trumpets thee same did proclaim The like Echo never hath been in that [ i ] s Land then let these three Nations rejoice for thee same , And all good people that in them remain All men did rejoice with heart and with voice Which all our sorrow [ s ] at once did destroy for joy that Charles his right he shall gain . then let us sing boys God save the King boys WORSER [ r ] ink a good health and cry Vi vel a Roy . The Bells' in the City did answer them then , such gallant music hath seldom been herd , The Trumpets returned their Echo again , no heart from rejoicing at that time was bar'd , For the greatest number were all of one mind , at every stand , the Mayor did command The sounding trumpets to proclaim the joy , the City in this great comfort did find , then let , etc The City so high'y did prize the same , and for to show their ardent desire , The City seemed all in a flame , the which thousand then did admire , Such vast charges men did then bestow , the truth for to tell , the City did excel , So great was their expressions of their joy , no greater Joy could be here below . then let , etc The Lords and Commons likewise were glad , to see the people so soon to comp [ l ] y , Many were reviv'd that were sad , for there were none that to join did deny . This glorious sighed was most triumphant , so great wa [ s ] the noise expressing their joys , And the peoples hearts were fil'd with such joy . not one was herd to make any complaint . then let , etc Many brave Gallents are gone to the King to bear such a present as never was sent Heretofore , and we boy they him will bring for to be crowned by this Parliament Cheer up fair England rejoice and be glad , that [ e ] rights they'l r [ e ] store , as was here . tofore , And all offences they quite will destroy , and no one shall then h [ a ] we cause to be sad , then let , etc This famous City great Jove defend them , their grave Messengers from them are gone , Unto the King for to recommend them unto him the Citizens every one Heaven bless those Messengers that faithful be , trust is reposed , their minds inclos [ e ] worser For his Subject's welfare is all his joy , by his Declaration at large you see . then let , etc , And now to conclude the eight of May , caused [ s ] ed all English-men loud for to sing , It was a joyful and happy day . Bonfires did burn and the Bells' did ring , Then let us praise our great God above , he hath brought to pass , the like never was , Such great acclamations of exceeding joy , by fame performed and the God of love . then let us sing boys , God save the King boys , Cast up your Caps and cry Vi vel a Roy . FINIS , I.W. The true manner of Proclaiming Charles the Second King of England , etc by the two Houses of Parliament , Lords and Commons from Westminster , through all the streets of London , and accompanied by the Lord Mayor , Aldermen , and Common-Counsell of the City of London : With all the City Trained Bans for their guard , and many thousands of Citizens on Horseback . London , Printed for William Gilbertson . 