Englands Triumph , and Hollands Downfall ; OR , The Second Royal VICTORY , Obtained upon the Hollanders Fleet , in a Sea-Fight , by the King of Great Brittains Royal Navy , under the Conduct of his Highness Prince Rupert , and his Grace , George Duke of Albemarle ; as it was Heroically Fought , and undoubtfully Disputed on the I , 2d , 3d , & 4th of June , 1666. To the tune of , A Fig for France and Holland too , etc STring up your hearts , & tune your throats , With merry and triumphant Notes ; Send sorrow from your Souls away , You never had more cause for Joy : The Creeple may cast away his Crutch , And dance the Downfall of the Dutch Great Brittain now may take it's ease , King Charles is Sovereign of the Seas . The First and Second day of June , Put Holland's Trumpets out of Tune ; Prince Rupert and the Duke too boot , Have given the Dutch-men all the Rou So bloodily they cut their Coats , And bruis'd & bang'd , & burn'd their Boats , They ne're will offer to displease , King Charles their Sovereign of the Seas . If Number would have wone the Day , We were less Numerous then they ; When Sixteen Zealand Ships came in , If odds would doo't , they needs must win : For they were Ninety Six complete , But who can save , whom Heaven will beatrice . When God his Mercy will express , Unto the Sovereign of the Seas . The Duke with Loyalty inrag'd , With ( Fifty ) Ninety Sir ingag'd ; But Thirty of the Dutch ( to meet Prince Rupert ) then did quit their Fleet , Thinking to seize the Prince by slight , Before their Forces could Unite : But no such shallow Plots as these , Can Cheat the Sovereign of the Seas . The Prince and the Duke did nobly join , Their Loyal Forces both combine ; And on the foaming Billows curl'd , They bid Defiance to the world : The Dutch engage with all their Powers , And scatter on us Shot like showers . But 'tis not such poor Powers as these , Can quell the Sovereign of the Seas . Almost as swiftly as desir'd , Fourteen of theirs were Took and Fir'd ; But their Vice-Admiral did meet , Our Duke i'th' Front of all his Flee They were so near they might have clutched , Almost shook hands , their Yard-Arms touch'd . But George's Broadside did displease , The Foe toth' Sovereign of the Seas . The second part , to the same tune . THe First was then so fierce and hight , His Hand was bruis'd , his Breeches shot ; Yet though they came so hotly on , As soon they vanish'd and were gone : Forty or Fifty men of ours , Were kill'd & knock'd down by their powers . Yet some of these ( though with much pain ) Appear'd upon the Decks again . Prince Rupert like the God of War , through their Fleet shot like a Star ; Whose Influence like Lightning shone , And pierc'd the marrow through the bone : The Seas with blood were much imbru'd , The Dutch-men fled , our Men pursu'd . 'Till none were seen that could displease , King Charles the Sovereign of the Seas . So long as we had Powder , we Pursu'd the Dutch-men through the Sea ; And their du Ruiter , he in whom , They built all their hope's to come : Four of their greatest Ships were sunk , They cry , The Devil's in the Monk . Never such men appear'd like these , To Guard the Sovereign of the Seas . A gallant Ship of theirs was Fyr'd , With Seventy six Guns double Tyr'd ; Our Henery , a Ship of Fame , From three Fire-Ships escap'd the Flame : And was so strong beset , that then He lost at least One hundred men . We must endure such hurts as these , To guard the Sovereign of the Seas . By Sea , so black and read a Fight , No Time or Age e're brought to light ; The Fire and Water did contend , Which should first bring them to their end : More valiant Men kill'd in three days , Then three and twenty years can raise . We can't avoid such brunts as these , To guard the Sovereign of the Seas . On Whitsonday the Duke did send , His Men for Cure , and Ships to mend Unto our English Coast , where care Is taken for their swift Repair : These Cards thus dealt , out of the Lump , The Royal Katherine turn'd up Trump . A Sacrifice which does appease , The Royal Sovereign of the Seas . To sum up all , 'tis thought they are , Unfit to raise another War ; 'Tis much presum'd , 'cause they did fail , When they had made out all their Sail : These are some of those warlike Tricks , Becket Presag'd in Sixty Six . [ May all ] ways such Events as these , Secure the Sovereign of the Seas . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . Englands Triumph , and Hollands Downfall ; OR , The Second Royal VICTORY , Obtained upon the Hollanders Fleet , in a Sea-Fight , by the King of Great Brittains Royal Navy , under the Conduct of his Highness Prince Rupert , and his Grace , George Duke of Albemarle ; as it was Heroically Fought , and undoubtfully Disputed on the I , 2d , 3d , & 4th of June , 1666. To the tune of , A Fig for France and Holland too , etc STring up your hearts , & tune your throats , With merry and triumphant Notes ; Send sorrow from your Souls away , You never had more cause for Joy : The Creeple may cast away his Crutch , And dance the Downfall of the Dutch Great Brittain now may take it's ease , King Charles is Sovereign of the Seas . The First and Second day of June , Put Holland's Trumpets out of Tune ; Prince Rupert and the Duke too boot , Have given the Dutch-men all the Rou So bloodily they cut their Coats , And bruis'd & bang'd , & burn'd their Boats , They ne're will offer to displease , King Charles their Sovereign of the Seas . If Number would have wone the Day , We were less Numerous then they ; When Sixteen Zealand Ships came in , If odds would doo't , they needs must win : For they were Ninety Six complete , But who can save , whom Heaven will beatrice . When God his Mercy will express , Unto the Sovereign of the Seas . The Duke with Loyalty inrag'd , With ( Fifty ) Ninety Sir ingag'd ; But Thirty of the Dutch ( to meet Prince Rupert ) then did quit their Fleet , Thinking to seize the Prince by slight , Before their Forces could Unite : But no such shallow Plots as these , Can Cheat the Sovereign of the Seas . The Prince and the Duke did nobly join , Their Loyal Forces both combine ; And on the foaming Billows curl'd , They bid Defiance to the world : The Dutch engage with all their Powers , And scatter on us Shot like showers . But 'tis not such poor Powers as these , Can quell the Sovereign of the Seas . Almost as swiftly as desir'd , Fourteen of theirs were Took and Fir'd ; But their Vice-Admiral did meet , Our Duke i'th' Front of all his Flee They were so near they might have clutched , Almost shook hands , their Yard-Arms touch'd . But George's Broadside did displease , The Foe toth' Sovereign of the Seas . The second part , to the same tune . THe First was then so fierce and hight , His Hand was bruis'd , his Breeches shot ; Yet though they came so hotly on , As soon they vanish'd and were gone : Forty or Fifty men of ours , Were kill'd & knock'd down by their powers . Yet some of these ( though with much pain ) Appear'd upon the Decks again . Prince Rupert like the God of War , through their Fleet shot like a Star ; Whose Influence like Lightning shone , And pierc'd the marrow through the bone : The Seas with blood were much imbru'd , The Dutch-men fled , our Men pursu'd . 'Till none were seen that could displease , King Charles the Sovereign of the Seas . So long as we had Powder , we Pursu'd the Dutch-men through the Sea ; And their du Ruiter , he in whom , They built all their hope's to come : Four of their greatest Ships were sunk , They cry , The Devil's in the Monk . Never such men appear'd like these , To Guard the Sovereign of the Seas . A gallant Ship of theirs was Fyr'd , With Seventy six Guns double Tyr'd ; Our Henery , a Ship of Fame , From three Fire-Ships escap'd the Flame : And was so strong beset , that then He lost at least One hundred men . We must endure such hurts as these , To guard the Sovereign of the Seas . By Sea , so black and read a Fight , No Time or Age e're brought to light ; The Fire and Water did contend , Which should first bring them to their end : More valiant Men kill'd in three days , Then three and twenty years can raise . We can't avoid such brunts as these , To guard the Sovereign of the Seas . On Whitsonday the Duke did send , His Men for Cure , and Ships to mend Unto our English Coast , where care Is taken for their swift Repair : These Cards thus dealt , out of the Lump , The Royal Katherine turn'd up Trump . A Sacrifice which does appease , The Royal Sovereign of the Seas . To sum up all , 'tis thought they are , Unfit to raise another War ; 'Tis much presum'd , 'cause they did fail , When they had made out all their Sail : These are some of those warlike Tricks , Becket Presag'd in Sixty Six . [ May all ] ways such Events as these , Secure the Sovereign of the Seas . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . Englands Triumph , and Hollands Downfall ; OR , The Second Royal VICTORY , Obtained upon the Hollanders Fleet , in a Sea-Fight , by the King of Great Brittains Royal Navy , under the Conduct of his Highness Prince Rupert , and his Grace , George Duke of Albemarle ; as it was Heroically Fought , and undoubtfully Disputed on the I , 2d , 3d , & 4th of June , 1666. To the tune of , A Fig for France and Holland too , etc STring up your hearts , & tune your throats , With merry and triumphant Notes ; Send sorrow from your Souls away , You never had more cause for Joy : The Creeple may cast away his Crutch , And dance the Downfall of the Dutch Great Brittain now may take it's ease , King Charles is Sovereign of the Seas . The First and Second day of June , Put Holland's Trumpets out of Tune ; Prince Rupert and the Duke too boot , Have given the Dutch-men all the Rou So bloodily they cut their Coats , And bruis'd & bang'd , & burn'd their Boats , They ne're will offer to displease , King Charles their Sovereign of the Seas . If Number would have wone the Day , We were less Numerous then they ; When Sixteen Zealand Ships came in , If odds would doo't , they needs must win : For they were Ninety Six complete , But who can save , whom Heaven will beatrice . When God his Mercy will express , Unto the Sovereign of the Seas . The Duke with Loyalty inrag'd , With ( Fifty ) Ninety Sir ingag'd ; But Thirty of the Dutch ( to meet Prince Rupert ) then did quit their Fleet , Thinking to seize the Prince by slight , Before their Forces could Unite : But no such shallow Plots as these , Can Cheat the Sovereign of the Seas . The Prince and the Duke did nobly join , Their Loyal Forces both combine ; And on the foaming Billows curl'd , They bid Defiance to the world : The Dutch engage with all their Powers , And scatter on us Shot like showers . But 'tis not such poor Powers as these , Can quell the Sovereign of the Seas . Almost as swiftly as desir'd , Fourteen of theirs were Took and Fir'd ; But their Vice-Admiral did meet , Our Duke i'th' Front of all his Flee They were so near they might have clutched , Almost shook hands , their Yard-Arms touch'd . But George's Broadside did displease , The Foe toth' Sovereign of the Seas . The second part , to the same tune . THe First was then so fierce and hight , His Hand was bruis'd , his Breeches shot ; Yet though they came so hotly on , As soon they vanish'd and were gone : Forty or Fifty men of ours , Were kill'd & knock'd down by their powers . Yet some of these ( though with much pain ) Appear'd upon the Decks again . Prince Rupert like the God of War , through their Fleet shot like a Star ; Whose Influence like Lightning shone , And pierc'd the marrow through the bone : The Seas with blood were much imbru'd , The Dutch-men fled , our Men pursu'd . 'Till none were seen that could displease , King Charles the Sovereign of the Seas . So long as we had Powder , we Pursu'd the Dutch-men through the Sea ; And their du Ruiter , he in whom , They built all their hope's to come : Four of their greatest Ships were sunk , They cry , The Devil's in the Monk . Never such men appear'd like these , To Guard the Sovereign of the Seas . A gallant Ship of theirs was Fyr'd , With Seventy six Guns double Tyr'd ; Our Henery , a Ship of Fame , From three Fire-Ships escap'd the Flame : And was so strong beset , that then He lost at least One hundred men . We must endure such hurts as these , To guard the Sovereign of the Seas . By Sea , so black and read a Fight , No Time or Age e're brought to light ; The Fire and Water did contend , Which should first bring them to their end : More valiant Men kill'd in three days , Then three and twenty years can raise . We can't avoid such brunts as these , To guard the Sovereign of the Seas . On Whitsonday the Duke did send , His Men for Cure , and Ships to mend Unto our English Coast , where care Is taken for their swift Repair : These Cards thus dealt , out of the Lump , The Royal Katherine turn'd up Trump . A Sacrifice which does appease , The Royal Sovereign of the Seas . To sum up all , 'tis thought they are , Unfit to raise another War ; 'Tis much presum'd , 'cause they did fail , When they had made out all their Sail : These are some of those warlike Tricks , Becket Presag'd in Sixty Six . [ May all ] ways such Events as these , Secure the Sovereign of the Seas . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . Englands Triumph , and Hollands Downfall ; OR , The Second Royal VICTORY , Obtained upon the Hollanders Fleet , in a Sea-Fight , by the King of Great Brittains Royal Navy , under the Conduct of his Highness Prince Rupert , and his Grace , George Duke of Albemarle ; as it was Heroically Fought , and undoubtfully Disputed on the I , 2d , 3d , & 4th of June , 1666. To the tune of , A Fig for France and Holland too , etc STring up your hearts , & tune your throats , With merry and triumphant Notes ; Send sorrow from your Souls away , You never had more cause for Joy : The Creeple may cast away his Crutch , And dance the Downfall of the Dutch Great Brittain now may take it's ease , King Charles is Sovereign of the Seas . The First and Second day of June , Put Holland's Trumpets out of Tune ; Prince Rupert and the Duke too boot , Have given the Dutch-men all the Rou So bloodily they cut their Coats , And bruis'd & bang'd , & burn'd their Boats , They ne're will offer to displease , King Charles their Sovereign of the Seas . If Number would have wone the Day , We were less Numerous then they ; When Sixteen Zealand Ships came in , If odds would doo't , they needs must win : For they were Ninety Six complete , But who can save , whom Heaven will beatrice . When God his Mercy will express , Unto the Sovereign of the Seas . The Duke with Loyalty inrag'd , With ( Fifty ) Ninety Sir ingag'd ; But Thirty of the Dutch ( to meet Prince Rupert ) then did quit their Fleet , Thinking to seize the Prince by slight , Before their Forces could Unite : But no such shallow Plots as these , Can Cheat the Sovereign of the Seas . The Prince and the Duke did nobly join , Their Loyal Forces both combine ; And on the foaming Billows curl'd , They bid Defiance to the world : The Dutch engage with all their Powers , And scatter on us Shot like showers . But 'tis not such poor Powers as these , Can quell the Sovereign of the Seas . Almost as swiftly as desir'd , Fourteen of theirs were Took and Fir'd ; But their Vice-Admiral did meet , Our Duke i'th' Front of all his Flee They were so near they might have clutched , Almost shook hands , their Yard-Arms touch'd . But George's Broadside did displease , The Foe toth' Sovereign of the Seas . The second part , to the same tune . THe First was then so fierce and hight , His Hand was bruis'd , his Breeches shot ; Yet though they came so hotly on , As soon they vanish'd and were gone : Forty or Fifty men of ours , Were kill'd & knock'd down by their powers . Yet some of these ( though with much pain ) Appear'd upon the Decks again . Prince Rupert like the God of War , through their Fleet shot like a Star ; Whose Influence like Lightning shone , And pierc'd the marrow through the bone : The Seas with blood were much imbru'd , The Dutch-men fled , our Men pursu'd . 'Till none were seen that could displease , King Charles the Sovereign of the Seas . So long as we had Powder , we Pursu'd the Dutch-men through the Sea ; And their du Ruiter , he in whom , They built all their hope's to come : Four of their greatest Ships were sunk , They cry , The Devil's in the Monk . Never such men appear'd like these , To Guard the Sovereign of the Seas . A gallant Ship of theirs was Fyr'd , With Seventy six Guns double Tyr'd ; Our Henery , a Ship of Fame , From three Fire-Ships escap'd the Flame : And was so strong beset , that then He lost at least One hundred men . We must endure such hurts as these , To guard the Sovereign of the Seas . By Sea , so black and read a Fight , No Time or Age e're brought to light ; The Fire and Water did contend , Which should first bring them to their end : More valiant Men kill'd in three days , Then three and twenty years can raise . We can't avoid such brunts as these , To guard the Sovereign of the Seas . On Whitsonday the Duke did send , His Men for Cure , and Ships to mend Unto our English Coast , where care Is taken for their swift Repair : These Cards thus dealt , out of the Lump , The Royal Katherine turn'd up Trump . A Sacrifice which does appease , The Royal Sovereign of the Seas . To sum up all , 'tis thought they are , Unfit to raise another War ; 'Tis much presum'd , 'cause they did fail , When they had made out all their Sail : These are some of those warlike Tricks , Becket Presag'd in Sixty Six . [ May all ] ways such Events as these , Secure the Sovereign of the Seas . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 