b A Lamentable BALLAD OF Fair ROSAMOND , King Henry the Second's Concubine , Who was put to Death by Queen ELINOR , in the Famous Bower of Wood - stork , near Oxford . To the Tune of , Flying Fame , etc Licens'd and Enter'd according to Order . WHen as King Henry rul'd this Land , the Second of that Name , Beside the Queen he dearly lov'd , a fair and comely Dame : Most peerless was he beauty found , her favour and her face , A sweeter Creature in this World , did never Prince embrace : Her trisped locks like threads of gold , appear'd to each Man's sighed , Her comely eyes like orient pearls , did cast a heavenly ligh The blood within her crystal cheeks , did such a colour drive , As though the Lily and the Rose , for mastership did strive . Yea , Rosamond , fair Rosamond , her name was called so , To whom Dame Elinor our Queen , was known a deadly Foe , The King therefore for her Defence , against the furious Queen , At Woodstock built such a Bower , the like was never seen : Most curiously that Bower was built , of Stone and Timber strong , A hundred and fifty Doors did to this Bower belong , And they so cunningly contriv'd , with turnings round about , That none but with a Clew of Thread , could enter in or out . And for his Love and Lady's sake , that was so fair and bright , The keeping of this Bower he gave unto a valiant Knigh But Fortune that does often frown , where it before did smile , The King's Delight , the Lady's Joy full soon she did beguile . For why , the King's Ungracious Son , whom he did high advance , Against his Father raised Wars , within the Realm of France ; But yet before our Comely King the English Land forsook , Of Rosamond his Lady fair his Farewell thus he took : My Rosamond , my only Rose , that pleasest best mine eye , The fairest Flower in all the World , to feed my fantasy : The Flower of my affected Heart , whose sweetness does excel , My Royal Rose a hundred times , I bid thee now farewell . For I must leave my fairest flower , my sweetest Ro [ s ] e a space , And cross the Sea [ s ] to famous France , proud Rebels to abase : But yet my Rose b [ e ] sure thou shalt my coming short [ l ] y see , And in my heart w [ h ] en hence I am , I'll bear my Ros [ e ] with me . When Rosamond , that Lady bright , did hear the King say so , The sorrow of her grieved heart her outward loo [ k ] s did show ; And from her clear [ a ] and crystal eyes the tears gushed oh [ u ] tO apace , Which like the silve [ r ] pearled due ran down her counterfeit [ m ] ely face . Her lips like to the [ c ] oral read , did wax both wa [ n ] and pale , And for the sorrow [ h ] e conceiv'd , her vital spirits [ worser ] id fail : And falling down a [ l ] in a swoon , before King Hen [ r ] y's face , Full oft within his P [ r ] incely Arms , her body did imbr [ a ] ce . And twenty times with watery eyes he kissed her tender changed [ e ] eke . Until he had reviv'd again her senses mild and meek : Why grieves my Rose , my sweetest Rose ? the King did often say , Because , quoth she , to bloody Wars my Lord must pass away . But since your Grace in Foreign Coasts among your Foes unkind , Must go to hazard life and limb , why should I stay behind ? Nay , rather let me like a Page thy Sword and Target bear , That on my breast the Blow may light , that should offend you there . O let me in your Royal Tent prepare your Bed at night , And with sweet baths refresh your Grace at your return from Fight ; So I your Presence may enjoy , no toil I will refuse , But wanting you my Life is Death . which does , true Love abuse . Content thyself , my dearest Love , thy rest at home shall be , In England's sweet and pleasant Soil , for Travel fits not thee : Fair Ladies brook no bloody Wars , sweet Peace their pleasures breed , The Nourisher of Heart's Content , which Fancy first did feed . My Rose shall rest in Woodstock-Bower , with Music sweetly dight , While I among the piercing Pikes against my Foes do figh My Rose in Robes of Pearl and Gold , with Diamonds richly dight , Shall dance the Galliards of my Love , while I my Foes do smite . And you Sir Thomas whom I trust , to be my Love's Defence , Be careful of my gallant Rose , when I am parted hence : And therewithal he fetched a sighs , as though his heart would break ; And Rosamond for very Grief , not one plain word could speak : And at their parting well they might , in heart be grieved soar , After that day fair Rosamond , the King did see no more : For when his Grace was passed the Seas , and into France was gone , Queen Elinor with envious heart , to Woodstock came anon . And forth she calls this trusty Knight , which kept this curious Bower , Who with his Clew of twined Thread , came from the famous Flower : And when that they had wounded him , the Queen his Thread did get , And went where Lady Rosamond was like and Angel set . But when the Queen with steadfast eye , beheld her heavenly face , She was amazed in her mind at her exceeding Grace : Cast off from thee these Robes ( she said ) that rich and costly be , And drink thou up this deadly Draught , which I have brought to thee . But presently upon her knees sweet Rosamond did fallen , And Pardon of the Queen she crav'd for her offences all : Take pity on my youthful years , ( fair Rosamond did cry ) And let me not with Poison strong inforced be to die . I will renounce my sinful Life , and in some Cloister 'bide Or else be banished if you please , to range the World so wide ; And for the Fault that I have done , though I was forc'd thereto , Preserve my life and punish me , as you think good to do . And with these words her lily hands , she wrung full often there , And down along her comely face , proceeded many a tear : But nothing could this furious Queen , therewith appeased be , The Cup of deadly Poison strong , as she sat on her knee , She gave this comely Dame to drink , who took it in her hand , And from her bent knee arose , and on her feet did stand : And casting up her eyes to Heaven , she did for mercy call , And drinking up the Poison strong , her Life she lost withal . And when that Death through every limb , had done her greatest spite , Her chiefest Foes did there confess , she was a glorious [ w ] igh Her Body then they did entomb , when Life was fled away , At Woodstock , near to Oxford Town , as may be seen this Day . LONDON : Printed by and for W.O. and are to be sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner and London-bridge . b A Lamentable BALLAD OF Fair ROSAMOND , King Henry the Second's Concubine , Who was put to Death by Queen ELINOR , in the Famous Bower of Wood - stork , near Oxford . To the Tune of , Flying Fame , etc Licens'd and Enter'd according to Order . WHen as King Henry rul'd this Land , the Second of that Name , Beside the Queen he dearly lov'd , a fair and comely Dame : Most peerless was he beauty found , her favour and her face , A sweeter Creature in this World , did never Prince embrace : Her trisped locks like threads of gold , appear'd to each Man's sighed , Her comely eyes like orient pearls , did cast a heavenly ligh The blood within her crystal cheeks , did such a colour drive , As though the Lily and the Rose , for mastership did strive . Yea , Rosamond , fair Rosamond , her name was called so , To whom Dame Elinor our Queen , was known a deadly Foe , The King therefore for her Defence , against the furious Queen , At Woodstock built such a Bower , the like was never seen : Most curiously that Bower was built , of Stone and Timber strong , A hundred and fifty Doors did to this Bower belong , And they so cunningly contriv'd , with turnings round about , That none but with a Clew of Thread , could enter in or out . And for his Love and Lady's sake , that was so fair and bright , The keeping of this Bower he gave unto a valiant Knigh But Fortune that does often frown , where it before did smile , The King's Delight , the Lady's Joy full soon she did beguile . For why , the King's Ungracious Son , whom he did high advance , Against his Father raised Wars , within the Realm of France ; But yet before our Comely King the English Land forsook , Of Rosamond his Lady fair his Farewell thus he took : My Rosamond , my only Rose , that pleasest best mine eye , The fairest Flower in all the World , to feed my fantasy : The Flower of my affected Heart , whose sweetness does excel , My Royal Rose a hundred times , I bid thee now farewell . For I must leave my fairest flower , my sweetest Ro [ s ] e a space , And cross the Sea [ s ] to famous France , proud Rebels to abase : But yet my Rose b [ e ] sure thou shalt my coming short [ l ] y see , And in my heart w [ h ] en hence I am , I'll bear my Ros [ e ] with me . When Rosamond , that Lady bright , did hear the King say so , The sorrow of her grieved heart her outward loo [ k ] s did show ; And from her clear [ a ] and crystal eyes the tears gushed oh [ u ] tO apace , Which like the silve [ r ] pearled due ran down her counterfeit [ m ] ely face . Her lips like to the [ c ] oral read , did wax both wa [ n ] and pale , And for the sorrow [ h ] e conceiv'd , her vital spirits [ worser ] id fail : And falling down a [ l ] in a swoon , before King Hen [ r ] y's face , Full oft within his P [ r ] incely Arms , her body did imbr [ a ] ce . And twenty times with watery eyes he kissed her tender changed [ e ] eke . Until he had reviv'd again her senses mild and meek : Why grieves my Rose , my sweetest Rose ? the King did often say , Because , quoth she , to bloody Wars my Lord must pass away . But since your Grace in Foreign Coasts among your Foes unkind , Must go to hazard life and limb , why should I stay behind ? Nay , rather let me like a Page thy Sword and Target bear , That on my breast the Blow may light , that should offend you there . O let me in your Royal Tent prepare your Bed at night , And with sweet baths refresh your Grace at your return from Fight ; So I your Presence may enjoy , no toil I will refuse , But wanting you my Life is Death . which does , true Love abuse . Content thyself , my dearest Love , thy rest at home shall be , In England's sweet and pleasant Soil , for Travel fits not thee : Fair Ladies brook no bloody Wars , sweet Peace their pleasures breed , The Nourisher of Heart's Content , which Fancy first did feed . My Rose shall rest in Woodstock-Bower , with Music sweetly dight , While I among the piercing Pikes against my Foes do figh My Rose in Robes of Pearl and Gold , with Diamonds richly dight , Shall dance the Galliards of my Love , while I my Foes do smite . And you Sir Thomas whom I trust , to be my Love's Defence , Be careful of my gallant Rose , when I am parted hence : And therewithal he fetched a sighs , as though his heart would break ; And Rosamond for very Grief , not one plain word could speak : And at their parting well they might , in heart be grieved soar , After that day fair Rosamond , the King did see no more : For when his Grace was passed the Seas , and into France was gone , Queen Elinor with envious heart , to Woodstock came anon . And forth she calls this trusty Knight , which kept this curious Bower , Who with his Clew of twined Thread , came from the famous Flower : And when that they had wounded him , the Queen his Thread did get , And went where Lady Rosamond was like and Angel set . But when the Queen with steadfast eye , beheld her heavenly face , She was amazed in her mind at her exceeding Grace : Cast off from thee these Robes ( she said ) that rich and costly be , And drink thou up this deadly Draught , which I have brought to thee . But presently upon her knees sweet Rosamond did fallen , And Pardon of the Queen she crav'd for her offences all : Take pity on my youthful years , ( fair Rosamond did cry ) And let me not with Poison strong inforced be to die . I will renounce my sinful Life , and in some Cloister 'bide Or else be banished if you please , to range the World so wide ; And for the Fault that I have done , though I was forc'd thereto , Preserve my life and punish me , as you think good to do . And with these words her lily hands , she wrung full often there , And down along her comely face , proceeded many a tear : But nothing could this furious Queen , therewith appeased be , The Cup of deadly Poison strong , as she sat on her knee , She gave this comely Dame to drink , who took it in her hand , And from her bent knee arose , and on her feet did stand : And casting up her eyes to Heaven , she did for mercy call , And drinking up the Poison strong , her Life she lost withal . And when that Death through every limb , had done her greatest spite , Her chiefest Foes did there confess , she was a glorious [ w ] igh Her Body then they did entomb , when Life was fled away , At Woodstock , near to Oxford Town , as may be seen this Day . LONDON : Printed by and for W.O. and are to be sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner and London-bridge . 