Englands pleasant May-Flower OR , Charles the second , as we say , Came home the twenty ninth of May . Let Loyal hearts rejoice and sing For joy they have god a Gracious KING . The tune is , Upon Saint Davids day . WHy should we speak of Cesars Acts , or Shimei's treacheries , Or of the Grand Notorious Facts of Cromwell's Tyrannies . But what we all might gladly sing , and bravely chant and say , That Charles the second did come in the twentie ninth of May . Since that his Royal person went from us beyond the Seas , Much blood and treasure have been spent but never obtained peace : Until the Lord withheld his hand as we might cheerful say , And did a healing balsome send the twenty , etc This healing Balsome Sovereign is , and a very Cordial thing , Which many evils can suppress by virtue of a King , And poisoned blisters overcome which in three Kingdoms lay , 'Twas God that sent this Balsome home the twenty , etc Surely he is determined , a mighty King on Earth , That God hath so remembered , and kept him from his birth : As David from the Lyons paws whose beard he boar away . So Charles the second made good Laws the twenty ninth of May . The King of Africa subdu'd by fire and by sword , But Charles the second was indu'd with power from the Lord . Who trained was in Davids field with prayers night and day . That he three stately Kingdoms held the twenty , etc King David had a General strong , and Joab was cal'd by name , He made him Lord of Babylon , and rul'd where ere he came . But through his spleen with envi'd quarrels David did betray . But our Saint George brought home King Charls the twenty ninth of May The second part , To the same tune . NOw give me leave to speak so far as truth might justify , Of that most glorious blazing Star at his Nativity , The grandest Planet of the morn shin'd glorious at noon day : Which was the time King Charls was born the twenty ninth of May . I think I could my self engage , in deep Astrology , To speak what this same Star presag'd of Grorious Majesty A mighty Monarch he shall Reign which makes me chant and say Now brave King Charls is come again . the twenty , etc 'T would blunt the pen of any Poet , to write what may be said , But to the Order Honi Soyt just tribute shall be paid For such a prudent Gracious King lets never cease to pray , He haald the sick when he came in the twentie etc Gods holy hand does him protect his Angels does him guard , Likewise his students does direct , which makes his foes afraid . On Davids music we will sing and bravely chant and say , The glory of the world came in the twentie ninth of May . He always weareth Joshua's hands and bears Davids praise . And like to upright Job he stands to wear out Abrahams days . He was the wit of Solomon , and upright in his way . So like to Joseph he came home the twenty ninth of May . Like Daniel he was so devout , his Star did follow him , In all his tragedies throughout like that of Bethleem . Twelve years he travel'd Christendom that makes me chant and say , 'Twas marked out just for his own , the twenty etc Now let all people celebrate this day which is so pure , And to be kept by Church and State for ever to endure . That Generations all might see the honour of the day , Which everlasting it shall be the twenty , etc So God preserve our Gracious King the Duke of Yorke also , Defend them from the Dragons sting and every Christian Foe . Then let true Loyal Subject's sing and bravely chant and say , The like in England never came in the twenty ninth of May . Finis . Printed for W. Gilbertson . Englands pleasant May-Flower OR , Charles the second , as we say , Came home the twenty ninth of May . Let Loyal hearts rejoice and sing For joy they have god a Gracious KING . The tune is , Upon Saint Davids day . WHy should we speak of Cesars Acts , or Shimei's treacheries , Or of the Grand Notorious Facts of Cromwell's Tyrannies . But what we all might gladly sing , and bravely chant and say , That Charles the second did come in the twentie ninth of May . Since that his Royal person went from us beyond the Seas , Much blood and treasure have been spent but never obtained peace : Until the Lord withheld his hand as we might cheerful say , And did a healing balsome send the twenty , etc This healing Balsome Sovereign is , and a very Cordial thing , Which many evils can suppress by virtue of a King , And poisoned blisters overcome which in three Kingdoms lay , 'Twas God that sent this Balsome home the twenty , etc Surely he is determined , a mighty King on Earth , That God hath so remembered , and kept him from his birth : As David from the Lyons paws whose beard he boar away . So Charles the second made good Laws the twenty ninth of May . The King of Africa subdu'd by fire and by sword , But Charles the second was indu'd with power from the Lord . Who trained was in Davids field with prayers night and day . That he three stately Kingdoms held the twenty , etc King David had a General strong , and Joab was cal'd by name , He made him Lord of Babylon , and rul'd where ere he came . But through his spleen with envi'd quarrels David did betray . But our Saint George brought home King Charls the twenty ninth of May The second part , To the same tune . NOw give me leave to speak so far as truth might justify , Of that most glorious blazing Star at his Nativity , The grandest Planet of the morn shin'd glorious at noon day : Which was the time King Charls was born the twenty ninth of May . I think I could my self engage , in deep Astrology , To speak what this same Star presag'd of Grorious Majesty A mighty Monarch he shall Reign which makes me chant and say Now brave King Charls is come again . the twenty , etc 'T would blunt the pen of any Poet , to write what may be said , But to the Order Honi Soyt just tribute shall be paid For such a prudent Gracious King lets never cease to pray , He haald the sick when he came in the twentie etc Gods holy hand does him protect his Angels does him guard , Likewise his students does direct , which makes his foes afraid . On Davids music we will sing and bravely chant and say , The glory of the world came in the twentie ninth of May . He always weareth Joshua's hands and bears Davids praise . And like to upright Job he stands to wear out Abrahams days . He was the wit of Solomon , and upright in his way . So like to Joseph he came home the twenty ninth of May . Like Daniel he was so devout , his Star did follow him , In all his tragedies throughout like that of Bethleem . Twelve years he travel'd Christendom that makes me chant and say , 'Twas marked out just for his own , the twenty etc Now let all people celebrate this day which is so pure , And to be kept by Church and State for ever to endure . That Generations all might see the honour of the day , Which everlasting it shall be the twenty , etc So God preserve our Gracious King the Duke of Yorke also , Defend them from the Dragons sting and every Christian Foe . Then let true Loyal Subject's sing and bravely chant and say , The like in England never came in the twenty ninth of May . Finis . Printed for W. Gilbertson . Englands pleasant May-Flower OR , Charles the second , as we say , Came home the twenty ninth of May . Let Loyal hearts rejoice and sing For joy they have god a Gracious KING . The tune is , Upon Saint Davids day . WHy should we speak of Cesars Acts , or Shimei's treacheries , Or of the Grand Notorious Facts of Cromwell's Tyrannies . But what we all might gladly sing , and bravely chant and say , That Charles the second did come in the twentie ninth of May . Since that his Royal person went from us beyond the Seas , Much blood and treasure have been spent but never obtained peace : Until the Lord withheld his hand as we might cheerful say , And did a healing balsome send the twenty , etc This healing Balsome Sovereign is , and a very Cordial thing , Which many evils can suppress by virtue of a King , And poisoned blisters overcome which in three Kingdoms lay , 'Twas God that sent this Balsome home the twenty , etc Surely he is determined , a mighty King on Earth , That God hath so remembered , and kept him from his birth : As David from the Lyons paws whose beard he boar away . So Charles the second made good Laws the twenty ninth of May . The King of Africa subdu'd by fire and by sword , But Charles the second was indu'd with power from the Lord . Who trained was in Davids field with prayers night and day . That he three stately Kingdoms held the twenty , etc King David had a General strong , and Joab was cal'd by name , He made him Lord of Babylon , and rul'd where ere he came . But through his spleen with envi'd quarrels David did betray . But our Saint George brought home King Charls the twenty ninth of May The second part , To the same tune . NOw give me leave to speak so far as truth might justify , Of that most glorious blazing Star at his Nativity , The grandest Planet of the morn shin'd glorious at noon day : Which was the time King Charls was born the twenty ninth of May . I think I could my self engage , in deep Astrology , To speak what this same Star presag'd of Grorious Majesty A mighty Monarch he shall Reign which makes me chant and say Now brave King Charls is come again . the twenty , etc 'T would blunt the pen of any Poet , to write what may be said , But to the Order Honi Soyt just tribute shall be paid For such a prudent Gracious King lets never cease to pray , He haald the sick when he came in the twentie etc Gods holy hand does him protect his Angels does him guard , Likewise his students does direct , which makes his foes afraid . On Davids music we will sing and bravely chant and say , The glory of the world came in the twentie ninth of May . He always weareth Joshua's hands and bears Davids praise . And like to upright Job he stands to wear out Abrahams days . He was the wit of Solomon , and upright in his way . So like to Joseph he came home the twenty ninth of May . Like Daniel he was so devout , his Star did follow him , In all his tragedies throughout like that of Bethleem . Twelve years he travel'd Christendom that makes me chant and say , 'Twas marked out just for his own , the twenty etc Now let all people celebrate this day which is so pure , And to be kept by Church and State for ever to endure . That Generations all might see the honour of the day , Which everlasting it shall be the twenty , etc So God preserve our Gracious King the Duke of Yorke also , Defend them from the Dragons sting and every Christian Foe . Then let true Loyal Subject's sing and bravely chant and say , The like in England never came in the twenty ninth of May . Finis . Printed for W. Gilbertson . Englands pleasant May-Flower OR , Charles the second , as we say , Came home the twenty ninth of May . Let Loyal hearts rejoice and sing For joy they have god a Gracious KING . The tune is , Upon Saint Davids day . WHy should we speak of Cesars Acts , or Shimei's treacheries , Or of the Grand Notorious Facts of Cromwell's Tyrannies . But what we all might gladly sing , and bravely chant and say , That Charles the second did come in the twentie ninth of May . Since that his Royal person went from us beyond the Seas , Much blood and treasure have been spent but never obtained peace : Until the Lord withheld his hand as we might cheerful say , And did a healing balsome send the twenty , etc This healing Balsome Sovereign is , and a very Cordial thing , Which many evils can suppress by virtue of a King , And poisoned blisters overcome which in three Kingdoms lay , 'Twas God that sent this Balsome home the twenty , etc Surely he is determined , a mighty King on Earth , That God hath so remembered , and kept him from his birth : As David from the Lyons paws whose beard he boar away . So Charles the second made good Laws the twenty ninth of May . The King of Africa subdu'd by fire and by sword , But Charles the second was indu'd with power from the Lord . Who trained was in Davids field with prayers night and day . That he three stately Kingdoms held the twenty , etc King David had a General strong , and Joab was cal'd by name , He made him Lord of Babylon , and rul'd where ere he came . But through his spleen with envi'd quarrels David did betray . But our Saint George brought home King Charls the twenty ninth of May The second part , To the same tune . NOw give me leave to speak so far as truth might justify , Of that most glorious blazing Star at his Nativity , The grandest Planet of the morn shin'd glorious at noon day : Which was the time King Charls was born the twenty ninth of May . I think I could my self engage , in deep Astrology , To speak what this same Star presag'd of Grorious Majesty A mighty Monarch he shall Reign which makes me chant and say Now brave King Charls is come again . the twenty , etc 'T would blunt the pen of any Poet , to write what may be said , But to the Order Honi Soyt just tribute shall be paid For such a prudent Gracious King lets never cease to pray , He haald the sick when he came in the twentie etc Gods holy hand does him protect his Angels does him guard , Likewise his students does direct , which makes his foes afraid . On Davids music we will sing and bravely chant and say , The glory of the world came in the twentie ninth of May . He always weareth Joshua's hands and bears Davids praise . And like to upright Job he stands to wear out Abrahams days . He was the wit of Solomon , and upright in his way . So like to Joseph he came home the twenty ninth of May . Like Daniel he was so devout , his Star did follow him , In all his tragedies throughout like that of Bethleem . Twelve years he travel'd Christendom that makes me chant and say , 'Twas marked out just for his own , the twenty etc Now let all people celebrate this day which is so pure , And to be kept by Church and State for ever to endure . That Generations all might see the honour of the day , Which everlasting it shall be the twenty , etc So God preserve our Gracious King the Duke of Yorke also , Defend them from the Dragons sting and every Christian Foe . Then let true Loyal Subject's sing and bravely chant and say , The like in England never came in the twenty ninth of May . Finis . Printed for W. Gilbertson . 