A New Ballad of the Soldier and Peggy . To a New Northern Tune . IT was a brave Soldier , that long'd liv'd in wars He would into England , to try his affairs , A gallant young Creature , in chanted his eye , It is for thy Love Peggy , I die , I die , She had a good Husband , that loved her well , For Gold and for Silver , none did her excel : Yet Peggy would listen , unto the Soldiers cry It is for thy love Peggy , I die , I die , Oprety Peggy , let sorrows remove , And graut me a Kiss in token of love : Oh take the a Thousand , one is but a few , I'le leave my own Husband , to Travel with you . O pretty Peggy , if thou wilt be mine , All the Gold that I get , it shall be thine : Father and Mother , thou'st never see more , If thou wilt go over Sea with a Soldier , She took the Keys from her side , to her chest she is gone , All the Gold that she would [ tO ] h , with her she hath tain : She left the Babe Motherless , and the Bed bore , And she is gone over Seas , with a Soldier . As Peggy and the Soldier , went over the Plain , He Twinkled at her , and she smiled again , He courted her bravely , as young men should do , And after said Peggy , I Love none but you . As Peggy went up the Street , so went she down , All that did meet her , ask her where she was bound , She answered them quicky , she could not tell where For she is gone over Sea , with a Soldier . Her Husband came home , so late in the night , He asked for Peggy , his joy and deligh They answer'd him quickly they could not tell where , For she was gone over Sea , with a Soldier . He saddled his Horse and read to the sho [ r ] e , Thinking to take Peggy before she god o're : He asked for Peggy , but she was not there ; For she was gone over Sea with a Soldier . I pray you good Nurse . be good to my Child , And thou'st have thy Money , at every months end , Thou'st never want money , wine or good cheer , Though Peggy be over Sea with a Soldier . He cursed the Carpenter , that made the Ship , And likewise the Plummer , for plumming so deep , He banned the wind , and the water so clear , That carried Peggy over Sea , with a Soldier . She had not been over Sea , passing months three , But she would come home again , if it might be : To speak with her Husband , the matter to clear , 'Cause she har been over Sea , with a Soldier . This wanton young woman , is come home again , When all her money , and coin it is gone : For she could no longer , in Ireland stay , For she hath no Gold , nor money to pay . I pray you good husband , will you forgive me ? And all that's amiss , amended shall be : I'le live with my Husband , and Baby so dear , And i'le never go again , with a Soldier . Come hither sweet Peggy , thou art welcome to me , So all that's amiss , amended may be I pray God forgive thy sins and I'le forgive thee , If thou wilt live at home , with my Baby and me . All you good Wives , that hear this my Song , Live at home with you husbands and do them no wrong , For youth it is wanton . and will have a stain , And Peggy is at home , with her Husband again . And thus of my Song , I will make and end , Praying for Gods favour , for women and men : Desiring them all in their Country to stay , And never to [ worser ] anger , so vainly away . A New Ballad of the Soldier and Peggy . To a New Northern Tune . IT was a brave Soldier , that long'd liv'd in wars He would into England , to try his affairs , A gallant young Creature , in chanted his eye , It is for thy Love Peggy , I die , I die , She had a good Husband , that loved her well , For Gold and for Silver , none did her excel : Yet Peggy would listen , unto the Soldiers cry It is for thy love Peggy , I die , I die , Oprety Peggy , let sorrows remove , And graut me a Kiss in token of love : Oh take the a Thousand , one is but a few , I'le leave my own Husband , to Travel with you . O pretty Peggy , if thou wilt be mine , All the Gold that I get , it shall be thine : Father and Mother , thou'st never see more , If thou wilt go over Sea with a Soldier , She took the Keys from her side , to her chest she is gone , All the Gold that she would [ tO ] h , with her she hath tain : She left the Babe Motherless , and the Bed bore , And she is gone over Seas , with a Soldier . As Peggy and the Soldier , went over the Plain , He Twinkled at her , and she smiled again , He courted her bravely , as young men should do , And after said Peggy , I Love none but you . As Peggy went up the Street , so went she down , All that did meet her , ask her where she was bound , She answered them quicky , she could not tell where For she is gone over Sea , with a Soldier . Her Husband came home , so late in the night , He asked for Peggy , his joy and deligh They answer'd him quickly they could not tell where , For she was gone over Sea , with a Soldier . He saddled his Horse and read to the sho [ r ] e , Thinking to take Peggy before she god o're : He asked for Peggy , but she was not there ; For she was gone over Sea with a Soldier . I pray you good Nurse . be good to my Child , And thou'st have thy Money , at every months end , Thou'st never want money , wine or good cheer , Though Peggy be over Sea with a Soldier . He cursed the Carpenter , that made the Ship , And likewise the Plummer , for plumming so deep , He banned the wind , and the water so clear , That carried Peggy over Sea , with a Soldier . She had not been over Sea , passing months three , But she would come home again , if it might be : To speak with her Husband , the matter to clear , 'Cause she har been over Sea , with a Soldier . This wanton young woman , is come home again , When all her money , and coin it is gone : For she could no longer , in Ireland stay , For she hath no Gold , nor money to pay . I pray you good husband , will you forgive me ? And all that's amiss , amended shall be : I'le live with my Husband , and Baby so dear , And i'le never go again , with a Soldier . Come hither sweet Peggy , thou art welcome to me , So all that's amiss , amended may be I pray God forgive thy sins and I'le forgive thee , If thou wilt live at home , with my Baby and me . All you good Wives , that hear this my Song , Live at home with you husbands and do them no wrong , For youth it is wanton . and will have a stain , And Peggy is at home , with her Husband again . And thus of my Song , I will make and end , Praying for Gods favour , for women and men : Desiring them all in their Country to stay , And never to [ worser ] anger , so vainly away . 