News from Hide-Park ; OR , A very merry passage which happened betwixt a North Country Gentleman , and a very Gaudy Gallant Lady of pleasure , whom he took up in the Park , & conducted her ( in her own Coach ) home to her Lodgings , and what chanced there , if you [ ' ] ll venture Attention to the Song will declare . To the Tune of , The Crossed Couple . ONe Evening a little before it was dark , sing tan tara rara tan tivee , I call'd for my Gelding & rid to Hide park , on tan tara rara tantivee : It was in the merry Month of May , When Meadows & Fields were gaudy & gay , And Flowers apparell'd as bright as the day , I god upon my tantivee . The Park shone brighter than the Skies , sing tan tara rara tantivee : With jewels and gold , and Ladies eyes , that sparkled and cry'd come see me : Of all parts of England , Hide-park hath the name For Coaches & Horses , and Persons of fame , It looked at first sighed , like a field full of flame , Which made me ride up tantivee . There hath not been seen such a sighed since Adam's for Periwig , Ribbon , and Feather , Hide-park may be term'd the Market of Madams or Lady-Fair , choose you whither : their gowns were a yard too long for their legs , They shew'd like the Rian-bow cut in rags , A Garden of Flowers , or a Navy of Flags , when they did all mingle together . Among all these Ladies I singled out one to p [ r ] attle of love and folly ; I found her not coy , but jovial as Jone , or Betty , or Margret , or Moly : With hono [ r ] s & love , and stories of Chances , My spirits did move & my blood she advances , With twenty quonundrums , & fifty five fancies I'd have been at her tantivee . We talked away time until it g [ r ] ew dark , the place did begin to grow privee ; For Gallants began to draw out of the Park : their horses did gallop tantivee : But finding my courage a little to come , I sent my bay-Gelding away by my Groom , And proffer'd my service to wait on her home , In her coach we went both tantivee . I Offer'd & proffer'd , but found her straight lac'd she cry'd , I shall never believe you ? This armful of Satin I bravely embrac'd , and fain would have been at tantivee . Her lodging was pleasant for scent & for sighed , She seem'd like and Angel by Candlelight , And like a bold Archer I aim'd at the white , tantivee , tantivee , tantivee . With many denials she yielded at last , her Chamber being wondrous privee , That I all the night there might have my repast to run at the Ring tantivee : I put off my clothes , and I tumbled to bed : She went in her Closet to dress up her head , But I peep'd in the keyhole to see what she did , which put me quite beside my tantivee . She took of her head-tire , & shew'd her bald pate , her cunning did very much grieve me , Thought I to my self , if it were not so late , I would home to my lodgings , believe me . Her hair being gone , she seem'd like a Hagg. Her baldpate did look like and Estritches Egg , This Lady ( thought I ) is as right as my leg , she hath been too much at tantivee . The more I did peep , the more I did spy , which did unto amazement drive me : She put up her finger and out dropped her eye ; I pray'd that some power would relieve me , But now my resolves was never to trouble her , Or venture my Carkis with such a blind hobler , She looked with one eye just like Heuson the Cobbler . when he us'd to ride tantivee . I peeped & was still more perplexed therewith , thought I tho't be midnight I'le leave thee , She fetched a yawn , and out fell her te [ e ] th , this Queen had intents to deceive me : She drew out her Handkerchief as I suppose , To wipe her high forehead & oft dropped her nose , Which made me run quickly and put on my hose the Devil is in my tantivee . She washed all the Paint from her visage & then she looked just ( if you will believe me ) Like a Lancashire witch of fourscore and then ; and as the Devil did drive me , I put on my clothes & cry'd witches & whores , I tumbled down stairs , broke open the doors , And down to my country again to my Boys , Next morning I rid tantivee . You North-country Gallants that live pleasant lives let not curiosity drive you , To leave the fresh air , and your own Tenants wives for Satin will sadly deceive you ; For my part I will no more be such a Meacock , To deal with the plums of a Hide-park P [ e ] acock , But find out a russet coat wench , & a he [ y ] cock , and there I will ride tantivee . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . FINIS . News from Hide-Park ; OR , A very merry passage which happened betwixt a North Country Gentleman , and a very Gaudy Gallant Lady of pleasure , whom he took up in the Park , & conducted her ( in her own Coach ) home to her Lodgings , and what chanced there , if you [ ' ] ll venture Attention to the Song will declare . To the Tune of , The Crossed Couple . ONe Evening a little before it was dark , sing tan tara rara tan tivee , I call'd for my Gelding & rid to Hide park , on tan tara rara tantivee : It was in the merry Month of May , When Meadows & Fields were gaudy & gay , And Flowers apparell'd as bright as the day , I god upon my tantivee . The Park shone brighter than the Skies , sing tan tara rara tantivee : With jewels and gold , and Ladies eyes , that sparkled and cry'd come see me : Of all parts of England , Hide-park hath the name For Coaches & Horses , and Persons of fame , It looked at first sighed , like a field full of flame , Which made me ride up tantivee . There hath not been seen such a sighed since Adam's for Periwig , Ribbon , and Feather , Hide-park may be term'd the Market of Madams or Lady-Fair , choose you whither : their gowns were a yard too long for their legs , They shew'd like the Rian-bow cut in rags , A Garden of Flowers , or a Navy of Flags , when they did all mingle together . Among all these Ladies I singled out one to p [ r ] attle of love and folly ; I found her not coy , but jovial as Jone , or Betty , or Margret , or Moly : With hono [ r ] s & love , and stories of Chances , My spirits did move & my blood she advances , With twenty quonundrums , & fifty five fancies I'd have been at her tantivee . We talked away time until it g [ r ] ew dark , the place did begin to grow privee ; For Gallants began to draw out of the Park : their horses did gallop tantivee : But finding my courage a little to come , I sent my bay-Gelding away by my Groom , And proffer'd my service to wait on her home , In her coach we went both tantivee . I Offer'd & proffer'd , but found her straight lac'd she cry'd , I shall never believe you ? This armful of Satin I bravely embrac'd , and fain would have been at tantivee . Her lodging was pleasant for scent & for sighed , She seem'd like and Angel by Candlelight , And like a bold Archer I aim'd at the white , tantivee , tantivee , tantivee . With many denials she yielded at last , her Chamber being wondrous privee , That I all the night there might have my repast to run at the Ring tantivee : I put off my clothes , and I tumbled to bed : She went in her Closet to dress up her head , But I peep'd in the keyhole to see what she did , which put me quite beside my tantivee . She took of her head-tire , & shew'd her bald pate , her cunning did very much grieve me , Thought I to my self , if it were not so late , I would home to my lodgings , believe me . Her hair being gone , she seem'd like a Hagg. Her baldpate did look like and Estritches Egg , This Lady ( thought I ) is as right as my leg , she hath been too much at tantivee . The more I did peep , the more I did spy , which did unto amazement drive me : She put up her finger and out dropped her eye ; I pray'd that some power would relieve me , But now my resolves was never to trouble her , Or venture my Carkis with such a blind hobler , She looked with one eye just like Heuson the Cobbler . when he us'd to ride tantivee . I peeped & was still more perplexed therewith , thought I tho't be midnight I'le leave thee , She fetched a yawn , and out fell her te [ e ] th , this Queen had intents to deceive me : She drew out her Handkerchief as I suppose , To wipe her high forehead & oft dropped her nose , Which made me run quickly and put on my hose the Devil is in my tantivee . She washed all the Paint from her visage & then she looked just ( if you will believe me ) Like a Lancashire witch of fourscore and then ; and as the Devil did drive me , I put on my clothes & cry'd witches & whores , I tumbled down stairs , broke open the doors , And down to my country again to my Boys , Next morning I rid tantivee . You North-country Gallants that live pleasant lives let not curiosity drive you , To leave the fresh air , and your own Tenants wives for Satin will sadly deceive you ; For my part I will no more be such a Meacock , To deal with the plums of a Hide-park P [ e ] acock , But find out a russet coat wench , & a he [ y ] cock , and there I will ride tantivee . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . FINIS . 