A New Mad TOM of Bedlam , OR , The man in the Moon drinks Claret . With Powder-beef turnip and Caret . the tune is Grayes Inn Mask . FOrth from my sad and darksome Cell , Or from the deep Abyss of hell , Mad Tom is come to view the world again , To see if he can ease his distempered brain , Fear and care does pierce my soul , Hark how the angry Furies howl , Pluto laughs and Proserpine is glad , To see poor naked Tom of Bedlam mad . Through the world I will wander night & day to find my straggling Senses , In and agry mood I found old time with's pentarchy of Tences , When me he spies , Away he flies , For time will stay for no man In vain with cries , I rend the Skies For pity is not common , Cold and comfortless I lie Help Oh help or else I die Hark I hear , Apollos Team , The Carman begins to whistle . Chaste Diana . Bends her Bow The Boar begins to bristle , Come Vulcan with Tools and with tackles - Shake off my troublesome shackles . Let Charls make ready his wain , To bring my senses again . Last night I herd the Dog star bark , Mars met Venus in the dark , Limping Vulcan heat and Iron Bar And fiercely did run at the God of war . Mars with his weapon laid about , But Vulcans Temples had the gout , His broad horns so did hang in his fight . He could not see to aim his blows aright ; Mercury the nimble post of heaven , stayed still to see the quarrel , Gorrell-bellyed Bacchus Giant like bestrid a strong Beer barrel , To me he drank , I did him thank , But I could get no Syder , He drunk whole Buts , Till he cracked his Guts But mine were never the wider . Poor naked Tom is very dry , A little drink for Charity . Hark I hear , Acteons hounds , The Huntsman whoops and hollows , Ringwood Royster , Bowman Jowler , At the chase now follows . The Man i'th Moon drinks Claret . With Powder-beef Turnip and Carret . A cup of old Malligo Sack , Will fire the bush at his back . A New Mad TOM of Bedlam , OR , The man in the Moon drinks Claret . With Powder-beef turnip and Caret . the tune is Grayes Inn Mask . FOrth from my sad and darksome Cell , Or from the deep Abyss of hell , Mad Tom is come to view the world again , To see if he can ease his distempered brain , Fear and care does pierce my soul , Hark how the angry Furies howl , Pluto laughs and Proserpine is glad , To see poor naked Tom of Bedlam mad . Through the world I will wander night & day to find my straggling Senses , In and agry mood I found old time with's pentarchy of Tences , When me he spies , Away he flies , For time will stay for no man In vain with cries , I rend the Skies For pity is not common , Cold and comfortless I lie Help Oh help or else I die Hark I hear , Apollos Team , The Carman begins to whistle . Chaste Diana . Bends her Bow The Boar begins to bristle , Come Vulcan with Tools and with tackles - Shake off my troublesome shackles . Let Charls make ready his wain , To bring my senses again . Last night I herd the Dog star bark , Mars met Venus in the dark , Limping Vulcan heat and Iron Bar And fiercely did run at the God of war . Mars with his weapon laid about , But Vulcans Temples had the gout , His broad horns so did hang in his fight . He could not see to aim his blows aright ; Mercury the nimble post of heaven , stayed still to see the quarrel , Gorrell-bellyed Bacchus Giant like bestrid a strong Beer barrel , To me he drank , I did him thank , But I could get no Syder , He drunk whole Buts , Till he cracked his Guts But mine were never the wider . Poor naked Tom is very dry , A little drink for Charity . Hark I hear , Acteons hounds , The Huntsman whoops and hollows , Ringwood Royster , Bowman Jowler , At the chase now follows . The Man i'th Moon drinks Claret . With Powder-beef Turnip and Carret . A cup of old Malligo Sack , Will fire the bush at his back . 