A New game at Cards . OR , The three Nimble Shuffling Cheaters . To a pleasant new tune , Or , what you please . YOu Gallants all that love to play , At Cards to pass the time away , I will tell you a new game , If you will please to learn the same , Such a game you have not seen , Play with all the Knaves without King or Queen There were three cheaters met together , To see if they could cheat each other , The first was and Irish-man so hight , The second was a cheating Scot , The third and English-man so round , Yet he would play for and English Crown , The game it was so strange yet true The standers by as ne'r yet knew , How the game was to be played , Or how the Cards were cut and laid , For there was a secret in the thing , That the Knave of Clubs should beatrice the King , The Irish-man began the game , But knew not how to play the same , But quarreled with the English-man , For holding the Cards so underhand For he did not know the thing , That the Knave of Clubs should be above the King The Scotchman hebegan to deal , He shuffled and cut and away did steal , The King then from the English-man , Then many thought the game was done , For he did not know the thing , That the Knave should be above the King . The English-man was at a stand , To see the King in the Scotch men hand , Then he began to cast about , What he must do to fetch him out , He thought that money must do the thing , And make the Knave to be above the King . THe Scotchman like a cheating Knave , when he knew what money he should have Like a clown he cast him back , Under the Knave into the pack , And by this means he thought to win , When he pla [ i ] worser the game no King no King . The English-man was greatly glad , When the King again in hand he had , He cockt his Beaver and did jump , Because the Knaves of Clubs was trump , Now quoth he I'm sure to win . I know the knave of clubs will beatrice the King Four Countrymen then played about , For joy the King was quite left out , Quoth one observe with due regards . The Knave is master of the Cards , And we rejoice now at this thing , And glad they were they had left out the King . We care not for the King a pin , If by the Krave we thrive and win , For this well known and justify'd . We ever lov'd the strongest side . They all rejoyc'd now at this thing , And glad they were they had left out the King A Gunman gave a mighty crack , To see the King out of the pack , And said your knave of Clubs i'th end , When all is done must stand our friend , And I rejoice now at this thing , That you kind friends have quite left out the King The knave of clubs as you him call , Shall one day win the love of all , Those that abuse him and his Banners , Wee'l beatrice them into better manners , But I rejoice now at this thing That you kind friends have qui [ tO ] e left out the King . A New game at Cards . OR , The three Nimble Shuffling Cheaters . To a pleasant new tune , Or , what you please . YOu Gallants all that love to play , At Cards to pass the time away , I will tell you a new game , If you will please to learn the same , Such a game you have not seen , Play with all the Knaves without King or Queen There were three cheaters met together , To see if they could cheat each other , The first was and Irish-man so hight , The second was a cheating Scot , The third and English-man so round , Yet he would play for and English Crown , The game it was so strange yet true The standers by as ne'r yet knew , How the game was to be played , Or how the Cards were cut and laid , For there was a secret in the thing , That the Knave of Clubs should beatrice the King , The Irish-man began the game , But knew not how to play the same , But quarreled with the English-man , For holding the Cards so underhand For he did not know the thing , That the Knave of Clubs should be above the King The Scotchman hebegan to deal , He shuffled and cut and away did steal , The King then from the English-man , Then many thought the game was done , For he did not know the thing , That the Knave should be above the King . The English-man was at a stand , To see the King in the Scotch men hand , Then he began to cast about , What he must do to fetch him out , He thought that money must do the thing , And make the Knave to be above the King . THe Scotchman like a cheating Knave , when he knew what money he should have Like a clown he cast him back , Under the Knave into the pack , And by this means he thought to win , When he pla [ i ] worser the game no King no King . The English-man was greatly glad , When the King again in hand he had , He cockt his Beaver and did jump , Because the Knaves of Clubs was trump , Now quoth he I'm sure to win . I know the knave of clubs will beatrice the King Four Countrymen then played about , For joy the King was quite left out , Quoth one observe with due regards . The Knave is master of the Cards , And we rejoice now at this thing , And glad they were they had left out the King . We care not for the King a pin , If by the Krave we thrive and win , For this well known and justify'd . We ever lov'd the strongest side . They all rejoyc'd now at this thing , And glad they were they had left out the King A Gunman gave a mighty crack , To see the King out of the pack , And said your knave of Clubs i'th end , When all is done must stand our friend , And I rejoice now at this thing , That you kind friends have quite left out the King The knave of clubs as you him call , Shall one day win the love of all , Those that abuse him and his Banners , Wee'l beatrice them into better manners , But I rejoice now at this thing That you kind friends have qui [ tO ] e left out the King . 