The Norfolk Gentleman , his last Will and Testamen And how he committed the keeping of his Children to his own Brother , who dealt most wickedly with them , and how God plagued him for it . The Tune is , Rogero . NOw ponder well you parents dear the words which I shall write , A doleful story you shall hear , in time brought forth to light . A Gentleman of good account , in Forfolk liv'd of late , Whose wealth & riches did surmount , most men of his Estate . Soar sick he was and like to die , no help that he could have , His wife by him as sick did lie , and both possessed one grave . No love between these two was lost , each was to other kind , In love they liv'd in love they di'd , and left two babes behind . The one a fine and pretty boy , not passing three years old , The other a Girl more young than he and made of beauty's mould . The Father left his little Son , as well it does appear , When he to perfect age should come , three hundred pound a year . And to his little daughter Jane , two hundred pound in gold , To be paid down on marriage day , which might not be control'd But if these Children chance to die . e're they to age should come , Their Uncle would possess this wealth for so the will did run . Now Brother said the dying man , look to my children dear ; Be good unto my Boy and Girl , no friends I have else here . To God and you I do commend , my children night and day , A little while be sure we have within this world to stay . You must be Father and Mother both , and Uncle all in one , God knows what will become of them when I am dead and gone . With that bespoke their Mother dear Oh Brother kind quoth she , You are the man must bring my babes to wealth or misery . If you do keep them carefully then God will you reward , If otherwise you seem to deal , God will your deeds regard . With lips as cold as any stone , she kissed her children small , God bless you both my children dear , with that the tears did fear . These speeches then their brother spoke to these sick Couple there , The keeping of your children dear sweet sister do not fear , God never prosper me nor mine nor ought else that I have , If I do wrong your children young , when you are laid in grave . Their parents being dead and gone the children home he takes , And brings them home unto his house and much of them he makes , He had not kept these pretty babes a twelve month and a day , But for their means he did devise to make them both away . He bargain'd with two Rffains rude , which were of furious mood , That they should take the children young and slay them in the Wood . And told his Wife and all he had , he did the children send . To be brought up in fair London , with one that was his friend . AWay then went these pretty babes rejoicing at that Tide , And smiling with a merry mind they should on cockhorse ride . The prate and prattle pleasantly , as they road on the way . To them that should their Butchers be , and work their lives decay . So that the pretty Speech they had made murderers hearts relent , And they that took the deed to do , full soar the did repent , Yet one of them more herd of heart did vow to do his charge . Because the wretch that hired them had paid them very large . The other would not agree thereto so here they fell at strife With one another they did fight about the children's life : And he that was of mildest mood did slay the other there . Within and unfrequented wood , where babes did quake for fear . He took the children by thee the hand when tears stood in their eye And bade them come and go with him and look they did not cry . And two miles he led them thus , while they for bred complain , Stay here quoth he i'le bring you bred when I do come again . These pretty babes with hand in hand , went wandering up and down , But never more they saw the man approaching from the Town . Their pretty lips with black berries were all besmear'd and dy'd : But when they saw the darksome night they sat them down and cri'd , Thus wandered these two little babes till death did end their grief In one another's arms they dy'd , as babes wanting relief . No burial these pretty babes of any man receives . Till Robin-Red-brest painfully did cover them with leaves . And now the heavy wrath of God upon their Uncle fell . Yea fearful fiends did haunt his house his conscience felt and hell . His barns were fir'd his goods consum'd his Lands were barren made , His Cattle dy'd within his field and nothing with him stayed . And in the voyage of Portugall two of his Sons did die , And to conclude himself was brought unto much misery . He pawn'd and morgag'd all his Land e're seven years came about . And now at length this wicked act , did by this means come out . The fellow that did takke in hand , the children for to kill , Was for a Robbery judg'e to die as was Gods blessed will , Who did confess the very truth , the which is here expressed . Their Uncle dy'd while he for debt did long in prison rest . All you that be Executors made and Overseers eke , Of children that be Fatherless , and Infants mild and meek . Take you example by this thing , and yield to each his right , Lest God with such like misery , your wicked minds requite , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson . The Norfolk Gentleman , his last Will and Testamen And how he committed the keeping of his Children to his own Brother , who dealt most wickedly with them , and how God plagued him for it . The Tune is , Rogero . NOw ponder well you parents dear the words which I shall write , A doleful story you shall hear , in time brought forth to light . A Gentleman of good account , in Forfolk liv'd of late , Whose wealth & riches did surmount , most men of his Estate . Soar sick he was and like to die , no help that he could have , His wife by him as sick did lie , and both possessed one grave . No love between these two was lost , each was to other kind , In love they liv'd in love they di'd , and left two babes behind . The one a fine and pretty boy , not passing three years old , The other a Girl more young than he and made of beauty's mould . The Father left his little Son , as well it does appear , When he to perfect age should come , three hundred pound a year . And to his little daughter Jane , two hundred pound in gold , To be paid down on marriage day , which might not be control'd But if these Children chance to die . e're they to age should come , Their Uncle would possess this wealth for so the will did run . Now Brother said the dying man , look to my children dear ; Be good unto my Boy and Girl , no friends I have else here . To God and you I do commend , my children night and day , A little while be sure we have within this world to stay . You must be Father and Mother both , and Uncle all in one , God knows what will become of them when I am dead and gone . With that bespoke their Mother dear Oh Brother kind quoth she , You are the man must bring my babes to wealth or misery . If you do keep them carefully then God will you reward , If otherwise you seem to deal , God will your deeds regard . With lips as cold as any stone , she kissed her children small , God bless you both my children dear , with that the tears did fear . These speeches then their brother spoke to these sick Couple there , The keeping of your children dear sweet sister do not fear , God never prosper me nor mine nor ought else that I have , If I do wrong your children young , when you are laid in grave . Their parents being dead and gone the children home he takes , And brings them home unto his house and much of them he makes , He had not kept these pretty babes a twelve month and a day , But for their means he did devise to make them both away . He bargain'd with two Rffains rude , which were of furious mood , That they should take the children young and slay them in the Wood . And told his Wife and all he had , he did the children send . To be brought up in fair London , with one that was his friend . AWay then went these pretty babes rejoicing at that Tide , And smiling with a merry mind they should on cockhorse ride . The prate and prattle pleasantly , as they road on the way . To them that should their Butchers be , and work their lives decay . So that the pretty Speech they had made murderers hearts relent , And they that took the deed to do , full soar the did repent , Yet one of them more herd of heart did vow to do his charge . Because the wretch that hired them had paid them very large . The other would not agree thereto so here they fell at strife With one another they did fight about the children's life : And he that was of mildest mood did slay the other there . Within and unfrequented wood , where babes did quake for fear . He took the children by thee the hand when tears stood in their eye And bade them come and go with him and look they did not cry . And two miles he led them thus , while they for bred complain , Stay here quoth he i'le bring you bred when I do come again . These pretty babes with hand in hand , went wandering up and down , But never more they saw the man approaching from the Town . Their pretty lips with black berries were all besmear'd and dy'd : But when they saw the darksome night they sat them down and cri'd , Thus wandered these two little babes till death did end their grief In one another's arms they dy'd , as babes wanting relief . No burial these pretty babes of any man receives . Till Robin-Red-brest painfully did cover them with leaves . And now the heavy wrath of God upon their Uncle fell . Yea fearful fiends did haunt his house his conscience felt and hell . His barns were fir'd his goods consum'd his Lands were barren made , His Cattle dy'd within his field and nothing with him stayed . And in the voyage of Portugall two of his Sons did die , And to conclude himself was brought unto much misery . He pawn'd and morgag'd all his Land e're seven years came about . And now at length this wicked act , did by this means come out . The fellow that did takke in hand , the children for to kill , Was for a Robbery judg'e to die as was Gods blessed will , Who did confess the very truth , the which is here expressed . Their Uncle dy'd while he for debt did long in prison rest . All you that be Executors made and Overseers eke , Of children that be Fatherless , and Infants mild and meek . Take you example by this thing , and yield to each his right , Lest God with such like misery , your wicked minds requite , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson . The Norfolk Gentleman , his last Will and Testamen And how he committed the keeping of his Children to his own Brother , who dealt most wickedly with them , and how God plagued him for it . The Tune is , Rogero . NOw ponder well you parents dear the words which I shall write , A doleful story you shall hear , in time brought forth to light . A Gentleman of good account , in Forfolk liv'd of late , Whose wealth & riches did surmount , most men of his Estate . Soar sick he was and like to die , no help that he could have , His wife by him as sick did lie , and both possessed one grave . No love between these two was lost , each was to other kind , In love they liv'd in love they di'd , and left two babes behind . The one a fine and pretty boy , not passing three years old , The other a Girl more young than he and made of beauty's mould . The Father left his little Son , as well it does appear , When he to perfect age should come , three hundred pound a year . And to his little daughter Jane , two hundred pound in gold , To be paid down on marriage day , which might not be control'd But if these Children chance to die . e're they to age should come , Their Uncle would possess this wealth for so the will did run . Now Brother said the dying man , look to my children dear ; Be good unto my Boy and Girl , no friends I have else here . To God and you I do commend , my children night and day , A little while be sure we have within this world to stay . You must be Father and Mother both , and Uncle all in one , God knows what will become of them when I am dead and gone . With that bespoke their Mother dear Oh Brother kind quoth she , You are the man must bring my babes to wealth or misery . If you do keep them carefully then God will you reward , If otherwise you seem to deal , God will your deeds regard . With lips as cold as any stone , she kissed her children small , God bless you both my children dear , with that the tears did fear . These speeches then their brother spoke to these sick Couple there , The keeping of your children dear sweet sister do not fear , God never prosper me nor mine nor ought else that I have , If I do wrong your children young , when you are laid in grave . Their parents being dead and gone the children home he takes , And brings them home unto his house and much of them he makes , He had not kept these pretty babes a twelve month and a day , But for their means he did devise to make them both away . He bargain'd with two Rffains rude , which were of furious mood , That they should take the children young and slay them in the Wood . And told his Wife and all he had , he did the children send . To be brought up in fair London , with one that was his friend . AWay then went these pretty babes rejoicing at that Tide , And smiling with a merry mind they should on cockhorse ride . The prate and prattle pleasantly , as they road on the way . To them that should their Butchers be , and work their lives decay . So that the pretty Speech they had made murderers hearts relent , And they that took the deed to do , full soar the did repent , Yet one of them more herd of heart did vow to do his charge . Because the wretch that hired them had paid them very large . The other would not agree thereto so here they fell at strife With one another they did fight about the children's life : And he that was of mildest mood did slay the other there . Within and unfrequented wood , where babes did quake for fear . He took the children by thee the hand when tears stood in their eye And bade them come and go with him and look they did not cry . And two miles he led them thus , while they for bred complain , Stay here quoth he i'le bring you bred when I do come again . These pretty babes with hand in hand , went wandering up and down , But never more they saw the man approaching from the Town . Their pretty lips with black berries were all besmear'd and dy'd : But when they saw the darksome night they sat them down and cri'd , Thus wandered these two little babes till death did end their grief In one another's arms they dy'd , as babes wanting relief . No burial these pretty babes of any man receives . Till Robin-Red-brest painfully did cover them with leaves . And now the heavy wrath of God upon their Uncle fell . Yea fearful fiends did haunt his house his conscience felt and hell . His barns were fir'd his goods consum'd his Lands were barren made , His Cattle dy'd within his field and nothing with him stayed . And in the voyage of Portugall two of his Sons did die , And to conclude himself was brought unto much misery . He pawn'd and morgag'd all his Land e're seven years came about . And now at length this wicked act , did by this means come out . The fellow that did takke in hand , the children for to kill , Was for a Robbery judg'e to die as was Gods blessed will , Who did confess the very truth , the which is here expressed . Their Uncle dy'd while he for debt did long in prison rest . All you that be Executors made and Overseers eke , Of children that be Fatherless , and Infants mild and meek . Take you example by this thing , and yield to each his right , Lest God with such like misery , your wicked minds requite , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson . The Norfolk Gentleman , his last Will and Testamen And how he committed the keeping of his Children to his own Brother , who dealt most wickedly with them , and how God plagued him for it . The Tune is , Rogero . NOw ponder well you parents dear the words which I shall write , A doleful story you shall hear , in time brought forth to light . A Gentleman of good account , in Forfolk liv'd of late , Whose wealth & riches did surmount , most men of his Estate . Soar sick he was and like to die , no help that he could have , His wife by him as sick did lie , and both possessed one grave . No love between these two was lost , each was to other kind , In love they liv'd in love they di'd , and left two babes behind . The one a fine and pretty boy , not passing three years old , The other a Girl more young than he and made of beauty's mould . The Father left his little Son , as well it does appear , When he to perfect age should come , three hundred pound a year . And to his little daughter Jane , two hundred pound in gold , To be paid down on marriage day , which might not be control'd But if these Children chance to die . e're they to age should come , Their Uncle would possess this wealth for so the will did run . Now Brother said the dying man , look to my children dear ; Be good unto my Boy and Girl , no friends I have else here . To God and you I do commend , my children night and day , A little while be sure we have within this world to stay . You must be Father and Mother both , and Uncle all in one , God knows what will become of them when I am dead and gone . With that bespoke their Mother dear Oh Brother kind quoth she , You are the man must bring my babes to wealth or misery . If you do keep them carefully then God will you reward , If otherwise you seem to deal , God will your deeds regard . With lips as cold as any stone , she kissed her children small , God bless you both my children dear , with that the tears did fear . These speeches then their brother spoke to these sick Couple there , The keeping of your children dear sweet sister do not fear , God never prosper me nor mine nor ought else that I have , If I do wrong your children young , when you are laid in grave . Their parents being dead and gone the children home he takes , And brings them home unto his house and much of them he makes , He had not kept these pretty babes a twelve month and a day , But for their means he did devise to make them both away . He bargain'd with two Rffains rude , which were of furious mood , That they should take the children young and slay them in the Wood . And told his Wife and all he had , he did the children send . To be brought up in fair London , with one that was his friend . AWay then went these pretty babes rejoicing at that Tide , And smiling with a merry mind they should on cockhorse ride . The prate and prattle pleasantly , as they road on the way . To them that should their Butchers be , and work their lives decay . So that the pretty Speech they had made murderers hearts relent , And they that took the deed to do , full soar the did repent , Yet one of them more herd of heart did vow to do his charge . Because the wretch that hired them had paid them very large . The other would not agree thereto so here they fell at strife With one another they did fight about the children's life : And he that was of mildest mood did slay the other there . Within and unfrequented wood , where babes did quake for fear . He took the children by thee the hand when tears stood in their eye And bade them come and go with him and look they did not cry . And two miles he led them thus , while they for bred complain , Stay here quoth he i'le bring you bred when I do come again . These pretty babes with hand in hand , went wandering up and down , But never more they saw the man approaching from the Town . Their pretty lips with black berries were all besmear'd and dy'd : But when they saw the darksome night they sat them down and cri'd , Thus wandered these two little babes till death did end their grief In one another's arms they dy'd , as babes wanting relief . No burial these pretty babes of any man receives . Till Robin-Red-brest painfully did cover them with leaves . And now the heavy wrath of God upon their Uncle fell . Yea fearful fiends did haunt his house his conscience felt and hell . His barns were fir'd his goods consum'd his Lands were barren made , His Cattle dy'd within his field and nothing with him stayed . And in the voyage of Portugall two of his Sons did die , And to conclude himself was brought unto much misery . He pawn'd and morgag'd all his Land e're seven years came about . And now at length this wicked act , did by this means come out . The fellow that did takke in hand , the children for to kill , Was for a Robbery judg'e to die as was Gods blessed will , Who did confess the very truth , the which is here expressed . Their Uncle dy'd while he for debt did long in prison rest . All you that be Executors made and Overseers eke , Of children that be Fatherless , and Infants mild and meek . Take you example by this thing , and yield to each his right , Lest God with such like misery , your wicked minds requite , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson . 