ENGLANDS Royal Conquest . Truly manifested in a happy Victory obtained against the Dutch Fleet , by his Majesties Royal Navy , under the Conduct of his Highness Prince Rupert , and his Grace the Duke of Albemarle upon the 25. and 26. of July 1666. In which Naval Fight we put the Dutch to a total rout , burned and sunk several of their best ships , and in con - clusion forc't them shameful - lie to run away . Our own losses being very inconsiderable , only the Resolu - cion burned and two Captains kill'd : Our Generals and all the rest of our Fleet , being safe and in a very good Condition . The Tune is , A Fig for France and Holland too , or , Round about the Hollow Tree . Rejoice , Rejoice , brave English boys , For now is the time to speak our joys The routed Dutch are run away , And we have clearly wone the day ; We now are Master's of the Seas , And may with safety live at ease Then Butter-Boxes all lament , For now you are paid to your own content . You thought to rule as Lords and Kings . But now we've taught you better things , Methinks you might have known before , What t'was to come so near our shore , You often times have tri'd our force , And still you always had the worse ; Then Butterboxes all lament , For now you are paid to your own content . The Dutch are grown so wise and sage , Without great ods they'l not engage , Brave Englishmen will never grutch . With twenty sail , to fight forty Dutch , And bring their Lordship's by the Lee , And pay them home for their treachery . Then Butter-Boxes all lament For now you are paid to your own content . The Second part , to the same Tune . WHhilst thee our Ships were fitting forth , They counted us men of little worth Upon our Coast they made great shows , Not thinking to be paid with blows , But when our Fleet did once appear , Oh then their hearts were fill'd with fear , Then Butterboxes all lament , For now you are paid to your own content . July the five and twentieth day , Began this Sharp and bloody fray , At noon the Fleets were both ingag'd , And men on each side were inrag'd , The Bullets they did fly amain , And some were wounded , others slave , Then Butterboxes all lament , For now you are paid to your own content . Prince Rupert and brave General Monk , So pelted Ruyter and Vantrump , That they were in a chafing sweat , And thought it safest to retreat , By little and little they shrunk away , Their want of courage did them betray , Then Buter-boxes all lament , For now you are paid to your own content . Five hours they fought courageously , Before the Dutch began to fly , But then their Fleet was severed quite , Whilst we maintain'd a chasing Fight , For two days space we did pursue , And pelted them till their sides look'd blue , Then Butterboxes all lament , For now you are paid to your own content . Sir Jeremy Smith did roughly greet , The Amiral of the Zealand Fleet , With fire and ball he made them run , Until the Victory he had wone , Most bravely he maintain'd the Fight , Till they divided were by night , Then Butterboxes all lament , For now you are paid to your own content . Brave Allen and Holmes , fought like men , And chas'd the Dutch with five to ten , So sharply they did ply the Fight , Till all the Dutch were routed quite , The Flemmings found such boisterous play , That they in plain terms ran away , Then Butterboxes all lament , For now you are paid to your own content . Eight Ships of theirs we sunk and fired , Which for to save they much desired , And kill'd great numbers of their men , Where we lost one still they lost ten , We lost a Stately Ship and Tall , The Resolution we did her call , Then Butterboxes all lament , For now you are paid to your own content . Our Generals ( blessed be God ) are well , And all our Fleet as we hear tell , Lies daring on the Hollands Coast , The Duch have now no cause to boast , 'Tis said de Ruyter and Trump are slave , And never will face their Foes again , Then Butterboxes all lament , For now you are paid to your own content . The Cannons from the Tower did roar , When this good news did come to shore , The bells' did ring and bonfires shine , And healths carrous'd in beer and wine , God bless King Charles and all our Fleet , And grant true friends may safely meet , Then Butterboxes brag no more . For now we have Beaten you or'e and or'e . With Allowance . FINIS . London , Printed for Richard Burton at the Horshoe in West-Smithfield . ENGLANDS Royal Conquest . Truly manifested in a happy Victory obtained against the Dutch Fleet , by his Majesties Royal Navy , under the Conduct of his Highness Prince Rupert , and his Grace the Duke of Albemarle upon the 25. and 26. of July 1666. In which Naval Fight we put the Dutch to a total rout , burned and sunk several of their best ships , and in con - clusion forc't them shameful - lie to run away . Our own losses being very inconsiderable , only the Resolu - cion burned and two Captains kill'd : Our Generals and all the rest of our Fleet , being safe and in a very good Condition . The Tune is , A Fig for France and Holland too , or , Round about the Hollow Tree . Rejoice , Rejoice , brave English boys , For now is the time to speak our joys The routed Dutch are run away , And we have clearly wone the day ; We now are Master's of the Seas , And may with safety live at ease Then Butter-Boxes all lament , For now you are paid to your own content . You thought to rule as Lords and Kings . But now we've taught you better things , Methinks you might have known before , What t'was to come so near our shore , You often times have tri'd our force , And still you always had the worse ; Then Butterboxes all lament , For now you are paid to your own content . The Dutch are grown so wise and sage , Without great ods they'l not engage , Brave Englishmen will never grutch . With twenty sail , to fight forty Dutch , And bring their Lordship's by the Lee , And pay them home for their treachery . Then Butter-Boxes all lament For now you are paid to your own content . The Second part , to the same Tune . WHhilst thee our Ships were fitting forth , They counted us men of little worth Upon our Coast they made great shows , Not thinking to be paid with blows , But when our Fleet did once appear , Oh then their hearts were fill'd with fear , Then Butterboxes all lament , For now you are paid to your own content . July the five and twentieth day , Began this Sharp and bloody fray , At noon the Fleets were both ingag'd , And men on each side were inrag'd , The Bullets they did fly amain , And some were wounded , others slave , Then Butterboxes all lament , For now you are paid to your own content . Prince Rupert and brave General Monk , So pelted Ruyter and Vantrump , That they were in a chafing sweat , And thought it safest to retreat , By little and little they shrunk away , Their want of courage did them betray , Then Buter-boxes all lament , For now you are paid to your own content . Five hours they fought courageously , Before the Dutch began to fly , But then their Fleet was severed quite , Whilst we maintain'd a chasing Fight , For two days space we did pursue , And pelted them till their sides look'd blue , Then Butterboxes all lament , For now you are paid to your own content . Sir Jeremy Smith did roughly greet , The Amiral of the Zealand Fleet , With fire and ball he made them run , Until the Victory he had wone , Most bravely he maintain'd the Fight , Till they divided were by night , Then Butterboxes all lament , For now you are paid to your own content . Brave Allen and Holmes , fought like men , And chas'd the Dutch with five to ten , So sharply they did ply the Fight , Till all the Dutch were routed quite , The Flemmings found such boisterous play , That they in plain terms ran away , Then Butterboxes all lament , For now you are paid to your own content . Eight Ships of theirs we sunk and fired , Which for to save they much desired , And kill'd great numbers of their men , Where we lost one still they lost ten , We lost a Stately Ship and Tall , The Resolution we did her call , Then Butterboxes all lament , For now you are paid to your own content . Our Generals ( blessed be God ) are well , And all our Fleet as we hear tell , Lies daring on the Hollands Coast , The Duch have now no cause to boast , 'Tis said de Ruyter and Trump are slave , And never will face their Foes again , Then Butterboxes all lament , For now you are paid to your own content . The Cannons from the Tower did roar , When this good news did come to shore , The bells' did ring and bonfires shine , And healths carrous'd in beer and wine , God bless King Charles and all our Fleet , And grant true friends may safely meet , Then Butterboxes brag no more . For now we have Beaten you or'e and or'e . With Allowance . FINIS . London , Printed for Richard Burton at the Horshoe in West-Smithfield . 