The Norfolk Gentleman his Last Will and Testament . And how he committed the keeping of his Children to his own Brother , who dealt most wickedly with them , and how God Plagued him for it . The Tune is , Rogero . NOw ponder well you parents dear , the words which I shall write , A doleful story you shall hear , in time brought forth to ligh A Gentleman of good account , in Norfolk dwelled of late , Whose wealth and riches did surmount , most men of his estate . Soar sick he was and like to die , no help that he could have , His wife by him as sick did lie , and both posses'd one grave : No love between these two was lost , each was to other kind , In love they liv'd in love they dy'd and left two babes behind . The one a fine and pretty boy , not passing three years old , The other a Girl more young then he , and made of beauty's mould : The Father left his little Son , as plainly does appear , When he to perfect age should come , three hundred pounds a year . And two his little Daughter Jane , two hundred pound in gold , To be paid down on marriage day , which might not be controul'd , But if these Children chance to die , e're they to age should come , Their Uncle should possess their wealth , for so the Will did run . Now Brother ( said the dying man ) look to my children dear , Be good unto my Boy and Girl , no friend else I have here : To God and you I do commend , my children night and day , A little while be sure we have , within this world to stay . You must be Father and mother both , and Uncle all in one , God knows what will become of them , when I am dead and gone : With that bespoke their Mother dear , Oh brother kind ( quoth she ) You are the man must bring my babes , to wealth or misery . If you do keep them carefully , then God will you reward , If otherwise you seem to deal , God will your deeds regard : With lips as cold as any stone , she kissed her children small , God bless you both my children dear with that the tears did fallen . These speeches then their brother spoke , to this sick couple there , The keeping of your children dear , sweet sister do not fear : God never prosper me nor mine , nor ought else that I have , If I do wrong your children dear when you are laid in Grave . Their Parents being dead and gone , the Children home he takes , And brings them home unto his house , and much of them he makes ; He had not kept these pretty babes , a twelve month and a day , But for their wealth he did devise , to make them both away . He bargain'd with two Ruffians rude , which were of furious mood , That they should take the children young and slay them in a wood : And told his wife and all he had , he did the Children send , To be brought up in fair London , with one that was his friend . AWay then went these pretty babes rejoicing at that tide , And smiling with a merry mind they should on Cockhorse ride : They prate and prattel pleasantly as they road on the Way , To them that should their Butchers be and work their lives decay . So that the pretty speech they had made Murderers hearts relent , And they that took the deed to do full soar they did repent , Yet one of them more hard of heart did vow to do his charge , Because the Wretch that hired him had paid him very large . The other would not agree thereto , so here they fell at strife , With one another they did fight about the Children's life : And he that was of mildest mood , did slay the other there , Within and unfrequented Wood , where babes did quake for fear . He took the Children by the hand when tears stood in their eye , And bade them come and go with him and look they did not cry , And two long miles he led them thus while they for bred complain Stay here quoth he isle bring you bred when I do come again . These pretty Babes with hand in hand went wandering up and down , But never more they saw the man approaching from the Town : Their pretty lips with blackberries were all besmear'd and dy'd And when they saw the darksome night they sat them down and dry'd . Thus wandered those two little babes till death did end their grief , In one another's Arms they di'd as babes wanting relief , No burial these pretty babes of any man receives , Till Robin Red-Breast painfully did cover them with leaves . And now the heavy Wrath of God , upon this Uncle fell , Yea fearful Fiends did haunt his house his conscience felt and Hell : His barns were fir'd his goods consum'd his Lands were barren made , His cattle dy'd within the field , and nothing with him stayed . And in the Voyage of Portugal , two of his sons did die , And to conclude , himself was brought unto much misery : He paund and morguag'd all his Land , e're seven years came about , And now at length this wicked act , did by this means come out . The fellow that did take in hand these Children for to kill , Was for a Robbery judg'd to die , as was Gods blessed will : Who did confess the very truth . the which is here expressed . Their Uncle dy'd while he for Debt did long in prison rest . All you that be Executors made ; and overseers eke : Of Children that be fatherless , and infants mild and meek : Take you example by this thing , and yield to each his right lest God with such like misery your wicked minds requite . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . The Norfolk Gentleman his Last Will and Testament . And how he committed the keeping of his Children to his own Brother , who dealt most wickedly with them , and how God Plagued him for it . The Tune is , Rogero . NOw ponder well you parents dear , the words which I shall write , A doleful story you shall hear , in time brought forth to ligh A Gentleman of good account , in Norfolk dwelled of late , Whose wealth and riches did surmount , most men of his estate . Soar sick he was and like to die , no help that he could have , His wife by him as sick did lie , and both posses'd one grave : No love between these two was lost , each was to other kind , In love they liv'd in love they dy'd and left two babes behind . The one a fine and pretty boy , not passing three years old , The other a Girl more young then he , and made of beauty's mould : The Father left his little Son , as plainly does appear , When he to perfect age should come , three hundred pounds a year . And two his little Daughter Jane , two hundred pound in gold , To be paid down on marriage day , which might not be controul'd , But if these Children chance to die , e're they to age should come , Their Uncle should possess their wealth , for so the Will did run . Now Brother ( said the dying man ) look to my children dear , Be good unto my Boy and Girl , no friend else I have here : To God and you I do commend , my children night and day , A little while be sure we have , within this world to stay . You must be Father and mother both , and Uncle all in one , God knows what will become of them , when I am dead and gone : With that bespoke their Mother dear , Oh brother kind ( quoth she ) You are the man must bring my babes , to wealth or misery . If you do keep them carefully , then God will you reward , If otherwise you seem to deal , God will your deeds regard : With lips as cold as any stone , she kissed her children small , God bless you both my children dear with that the tears did fallen . These speeches then their brother spoke , to this sick couple there , The keeping of your children dear , sweet sister do not fear : God never prosper me nor mine , nor ought else that I have , If I do wrong your children dear when you are laid in Grave . Their Parents being dead and gone , the Children home he takes , And brings them home unto his house , and much of them he makes ; He had not kept these pretty babes , a twelve month and a day , But for their wealth he did devise , to make them both away . He bargain'd with two Ruffians rude , which were of furious mood , That they should take the children young and slay them in a wood : And told his wife and all he had , he did the Children send , To be brought up in fair London , with one that was his friend . AWay then went these pretty babes rejoicing at that tide , And smiling with a merry mind they should on Cockhorse ride : They prate and prattel pleasantly as they road on the Way , To them that should their Butchers be and work their lives decay . So that the pretty speech they had made Murderers hearts relent , And they that took the deed to do full soar they did repent , Yet one of them more hard of heart did vow to do his charge , Because the Wretch that hired him had paid him very large . The other would not agree thereto , so here they fell at strife , With one another they did fight about the Children's life : And he that was of mildest mood , did slay the other there , Within and unfrequented Wood , where babes did quake for fear . He took the Children by the hand when tears stood in their eye , And bade them come and go with him and look they did not cry , And two long miles he led them thus while they for bred complain Stay here quoth he isle bring you bred when I do come again . These pretty Babes with hand in hand went wandering up and down , But never more they saw the man approaching from the Town : Their pretty lips with blackberries were all besmear'd and dy'd And when they saw the darksome night they sat them down and dry'd . Thus wandered those two little babes till death did end their grief , In one another's Arms they di'd as babes wanting relief , No burial these pretty babes of any man receives , Till Robin Red-Breast painfully did cover them with leaves . And now the heavy Wrath of God , upon this Uncle fell , Yea fearful Fiends did haunt his house his conscience felt and Hell : His barns were fir'd his goods consum'd his Lands were barren made , His cattle dy'd within the field , and nothing with him stayed . And in the Voyage of Portugal , two of his sons did die , And to conclude , himself was brought unto much misery : He paund and morguag'd all his Land , e're seven years came about , And now at length this wicked act , did by this means come out . The fellow that did take in hand these Children for to kill , Was for a Robbery judg'd to die , as was Gods blessed will : Who did confess the very truth . the which is here expressed . Their Uncle dy'd while he for Debt did long in prison rest . All you that be Executors made ; and overseers eke : Of Children that be fatherless , and infants mild and meek : Take you example by this thing , and yield to each his right lest God with such like misery your wicked minds requite . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 