The French-man's Lamentation for the Great loss of their Noble General Mounsieur de Turenne . Who was Kill'd by a Cannon , Shot from a party of the Emperors Army , which lay in Ambuscade in a Wood , and shot him in the breast , where he Died Immediately , and his Lieutenant was then Killed by him , which was on the 23 of July 1675. Mounsieur Turenne being then in the 64th . Year of his age , and had been Marshal of France just half his time , being 32 years . To the Tune of , A fig for France and Holland too . OF honour and renown i'le sing , All generous hearts assistance bring , The Son of Mars , a Warrior brave . By a great Shot brought to his Grave ; Death durst not meet him in the field , But unawares did make him yield , Let Drums and Trumpets cease to found , Turenne no more is to be found . The French men glory now is dead , Before whom thousand troops have fled , He never was afraid to die , In greatest dangers scorn'd to fly ; But bravely would maintain the fight , Till all his foes were put to flight , Let Drums and Trumpets cease to , etc Fate envies that so brave a Soul , Should their decrees so long control , For from his birth this brave Turenne , Full sixty four years had seen , He idly did not spend his time , Nor wantonly did wast his prime ; Let Drums and Trumpets cease to , etc At thirty two just half his age , His Enemies he did engage , That Monarch great , the King of France , Him to a Marshal did advance ; Which place he kept unto his death , And bravely fought to his last breath , Let Drums and True [ m ] pets cease to found , Turenne no more is to be found . THe enemy in ambush lay , On purpose his life to betray , For they had planted in a Wood , Two Cannons which did spill his blood ; They knowing that he would come there , Lay lurking as if nothing were , Let Drums and Trumpets cease to found , Turenne no more is to be found . They saw him marching without harm , Did thunder him a fierce alarm , The first shot without hurt pass'd by , Fearing such valour to come nigh , But as it happened that came there , To give him warning to prepare . Let Drums , etc The other Gun with iron fill'd , The noble Mounsieur quickly kill'd , So many pieces came together , They flew like hail in stormy weather ; Some of them could not choose but kill , And execute their master's will , Let Drums , etc Into his breast the shot then flew , And instantly the Warrior slew , His brave Lieutenant dy'd by his side Scorning that Fate should them divide ; They who together drew their breath , Were true companions in their death ; Let Drums , etc The news was posted to the King , Which did to him much sorrow bring , So brave a Subject had he none , His fame through all the world was known : His memory will never die , Although his bones in dust do lie : Let Drums , etc His valour made his foes to creep , And sent them to eternal sleep , Not only courage was his praise , But policy his fame did raise , All which join [ ' ] worser with success did crown , Turenne with honour and renown . Let Drums , etc A prop he was unto the Crown , No foes could beatrice his courage down , His Master's cause he did defend , And faithful was unto the end ; But now alas , he's dead and gone , His equal there he has left none . Let Drums , etc Let him that reads this understand , It written by and English hand , True valour must be prais'd though he , That has it proves and enemy ; France now in mourning does appear , Having left him whom they lov'd so dear ; Let Drums and Trumpets cease to found , Turenne no more is to be found . Printed for W. Thackery , in Duck-lane , and I . Hose , in Holbourn . With Allowance The French-man's Lamentation for the Great loss of their Noble General Mounsieur de Turenne . Who was Kill'd by a Cannon , Shot from a party of the Emperors Army , which lay in Ambuscade in a Wood , and shot him in the breast , where he Died Immediately , and his Lieutenant was then Killed by him , which was on the 23 of July 1675. Mounsieur Turenne being then in the 64th . Year of his age , and had been Marshal of France just half his time , being 32 years . To the Tune of , A fig for France and Holland too . OF honour and renown i'le sing , All generous hearts assistance bring , The Son of Mars , a Warrior brave . By a great Shot brought to his Grave ; Death durst not meet him in the field , But unawares did make him yield , Let Drums and Trumpets cease to found , Turenne no more is to be found . The French men glory now is dead , Before whom thousand troops have fled , He never was afraid to die , In greatest dangers scorn'd to fly ; But bravely would maintain the fight , Till all his foes were put to flight , Let Drums and Trumpets cease to , etc Fate envies that so brave a Soul , Should their decrees so long control , For from his birth this brave Turenne , Full sixty four years had seen , He idly did not spend his time , Nor wantonly did wast his prime ; Let Drums and Trumpets cease to , etc At thirty two just half his age , His Enemies he did engage , That Monarch great , the King of France , Him to a Marshal did advance ; Which place he kept unto his death , And bravely fought to his last breath , Let Drums and True [ m ] pets cease to found , Turenne no more is to be found . THe enemy in ambush lay , On purpose his life to betray , For they had planted in a Wood , Two Cannons which did spill his blood ; They knowing that he would come there , Lay lurking as if nothing were , Let Drums and Trumpets cease to found , Turenne no more is to be found . They saw him marching without harm , Did thunder him a fierce alarm , The first shot without hurt pass'd by , Fearing such valour to come nigh , But as it happened that came there , To give him warning to prepare . Let Drums , etc The other Gun with iron fill'd , The noble Mounsieur quickly kill'd , So many pieces came together , They flew like hail in stormy weather ; Some of them could not choose but kill , And execute their master's will , Let Drums , etc Into his breast the shot then flew , And instantly the Warrior slew , His brave Lieutenant dy'd by his side Scorning that Fate should them divide ; They who together drew their breath , Were true companions in their death ; Let Drums , etc The news was posted to the King , Which did to him much sorrow bring , So brave a Subject had he none , His fame through all the world was known : His memory will never die , Although his bones in dust do lie : Let Drums , etc His valour made his foes to creep , And sent them to eternal sleep , Not only courage was his praise , But policy his fame did raise , All which join [ ' ] worser with success did crown , Turenne with honour and renown . Let Drums , etc A prop he was unto the Crown , No foes could beatrice his courage down , His Master's cause he did defend , And faithful was unto the end ; But now alas , he's dead and gone , His equal there he has left none . Let Drums , etc Let him that reads this understand , It written by and English hand , True valour must be prais'd though he , That has it proves and enemy ; France now in mourning does appear , Having left him whom they lov'd so dear ; Let Drums and Trumpets cease to found , Turenne no more is to be found . Printed for W. Thackery , in Duck-lane , and I . Hose , in Holbourn . With Allowance 