The famous Flower of SERVING-MEN . OR , The Lady turn'd Serving-Man . Her Lord being slave , her Father dead , Her Bower robb'd , her Servants fled ; She dressed her self in men attire : She trimm'd her Locks , she cut her Hair ; And therewithal she chang'd her Name , From Fair ELISE to Sweet WILLIAM . To a delicate new Tune , Or , Flora farewell . Summer time . Or , Loves Tide . YOu beauteous Ladies great and small , I write unto you one and all , Whereby that you may understand What I have suffered in this Land. I was by birth a Lady fair , My Father's chief and only Heir . But when my good old Father dy'd , Then was I made a young Knights Bride . And then my Love built me a Bower , Bedecked with many a fragrant flower ; A braver Bower you never did see , Then my true Lover built for me . But there came Thieves late in the night , They broke my Bower , and slew my Knight , And after that my Knight was slave , I could no longer there remain : For my servants all from me did fly , I'th midst of my extremity , And left me by my self alone , With a heart more cold then any stone . Yet though my heart was full of grief & care , Heaven would not suffer me to despair , Wherefore in haste I chang'd my name , From fair Elise to sweet William . And therewithal I cut my hair , And dressed my self in men attire ; My Doublet , Hose , and Beaver Hat , And a golden Band about my Neck . With a silver Raypier by my side , So like a Gallant I did ride : The thing that I delighted on , Was for to be a Servingman . Thus in my sumptuous men array , I bravely road along the way ; And at the last it chanced so , That I unto the Kings Court did go . Then to the King I bowed full low , My love and duty for to show , And so much favour I did crave , That I a Serving-mans place might have . The Second Part , to the same Tune . STand up brave Youth the King reply'd , Thy service shall not be deny'd : But tell me first what thou canst do , Thou shalt be fitted thereunto . Wilt thou be Usher of my Hall , To wait upon my Nobles all ? Or wilt thou be Taster of my Wine , To wait on me when I do dine ? Or wilt thou be my Chamberlain , To make my Bed both soft and fine : Or wilt thou be one of my Guard , And I will give thee thy reward . Sweet William with a smiling face , Said to the King , If't please your Grace , To show such favour unto me , Your Chamberlain I fain would be . The King then did his Nobles call , To ask the Counsel of them all ; Who gave consent sweet William he , The Kings own Chamberlain should be . Now mark what strange things come to pass As the King one day a hunting was , With all his Lords and noble train , Sweet William did at home remain . Sweet William had no company than With him at home , but and old man ; And when he saw the coast was clear , He took a Lute which he had there . Upon the Lute sweet William played . And to the same he sang and said , With a pleasant and most noble voice , Which made the old men heart rejoice . Sweet Williams Song . MY Father was as brave a Lord , As any Europe did afford ; My Mother was a Lady bright , My Husband was a valiant Knight . And I myself a Lady gay , Bedecked with gorgeous rich array : The bravest Lady in the Land Had not more pleasures to command . I had my Music every day , Harmonious Lessons for to play : I had my Virgins fair and free Continually to wait on me . But now alas my Husband is dead , And all my Friends are from me fled : My former joys are past and gone , For I am now a Servingman , The End of Sweet Williams Song . At last the King from hunting came , And presently upon the same He called for the good old man : And thus to speak the King began . What news , what news , old man ( quoth he ) What news hast thou for to tell me ; Brave news the old man then did say , Sweet William is a Lady gay . If this be true thou tellest me , I'll make thee a Lord of high degree : But if thy words do prove a lie , Thou shalt be hang'd up presently . But when the truth the King had found , His joys did more and more abound ; According as the old man did say , Sweet William was a Lady gay . Wherefore the King without delay Put her on glorious rich array , And upon her head a Crown of Gold , Which was most famous to behold . And then for fear of further strife , He took sweet William to his Wife : The like before was never seen , A Servingman to be a Queen . FINIS . L. P. Entered according to Order . London , Printed for John Andrews , at the White Lion near Pye-Corner . The famous Flower of SERVING-MEN . OR , The Lady turn'd Serving-Man . Her Lord being slave , her Father dead , Her Bower robb'd , her Servants fled ; She dressed her self in men attire : She trimm'd her Locks , she cut her Hair ; And therewithal she chang'd her Name , From Fair ELISE to Sweet WILLIAM . To a delicate new Tune , Or , Flora farewell . Summer time . Or , Loves Tide . YOu beauteous Ladies great and small , I write unto you one and all , Whereby that you may understand What I have suffered in this Land. I was by birth a Lady fair , My Father's chief and only Heir . But when my good old Father dy'd , Then was I made a young Knights Bride . And then my Love built me a Bower , Bedecked with many a fragrant flower ; A braver Bower you never did see , Then my true Lover built for me . But there came Thieves late in the night , They broke my Bower , and slew my Knight , And after that my Knight was slave , I could no longer there remain : For my servants all from me did fly , I'th midst of my extremity , And left me by my self alone , With a heart more cold then any stone . Yet though my heart was full of grief & care , Heaven would not suffer me to despair , Wherefore in haste I chang'd my name , From fair Elise to sweet William . And therewithal I cut my hair , And dressed my self in men attire ; My Doublet , Hose , and Beaver Hat , And a golden Band about my Neck . With a silver Raypier by my side , So like a Gallant I did ride : The thing that I delighted on , Was for to be a Servingman . Thus in my sumptuous men array , I bravely road along the way ; And at the last it chanced so , That I unto the Kings Court did go . Then to the King I bowed full low , My love and duty for to show , And so much favour I did crave , That I a Serving-mans place might have . The Second Part , to the same Tune . STand up brave Youth the King reply'd , Thy service shall not be deny'd : But tell me first what thou canst do , Thou shalt be fitted thereunto . Wilt thou be Usher of my Hall , To wait upon my Nobles all ? Or wilt thou be Taster of my Wine , To wait on me when I do dine ? Or wilt thou be my Chamberlain , To make my Bed both soft and fine : Or wilt thou be one of my Guard , And I will give thee thy reward . Sweet William with a smiling face , Said to the King , If't please your Grace , To show such favour unto me , Your Chamberlain I fain would be . The King then did his Nobles call , To ask the Counsel of them all ; Who gave consent sweet William he , The Kings own Chamberlain should be . Now mark what strange things come to pass As the King one day a hunting was , With all his Lords and noble train , Sweet William did at home remain . Sweet William had no company than With him at home , but and old man ; And when he saw the coast was clear , He took a Lute which he had there . Upon the Lute sweet William played . And to the same he sang and said , With a pleasant and most noble voice , Which made the old men heart rejoice . Sweet Williams Song . MY Father was as brave a Lord , As any Europe did afford ; My Mother was a Lady bright , My Husband was a valiant Knight . And I myself a Lady gay , Bedecked with gorgeous rich array : The bravest Lady in the Land Had not more pleasures to command . I had my Music every day , Harmonious Lessons for to play : I had my Virgins fair and free Continually to wait on me . But now alas my Husband is dead , And all my Friends are from me fled : My former joys are past and gone , For I am now a Servingman , The End of Sweet Williams Song . At last the King from hunting came , And presently upon the same He called for the good old man : And thus to speak the King began . What news , what news , old man ( quoth he ) What news hast thou for to tell me ; Brave news the old man then did say , Sweet William is a Lady gay . If this be true thou tellest me , I'll make thee a Lord of high degree : But if thy words do prove a lie , Thou shalt be hang'd up presently . But when the truth the King had found , His joys did more and more abound ; According as the old man did say , Sweet William was a Lady gay . Wherefore the King without delay Put her on glorious rich array , And upon her head a Crown of Gold , Which was most famous to behold . And then for fear of further strife , He took sweet William to his Wife : The like before was never seen , A Servingman to be a Queen . FINIS . L. P. Entered according to Order . London , Printed for John Andrews , at the White Lion near Pye-Corner . 