The English-mans Valour . OR , The Hamshire-Friggets-fight with six Spanish-Ships in Cales-Road . OR , The Seamans Praise ; the Soldiers advance , That tells to Jack Spaniard how Drake made him dance ; And how Captain Terell did make them to fly , That seek'd for to rob him or cause him to die . To the Tune of , Let no brave Soldier be dismayed . [ Process Licence laud Dr lamb Wren the Oath high Commission et rest hell The Hampshire ] GOD prosper long our Noble King , and every one that wish him well . Let Seamen say , and Soldiers sing the story now I have to tell . In July , on the 11th , day , as those that saw't , report does tell , Sir Pickaroons of Spain I say , and English ship began to swell . This ship is call'd the Hampshire bold , and in her few but Warlike men That scorned by Spaniards to be sold or any other to conquer them . Near to the Coast of Lisburn-Rock , where coming homeward was our men : Those Pickaroons about them flock , and said now they were sure of them . But God that stills above the Devil , and works for his People good , He saved our Ship from all their evil , without the loss of many's blood . And that for all six hours we fought and bang'd their sides courageously : Though six to one we feared nought , and in the end made them to fly . This fight the bullets they did fly , the noise thereof like thunder fierce , As that 'twould tear the very sky , and mighty mountains that would pierce Yet was our hearts both strong and stout , that we to them would never yield , Shall not be said we had the Rout upon the Sea , or in the Field . The Second Part , to the same Tune . SIx men was all we lost in fight , our Captain wounded very soar For all they were so many of might , that of them we flew many a score . And for the rest that are behind , if ever it does lie in our lot , We'l show them so much of our mind , that shall not quickly be forgotten . The 10th of August Thursday being , to visit them that in this ship Came Charles our Royal King , to welcome them home from the deep . And for to see brave Captain Terell and joy'd that he came home alive , And hope's to see him very well . in Whitehall-Court both stout and blithe . Then did they shoot of their great Guns in honour of our Noble King , The news throughout the City runs , Which makes all hearts rejoice and sing . Let all true hearts rejoice and sing that all our hearts are joned in one , To serve Charles our Royal King in City Country and in Town . Now fear we not the Turk nor Pope , nor France , nor Spain nor Italy , If they begin , they have no hope but we at length will make them fly . Experience tells them formerly , how we their boans have bang'd about , And in the end have made them fly , though 'twas so many , they had the Rout. God bless us all and to serve him in true Religion still to be ; And God bless Charles our Royal King , with all their Royal Progeny . FINIS . T.S. The English-mans Valour . OR , The Hamshire-Friggets-fight with six Spanish-Ships in Cales-Road . OR , The Seamans Praise ; the Soldiers advance , That tells to Jack Spaniard how Drake made him dance ; And how Captain Terell did make them to fly , That seek'd for to rob him or cause him to die . To the Tune of , Let no brave Soldier be dismayed . [ Process Licence laud Dr lamb Wren the Oath high Commission et rest hell The Hampshire ] GOD prosper long our Noble King , and every one that wish him well . Let Seamen say , and Soldiers sing the story now I have to tell . In July , on the 11th , day , as those that saw't , report does tell , Sir Pickaroons of Spain I say , and English ship began to swell . This ship is call'd the Hampshire bold , and in her few but Warlike men That scorned by Spaniards to be sold or any other to conquer them . Near to the Coast of Lisburn-Rock , where coming homeward was our men : Those Pickaroons about them flock , and said now they were sure of them . But God that stills above the Devil , and works for his People good , He saved our Ship from all their evil , without the loss of many's blood . And that for all six hours we fought and bang'd their sides courageously : Though six to one we feared nought , and in the end made them to fly . This fight the bullets they did fly , the noise thereof like thunder fierce , As that 'twould tear the very sky , and mighty mountains that would pierce Yet was our hearts both strong and stout , that we to them would never yield , Shall not be said we had the Rout upon the Sea , or in the Field . The Second Part , to the same Tune . SIx men was all we lost in fight , our Captain wounded very soar For all they were so many of might , that of them we flew many a score . And for the rest that are behind , if ever it does lie in our lot , We'l show them so much of our mind , that shall not quickly be forgotten . The 10th of August Thursday being , to visit them that in this ship Came Charles our Royal King , to welcome them home from the deep . And for to see brave Captain Terell and joy'd that he came home alive , And hope's to see him very well . in Whitehall-Court both stout and blithe . Then did they shoot of their great Guns in honour of our Noble King , The news throughout the City runs , Which makes all hearts rejoice and sing . Let all true hearts rejoice and sing that all our hearts are joned in one , To serve Charles our Royal King in City Country and in Town . Now fear we not the Turk nor Pope , nor France , nor Spain nor Italy , If they begin , they have no hope but we at length will make them fly . Experience tells them formerly , how we their boans have bang'd about , And in the end have made them fly , though 'twas so many , they had the Rout. God bless us all and to serve him in true Religion still to be ; And God bless Charles our Royal King , with all their Royal Progeny . FINIS . T.S. The English-mans Valour . OR , The Hamshire-Friggets-fight with six Spanish-Ships in Cales-Road . OR , The Seamans Praise ; the Soldiers advance , That tells to Jack Spaniard how Drake made him dance ; And how Captain Terell did make them to fly , That seek'd for to rob him or cause him to die . To the Tune of , Let no brave Soldier be dismayed . GOD prosper long our Noble King , and every one that wish him well . Let Seamen say , and Soldiers sing the story now I have to tell . In July , on the 11th , day , as those that saw't , report does tell , Sir Pickaroons of Spain I say , and English ship began to swell . This ship is call'd the Hampshire bold , and in her few but Warlike men That scorned by Spaniards to be sold or any other to conquer them . Near to the Coast of Lisburn-Rock , where coming homeward was our men : Those Pickaroons about them flock , and said now they were sure of them . But God that stills above the Devil , and works for his People good , He saved our Ship from all their evil , without the loss of many's blood . And that for all six hours we fought and bang'd their sides courageously : Though six to one we feared nought , and in the end made them to fly . This fight the bullets they did fly , the noise thereof like thunder fierce , As that 'twould tear the very sky , and mighty mountains that would pierce Yet was our hearts both strong and stout , that we to them would never yield , Shall not be said we had the Rout upon the Sea , or in the Field . The Second Part , to the same Tune . SIx men was all we lost in fight , our Captain wounded very soar For all they were so many of might , that of them we flew many a score . And for the rest that are behind , if ever it does lie in our lot , We'l show them so much of our mind , that shall not quickly be forgotten . The 10th of August Thursday being , to visit them that in this ship Came Charles our Royal King , to welcome them home from the deep . And for to see brave Captain Terell and joy'd that he came home alive , And hope's to see him very well . in Whitehall-Court both stout and blithe . Then did they shoot of their great Guns in honour of our Noble King , The news throughout the City runs , Which makes all hearts rejoice and sing . Let all true hearts rejoice and sing that all our hearts are joned in one , To serve Charles our Royal King in City Country and in Town . Now fear we not the Turk nor Pope , nor France , nor Spain nor Italy , If they begin , they have no hope but we at length will make them fly . Experience tells them formerly , how we their boans have bang'd about , And in the end have made them fly , though 'twas so many , they had the Rout. God bless us all and to serve him in true Religion still to be ; And God bless Charles our Royal King , with all their Royal Progeny . FINIS . T.S. The English-mans Valour . OR , The Hamshire-Friggets-fight with six Spanish-Ships in Cales-Road . OR , The Seamans Praise ; the Soldiers advance , That tells to Jack Spaniard how Drake made him dance ; And how Captain Terell did make them to fly , That seek'd for to rob him or cause him to die . To the Tune of , Let no brave Soldier be dismayed . GOD prosper long our Noble King , and every one that wish him well . Let Seamen say , and Soldiers sing the story now I have to tell . In July , on the 11th , day , as those that saw't , report does tell , Sir Pickaroons of Spain I say , and English ship began to swell . This ship is call'd the Hampshire bold , and in her few but Warlike men That scorned by Spaniards to be sold or any other to conquer them . Near to the Coast of Lisburn-Rock , where coming homeward was our men : Those Pickaroons about them flock , and said now they were sure of them . But God that stills above the Devil , and works for his People good , He saved our Ship from all their evil , without the loss of many's blood . And that for all six hours we fought and bang'd their sides courageously : Though six to one we feared nought , and in the end made them to fly . This fight the bullets they did fly , the noise thereof like thunder fierce , As that 'twould tear the very sky , and mighty mountains that would pierce Yet was our hearts both strong and stout , that we to them would never yield , Shall not be said we had the Rout upon the Sea , or in the Field . The Second Part , to the same Tune . SIx men was all we lost in fight , our Captain wounded very soar For all they were so many of might , that of them we flew many a score . And for the rest that are behind , if ever it does lie in our lot , We'l show them so much of our mind , that shall not quickly be forgotten . The 10th of August Thursday being , to visit them that in this ship Came Charles our Royal King , to welcome them home from the deep . And for to see brave Captain Terell and joy'd that he came home alive , And hope's to see him very well . in Whitehall-Court both stout and blithe . Then did they shoot of their great Guns in honour of our Noble King , The news throughout the City runs , Which makes all hearts rejoice and sing . Let all true hearts rejoice and sing that all our hearts are joned in one , To serve Charles our Royal King in City Country and in Town . Now fear we not the Turk nor Pope , nor France , nor Spain nor Italy , If they begin , they have no hope but we at length will make them fly . Experience tells them formerly , how we their boans have bang'd about , And in the end have made them fly , though 'twas so many , they had the Rout. God bless us all and to serve him in true Religion still to be ; And God bless Charles our Royal King , with all their Royal Progeny . FINIS . T.S. 