Flora's farewell : Or , The Shepherd's Love-passion Song , Wherein he greatly does complain , Because his love was spent in vain . To a delicate new Tune : or A thousand times my love commend . FLora farewell , I needs must go , for if with thee I longer stay , Thine eyes prevail over me so , I shall be blind and loose my way . Fame of thy beauty and thy youth , to seek for love me hither borough But when in thee I found no truth , it was no boot to stay I thought . Now I'm ingag'd by word and oath a servant to another's will ; Yet for thy sake would forego both , wouldst thou be sure to love me still . But what assurance can I have of thee , who seeing mine abuse , In that which love desires to crave , may leave me with a just excuse . For thou mayest say , 'twas not thy fault , that thou didst so inconstant prove , Thou wertenberg by mine example taught to break thy oath and leave thy love . No Flora no , I will recall the former words which I have spoke , And thou shalt have no cause at all to hamper me in Cupids yoke . But since thy humour is to range , and that thou bear'st a wavering mind Like to the Moon with thee I'll change , and turn I can with every wind . Henceforth blind Fancy I'll remove , and cast all sorrows from my hear Young men to die for doting Love , I hold it but a foolish part . Why should I to one love be bound , and fix my thoughts on none but thee , When as a thousand may be found , thats far more fair and fit for me . Though I am not but a Shepherd's Swain , my mind to me does comfort bring , Feeding my Flocks upon the Plain , I triumph like a petty King . No Female Brat shall me deceive , nor catch me by a crafty wild ? Though I do love , yet I can leave , and will no longer be begilde . Flora , once more farewell , adieu , I so conclude my passion Song ; To thy next Love see thou prove true , for thou hast done me double wrong . The second part , to the same Tune . Being the Answer of fair Flora to the Shepherd's Song : Wherein she shows that he hath done the wrong . Fie , Shepherd fie , thou art to blame to rail against me in this sor Thou dost disgrace a Sweethearts name , To give thy Love a false report . There was a Proverb used of old , and now I find it is no lie , One Tale is good till the other's told , she that loves most is least set by . A brief Description I will tell , of thy Favour , love and flattery , And how at first thou didst excel with cunning tricks and policy . But O that flattering tongue of thine , and tempting eye sought to entice , And to ensnare the heart of mine , and bring me in fools Paradise . When thou at first began to woo , and with thy skill my patience tried , You thought there was no more to do , But presently get up and ride . Thou saidst that I was fair and bright , and fitting for thy Marriage bed , Thou fedst my fancy with delight , thinking to have my Maidenhead . But when thou sawest thou couldst not gain the Jem that thou desirest to have , My company thou didst refrain , like to a false dissembling Knave . Whereby I answered thus , and said , to shun the cause of further strife , I would contain my self a Maid , till such time I was made a wife . And since that you my mind have crossed , you may bestow you as you will : Shepherd , farewell , theres nothing lost I am resolved to say so still . Blind Cupid with his wounding dart could never make me sorrows feel : I'll not lay that unto my heart as others shake off with the heel . FINIS . L . P London , Printed for F.G. on Snow-hill . Flora's farewell : Or , The Shepherd's Love-passion Song , Wherein he greatly does complain , Because his love was spent in vain . To a delicate new Tune : or A thousand times my love commend . FLora farewell , I needs must go , for if with thee I longer stay , Thine eyes prevail over me so , I shall be blind and loose my way . Fame of thy beauty and thy youth , to seek for love me hither borough But when in thee I found no truth , it was no boot to stay I thought . Now I'm ingag'd by word and oath a servant to another's will ; Yet for thy sake would forego both , wouldst thou be sure to love me still . But what assurance can I have of thee , who seeing mine abuse , In that which love desires to crave , may leave me with a just excuse . For thou mayest say , 'twas not thy fault , that thou didst so inconstant prove , Thou wertenberg by mine example taught to break thy oath and leave thy love . No Flora no , I will recall the former words which I have spoke , And thou shalt have no cause at all to hamper me in Cupids yoke . But since thy humour is to range , and that thou bear'st a wavering mind Like to the Moon with thee I'll change , and turn I can with every wind . Henceforth blind Fancy I'll remove , and cast all sorrows from my hear Young men to die for doting Love , I hold it but a foolish part . Why should I to one love be bound , and fix my thoughts on none but thee , When as a thousand may be found , thats far more fair and fit for me . Though I am not but a Shepherd's Swain , my mind to me does comfort bring , Feeding my Flocks upon the Plain , I triumph like a petty King . No Female Brat shall me deceive , nor catch me by a crafty wild ? Though I do love , yet I can leave , and will no longer be begilde . Flora , once more farewell , adieu , I so conclude my passion Song ; To thy next Love see thou prove true , for thou hast done me double wrong . The second part , to the same Tune . Being the Answer of fair Flora to the Shepherd's Song : Wherein she shows that he hath done the wrong . Fie , Shepherd fie , thou art to blame to rail against me in this sor Thou dost disgrace a Sweethearts name , To give thy Love a false report . There was a Proverb used of old , and now I find it is no lie , One Tale is good till the other's told , she that loves most is least set by . A brief Description I will tell , of thy Favour , love and flattery , And how at first thou didst excel with cunning tricks and policy . But O that flattering tongue of thine , and tempting eye sought to entice , And to ensnare the heart of mine , and bring me in fools Paradise . When thou at first began to woo , and with thy skill my patience tried , You thought there was no more to do , But presently get up and ride . Thou saidst that I was fair and bright , and fitting for thy Marriage bed , Thou fedst my fancy with delight , thinking to have my Maidenhead . But when thou sawest thou couldst not gain the Jem that thou desirest to have , My company thou didst refrain , like to a false dissembling Knave . Whereby I answered thus , and said , to shun the cause of further strife , I would contain my self a Maid , till such time I was made a wife . And since that you my mind have crossed , you may bestow you as you will : Shepherd , farewell , theres nothing lost I am resolved to say so still . Blind Cupid with his wounding dart could never make me sorrows feel : I'll not lay that unto my heart as others shake off with the heel . FINIS . L . P London , Printed for F.G. on Snow-hill . 