The Faithful Lovers Farewell : OR , Private News from Chatham , Described in a passionate Discourse betwixt a young Gentleman whose name was John , and his fair Lady Betty , who having been newly Contracted , were suddenly Separated before Marriage , in regard that he was instantly Commanded to take Shipping in and Expedition against the DUTCH . To the Tune of , My Lodging is on the cold ground , etc AS I in a Meadow was walking , some two or three Weeks ago , I herd two Lovers a Talking , and trampling too and from ; The Female her name was Betty , her dearly Belov'd was John , And both of them wondrous pretty , ( I'll tell you the rest anon ) These Lovers were both combined in mutual bonds of Love , But John was straightly enjoined a little while to remove , From her he did love above all things , his fervent desire was such ; He now does intend to do tall things , By Engaging against the Dutch . Betty . It Betty that first complained , Oh! why will you use me so , As soon as affection is gained , so speedily can you go , And leave me in pining sorrow distressed upon the Shore ; If you do depart to Morrow I never shall see thee more . John My dear ( quoth John ) be not daunted , ( and smilingly look'd upon her ) My Service it cannot be wanted , I'le bring thee both Wealth & Honour ; I cannot now well support thee , and live like other Men : But with Gold and silver I will Court thee When I come a Shore again . Betty . ( Quoth Betty ) some other way study to live with me here on Shore ; The Battle will be very bloody , when all the great Guns do Roar , Thou'lt either be drowning or burning in Crimson Waves of Gore , While I fit here in my mourning , And never shall see thee more . The second Part , to the same Tune . John. QUoth John , prithee leave thy dreaming and be and obedient Wife , I scorn that a Butterbox Flemming should vapour away my Life ; The Duke of Yorke ventures his life too with all his Royalty ; He's a Prince that does love his wife too I warrant as well as I . Good Princes are great Examples for Loyal hearts to follow : He that on Authority tramples . I with the Sea may swallow , The Dutch-man was ever a Traitor against their Sovereign ; We will make it cost him hot water E're I come a Shore again . Wee'l beatrice the Belgick-Boobies , and gain their Guinny-Gold , [ I' ] le bring the home Pearls and Rubies as many as my Ship will hold ; I'le make my Betty shine Splendid with Treasuries of the Main , And royally be attended When I come a Shore again . Betty . Then Betty with a whimpering face return'd these words again , I'le put me on a Masculine Case , and pass for one of your Men ; I'le swear ( if you'l believe me ) I'le fear no Wind nor Weather , For I know it never will grieve me If both of us die together . John My Dear , I prithee leave pleading , thou shalt not to Sea with me , For I can tell by my reading it will not convenient be , Thou rather wilt hurt , and hinder me , when we begin the Fray , When Cleopatra put to Sea Mark Anthony lost the day . My very soul presages , we shall be Victorious Men , And cut out work for Stages when we return again . Bett. Quoth she , I'le daily pray for thee and every Power implore . Joh. I'll fight ( quod he ) O then quoth she I never shall see the more . John. Said he , this Kiss a farewell gives my time is drawing on , He needs must go whom Honour drives . Bett. Quoth she , adieu sweet J [ oh ] hn . Joh. Quoth he , I'le make thee a Lady bright I prithee then dry thine eye : There's many a wight , is made a Knight As little deserves as I . Thus sad and heavy hearted ( their Kisses wash'd with tears ) These faithful Lovers parted , no case so sad as theirs ; Before they came to the Marriage Bed , ( so woeful is this Ditty ) E're she had lost her Maidenhead , Alack , the more's the pity . Finis . With Allowance . London , Printed for Sarah Tyus , at the three Bibles on London-bridge . The Faithful Lovers Farewell : OR , Private News from Chatham , Described in a passionate Discourse betwixt a young Gentleman whose name was John , and his fair Lady Betty , who having been newly Contracted , were suddenly Separated before Marriage , in regard that he was instantly Commanded to take Shipping in and Expedition against the DUTCH . To the Tune of , My Lodging is on the cold ground , etc AS I in a Meadow was walking , some two or three Weeks ago , I herd two Lovers a Talking , and trampling too and from ; The Female her name was Betty , her dearly Belov'd was John , And both of them wondrous pretty , ( I'll tell you the rest anon ) These Lovers were both combined in mutual bonds of Love , But John was straightly enjoined a little while to remove , From her he did love above all things , his fervent desire was such ; He now does intend to do tall things , By Engaging against the Dutch . Betty . It Betty that first complained , Oh! why will you use me so , As soon as affection is gained , so speedily can you go , And leave me in pining sorrow distressed upon the Shore ; If you do depart to Morrow I never shall see thee more . John My dear ( quoth John ) be not daunted , ( and smilingly look'd upon her ) My Service it cannot be wanted , I'le bring thee both Wealth & Honour ; I cannot now well support thee , and live like other Men : But with Gold and silver I will Court thee When I come a Shore again . Betty . ( Quoth Betty ) some other way study to live with me here on Shore ; The Battle will be very bloody , when all the great Guns do Roar , Thou'lt either be drowning or burning in Crimson Waves of Gore , While I fit here in my mourning , And never shall see thee more . The second Part , to the same Tune . John. QUoth John , prithee leave thy dreaming and be and obedient Wife , I scorn that a Butterbox Flemming should vapour away my Life ; The Duke of Yorke ventures his life too with all his Royalty ; He's a Prince that does love his wife too I warrant as well as I . Good Princes are great Examples for Loyal hearts to follow : He that on Authority tramples . I with the Sea may swallow , The Dutch-man was ever a Traitor against their Sovereign ; We will make it cost him hot water E're I come a Shore again . Wee'l beatrice the Belgick-Boobies , and gain their Guinny-Gold , [ I' ] le bring the home Pearls and Rubies as many as my Ship will hold ; I'le make my Betty shine Splendid with Treasuries of the Main , And royally be attended When I come a Shore again . Betty . Then Betty with a whimpering face return'd these words again , I'le put me on a Masculine Case , and pass for one of your Men ; I'le swear ( if you'l believe me ) I'le fear no Wind nor Weather , For I know it never will grieve me If both of us die together . John My Dear , I prithee leave pleading , thou shalt not to Sea with me , For I can tell by my reading it will not convenient be , Thou rather wilt hurt , and hinder me , when we begin the Fray , When Cleopatra put to Sea Mark Anthony lost the day . My very soul presages , we shall be Victorious Men , And cut out work for Stages when we return again . Bett. Quoth she , I'le daily pray for thee and every Power implore . Joh. I'll fight ( quod he ) O then quoth she I never shall see the more . John. Said he , this Kiss a farewell gives my time is drawing on , He needs must go whom Honour drives . Bett. Quoth she , adieu sweet J [ oh ] hn . Joh. Quoth he , I'le make thee a Lady bright I prithee then dry thine eye : There's many a wight , is made a Knight As little deserves as I . Thus sad and heavy hearted ( their Kisses wash'd with tears ) These faithful Lovers parted , no case so sad as theirs ; Before they came to the Marriage Bed , ( so woeful is this Ditty ) E're she had lost her Maidenhead , Alack , the more's the pity . Finis . With Allowance . London , Printed for Sarah Tyus , at the three Bibles on London-bridge . 