FANCIES FAVORITE . OR , The Mirror of the times . Being a young Ladies commendation of a young Gallant . which hath a long time showed her much love : which by his civil carriage , and long patience in waiting on , her , at last last conquered her . who was once resolved to led a single life ; and therefore he termed her the Phoenix of the times , To the Tune of Fancies Phoenix - Come , come away , you maidens fair , this song to you I will indite , 'Tis of a young man I'le declare , who in his praise I needs must write , The City if I search about I scarce shall find his fellow out , He hath been constant long to me , the mirror of the time is he . I must confess I once did mind , a single life to live and die But such rare parts in him I find , his civil suit I can't deny , But I am resolved for to free , and grant him love and liberty , So civil he hath been to me , the mirror of the time is he . I once did think I never should , so much as know what love should be Nor did I dream he ever could , with patience so have conquered me , His comely gesture I did spy , made me delight in's company , That all may say who do him see , the mirror of the times is he . Did you e're see that glorious star . that ushers in the morning bright , How he exceeds all others far , by casting forth his sparkling ligh So all do say as much by he , that ere did keep his company . His carriage does such gesture show , he is admir'd where ere he go . The second Part to the same Tune . HE bashful is yet bold also , and shows it with a gallant grace ; All vapouring blades he scorns to know , yet scorns he for to hide his face . He'l take no wrong nor quarrels breed but sticks to his friend in time of need . He's civil , yet he'l merry be , the mirror of the times is he . If any where you should him spy , in maids or women's company , No wanton looks comes from his eye , at any time as you ere shall see , He'l court , he'l kiss , he'l sing , or play , but it shall be in a modest way . For men or women's company the mirror of the times is he . But stay my pen it runs too fast , in setting forth his gallantry . For fear I loose him at the last , then cause you'l have to laugh at me . When some do hear of him , they may , persuade his love from me away But if they gain his love from me , none constant then I think there be . But now his name I have not told , nor will not yet you may be sure , Till of him I can get faster hold , there's no one that shall it procure You maidens all that hear my song , I would not have you for him long . But if you do persuaded be , you may find some as good as he . A Phoenix he hath termed me , because I thought to lie alone , But if that such a bird there be , out of this Climate sure she's flown , Our land is cold , and therefore I resolve no Phoenix for to die . But though I don't this Phoenix prove , yet I will be his turtle Dove . There's many a maiden that does say , a single life is best at ease . How oft I pray will you say nay , if once a young man does you please , I must confess sometime you'l prove most coy to them you most do love , What by experience I find true . pray blame not me for telling you . Let me advice you maidens fair , not to be coy nor proud at all . For those that count themselves most rare most times does get the greatest fallen , You seldom see a scornful maid , but at the last she is betray'd : Be courteous , yet be virtuous still , and let not young men have their will . Choose not a husband for estate , unless you fancy him beside , You may repent when it's too late , 'tis for a lifetime you are ty'd No Ranter take if you be wise , nor yet none of the new precise , The one will rant and spend your means , the other closely may love queans . But now my song grows to and end , I must be gone , my love does stay , Last night I did unto him send , to meet me at a place today , Where we intend so to agree , in what Church we will married be ; Then Phenix like wee'l live and die , in the pure flams of chastity . One Love , one Faith , we do express , and therefore we one name will have , Our love so great is I confess , we likewise do desire one Grave , To his desire I will incline , his ashes shall be joyn'd with mine , So Phoenix like we mean to lie , and Turtle like we'l live and die . FINIS . FANCIES FAVORITE . OR , The Mirror of the times . Being a young Ladies commendation of a young Gallant . which hath a long time showed her much love : which by his civil carriage , and long patience in waiting on , her , at last last conquered her . who was once resolved to led a single life ; and therefore he termed her the Phoenix of the times , To the Tune of Fancies Phoenix - Come , come away , you maidens fair , this song to you I will indite , 'Tis of a young man I'le declare , who in his praise I needs must write , The City if I search about I scarce shall find his fellow out , He hath been constant long to me , the mirror of the time is he . I must confess I once did mind , a single life to live and die But such rare parts in him I find , his civil suit I can't deny , But I am resolved for to free , and grant him love and liberty , So civil he hath been to me , the mirror of the time is he . I once did think I never should , so much as know what love should be Nor did I dream he ever could , with patience so have conquered me , His comely gesture I did spy , made me delight in's company , That all may say who do him see , the mirror of the times is he . Did you e're see that glorious star . that ushers in the morning bright , How he exceeds all others far , by casting forth his sparkling ligh So all do say as much by he , that ere did keep his company . His carriage does such gesture show , he is admir'd where ere he go . The second Part to the same Tune . HE bashful is yet bold also , and shows it with a gallant grace ; All vapouring blades he scorns to know , yet scorns he for to hide his face . He'l take no wrong nor quarrels breed but sticks to his friend in time of need . He's civil , yet he'l merry be , the mirror of the times is he . If any where you should him spy , in maids or women's company , No wanton looks comes from his eye , at any time as you ere shall see , He'l court , he'l kiss , he'l sing , or play , but it shall be in a modest way . For men or women's company the mirror of the times is he . But stay my pen it runs too fast , in setting forth his gallantry . For fear I loose him at the last , then cause you'l have to laugh at me . When some do hear of him , they may , persuade his love from me away But if they gain his love from me , none constant then I think there be . But now his name I have not told , nor will not yet you may be sure , Till of him I can get faster hold , there's no one that shall it procure You maidens all that hear my song , I would not have you for him long . But if you do persuaded be , you may find some as good as he . A Phoenix he hath termed me , because I thought to lie alone , But if that such a bird there be , out of this Climate sure she's flown , Our land is cold , and therefore I resolve no Phoenix for to die . But though I don't this Phoenix prove , yet I will be his turtle Dove . There's many a maiden that does say , a single life is best at ease . How oft I pray will you say nay , if once a young man does you please , I must confess sometime you'l prove most coy to them you most do love , What by experience I find true . pray blame not me for telling you . Let me advice you maidens fair , not to be coy nor proud at all . For those that count themselves most rare most times does get the greatest fallen , You seldom see a scornful maid , but at the last she is betray'd : Be courteous , yet be virtuous still , and let not young men have their will . Choose not a husband for estate , unless you fancy him beside , You may repent when it's too late , 'tis for a lifetime you are ty'd No Ranter take if you be wise , nor yet none of the new precise , The one will rant and spend your means , the other closely may love queans . But now my song grows to and end , I must be gone , my love does stay , Last night I did unto him send , to meet me at a place today , Where we intend so to agree , in what Church we will married be ; Then Phenix like wee'l live and die , in the pure flams of chastity . One Love , one Faith , we do express , and therefore we one name will have , Our love so great is I confess , we likewise do desire one Grave , To his desire I will incline , his ashes shall be joyn'd with mine , So Phoenix like we mean to lie , and Turtle like we'l live and die . FINIS . 