The Godly Maid of Leicester . Being a true Relation of Elizabeth Stretton , who lying upon her Deathbed , was wonderfully delivered from the Temptations of Satan , worthy the noting of all that would live and die in the fear of God . The Tune is , In Summer time . among the Wonders God hath shown , within this Island and elsewhere , A wonder strange I will make known , as ever any man did hear ! A virtuous Maid in Leicester dwelled , who came of honest Parentage , Temptations and afflictions felt , although we was of tender age . Elizabeth Stretton was her name , of conversation Godly given , Gods holy Word was all her aim , whose soul no doubt is now in Heaven ; Soar sick she was and sick to death , and in a trance for half and hour , That people thought her vital breath , extinguish'd was by death's strong power . He that rais'd Lazarus from the dead , did raise this Maid to life again , When as they thought her life was fled , and that by death she had been slave , At last with smiling countenance , upon the company did look , And said she had been in a Trance , but Christ her soul had not forsook . I have been in a Combat great , even with the black Prince of the Air , By craft , and by his strong deceit , did seek to bring me to despair , But Christ does ne'r forsake his Flock , who evermore on him depend , He was my Fortress and my Rock , and brought my troubles to and end . Satan . O silly soul the Devil said , in Christ why dost thou put thy trust , In Hell with me thou must be laid , and thy frail body turn to dust . Maid . I know my Corpse to dust must fallen , but my sweet Christ redeem'd my soul , I am his Child on him I call , although my sins are very foul . Satan No sinful Soul in Heaven may dwell , alas poor wretch thou art deceiv'd . Thy sins will weigh thee down to Hell , when death of life hath thee bereft . Maid . Gods mercy is above my since , who did protect me from my birth , My Father knows where I have been , among vile sinners here on Earth , The second part to the same Tune . WHose bad example me did cause , to walk beside the path of Grace I have broke all his sacred Laws , yet he my Soul does still embrace , When he perceiv'd my Faith so strong , Satan began to hide his head , I did by him receive no wrong , so presently he vanished . He was no sooner vanished but my sweet Saviour appear'd to me , When as you thought I had been dead , my Soul her Saviour then did see . Poor wretch said he , Lo I will be , thy Father , Husband , and Delight , Thy sinful Soul from Hell to free , and overcome the Devils might . I hid my Face , a little space , to try how patient thou wouldst be , I give thee Faith and means of Grace and that sufficient was for thee , To overcome the Devils power , the gates of Hell could not prevail , I helped thee in a Blessed hour , and thy poor Soul I will not fail . Go tell thy friends where thou hast been , and how my Children I protect , How I have pardoned thy since , and all the sins of my Elect. With Oil he did anoint my Soul , my head , and all my Body o're , He did forgive my sins most foul , I praise his holy Name therefore , Now I my Saviours love have again , I nothing in this World do crave , But that I once were free from pain , and fairly laid within my Grave . All you that stand about my Bed , see that the Lord above you fear , And think on this when I am dead , that you your course so well may steer . For I have fought a happy Fight , and overcome , by Gods good Grace , The Devil in his power and might , and run with Comfort now my Raze . From henceforth is laid up for me , a Crown of Immortality , Where I shall very shortly be , with Heavenly Saints that never die . Unto Gods Ordinance let's go , in the Weekdays with due respect , Think not the time ill spent , all you that Count your selves as Gods Elect As well as on the Sabbath-day , as I have done , as you do know , For I to you may truly say , I find the comfort of it now . Let none Gods Ordinance contemn , the means of their Salvation , Let not the Devil prevail with them , to bring them to Damnation . I praise my God in all my grief , I never lost my hold of Grace , When other folks were bent to strife , I held the Church the chiefest place . And therefore mind me what I say , before your Glass be run , Though other people go astray . go forward as you have begun , And meddle not with them that are contentious any kind of way , But ever let it be your care , Gods holy Ordinance to obey . For those that will not serve him here in Heaven with him shall never dwell Therefore my Friends now have a care that you may escape the pains of Hell , So farewell Friends , farewell to all , I'm going to a better place . Let not the Devil bring you to thrall , nor fondly loose your hold of Grace . Lord Jesus now receive my Soul , I do bequeathe the same to thee , Oh Lord forgive my sins most foul , and so to Heaven passed she ; And so departed she in peace , to Heaven with Angels to remain , The Lord above gave her release , from her Afflictions , Grief and Pain . Let People mind her dying words , if in Heaven they would live , Her Life and Death so much affords , and Heavenly comfort now does give . O Lord , give us all Grace , that we may live to him and die to since , Our Life and Death shall happy be , though in a wicked world we've been . London , Printed by E. C. for F. Coals . T. Vere . and J. Wright . The Godly Maid of Leicester . Being a true Relation of Elizabeth Stretton , who lying upon her Deathbed , was wonderfully delivered from the Temptations of Satan , worthy the noting of all that would live and die in the fear of God . The Tune is , In Summer time . among the Wonders God hath shown , within this Island and elsewhere , A wonder strange I will make known , as ever any man did hear ! A virtuous Maid in Leicester dwelled , who came of honest Parentage , Temptations and afflictions felt , although we was of tender age . Elizabeth Stretton was her name , of conversation Godly given , Gods holy Word was all her aim , whose soul no doubt is now in Heaven ; Soar sick she was and sick to death , and in a trance for half and hour , That people thought her vital breath , extinguish'd was by death's strong power . He that rais'd Lazarus from the dead , did raise this Maid to life again , When as they thought her life was fled , and that by death she had been slave , At last with smiling countenance , upon the company did look , And said she had been in a Trance , but Christ her soul had not forsook . I have been in a Combat great , even with the black Prince of the Air , By craft , and by his strong deceit , did seek to bring me to despair , But Christ does ne'r forsake his Flock , who evermore on him depend , He was my Fortress and my Rock , and brought my troubles to and end . Satan . O silly soul the Devil said , in Christ why dost thou put thy trust , In Hell with me thou must be laid , and thy frail body turn to dust . Maid . I know my Corpse to dust must fallen , but my sweet Christ redeem'd my soul , I am his Child on him I call , although my sins are very foul . Satan No sinful Soul in Heaven may dwell , alas poor wretch thou art deceiv'd . Thy sins will weigh thee down to Hell , when death of life hath thee bereft . Maid . Gods mercy is above my since , who did protect me from my birth , My Father knows where I have been , among vile sinners here on Earth , The second part to the same Tune . WHose bad example me did cause , to walk beside the path of Grace I have broke all his sacred Laws , yet he my Soul does still embrace , When he perceiv'd my Faith so strong , Satan began to hide his head , I did by him receive no wrong , so presently he vanished . He was no sooner vanished but my sweet Saviour appear'd to me , When as you thought I had been dead , my Soul her Saviour then did see . Poor wretch said he , Lo I will be , thy Father , Husband , and Delight , Thy sinful Soul from Hell to free , and overcome the Devils might . I hid my Face , a little space , to try how patient thou wouldst be , I give thee Faith and means of Grace and that sufficient was for thee , To overcome the Devils power , the gates of Hell could not prevail , I helped thee in a Blessed hour , and thy poor Soul I will not fail . Go tell thy friends where thou hast been , and how my Children I protect , How I have pardoned thy since , and all the sins of my Elect. With Oil he did anoint my Soul , my head , and all my Body o're , He did forgive my sins most foul , I praise his holy Name therefore , Now I my Saviours love have again , I nothing in this World do crave , But that I once were free from pain , and fairly laid within my Grave . All you that stand about my Bed , see that the Lord above you fear , And think on this when I am dead , that you your course so well may steer . For I have fought a happy Fight , and overcome , by Gods good Grace , The Devil in his power and might , and run with Comfort now my Raze . From henceforth is laid up for me , a Crown of Immortality , Where I shall very shortly be , with Heavenly Saints that never die . Unto Gods Ordinance let's go , in the Weekdays with due respect , Think not the time ill spent , all you that Count your selves as Gods Elect As well as on the Sabbath-day , as I have done , as you do know , For I to you may truly say , I find the comfort of it now . Let none Gods Ordinance contemn , the means of their Salvation , Let not the Devil prevail with them , to bring them to Damnation . I praise my God in all my grief , I never lost my hold of Grace , When other folks were bent to strife , I held the Church the chiefest place . And therefore mind me what I say , before your Glass be run , Though other people go astray . go forward as you have begun , And meddle not with them that are contentious any kind of way , But ever let it be your care , Gods holy Ordinance to obey . For those that will not serve him here in Heaven with him shall never dwell Therefore my Friends now have a care that you may escape the pains of Hell , So farewell Friends , farewell to all , I'm going to a better place . Let not the Devil bring you to thrall , nor fondly loose your hold of Grace . Lord Jesus now receive my Soul , I do bequeathe the same to thee , Oh Lord forgive my sins most foul , and so to Heaven passed she ; And so departed she in peace , to Heaven with Angels to remain , The Lord above gave her release , from her Afflictions , Grief and Pain . Let People mind her dying words , if in Heaven they would live , Her Life and Death so much affords , and Heavenly comfort now does give . O Lord , give us all Grace , that we may live to him and die to since , Our Life and Death shall happy be , though in a wicked world we've been . London , Printed by E. C. for F. Coals . T. Vere . and J. Wright . 