b The Greensickness grief : Or , The Sailors new coming to his dearest Sweating , Showing what joy they receiv'd at their meeting . MY only dear , for whose sweet sake , I now am home return'd ; Cheer up thy self , and weep no more , thou look'st as thou hadst mourn'd : My going was , Sweetheart alas , To prove thy constant will . And thou my Love , Do constant prove , Therefore I'll love thee still . When I on Neptunes surly waves was tossed too and from , Then I remembered thee my love , which did increase my woe ; That I should go , To hazard so , My love and life to spill . But now I am here , My only Dear , I will stay with thee still . Leander like I would have sworn a Hellespont for thee : Now like Ulisses I will prove , unto his Penelopee . Before I part , From thee sweetheart , Death with his Dart shall kill , And steal my breath , For until death , Thou hast my heart at will . When sable night , the time of sleep , to each eye did appear , Thy absence then struck me so deep , the weight I scarce could bear , And to unbind , My troubled mind , I come Love with good will , To live with thee , Is best for me ; And I will love the still . The cause that might induce me too't was as I then did hear . That thou all comfort did refuse , cause thou hadst lost thy Dear : But now I find , Thee true and kind , To thee I will be still The same for aye , At each assay , I'll keep thee from all ill . Sweet Mate now let us joyfully go unto Church with speed , If thou'lt Leander prove my Love , Hero I'll be to thee ; I do rejoice , To see my choice , Contrary bent to ill ; Sith it is so , Come let us go , Our Marriage to fulfil . FINIS . London , Printed by E.C. for F. Coals . T. Vere . and J. Wright . b The Greensickness grief : Or , The Sailors new coming to his dearest Sweating , Showing what joy they receiv'd at their meeting . MY only dear , for whose sweet sake , I now am home return'd ; Cheer up thy self , and weep no more , thou look'st as thou hadst mourn'd : My going was , Sweetheart alas , To prove thy constant will . And thou my Love , Do constant prove , Therefore I'll love thee still . When I on Neptunes surly waves was tossed too and from , Then I remembered thee my love , which did increase my woe ; That I should go , To hazard so , My love and life to spill . But now I am here , My only Dear , I will stay with thee still . Leander like I would have sworn a Hellespont for thee : Now like Ulisses I will prove , unto his Penelopee . Before I part , From thee sweetheart , Death with his Dart shall kill , And steal my breath , For until death , Thou hast my heart at will . When sable night , the time of sleep , to each eye did appear , Thy absence then struck me so deep , the weight I scarce could bear , And to unbind , My troubled mind , I come Love with good will , To live with thee , Is best for me ; And I will love the still . The cause that might induce me too't was as I then did hear . That thou all comfort did refuse , cause thou hadst lost thy Dear : But now I find , Thee true and kind , To thee I will be still The same for aye , At each assay , I'll keep thee from all ill . Sweet Mate now let us joyfully go unto Church with speed , If thou'lt Leander prove my Love , Hero I'll be to thee ; I do rejoice , To see my choice , Contrary bent to ill ; Sith it is so , Come let us go , Our Marriage to fulfil . FINIS . London , Printed by E.C. for F. Coals . T. Vere . and J. Wright . a A godly new Ballad , Entitled , A dozen of Points . A dozen of Points you may here read , Whereon each Christians soul may feed . THe gift is small , a dozen of points , Wherewith I'de wish you knit your joints , Keep well the same and credit me . Thy life most pure and just shall be . The first Point's this I wish you keep , Is that at night before you sleep : Still see you ask God forgiveness Of all your sins and wickedness . The second Point is this I say , When thou dost see the cheerful day , Arise and praise the God of might That hath defended thee all night . The third is this that thou wouldst require , And on thy bent knees desire , The God of heaven to be thy stay , For to preserve thee night and day . The fourth does bid thee to beware , And to avoid the subtle snare , For Satan with his crafty power Does seek men's souls for to devour . The fifth good counsel does thee give , And warn thee well while thou dost live , To keep thy conscience clear and pure Then God will bless thee to be sure . The sixth of these my Points do will That thou devise no subtle skill , Whereby to work thy Neighbours woe , Take heed I say and do not so . The seventh says , defraud no man , But deal as justly as you can ; The Widow and the Fatherless defend So God will bless thee to the end . The eighth does bid thee more or less Still to beware of drunkenness ; For drunkenness is abhor'd of God On whom he lays his heavy rod . The ninth says , Fornication fly , Those wicked Harlots will make thee die : Thy body they'l consume I say , And bring thy soul unto decay . The tenth does say , do not forswear , False witness againts no man bear : Let no affection sway thy mind The eye of Justice for to blind . The eleventh enjoins thee not to desire Thy Neighbours goods for to require , But the ten Commandments observe , So shalt thou stand and never swerve . The twelfth says , fear the God of might , And truly serve him day and nigh Obey the King as 'tis thy part To thy Country bear a faithful heart . See these my Points thou dost possess , Even when thou thy self dost res Keep well each one in his degree , And knit them fast and credit m [ e . ] a A godly new Ballad , Entitled , A dozen of Points . A dozen of Points you may here read , Whereon each Christians soul may feed . THe gift is small , a dozen of points , Wherewith I'de wish you knit your joints , Keep well the same and credit me . Thy life most pure and just shall be . The first Point's this I wish you keep , Is that at night before you sleep : Still see you ask God forgiveness Of all your sins and wickedness . The second Point is this I say , When thou dost see the cheerful day , Arise and praise the God of might That hath defended thee all night . The third is this that thou wouldst require , And on thy bent knees desire , The God of heaven to be thy stay , For to preserve thee night and day . The fourth does bid thee to beware , And to avoid the subtle snare , For Satan with his crafty power Does seek men's souls for to devour . The fifth good counsel does thee give , And warn thee well while thou dost live , To keep thy conscience clear and pure Then God will bless thee to be sure . The sixth of these my Points do will That thou devise no subtle skill , Whereby to work thy Neighbours woe , Take heed I say and do not so . The seventh says , defraud no man , But deal as justly as you can ; The Widow and the Fatherless defend So God will bless thee to the end . The eighth does bid thee more or less Still to beware of drunkenness ; For drunkenness is abhor'd of God On whom he lays his heavy rod . The ninth says , Fornication fly , Those wicked Harlots will make thee die : Thy body they'l consume I say , And bring thy soul unto decay . The tenth does say , do not forswear , False witness againts no man bear : Let no affection sway thy mind The eye of Justice for to blind . The eleventh enjoins thee not to desire Thy Neighbours goods for to require , But the ten Commandments observe , So shalt thou stand and never swerve . The twelfth says , fear the God of might , And truly serve him day and nigh Obey the King as 'tis thy part To thy Country bear a faithful heart . See these my Points thou dost possess , Even when thou thy self dost res Keep well each one in his degree , And knit them fast and credit m [ e . ] 