A good warning for all Maidens , By the Example of Gods judgement shew'd upon one Jermans wife of Clifton in the County of Nottingham , who lying in childbed was born away and never herd of after . The Tune is , The Ladies fallen . YOu dainty dams so finely fram'd of beauty's chiefest mould , And you that trip it up and down like Lambs in Cupids fold . Here is a lesson to be learn'd , a lesson in my mind , For such as will prove false in love , and bear a faithless mind . Not far from Nottingham of late , in Clifton as I hear , There dwelled a fair and comely Dame of beauty without peer . Her cheeks were like the crimson Rose , yet as you may perceive , The fairest face the falsest heart , and soonest will deceive . This gallant Damsel was belov'd of many in that place , And many sought in marriage bed , her body to embrace . At last a proper handsome youth , young Bateman call'd by name , In hope to make a married wife unto this Maiden came . Such love and liking soon he foum , that he from all the rest , Had stolen away this maidens heart , and she did love him best . Then plighted promise secretly , did pass between them two , That nothing could but death itself these True lovers knot undo . He broke a piece of Gold in twain ; one half to her he gave , The other as a pledge quoth he dear heart myself will have , If I do break my vow quoth she , while I remain alive , May never thing I take in hand be seen at all to thrive . This passed on for two months space , and than this Maid began To settle love liking and too upn another man . One Jermane who a widower was , her husband needs must be , Because he was of greater wealth and better in degree . Her vows and promise lately made to Bateman she vent'd , And in despite of him and his , she utterly defi'd . Well then quoth he if it be so that thou wilt me forsake , And like a false and forsworn wretch another husband take . Thou shall not live one quiet day , for surely I will have Thee either now alive or dead , when I am laid in grave . Thy faithless mind thou shalt repent , therefore be well assur'd , When for my sske thou hearest report , what torments I indur'd , BUt mark how Baeeman di'd for love , he finished up his life , The very day she married was , and made old Jermans wife . For with a strangling cord God wot , great moan was made therefore , He hang'd himself in desperate sort before the brides own door . Whereat such sorrow pierc'd her heart , and troubled soar her mind , That she could never after that one day of comfort find ; For wheresoever she did go , her fancy did surmise , Young Batemans pale and ghastly ghost appear'd before her eyes . When she in bed a nights did lie between her husbands arms , In hope thereby to sleep and rest in safety without harms . Great cries & grievous groans she herd , a voice that sometime said , Oh thou art she that I must have , and will not be deny'd . Tut she then being big with child , was for the infants sake Preserved the Spirits power , no vengeance could it take . The babe unborn did safely keep , as God appointed so ; His mother's body from the fiend , hat sought her overthrow . But being of her burden eas'd , and safely brought to bed , Her cares and griefs began anew , and further sorrow bred : And of her friends she did entreat , desiring them to stay , Out of my bed quoth she this night , I shall be born away . Here comes the Sirit of my love , with pale and ghastly face , Who till he bears me hence away , will not depart this place , Alive or dead I am his right , and he will surely have , In spite of me and all the world , what I by promise gave . O watch with me this night I pray , and see you do not sleep , No longer then you be awake , my body can you keep All promised to do their best , yet nothing could suffice . At middle of the night to keep sad slumber from their eyes . So being all full fast asleep , to them unknown which way , The child bed bed that woeful night from thence was born away , But to what place no creature knew , nor to this day can tell ; As strange a thing as ever yet in any age befell . You maids that do desire to love and would good husbands choose , To him that you have vow'd to love , by no means do refuse ; For God that hears all secret oaths , will dreadful vengeance take ; And such that of a wilful vow do slender reckoning make . Printed for F Coals , T. Vrre , and W Gilbetion . A good warning for all Maidens , By the Example of Gods judgement shew'd upon one Jermans wife of Clifton in the County of Nottingham , who lying in childbed was born away and never herd of after . The Tune is , The Ladies fallen . YOu dainty dams so finely fram'd of beauty's chiefest mould , And you that trip it up and down like Lambs in Cupids fold . Here is a lesson to be learn'd , a lesson in my mind , For such as will prove false in love , and bear a faithless mind . Not far from Nottingham of late , in Clifton as I hear , There dwelled a fair and comely Dame of beauty without peer . Her cheeks were like the crimson Rose , yet as you may perceive , The fairest face the falsest heart , and soonest will deceive . This gallant Damsel was belov'd of many in that place , And many sought in marriage bed , her body to embrace . At last a proper handsome youth , young Bateman call'd by name , In hope to make a married wife unto this Maiden came . Such love and liking soon he foum , that he from all the rest , Had stolen away this maidens heart , and she did love him best . Then plighted promise secretly , did pass between them two , That nothing could but death itself these True lovers knot undo . He broke a piece of Gold in twain ; one half to her he gave , The other as a pledge quoth he dear heart myself will have , If I do break my vow quoth she , while I remain alive , May never thing I take in hand be seen at all to thrive . This passed on for two months space , and than this Maid began To settle love liking and too upn another man . One Jermane who a widower was , her husband needs must be , Because he was of greater wealth and better in degree . Her vows and promise lately made to Bateman she vent'd , And in despite of him and his , she utterly defi'd . Well then quoth he if it be so that thou wilt me forsake , And like a false and forsworn wretch another husband take . Thou shall not live one quiet day , for surely I will have Thee either now alive or dead , when I am laid in grave . Thy faithless mind thou shalt repent , therefore be well assur'd , When for my sske thou hearest report , what torments I indur'd , BUt mark how Baeeman di'd for love , he finished up his life , The very day she married was , and made old Jermans wife . For with a strangling cord God wot , great moan was made therefore , He hang'd himself in desperate sort before the brides own door . Whereat such sorrow pierc'd her heart , and troubled soar her mind , That she could never after that one day of comfort find ; For wheresoever she did go , her fancy did surmise , Young Batemans pale and ghastly ghost appear'd before her eyes . When she in bed a nights did lie between her husbands arms , In hope thereby to sleep and rest in safety without harms . Great cries & grievous groans she herd , a voice that sometime said , Oh thou art she that I must have , and will not be deny'd . Tut she then being big with child , was for the infants sake Preserved the Spirits power , no vengeance could it take . The babe unborn did safely keep , as God appointed so ; His mother's body from the fiend , hat sought her overthrow . But being of her burden eas'd , and safely brought to bed , Her cares and griefs began anew , and further sorrow bred : And of her friends she did entreat , desiring them to stay , Out of my bed quoth she this night , I shall be born away . Here comes the Sirit of my love , with pale and ghastly face , Who till he bears me hence away , will not depart this place , Alive or dead I am his right , and he will surely have , In spite of me and all the world , what I by promise gave . O watch with me this night I pray , and see you do not sleep , No longer then you be awake , my body can you keep All promised to do their best , yet nothing could suffice . At middle of the night to keep sad slumber from their eyes . So being all full fast asleep , to them unknown which way , The child bed bed that woeful night from thence was born away , But to what place no creature knew , nor to this day can tell ; As strange a thing as ever yet in any age befell . You maids that do desire to love and would good husbands choose , To him that you have vow'd to love , by no means do refuse ; For God that hears all secret oaths , will dreadful vengeance take ; And such that of a wilful vow do slender reckoning make . Printed for F Coals , T. Vrre , and W Gilbetion . 