The Good Wives Forecast , OR , THE Kind and Loving Mother's Counsel to her Daughter after Marriage . My Daughter dear I pray give ear , this Lesson I have learn'd , I'll tell to you , you'l find it true , a penny sav'd , is earn'd . Tune of , Why are my Eyes , still flow ---- ing , etc This may be Printed , R.P. MY Daughter dear , now since you are become a Bride , Take these my Precepts for to be your guide ; Therefore attend , and listen well ; for they are these , First you must strive your Kind Husband to please ; The next is this , which you must understand , Still to provide all things at the left hand : For I must tell you , this Lesson I learn'd : A Penny well sav'd is as good as one earn'd . Your Husband he by Labour daily does provide , Both meat and Drink , likewise all things beside ; Therefore besure you don't abroad with Gossips come , For 'tis your duty to Keep your own home , E'ry thing needful always to repair , This must still be your industrious care , For by experience this Lesson I learn'd : A penny well sav'd , is as good as one earn'd . Some Wives will boast that they their Family's maintain , And therefore over their Husbands may Reign , Yet take no rule , dear Daughter , by such wives as these , But still be careful your husband to please ; What tho' you cannot get so much as they , If you will learn but to honour , obey This is the furthest you need be concern'd A Penny well sav'd is as good as one earn'd . Daughter , for those that has been brought up to a trade , When they are marry'd what use can be made Of that employ , when as they have a Family , To guide and govern as it ought to be , Then if that Calling , and work , it be done , All things beside that to Ruing must run : Therefore I think it may well be discern [ ' ] worser A penny well sav'd , is as good as one earn'd . Maids by their trades themselves too such a pass do bring . That they can neither brew , bake , wash , nor wring , Nor any work that's tending to good housewifry ; This among many too often I see ; Nay their young Children must pack forth to nurse , All is not god that is put in the Purse ; Therefore of old I this Lesson I've learn'd , A penny well sav'd , is as good as one earn'd . Yet there are men that take no thought or care at all , The comfort of their poor wives is but small , For they must slave , or else be forced to starve , But such ill husbands good wives don't deserve ; Altho' a woman indeed may contrive To help her husband in order to thrive , But he's no better I think then a Knave , That takes a woman to make her a slave . But you are blessed with such a real honest man , Who near expects you to do what you can ; For he is always like unto the painful be ; What he does earn , he brings safe home to thee ; When he returns from his Labour at night , To you in whom he has plac'd his delight ; This my dear daughter you know to be true , I wish all wives were as happy as you . To all your words , dear Mother , I have giv'n good heed , And do account it my Duty indeed , To prize them far more then the rich refined gold ; Then said her Mother , dear Daughter behold , Here is my blessing to you I will give , And be a friend to you as long as I live ; And when I die , all I have shall be thine , If you observe this good Council of mine . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate . The Good Wives Forecast , OR , THE Kind and Loving Mother's Counsel to her Daughter after Marriage . My Daughter dear I pray give ear , this Lesson I have learn'd , I'll tell to you , you'l find it true , a penny sav'd , is earn'd . Tune of , Why are my Eyes , still flow ---- ing , etc This may be Printed , R.P. MY Daughter dear , now since you are become a Bride , Take these my Precepts for to be your guide ; Therefore attend , and listen well ; for they are these , First you must strive your Kind Husband to please ; The next is this , which you must understand , Still to provide all things at the left hand : For I must tell you , this Lesson I learn'd : A Penny well sav'd is as good as one earn'd . Your Husband he by Labour daily does provide , Both meat and Drink , likewise all things beside ; Therefore besure you don't abroad with Gossips come , For 'tis your duty to Keep your own home , E'ry thing needful always to repair , This must still be your industrious care , For by experience this Lesson I learn'd : A penny well sav'd , is as good as one earn'd . Some Wives will boast that they their Family's maintain , And therefore over their Husbands may Reign , Yet take no rule , dear Daughter , by such wives as these , But still be careful your husband to please ; What tho' you cannot get so much as they , If you will learn but to honour , obey This is the furthest you need be concern'd A Penny well sav'd is as good as one earn'd . Daughter , for those that has been brought up to a trade , When they are marry'd what use can be made Of that employ , when as they have a Family , To guide and govern as it ought to be , Then if that Calling , and work , it be done , All things beside that to Ruing must run : Therefore I think it may well be discern [ ' ] worser A penny well sav'd , is as good as one earn'd . Maids by their trades themselves too such a pass do bring . That they can neither brew , bake , wash , nor wring , Nor any work that's tending to good housewifry ; This among many too often I see ; Nay their young Children must pack forth to nurse , All is not god that is put in the Purse ; Therefore of old I this Lesson I've learn'd , A penny well sav'd , is as good as one earn'd . Yet there are men that take no thought or care at all , The comfort of their poor wives is but small , For they must slave , or else be forced to starve , But such ill husbands good wives don't deserve ; Altho' a woman indeed may contrive To help her husband in order to thrive , But he's no better I think then a Knave , That takes a woman to make her a slave . But you are blessed with such a real honest man , Who near expects you to do what you can ; For he is always like unto the painful be ; What he does earn , he brings safe home to thee ; When he returns from his Labour at night , To you in whom he has plac'd his delight ; This my dear daughter you know to be true , I wish all wives were as happy as you . To all your words , dear Mother , I have giv'n good heed , And do account it my Duty indeed , To prize them far more then the rich refined gold ; Then said her Mother , dear Daughter behold , Here is my blessing to you I will give , And be a friend to you as long as I live ; And when I die , all I have shall be thine , If you observe this good Council of mine . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate . 