Hells Masterpiece discovered : Or Joy and Sorrow mixed together . Being a brief and true Relation of the Damnable Plot , of those invetrate Enemies of God , and the King ; who intended to a mixed our Joy for the Nativity of Christ , with the blood of the King , and his faithful Subject's . Being a fit Carrall for Royalist to sing , That always fear God , and honour the King . To the Tune of , Summer time . YOu Loyal Subject's all give ear , unto my sad and joyful Song ; A true Relation you shall hear , For unto you it does belong . The Devil and his Instruments , hath long been Plotting night and day , For to destroy both King and Church , and now they thought they found the way , They would cut down both Root & Branch and all the Shrubs that does belong , About our Royal Garden plot , as Fences to our Ceader strong . The chief Ringleader of this Plot , is Mazarine as I do understand , The chiefest Enemy to our King , when bloody Cromwell rul'd this Land. These Saint like Devils would bring in the French or who they else could find , To ruin King and Kingdom too , for to revenge their bloody mind . For in this Plot they did intend , by fire and Sword to make their way , Throughout the City to the Court , and all they met for to destroy . They would a saved the King they say , but make him yield unto their will , To Sign or Grant what they desired , or else be sure they would him kill . The Queen , the Duke , and Proginie , and General Monk should all a died , With most of the Nobility , and all the Royal part beside . Those that they Caveliers did call , but little mercy should have found , And I believe that for their King , their herts with swords both falls to ground . I hope theres more [ r ] e that now wears swords for to defend his Majesty , If ever he should in danger be , For quarter now they scorn to cry . The number in this Devilish Plot , it is not known , nor cannot be , But seventeen thousand as this thought , should first begin this Masacree . No doubt but desperate they'd been , if God had let them in't alone , And thus those Saints , they call themselts by blood would make the Land their own The second Part , to the same Tune . This Devilish Plot was carried on , this thought in all the Kingdom round , So secret are they , now 'tis know not may of them pet are found . A Porter at first discovered all , which once was Servant unto White , Which White was Major once of foot at Portsmouth nare the [ ? ] sle of Wight . Ho did belong to Morley too , that kept the Tower a little while , What side they're for ther's none does know for every five they did beguile . All the Grand Rebels of the Land , which many thought was o're in France , Was here in London as this thought , this Hellish Plot for advance . There's Ludlow , Whaley , and Baxster too , with Okey & Hewson that single ey'd thief With the Devil of the west cal'd Disbrow , and Overton these were the chiefs . But Overton and Disborow's tooks , and bath are fast enough in hold ; Squire Dun never fears to charge them all for all they think themselves so bold . There's thousands is this Land I fear to whom the King does mercy show ; They are resolved for to be hang'd , whither his Grace he will or no . Examples you see every day , on most the Gates here in the City , Now you have hang'd your Master's up , Don vows on you hee'l take no pity . And if you'r troubled still ( he says ) with the greedy worm still in your brains , Hee'l case you on't in half and hour , or else have nothing for his pains . But of your Friend I do desire You'd pray to God to guide your hearts . To fear the Lord and love your King , and then you'l act true Subject's parts . If God had no reveal'd this Plot , a bloody Christmass had besell . Then civilly pray drink on pot , to one we oft for to love well . The Porter this , who under God , preserv'd the King , land all his Peers . Be sure hee'l never be forgotten . by honest Royal Caveliers . C.H. A List of the Trators Names . Robert Overton formerly called Major General Overton , Francis Elstone , John Disborow formerly Colonel , John Hargrass , El. Hunt , Gabriel Hopkins , Wil. Kirk , Fran. Booth , C. Bagster , C. Babinton , W. Wright , Anthony Barnshaw , Thomas Millard , Tobias Hill , Rich Dilling , Peter Thompson , Tho. Simcock , Frederick Barnwell , Ric. Danie , Ric. Shoopy , , John Lucan , W. Howard , Tho. Nichols , Henry Limrick , Francis Gavill . Hiary , Simboll , James Eglefield , Jeffery . Hookins , Sam. Jepp , Isaac Benton , Rich Young , John Steward , John Ward , Tho. Butler . , Rich Clever , George Thomas , James Sanford , Ro. Parker , Rich. Burt , John Decks , Owen Davis . London , Printed for Francis G [ rove ] dwelling on S [ ? ] hill . Hells Masterpiece discovered : Or Joy and Sorrow mixed together . Being a brief and true Relation of the Damnable Plot , of those invetrate Enemies of God , and the King ; who intended to a mixed our Joy for the Nativity of Christ , with the blood of the King , and his faithful Subject's . Being a fit Carrall for Royalist to sing , That always fear God , and honour the King . To the Tune of , Summer time . YOu Loyal Subject's all give ear , unto my sad and joyful Song ; A true Relation you shall hear , For unto you it does belong . The Devil and his Instruments , hath long been Plotting night and day , For to destroy both King and Church , and now they thought they found the way , They would cut down both Root & Branch and all the Shrubs that does belong , About our Royal Garden plot , as Fences to our Ceader strong . The chief Ringleader of this Plot , is Mazarine as I do understand , The chiefest Enemy to our King , when bloody Cromwell rul'd this Land. These Saint like Devils would bring in the French or who they else could find , To ruin King and Kingdom too , for to revenge their bloody mind . For in this Plot they did intend , by fire and Sword to make their way , Throughout the City to the Court , and all they met for to destroy . They would a saved the King they say , but make him yield unto their will , To Sign or Grant what they desired , or else be sure they would him kill . The Queen , the Duke , and Proginie , and General Monk should all a died , With most of the Nobility , and all the Royal part beside . Those that they Caveliers did call , but little mercy should have found , And I believe that for their King , their herts with swords both falls to ground . I hope theres more [ r ] e that now wears swords for to defend his Majesty , If ever he should in danger be , For quarter now they scorn to cry . The number in this Devilish Plot , it is not known , nor cannot be , But seventeen thousand as this thought , should first begin this Masacree . No doubt but desperate they'd been , if God had let them in't alone , And thus those Saints , they call themselts by blood would make the Land their own The second Part , to the same Tune . This Devilish Plot was carried on , this thought in all the Kingdom round , So secret are they , now 'tis know not may of them pet are found . A Porter at first discovered all , which once was Servant unto White , Which White was Major once of foot at Portsmouth nare the [ ? ] sle of Wight . Ho did belong to Morley too , that kept the Tower a little while , What side they're for ther's none does know for every five they did beguile . All the Grand Rebels of the Land , which many thought was o're in France , Was here in London as this thought , this Hellish Plot for advance . There's Ludlow , Whaley , and Baxster too , with Okey & Hewson that single ey'd thief With the Devil of the west cal'd Disbrow , and Overton these were the chiefs . But Overton and Disborow's tooks , and bath are fast enough in hold ; Squire Dun never fears to charge them all for all they think themselves so bold . There's thousands is this Land I fear to whom the King does mercy show ; They are resolved for to be hang'd , whither his Grace he will or no . Examples you see every day , on most the Gates here in the City , Now you have hang'd your Master's up , Don vows on you hee'l take no pity . And if you'r troubled still ( he says ) with the greedy worm still in your brains , Hee'l case you on't in half and hour , or else have nothing for his pains . But of your Friend I do desire You'd pray to God to guide your hearts . To fear the Lord and love your King , and then you'l act true Subject's parts . If God had no reveal'd this Plot , a bloody Christmass had besell . Then civilly pray drink on pot , to one we oft for to love well . The Porter this , who under God , preserv'd the King , land all his Peers . Be sure hee'l never be forgotten . by honest Royal Caveliers . C.H. A List of the Trators Names . Robert Overton formerly called Major General Overton , Francis Elstone , John Disborow formerly Colonel , John Hargrass , El. Hunt , Gabriel Hopkins , Wil. Kirk , Fran. Booth , C. Bagster , C. Babinton , W. Wright , Anthony Barnshaw , Thomas Millard , Tobias Hill , Rich Dilling , Peter Thompson , Tho. Simcock , Frederick Barnwell , Ric. Danie , Ric. Shoopy , , John Lucan , W. Howard , Tho. Nichols , Henry Limrick , Francis Gavill . Hiary , Simboll , James Eglefield , Jeffery . Hookins , Sam. Jepp , Isaac Benton , Rich Young , John Steward , John Ward , Tho. Butler . , Rich Clever , George Thomas , James Sanford , Ro. Parker , Rich. Burt , John Decks , Owen Davis . London , Printed for Francis G [ rove ] dwelling on S [ ? ] hill . Hells Masterpiece discovered : Or Joy and Sorrow mixed together . Being a brief and true Relation of the Damnable Plot , of those invetrate Enemies of God , and the King ; who intended to a mixed our Joy for the Nativity of Christ , with the blood of the King , and his faithful Subject's . Being a fit Carrall for Royalist to sing , That always fear God , and honour the King . To the Tune of , Summer time . YOu Loyal Subject's all give ear , unto my sad and joyful Song ; A true Relation you shall hear , For unto you it does belong . The Devil and his Instruments , hath long been Plotting night and day , For to destroy both King and Church , and now they thought they found the way , They would cut down both Root & Branch and all the Shrubs that does belong , About our Royal Garden plot , as Fences to our Ceader strong . The chief Ringleader of this Plot , is Mazarine as I do understand , The chiefest Enemy to our King , when bloody Cromwell rul'd this Land. These Saint like Devils would bring in the French or who they else could find , To ruin King and Kingdom too , for to revenge their bloody mind . For in this Plot they did intend , by fire and Sword to make their way , Throughout the City to the Court , and all they met for to destroy . They would a saved the King they say , but make him yield unto their will , To Sign or Grant what they desired , or else be sure they would him kill . The Queen , the Duke , and Proginie , and General Monk should all a died , With most of the Nobility , and all the Royal part beside . Those that they Caveliers did call , but little mercy should have found , And I believe that for their King , their herts with swords both falls to ground . I hope theres more [ r ] e that now wears swords for to defend his Majesty , If ever he should in danger be , For quarter now they scorn to cry . The number in this Devilish Plot , it is not known , nor cannot be , But seventeen thousand as this thought , should first begin this Masacree . No doubt but desperate they'd been , if God had let them in't alone , And thus those Saints , they call themselts by blood would make the Land their own The second Part , to the same Tune . This Devilish Plot was carried on , this thought in all the Kingdom round , So secret are they , now 'tis know not may of them pet are found . A Porter at first discovered all , which once was Servant unto White , Which White was Major once of foot at Portsmouth nare the Isle of Wight . Ho did belong to Morley too , that kept the Tower a little while , What side they're for ther's none does know for every five they did beguile . All the Grand Rebels of the Land , which many thought was o're in France , Was here in London as this thought , this Hellish Plot for advance . There's Ludlow , Whaley , and Baxster too , with Okey & Hewson that single ey'd thief With the Devil of the west cal'd Disbrow , and Overton these were the chiefs . But Overton and Disborow's tooks , and bath are fast enough in hold ; Squire Dun never fears to charge them all for all they think themselves so bold . There's thousands is this Land I fear to whom the King does mercy show ; They are resolved for to be hang'd , whither his Grace he will or no . Examples you see every day , on most the Gates here in the City , Now you have hang'd your Master's up , Don vows on you hee'l take no pity . And if you'r troubled still ( he says ) with the greedy worm still in your brains , Hee'l case you on't in half and hour , or else have nothing for his pains . But of your Friend I do desire You'd pray to God to guide your hearts . To fear the Lord and love your King , and then you'l act true Subject's parts . If God had no reveal'd this Plot , a bloody Christmass had besell . Then civilly pray drink on pot , to one we oft for to love well . The Porter this , who under God , preserv'd the King , land all his Peers . Be sure hee'l never be forgotten . by honest Royal Caveliers . C.H. A List of the Trators Names . Robert Overton formerly called Major General Overton , Francis Elstone , John Disborow formerly Colonel , John Hargrass , El. Hunt , Gabriel Hopkins , Wil. Kirk , Fran. Booth , C. Bag - ster , C. Babinton , W. Wright , Anthony Barnshaw , Thomas Millard , Tobias Hill , Rich Dilling , Peter Thompson , Tho. Simcock , Frederick Barnwell , Ric. Danie , Ric. Shoopy , John Lucan , W. Howard , Tho. Nichols , Henry Limrick , Francis Gavill . Henry Simboll , James Eglefield , Jeffery . Hookins , Sam. Jepp , Isaac Benton , Rich. Young , John Steward , John Ward , Tho. Butler , Rich Clever , George Thomas , James Sanford , Ro. Parker , Rich. Burt , John Decks , Owen Davis . London , Printed for Francis Grove dwelling on Snowhill . Hells Masterpiece discovered : Or Joy and Sorrow mixed together . Being a brief and true Relation of the Damnable Plot , of those invetrate Enemies of God , and the King ; who intended to a mixed our Joy for the Nativity of Christ , with the blood of the King , and his faithful Subject's . Being a fit Carrall for Royalist to sing , That always fear God , and honour the King . To the Tune of , Summer time . YOu Loyal Subject's all give ear , unto my sad and joyful Song ; A true Relation you shall hear , For unto you it does belong . The Devil and his Instruments , hath long been Plotting night and day , For to destroy both King and Church , and now they thought they found the way , They would cut down both Root & Branch and all the Shrubs that does belong , About our Royal Garden plot , as Fences to our Ceader strong . The chief Ringleader of this Plot , is Mazarine as I do understand , The chiefest Enemy to our King , when bloody Cromwell rul'd this Land. These Saint like Devils would bring in the French or who they else could find , To ruin King and Kingdom too , for to revenge their bloody mind . For in this Plot they did intend , by fire and Sword to make their way , Throughout the City to the Court , and all they met for to destroy . They would a saved the King they say , but make him yield unto their will , To Sign or Grant what they desired , or else be sure they would him kill . The Queen , the Duke , and Proginie , and General Monk should all a died , With most of the Nobility , and all the Royal part beside . Those that they Caveliers did call , but little mercy should have found , And I believe that for their King , their herts with swords both falls to ground . I hope theres more [ r ] e that now wears swords for to defend his Majesty , If ever he should in danger be , For quarter now they scorn to cry . The number in this Devilish Plot , it is not known , nor cannot be , But seventeen thousand as this thought , should first begin this Masacree . No doubt but desperate they'd been , if God had let them in't alone , And thus those Saints , they call themselts by blood would make the Land their own The second Part , to the same Tune . This Devilish Plot was carried on , this thought in all the Kingdom round , So secret are they , now 'tis know not may of them pet are found . A Porter at first discovered all , which once was Servant unto White , Which White was Major once of foot at Portsmouth nare the Isle of Wight . Ho did belong to Morley too , that kept the Tower a little while , What side they're for ther's none does know for every five they did beguile . All the Grand Rebels of the Land , which many thought was o're in France , Was here in London as this thought , this Hellish Plot for advance . There's Ludlow , Whaley , and Baxster too , with Okey & Hewson that single ey'd thief With the Devil of the west cal'd Disbrow , and Overton these were the chiefs . But Overton and Disborow's tooks , and bath are fast enough in hold ; Squire Dun never fears to charge them all for all they think themselves so bold . There's thousands is this Land I fear to whom the King does mercy show ; They are resolved for to be hang'd , whither his Grace he will or no . Examples you see every day , on most the Gates here in the City , Now you have hang'd your Master's up , Don vows on you hee'l take no pity . And if you'r troubled still ( he says ) with the greedy worm still in your brains , Hee'l case you on't in half and hour , or else have nothing for his pains . But of your Friend I do desire You'd pray to God to guide your hearts . To fear the Lord and love your King , and then you'l act true Subject's parts . If God had no reveal'd this Plot , a bloody Christmass had besell . Then civilly pray drink on pot , to one we oft for to love well . The Porter this , who under God , preserv'd the King , land all his Peers . Be sure hee'l never be forgotten . by honest Royal Caveliers . C.H. A List of the Trators Names . Robert Overton formerly called Major General Overton , Francis Elstone , John Disborow formerly Colonel , John Hargrass , El. Hunt , Gabriel Hopkins , Wil. Kirk , Fran. Booth , C. Bag - ster , C. Babinton , W. Wright , Anthony Barnshaw , Thomas Millard , Tobias Hill , Rich Dilling , Peter Thompson , Tho. Simcock , Frederick Barnwell , Ric. Danie , Ric. Shoopy , John Lucan , W. Howard , Tho. Nichols , Henry Limrick , Francis Gavill . Henry Simboll , James Eglefield , Jeffery . Hookins , Sam. Jepp , Isaac Benton , Rich. Young , John Steward , John Ward , Tho. Butler , Rich Clever , George Thomas , James Sanford , Ro. Parker , Rich. Burt , John Decks , Owen Davis . London , Printed for Francis Grove dwelling on Snowhill . 