The heavy Heart , and a light Purse . Being the good fellows vindication to all his fellow Companions , wishing them all to have a care , and keep out of the Alewives snare , for when they are out you may get in , but when you are in , you can't get out , this by experience he hath found true , but now he bids them all adieu . This Song it was composed and made By a Loyal heart that is called John Wade . Tune of , My Lord Monks March to London , or , Now we have our freedom , etc FUll fifty Winter's have I seen , yet nine and forty too many , Except that I had better been , and not spent my means so vainly : For I did roar and spend my store , no company could shun me , But now I find , and bear in mind , my kind heart hath undone me . Once I had means , and lived well , my neighbours all they know it , But by the ringing of the Alewives bell , I quickly did forgo it . My Land I sold for silver and gold , they then so easily wone me , Which makes me say , as well I may [ my kind heart hath undone me . ] My Wife she would me entreat for to be more wiser ; Then I told her with anger great , it's rare to be a Miser , Hang it ( quoth I ) let money fly , sorrow shall ne'r o'rerun me ; But now I see , I was so free , that my kind heart hath undone me . Before i'd give one penny to my wife , i'd spend two with my fellows ; My children must fast , which bred much strife , while I sat in the Alehouse ; While I drank sack , they small beer did lack , no grief could overrun me , They lived in want , while I did rant [ my kind heart hath undone me . ] SO long as I had store of coin , i'de never leave my ranting , While I did with good fellows join , my wife she sat a wanting . Though they did cry , yet what car'd I , sorrow should ne'r o'rerun me , Let who wou'd call , idem pay for all , till my kind heart had undone me . Here would I trust , there would I lend , and spend my money vainly , For strong liquour I oft would send , now I must tell you plainly . My children they would to me pray , Good Father let company shun you , Yet idem not spare , nor for them care , till my kind heart had undone me . I had good House , I had good Land , and lived in good behaviour , But I spent it all at their command now jeers me for my labour . My Hostis she woald wait on me , my Host then easily wone me , Cause they did see that I was free till my kind heart had undone me . Run Tap , run Tapster , I would cry , hang sorrow let's be merry , My gold and silver I let fly in both White-wine and Sherry , For my own part , I ne'r will start , no company will shun me , Good fellows all I in wou'd call till my kind heart had undone me . My Hostis she would still provide for me Larks , Chickens and Cony ; To bed at night she would me guide , but 'twas for the sake of my money , She would mehap , my head would cap , thus by their tricks they wone me , Thus with a pin they drew me in , till my kind heart had undone me . My Hostis she was very wise , if that my head grew addle , I' th' morn as saon as I could rise she would [ provide me a Caudel ] Then comes my Host strait with a Toast , saying boy i'le not shun thee , Thus by their wile , they me beguile , till my kind heart hath undone me . But when that I no money had , to call I could not leave it , To be rid of me then they was glad , at last they did perceive it . Then where I spent and money lent , they strait began to shun me , My Hostis Brown began to frown , when my kind heart hath undone me . I sent my child thought to prevail , a shilling for to borrow , Or else to trust me two quarts of Ale , lo thus began my sorrow , She'd send me none , bid her be gone , thus grief did overrun me , Full fourty pound with her I drown'd , till my kind heart hath undone me . So by that means I strait grew wise , and quickly left my ranting , You'l say 'twas time to be precise , when everything was wanting . For I scarce had to buy me bred , grief did so overrun me , They did not care though poor I were when my kind heart had undone me . Now I wish good fellows every one in time for to be ruled , Let Alewifes sing a mournful Song , and never by them be fooled . You that do spend in time amend , before grief overrun you , Those that do rant in time may wane , for my kind heart hath undone me . If I had but half that I spent in vain , methinks I should live bravely , For I lived once and paid no rend , though now I am bound to slavery , For I am poor , turn [ ' ] worser out of door , grief does so overrun me , So farewell all , both great and small , [ for my kind heart hath undone me . ] The heavy Heart , and a light Purse . Being the good fellows vindication to all his fellow Companions , wishing them all to have a care , and keep out of the Alewives snare , for when they are out you may get in , but when you are in , you can't get out , this by experience he hath found true , but now he bids them all adieu . This Song it was composed and made By a Loyal heart that is called John Wade . Tune of , My Lord Monks March to London , or , Now we have our freedom , etc FUll fifty Winter's have I seen , yet nine and forty too many , Except that I had better been , and not spent my means so vainly : For I did roar and spend my store , no company could shun me , But now I find , and bear in mind , my kind heart hath undone me . Once I had means , and lived well , my neighbours all they know it , But by the ringing of the Alewives bell , I quickly did forgo it . My Land I sold for silver and gold , they then so easily wone me , Which makes me say , as well I may [ my kind heart hath undone me . ] My Wife she would me entreat for to be more wiser ; Then I told her with anger great , it's rare to be a Miser , Hang it ( quoth I ) let money fly , sorrow shall ne'r o'rerun me ; But now I see , I was so free , that my kind heart hath undone me . Before i'd give one penny to my wife , i'd spend two with my fellows ; My children must fast , which bred much strife , while I sat in the Alehouse ; While I drank sack , they small beer did lack , no grief could overrun me , They lived in want , while I did rant [ my kind heart hath undone me . ] SO long as I had store of coin , i'de never leave my ranting , While I did with good fellows join , my wife she sat a wanting . Though they did cry , yet what car'd I , sorrow should ne'r o'rerun me , Let who wou'd call , idem pay for all , till my kind heart had undone me . Here would I trust , there would I lend , and spend my money vainly , For strong liquour I oft would send , now I must tell you plainly . My children they would to me pray , Good Father let company shun you , Yet idem not spare , nor for them care , till my kind heart had undone me . I had good House , I had good Land , and lived in good behaviour , But I spent it all at their command now jeers me for my labour . My Hostis she woald wait on me , my Host then easily wone me , Cause they did see that I was free till my kind heart had undone me . Run Tap , run Tapster , I would cry , hang sorrow let's be merry , My gold and silver I let fly in both White-wine and Sherry , For my own part , I ne'r will start , no company will shun me , Good fellows all I in wou'd call till my kind heart had undone me . My Hostis she would still provide for me Larks , Chickens and Cony ; To bed at night she would me guide , but 'twas for the sake of my money , She would mehap , my head would cap , thus by their tricks they wone me , Thus with a pin they drew me in , till my kind heart had undone me . My Hostis she was very wise , if that my head grew addle , I' th' morn as saon as I could rise she would [ provide me a Caudel ] Then comes my Host strait with a Toast , saying boy i'le not shun thee , Thus by their wile , they me beguile , till my kind heart hath undone me . But when that I no money had , to call I could not leave it , To be rid of me then they was glad , at last they did perceive it . Then where I spent and money lent , they strait began to shun me , My Hostis Brown began to frown , when my kind heart hath undone me . I sent my child thought to prevail , a shilling for to borrow , Or else to trust me two quarts of Ale , lo thus began my sorrow , She'd send me none , bid her be gone , thus grief did overrun me , Full fourty pound with her I drown'd , till my kind heart hath undone me . So by that means I strait grew wise , and quickly left my ranting , You'l say 'twas time to be precise , when everything was wanting . For I scarce had to buy me bred , grief did so overrun me , They did not care though poor I were when my kind heart had undone me . Now I wish good fellows every one in time for to be ruled , Let Alewifes sing a mournful Song , and never by them be fooled . You that do spend in time amend , before grief overrun you , Those that do rant in time may wane , for my kind heart hath undone me . If I had but half that I spent in vain , methinks I should live bravely , For I lived once and paid no rend , though now I am bound to slavery , For I am poor , turn [ ' ] worser out of door , grief does so overrun me , So farewell all , both great and small , [ for my kind heart hath undone me . ] 