Holland turn'd to Tinder , OR , ENGLANDS Third Great Royal VICTORY . Being and exact Narrative brought by Captain Talbot Commander of the Elizabeth a fourth rate Frigate of the Blue Squadron , who on wednesday night came into Harwitch , and sent and Express to the KING at White - hall , of all that had passed betwixt both the [ f ] leets , before and in the Figh Which news hath been continued since by other persons from aboard the Royal Charles , who give account of a total Rout given to the Dutch , and a great Victory obtained against them , insomuch that they are beaten and block'd in their own Harbors : All this was performed on Wednesday and Thursday 25. and 26. of July , 1666. The Tune is , Packingtons pound . THe weather is clear , which was late over cast & our long expectation's are answer'd at last , With News from the Navy , which I shall impart Enough to rejoice every English-mans heart , That's honest and true , ( And is not a Jew ) but would give to God and to Cesar his Endue . This will be a joyful and Royal Relation To such as love God , the King , and the Nation : those Dutch Demigorgons , Gods power convinces & makes them all Servant , that aim'd to be Princes . On Wednesday last , the twenty fift day of July , Came in this Narration which I'll tell you truly , From brave Cap. Talbot , a man of stout carriage That then brought a part of this News into Harwich , Both Ruin and Rage , ( In brave Equipage ) Last wednesday at noon both thee fleets did engage The winds were our friends , & did fill out our sails With very fresh Northerly brave topsail gales ; We din'd with the Hogens upon their own Coast , You might a bad Dutch-men there boiled or roast . At first both the Navies did fight in a Line , Three hours with much fury & force ( but in fine ) The Enemies Fleet into three Squadrons flew , And Sir Jeremie Smith ( Admiral of the Blue ) By lot was to face , Pursue and to Chase out the Zelanders Squadron , thee strongest that was They fought it out furiously , all the day after , And fiercely incounter'd , like wildfire & water , A Frigate of ours called the Resolution , Was burned by the Dutch in this depth of confusion . The white and read squadrons did ply thee two other So fast that they almost were choak'd with thee smother They tugg'd very hard who should stand it out longest , Our blue was thee weakest , the Zealand the strongest And yet they fight 'Till so late at night , that powder and darkness depriv'd them of sighed The two Hollan [ worser ] squadrons both turn'd tail & fled [ , ] Pursued by the squadrons of our White and Read , Upon thursday morning betwixt nine and ten , The Zealand's were crippled and hopp'd home again . The second Part , to the same Tune . TO aid thee blue squadron a thousand stout men Were sent ( in five frigates ) by sir William Pen , And Talbot does telLus ere he did retire , On wednesday night he saw six Dutch ships on fire , Two hundred almost Of our men were lost , such victories seldom are gain'd without cost , The Zealanders Admiral some think is gone Unto his last home , wh [ e ] n his flag was shot down , 'Tis highly presum'd by the best knowing men , They never will be able to fight us again . The prestmen ( well mingl'd with stout vounteers [ ) ] Did drink away dolour and fight away fears : Our small shot did stand to't with valiant desire , Their Guns spit & sparkl'd like bay-leaves in fire Our Canons did roar They sunk and they tore thousands that herd them will never hear them more . It is better far in a good cause to die , Then with a bad conscience to live great & high : And in acts of honour there's no better thing , Then die a true Martyr for God and the King . Our white and read squadrons Du Ruiter engag'd Five hours , till at last his fierce fury aswag'd , He fought as if he had been Mars his own son , From ten in the morning , till three afternoon . Our Read and our White Did dazel his sighed , they made him to turn and to run away quite , For no other reason as some men suppose But courage did fallen from his heart to his hose : Though bad men seek victory , and think to win it It never will prosper , if God be not in it . Our Frigates pursued him , our Canons did roar , Until they were come within two miles of shore : Our great Ships persu'd , & contin'd thee slaughter , So far till they were within six fathom water : They durst not look back , To see what we lack , but posting for life , to their Harbours they tack ; Their Flags being struck , and not let up again , 'Tis thought that Ven Trump & Du Ruiter is slave . He that does protect us , will save us from evil , In spite of the Dutch , the Dane , or the Devil . Beside all the damage our Shipping hath done , To Vessels & men , in their fight , and their run . Two very stout Ships we have taken and fix'd , And in them five hundred and ninety men tyr'd , With tagging for that , They cannot get at . to make England stoop to their pitiful State ; When slaves are turn'd princes , no tyrants so evil When beggars are mounted , they ride to thee Devil No Souls so insulting as such sordid Slaves , As climb to preferment on honest men's graves . Our Gen'rals and Navy , are all safe and found , The Prince , & the Duke have our foes in thee pound They in their own Harbors are pris'ners at ease , The King of great Brittain Commands where he please . We ride on the Ocean , And wait for the Motion , to venture again they have no great devotion . had they not crept in , they'd been burned to a cinder And Holland by this time , had been turn'd to tinder God bless King & Queen , with thee Duke , & all such , As are friends to great Brittain , & foes to the Dutch . With Allowance . London , Printed by F Crowch , for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J Wright . Holland turn'd to Tinder , OR , ENGLANDS Third Great Royal VICTORY . Being and exact Narrative brought by Captain Talbot Commander of the Elizabeth a fourth rate Frigate of the Blue Squadron , who on wednesday night came into Harwitch , and sent and Express to the KING at White - hall , of all that had passed betwixt both the [ f ] leets , before and in the Figh Which news hath been continued since by other persons from aboard the Royal Charles , who give account of a total Rout given to the Dutch , and a great Victory obtained against them , insomuch that they are beaten and block'd in their own Harbors : All this was performed on Wednesday and Thursday 25. and 26. of July , 1666. The Tune is , Packingtons pound . THe weather is clear , which was late over cast & our long expectation's are answer'd at last , With News from the Navy , which I shall impart Enough to rejoice every English-mans heart , That's honest and true , ( And is not a Jew ) but would give to God and to Cesar his Endue . This will be a joyful and Royal Relation To such as love God , the King , and the Nation : those Dutch Demigorgons , Gods power convinces & makes them all Servant , that aim'd to be Princes . On Wednesday last , the twenty fift day of July , Came in this Narration which I'll tell you truly , From brave Cap. Talbot , a man of stout carriage That then brought a part of this News into Harwich , Both Ruin and Rage , ( In brave Equipage ) Last wednesday at noon both thee fleets did engage The winds were our friends , & did fill out our sails With very fresh Northerly brave topsail gales ; We din'd with the Hogens upon their own Coast , You might a bad Dutch-men there boiled or roast . At first both the Navies did fight in a Line , Three hours with much fury & force ( but in fine ) The Enemies Fleet into three Squadrons flew , And Sir Jeremie Smith ( Admiral of the Blue ) By lot was to face , Pursue and to Chase out the Zelanders Squadron , thee strongest that was They fought it out furiously , all the day after , And fiercely incounter'd , like wildfire & water , A Frigate of ours called the Resolution , Was burned by the Dutch in this depth of confusion . The white and read squadrons did ply thee two other So fast that they almost were choak'd with thee smother They tugg'd very hard who should stand it out longest , Our blue was thee weakest , the Zealand the strongest And yet they fight 'Till so late at night , that powder and darkness depriv'd them of sighed The two Hollan [ worser ] squadrons both turn'd tail & fled [ , ] Pursued by the squadrons of our White and Read , Upon thursday morning betwixt nine and ten , The Zealand's were crippled and hopp'd home again . The second Part , to the same Tune . TO aid thee blue squadron a thousand stout men Were sent ( in five frigates ) by sir William Pen , And Talbot does telLus ere he did retire , On wednesday night he saw six Dutch ships on fire , Two hundred almost Of our men were lost , such victories seldom are gain'd without cost , The Zealanders Admiral some think is gone Unto his last home , wh [ e ] n his flag was shot down , 'Tis highly presum'd by the best knowing men , They never will be able to fight us again . The prestmen ( well mingl'd with stout vounteers [ ) ] Did drink away dolour and fight away fears : Our small shot did stand to't with valiant desire , Their Guns spit & sparkl'd like bay-leaves in fire Our Canons did roar They sunk and they tore thousands that herd them will never hear them more . It is better far in a good cause to die , Then with a bad conscience to live great & high : And in acts of honour there's no better thing , Then die a true Martyr for God and the King . Our white and read squadrons Du Ruiter engag'd Five hours , till at last his fierce fury aswag'd , He fought as if he had been Mars his own son , From ten in the morning , till three afternoon . Our Read and our White Did dazel his sighed , they made him to turn and to run away quite , For no other reason as some men suppose But courage did fallen from his heart to his hose : Though bad men seek victory , and think to win it It never will prosper , if God be not in it . Our Frigates pursued him , our Canons did roar , Until they were come within two miles of shore : Our great Ships persu'd , & contin'd thee slaughter , So far till they were within six fathom water : They durst not look back , To see what we lack , but posting for life , to their Harbours they tack ; Their Flags being struck , and not let up again , 'Tis thought that Ven Trump & Du Ruiter is slave . He that does protect us , will save us from evil , In spite of the Dutch , the Dane , or the Devil . Beside all the damage our Shipping hath done , To Vessels & men , in their fight , and their run . Two very stout Ships we have taken and fix'd , And in them five hundred and ninety men tyr'd , With tagging for that , They cannot get at . to make England stoop to their pitiful State ; When slaves are turn'd princes , no tyrants so evil When beggars are mounted , they ride to thee Devil No Souls so insulting as such sordid Slaves , As climb to preferment on honest men's graves . Our Gen'rals and Navy , are all safe and found , The Prince , & the Duke have our foes in thee pound They in their own Harbors are pris'ners at ease , The King of great Brittain Commands where he please . We ride on the Ocean , And wait for the Motion , to venture again they have no great devotion . had they not crept in , they'd been burned to a cinder And Holland by this time , had been turn'd to tinder God bless King & Queen , with thee Duke , & all such , As are friends to great Brittain , & foes to the Dutch . With Allowance . London , Printed by F Crowch , for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J Wright . 