The Judgement of God showed upon one John Faustus Doctor in Divinity . The tune is , Fortune my Foe . ALL the Christian men give ears awhile to me . How I am plung'd in pain but cannot die , I liv'd a life the like did none before Forsaking Christ and I am damn'd therefore . At Wittenberg a Town in Germany , There was I born and bred of good degree , Of honest stock which afterwards I sham'd , Accursed therefore for Faustus was I nam'd , In learning lo my Uncle brought up me , And made me Doctor in Divinity , And when he dy'd he left me all his wealth , Whose cursed Gold did hinder my souls health . Then did I shun the holy Bible book , Not on Gods Laws would ever after look , But studied accursed Conjuration , Which was the cause of my utter damnation . The Devil in Friars weed appear'd to me , And soon to my request he did agree , That I might have all things at my desire I gave him soul and body for his hire . Twice did I make my tender flesh to bleed , Twice with my blood I wrote the Devil a deed , Twice wretchedly I soul and body should , To live in pride and do what things I would , For four and twenty years this Bound was made , And at the end my Soul was truly paid . Time ran away and yet I never thought how dear my soul our Saviour Christ had bought Would I had then been made a beast by kind , Then had I not so vainly set my mind , Or would when reason first began to bloom , Some darksome Den had been my deadly tomb . Woe to the day of my Nativity , Woe to the time that once did softer me , And woe unto the hand that seal'd the bill Woe to my self the causer of my ill . The time I passed away with much delight , Amongst Princes , Peers , & many worthy Knight , I wrote such wonders by my Magic skill , That all the world may talk of Faustus still . THe Devil he carried me up into the sky , Where I did see how all the world did lie , I went about the world in eight days space , And then return'd unto my natural place . What pleasures I did wish to please my mind , He did perform as bound and seal did bind , The secrets of the stars and planets told , Of Earth and Sea with wonders manifold . When four and twenty years was almost run , I thought of all things that were past and done , How that the Devil would come & claim his right And carry me to everlasting night . Then all too late I cursed my wicked deed , The grief whereof does make my heart to bleed . All days and hours I mourned wondrous soar , Repenting me of all things done before . I then did wish both Sun and Moon to stay , All times and seasons never to decay , Then had my time ne'r come to dated end , Nor soul and body down to hell descend . At last when I had but one hour to come , I turn'd my Glass for my last hour to run , And ral'd in learned men to comfort me , But faith was gone and comfort none could be . By twelve a clock my glass was almost out . My grieved conscience then began to doubt , I wished the Students stay in chamber by But as they stayed they herd a doleful cry , Then presently they came into the Hall , Whereas my brains were cast against the wall , Both arms and legs in pieces torn they see , My bowels gone , this was the end of me . You Conjurers and damned Witches all , Example take by my unhappy fall , Give not your souls and bodies unto hell , See that the smallest hair you do not fell . But hope that Christ his Kingdom you may gain Where you shall never feel such mortal pain , Forsake the Devil and all his crafty ways , Embrace true faith which nevermore decays . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson . The Judgement of God showed upon one John Faustus Doctor in Divinity . The tune is , Fortune my Foe . ALL the Christian men give ears awhile to me . How I am plung'd in pain but cannot die , I liv'd a life the like did none before Forsaking Christ and I am damn'd therefore . At Wittenberg a Town in Germany , There was I born and bred of good degree , Of honest stock which afterwards I sham'd , Accursed therefore for Faustus was I nam'd , In learning lo my Uncle brought up me , And made me Doctor in Divinity , And when he dy'd he left me all his wealth , Whose cursed Gold did hinder my souls health . Then did I shun the holy Bible book , Not on Gods Laws would ever after look , But studied accursed Conjuration , Which was the cause of my utter damnation . The Devil in Friars weed appear'd to me , And soon to my request he did agree , That I might have all things at my desire I gave him soul and body for his hire . Twice did I make my tender flesh to bleed , Twice with my blood I wrote the Devil a deed , Twice wretchedly I soul and body should , To live in pride and do what things I would , For four and twenty years this Bound was made , And at the end my Soul was truly paid . Time ran away and yet I never thought how dear my soul our Saviour Christ had bought Would I had then been made a beast by kind , Then had I not so vainly set my mind , Or would when reason first began to bloom , Some darksome Den had been my deadly tomb . Woe to the day of my Nativity , Woe to the time that once did softer me , And woe unto the hand that seal'd the bill Woe to my self the causer of my ill . The time I passed away with much delight , Amongst Princes , Peers , & many worthy Knight , I wrote such wonders by my Magic skill , That all the world may talk of Faustus still . THe Devil he carried me up into the sky , Where I did see how all the world did lie , I went about the world in eight days space , And then return'd unto my natural place . What pleasures I did wish to please my mind , He did perform as bound and seal did bind , The secrets of the stars and planets told , Of Earth and Sea with wonders manifold . When four and twenty years was almost run , I thought of all things that were past and done , How that the Devil would come & claim his right And carry me to everlasting night . Then all too late I cursed my wicked deed , The grief whereof does make my heart to bleed . All days and hours I mourned wondrous soar , Repenting me of all things done before . I then did wish both Sun and Moon to stay , All times and seasons never to decay , Then had my time ne'r come to dated end , Nor soul and body down to hell descend . At last when I had but one hour to come , I turn'd my Glass for my last hour to run , And ral'd in learned men to comfort me , But faith was gone and comfort none could be . By twelve a clock my glass was almost out . My grieved conscience then began to doubt , I wished the Students stay in chamber by But as they stayed they herd a doleful cry , Then presently they came into the Hall , Whereas my brains were cast against the wall , Both arms and legs in pieces torn they see , My bowels gone , this was the end of me . You Conjurers and damned Witches all , Example take by my unhappy fall , Give not your souls and bodies unto hell , See that the smallest hair you do not fell . But hope that Christ his Kingdom you may gain Where you shall never feel such mortal pain , Forsake the Devil and all his crafty ways , Embrace true faith which nevermore decays . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson . 