The Honour of Bristol : Showing how the Angel Gabriel of Bristol Fought with three Spanish Ships , who boarded us seven times , wherein we cleared our Decks , and killed five hundred of their men , and wounded many more , and made them fly into Cales , where we lost but three men , to the Honour of the Angel Gabriel of Bristol . To the Tune of , Our Noble King in his Progress . ATtend you and give ear a while , and you shall understand ; Of a Battle fought upon the Seas , by a Ship of brave command : The fight it was so famous that all men's heart does fill , And makes them cry to Sea with the Angel Gabriel . The lusty Ship of Bristol sail'd out adventurously : Against the foes of England , their strength with them to try : Well Victual'd , Rig'd , and Man'd , and good provision still , Which makes men cry to Sea , with the Angel Gabriel . The Captain famous Netheway , so was he cal'd by Name : The Master's name John Mines , a man of noted fame : The Ganner Thomas Watson a man of perfect skill : With other valiant Hearts in the Angel Gabriel . They waving up and down the Seas , upon the Ocean Main ; It is not long ago ( quoth they ) since England fought with Spain : Would we with them might meet , our minds for to fulfil : We would play a noble bout , with our Angel Gabriel . THey had no sooner spoken , but straight appear'd in sighed , Three lusty Spanish Vessels of warlike force and migh With bloody Resolution , they sought our men to spill : And vow'd to make a prize of our Angel Gabriel . Then first came up their Admiral , themselves for to advance ; In her she boar full forty eight pieces of Ordinance : The next that then came near us , was their Vice-Admiral , Which shot most furiously at our Angel Gabriel . Our gallant Ship had in her , full forty fighting men : With twenty pieces of Ordinance , we play'd about them then : And with Powder , Shot , and Bullets , we did employ them still : And thus began the fight with our Angel Gabriel . Our Captain to our Master said , take courage Master bold : The Master to the Seaman said , stand fast my hearts of gold : The Gunner unto all the rest , brave hearts be valiant still : Let us fight in the Defence of our Angel Gabriel . Then we gave them a Broadside , which shot their Mast asunder : And tore the Bowspret of their Ship , which made the Spaniards wonder . And caused them for to cry with voices loud and shrill : Help , help , or else we sink , by the Angel Gabriel . Yet desperately they boarded us , for all our valiant Sho Threescore of their best fighting men , upon our Decks were god . And then at their first entrance , full thirty we did kill : And thus we cleared the Decks , of the Angel Gabriel . With that their three ships boarded us again with might and main : But still our noble Englishmen , cry'd out a fig for Spain : Though seven times they boarded us , at last we shew'd our skill : And made them feel the force of the Angel Gabriel . Seven hours that fight continued , and many brave men lay dead , With purple gore , and Spanish blood , the Sea was coloured Read : Five hundred of their men , we there outright did kill : And many more were maim'd by the Angel Gabriel . They seeing of these bloody spoils , the rest made haste away , For why ? they saw it was no boot , longer for to stay : Then they fled into Cales , and there they must lie still , For they never more will serve to meet our Gabriel . We had within our English Ship , but only three men slave : And five men hurt , the which I hope , will soon be well again : At Bristol we were landed , and let us praise God still , That thus hath blessed our men , and our Angel Gabriel . Now let me not forget to speak , of the gift given by the owner Of the Angel Gabriel , that many years have known her : Two hundred pounds in coin & plate , he gave with free good will , Unto them that bravely fought , in the Angel Gabriel . Finis . London , Printed for T. Vere , at the sign of the Angel without Newgate . The Honour of Bristol : Showing how the Angel Gabriel of Bristol Fought with three Spanish Ships , who boarded us seven times , wherein we cleared our Decks , and killed five hundred of their men , and wounded many more , and made them fly into Cales , where we lost but three men , to the Honour of the Angel Gabriel of Bristol . To the Tune of , Our Noble King in his Progress . ATtend you and give ear a while , and you shall understand ; Of a Battle fought upon the Seas , by a Ship of brave command : The fight it was so famous that all men's heart does fill , And makes them cry to Sea with the Angel Gabriel . The lusty Ship of Bristol sail'd out adventurously : Against the foes of England , their strength with them to try : Well Victual'd , Rig'd , and Man'd , and good provision still , Which makes men cry to Sea , with the Angel Gabriel . The Captain famous Netheway , so was he cal'd by Name : The Master's name John Mines , a man of noted fame : The Ganner Thomas Watson a man of perfect skill : With other valiant Hearts in the Angel Gabriel . They waving up and down the Seas , upon the Ocean Main ; It is not long ago ( quoth they ) since England fought with Spain : Would we with them might meet , our minds for to fulfil : We would play a noble bout , with our Angel Gabriel . THey had no sooner spoken , but straight appear'd in sighed , Three lusty Spanish Vessels of warlike force and migh With bloody Resolution , they sought our men to spill : And vow'd to make a prize of our Angel Gabriel . Then first came up their Admiral , themselves for to advance ; In her she boar full forty eight pieces of Ordinance : The next that then came near us , was their Vice-Admiral , Which shot most furiously at our Angel Gabriel . Our gallant Ship had in her , full forty fighting men : With twenty pieces of Ordinance , we play'd about them then : And with Powder , Shot , and Bullets , we did employ them still : And thus began the fight with our Angel Gabriel . Our Captain to our Master said , take courage Master bold : The Master to the Seaman said , stand fast my hearts of gold : The Gunner unto all the rest , brave hearts be valiant still : Let us fight in the Defence of our Angel Gabriel . Then we gave them a Broadside , which shot their Mast asunder : And tore the Bowspret of their Ship , which made the Spaniards wonder . And caused them for to cry with voices loud and shrill : Help , help , or else we sink , by the Angel Gabriel . Yet desperately they boarded us , for all our valiant Sho Threescore of their best fighting men , upon our Decks were god . And then at their first entrance , full thirty we did kill : And thus we cleared the Decks , of the Angel Gabriel . With that their three ships boarded us again with might and main : But still our noble Englishmen , cry'd out a fig for Spain : Though seven times they boarded us , at last we shew'd our skill : And made them feel the force of the Angel Gabriel . Seven hours that fight continued , and many brave men lay dead , With purple gore , and Spanish blood , the Sea was coloured Read : Five hundred of their men , we there outright did kill : And many more were maim'd by the Angel Gabriel . They seeing of these bloody spoils , the rest made haste away , For why ? they saw it was no boot , longer for to stay : Then they fled into Cales , and there they must lie still , For they never more will serve to meet our Gabriel . We had within our English Ship , but only three men slave : And five men hurt , the which I hope , will soon be well again : At Bristol we were landed , and let us praise God still , That thus hath blessed our men , and our Angel Gabriel . Now let me not forget to speak , of the gift given by the owner Of the Angel Gabriel , that many years have known her : Two hundred pounds in coin & plate , he gave with free good will , Unto them that bravely fought , in the Angel Gabriel . Finis . London , Printed for T. Vere , at the sign of the Angel without Newgate . 