A Hundred Godly Lessons . That a Mother on her Deathbed gave to her Children , whereby they may know how to guide themselves towards God and Man , to the benefit of the Commonwealth , joy of their Parents , and good of themselves . Tune is , Wigmores Galliard . MY children dear mark well my words , and keep my Precepts well , Consider daily in your minds the words which I shall tell : The gain is great which shall ensue , good counsel does direct , Their ways and actions for the best , that do it not neglect . First Worship God above all things , vain swearing see you shun : Hear much , but see you little say , thereby much good is wone ; Speak thou no ill of any man , tend well thine own affairs , Bridle thy wrath and anger so , that thereof come no cares . Be mild and gentle in thy speech , both unto Man and Child , Refuse not good and lawful gains , with words be not beguil'd : Forget not any good turn done , and help thy Neighbours need , Commit no ill in any case , the hungry see thou feed . Cast no man in the teeth with that which thou for him hast done ; Remember flesh is found and frail , and hatred see thou shun . Leave wicked things , then no mishap shall thee to trouble bring , Crave no preferment of the Lord , nor honour of the King . Boast not thy self before God's sighed , who knows thy heart always : Offend not thou the multitude , faint not when thou dost pray : Scorn not a man in misery , esteem not tattling tales , Consider reason is exil'd , when as a Drunkard rails : Use not thy lips to loathsome lies , by craft increase not wealth , And strive not with a mighty man , with temperance nourish health ; Look that thou order well thy words , leave not thy friend for gold ; Trust not too much before thou try , in venturing be not bold . In God repose thy strength and stay , with tongue extol his praise : Honour thy Parents , and the Lord he will prolong thy days : He that his Father honour does , God will forgive his since ; He that his Mother loves , is like one that does favour win . A child obedient to the Lord , his Mother comfort shall , The Father's blessing stays the house , his curse does make it fallen : A wise child makes the Father glad , Fools do their Mother's grieve : And shame shall come to such as do their Parents not relieve . He that his Mother does defy , shall come to nought and worse , The Ravens shall pick out their eyes , that do their Parents curse : From needy men turn not thy face , let not thy right hand know , What thou dost with thy left hand give , or on the poor bestow . They that upon the poor bestow , unto the Lord do lend , And God unto such men again , a thousand fold will send : As water does the fire quench , whose fury great does grow , Even so shall mercy quench their sins , the which do mercy show . Hear thou God's word with earnest ear , with wisdom answer make , Be thou not mov'd with every wind , such course do sinners take ; Thy talk will show thy fame or shame , fools oft themselves annoy , Trust not thy own will overmuch , for that may thee destroy . They that the living God do fear , a faithful friend shall find : A true friend is a jewel rare , and comfort to the mind . Hear Sermons that good sentences thou mayest conceive aright , In Gods commandments exercise , thy self both day and night . THink on the pain thy mother had , in bringing thee to life ; Fear God who knows thy secret thoughts , and look thou make no strife . Visit the sick with carefulness , the Prisoners grief consider , Show pity to the fatherless , and God will thee deliver . Help still to right the widows wrong , remember still thine end , So thou shalt never do amiss , nor wilfully offend : Trust not a reconciled friend , more then and open foe , Who touches pitch , shall be defil'd , take heed thou do not so . Take not a wife that wanton is , and full of shameful words , The flattering of and harlot is , at length more sharp then Swords . Cast not thy love on such a one , whose looks can thee allure , In every face where beauty is , the heart's not always pure . A woman fair and undiscreet is like a King of Gold , The which in a swines snout is set , unseemly to behold : The malice of lewd women shun , for they will thee destroy , Hate her that does on every man , set her delight and joy . From others let thy praise proceed , boast not thy self in ough And do not hear a flattering tongue , thereby much ill is wrough The child that does his Parents rob , and counteth it no since , A vile destroyer he is deem'd , and shall no favour win . Correction brings wisdom found , fools hate good counsel still , That child does shame his mother much , that's let to have his will : The good men path shines as the light , that beautifies the day , The wicked know not where they walk , for darkness is their way . Put far from thee a froward Mouth , a slanderous tongue is ill , And do not thou and envious mind , in any wise fulfil . A Harlot brings a man to beg , in her is found no truth , In gladness therefore live and die , with the wife of thy youth . Much babbling breeds great offence , he that speaks least is wise , Gods blessing only makes men rich , from thence all joys arise . Better is little fearing God , then bags of gold god ill , And better is one bit of bred , then a fat Ox with ill will . Who brooks no warning hates his soul , true age worship aright , A patient man far better is then one endued with might . men credit comes by doing good , and humble mind indeed Is better then a Liar proud , from whence vain brags proceed . By this dear children you may learn , how to direct your ways , To God , to Prince , to Commonwealth , whereon your welfare stays . Print well in your remembrance , the Lessons I have shown , Then shall you live in happy state , when I am dead and gone . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . A Hundred Godly Lessons . That a Mother on her Deathbed gave to her Children , whereby they may know how to guide themselves towards God and Man , to the benefit of the Commonwealth , joy of their Parents , and good of themselves . Tune is , Wigmores Galliard . MY children dear mark well my words , and keep my Precepts well , Consider daily in your minds the words which I shall tell : The gain is great which shall ensue , good counsel does direct , Their ways and actions for the best , that do it not neglect . First Worship God above all things , vain swearing see you shun : Hear much , but see you little say , thereby much good is wone ; Speak thou no ill of any man , tend well thine own affairs , Bridle thy wrath and anger so , that thereof come no cares . Be mild and gentle in thy speech , both unto Man and Child , Refuse not good and lawful gains , with words be not beguil'd : Forget not any good turn done , and help thy Neighbours need , Commit no ill in any case , the hungry see thou feed . Cast no man in the teeth with that which thou for him hast done ; Remember flesh is found and frail , and hatred see thou shun . Leave wicked things , then no mishap shall thee to trouble bring , Crave no preferment of the Lord , nor honour of the King . Boast not thy self before God's sighed , who knows thy heart always : Offend not thou the multitude , faint not when thou dost pray : Scorn not a man in misery , esteem not tattling tales , Consider reason is exil'd , when as a Drunkard rails : Use not thy lips to loathsome lies , by craft increase not wealth , And strive not with a mighty man , with temperance nourish health ; Look that thou order well thy words , leave not thy friend for gold ; Trust not too much before thou try , in venturing be not bold . In God repose thy strength and stay , with tongue extol his praise : Honour thy Parents , and the Lord he will prolong thy days : He that his Father honour does , God will forgive his since ; He that his Mother loves , is like one that does favour win . A child obedient to the Lord , his Mother comfort shall , The Father's blessing stays the house , his curse does make it fallen : A wise child makes the Father glad , Fools do their Mother's grieve : And shame shall come to such as do their Parents not relieve . He that his Mother does defy , shall come to nought and worse , The Ravens shall pick out their eyes , that do their Parents curse : From needy men turn not thy face , let not thy right hand know , What thou dost with thy left hand give , or on the poor bestow . They that upon the poor bestow , unto the Lord do lend , And God unto such men again , a thousand fold will send : As water does the fire quench , whose fury great does grow , Even so shall mercy quench their sins , the which do mercy show . Hear thou God's word with earnest ear , with wisdom answer make , Be thou not mov'd with every wind , such course do sinners take ; Thy talk will show thy fame or shame , fools oft themselves annoy , Trust not thy own will overmuch , for that may thee destroy . They that the living God do fear , a faithful friend shall find : A true friend is a jewel rare , and comfort to the mind . Hear Sermons that good sentences thou mayest conceive aright , In Gods commandments exercise , thy self both day and night . THink on the pain thy mother had , in bringing thee to life ; Fear God who knows thy secret thoughts , and look thou make no strife . Visit the sick with carefulness , the Prisoners grief consider , Show pity to the fatherless , and God will thee deliver . Help still to right the widows wrong , remember still thine end , So thou shalt never do amiss , nor wilfully offend : Trust not a reconciled friend , more then and open foe , Who touches pitch , shall be defil'd , take heed thou do not so . Take not a wife that wanton is , and full of shameful words , The flattering of and harlot is , at length more sharp then Swords . Cast not thy love on such a one , whose looks can thee allure , In every face where beauty is , the heart's not always pure . A woman fair and undiscreet is like a King of Gold , The which in a swines snout is set , unseemly to behold : The malice of lewd women shun , for they will thee destroy , Hate her that does on every man , set her delight and joy . From others let thy praise proceed , boast not thy self in ough And do not hear a flattering tongue , thereby much ill is wrough The child that does his Parents rob , and counteth it no since , A vile destroyer he is deem'd , and shall no favour win . Correction brings wisdom found , fools hate good counsel still , That child does shame his mother much , that's let to have his will : The good men path shines as the light , that beautifies the day , The wicked know not where they walk , for darkness is their way . Put far from thee a froward Mouth , a slanderous tongue is ill , And do not thou and envious mind , in any wise fulfil . A Harlot brings a man to beg , in her is found no truth , In gladness therefore live and die , with the wife of thy youth . Much babbling breeds great offence , he that speaks least is wise , Gods blessing only makes men rich , from thence all joys arise . Better is little fearing God , then bags of gold god ill , And better is one bit of bred , then a fat Ox with ill will . Who brooks no warning hates his soul , true age worship aright , A patient man far better is then one endued with might . men credit comes by doing good , and humble mind indeed Is better then a Liar proud , from whence vain brags proceed . By this dear children you may learn , how to direct your ways , To God , to Prince , to Commonwealth , whereon your welfare stays . Print well in your remembrance , the Lessons I have shown , Then shall you live in happy state , when I am dead and gone . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 