John Robinsons Park , Or a merry fit of Wooing . Within a Park a young Man met a Maid With courtingand sporting the Damsel with him stayed In pastime and pleasure she uttered her mind Saying pray thee sweet honey be loving and kind . AS I went through John Robinsons Park , I herd a Bir [ worser ] singing which pleased my hear It pleased my heart and contented my mind , Saying pray thee sweet honey be loving and kind . Be loving and kind Love and take my advice , And be no more cheated at Cards or at Dice , For the Cards and the Dice Love , will do the much harm , Then stay at home Honey to keep thy love warm . Sweet honey make much of thy Fallow Deer , To hunt them and chase them thou needest not to fear ; Take pleasure at home to content thy mind , And I pray thee sweet honey be loving and kind . To take my advice , it will do thee good , To increase thy health and nourish thy blood , It will be to thy pleasure and content thy mind . Then pray thee sweet honey be loving and kind . Within thy own Park , Love thou hast a pure Doe , To hunt at thy pleasure full well thou dost know , Then take thy fill to content thy mind , Then I pray thee sweet honey be loving , etc , Uncouple your Dogs and found up thy horn , And lay them on closely thy Doe for to chase , For better thou may hunt her from Evening till Morn , While I in my arms love Thy body embrace . The second part to the same Tune . CAll Herpin and Terepin , and bonny Blue Bell , Call Terrylug and Malkin to found up the Knell : Call Prickears and Primrose the game for to mind , And I pray thee sweet honey be loving and kind . Call WORSER [ r ] ummer and Plummer and Ginger deline ; Call [ ? ] aller and Waller the gam's at the prime And see the Beugle horn soundly you blow , So merrily ran the hounds all on a row . Here's Nector and Hector and Sampson so strong , And Lily white Larkin laid the Doe all along , Yet had no great hurt which pleased my mind , And I pray thee sweet honey be loving and kind . The game being ended the truth for to tell , He took his Dogs which ran passing well ; The pleasure and pastime well pleased my mind , Saying pray thee sweet honey be , etc : Well now my swyet honey thy counsel I'le take , The Cards and the Dice , Love , I mean to forsake , And stay at home honey to content thy mind . And I vow evermore to be , etc For many a time abroad I did go To see my Hounds run after a wild Doe , Though now I confess it hath done me much harm , Now I'l stay at home honey to keep my love warm . At Cards and at Dice I have many a day Delighted my self to sport and to play , And when the night came I have chaste the wild Doe But now I intend Love to do no more so . Come all you brave Huntsmen , that loves Fallow Deer Unto this my story I pray lend and ear . If hunting the Doe come to you by kind , The found of the Horn will run still in your mind . Your Dogs and your horn I and your Cross Bow Is all your delight where ever you go And the quarter staff must not stay behind ; Saying pray thee sweet honey be loving and kind . Concluding if any desire to know What is the true me [ a ] ning of this Fallow Doe ; Or why this Theam does run so in mind To say pray the sweet , etc As late in and evening I chanced to walk I herd a young couple most lovingly talk . But what they did else It must stay behind , Saying , etc Their sport being ended a way they did go This gallant brave Keeper and his Fallow Doe . For sporting and courting he had pleased her mind , Saying pray thee sweet honey be loving and kind . FINIS . John Robinsons Park , Or a merry fit of Wooing . Within a Park a young Man met a Maid With courtingand sporting the Damsel with him stayed In pastime and pleasure she uttered her mind Saying pray thee sweet honey be loving and kind . AS I went through John Robinsons Park , I herd a Bir [ worser ] singing which pleased my hear It pleased my heart and contented my mind , Saying pray thee sweet honey be loving and kind . Be loving and kind Love and take my advice , And be no more cheated at Cards or at Dice , For the Cards and the Dice Love , will do the much harm , Then stay at home Honey to keep thy love warm . Sweet honey make much of thy Fallow Deer , To hunt them and chase them thou needest not to fear ; Take pleasure at home to content thy mind , And I pray thee sweet honey be loving and kind . To take my advice , it will do thee good , To increase thy health and nourish thy blood , It will be to thy pleasure and content thy mind . Then pray thee sweet honey be loving and kind . Within thy own Park , Love thou hast a pure Doe , To hunt at thy pleasure full well thou dost know , Then take thy fill to content thy mind , Then I pray thee sweet honey be loving , etc , Uncouple your Dogs and found up thy horn , And lay them on closely thy Doe for to chase , For better thou may hunt her from Evening till Morn , While I in my arms love Thy body embrace . The second part to the same Tune . CAll Herpin and Terepin , and bonny Blue Bell , Call Terrylug and Malkin to found up the Knell : Call Prickears and Primrose the game for to mind , And I pray thee sweet honey be loving and kind . Call WORSER [ r ] ummer and Plummer and Ginger deline ; Call [ ? ] aller and Waller the gam's at the prime And see the Beugle horn soundly you blow , So merrily ran the hounds all on a row . Here's Nector and Hector and Sampson so strong , And Lily white Larkin laid the Doe all along , Yet had no great hurt which pleased my mind , And I pray thee sweet honey be loving and kind . The game being ended the truth for to tell , He took his Dogs which ran passing well ; The pleasure and pastime well pleased my mind , Saying pray thee sweet honey be , etc : Well now my swyet honey thy counsel I'le take , The Cards and the Dice , Love , I mean to forsake , And stay at home honey to content thy mind . And I vow evermore to be , etc For many a time abroad I did go To see my Hounds run after a wild Doe , Though now I confess it hath done me much harm , Now I'l stay at home honey to keep my love warm . At Cards and at Dice I have many a day Delighted my self to sport and to play , And when the night came I have chaste the wild Doe But now I intend Love to do no more so . Come all you brave Huntsmen , that loves Fallow Deer Unto this my story I pray lend and ear . If hunting the Doe come to you by kind , The found of the Horn will run still in your mind . Your Dogs and your horn I and your Cross Bow Is all your delight where ever you go And the quarter staff must not stay behind ; Saying pray thee sweet honey be loving and kind . Concluding if any desire to know What is the true me [ a ] ning of this Fallow Doe ; Or why this Theam does run so in mind To say pray the sweet , etc As late in and evening I chanced to walk I herd a young couple most lovingly talk . But what they did else It must stay behind , Saying , etc Their sport being ended a way they did go This gallant brave Keeper and his Fallow Doe . For sporting and courting he had pleased her mind , Saying pray thee sweet honey be loving and kind . FINIS . 