Joyful News to the Nation : OR , The Crowning of King Charls the II on the 23. of April being on St. Georges day , of his going from the Tower of London to White-hall , on mon - day being the 22. day with his passing by Water from White-hall to Westminster-hall , and from thence to the Abbey , where he was Crowned ; From thence quite back a - gain with his Noble train , with the rare fireworks upon London Thames , To the Tune of Packintons pound . OF all the rich pleasures that ever was seen , The like unto this I think never has been ; All people are glad and rejoice in our Nation , To think they should live for to see the Crownation : Let's give God the praise , To see the brave days , And let us repent us of our evil ways , And then God will bless us in every relation , And happy will be this our Kings Coronation . On April being the twenty two day , The King from th' Tower did then take his way , And as for his pleasure he marched along , Thousands of people did after him throng , His Majesty then With his Noble men , The people still cry'd out , and never would len , With God bless your Majesty in all relation , And send you long Reign , and a happy Crownation . The glass on the windows they then did take down And they on their Chambers made many a pound For the fight of the Gentlemen thee there did stand They had what they pleasant [ e ] worser on them to demand , And all this was why The Kings coming by : They on the tops of the houses did lie , The like near was herd of not in any Nation , As there was prepared for our Kings Crownation . Four Pageans prepared for the King to pass in , Like Castles & towers , the like was not seen , The one imitating Pleasure and Peace The which from our borders should never decrease About it a Vine Showing Plenty of time The conduits did run down with brave claret wine The like never herd of not in any Nations , As there was prepared for our Kings Crownation . The Second part to the same Tune . THe twenty third being on St. Georges day , The King then by water did then take his way Where he did go unto Westmister-hall , There the Nobility , Gentry and all Did meet and did stand With caps in their hand : Ready to be at our good Kings command , The like never was herd of not in any Nation , As there was prepared for our Kings Crownation . From thence to the Aby he went with's train , Where the two Bishops did him entert [ ai ] n And under his feet there was clothes on th' ground For to walk on as he went to be Crown'd : The people did still Their voices in most shrill , Cry'd , God bless your Majesty ever more still : The like near was herd of not in any Nation , As there was prepared for our Kings Crownation The King then was crown'd and went quite back again , To Westminster-hal with his br [ a ] we noble train With Knights and with Lords , and Barons and Earls And all for to beautify Noble King Charls . To see people throng As they passed along . It would be to tedious to put in my song . The like never herd of not in any Nations , As there was prepared for our Kings Crownation . The Knights and the Nobles were brave in attire Which made the beholders much to admire , The Duke went before him , and the way led , The King followed after with the Crown on his head : The people did shout , That was round about , Only the Fanatics that stood very mute : It grieved them to see such a turn in the Nation And troubled their conscience to see the Crownation . Then strait came a Champion unto the hal-dore And out came two Earls , and did put him before The King call'd him to him and drank in a Cup , And had that the Champion should then put it up ; The Cup it was Gold Most rare to behold ! My self I did see it , no by others was told , The like never herd of not in any Nation , As there was prepared for our Kings Crownation . The guns in the ships , and the Canons on shore The bells and the trumpets most loudly did roar The bonfires did burn in every street , And all people made up their joy most complete , They feared no dismay , But thus they did say , Happy are we for the Crownation day , The like never herd of not in any Nation , As there was prepared for our Kings Coronation A Castle or tower that seemed very good , Made by and Artist , which on a barge stood , It stood on the river of Thames there all night , With fireworks about it most full of delight , Those fireworks there , Which I do declare Was to the beholders most wondrous rare , The like never herd of not in any nation As there was prepared for our Kings Crownation . And by it a bowling green there did stand , As seemed as handsome as any on land T'was framed by one man , who thought it no charges A most rare green , and it stood on two barges His Majesty then With his Noble men , Might when he pleased to go to that green , The like never herd of not in any Nation As there was prepared for our Kings Crownation . Let all men on earth now but think on this thing To see how our God have preserved our King , And let all rejoice , and not any be sorry , And give God the praise , where belongs all the glory And honour your King In every thing For he unto us glad tidings did bring , The like never herd of not in any Nation As there was prepared for our Kings Crownation . Now God bless the King , and send him a long reign That truth and peace may with us still remain ; Let all hearts join one in love and unity , And let us pray all for the King Progeny With Lords and with Earls That loves King Charls He is worth more to us then thousands of Pearls , And let any one pray in any Relation And then God will send us plenty in our Nation . FINIS . Peter Fancy . London , Printed for Richard Burton at the Horseshoe in Smithfield . Joyful News to the Nation : OR , The Crowning of King Charls the II on the 23. of April being on St. Georges day , of his going from the Tower of London to White-hall , on mon - day being the 22. day with his passing by Water from White-hall to Westminster-hall , and from thence to the Abbey , where he was Crowned ; From thence quite back a - gain with his Noble train , with the rare fireworks upon London Thames , To the Tune of Packintons pound . OF all the rich pleasures that ever was seen , The like unto this I think never has been ; All people are glad and rejoice in our Nation , To think they should live for to see the Crownation : Let's give God the praise , To see the brave days , And let us repent us of our evil ways , And then God will bless us in every relation , And happy will be this our Kings Coronation . On April being the twenty two day , The King from th' Tower did then take his way , And as for his pleasure he marched along , Thousands of people did after him throng , His Majesty then With his Noble men , The people still cry'd out , and never would len , With God bless your Majesty in all relation , And send you long Reign , and a happy Crownation . The glass on the windows they then did take down And they on their Chambers made many a pound For the fight of the Gentlemen thee there did stand They had what they pleasant [ e ] worser on them to demand , And all this was why The Kings coming by : They on the tops of the houses did lie , The like near was herd of not in any Nation , As there was prepared for our Kings Crownation . Four Pageans prepared for the King to pass in , Like Castles & towers , the like was not seen , The one imitating Pleasure and Peace The which from our borders should never decrease About it a Vine Showing Plenty of time The conduits did run down with brave claret wine The like never herd of not in any Nations , As there was prepared for our Kings Crownation . The Second part to the same Tune . THe twenty third being on St. Georges day , The King then by water did then take his way Where he did go unto Westmister-hall , There the Nobility , Gentry and all Did meet and did stand With caps in their hand : Ready to be at our good Kings command , The like never was herd of not in any Nation , As there was prepared for our Kings Crownation . From thence to the Aby he went with's train , Where the two Bishops did him entert [ ai ] n And under his feet there was clothes on th' ground For to walk on as he went to be Crown'd : The people did still Their voices in most shrill , Cry'd , God bless your Majesty ever more still : The like near was herd of not in any Nation , As there was prepared for our Kings Crownation The King then was crown'd and went quite back again , To Westminster-hal with his br [ a ] we noble train With Knights and with Lords , and Barons and Earls And all for to beautify Noble King Charls . To see people throng As they passed along . It would be to tedious to put in my song . The like never herd of not in any Nations , As there was prepared for our Kings Crownation . The Knights and the Nobles were brave in attire Which made the beholders much to admire , The Duke went before him , and the way led , The King followed after with the Crown on his head : The people did shout , That was round about , Only the Fanatics that stood very mute : It grieved them to see such a turn in the Nation And troubled their conscience to see the Crownation . Then strait came a Champion unto the hal-dore And out came two Earls , and did put him before The King call'd him to him and drank in a Cup , And had that the Champion should then put it up ; The Cup it was Gold Most rare to behold ! My self I did see it , no by others was told , The like never herd of not in any Nation , As there was prepared for our Kings Crownation . The guns in the ships , and the Canons on shore The bells and the trumpets most loudly did roar The bonfires did burn in every street , And all people made up their joy most complete , They feared no dismay , But thus they did say , Happy are we for the Crownation day , The like never herd of not in any Nation , As there was prepared for our Kings Coronation A Castle or tower that seemed very good , Made by and Artist , which on a barge stood , It stood on the river of Thames there all night , With fireworks about it most full of delight , Those fireworks there , Which I do declare Was to the beholders most wondrous rare , The like never herd of not in any nation As there was prepared for our Kings Crownation . And by it a bowling green there did stand , As seemed as handsome as any on land T'was framed by one man , who thought it no charges A most rare green , and it stood on two barges His Majesty then With his Noble men , Might when he pleased to go to that green , The like never herd of not in any Nation As there was prepared for our Kings Crownation . Let all men on earth now but think on this thing To see how our God have preserved our King , And let all rejoice , and not any be sorry , And give God the praise , where belongs all the glory And honour your King In every thing For he unto us glad tidings did bring , The like never herd of not in any Nation As there was prepared for our Kings Crownation . Now God bless the King , and send him a long reign That truth and peace may with us still remain ; Let all hearts join one in love and unity , And let us pray all for the King Progeny With Lords and with Earls That loves King Charls He is worth more to us then thousands of Pearls , And let any one pray in any Relation And then God will send us plenty in our Nation . FINIS . Peter Fancy . London , Printed for Richard Burton at the Horseshoe in Smithfield . 