A Proper new Ballad entitled , The Wandering Prince of TROY . The tune is , Queen Dido . WHen Troy Town for ten years wars , withstood the Greeks in manful wise , Then did their foes increase so fast , that to resist none could suffice . Wast lie those wall [ s ] that were so good , And corn now grows where Troy town stood . AEneas wandering prince of Troy , when he for land long time had sought , At last arrived with great joy . to mighty Carthage walls was brought . Where Dido's Queen with sumptuous feast , Did entertain this wandering guest . And as in hall at meat they sat . the Queen desirous news to hear , Of thy unhappy ten years wars , declare to me thou Trojan dear . The heavy hap and chance so bad , That thou poor wandering prince haste had . And then anon this worthy knight , with words demure as be could well , Of his unhappy ten years wars , so true a tale began to tell , With words so sweet and sighs so deep , That oft he made them all to weep . And then a thousand sighs he fetched , and every sighs brought tears amain , That where he sat the place was wet as if he had seen those wars again . So that the Queen with ruth therefore , Said worthy Prince enough no more . The darksome night apace grew on , and twinkling stars ith Skies were spread And he his doleful tale had told , as every one lay in his bed . Where they full sweetly took their rest , Save only Dido's boiling breast . This silly woman never slept but in her chamber all alone , As one unhappy always kept , unto the walls she made her moan . That she should still desire in vain , The thing that she could not obtain . And thus in grief she spent the night , till twinkling stars from Skies were fled And Phoebus beams with watery Clouds through misty Clouds appeared read . Then tidings came to her anon , That all the Trojan ships were gone . And then then the Queen with bloody knife did arm her heart as hard as stone . Yet somewhat loath to lose her life . in woeful wise she made her moan , And rolling on her careful bed , With sighs and sobs these words she said . O wretched Dido Queen quoth she , I see thy end approaching near , For he is gone away from thee , whom thou didst love and hold so dear . Is he then gone and passed by , Oh heart prepare thyself to die . Though reason would thou shouldst forbear to stop thy hand from bloody stroke , Yet fancy said thou shouldst not fear , who fettered thee in Cupids yoke . Come death quoth she and ease the smart , And with those words she pierc'd her heart . WHen death had pierc'd the tender heart of Dido Carthaginian Queen , And bloody knife did end the smart which she sustain'd in woeful teen , AEneas being shipped and gone , Whose flattery caused all her moan , Her Funeral most costly made , and all things ffrisht mourufully , Her body fine in mould was laid , where it consumed speedily . Her sisters tears her Tomb bestrewd , Her Subject's grief their kindness showed . Then was AEneas in and Isle , in Grecia where he liv'd long space , Whereas her sister in short while , wrote tu him to his foul disgrace In phrase of Letters to her mind . She told him plain he was unkind Falsehearted wretch quoth she thou art , and traitorously thou hast betrayed , Unto thy lure a gentle heart , that unto thee such welcome made . My sister dear and Carthage joy Whose folly wrought her dire annoy . Yet on her deathbed when she lay , she pray'd for thy prosperity , Desiring God that every day might breed thee great felicity . Thus by thy means I lost a Friend , Heaven send the such untimely end . When he these lines full fraught with gall perused had and weigh'd them right His lofty courage then did fallen , and straight appeared in his sighed , Queen Dido's ghost both grim and pale Which made this valiant Soldier quail . AEneas quoth this grisly ghost my whole delight while I did live . Thee of all men I loved most , my fancy and my will did give , For entertainment I thee gave , Unthankful thou digst my grave Wherefore prepare thy fleeting soul to wander with me in the Air , Where deadly grief shall make it howl because of me thou tookest no care , Delay no time thy glass is run , Thy day is past and death is come , Oh stay awhile thou lovely Spright , be not so hasty to convey , My soul into eternal night , where it shall never behold bright nay , Oh do not frown thy angry look , Hath made my breath my iife forsook , But woe is me it is in vain , and bootless is my dismal cry . Time will not be recal'd again nor thou surcease before I die , Oh let me live to make amends , Unto some of my dearest friends , But seeing thou obdurate art and wilt not pity to me show , Because from thee I did depart and left upaid what I did owe , I must content myself to take What lot thou wilt with me partake , And like one being in a trance , a multitude of ugly fiends , About this woeful prince did dance no help he had of any friends . His body then they took away , And no man knew his dying day . printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson . A Proper new Ballad entitled , The Wandering Prince of TROY . The tune is , Queen Dido . WHen Troy Town for ten years wars , withstood the Greeks in manful wise , Then did their foes increase so fast , that to resist none could suffice . Wast lie those wall [ s ] that were so good , And corn now grows where Troy town stood . AEneas wandering prince of Troy , when he for land long time had sought , At last arrived with great joy . to mighty Carthage walls was brought . Where Dido's Queen with sumptuous feast , Did entertain this wandering guest . And as in hall at meat they sat . the Queen desirous news to hear , Of thy unhappy ten years wars , declare to me thou Trojan dear . The heavy hap and chance so bad , That thou poor wandering prince haste had . And then anon this worthy knight , with words demure as be could well , Of his unhappy ten years wars , so true a tale began to tell , With words so sweet and sighs so deep , That oft he made them all to weep . And then a thousand sighs he fetched , and every sighs brought tears amain , That where he sat the place was wet as if he had seen those wars again . So that the Queen with ruth therefore , Said worthy Prince enough no more . The darksome night apace grew on , and twinkling stars ith Skies were spread And he his doleful tale had told , as every one lay in his bed . Where they full sweetly took their rest , Save only Dido's boiling breast . This silly woman never slept but in her chamber all alone , As one unhappy always kept , unto the walls she made her moan . That she should still desire in vain , The thing that she could not obtain . And thus in grief she spent the night , till twinkling stars from Skies were fled And Phoebus beams with watery Clouds through misty Clouds appeared read . Then tidings came to her anon , That all the Trojan ships were gone . And then then the Queen with bloody knife did arm her heart as hard as stone . Yet somewhat loath to lose her life . in woeful wise she made her moan , And rolling on her careful bed , With sighs and sobs these words she said . O wretched Dido Queen quoth she , I see thy end approaching near , For he is gone away from thee , whom thou didst love and hold so dear . Is he then gone and passed by , Oh heart prepare thyself to die . Though reason would thou shouldst forbear to stop thy hand from bloody stroke , Yet fancy said thou shouldst not fear , who fettered thee in Cupids yoke . Come death quoth she and ease the smart , And with those words she pierc'd her heart . WHen death had pierc'd the tender heart of Dido Carthaginian Queen , And bloody knife did end the smart which she sustain'd in woeful teen , AEneas being shipped and gone , Whose flattery caused all her moan , Her Funeral most costly made , and all things ffrisht mourufully , Her body fine in mould was laid , where it consumed speedily . Her sisters tears her Tomb bestrewd , Her Subject's grief their kindness showed . Then was AEneas in and Isle , in Grecia where he liv'd long space , Whereas her sister in short while , wrote tu him to his foul disgrace In phrase of Letters to her mind . She told him plain he was unkind Falsehearted wretch quoth she thou art , and traitorously thou hast betrayed , Unto thy lure a gentle heart , that unto thee such welcome made . My sister dear and Carthage joy Whose folly wrought her dire annoy . Yet on her deathbed when she lay , she pray'd for thy prosperity , Desiring God that every day might breed thee great felicity . Thus by thy means I lost a Friend , Heaven send the such untimely end . When he these lines full fraught with gall perused had and weigh'd them right His lofty courage then did fallen , and straight appeared in his sighed , Queen Dido's ghost both grim and pale Which made this valiant Soldier quail . AEneas quoth this grisly ghost my whole delight while I did live . Thee of all men I loved most , my fancy and my will did give , For entertainment I thee gave , Unthankful thou digst my grave Wherefore prepare thy fleeting soul to wander with me in the Air , Where deadly grief shall make it howl because of me thou tookest no care , Delay no time thy glass is run , Thy day is past and death is come , Oh stay awhile thou lovely Spright , be not so hasty to convey , My soul into eternal night , where it shall never behold bright nay , Oh do not frown thy angry look , Hath made my breath my iife forsook , But woe is me it is in vain , and bootless is my dismal cry . Time will not be recal'd again nor thou surcease before I die , Oh let me live to make amends , Unto some of my dearest friends , But seeing thou obdurate art and wilt not pity to me show , Because from thee I did depart and left upaid what I did owe , I must content myself to take What lot thou wilt with me partake , And like one being in a trance , a multitude of ugly fiends , About this woeful prince did dance no help he had of any friends . His body then they took away , And no man knew his dying day . printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson . A Proper new Ballad entitled , The Wandering Prince of TROY . The tune is , Queen Dido . WHen Troy Town for ten years wars , withstood the Greeks in manful wise , Then did their foes increase so fast , that to resist none could suffice . Wast lie those wall [ s ] that were so good , And corn now grows where Troy town stood . AEneas wandering prince of Troy , when he for land long time had sought , At last arrived with great joy . to mighty Carthage walls was brought . Where Dido's Queen with sumptuous feast , Did entertain this wandering guest . And as in hall at meat they sat . the Queen desirous news to hear , Of thy unhappy ten years wars , declare to me thou Trojan dear . The heavy hap and chance so bad , That thou poor wandering prince haste had . And then anon this worthy knight , with words demure as be could well , Of his unhappy ten years wars , so true a tale began to tell , With words so sweet and sighs so deep , That oft he made them all to weep . And then a thousand sighs he fetched , and every sighs brought tears amain , That where he sat the place was wet as if he had seen those wars again . So that the Queen with ruth therefore , Said worthy Prince enough no more . The darksome night apace grew on , and twinkling stars ith Skies were spread And he his doleful tale had told , as every one lay in his bed . Where they full sweetly took their rest , Save only Dido's boiling breast . This silly woman never slept but in her chamber all alone , As one unhappy always kept , unto the walls she made her moan . That she should still desire in vain , The thing that she could not obtain . And thus in grief she spent the night , till twinkling stars from Skies were fled And Phoebus beams with watery Clouds through misty Clouds appeared read . Then tidings came to her anon , That all the Trojan ships were gone . And then then the Queen with bloody knife did arm her heart as hard as stone . Yet somewhat loath to lose her life . in woeful wise she made her moan , And rolling on her careful bed , With sighs and sobs these words she said . O wretched Dido Queen quoth she , I see thy end approaching near , For he is gone away from thee , whom thou didst love and hold so dear . Is he then gone and passed by , Oh heart prepare thyself to die . Though reason would thou shouldst forbear to stop thy hand from bloody stroke , Yet fancy said thou shouldst not fear , who fettered thee in Cupids yoke . Come death quoth she and ease the smart , And with those words she pierc'd her heart . WHen death had pierc'd the tender heart of Dido Carthaginian Queen , And bloody knife did end the smart which she sustain'd in woeful teen , AEneas being shipped and gone , Whose flattery caused all her moan , Her Funeral most costly made , and all things ffrisht mourufully , Her body fine in mould was laid , where it consumed speedily . Her sisters tears her Tomb bestrewd , Her Subject's grief their kindness showed . Then was AEneas in and Isle , in Grecia where he liv'd long space , Whereas her sister in short while , wrote tu him to his foul disgrace In phrase of Letters to her mind . She told him plain he was unkind Falsehearted wretch quoth she thou art , and traitorously thou hast betrayed , Unto thy lure a gentle heart , that unto thee such welcome made . My sister dear and Carthage joy Whose folly wrought her dire annoy . Yet on her deathbed when she lay , she pray'd for thy prosperity , Desiring God that every day might breed thee great felicity . Thus by thy means I lost a Friend , Heaven send the such untimely end . When he these lines full fraught with gall perused had and weigh'd them right His lofty courage then did fallen , and straight appeared in his sighed , Queen Dido's ghost both grim and pale Which made this valiant Soldier quail . AEneas quoth this grisly ghost my whole delight while I did live . Thee of all men I loved most , my fancy and my will did give , For entertainment I thee gave , Unthankful thou digst my grave Wherefore prepare thy fleeting soul to wander with me in the Air , Where deadly grief shall make it howl because of me thou tookest no care , Delay no time thy glass is run , Thy day is past and death is come , Oh stay awhile thou lovely Spright , be not so hasty to convey , My soul into eternal night , where it shall never behold bright nay , Oh do not frown thy angry look , Hath made my breath my iife forsook , But woe is me it is in vain , and bootless is my dismal cry . Time will not be recal'd again nor thou surcease before I die , Oh let me live to make amends , Unto some of my dearest friends , But seeing thou obdurate art and wilt not pity to me show , Because from thee I did depart and left upaid what I did owe , I must content myself to take What lot thou wilt with me partake , And like one being in a trance , a multitude of ugly fiends , About this woeful prince did dance no help he had of any friends . His body then they took away , And no man knew his dying day . printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson . A Proper new Ballad entitled , The Wandering Prince of TROY . The tune is , Queen Dido . WHen Troy Town for ten years wars , withstood the Greeks in manful wise , Then did their foes increase so fast , that to resist none could suffice . Wast lie those wall [ s ] that were so good , And corn now grows where Troy town stood . AEneas wandering prince of Troy , when he for land long time had sought , At last arrived with great joy . to mighty Carthage walls was brought . Where Dido's Queen with sumptuous feast , Did entertain this wandering guest . And as in hall at meat they sat . the Queen desirous news to hear , Of thy unhappy ten years wars , declare to me thou Trojan dear . The heavy hap and chance so bad , That thou poor wandering prince haste had . And then anon this worthy knight , with words demure as be could well , Of his unhappy ten years wars , so true a tale began to tell , With words so sweet and sighs so deep , That oft he made them all to weep . And then a thousand sighs he fetched , and every sighs brought tears amain , That where he sat the place was wet as if he had seen those wars again . So that the Queen with ruth therefore , Said worthy Prince enough no more . The darksome night apace grew on , and twinkling stars ith Skies were spread And he his doleful tale had told , as every one lay in his bed . Where they full sweetly took their rest , Save only Dido's boiling breast . This silly woman never slept but in her chamber all alone , As one unhappy always kept , unto the walls she made her moan . That she should still desire in vain , The thing that she could not obtain . And thus in grief she spent the night , till twinkling stars from Skies were fled And Phoebus beams with watery Clouds through misty Clouds appeared read . Then tidings came to her anon , That all the Trojan ships were gone . And then then the Queen with bloody knife did arm her heart as hard as stone . Yet somewhat loath to lose her life . in woeful wise she made her moan , And rolling on her careful bed , With sighs and sobs these words she said . O wretched Dido Queen quoth she , I see thy end approaching near , For he is gone away from thee , whom thou didst love and hold so dear . Is he then gone and passed by , Oh heart prepare thyself to die . Though reason would thou shouldst forbear to stop thy hand from bloody stroke , Yet fancy said thou shouldst not fear , who fettered thee in Cupids yoke . Come death quoth she and ease the smart , And with those words she pierc'd her heart . WHen death had pierc'd the tender heart of Dido Carthaginian Queen , And bloody knife did end the smart which she sustain'd in woeful teen , AEneas being shipped and gone , Whose flattery caused all her moan , Her Funeral most costly made , and all things ffrisht mourufully , Her body fine in mould was laid , where it consumed speedily . Her sisters tears her Tomb bestrewd , Her Subject's grief their kindness showed . Then was AEneas in and Isle , in Grecia where he liv'd long space , Whereas her sister in short while , wrote tu him to his foul disgrace In phrase of Letters to her mind . She told him plain he was unkind Falsehearted wretch quoth she thou art , and traitorously thou hast betrayed , Unto thy lure a gentle heart , that unto thee such welcome made . My sister dear and Carthage joy Whose folly wrought her dire annoy . Yet on her deathbed when she lay , she pray'd for thy prosperity , Desiring God that every day might breed thee great felicity . Thus by thy means I lost a Friend , Heaven send the such untimely end . When he these lines full fraught with gall perused had and weigh'd them right His lofty courage then did fallen , and straight appeared in his sighed , Queen Dido's ghost both grim and pale Which made this valiant Soldier quail . AEneas quoth this grisly ghost my whole delight while I did live . Thee of all men I loved most , my fancy and my will did give , For entertainment I thee gave , Unthankful thou digst my grave Wherefore prepare thy fleeting soul to wander with me in the Air , Where deadly grief shall make it howl because of me thou tookest no care , Delay no time thy glass is run , Thy day is past and death is come , Oh stay awhile thou lovely Spright , be not so hasty to convey , My soul into eternal night , where it shall never behold bright nay , Oh do not frown thy angry look , Hath made my breath my iife forsook , But woe is me it is in vain , and bootless is my dismal cry . Time will not be recal'd again nor thou surcease before I die , Oh let me live to make amends , Unto some of my dearest friends , But seeing thou obdurate art and wilt not pity to me show , Because from thee I did depart and left upaid what I did owe , I must content myself to take What lot thou wilt with me partake , And like one being in a trance , a multitude of ugly fiends , About this woeful prince did dance no help he had of any friends . His body then they took away , And no man knew his dying day . printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson . 