The praise of Nothing : Though some do wonder why I write in praise Of Nothing , in these lamentable days , When they have read , and will my counsel take , I hope of Nothing something they may make . To the tune of , Though I have but a mark a year , etc THe praise of wisdom some do write , and some the praise of money : And every one like Bees to th' hive , from something gather honey . But if my Genius do not fail , To promp me ere I end my tale , You'l find that nothing will prevail , for all must turn to nothing . Nothing was first , and shall be last , for nothing holds for ever , [ And nothing ever yet escaped death , so cant the longest liver : Nothings Immortal , nothing can , From crosses ever keep a man , Nothing can live , when the world is gone , for all shall come to nothing . Nothing in all the world we find , with sorrow more perplexed , Then he that with a scolding wife , eternally is vexed . Whose tongue by nothing can be quelled , Although with read hight spincers held For she will to no reason yield , but scold and brawl for nothing . ] Nothing is swifter then the wind , or lighter then a feather , Yet I another thing have found , which quite excels either : A harlots love , that every day , Is chang'd and swiftly blown away , But what's more light then her , I pray , the wise man answers nothing . Nothing shall therefore please me more , than women to abandon , For if that I should fallen in love , or join with such a wanton : Shee'd break my very heartstrings sure , Or I must Vulcans lot endure , And patiently abide the cure , or else be help'd by nothing . Take you heed then unmarried Lads , before you grow a lover , And ere too soon you choose a wife , with honest patience prove her : For nothing can again unwed , Nor cure a Cuckolds aching head , Beside once lost a Maidenhead , can be recal'd by nothing . The second part , To the same tune . IN heat of war nothing is safe , in peace nothing respected , But ill god wealth , which to procure , no vice at all's neglected : The son does wish his father's end , That he may have his wealth to spend , But let such Lads their manners mend , or all will come to nothing . Nothing is safe by Sea or Land , nor always free from danger , Which is committed to the trust , of either friend or stranger . For nothing in the world remains , But for their private ends or gains , Theil hav't although they break their brains or bring themselves to nothing . Nothing regarded more then gold , but vertue's quite decayed , For gold the Usurer sells his soul , which must at last be paid , When nothing from the grave can call Such mizers who their souls enthral , To gripe and hoard the Devil and all , but better they had nothing . Nothing can from the sighed of God , conceal the faults of any , For his clear eye can search into , the smallest chink or cranny . He can within thy heart espy , The secretest sins which there do lie , But if you to repentance high , they shall appear as nothing . Nothing therefore hereafter seek but virtue , vice detesting , With purest robs of sanctity , your humble soul investing : And seek you after no such thing , Which may your soul to sorrow bring , Or while thou liv'st thy conscience sting , or else desire nothing . For though but little thou art worth , yet nothing dost desire , Nor covetest thy neighbours goods , nor 'bove thy self aspire . But restest honestly content , With that poor little God hath sent , Thou mayest disperse in merriment , and [ say thou wantest for nothing . ] When earthworms spend [ their days in care ] and never can rest in quiet . Nor with the fear to loose their gold , have time to sleep or die But with a sad and pensive mind Still studying how the poor to grind , Until at last with sorrow pinde , themselves are turn'd to nothing . And thus you now have herd the praise , of nothing worth a penny : Which as I stand to sing hear now , I hope will yield me many . But if that price be held to deer , Or any dislike this counsel here , He may depart with a flay in's ear , for I will give him nothing . Printed at London for H. Gosson , dwelling upon London-Bridge [ never the Gate . ] The praise of Nothing : Though some do wonder why I write in praise Of Nothing , in these lamentable days , When they have read , and will my counsel take , I hope of Nothing something they may make . To the tune of , Though I have but a mark a year , etc THe praise of wisdom some do write , and some the praise of money : And every one like Bees to th' hive , from something gather honey . But if my Genius do not fail , To promp me ere I end my tale , You'l find that nothing will prevail , for all must turn to nothing . Nothing was first , and shall be last , for nothing holds for ever , [ And nothing ever yet escaped death , so cant the longest liver : Nothings Immortal , nothing can , From crosses ever keep a man , Nothing can live , when the world is gone , for all shall come to nothing . Nothing in all the world we find , with sorrow more perplexed , Then he that with a scolding wife , eternally is vexed . Whose tongue by nothing can be quelled , Although with read hight spincers held For she will to no reason yield , but scold and brawl for nothing . ] Nothing is swifter then the wind , or lighter then a feather , Yet I another thing have found , which quite excels either : A harlots love , that every day , Is chang'd and swiftly blown away , But what's more light then her , I pray , the wise man answers nothing . Nothing shall therefore please me more , than women to abandon , For if that I should fallen in love , or join with such a wanton : Shee'd break my very heartstrings sure , Or I must Vulcans lot endure , And patiently abide the cure , or else be help'd by nothing . Take you heed then unmarried Lads , before you grow a lover , And ere too soon you choose a wife , with honest patience prove her : For nothing can again unwed , Nor cure a Cuckolds aching head , Beside once lost a Maidenhead , can be recal'd by nothing . The second part , To the same tune . IN heat of war nothing is safe , in peace nothing respected , But ill god wealth , which to procure , no vice at all's neglected : The son does wish his father's end , That he may have his wealth to spend , But let such Lads their manners mend , or all will come to nothing . Nothing is safe by Sea or Land , nor always free from danger , Which is committed to the trust , of either friend or stranger . For nothing in the world remains , But for their private ends or gains , Theil hav't although they break their brains or bring themselves to nothing . Nothing regarded more then gold , but vertue's quite decayed , For gold the Usurer sells his soul , which must at last be paid , When nothing from the grave can call Such mizers who their souls enthral , To gripe and hoard the Devil and all , but better they had nothing . Nothing can from the sighed of God , conceal the faults of any , For his clear eye can search into , the smallest chink or cranny . He can within thy heart espy , The secretest sins which there do lie , But if you to repentance high , they shall appear as nothing . Nothing therefore hereafter seek but virtue , vice detesting , With purest robs of sanctity , your humble soul investing : And seek you after no such thing , Which may your soul to sorrow bring , Or while thou liv'st thy conscience sting , or else desire nothing . For though but little thou art worth , yet nothing dost desire , Nor covetest thy neighbours goods , nor 'bove thy self aspire . But restest honestly content , With that poor little God hath sent , Thou mayest disperse in merriment , and [ say thou wantest for nothing . ] When earthworms spend [ their days in care ] and never can rest in quiet . Nor with the fear to loose their gold , have time to sleep or die But with a sad and pensive mind Still studying how the poor to grind , Until at last with sorrow pinde , themselves are turn'd to nothing . And thus you now have herd the praise , of nothing worth a penny : Which as I stand to sing hear now , I hope will yield me many . But if that price be held to deer , Or any dislike this counsel here , He may depart with a flay in's ear , for I will give him nothing . Printed at London for H. Gosson , dwelling upon London-Bridge [ never the Gate . ] 