A jolly Company of jovial Blades , Who laugh and sing , and are as merry as the Maids . They sing and roar , and freely spend their Chink , And to each other in full Bowls they drink : They scorn such puny p [ i ] nch-guts as are saving , They think good Sack is only worth the having . And being fully bent to spend their store , They drink their Liquour off and call for more . Thus while they freely tope off Sack by quarts , They drive away all sorrow from their hearts . Tune is , General Monk hath advan'd himself since he came from the Tower . IT was of late , my happy fate to meet with a Jovial Crew ; Of merry Blades , and lively Lads , who drank till the Sky look blue . Being void of care , no money they spare but all with free conesnt , Drink wine good store & then called for mor so merrily they were bent . Hang sorrow quoth one , why should we make moan , so long as our money does last ? Away with this sadness , 'tis folly & madness , to think what is passed . Let's drink and bouze , and bravely carooze , and least that the time should seem long Give ear unto me , my task it shall be , to sing you a gallant new Song . The second Part to the same Tune . BE merry my hearts , & call for your quarts and let no Liquour be lacking , We have money good store , & intend for to roar , until we have set all a packing . Come Drawer make haste , let not the time waste let every man have his endue , For to save shoes & trouble bring in a quart double for he that made one made two . Come take off your drink , & speak what you think , strong liquour will make you speak truly For certainly we , no Drunkards can be , so long as we are not unruly , Then drink and be civil , intending no evil and be not offended with me , For what I had before , I'le have one quart more for he that made two , made three . The greedy Curmudgin , sits all thee day grudging , at home with his bred and small beer , For to hoard up base pelf , he starves himself . scarce eats a good meal through the year But we'l not do so , how e [ r ] e the world go , so long as we have any store , I think we'l not lack , go fill us more Sack , for he that made three made four . Why fit you so sadly , since I call so madly , I scorn to leave you in the lurch , The reckoning isle pay e're I go away , else hang me as high as the Church Yet some men will say , that is not the way he must p [ ? ] nch that intends for to thrive , This no matter for that , let's laugh & be fat , for he that made four , made five . Such love I intend to my dearest friend that I can not tell how to express i when with him I meet , his company's so sweet that I would not willingly miss it I scorn such a slave , as his money will save sweet or any that use such base tricks . Come on my brave blades , be as merry as thee Maids for he that made five made six . Now while I am here , isle call for my Beer and freely my money isle spend , Let no man take care , for paying his share , if need be , isle pay for my friend . Pluck up a good heart , let sorrow depart , with the Drawer I will make even , So with merry content , our time shall be spent , for he that made six , made seaven . Drink off our cups round , let sorrow be drown'd in this same cup of good Sherry , I cannot endure , to fit thus demure , for hither we came to be merry . Then be of good cheer , thee reck'ning isle clear and eke with the Drawer make straight , For now I'm set a mading , I needs must be adding & he that made seven , made eigh Yet at home I confess , with my honest Besse I practice good husbandry well , To maintain my calling , & keep me from falling , as all my Neighbours can tell ; they plead me at large for maintaining my charge though sometime to drink I incline : Yet I scorn for to shrink go fill us more drink for he that made eight made nine . Here's a health to my friend , thee hath a Song pen'd in praise of good liqor that's old , Drink off your cups round , while Music does found in hope it will keep us from cold , And now to conclude my verses so rude , you are all welcome Gentlemen : Yet ere you depart , isle give a quart , for he that made nine , made ten . This being said , the reckoning they paid , and in friendly manner departed : there's none of them had any cause to be sad but all went away merry-hearted . And when they do meet , again in the street ; then unto the Tavern thy'l high : And there they intend their money to spend which no body can deny FINIS . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wight . A jolly Company of jovial Blades , Who laugh and sing , and are as merry as the Maids . They sing and roar , and freely spend their Chink , And to each other in full Bowls they drink : They scorn such puny p [ i ] nch-guts as are saving , They think good Sack is only worth the having . And being fully bent to spend their store , They drink their Liquour off and call for more . Thus while they freely tope off Sack by quarts , They drive away all sorrow from their hearts . Tune is , General Monk hath advan'd himself since he came from the Tower . IT was of late , my happy fate to meet with a Jovial Crew ; Of merry Blades , and lively Lads , who drank till the Sky look blue . Being void of care , no money they spare but all with free conesnt , Drink wine good store & then called for mor so merrily they were bent . Hang sorrow quoth one , why should we make moan , so long as our money does last ? Away with this sadness , 'tis folly & madness , to think what is passed . Let's drink and bouze , and bravely carooze , and least that the time should seem long Give ear unto me , my task it shall be , to sing you a gallant new Song . The second Part to the same Tune . BE merry my hearts , & call for your quarts and let no Liquour be lacking , We have money good store , & intend for to roar , until we have set all a packing . Come Drawer make haste , let not the time waste let every man have his endue , For to save shoes & trouble bring in a quart double for he that made one made two . Come take off your drink , & speak what you think , strong liquour will make you speak truly For certainly we , no Drunkards can be , so long as we are not unruly , Then drink and be civil , intending no evil and be not offended with me , For what I had before , I'le have one quart more for he that made two , made three . The greedy Curmudgin , sits all thee day grudging , at home with his bred and small beer , For to hoard up base pelf , he starves himself . scarce eats a good meal through the year But we'l not do so , how e [ r ] e the world go , so long as we have any store , I think we'l not lack , go fill us more Sack , for he that made three made four . Why fit you so sadly , since I call so madly , I scorn to leave you in the lurch , The reckoning isle pay e're I go away , else hang me as high as the Church Yet some men will say , that is not the way he must p [ ? ] nch that intends for to thrive , This no matter for that , let's laugh & be fat , for he that made four , made five . Such love I intend to my dearest friend that I can not tell how to express i when with him I meet , his company's so sweet that I would not willingly miss it I scorn such a slave , as his money will save sweet or any that use such base tricks . Come on my brave blades , be as merry as thee Maids for he that made five made six . Now while I am here , isle call for my Beer and freely my money isle spend , Let no man take care , for paying his share , if need be , isle pay for my friend . Pluck up a good heart , let sorrow depart , with the Drawer I will make even , So with merry content , our time shall be spent , for he that made six , made seaven . Drink off our cups round , let sorrow be drown'd in this same cup of good Sherry , I cannot endure , to fit thus demure , for hither we came to be merry . Then be of good cheer , thee reck'ning isle clear and eke with the Drawer make straight , For now I'm set a mading , I needs must be adding & he that made seven , made eigh Yet at home I confess , with my honest Besse I practice good husbandry well , To maintain my calling , & keep me from falling , as all my Neighbours can tell ; they plead me at large for maintaining my charge though sometime to drink I incline : Yet I scorn for to shrink go fill us more drink for he that made eight made nine . Here's a health to my friend , thee hath a Song pen'd in praise of good liqor that's old , Drink off your cups round , while Music does found in hope it will keep us from cold , And now to conclude my verses so rude , you are all welcome Gentlemen : Yet ere you depart , isle give a quart , for he that made nine , made ten . This being said , the reckoning they paid , and in friendly manner departed : there's none of them had any cause to be sad but all went away merry-hearted . And when they do meet , again in the street ; then unto the Tavern thy'l high : And there they intend their money to spend which no body can deny FINIS . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wight . 