The Knight and the Beggar-Wench . Which does a wanton prank unfold , In as merry a story as ever was told . The Tune is , The Kings delight , or Turn-Coat . I Met with a jovial Beggar And into the Fields I led her , and I laid her upon the ground ; Her face did not invite me , Nor her smock did much delight me but I think the young whore was found ; With both fresh and gay I often did sport and play , yet a Beggar I'le take for varieties sake , She'l please me as well as they . I have a good Wife , as fair As ever drew English air her pleasure is past compare , Her cherry lips , cheeks , and eyes , Her belly , her breast , and thighs , might any but I suffice , With her I so often play And weary my time away That a fouler to me , Would be fairer than she , Variety wins the day . This Beggar I shall describe , Without any hope of bribe , was one of the manding tribe She had a fine foot and leg , As nimble as Doe or Stag , and then she began to beg ; So soon as my Horse she sees She fell down upon her knees , The whore had a sack That hung at her back Well furnish'd with Bred and Cheese . She struck me into a dump The jade was both young and plump , with a round , and a ranting Rump ; Her feature had so much force , It raised in me remorse and drew me quite off my , But when I began to woo She told me she would not do , Quoth [ I ] pretty Mort , Let me show thee some sport She kissed me , and answered no . MY Horse to a twig I ty'd , the beggar-wench then reply'd good Master get up and ride , Yes so I will straight ( thought I ) With that I drew something nigh she struggled and cry'd fie , fie , I am but a Beggar by breed , Quoth I let me do this deed , For he that will scorn A Beggar-wench born May want a good turn at need . Then into her Arms I claps , Quoth she now I'm in , what shall I do with my scraps ? Throw them in the bush said I , No , no , she did straight reply there's big , and Pudding and Pie We beg for better or worse , My blessings I will not curse , Why then quoth I , Go run presently , And throw it a 'thwart my horse . She then ( in a merry vein ) Did trip to meeme back again , to put me out of my pain , She dazzled so my sighed , That neither by day or night , I ever had such delight , So close to me now she clings And flutters abroad her wings , But my bashful jade Asham'd of the trade Brake lose and away he flings . I rise and away ran I , The Beggar-wench then did cry , my big and my Pudding and Pie I ran and I curs'd and swore , Until I came to my door , but the Horse was yet home before I bade the wench stay behind , And told her I would be kind , But when I came home I look'd like a Mome , I wish'd that I had been blind . My Wife and my neighbours all Did laugh , you might hear 'em bawl from Temple-Bar to White-Hall . my sweethearts provant was found Which lay in the wallet bound , and scatter'd about the ground , The sighed of my wife did daunt , and make my heart prick and pant Sir Thomas quoth she , ( And spoke merrily ) Where god you this good provant ? Thought I , it is best bear up , Although of this venomous Cup , I take but a sorrowful sup , In the twinkling of ones eyes , I thought of a thousand lies , but never a one would suffice ; I many things had in doubt , Yet could not well bring 'em about , As I went to begin The wench came in , And so came the story out . My Lady did laugh outright , As if she had much delight But I found it not so at night ; I gave the poor-wench a peace , But wished she had been in Greece to tell such a tale as this , My Madam does make it slight , But I have god nothing by't , for when she wants of her it is thrown in my dish , I'd better been hang'd outright . FINIS . London , Printed for F. Coals . M. Wright , T. Vere , & W. Gilbertson . The Knight and the Beggar-Wench . Which does a wanton prank unfold , In as merry a story as ever was told . The Tune is , The Kings delight , or Turn-Coat . I Met with a jovial Beggar And into the Fields I led her , and I laid her upon the ground ; Her face did not invite me , Nor her smock did much delight me but I think the young whore was found ; With both fresh and gay I often did sport and play , yet a Beggar I'le take for varieties sake , She'l please me as well as they . I have a good Wife , as fair As ever drew English air her pleasure is past compare , Her cherry lips , cheeks , and eyes , Her belly , her breast , and thighs , might any but I suffice , With her I so often play And weary my time away That a fouler to me , Would be fairer than she , Variety wins the day . This Beggar I shall describe , Without any hope of bribe , was one of the manding tribe She had a fine foot and leg , As nimble as Doe or Stag , and then she began to beg ; So soon as my Horse she sees She fell down upon her knees , The whore had a sack That hung at her back Well furnish'd with Bred and Cheese . She struck me into a dump The jade was both young and plump , with a round , and a ranting Rump ; Her feature had so much force , It raised in me remorse and drew me quite off my , But when I began to woo She told me she would not do , Quoth [ I ] pretty Mort , Let me show thee some sport She kissed me , and answered no . MY Horse to a twig I ty'd , the beggar-wench then reply'd good Master get up and ride , Yes so I will straight ( thought I ) With that I drew something nigh she struggled and cry'd fie , fie , I am but a Beggar by breed , Quoth I let me do this deed , For he that will scorn A Beggar-wench born May want a good turn at need . Then into her Arms I claps , Quoth she now I'm in , what shall I do with my scraps ? Throw them in the bush said I , No , no , she did straight reply there's big , and Pudding and Pie We beg for better or worse , My blessings I will not curse , Why then quoth I , Go run presently , And throw it a 'thwart my horse . She then ( in a merry vein ) Did trip to meeme back again , to put me out of my pain , She dazzled so my sighed , That neither by day or night , I ever had such delight , So close to me now she clings And flutters abroad her wings , But my bashful jade Asham'd of the trade Brake lose and away he flings . I rise and away ran I , The Beggar-wench then did cry , my big and my Pudding and Pie I ran and I curs'd and swore , Until I came to my door , but the Horse was yet home before I bade the wench stay behind , And told her I would be kind , But when I came home I look'd like a Mome , I wish'd that I had been blind . My Wife and my neighbours all Did laugh , you might hear 'em bawl from Temple-Bar to White-Hall . my sweethearts provant was found Which lay in the wallet bound , and scatter'd about the ground , The sighed of my wife did daunt , and make my heart prick and pant Sir Thomas quoth she , ( And spoke merrily ) Where god you this good provant ? Thought I , it is best bear up , Although of this venomous Cup , I take but a sorrowful sup , In the twinkling of ones eyes , I thought of a thousand lies , but never a one would suffice ; I many things had in doubt , Yet could not well bring 'em about , As I went to begin The wench came in , And so came the story out . My Lady did laugh outright , As if she had much delight But I found it not so at night ; I gave the poor-wench a peace , But wished she had been in Greece to tell such a tale as this , My Madam does make it slight , But I have god nothing by't , for when she wants of her it is thrown in my dish , I'd better been hang'd outright . FINIS . London , Printed for F. Coals . M. Wright , T. Vere , & W. Gilbertson . 