The Northern Lasses lamentation , OR The unhappy Maids Misfortune Since she did from her friends depart No earthly thing can cheer her heart But still she does her case Lament , Being always fill'd with discontent , Resolving to do nought but mourn , Till to the North she does return To the tune I would I were in my own Country . With Allowance . A North Country Lass up to London did pass Although with her Nature it did not agree which made her repent and so often Lament Still wishing again in the North for to be , Oh the Oak , the Ash , and the bonny Ivy Tree does flourish at home in my own Country . fain would I be in the North Country Where the lads and the lasses are making of hay there should I see what is pleasant to me A mischief light on them intic'd me away , Oh the Oak , the Ash , and the bonny Ivy Tree , does flourish most bravely in our Country . Since that I came forth of the pleasant North Ther's nothing delightful I see does abound , they never can be half so merry as we When we are a dancing of Sellingers round . O the Oak , the Ash , and the bonny Ivy Tree , does flourish at home in our own Country . I like not the Court nor the City resort Since there is no fancy for such maids as me , their pomp and their pride I can never abide Because with my humour it does not agree Oh the Oak , the Ash , the bonny Ivy Tree , does flourish at home in my own country , How oft have I been On the Westmorland green Where the young men and Maidens resort for to play where we with delight from morning till night Could feast it and Frolic on each Holiday Oh the Oak , the Ash , and the bonny Ivy Tree , They flourish most bravely in our country . A Milking to go All the Maids on a row It was a fine sighed and pleasant to see . but here in the City they are void of pity There is no enjoyment of Liberty , Oh the Oak , the Ash , and the bonny Ivy Tree They flourish most bravely in our Country . When I had the heart From my friends to depart I thought I should be a Lady at last but now I do find that it troubles my mind Because that my joys and my pleasure is past , Oh the Oak , the Ash , and the bonny Ivy Tree , They flourish at home , etc The yows and the Lambs With the Kids and their Dams To see in the Country how finely they play the Bells' they do ring and the Birds they do sing And the fields and the gardens so pleasant and gay Oh the Oak , and the Ash , and the bonny Ivy tree They flourish most bravely in our Country . At Wakes and at Fairs Being void of all cares . we there with our Lovers did use for to dance , then hard hap had I my ill fortune to try And so up to London my steps to advance , Oh the Oak , the Ash. and the bonny Ivy Tree They , etc Yet still I perceive I a husband might have If I to the City my mind could but frame , but i'le have a Lad That is North-Countrey bred Or else i'le not marry in th' mind that I am . O the Oak , the Ash , and the bonny Ivy Tree They flourish , etc A maiden I am And a maid i'le remain Until my own Country again I do see for here in this place I shall ner' see the face Of him that's allotted my Love for to be . O the Oak , the Ash , and bonny Ivy Tree They flourish , etc Then farewell my Daddy And farewell my Mammy , Until I do see you I nothing but mourn Remembering my Brother's my Sisters & others , In less than a year I hope to return . Then the Oak and the Ash , and the bonny Ivy Tree , I shall see them at home in my own Country . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in West Smithfield . The Northern Lasses lamentation , OR The unhappy Maids Misfortune Since she did from her friends depart No earthly thing can cheer her heart But still she does her case Lament , Being always fill'd with discontent , Resolving to do nought but mourn , Till to the North she does return To the tune I would I were in my own Country . With Allowance . A North Country Lass up to London did pass Although with her Nature it did not agree which made her repent and so often Lament Still wishing again in the North for to be , Oh the Oak , the Ash , and the bonny Ivy Tree does flourish at home in my own Country . fain would I be in the North Country Where the lads and the lasses are making of hay there should I see what is pleasant to me A mischief light on them intic'd me away , Oh the Oak , the Ash , and the bonny Ivy Tree , does flourish most bravely in our Country . Since that I came forth of the pleasant North Ther's nothing delightful I see does abound , they never can be half so merry as we When we are a dancing of Sellingers round . O the Oak , the Ash , and the bonny Ivy Tree , does flourish at home in our own Country . I like not the Court nor the City resort Since there is no fancy for such maids as me , their pomp and their pride I can never abide Because with my humour it does not agree Oh the Oak , the Ash , the bonny Ivy Tree , does flourish at home in my own country , How oft have I been On the Westmorland green Where the young men and Maidens resort for to play where we with delight from morning till night Could feast it and Frolic on each Holiday Oh the Oak , the Ash , and the bonny Ivy Tree , They flourish most bravely in our country . A Milking to go All the Maids on a row It was a fine sighed and pleasant to see . but here in the City they are void of pity There is no enjoyment of Liberty , Oh the Oak , the Ash , and the bonny Ivy Tree They flourish most bravely in our Country . When I had the heart From my friends to depart I thought I should be a Lady at last but now I do find that it troubles my mind Because that my joys and my pleasure is past , Oh the Oak , the Ash , and the bonny Ivy Tree , They flourish at home , etc The yows and the Lambs With the Kids and their Dams To see in the Country how finely they play the Bells' they do ring and the Birds they do sing And the fields and the gardens so pleasant and gay Oh the Oak , and the Ash , and the bonny Ivy tree They flourish most bravely in our Country . At Wakes and at Fairs Being void of all cares . we there with our Lovers did use for to dance , then hard hap had I my ill fortune to try And so up to London my steps to advance , Oh the Oak , the Ash. and the bonny Ivy Tree They , etc Yet still I perceive I a husband might have If I to the City my mind could but frame , but i'le have a Lad That is North-Countrey bred Or else i'le not marry in th' mind that I am . O the Oak , the Ash , and the bonny Ivy Tree They flourish , etc A maiden I am And a maid i'le remain Until my own Country again I do see for here in this place I shall ner' see the face Of him that's allotted my Love for to be . O the Oak , the Ash , and bonny Ivy Tree They flourish , etc Then farewell my Daddy And farewell my Mammy , Until I do see you I nothing but mourn Remembering my Brother's my Sisters & others , In less than a year I hope to return . Then the Oak and the Ash , and the bonny Ivy Tree , I shall see them at home in my own Country . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in West Smithfield . The Northern Lasses lamentation , OR The unhappy Maids Misfortune Since she did from her friends depart No earthly thing can cheer her heart But still she does her case Lament , Being always fill'd with discontent , Resolving to do nought but mourn , Till to the North she does return To the tune I would I were in my own Country . With Allowance . A North Country Lass up to London did pass Although with her Nature it did not agree which made her repent and so often Lament Still wishing again in the North for to be , Oh the Oak , the Ash , and the bonny Ivy Tree does flourish at home in my own Country . fain would I be in the North Country Where the lads and the lasses are making of hay there should I see what is pleasant to me A mischief light on them intic'd me away , Oh the Oak , the Ash , and the bonny Ivy Tree , does flourish most bravely in our Country . Since that I came forth of the pleasant North Ther's nothing delightful I see does abound , they never can be half so merry as we When we are a dancing of Sellingers round . O the Oak , the Ash , and the bonny Ivy Tree , does flourish at home in our own Country . I like not the Court nor the City resort Since there is no fancy for such maids as me , their pomp and their pride I can never abide Because with my humour it does not agree Oh the Oak , the Ash , the bonny Ivy Tree , does flourish at home in my own country , How oft have I been On the Westmorland green Where the young men and Maidens resort for to play where we with delight from morning till night Could feast it and Frolic on each Holiday Oh the Oak , the Ash , and the bonny Ivy Tree , They flourish most bravely in our country . A Milking to go All the Maids on a row It was a fine sighed and pleasant to see . but here in the City they are void of pity There is no enjoyment of Liberty , Oh the Oak , the Ash , and the bonny Ivy Tree They flourish most bravely in our Country . When I had the heart From my friends to depart I thought I should be a Lady at last but now I do find that it troubles my mind Because that my joys and my pleasure is past , Oh the Oak , the Ash , and the bonny Ivy Tree , They flourish at home , etc The yows and the Lambs With the Kids and their Dams To see in the Country how finely they play the Bells' they do ring and the Birds they do sing And the fields and the gardens so pleasant and gay Oh the Oak , and the Ash , and the bonny Ivy tree They flourish most bravely in our Country . At Wakes and at Fairs Being void of all cares . we there with our Lovers did use for to dance , then hard hap had I my ill fortune to try And so up to London my steps to advance , Oh the Oak , the Ash. and the bonny Ivy Tree They , etc Yet still I perceive I a husband might have If I to the City my mind could but frame , but i'le have a Lad That is North-Countrey bred Or else i'le not marry in th' mind that I am . O the Oak , the Ash , and the bonny Ivy Tree They flourish , etc A maiden I am And a maid i'le remain Until my own Country again I do see for here in this place I shall ner' see the face Of him that's allotted my Love for to be . O the Oak , the Ash , and bonny Ivy Tree They flourish , etc Then farewell my Daddy And farewell my Mammy , Until I do see you I nothing but mourn Remembering my Brother's my Sisters & others , In less than a year I hope to return . Then the Oak and the Ash , and the bonny Ivy Tree , I shall see them at home in my own Country . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in West Smithfield . The Northern Lasses lamentation , OR The unhappy Maids Misfortune Since she did from her friends depart No earthly thing can cheer her heart But still she does her case Lament , Being always fill'd with discontent , Resolving to do nought but mourn , Till to the North she does return To the tune I would I were in my own Country . With Allowance . A North Country Lass up to London did pass Although with her Nature it did not agree which made her repent and so often Lament Still wishing again in the North for to be , Oh the Oak , the Ash , and the bonny Ivy Tree does flourish at home in my own Country . fain would I be in the North Country Where the lads and the lasses are making of hay there should I see what is pleasant to me A mischief light on them intic'd me away , Oh the Oak , the Ash , and the bonny Ivy Tree , does flourish most bravely in our Country . Since that I came forth of the pleasant North Ther's nothing delightful I see does abound , they never can be half so merry as we When we are a dancing of Sellingers round . O the Oak , the Ash , and the bonny Ivy Tree , does flourish at home in our own Country . I like not the Court nor the City resort Since there is no fancy for such maids as me , their pomp and their pride I can never abide Because with my humour it does not agree Oh the Oak , the Ash , the bonny Ivy Tree , does flourish at home in my own country , How oft have I been On the Westmorland green Where the young men and Maidens resort for to play where we with delight from morning till night Could feast it and Frolic on each Holiday Oh the Oak , the Ash , and the bonny Ivy Tree , They flourish most bravely in our country . A Milking to go All the Maids on a row It was a fine sighed and pleasant to see . but here in the City they are void of pity There is no enjoyment of Liberty , Oh the Oak , the Ash , and the bonny Ivy Tree They flourish most bravely in our Country . When I had the heart From my friends to depart I thought I should be a Lady at last but now I do find that it troubles my mind Because that my joys and my pleasure is past , Oh the Oak , the Ash , and the bonny Ivy Tree , They flourish at home , etc The yows and the Lambs With the Kids and their Dams To see in the Country how finely they play the Bells' they do ring and the Birds they do sing And the fields and the gardens so pleasant and gay Oh the Oak , and the Ash , and the bonny Ivy tree They flourish most bravely in our Country . At Wakes and at Fairs Being void of all cares . we there with our Lovers did use for to dance , then hard hap had I my ill fortune to try And so up to London my steps to advance , Oh the Oak , the Ash. and the bonny Ivy Tree They , etc Yet still I perceive I a husband might have If I to the City my mind could but frame , but i'le have a Lad That is North-Countrey bred Or else i'le not marry in th' mind that I am . O the Oak , the Ash , and the bonny Ivy Tree They flourish , etc A maiden I am And a maid i'le remain Until my own Country again I do see for here in this place I shall ner' see the face Of him that's allotted my Love for to be . O the Oak , the Ash , and bonny Ivy Tree They flourish , etc Then farewell my Daddy And farewell my Mammy , Until I do see you I nothing but mourn Remembering my Brother's my Sisters & others , In less than a year I hope to return . Then the Oak and the Ash , and the bonny Ivy Tree , I shall see them at home in my own Country . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in West Smithfield . 