Phillis forsaken , In Pursuit of CORIDON . Behold fair Phillis by her Love forsaken In search of him that will not be o're taken , While she ( poor soul ) her cheeks with tears bedewing , Romes over hills and dales in vain pursuing . 'Twould melt a marble heart , her sad complaining While he seems deaf , her Love and she disdaining . To the Tune of , Daphnaes Complaint , or Oh my Love , etc AS I went abroad to play In a morning fresh and gay , Hearing the sweet Nightingale Tell her sad and doleful tale . Strait I herd a voice to cry , Oh my Love , Oh my Love , Oh my Love why dost thou fly , pity me or else I die . At the first I was amaz'd And with greedy eyes I gaz'd , Till at length I saw where stood Phillis in a pensive mood . Mournfully she thus did cry , Oh my Love , Oh my Love , Oh my Love why dost thou fly , Pity me or else I die . Turn Oh turn sweet Coridon Do not thus thy Phillis wrong , Harken to my woeful plaint , Now with sorrow I am faint , While I strain my voice to cry . O my Love , Oh my Love , Oh my Love why dost thou fly , Pity me or else I die . Tell me dearest tell me plain Why thou dost my Love disdain , Wherein have I done amiss That I am debar'd of bliss . Listen to my woeful cry , Oh my Love , Oh my Love , Oh my Love why dost thou fly Pity me or else I die . O Hard hearted Shepherd turn Let not Phillis longer mourn , See her tender body's torn With the bramble and the thorn , Harken to my mournful Song , Oh my Love , Oh my Love . O my Love why dost thou fly , Pity me or else I die . Why art thou more cruel far Then the Tiger and the Bear , Do not bear so fierce a mind As the wild beasts in their kind , Harken to my doleful cry , Oh my Love , Oh my Love , Oh my Love why dost thou fly , Pity me or else I die . Each green fields and shady Grove Bear you witness of my love , And the little Lambs which play In the flowery field so gay , Hear me while with grief I cry , Oh my Love , Oh my Love , Oh my Love why dost thou fly , Pity me or else I die . All you pretty birds that sings And you Crystal streaming springs That do murmur as you glide By the pleasant Meadows side , Bear a part when I do cry , Oh my Love , Oh my Love , Oh my Love why dost thou fly , Pity me or else I die . Pan thou god of Shepherd Swains Viewing these Arcadian plains , Cast and eye upon my grief Coridon hath played the thlef . Pity me when I do cry Oh my Love , Oh my Love , Oh my Love why dost thou fly , Turn again or else I die . Venus with thy naked boy After sorrow send me joy , Stop my Lover in his Raze And bring him to me face to face , That he once may hear me c [ r ] y , Oh my Love , Oh my Love , Oh my Love why didst thou fly , Pity me or else I die . You fair Nymphs that sport and play And Diana's laws obey , Did you not meet my Coridon Tell me which way he is gone , That I once may cease to cry , Oh my Love , Oh my Love , Oh my Love why dost thou fly , Pity me or else I die . Thus fair Phillis did complain On the pleasant flowery plain , Till at last her Lover came For to ease her of her pain . Then she thus began to cry , Oh my Love , Oh my Love , Oh my Love why didst thou fly . Ease me of my misery . Printed for W. Whitwood at the Golden Lion in Duck Lane . Phillis forsaken , In Pursuit of CORIDON . Behold fair Phillis by her Love forsaken In search of him that will not be o're taken , While she ( poor soul ) her cheeks with tears bedewing , Romes over hills and dales in vain pursuing . 'Twould melt a marble heart , her sad complaining While he seems deaf , her Love and she disdaining . To the Tune of , Daphnaes Complaint , or Oh my Love , etc AS I went abroad to play In a morning fresh and gay , Hearing the sweet Nightingale Tell her sad and doleful tale . Strait I herd a voice to cry , Oh my Love , Oh my Love , Oh my Love why dost thou fly , pity me or else I die . At the first I was amaz'd And with greedy eyes I gaz'd , Till at length I saw where stood Phillis in a pensive mood . Mournfully she thus did cry , Oh my Love , Oh my Love , Oh my Love why dost thou fly , Pity me or else I die . Turn Oh turn sweet Coridon Do not thus thy Phillis wrong , Harken to my woeful plaint , Now with sorrow I am faint , While I strain my voice to cry . O my Love , Oh my Love , Oh my Love why dost thou fly , Pity me or else I die . Tell me dearest tell me plain Why thou dost my Love disdain , Wherein have I done amiss That I am debar'd of bliss . Listen to my woeful cry , Oh my Love , Oh my Love , Oh my Love why dost thou fly Pity me or else I die . O Hard hearted Shepherd turn Let not Phillis longer mourn , See her tender body's torn With the bramble and the thorn , Harken to my mournful Song , Oh my Love , Oh my Love . O my Love why dost thou fly , Pity me or else I die . Why art thou more cruel far Then the Tiger and the Bear , Do not bear so fierce a mind As the wild beasts in their kind , Harken to my doleful cry , Oh my Love , Oh my Love , Oh my Love why dost thou fly , Pity me or else I die . Each green fields and shady Grove Bear you witness of my love , And the little Lambs which play In the flowery field so gay , Hear me while with grief I cry , Oh my Love , Oh my Love , Oh my Love why dost thou fly , Pity me or else I die . All you pretty birds that sings And you Crystal streaming springs That do murmur as you glide By the pleasant Meadows side , Bear a part when I do cry , Oh my Love , Oh my Love , Oh my Love why dost thou fly , Pity me or else I die . Pan thou god of Shepherd Swains Viewing these Arcadian plains , Cast and eye upon my grief Coridon hath played the thlef . Pity me when I do cry Oh my Love , Oh my Love , Oh my Love why dost thou fly , Turn again or else I die . Venus with thy naked boy After sorrow send me joy , Stop my Lover in his Raze And bring him to me face to face , That he once may hear me c [ r ] y , Oh my Love , Oh my Love , Oh my Love why didst thou fly , Pity me or else I die . You fair Nymphs that sport and play And Diana's laws obey , Did you not meet my Coridon Tell me which way he is gone , That I once may cease to cry , Oh my Love , Oh my Love , Oh my Love why dost thou fly , Pity me or else I die . Thus fair Phillis did complain On the pleasant flowery plain , Till at last her Lover came For to ease her of her pain . Then she thus began to cry , Oh my Love , Oh my Love , Oh my Love why didst thou fly . Ease me of my misery . Printed for W. Whitwood at the Golden Lion in Duck Lane . 