The Loyal Forrister , Or , Royal PASTIME ; Being a Pleasant Discourse between the KING and a Loyal KEEPER , who not knowing His Majesty , would not suffer him to Hunt in the Forest for any Reward whatsoever , which Faithfulness the King highly commended as you shall find by this following Ditty . To and Excellent New Tune . [ it was a Bold Keeper ] YOu Subject's of England come listen a while , Here is a new ditty may make you to smile ; It is of the King and a Keeper also , Who met in a Forest some winter's ago . O Early , Oh Early , all in a morning , King William rose early all in a morning , And a gown of gray russet King William put on , As tho' he had been but some silly poor man . The hounds was made ready prepar'd for the game , No Nobles attended of Honour and Fame ; But like a mean Subject in homely Array , He to his own Forest was taking his way . O then bespoke Marry our Most Royal Queen , My Gracious King William where are you going He answer'd , I count him to be no wise Man , That will tell his council to a Woman . All that I have offer'd I prithee now take , And do thy endeavour my peace for to make ; Beside forty shillings I'le give thee a Ring , If thou'lt not betray me to William our King . Your three hounds I tell you I never will take , Nor yet your three hawks your peace for to make , Nor will I be brib'd by your forty shilling , But I will betray you to William our King . As I am a Keeper I'le not be unjust , Nor for a Gold Ring will I forfeit my trust ; I'll bring you before him as sure as a Gun. And there you shall answer for what you have done . Thou art a bold fellow King William reply'd , What dost thou not see here the star at my side , This Forest is mine I wou'd kave you to know . Then what is the reason you threaten me so . With that the bold keeper he fell on his knees , a trembling fear his spirits did seize , The picture of death too appear'd in his face , He knew not at first that the King was in place . O pardon , Oh pardon my sovereign Liege , For your Royal pardon I beg and beseech , Alas my poor heart in my breast it is cold ! O let me not suffer for being so bold . The Queen with a modest behaviour reply'd , I wish that kind providence may be thy guide , To keep thee from danger my Sovereign Lord , The which will the greatest of comfort afford . He went to the Forest some pleasure to spy , The Greyhouds run swift , and the keeper drew nigh , Who cry'd you bold fellow how dare you come here , Without the King's leave to chase his fair Deer . I am one of his subject's I am one of his force , And I am come hither for to run a course , Get you gone bold fellow you run no course here , Without the leave of King William forbear . Here is my three hounds I will give them to you , And likewise my hawks they're as goodas e'er flew , Beside I will give thee full forty shilling , If thou'lt not betray me to William our King . Get up honest keeper and shake off thy fears , In thee there's nothing of folly appears If every one was as faithful as thee , Oh what a blessed Prince King William would be . Because I'd encourage such persons as you , I'll make thee my Ranger , if that will not do Thou shalt be a Captain by Sea or by Land , And high in my favour thou ever shalt stand . The keeper reply'd my great Sovereign Lord . Sure I am not worthy of such a reward , Yet nevertheless your true keeper I'll be Because I am fearful to venture by sea . At which the K , laugh'd till his sides he did hold , Then threw him down 20 bright Guinies of gold And bid him make haste to Kingsington Court ; where of this true jest he wou'd make pleasant sport And when you come thither pray ask for long Jack , Who wears a Pumgranet of goal at his back , Likewise a green Pheasant upon his right sleeve , I'll warrant he's a true man you may him believe . He's one of my Porters that stands at my Gate To let in my nobles both ear [ l ] y and late ; And therefore good fellow come up without fear , I'll make thee my Ranger of Parks far and near . Printed for C. B [ a ] tes in Pie-corner . The Loyal Forrister , Or , Royal PASTIME ; Being a Pleasant Discourse between the KING and a Loyal KEEPER , who not knowing His Majesty , would not suffer him to Hunt in the Forest for any Reward whatsoever , which Faithfulness the King highly commended as you shall find by this following Ditty . To and Excellent New Tune . [ it was a Bold Keeper ] YOu Subject's of England come listen a while , Here is a new ditty may make you to smile ; It is of the King and a Keeper also , Who met in a Forest some winter's ago . O Early , Oh Early , all in a morning , King William rose early all in a morning , And a gown of gray russet King William put on , As tho' he had been but some silly poor man . The hounds was made ready prepar'd for the game , No Nobles attended of Honour and Fame ; But like a mean Subject in homely Array , He to his own Forest was taking his way . O then bespoke Marry our Most Royal Queen , My Gracious King William where are you going He answer'd , I count him to be no wise Man , That will tell his council to a Woman . All that I have offer'd I prithee now take , And do thy endeavour my peace for to make ; Beside forty shillings I'le give thee a Ring , If thou'lt not betray me to William our King . Your three hounds I tell you I never will take , Nor yet your three hawks your peace for to make , Nor will I be brib'd by your forty shilling , But I will betray you to William our King . As I am a Keeper I'le not be unjust , Nor for a Gold Ring will I forfeit my trust ; I'll bring you before him as sure as a Gun. And there you shall answer for what you have done . Thou art a bold fellow King William reply'd , What dost thou not see here the star at my side , This Forest is mine I wou'd kave you to know . Then what is the reason you threaten me so . With that the bold keeper he fell on his knees , a trembling fear his spirits did seize , The picture of death too appear'd in his face , He knew not at first that the King was in place . O pardon , Oh pardon my sovereign Liege , For your Royal pardon I beg and beseech , Alas my poor heart in my breast it is cold ! O let me not suffer for being so bold . The Queen with a modest behaviour reply'd , I wish that kind providence may be thy guide , To keep thee from danger my Sovereign Lord , The which will the greatest of comfort afford . He went to the Forest some pleasure to spy , The Greyhouds run swift , and the keeper drew nigh , Who cry'd you bold fellow how dare you come here , Without the King's leave to chase his fair Deer . I am one of his subject's I am one of his force , And I am come hither for to run a course , Get you gone bold fellow you run no course here , Without the leave of King William forbear . Here is my three hounds I will give them to you , And likewise my hawks they're as goodas e'er flew , Beside I will give thee full forty shilling , If thou'lt not betray me to William our King . Get up honest keeper and shake off thy fears , In thee there's nothing of folly appears If every one was as faithful as thee , Oh what a blessed Prince King William would be . Because I'd encourage such persons as you , I'll make thee my Ranger , if that will not do Thou shalt be a Captain by Sea or by Land , And high in my favour thou ever shalt stand . The keeper reply'd my great Sovereign Lord . Sure I am not worthy of such a reward , Yet nevertheless your true keeper I'll be Because I am fearful to venture by sea . At which the K , laugh'd till his sides he did hold , Then threw him down 20 bright Guinies of gold And bid him make haste to Kingsington Court ; where of this true jest he wou'd make pleasant sport And when you come thither pray ask for long Jack , Who wears a Pumgranet of goal at his back , Likewise a green Pheasant upon his right sleeve , I'll warrant he's a true man you may him believe . He's one of my Porters that stands at my Gate To let in my nobles both ear [ l ] y and late ; And therefore good fellow come up without fear , I'll make thee my Ranger of Parks far and near . Printed for C. B [ a ] tes in Pie-corner . 