The Loyal Subject's exultation , for the Coronation of King Charls the Second . To the Tune of , When the King comes home in Peace again . WHat Writers could Prognosticate Concerning Englands happy fate ? Lilly ( I think ) had little wit That night his threshold was beshit , his Almanacs told King Charls never should Return to rule on English ground , but Lilly's a Liar , like the Devil his Sire , For now our Sovereign Charls is crown'd . What's now become of Lamberts power , Alas hee's Prisoner in the Tower : Better days will now ensue , Than ever yet poor England knew . then well may we sing for joy of our King , And in good Sack our sorrows drown'd for Charls is return'd , and the old Rump's burn'd , And now our Sovereign Charls is crown'd . Well may our hearts with joy abound , He that was twelve years lost is found , And they that once were in his Palace , Have made their beds under the Gallows , for Justice thought good , that such as thirst for blood , Should under go death's cruel wound , and after did bring a Crown to the King , For now our Sovereign Charls , etc We saw a change on every side , The Rump reviv'd when Cromwel dy'd And that Protector puppy Dick , They from his Highness soon did kick . and down from her Throne , they tumbled old Joan , Whereby her grief did much abound , for a General stout turn'd them also out , And now our Royal King is crown'd . The second part , to the same Tune . ENgland was but a senseless trunek , Until she was restor'd by Monck , Who in despite of Rump and Souldsers , Hath set her head upon her shoulders . where long let it stand to rule and command And be throughout the world renown'd let all honest men , say Amen , and Amen , For now our Sovereign Charls is crown'd . Welcome , welcome , happy light , The Sun ne'r saw a braver sighed , Solomon was a wise Prince The like till now , was ne'r known since . let all tongues with joy cry Vive le roy , And cast their Caps upon the ground let him ever be sad that now is not glad , When as our Sovereign , etc The Servingman of Mistress Lane , Is now our Lord and Sovereign , He that stood by the Kitchen fire Is now advanc'd a little higher , though skill he did lack to wind up the Jack , Yet wisdom in his heart was found , and Traitors must know though they then brought him low . That now most gloriously hee's crown'd . See how the loyal hearts prepare Their stately shows and Pageants rare . The weeping Conduits now combine To turn their water into wine , and London appears ( though stricken in years ) Just like a Virgin fresh and gay , such comfort a King to his Subject's does bring , Upon his Coronation day . Time was when we were stricken dumb , We might not pray ( thy Kingdom come ) But now a glorious time we see , The Gods rejoice as well as we , the Nymphs of the floods , and they of the woods That wear the Livery of May , the Birds of the air their parts they did bear , Upon his Coronation day . Lord bless the King , and blast the hope Of all false hearts that love the Pope , And frustrate all the wicked plots Of the Fanatics and the Scots , O may we increase in Plenty and Peace That after this blessed time we may in spite of all those that have been our foes , See many another happy day . London printed for F. Grove on Snow-hill . Entered according to Order . FINIS . The Loyal Subject's exultation , for the Coronation of King Charls the Second . To the Tune of , When the King comes home in Peace again . WHat Writers could Prognosticate Concerning Englands happy fate ? Lilly ( I think ) had little wit That night his threshold was beshit , his Almanacs told King Charls never should Return to rule on English ground , but Lilly's a Liar , like the Devil his Sire , For now our Sovereign Charls is crown'd . What's now become of Lamberts power , Alas hee's Prisoner in the Tower : Better days will now ensue , Than ever yet poor England knew . then well may we sing for joy of our King , And in good Sack our sorrows drown'd for Charls is return'd , and the old Rump's burn'd , And now our Sovereign Charls is crown'd . Well may our hearts with joy abound , He that was twelve years lost is found , And they that once were in his Palace , Have made their beds under the Gallows , for Justice thought good , that such as thirst for blood , Should under go death's cruel wound , and after did bring a Crown to the King , For now our Sovereign Charls , etc We saw a change on every side , The Rump reviv'd when Cromwel dy'd And that Protector puppy Dick , They from his Highness soon did kick . and down from her Throne , they tumbled old Joan , Whereby her grief did much abound , for a General stout turn'd them also out , And now our Royal King is crown'd . The second part , to the same Tune . ENgland was but a senseless trunek , Until she was restor'd by Monck , Who in despite of Rump and Souldsers , Hath set her head upon her shoulders . where long let it stand to rule and command And be throughout the world renown'd let all honest men , say Amen , and Amen , For now our Sovereign Charls is crown'd . Welcome , welcome , happy light , The Sun ne'r saw a braver sighed , Solomon was a wise Prince The like till now , was ne'r known since . let all tongues with joy cry Vive le roy , And cast their Caps upon the ground let him ever be sad that now is not glad , When as our Sovereign , etc The Servingman of Mistress Lane , Is now our Lord and Sovereign , He that stood by the Kitchen fire Is now advanc'd a little higher , though skill he did lack to wind up the Jack , Yet wisdom in his heart was found , and Traitors must know though they then brought him low . That now most gloriously hee's crown'd . See how the loyal hearts prepare Their stately shows and Pageants rare . The weeping Conduits now combine To turn their water into wine , and London appears ( though stricken in years ) Just like a Virgin fresh and gay , such comfort a King to his Subject's does bring , Upon his Coronation day . Time was when we were stricken dumb , We might not pray ( thy Kingdom come ) But now a glorious time we see , The Gods rejoice as well as we , the Nymphs of the floods , and they of the woods That wear the Livery of May , the Birds of the air their parts they did bear , Upon his Coronation day . Lord bless the King , and blast the hope Of all false hearts that love the Pope , And frustrate all the wicked plots Of the Fanatics and the Scots , O may we increase in Plenty and Peace That after this blessed time we may in spite of all those that have been our foes , See many another happy day . London printed for F. Grove on Snow-hill . Entered according to Order . FINIS . 