A Pretty Ballad of the Lord of Lorn , and the False Steward . Tune is , Green Sleeves . IT was a worthy Lord of Lorn , he was a Lord of high degree , He sent his Son unto the School to learn some Civility . He learned more in one day , than other Children did in three : And thus bespoke the Schoolmaster , to him tenderly : In faith thou art the honestest boy , as e're I blinkt on with my eye : I hope thou art some Easterling born , the Holy Ghost is with thee : He said he was no Easterling born , the Child thus answered courteously , My Father is the Lord of Lorn , and I his Son perdy . The Schoolmaster turned round about , his angry mood he could not suage , He marvel'd the Child could speak so wise , he being of so tender Age . He girded the Saddle to the Steed , the Bridle of the best Gold shown , He took his leave of his fellows all , and quickly he was gone . And when he came to his Father dear , he kneeled down on his knee , I am come to you Father he said , God's blessing give to me : Thou art welcome my son , he said , God's blessing I thee give : What tidings hast thou brought my son , being come so hastily ? I have brought tidings , Father , he said , and so liked it may be : There's ne'r a Doctor in all the Realm , for all he goes in rich Array , I can write him a Lesson soon , to learn in seven years day . That is good tidings , said the Lord , all in the place where I do stand , My son thou shalt into France go , to learn the speeches of each Land : Who shall go with him ? said the Lady , Husband we have none but he ; Madam , he said , my head steward , he hath been true to me . she call'd the steward to and account , a thousand pound she gave him annon ; says good sir steward be good to my child , while he is far from home . If I be false to my young Lord , may God justly punish me indeed . And now to France they both are gone , and God be their good speed . They had not been in France long , not three weeks to and end , But meat and drink the Child god none , nor money in Purse to spend : The Child run to the River side , he was fain to drink the water then , And after followed the false steward , to put the Child therein : But nay marry , said the Child , he asked mercy pitifully , Good steward let me have my life , what e're betide my body : Now put off thy fair Clothing , and give it me anon , so put thee off thy silking shirt , with many a golden seam But when the child was stripped naked , his body as white as the Lily flower , He might have been seen for his body , a Princes Paramour , He put him on and old kelter Coat , and Hose of the same above the knee , he bid him go to the shepherd's house , to keep sheep on a love lovely . The child said , what shall be my name ? good steward tell to me ; Thy name shall be poor dost thou wear , that thy name shall be . The child came to the shepherd's house . and asked mercy pitifully ; says , good shepherd take me in , to keep sheep on a love lovely : But when the shepherd saw the child , he was so pleasant in the eye , I have no child , i'll make thee my heir , thou shalt have my goods perdy . And then bespoke the shepherd's wife , unto the child so tenderly , Thou must take the sheep , and go to field , and keep them on a love lovely . Now let us leave talking of the Child , that is keeping sheep on the love lovely , And we'll talk more of the false steward , and of his false treachery . He bought himself three suits of Apparel , that a Lord might have seem'd to worn . He went a wooing to the Dukes daughter and called himself the Lord of Lorn . The Duke he welcomed the young Lord , with three baked Stags anon , If he had wist him the false Steward , to the devil he should have gone : But when they were at supper set , with dainty delicates that were there , The Duke said , if you will wed my daughter , i'le give thee a thousand pound a year : The Lady would see the read Buck run , and also for to hunt the Doe , And with and hundred lusty men the Lady did a hunting go : The Lady is a hunting gone over feanser that is so high , There was she aware of a shepherd's boy , with sheep on a love lovely : And over he sighed & made moan , & cried out pitifully , My father is the Lord of Lorn , & knows not what's become of me : And then bespoke the Lady gay , unto her Maid anon , Go fetch me hither the shepherd's boy , why makes he all this moan ? But when he came before the Lady , he was not to learn his Courtesy , Where wast thou born , thou bonny child ? for whose sake makest thou all this moan My dearest friend Lady , he said , is Dead many Years agon . Tell thou me , thou bonny child , tell me the truth & do not lie , Knowest thou not the Young Lord of Lorn he is come a Wooing unto me : Yes forsooth , says the child . I now the Lord then verily , The Young Lord is a valiant Lord , at home in his own Country . Wilt leave thy sheep , thou bonny child , and come in service unto me ? Yes forsooth then said the child , at your bidding will I be . When the steward looked upon the child , he bewailed him villianously , Where wast thou born thou vagabond ? or where is thy country ? Would down , would down , said the Lady , she called the steward then presently , Without you bear him more goodwill you get no love of me . Then bespoke the false Steward unto the Lady hastily , At Aberdine beyond the Seas his Father Robbed thousands three . BUt then bespoke the Lady gay , unto her father courteously , Saying , I have found a bonny child my Chamberlain to be . Not so , not so , then said the Duke , for so it may not be , For the Lord of Lorn that comes a wooing will think no good of thee nor me . When the Duke looked upon the child , he seemed so pleasant in the eye , Child , because thou lovest Horses well , my Groom of Stable thou shalt be . The child ply'd the Horses well , a twelve month to and end , He was so courteous & so true , every man became his friend : He led a fair Gelding to the water , where he might drink verily , The Gelding up with his heel and hit the child above the eye ; Woe worth thee horse , then said the child , that ever Mare foled thee , Thou little knowest what thou hast done , thou hast stricken a Lord of high degree The Duke's daughter was in her garden green she herd the child make great moan , She ran to the child all weeping , and left her Maidens all alone : Sing on thy song , thou bonny child , I will release thee of thy pain , I have made and Oath , Lady , he said , I dare not tell my tale again . Tell the Horse thy tale , thou bonny child , and so thy Oath shall saved be , But when he told the Horse his tale , the Lady wept most tenderly , I'll do for thee , my bonny child , in faith I will do more for thee , And for thy sake , my bonny child , i'll put my wedding off months three . The Lady did write a letter then , full pitifully with her own hand , She sent it to the Lord of Lorn . whereas he dwelled in fair Scotland , But when the Lord had read the letter , his Lady wept most tenderly , I knew what would become of my child , in such a far Country . The old Lord called up his merry men , and all that he gave cloth and fee , With seven Lords by his side , and into France rides he . The wind serv'd and they did sail so far into France land , They were aware of the Lord of Lorn , with a Porters staff in his hand , The Lord they moved hat and hand , the serving men fell on their knee , What folks be yonder , said the steward , that makes the Porter Courtesy ? Thou art a false thief , quod the Lord of Lorn , no longer might I bear with thee , By the Law of France thou shalt be judg'd whither it be to live or die . A Quest of Lords there chosen was , to bench they come hastily , But when the Quest was ended , the false steward must die . First they did him half hang , and then they took him down anon , And then put him in boiling led , & then was sodden breast and bone . And then bespoke the Lord of Lorn , with many other Lords more . Sir Duke if you be as willing as we , we'll have a Marriage before we go : Those children both they did rejoice , to hear the Lord his tale so ended , They had rather today than tomorrow , so he would not be offended . But when the wedding ended was , there was delicate dainty cheer , I'll tell you how long the wedding did last , full three quarters of a year : Such a banquet there was wrought , the like was never seen , The King of France brought with him then , a hundred tun of good read wine : F A Pretty Ballad of the Lord of Lorn , and the False Steward . Tune is , Green Sleeves . IT was a worthy Lord of Lorn , he was a Lord of high degree , He sent his Son unto the School to learn some Civility . He learned more in one day , than other Children did in three : And thus bespoke the Schoolmaster , to him tenderly : In faith thou art the honestest boy , as e're I blinkt on with my eye : I hope thou art some Easterling born , the Holy Ghost is with thee : He said he was no Easterling born , the Child thus answered courteously , My Father is the Lord of Lorn , and I his Son perdy . The Schoolmaster turned round about , his angry mood he could not suage , He marvel'd the Child could speak so wise , he being of so tender Age . He girded the Saddle to the Steed , the Bridle of the best Gold shown , He took his leave of his fellows all , and quickly he was gone . And when he came to his Father dear , he kneeled down on his knee , I am come to you Father he said , God's blessing give to me : Thou art welcome my son , he said , God's blessing I thee give : What tidings hast thou brought my son , being come so hastily ? I have brought tidings , Father , he said , and so liked it may be : There's ne'r a Doctor in all the Realm , for all he goes in rich Array , I can write him a Lesson soon , to learn in seven years day . That is good tidings , said the Lord , all in the place where I do stand , My son thou shalt into France go , to learn the speeches of each Land : Who shall go with him ? said the Lady , Husband we have none but he ; Madam , he said , my head steward , he hath been true to me . she call'd the steward to and account , a thousand pound she gave him annon ; says good sir steward be good to my child , while he is far from home . If I be false to my young Lord , may God justly punish me indeed . And now to France they both are gone , and God be their good speed . They had not been in France long , not three weeks to and end , But meat and drink the Child god none , nor money in Purse to spend : The Child run to the River side , he was fain to drink the water then , And after followed the false steward , to put the Child therein : But nay marry , said the Child , he asked mercy pitifully , Good steward let me have my life , what e're betide my body : Now put off thy fair Clothing , and give it me anon , so put thee off thy silking shirt , with many a golden seam But when the child was stripped naked , his body as white as the Lily flower , He might have been seen for his body , a Princes Paramour , He put him on and old kelter Coat , and Hose of the same above the knee , he bid him go to the shepherd's house , to keep sheep on a love lovely . The child said , what shall be my name ? good steward tell to me ; Thy name shall be poor dost thou wear , that thy name shall be . The child came to the shepherd's house . and asked mercy pitifully ; says , good shepherd take me in , to keep sheep on a love lovely : But when the shepherd saw the child , he was so pleasant in the eye , I have no child , i'll make thee my heir , thou shalt have my goods perdy . And then bespoke the shepherd's wife , unto the child so tenderly , Thou must take the sheep , and go to field , and keep them on a love lovely . Now let us leave talking of the Child , that is keeping sheep on the love lovely , And we'll talk more of the false steward , and of his false treachery . He bought himself three suits of Apparel , that a Lord might have seem'd to worn . He went a wooing to the Dukes daughter and called himself the Lord of Lorn . The Duke he welcomed the young Lord , with three baked Stags anon , If he had wist him the false Steward , to the devil he should have gone : But when they were at supper set , with dainty delicates that were there , The Duke said , if you will wed my daughter , i'le give thee a thousand pound a year : The Lady would see the read Buck run , and also for to hunt the Doe , And with and hundred lusty men the Lady did a hunting go : The Lady is a hunting gone over feanser that is so high , There was she aware of a shepherd's boy , with sheep on a love lovely : And over he sighed & made moan , & cried out pitifully , My father is the Lord of Lorn , & knows not what's become of me : And then bespoke the Lady gay , unto her Maid anon , Go fetch me hither the shepherd's boy , why makes he all this moan ? But when he came before the Lady , he was not to learn his Courtesy , Where wast thou born , thou bonny child ? for whose sake makest thou all this moan My dearest friend Lady , he said , is Dead many Years agon . Tell thou me , thou bonny child , tell me the truth & do not lie , Knowest thou not the Young Lord of Lorn he is come a Wooing unto me : Yes forsooth , says the child . I now the Lord then verily , The Young Lord is a valiant Lord , at home in his own Country . Wilt leave thy sheep , thou bonny child , and come in service unto me ? Yes forsooth then said the child , at your bidding will I be . When the steward looked upon the child , he bewailed him villianously , Where wast thou born thou vagabond ? or where is thy country ? Would down , would down , said the Lady , she called the steward then presently , Without you bear him more goodwill you get no love of me . Then bespoke the false Steward unto the Lady hastily , At Aberdine beyond the Seas his Father Robbed thousands three . BUt then bespoke the Lady gay , unto her father courteously , Saying , I have found a bonny child my Chamberlain to be . Not so , not so , then said the Duke , for so it may not be , For the Lord of Lorn that comes a wooing will think no good of thee nor me . When the Duke looked upon the child , he seemed so pleasant in the eye , Child , because thou lovest Horses well , my Groom of Stable thou shalt be . The child ply'd the Horses well , a twelve month to and end , He was so courteous & so true , every man became his friend : He led a fair Gelding to the water , where he might drink verily , The Gelding up with his heel and hit the child above the eye ; Woe worth thee horse , then said the child , that ever Mare foled thee , Thou little knowest what thou hast done , thou hast stricken a Lord of high degree The Duke's daughter was in her garden green she herd the child make great moan , She ran to the child all weeping , and left her Maidens all alone : Sing on thy song , thou bonny child , I will release thee of thy pain , I have made and Oath , Lady , he said , I dare not tell my tale again . Tell the Horse thy tale , thou bonny child , and so thy Oath shall saved be , But when he told the Horse his tale , the Lady wept most tenderly , I'll do for thee , my bonny child , in faith I will do more for thee , And for thy sake , my bonny child , i'll put my wedding off months three . The Lady did write a letter then , full pitifully with her own hand , She sent it to the Lord of Lorn . whereas he dwelled in fair Scotland , But when the Lord had read the letter , his Lady wept most tenderly , I knew what would become of my child , in such a far Country . The old Lord called up his merry men , and all that he gave cloth and fee , With seven Lords by his side , and into France rides he . The wind serv'd and they did sail so far into France land , They were aware of the Lord of Lorn , with a Porters staff in his hand , The Lord they moved hat and hand , the serving men fell on their knee , What folks be yonder , said the steward , that makes the Porter Courtesy ? Thou art a false thief , quod the Lord of Lorn , no longer might I bear with thee , By the Law of France thou shalt be judg'd whither it be to live or die . A Quest of Lords there chosen was , to bench they come hastily , But when the Quest was ended , the false steward must die . First they did him half hang , and then they took him down anon , And then put him in boiling led , & then was sodden breast and bone . And then bespoke the Lord of Lorn , with many other Lords more . Sir Duke if you be as willing as we , we'll have a Marriage before we go : Those children both they did rejoice , to hear the Lord his tale so ended , They had rather today than tomorrow , so he would not be offended . But when the wedding ended was , there was delicate dainty cheer , I'll tell you how long the wedding did last , full three quarters of a year : Such a banquet there was wrought , the like was never seen , The King of France brought with him then , a hundred tun of good read wine : Five set of Musicians were to be seen , that never rested night nor day . Also Italians there did sing , full pleasantly with great joy . Thus have you herd how troubles great , unto successive joys did turn , And happy News among the rest , unto the worthy Lord of Lorn . Let Rebels therefore warned be , how mischief once they do pretend , For God may suffer for a time , but will disclose it in the end . FINIS . Printed by and for A.M. and W.O. and sold by the Booksellers of Pye-Corner & Lon-don-Bridge . ive set of Musicians were to be seen , that never rested night nor day . Also Italians there did sing , full pleasantly with great joy . Thus have you herd how troubles great , unto successive joys did turn , And happy News among the rest , unto the worthy Lord of Lorn . Let Rebels therefore warned be , how mischief once they do pretend , For God may suffer for a time , but will disclose it in the end . FINIS . Printed by and for A.M. and W.O. and sold by the Booksellers of Pye-Corner & Lon-don-Bridge . 