The Low-Country Soldier : OR , His Humble Petition at his Return into England , after his Bold Adventures in Bloody Battles . To and excellent new Tune . Licensed according to Order . GOod your Worship cast and Eye Upon a Soldier's Misery ; Let not these lean Cheeks , I pray , Your Worship's Bounty from me stay ; But like a Noble Friend , Some Silver lend , And Jove shall pay you in the end , And I will pray that Fate , May make you Fortunate , In Heaven , or in some Earthly State . To Beg , I ne'er was bred , kind Sir , Which makes me blush to keep this stir ; Nor do I rove from Place to Place , For to make known my woeful Case : For I am none of those That a Roving goes , And in rambling show their drunken blows ; For all that they have god , Is by banging of the Pot , In wrangling who should pay their shot . Olympic Games I oft have seen , And in brave Battles have I been ; The Cannons there aloud did Roar , My proffer high was evermore : For , out of a Bravado , When in a Barricado , By tossing of a Hand-Granado , Death then then was very near , When it took away this Ear ; But yet , thank God , I'm here , I'm here , And at the Siege of Buda there , I was blown up into the Air , From whence I tumbled down again , And lay a while among the slave ; Yet rather than be beatrice , I god upon my Feet , And made the Enemy retreat ; My self and seven more We fought Eleven score ; The Rogues were ne'er so thrash'd before . I have , at least , a dozen times , Been blown up by these Roguish Mines , Twice through the Skull have I been shot , That my Brains do boil like any Po Such Dangers have I passed , At first and at last , As would make your Worship soar aghast . And there I lay for dead Till the Enemy was fled , And then they carried me home to Bed. At push of Pike I lost this Eye , And at Birgam Siege I broke this Thigh ; At Ostend , like a Warlike Lad , I laid about as I were mad ; But little would you think , That e'er I had been Such a good Old Soldier of the Queen . But if Sir Francis Vere Were living now , and here , He would tell you how I slash'd 'em there . The Hollanders my Fury know For oft with them I've dealt a Blow : Then did I take a Warlike Dance , Quite through Spain , and into France ; And there I spent a Flood Of very Noble Blood , Yet all would do but little good ; For now I home am come , With my Rags upon my Bum , And crave of your Worship one small Summ. And now my Case you understand , Pray lend to me your helping hand ; A little thing would pleasure me , To keep in mind your Charity : It is not Bred and Cheese , Nor Barley Lees , Or any such like Scraps as these ; But what I beg of you , Is a Shilling one or two , Kind Sir , your Purse-string pray undo . EPILOGUE . HAve I spent all my days in Bloody Wars , Thus slash'd , cabonado'd , & cut out in scars , Have I danc'd o'er the Ice , march'd thro' the Dirt Without either Hat , Hose , Shoe , or Shirt ? And must I now beg , bow , troop , trudge and trot , To every Pagan , and poor Peasant Sot ? No , by this Hand and Sword not I , That Man's not fit to Live that fears to Die : I'll Purse it then , the Highway is my Hope ; His Heart's not big , that fears a little Rope , ------ Stand , and Deliver , Sir ------ Here Boy take my Horse , walk him if thou'rt able , Led him a turn or two , & put him into th' Stable , As for you Mrs. Minks , don't at me Jeer , To Night for Supper let me have good Cheer ; My Pheasant , my Fowls , and choice of other Birds , I'll not be fed with Apple-pie , Cheese , and Curds : As for your Swine's Flesh , I'll eat none , Unless it be a Roast big , and then I may pick a bone . The rest my Boy shall Transport into his Snap - sack , and so we are prepared for the next Rendezvous . FINIS . Printed for C. Bates at the Sun and Bible in Pie-corner . The Low-Country Soldier : OR , His Humble Petition at his Return into England , after his Bold Adventures in Bloody Battles . To and excellent new Tune . Licensed according to Order . GOod your Worship cast and Eye Upon a Soldier's Misery ; Let not these lean Cheeks , I pray , Your Worship's Bounty from me stay ; But like a Noble Friend , Some Silver lend , And Jove shall pay you in the end , And I will pray that Fate , May make you Fortunate , In Heaven , or in some Earthly State . To Beg , I ne'er was bred , kind Sir , Which makes me blush to keep this stir ; Nor do I rove from Place to Place , For to make known my woeful Case : For I am none of those That a Roving goes , And in rambling show their drunken blows ; For all that they have god , Is by banging of the Pot , In wrangling who should pay their shot . Olympic Games I oft have seen , And in brave Battles have I been ; The Cannons there aloud did Roar , My proffer high was evermore : For , out of a Bravado , When in a Barricado , By tossing of a Hand-Granado , Death then then was very near , When it took away this Ear ; But yet , thank God , I'm here , I'm here , And at the Siege of Buda there , I was blown up into the Air , From whence I tumbled down again , And lay a while among the slave ; Yet rather than be beatrice , I god upon my Feet , And made the Enemy retreat ; My self and seven more We fought Eleven score ; The Rogues were ne'er so thrash'd before . I have , at least , a dozen times , Been blown up by these Roguish Mines , Twice through the Skull have I been shot , That my Brains do boil like any Po Such Dangers have I passed , At first and at last , As would make your Worship soar aghast . And there I lay for dead Till the Enemy was fled , And then they carried me home to Bed. At push of Pike I lost this Eye , And at Birgam Siege I broke this Thigh ; At Ostend , like a Warlike Lad , I laid about as I were mad ; But little would you think , That e'er I had been Such a good Old Soldier of the Queen . But if Sir Francis Vere Were living now , and here , He would tell you how I slash'd 'em there . The Hollanders my Fury know For oft with them I've dealt a Blow : Then did I take a Warlike Dance , Quite through Spain , and into France ; And there I spent a Flood Of very Noble Blood , Yet all would do but little good ; For now I home am come , With my Rags upon my Bum , And crave of your Worship one small Summ. And now my Case you understand , Pray lend to me your helping hand ; A little thing would pleasure me , To keep in mind your Charity : It is not Bred and Cheese , Nor Barley Lees , Or any such like Scraps as these ; But what I beg of you , Is a Shilling one or two , Kind Sir , your Purse-string pray undo . EPILOGUE . HAve I spent all my days in Bloody Wars , Thus slash'd , cabonado'd , & cut out in scars , Have I danc'd o'er the Ice , march'd thro' the Dirt Without either Hat , Hose , Shoe , or Shirt ? And must I now beg , bow , troop , trudge and trot , To every Pagan , and poor Peasant Sot ? No , by this Hand and Sword not I , That Man's not fit to Live that fears to Die : I'll Purse it then , the Highway is my Hope ; His Heart's not big , that fears a little Rope , ------ Stand , and Deliver , Sir ------ Here Boy take my Horse , walk him if thou'rt able , Led him a turn or two , & put him into th' Stable , As for you Mrs. Minks , don't at me Jeer , To Night for Supper let me have good Cheer ; My Pheasant , my Fowls , and choice of other Birds , I'll not be fed with Apple-pie , Cheese , and Curds : As for your Swine's Flesh , I'll eat none , Unless it be a Roast big , and then I may pick a bone . The rest my Boy shall Transport into his Snap - sack , and so we are prepared for the next Rendezvous . FINIS . Printed for C. Bates at the Sun and Bible in Pie-corner . 