b The Nobleman's Generous Kindness : OR , The Country Man's Unexpected Happiness : Giving a true Account of a Nobleman , who taking notice of the Poor Man's Industri - ous Care and Pains for the maintaining of his Charge , which was seven small Children , meeting him upon a Day , discoursed with him and invited him and his Wife , with his Children , home to his House , and accordingly bestowed upon him a Farm of thirty Acres of Land , to be con - tinued to him and his Heirs for ever . To the Tune of , The Two English Travellers . Licens'd according to Order . A Nobleman liv'd near a Village of late , Hard by a poor Thresher , whose Charge it was great , He had seven Children , and most of them small , And none but his labour to keep them withal . He never was given to idle and lurk , This Nobleman see him go daily to work , His flail , with his bag , and his bottle of beer , As cheerful as those that had Hundreds a Year . Thus careful and constant each Morning he went To his daily labour with joy and content , So jocund and jolly , both wistle and sing , As blithe and as brisk as a Bird in the Spring . One Morning this Noble Man taking his walk , He met with this poor Man , and freely did talk ; He asked him many a Question at large , Familiarly talking concerning his Charge : Thou hast many Children I very well know , Thy labour is hard , and thy wages is low , And yet thou art cheerful ; I pray tell me true , How you do maintain them so well as you do ? I carefully carry home all that I earn ; Now dasly experience by this I do learn , That though it is possible we may live poor , We still keep a ravenous wolf from the door , I reap and I mow , and I harrow and sow , Sometime I to hedging and ditching do go ; No work comes amiss , for I thresh [ ? ] worser I blow : Thus I eat my bred by the sweat of [ ? ] brow . My Wife she is willing to pull in the yoke , We live like two Lambs , and we never provoke Each other ; but like to the labouring Ant , We do our endeavour to keep us from want . And when I come home from my labour at night To my Wife and Children , in whom I delight , To hear them come round me with tattling noise ; Now these are the riches that poor Men enjoys . Though I am as weary as weary may be , The Youngest I commonly dance on my knee : I find that content is and absolute feast , I never repin'd at my Charge in the least . The Nobleman hearing then what he did say , Was pleas'd , and invited him home the next day ; His Wife and his Children he charg'd him to bring , In token of favour he gave him a ring . Then thanked his Honour , and taking his leave , He went to his Wife , who would hardly believe , But that this strange story himself he might raise , Yet seeing the ring she was then in amaze . Betimes in the morning the good Wife arose , And made them all fine with the best of their Clothes : The good Man and Wife , with his Children small , They then was to dine at the Nobleman's Hall . And when they came there , as the truth does report , All things was prepar'd in a plentiful sor And they at the Nobleman's table did dine , With all sorts of dainties , with plenty of Wine . All this being over , he soon let him know , What he then intended on him to bestow : A Farm , with full thirty good Acres of land , And gave him the writings then with his own hand . Because thou wast careful and good to thy Wife , I'll make thy days happy the rest of thy life ; It shall be for ever to thee , and thy Heir , For why ? I beheld thy industrious care . No tongue then was able in full to express The depth of their joy , and their true thankfulness , With many a courtesy and bow to the ground . But such Noblemen there is few to be found . London : Printed for E. Brooksby , at the Sign of the Golden-ball , in Pie-corner . b The Nobleman's Generous Kindness : OR , The Country Man's Unexpected Happiness : Giving a true Account of a Nobleman , who taking notice of the Poor Man's Industri - ous Care and Pains for the maintaining of his Charge , which was seven small Children , meeting him upon a Day , discoursed with him and invited him and his Wife , with his Children , home to his House , and accordingly bestowed upon him a Farm of thirty Acres of Land , to be con - tinued to him and his Heirs for ever . To the Tune of , The Two English Travellers . Licens'd according to Order . A Nobleman liv'd near a Village of late , Hard by a poor Thresher , whose Charge it was great , He had seven Children , and most of them small , And none but his labour to keep them withal . He never was given to idle and lurk , This Nobleman see him go daily to work , His flail , with his bag , and his bottle of beer , As cheerful as those that had Hundreds a Year . Thus careful and constant each Morning he went To his daily labour with joy and content , So jocund and jolly , both wistle and sing , As blithe and as brisk as a Bird in the Spring . One Morning this Noble Man taking his walk , He met with this poor Man , and freely did talk ; He asked him many a Question at large , Familiarly talking concerning his Charge : Thou hast many Children I very well know , Thy labour is hard , and thy wages is low , And yet thou art cheerful ; I pray tell me true , How you do maintain them so well as you do ? I carefully carry home all that I earn ; Now dasly experience by this I do learn , That though it is possible we may live poor , We still keep a ravenous wolf from the door , I reap and I mow , and I harrow and sow , Sometime I to hedging and ditching do go ; No work comes amiss , for I thresh [ ? ] worser I blow : Thus I eat my bred by the sweat of [ ? ] brow . My Wife she is willing to pull in the yoke , We live like two Lambs , and we never provoke Each other ; but like to the labouring Ant , We do our endeavour to keep us from want . And when I come home from my labour at night To my Wife and Children , in whom I delight , To hear them come round me with tattling noise ; Now these are the riches that poor Men enjoys . Though I am as weary as weary may be , The Youngest I commonly dance on my knee : I find that content is and absolute feast , I never repin'd at my Charge in the least . The Nobleman hearing then what he did say , Was pleas'd , and invited him home the next day ; His Wife and his Children he charg'd him to bring , In token of favour he gave him a ring . Then thanked his Honour , and taking his leave , He went to his Wife , who would hardly believe , But that this strange story himself he might raise , Yet seeing the ring she was then in amaze . Betimes in the morning the good Wife arose , And made them all fine with the best of their Clothes : The good Man and Wife , with his Children small , They then was to dine at the Nobleman's Hall . And when they came there , as the truth does report , All things was prepar'd in a plentiful sor And they at the Nobleman's table did dine , With all sorts of dainties , with plenty of Wine . All this being over , he soon let him know , What he then intended on him to bestow : A Farm , with full thirty good Acres of land , And gave him the writings then with his own hand . Because thou wast careful and good to thy Wife , I'll make thy days happy the rest of thy life ; It shall be for ever to thee , and thy Heir , For why ? I beheld thy industrious care . No tongue then was able in full to express The depth of their joy , and their true thankfulness , With many a courtesy and bow to the ground . But such Noblemen there is few to be found . London : Printed for E. Brooksby , at the Sign of the Golden-ball , in Pie-corner . 