A Loyal Subject's Admonition , or , a true Song of Brittians Civil Wars . Some with blind zeal , Religion did profess , Murder'd their lawful King , o wickedness Scripture nor Chronicle they could not bring , To show what subject's ever judged their King . King Charls beheaded was we understand , Proud Rebels they did live upon his Land , But now these Rebels are dispersed and gone , Few honest men I think for them make moan . If any man be angry at this Song , What e're he thinks hee'd best to hold his tongue . To the Tune of General Monks right march , that was sounded before him from Scotland to London , or the Highlanders march . GReat controversy hath been in England , but of the just cause there is few men do know , Rebellion for certain , as I understand , hath been the forerunner of sorrow and woe , For every Presbyter , Struck at the Mitre , Till they had got the world in a sling , but Monck hath confounded , each prick-eared roundhead , Now let's be Loyal and true to ourKing , The Scots did adventure at first to Rebel And Englishmen quickly this Lesson did learn , But Lucifer tumbled from Heaven to Hell , because his ambition he would not discern , And therefore be wary , lest be ensnare you , That count Rebellion a plausible thing , but Monck hath confounded , each prick-eared roundhead , Now let's be Loyaland true to our King . The City of London was zealous and hight , to manage the cause of the Scots government Forten thousand soldiers they raised I wot ; to go a King catching it was their intent ; rich they would make him , if they could take him , Such fair pretences through Britain did ring , But Monck hath confounned , each prick-eared roundhead , Now let's be Loyal and true to our King . Much like a Partridge the King they did chase , from mountain to mountain they did him pursue They quickly dispersed all the Royal raze , with their Loyal subject's , these Verses are true , then any Layman , Brewer or Drayman , Could make a Throne or a Pulpit to ring , but Monck hath confounded , each prick-eared roundhead , Now let's be Loyal and true to our King . WHen with their base power they'd conquered his friends they quickly surprised the Kings Majesty , These zealots Religion , was for their own ends , their Oath of Allegiance they then did defy a Scaffold erected , Murder effected ; Heathens ne'r acted so horrid a thing , but Monck hath confounded , each prick-eared roundhead , Now let's be Loyal and true to our King . But while these Rebels did thus tyrannise , a terrible Governor quickly arose , Although Kingly government they did despise , ' [ tO ] was treason to meddle with Olivers Nose , for he like a Hector , was their Protector , Rebels had shelter under his wing : but Monck hath confounded , each prick-eared roundhead , Now let's be Loyal and true to our King . This Tyrants government lasted too long , for Rebels in England did daily increase , Yet none but poor Cavaliers suffer'd wrong , while every Ass was made Justice of Peace , and Cavys must stand sir , with Cap in hand sie , At their command sir , in every thing : but Monck hath confounded , each prick-eared roundhead , Now let's be Loyal and true to our King . Worshipful Walton god Sommersome Park , without any labour or taking of pains , And Wagstaffe that Major was counted a Spark , although he did live upon other men's means , and Rainsborough nimble , sleighted his Thimble , When Higham Park such profit did bring , but Monck hath confounded , each prick-eared roundhead , Now let's be Loyal and true to our King . These pitiful fellows are all put to flight , which thought that their pleasures would never ha'end For they in ambition did take such delight , there's many supposes they'l be hang'd ere they'l mend for they in their bravery , acted such knavery , Curbing true subject's in every thing , but Monck hath confounded , each prick-eared roundhead , Now let us be loyal and true to our King , I wish with my heart all the Kings enemies both Rebels and Traitors on Tyborn may swing That every moment do mischief devise , and can't be content with a Protestant King , Esquire Dun take them , never forsake them Until thou make them peep through a string , now Monck hath confounded , each prick-eared roundhead , Now let's be loyal and true to our King . Composed by loyal T. J. FINIS . London , Printed for F. Grove on Snow-hill . A Loyal Subject's Admonition , or , a true Song of Brittians Civil Wars . Some with blind zeal , Religion did profess , Murder'd their lawful King , o wickedness Scripture nor Chronicle they could not bring , To show what subject's ever judged their King . King Charls beheaded was we understand , Proud Rebels they did live upon his Land , But now these Rebels are dispersed and gone , Few honest men I think for them make moan . If any man be angry at this Song , What e're he thinks hee'd best to hold his tongue . To the Tune of General Monks right march , that was sounded before him from Scotland to London , or the Highlanders march . GReat controversy hath been in England , but of the just cause there is few men do know , Rebellion for certain , as I understand , hath been the forerunner of sorrow and woe , For every Presbyter , Struck at the Mitre , Till they had got the world in a sling , but Monck hath confounded , each prick-eared roundhead , Now let's be Loyal and true to ourKing , The Scots did adventure at first to Rebel And Englishmen quickly this Lesson did learn , But Lucifer tumbled from Heaven to Hell , because his ambition he would not discern , And therefore be wary , lest be ensnare you , That count Rebellion a plausible thing , but Monck hath confounded , each prick-eared roundhead , Now let's be Loyaland true to our King . The City of London was zealous and hight , to manage the cause of the Scots government Forten thousand soldiers they raised I wot ; to go a King catching it was their intent ; rich they would make him , if they could take him , Such fair pretences through Britain did ring , But Monck hath confounned , each prick-eared roundhead , Now let's be Loyal and true to our King . Much like a Partridge the King they did chase , from mountain to mountain they did him pursue They quickly dispersed all the Royal raze , with their Loyal subject's , these Verses are true , then any Layman , Brewer or Drayman , Could make a Throne or a Pulpit to ring , but Monck hath confounded , each prick-eared roundhead , Now let's be Loyal and true to our King . WHen with their base power they'd conquered his friends they quickly surprised the Kings Majesty , These zealots Religion , was for their own ends , their Oath of Allegiance they then did defy a Scaffold erected , Murder effected ; Heathens ne'r acted so horrid a thing , but Monck hath confounded , each prick-eared roundhead , Now let's be Loyal and true to our King . But while these Rebels did thus tyrannise , a terrible Governor quickly arose , Although Kingly government they did despise , ' [ tO ] was treason to meddle with Olivers Nose , for he like a Hector , was their Protector , Rebels had shelter under his wing : but Monck hath confounded , each prick-eared roundhead , Now let's be Loyal and true to our King . This Tyrants government lasted too long , for Rebels in England did daily increase , Yet none but poor Cavaliers suffer'd wrong , while every Ass was made Justice of Peace , and Cavys must stand sir , with Cap in hand sie , At their command sir , in every thing : but Monck hath confounded , each prick-eared roundhead , Now let's be Loyal and true to our King . Worshipful Walton god Sommersome Park , without any labour or taking of pains , And Wagstaffe that Major was counted a Spark , although he did live upon other men's means , and Rainsborough nimble , sleighted his Thimble , When Higham Park such profit did bring , but Monck hath confounded , each prick-eared roundhead , Now let's be Loyal and true to our King . These pitiful fellows are all put to flight , which thought that their pleasures would never ha'end For they in ambition did take such delight , there's many supposes they'l be hang'd ere they'l mend for they in their bravery , acted such knavery , Curbing true subject's in every thing , but Monck hath confounded , each prick-eared roundhead , Now let us be loyal and true to our King , I wish with my heart all the Kings enemies both Rebels and Traitors on Tyborn may swing That every moment do mischief devise , and can't be content with a Protestant King , Esquire Dun take them , never forsake them Until thou make them peep through a string , now Monck hath confounded , each prick-eared roundhead , Now let's be loyal and true to our King . Composed by loyal T. J. FINIS . London , Printed for F. Grove on Snow-hill . 