The Loyal Subject Resolution , Who in Defence of his King will Fight For to Maintain his Countries Right ; Inviting all his fellow peers To Lift themselves for Volunteeres . To the Tune of , Turn Love . BRave English boys come follow me , And I will led the Van , My heart is bent courageously To venture stoutly on : I hate the thoughts of Cowardice , Or such a dirty thing , I'll to the Wars go Volunteer In service for the King . The Netherlanders make their boast In a pr [ e ] sumptuous manner , To rove upon our English Coast And rob us of our Honour : But of stouted hearted London Lads , a party I will bring , I'll to the Wars etc A gallant Fleet is setting out Brave English-men of War , Accompanied with Soldiers stout , Bold hearts and void of fear , Prepared and accoutered In habit for the Sea : I'll to the Wars go Volunteer And serve his Majesty . The Duke of York rites Admiral , His Highness we [ l ] e attend This Noble hearted General Will prove our Countries friend ; But when we come upon the Seas Then merrily we will Sing , And boldly venture in the Wars And service for the King . THeir States are grown so quarrelsome , They now exclude their Prince , But their unlawful Governments All Nations will Convince , From those confused multitudes Of Sects , does Rebels Spring , Which in our land did mischief plot , Against our gracious King . When Rebellion there was hatch Against their Master's Throne And Army was forthwith dispatched To make the Town their own : But wee'le subdue the Trojans true If they our Force will try , And boldly Fight for Englands Right To serve his Majesty . When Cromwell's Nose they did oppose , The English pierced their life : But when Usurpers fallen at odds The Devil must end the strife : But now we have encouragement To show our Loyalty : Wee'le to the Wars go Volunteeres And serve his Majesty . What though we be but Prentices , We have our Master's grant , Then shall the terror of the Seas Our Courage never daun As Fortune favours many a man , We may advanced be When in the Wars like Volunteres We serve his Majesty . They all complain that Guines gone And their men Routed there , Their Castles taken and undone , Which makes them drink and swear , But the truth is , they would have taken Our Forts by Treachery , Wherefore let us go Volunteres And serve his Majesty . The Neagars of that Country , With English Forces joins , And march's against their Enemies To purchase Golden Mines . To take and ransack Garrisons , Rich Plunder would there be : I'll to the Wars go Voluntere And serve his Majesty . Brave Lawson does upon us call , And does for War prepare Against the Hollanders Forces all That prate and dominere . Heel give the Onset , One to Three , And make their Ears to Ring , I'll to the Wars go Voluntere And Venture for the King . With Allowance . London , Printed by T. Mabb , for Richard Burton at the Horshoe in Smithfield . The Loyal Subject Resolution , Who in Defence of his King will Fight For to Maintain his Countries Right ; Inviting all his fellow peers To Lift themselves for Volunteeres . To the Tune of , Turn Love . BRave English boys come follow me , And I will led the Van , My heart is bent courageously To venture stoutly on : I hate the thoughts of Cowardice , Or such a dirty thing , I'll to the Wars go Volunteer In service for the King . The Netherlanders make their boast In a pr [ e ] sumptuous manner , To rove upon our English Coast And rob us of our Honour : But of stouted hearted London Lads , a party I will bring , I'll to the Wars etc A gallant Fleet is setting out Brave English-men of War , Accompanied with Soldiers stout , Bold hearts and void of fear , Prepared and accoutered In habit for the Sea : I'll to the Wars go Volunteer And serve his Majesty . The Duke of York rites Admiral , His Highness we [ l ] e attend This Noble hearted General Will prove our Countries friend ; But when we come upon the Seas Then merrily we will Sing , And boldly venture in the Wars And service for the King . THeir States are grown so quarrelsome , They now exclude their Prince , But their unlawful Governments All Nations will Convince , From those confused multitudes Of Sects , does Rebels Spring , Which in our land did mischief plot , Against our gracious King . When Rebellion there was hatch Against their Master's Throne And Army was forthwith dispatched To make the Town their own : But wee'le subdue the Trojans true If they our Force will try , And boldly Fight for Englands Right To serve his Majesty . When Cromwell's Nose they did oppose , The English pierced their life : But when Usurpers fallen at odds The Devil must end the strife : But now we have encouragement To show our Loyalty : Wee'le to the Wars go Volunteeres And serve his Majesty . What though we be but Prentices , We have our Master's grant , Then shall the terror of the Seas Our Courage never daun As Fortune favours many a man , We may advanced be When in the Wars like Volunteres We serve his Majesty . They all complain that Guines gone And their men Routed there , Their Castles taken and undone , Which makes them drink and swear , But the truth is , they would have taken Our Forts by Treachery , Wherefore let us go Volunteres And serve his Majesty . The Neagars of that Country , With English Forces joins , And march's against their Enemies To purchase Golden Mines . To take and ransack Garrisons , Rich Plunder would there be : I'll to the Wars go Voluntere And serve his Majesty . Brave Lawson does upon us call , And does for War prepare Against the Hollanders Forces all That prate and dominere . Heel give the Onset , One to Three , And make their Ears to Ring , I'll to the Wars go Voluntere And Venture for the King . With Allowance . London , Printed by T. Mabb , for Richard Burton at the Horshoe in Smithfield . The Loyal Subject Resolution , Who in Defence of his King will Fight For to Maintain his Countries Right ; Inviting all his fellow peers To Lift themselves for Volunteeres . To the Tune of , Turn Love . BRave English boys come follow me , And I will led the Van , My heart is bent courageously To venture stoutly on : I hate the thoughts of Cowardice , Or such a dirty thing , I'll to the Wars go Volunteer In service for the King . The Netherlanders make their boast In a pr [ e ] sumptuous manner , To rove upon our English Coast And rob us of our Honour : But of stouted hearted London Lads , a party I will bring , I'll to the Wars etc A gallant Fleet is setting out Brave English-men of War , Accompanied with Soldiers stout , Bold hearts and void of fear , Prepared and accoutered In habit for the Sea : I'll to the Wars go Volunteer And serve his Majesty . The Duke of York rites Admiral , His Highness we [ l ] e attend This Noble hearted General Will prove our Countries friend ; But when we come upon the Seas Then merrily we will Sing , And boldly venture in the Wars And service for the King . THeir States are grown so quarrelsome , They now exclude their Prince , But their unlawful Governments All Nations will Convince , From those confused multitudes Of Sects , does Rebels Spring , Which in our land did mischief plot , Against our gracious King . When Rebellion there was hatch Against their Master's Throne And Army was forthwith dispatched To make the Town their own : But wee'le subdue the Trojans true If they our Force will try , And boldly Fight for Englands Right To serve his Majesty . When Cromwell's Nose they did oppose , The English pierced their life : But when Usurpers fallen at odds The Devil must end the strife : But now we have encouragement To show our Loyalty : Wee'le to the Wars go Volunteeres And serve his Majesty . What though we be but Prentices , We have our Master's grant , Then shall the terror of the Seas Our Courage never daun As Fortune favours many a man , We may advanced be When in the Wars like Volunteres We serve his Majesty . They all complain that Guines gone And their men Routed there , Their Castles taken and undone , Which makes them drink and swear , But the truth is , they would have taken Our Forts by Treachery , Wherefore let us go Volunteres And serve his Majesty . The Neagars of that Country , With English Forces joins , And march's against their Enemies To purchase Golden Mines . To take and ransack Garrisons , Rich Plunder would there be : I'll to the Wars go Voluntere And serve his Majesty . Brave Lawson does upon us call , And does for War prepare Against the Hollanders Forces all That prate and dominere . Heel give the Onset , One to Three , And make their Ears to Ring , I'll to the Wars go Voluntere And Venture for the King . With Allowance . London , Printed by T. Mabb , for Richard Burton at the Horshoe in Smithfield . The Loyal Subject Resolution , Who in Defence of his King will Fight For to Maintain his Countries Right ; Inviting all his fellow peers To Lift themselves for Volunteeres . To the Tune of , Turn Love . BRave English boys come follow me , And I will led the Van , My heart is bent courageously To venture stoutly on : I hate the thoughts of Cowardice , Or such a dirty thing , I'll to the Wars go Volunteer In service for the King . The Netherlanders make their boast In a pr [ e ] sumptuous manner , To rove upon our English Coast And rob us of our Honour : But of stouted hearted London Lads , a party I will bring , I'll to the Wars etc A gallant Fleet is setting out Brave English-men of War , Accompanied with Soldiers stout , Bold hearts and void of fear , Prepared and accoutered In habit for the Sea : I'll to the Wars go Volunteer And serve his Majesty . The Duke of York rites Admiral , His Highness we [ l ] e attend This Noble hearted General Will prove our Countries friend ; But when we come upon the Seas Then merrily we will Sing , And boldly venture in the Wars And service for the King . THeir States are grown so quarrelsome , They now exclude their Prince , But their unlawful Governments All Nations will Convince , From those confused multitudes Of Sects , does Rebels Spring , Which in our land did mischief plot , Against our gracious King . When Rebellion there was hatch Against their Master's Throne And Army was forthwith dispatched To make the Town their own : But wee'le subdue the Trojans true If they our Force will try , And boldly Fight for Englands Right To serve his Majesty . When Cromwell's Nose they did oppose , The English pierced their life : But when Usurpers fallen at odds The Devil must end the strife : But now we have encouragement To show our Loyalty : Wee'le to the Wars go Volunteeres And serve his Majesty . What though we be but Prentices , We have our Master's grant , Then shall the terror of the Seas Our Courage never daun As Fortune favours many a man , We may advanced be When in the Wars like Volunteres We serve his Majesty . They all complain that Guines gone And their men Routed there , Their Castles taken and undone , Which makes them drink and swear , But the truth is , they would have taken Our Forts by Treachery , Wherefore let us go Volunteres And serve his Majesty . The Neagars of that Country , With English Forces joins , And march's against their Enemies To purchase Golden Mines . To take and ransack Garrisons , Rich Plunder would there be : I'll to the Wars go Voluntere And serve his Majesty . Brave Lawson does upon us call , And does for War prepare Against the Hollanders Forces all That prate and dominere . Heel give the Onset , One to Three , And make their Ears to Ring , I'll to the Wars go Voluntere And Venture for the King . With Allowance . London , Printed by T. Mabb , for Richard Burton at the Horshoe in Smithfield . 