E : 277 A pleasant new Ballad to look upon , How Malt deals with every man . MAs Malt is a Gentlemen , and hath been since the world began I never in my life knew any man , could match with master Malt sir . I never knew any match Malt but once , The Miller with his grinding stones , He pul'd his flesh from off his bones , you never saw the like sir . Malt , Malt , thou art a flower , Beloved right well in every Bower . Thou canst not be missing one half hour , you never , etc For laying the stones so close , Malt gave the Miller a Copper-nose , Saying thou and I will never be foes , but unto thee i'le stick sir . Malt gave the Miller such a blow , That from his horse he fell full low , He taught him his master Malt to know , you never , etc Our Hostis maid was much to blame , To steal Malt away from her Dame , And in her belly hid the same ; you never , etc That when the malt did work in her head Twice in a day she would be sped , At night she could not get to bed , nor scarce stand on her feet sir . Then came in Master Smith , And said that Malt he was a thief , but Malt gave him such a dash i'th teeth , you never , etc For when his Iron was hight and read , He had such and ach all in his head , His boon Comrades god him to bed , for he was very sick sir . The Carpenter came a piece to square , And bid Malt come if he dare , He'd twack his sides and belly bore , and him full soundly beatrice sir . to the fire he went well warmed with chips Malt hit him right betwixt the lips' And made him lame on both his hips , you never , etc The Shoemaker sitting on his seat , At Master Malt began to fret , He said he would the Knave so beatrice , with his sharp Spanish Knife sir . But Malt came peeping through the hall And did his brains so fiercely mall , He turned round and caught a fallen , you never , etc The Weaver sitting in the Loom , He threatened Malt a cruel doom , And make him to repulse the room ? or throw him in a Dike sir . Whereat a Court some Weavers kept , And to their Hostess boldly slept , Till charg'd with double pots they slept , you never , etc The Tinker took the Weavers part , Such furious rage possessed his heart , He took the pot and drank a quart , his wits were very ripe sir . For Malt the upper hand so god , He knew not hew to pay the shot , But part without the reckoning pot , and found his stomach sick sir . The Taylor came to grind his shears , And shows to Malt what spleen he bears , But soon they fell together by the ears , and soar each other struck sir . And when his pressing Iron was hight , He pressed a board instead of a coat , And sailed home in a Feather-bed-boat , you never , etc The Tinker walking round the pan , But Malt much feared his beer-mouth'd can Though he had conquer'd many a man , and laid him in the dike sir . Yet was the Tinker gladly fain , With Malt to have a bout or twain , Till he again was shot i'th brain , you never , etc Then bespoke the Tinker anon , And said he'd prove himself a man , And laid at Malt till his legs were gone you never , etc The Sailor he did curse and ban , He bid the boy go tap the Can , I'll have a bout with Malt anon , you never , etc Aboard they went to try the match , And long they played at hope and catch , Till Malt bestow'd him under a hatch , you never , etc Then came a Chapman traveling by , With cheapening long his throat was dry , And at Master Malt did fly , and furiously him struck sir . Till having laid at Malt apace , Great store of blood was in his face , And he was found in such a case , you never , etc The Mason came and Oven to make , The Bricklayer he his part did take , They bound him to the good Alestake , you never , etc Then Malt began to tell his mind , And ply'd them with Ale , Beer , & Wine , They left the Brick-axe , Trowel behind , they could not lay a brick sir . Then came the Laboror in his hood , And saw his two master's how they stood , He took Mas [ tO ] er Malt by the hood , and swore he would him strike sir . Malt he ran and for fear did weep , The Laboror he did skip and leap , But Malt made him into the Mortar to leap , and there he fell a sleep sir . The Glover came to buy a Skin , Malt hit him right above the chin , The Pewter-John came tumbling in , you never , etc And laid on heads , and arms , and joints , Took away gloves and a gross of points , and swore they'd pay him in quarts & pints , you never , etc Thus of my song i'le make and end , And pray my host to be my friend To give me some drink or money to spend , for Malt and I am quiet sir . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . E : 277 A pleasant new Ballad to look upon , How Malt deals with every man . MAs Malt is a Gentlemen , and hath been since the world began I never in my life knew any man , could match with master Malt sir . I never knew any match Malt but once , The Miller with his grinding stones , He pul'd his flesh from off his bones , you never saw the like sir . Malt , Malt , thou art a flower , Beloved right well in every Bower . Thou canst not be missing one half hour , you never , etc For laying the stones so close , Malt gave the Miller a Copper-nose , Saying thou and I will never be foes , but unto thee i'le stick sir . Malt gave the Miller such a blow , That from his horse he fell full low , He taught him his master Malt to know , you never , etc Our Hostis maid was much to blame , To steal Malt away from her Dame , And in her belly hid the same ; you never , etc That when the malt did work in her head Twice in a day she would be sped , At night she could not get to bed , nor scarce stand on her feet sir . Then came in Master Smith , And said that Malt he was a thief , but Malt gave him such a dash i'th teeth , you never , etc For when his Iron was hight and read , He had such and ach all in his head , His boon Comrades god him to bed , for he was very sick sir . The Carpenter came a piece to square , And bid Malt come if he dare , He'd twack his sides and belly bore , and him full soundly beatrice sir . to the fire he went well warmed with chips Malt hit him right betwixt the lips' And made him lame on both his hips , you never , etc The Shoemaker sitting on his seat , At Master Malt began to fret , He said he would the Knave so beatrice , with his sharp Spanish Knife sir . But Malt came peeping through the hall And did his brains so fiercely mall , He turned round and caught a fallen , you never , etc The Weaver sitting in the Loom , He threatened Malt a cruel doom , And make him to repulse the room ? or throw him in a Dike sir . Whereat a Court some Weavers kept , And to their Hostess boldly slept , Till charg'd with double pots they slept , you never , etc The Tinker took the Weavers part , Such furious rage possessed his heart , He took the pot and drank a quart , his wits were very ripe sir . For Malt the upper hand so god , He knew not hew to pay the shot , But part without the reckoning pot , and found his stomach sick sir . The Taylor came to grind his shears , And shows to Malt what spleen he bears , But soon they fell together by the ears , and soar each other struck sir . And when his pressing Iron was hight , He pressed a board instead of a coat , And sailed home in a Feather-bed-boat , you never , etc The Tinker walking round the pan , But Malt much feared his beer-mouth'd can Though he had conquer'd many a man , and laid him in the dike sir . Yet was the Tinker gladly fain , With Malt to have a bout or twain , Till he again was shot i'th brain , you never , etc Then bespoke the Tinker anon , And said he'd prove himself a man , And laid at Malt till his legs were gone you never , etc The Sailor he did curse and ban , He bid the boy go tap the Can , I'll have a bout with Malt anon , you never , etc Aboard they went to try the match , And long they played at hope and catch , Till Malt bestow'd him under a hatch , you never , etc Then came a Chapman traveling by , With cheapening long his throat was dry , And at Master Malt did fly , and furiously him struck sir . Till having laid at Malt apace , Great store of blood was in his face , And he was found in such a case , you never , etc The Mason came and Oven to make , The Bricklayer he his part did take , They bound him to the good Alestake , you never , etc Then Malt began to tell his mind , And ply'd them with Ale , Beer , & Wine , They left the Brick-axe , Trowel behind , they could not lay a brick sir . Then came the Laboror in his hood , And saw his two master's how they stood , He took Mas [ tO ] er Malt by the hood , and swore he would him strike sir . Malt he ran and for fear did weep , The Laboror he did skip and leap , But Malt made him into the Mortar to leap , and there he fell a sleep sir . The Glover came to buy a Skin , Malt hit him right above the chin , The Pewter-John came tumbling in , you never , etc And laid on heads , and arms , and joints , Took away gloves and a gross of points , and swore they'd pay him in quarts & pints , you never , etc Thus of my song i'le make and end , And pray my host to be my friend To give me some drink or money to spend , for Malt and I am quiet sir . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 