E : 281 A Pleasant new Ballad , to sing Evening and Morn , Of the bloody Murder of Sir John Barlycorn , The tune is , shall I lie beyond thee . AS I went through the North Country I herd a merry meeting , A p [ l ] ees [ a ] nt toy and full of joy two Noblemen were greeting , And as they walked forth to sport , upon a Summer's day , They met another Noble man with whom they'd had a fray . His name was Sir John Barlycorn , he dwelled down in a Vale And had a Kinsman dwelled with him , they called him Thomas Good Ale . Then one nam Sir Richard Beer was ready at that tO [ i ] me , And likewise came a busy Pier call'd Sir William White-wine . Some of them fought in a black Jack , some of them in a Can , But yet the chiefest in a black Pot fought like a Noble man : Sir Barlycorn fought in a bowl , who wone the victory , Which made them all to chafe and swear , that Barlicorn should die , Some said him kill , some said him drown , some wished to hang him high , For those that followed Birlycorn they said would beggars die , Then with a blow they plowed him up , and thus they did Devise To bury him quick within the Earth and swore he should not rise . With harrows strong they came to him and burst clods on his head , joyfu [ l ] banquet then was made , when Barlycorn was dead . He rested still upon the Earth , till rain from sky did fallen , Then he grew up on branches green . which soar amaz'd them all , Increasing thus till Midsummer , he made them all afear'd , For he sprang up on high and god a goodly beard When ripening to St. James-tide , his countenance waxed wan , Yet now full grown in parter strength . and thus became a man , Wherefore with hooks and sickles keen unto the field they hy'd , They cut his legs off by the knees and limb from limb divide . Then bloodily they cut him down , from place where he did stand , And like a thief for treachery they bound him in a band , So then they took him up again , according to his kind , And plac [ ' ] worser him up in several stakes to wither with the wind . Then with a pitchfork sharp and long they rend him to the heart . And traitorlike for treason vild they bound him in a Cart. And tending him with weapons strong unto the town they high , Whereas they mow'd him in a Mow and so they let him lie . They left him groaning by the walls till all his wounds were soar , And having took him up again , they cast him on a floor , And hired two with holly Clubs to beatrice at him at once , Who thwacked so hard on Barlicorn the flesh fell from his bones , Then after took him up again , to please some women's mind , Yea dusted , found , and sifted him , till he was almost bind . Full fast th [ e ] y kit him in a sack , which grieved him very soar , And soundly steep [ worser ] him in a fat , for three days space and more , From whence again they took him out and laid him forth to dry , Then cast him on a Chamber floor and swore that he should Die , They rub'd and stirred him up and down and oft did toil and ture , The Maltman likewise vows his death his body should be sure , They pull [ ' ] worser and hol'd him yet up in spite , and threw him on a Kill , Yea dried him on fire hight the more to work their will , Then to the Mill they forced him straight whereas they bruised his bones . The Miller swore to murder him betwixt a pair of stones . The last time when they took him up and served him worse then that , For with hight scalding liquour store they washed him in a fat . But not content with this God wot they wrought him so much harm . With cruel threat they promise next to beatrice him into barm , And lying in this danger deep , for fear that he should quarrel , They heav'd him straight out of the fat and turned him in the barrel , They gor'd and broached it with a Tap so thus his Death began , And drew out every Dram of blood while any drop would run . Some brought in Jacks upon their backs some brought Bowl and pail , Yea every man some weapon had poor Barlicorn to kill . When Sir John Good Ale herd of this , he came with much might , And took by strength their tongues away their legs and eke their sighed . Sir John at last in his respect , so paid them all their hire , Then some lay bleeding by the walls some tumbling in the mire . Some sadly droaning by the walls some fell ith streets down right , The wisest of them scarcely knew what he had done over night . All you good wives that brew good Ale , God keep you from all teen , But if you put too much water in , the Devil put out your Eyes . FINIS . E : 281 A Pleasant new Ballad , to sing Evening and Morn , Of the bloody Murder of Sir John Barlycorn , The tune is , shall I lie beyond thee . AS I went through the North Country I herd a merry meeting , A p [ l ] ees [ a ] nt toy and full of joy two Noblemen were greeting , And as they walked forth to sport , upon a Summer's day , They met another Noble man with whom they'd had a fray . His name was Sir John Barlycorn , he dwelled down in a Vale And had a Kinsman dwelled with him , they called him Thomas Good Ale . Then one nam Sir Richard Beer was ready at that tO [ i ] me , And likewise came a busy Pier call'd Sir William White-wine . Some of them fought in a black Jack , some of them in a Can , But yet the chiefest in a black Pot fought like a Noble man : Sir Barlycorn fought in a bowl , who wone the victory , Which made them all to chafe and swear , that Barlicorn should die , Some said him kill , some said him drown , some wished to hang him high , For those that followed Birlycorn they said would beggars die , Then with a blow they plowed him up , and thus they did Devise To bury him quick within the Earth and swore he should not rise . With harrows strong they came to him and burst clods on his head , joyfu [ l ] banquet then was made , when Barlycorn was dead . He rested still upon the Earth , till rain from sky did fallen , Then he grew up on branches green . which soar amaz'd them all , Increasing thus till Midsummer , he made them all afear'd , For he sprang up on high and god a goodly beard When ripening to St. James-tide , his countenance waxed wan , Yet now full grown in parter strength . and thus became a man , Wherefore with hooks and sickles keen unto the field they hy'd , They cut his legs off by the knees and limb from limb divide . Then bloodily they cut him down , from place where he did stand , And like a thief for treachery they bound him in a band , So then they took him up again , according to his kind , And plac [ ' ] worser him up in several stakes to wither with the wind . Then with a pitchfork sharp and long they rend him to the heart . And traitorlike for treason vild they bound him in a Cart. And tending him with weapons strong unto the town they high , Whereas they mow'd him in a Mow and so they let him lie . They left him groaning by the walls till all his wounds were soar , And having took him up again , they cast him on a floor , And hired two with holly Clubs to beatrice at him at once , Who thwacked so hard on Barlicorn the flesh fell from his bones , Then after took him up again , to please some women's mind , Yea dusted , found , and sifted him , till he was almost bind . Full fast th [ e ] y kit him in a sack , which grieved him very soar , And soundly steep [ worser ] him in a fat , for three days space and more , From whence again they took him out and laid him forth to dry , Then cast him on a Chamber floor and swore that he should Die , They rub'd and stirred him up and down and oft did toil and ture , The Maltman likewise vows his death his body should be sure , They pull [ ' ] worser and hol'd him yet up in spite , and threw him on a Kill , Yea dried him on fire hight the more to work their will , Then to the Mill they forced him straight whereas they bruised his bones . The Miller swore to murder him betwixt a pair of stones . The last time when they took him up and served him worse then that , For with hight scalding liquour store they washed him in a fat . But not content with this God wot they wrought him so much harm . With cruel threat they promise next to beatrice him into barm , And lying in this danger deep , for fear that he should quarrel , They heav'd him straight out of the fat and turned him in the barrel , They gor'd and broached it with a Tap so thus his Death began , And drew out every Dram of blood while any drop would run . Some brought in Jacks upon their backs some brought Bowl and pail , Yea every man some weapon had poor Barlicorn to kill . When Sir John Good Ale herd of this , he came with much might , And took by strength their tongues away their legs and eke their sighed . Sir John at last in his respect , so paid them all their hire , Then some lay bleeding by the walls some tumbling in the mire . Some sadly droaning by the walls some fell ith streets down right , The wisest of them scarcely knew what he had done over night . All you good wives that brew good Ale , God keep you from all teen , But if you put too much water in , the Devil put out your Eyes . FINIS . 