E : 283 A Pleasant New Ballad , On Sir JOHN BARLEY-CORN The Tune is : Shall I lie beyond thee . AS I went through the North Country , I herd a merry meeting , A pleasant Toy and full of joy , two Noblemen were greeting ; And as they walked forth to sport , upon a Summer's Day , They met another Nobleman , with whom they had a fray . His Name was Sir John Barley-Corn , he dwelled down in a Vale , And had a kinsman dwelled with him , they call'd him Tom Good Ale , Another nam Sir Richard Beer , was ready at that time : And likewise came a busy Peer , called Sir William White-Wine . Some of them fought in a black jack , some of them in a Can , But yet the chiefest in a black Pot , fought like a Nobleman . Sir Barley-Corn fought in a bowl , who won the Victory , Which made them all to curse and swear , that Barley-Corn must die . Some said kill him , some said him drown some wished to hang him high . For those that followed Barley-Corn , they said would Beggars die . Then with a Blow they Plow'd him up , and thus they did devise To bury him within the Earth , and swore he should not rise . With Harrows strong they came to him and burst Clods on his head , A joyful Banquet then was made , when Barley-Corn was dead . He rested still upon the Earth , till rain from Sky did fallen . Then he grew up in branches green , which soar amazed them all . Increasing then till midsummer , he made them all afraid : For then he did spring up on high , and had a goodly beard . When riping at St. James's time , his countenance wax'd wan . Yet now full grown in part of strength , and thus became a man . Wherefore with hooks and sickles keen , unto the fields they hy'd , They cut his Legs off by the knees , and Limb from Limb divide , Then bloodily they cut him down , from place where he did stand . And like a Thief for treachery , they bound him in a band . So then they took him up again , according to his kind , And plac'd him up in several stacks , to wither with the wind . Then with a Pitchfork sharp and lang , they rend him to the heart , And Traitor like for Treason vile , they bound him in a Cart. And tending him with Weapons strong , unto the Town they high , Whereas they mov'd him a mow , and so they let him lie . They left him groaning by the walls , till all his bones were soar , And having took him up again , they cast him on the floor . And hired two with hollin Clubs , and beatrice at him at once Who thwacked so hard on Barley-Corn , the flesh fell from his bones . Then after took him up again , to please some women's minds , Yea , dusted , fand'd , and sifted him , till he was almost blind . Full fast they knit him in a Sack , which griev'd him very soar , And soundly steeped him in a Fat , for three days space and m [ oh ] re . From whence again they took him out , and laid him forth to dry , Then cast him on the Chamber floor , and swore that he should die . They rub'd and stir'd him up and down and oft did toil and ture , The Mault-Man likewise woo's his death his body should be sure . They pul'd and hal'd him up in spite , and threw him on a Kill , Yea , dry'd him or'e a fire hight , the more to work their will . Then to the Mill they forc'd him straight , whereas they bruis'd his bones , The Miller swore to murder him , betwixt a pair of stones , The last time that they took him up , they serv'd him worse than that , For with hight scalding liquour store , they washed him in a Fat . But not content with this well wot , they wrought him so much harm , With cruel threats they promise next to beatrice him into barm , And lying thus in danger deep , for fear that he should quarrel , They heav'd him straight out of the Fat , and turn'd into the barrel . They goar'd and broach'd it with a Tap , so this his death began , And drew out every drop of blood , while any drop would run . Some brought in sacks upon their backs , some brought in bowls and pail , Yea , every man some weapon had , poor Barley-Corn to Kill . When Sir John Good-Ale herd of this , he came with meikle might , And took by strength their tongues away their Legs and eke their Sighed . Sir John at last in this respect , so paid them all their hire , That some lay bleeding by the walls , some tumbling in the Mire Some lay groaning by the walls , some fell i'th street down right , The wisest of them scarcely knew , what he had done o're night , All you good wives that brews good Ale , God keep you from all teen . But if you put too much water in , the Crows pick out your Eyes . FINIS . E : 283 A Pleasant New Ballad , On Sir JOHN BARLEY-CORN The Tune is : Shall I lie beyond thee . AS I went through the North Country , I herd a merry meeting , A pleasant Toy and full of joy , two Noblemen were greeting ; And as they walked forth to sport , upon a Summer's Day , They met another Nobleman , with whom they had a fray . His Name was Sir John Barley-Corn , he dwelled down in a Vale , And had a kinsman dwelled with him , they call'd him Tom Good Ale , Another nam Sir Richard Beer , was ready at that time : And likewise came a busy Peer , called Sir William White-Wine . Some of them fought in a black jack , some of them in a Can , But yet the chiefest in a black Pot , fought like a Nobleman . Sir Barley-Corn fought in a bowl , who won the Victory , Which made them all to curse and swear , that Barley-Corn must die . Some said kill him , some said him drown some wished to hang him high . For those that followed Barley-Corn , they said would Beggars die . Then with a Blow they Plow'd him up , and thus they did devise To bury him within the Earth , and swore he should not rise . With Harrows strong they came to him and burst Clods on his head , A joyful Banquet then was made , when Barley-Corn was dead . He rested still upon the Earth , till rain from Sky did fallen . Then he grew up in branches green , which soar amazed them all . Increasing then till midsummer , he made them all afraid : For then he did spring up on high , and had a goodly beard . When riping at St. James's time , his countenance wax'd wan . Yet now full grown in part of strength , and thus became a man . Wherefore with hooks and sickles keen , unto the fields they hy'd , They cut his Legs off by the knees , and Limb from Limb divide , Then bloodily they cut him down , from place where he did stand . And like a Thief for treachery , they bound him in a band . So then they took him up again , according to his kind , And plac'd him up in several stacks , to wither with the wind . Then with a Pitchfork sharp and lang , they rend him to the heart , And Traitor like for Treason vile , they bound him in a Cart. And tending him with Weapons strong , unto the Town they high , Whereas they mov'd him a mow , and so they let him lie . They left him groaning by the walls , till all his bones were soar , And having took him up again , they cast him on the floor . And hired two with hollin Clubs , and beatrice at him at once Who thwacked so hard on Barley-Corn , the flesh fell from his bones . Then after took him up again , to please some women's minds , Yea , dusted , fand'd , and sifted him , till he was almost blind . Full fast they knit him in a Sack , which griev'd him very soar , And soundly steeped him in a Fat , for three days space and m [ oh ] re . From whence again they took him out , and laid him forth to dry , Then cast him on the Chamber floor , and swore that he should die . They rub'd and stir'd him up and down and oft did toil and ture , The Mault-Man likewise woo's his death his body should be sure . They pul'd and hal'd him up in spite , and threw him on a Kill , Yea , dry'd him or'e a fire hight , the more to work their will . Then to the Mill they forc'd him straight , whereas they bruis'd his bones , The Miller swore to murder him , betwixt a pair of stones , The last time that they took him up , they serv'd him worse than that , For with hight scalding liquour store , they washed him in a Fat . But not content with this well wot , they wrought him so much harm , With cruel threats they promise next to beatrice him into barm , And lying thus in danger deep , for fear that he should quarrel , They heav'd him straight out of the Fat , and turn'd into the barrel . They goar'd and broach'd it with a Tap , so this his death began , And drew out every drop of blood , while any drop would run . Some brought in sacks upon their backs , some brought in bowls and pail , Yea , every man some weapon had , poor Barley-Corn to Kill . When Sir John Good-Ale herd of this , he came with meikle might , And took by strength their tongues away their Legs and eke their Sighed . Sir John at last in this respect , so paid them all their hire , That some lay bleeding by the walls , some tumbling in the Mire Some lay groaning by the walls , some fell i'th street down right , The wisest of them scarcely knew , what he had done o're night , All you good wives that brews good Ale , God keep you from all teen . But if you put too much water in , the Crows pick out your Eyes . FINIS . 