E : 290 THE Queen's Lamentation , OR , The most sad and mournful Complaint of her Sacred Majesty , the Queen of England , upon the death of her most dear and well Esteemed Son , the most Elustrious Prince , Henry Duke of Glocester , third Brother to our gracious King , Charles the 2d . Deceased the 13. of September , 1660. Carried over from France , by Sir James Oh Neal , Knight and Baronet ; committed to the Press by his own Importu - ning desire . To the Tune of , Franklin . SWeet Heavens have been pleas'd of late to show How Stars and Comedies in mourning go , For my sweet Darling bright , Wherein was my delight , To Heaven took his flight , And left me here . O that his Chariot free had been so strong For to have taken me with him along ; My sweet Elustrious Babe As ever woman had , His last good night have made , Oh pity me . His Crimson looks so sweet , his Lily hand ; Methinks I see him yet by me to stand , His shadow with me still My grieved heart does kill . But unto Heavens will we must obey When late he was in France , his comely Grace My spirits did advance to see his face : And constant was to me A seemed Deity ; Joy and Felicity I had in him the Second Part , to the same tune . HIs comely gestures fed me with delight , When that his person did appear in my sighed , Whose Princely looks did fly Like Comeds from the sky , 'Twould make a heart to die For to relate . Why Heavens , were you prove so with delight . To take my Prince so soon out from my sighs Methinks I see his Ghost , Swiftly to Heaven post , Dear Henry I have lost Oh pity me . His Princely piety , his godly zeal , The holy deities , would not conceal , But down from Heaven they Ascend in one day , And fetch my Dear away . O pity me . Angels would have it so , for they decreed , He needs away must go , and withal speed , A Prince with them to be , In Immortality , For everlastingly With them to Reign . Yet whatsoever place , I walk or stand , Methinks I see his face close by my hand , His shadow I do see , Wherever I shall be , Unto Eternity . He was so sweet . O let all Nations be sad for the Prince , For which no remedy cannot be since , Angels rejoice we know , While that we mourn below , To Heavens let me go Then to my Dear . O that I could but fly Like to the Dove , Even up to the Sky to find my Love . Then would I enter in among the Cherubims , To see my dearest friend That was so sweet Oh death why didst thou send Thy dart so soon , Couldst thou not hold thy hand , till I came home , To have receiv'd one smile From my own dearest child , Before his last exile , But now he's gone . O Heavens may you be to me so kind , And grant some remedy unto my mind , Which now oppressed is , My vitals does decrease , My grief transcending is , Oh pity me When I to England shall now take my way , My comfort is but small ; yet all my joy Is in this Gracious King , My blessing be on him , When I do come again , Lord succour me . LONDON , Printed for Charles Tyus on London-Bridge . E : 290 THE Queen's Lamentation , OR , The most sad and mournful Complaint of her Sacred Majesty , the Queen of England , upon the death of her most dear and well Esteemed Son , the most Elustrious Prince , Henry Duke of Glocester , third Brother to our gracious King , Charles the 2d . Deceased the 13. of September , 1660. Carried over from France , by Sir James Oh Neal , Knight and Baronet ; committed to the Press by his own Importu - ning desire . To the Tune of , Franklin . SWeet Heavens have been pleas'd of late to show How Stars and Comedies in mourning go , For my sweet Darling bright , Wherein was my delight , To Heaven took his flight , And left me here . O that his Chariot free had been so strong For to have taken me with him along ; My sweet Elustrious Babe As ever woman had , His last good night have made , Oh pity me . His Crimson looks so sweet , his Lily hand ; Methinks I see him yet by me to stand , His shadow with me still My grieved heart does kill . But unto Heavens will we must obey When late he was in France , his comely Grace My spirits did advance to see his face : And constant was to me A seemed Deity ; Joy and Felicity I had in him the Second Part , to the same tune . HIs comely gestures fed me with delight , When that his person did appear in my sighed , Whose Princely looks did fly Like Comeds from the sky , 'Twould make a heart to die For to relate . Why Heavens , were you prove so with delight . To take my Prince so soon out from my sighs Methinks I see his Ghost , Swiftly to Heaven post , Dear Henry I have lost Oh pity me . His Princely piety , his godly zeal , The holy deities , would not conceal , But down from Heaven they Ascend in one day , And fetch my Dear away . O pity me . Angels would have it so , for they decreed , He needs away must go , and withal speed , A Prince with them to be , In Immortality , For everlastingly With them to Reign . Yet whatsoever place , I walk or stand , Methinks I see his face close by my hand , His shadow I do see , Wherever I shall be , Unto Eternity . He was so sweet . O let all Nations be sad for the Prince , For which no remedy cannot be since , Angels rejoice we know , While that we mourn below , To Heavens let me go Then to my Dear . O that I could but fly Like to the Dove , Even up to the Sky to find my Love . Then would I enter in among the Cherubims , To see my dearest friend That was so sweet Oh death why didst thou send Thy dart so soon , Couldst thou not hold thy hand , till I came home , To have receiv'd one smile From my own dearest child , Before his last exile , But now he's gone . O Heavens may you be to me so kind , And grant some remedy unto my mind , Which now oppressed is , My vitals does decrease , My grief transcending is , Oh pity me When I to England shall now take my way , My comfort is but small ; yet all my joy Is in this Gracious King , My blessing be on him , When I do come again , Lord succour me . LONDON , Printed for Charles Tyus on London-Bridge . 