E : 289 The Patient Wife betrayed ; OR , The Lady Elizabeths Tragedy . Which was acted between a Knight her Husband , and a wicked Woman his Whore . To the Tune of , Chevy Chase , or The Lady Izabells Tragedy . OF Turky lately I did read concerning of a Knight , How that a Whore did him entice to kill his hearts delight . This man it seems was well belov'd by many a gallant Peer , And for his sake there lives they'd loose he was belov'd so dear . A virtuous wife belike he had with beauty fresh and gay , Who gave him twenty thousand pound upon her Wedding day . They lov'd each other very well and liv'd a happy Life , In four years space three pretty babes he had by this his wife . But at the last a lewd Woman his company did keep , Which made his Wife & children small with grieved hearts to weep . Quoth she fair Knight I love you dear but yet my heart do rue , Because your Wife do envy me for loving you so true . Then presently the Knight he said I pray thee be content , And of my wife be not afraid the blame I will prevent . With that he goes unto his Wife and beats her very soar , And make his Lady pardon crave for offending of his Whore . HE made his Lady give consent that she should with him dwell . And charg'd his servants to content this Whore which he lov'd well . This Harlot she so brazen was and clearly void of grace , That she to bed with him would go before his Ladies face . And thus poor soul this Lady she durst not her grief declare , Because this Whore would pinch her flesh and pull her by the hair . She could not yet contented be with this same harmless Wife , But she did study and devise to take away her life . Sir Knight your wife can't you abide nor me therefore I pray Let us together both consent to take her life away . With that the Knight did strait reply to it I do agree , But I do fear if it be known we both shall hanged be . But she did bid him strait go home and to her thus declare That she must walk along with him in the fields to take the Air . His Wife then ready did her make and joyful was at this , That she did hang about his neck and gave him many a kiss . Then walked they both to a wood , whereas this Harlot lay And when they came near to the place he from her run away . Then did this whore come running forth out of the Wood with speed , With a sharp dagger in her hand to act a cruel deed . The Lady to see her was amaz'd arm'd with Dagger and Knife Which make her mournfully to cry for Gods sake save my Life . But she no pity on her took though she did beg and crave She presently did cut her throat and made the Ditch her Grave . This passed on for two long years with scuces that he made , Which made his Harlot often say we shall not be betrayed . But now one Day they merry was with wine and costly cheer , Then presently a Ghost came in which put them all in fear . And to this Knight she straitways went and thus to him did say , Because that thou betrays'st my life thou shalt with me away . His friends & acquaintance being their and Gentry great store Did see this Knight carried away and never herd of more . But when this Whore to trial came the Jewry did agree , That she should be chained to a stake and so burn'd presently . Thus you do hear what Whores can do if they can have their will , They'l strive to plot all that they can all modesty to kill . Printed for J. Clark at the Harp and bible in West-Smith field . E : 289 The Patient Wife betrayed ; OR , The Lady Elizabeths Tragedy . Which was acted between a Knight her Husband , and a wicked Woman his Whore . To the Tune of , Chevy Chase , or The Lady Izabells Tragedy . OF Turky lately I did read concerning of a Knight , How that a Whore did him entice to kill his hearts delight . This man it seems was well belov'd by many a gallant Peer , And for his sake there lives they'd loose he was belov'd so dear . A virtuous wife belike he had with beauty fresh and gay , Who gave him twenty thousand pound upon her Wedding day . They lov'd each other very well and liv'd a happy Life , In four years space three pretty babes he had by this his wife . But at the last a lewd Woman his company did keep , Which made his Wife & children small with grieved hearts to weep . Quoth she fair Knight I love you dear but yet my heart do rue , Because your Wife do envy me for loving you so true . Then presently the Knight he said I pray thee be content , And of my wife be not afraid the blame I will prevent . With that he goes unto his Wife and beats her very soar , And make his Lady pardon crave for offending of his Whore . HE made his Lady give consent that she should with him dwell . And charg'd his servants to content this Whore which he lov'd well . This Harlot she so brazen was and clearly void of grace , That she to bed with him would go before his Ladies face . And thus poor soul this Lady she durst not her grief declare , Because this Whore would pinch her flesh and pull her by the hair . She could not yet contented be with this same harmless Wife , But she did study and devise to take away her life . Sir Knight your wife can't you abide nor me therefore I pray Let us together both consent to take her life away . With that the Knight did strait reply to it I do agree , But I do fear if it be known we both shall hanged be . But she did bid him strait go home and to her thus declare That she must walk along with him in the fields to take the Air . His Wife then ready did her make and joyful was at this , That she did hang about his neck and gave him many a kiss . Then walked they both to a wood , whereas this Harlot lay And when they came near to the place he from her run away . Then did this whore come running forth out of the Wood with speed , With a sharp dagger in her hand to act a cruel deed . The Lady to see her was amaz'd arm'd with Dagger and Knife Which make her mournfully to cry for Gods sake save my Life . But she no pity on her took though she did beg and crave She presently did cut her throat and made the Ditch her Grave . This passed on for two long years with scuces that he made , Which made his Harlot often say we shall not be betrayed . But now one Day they merry was with wine and costly cheer , Then presently a Ghost came in which put them all in fear . And to this Knight she straitways went and thus to him did say , Because that thou betrays'st my life thou shalt with me away . His friends & acquaintance being their and Gentry great store Did see this Knight carried away and never herd of more . But when this Whore to trial came the Jewry did agree , That she should be chained to a stake and so burn'd presently . Thus you do hear what Whores can do if they can have their will , They'l strive to plot all that they can all modesty to kill . Printed for J. Clark at the Harp and bible in West-Smith field . 