E : 291 Queen ELEANOR's Confession : [ s ] hewing , how King Henry , with the Earl Martial , in Fryans Habits , came to her , insteid of two Friars from France , which she sent for . To a pleasant New Tune . QUeen Elenor was a sick Woman , and afraid that she should die ; Then she sent for two Friars of France , for to speak with them speedily : The King call'd down his Nobles all , by one , by two , and by three ; And sent away for Earl Martial , for to speak with him speedily . When that he came before the King , he fell on his bent knee , A boon , a boon , our Gracious King , that you sent so hastily . I'll pawn my Living and my Lands ; my Sceptre and my Crown ; That whatever Queen Elenor says , I will not write it down . Do you put on one Fryar's coat and I'll put on anothe [ r . ] And we will to Queen Elenor go , one Friar like another . Thus both attired then they go : when they came to White-hall , The Bells' they did ring , and the Quiristers sing , and the torches did light them all . When that they came before the Queen , they fell on their bent knee , A boon , a boon , our Gracious Queen , that you sent so hastily . Are you two Fryar's of France ? she said , which I suppose you be ; But if you are two English Friars , then hanged shall you be . We are two Friars of France , they said , as you suppose we be ; We have not been at any Mass since we came from the Sea. The first vile thing that e're I did , I will to you unfold , Earl Martial had my Maidenhead , underneath this Cloth of Gold . That is a vile since , tO [ h ] en said the King , God may forgive i [ tO ] thee . Amen , Amen , quoth Earl Martial , with a heavy heart then spoke he . The next vile thing that e're I did , to you I'll not deny ; I made a Box of Poison strong , to poison King Henry . That is a vile since , then said the King , God may forgive it thee . Amen , Amen , quoth Earl Martial , and I wish it so may be . The next vile thing that e're I did , to you I will discover , I poisoned Fair Rosamond all in Fair Woodstock-Bower . That is a vile since , then said the King , God may forgive it thee . Amen , Amen , quoth Earl Martial , and I wish it so may be . Do you see yonders little Boy , a tossing of that ball ? That is Earl Martial's eldest Son , and I love him the best of all , Do you see then yonders little Boy , a catching of the ball ? That is King Henry's Son , she said , and I love him the worst of all . His head is like unto a bull , his nose is like a boar . No matter for that , King Henry said , I love him the better therefore . The King pull'd off his Fryar's coat , and appear'd all in read ; She shriek'd , and she cry'd , she wrung her hands and said she was betray'd . The King look'd over his let shoulder , and a grim look looked he , And said , Earl Martial , but for my Oath , then hanged should'st thou be . London : Printed for C. Bates , in Pye-cornerE : 291 Queen ELEANOR's Confession : [ s ] hewing , how King Henry , with the Earl Martial , in Fryans Habits , came to her , insteid of two Friars from France , which she sent for . To a pleasant New Tune . QUeen Elenor was a sick Woman , and afraid that she should die ; Then she sent for two Friars of France , for to speak with them speedily : The King call'd down his Nobles all , by one , by two , and by three ; And sent away for Earl Martial , for to speak with him speedily . When that he came before the King , he fell on his bent knee , A boon , a boon , our Gracious King , that you sent so hastily . I'll pawn my Living and my Lands ; my Sceptre and my Crown ; That whatever Queen Elenor says , I will not write it down . Do you put on one Fryar's coat and I'll put on anothe [ r . ] And we will to Queen Elenor go , one Friar like another . Thus both attired then they go : when they came to White-hall , The Bells' they did ring , and the Quiristers sing , and the torches did light them all . When that they came before the Queen , they fell on their bent knee , A boon , a boon , our Gracious Queen , that you sent so hastily . Are you two Fryar's of France ? she said , which I suppose you be ; But if you are two English Friars , then hanged shall you be . We are two Friars of France , they said , as you suppose we be ; We have not been at any Mass since we came from the Sea. The first vile thing that e're I did , I will to you unfold , Earl Martial had my Maidenhead , underneath this Cloth of Gold . That is a vile since , tO [ h ] en said the King , God may forgive i [ tO ] thee . Amen , Amen , quoth Earl Martial , with a heavy heart then spoke he . The next vile thing that e're I did , to you I'll not deny ; I made a Box of Poison strong , to poison King Henry . That is a vile since , then said the King , God may forgive it thee . Amen , Amen , quoth Earl Martial , and I wish it so may be . The next vile thing that e're I did , to you I will discover , I poisoned Fair Rosamond all in Fair Woodstock-Bower . That is a vile since , then said the King , God may forgive it thee . Amen , Amen , quoth Earl Martial , and I wish it so may be . Do you see yonders little Boy , a tossing of that ball ? That is Earl Martial's eldest Son , and I love him the best of all , Do you see then yonders little Boy , a catching of the ball ? That is King Henry's Son , she said , and I love him the worst of all . His head is like unto a bull , his nose is like a boar . No matter for that , King Henry said , I love him the better therefore . The King pull'd off his Fryar's coat , and appear'd all in read ; She shriek'd , and she cry'd , she wrung her hands and said she was betray'd . The King look'd over his let shoulder , and a grim look looked he , And said , Earl Martial , but for my Oath , then hanged should'st thou be . London : Printed for C. Bates , in Pie-corner 