E : 292 A rare Example of a virtuous Maid in Paris , Who was by her own Mother procured to be put in Prison , thinknig thereby to compel ker to Popery , but she continued to the end , and finished her life in the Fire . Tune is , Oh man in desperation . IT was a Ladies Daughter , of Paris properly , Her Mother her commanded to Mass that she should high ; Oh pardon me dear mother her Daughter dear did say : Unto that filthy Idol , I never can obey . With weeping and with wailing , her mother then did go , To assemble her kinsfolks , that they the truth may know : Who being then assembled , they did this Maiden call , And put her into prison , to fear her therewithal . But where they thought to fear her , she did most strong endure : Although her years were tender her faith was firm and sure : She weigh'd not their allurements she fear'd no fiery flame : she hop'd through Christ her Saviour , to have immortal fame . Before the Judge they brought her , thinking that she would turn , And there she was condemned in fire for to burn : Instead of golden Bracelets , with cords they bound her fas My God grant me with patience ( quoth she ) to die at last . And on the morrow after , which was her dying day ; They stripped this silly Damosel out of her rich array : Her chain of gold so costly away from her they take , And she again most joyfully did all the world forsake . Unto the place of torment they brought her speedily , With heart and mind most constant , she willing was to die : But seeing many Ladies assembled in that place : These words she then pronounced , lamenting then their case . You Ladies of this City , mark well my words ( quoth she ) Although I shall be burned , yet do not pity me . Your selves I rather pity , I weep for your decay , Amend your time fair Ladies , and do no time delay . Then came her Mother weeping , her Daughter to behold : And in her hand she brought her a book covered with gold . Throw hence ( quoth she ) that Idol , convey it from my sighed , And bring me hither my Bible , wherein I most delight . But my distressed Mother why weep you ? be content , You have to death delivered me , most like and innocen Tormenter do thine office on me when thou think'st best , But God my heavenly father will bring my soul to rest . But , Oh my aged Father , where ever thou dost lie , Thou knowest not thy poor daughter is ready for to die : But yet among the Angels , in heaven I hope to dwell , Therefore my loving Father I bid thee now farewell . Farewell likewise my mother , adieu my friends also , God grant that you by others , may never feel such woe : Forsake your superstition the cause of mortal strife : Embrace Gods true Religion for which I loose my life . When all these words were spoken , then come the man of death , Who kindled soon a fire , which stop'd this Virgins breath : To Christ her only Saviour she did her soul commend , Farewell ( quoth she ) good people , and thus she made and end . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wrigh [ tO ] , [ a ] and J. Clark . E : 292 A rare Example of a virtuous Maid in Paris , Who was by her own Mother procured to be put in Prison , thinknig thereby to compel ker to Popery , but she continued to the end , and finished her life in the Fire . Tune is , Oh man in desperation . IT was a Ladies Daughter , of Paris properly , Her Mother her commanded to Mass that she should high ; Oh pardon me dear mother her Daughter dear did say : Unto that filthy Idol , I never can obey . With weeping and with wailing , her mother then did go , To assemble her kinsfolks , that they the truth may know : Who being then assembled , they did this Maiden call , And put her into prison , to fear her therewithal . But where they thought to fear her , she did most strong endure : Although her years were tender her faith was firm and sure : She weigh'd not their allurements she fear'd no fiery flame : she hop'd through Christ her Saviour , to have immortal fame . Before the Judge they brought her , thinking that she would turn , And there she was condemned in fire for to burn : Instead of golden Bracelets , with cords they bound her fas My God grant me with patience ( quoth she ) to die at last . And on the morrow after , which was her dying day ; They stripped this silly Damosel out of her rich array : Her chain of gold so costly away from her they take , And she again most joyfully did all the world forsake . Unto the place of torment they brought her speedily , With heart and mind most constant , she willing was to die : But seeing many Ladies assembled in that place : These words she then pronounced , lamenting then their case . You Ladies of this City , mark well my words ( quoth she ) Although I shall be burned , yet do not pity me . Your selves I rather pity , I weep for your decay , Amend your time fair Ladies , and do no time delay . Then came her Mother weeping , her Daughter to behold : And in her hand she brought her a book covered with gold . Throw hence ( quoth she ) that Idol , convey it from my sighed , And bring me hither my Bible , wherein I most delight . But my distressed Mother why weep you ? be content , You have to death delivered me , most like and innocen Tormenter do thine office on me when thou think'st best , But God my heavenly father will bring my soul to rest . But , Oh my aged Father , where ever thou dost lie , Thou knowest not thy poor daughter is ready for to die : But yet among the Angels , in heaven I hope to dwell , Therefore my loving Father I bid thee now farewell . Farewell likewise my mother , adieu my friends also , God grant that you by others , may never feel such woe : Forsake your superstition the cause of mortal strife : Embrace Gods true Religion for which I loose my life . When all these words were spoken , then come the man of death , Who kindled soon a fire , which stop'd this Virgins breath : To Christ her only Saviour she did her soul commend , Farewell ( quoth she ) good people , and thus she made and end . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wrigh [ tO ] , [ a ] and J. Clark . 