The Royal Victory , Obtained ( with the providence of Almighty God ) against the Dutch-Fleet , June the 2d . and 3d. 1665. a Fight as bloody ( for the time and number ) as ever was performed upon the Narrow-Seas , giving a particular Account of 17 Men of War taken , 14 Sunk and Fir'd : But 40. that could escape of their whole Fleet , which at this time are hotly pursued by the Earl of Sandwitch . Their Admiral Opdam slave by the Duke of Yorkes own Frigate . Van Trump Sunk by Captain Holmes , with the gallant deportment of Prince Rupert , Capt. Minns and Capt Smith . All the Seven Dutch Admirals ( but John Evertson ) killed . On our side , only one single Ship ( the Charity ) lost ; Sir John Lawson received a slight hurt in the knee , the Lord Marlborough , the Lord of Portland , the Lord of Falmouth , the Lord of Muskerry , Mr. Boyle ( the Earl of Corks Son ) Captain Athelton of the Cuiny , Captain Kirby of the Breda , and Rear Admiral Sanson were slave , and about 383 Seamen and Soldiers . The number of the Dutch that were kill'd amounts to 10000. and 2200 Prisoners which we have taken . To the Tune of , Packingtons pound . LEt England , and Ireland , and Scotland rejoice , & render thanksgivings with heart & with voice That surley Fanatic that now will not sing , As false to the Kingdom , and Foe to the King ; For he that will grutch , Our Fortune is such , does deal for the Devil , as well as the Dutch ; For why should my nature , or conscience repine At taking of his life , that fain would have mine So high a Victory we could not command , Had it not been gain'd by and Almighty hand , The great Lord of Battles did perfect this work For God & the King , and the good Duke of York , Whose Courage was such , Against the Low-Dutch , that vapour'd & swager'd , like Lords in a hutch , But let the bold Hollanders burn sink or swim , They have honour enough to be beaten by him . Fire , air , earth & water , it seems were imploy'd To strive for the Conquest , which we have injoy'd , No honour or profit , or safety can spring , To those that do fight against God & the King : The Battle was hight , And bloodily Fought , the Fire was like Rain , & like Hail was the Shot , For in this Engagement ten thousand did bleed Of Flemmings , who now are the Low-Dutch indeed . In this cruel Conflict stout Opdam was slave By the great Duke of York , & lies sunk in the Main It from the Dukes Frigate that he had his doom And by the Dukes valour he was overcome ; It was his good Fate , To fallen at that Rate , who sink under Princes , are buried in State . Since valour and courage in one grave must lie , It is a great honour , by great hands to die . The second part , to the same Tune . THat daring bold fellow , the Son of Vantrump , whose brains were beatrice out by the head of the Rump Ingageing with brave Captain Holmes , hand to hand , His Ship sunk to' th' bottom , yet he god to Land , His Fate looked grim , 'Twas well he could swim , else he that caught Fish , the Fish had caught him , They eat up our Fish without Reason or Laws , But now they are going to pay for the Sauce . To mock at men's misery is not my aim , It never can add to and English-mans fame ; But I may rejoice that the Battle is won , Because in the victory Gods will is done , Whose Justice appears In such great Affairs , who will for Amboina plague them & their Heirs For he that does cumber his conscience with gilded In shedding of blood , his own shall be spilled . In this cruel Contest ( our fortune was such ) We took seventeen Men of War from the Dutch . And likewise ( as then the occasion requir'd & as God would have it ) fourteen more were fir'd . At Amboina when They Tortur'd our Men , they look'd not to have the same paid them again With fire & with water their Sinews they cracked In fire and in water they dy'd for the Fact . According as our God of Battle commanded The best of their Vessels were Fir'd & Stranded , All ships , Men of War ; for what power hath man To fight with that Army , where God leads the Van They Steer , and they Stem , But 'twas so extreme , our men were near dying , with killing of them ; They lost ( when the muskets & cannon so thunder'd Twice so many thousand as we have lost hundr'd 'Twould make a brave Englishmans heart leap to seet But forty ships made and escape of their Fleet Which our men pursue with much courage & strength 'Tis doubtless but we shall surprise them at length , If God be our guide , And stand by our side , we shall be befrinded with fair Wind & Tide ; If Providence prosper us with a good Gale , The Dutch nor the Devil shall ever prevail . Prince Rupert like lightning flew thorrough their Fleet Like flame mixed with powder , their Army did meet Ten thousand slave bodies the Ocean overspread , That in few hours distance were living & dead , Their Admirals all , Save one there did fallen , and death had command like a chief General , Brave Smith in the Mary did shave out his way As Reapers do Wheat , or as Mowers cut Hay . Stout Lawson , and Minn , there did both play their parts , who emptied their Guns in their Enemies hearts The burly fat Dutchmen being cut out in Slips , The Vessels did look more like Shambles then Ships . God prosper the Fleet , And send they may meet Du Ruiter , to make up the Conquest complete . God bless all the Princes , and every thing That Fights for the Kingdom , & prays for the King . FINIS . A List of the Names of the Dutch Ships which were taken , fired and sunk , by his Majesties Fleet , under his Highness the Duke of Yorke , June the 3. Ships taken . The Helderston , taken by the Bristol , Guns 60. The Mars , taken by the Assurance , Guns 50. The Clove-tree taken by the Colchester , Guns 62. Charles the 5th . taken by the Plymoutht Guns 45. The Delft , taken by the Breda & Leopard . Guns 40. The Young Prince , taken by the Martin , Guns 36. The Zeland , taken by the Centurrion , Guns 36. The Black Bull , by the Anne & Ruby , Guns 56. The Ruiter , taken by the Dolphin , Guns 18. Diverse more takeh since , whose names we have not yet . A thousand Manacles found aboard one of their Ships , which they had provided to Hand-cuff the English . O! Rogues in grain . Ships burned and sunk . Opdams Ship blown up , Guns 84. The Merceven , Guns 78. The Steden , burned , Guns 40. The Tergo's , burned by the Dolphin , Guns 34. The Orange tree , burned , Guns 76. Capt. Cuypers Ship sunk , Guns 30. One sunk by the Advice . Guns 46. One Fire-Ship , blown up the night before the Fight . Another the night after . Another great Fire-Ship sunk , going off . Others sunk and run aground . Not above 30. of our Ships that did Engage in the heat of the Battle , wherein we lost 1 Ship , 383 men . With Allowance . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , R. Gilbertson , and J. Wright . The Royal Victory , Obtained ( with the providence of Almighty God ) against the Dutch-Fleet , June the 2d . and 3d. 1665. a Fight as bloody ( for the time and number ) as ever was performed upon the Narrow-Seas , giving a particular Account of 17 Men of War taken , 14 Sunk and Fir'd : But 40. that could escape of their whole Fleet , which at this time are hotly pursued by the Earl of Sandwitch . Their Admiral Opdam slave by the Duke of Yorkes own Frigate . Van Trump Sunk by Captain Holmes , with the gallant deportment of Prince Rupert , Capt. Minns and Capt Smith . All the Seven Dutch Admirals ( but John Evertson ) killed . On our side , only one single Ship ( the Charity ) lost ; Sir John Lawson received a slight hurt in the knee , the Lord Marlborough , the Lord of Portland , the Lord of Falmouth , the Lord of Muskerry , Mr. Boyle ( the Earl of Corks Son ) Captain Athelton of the Cuiny , Captain Kirby of the Breda , and Rear Admiral Sanson were slave , and about 383 Seamen and Soldiers . The number of the Dutch that were kill'd amounts to 10000. and 2200 Prisoners which we have taken . To the Tune of , Packingtons pound . LEt England , and Ireland , and Scotland rejoice , & render thanksgivings with heart & with voice That surley Fanatic that now will not sing , As false to the Kingdom , and Foe to the King ; For he that will grutch , Our Fortune is such , does deal for the Devil , as well as the Dutch ; For why should my nature , or conscience repine At taking of his life , that fain would have mine So high a Victory we could not command , Had it not been gain'd by and Almighty hand , The great Lord of Battles did perfect this work For God & the King , and the good Duke of York , Whose Courage was such , Against the Low-Dutch , that vapour'd & swager'd , like Lords in a hutch , But let the bold Hollanders burn sink or swim , They have honour enough to be beaten by him . Fire , air , earth & water , it seems were imploy'd To strive for the Conquest , which we have injoy'd , No honour or profit , or safety can spring , To those that do fight against God & the King : The Battle was hight , And bloodily Fought , the Fire was like Rain , & like Hail was the Shot , For in this Engagement ten thousand did bleed Of Flemmings , who now are the Low-Dutch indeed . In this cruel Conflict stout Opdam was slave By the great Duke of York , & lies sunk in the Main It from the Dukes Frigate that he had his doom And by the Dukes valour he was overcome ; It was his good Fate , To fallen at that Rate , who sink under Princes , are buried in State . Since valour and courage in one grave must lie , It is a great honour , by great hands to die . The second part , to the same Tune . THat daring bold fellow , the Son of Vantrump , whose brains were beatrice out by the head of the Rump Ingageing with brave Captain Holmes , hand to hand , His Ship sunk to' th' bottom , yet he god to Land , His Fate looked grim , 'Twas well he could swim , else he that caught Fish , the Fish had caught him , They eat up our Fish without Reason or Laws , But now they are going to pay for the Sauce . To mock at men's misery is not my aim , It never can add to and English-mans fame ; But I may rejoice that the Battle is won , Because in the victory Gods will is done , Whose Justice appears In such great Affairs , who will for Amboina plague them & their Heirs For he that does cumber his conscience with gilded In shedding of blood , his own shall be spilled . In this cruel Contest ( our fortune was such ) We took seventeen Men of War from the Dutch . And likewise ( as then the occasion requir'd & as God would have it ) fourteen more were fir'd . At Amboina when They Tortur'd our Men , they look'd not to have the same paid them again With fire & with water their Sinews they cracked In fire and in water they dy'd for the Fact . According as our God of Battle commanded The best of their Vessels were Fir'd & Stranded , All ships , Men of War ; for what power hath man To fight with that Army , where God leads the Van They Steer , and they Stem , But 'twas so extreme , our men were near dying , with killing of them ; They lost ( when the muskets & cannon so thunder'd Twice so many thousand as we have lost hundr'd 'Twould make a brave Englishmans heart leap to seet But forty ships made and escape of their Fleet Which our men pursue with much courage & strength 'Tis doubtless but we shall surprise them at length , If God be our guide , And stand by our side , we shall be befrinded with fair Wind & Tide ; If Providence prosper us with a good Gale , The Dutch nor the Devil shall ever prevail . Prince Rupert like lightning flew thorrough their Fleet Like flame mixed with powder , their Army did meet Ten thousand slave bodies the Ocean overspread , That in few hours distance were living & dead , Their Admirals all , Save one there did fallen , and death had command like a chief General , Brave Smith in the Mary did shave out his way As Reapers do Wheat , or as Mowers cut Hay . Stout Lawson , and Minn , there did both play their parts , who emptied their Guns in their Enemies hearts The burly fat Dutchmen being cut out in Slips , The Vessels did look more like Shambles then Ships . God prosper the Fleet , And send they may meet Du Ruiter , to make up the Conquest complete . God bless all the Princes , and every thing That Fights for the Kingdom , & prays for the King . FINIS . A List of the Names of the Dutch Ships which were taken , fired and sunk , by his Majesties Fleet , under his Highness the Duke of Yorke , June the 3. Ships taken . The Helderston , taken by the Bristol , Guns 60. The Mars , taken by the Assurance , Guns 50. The Clove-tree taken by the Colchester , Guns 62. Charles the 5th . taken by the Plymoutht Guns 45. The Delft , taken by the Breda & Leopard . Guns 40. The Young Prince , taken by the Martin , Guns 36. The Zeland , taken by the Centurrion , Guns 36. The Black Bull , by the Anne & Ruby , Guns 56. The Ruiter , taken by the Dolphin , Guns 18. Diverse more takeh since , whose names we have not yet . A thousand Manacles found aboard one of their Ships , which they had provided to Hand-cuff the English . O! Rogues in grain . Ships burned and sunk . Opdams Ship blown up , Guns 84. The Merceven , Guns 78. The Steden , burned , Guns 40. The Tergo's , burned by the Dolphin , Guns 34. The Orange tree , burned , Guns 76. Capt. Cuypers Ship sunk , Guns 30. One sunk by the Advice . Guns 46. One Fire-Ship , blown up the night before the Fight . Another the night after . Another great Fire-Ship sunk , going off . Others sunk and run aground . Not above 30. of our Ships that did Engage in the heat of the Battle , wherein we lost 1 Ship , 383 men . With Allowance . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , R. Gilbertson , and J. Wright . 