E : 308 The Royal Oak : OR , The wonderful travels , miraculous escapes , strange accidents of his sacred Majesty King Charles the Second . How from Worcester sighed by a good hap , Our Royal King made and escape ; How he dis-rob'd himself of things that precious were , And with a knife cut off his curled hair ; How a hollow Oak his palace was as then , And how King Charles became a servingman To the Tune of , in my freedom is all my Joy . COme friends and unto me draw near A sorrowful dity you shall hear , You that deny your lawful Prince Let Conscience now your faults convince , And now in love and not in fear , Now let his presence be your joy , whom God in mercy would not destroy The relation that here I bring Concerning Charles our Royal King , Through what dangers he hath passed And is proclaimed King at last ; The Princes sorrows we will sing Which the fates sorely did annoy and God in mercy would not destroy . After Worcester most fatal fight When that King Charles was put to flight , When many men their lives laid down To bring thesr Sovereign to the Crown , The which was a most glorious sighed ; Great was his Majesties convoy whom God in mercy would not destroy . In Worcester battle fierce and hight , His horse twice under him was shot , And by a wise and prudent thrift To save his life was forc'd to shift , Without difficulty it was no Providence did him safely convoy whom God in mercy would not destroy . And being full of discontents Stripped off his Princely Ornaments , Thus full of troubles and of cares , A knife cut off his curled hairs , Whereby the hunter's he prevents : God did in mercy him convoy So that they could not him destroy . A chain of gold he gave away Worth three hundred pounds that day , In this disguise by honest thrift Command all for themselves to shift , With one friend both night and day : Poor Prince alone to Gods convoy His foes they could not him destroy . These two wandered into a Wood Where a hollow Oak there stood , And for his precious lives dear sake Did of that Oak his palace make , His friend towards night provided food , So their precious lives the did enjoy whom God in mercy would not destroy Lord Willmot most valiant and stout , He was pursued by the Rout , Was hid in a fiery kiln of Malt And so escaped the Soldiers assault , Which searched all the house about , Not dreaming the kiln was his convoy which God in mercy would not destroy . The Second Part , To the same Tune . ANd relates King Charles his misery's , Which forced tears from tender eyes ; Mistress Lane entreats him earnestly , For to find out his Majesty , And him to save she would devise , Unto her house they him convoy , Whom God , etc King Charles a livery Cloak wore than , And became a Servingman , And Westward road towards the Sea , Intended transported to be , And Mistress Lane now please he can , Which was the Kings safest convoy , Whom God , etc And accident of great renown , As they were for to ride throw a Town , A Troop of Horse stood cross the street ; Then jealousy the King did greet , And Fortune seem'd on him to frown , He thought the Fates would him annoy , Whom God in mercy , etc The Captain commanded his men , To that Right and Left to open then , For harmless Travellers he them did take And and interval for them did make , And so they passed on again Unto King Charles's no small joy . Whom God , etc His Mistress coming to her In Left William her man in the Kitchen ; The Cook maid asked where he was born , And what Trade that he did learn : To frame his excuse he did begin , Thus his sorrow was turned to joy , Whom God , etc To answer mild he thus begun , At Brumigam a Nailers son : Then said the maid the Jack stands still , Pray wind it up if that you will , Which he did , suspicion to shun , And somewhat did the same annoy , Yet did not the same quite destroy . As those that were by doe say He went about it the wrong way , Which angered the Maid the same to see , She call'd him a clownish Boobee In all my life that ever I saw ; Her railing caus'd him laugh for joy . Whom God , etc After many weeks in jeopardy , He was wafted into Normandy , The God of Heaven for his person car'd , The Ship-Master had a great reward . Thus the good Prince from hence did fly , To suffer hardship he was not coy . Which now will be this nations joy . FINIS . J. . W. London , Printed for Charles Tyus on London-Bridge . E : 308 The Royal Oak : OR , The wonderful travels , miraculous escapes , strange accidents of his sacred Majesty King Charles the Second . How from Worcester sighed by a good hap , Our Royal King made and escape ; How he dis-rob'd himself of things that precious were , And with a knife cut off his curled hair ; How a hollow Oak his palace was as then , And how King Charles became a servingman To the Tune of , in my freedom is all my Joy . COme friends and unto me draw near A sorrowful dity you shall hear , You that deny your lawful Prince Let Conscience now your faults convince , And now in love and not in fear , Now let his presence be your joy , whom God in mercy would not destroy The relation that here I bring Concerning Charles our Royal King , Through what dangers he hath passed And is proclaimed King at last ; The Princes sorrows we will sing Which the fates sorely did annoy and God in mercy would not destroy . After Worcester most fatal fight When that King Charles was put to flight , When many men their lives laid down To bring thesr Sovereign to the Crown , The which was a most glorious sighed ; Great was his Majesties convoy whom God in mercy would not destroy . In Worcester battle fierce and hight , His horse twice under him was shot , And by a wise and prudent thrift To save his life was forc'd to shift , Without difficulty it was no Providence did him safely convoy whom God in mercy would not destroy . And being full of discontents Stripped off his Princely Ornaments , Thus full of troubles and of cares , A knife cut off his curled hairs , Whereby the hunter's he prevents : God did in mercy him convoy So that they could not him destroy . A chain of gold he gave away Worth three hundred pounds that day , In this disguise by honest thrift Command all for themselves to shift , With one friend both night and day : Poor Prince alone to Gods convoy His foes they could not him destroy . These two wandered into a Wood Where a hollow Oak there stood , And for his precious lives dear sake Did of that Oak his palace make , His friend towards night provided food , So their precious lives the did enjoy whom God in mercy would not destroy Lord Willmot most valiant and stout , He was pursued by the Rout , Was hid in a fiery kiln of Malt And so escaped the Soldiers assault , Which searched all the house about , Not dreaming the kiln was his convoy which God in mercy would not destroy . The Second Part , To the same Tune . ANd relates King Charles his misery's , Which forced tears from tender eyes ; Mistress Lane entreats him earnestly , For to find out his Majesty , And him to save she would devise , Unto her house they him convoy , Whom God , etc King Charles a livery Cloak wore than , And became a Servingman , And Westward road towards the Sea , Intended transported to be , And Mistress Lane now please he can , Which was the Kings safest convoy , Whom God , etc And accident of great renown , As they were for to ride throw a Town , A Troop of Horse stood cross the street ; Then jealousy the King did greet , And Fortune seem'd on him to frown , He thought the Fates would him annoy , Whom God in mercy , etc The Captain commanded his men , To that Right and Left to open then , For harmless Travellers he them did take And and interval for them did make , And so they passed on again Unto King Charles's no small joy . Whom God , etc His Mistress coming to her In Left William her man in the Kitchen ; The Cook maid asked where he was born , And what Trade that he did learn : To frame his excuse he did begin , Thus his sorrow was turned to joy , Whom God , etc To answer mild he thus begun , At Brumigam a Nailers son : Then said the maid the Jack stands still , Pray wind it up if that you will , Which he did , suspicion to shun , And somewhat did the same annoy , Yet did not the same quite destroy . As those that were by doe say He went about it the wrong way , Which angered the Maid the same to see , She call'd him a clownish Boobee In all my life that ever I saw ; Her railing caus'd him laugh for joy . Whom God , etc After many weeks in jeopardy , He was wafted into Normandy , The God of Heaven for his person car'd , The Ship-Master had a great reward . Thus the good Prince from hence did fly , To suffer hardship he was not coy . Which now will be this nations joy . FINIS . J. . W. London , Printed for Charles Tyus on London-Bridge . 