A Looking-Glasse for all true Christians , Very useful and necessary for all people of what degree soever to look upon in these troublesome times of sorrow . The tune is , Aim not to high . O Hark , Oh hark , methinks I hear a voice , Which said the Lord made man for his own choice And yet he will not reconciled be , To leave his sins and to live righteously , Awake awake thou mortal man from sleep , Repent thy since cry to the Lord and weep , For it is only he that must thee save , Do thou repent and mercy thou shalt have . Remember man that thou art made of clay , And in this land thou art not long to stay , Then led thy life while here thou dost remain , That being dead thy soul may heaven gain . If thou the Lord do fear that rules the Sky , And puts thy trust in him that sits on high Thou need'st not doubt but God will thee defend , And bring thee to a true and faithful end . But we to much delight in wicked ways , And do not yield unto the Lord due praise , If we do think his mercies for to gain , Then we must seek his mercy to obtain . What wicked vice hath been in former time , That in our Land does not begin to climb , Therefore with Ninivie let us repent , The Lord to us his Messenger hath sent . But all these warnings will not serve our turn , To make us leave our sins with speed & mourn , But we do still offend the Lord of might , And still do follow pleasure and delight . Here every man takes care to please his mind , And seeks not for the living God to find ; The which they will repent when this too late , When they shall ask God mercy at his gate . We all do seek for worldly wealth and pleasure , And seek not to have store laid up in treasure , Some do not think upon the world to come , And therefore still a wicked course to run . The Lawyer he does think upon his fee , The Usurer likewise on his Money , The Glutton he thinks on his dainty cheer , The Drunkard on his Tobacco and beer . And many grievous sinners more there are , And for to speak of all I do not dare , But God alone who knows the hearts of all , Will bring them all tog [ e ] there great and small . And when that day to many does appear , And see the Lord in judgement , then I fear , Too late 'twill be for them then to repent , With sorrow then their grief will still augment . Good Lord that man would but conceive aright , And fear the living Lord the God of might , Then would they not so much be bent to since , But now would see a new life to begin . O Lord my God to thee I make my moan , Desiring that thy favour might be shown . And as we have offended thee full soar , Give me thy grace I may do so no more . MY thoughts tell me that I have done amiss , And now I seek for favour and redress , Of thee sweet Lord I here do pardon ask , That I may please thee well in this my task . Methinks I see our land is full of pride , And also bent to covetousness beside , Which is a thing which does offend the Lord ; I Scripture we do find it is abhor'd . Then now let us prepare our he arts to live , And to the Lord let us our prayers give , And then no doubt but he will have respect . To pardon us our great and heinous fact . The Lord does say if a sinner does repent , And turn to him with heart thats penitent . He will forgive him his offences past , And will receive his soul to him at last . But we in since do flourish and remain , And do not seek Gods favour to obtain , We think not on the judgement day at last Nor take no care until the time be passed . And then too late 'twill be for us to pray , When as the soul from body is away , Therefore in time let us our lives amend That we may make a true and faithful end . Methinks I see thee poor in great distress , The rich to them do yield but small redress , They do complain in woeful misery , And few there be that do regard their cry . Look what men give to'th poor and needy soul , The Lord will pay again to them ten fold , Do thou regard thy brother in distress , No question thou shalt ever vave the less , But this no wonder now at all to see , A many like to Judas for to be . They'l fell our Saviour Christ for gold and pr [ ? ] , Like unto Judas which did him betray . If that a man would think upon his death , While he does live upon the earth beneath , He could not choose but fear the Lord on high . That made the Earth the Sea and eke the Sky We late have had ill fortune us befall , The which is like to be a grief to all , True Loyal subject's of our Royal King , Did turn our joys in sorrow for to sing . Which is a token of our great offence , And just reward for our find recompense , Because the Lord has justly took occasion , To muke us yield by his kind persuasion . Remember how Jerusalem did fallen , And how their enemies did them enthral , Which were but righteous judgments from the Lord Because his holy word was still abhor'd . The Ninivites we read did soon repent , When God the prophet Jonas to them sent , Then why should we who have the Gospel pure Still seek our own eegruction to pro [ cur ] e . Remember man what woeful Torments be , Prepar'd in hell as warnings you may see , The poins ase woeful to be thrught upon , Beside all this they never will be done . And otherwise all those that fear the Lord , And follow after his most holy word , Shall live with Christ in perfect joy and peace , Where heavenly Angels sing and never cease . Now to cenclude Oh Lord give us thy grace , That we may led our life in such a case , That when we are departed hence away . We may then live in perfect peace and joy Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere . W. Gilbertson . A Looking-Glasse for all true Christians , Very useful and necessary for all people of what degree soever to look upon in these troublesome times of sorrow . The tune is , Aim not to high . O Hark , Oh hark , methinks I hear a voice , Which said the Lord made man for his own choice And yet he will not reconciled be , To leave his sins and to live righteously , Awake awake thou mortal man from sleep , Repent thy since cry to the Lord and weep , For it is only he that must thee save , Do thou repent and mercy thou shalt have . Remember man that thou art made of clay , And in this land thou art not long to stay , Then led thy life while here thou dost remain , That being dead thy soul may heaven gain . If thou the Lord do fear that rules the Sky , And puts thy trust in him that sits on high Thou need'st not doubt but God will thee defend , And bring thee to a true and faithful end . But we to much delight in wicked ways , And do not yield unto the Lord due praise , If we do think his mercies for to gain , Then we must seek his mercy to obtain . What wicked vice hath been in former time , That in our Land does not begin to climb , Therefore with Ninivie let us repent , The Lord to us his Messenger hath sent . But all these warnings will not serve our turn , To make us leave our sins with speed & mourn , But we do still offend the Lord of might , And still do follow pleasure and delight . Here every man takes care to please his mind , And seeks not for the living God to find ; The which they will repent when this too late , When they shall ask God mercy at his gate . We all do seek for worldly wealth and pleasure , And seek not to have store laid up in treasure , Some do not think upon the world to come , And therefore still a wicked course to run . The Lawyer he does think upon his fee , The Usurer likewise on his Money , The Glutton he thinks on his dainty cheer , The Drunkard on his Tobacco and beer . And many grievous sinners more there are , And for to speak of all I do not dare , But God alone who knows the hearts of all , Will bring them all tog [ e ] there great and small . And when that day to many does appear , And see the Lord in judgement , then I fear , Too late 'twill be for them then to repent , With sorrow then their grief will still augment . Good Lord that man would but conceive aright , And fear the living Lord the God of might , Then would they not so much be bent to since , But now would see a new life to begin . O Lord my God to thee I make my moan , Desiring that thy favour might be shown . And as we have offended thee full soar , Give me thy grace I may do so no more . MY thoughts tell me that I have done amiss , And now I seek for favour and redress , Of thee sweet Lord I here do pardon ask , That I may please thee well in this my task . Methinks I see our land is full of pride , And also bent to covetousness beside , Which is a thing which does offend the Lord ; I Scripture we do find it is abhor'd . Then now let us prepare our he arts to live , And to the Lord let us our prayers give , And then no doubt but he will have respect . To pardon us our great and heinous fact . The Lord does say if a sinner does repent , And turn to him with heart thats penitent . He will forgive him his offences past , And will receive his soul to him at last . But we in since do flourish and remain , And do not seek Gods favour to obtain , We think not on the judgement day at last Nor take no care until the time be passed . And then too late 'twill be for us to pray , When as the soul from body is away , Therefore in time let us our lives amend That we may make a true and faithful end . Methinks I see thee poor in great distress , The rich to them do yield but small redress , They do complain in woeful misery , And few there be that do regard their cry . Look what men give to'th poor and needy soul , The Lord will pay again to them ten fold , Do thou regard thy brother in distress , No question thou shalt ever vave the less , But this no wonder now at all to see , A many like to Judas for to be . They'l fell our Saviour Christ for gold and pr [ ? ] , Like unto Judas which did him betray . If that a man would think upon his death , While he does live upon the earth beneath , He could not choose but fear the Lord on high . That made the Earth the Sea and eke the Sky We late have had ill fortune us befall , The which is like to be a grief to all , True Loyal subject's of our Royal King , Did turn our joys in sorrow for to sing . Which is a token of our great offence , And just reward for our find recompense , Because the Lord has justly took occasion , To muke us yield by his kind persuasion . Remember how Jerusalem did fallen , And how their enemies did them enthral , Which were but righteous judgments from the Lord Because his holy word was still abhor'd . The Ninivites we read did soon repent , When God the prophet Jonas to them sent , Then why should we who have the Gospel pure Still seek our own eegruction to pro [ cur ] e . Remember man what woeful Torments be , Prepar'd in hell as warnings you may see , The poins ase woeful to be thrught upon , Beside all this they never will be done . And otherwise all those that fear the Lord , And follow after his most holy word , Shall live with Christ in perfect joy and peace , Where heavenly Angels sing and never cease . Now to cenclude Oh Lord give us thy grace , That we may led our life in such a case , That when we are departed hence away . We may then live in perfect peace and joy Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere . W. Gilbertson . 