The Royal Subject's Warning-piece to all Traitors You Traitors all both great and small , I wish you to beware . In time repent , and be content , for you must all to Hide-Park-Fair . There is Hemp'n toys for you brave boys , which murdered Charles the first , The Hangman he your guide must be , for thither go you must . To a pleasant new Tune , Come hith my own sweet Duck . OLd England now rejoice , thy sorrows all are past ; Triumph with heart and voice , good news is come at last . These that long time did mourn , come and rejoice with me I scorn my Coat to turn , but faithful I will be . Heavens bless our General . which hath our sorrows drowned , Pray for him great and small , King Charles must now be Crowned . This is good news indeed for every honest man ; The Law will now proceed Traitors do what you can , Your glass is almost run your time is almost spent , You must to Squire Don except you soon repent . [ ? ] for King Charles right , brave Lords of high Renown His C [ ? ] alry will fight , [ Kin ] g Charles must wear his Crown . You that did once bore sway and kept us all at under , Now is your reckoning day ; good Subjects you did plunder , Those that did firmly stand for Charles of high renown You banished the Land , and chaste them up and down , ; Then Traitors all repent , in City and in town , Your time is almost spent , King Charles must wear , etc What answer can you make either to God or man , What course now can you take do all the best you can : For murdering of your King , the Law will now proceed , Beware a hempen string , no better can you speed . Then traitors all repent in City and in Town , Your time is almost spent , King Charles . etc The second Part , to the same tune . YOur Anabaptists head no comfort can you bring , Alack he is almost dead , for treason against the King Himself must answer make , for what is done and passed He can no way forsake Squire Dun I fear at last . then traitors all repent in City and in town , Your time is almost spent . King Charles . etc , Come Harrison thou art the man , I and John Oakey thy brother , For treason against the King , there scarce is two such other ; than one a Butchers son , the other a poor Drayman , You must to Squire Dun do all the best you can . You traitors all repent in City and in town , Your time is almost spent , King Charles , etc Alack blind Hewson now , where is thy Laste and Awl , It had been better for thee to have kept in thy stall ; For Judging of the King a rebellious horrid deed , Beware of a Hempen string no better thou can speed . And for killing poor prentice boys for playing at the football , Squire Dun has hempen toys for sure will serve you all . Bold Arthur Hasterigge Newcastle does thee curse For raising of their Coals four shillings a Chauldron just ; Nay this is the worst of all , for Judging of the King As thou sat in White-hall , beware of and Hempen string . Repent you traitors all in City and in town , Justice does on you call , King Charles will pull you down . You now may curse the day that ever you did know Bold Oliver I say , that traitor , Englands Foe : He being a Brewers Son you liquored well your throat , the Commenty you have undone Yet now beware a Rope for climbing up so high You are sure to have a fallen . the innocent blood does cry Down with these Rebels all . When you had murdered the King you banished his Wife , And all the Royal Offspring you fought to take their life ; All that true Subject's were you did them traitors call . You must to Hide-Park-Fair , Squire Dun invites you all . then traitors all look too't , the Rump cannot you save , the Gallows will claim her due use all the skill you have . Concluding thus I cry God save our gracious King From bloody tyranny , and all the Royal Offspring , Lord bless the Duke of York , brave General Monck also , He is a Noble Spark against King Charles his foe . then traitors all repent , mark we well what here is said . Your time is almost spent alack you are all betrayed . FINIS . T.R. The Royal Subject's Warning-piece to all Traitors You Traitors all both great and small , I wish you to beware . In time repent , and be content , for you must all to Hide-Park-Fair . There is Hemp'n toys for you brave boys , which murdered Charles the first , The Hangman he your guide must be , for thither go you must . To a pleasant new Tune , Come hith my own sweet Duck . OLd England now rejoice , thy sorrows all are past ; Triumph with heart and voice , good news is come at last . These that long time did mourn , come and rejoice with me I scorn my Coat to turn , but faithful I will be . Heavens bless our General . which hath our sorrows drowned , Pray for him great and small , King Charles must now be Crowned . This is good news indeed for every honest man ; The Law will now proceed Traitors do what you can , Your glass is almost run your time is almost spent , You must to Squire Don except you soon repent . [ ? ] for King Charles right , brave Lords of high Renown His C [ ? ] alry will fight , [ Kin ] g Charles must wear his Crown . You that did once bore sway and kept us all at under , Now is your reckoning day ; good Subjects you did plunder , Those that did firmly stand for Charles of high renown You banished the Land , and chaste them up and down , ; Then Traitors all repent , in City and in town , Your time is almost spent , King Charles must wear , etc What answer can you make either to God or man , What course now can you take do all the best you can : For murdering of your King , the Law will now proceed , Beware a hempen string , no better can you speed . Then traitors all repent in City and in Town , Your time is almost spent , King Charles . etc The second Part , to the same tune . YOur Anabaptists head no comfort can you bring , Alack he is almost dead , for treason against the King Himself must answer make , for what is done and passed He can no way forsake Squire Dun I fear at last . then traitors all repent in City and in town , Your time is almost spent . King Charles . etc , Come Harrison thou art the man , I and John Oakey thy brother , For treason against the King , there scarce is two such other ; than one a Butchers son , the other a poor Drayman , You must to Squire Dun do all the best you can . You traitors all repent in City and in town , Your time is almost spent , King Charles , etc Alack blind Hewson now , where is thy Laste and Awl , It had been better for thee to have kept in thy stall ; For Judging of the King a rebellious horrid deed , Beware of a Hempen string no better thou can speed . And for killing poor prentice boys for playing at the football , Squire Dun has hempen toys for sure will serve you all . Bold Arthur Hasterigge Newcastle does thee curse For raising of their Coals four shillings a Chauldron just ; Nay this is the worst of all , for Judging of the King As thou sat in White-hall , beware of and Hempen string . Repent you traitors all in City and in town , Justice does on you call , King Charles will pull you down . You now may curse the day that ever you did know Bold Oliver I say , that traitor , Englands Foe : He being a Brewers Son you liquored well your throat , the Commenty you have undone Yet now beware a Rope for climbing up so high You are sure to have a fallen . the innocent blood does cry Down with these Rebels all . When you had murdered the King you banished his Wife , And all the Royal Offspring you fought to take their life ; All that true Subject's were you did them traitors call . You must to Hide-Park-Fair , Squire Dun invites you all . then traitors all look too't , the Rump cannot you save , the Gallows will claim her due use all the skill you have . Concluding thus I cry God save our gracious King From bloody tyranny , and all the Royal Offspring , Lord bless the Duke of York , brave General Monck also , He is a Noble Spark against King Charles his foe . then traitors all repent , mark we well what here is said . Your time is almost spent alack you are all betrayed . FINIS . T.R. 