a The lovely Northern Lass , Who in the Ditty here complaining , shows What harm she god milking her Daddies Ewes . To a pleasant Scotch tune , called , The broom of Cowden knows THrough Liddersdale as lately I went , I musing on did pass , I herd a Maid was discontent she sigh'd and said alas : All maids that ever deceived was , bear a part of these my woes , For once I was a bonny Lass , when I milked my daddies Ewes , With Oh , the broom , the bonny broom the broom of Cowdon knors , Fain would I be in the North Country , to milk my daddies Ewes . My Love into the field did come . when my daddy was from home , Sugared words he gave me there , prais'd me for such a one : His honey breath and lips so soft , and his alluring eye . And tempting tongue hath wooed me off , now forces me to cry . All maids , etc He joyed me with his pretty chat , so well discourse could he , Talking of this thing and of that , which greatly liked me : I was sogreatly taken with his speech , and with his comely making , He used all the means could be , to inchant me with his speaking , All maids etc In Danby Forest I was born , my beauty did excel , My parents dearly loved me , till my belly began to swell : I might have been a Princes peer , when I came over the knoes , Till the Shepherds boy beguiled me , milking my dadies Ewes , All maids , etc When once I fell my belly swell : no longer might I abide My mother put me out of doors , and bange'd me back and side : Then did I range the world so wide , wandering among the knoes , Cursing the boy that helped me , to fold my daddies Ewes . All maids , etc Who would have thought a boy so young , would have used a Maiden so , So to allure her with his tongue , and then frem her to go , Which hath alas procured my woe , to credit his fair shows , Which now to late repent I do , the milking of the Ewes , All maids that ever deceived was , bear a part of these my woes , For once I was a bonny Lass , when I milked my dadies Ewes . The second Part , to the same tune . ALL Maidens fair then have a care , when you a milking go , Trust not to young men's tempting tongues , that will deceive you so , Them you shall find to be unkind , and glory in your woes , For the Shepherds boy beguiled me , folding my Daddies Ewes . All Maids etc If you your Virgin-honours keep , esteeming of them deer , You need not then to wail and weep , or your parents anger fear : As I have said of them beware , would glory in your woes , You then may sing with merry cheer , milking your daddies Ewes . All Maids , etc A young man hearing her complaint , did pity this her case , Saying to her sweet beauteous Saint , I grieve so fair a face Should sorrow so , then sweating know , to ease thee of thy wooes , I'll go with thee to the North Country , to milk thy daddies Ewes , All Maids , etc Leander like I will remain , still constant to thee ever , As Pyramus , or Troyalus , till death our lives shall sever : Let me be hated evermore , of all men that me knows , If false thee Sweet heart I be , milking thy daddies Ewes , All Maids , etc Then modestly she did reply , might I so happy be , Of you to find a husband kind , and for to marry me , Then to you I would during life , continue constant still , And be a true obedient wife , observing of your will . With Oh the broom , the bonny broom , the broom of Cowdon knoes , Fain would I be in the North Country , milking my daddies Ewes . Thus with a gentlesoft embrace , he took her in his arms , And with kiss he smiling said , I'll shield thee from all harms , And instantly will marry thee , to ease thee of thy woes , And go with thee to the North Country , to milk thy Daddies Ewes . With Oh the broom , etc FINIS . London Printed for Fr. Coals , in the O [ l ] d-Bayly . a The lovely Northern Lass , Who in the Ditty here complaining , shows What harm she god milking her Daddies Ewes . To a pleasant Scotch tune , called , The broom of Cowden knows THrough Liddersdale as lately I went , I musing on did pass , I herd a Maid was discontent she sigh'd and said alas : All maids that ever deceived was , bear a part of these my woes , For once I was a bonny Lass , when I milked my daddies Ewes , With Oh , the broom , the bonny broom the broom of Cowdon knors , Fain would I be in the North Country , to milk my daddies Ewes . My Love into the field did come . when my daddy was from home , Sugared words he gave me there , prais'd me for such a one : His honey breath and lips so soft , and his alluring eye . And tempting tongue hath wooed me off , now forces me to cry . All maids , etc He joyed me with his pretty chat , so well discourse could he , Talking of this thing and of that , which greatly liked me : I was sogreatly taken with his speech , and with his comely making , He used all the means could be , to inchant me with his speaking , All maids etc In Danby Forest I was born , my beauty did excel , My parents dearly loved me , till my belly began to swell : I might have been a Princes peer , when I came over the knoes , Till the Shepherds boy beguiled me , milking my dadies Ewes , All maids , etc When once I fell my belly swell : no longer might I abide My mother put me out of doors , and bange'd me back and side : Then did I range the world so wide , wandering among the knoes , Cursing the boy that helped me , to fold my daddies Ewes . All maids , etc Who would have thought a boy so young , would have used a Maiden so , So to allure her with his tongue , and then frem her to go , Which hath alas procured my woe , to credit his fair shows , Which now to late repent I do , the milking of the Ewes , All maids that ever deceived was , bear a part of these my woes , For once I was a bonny Lass , when I milked my dadies Ewes . The second Part , to the same tune . ALL Maidens fair then have a care , when you a milking go , Trust not to young men's tempting tongues , that will deceive you so , Them you shall find to be unkind , and glory in your woes , For the Shepherds boy beguiled me , folding my Daddies Ewes . All Maids etc If you your Virgin-honours keep , esteeming of them deer , You need not then to wail and weep , or your parents anger fear : As I have said of them beware , would glory in your woes , You then may sing with merry cheer , milking your daddies Ewes . All Maids , etc A young man hearing her complaint , did pity this her case , Saying to her sweet beauteous Saint , I grieve so fair a face Should sorrow so , then sweating know , to ease thee of thy wooes , I'll go with thee to the North Country , to milk thy daddies Ewes , All Maids , etc Leander like I will remain , still constant to thee ever , As Pyramus , or Troyalus , till death our lives shall sever : Let me be hated evermore , of all men that me knows , If false thee Sweet heart I be , milking thy daddies Ewes , All Maids , etc Then modestly she did reply , might I so happy be , Of you to find a husband kind , and for to marry me , Then to you I would during life , continue constant still , And be a true obedient wife , observing of your will . With Oh the broom , the bonny broom , the broom of Cowdon knoes , Fain would I be in the North Country , milking my daddies Ewes . Thus with a gentlesoft embrace , he took her in his arms , And with kiss he smiling said , I'll shield thee from all harms , And instantly will marry thee , to ease thee of thy woes , And go with thee to the North Country , to milk thy Daddies Ewes . With Oh the broom , etc FINIS . London Printed for Fr. Coals , in the O [ l ] d-Bayly . 