Loves Torments Eased by Death : Or , Lovers Delay'd , grow Desperate . Being a Relation how a young Gallant thinking he was despised by Cloris , poisoned himself , the which the Nymph understanding by a Letter that she found lying by him , ran Distracted , etc Cevus by Loves fierce Shaft tormented lies , Despairing of all Cure , self-poyson'd Dies . Leaving a Letter that contain'd the cause Of his sad fate , which Cloris finds , does pause , A while upon them with the sense of grief , Distracted grows , admitting no relief . To a pleasant New Court-Tune : Or , Phillis thou soul of Love . BEauty thou Throne of Graces , Bright Queen of Charmed faces , Thou Goddess of endless Passion , Thou Tyrant of the Nation : Thou Soul that does incharm us , Thou Fury sent to harm us ; How happy shou'd we be ? Proud foe wer't not for thee . Numerous shining Glories , Adorn my Lovely Cloris ; Her Face as bright as Summer , Her Pride did well become her : Her Praise above was given , Each Angel flew from Heaven ; And smiling clap'd his Wing , For joy to hear her sing . My Soul was still admiring , Her falsehood still aspiring : I strongly did besiege her , Yet ne'r durst disobleige her , But she like frosty weather , Nip'd all my Buds together : Believing me untrue , My poor heart did undo . The Second part , to the same Tune . WIth cruelty pursuing , Until she prov'd my ruin : My youthful joys consuming , And blasted love just blooming : Which must have fatal ending , Now Death on me's descending , Der sing torments new , My poor heart to subdue . Grief shall no more distress me , Nor wounding love oppress me : This mortal Poison tasted , To shades below I'm hasted : This done you cruel powers , Death now that Love devours , With his bright Shaft strikes through , My heart for ever true . Which Cloris Love undoing , Has forc'd upon sad ruin ; No more the Light desiring , But to dark shades retiring , Among Ghosts to be telling , In my Elizium dwelling , How thinking me untrue , My poor heart did undo . Fair Tyranness I leave thee , Thy Charms of Life bereave me ; Under this shade where Eyeing , The first I will be dying : Farewell my hope for ever , My Love and Life together : But this the World shall show What did my heart undo . Which he no sooner saying , But from his bosom drawing , He by him lay'd the Paper , When with a sighs his Tapour Of Life from Earth ascended , And so his torments ended : Whom Cloris thought untrue , And his heart did undo . He no sooner dying , But Cloris that way prying , Beheld her cruel conquest , At which with fear being Nonplus She started , but desire Made her full soon draw nigher : Whereby the Root she knew , Which did his heart undo . And that her charming Beauty , To which he long pay'd duty , Had been his overthrowing , Which she no sooner knowing : But sigh'd , woes me , and crying , Alas ! while I was trying , His constancy so true , I did his heart undo . The which not longer hearing , But golden Trifles tearing , Her Ivory Breast still smiting , Distraction so inciting : And frantic loud did clamour , Nor could the wood-Nymphs tame her , But crying false untrue , That coud'st thy Love undo . She through the Groves does wander , Tracing each Meander , Against the Fates exclaiming , And her own hard heart blaming : And comfortless deceived , But quite of sense bereft , She cries , Ah me ! untrue , That could my Love undo . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Gol - den Ball , in West-smith-field . Loves Torments Eased by Death : Or , Lovers Delay'd , grow Desperate . Being a Relation how a young Gallant thinking he was despised by Cloris , poisoned himself , the which the Nymph understanding by a Letter that she found lying by him , ran Distracted , etc Cevus by Loves fierce Shaft tormented lies , Despairing of all Cure , self-poyson'd Dies . Leaving a Letter that contain'd the cause Of his sad fate , which Cloris finds , does pause , A while upon them with the sense of grief , Distracted grows , admitting no relief . To a pleasant New Court-Tune : Or , Phillis thou soul of Love . BEauty thou Throne of Graces , Bright Queen of Charmed faces , Thou Goddess of endless Passion , Thou Tyrant of the Nation : Thou Soul that does incharm us , Thou Fury sent to harm us ; How happy shou'd we be ? Proud foe wer't not for thee . Numerous shining Glories , Adorn my Lovely Cloris ; Her Face as bright as Summer , Her Pride did well become her : Her Praise above was given , Each Angel flew from Heaven ; And smiling clap'd his Wing , For joy to hear her sing . My Soul was still admiring , Her falsehood still aspiring : I strongly did besiege her , Yet ne'r durst disobleige her , But she like frosty weather , Nip'd all my Buds together : Believing me untrue , My poor heart did undo . The Second part , to the same Tune . WIth cruelty pursuing , Until she prov'd my ruin : My youthful joys consuming , And blasted love just blooming : Which must have fatal ending , Now Death on me's descending , Der sing torments new , My poor heart to subdue . Grief shall no more distress me , Nor wounding love oppress me : This mortal Poison tasted , To shades below I'm hasted : This done you cruel powers , Death now that Love devours , With his bright Shaft strikes through , My heart for ever true . Which Cloris Love undoing , Has forc'd upon sad ruin ; No more the Light desiring , But to dark shades retiring , Among Ghosts to be telling , In my Elizium dwelling , How thinking me untrue , My poor heart did undo . Fair Tyranness I leave thee , Thy Charms of Life bereave me ; Under this shade where Eyeing , The first I will be dying : Farewell my hope for ever , My Love and Life together : But this the World shall show What did my heart undo . Which he no sooner saying , But from his bosom drawing , He by him lay'd the Paper , When with a sighs his Tapour Of Life from Earth ascended , And so his torments ended : Whom Cloris thought untrue , And his heart did undo . He no sooner dying , But Cloris that way prying , Beheld her cruel conquest , At which with fear being Nonplus She started , but desire Made her full soon draw nigher : Whereby the Root she knew , Which did his heart undo . And that her charming Beauty , To which he long pay'd duty , Had been his overthrowing , Which she no sooner knowing : But sigh'd , woes me , and crying , Alas ! while I was trying , His constancy so true , I did his heart undo . The which not longer hearing , But golden Trifles tearing , Her Ivory Breast still smiting , Distraction so inciting : And frantic loud did clamour , Nor could the wood-Nymphs tame her , But crying false untrue , That coud'st thy Love undo . She through the Groves does wander , Tracing each Meander , Against the Fates exclaiming , And her own hard heart blaming : And comfortless deceived , But quite of sense bereft , She cries , Ah me ! untrue , That could my Love undo . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Gol - den Ball , in West-smith-field . 