The Lamenting Ladies last farewell to the WOR . LD . Who being in a strange Exile bewales her own misery , complains upon Fortune and Destiny , describeth the manner of her breeding , deplores the loss of her parents wishing peace and happiness to England , which was her native Country , and withal resolved for death , cheerfully come - death her soul to heaven , and her body to the earth , and quiet - lie departed this life : Anno 1650. To and excellent new Tune , Oh hone , Oh hone . MOarnful Mealpomeny assist my quill , That I may pensivly , now make my will , Guide thou my hand , to write And senses to indite , A Ladies last good night , Oh pittty me . I that was nobly born . hither am sen Like to a wretch forlorn , here to lament ; In this most strange exile Here to remain awhile : Till heaven be pleas'd to smile : and send for me . My friends cannot come nigh me in this place : Nor bear me company such is my case , Poor I am left alone , But few regard my moan : All my delights are gone heaven succour me , Each day with cares and fears , I am perplexed , My drink is brinish tears with sorrow mixed . When others soundly sleep , I sadly sob and weep : Oppressed with dangers deep Lord comfort me . When England flourished , my Parents deer Tenderly nourished me many a year , I was advanc'd on high , In place of dignity , In olden bravery they decked me . MY garments decked , with pearl richly approv'd , Never was English girls better belov'd , Old and young , great and small Waited upon my call , I had the love of all , that did know me . But from my former state I am cal'd back , Through destiny and fate , all goes to wrack , Fortune did lately frown , And caught me by the Crown , So pulled me headlong down , o woe is me . My dear friends are decay'd , which lov'd me best , Never was harmless maid , so much distres My Father he is dead . My Mother banished , All joys are from me fled , Heaven comfort , me . How well are they at ease and sweetly blessed , That may go when they please and where they list To see their Parents kind , As nature does them bind , Such joys I cannot find , Ah woe is me . All earthly helps are gone , I will and must Only in God alone Put my whole trust . O blessed Trinity , One God and persons three , Release my misery , and comfort me . No creature on the earth , can ease my grief , Until such time as death yield me relief , A coffin and a grave , Is that which I would have , Sweet Christ my soul receive and sucour me . My Enemies that be , both great and small , Good Lord I pray to thee forgive them all . May England flourish brave , When I am laid in grave So thus I take my leave Christ calls for me . I have in heaven above a place prepar'd Never shall I depart from thence afterwards Go tole my passing bell , While Angels ring my knell , So vain world now farewell Christ sends for me . When she these words had spoke , with cheerful heart , The noble minded maid then did depart No doubt her souls at rest with them whom God hath blessed . The last words she expressed . was , Christ calls for me London , Printed for Tho. Vers at the sign of the Angel without Newgate . The Lamenting Ladies last farewell to the WOR . LD . Who being in a strange Exile bewales her own misery , complains upon Fortune and Destiny , describeth the manner of her breeding , deplores the loss of her parents wishing peace and happiness to England , which was her native Country , and withal resolved for death , cheerfully come - death her soul to heaven , and her body to the earth , and quiet - lie departed this life : Anno 1650. To and excellent new Tune , Oh hone , Oh hone . MOarnful Mealpomeny assist my quill , That I may pensivly , now make my will , Guide thou my hand , to write And senses to indite , A Ladies last good night , Oh pittty me . I that was nobly born . hither am sen Like to a wretch forlorn , here to lament ; In this most strange exile Here to remain awhile : Till heaven be pleas'd to smile : and send for me . My friends cannot come nigh me in this place : Nor bear me company such is my case , Poor I am left alone , But few regard my moan : All my delights are gone heaven succour me , Each day with cares and fears , I am perplexed , My drink is brinish tears with sorrow mixed . When others soundly sleep , I sadly sob and weep : Oppressed with dangers deep Lord comfort me . When England flourished , my Parents deer Tenderly nourished me many a year , I was advanc'd on high , In place of dignity , In olden bravery they decked me . MY garments decked , with pearl richly approv'd , Never was English girls better belov'd , Old and young , great and small Waited upon my call , I had the love of all , that did know me . But from my former state I am cal'd back , Through destiny and fate , all goes to wrack , Fortune did lately frown , And caught me by the Crown , So pulled me headlong down , o woe is me . My dear friends are decay'd , which lov'd me best , Never was harmless maid , so much distres My Father he is dead . My Mother banished , All joys are from me fled , Heaven comfort , me . How well are they at ease and sweetly blessed , That may go when they please and where they list To see their Parents kind , As nature does them bind , Such joys I cannot find , Ah woe is me . All earthly helps are gone , I will and must Only in God alone Put my whole trust . O blessed Trinity , One God and persons three , Release my misery , and comfort me . No creature on the earth , can ease my grief , Until such time as death yield me relief , A coffin and a grave , Is that which I would have , Sweet Christ my soul receive and sucour me . My Enemies that be , both great and small , Good Lord I pray to thee forgive them all . May England flourish brave , When I am laid in grave So thus I take my leave Christ calls for me . I have in heaven above a place prepar'd Never shall I depart from thence afterwards Go tole my passing bell , While Angels ring my knell , So vain world now farewell Christ sends for me . When she these words had spoke , with cheerful heart , The noble minded maid then did depart No doubt her souls at rest with them whom God hath blessed . The last words she expressed . was , Christ calls for me London , Printed for Tho. Vers at the sign of the Angel without Newgate . 