The lamentable fallen of Queen Elenor , who for her Pride and wickedness by Gods judgements sunk i [ n ] to the ground at Charing-Cross , and rose at Queen hive . To the tune of , Gentle and Courteous WHen Edward was in England King the first of all that name , Proud Elenor he made his Queen , a stately Spanish Dame . Whose wicked life and sinful pride , through England did excel , To dainty Dams and gallant Maids , this Queen was known full well . She was the first that did invent in Coaches brave to ride , She was the first that brought this Land to deadly since of pride . No English Taylor here could serve to make her rich attire , But sent for Tailors into Spain to feed her vain desire . They brought in fashions strange and new with golden Garments bright , The Farthingale and mighty Ruffs , with Gown of rich delight . Our London Dams in Spanish pride did flourish every where , Our Englishmen like women then , did wear long locks of hair . Both man and child , both maid and wife weary drown'd in pride of Spain , And thought the Spanish Tailors then our English men did stain . Whereat the Queen did much despite to see our English men , In vestures clad as brave to see as any Spaniard then . She crav'd the King that every man , that wore long locks of hair , Might then be cut and polled all or shaved very near . Whereat the King did seem content , and soon thereto agreed . And first commanded that his own should then be cut with speed . And after that to please his Queen proclaimed through the land , That every man that wore long hair , should poll him out of hand But yet this Spaniard not content , to women boar a spite , And then requested of the King against all Law and right . That every womankind should have their right breast cut away , And then with burning Irons sear'd , the blood to staunch and stay . King Edward then perceiving well her spite to womenkind , Devised soon by policy , to turn her bloody mind . He sent for burning Irons straight , all sparkling hight to see , And said Oh Queen come on thy way , I will begin with thee . Which words did much displease the Queen , that penance to begin , But asked him pardon on her knees , who gave her grace therein . BUt afterwards there chanc'd to pass along brave London streets , Whereas the Mayor of Londons wife in stately sort she meets . With music , mirth and melody unto the Church they went To give God thanks that to the Lord Mayor a noble Son had send . It grieved much this spiteful Queen to see that any one , Should so exceed in mirth and j [ oh ] y , except her self alone : For which she after did devise , within her bloody mind . And practis'd still most secretly , to kill that Lady kind . Unto the Mayor of London then she sent her Letters straight , To send his Lady to the Court , upon her grace to wait , But when the London Lady came before proud Elenors face , She stripped her from her rich array , and kept her vile and bose . She sent her into Wal [ e ] s with speed , and kept her secret there , And us'd her still most cruelly , that ever man did hear She made her wash , she made her starch , she made her drudge always , She made her nurse up Children small , and labour night and day . But this contented not the Queen , but shew'd her more despite . She bound this Lady to a Post , at twelve a clock at night . And as poor Lady she stood bound , the Queen in angry mood , Did set two Snakes unto her breast , that sucked away her blood . Thus dy'd the Mayor of Londons wife most grievous for to hear , Which made the Spaniard grow more pro [ ud ] as after sha [ l ] l appear . The wheat that daily made her bred , was bolted twenty times , The food that fed this stately Dame , was boyl'd in costly wines . The water that did spring from ground she would not touch at all , But washed her hands with due of heaven that on sweet Roses fallen . She bath'd her body many a time , in Fountains fil'd with milk . And every day did change attire , in costly Median silk . But coming then to London back within her Coach of gold , A tempest strange within the Skies this Queen did there behold . Out of which storm she could not go , but there remain'd a space . Four horses could not stir the Coach , a foot out of that place . A judgement lately sent from heaven for shedding guiltless blood , Upon this sinful Queen that slew the London Lady good . King Edward then as wisdom wil'd accus'd her of that deed , But she deny'd and wished that God would send his wrath with speed . If that upon so vile a thing her heart did ever think , She wished the ground might open wide and therein she might sink , With that at Charingcross she sunk into the ground alive , And after rose with life again , in London at Queen-hive . When after that she languished soar , full twenty days in pain , At last confessed the Ladies blood , her guilty hands had slave , And likewise how that by a Friar she had a base born child , Whose sinful lustest and wickedness , her marriage defil'd . Thus you have herd the fallen of pride , a just reward of since , For those that will forswear themselves , Gods vengeance daily win Beware of pride ye London Dams , both wives and maidens all , Bear this imprinted in your minds , that pride may have a fallen . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson . The lamentable fallen of Queen Elenor , who for her Pride and wickedness by Gods judgements sunk i [ n ] to the ground at Charing-Cross , and rose at Queen hive . To the tune of , Gentle and Courteous WHen Edward was in England King the first of all that name , Proud Elenor he made his Queen , a stately Spanish Dame . Whose wicked life and sinful pride , through England did excel , To dainty Dams and gallant Maids , this Queen was known full well . She was the first that did invent in Coaches brave to ride , She was the first that brought this Land to deadly since of pride . No English Taylor here could serve to make her rich attire , But sent for Tailors into Spain to feed her vain desire . They brought in fashions strange and new with golden Garments bright , The Farthingale and mighty Ruffs , with Gown of rich delight . Our London Dams in Spanish pride did flourish every where , Our Englishmen like women then , did wear long locks of hair . Both man and child , both maid and wife weary drown'd in pride of Spain , And thought the Spanish Tailors then our English men did stain . Whereat the Queen did much despite to see our English men , In vestures clad as brave to see as any Spaniard then . She crav'd the King that every man , that wore long locks of hair , Might then be cut and polled all or shaved very near . Whereat the King did seem content , and soon thereto agreed . And first commanded that his own should then be cut with speed . And after that to please his Queen proclaimed through the land , That every man that wore long hair , should poll him out of hand But yet this Spaniard not content , to women boar a spite , And then requested of the King against all Law and right . That every womankind should have their right breast cut away , And then with burning Irons sear'd , the blood to staunch and stay . King Edward then perceiving well her spite to womenkind , Devised soon by policy , to turn her bloody mind . He sent for burning Irons straight , all sparkling hight to see , And said Oh Queen come on thy way , I will begin with thee . Which words did much displease the Queen , that penance to begin , But asked him pardon on her knees , who gave her grace therein . BUt afterwards there chanc'd to pass along brave London streets , Whereas the Mayor of Londons wife in stately sort she meets . With music , mirth and melody unto the Church they went To give God thanks that to the Lord Mayor a noble Son had send . It grieved much this spiteful Queen to see that any one , Should so exceed in mirth and j [ oh ] y , except her self alone : For which she after did devise , within her bloody mind . And practis'd still most secretly , to kill that Lady kind . Unto the Mayor of London then she sent her Letters straight , To send his Lady to the Court , upon her grace to wait , But when the London Lady came before proud Elenors face , She stripped her from her rich array , and kept her vile and bose . She sent her into Wal [ e ] s with speed , and kept her secret there , And us'd her still most cruelly , that ever man did hear She made her wash , she made her starch , she made her drudge always , She made her nurse up Children small , and labour night and day . But this contented not the Queen , but shew'd her more despite . She bound this Lady to a Post , at twelve a clock at night . And as poor Lady she stood bound , the Queen in angry mood , Did set two Snakes unto her breast , that sucked away her blood . Thus dy'd the Mayor of Londons wife most grievous for to hear , Which made the Spaniard grow more pro [ ud ] as after sha [ l ] l appear . The wheat that daily made her bred , was bolted twenty times , The food that fed this stately Dame , was boyl'd in costly wines . The water that did spring from ground she would not touch at all , But washed her hands with due of heaven that on sweet Roses fallen . She bath'd her body many a time , in Fountains fil'd with milk . And every day did change attire , in costly Median silk . But coming then to London back within her Coach of gold , A tempest strange within the Skies this Queen did there behold . Out of which storm she could not go , but there remain'd a space . Four horses could not stir the Coach , a foot out of that place . A judgement lately sent from heaven for shedding guiltless blood , Upon this sinful Queen that slew the London Lady good . King Edward then as wisdom wil'd accus'd her of that deed , But she deny'd and wished that God would send his wrath with speed . If that upon so vile a thing her heart did ever think , She wished the ground might open wide and therein she might sink , With that at Charingcross she sunk into the ground alive , And after rose with life again , in London at Queen-hive . When after that she languished soar , full twenty days in pain , At last confessed the Ladies blood , her guilty hands had slave , And likewise how that by a Friar she had a base born child , Whose sinful lustest and wickedness , her marriage defil'd . Thus you have herd the fallen of pride , a just reward of since , For those that will forswear themselves , Gods vengeance daily win Beware of pride ye London Dams , both wives and maidens all , Bear this imprinted in your minds , that pride may have a fallen . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson . 