The last News from France . Being a true Relation of the escape of the King of Scots from Worcester to London , and from London to France , who was conveyed away by a young Gentleman in woman's apparel : The King of Scots attending on this sup - posed Gentlewoman in manner of a Servingman . The tune is , When the King enjoys his own again . ALL you that do desire to know what is become of the King of Scots I unto you will truly show , after the fight of the Northern Rats It I did convey His Highness away , And from all dangers set him free , In woman's attire , As reason did require , And the King himself did wait on me . He of me a service did crave , and oftentimes to me stood bear , In woman's apparel he was most brave and on his chin he had no hare , Where ever I came My speeches did frame , So well my Waiting-man to free , The like was never know , I think by any one . For the King etc My Waiting man a Jewel had , which I for want of Money sold , Because my Fortune was so bad , we turn'd our Jewel into Gold , A good shift indeed , In time of our need . Then glad was I and glad was he , Our cause it did advance , Until we came to France , And the King . etc we walked through Westminster-hall , where Law and Justice does take place Our grief was great our comfort small , we looked grim death all in the face . I looked round about , And made no other doubt . But I and my man should taken be . The people little knew . As I may tell to you . That the King himself did wait on me . FRom thence we went to the fatal place where his Father lost his life . And there my man did weep apace . and sorrow with him then was rife . I bid him peace . Let sorrow cease . For fear that we should taken be . The gallants in Whiteahll . Did little know at all . That the King himself did wait on me . The King he was my Servingman , and thus the plot we did contrive , I went by the name of Mistress Ann when we took water at Queen . hive . A boat there we took , And London forsook . And now in France arrived are we , We god away by stealth , And the King is in good health , And he shall no longer wait on me . The King of Denmarks dead they say . then Charls is like to rule the Land , In France he will no longer stay as I do rightly understand . That Land is his endue If they be but true . And he with them do well agree , I herd a Bird sing . If he be once their King , my man will then my Master be . Now heaven grant them better success with their young King then England had Free from war and from distress , their Fortune may not be so bad . Since the case thus stands Let neighbouring Lands Lay down their arms and at quiet be But as for my part I'm glad withal my heart That my man must now my Master be . And thus I have declar'd to you by what means we escap'd away Now we bid our cares adieu though the King did lose the day To him I was true , And that well he knew This God that must his comfort be else all our policy had been but foolery For the King no longer waits on me . Printed for W. Gilbertson . The last News from France . Being a true Relation of the escape of the King of Scots from Worcester to London , and from London to France , who was conveyed away by a young Gentleman in woman's apparel : The King of Scots attending on this sup - posed Gentlewoman in manner of a Servingman . The tune is , When the King enjoys his own again . ALL you that do desire to know what is become of the King of Scots I unto you will truly show , after the fight of the Northern Rats It I did convey His Highness away , And from all dangers set him free , In woman's attire , As reason did require , And the King himself did wait on me . He of me a service did crave , and oftentimes to me stood bear , In woman's apparel he was most brave and on his chin he had no hare , Where ever I came My speeches did frame , So well my Waiting-man to free , The like was never know , I think by any one . For the King etc My Waiting man a Jewel had , which I for want of Money sold , Because my Fortune was so bad , we turn'd our Jewel into Gold , A good shift indeed , In time of our need . Then glad was I and glad was he , Our cause it did advance , Until we came to France , And the King . etc we walked through Westminster-hall , where Law and Justice does take place Our grief was great our comfort small , we looked grim death all in the face . I looked round about , And made no other doubt . But I and my man should taken be . The people little knew . As I may tell to you . That the King himself did wait on me . FRom thence we went to the fatal place where his Father lost his life . And there my man did weep apace . and sorrow with him then was rife . I bid him peace . Let sorrow cease . For fear that we should taken be . The gallants in Whiteahll . Did little know at all . That the King himself did wait on me . The King he was my Servingman , and thus the plot we did contrive , I went by the name of Mistress Ann when we took water at Queen . hive . A boat there we took , And London forsook . And now in France arrived are we , We god away by stealth , And the King is in good health , And he shall no longer wait on me . The King of Denmarks dead they say . then Charls is like to rule the Land , In France he will no longer stay as I do rightly understand . That Land is his endue If they be but true . And he with them do well agree , I herd a Bird sing . If he be once their King , my man will then my Master be . Now heaven grant them better success with their young King then England had Free from war and from distress , their Fortune may not be so bad . Since the case thus stands Let neighbouring Lands Lay down their arms and at quiet be But as for my part I'm glad withal my heart That my man must now my Master be . And thus I have declar'd to you by what means we escap'd away Now we bid our cares adieu though the King did lose the day To him I was true , And that well he knew This God that must his comfort be else all our policy had been but foolery For the King no longer waits on me . Printed for W. Gilbertson . 