[ TO ] he lamentable fallen of Queen Elnor , who for her pride and wickedness by Gods judgement , sunk in - to the ground at Charingcrosse , and rose up at Queen Hive . To the tune of Gentle and Courteous . [ W ] Hen Edward was in England king first of all that name : [ Proud Elenor h ] e made his Queen , [ a stately Spa ] nish Dame , [ Whose wicked li ] fe and sinful pride , [ through England ] did excel : [ To Dainty Dams a ] and gallant Maids , [ this Queen was ] known full well . [ She was the first tO ] hat did invent [ in Coaches b ] rave to ride , [ She was tO ] he first that brought this land [ to ] deadly sin of pride . [ No ] English Taylor here could serve to make her rich attire : But sent for Tailors into Spaine , to feed her vain desire . They brought in fashions strange and new with golden garments brigh The farthingale , and mighty cuffs , with gowns of rare delight Our London dams in Spanish pride , did flourish every where , Our English men like women then , did wear long locks of hair . Both man and child both maid & wife , were drown'd in Pride of Spaine , And thought the Spanish Tailors then our English men did stain : Whereat the Queen did much despite to see our English men . In vestuees clad , as brave to see , as any Spaniard then . She craved the King that every man , that wore long locks of hair , Might then be cut and powled all , or shaved very near . Whereat the King did seem content , and soon thereto agreed , And first commanded that his own should then be cut with speed , And after that to please his Queen , proclaimed through the land , That every man that wore long hair , should powle him out of hand . But yet this Spaniard not content , to women boar a spigh And then requested of the King , against all law and right . That every womankind should have her right breast cut away : And then with burning Irons sear'd , the blood to stench and stay , King Edward then perceiving well , her spite to women kind : Devised soon by policy , to turn her bloody mind . He sent for burning Irons straight , all sparkling hight to see : And said , Oh Queen come on thy way , I will begin with thee . Which words did much displease the Queen that penance to begin , But asked him pardon on her knees , who gave her grace therein . But afterwards they chanced to pass along brave London streets , Whereas the Mayor of Londons wife , in stately sort she meets . With music , mirth and melody unto the Church that went , To give God thanks , that to Lo. Maior a noble Son had sent . It grieved much this spiteful Queen , to see that any one , Should so exceed in mirth and joy , except her self alone : For which she after did devise . within her bloody mind , And practised still most secretly , to kill that Lady kind . Unto Lord Mayor of London then , she sent he Letters straight , To send his Lady to the Court , upon her Grace to wai But when the London Lady came before proud Elnors face , She stripped her from her rich array , and kept her vile and base , She sent her into wales with speed , and kept her secret there , And used her still more cruelly , then ever man did hear : She made her wash she made her starch she made her drudge always : She made her nurse up children small , and labour night and day . But this contented not the Queen , but showed her more despigh She bound this Lady to a pos at twelve at lock at night , And as ( poor Lady ) she stood bound , the Queen in angry mood , Did set two snakes unto her breast , that sucked away her blood . Thus died the Mayor of Londons wife' most grievous for to hear : Which made the Spaniard grow more proud , as after shall appear . The wheat that daily made her bred was bolted twenty times , The food that fed this stately Dame , was boiled in costly wines . The water that did spring from ground she would not touch at all , But washed her hands with due of heaven that on sweet Roses fallen , She bathed her body many a time , in fountains filled with milk , And every day did change attire , in costly Median silk . But coming then to London back , within her coach of gold , A tempest strange within the skies , this Queen did there behold : Out of which storm she could not go , but their remained a space , Foure horses could not stir her Coach a foot out of that place . A judgement surely sent from heaven , for shedding guiltless blood , Upon this sinful Queen , that slew the London Lady good . King Edward then ( as wisdom wild ) accus'd her for that deed ; But she denied , and wished that God would send his wrath with speed , If that upon so vile a thin [ g ] her heart did ever think [ , ] She wished the ground might open wide , and therein she might sink : With that at Charingcross she sunk , into the ground alive , And after rose with life again , in London at Queene-Hive . Where after that she languished soar , full twentie days in pain : At last confessed , the Ladies blood her guilty hands did stain : And likewise how that by a Friar she had a base born child , Whose sinful lust and wickedness , her marriage bed defiled . Thus you have herd the fallen of pride , a just reward of sin : For those that will forswear themselves Gods vengeance daily win , Beware of pride you London Dams , both Wives and Maidens all , Bear this imprinted in your mind , that pride must have a fallen . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcoeke . FINIS . [ TO ] he lamentable fallen of Queen Elnor , who for her pride and wickedness by Gods judgement , sunk in - to the ground at Charingcrosse , and rose up at Queen Hive . To the tune of Gentle and Courteous . [ W ] Hen Edward was in England king first of all that name : [ Proud Elenor h ] e made his Queen , [ a stately Spa ] nish Dame , [ Whose wicked li ] fe and sinful pride , [ through England ] did excel : [ To Dainty Dams a ] and gallant Maids , [ this Queen was ] known full well . [ She was the first tO ] hat did invent [ in Coaches b ] rave to ride , [ She was tO ] he first that brought this land [ to ] deadly sin of pride . [ No ] English Taylor here could serve to make her rich attire : But sent for Tailors into Spaine , to feed her vain desire . They brought in fashions strange and new with golden garments brigh The farthingale , and mighty cuffs , with gowns of rare delight Our London dams in Spanish pride , did flourish every where , Our English men like women then , did wear long locks of hair . Both man and child both maid & wife , were drown'd in Pride of Spaine , And thought the Spanish Tailors then our English men did stain : Whereat the Queen did much despite to see our English men . In vestuees clad , as brave to see , as any Spaniard then . She craved the King that every man , that wore long locks of hair , Might then be cut and powled all , or shaved very near . Whereat the King did seem content , and soon thereto agreed , And first commanded that his own should then be cut with speed , And after that to please his Queen , proclaimed through the land , That every man that wore long hair , should powle him out of hand . But yet this Spaniard not content , to women boar a spigh And then requested of the King , against all law and right . That every womankind should have her right breast cut away : And then with burning Irons sear'd , the blood to stench and stay , King Edward then perceiving well , her spite to women kind : Devised soon by policy , to turn her bloody mind . He sent for burning Irons straight , all sparkling hight to see : And said , Oh Queen come on thy way , I will begin with thee . Which words did much displease the Queen that penance to begin , But asked him pardon on her knees , who gave her grace therein . But afterwards they chanced to pass along brave London streets , Whereas the Mayor of Londons wife , in stately sort she meets . With music , mirth and melody unto the Church that went , To give God thanks , that to Lo. Maior a noble Son had sent . It grieved much this spiteful Queen , to see that any one , Should so exceed in mirth and joy , except her self alone : For which she after did devise . within her bloody mind , And practised still most secretly , to kill that Lady kind . Unto Lord Mayor of London then , she sent he Letters straight , To send his Lady to the Court , upon her Grace to wai But when the London Lady came before proud Elnors face , She stripped her from her rich array , and kept her vile and base , She sent her into wales with speed , and kept her secret there , And used her still more cruelly , then ever man did hear : She made her wash she made her starch she made her drudge always : She made her nurse up children small , and labour night and day . But this contented not the Queen , but showed her more despigh She bound this Lady to a pos at twelve at lock at night , And as ( poor Lady ) she stood bound , the Queen in angry mood , Did set two snakes unto her breast , that sucked away her blood . Thus died the Mayor of Londons wife' most grievous for to hear : Which made the Spaniard grow more proud , as after shall appear . The wheat that daily made her bred was bolted twenty times , The food that fed this stately Dame , was boiled in costly wines . The water that did spring from ground she would not touch at all , But washed her hands with due of heaven that on sweet Roses fallen , She bathed her body many a time , in fountains filled with milk , And every day did change attire , in costly Median silk . But coming then to London back , within her coach of gold , A tempest strange within the skies , this Queen did there behold : Out of which storm she could not go , but their remained a space , Foure horses could not stir her Coach a foot out of that place . A judgement surely sent from heaven , for shedding guiltless blood , Upon this sinful Queen , that slew the London Lady good . King Edward then ( as wisdom wild ) accus'd her for that deed ; But she denied , and wished that God would send his wrath with speed , If that upon so vile a thin [ g ] her heart did ever think [ , ] She wished the ground might open wide , and therein she might sink : With that at Charingcross she sunk , into the ground alive , And after rose with life again , in London at Queene-Hive . Where after that she languished soar , full twentie days in pain : At last confessed , the Ladies blood her guilty hands did stain : And likewise how that by a Friar she had a base born child , Whose sinful lust and wickedness , her marriage bed defiled . Thus you have herd the fallen of pride , a just reward of sin : For those that will forswear themselves Gods vengeance daily win , Beware of pride you London Dams , both Wives and Maidens all , Bear this imprinted in your mind , that pride must have a fallen . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcoeke . FINIS . 