Luke Huttons Lamentation : which he wrote the day before his death , being condemned to be hanged at Yorke for his robberies and trespasses committed thereabout . To the tune of Wandering and Wavering . I Am a poor prisoner condemned to die , ah woe is me , woe is me , for my great folly : Fast fettered in irons in place where I lie : be warned young wantons hemp passes green Holy . My parents were of good degree , By whom I would not ruled be , Lord Jesus forgive me , with mercy relieve me , Receive Oh sweet Saviour , my spirit unto thee . My name is Hutton , yea Luke , of bad life : ah woe is me , etc Which on the highway did rob Man and Wife , be warned , etc Intic'd by many a graceless mate , Whose counsel I repent too late , Lord Jesus forgive me , with mercy relieve me , etc Not twenty years old ( alas ) was I , ah woe is me , etc When I began this felony : be warned etc With me went still twelve Yeomen tall , Which I did my twelve Apostles call . Lord Jesus forgive me , with mercy relieve me , etc There was no Squire , nor Baron bold ah woe is me , etc That road by the way with silver and gold , be warned , etc But I and my Apostles gay , Would lighten their load ere they went away . Lord Jesus forgive me , with mercy relieve me , etc This news procur'd my kinsfolks grief , ah woe is me etc That hearing I was a famous thief , be warned , etc They wept , they wailed , they wrung their hands , That thus I should hazard life and lands . Lord Jesus forgive me , with mercy relieve me , etc They made me a Jailor a little before , ah woe is me , etc To keep in prison offenders soar , be warned , etc But such a Jailor was never none , I went and let them out every one . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc I wis this sorrow soar grieved me , ah woe is me , etc Such proper men should hanged be : be warned young wantons , etc My Office then I did defy , And ran away for company . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc Three years I lived , upon the spoil , ah woe is me , etc Giving many and Earl the foil be warned , etc Yet never did I kill man nor wife , Though lewdly long I led my life . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc But all too bad my deeds have been , ah woe is me , etc Offending my Country and my good Queen : be warned , etc All men in Yorkeshire talk of me , A stronger thief there could not be . Lord Jesus forgive me etc Upon S. Lukes day was I born , ah woe is me etc Whom want of grace hath made me scorn : be warned , etc In honour of my birth day then , I rob'd ( in bravery ) nineteene men . Lord Jesus forgive me , with mercy relieve me , Receive , Oh sweet Saviour , my spirit unto thee . The second part , To the same tune . THe Country weary to bear this wrong , ah woe is me , etc With Hues and Cries pursued me long : be warned , etc Though long I scap't , yet lo at the last , At London I was in New-gate cast . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc Where I did lie with grieved mind , ah woe is me etc Although the keeper was gentle and kind , be warned , etc Yet was he not so kind as I , To let me go at liberty . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc At last the Shriefe of Yorkeshire came , ah woe is me , etc And in a warrant he had my name , be warned , etc And in a warrant he had my name , be warned , etc Quoth he , at Yorke thou must be tried , With me therefore hence must thou ride . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc Like pangs of death his words did found , ah woe is me , etc My hands and arms full fast he bound , be warned , etc Good sir quoth I , I had rather stay , I have no heart to ride that way . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc When no entreaty would prevail , ah woe is me , etc I called for Wine , Bear , and Ale , be warned , etc And when my heart was in woeful case , I drunk to my friends with a smiling face . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc With clubs and staves , I was guarded then , ah woe is me . etc , I never before had such waiting men : be warned , etc If they had ridden before me amain , Beshrew me if I had call'd them again . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc And when unto Yorke that I was come , ah woe is me , etc Each one on me did cast his doom : be warned , etc And while you live this sentence note , Evil men can never have good report . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc Before the Judges when I was brought , ah woe is me , etc But sure I had a careful thought , be warned , etc Nine score Inditements and seventeene , Against me there were read and seen , Lord Jesus forgive me , etc And each of those was felony found , ah woe is me , etc Which did my heart with sorrow wound , be warned , etc What should I here in longer stay ? For this I was condemn'd that day . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc My death each hour I did attend , ah woe is me , etc In prayers & in tears my time I did spend , be warned , etc And all my loving friends that day , I did entreat for me to pray . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc I have deserved death long since , ah woe is me , etc A viler sinner lived not then I , be warned , etc On friends I hoped life to save ; But I am fittest for the grave . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc Adieu my loving friends each one , ah woe is me , etc Think on me Lords when I am gone , be warned etc When on the ladder you do me view . Think I am nearer heaven than you . Lord Jesus forgive me , with mercy relieve me , Receive , Oh sweet Saviour , my spirit unto thee . FINIS . L. Hutton . London Printed for H. Gosson . Luke Huttons Lamentation : which he wrote the day before his death , being condemned to be hanged at Yorke for his robberies and trespasses committed thereabout . To the tune of Wandering and Wavering . I Am a poor prisoner condemned to die , ah woe is me , woe is me , for my great folly : Fast fettered in irons in place where I lie : be warned young wantons hemp passes green Holy . My parents were of good degree , By whom I would not ruled be , Lord Jesus forgive me , with mercy relieve me , Receive Oh sweet Saviour , my spirit unto thee . My name is Hutton , yea Luke , of bad life : ah woe is me , etc Which on the highway did rob Man and Wife , be warned , etc Intic'd by many a graceless mate , Whose counsel I repent too late , Lord Jesus forgive me , with mercy relieve me , etc Not twenty years old ( alas ) was I , ah woe is me , etc When I began this felony : be warned etc With me went still twelve Yeomen tall , Which I did my twelve Apostles call . Lord Jesus forgive me , with mercy relieve me , etc There was no Squire , nor Baron bold ah woe is me , etc That road by the way with silver and gold , be warned , etc But I and my Apostles gay , Would lighten their load ere they went away . Lord Jesus forgive me , with mercy relieve me , etc This news procur'd my kinsfolks grief , ah woe is me etc That hearing I was a famous thief , be warned , etc They wept , they wailed , they wrung their hands , That thus I should hazard life and lands . Lord Jesus forgive me , with mercy relieve me , etc They made me a Jailor a little before , ah woe is me , etc To keep in prison offenders soar , be warned , etc But such a Jailor was never none , I went and let them out every one . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc I wis this sorrow soar grieved me , ah woe is me , etc Such proper men should hanged be : be warned young wantons , etc My Office then I did defy , And ran away for company . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc Three years I lived , upon the spoil , ah woe is me , etc Giving many and Earl the foil be warned , etc Yet never did I kill man nor wife , Though lewdly long I led my life . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc But all too bad my deeds have been , ah woe is me , etc Offending my Country and my good Queen : be warned , etc All men in Yorkeshire talk of me , A stronger thief there could not be . Lord Jesus forgive me etc Upon S. Lukes day was I born , ah woe is me etc Whom want of grace hath made me scorn : be warned , etc In honour of my birth day then , I rob'd ( in bravery ) nineteene men . Lord Jesus forgive me , with mercy relieve me , Receive , Oh sweet Saviour , my spirit unto thee . The second part , To the same tune . THe Country weary to bear this wrong , ah woe is me , etc With Hues and Cries pursued me long : be warned , etc Though long I scap't , yet lo at the last , At London I was in New-gate cast . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc Where I did lie with grieved mind , ah woe is me etc Although the keeper was gentle and kind , be warned , etc Yet was he not so kind as I , To let me go at liberty . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc At last the Shriefe of Yorkeshire came , ah woe is me , etc And in a warrant he had my name , be warned , etc And in a warrant he had my name , be warned , etc Quoth he , at Yorke thou must be tried , With me therefore hence must thou ride . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc Like pangs of death his words did found , ah woe is me , etc My hands and arms full fast he bound , be warned , etc Good sir quoth I , I had rather stay , I have no heart to ride that way . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc When no entreaty would prevail , ah woe is me , etc I called for Wine , Bear , and Ale , be warned , etc And when my heart was in woeful case , I drunk to my friends with a smiling face . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc With clubs and staves , I was guarded then , ah woe is me . etc , I never before had such waiting men : be warned , etc If they had ridden before me amain , Beshrew me if I had call'd them again . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc And when unto Yorke that I was come , ah woe is me , etc Each one on me did cast his doom : be warned , etc And while you live this sentence note , Evil men can never have good report . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc Before the Judges when I was brought , ah woe is me , etc But sure I had a careful thought , be warned , etc Nine score Inditements and seventeene , Against me there were read and seen , Lord Jesus forgive me , etc And each of those was felony found , ah woe is me , etc Which did my heart with sorrow wound , be warned , etc What should I here in longer stay ? For this I was condemn'd that day . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc My death each hour I did attend , ah woe is me , etc In prayers & in tears my time I did spend , be warned , etc And all my loving friends that day , I did entreat for me to pray . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc I have deserved death long since , ah woe is me , etc A viler sinner lived not then I , be warned , etc On friends I hoped life to save ; But I am fittest for the grave . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc Adieu my loving friends each one , ah woe is me , etc Think on me Lords when I am gone , be warned etc When on the ladder you do me view . Think I am nearer heaven than you . Lord Jesus forgive me , with mercy relieve me , Receive , Oh sweet Saviour , my spirit unto thee . FINIS . L. Hutton . London Printed for H. Gosson . 