A Lover forsaken of his Love . To a new Court tune . JOy to the person of my Love , Although that she does me disdain , Fixed are my thoughts , And cannot remove ; But yet I love in vain . Shall I loose the sighed Of my joy and hearts delight , Or shall I cease my suit , Shall I strive to touch ? O no , that were too much , She is forbidden fruit . Ah woe is me , That ever I did see The beauty that did me bewitch , But now alas I must forgo The treasure I esteem'd so much . O whither shall my sad heart go , Or whither shall I fly ? Sad echo shall resound my plaint , Or else alack I needs must die . Shall I by her live , That no life to me will give , But deadly wounds my heart ? If I fly away , O will she not cry stay , My sorrows to connect ? O no , no , no , She will not do so , But comfortless I must be gone : But ere I go To friend or foe , I'll love her , or I will love none . A thousad good fortune's fallen to her share , Although she hath forsaken me , & fill'd my sad heart full of despair , Yet ever will I constant be : For she is the Dame My tongue shall ever name , For branch of modesty , Chaste in heart and mind , O were she half so kind , Then would she pity me . O turn again , Be kind as thou art fair , And let me in thy bosom dwell , So shall I gain , The treasuer of loves pain : Till then , my dearest Love , farewell . FINIS . Printed at London by G.P. A Lover forsaken of his Love . To a new Court tune . JOy to the person of my Love , Although that she does me disdain , Fixed are my thoughts , And cannot remove ; But yet I love in vain . Shall I loose the sighed Of my joy and hearts delight , Or shall I cease my suit , Shall I strive to touch ? O no , that were too much , She is forbidden fruit . Ah woe is me , That ever I did see The beauty that did me bewitch , But now alas I must forgo The treasure I esteem'd so much . O whither shall my sad heart go , Or whither shall I fly ? Sad echo shall resound my plaint , Or else alack I needs must die . Shall I by her live , That no life to me will give , But deadly wounds my heart ? If I fly away , O will she not cry stay , My sorrows to connect ? O no , no , no , She will not do so , But comfortless I must be gone : But ere I go To friend or foe , I'll love her , or I will love none . A thousad good fortune's fallen to her share , Although she hath forsaken me , & fill'd my sad heart full of despair , Yet ever will I constant be : For she is the Dame My tongue shall ever name , For branch of modesty , Chaste in heart and mind , O were she half so kind , Then would she pity me . O turn again , Be kind as thou art fair , And let me in thy bosom dwell , So shall I gain , The treasuer of loves pain : Till then , my dearest Love , farewell . FINIS . Printed at London by G.P. 