The Lamentation of Cloris For the Unkindness of her SHEPHERD . SHOWING , How she by her Strephon was strangely Beguil'd , And is almost Distracted for want of a Child : But if any brisk Lad will come her to Embrace , She's free , can they find a convenient place . To the Tune of , Oh Cloris awake , etc MY Shepherd's unkind , alas , what shall I do ? Who shall I direct my sad Speeches unto ? While in secret I mourn , for the loss of my dear , Down from my poor eyes , drops many a Tear . He takes much delight , with his flocks for to keep , And minds not poor Cloris , who for him does Weep : But in vain I lament for I plainly do see , It is all one to him , what becometh of me . In the morning he's gone , before I'm awake , Then I miss my dear Shepherd , my heart it does ache : The Sighs and the Groans , by my self I do fetch , Would move him to pity a sorrowful wretch . The second part , to the same Tune . At night he does think for to make me amends , And with his fair looks , for to make us good friends : But alas , he's so weary , he cannot be kind . And this adds great sorrow , to my pensive mind . But I have no hope's , . that I e're shall enjoy As the fruits of my labour , a Girl or a Boy : Which so much I desire , but I fear all in vain , For my Strephon's unkind , which does make me complain . But if thus he continues , i'le tell you my mind , I'le find out some friend : who knows how to be kind : For I'm sure flesh and Blood , long cannot endure , The pain that I feel , without looking for cure . When I walk in the fields , not thinking of harms , And meet but a woman , with a Babe in her arms : It torments me more , then my tongue can relate , Which makes me deplore my too riged fate . Well Strephon thy forehead I will certainly grafted , With a large pair of Horns , yet do't with such Craft , Thou shalt never be the wiser , and when this is done , I fear not to bring thee a Daughter or Son. And for my so doing , can any me blame , If they do but consider , what a scurrilous Name , Poor women receive that no Children do bear , Though the fault be their husbands such dry souls they are . Beside I am young , and my Nature requires A lusty young Lad , for to please my desires : Yet I have as little , of Lovers Content , As ever had woman , which makes me lament Then pity poor Cloris , all you that enjoy The content of your hearts , and do frequently toy , With your Lovers in private and use Venus Game , For you cannot deny , but my shepherd's to blame . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , & T. Passenger . The Lamentation of Cloris For the Unkindness of her SHEPHERD . SHOWING , How she by her Strephon was strangely Beguil'd , And is almost Distracted for want of a Child : But if any brisk Lad will come her to Embrace , She's free , can they find a convenient place . To the Tune of , Oh Cloris awake , etc MY Shepherd's unkind , alas , what shall I do ? Who shall I direct my sad Speeches unto ? While in secret I mourn , for the loss of my dear , Down from my poor eyes , drops many a Tear . He takes much delight , with his flocks for to keep , And minds not poor Cloris , who for him does Weep : But in vain I lament for I plainly do see , It is all one to him , what becometh of me . In the morning he's gone , before I'm awake , Then I miss my dear Shepherd , my heart it does ache : The Sighs and the Groans , by my self I do fetch , Would move him to pity a sorrowful wretch . The second part , to the same Tune . At night he does think for to make me amends , And with his fair looks , for to make us good friends : But alas , he's so weary , he cannot be kind . And this adds great sorrow , to my pensive mind . But I have no hope's , . that I e're shall enjoy As the fruits of my labour , a Girl or a Boy : Which so much I desire , but I fear all in vain , For my Strephon's unkind , which does make me complain . But if thus he continues , i'le tell you my mind , I'le find out some friend : who knows how to be kind : For I'm sure flesh and Blood , long cannot endure , The pain that I feel , without looking for cure . When I walk in the fields , not thinking of harms , And meet but a woman , with a Babe in her arms : It torments me more , then my tongue can relate , Which makes me deplore my too riged fate . Well Strephon thy forehead I will certainly grafted , With a large pair of Horns , yet do't with such Craft , Thou shalt never be the wiser , and when this is done , I fear not to bring thee a Daughter or Son. And for my so doing , can any me blame , If they do but consider , what a scurrilous Name , Poor women receive that no Children do bear , Though the fault be their husbands such dry souls they are . Beside I am young , and my Nature requires A lusty young Lad , for to please my desires : Yet I have as little , of Lovers Content , As ever had woman , which makes me lament Then pity poor Cloris , all you that enjoy The content of your hearts , and do frequently toy , With your Lovers in private and use Venus Game , For you cannot deny , but my shepherd's to blame . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , & T. Passenger . 