THE Lamented LOVERS : OR , THE Young Men and Maiden's Grief for the Unhappy Tragedy of this Unfortunate Couple . To the Tune of Frantic Lover . Licensed according to Order . My Love I come to Thee . YOu Damsels now of Beauty bright , It is to you these Lines I write ; your Cruelty give o'er , And do not here like Tyrants reign , And kill those with your high disdain , which does your Charms adore , A young man lately lov'd a Maid , To whom he often sighing said , my Dear , some Pity show , And yield to me some kind relief , Or else my Heart will break with Grief : 'twill prove my overthrow . Ten thousand thoughts runs in my Head , When lying on my restless Bed , and Tears like Fountains flow ; Oh! let thy Frowns to Blessings turn , For if in love I longer burn , 'twill prove my overthrow . Will not my sighs some pity move ? Behold the pleasant Charms of Love , in e'ry Vein does flow ; Some comfort to thy Servant give , Without thy Love I cannot live , 'twill prove my overthrow . The scornful Damsel did reply , Your Suit I u [ tt ] early defy ; pray from my presence go ; 'Tis strange that Love should be so hight , Your Life or Death I valve not , or eke your overthrow . Each word was like a killing Dart , Which pierc'd the young man to the Heart , he straight from her did go , With a most discontented mind , He often sighing said , I find she'll prove my overthrow . His scorching Love straightway did turn Unto a Fever which did burn , he straight to bed did go , From whence he never did arise , But often said with Sighs and Cries , Love proves my overthrow . I now shall never see thee more , Whom I so dearly did adore , since you no kindness show , I'll die a Martyr for thy sake , And with these words his heart did break , love proves my overthrow . The Maidens Reply . Now when this Damsel she did hear The Death of her beloved Dear ; she wept most bitterly : To his Grave with Grief she run , And cried out , what have I done ! my Frowns has murder'd thee . With Grief and Cares I am oppressed , That night and day I take no rest ; thy Ghost methinks I see , That haunts my Person night and day , My Love , alas ! what shall I say ? 'twas I that murder'd thee . Farewell Relations , Friends and all , His Blood does for just Vengeance call , kind Death must set me free , In Grave I'll lie down by thy side , I am not fit to live she cry'd , my Frowns has murder'd thee . She to her Bower did return , And never , never cease to mourn ; in Tears to that degree , That Death at length her heart did seize ; Her last and dying words are these , my Love I come to thee . It was her Will , that she might have A Lodging in her Lover's Grave , to which all did agree ; Both their Relations thought it fit , And on her Coffin it was writ , My Love I come to thee . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . THE Lamented LOVERS : OR , THE Young Men and Maiden's Grief for the Unhappy Tragedy of this Unfortunate Couple . To the Tune of Frantic Lover . Licensed according to Order . My Love I come to Thee . YOu Damsels now of Beauty bright , It is to you these Lines I write ; your Cruelty give o'er , And do not here like Tyrants reign , And kill those with your high disdain , which does your Charms adore , A young man lately lov'd a Maid , To whom he often sighing said , my Dear , some Pity show , And yield to me some kind relief , Or else my Heart will break with Grief : 'twill prove my overthrow . Ten thousand thoughts runs in my Head , When lying on my restless Bed , and Tears like Fountains flow ; Oh! let thy Frowns to Blessings turn , For if in love I longer burn , 'twill prove my overthrow . Will not my sighs some pity move ? Behold the pleasant Charms of Love , in e'ry Vein does flow ; Some comfort to thy Servant give , Without thy Love I cannot live , 'twill prove my overthrow . The scornful Damsel did reply , Your Suit I u [ tt ] early defy ; pray from my presence go ; 'Tis strange that Love should be so hight , Your Life or Death I valve not , or eke your overthrow . Each word was like a killing Dart , Which pierc'd the young man to the Heart , he straight from her did go , With a most discontented mind , He often sighing said , I find she'll prove my overthrow . His scorching Love straightway did turn Unto a Fever which did burn , he straight to bed did go , From whence he never did arise , But often said with Sighs and Cries , Love proves my overthrow . I now shall never see thee more , Whom I so dearly did adore , since you no kindness show , I'll die a Martyr for thy sake , And with these words his heart did break , love proves my overthrow . The Maidens Reply . Now when this Damsel she did hear The Death of her beloved Dear ; she wept most bitterly : To his Grave with Grief she run , And cried out , what have I done ! my Frowns has murder'd thee . With Grief and Cares I am oppressed , That night and day I take no rest ; thy Ghost methinks I see , That haunts my Person night and day , My Love , alas ! what shall I say ? 'twas I that murder'd thee . Farewell Relations , Friends and all , His Blood does for just Vengeance call , kind Death must set me free , In Grave I'll lie down by thy side , I am not fit to live she cry'd , my Frowns has murder'd thee . She to her Bower did return , And never , never cease to mourn ; in Tears to that degree , That Death at length her heart did seize ; Her last and dying words are these , my Love I come to thee . It was her Will , that she might have A Lodging in her Lover's Grave , to which all did agree ; Both their Relations thought it fit , And on her Coffin it was writ , My Love I come to thee . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 