E : 312 The Royal Wanderer : OR , Gods Providence evidently manifested , in the most mysterious Deliverance of the Divine Majesty of CHARLS the Second , King of Great Brittain . Though bold Rebellion for a time look brave , Man shall not slay what God resolves to save . To the Tune of , The wandering Prince of Troy , or , Troy town . WHen ravishing Rebellion reigns , Then Loyalty is led in chains , The Royal Princes of the blood , By Traitors are not understood , but they could not his fate pull down , that was preserv'd for Englands Crown . Witness the heat at Worcester fight , Which put our Royal King to flight , When twice a stately horse was there , Shot under him by chance of war . but all that chance could not throw down a Prince preserv'd for Englands Crown . Yet was he forc'd to quit the field , Princes sometime to slaves must yield : He with some faithful Lords did fly , To places for obscurity . And at a Farmhouse there did he disrobe himself of Royalty . A chain of Gold , whose good account Did to three hundred pounds amount , He gave a trusty servant , and Discharg'd them all from his command . then the Lord Wilmot with their knives cut both their hair , to save their lives . Thus with one friend faithful and good , He wanders through and obscure wood : Until a hollow Oak unknown Was made the King of Englands Throne , and all the succour that was brought , was by this Loyal servant sought . But Wilmot in his wanderings , A Soldier met of the old Kings , That knew him , and with true good will , Secur'd him in a Malt-house Kill , where he lay sweating , almost fier'd till Soldiers came , search'd , and retir'd . 'Twas never the house of Mistress Lane , Whose name let no wild tongue profane , The Lord , with dangers much distressed , Told how the poor King was oppressed , to Mistress Lane , whose sighs and tears , did show her sorrows , griefs , and fears . She humbly does implore that he , Would seek his sacred Majesty : And bring him thither , that she might Take speedy order for his flight . brave Wilmot he with eyes never shut , till with much search he found him out . Then from the hollow tree he brings This heart of Oak , and best of Kings , To Mistress Lanes , where after she , Did kneel unto his Sovereignty : they call a counsill how he shou'd , in safety pass the Ocean flood . The second part to the same Tune . BRistol was thought the privat'st place , Where shipping might attend his Grace , And as her servant William he , Must cloak it in her Livery . likewise before her he must ride , only her father in Law beside . He was as weary of the Cloak , As he was lately of the Oak : But Master Lastell as most fit , Uncloak'd the King and carried it . no danger in the way they saw , until they met her Brother in Law . The Brother spy'd and quickly spoke , Sir , why bear you your servants cloak ? But she made answer , 'tis so great That it does thrust me from my seat . her Brother ( answered thus by art ) they talk no more , shake hands and part . But note a change of more renown , As they were passing through a Town , They met a Troop of horse which might Have put them all into a fright . but their good fate so gentle was they through the Captains troop did pass . When they came to their Inn at night , The Cook-mayd gave the King delight , She asked his birth , and whence he came ? A Naylors son in Brumageham reply'd the King ; prithee quoth she my Jack is down , wind't up for me . The King unus'd to deal in Jacks , Winds up until the tackling cracks : At which the wench ( if all tales true be ) Rayl'd at the King , and call'd him booby . the King went out and laughed , but they next day to Bristol made their way . At Bristol all their hope's were drown'd , For no convenient ship was found : From Mistress Lane he parts , and goes With trusty Wilmot 'mongst his foes . to London and to Westminster , ith' Hall , where the Scotch Ensigns were He wandered up and down the Town , By some conceal'd , to most unknown : It not a thousand pound could make Them their fidelities forsake . a scip is hir'd , the Master straight begins to understand his fraught . Quoth he , what lading do you bring , I surely know this is the King . If I this strange adventure run . I shall be utterly undone . but with his heart they did prevail , and valiantly he hoists up sail . Quoth he , if I on Tiburn swing , This for the safety of a King : And if he ever crowned be , He surely will remember me . the winds blew fair , Aver the grace in France became their landing place . He rides to Roan , and writes from thence To Paris , of Gods Providence . The Duke of Orleance did come With friends , to bid him welcome home . and now in London 'tis well known he was preserv'd for Englands Throne . FINIS . London Printed for F. Grove on Snow-hill . Entered according to Order . E : 312 The Royal Wanderer : OR , Gods Providence evidently manifested , in the most mysterious Deliverance of the Divine Majesty of CHARLS the Second , King of Great Brittain . Though bold Rebellion for a time look brave , Man shall not slay what God resolves to save . To the Tune of , The wandering Prince of Troy , or , Troy town . WHen ravishing Rebellion reigns , Then Loyalty is led in chains , The Royal Princes of the blood , By Traitors are not understood , but they could not his fate pull down , that was preserv'd for Englands Crown . Witness the heat at Worcester fight , Which put our Royal King to flight , When twice a stately horse was there , Shot under him by chance of war . but all that chance could not throw down a Prince preserv'd for Englands Crown . Yet was he forc'd to quit the field , Princes sometime to slaves must yield : He with some faithful Lords did fly , To places for obscurity . And at a Farmhouse there did he disrobe himself of Royalty . A chain of Gold , whose good account Did to three hundred pounds amount , He gave a trusty servant , and Discharg'd them all from his command . then the Lord Wilmot with their knives cut both their hair , to save their lives . Thus with one friend faithful and good , He wanders through and obscure wood : Until a hollow Oak unknown Was made the King of Englands Throne , and all the succour that was brought , was by this Loyal servant sought . But Wilmot in his wanderings , A Soldier met of the old Kings , That knew him , and with true good will , Secur'd him in a Malt-house Kill , where he lay sweating , almost fier'd till Soldiers came , search'd , and retir'd . 'Twas never the house of Mistress Lane , Whose name let no wild tongue profane , The Lord , with dangers much distressed , Told how the poor King was oppressed , to Mistress Lane , whose sighs and tears , did show her sorrows , griefs , and fears . She humbly does implore that he , Would seek his sacred Majesty : And bring him thither , that she might Take speedy order for his flight . brave Wilmot he with eyes never shut , till with much search he found him out . Then from the hollow tree he brings This heart of Oak , and best of Kings , To Mistress Lanes , where after she , Did kneel unto his Sovereignty : they call a counsill how he shou'd , in safety pass the Ocean flood . The second part to the same Tune . BRistol was thought the privat'st place , Where shipping might attend his Grace , And as her servant William he , Must cloak it in her Livery . likewise before her he must ride , only her father in Law beside . He was as weary of the Cloak , As he was lately of the Oak : But Master Lastell as most fit , Uncloak'd the King and carried it . no danger in the way they saw , until they met her Brother in Law . The Brother spy'd and quickly spoke , Sir , why bear you your servants cloak ? But she made answer , 'tis so great That it does thrust me from my seat . her Brother ( answered thus by art ) they talk no more , shake hands and part . But note a change of more renown , As they were passing through a Town , They met a Troop of horse which might Have put them all into a fright . but their good fate so gentle was they through the Captains troop did pass . When they came to their Inn at night , The Cook-mayd gave the King delight , She asked his birth , and whence he came ? A Naylors son in Brumageham reply'd the King ; prithee quoth she my Jack is down , wind't up for me . The King unus'd to deal in Jacks , Winds up until the tackling cracks : At which the wench ( if all tales true be ) Rayl'd at the King , and call'd him booby . the King went out and laughed , but they next day to Bristol made their way . At Bristol all their hope's were drown'd , For no convenient ship was found : From Mistress Lane he parts , and goes With trusty Wilmot 'mongst his foes . to London and to Westminster , ith' Hall , where the Scotch Ensigns were He wandered up and down the Town , By some conceal'd , to most unknown : It not a thousand pound could make Them their fidelities forsake . a scip is hir'd , the Master straight begins to understand his fraught . Quoth he , what lading do you bring , I surely know this is the King . If I this strange adventure run . I shall be utterly undone . but with his heart they did prevail , and valiantly he hoists up sail . Quoth he , if I on Tiburn swing , This for the safety of a King : And if he ever crowned be , He surely will remember me . the winds blew fair , Aver the grace in France became their landing place . He rides to Roan , and writes from thence To Paris , of Gods Providence . The Duke of Orleance did come With friends , to bid him welcome home . and now in London 'tis well known he was preserv'd for Englands Throne . FINIS . London Printed for F. Grove on Snow-hill . Entered according to Order . 