A lamentable Ballad of the Ladies Fallen , Declaring how a Gentlwoman through her too much trust came to her en [ worser ] and how her Lover slew himself . The tune of , In Peascod time . MArk well my heavy [ worser ] olefull Tale . you loyal Lovers all , And heedfully bear in your [ br ] east , a gallant Ladies fallen . 'Long was she woo'd , e're she was wone to led a wedded life ; But folly wrought her overthrow , before she was a Wife , Too soon alas she gave cons [ e ] nt , to yield unto his will , Though he protested so be true and faithful to her still , She felt her body altered quite , her bright hue waxed pale , Her fair read cheeks chang'd colour while , her strength began to fail . So that with many a sorrowful sighs , this beauteous maiden mild , With grieved heart perceived her self to be conceiv'd with child , She kept it from her Father's sighed , so close as close might be , And so put on her silken Gown , none might her swelling see . Unto her Lover secretly she did her self bewray ? And walking with him hand in hand , these words to him did say . Behold said she a Maids distress , my Love brought to thy Bow , Behold I [ ? ] g with child by thee , though none thereof do know . The little babe springs in my womb , to hear the Father's voice , Let it not be a bastard call'd , sith I make thee my choice . Come come my love perform thy vow , and wed me out of hand : Oh leave me not in these extremes , in grief always to stand . Think on thy former promise made , thy vows and Oath each one , Remember with what bitter tears to me thou mad'st thy moan ; Convey me to some secret place , and marry me with speed , Or with thy Rapier end my life , e're further shame proceed . Alas my dearest Love quoth he my greatest joy on earth . Which way can I convey thee hence without a sudden death . Thy friends they be of high degree , and I of mean estate ; Full hard it is to get thee forth out of thy father's gate . Dread not thy self to save my fame , and if thou taken be , My self will step between the sweet [ ? ] and take the harm on me . So shall I escape dishonour quite , if so I should be slave , What could they say but that true [ ? ] did work a Ladies bane . ANd fear not any further harm , my self will so devise , That I will go away with thee , unseen of mortal eyes . Disguised like some pretty Page , I'le meet thee in the dark , And all alone I'le come to thee had by my Father's Park . And there quoth he I'le meet my love , if God lend me life , And this day month without all fail , I will make thee my wife , Then with a sweet and loving kiss , they parted presently ; And at their parting brinish tears stood in each others eye . At length the wished day was come , whereas this lovely maid , With lovely eyes and strange attire , for her true lover stayed . When any person she espi'd come riding over the plain , She thought it was her own true love , but all her joys were vain . Then did she weep and soar bewail her most unhappy state , Then did she speak these woeful words when succourless she sat . O false forsworn and faithless wretch , disloyal to thy Love : Hast thou forgotten thy promise made , and wilt thou perjur'd prove . And hast thou now forsaken me , in this my sad distress ; To end my days in open shame , which thou mightest well redress Woe worth the the time I did believe that flattering tongue of thine , Would God that I had never seen the tears of thy false eyes . And thus with many a sorrowful sighs homeward she weat amain , No rest came in her watery eyes , she felt such bitter pain . In travel strong they fell that night , with many a bitter throw , What woeful pangs she felt that night , does each good woman know . She called for her waiting Maid , that lay at her beds feet ; Who musing at her mistress woe , did fast begin to weep . Weep not quoth she but shut the door , and windows round about ; Let none bewail my wretched case , but keep all persons out . O Mistress call your mother dear , of women you have need ; And of some skilful midwives help , the better may you speed : Call not my Mother for thy life , nor call no women here , The Midwives help comes now too late , my death I do not fear . With that the babe sprung in her womb , no creator being nigh , And with a sighs that broke her heart , this gallant Dame did die , This living little infant young , the Mother being dead , Resign'd it's new received breath , to him that had him made . Next morning came her Lover true , affrighted at this news , And he for sorrow slew himself , whom each one did accuse . The Mother with the new born babe , was both laid in one grave , Their parents overcome with woe , no joy of them could have . Take heed you dainty Damsels all , of flattering words beware , And of the honour of your name have you a special care ; Too true this story is , as many one can tell , By others harms learn to be wise , and thou shalt do fu l well . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and William Gilbertson . A lamentable Ballad of the Ladies Fallen , Declaring how a Gentlwoman through her too much trust came to her en [ worser ] and how her Lover slew himself . The tune of , In Peascod time . MArk well my heavy [ worser ] olefull Tale . you loyal Lovers all , And heedfully bear in your [ br ] east , a gallant Ladies fallen . 'Long was she woo'd , e're she was wone to led a wedded life ; But folly wrought her overthrow , before she was a Wife , Too soon alas she gave cons [ e ] nt , to yield unto his will , Though he protested so be true and faithful to her still , She felt her body altered quite , her bright hue waxed pale , Her fair read cheeks chang'd colour while , her strength began to fail . So that with many a sorrowful sighs , this beauteous maiden mild , With grieved heart perceived her self to be conceiv'd with child , She kept it from her Father's sighed , so close as close might be , And so put on her silken Gown , none might her swelling see . Unto her Lover secretly she did her self bewray ? And walking with him hand in hand , these words to him did say . Behold said she a Maids distress , my Love brought to thy Bow , Behold I [ ? ] g with child by thee , though none thereof do know . The little babe springs in my womb , to hear the Father's voice , Let it not be a bastard call'd , sith I make thee my choice . Come come my love perform thy vow , and wed me out of hand : Oh leave me not in these extremes , in grief always to stand . Think on thy former promise made , thy vows and Oath each one , Remember with what bitter tears to me thou mad'st thy moan ; Convey me to some secret place , and marry me with speed , Or with thy Rapier end my life , e're further shame proceed . Alas my dearest Love quoth he my greatest joy on earth . Which way can I convey thee hence without a sudden death . Thy friends they be of high degree , and I of mean estate ; Full hard it is to get thee forth out of thy father's gate . Dread not thy self to save my fame , and if thou taken be , My self will step between the sweet [ ? ] and take the harm on me . So shall I escape dishonour quite , if so I should be slave , What could they say but that true [ ? ] did work a Ladies bane . ANd fear not any further harm , my self will so devise , That I will go away with thee , unseen of mortal eyes . Disguised like some pretty Page , I'le meet thee in the dark , And all alone I'le come to thee had by my Father's Park . And there quoth he I'le meet my love , if God lend me life , And this day month without all fail , I will make thee my wife , Then with a sweet and loving kiss , they parted presently ; And at their parting brinish tears stood in each others eye . At length the wished day was come , whereas this lovely maid , With lovely eyes and strange attire , for her true lover stayed . When any person she espi'd come riding over the plain , She thought it was her own true love , but all her joys were vain . Then did she weep and soar bewail her most unhappy state , Then did she speak these woeful words when succourless she sat . O false forsworn and faithless wretch , disloyal to thy Love : Hast thou forgotten thy promise made , and wilt thou perjur'd prove . And hast thou now forsaken me , in this my sad distress ; To end my days in open shame , which thou mightest well redress Woe worth the the time I did believe that flattering tongue of thine , Would God that I had never seen the tears of thy false eyes . And thus with many a sorrowful sighs homeward she weat amain , No rest came in her watery eyes , she felt such bitter pain . In travel strong they fell that night , with many a bitter throw , What woeful pangs she felt that night , does each good woman know . She called for her waiting Maid , that lay at her beds feet ; Who musing at her mistress woe , did fast begin to weep . Weep not quoth she but shut the door , and windows round about ; Let none bewail my wretched case , but keep all persons out . O Mistress call your mother dear , of women you have need ; And of some skilful midwives help , the better may you speed : Call not my Mother for thy life , nor call no women here , The Midwives help comes now too late , my death I do not fear . With that the babe sprung in her womb , no creator being nigh , And with a sighs that broke her heart , this gallant Dame did die , This living little infant young , the Mother being dead , Resign'd it's new received breath , to him that had him made . Next morning came her Lover true , affrighted at this news , And he for sorrow slew himself , whom each one did accuse . The Mother with the new born babe , was both laid in one grave , Their parents overcome with woe , no joy of them could have . Take heed you dainty Damsels all , of flattering words beware , And of the honour of your name have you a special care ; Too true this story is , as many one can tell , By others harms learn to be wise , and thou shalt do fu l well . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and William Gilbertson . 