a A Lamentable DITTY made on the Death of ROBERT DEVERUX , Earl of ES [ SEX , w ] ho was Be - headed in the Tower of London , on Ash-wednesday , 1603. The Tune is Welladay . SWeet England's pride is gone , welladay , welladay , Which makes her sighs and groan , evermore still ; He did her same advance , In Ireland , Spain and France , And by a sad mischance , is from us taken . He was a virtuous Peer , welladay , etc And was esteemed dear , evermore still . He always lov'd the Poor , Which makes them sighs full soar , His Death they did deplore , in every p [ l ] ace . Brave Honour grac'd him still , gallantly , gallantly , He ne'r did deed of ill , well it is known , But Envy that foul fiend , Whose malice there does end , Hath brought true virtues friend , unto this thrall . At Tilt he did surpass , gallantly , etc All men that is and was evermore still , One day as it was seen , In honour of the Queen , Such deeds are seldom been , as he did doe . Abroad and eke at home , gallantly , gallantly , For Valour there was none , like him before , But Ireland , France and Spain , That feared great Essex's Name , But England lov'd the same , in every place . But all would not prevail , welladay , welladay . His deeds did not prevail , more was the pity , He was condemn'd to die , For Treason certainly , But God , that sits on high , knoweth all things . That Sunday in the Morn , welladay , etc That he to the City came , with all his Troops . That first began the strife , And caus'd him loose his life , And others did the like , as well as he . Yet her Princely Majesty , graciously , graciously , Hath pardon given free , to many of them ; She hath released them quite , And given them their righ They did pray day and night , God to defend her . Shrove-Tuesday in the night , welladay , etc With a heavy hearted spite , as it is said , The Lieutenant of the Tower , Who kept him in his power , At ten a clock that hour , to him did come , And sold unto him there , mournfully , etc My Lord , you must prepare , to die to morrow . God's will be done , quoth he , Yet shall you strangely see , God strong in me to be , though I am weak . I pray you pray for me , welladay , etc That God may strengthen me against that hour . Then straightway he did call To the Guard under the wall , And did entreat them all , for him to pray ; For to morrow is the day , welladay , etc That I a Debt must pay , which I do owe , It is my Life , I mean , Which I must pay the Queen , Even so hath Justice given , that I must die . In the morning was he brought , welladay , etc Where the Scaffold was set up within the Tower ; Many Lords were present then , With other Gentlemen , Which were appointed then , to see him die . You Noble Lords , quoth he , welladay , etc That must the witness , of this my dream : Know I ne'r lov'd Papistry , But still does it defy ; And thus does Essex die , here in this place . I have a sinner been , welladay , etc Yet never wrong'd my Queen , in all my life ; My God I did offend , Which grieves me at my end : May all the rest amend , I do them forgive . To the State I ne'r meant ill , welladay , etc Neither wished the Commons ill , in all my life : But lov'd with all my heart , And always took their part , Whereas there were desert , in every place . Then mildly did he pray , mournfully , etc He might the favour have , private to pray . He then pray'd heartily , And with great fercency , To God that sits on high , for to receive him . And then he pray'd again , mournfully , etc God to preserve his Queen , from all her foes , And sen [ worser ] her long to reign , True Justice to maintain , And not to let proud Spain once to offend her . His Gown he stripped off then , welladay , etc And put off his Hat and Band , and hung them by , Praying still continually , To God that sits on high , That he might patiently there suffer death . My Headsman that must be , then said he cheerfully , Let him come here to me , that I may see him . Who kneeled to him then . Art thou , quoth he , the Ma [ n ] , Who art appointed now , my life to free ? Yes , my Lord , he did say , welladay , etc Forgive me , I you pray , for this your death : I here do thee forgive , And may true Justice live , No foul Crimes to forgive , within this place . Then he kneeled down again , welladay , etc And was required by some , there standing by , To forgive his Enemies . Before Death clos'd his eyes , Which he did in hearty wise , thanking him for i That they would remember him , welladay , etc That he would forgive all them , that hath him wrong'd . Now , my Lords , I take my leave , Sweet Christ my Soul receive . Now when you will prepare , I am ready . He laid his Head on the Block , welladay , etc But his Doublet let the stroke , some there did say . What must be done , quoth he , Shall be done presently . Then his Doublet off put he , and laid down again . Then the Headsman did his part , cruelly , cruelly . He was not seen to start for all the blows . His Soul is now at rest , In Heaven among the blessed ; Where God send us to rest , when it shall please him . a A Lamentable DITTY made on the Death of ROBERT DEVERUX , Earl of ES [ SEX , w ] ho was Be - headed in the Tower of London , on Ash-wednesday , 1603. The Tune is Welladay . SWeet England's pride is gone , welladay , welladay , Which makes her sighs and groan , evermore still ; He did her same advance , In Ireland , Spain and France , And by a sad mischance , is from us taken . He was a virtuous Peer , welladay , etc And was esteemed dear , evermore still . He always lov'd the Poor , Which makes them sighs full soar , His Death they did deplore , in every p [ l ] ace . Brave Honour grac'd him still , gallantly , gallantly , He ne'r did deed of ill , well it is known , But Envy that foul fiend , Whose malice there does end , Hath brought true virtues friend , unto this thrall . At Tilt he did surpass , gallantly , etc All men that is and was evermore still , One day as it was seen , In honour of the Queen , Such deeds are seldom been , as he did doe . Abroad and eke at home , gallantly , gallantly , For Valour there was none , like him before , But Ireland , France and Spain , That feared great Essex's Name , But England lov'd the same , in every place . But all would not prevail , welladay , welladay . His deeds did not prevail , more was the pity , He was condemn'd to die , For Treason certainly , But God , that sits on high , knoweth all things . That Sunday in the Morn , welladay , etc That he to the City came , with all his Troops . That first began the strife , And caus'd him loose his life , And others did the like , as well as he . Yet her Princely Majesty , graciously , graciously , Hath pardon given free , to many of them ; She hath released them quite , And given them their righ They did pray day and night , God to defend her . Shrove-Tuesday in the night , welladay , etc With a heavy hearted spite , as it is said , The Lieutenant of the Tower , Who kept him in his power , At ten a clock that hour , to him did come , And sold unto him there , mournfully , etc My Lord , you must prepare , to die to morrow . God's will be done , quoth he , Yet shall you strangely see , God strong in me to be , though I am weak . I pray you pray for me , welladay , etc That God may strengthen me against that hour . Then straightway he did call To the Guard under the wall , And did entreat them all , for him to pray ; For to morrow is the day , welladay , etc That I a Debt must pay , which I do owe , It is my Life , I mean , Which I must pay the Queen , Even so hath Justice given , that I must die . In the morning was he brought , welladay , etc Where the Scaffold was set up within the Tower ; Many Lords were present then , With other Gentlemen , Which were appointed then , to see him die . You Noble Lords , quoth he , welladay , etc That must the witness , of this my dream : Know I ne'r lov'd Papistry , But still does it defy ; And thus does Essex die , here in this place . I have a sinner been , welladay , etc Yet never wrong'd my Queen , in all my life ; My God I did offend , Which grieves me at my end : May all the rest amend , I do them forgive . To the State I ne'r meant ill , welladay , etc Neither wished the Commons ill , in all my life : But lov'd with all my heart , And always took their part , Whereas there were desert , in every place . Then mildly did he pray , mournfully , etc He might the favour have , private to pray . He then pray'd heartily , And with great fercency , To God that sits on high , for to receive him . And then he pray'd again , mournfully , etc God to preserve his Queen , from all her foes , And sen [ worser ] her long to reign , True Justice to maintain , And not to let proud Spain once to offend her . His Gown he stripped off then , welladay , etc And put off his Hat and Band , and hung them by , Praying still continually , To God that sits on high , That he might patiently there suffer death . My Headsman that must be , then said he cheerfully , Let him come here to me , that I may see him . Who kneeled to him then . Art thou , quoth he , the Ma [ n ] , Who art appointed now , my life to free ? Yes , my Lord , he did say , welladay , etc Forgive me , I you pray , for this your death : I here do thee forgive , And may true Justice live , No foul Crimes to forgive , within this place . Then he kneeled down again , welladay , etc And was required by some , there standing by , To forgive his Enemies . Before Death clos'd his eyes , Which he did in hearty wise , thanking him for i That they would remember him , welladay , etc That he would forgive all them , that hath him wrong'd . Now , my Lords , I take my leave , Sweet Christ my Soul receive . Now when you will prepare , I am ready . He laid his Head on the Block , welladay , etc But his Doublet let the stroke , some there did say . What must be done , quoth he , Shall be done presently . Then his Doublet off put he , and laid down again . Then the Headsman did his part , cruelly , cruelly . He was not seen to start for all the blows . His Soul is now at rest , In Heaven among the blessed ; Where God send us to rest , when it shall please him . a A Lamentable DITTY made on the Death of ROBERT DEVERUX , Earl of ES [ SEX , w ] ho was Be - headed in the Tower of London , on Ash-wednesday , 1603. The Tune is Welladay . SWeet England's pride is gone , welladay , welladay , Which makes her sighs and groan , evermore still ; He did her same advance , In Ireland , Spain and France , And by a sad mischance , is from us taken . He was a virtuous Peer , welladay , etc And was esteemed dear , evermore still . He always lov'd the Poor , Which makes them sighs full soar , His Death they did deplore , in every p [ l ] ace . Brave Honour grac'd him still , gallantly , gallantly , He ne'r did deed of ill , well it is known , But Envy that foul fiend , Whose malice there does end , Hath brought true virtues friend , unto this thrall . At Tilt he did surpass , gallantly , etc All men that is and was evermore still , One day as it was seen , In honour of the Queen , Such deeds are seldom been , as he did doe . Abroad and eke at home , gallantly , gallantly , For Valour there was none , like him before , But Ireland , France and Spain , That feared great Essex's Name , But England lov'd the same , in every place . But all would not prevail , welladay , welladay . His deeds did not prevail , more was the pity , He was condemn'd to die , For Treason certainly , But God , that sits on high , knoweth all things . That Sunday in the Morn , welladay , etc That he to the City came , with all his Troops . That first began the strife , And caus'd him loose his life , And others did the like , as well as he . Yet her Princely Majesty , graciously , graciously , Hath pardon given free , to many of them ; She hath released them quite , And given them their righ They did pray day and night , God to defend her . Shrove-Tuesday in the night , welladay , etc With a heavy hearted spite , as it is said , The Lieutenant of the Tower , Who kept him in his power , At ten a clock that hour , to him did come , And sold unto him there , mournfully , etc My Lord , you must prepare , to die to morrow . God's will be done , quoth he , Yet shall you strangely see , God strong in me to be , though I am weak . I pray you pray for me , welladay , etc That God may strengthen me against that hour . Then straightway he did call To the Guard under the wall , And did entreat them all , for him to pray ; For to morrow is the day , welladay , etc That I a Debt must pay , which I do owe , It is my Life , I mean , Which I must pay the Queen , Even so hath Justice given , that I must die . In the morning was he brought , welladay , etc Where the Scaffold was set up within the Tower ; Many Lords were present then , With other Gentlemen , Which were appointed then , to see him die . You Noble Lords , quoth he , welladay , etc That must the witness , of this my dream : Know I ne'r lov'd Papistry , But still does it defy ; And thus does Essex die , here in this place . I have a sinner been , welladay , etc Yet never wrong'd my Queen , in all my life ; My God I did offend , Which grieves me at my end : May all the rest amend , I do them forgive . To the State I ne'r meant ill , welladay , etc Neither wished the Commons ill , in all my life : But lov'd with all my heart , And always took their part , Whereas there were desert , in every place . Then mildly did he pray , mournfully , etc He might the favour have , private to pray . He then pray'd heartily , And with great fercency , To God that sits on high , for to receive him . And then he pray'd again , mournfully , etc God to preserve his Queen , from all her foes , And sen [ worser ] her long to reign , True Justice to maintain , And not to let proud Spain once to offend her . His Gown he stripped off then , welladay , etc And put off his Hat and Band , and hung them by , Praying still continually , To God that sits on high , That he might patiently there suffer death . My Headsman that must be , then said he cheerfully , Let him come here to me , that I may see him . Who kneeled to him then . Art thou , quoth he , the Ma [ n ] , Who art appointed now , my life to free ? Yes , my Lord , he did say , welladay , etc Forgive me , I you pray , for this your death : I here do thee forgive , And may true Justice live , No foul Crimes to forgive , within this place . Then he kneeled down again , welladay , etc And was required by some , there standing by , To forgive his Enemies . Before Death clos'd his eyes , Which he did in hearty wise , thanking him for i That they would remember him , welladay , etc That he would forgive all them , that hath him wrong'd . Now , my Lords , I take my leave , Sweet Christ my Soul receive . Now when you will prepare , I am ready . He laid his Head on the Block , welladay , etc But his Doublet let the stroke , some there did say . What must be done , quoth he , Shall be done presently . Then his Doublet off put he , and laid down again . Then the Headsman did his part , cruelly , cruelly . He was not seen to start for all the blows . His Soul is now at rest , In Heaven among the blessed ; Where God send us to rest , when it shall please him . a A Lamentable DITTY made on the Death of ROBERT DEVERUX , Earl of ES [ SEX , w ] ho was Be - headed in the Tower of London , on Ash-wednesday , 1603. The Tune is Welladay . SWeet England's pride is gone , welladay , welladay , Which makes her sighs and groan , evermore still ; He did her same advance , In Ireland , Spain and France , And by a sad mischance , is from us taken . He was a virtuous Peer , welladay , etc And was esteemed dear , evermore still . He always lov'd the Poor , Which makes them sighs full soar , His Death they did deplore , in every p [ l ] ace . Brave Honour grac'd him still , gallantly , gallantly , He ne'r did deed of ill , well it is known , But Envy that foul fiend , Whose malice there does end , Hath brought true virtues friend , unto this thrall . At Tilt he did surpass , gallantly , etc All men that is and was evermore still , One day as it was seen , In honour of the Queen , Such deeds are seldom been , as he did doe . Abroad and eke at home , gallantly , gallantly , For Valour there was none , like him before , But Ireland , France and Spain , That feared great Essex's Name , But England lov'd the same , in every place . But all would not prevail , welladay , welladay . His deeds did not prevail , more was the pity , He was condemn'd to die , For Treason certainly , But God , that sits on high , knoweth all things . That Sunday in the Morn , welladay , etc That he to the City came , with all his Troops . That first began the strife , And caus'd him loose his life , And others did the like , as well as he . Yet her Princely Majesty , graciously , graciously , Hath pardon given free , to many of them ; She hath released them quite , And given them their righ They did pray day and night , God to defend her . Shrove-Tuesday in the night , welladay , etc With a heavy hearted spite , as it is said , The Lieutenant of the Tower , Who kept him in his power , At ten a clock that hour , to him did come , And sold unto him there , mournfully , etc My Lord , you must prepare , to die to morrow . God's will be done , quoth he , Yet shall you strangely see , God strong in me to be , though I am weak . I pray you pray for me , welladay , etc That God may strengthen me against that hour . Then straightway he did call To the Guard under the wall , And did entreat them all , for him to pray ; For to morrow is the day , welladay , etc That I a Debt must pay , which I do owe , It is my Life , I mean , Which I must pay the Queen , Even so hath Justice given , that I must die . In the morning was he brought , welladay , etc Where the Scaffold was set up within the Tower ; Many Lords were present then , With other Gentlemen , Which were appointed then , to see him die . You Noble Lords , quoth he , welladay , etc That must the witness , of this my dream : Know I ne'r lov'd Papistry , But still does it defy ; And thus does Essex die , here in this place . I have a sinner been , welladay , etc Yet never wrong'd my Queen , in all my life ; My God I did offend , Which grieves me at my end : May all the rest amend , I do them forgive . To the State I ne'r meant ill , welladay , etc Neither wished the Commons ill , in all my life : But lov'd with all my heart , And always took their part , Whereas there were desert , in every place . Then mildly did he pray , mournfully , etc He might the favour have , private to pray . He then pray'd heartily , And with great fercency , To God that sits on high , for to receive him . And then he pray'd again , mournfully , etc God to preserve his Queen , from all her foes , And sen [ worser ] her long to reign , True Justice to maintain , And not to let proud Spain once to offend her . His Gown he stripped off then , welladay , etc And put off his Hat and Band , and hung them by , Praying still continually , To God that sits on high , That he might patiently there suffer death . My Headsman that must be , then said he cheerfully , Let him come here to me , that I may see him . Who kneeled to him then . Art thou , quoth he , the Ma [ n ] , Who art appointed now , my life to free ? Yes , my Lord , he did say , welladay , etc Forgive me , I you pray , for this your death : I here do thee forgive , And may true Justice live , No foul Crimes to forgive , within this place . Then he kneeled down again , welladay , etc And was required by some , there standing by , To forgive his Enemies . Before Death clos'd his eyes , Which he did in hearty wise , thanking him for i That they would remember him , welladay , etc That he would forgive all them , that hath him wrong'd . Now , my Lords , I take my leave , Sweet Christ my Soul receive . Now when you will prepare , I am ready . He laid his Head on the Block , welladay , etc But his Doublet let the stroke , some there did say . What must be done , quoth he , Shall be done presently . Then his Doublet off put he , and laid down again . Then the Headsman did his part , cruelly , cruelly . He was not seen to start for all the blows . His Soul is now at rest , In Heaven among the blessed ; Where God send us to rest , when it shall please him . 