The Madmans Morrice : OR , A warning for Young men to have a care , How they in Love entangled are : Wherein ( by experience ) you shall find , His trouble and grief , with discontent of mind . To a pleasant new Tune . HEard you not lately of a Man That went beside his Wits , And naked through the Streets he ran , Wrapped in his frantic fits ? My honest Neighbours tt is I , Hark how the people flout me , See where the Madman comes they cry , With all the Boys about me . Into a Pond stark naked I ran , And cast my Clothes away sir , Without the help of any Man. Made shift to run away sir ; How I god out I have forgotten , I do not well remember , Or whither it was cold or hight , In June or in December . Tom Bedlam's but a Sage to me , I speak in sober sadness , For more strange Visions do I see , Then he in all his madness . When first to me this chance befell , About the Market walk't I , With Capons Feathers in my Cap , And to my self thus talk't I . Did you not see my Love of late , Like Titan in her glory ? Did you not know she was my Mate , And I must write her Story , With Pen of Gold on Silver leaf , I will so much befriend her , For why I am of that belief , None can so well commend her . Saw you not Angels in her eyes , Whilst that she was a speaking ? Smelled you not smells like Paradise , Between two Rubies breaking ? Is not her hair more pure then Gold , Of finest Spiders spinning ? Me thinks in her I do behold , My Joys and Woes beginning . Is not a dimple in her cheek ? Each eye a Star that's starting , Is not all Graces instald in her Each step all joys imparting ? Me thinks I see her in a Cloud , With Graces round about her ? To them I call and cry aloud , I cannot live without her . The second Part , To the same tune . THen raging towards the Sky I roar , Thinking to catch her hand , Oh then to Jove I call and cry , To let her by me stand . I look behind and there I see My shadow me beguile , I wish she were as near to me , Which makes my worship smile . There is no Creature can compare With my beloved Nancy : Thus I built Castles in the Air , This is the fruits of Fancy . My thoughts mount high , above the Sky , Of none I stand in awe , Although my body here do lie Upon a Pad of Straw . I was as good a harmless Youth , Before base Cupid caught me . Or his own Mother with her Charms , Into this Cage hath brought me : Stripped and whipped now must I be , In Bedlam bound in Chains ; Good People now you may see What Love hath for his pains . When I was young as others are , With Gallants did I flourish , Oh then was I the properest Lad , That was in all the Parish : The Bracelets which I used to wear , About my Arms so tender , Are turned now to Iron plataeae , About my Body slender . My Silken Suits do now decay , My Cups of Gold are banished , And all my Friends do wear away As I from them were vanished : My Silver Cups are turn'd to Earth , I'me jeer'd of every Clown , I was a better Man by birth , Till Fortune cast me down . I' me out of frame and temper too , Though I am somewhat cheerful , Oh this can Love and Fancy do , If that you be not careful : Oh set a watch before your Eyes , Lest they betray your heart , And make you Slaves to vanities , To act a Madmans part . Declare this to each Mother's Son , Unto each honest Lad : Let them not do as I have done , Lest they like me grow mad . If Cupid strike , be sure of this , Let Reason rule Affection , So shalt thou never do amiss , By Reasons good Direction . I have no more to say to you , My keepers now does chide me ; Now must I bid you all adieu , God knows what will betide me : To pi [ c ] king Straws now must I go , My time in Bedlam spending ; Good Folks you your beginning know , But do not know your ending . Finis . LONDON , Printed for Francis Coals . The Madmans Morrice : OR , A warning for Young men to have a care , How they in Love entangled are : Wherein ( by experience ) you shall find , His trouble and grief , with discontent of mind . To a pleasant new Tune . HEard you not lately of a Man That went beside his Wits , And naked through the Streets he ran , Wrapped in his frantic fits ? My honest Neighbours tt is I , Hark how the people flout me , See where the Madman comes they cry , With all the Boys about me . Into a Pond stark naked I ran , And cast my Clothes away sir , Without the help of any Man. Made shift to run away sir ; How I god out I have forgotten , I do not well remember , Or whither it was cold or hight , In June or in December . Tom Bedlam's but a Sage to me , I speak in sober sadness , For more strange Visions do I see , Then he in all his madness . When first to me this chance befell , About the Market walk't I , With Capons Feathers in my Cap , And to my self thus talk't I . Did you not see my Love of late , Like Titan in her glory ? Did you not know she was my Mate , And I must write her Story , With Pen of Gold on Silver leaf , I will so much befriend her , For why I am of that belief , None can so well commend her . Saw you not Angels in her eyes , Whilst that she was a speaking ? Smelled you not smells like Paradise , Between two Rubies breaking ? Is not her hair more pure then Gold , Of finest Spiders spinning ? Me thinks in her I do behold , My Joys and Woes beginning . Is not a dimple in her cheek ? Each eye a Star that's starting , Is not all Graces instald in her Each step all joys imparting ? Me thinks I see her in a Cloud , With Graces round about her ? To them I call and cry aloud , I cannot live without her . The second Part , To the same tune . THen raging towards the Sky I roar , Thinking to catch her hand , Oh then to Jove I call and cry , To let her by me stand . I look behind and there I see My shadow me beguile , I wish she were as near to me , Which makes my worship smile . There is no Creature can compare With my beloved Nancy : Thus I built Castles in the Air , This is the fruits of Fancy . My thoughts mount high , above the Sky , Of none I stand in awe , Although my body here do lie Upon a Pad of Straw . I was as good a harmless Youth , Before base Cupid caught me . Or his own Mother with her Charms , Into this Cage hath brought me : Stripped and whipped now must I be , In Bedlam bound in Chains ; Good People now you may see What Love hath for his pains . When I was young as others are , With Gallants did I flourish , Oh then was I the properest Lad , That was in all the Parish : The Bracelets which I used to wear , About my Arms so tender , Are turned now to Iron plataeae , About my Body slender . My Silken Suits do now decay , My Cups of Gold are banished , And all my Friends do wear away As I from them were vanished : My Silver Cups are turn'd to Earth , I'me jeer'd of every Clown , I was a better Man by birth , Till Fortune cast me down . I' me out of frame and temper too , Though I am somewhat cheerful , Oh this can Love and Fancy do , If that you be not careful : Oh set a watch before your Eyes , Lest they betray your heart , And make you Slaves to vanities , To act a Madmans part . Declare this to each Mother's Son , Unto each honest Lad : Let them not do as I have done , Lest they like me grow mad . If Cupid strike , be sure of this , Let Reason rule Affection , So shalt thou never do amiss , By Reasons good Direction . I have no more to say to you , My keepers now does chide me ; Now must I bid you all adieu , God knows what will betide me : To pi [ c ] king Straws now must I go , My time in Bedlam spending ; Good Folks you your beginning know , But do not know your ending . Finis . LONDON , Printed for Francis Coals . 