The mad merry Pranks of Robin Good-fellow . To the Tune of , Dulcina . FRom Obrion in Fairy Land , the King of Ghosts and shadows there Mad Robin I at his command , am sent to view the night-sports here : What revel rout Is kept about , In every corner where I go , I will over see , And merry be , And make good sport with , ho ho ho . More swift then lightning can I fly , and round about this a [ i ] r welkin soon , And in a minutes space descry each thing thats's done beneath the moon there's not a Hag , nor Ghost shall wag , Nor cry Goblin where I do go , but Robin I , their feats will spy , And fear them home with , ho ho ho . If any wanderers I meet , that from their nightsports do trudg home With counterfeiting voice I greet , and cause them on with me to rome ; through woods , through lake's , through bogs , through brakes , Over bush and brier with them I go , I call upon them to come on , And went me laughing , ho ho ho . Sometime I meet them like a man , sometime and Ox , sometime a hound , And to a horse I turn me can , to trip and trot about them round ; but if to ride , my back they stride , More swift then wind away I go , over hedge , and lands , through pools and ponds , I whirry laughing , ho ho ho . When Lads and Lasses merry be , with pessets and with junkets fine , Unseen of all the company , I eat their Cakes and sip the Wine , and to make sport , I fart and snort , And out the Candles I do blow , the Maids I kiss , they shriek , who's this , I answer nought but , ho ho ho . Yet now and then the Maids to please , I carded at midnight up their wool , And while they sleep , snort , fart , and sneas , with wheel to thread their flax I pull , I grind at Mill their Malt up still , I dress their hemp , I spin their tow , if any awake and would me take , I weened me Laughing , ho ho ho . The second Part , to the same Tune . WHen House or hearth does fluttish lie , I pinch the Maids there black and blue And from the bed the bedclothes I , pull off and lay them naked to view : betwixt sleep and wake I do them take , And on the kep cold floor them throw , if out they cry , then forth five I , And loudly Laugh , ho ho ho . When any need to borrow ought , we lend them what they do require , And for the use demand we nought , our own is all we do desire ; if to repay they do delay , Abroad among them then I go , and night by night , I them affright , With pinching , dreams , and ho ho ho . When lazy queans have nought to do , but study how to cog and lie , To make debate and mischief too , betwixt one another secretly : I mark their gloze and do disclose To them that I had wronged so , when I have done , I get me gone , And leave them scolding , ho ho ho . When men do traps and engines set , in loopholes where the vermin creep , That from their folds and houses set , their ducks and geese , their lambs & sheep I spy the gin , and enter in , And seems a vermin taken so , but when they there approach me near , I leap out laughing , ho ho ho . By Wells and Giles in Meadow green , we nightly dance our hey day guise , And to our Fairy King and Queen , we chant our Moonlight harmonies : when Larks gin sing , away we fling , And babes new born steal as we go , and Elf in bed we leave in stead , And weened us Laughing , ho ho ho . From Hay-bred Merlins time have I , thus mighty revel'd too and from , And for my pranks men call me by the name of Robin Good-fellow . Friends , Ghosts , and Sprites , that haunt the nights , The Hags and Goblins do me know , and Beldames old , my feats have told , So Vale , Vale , ho ho ho . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . The mad merry Pranks of Robin Good-fellow . To the Tune of , Dulcina . FRom Obrion in Fairy Land , the King of Ghosts and shadows there Mad Robin I at his command , am sent to view the night-sports here : What revel rout Is kept about , In every corner where I go , I will over see , And merry be , And make good sport with , ho ho ho . More swift then lightning can I fly , and round about this a [ i ] r welkin soon , And in a minutes space descry each thing thats's done beneath the moon there's not a Hag , nor Ghost shall wag , Nor cry Goblin where I do go , but Robin I , their feats will spy , And fear them home with , ho ho ho . If any wanderers I meet , that from their nightsports do trudg home With counterfeiting voice I greet , and cause them on with me to rome ; through woods , through lake's , through bogs , through brakes , Over bush and brier with them I go , I call upon them to come on , And went me laughing , ho ho ho . Sometime I meet them like a man , sometime and Ox , sometime a hound , And to a horse I turn me can , to trip and trot about them round ; but if to ride , my back they stride , More swift then wind away I go , over hedge , and lands , through pools and ponds , I whirry laughing , ho ho ho . When Lads and Lasses merry be , with pessets and with junkets fine , Unseen of all the company , I eat their Cakes and sip the Wine , and to make sport , I fart and snort , And out the Candles I do blow , the Maids I kiss , they shriek , who's this , I answer nought but , ho ho ho . Yet now and then the Maids to please , I carded at midnight up their wool , And while they sleep , snort , fart , and sneas , with wheel to thread their flax I pull , I grind at Mill their Malt up still , I dress their hemp , I spin their tow , if any awake and would me take , I weened me Laughing , ho ho ho . The second Part , to the same Tune . WHen House or hearth does fluttish lie , I pinch the Maids there black and blue And from the bed the bedclothes I , pull off and lay them naked to view : betwixt sleep and wake I do them take , And on the kep cold floor them throw , if out they cry , then forth five I , And loudly Laugh , ho ho ho . When any need to borrow ought , we lend them what they do require , And for the use demand we nought , our own is all we do desire ; if to repay they do delay , Abroad among them then I go , and night by night , I them affright , With pinching , dreams , and ho ho ho . When lazy queans have nought to do , but study how to cog and lie , To make debate and mischief too , betwixt one another secretly : I mark their gloze and do disclose To them that I had wronged so , when I have done , I get me gone , And leave them scolding , ho ho ho . When men do traps and engines set , in loopholes where the vermin creep , That from their folds and houses set , their ducks and geese , their lambs & sheep I spy the gin , and enter in , And seems a vermin taken so , but when they there approach me near , I leap out laughing , ho ho ho . By Wells and Giles in Meadow green , we nightly dance our hey day guise , And to our Fairy King and Queen , we chant our Moonlight harmonies : when Larks gin sing , away we fling , And babes new born steal as we go , and Elf in bed we leave in stead , And weened us Laughing , ho ho ho . From Hay-bred Merlins time have I , thus mighty revel'd too and from , And for my pranks men call me by the name of Robin Good-fellow . Friends , Ghosts , and Sprites , that haunt the nights , The Hags and Goblins do me know , and Beldames old , my feats have told , So Vale , Vale , ho ho ho . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 