Saint BERNARD'S Vision . ( A brief Discourse Dialogue-wise ) between the Soul and body of a Damned Man newly De - ceased , laying the faults one upon other : With a Speech of the Devils in Hell . To the Tune of , Flying Fame . The Writer speaks . AS I lay slumbering in my bed one night , A fearful Vision did me soar affright , Methought I saw a soul departed late , By it the body in a poor estate . Wailing with sighs the soul aloud did cry , Upon the body in the Coffin by , And thus the soul to it did make her moan With grievous sobs and many a bitter groan . The Soul speaks . O sinful flesh which now so low does lie , Whom yesterday the world esteem'd so high , It was but yesterday the world was thine , The Sun is set which yesterday did shine . Where is thy train that did attend on thee ? Where is thy mirth , where is thy jollity ? Where are thy sumptuous buildings & thy treasure Thy pleasant walks wherein thou took'st such pleasure . Gone is thy train , thy mirth to mourning turn'd , Thou in a Coffin in a Shrine art urn'd : For thy rich clothes thou hast a winding-sheet , Thy high built roof now with thy mouth does meet . But I poor soul was fram'd a noble creature , In likeness to my God of heavenly feature , But by thy since while we on earth abided , I am made fouler then a loathsome Toad . O wretched flesh with me that art forlorn , That well may wish thou never hadst been born , Thou wouldst never to any one agree , For which we evermore shall damned be . I am and must for ever be in pain , No tongue can tell the torments I sustain ; Both thou and I we must descend to hell , Where we in frying flames must ever dwell : It was thy pride , deceit , and luxury , Hath brought these torments both on me and thee Thy Wife , thy children , friends whom thou didst trust Do loath thy carcase lying in the dust . The Book of God which is both true and sure , Witness at large what sinners shall endure ; Thou that within the bed of earth art laid , Arise and answer to the words I said . The Body speaks . I know thee well my soul which from me fled , Which left my body senseless cold and dead : Cease thou to say the fault was all in me , When I will prove the fault was most in thee . Thou sayest that I have led thee oft astray , And from welldoing drawn thee quite away , But if the flesh the spirits power can move , The fault is thine as I will plainly prove . God you do know created you most fair , And of celestial knowledge gave you share : I was your servant , fram'd of earth and clay , You to command , and I for to obey . 'Twas in your power for to restrain my will , And not to let me do these things were ill ; The bodies works are from the soul derived , And by the Soul the Body should be guided . The body of it self no ill hath known , If I did what thou didst the guilts thine own : For without thee the body rests dead , The soul commands , it rests upon thy head . So to conclude thy guilt exceeds mine , Oh how the worms do tear me in my shrine : And therefore fare the well poor sinful soul , Whose trespasses pass mine though they are foul . The second Part , oh the same tune . The Soul speaks . MOst wretched flesh which in the time of life , Was foolish , idle , vain , and full of strife , Though of thy substance thou didst speak to me , I do confess I should have bridled thee . But thou through love of pleasure foul and ill , Still me resisted and would have thy will , When I would thee , Oh body have controul'd , Straight the world's vanities did thee withhold . So thou of me didst get the upper hand , Enthralling me in worldly pleasures band : That thou and I eternal shall be drown'd , In hell , when glorious Saints in heaven are crown'd But flattering fancy did thy mind so please , Thou never thought'st to die till death did cease , This was the fault , and cursed was our fate , Which we repent , but now , alas too late . The Body speaks . O now I weep , being scourg'd with mine own rod , We both stand guilty before the face of God , Both are in fault , and yet not equally , The greatest burden , soul , on thee does lie . No wit so mean but this for truth it knows , That where most gifts of virtue God bestows , There is most due , and ought repaid be , And unto this there's none but will agree . But foolishly thou yieldest unto me , And to my vain desires didst soon agree : But o , I knew not at the latter hour , But thou and I shall find a death more sure . I greatly fear and everlasting fire , Yet one thing more I do of thee desire : Hast thou been yet among the Fiends of hell ? Is not hope's left that we with Christ may dwell ? The Soul speaks . False Flesh remember Dives was deney'd , When for one drop of water he so pray'd : Thy question , senseless body , wants reason , Redemption now is hopeless , out of season . Vile body go and rot in bed of clay , Until the great and general judgement day , Then shalt thou rise , and be with me condemn'd , To Hells hight Lake for ever without end . So fare thee well , I will no longer stay , Hark how the Fiends of Hell call me away ; The loss of heavenly joys torments me , More then all tortures that in hell can be . The Devil speaks . Ho , are you come , whom we expected long ? Now we will make you sing another song , Howling and yelling still shall be your note , And moulted led be poured down your throat . Such horror we do on our servants load , Now thou art worse then is the crawling toad , Ten thousand torments thou shalt now abide , When thou in flaming Sulphre shalt be fry'd . Thou art a Soldier of our camp enroul'd , Never henceforth shalt thou the light behold ; The pains prepar'd for thee no tongue can tell , Welcome , Oh welcome , to the pit of hell . The Writer speaks . At this the groaning Soul did weep most soar , And then the Fiends with joy did laugh and roar , Those Devils did seem more black then pitch or night Whose horrid shapes did sorely me affright . Sharp steeled forks each in their hands did bear , Tusked their teeth like crooked mattocks were : Fire and brimstone then they breathed out , And from their nostrils snakes crawld all about . Foul filthy horns on their black brows they wore , Their nails were like the Tusks of a Boar : Those Fiends fast found this wretched soul , and dragged him in who grievously did howl . Then straight methought appeared in my sighed , A beauteous youngman clothed all in white , His face did shine most glorious to behold , Wings like the Rainbow , and his hair like gold . With a sweet voice , All hail , all hail , ( quod he ) Arise and write what here thou now dost see : Most heavenly music seemed then to play , And in a cloud he vanished quite away . Awaking straight , I took my pen in hand , to write those lines the young man did command , And so abroad into the world it sent , That each good Christian may in time repent . Then let us fear the Lord both night and day , Preserve our souls and bodies we thee pray , God grant we may so run this mortal raze , That we in heaven may have a resting place . Preserve the King , the Queen , and Progeney , The Clergy , Council , and Nobility : Preserve our souls and bodies I thee pray ; Amen , with me let all good Christians say . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . Saint BERNARD'S Vision . ( A brief Discourse Dialogue-wise ) between the Soul and body of a Damned Man newly De - ceased , laying the faults one upon other : With a Speech of the Devils in Hell . To the Tune of , Flying Fame . The Writer speaks . AS I lay slumbering in my bed one night , A fearful Vision did me soar affright , Methought I saw a soul departed late , By it the body in a poor estate . Wailing with sighs the soul aloud did cry , Upon the body in the Coffin by , And thus the soul to it did make her moan With grievous sobs and many a bitter groan . The Soul speaks . O sinful flesh which now so low does lie , Whom yesterday the world esteem'd so high , It was but yesterday the world was thine , The Sun is set which yesterday did shine . Where is thy train that did attend on thee ? Where is thy mirth , where is thy jollity ? Where are thy sumptuous buildings & thy treasure Thy pleasant walks wherein thou took'st such pleasure . Gone is thy train , thy mirth to mourning turn'd , Thou in a Coffin in a Shrine art urn'd : For thy rich clothes thou hast a winding-sheet , Thy high built roof now with thy mouth does meet . But I poor soul was fram'd a noble creature , In likeness to my God of heavenly feature , But by thy since while we on earth abided , I am made fouler then a loathsome Toad . O wretched flesh with me that art forlorn , That well may wish thou never hadst been born , Thou wouldst never to any one agree , For which we evermore shall damned be . I am and must for ever be in pain , No tongue can tell the torments I sustain ; Both thou and I we must descend to hell , Where we in frying flames must ever dwell : It was thy pride , deceit , and luxury , Hath brought these torments both on me and thee Thy Wife , thy children , friends whom thou didst trust Do loath thy carcase lying in the dust . The Book of God which is both true and sure , Witness at large what sinners shall endure ; Thou that within the bed of earth art laid , Arise and answer to the words I said . The Body speaks . I know thee well my soul which from me fled , Which left my body senseless cold and dead : Cease thou to say the fault was all in me , When I will prove the fault was most in thee . Thou sayest that I have led thee oft astray , And from welldoing drawn thee quite away , But if the flesh the spirits power can move , The fault is thine as I will plainly prove . God you do know created you most fair , And of celestial knowledge gave you share : I was your servant , fram'd of earth and clay , You to command , and I for to obey . 'Twas in your power for to restrain my will , And not to let me do these things were ill ; The bodies works are from the soul derived , And by the Soul the Body should be guided . The body of it self no ill hath known , If I did what thou didst the guilts thine own : For without thee the body rests dead , The soul commands , it rests upon thy head . So to conclude thy guilt exceeds mine , Oh how the worms do tear me in my shrine : And therefore fare the well poor sinful soul , Whose trespasses pass mine though they are foul . The second Part , oh the same tune . The Soul speaks . MOst wretched flesh which in the time of life , Was foolish , idle , vain , and full of strife , Though of thy substance thou didst speak to me , I do confess I should have bridled thee . But thou through love of pleasure foul and ill , Still me resisted and would have thy will , When I would thee , Oh body have controul'd , Straight the world's vanities did thee withhold . So thou of me didst get the upper hand , Enthralling me in worldly pleasures band : That thou and I eternal shall be drown'd , In hell , when glorious Saints in heaven are crown'd But flattering fancy did thy mind so please , Thou never thought'st to die till death did cease , This was the fault , and cursed was our fate , Which we repent , but now , alas too late . The Body speaks . O now I weep , being scourg'd with mine own rod , We both stand guilty before the face of God , Both are in fault , and yet not equally , The greatest burden , soul , on thee does lie . No wit so mean but this for truth it knows , That where most gifts of virtue God bestows , There is most due , and ought repaid be , And unto this there's none but will agree . But foolishly thou yieldest unto me , And to my vain desires didst soon agree : But o , I knew not at the latter hour , But thou and I shall find a death more sure . I greatly fear and everlasting fire , Yet one thing more I do of thee desire : Hast thou been yet among the Fiends of hell ? Is not hope's left that we with Christ may dwell ? The Soul speaks . False Flesh remember Dives was deney'd , When for one drop of water he so pray'd : Thy question , senseless body , wants reason , Redemption now is hopeless , out of season . Vile body go and rot in bed of clay , Until the great and general judgement day , Then shalt thou rise , and be with me condemn'd , To Hells hight Lake for ever without end . So fare thee well , I will no longer stay , Hark how the Fiends of Hell call me away ; The loss of heavenly joys torments me , More then all tortures that in hell can be . The Devil speaks . Ho , are you come , whom we expected long ? Now we will make you sing another song , Howling and yelling still shall be your note , And moulted led be poured down your throat . Such horror we do on our servants load , Now thou art worse then is the crawling toad , Ten thousand torments thou shalt now abide , When thou in flaming Sulphre shalt be fry'd . Thou art a Soldier of our camp enroul'd , Never henceforth shalt thou the light behold ; The pains prepar'd for thee no tongue can tell , Welcome , Oh welcome , to the pit of hell . The Writer speaks . At this the groaning Soul did weep most soar , And then the Fiends with joy did laugh and roar , Those Devils did seem more black then pitch or night Whose horrid shapes did sorely me affright . Sharp steeled forks each in their hands did bear , Tusked their teeth like crooked mattocks were : Fire and brimstone then they breathed out , And from their nostrils snakes crawld all about . Foul filthy horns on their black brows they wore , Their nails were like the Tusks of a Boar : Those Fiends fast found this wretched soul , and dragged him in who grievously did howl . Then straight methought appeared in my sighed , A beauteous youngman clothed all in white , His face did shine most glorious to behold , Wings like the Rainbow , and his hair like gold . With a sweet voice , All hail , all hail , ( quod he ) Arise and write what here thou now dost see : Most heavenly music seemed then to play , And in a cloud he vanished quite away . Awaking straight , I took my pen in hand , to write those lines the young man did command , And so abroad into the world it sent , That each good Christian may in time repent . Then let us fear the Lord both night and day , Preserve our souls and bodies we thee pray , God grant we may so run this mortal raze , That we in heaven may have a resting place . Preserve the King , the Queen , and Progeney , The Clergy , Council , and Nobility : Preserve our souls and bodies I thee pray ; Amen , with me let all good Christians say . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 