The Mad Merry Pranks of Robin Good-fellow . To the Tune of , Dulcina . FRom Obrion in Fairy Land , the King of Ghosts and shadows there , Mad Robin I at his command , am sent to view the Night-sports here : What Revel Rout , Is kept about , In every corner where I go ; I will o're see , And merry be , And make good sport with , ho ho ho . More swift then Lightning can I fly , and round about this Air welkin soon , And in a minutes space descry , each thing that's done beneath the Moon : There's not a Hag , Nor Ghost shall wag , Nor cry Goblin where I do go , But Robin I , Their feats will spy , And fear them home with , ho ho ho . If any Wanderers I meet , that from their night-sports do trudge home , With counterfeiting voice I greet , and cause them on with me to room Through woods , through lake's , Through bogs through brakes , O're Bush and Bryer with them I go , I call upon Them to come on , And weened me laughing , ho ho ho . Sometime I meet them like a man , sometime and Ox , sometime a Hound , And to a Horse I turn me can , to trip and trot about them round : But if to Ride , My back they stride , More swift then wind , away I go , O're hedge and Lands , Through Pools and Ponds , I whirry laughing , ho ho ho . When Lads and Lasses merry be , with Possets and with junkets fine , Unseen of all the Company , I eat their Cakes and drink their Wine : And to make sport , I fart and snort , And out the Candles I do blow , The Maids I kiss , They shriek , whose this ? I answer nought but , ho ho ho . YEt now and then the Maids to please , I Carded at midnight up their Wool , And while they sleep , snort , fart , and snease , with Wheel to thread their Flax I pull : I grind at Mill , Their Malt up still , I dress their hemp , I spin their Tow , If any [ wa ] ke , And would me take , I weened me laughing , ho ho ho . When House or Herth does fluttish lie , I pinch the Maids there black and blue , And from the Bed , the Bedclothes I , pull off and lay them nak'd to view : 'Twixt sleep and wake , I do them take , And on the Key-cold flower them throw , If out they cry , Then forth fly I , And loudly Laugh , ho ho ho . When any need to borrow ought , we lend them what they do require , And for the use demand we nought , our own is all we do desire : If to repay , They do delay , Abroad among them then I go , And night by night , I them affright With pinching dreams , and ho ho ho . When lazy queans have nought to do , but study how to cog and lie ; To make debate and mischief too , 'twixt one another secretly : I mark their gloze , And it disclose To them which they have wronged so : When I have done , I get me gone , And leave them scolding , ho ho ho . When men do traps and Engines set in loopholes where the Vermin creep , That from their Folds and Houses steal their Ducks and Geese , their Lambs & sheep I spy the gin , And enter in , And seems a Vermin taken so ; But when they there , Approach me near , I leap out laughing , ho ho ho . By Wells and Giles in Meadows green , we nightly dance our hay-day guise , And to our Fairy King and Queen , we chant our Moonlight harmonies : When Larks gin sing , Away we fling , And Babes newborn steal as we go : And Elf in bed , We leave in stead , And weened us laughing , ho ho ho . From Hay-bred Merlins time have I , thus mighty Revel'd to and from , And for my Pranks Men call me by the name of Robin Good-fellow . Fiends , Ghosts , and Sprites , That haunt the nights , The Hags and Goblins do me know And Beldames old , My feats have told , So Vale , vale , ho ho ho . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Mad Merry Pranks of Robin Good-fellow . To the Tune of , Dulcina . FRom Obrion in Fairy Land , the King of Ghosts and shadows there , Mad Robin I at his command , am sent to view the Night-sports here : What Revel Rout , Is kept about , In every corner where I go ; I will o're see , And merry be , And make good sport with , ho ho ho . More swift then Lightning can I fly , and round about this Air welkin soon , And in a minutes space descry , each thing that's done beneath the Moon : There's not a Hag , Nor Ghost shall wag , Nor cry Goblin where I do go , But Robin I , Their feats will spy , And fear them home with , ho ho ho . If any Wanderers I meet , that from their night-sports do trudge home , With counterfeiting voice I greet , and cause them on with me to room Through woods , through lake's , Through bogs through brakes , O're Bush and Bryer with them I go , I call upon Them to come on , And weened me laughing , ho ho ho . Sometime I meet them like a man , sometime and Ox , sometime a Hound , And to a Horse I turn me can , to trip and trot about them round : But if to Ride , My back they stride , More swift then wind , away I go , O're hedge and Lands , Through Pools and Ponds , I whirry laughing , ho ho ho . When Lads and Lasses merry be , with Possets and with junkets fine , Unseen of all the Company , I eat their Cakes and drink their Wine : And to make sport , I fart and snort , And out the Candles I do blow , The Maids I kiss , They shriek , whose this ? I answer nought but , ho ho ho . YEt now and then the Maids to please , I Carded at midnight up their Wool , And while they sleep , snort , fart , and snease , with Wheel to thread their Flax I pull : I grind at Mill , Their Malt up still , I dress their hemp , I spin their Tow , If any [ wa ] ke , And would me take , I weened me laughing , ho ho ho . When House or Herth does fluttish lie , I pinch the Maids there black and blue , And from the Bed , the Bedclothes I , pull off and lay them nak'd to view : 'Twixt sleep and wake , I do them take , And on the Key-cold flower them throw , If out they cry , Then forth fly I , And loudly Laugh , ho ho ho . When any need to borrow ought , we lend them what they do require , And for the use demand we nought , our own is all we do desire : If to repay , They do delay , Abroad among them then I go , And night by night , I them affright With pinching dreams , and ho ho ho . When lazy queans have nought to do , but study how to cog and lie ; To make debate and mischief too , 'twixt one another secretly : I mark their gloze , And it disclose To them which they have wronged so : When I have done , I get me gone , And leave them scolding , ho ho ho . When men do traps and Engines set in loopholes where the Vermin creep , That from their Folds and Houses steal their Ducks and Geese , their Lambs & sheep I spy the gin , And enter in , And seems a Vermin taken so ; But when they there , Approach me near , I leap out laughing , ho ho ho . By Wells and Giles in Meadows green , we nightly dance our hay-day guise , And to our Fairy King and Queen , we chant our Moonlight harmonies : When Larks gin sing , Away we fling , And Babes newborn steal as we go : And Elf in bed , We leave in stead , And weened us laughing , ho ho ho . From Hay-bred Merlins time have I , thus mighty Revel'd to and from , And for my Pranks Men call me by the name of Robin Good-fellow . Fiends , Ghosts , and Sprites , That haunt the nights , The Hags and Goblins do me know And Beldames old , My feats have told , So Vale , vale , ho ho ho . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 