E : 363 The Two Unfortunate LOVERS . Or , A true Relation of the lamentable end of John True and Susan Mease . Their lives this Ditty does relate . And how they dy'd unfortunate . The tune is , the Brides Burial . ATtend you Lovers and give ear , unto my mournful Song , Of two that loved faithfully , yet did each other wrong . At Coventry in Warwickshire this young man he did dwell , His Name John True a shoemaker and liv'd of it full well . At Corly did this Maiden dwell , three miles from Coventry , Yet for the love he boar to her , he would her often see . And coming to her on a day , he told to her his mind , Susan ( quoth he ) I love thee dear , be not to me unkind . If thou canst love and fancy me , in heart and eke in mind , I will prove loving unto thee , be not to me unkind . Thy cheerful looks rejoice my heart , and merry make my mind , Sweet Susan then love me again , be not to me unkind . Good John I thank you for your love , and with you at home to tarry , I am too young for you to wed , and have no mind to marry . Where you do dwell are Maidens store of beauty fair and free , Set not thy love upon me then , for I cannot love thee . This answer struck him to the heart , as cold as any stone , And homeward strait he did return with many a sighs and groan . Wishing that he had ne'r been born , or in his cradle dy'd , Unhappy man to love so true , and yet to be deny'd . Quoth he , I will to her again , and hear what she does say , It may be she may be more kind , though first she said me nay . Then coming to the Town again , he sent for her strait way , Desiring her to speak with him , but still she said him nay . Then did he sighs lament and grieve , and knew not what to say , Then he did take his pen in hand , and writ these words strait way . My hearts delight and only joy , kill me not with disdain , Vouchsafe that I may speak with thee to rid me out of pain . Resolve me sweetest I thee pray , why is thy harred such ? I know no cause unless it be , for loving thee too much . As is my name , so is my love , sweet Susan unto thee , True is my name , True is my love , and ever so shall be . My love is Loyal , Just , and good , kill me not with disdain , Rather do me the courtesy to love for love again . When she had read and understood his mind and his intent , She then began to like and love , and yields him hearts content . John I am thine , if thou be'st mine , for ever and for aye : It was to try thy constancy that I did say thee nay . But here's my hand , my heart & love , I'le ne'r thee more deny , My love is constant firm and true , and shall be till I Die . Then they imbrac'd each others love , and joyn'd in heart and voice , That she of him , and he of her had made so sweet a choice . BUt fortune that does often frown , where she before did smile , The men delight , the Maidens joy , full soon she did beguile . When she was settled in her love , then he would change his mind , And for to try her constancy , would be to her unkind . And thus resolved in his mind , he'd come to her no more , But went and wooed another Maid , which griev'd her heart full soar . Quoth he , she proved unto me , hardhearted and unkind : But now her true love I have wone , I'le bear the self same mind . When she perceiv'd his love to her , not as 'twas wont to be , She did lament , sighs , weep and grieve , and then these words said she . Falsehearted wretch adieu , quoth she , disloyal and unkind , And if I die for love of thee , thou shalt not know my mind . Woe to the time I did believe , that flattering tongue of thine , Would God that I had never seen the tears of thy false eyn . Hard hap had I to set my love , on one that mocked me , Sure all the Country did not yield a man so false as he . Thus was she brought to mean estate all comfort from her fled , She did desire to speak with him . before that she was dead . Her friends did seek to cheer her up , and to make glad her mind , But she was kil'd with loving him , who prov'd to her unkind . Falsehearted man , may never Maid , love thee as I have done , But may my death remembered be , to time that is to come . But may all Maids example take , by this my mournful death , And now Oh Lord receive my soul , to thee I yield my breath . Thus Dy'd the pattern of true love , thus dy'd a virtuous Maid , Thus dy'd as good a harmless Lass , as ever love betray'd . Six Maids in white as , custom is , did bear her to the grave , Her Parents grieve lament and more no child at all they have . When as her lover understood , for truth that she was Dead , He rag'd and ready was to tear the Hair from off his head . But when he came into the place , where his true lover lay , He strait way ran unto the grave , and there these words did say . Susan ( quoth he ) i'le Kiss thy grave , upon my bent Knee , Whereby i'le show to all the world , how dear I loved thee . And as he lay upon the ground , he herd a voice to say , John True if e're thou loved'st me dear make haste and come away . Then started he up from the grave , and stood like one struck Dumb , And when he had regain'd his speech he said , I come , I come . And thus like one out of his wits , he rag'd in piteous sort , That all the Neighbours presently were griev'd at his report . And thus with sorrow and grief of heart , he lay a whole fortnight , And when he had confessed his fault he yielded up his spirit . According to his hearts Desire , and as he did request , They Dig'd his grave , & laid him down by her whom he lov'd best . you young men all that have true loves be sure unto your friend , And if you love , be sure your love , be true unto the end . And thus I end my story true , so full of grief and woe , May never any seek again , to wrong each other so . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . E : 363 The Two Unfortunate LOVERS . Or , A true Relation of the lamentable end of John True and Susan Mease . Their lives this Ditty does relate . And how they dy'd unfortunate . The tune is , the Brides Burial . ATtend you Lovers and give ear , unto my mournful Song , Of two that loved faithfully , yet did each other wrong . At Coventry in Warwickshire this young man he did dwell , His Name John True a shoemaker and liv'd of it full well . At Corly did this Maiden dwell , three miles from Coventry , Yet for the love he boar to her , he would her often see . And coming to her on a day , he told to her his mind , Susan ( quoth he ) I love thee dear , be not to me unkind . If thou canst love and fancy me , in heart and eke in mind , I will prove loving unto thee , be not to me unkind . Thy cheerful looks rejoice my heart , and merry make my mind , Sweet Susan then love me again , be not to me unkind . Good John I thank you for your love , and with you at home to tarry , I am too young for you to wed , and have no mind to marry . Where you do dwell are Maidens store of beauty fair and free , Set not thy love upon me then , for I cannot love thee . This answer struck him to the heart , as cold as any stone , And homeward strait he did return with many a sighs and groan . Wishing that he had ne'r been born , or in his cradle dy'd , Unhappy man to love so true , and yet to be deny'd . Quoth he , I will to her again , and hear what she does say , It may be she may be more kind , though first she said me nay . Then coming to the Town again , he sent for her strait way , Desiring her to speak with him , but still she said him nay . Then did he sighs lament and grieve , and knew not what to say , Then he did take his pen in hand , and writ these words strait way . My hearts delight and only joy , kill me not with disdain , Vouchsafe that I may speak with thee to rid me out of pain . Resolve me sweetest I thee pray , why is thy harred such ? I know no cause unless it be , for loving thee too much . As is my name , so is my love , sweet Susan unto thee , True is my name , True is my love , and ever so shall be . My love is Loyal , Just , and good , kill me not with disdain , Rather do me the courtesy to love for love again . When she had read and understood his mind and his intent , She then began to like and love , and yields him hearts content . John I am thine , if thou be'st mine , for ever and for aye : It was to try thy constancy that I did say thee nay . But here's my hand , my heart & love , I'le ne'r thee more deny , My love is constant firm and true , and shall be till I Die . Then they imbrac'd each others love , and joyn'd in heart and voice , That she of him , and he of her had made so sweet a choice . BUt fortune that does often frown , where she before did smile , The men delight , the Maidens joy , full soon she did beguile . When she was settled in her love , then he would change his mind , And for to try her constancy , would be to her unkind . And thus resolved in his mind , he'd come to her no more , But went and wooed another Maid , which griev'd her heart full soar . Quoth he , she proved unto me , hardhearted and unkind : But now her true love I have wone , I'le bear the self same mind . When she perceiv'd his love to her , not as 'twas wont to be , She did lament , sighs , weep and grieve , and then these words said she . Falsehearted wretch adieu , quoth she , disloyal and unkind , And if I die for love of thee , thou shalt not know my mind . Woe to the time I did believe , that flattering tongue of thine , Would God that I had never seen the tears of thy false eyn . Hard hap had I to set my love , on one that mocked me , Sure all the Country did not yield a man so false as he . Thus was she brought to mean estate all comfort from her fled , She did desire to speak with him . before that she was dead . Her friends did seek to cheer her up , and to make glad her mind , But she was kil'd with loving him , who prov'd to her unkind . Falsehearted man , may never Maid , love thee as I have done , But may my death remembered be , to time that is to come . But may all Maids example take , by this my mournful death , And now Oh Lord receive my soul , to thee I yield my breath . Thus Dy'd the pattern of true love , thus dy'd a virtuous Maid , Thus dy'd as good a harmless Lass , as ever love betray'd . Six Maids in white as , custom is , did bear her to the grave , Her Parents grieve lament and more no child at all they have . When as her lover understood , for truth that she was Dead , He rag'd and ready was to tear the Hair from off his head . But when he came into the place , where his true lover lay , He strait way ran unto the grave , and there these words did say . Susan ( quoth he ) i'le Kiss thy grave , upon my bent Knee , Whereby i'le show to all the world , how dear I loved thee . And as he lay upon the ground , he herd a voice to say , John True if e're thou loved'st me dear make haste and come away . Then started he up from the grave , and stood like one struck Dumb , And when he had regain'd his speech he said , I come , I come . And thus like one out of his wits , he rag'd in piteous sort , That all the Neighbours presently were griev'd at his report . And thus with sorrow and grief of heart , he lay a whole fortnight , And when he had confessed his fault he yielded up his spirit . According to his hearts Desire , and as he did request , They Dig'd his grave , & laid him down by her whom he lov'd best . you young men all that have true loves be sure unto your friend , And if you love , be sure your love , be true unto the end . And thus I end my story true , so full of grief and woe , May never any seek again , to wrong each other so . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 