E : 365 THE Unconstant SHEPHERD : OR , THE Forsaken Lass's Lamentation . To and Excellent new Tune . Licens'd according to Order . O , how can I be merry or glad , or in my mind contented be ; When the bonny bonny Lad whom I love best , is banish'd out of my Company ? Tho' he was banish'd it was for my sake , and his true Love I still remain ; He has caus'd me many a night for to wake , and adieu to my true Love once again . I dare not come where my Love is , I dare not for to sport nor play , For their evil evil tongues they are so glib , I must take a kiss and go my way . Kissing is but a silly fancy , it brings true Lovers into since ; Oh that I were , and I wish that I were , for to see my true Love once again . As I was a walking through the Hall , I 'spy'd the twinkling of my Love's eyes ; Oh that I were , and I wish that I were in the Chamber were my true Love lies . Away found Fool , call home thy heart , and in thy mind contented be ; For thou spend'st thy time , and gets no gain , by loving a Lover that loves not thee . If I do spend my time in vain , o , it is no loss to none but me ; I'll set it as light as the wavering wind , that daily blows from tree to tree . My Lover so lively , tall and young , I had not the power to say him nay ; The words of his false deluding tongue , did suddenly steal my heart away . In deserts I'll wander for his sake , for here I no peace nor joy can find ; My innocent heart I fear it will break , because he has proved so unkind . I cannot forget the pleasing charms , which every day he did renew ; When as I lay clasped in his arms ; but now I must bid them all adieu . I did the delights of Love allow , and stroked his locks of curled hair ; Then is he not most ungrateful now , to leave in grief and deep despair ? Some other young Nymph enjoys my Swain , she which does indeed my glory blast ; Yet tho' he should kill me with disdain , I'll love him as long as life shall last . I languish and have not long to breathe , therefore I'll write my last farewell : To Phaon I here my heart bequeathe ; with whom I did once in pleasure dwell . Unto the Elizium Shades I'll go , where hovering Spirits do remain ; Repeating their killing griefs and woe , who by their hardhearted Lovers was slave . Of my little Lambs I take my leave , and every Creature in the Grove ; Young Phaon he won't my Life reprieve , therefore , alas ! I die for love . London : Printed for C. Bates , at the Sun and Bible in Pie-corner . E : 365 THE Unconstant SHEPHERD : OR , THE Forsaken Lass's Lamentation . To and Excellent new Tune . Licens'd according to Order . O , how can I be merry or glad , or in my mind contented be ; When the bonny bonny Lad whom I love best , is banish'd out of my Company ? Tho' he was banish'd it was for my sake , and his true Love I still remain ; He has caus'd me many a night for to wake , and adieu to my true Love once again . I dare not come where my Love is , I dare not for to sport nor play , For their evil evil tongues they are so glib , I must take a kiss and go my way . Kissing is but a silly fancy , it brings true Lovers into since ; Oh that I were , and I wish that I were , for to see my true Love once again . As I was a walking through the Hall , I 'spy'd the twinkling of my Love's eyes ; Oh that I were , and I wish that I were in the Chamber were my true Love lies . Away found Fool , call home thy heart , and in thy mind contented be ; For thou spend'st thy time , and gets no gain , by loving a Lover that loves not thee . If I do spend my time in vain , o , it is no loss to none but me ; I'll set it as light as the wavering wind , that daily blows from tree to tree . My Lover so lively , tall and young , I had not the power to say him nay ; The words of his false deluding tongue , did suddenly steal my heart away . In deserts I'll wander for his sake , for here I no peace nor joy can find ; My innocent heart I fear it will break , because he has proved so unkind . I cannot forget the pleasing charms , which every day he did renew ; When as I lay clasped in his arms ; but now I must bid them all adieu . I did the delights of Love allow , and stroked his locks of curled hair ; Then is he not most ungrateful now , to leave in grief and deep despair ? Some other young Nymph enjoys my Swain , she which does indeed my glory blast ; Yet tho' he should kill me with disdain , I'll love him as long as life shall last . I languish and have not long to breathe , therefore I'll write my last farewell : To Phaon I here my heart bequeathe ; with whom I did once in pleasure dwell . Unto the Elizium Shades I'll go , where hovering Spirits do remain ; Repeating their killing griefs and woe , who by their hardhearted Lovers was slave . Of my little Lambs I take my leave , and every Creature in the Grove ; Young Phaon he won't my Life reprieve , therefore , alas ! I die for love . London : Printed for C. Bates , at the Sun and Bible in Pie-corner . 