E : 366 The Valiant hearted Seaman ; Declaring a late Skirmish fought between our English Fleet and the Dutch . Wherein the Dutch was worsted , two of the Dutch ships sunk , and two taken as lawful Prize , with a very small loss on our English side . The tune is , Lusty Stukely . BRave Gallants now of England Cheer up your hearts , and firmly stand Against all people which oppose our King Let us fight with hearts lusty and stout , To keep all Foreign Nations out , Let Valour still the fame of England ring . The Hollander as I am told adventure new to be so bold As to oppose our Gracious King to fight . For truth it is I understand They have some English in their Land That right or wrong would do England a spite In Histories we all may read brave England never was conquered , But in five hundred seventy years ago by William Duke of Normandy , yet Kent held out most valiantly And met that Duke so gallantly their foe . Brave England then be not dismay'd , the Lord above will send you aid If hand in hand you all together join . 'tis not the Turk nor Spaniards pride not Butter box which Traitors guide Shall ever daunt this valiant heart of mine . THe Duke of York himself is pleas'd Chief Admiral upon the Seas To venture life and limb for Englands right , therefore our Valiant Seamen bold does now while life and limb does hold They will engage the Hollanders to fight . there is not a Subject in this Land but willing is with helping hand To venture still for Englands Liberty . therefore prepare you Hollander which now is bent to civil War We do intend to make you fight or fly . in Fifty two , full well you know England gave you and overthrow How dare you now for to Resist again ? your Service then was not so hight , as now shall be our Cannon shot we will make you yield or sink into the Main a Gallant Fleet we have at Sea well arm'd , and bravely man'd they be And men of Courage , Valiant , bold and stout fear not in England but we shall give all our enemies the fallen Ere long , of it you need not make a doubt . and now you Valiant Seamen all cheer up I hear the Bowson call See where the Fleet of Enemies do lie . let Drums now beatrice , and Trumpets found and Canoniers turn your Guns round Brave English hearts will scorn a foot to fly . See where our Tiger Rides amain , the Dolphin and the Pelican , The Charls , the James , the Lion , and the Boar , with many a Gallant ship beside , hoping to cool the Dutch-mans pride See how they fly along the Holland shore . See Valiant hearts , we are for battle hark how the thundering Guns do rattle . The Lord above , I hope is on our side stand to it now brave hearts so stout see how the Dutch-men wheels about They cannot long this Service hight abide . me thinks I see a topsail fall before our Noble General Some loss is sure within the Enemy . I hope ere long we all shall see brave England get the Victory , That we may live in Peace and Unity . two Dutch ships sunk as we hear say and two is carried quite away The rest no longer would abide our shot our Guns so rattles in their ear I hope ere long we all shall hear They will repent that they begun the plot . FINIS . J.R. So the Lord preserve little England , Convert Oh God , her Foes That we may live in quietness , our Enemies Plots disclose . London , Printed for S. Tyus on London-bridge With Allowance . E : 366 The Valiant hearted Seaman ; Declaring a late Skirmish fought between our English Fleet and the Dutch . Wherein the Dutch was worsted , two of the Dutch ships sunk , and two taken as lawful Prize , with a very small loss on our English side . The tune is , Lusty Stukely . BRave Gallants now of England Cheer up your hearts , and firmly stand Against all people which oppose our King Let us fight with hearts lusty and stout , To keep all Foreign Nations out , Let Valour still the fame of England ring . The Hollander as I am told adventure new to be so bold As to oppose our Gracious King to fight . For truth it is I understand They have some English in their Land That right or wrong would do England a spite In Histories we all may read brave England never was conquered , But in five hundred seventy years ago by William Duke of Normandy , yet Kent held out most valiantly And met that Duke so gallantly their foe . Brave England then be not dismay'd , the Lord above will send you aid If hand in hand you all together join . 'tis not the Turk nor Spaniards pride not Butter box which Traitors guide Shall ever daunt this valiant heart of mine . THe Duke of York himself is pleas'd Chief Admiral upon the Seas To venture life and limb for Englands right , therefore our Valiant Seamen bold does now while life and limb does hold They will engage the Hollanders to fight . there is not a Subject in this Land but willing is with helping hand To venture still for Englands Liberty . therefore prepare you Hollander which now is bent to civil War We do intend to make you fight or fly . in Fifty two , full well you know England gave you and overthrow How dare you now for to Resist again ? your Service then was not so hight , as now shall be our Cannon shot we will make you yield or sink into the Main a Gallant Fleet we have at Sea well arm'd , and bravely man'd they be And men of Courage , Valiant , bold and stout fear not in England but we shall give all our enemies the fallen Ere long , of it you need not make a doubt . and now you Valiant Seamen all cheer up I hear the Bowson call See where the Fleet of Enemies do lie . let Drums now beatrice , and Trumpets found and Canoniers turn your Guns round Brave English hearts will scorn a foot to fly . See where our Tiger Rides amain , the Dolphin and the Pelican , The Charls , the James , the Lion , and the Boar , with many a Gallant ship beside , hoping to cool the Dutch-mans pride See how they fly along the Holland shore . See Valiant hearts , we are for battle hark how the thundering Guns do rattle . The Lord above , I hope is on our side stand to it now brave hearts so stout see how the Dutch-men wheels about They cannot long this Service hight abide . me thinks I see a topsail fall before our Noble General Some loss is sure within the Enemy . I hope ere long we all shall see brave England get the Victory , That we may live in Peace and Unity . two Dutch ships sunk as we hear say and two is carried quite away The rest no longer would abide our shot our Guns so rattles in their ear I hope ere long we all shall hear They will repent that they begun the plot . FINIS . J.R. So the Lord preserve little England , Convert Oh God , her Foes That we may live in quietness , our Enemies Plots disclose . London , Printed for S. Tyus on London-bridge With Allowance . 