E : 362 THE Two Faithful Lovers . To the Tune of , Franklin is fled away , etc Man. ) FArewell my heart's delight , Ladies adieu , I must now take my flight , what e'er ensue ; My Countrymen I see , They cannot yet agree ; Since 'twill no better be , England farewell . Maid . ) O be not so unkind , heart , love and joy , To leave me here behind , breeds my annoy : Oh have a patient heart , I'll help to bear the smart , E'er I from thee will part , my turtle dove . M ) I'll leave thee gold good store , thee to maintain ; What can'st thou wish for more ? do not complain : Servants shall wait on thee , I'll give thee jewels three , That thou mayest think on me when I am gone . M. ) Your gold I count but dross , when you are fled , Your absence is my loss , 'twill strike me dead ; Servants I will have none , When you are from me gone , I'd rather lie alone , from company . M. ) I am resolv'd to go , fortune to prove ; Advice me what to do , my dearest love : For here I will not 'bide , What e'er does me betide ; Heavens now be my guide , and led the way . M. ) Then let me go with you , heart , love and joy ; I will attend on you , and be your boy : If you will go to sea , I'll serve you night and day , For here I will not stay , if you go hence . M. ) The seas are dangerous , strangers unkind , The rocks are perilous , so is the wind : My care is all for thee , As thou mayest plainly see . Dear heart go not with me , but stay behind . M. ) Tho' seas do threaten death , my heart's delight , With thee I'll spend my breath , nought shall affrigh With thee I'll live and die , In thy sweet company , Though dangers shall be nigh , both day and night . In man's apparel now to sea she went , Because with him she'd be , her heart's content ; She cut her lovely hair , And no mistrust there were , That she a maiden fair was at that time . To Venice they were bound with full consent , With sorrows compassed round away they wen On and unhappy day The ship was cast away , Which wrought their lives decay , friends discontent . The ship being cast away , forfune so frown'd , He swam to land that day , but she was drown'd : Oh! his true love was drown'd , And never after found , And he encompassed round with grief and care . O cruel seas ( quoth he ) and rocks unkind , To part my dear and me , in love combin'd : Oh cast her on this shore , I may her death implore , And mourn for evermore until I die . You loyal lovers all that hear this ditty , Sighs and lament my fallen , let's move you to pity : She lies now in the deep , In everlasting sleep , And left me here to weep in great distress . Dear love , I come , quoth he , heaven's me quidem , I long to be with thee my only bride : In Venice he did die , And there his corpse does lie , And left his friends to cry , Oh Hone , Oh Hone . London : Printed by and for W.O. for A.M. and are to be sold by the Bookseller [ s ] E : 362 THE Two Faithful Lovers . To the Tune of , Franklin is fled away , etc Man. ) FArewell my heart's delight , Ladies adieu , I must now take my flight , what e'er ensue ; My Countrymen I see , They cannot yet agree ; Since 'twill no better be , England farewell . Maid . ) O be not so unkind , heart , love and joy , To leave me here behind , breeds my annoy : Oh have a patient heart , I'll help to bear the smart , E'er I from thee will part , my turtle dove . M ) I'll leave thee gold good store , thee to maintain ; What can'st thou wish for more ? do not complain : Servants shall wait on thee , I'll give thee jewels three , That thou mayest think on me when I am gone . M. ) Your gold I count but dross , when you are fled , Your absence is my loss , 'twill strike me dead ; Servants I will have none , When you are from me gone , I'd rather lie alone , from company . M. ) I am resolv'd to go , fortune to prove ; Advice me what to do , my dearest love : For here I will not 'bide , What e'er does me betide ; Heavens now be my guide , and led the way . M. ) Then let me go with you , heart , love and joy ; I will attend on you , and be your boy : If you will go to sea , I'll serve you night and day , For here I will not stay , if you go hence . M. ) The seas are dangerous , strangers unkind , The rocks are perilous , so is the wind : My care is all for thee , As thou mayest plainly see . Dear heart go not with me , but stay behind . M. ) Tho' seas do threaten death , my heart's delight , With thee I'll spend my breath , nought shall affrigh With thee I'll live and die , In thy sweet company , Though dangers shall be nigh , both day and night . In man's apparel now to sea she went , Because with him she'd be , her heart's content ; She cut her lovely hair , And no mistrust there were , That she a maiden fair was at that time . To Venice they were bound with full consent , With sorrows compassed round away they wen On and unhappy day The ship was cast away , Which wrought their lives decay , friends discontent . The ship being cast away , forfune so frown'd , He swam to land that day , but she was drown'd : Oh! his true love was drown'd , And never after found , And he encompassed round with grief and care . O cruel seas ( quoth he ) and rocks unkind , To part my dear and me , in love combin'd : Oh cast her on this shore , I may her death implore , And mourn for evermore until I die . You loyal lovers all that hear this ditty , Sighs and lament my fallen , let's move you to pity : She lies now in the deep , In everlasting sleep , And left me here to weep in great distress . Dear love , I come , quoth he , heaven's me quidem , I long to be with thee my only bride : In Venice he did die , And there his corpse does lie , And left his friends to cry , Oh Hone , Oh Hone . London : Printed by and for W.O. for A.M. and are to be sold by the Bookseller [ s ] 