E : 367 The valiant Commander , with his resolute LADY . Showing , A brief discourse of a Commander bold , Who had a wife was worth her weight in gold . She bravely Fought to save her Husbands life , Let all men judge , was not this a valiant [ w ] ife . To a new Northern tune , called , I would give ten thousand pounds she were in Shrewsbury . Or , Ned Smith . GAllants come list a while a story I shall tell , Of a Commander bold , and what to him befell , He was besieged round , in Chester City fair . His Lady being with him , which fil'd his heart with care , This unto her he said dearest come thou to me , I would give ten thousand pound thou wertenberg in Shrewsbury . O my own hearts delight , my joy and Turtle Dove , More dear then mine own life , heavens know I do thee love , Those beauteous looks of thine , my senses set on fire , Yea though I love thee well , thy absence I desire . Dearest come thou to me , etc Thy fair read coloured cheeks , and thy bright shining eye , Makes me always inflam'd with thy sweet company . Thy breath smells far more sweet , then does sweet frankincense . And yet for all those fumes , I wish thee farther hence . This makes me sing and say , etc Look how my Uncle stands I dare not come him near , Because I love the King and am a Cavalear , Yet for my Lady and her son , my heart does bleed for thee , I would give ten thousand pound they were in Shrewsbury . They were in Shrewsbury , some comfort for to find , among the Cavaliers to ease a troubled mind . My heart bleeds in my breast , for my fair Ladies sake , And how to save her life , I know no course to take Hark how the drums do beatrice and warlike Trumpets found , See how the Musqueteers have now begirt us round . They Souldies they cry out , kill , kill , no quarter give , What hope's then can I have ; that my true love should live . WHen he thus spoken had his Lady he forsook , And with a manly heart his sword in hand he took , Farewell my Lady dear , now will I bandy blows , And fight myself to death . among my desperate foes , Dearest farewell from me , dearest farewell from me , I would give ten thousand pound , thou wertenberg in Shrewsbury . His Lady seeing then , the danger they were in , She like a Soldier bold , nobly then did begin My trusty love quoth she since thou so valiant art What ere becomes of me , stoutly I'll take thy part . Dearest cast care care away , let kisses comfort thee , Thou and I'll never depart , I'll live and die with thee . Put me on men attire , give me a soldiers Coat , I'll make King Charls his foes quickly to change their note . Cock your match prime your pan , let piercing bullets fly . I do not care a Pin whither I live or die . Dearest cast care away , let kisses comfort thee , Thou and I'll ne'r depart , I'll live and die with thee . She took a Musquet then , and a sword by her side , In disguise like a man , her valour so she tried . And with her Truelove she march forth courageously , And made away with speed quite brought the Enemy . Dearest cast care away , let kisses comfort thee , Thou and I'll ne'r depart , I'll live and die with thee . Their Soldiers brave and bold , behav'd themselves so well , That all the Northern parts of their deserts can tell Thus have you herd the news of a most valiant wight , And of his Lady brave , how stoutly they did fight . Deatest cast care away , let kisses comfort thee , Thou and I'll ne'r depart , I'll live and die with thee . E : 367 The valiant Commander , with his resolute LADY . Showing , A brief discourse of a Commander bold , Who had a wife was worth her weight in gold . She bravely Fought to save her Husbands life , Let all men judge , was not this a valiant [ w ] ife . To a new Northern tune , called , I would give ten thousand pounds she were in Shrewsbury . Or , Ned Smith . GAllants come list a while a story I shall tell , Of a Commander bold , and what to him befell , He was besieged round , in Chester City fair . His Lady being with him , which fil'd his heart with care , This unto her he said dearest come thou to me , I would give ten thousand pound thou wertenberg in Shrewsbury . O my own hearts delight , my joy and Turtle Dove , More dear then mine own life , heavens know I do thee love , Those beauteous looks of thine , my senses set on fire , Yea though I love thee well , thy absence I desire . Dearest come thou to me , etc Thy fair read coloured cheeks , and thy bright shining eye , Makes me always inflam'd with thy sweet company . Thy breath smells far more sweet , then does sweet frankincense . And yet for all those fumes , I wish thee farther hence . This makes me sing and say , etc Look how my Uncle stands I dare not come him near , Because I love the King and am a Cavalear , Yet for my Lady and her son , my heart does bleed for thee , I would give ten thousand pound they were in Shrewsbury . They were in Shrewsbury , some comfort for to find , among the Cavaliers to ease a troubled mind . My heart bleeds in my breast , for my fair Ladies sake , And how to save her life , I know no course to take Hark how the drums do beatrice and warlike Trumpets found , See how the Musqueteers have now begirt us round . They Souldies they cry out , kill , kill , no quarter give , What hope's then can I have ; that my true love should live . WHen he thus spoken had his Lady he forsook , And with a manly heart his sword in hand he took , Farewell my Lady dear , now will I bandy blows , And fight myself to death . among my desperate foes , Dearest farewell from me , dearest farewell from me , I would give ten thousand pound , thou wertenberg in Shrewsbury . His Lady seeing then , the danger they were in , She like a Soldier bold , nobly then did begin My trusty love quoth she since thou so valiant art What ere becomes of me , stoutly I'll take thy part . Dearest cast care care away , let kisses comfort thee , Thou and I'll never depart , I'll live and die with thee . Put me on men attire , give me a soldiers Coat , I'll make King Charls his foes quickly to change their note . Cock your match prime your pan , let piercing bullets fly . I do not care a Pin whither I live or die . Dearest cast care away , let kisses comfort thee , Thou and I'll ne'r depart , I'll live and die with thee . She took a Musquet then , and a sword by her side , In disguise like a man , her valour so she tried . And with her Truelove she march forth courageously , And made away with speed quite brought the Enemy . Dearest cast care away , let kisses comfort thee , Thou and I'll ne'r depart , I'll live and die with thee . Their Soldiers brave and bold , behav'd themselves so well , That all the Northern parts of their deserts can tell Thus have you herd the news of a most valiant wight , And of his Lady brave , how stoutly they did fight . Deatest cast care away , let kisses comfort thee , Thou and I'll ne'r depart , I'll live and die with thee . 