E : 375 A WARNING For all such as desire to Sleep upon the GRASS : By the Example of Mary Dudson Maidservant to Mr. Phillips a Gardener , dwell - ling in Kent street , in the Borough of Southwark : Being a most strange , but true Relation how she was found in a Dead-sleep in the Garden , that no ordinary Noise could awake her ; As also how and Adder entered into her body , the manner of her long Sickness , with a brief Discovery of the Cause at length by her strange and most miraca - lous Vomiting up of about fourteen young Adders , and one old Adder , on August 14. 1664 about fourteen Inches in length , the Maid is yet living . The like to this hath not been known in this Age . The Tune is , In Summer Time . GOod Lord , what Age we do live in , how many Wonders does befall ? Yet we repent not of our since , nor unto God for mercy call . How often to us hath be sent , even by the Preachers of his Word , Entreating us for to repent , and turn unto the living Lord ? How hard are we for to believe Gods Word within the Bible pen'd ? How oft do we our Maker grieve , which soul and body does defend ? Lord teach us to shake off our sins , and also to repent with speed : Good God defend us from those Fiends , that would our woe and sorrow breed . The Serpent first did Eve beguile , causing her God to disobey , So heaps of since on us does pile , but Christ hath washed our Sins away . And ever since old Adams fallen , he still hath sought us to destroy ; And for to bring our Souls in thrall , to deprive us of Heavenly Joy . As in these lines I will relate a Story strange , but yet most true , Of a Maidens sad unhappy fate , presented here to public view . A Warning fair to those that sleep upon the ground , or in the grass , Lest Serpents into them do creep , as to this Maid it came to pass . This Marry Dudson wrought by' th' week , and to the Market loads did bear ; For she was pliant , mild , and meek , to gain a Living any where . Her work was in the Garden still , for there she spent the pleasant day , For in such work she had most skill , and for the same received pay . But when the pleasant Sun shone hight , she would lie down o'th ground to sleep , Not dreading of any harm , God wot , but some Refreshment for to reap . About the end of July last , she sleeping in the Garden lay , In a dead Sleep she lay so fast , she eas'ly would not wake , they say . MUch fleam about her mouth did lie , in a most sad and dismal sort , Which did amaze those that stood by , as for a truth they do report ; She was so fast asleep they could by no means wake her suddenly , After awaked , then behold she was soar sick and like to die . Thus she continued many a day , in torments strange both day and night , For she could have ease no way , neither in ought could take deligh The women they did marvel much a Maiden should be in such case : At length the truth appeared such , a greater Wonder came in place . Her torments they grew very strong , her body was exceeding weak : It seemed unto her great wrong to fit , to lie , to walk , or speak . Her thirst it was exceeding strange , she did drink so abundantly , Her body all coal black did change , which seem'd a wondrous Prodigy . But God that brings all truths to light , where means was wanting , did supply , Before the neighbouring peoples sighed , that all might praise his Majesty . At times as I do understand , fourteen young Adders from her came By Vomit , and the Lords command , no other wight could do the same . These came from her all alive , and that in several peoples view : To get away they all did strive , but into the fire they them threw . The fourteenth day of August last , the old Adder by Vomit came Quite through her throat , and out was cast , the standers by admir'd the same . This hideous sighed put them to flight , they judg'd her fourteen Inches long : Her body thick , and colours bright , with seeming legs exceeding strong . She hist , and back strove to return into her mouth with eager speed , Being withstood , away she run , for they had destroyed all her breed . Some Doctors hearing of the same , some Potions sent her presently , To mitigate that poisoned flame , which eas'd their Patient by and by . Still she remains both sick and weak , and Object of true Charity : 'Twould make a stony heart to break , considering of her misery . Thus have you [ would ] worser this Story true , which hun [ ? ] testify : God knows [ what to us ] may ensue , for who knows [ when ] that he shall die ? Thus to conclude and make and end , of what to you I here do tell , To Heaven I you all commend , and so I bid you all farewell . Those that desire to be satisfied of the Truth more at large , may repair to this woeful Wight , a spectacle of Gods mercy , and and Object of true Charity , being a constant Laborer in her health : It is hard to say whither she will live or die . She lies over against the sign of the Ship in Kent-street in the Borough of Southwark . This Relation the Author had from her own mouth . London , Printed for Charls Tyus on London-bridge . 1664. E : 375 A WARNING For all such as desire to Sleep upon the GRASS : By the Example of Mary Dudson Maidservant to Mr. Phillips a Gardener , dwell - ling in Kent street , in the Borough of Southwark : Being a most strange , but true Relation how she was found in a Dead-sleep in the Garden , that no ordinary Noise could awake her ; As also how and Adder entered into her body , the manner of her long Sickness , with a brief Discovery of the Cause at length by her strange and most miraca - lous Vomiting up of about fourteen young Adders , and one old Adder , on August 14. 1664 about fourteen Inches in length , the Maid is yet living . The like to this hath not been known in this Age . The Tune is , In Summer Time . GOod Lord , what Age we do live in , how many Wonders does befall ? Yet we repent not of our since , nor unto God for mercy call . How often to us hath be sent , even by the Preachers of his Word , Entreating us for to repent , and turn unto the living Lord ? How hard are we for to believe Gods Word within the Bible pen'd ? How oft do we our Maker grieve , which soul and body does defend ? Lord teach us to shake off our sins , and also to repent with speed : Good God defend us from those Fiends , that would our woe and sorrow breed . The Serpent first did Eve beguile , causing her God to disobey , So heaps of since on us does pile , but Christ hath washed our Sins away . And ever since old Adams fallen , he still hath sought us to destroy ; And for to bring our Souls in thrall , to deprive us of Heavenly Joy . As in these lines I will relate a Story strange , but yet most true , Of a Maidens sad unhappy fate , presented here to public view . A Warning fair to those that sleep upon the ground , or in the grass , Lest Serpents into them do creep , as to this Maid it came to pass . This Marry Dudson wrought by' th' week , and to the Market loads did bear ; For she was pliant , mild , and meek , to gain a Living any where . Her work was in the Garden still , for there she spent the pleasant day , For in such work she had most skill , and for the same received pay . But when the pleasant Sun shone hight , she would lie down o'th ground to sleep , Not dreading of any harm , God wot , but some Refreshment for to reap . About the end of July last , she sleeping in the Garden lay , In a dead Sleep she lay so fast , she eas'ly would not wake , they say . MUch fleam about her mouth did lie , in a most sad and dismal sort , Which did amaze those that stood by , as for a truth they do report ; She was so fast asleep they could by no means wake her suddenly , After awaked , then behold she was soar sick and like to die . Thus she continued many a day , in torments strange both day and night , For she could have ease no way , neither in ought could take deligh The women they did marvel much a Maiden should be in such case : At length the truth appeared such , a greater Wonder came in place . Her torments they grew very strong , her body was exceeding weak : It seemed unto her great wrong to fit , to lie , to walk , or speak . Her thirst it was exceeding strange , she did drink so abundantly , Her body all coal black did change , which seem'd a wondrous Prodigy . But God that brings all truths to light , where means was wanting , did supply , Before the neighbouring peoples sighed , that all might praise his Majesty . At times as I do understand , fourteen young Adders from her came By Vomit , and the Lords command , no other wight could do the same . These came from her all alive , and that in several peoples view : To get away they all did strive , but into the fire they them threw . The fourteenth day of August last , the old Adder by Vomit came Quite through her throat , and out was cast , the standers by admir'd the same . This hideous sighed put them to flight , they judg'd her fourteen Inches long : Her body thick , and colours bright , with seeming legs exceeding strong . She hist , and back strove to return into her mouth with eager speed , Being withstood , away she run , for they had destroyed all her breed . Some Doctors hearing of the same , some Potions sent her presently , To mitigate that poisoned flame , which eas'd their Patient by and by . Still she remains both sick and weak , and Object of true Charity : 'Twould make a stony heart to break , considering of her misery . Thus have you [ would ] worser this Story true , which hun [ ? ] testify : God knows [ what to us ] may ensue , for who knows [ when ] that he shall die ? Thus to conclude and make and end , of what to you I here do tell , To Heaven I you all commend , and so I bid you all farewell . Those that desire to be satisfied of the Truth more at large , may repair to this woeful Wight , a spectacle of Gods mercy , and and Object of true Charity , being a constant Laborer in her health : It is hard to say whither she will live or die . She lies over against the sign of the Ship in Kent-street in the Borough of Southwark . This Relation the Author had from her own mouth . London , Printed for Charls Tyus on London-bridge . 1664. E : 375 A WARNING For all such as desire to Sleep upon the GRASS : By the Example of Mary Dudson Maidservant to Mr. Phillips a Gardener , dwell - ling in Kent street , in the Borough of Southwark : Being a most strange , but true Relation how she was found in a Dead-sleep in the Garden , that no ordinary Noise could awake her ; As also how and Adder entered into her body , the manner of her long Sickness , with a brief Discovery of the Cause at length by her strange and most miraca - lous Vomiting up of about fourteen young Adders , and one old Adder , on August 14. 1664 about fourteen Inches in length , the Maid is yet living . The like to this hath not been known in this Age . The Tune is , In Summer Time . GOod Lord , what Age we do live in , how many Wonders does befall ? Yet we repent not of our since , nor unto God for mercy call . How often to us hath be sent , even by the Preachers of his Word , Entreating us for to repent , and turn unto the living Lord ? How hard are we for to believe Gods Word within the Bible pen'd ? How oft do we our Maker grieve , which soul and body does defend ? Lord teach us to shake off our sins , and also to repent with speed : Good God defend us from those Fiends , that would our woe and sorrow breed . The Serpent first did Eve beguile , causing her God to disobey , So heaps of since on us does pile , but Christ hath washed our Sins away . And ever since old Adams fallen , he still hath sought us to destroy ; And for to bring our Souls in thrall , to deprive us of Heavenly Joy . As in these lines I will relate a Story strange , but yet most true , Of a Maidens sad unhappy fate , presented here to public view . A Warning fair to those that sleep upon the ground , or in the grass , Lest Serpents into them do creep , as to this Maid it came to pass . This Marry Dudson wrought by' th' week , and to the Market loads did bear ; For she was pliant , mild , and meek , to gain a Living any where . Her work was in the Garden still , for there she spent the pleasant day , For in such work she had most skill , and for the same received pay . But when the pleasant Sun shone hight , she would lie down o'th ground to sleep , Not dreading of any harm , God wot , but some Refreshment for to reap . About the end of July last , she sleeping in the Garden lay , In a dead Sleep she lay so fast , she eas'ly would not wake , they say . MUch fleam about her mouth did lie , in a most sad and dismal sort , Which did amaze those that stood by , as for a truth they do report ; She was so fast asleep they could by no means wake her suddenly , After awaked , then behold she was soar sick and like to die . Thus she continued many a day , in torments strange both day and night , For she could have ease no way , neither in ought could take deligh The women they did marvel much a Maiden should be in such case : At length the truth appeared such , a greater Wonder came in place . Her torments they grew very strong , her body was exceeding weak : It seemed unto her great wrong to fit , to lie , to walk , or speak . Her thirst it was exceeding strange , she did drink so abundantly , Her body all coal black did change , which seem'd a wondrous Prodigy . But God that brings all truths to light , where means was wanting , did supply , Before the neighbouring peoples sighed , that all might praise his Majesty . At times as I do understand , fourteen young Adders from her came By Vomit , and the Lords command , no other wight could do the same . These came from her all alive , and that in several peoples view : To get away they all did strive , but into the fire they them threw . The fourteenth day of August last , the old Adder by Vomit came Quite through her throat , and out was cast , the standers by admir'd the same . This hideous sighed put them to flight , they judg'd her fourteen Inches long : Her body thick , and colours bright , with seeming legs exceeding strong . She hist , and back strove to return into her mouth with eager speed , Being withstood , away she run , for they had destroyed all her breed . Some Doctors hearing of the same , some Potions sent her presently , To mitigate that poisoned flame , which eas'd their Patient by and by . Still she remains both sick and weak , and Object of true Charity : 'Twould make a stony heart to break , considering of her misery . Thus have you [ would ] worser this Story true , which hun [ ? ] testify : God knows [ what to us ] may ensue , for who knows [ when ] that he shall die ? Thus to conclude and make and end , of what to you I here do tell , To Heaven I you all commend , and so I bid you all farewell . Those that desire to be satisfied of the Truth more at large , may repair to this woeful Wight , a Spectacle of Gods mercy , and and Object of true Charity , being a constant Laborer in her health : It is hard to say whither she will live or die . She lies over against the sign of the Ship in Kent-street in the Borough of Southwark . This Relation the Author had from her own mouth . London , Printed for Charls Tyus on London-bridge . 1664. E : 375 A WARNING For all such as desire to Sleep upon the GRASS : By the Example of Mary Dudson Maidservant to Mr. Phillips a Gardener , dwell - ling in Kent street , in the Borough of Southwark : Being a most strange , but true Relation how she was found in a Dead-sleep in the Garden , that no ordinary Noise could awake her ; As also how and Adder entered into her body , the manner of her long Sickness , with a brief Discovery of the Cause at length by her strange and most miraca - lous Vomiting up of about fourteen young Adders , and one old Adder , on August 14. 1664 about fourteen Inches in length , the Maid is yet living . The like to this hath not been known in this Age . The Tune is , In Summer Time . GOod Lord , what Age we do live in , how many Wonders does befall ? Yet we repent not of our since , nor unto God for mercy call . How often to us hath be sent , even by the Preachers of his Word , Entreating us for to repent , and turn unto the living Lord ? How hard are we for to believe Gods Word within the Bible pen'd ? How oft do we our Maker grieve , which soul and body does defend ? Lord teach us to shake off our sins , and also to repent with speed : Good God defend us from those Fiends , that would our woe and sorrow breed . The Serpent first did Eve beguile , causing her God to disobey , So heaps of since on us does pile , but Christ hath washed our Sins away . And ever since old Adams fallen , he still hath sought us to destroy ; And for to bring our Souls in thrall , to deprive us of Heavenly Joy . As in these lines I will relate a Story strange , but yet most true , Of a Maidens sad unhappy fate , presented here to public view . A Warning fair to those that sleep upon the ground , or in the grass , Lest Serpents into them do creep , as to this Maid it came to pass . This Marry Dudson wrought by' th' week , and to the Market loads did bear ; For she was pliant , mild , and meek , to gain a Living any where . Her work was in the Garden still , for there she spent the pleasant day , For in such work she had most skill , and for the same received pay . But when the pleasant Sun shone hight , she would lie down o'th ground to sleep , Not dreading of any harm , God wot , but some Refreshment for to reap . About the end of July last , she sleeping in the Garden lay , In a dead Sleep she lay so fast , she eas'ly would not wake , they say . MUch fleam about her mouth did lie , in a most sad and dismal sort , Which did amaze those that stood by , as for a truth they do report ; She was so fast asleep they could by no means wake her suddenly , After awaked , then behold she was soar sick and like to die . Thus she continued many a day , in torments strange both day and night , For she could have ease no way , neither in ought could take deligh The women they did marvel much a Maiden should be in such case : At length the truth appeared such , a greater Wonder came in place . Her torments they grew very strong , her body was exceeding weak : It seemed unto her great wrong to fit , to lie , to walk , or speak . Her thirst it was exceeding strange , she did drink so abundantly , Her body all coal black did change , which seem'd a wondrous Prodigy . But God that brings all truths to light , where means was wanting , did supply , Before the neighbouring peoples sighed , that all might praise his Majesty . At times as I do understand , fourteen young Adders from her came By Vomit , and the Lords command , no other wight could do the same . These came from her all alive , and that in several peoples view : To get away they all did strive , but into the fire they them threw . The fourteenth day of August last , the old Adder by Vomit came Quite through her throat , and out was cast , the standers by admir'd the same . This hideous sighed put them to flight , they judg'd her fourteen Inches long : Her body thick , and colours bright , with seeming legs exceeding strong . She hist , and back strove to return into her mouth with eager speed , Being withstood , away she run , for they had destroyed all her breed . Some Doctors hearing of the same , some Potions sent her presently , To mitigate that poisoned flame , which eas'd their Patient by and by . Still she remains both sick and weak , and Object of true Charity : 'Twould make a stony heart to break , considering of her misery . Thus have you [ would ] worser this Story true , which hun [ ? ] testify : God knows [ what to us ] may ensue , for who knows [ when ] that he shall die ? Thus to conclude and make and end , of what to you I here do tell , To Heaven I you all commend , and so I bid you all farewell . Those that desire to be satisfied of the Truth more at large , may repair to this woeful Wight , a Spectacle of Gods mercy , and and Object of true Charity , being a constant Laborer in her health : It is hard to say whither she will live or die . She lies over against the sign of the Ship in Kent-street in the Borough of Southwark . This Relation the Author had from her own mouth . London , Printed for Charls Tyus on London-bridge . 1664. 