E : 373 The wandering Virgin : Or , The Coy Lass well Fitted . Virgins whose coyness & disdain does prove The fatal ruin of cemented Love , Learn , and beware , lest you like me cry out I'le find my Love , or search the world about To the Tune of , Cloris awake , or the loving Chambermaid . YOu Virgins so pretty hear what I relate , My case you may pity , take heed of my fate : How I was forsaken you'l hear it throughout , But I'le travel the world o're to find my Love out . Since I was the cause that he first did disdain , My overmuch coyness does make him refrain : But now I must blush that it so comes about , I would give all the world I could find my Love out Then straight my green gown into breeches i'le make , And my long yellow Locks much shorter i'le take : I'le wander , i'le wander , i'le wander about , And i'le search all the world for to find my Love out . I'le get me a switch and a sword by my side , A Horse , Boots and Spurs , and i'le get up and ride : I'le wander , isle wander , i'le wander about , I'll search all the world for to find my Love out . The Second Part , to the same Tune . My Love was a seemly and proper young youth , Though he did dissemble I took all for truth , So crafty in courtship I never did doubt But idem give all the world I could search my Love out . His forehead was smooth and his locks they were curled And him I ador'd above all in the world : His tongue went so smoothly in Courtship profound That I must have my Love though I search the world round . His Musical voice it did make me admire His [ counterfeit ] urtship and carriage did set me on fire : I lov'd him so dearly which makes me cry out I l find him , or wander the world all about . What fancy hath took him I much do admire That he should reject the Love he did require : And since he is gone I will wander about And isle search all the world but isle find my Love out . My breath it grows short and my face pale and wan Which makes me admire the power of the man : My heart it does tremble , which makes me to doubt I shall want of my wits if I find him not out . Since Love I adore thee , why shouldst thou disdain The suit of thy Lover , that's subject to pain ? Be kinder unto me , and ease all my doubt , For I'le search all the World , but I'le find my Love out . I'le travel the Deserts , where fancy me leads , Through Groves , Fields , & Forests through Fountains , & Medes , To find out my Dearest i'le gallop about , And I'le range the wide world , for to find my Love out . I'le search over England , to see if't contain ; If not , i'le turn Sailor , and search on the Main , The Ocean , so boundless , i'le travel about , I'le range the wide world , but i'le find my Love out . My Maidenhead-Jewell it still is my own ; But if he had ask'd me , be sure it had gone : Then Maids have a care , lest like me you cry out , I'le find him , or wander the world all about . Printed for P. Brooksby at Golden Ball in West Smithfeld . E : 373 The wandering Virgin : Or , The Coy Lass well Fitted . Virgins whose coyness & disdain does prove The fatal ruin of cemented Love , Learn , and beware , lest you like me cry out I'le find my Love , or search the world about To the Tune of , Cloris awake , or the loving Chambermaid . YOu Virgins so pretty hear what I relate , My case you may pity , take heed of my fate : How I was forsaken you'l hear it throughout , But I'le travel the world o're to find my Love out . Since I was the cause that he first did disdain , My overmuch coyness does make him refrain : But now I must blush that it so comes about , I would give all the world I could find my Love out Then straight my green gown into breeches i'le make , And my long yellow Locks much shorter i'le take : I'le wander , i'le wander , i'le wander about , And i'le search all the world for to find my Love out . I'le get me a switch and a sword by my side , A Horse , Boots and Spurs , and i'le get up and ride : I'le wander , isle wander , i'le wander about , I'll search all the world for to find my Love out . The Second Part , to the same Tune . My Love was a seemly and proper young youth , Though he did dissemble I took all for truth , So crafty in courtship I never did doubt But idem give all the world I could search my Love out . His forehead was smooth and his locks they were curled And him I ador'd above all in the world : His tongue went so smoothly in Courtship profound That I must have my Love though I search the world round . His Musical voice it did make me admire His [ counterfeit ] urtship and carriage did set me on fire : I lov'd him so dearly which makes me cry out I l find him , or wander the world all about . What fancy hath took him I much do admire That he should reject the Love he did require : And since he is gone I will wander about And isle search all the world but isle find my Love out . My breath it grows short and my face pale and wan Which makes me admire the power of the man : My heart it does tremble , which makes me to doubt I shall want of my wits if I find him not out . Since Love I adore thee , why shouldst thou disdain The suit of thy Lover , that's subject to pain ? Be kinder unto me , and ease all my doubt , For I'le search all the World , but I'le find my Love out . I'le travel the Deserts , where fancy me leads , Through Groves , Fields , & Forests through Fountains , & Medes , To find out my Dearest i'le gallop about , And I'le range the wide world , for to find my Love out . I'le search over England , to see if't contain ; If not , i'le turn Sailor , and search on the Main , The Ocean , so boundless , i'le travel about , I'le range the wide world , but i'le find my Love out . My Maidenhead-Jewell it still is my own ; But if he had ask'd me , be sure it had gone : Then Maids have a care , lest like me you cry out , I'le find him , or wander the world all about . Printed for P. Brooksby at Golden Ball in West Smithfeld . 