E : 370 The Virgins ABC OR , And Alphabet of Virtuous Admonitions , for a Chaste , Modest and well governed Maid . The Tune is , The young men A.B.C. ALL you faithful Virgins to this song give ear , And learn these Lessons which are taught you here : And Alphabet of virtues here are set , Being learn'd will make a Maid complete . BEar not a scornful mind , although you are , Beauteous as Hellen , or like Venus fair ; It ill becomes a forehead smooth and white , To threaten anger in a Lovers sighed . Choose thou a modest carriage , and still be Courteous , and not too coy , in company : Their nature's changing , and too much unkind , Who hath a comely face and a scornful mind . DIsdainful never seem , nor yet too much , Dote on your faces beauty , slighting such As sue for Love , lest creeping age come on , And then too late , your folly you bemoan . EXchange no love , but always constant be , Esteem true Love a perfect treasury : For where true Love and beauty does unite , It yields both parties both their hearts delight . FEign no affection , but where vows are past , Fix there your heart , there let your love be plac'd . For if by feigned wiles loves knot be ty'd , It breeds dissension 'twixt the groom and bride . GRow not too proud , though smiling fortune do , Great store of wealth , and her best gifts bestow . For pride , the Proverb says , must have a fallen , And so must Maidens , Widows , Wives , and all . HAst not too much for marriage , nor the thing , Which does not pleasure , but does sorrow bring ; For hasty Lovers often do destroy , Their sweets of love e're they their hope's enjoy . IF you do choose a man whom you affect , Injure him not with any disrespect ; But wary be , and e're loves knot you tie , Prove first your own , and then his constancy . KNowledge is gained by experience , and by this Thou mayest arrive unto the height of bliss ; First try , then trust , when that you have prov'd , You may both love , and be as well belov'd . LOok e're you leap the Proverb still does say , Let not smooth tongues your love to lust betray : In fairest grass a snake is often found , And smoothest tongues with falsehood much abound . MOan not too much , nor be thou always sad , Mirth sometime may become a virtuous Maid : Yet use not too much laughter , lest you be Slighted and scorn'd for your immodesty . NOr use uncivil talk , or gesture light , Nor in unseemly wantonness deligh But keep chaste behaviour that you may Have good report in every kind of way . OFend not with a foul and slanderous tongue , Of them that do not think thee any wrong : But speak thou well of all , and always do With others , as you would have them to do with you . PAint not your beauty , when it is deceas'd , Prize not that for a jewel that will fade : And when you've done , the best will fade away , And through read cheeks a wrinkled brow display . QUench in thy self a [ l ] l lustest inflaming fires , Which may provoke thee to unchaste desires ; For though a while such pleasures please thy mind , Yet sorrow , want , and beggary comes behind . REmember next how like a fading flower , The earth's base treasures vanish in and hour , And now the best of things you can enjoy , The Sith of time shall cut , and death destroy . SEek therefore richer gifts then he can give So shalt thou in a state securely live : For though frail beauty deck thy outward part , Yet inward virtue best adorns thy heart . TRy that rich Jem , which when thou hast attain'd , Thou hast a virtuous Maids chief beauty gain'd ; And if fair virtue do thy courses steer Like Joves fair daughter thou shalt bright appear . VAin beauty's but a trifle , that a while , Dame Nature lends thee , with a flattering smile ; Which Lovers gaze at , and with greedy hands , Each one to crop , blossoms as it stands . While in his fullest ripeness it is grown , When 'tis decay'd their lovers are with it gone . Let then this be thy care and chiefest strife , To live a virtuous maid , and honest Wife . XAntippe like the Wife of Socrates , Affect thou not thy husband to displease , Nor with a railing Tongue pursue his will , And in humility obey him still . Yield not to others , when you once are wed , The pleasures of your lawful husbands bed ; For if you guilty be of such a fact , Thou shalt not escape unpunished for that . ZEalous be thou in all these Virtues , prove Both constant , chaste , and loyal to your love . And if these Lessons well you learn , for thee , 'Tis truly stil'd the Virgins A B C. Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . E : 370 The Virgins ABC OR , And Alphabet of Virtuous Admonitions , for a Chaste , Modest and well governed Maid . The Tune is , The young men A.B.C. ALL you faithful Virgins to this song give ear , And learn these Lessons which are taught you here : And Alphabet of virtues here are set , Being learn'd will make a Maid complete . BEar not a scornful mind , although you are , Beauteous as Hellen , or like Venus fair ; It ill becomes a forehead smooth and white , To threaten anger in a Lovers sighed . Choose thou a modest carriage , and still be Courteous , and not too coy , in company : Their nature's changing , and too much unkind , Who hath a comely face and a scornful mind . DIsdainful never seem , nor yet too much , Dote on your faces beauty , slighting such As sue for Love , lest creeping age come on , And then too late , your folly you bemoan . EXchange no love , but always constant be , Esteem true Love a perfect treasury : For where true Love and beauty does unite , It yields both parties both their hearts delight . FEign no affection , but where vows are past , Fix there your heart , there let your love be plac'd . For if by feigned wiles loves knot be ty'd , It breeds dissension 'twixt the groom and bride . GRow not too proud , though smiling fortune do , Great store of wealth , and her best gifts bestow . For pride , the Proverb says , must have a fallen , And so must Maidens , Widows , Wives , and all . HAst not too much for marriage , nor the thing , Which does not pleasure , but does sorrow bring ; For hasty Lovers often do destroy , Their sweets of love e're they their hope's enjoy . IF you do choose a man whom you affect , Injure him not with any disrespect ; But wary be , and e're loves knot you tie , Prove first your own , and then his constancy . KNowledge is gained by experience , and by this Thou mayest arrive unto the height of bliss ; First try , then trust , when that you have prov'd , You may both love , and be as well belov'd . LOok e're you leap the Proverb still does say , Let not smooth tongues your love to lust betray : In fairest grass a snake is often found , And smoothest tongues with falsehood much abound . MOan not too much , nor be thou always sad , Mirth sometime may become a virtuous Maid : Yet use not too much laughter , lest you be Slighted and scorn'd for your immodesty . NOr use uncivil talk , or gesture light , Nor in unseemly wantonness deligh But keep chaste behaviour that you may Have good report in every kind of way . OFend not with a foul and slanderous tongue , Of them that do not think thee any wrong : But speak thou well of all , and always do With others , as you would have them to do with you . PAint not your beauty , when it is deceas'd , Prize not that for a jewel that will fade : And when you've done , the best will fade away , And through read cheeks a wrinkled brow display . QUench in thy self a [ l ] l lustest inflaming fires , Which may provoke thee to unchaste desires ; For though a while such pleasures please thy mind , Yet sorrow , want , and beggary comes behind . REmember next how like a fading flower , The earth's base treasures vanish in and hour , And now the best of things you can enjoy , The Sith of time shall cut , and death destroy . SEek therefore richer gifts then he can give So shalt thou in a state securely live : For though frail beauty deck thy outward part , Yet inward virtue best adorns thy heart . TRy that rich Jem , which when thou hast attain'd , Thou hast a virtuous Maids chief beauty gain'd ; And if fair virtue do thy courses steer Like Joves fair daughter thou shalt bright appear . VAin beauty's but a trifle , that a while , Dame Nature lends thee , with a flattering smile ; Which Lovers gaze at , and with greedy hands , Each one to crop , blossoms as it stands . While in his fullest ripeness it is grown , When 'tis decay'd their lovers are with it gone . Let then this be thy care and chiefest strife , To live a virtuous maid , and honest Wife . XAntippe like the Wife of Socrates , Affect thou not thy husband to displease , Nor with a railing Tongue pursue his will , And in humility obey him still . Yield not to others , when you once are wed , The pleasures of your lawful husbands bed ; For if you guilty be of such a fact , Thou shalt not escape unpunished for that . ZEalous be thou in all these Virtues , prove Both constant , chaste , and loyal to your love . And if these Lessons well you learn , for thee , 'Tis truly stil'd the Virgins A B C. Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 