E : 369 The Virgins A.B.C. OR , And Alhpabet of Virtuous Admonitions , for a Chaste , Modest , and well-governed Maid . The Tune is , The young-Mans A.B.C. ALL you faithful Virgins , to this song give ear , And learn these Lessons , which are taught you here : And Alphabet of Virtues , are here set , Being learn'd will make a Maid complete BEar not a scornful mind , although you are Beauteous as Hellen , or like Venus fair : It ill becomes a forehead smooth and white , To threaten anger in a Lovers sighed . Choose thou a modest carriage , and still be Courteous and not too coy , in company : Their nature's changing , and too much unkind , Who hath a comely face and scornful mind . DIsdainful never seem , nor yet too much Dote on your faces beauty , slighting such As sue for Love , least creeping age come on And then to late , your folly you bemoan . EXchange no love , but always constant be , Esteem true Love , a perfect treasury : For where true love and beauty does unite , It yields both parties both their hearts delight . FEign no affection , but where vows are past , Fix there your heart , there let your love be plac't For if by fegned wiles , loves knot be ty'd , It breeds dissension , 'twixt the Groom & Bride . GRow not too proud , though smiling fortune do Great store of wealth , and her best gifts bestow : For pride the Proverb says , must have a fallen , And so must Maidens , widows , wives , and all . HAst not too much for marriage , nor the thing , Which does not pleasure , but does sorrow bring : For hasty lovers often do destroy , Their sweets of Love , e're they their hope's enjoy . IF you do choose a man whom you affect , Injure him not , with any disrespec But wary be , and e're loves knot you tie , Prove first your own , and then his constancy . Knowledge is gained by experience , and by this , Thou may'st arrive unto the height of bliss ; First try , then trust , the which when you have prov'd You both may love and be as well belov'd . LOok e're you leap , the proverb still does say , Let not smooth tongues your love to Lust betray : In fairest Grass a Snake is often found , And smoothest tongues , with falsehood much abound MOan not too much , nor be thou always sad , Mirth sometime may become a virtuous Maid : Yet use not too much laughter , lest you be Slighted and scorn'd , for your immodesty . NOr use uncivil talk , or gesture light , Nor in unseemly wantonness deligh But keep chaste behaviour , that you may Have good report , in every kind of way . OFfend not with a foul and slanderous tongue , Of them that do not think thee any wrong ; But speak thou well of all , and always do With others as you would have them to do with you . PAint not your beauty when it is decay'd , Prize not that for , a jewel that will fade , And when you've done , the best will fade away , And through read Cheeks , a wrinkled brow display . QUench in thy self all lustest inflaming fires , Which may provoke thee to such unchaste desires : For though a while such pleasure please thy mind , Yet sorrow , want , and beggary comes behind . REmember next , how like a fading flower , The earth's best treasures vanish in and hour : And now the best of things you can enjoy , The Sith of time shall cut , and death destroy . SEek therefore richer gifts then he can give , So shalt thou in a stare most surely live : For though fair beauty , deck thy outward part , Yet inward virtue best adorns thy heart . TRy that rich jem , which when thou hast attain'd , Thou hast a virtuous Maids chief beauty gain'd : And if fair virtue do thy courses steer , Like Joves fair daughter , thou shalt bright appear . VAin beauty's but a trifle , that a while Dame nature lends thee , with a flattering smile : Which lovers gaze at , and with greedy hands , Each one would crop its blossoms as it stands . While in its fullest ripeness it is grown , When 'tis decy'd , their loves are with it gone Let then this he thy care , and chiefest strife , To live a virtuous Maid , and honest Wife - XAntippe like the wife of Socrates , Affect thou not thy husband to displease : Nor with a railing tongue , pursue his will , And in humility , obey him still . Yield not to others , when you once are wed , The pleasures of your lawful husbands bed : For if you you guilty be of such a fact , Thou shalt not escape , unpunished for that act . ZEalous be thou in all these virtues , prove Both constant , chaste , and loyal to your love : And if these Lessons well you learn , for thee , 'Tis truly stil'd The Virgins A , B , C. Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . E : 369 The Virgins A.B.C. OR , And Alhpabet of Virtuous Admonitions , for a Chaste , Modest , and well-governed Maid . The Tune is , The young-Mans A.B.C. ALL you faithful Virgins , to this song give ear , And learn these Lessons , which are taught you here : And Alphabet of Virtues , are here set , Being learn'd will make a Maid complete BEar not a scornful mind , although you are Beauteous as Hellen , or like Venus fair : It ill becomes a forehead smooth and white , To threaten anger in a Lovers sighed . Choose thou a modest carriage , and still be Courteous and not too coy , in company : Their nature's changing , and too much unkind , Who hath a comely face and scornful mind . DIsdainful never seem , nor yet too much Dote on your faces beauty , slighting such As sue for Love , least creeping age come on And then to late , your folly you bemoan . EXchange no love , but always constant be , Esteem true Love , a perfect treasury : For where true love and beauty does unite , It yields both parties both their hearts delight . FEign no affection , but where vows are past , Fix there your heart , there let your love be plac't For if by fegned wiles , loves knot be ty'd , It breeds dissension , 'twixt the Groom & Bride . GRow not too proud , though smiling fortune do Great store of wealth , and her best gifts bestow : For pride the Proverb says , must have a fallen , And so must Maidens , widows , wives , and all . HAst not too much for marriage , nor the thing , Which does not pleasure , but does sorrow bring : For hasty lovers often do destroy , Their sweets of Love , e're they their hope's enjoy . IF you do choose a man whom you affect , Injure him not , with any disrespec But wary be , and e're loves knot you tie , Prove first your own , and then his constancy . Knowledge is gained by experience , and by this , Thou may'st arrive unto the height of bliss ; First try , then trust , the which when you have prov'd You both may love and be as well belov'd . LOok e're you leap , the proverb still does say , Let not smooth tongues your love to Lust betray : In fairest Grass a Snake is often found , And smoothest tongues , with falsehood much abound MOan not too much , nor be thou always sad , Mirth sometime may become a virtuous Maid : Yet use not too much laughter , lest you be Slighted and scorn'd , for your immodesty . NOr use uncivil talk , or gesture light , Nor in unseemly wantonness deligh But keep chaste behaviour , that you may Have good report , in every kind of way . OFfend not with a foul and slanderous tongue , Of them that do not think thee any wrong ; But speak thou well of all , and always do With others as you would have them to do with you . PAint not your beauty when it is decay'd , Prize not that for , a jewel that will fade , And when you've done , the best will fade away , And through read Cheeks , a wrinkled brow display . QUench in thy self all lustest inflaming fires , Which may provoke thee to such unchaste desires : For though a while such pleasure please thy mind , Yet sorrow , want , and beggary comes behind . REmember next , how like a fading flower , The earth's best treasures vanish in and hour : And now the best of things you can enjoy , The Sith of time shall cut , and death destroy . SEek therefore richer gifts then he can give , So shalt thou in a stare most surely live : For though fair beauty , deck thy outward part , Yet inward virtue best adorns thy heart . TRy that rich jem , which when thou hast attain'd , Thou hast a virtuous Maids chief beauty gain'd : And if fair virtue do thy courses steer , Like Joves fair daughter , thou shalt bright appear . VAin beauty's but a trifle , that a while Dame nature lends thee , with a flattering smile : Which lovers gaze at , and with greedy hands , Each one would crop its blossoms as it stands . While in its fullest ripeness it is grown , When 'tis decy'd , their loves are with it gone Let then this he thy care , and chiefest strife , To live a virtuous Maid , and honest Wife - XAntippe like the wife of Socrates , Affect thou not thy husband to displease : Nor with a railing tongue , pursue his will , And in humility , obey him still . Yield not to others , when you once are wed , The pleasures of your lawful husbands bed : For if you you guilty be of such a fact , Thou shalt not escape , unpunished for that act . ZEalous be thou in all these virtues , prove Both constant , chaste , and loyal to your love : And if these Lessons well you learn , for thee , 'Tis truly stil'd The Virgins A , B , C. Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 