E : 325 The Seamans Compass OR A dainty new Ditty composed and pend The deeds of brave Seamen to praise and commend , 'Twas made by a Maid that to Gravesend did pass , Now mark , and you quickly shall hear how it was : To the Tune of , The Tyrant hath stolen . AS lately I traveled towards Gravesend , I herd a fair Damosel a Seaman commend And as in a Tilt-boat we passed along In praise of brave Seamen she sung this new Song Come Tradesman or Merchant , whoever he be There's none but a Seaman shall marry with me . A Seaman in promise is faithful and just Honest in carriage and true to his trust Kind in behaviour and constant in love As firm in affection as the Turtle-Dove , Valiant in actium in every degree There's none but a Seaman , etc The Seamen adventures their lives at the Seas While land men on shore takes pleasure and ease The Seamen at all times their business must ply In Winter and Summer in wet and in dry From toil and pains taking they seldom are free There's none but a Seaman , etc Moreover Ide have you for to understand That Seamen brings treasure and profit to land Above and beneath ground for wealth they have sought And when they have found it to England 'tis brought With hazard of lives by experience we see There's none but a Seaman , etc Seamen from beyond Seas bring silver and gold With Pearls and rich Jewels most rare to behold With Silks and rich Velvets their credits to save Or else you gay Ladies could not go so brave This makes my heart merry as merry may be There's none but a Seaman shall marry with me . The second Part to the same Tune . THe Seamen brings Spices and Sugar so fine Which serve the brave gallants to drink with their wine With Lemonds and Oranges all of the best To relish their palates when they make a feast Sweet Figs , Prunes & Raisons by them brought home be There's none but a Seaman shall marry with me . To comfort poor people , the Seamen do strive And brings in maintenance to keep them alive As raw silk and cotton wool to carded and to spin And so by their labours their livings comes in Most men are beholding to Seamen we see With none but a Seaman I married will be . The Mercer's beholding we know well enough For Holland , Lawn , Cambrick , and other gay stuff That's brought from beyond seas by Seamen so bold The rarest that ever men's eyes did behold God prosper the Seamen where ever they be There's none but a Seaman shall marry with me . The Merchant's themselves are beholding also To honest Seamen that on purpose do go To bring them home profit from other strange lands , Or else their fine daughters must work with their hands The Nobles and Gentry of every degree Are also beholding to Seamen we see . Thus for rich men & poor men , the Seamen does good And sometime comes off with loss of much blood If they were not a guard and defence for our land Our enemiee soon would get the upper hand And then in a woeful case strait we should be There's none but a Seaman shall marry with me . To draw to conclusion and so make and end I hope that great Neptune my love will befriend And send him home safely with health and with life Then shall I with joyfulness soon be his wife You maids , wives , and widows that Seamen's loves be With hearts and with voices Join Prayers with me . God bless all brave Sea men from quicksands and rocks From loss of their blood and from enemies knocks From lightning and thunder . and tempests so strong From ship wrack and drowning and all other wrong And they that to these words will not say , Amen . 'Tis pity that they should ever speak words again . Finis . L.P. London printed for F. G. on Snow-hill : Entered according to order . E : 325 The Seamans Compass OR A dainty new Ditty composed and pend The deeds of brave Seamen to praise and commend , 'Twas made by a Maid that to Gravesend did pass , Now mark , and you quickly shall hear how it was : To the Tune of , The Tyrant hath stolen . AS lately I traveled towards Gravesend , I herd a fair Damosel a Seaman commend And as in a Tilt-boat we passed along In praise of brave Seamen she sung this new Song Come Tradesman or Merchant , whoever he be There's none but a Seaman shall marry with me . A Seaman in promise is faithful and just Honest in carriage and true to his trust Kind in behaviour and constant in love As firm in affection as the Turtle-Dove , Valiant in actium in every degree There's none but a Seaman , etc The Seamen adventures their lives at the Seas While land men on shore takes pleasure and ease The Seamen at all times their business must ply In Winter and Summer in wet and in dry From toil and pains taking they seldom are free There's none but a Seaman , etc Moreover Ide have you for to understand That Seamen brings treasure and profit to land Above and beneath ground for wealth they have sought And when they have found it to England 'tis brought With hazard of lives by experience we see There's none but a Seaman , etc Seamen from beyond Seas bring silver and gold With Pearls and rich Jewels most rare to behold With Silks and rich Velvets their credits to save Or else you gay Ladies could not go so brave This makes my heart merry as merry may be There's none but a Seaman shall marry with me . The second Part to the same Tune . THe Seamen brings Spices and Sugar so fine Which serve the brave gallants to drink with their wine With Lemonds and Oranges all of the best To relish their palates when they make a feast Sweet Figs , Prunes & Raisons by them brought home be There's none but a Seaman shall marry with me . To comfort poor people , the Seamen do strive And brings in maintenance to keep them alive As raw silk and cotton wool to carded and to spin And so by their labours their livings comes in Most men are beholding to Seamen we see With none but a Seaman I married will be . The Mercer's beholding we know well enough For Holland , Lawn , Cambrick , and other gay stuff That's brought from beyond seas by Seamen so bold The rarest that ever men's eyes did behold God prosper the Seamen where ever they be There's none but a Seaman shall marry with me . The Merchant's themselves are beholding also To honest Seamen that on purpose do go To bring them home profit from other strange lands , Or else their fine daughters must work with their hands The Nobles and Gentry of every degree Are also beholding to Seamen we see . Thus for rich men & poor men , the Seamen does good And sometime comes off with loss of much blood If they were not a guard and defence for our land Our enemiee soon would get the upper hand And then in a woeful case strait we should be There's none but a Seaman shall marry with me . To draw to conclusion and so make and end I hope that great Neptune my love will befriend And send him home safely with health and with life Then shall I with joyfulness soon be his wife You maids , wives , and widows that Seamen's loves be With hearts and with voices Join Prayers with me . God bless all brave Sea men from quicksands and rocks From loss of their blood and from enemies knocks From lightning and thunder . and tempests so strong From ship wrack and drowning and all other wrong And they that to these words will not say , Amen . 'Tis pity that they should ever speak words again . Finis . L.P. London printed for F. G. on Snow-hill : Entered according to order . 