'E : 330 Seldom cleanly : OR , A merry new Ditty , wherein you may see , The trick of a Huswife , in every degree : Then lend your attention while I do unfold , As pleasant a story as you have herd told , To the tune of , Upon a Summer's time . DRaw near you Country Girls , and lissen unto me , I'll tell you here a new conceit concerning Housewifery , concerning Housewifery , Three Ants I had of late , good Huswives all were they : But cruel death hath taken the best of them away , Oh the best of them away . O this was one of my Ants , the best of all the three : And surely though I say it myself A cleanly woman was she , A cleanly woman she she . My Uncle careless was , in wasting of his store : Which made my Aunt to have a care To look about the more , To look , etc When Winter time drew on , near to Allhollon day : My Aunt did cast her wits about To save her Straw and Hay , To save , etc And like a provident woman , As plainly did appear : She starv'd her Bullocks to save her Hay , Until another year , Oh this was one of my Ants , the best of all the three , And surely though I say't my self a provident woman was she . But as she went to see her cattle in the fields : When she comes home two pound of dirt , Hang worser [ r ] agling at her heals , Oh this was one of my Ants , etc And there she let it hang from Candlemas till May : And then she took a hatchet in hand , And chopped it clean away , Oh this was one of my Ants , etc In making of a cheese my Aunt showed her cunning : Such perfect skill she had at will , She never used running , Oh this was one of my Ants , etc For having strained her milk , in turning once about , She had the best curd that ever you saw , By the sent of the straining clout , Oh this was one of my Ants , the , etc The second part , To the same tune . She was the choicest Nurse , that lived in all the Wes Her face was white as the charcoal flower , So was her neck and breast , Oh this was one of my Ants , the best of all the three And surely though I say't my self , a cleanly good Nurse was she . The garments which she did wear , did shine like the brazen Crock And where she went she boar such a sent , That the flies blew in her frock , Oh this was one of my Ants , etc My Aunt so cu [ r ] jous was , as I to you may tell : She used to make fat puddings , In markets for to fell Oh this was one of my Ants , etc The smallest candles end , my Aunt would never lose : It would help to make her puddings fat , With the droppings of her nose , Oh this was one of my Ants , etc Another trick she had , as I shall now declare , She never swept the house , About foure times a year , Oh this was one of my Ants , etc And when she swept the Hall , the parlour or the Spence : The dust was worth to her at least , A shilling or 14. pence Oh this was one of my Ants , the , etc One day my Aunt was set by the fire side a spinning : As she knew well what was to do , To woollen or to linen , Oh this was one of my Ants , etc A change came in her mind , her work being in great has She burn'd her Tow her Wheel and all , Because she would make no waste , Oh this was one of my Ants , etc My Aunt so patient was , of this I dare be bold That with her neighbours she Was never known to scold , Oh this was one of my Ants , etc Her lips with loathsome words , She seldom would defile : But sometime she would whisper so loud , You might hear her half a mile , Oh this was one of my Ants , etc Yet one condition more , unto you I will show : She washed her dishes once a month , and set them on a row , Oh this was one of my Ants , etc If otherwise she had , but of a dishclout sail , She would set them to the Dog to lick . and wipe them with his tail . O this was one of my Ants , etc , But to conclude in haste , I hold it not amiss : I love a cleanly huswife well , As may appear by this , Oh this was one of my Ants , the best of all the three And surely though I say't my self , a cleanly woman was she . L.P. FINIS . London Printed for John Wright junior , dwelling at the upper end of the Old Bailey . 'E : 330 Seldom cleanly : OR , A merry new Ditty , wherein you may see , The trick of a Huswife , in every degree : Then lend your attention while I do unfold , As pleasant a story as you have herd told , To the tune of , Upon a Summer's time . DRaw near you Country Girls , and lissen unto me , I'll tell you here a new conceit concerning Housewifery , concerning Housewifery , Three Ants I had of late , good Huswives all were they : But cruel death hath taken the best of them away , Oh the best of them away . O this was one of my Ants , the best of all the three : And surely though I say it myself A cleanly woman was she , A cleanly woman she she . My Uncle careless was , in wasting of his store : Which made my Aunt to have a care To look about the more , To look , etc When Winter time drew on , near to Allhollon day : My Aunt did cast her wits about To save her Straw and Hay , To save , etc And like a provident woman , As plainly did appear : She starv'd her Bullocks to save her Hay , Until another year , Oh this was one of my Ants , the best of all the three , And surely though I say't my self a provident woman was she . But as she went to see her cattle in the fields : When she comes home two pound of dirt , Hang worser [ r ] agling at her heals , Oh this was one of my Ants , etc And there she let it hang from Candlemas till May : And then she took a hatchet in hand , And chopped it clean away , Oh this was one of my Ants , etc In making of a cheese my Aunt showed her cunning : Such perfect skill she had at will , She never used running , Oh this was one of my Ants , etc For having strained her milk , in turning once about , She had the best curd that ever you saw , By the sent of the straining clout , Oh this was one of my Ants , the , etc The second part , To the same tune . She was the choicest Nurse , that lived in all the Wes Her face was white as the charcoal flower , So was her neck and breast , Oh this was one of my Ants , the best of all the three And surely though I say't my self , a cleanly good Nurse was she . The garments which she did wear , did shine like the brazen Crock And where she went she boar such a sent , That the flies blew in her frock , Oh this was one of my Ants , etc My Aunt so cu [ r ] jous was , as I to you may tell : She used to make fat puddings , In markets for to fell Oh this was one of my Ants , etc The smallest candles end , my Aunt would never lose : It would help to make her puddings fat , With the droppings of her nose , Oh this was one of my Ants , etc Another trick she had , as I shall now declare , She never swept the house , About foure times a year , Oh this was one of my Ants , etc And when she swept the Hall , the parlour or the Spence : The dust was worth to her at least , A shilling or 14. pence Oh this was one of my Ants , the , etc One day my Aunt was set by the fire side a spinning : As she knew well what was to do , To woollen or to linen , Oh this was one of my Ants , etc A change came in her mind , her work being in great has She burn'd her Tow her Wheel and all , Because she would make no waste , Oh this was one of my Ants , etc My Aunt so patient was , of this I dare be bold That with her neighbours she Was never known to scold , Oh this was one of my Ants , etc Her lips with loathsome words , She seldom would defile : But sometime she would whisper so loud , You might hear her half a mile , Oh this was one of my Ants , etc Yet one condition more , unto you I will show : She washed her dishes once a month , and set them on a row , Oh this was one of my Ants , etc If otherwise she had , but of a dishclout sail , She would set them to the Dog to lick . and wipe them with his tail . O this was one of my Ants , etc , But to conclude in haste , I hold it not amiss : I love a cleanly huswife well , As may appear by this , Oh this was one of my Ants , the best of all the three And surely though I say't my self , a cleanly woman was she . L.P. FINIS . London Printed for John Wright junior , dwelling at the upper end of the Old Bailey . 