E : 328 The Seamen and Soldiers Last Farewell to their Dearest Jewels . He must be gone , the Fates have so decreed , To serve his King and Country in their need : In fight against the Dutch upon the Main , Yet he's in hope's to see his Love again : He cheers her up , and bids she should not Mourn , But wait with patience for his safe return . The tune is , I am so deep in Love , or , Cupids Courtesy FArewel my dearest dear , now I must leave thee , Thy sighed I must forbear although it gives me : From thy embraces love I shall be parted : Yet will I constant prove and be truehearted . My fortune I will try upon the Ocean , And fight most valiantly to gain promotion ; My dearest blood i'le spend for this our Nation , My Country to defend from Foes invasion . Princes of high renown are now engaged , To pull the courage down of Foes enraged : Dukes , Lords & gentry high , all are preparing Their valour for to try , no cost is sparing . Why should I grudge to fight under the Banners , Of such approved Knights and brave Commanders : My chance I mean to try , I scorn to hide me , I'le face the Enemy what e're betide me . WHen I am on the Seas in hail and thunder , Where storms do raise the waves to all men's wonder , When Billows brush the sky and tempests threat me , Still on thy name I'le cry I'le not forget thee . Though Hogan Mogan States do brag and bluster , And call upon their Mates forces to muster , We'l make them for to know we can disturb them , Once again they must bow England will curb them . In mid'st of skirmish hight when blows are dealing , Fiery balls fly about and ships are realing : When Cannons are roaring and bullets are flying , He that will honour win must not fear dying . My dearest doe not moan let not grief move thee , When I am from thee gone still I will love thee , If fortune me befriend , thou mayest be certain I'll often to thee send after our parting . Thy Love I'le think upon in greatest danger , When I am from thee gone i'le Love no stranger , No flesh alive shall make me prove unconstant ; I will wait for thy sake , till the last instant . This piece of Gold we'l break , love , for a token , Which as a pledge we'l keep of faith unbroken , When thou the same dost see in my long absence , Then love remember me though at a distance . Hark how the Drums do beatrice with Trumpets sounding Soldiers in furious heat foes would be wounding From thy sweet company although it grieves me I must divided be and forc't to leave thee . My Captain calls away in haste they hurry To march without delay I may not tarry , Patiently thou must bear love , leave thy weeping , Farewell my dearest dear , till our next meeting . Finis With Allowance . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , R. Gilbertson and J. Wright . E : 328 The Seamen and Soldiers Last Farewell to their Dearest Jewels . He must be gone , the Fates have so decreed , To serve his King and Country in their need : In fight against the Dutch upon the Main , Yet he's in hope's to see his Love again : He cheers her up , and bids she should not Mourn , But wait with patience for his safe return . The tune is , I am so deep in Love , or , Cupids Courtesy FArewel my dearest dear , now I must leave thee , Thy sighed I must forbear although it gives me : From thy embraces love I shall be parted : Yet will I constant prove and be truehearted . My fortune I will try upon the Ocean , And fight most valiantly to gain promotion ; My dearest blood i'le spend for this our Nation , My Country to defend from Foes invasion . Princes of high renown are now engaged , To pull the courage down of Foes enraged : Dukes , Lords & gentry high , all are preparing Their valour for to try , no cost is sparing . Why should I grudge to fight under the Banners , Of such approved Knights and brave Commanders : My chance I mean to try , I scorn to hide me , I'le face the Enemy what e're betide me . WHen I am on the Seas in hail and thunder , Where storms do raise the waves to all men's wonder , When Billows brush the sky and tempests threat me , Still on thy name I'le cry I'le not forget thee . Though Hogan Mogan States do brag and bluster , And call upon their Mates forces to muster , We'l make them for to know we can disturb them , Once again they must bow England will curb them . In mid'st of skirmish hight when blows are dealing , Fiery balls fly about and ships are realing : When Cannons are roaring and bullets are flying , He that will honour win must not fear dying . My dearest doe not moan let not grief move thee , When I am from thee gone still I will love thee , If fortune me befriend , thou mayest be certain I'll often to thee send after our parting . Thy Love I'le think upon in greatest danger , When I am from thee gone i'le Love no stranger , No flesh alive shall make me prove unconstant ; I will wait for thy sake , till the last instant . This piece of Gold we'l break , love , for a token , Which as a pledge we'l keep of faith unbroken , When thou the same dost see in my long absence , Then love remember me though at a distance . Hark how the Drums do beatrice with Trumpets sounding Soldiers in furious heat foes would be wounding From thy sweet company although it grieves me I must divided be and forc't to leave thee . My Captain calls away in haste they hurry To march without delay I may not tarry , Patiently thou must bear love , leave thy weeping , Farewell my dearest dear , till our next meeting . Finis With Allowance . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , R. Gilbertson and J. Wright . 