E : 326 The Seamans leave taken of his sweetest Margery , AND Margery her singing loath to depart , Being very unwilling to leave her Sweetheart . To the tune of . I'le go through the world with thee . Man. SWeet Margery I am pressed to the Sea , with Goid and Sllver in my hand : I come to take my leave of thee , and bid adieu to fair England . Maid . But wilt thou be gone my Honey sweet , and must I loose thy company : Me thinks for fhee it is not meet , to leave thy dearest Margery . Man. Sweet Margery I must needs be gone , alas there is no remedy : But be I in company , or alone , I'le not forget my Margery . Maid . I weuld thou couldst my voyage excuse , for I am loath to part from thee : When thy sweet presence I do loose . I shall be a sorrowful Matgery . Man. I prithee be not grieved so , but take my absence patiently ; For wheresoever I come or go , my heart remains with Margery , Maid . A bird in hand's worth two in the bush , and when thou arc once gone from me ; I doubt thou wilt not care a rush , what will become of thy Margery . Man. I prithee do not conjecture thus , nor question my true Constancy ; The Gordian knot which tyeth us , I'le ne're break from my Margery . Maid . Well if I thought thou wouldst prove true and bear a faithful heart to me : To sorrow I should bid adieu , as thou tak'st leave of thy Margery . Man. Do not misdoubt my love at all , nor vex thy head with jealousy : What chance soever me befall , I'le never forsake my Margery . Maid . Excuse me if I judged wrong , it is my tender love to thee ; lest when thou hast been absent long , thou might forget thy Margery . Man. That can I never for my life , for I am thine until I die : And if I ever marry a wife , it shall be my sweet Margery . Maid . I prithee do that before we part , that joyful day I might but see ; 'Twould put all sorrows from my heart , and none so blithe as Margery . The second Part. To the same tune . Man. BE not so hasty , rather stay , for at this time it cannot be ; I must aboard this present day , and leave my sweetest Margery . Maid . Then take from me a parting kiss , this Point about thine arm I'le tie ; And when thou look'st upon thy wrist , then think upon thy Margery . Man. This Point I will esteem more deer , then all the Jewels I shall see ; Pluck up thy heart and be of good cheer , till I return to my Margery . Maid . When you do walk in the Spanish street and many Gallants pass you by ; Your Chamber docks and music sweet , then you'l forget your Margery . Man. I prithee harp not on that string , these words do touch my heart full nigh For I esteem no earthly thing , so much as I do sweet Margery . Maid . Sweet Lave forget that word Unkind , 'twas spoke thy Patience but to try ; For I am persuaded in my mind , thou lov st no Lass but Margery . Man. I have seaven Ships upon the Sea , and are all laden to the brim ; I am so inflam'd with love to thee , I care not whither they sink or swim . Maid . Hencdforth I'le ne're mistrust thee more , nor question thy true loyalty ; Where ever thou art on Sea or Shore , thou'lt think upon thy Margery . Man. If any Knight or Gentleman , do pass the Seas to my Country ; I'le write a Letter with my own hand , and send it to my Margery . Maid . O how shall I that Letter kiss , so soon as ever I it spy ; It would present a world of bliss unto thy loving Margery . Man. Margery I'le a Gallant prove , and for thy sake my valsur try : Though all my kin seek to remove my thoughts from my sweet Margery . Maid . If I had wist before I had kissed , that Love had been so deer to win ; My heart I would have clos'd in Gold , and pinn'd it with a Silver pin . Man. The time sweet Margery calls away , I now must leave thy company ; For time and Tide for none will stay , once more farewell sweet Margery . Maid . Once more I'le kfsse thy sugared Lips , and take thy absence patiently ; Heaven prosper thee , and thy seven Ships , and send thee safe to Margery . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for Francis Coals . E : 326 The Seamans leave taken of his sweetest Margery , AND Margery her singing loath to depart , Being very unwilling to leave her Sweetheart . To the tune of . I'le go through the world with thee . Man. SWeet Margery I am pressed to the Sea , with Goid and Sllver in my hand : I come to take my leave of thee , and bid adieu to fair England . Maid . But wilt thou be gone my Honey sweet , and must I loose thy company : Me thinks for fhee it is not meet , to leave thy dearest Margery . Man. Sweet Margery I must needs be gone , alas there is no remedy : But be I in company , or alone , I'le not forget my Margery . Maid . I weuld thou couldst my voyage excuse , for I am loath to part from thee : When thy sweet presence I do loose . I shall be a sorrowful Matgery . Man. I prithee be not grieved so , but take my absence patiently ; For wheresoever I come or go , my heart remains with Margery , Maid . A bird in hand's worth two in the bush , and when thou arc once gone from me ; I doubt thou wilt not care a rush , what will become of thy Margery . Man. I prithee do not conjecture thus , nor question my true Constancy ; The Gordian knot which tyeth us , I'le ne're break from my Margery . Maid . Well if I thought thou wouldst prove true and bear a faithful heart to me : To sorrow I should bid adieu , as thou tak'st leave of thy Margery . Man. Do not misdoubt my love at all , nor vex thy head with jealousy : What chance soever me befall , I'le never forsake my Margery . Maid . Excuse me if I judged wrong , it is my tender love to thee ; lest when thou hast been absent long , thou might forget thy Margery . Man. That can I never for my life , for I am thine until I die : And if I ever marry a wife , it shall be my sweet Margery . Maid . I prithee do that before we part , that joyful day I might but see ; 'Twould put all sorrows from my heart , and none so blithe as Margery . The second Part. To the same tune . Man. BE not so hasty , rather stay , for at this time it cannot be ; I must aboard this present day , and leave my sweetest Margery . Maid . Then take from me a parting kiss , this Point about thine arm I'le tie ; And when thou look'st upon thy wrist , then think upon thy Margery . Man. This Point I will esteem more deer , then all the Jewels I shall see ; Pluck up thy heart and be of good cheer , till I return to my Margery . Maid . When you do walk in the Spanish street and many Gallants pass you by ; Your Chamber docks and music sweet , then you'l forget your Margery . Man. I prithee harp not on that string , these words do touch my heart full nigh For I esteem no earthly thing , so much as I do sweet Margery . Maid . Sweet Lave forget that word Unkind , 'twas spoke thy Patience but to try ; For I am persuaded in my mind , thou lov st no Lass but Margery . Man. I have seaven Ships upon the Sea , and are all laden to the brim ; I am so inflam'd with love to thee , I care not whither they sink or swim . Maid . Hencdforth I'le ne're mistrust thee more , nor question thy true loyalty ; Where ever thou art on Sea or Shore , thou'lt think upon thy Margery . Man. If any Knight or Gentleman , do pass the Seas to my Country ; I'le write a Letter with my own hand , and send it to my Margery . Maid . O how shall I that Letter kiss , so soon as ever I it spy ; It would present a world of bliss unto thy loving Margery . Man. Margery I'le a Gallant prove , and for thy sake my valsur try : Though all my kin seek to remove my thoughts from my sweet Margery . Maid . If I had wist before I had kissed , that Love had been so deer to win ; My heart I would have clos'd in Gold , and pinn'd it with a Silver pin . Man. The time sweet Margery calls away , I now must leave thy company ; For time and Tide for none will stay , once more farewell sweet Margery . Maid . Once more I'le kfsse thy sugared Lips , and take thy absence patiently ; Heaven prosper thee , and thy seven Ships , and send thee safe to Margery . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for Francis Coals . 