E : 331 Shepherd and the King , and of Gilian the Shepherds Wife , with her Churlish answers : being full of mirth and merry pastime . To the tune of Flying Fame . AND Elder time there was so yore , when gybes of Churlish glee , Were us'd among our Country Earles , though no such thing now be . The which King Alfred liking well , forsook his stately Cour And in disguise unknown went forth , to see that Jovial sport . Now Dick and Tom , in clouted shoone , and coats of russet Grey , steem'd themselves more brave then those that went in Golden ray . [ In ] Garments fit for such a life , our good King Alfred went , All rag'd and torn , as from his back , the Beggar his clothes had rend . A Sword and Buckler good and strong to give Jack sauce a rap : And on his head in stead of a Crown , he wore a Monmouth Cap ; Thus coasting thorough Somerset Shire , near Newton Court he met A Shepherd swain , of lusty limbs , that up and down did jet . He wore a Bonnet of good grey , close button'd to his chin : And at his back a leather Scrip , with much good meat therein God speed good Shepherd ( quod our King ) I come to be thy Guest , To taste of thy good victual here , and drink that's of the best . Thy Scrip I know hath cheer good store , What then , ( the Shepherd said ) Thou seem'st to be some scurvy Thief , and mak'st me soar afraid . Yet if thou wilt thy dinner win , thy sword and buckler take : And if thou canst into my Scrip , therewith and entrance make . [ I can tell tO ] he Roister it hath store [ of be ] fe and Bacon fat , [ With shive ] s of Barley bred to make [ thy chops ] to water at . [ Here stand ] s my bottle here my Bag , [ if thou ] canst win them , Roister , [ Against tO ] hy Sword and Buckler here , [ my sheep ] hook is my waster . Benedicite now ( quoth our King ) it never shall be said , That Alfred of thy Shepherds hook , will stand a whit afraid . So roundly thus they both fell toot , where giving bang for bang : At every blow the Shepherd gave , King Alfreds Sword cried twang . His Buckler prov'd his chiefest fence , for still the Shepherds hook Was that , the which good Alfred could in no good manner brook . At last when they had fought foure hours , and it grew just midday , And wearied both , with right good will , desir'd each other stay . Kings truce I cry quoth Alfred then , good Shepherd hold thy hand : A sturdier fellow then thy self , lives not within this Land : Nor a Lustier Roister then thou art , the churlish Shepherd said : To tell thee plain , thy Thievish looks , now make my heart afraid . Else sure thou art some Prodigal , that hast consum'd thy store : And here com'st wandering to this place , to rob and steal for more . Deem not of me , then ( quoth our King ) good Shepherd , in such sor A Gentleman well known I am , in good King Alfreds Court . The Devil thou art the Shepherd said , thou goest in rags thus torn : Thou rather seem'st ( I think ) to be some Beggar basely born : But if thou wilt mend thy estate , and here a Shepherd be : At night to Gillian my old wife , thou shalt go home with me . For shee's as good a toothless Dame , as mumbleth on brown Bred : Where thou shalt lie in harden sheets , upon a fresh straw bed : Of Whig and Whay , we have great store , and keep good Peat-straw fires : And now and then good barley cakes , when better day requires , But for my Master which is chief , and Lord of Newton Cour He keeps ( I say ) us Shepherd Swains in far more braver sor We there have Curds and clouted Cream of read Cows morning milk : And now and then fine Buttered Cakes , as soft as any silk . Of Beef and reesed Bacon store , that is most fat and greasy we have likewise to feed our Chops , to make them glib and easy . Thus if thou wilt my man become , this usage shalt thou have . If not , adue , go hang thy self , and so farewell sir knave . King Alfred hearing of this glee , the churlish Shepherd said , Was well content to be his man , and so the bargain made : A penny round the Shepherd gave , in earnest of the match : To keep his sheep in Field and Fold , as Shepherds use to watch . His wages should be full ten Groats , for service of a year : Yet was it not his use , old Lad , to hire a man so deer : For did the King himself ( quoth he ) unto my Cottage come : He should not for his twelvemonths pay , receive a greater sum . Hereat the bonny King grew blithe , to hear this Clownish jes How silly Sots as Custom is , do descant on the best , But not to spoil the following sports , he was content ( good King ) To fit the Shepherds humour right , in every kind of thing . A Sheephook then , with Patch his Dog and Tar-box by his side : He with his Master cheek by jowl , unto old Gillian hied : Unto whole sighed no sooner come , whom have you here ( quoth she [ e ] ) A fellow I doubt will cut our throats so like a knave looks he . The second part , To the same tune . NOt so old dame , quoth Alfred straight , of me you need not fear : My Master hath hired me for ten Groats , to serve you one whole year , So good Dame Gillian grant me leave within your house to stay : For by Saint Anne doe what you can , I will not yet away . Her churlish usage pleas'd him still , but put him to such proof : That he that night was almost choked within that smoky roof . But as he sat with smiling cheer , the event of all to see : His Dame brought forth a piece of Dowe , which in the fire throws she . Where lying on the Hearth to bake , by chance the Cake did burn : What canst thou not , thou Lowt , quoth she take pains the same to turn : Thou art more quick to rake it out , and eat it up half Dow : Then thus to stay till't be enough , and so thy manners show . But serve me such another trick , I'll thwack thee on the snou Which made the patient King good man , of her to stand in doubt . But to be brief , to bed they went , the goodman and his Wife : But never such a lodging had King Alfred in his life . For he was laid on white Sheeps will , new pull'd from tanned Fells : And over his head hung spiders webs , as if they had been Bells' : Is this the Country guise , thought he ? then here I will not stay : But hence be gone as soon as breaks the p [ ee ] ping of next day . The cackling Geese and Hens kept roost , and perched by his bed side : Whereat the last the wrathful Cocks made known the morning tide : Then up god Alfred , with his horn , and blew so long a blast , That made Gillian and her Groom , in bed full soar aghast . Arise quoth she , we are undone , this night we lodged have , At unawares within our house , a false dissembling Knave . Rise , husband , rise , hee'll cut our throats , he calls for his Mates , Idem give ( old Will ) our good Cade-Lambe he would depart our Gates . But still King Alfred blew his horn , before them more and more : Till that a hundred Lords and Knights alighted at their door . Which cried all hail , all hail good King , long have we look't your Grace : And here you find ( my merry men all ) your Sovereign in this place . we shall be surely hang'd up both , old Gillian , I much fear , The Shepherd said , for using thus our good King Alfred here : A pardon my Liege ( quoth Gillian then ) for my Husband and for me : By these ten bones I never thought , the same that now I see . And by my hook the Shepherd said , and Oath both good and true , Before this time , Oh Noble King , I never your highness knew : Then pardon me , and my old Wife , that we may after say : When first you came into our house , it was a happy day . It shall be done , said Alfred straight , and Gillian my old Dame , For this thy churlish using me , deserveth not much blame : For this thy Country guise , I see , to be thus bluntish still . and where the plainest meaning is , remains the smallest ill . And Master , so I tell thee now , for thy late manhood shown , A thousand Weathers I'll bestow upon thee for thine own : With pasture grounds , as much as will suffice to feed them all : And this thy cottage , I will change into a stately Hall . And for the same ( as duty binds ) the Shepherd said , good King : A milk white Lamb once every Year , I'll to your Highness bring : And Gillian my old Wife likewise , of wool to make your Coats : Will give so much at Newyears tide , as shall be worth ten Groats . And in your praise , my Bagpipe shall found sweetly every year : Now Alfred E : 331 Shepherd and the King , and of Gilian the Shepherds Wife , with her Churlish answers : being full of mirth and merry pastime . To the tune of Flying Fame . AND Elder time there was so yore , when gybes of Churlish glee , Were us'd among our Country Earles , though no such thing now be . The which King Alfred liking well , forsook his stately Cour And in disguise unknown went forth , to see that Jovial sport . Now Dick and Tom , in clouted shoone , and coats of russet Grey , steem'd themselves more brave then those that went in Golden ray . [ In ] Garments fit for such a life , our good King Alfred went , All rag'd and torn , as from his back , the Beggar his clothes had rend . A Sword and Buckler good and strong to give Jack sauce a rap : And on his head in stead of a Crown , he wore a Monmouth Cap ; Thus coasting thorough Somerset Shire , near Newton Court he met A Shepherd swain , of lusty limbs , that up and down did jet . He wore a Bonnet of good grey , close button'd to his chin : And at his back a leather Scrip , with much good meat therein God speed good Shepherd ( quod our King ) I come to be thy Guest , To taste of thy good victual here , and drink that's of the best . Thy Scrip I know hath cheer good store , What then , ( the Shepherd said ) Thou seem'st to be some scurvy Thief , and mak'st me soar afraid . Yet if thou wilt thy dinner win , thy sword and buckler take : And if thou canst into my Scrip , therewith and entrance make . [ I can tell tO ] he Roister it hath store [ of be ] fe and Bacon fat , [ With shive ] s of Barley bred to make [ thy chops ] to water at . [ Here stand ] s my bottle here my Bag , [ if thou ] canst win them , Roister , [ Against tO ] hy Sword and Buckler here , [ my sheep ] hook is my waster . Benedicite now ( quoth our King ) it never shall be said , That Alfred of thy Shepherds hook , will stand a whit afraid . So roundly thus they both fell toot , where giving bang for bang : At every blow the Shepherd gave , King Alfreds Sword cried twang . His Buckler prov'd his chiefest fence , for still the Shepherds hook Was that , the which good Alfred could in no good manner brook . At last when they had fought foure hours , and it grew just midday , And wearied both , with right good will , desir'd each other stay . Kings truce I cry quoth Alfred then , good Shepherd hold thy hand : A sturdier fellow then thy self , lives not within this Land : Nor a Lustier Roister then thou art , the churlish Shepherd said : To tell thee plain , thy Thievish looks , now make my heart afraid . Else sure thou art some Prodigal , that hast consum'd thy store : And here com'st wandering to this place , to rob and steal for more . Deem not of me , then ( quoth our King ) good Shepherd , in such sor A Gentleman well known I am , in good King Alfreds Court . The Devil thou art the Shepherd said , thou goest in rags thus torn : Thou rather seem'st ( I think ) to be some Beggar basely born : But if thou wilt mend thy estate , and here a Shepherd be : At night to Gillian my old wife , thou shalt go home with me . For shee's as good a toothless Dame , as mumbleth on brown Bred : Where thou shalt lie in harden sheets , upon a fresh straw bed : Of Whig and Whay , we have great store , and keep good Peat-straw fires : And now and then good barley cakes , when better day requires , But for my Master which is chief , and Lord of Newton Cour He keeps ( I say ) us Shepherd Swains in far more braver sor We there have Curds and clouted Cream of read Cows morning milk : And now and then fine Buttered Cakes , as soft as any silk . Of Beef and reesed Bacon store , that is most fat and greasy we have likewise to feed our Chops , to make them glib and easy . Thus if thou wilt my man become , this usage shalt thou have . If not , adue , go hang thy self , and so farewell sir knave . King Alfred hearing of this glee , the churlish Shepherd said , Was well content to be his man , and so the bargain made : A penny round the Shepherd gave , in earnest of the match : To keep his sheep in Field and Fold , as Shepherds use to watch . His wages should be full ten Groats , for service of a year : Yet was it not his use , old Lad , to hire a man so deer : For did the King himself ( quoth he ) unto my Cottage come : He should not for his twelvemonths pay , receive a greater sum . Hereat the bonny King grew blithe , to hear this Clownish jes How silly Sots as Custom is , do descant on the best , But not to spoil the following sports , he was content ( good King ) To fit the Shepherds humour right , in every kind of thing . A Sheephook then , with Patch his Dog and Tar-box by his side : He with his Master cheek by jowl , unto old Gillian hied : Unto whole sighed no sooner come , whom have you here ( quoth she [ e ] ) A fellow I doubt will cut our throats so like a knave looks he . The second part , To the same tune . NOt so old dame , quoth Alfred straight , of me you need not fear : My Master hath hired me for ten Groats , to serve you one whole year , So good Dame Gillian grant me leave within your house to stay : For by Saint Anne doe what you can , I will not yet away . Her churlish usage pleas'd him still , but put him to such proof : That he that night was almost choked within that smoky roof . But as he sat with smiling cheer , the event of all to see : His Dame brought forth a piece of Dowe , which in the fire throws she . Where lying on the Hearth to bake , by chance the Cake did burn : What canst thou not , thou Lowt , quoth she take pains the same to turn : Thou art more quick to rake it out , and eat it up half Dow : Then thus to stay till't be enough , and so thy manners show . But serve me such another trick , I'll thwack thee on the snou Which made the patient King good man , of her to stand in doubt . But to be brief , to bed they went , the goodman and his Wife : But never such a lodging had King Alfred in his life . For he was laid on white Sheeps will , new pull'd from tanned Fells : And over his head hung spiders webs , as if they had been Bells' : Is this the Country guise , thought he ? then here I will not stay : But hence be gone as soon as breaks the p [ ee ] ping of next day . The cackling Geese and Hens kept roost , and perched by his bed side : Whereat the last the wrathful Cocks made known the morning tide : Then up god Alfred , with his horn , and blew so long a blast , That made Gillian and her Groom , in bed full soar aghast . Arise quoth she , we are undone , this night we lodged have , At unawares within our house , a false dissembling Knave . Rise , husband , rise , hee'll cut our throats , he calls for his Mates , Idem give ( old Will ) our good Cade-Lambe he would depart our Gates . But still King Alfred blew his horn , before them more and more : Till that a hundred Lords and Knights alighted at their door . Which cried all hail , all hail good King , long have we look't your Grace : And here you find ( my merry men all ) your Sovereign in this place . we shall be surely hang'd up both , old Gillian , I much fear , The Shepherd said , for using thus our good King Alfred here : A pardon my Liege ( quoth Gillian then ) for my Husband and for me : By these ten bones I never thought , the same that now I see . And by my hook the Shepherd said , and Oath both good and true , Before this time , Oh Noble King , I never your highness knew : Then pardon me , and my old Wife , that we may after say : When first you came into our house , it was a happy day . It shall be done , said Alfred straight , and Gillian my old Dame , For this thy churlish using me , deserveth not much blame : For this thy Country guise , I see , to be thus bluntish still . and where the plainest meaning is , remains the smallest ill . And Master , so I tell thee now , for thy late manhood shown , A thousand Weathers I'll bestow upon thee for thine own : With pasture grounds , as much as will suffice to feed them all : And this thy cottage , I will change into a stately Hall . And for the same ( as duty binds ) the Shepherd said , good King : A milk white Lamb once every Year , I'll to your Highness bring : And Gillian my old Wife likewise , of wool to make your Coats : Will give so much at Newyears tide , as shall be worth ten Groats . And in your praise , my Bagpipe shall found sweetly every year : Now Alfred our renowned King , most kindly hath been here . Thanks , Shepherd , thanks , quod he again , the next time I come hither , My Lords with me here in this house , will all be merry together . FINIS . our renowned King , most kindly hath been here . Thanks , Shepherd , thanks , quod he again , the next time I come hither , My Lords with me here in this house , will all be merry together . FINIS . 