E : 384 The West-Country Damosels Complain OR , The Faithful Lovers last Farewell . Being the Relation of a Young Maid who Pined herself to death , for the Love of a Youngman , who after he had notice of it , died likewise for Grief . Careless Youngmen , by this a warning take , How you kind Virgins ( when they Love ) forsake ; lest the same fate o're-take you , and you die For breach of Vows , and Infidelity . Be kind , but Swear not more then what you mean , lest Comic Jests become a Trajeck Scean . To the Tune of , Johnny Armstrong . WHen will you Marry me William , and make me your wedded wife ? Or take you your keen bright Sword , and rid me out of my Life . Will . Say no more so then Lady , say you no more then so , For you shall into the wild Forest , and among the Buck and Doe . Where thou shalt eat of the Hips & Haws , and the Roots that are so sweet , And thou shalt drink of the cold water , that runs underneath feet . Now she had not been in the wild Forest , passing three months and a day , But with hunger and cold she had her fill , till she was quite worn away . At last she saw a fair Tyl'd House , and there she swore by the Rood , That she would to that fair Tyl'd house , there for to get her some Food . But when she came unto the Gates , aloud aloud she cry'd , And Alms , and Alms , my own Sister , I ask you for no Pride . Her Sister call'd up her merry men all , by one , by two , and by three , And bid them hunt away that wild Doe , as far as e're they could see . They hunted her o're Hill and Dale , and they hunted her so soar , That they hunted her into the Forest , where her sorrows grew more and more . She laid a Stone all at her head , and another all at her feet , And down she lay between these two , till death had lull'd her asleep . When sweet Will came & stood at her head , and likewise stood at her feet , A thousand times he kissed her cold Lips , her body being fast asleep . Yea , seaven times he stood at her feet , and seaven times at her head , A thousand times he shook her hand , although her body was dead . Ah wretched me ! he loudly cry'd , what is it that I have done , Oh wou'd to the powers above I'de dy'd , when thus I left her alone . Come , come you gentle Redbreast now , and prepare for us a Tomb , While unto cruel Death I bow , and sing like a Swan my Doom . Why ! could I ever cruel be unto so fair a Creature ? Alas she dy'd for love of me , the loveliest she in nature . For me she left her home so fair , to wander in this wild Grove , And there with sighs and pensive care , she ended her Life for Love . O Constancy in her thou'rt lost , now let Women boast no more , She's fled to the Elizium Coast , and with her carry'd the Store . O break my heart with sorrow fill'd , come swell you strong Tides of grief , You that my dear Love have kill'd , come yield in death to me relief . Cruel her Sister , was't for me that to her she was unkind ? Her Husband I will never be , but with this my Love be joyn'd . Grim death shall tie the Marriage band which Jealousy shan't divide , Together shall tie our cold hands , while here we lie side by side . Witness you Groves , and Chrystial stream how Faithless I late have been , But do repent with dying Leaves , of that my ungrateful Sin. And wish a thousand times that I had been but to her more kind , And not have let a Virgin die , whose equal there's none can find . Now heaps of sorrow press my Soul , now , now 'tis she takes her way , I come my Love without Control , nor from thee will longer stay . With that he fetch'd a heavy Groan , which rend his tender Breast , And then by her he laid him down , when as Death did give him rest . While mournful birds , with leavy boughs to them a kind Burial gave , And warbled out their Lovesick vows , while they both slept in their Grave . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , in Westsmith-field , near the Hospital gate . E : 384 The West-Country Damosels Complain OR , The Faithful Lovers last Farewell . Being the Relation of a Young Maid who Pined herself to death , for the Love of a Youngman , who after he had notice of it , died likewise for Grief . Careless Youngmen , by this a warning take , How you kind Virgins ( when they Love ) forsake ; lest the same fate o're-take you , and you die For breach of Vows , and Infidelity . Be kind , but Swear not more then what you mean , lest Comic Jests become a Trajeck Scean . To the Tune of , Johnny Armstrong . WHen will you Marry me William , and make me your wedded wife ? Or take you your keen bright Sword , and rid me out of my Life . Will . Say no more so then Lady , say you no more then so , For you shall into the wild Forest , and among the Buck and Doe . Where thou shalt eat of the Hips & Haws , and the Roots that are so sweet , And thou shalt drink of the cold water , that runs underneath feet . Now she had not been in the wild Forest , passing three months and a day , But with hunger and cold she had her fill , till she was quite worn away . At last she saw a fair Tyl'd House , and there she swore by the Rood , That she would to that fair Tyl'd house , there for to get her some Food . But when she came unto the Gates , aloud aloud she cry'd , And Alms , and Alms , my own Sister , I ask you for no Pride . Her Sister call'd up her merry men all , by one , by two , and by three , And bid them hunt away that wild Doe , as far as e're they could see . They hunted her o're Hill and Dale , and they hunted her so soar , That they hunted her into the Forest , where her sorrows grew more and more . She laid a Stone all at her head , and another all at her feet , And down she lay between these two , till death had lull'd her asleep . When sweet Will came & stood at her head , and likewise stood at her feet , A thousand times he kissed her cold Lips , her body being fast asleep . Yea , seaven times he stood at her feet , and seaven times at her head , A thousand times he shook her hand , although her body was dead . Ah wretched me ! he loudly cry'd , what is it that I have done , Oh wou'd to the powers above I'de dy'd , when thus I left her alone . Come , come you gentle Redbreast now , and prepare for us a Tomb , While unto cruel Death I bow , and sing like a Swan my Doom . Why ! could I ever cruel be unto so fair a Creature ? Alas she dy'd for love of me , the loveliest she in nature . For me she left her home so fair , to wander in this wild Grove , And there with sighs and pensive care , she ended her Life for Love . O Constancy in her thou'rt lost , now let Women boast no more , She's fled to the Elizium Coast , and with her carry'd the Store . O break my heart with sorrow fill'd , come swell you strong Tides of grief , You that my dear Love have kill'd , come yield in death to me relief . Cruel her Sister , was't for me that to her she was unkind ? Her Husband I will never be , but with this my Love be joyn'd . Grim death shall tie the Marriage band which Jealousy shan't divide , Together shall tie our cold hands , while here we lie side by side . Witness you Groves , and Chrystial stream how Faithless I late have been , But do repent with dying Leaves , of that my ungrateful Sin. And wish a thousand times that I had been but to her more kind , And not have let a Virgin die , whose equal there's none can find . Now heaps of sorrow press my Soul , now , now 'tis she takes her way , I come my Love without Control , nor from thee will longer stay . With that he fetch'd a heavy Groan , which rend his tender Breast , And then by her he laid him down , when as Death did give him rest . While mournful birds , with leavy boughs to them a kind Burial gave , And warbled out their Lovesick vows , while they both slept in their Grave . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , in Westsmith-field , near the Hospital gate . 