E : 390 THE Witty Maid of the West ; OR , The Miller well thrash'd by Robin the Plowman : For which Service he received a Sum of Money , which bought a Ring and paid for the Marriage be - betwixt him and his beloved Nancy . Tune of , Ladies of London . This may be Printed , R.P. WIlliam the Miller , who liv'd in the West , A lusty stout Lad , brisk and airy ; Now if you will but attend to the Jest , I think it will make you all merry : There was a Lass that used his Mill , Her Name it was pretty fac'd Nancy ; He would be kissing and courting her still , There's no one but she he could fancy . She was a beautiful Lass , I declare , And one that was wonderful witty : There is not any with her can compare , In Country Town or in City : Nancy she did the Miller beguile , She knew him a Knave by his learing , Pray now have patience , and listen a while , The Story is well worth your hearing . Often he fain would have been at the sport , if Nancy she would but be willing , And as the Maiden herself did report , he gave her full twenty good shilling ; She straight did yield , the case it was thus , the Lass was resolved to cheat him , The twenty Shillings she put in her purse , and said at the Mill she would meet him . Now for to study some joke she did aim , that she in her fancy might glory , Then to her true Love the Plowman she came , and told him the sum of the story : Robin reply'd , my counsel is this , we won't stand discoursing and arguing , I in a Sack will be carried as Grist , because you shall stand to your bargain . Master and Man did bitterly Roar , I and for Mercy often did Cry , But she did Thump and Thrash them the more , sure said the Tailors now we shall die : No you Rascals I'll not Kill you , but am resolv'd to pay your Arrears , With that she did bruise them , and bitterly use them poor Tailors was ne'r so lugg'd by the Ears . Then they god lose and both run away ; Betty in wrath did vow and protest , That she would send to them the next day , for the Kings Service they should be Pres Then they were again affrighted , this did create whole Troops of new fears , We'l send now for pity to good Mistress Betty , for Sea-Fights are worse then lugg'd by the Ears . These very Lines the Taylor did send , saying , sweet Betty Pardon us now , Though it is true , we once did offend , yet at your feet we'll willingly Bow , Now this day to beg your Pardon , that you may put us out of all fears , We'll never abuse you , but likewise excuse you , although you did lugg us both by the Ears . Now when the Lass had Pardon'd them both , how the poor Rogues did Caper amain , Likewise they ty'd themselves by and Oath , that they would ne'r offend her again : Likewise gave her a Colation , seeing she thus had banish'd their fears , They were not unwilling to spend twenty Shilling , although she had lugg'd them both by the Ears . After the Feast he said to his Man , this has been charges you understand , Therefore take all the care that you can , Easter and Whitson-Tide are at hand : For to Cabbidge Silks and Satins , do not forget to whet up your Sheirs : Dear Master ne'r fear it , we'll presently share it , and for time to come , take care of our Ears . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare and J. Back . E : 390 THE Witty Maid of the West ; OR , The Miller well thrash'd by Robin the Plowman : For which Service he received a Sum of Money , which bought a Ring and paid for the Marriage be - betwixt him and his beloved Nancy . Tune of , Ladies of London . This may be Printed , R.P. WIlliam the Miller , who liv'd in the West , A lusty stout Lad , brisk and airy ; Now if you will but attend to the Jest , I think it will make you all merry : There was a Lass that used his Mill , Her Name it was pretty fac'd Nancy ; He would be kissing and courting her still , There's no one but she he could fancy . She was a beautiful Lass , I declare , And one that was wonderful witty : There is not any with her can compare , In Country Town or in City : Nancy she did the Miller beguile , She knew him a Knave by his learing , Pray now have patience , and listen a while , The Story is well worth your hearing . Often he fain would have been at the sport , if Nancy she would but be willing , And as the Maiden herself did report , he gave her full twenty good shilling ; She straight did yield , the case it was thus , the Lass was resolved to cheat him , The twenty Shillings she put in her purse , and said at the Mill she would meet him . Now for to study some joke she did aim , that she in her fancy might glory , Then to her true Love the Plowman she came , and told him the sum of the story : Robin reply'd , my counsel is this , we won't stand discoursing and arguing , I in a Sack will be carried as Grist , because you shall stand to your bargain . Master and Man did bitterly Roar , I and for Mercy often did Cry , But she did Thump and Thrash them the more , sure said the Tailors now we shall die : No you Rascals I'll not Kill you , but am resolv'd to pay your Arrears , With that she did bruise them , and bitterly use them poor Tailors was ne'r so lugg'd by the Ears . Then they god lose and both run away ; Betty in wrath did vow and protest , That she would send to them the next day , for the Kings Service they should be Pres Then they were again affrighted , this did create whole Troops of new fears , We'l send now for pity to good Mistress Betty , for Sea-Fights are worse then lugg'd by the Ears . These very Lines the Taylor did send , saying , sweet Betty Pardon us now , Though it is true , we once did offend , yet at your feet we'll willingly Bow , Now this day to beg your Pardon , that you may put us out of all fears , We'll never abuse you , but likewise excuse you , although you did lugg us both by the Ears . Now when the Lass had Pardon'd them both , how the poor Rogues did Caper amain , Likewise they ty'd themselves by and Oath , that they would ne'r offend her again : Likewise gave her a Colation , seeing she thus had banish'd their fears , They were not unwilling to spend twenty Shilling , although she had lugg'd them both by the Ears . After the Feast he said to his Man , this has been charges you understand , Therefore take all the care that you can , Easter and Whitson-Tide are at hand : For to Cabbidge Silks and Satins , do not forget to whet up your Sheirs : Dear Master ne'r fear it , we'll presently share it , and for time to come , take care of our Ears . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare and J. Back . 