E : 389 The Whig Rampan OR , EXALTATION . Being a Pleasant New Song of 82. To a New Tune of , Heigh Boys up go We . NOw , now the Tories all shall stoop , Religion and the Laws , And Whigs of Common-Wealth get up , to Top the Good old Cause : Tantivy-Boys shall all go down , and Haughty Monarchy ; The Leathern Cap shall brave the Crown , Then Heigh Boys up go We . When once that Antichristian Crew are Crush'd , and overthrown , We'l teach the Nobles how to bow , and keep the Gentry down ; Good Manners has a bad Repute , and tends to Pride we see , We'l therefore cry all Breeding down , And Hey Boys up go We . The Name of Lords shall be abhor'd , for ev'ry Man's a Brother , What Reason then in Church or State , one Man should Rule another ? Thus having Pill'd and Plunder'd all , and Level'd each Degree , We'l make their plump young daughters fallen And Hey Boys up go We . What though the King and Parliament , cannot accord together , We have good cause to be content , this is our Sunshine Weather ; For if good Reason should take place , and they should both agree , Z --- who'd be in a Round-Heads Case , For Heigh then up go We . WE'l down with all the Versities where Learning is profess For they still practice and maintain the Language of the Beas We'l exercise in e'ry place , and Preach beneath a Tree : We'l make a Pulpit of a Cask , For heigh then up go we . The Whigs shall rule Committee-Chair , who will such Laws invent , As shall Exclude the Lawful Heir by Act of Parliament We'l cut his Royal Highness down , e'n shorter by the Knee : That he shall never reach the Throne , Then Heigh Boys up go We . We'l smite the Idol in Guild-Hall , and then ( as we were wont ) We'l cry it was a Popish-Plot , and Swear those Rogues have don' His Royal Highness to unthrone , our Interest will be : For if he e're enjoy his own , Then Heigh Boys up go we . Rebellion was a Thriving Trade on this our English Coas When Pauls-Church was a Stable made , then Troopers Rul'd the Roas Then Loyalty was call'd a Crime , in Anno Forty-Three : A Godly Reformation time , For Heigh then up went we . When three great Nations sweat in blood , and many thousand slave : The bosom of the Earth bestrew'd , then Godliness was Gain : But now the Days are alter'd since , as College plain did see : If we Rebel against our Prince , to Tyburn heigh go we . We'l break the Windows which the Whore of Babylon has Painted , And when their B --- s are pull'd down , Our Deacons shall be Sainted : Thus having quite Enslav'd the town , pretending to set Free , At last the Gallows claims its own , Then Heigh Boys up go We . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ball , in West-smithfield . E : 389 The Whig Rampan OR , EXALTATION . Being a Pleasant New Song of 82. To a New Tune of , Heigh Boys up go We . NOw , now the Tories all shall stoop , Religion and the Laws , And Whigs of Common-Wealth get up , to Top the Good old Cause : Tantivy-Boys shall all go down , and Haughty Monarchy ; The Leathern Cap shall brave the Crown , Then Heigh Boys up go We . When once that Antichristian Crew are Crush'd , and overthrown , We'l teach the Nobles how to bow , and keep the Gentry down ; Good Manners has a bad Repute , and tends to Pride we see , We'l therefore cry all Breeding down , And Hey Boys up go We . The Name of Lords shall be abhor'd , for ev'ry Man's a Brother , What Reason then in Church or State , one Man should Rule another ? Thus having Pill'd and Plunder'd all , and Level'd each Degree , We'l make their plump young daughters fallen And Hey Boys up go We . What though the King and Parliament , cannot accord together , We have good cause to be content , this is our Sunshine Weather ; For if good Reason should take place , and they should both agree , Z --- who'd be in a Round-Heads Case , For Heigh then up go We . WE'l down with all the Versities where Learning is profess For they still practice and maintain the Language of the Beas We'l exercise in e'ry place , and Preach beneath a Tree : We'l make a Pulpit of a Cask , For heigh then up go we . The Whigs shall rule Committee-Chair , who will such Laws invent , As shall Exclude the Lawful Heir by Act of Parliament We'l cut his Royal Highness down , e'n shorter by the Knee : That he shall never reach the Throne , Then Heigh Boys up go We . We'l smite the Idol in Guild-Hall , and then ( as we were wont ) We'l cry it was a Popish-Plot , and Swear those Rogues have don' His Royal Highness to unthrone , our Interest will be : For if he e're enjoy his own , Then Heigh Boys up go we . Rebellion was a Thriving Trade on this our English Coas When Pauls-Church was a Stable made , then Troopers Rul'd the Roas Then Loyalty was call'd a Crime , in Anno Forty-Three : A Godly Reformation time , For Heigh then up went we . When three great Nations sweat in blood , and many thousand slave : The bosom of the Earth bestrew'd , then Godliness was Gain : But now the Days are alter'd since , as College plain did see : If we Rebel against our Prince , to Tyburn heigh go we . We'l break the Windows which the Whore of Babylon has Painted , And when their B --- s are pull'd down , Our Deacons shall be Sainted : Thus having quite Enslav'd the town , pretending to set Free , At last the Gallows claims its own , Then Heigh Boys up go We . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ball , in West-smithfield . 