E : 394 The Woeful Lamentation of Mistress Jane Shore , a Goldsmiths Wife in London , sometime King Edward the Fourth's Concubine , who for her wanton life , came to a miserable end . Set forth for the example of all lewd Livers . The Tune is , Live with me . IF Rosamond that was so fair , Had cause her sorrows to declare Then let Jane Shore with sorrow sing That was beloved of a King : Then wanton wives in time amend , For love and beauty will have end . In Maiden years my beauty bright Was loved dear of Lord and Knight , But yet the love that they requir'd , It was not as my friends desir'd My Parents they for thirst of gain , A Husband for me did obtain ; And I their pleasure to fulfil , Was forc'd to wed against my will : To Mathew Shore I was a wife , Till lust brought ruin to my life . And then my life so lewdly spent , Now makes my soul for to lament In Lumbard street I once did dwell , As London yet can witness well , Where many gallants did behold My beauty in a shop of Gold : I spread my plumes as wantons do , Some sweet and secret friend to woe , Because my love I did not find , Agreeing to my wanton mind . At last my name in Court did ring , Into the ears of Englands King Who came and lik'd and love requir'd , But I made coy what he desir'd : Yet Mistress Blague a neighbour ne'r , Whose friendship I esteemed dear , Did say it was a gallant thing : To be beloved of a King . By her persuasions I was led , For to defile my Marriage bed , & wrong'd my wedded husband Shore Whom I had lov'd ten years before In heart and mind I did rejoice : That I had made so sweet a choice , And therefore did my Estate resign To be King Edwards Concubine ; From City then to Court I went To reap the pleasures of Content , And had the joys that love could bring And knew the secrets of a King , When I was thus advanc'd on high , Commanding Edward with mine eye , For Mistress Blague I in short space Obtain'd a living of his Grace . No friend I had but in short time I made unto promotion climb : But yet for all this costly Pride , My Husband could not me abide : His bed though wronged by a King His heart with grief did deadly sting . From England then he goes away , To end his life upon the Sea , He could not live to see his name Impaired by my wanton shame : Although a Prince of Peerless might Did reap the pleasures of his right Long time I lived in the Court , With Lords and Ladies of great port , For when I smil'd all men were glad But when I mourn'd my Prince grew sad But yet and honest mind I boar , To helpless people that were poor , I still redressed the Orphans cry And sav'd their lives condemn'd to die , I still had ruth on Widows tears I succour'd Babes of tender years , And never looked for other gain , But Love and thanks for all my pain . At last my Royal King did die , And then my days of woe grew nigh , When Crookback Richard god the Crown ; King Edward friends were soon put down , I then was punished for my since That I so long had lived in . Yea every one that was his friend This Tyrant brought to shameful end Then for my rude and wanton life , That made a strumpet of a Wife I penance did in Lumbard-street In shameful manner in a sheet . Where many thousands did me view Who late in Court my Credit knew , which made the tears run down my face To think upon my foul disgrace : Not thus content they took from me My Goods , my Livings , and my Fee And charg'd that none should me relieve Nor any succour to me give . Then unto Mistress Blague I went To whom my jewels I had sent , In hope thereby to ease my want When riches fail'd and love grew scant But she deni'd to me the same , When in my need for them I came ; To recompense my former love , Out of her doors she did me shove : So love did vanish with my state , Which now my soul repents too late ; Therefore exomple take by me , For friendship parts in poverty ; But yet one friend among the rest , Whom I before had seen distressed , And sav'd his life condemn'd to die , Did give me food to succour me . For which by law it was decreed , That he was hanged for that deed : His death did grieve me so much more , Then had I died myself therefore : Then those to whom I had done good , Durst not restore me any food ; Whereby in vain I beg'd all day , And still in streets by night I lay . My gowns beset with Pearl and Gold Are turn'd to simple garments old ; My chains and jems and golden rings , To filthy rags and loathsome things , Thus was I scorn'd of Maid and wife For leading such a wicked life ; Both sucking babes and children small Did make a pastime at my fallen , I could not get one bit of bred , Whereby my hunger might be fed . Nor drink but such as channels yield , Or sticking ditches in the field : Thus weary of my life at length I yielded up my vital strength , Within a Ditch of loathsome scent Where carrion dogs do much frequent The which now since my dying day , Is Shoreditch cal'd as writers say : Which is a witness of my since , For being Concubine to a King : You wanton wives that fallen to lust , Be you assur'd that God is just , Whoredom shall not escape his hand , Nor Pride unpunished in this Land ; If God to me such shame should bring , That yielded only to a King ; How shall they escape that daily run , To practice since with every Man : You Husbands match not but for love , Lest some disliking after prove , women be warn'd when you are wives What plagues are due to sinful lives . Then Maids and wives in time amend , For love and Beauty will have end . The second Part of Jane Shore , wherein her sorrowful husband bewaileth his own estate , and Wives wantonness , the wrong of Marriage , the fallen of Pride , being a warning for all women to take heed by . To the same Tune . IF she that was fair Londons pride , For beauty fam'd both far and wide , With swanlike song in sadness told Her deep distresses manifold . Then in the same let me also , Now bear a part of such like woe . Kind Matthew Shore men called me , A Goldsmith once of good degree , And might have lived long therein Had not my Wife been wed to since : Ah gentle Jane thy wanton raze , Hath brought me to this foul disgrace . Thou hadst all things at wish and will Thy wanton fancy to fulfil , No London Dame , nor Merchant's wife Did led so sweet and pleasant Life , Then gentle Jane the truth report Why left'st thou me to live in Court ? Thou hadst both Gold and silver store No wife in London then had more ? And once a week to walk in field , To see what pleasure it would yield , But woe to me that liberty Hath brought me to this misery : I married thee while thou wertenberg young Before thou knew'st what did belong To husbands love or marriage state , Which now my soul repents too late : Thus wanton Pride made thee unjust , And so deceived was my trust . But when the King possessed my Room , And cropped my Rosse gallant bloom , Fair Londons blossom and my joy , My heart was drown'd in deep annoy : To think how unto public shame , Thy wicked life brought my good name And then I thought each man & wife , In jesting soar accus'd my life , And every one to the other said , that Shores fair wife the wanton played Thereby in mind I grew to change My dwelling in some Country strange , My Lands and Goods I sold away , And so from England went to Sea ; Oppressed with grief and woeful mind But left my cause of grief behind . My loving Wife whom I once thought Would never be to lewdness brought , But women now I well espy , Are subject to inconstancy ; And few there be so true of love , But by long suit will wanton prove , For flesh is frail and women weak When Kings for love long suit do make But yet from England my depart , Was with a sad and heavy heart , Whereat when as my leave I took , I sent back many a heavy look , Desiring God if it might be , To send out sighs sweet Jane to thee . For if thou hadst but constant been , These days of woe I ne'r had seen , But yet I grieve and mourn full soar , To think what plagues are left in store For such as careless tread awry , The modest path of constancy : Ah gentle Jane if thou didst know , The uncouth paths I daily go , And woeful tears for thee I shed , For wronging thus my Marriage bed . Then sure I am thou wouldst confess , My love was sure though in distress : Both Flanders , France , and Spain I passed And came to Turky at the last ; And there within that mighty Court , I lived long in honest so : 394 The Woeful Lamentation of Mistress Jane Shore , a Goldsmiths Wife in London , sometime King Edward the Fourth's Concubine , who for her wanton life , came to a miserable end . Set forth for the example of all lewd Livers . The Tune is , Live with me . IF Rosamond that was so fair , Had cause her sorrows to declare Then let Jane Shore with sorrow sing That was beloved of a King : Then wanton wives in time amend , For love and beauty will have end . In Maiden years my beauty bright Was loved dear of Lord and Knight , But yet the love that they requir'd , It was not as my friends desir'd My Parents they for thirst of gain , A Husband for me did obtain ; And I their pleasure to fulfil , Was forc'd to wed against my will : To Mathew Shore I was a wife , Till lust brought ruin to my life . And then my life so lewdly spent , Now makes my soul for to lament In Lumbard street I once did dwell , As London yet can witness well , Where many gallants did behold My beauty in a shop of Gold : I spread my plumes as wantons do , Some sweet and secret friend to woe , Because my love I did not find , Agreeing to my wanton mind . At last my name in Court did ring , Into the ears of Englands King Who came and lik'd and love requir'd , But I made coy what he desir'd : Yet Mistress Blague a neighbour ne'r , Whose friendship I esteemed dear , Did say it was a gallant thing : To be beloved of a King . By her persuasions I was led , For to defile my Marriage bed , & wrong'd my wedded husband Shore Whom I had lov'd ten years before In heart and mind I did rejoice : That I had made so sweet a choice , And therefore did my Estate resign To be King Edwards Concubine ; From City then to Court I went To reap the pleasures of Content , And had the joys that love could bring And knew the secrets of a King , When I was thus advanc'd on high , Commanding Edward with mine eye , For Mistress Blague I in short space Obtain'd a living of his Grace . No friend I had but in short time I made unto promotion climb : But yet for all this costly Pride , My Husband could not me abide : His bed though wronged by a King His heart with grief did deadly sting . From England then he goes away , To end his life upon the Sea , He could not live to see his name Impaired by my wanton shame : Although a Prince of Peerless might Did reap the pleasures of his right Long time I lived in the Court , With Lords and Ladies of great port , For when I smil'd all men were glad But when I mourn'd my Prince grew sad But yet and honest mind I boar , To helpless people that were poor , I still redressed the Orphans cry And sav'd their lives condemn'd to die , I still had ruth on Widows tears I succour'd Babes of tender years , And never looked for other gain , But Love and thanks for all my pain . At last my Royal King did die , And then my days of woe grew nigh , When Crookback Richard god the Crown ; King Edward friends were soon put down , I then was punished for my since That I so long had lived in . Yea every one that was his friend This Tyrant brought to shameful end Then for my rude and wanton life , That made a strumpet of a Wife I penance did in Lumbard-street In shameful manner in a sheet . Where many thousands did me view Who late in Court my Credit knew , which made the tears run down my face To think upon my foul disgrace : Not thus content they took from me My Goods , my Livings , and my Fee And charg'd that none should me relieve Nor any succour to me give . Then unto Mistress Blague I went To whom my jewels I had sent , In hope thereby to ease my want When riches fail'd and love grew scant But she deni'd to me the same , When in my need for them I came ; To recompense my former love , Out of her doors she did me shove : So love did vanish with my state , Which now my soul repents too late ; Therefore exomple take by me , For friendship parts in poverty ; But yet one friend among the rest , Whom I before had seen distressed , And sav'd his life condemn'd to die , Did give me food to succour me . For which by law it was decreed , That he was hanged for that deed : His death did grieve me so much more , Then had I died myself therefore : Then those to whom I had done good , Durst not restore me any food ; Whereby in vain I beg'd all day , And still in streets by night I lay . My gowns beset with Pearl and Gold Are turn'd to simple garments old ; My chains and jems and golden rings , To filthy rags and loathsome things , Thus was I scorn'd of Maid and wife For leading such a wicked life ; Both sucking babes and children small Did make a pastime at my fallen , I could not get one bit of bred , Whereby my hunger might be fed . Nor drink but such as channels yield , Or sticking ditches in the field : Thus weary of my life at length I yielded up my vital strength , Within a Ditch of loathsome scent Where carrion dogs do much frequent The which now since my dying day , Is Shoreditch cal'd as writers say : Which is a witness of my since , For being Concubine to a King : You wanton wives that fallen to lust , Be you assur'd that God is just , Whoredom shall not escape his hand , Nor Pride unpunished in this Land ; If God to me such shame should bring , That yielded only to a King ; How shall they escape that daily run , To practice since with every Man : You Husbands match not but for love , Lest some disliking after prove , women be warn'd when you are wives What plagues are due to sinful lives . Then Maids and wives in time amend , For love and Beauty will have end . The second Part of Jane Shore , wherein her sorrowful husband bewaileth his own estate , and Wives wantonness , the wrong of Marriage , the fallen of Pride , being a warning for all women to take heed by . To the same Tune . IF she that was fair Londons pride , For beauty fam'd both far and wide , With swanlike song in sadness told Her deep distresses manifold . Then in the same let me also , Now bear a part of such like woe . Kind Matthew Shore men called me , A Goldsmith once of good degree , And might have lived long therein Had not my Wife been wed to since : Ah gentle Jane thy wanton raze , Hath brought me to this foul disgrace . Thou hadst all things at wish and will Thy wanton fancy to fulfil , No London Dame , nor Merchant's wife Did led so sweet and pleasant Life , Then gentle Jane the truth report Why left'st thou me to live in Court ? Thou hadst both Gold and silver store No wife in London then had more ? And once a week to walk in field , To see what pleasure it would yield , But woe to me that liberty Hath brought me to this misery : I married thee while thou wertenberg young Before thou knew'st what did belong To husbands love or marriage state , Which now my soul repents too late : Thus wanton Pride made thee unjust , And so deceived was my trust . But when the King possessed my Room , And cropped my Rosse gallant bloom , Fair Londons blossom and my joy , My heart was drown'd in deep annoy : To think how unto public shame , Thy wicked life brought my good name And then I thought each man & wife , In jesting soar accus'd my life , And every one to the other said , that Shores fair wife the wanton played Thereby in mind I grew to change My dwelling in some Country strange , My Lands and Goods I sold away , And so from England went to Sea ; Oppressed with grief and woeful mind But left my cause of grief behind . My loving Wife whom I once thought Would never be to lewdness brought , But women now I well espy , Are subject to inconstancy ; And few there be so true of love , But by long suit will wanton prove , For flesh is frail and women weak When Kings for love long suit do make But yet from England my depart , Was with a sad and heavy heart , Whereat when as my leave I took , I sent back many a heavy look , Desiring God if it might be , To send out sighs sweet Jane to thee . For if thou hadst but constant been , These days of woe I ne'r had seen , But yet I grieve and mourn full soar , To think what plagues are left in store For such as careless tread awry , The modest path of constancy : Ah gentle Jane if thou didst know , The uncouth paths I daily go , And woeful tears for thee I shed , For wronging thus my Marriage bed . Then sure I am thou wouldst confess , My love was sure though in distress : Both Flanders , France , and Spain I passed And came to Turky at the last ; And there within that mighty Court , I lived long in honest sort , Desiring God that sits in Heaven , That Lovers sins might be forgiven ; And there advanc'd thy loving name , Of living Wights the fairest Dame . The praise of Englands beauty stain , All which thy Husband did maintain , And set thy picture there in gold , For Kings and Princes to behold ; But when I thought upon thy since , Thy wanton thoughts delighted in , I griev'd that such a comely face , Should hold true honour in disgrace , And counted it a luckless day , When as thou first didst go astray ; Desiring then some news to hear , Of her my soul did love so dear , My secrets then I did impart , To one well skil'd in Magic Art , Who in a Glass did truly show , Such things as I desire to know , I there did see thy Courtly state , Thy pomp , thy Pride , thy Glory great And likewise there I did behold My Jane in Edwards arm enfold . Thy secret love I there espy'd , Thy rice , thy fallen , and how thou died , Thy naked body in the street , I saw doe Penance in a she Barefoot before the Beadles wand With burning taper in thy hand , And Babes not having use of tongue , Stood pointing as she went along : Thus ended was the shame of thine , Though God gave yet no end to mine ; When I suppos'd my name forgotten , And time had washed away my blot , And in another Princes Reign , I came to England back again : But staying there my friends decay'd , My Princes Laws I disobey'd , And by true justice judg'd to die , For clipping Gold in secrecy . By Gold was my best living made , And so by gold my life decai'd . Thus have you herd the woeful strife , That came by my unconstant Wife ; Her fallen , my Death , wherein is shew'd The story of a Strumpet Lewd . In hope thereby all women may , Take heed how they the wanton play . The Description OF Jane Shore . THis woman's beauty hath been highly praise - ed by a famous writer that lived in her time nam Thomas Moor , who described her in this manner . Before her death she was poor and aged , her stature was mean , her hair of a dark yellow , her face round and full , her eyes grey , her body fat white and smooth , her countenance cheerful , like to her conditions . There is a picture of hers to be seen in London , it is such as she was when she rose out of her bed in the morning , having nothing on but a rich mantle cast under her arm , oh - for which her na - ked arm did lie . What her Fa - the name is , or where she was born , is not cer - tainly known , but her Husband Ma - thew Shore , a Young Man of right good Pa - rentage , wealth and behaviour , a - bandoned her bed after the King had made her his Con - cubine . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . rt , Desiring God that sits in Heaven , That Lovers sins might be forgiven ; And there advanc'd thy loving name , Of living Wights the fairest Dame . The praise of Englands beauty stain , All which thy Husband did maintain , And set thy picture there in gold , For Kings and Princes to behold ; But when I thought upon thy since , Thy wanton thoughts delighted in , I griev'd that such a comely face , Should hold true honour in disgrace , And counted it a luckless day , When as thou first didst go astray ; Desiring then some news to hear , Of her my soul did love so dear , My secrets then I did impart , To one well skil'd in Magic Art , Who in a Glass did truly show , Such things as I desire to know , I there did see thy Courtly state , Thy pomp , thy Pride , thy Glory great And likewise there I did behold My Jane in Edwards arm enfold . Thy secret love I there espy'd , Thy rice , thy fallen , and how thou died , Thy naked body in the street , I saw doe Penance in a she Barefoot before the Beadles wand With burning taper in thy hand , And Babes not having use of tongue , Stood pointing as she went along : Thus ended was the shame of thine , Though God gave yet no end to mine ; When I suppos'd my name forgotten , And time had washed away my blot , And in another Princes Reign , I came to England back again : But staying there my friends decay'd , My Princes Laws I disobey'd , And by true justice judg'd to die , For clipping Gold in secrecy . By Gold was my best living made , And so by gold my life decai'd . Thus have you herd the woeful strife , That came by my unconstant Wife ; Her fallen , my Death , wherein is shew'd The story of a Strumpet Lewd . In hope thereby all women may , Take heed how they the wanton play . The Description OF Jane Shore . THis woman's beauty hath been highly praise - ed by a famous writer that lived in her time nam Thomas Moor , who described her in this manner . Before her death she was poor and aged , her stature was mean , her hair of a dark yellow , her face round and full , her eyes grey , her body fat white and smooth , her countenance cheerful , like to her conditions . There is a picture of hers to be seen in London , it is such as she was when she rose out of her bed in the morning , having nothing on but a rich mantle cast under her arm , oh - for which her na - ked arm did lie . What her Fa - the name is , or where she was born , is not cer - tainly known , but her Husband Ma - thew Shore , a Young Man of right good Pa - rentage , wealth and behaviour , a - bandoned her bed after the King had made her his Con - cubine . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 