The woeful Complaint and Lamentable Death of a Forsaken Lover . To pleasant New Tune . DOwn by a Forest as I did pass , To see abroad what sports there was , Walking by a pleasant Spring The Birds in sundry notes did sing . Long time I wandered here and there , To see what sports in Forest were , At length I herd one make great moan , Saying from me all joys are gone . I gave good heed unto the same , Musing from whence this Echo came ; And by no means I could devise , From whence this sorrowful found did rise . But in that place I did remain , Until I herd it once again ; Where presently I herd one say , Oh death come take my life away , I looked down on my right hand , A sort of pleasant Trees did stand , And under them I did behold , A pleasant place , with shadows cold . A sumptuous Seat was in the same ; Musing from whence this Echo came : Then in this place I did perceive A Gentleman most fine and brave . And from that place he did come down , Casting from him his Morning Gown , Walking up and down that place [ Methought a proper man he was . ] Thus to himself he did lament , Wishing to God his days were spent ; His torments did increase so soar , His heart was able to bear no more . I stepped into a hollow Tree , Because I would his passion see ; With folded arms , looking to' th' Skies , The tears , alas , stood in his eyes . And careless of his life he seem'd , Pity he was no more esteem'd , Then down he lay upon the ground , No ease of sorrow could be found . thus he lamented in woeful case , Seven long years , within few days ; Saying while I live , I must remain , And find no help to ease my pain . For she that should my griefs remove , She does disdain to be my love ; And hath done so , since she did hear , That I to her goodwill did bear . the Gods above come ease my pain , Sith heavy grief does it constrain , For while my Corpse remain on earth , She'll show the causes of my death . And every Tree that here does stand , Shall be engraven with my hand , That they long time may Witness bear , Love was the cause that I dy'd here . Nature to her did so much right , And in as many Virtues dight , Scorning to take the help of art , As ever did embrace a heart . Being so good , so truly try'd Oh some for less were Deify'd ; Full of pity as she may be , And yet perhaps not so to me . When first I saw her pleasant face , Methought a pleasant sighed it was ; Her beauty took my wits away , I knew not how one word to say , A Gentleman took her to Dance , She gallantly herself did prance ; And kept her stepts all in due time , Which made me wish she had been mine . But when I thought she'd been mine own , Then was she furthest from me flown ; She gave no ear unto my cry [ Which makes me here in sorrow die . ] F [ Or ] she [ was i ] n [ anothe ] r [ min ] worser , Which to my pain I often find , Of all hope's I am beguil'd , Which makes me walk the woods so wild . To silent Trees I made my moan , The birds and beasts did hear me groan ; Yet she that could my sorrows remove , Disloyal wretch to me did prove , My love to her was constant pure , And to my end shall so endure ; And Jove to her I hope will send A grieved mind before her end . I have forsaken friends and Kin , My days to end these Woods within , My pleasures passed I now forsake , And of the world my leave I take . Bear witness Heaven of my grief , To ease my heart , send some relief ; Fair maids unto your Loves be true , If the first be good , change not for a new . O young men all be warn'd by me , Gaze not too much on women's beauty ; Lest that you be so fettered fast , You connote be released at last . Some women's wiles are too much known , In love once changing stick to none ; They swear they love you with their heart , When tongue and mind are both a part . My love to her I did reveal , And nothing from her did conceal ; Though at first she seemed coy , She said I was her only joy . And none but I her love should have , What need I any more to crave ? But Hoggard like , she me abus'd , Another taken and I refus'd When he'd bewail'd his sorrows long , H [ e tO ] ook his Lute that by him hung And on the same he sweetly play'd , While there upon these words he said : Oh Death when will that hour come , That I have waited for so long ? For while I live , I languish still , Finding no help to ease my ill . Then quite he flung his Lute away , And took his Sword that by him lay . Says oft hast thou been thy master's friend , And now thou must his torment end . He gave true Sentence in that place , To end his life in woeful case ; The hilt he struck into the ground , And gave himself a deadly wound . Then unto him I ran amain , But Oh alas it was in vain : For long before to him I came , His Death he had upon the same . I found his Grave was ready made , Wherein I thought he should be laid : And in that place I laid him down , And over spread his Morning Gown . Over his Grave his sword I laid , Whereby his death he had receiv'd , Upon his Lute a Peal I rung , And by the place his Lute I hung , Then I beheld on every Tree Her name that was his only joy : Which long before his face did stand , Because she god the upper hand . This Maiden that did all this wrong , To live a Maid thought it o're long ? But married was to such a one , As daily made her sighs and groan . Her coyness to her former love , Disloyal now does truly prove ; Take heed fair Maidens for you see , Wrongs always will revenged be . The woeful Complaint and Lamentable Death of a Forsaken Lover . To pleasant New Tune . DOwn by a Forest as I did pass , To see abroad what sports there was , Walking by a pleasant Spring The Birds in sundry notes did sing . Long time I wandered here and there , To see what sports in Forest were , At length I herd one make great moan , Saying from me all joys are gone . I gave good heed unto the same , Musing from whence this Echo came ; And by no means I could devise , From whence this sorrowful found did rise . But in that place I did remain , Until I herd it once again ; Where presently I herd one say , Oh death come take my life away , I looked down on my right hand , A sort of pleasant Trees did stand , And under them I did behold , A pleasant place , with shadows cold . A sumptuous Seat was in the same ; Musing from whence this Echo came : Then in this place I did perceive A Gentleman most fine and brave . And from that place he did come down , Casting from him his Morning Gown , Walking up and down that place [ Methought a proper man he was . ] Thus to himself he did lament , Wishing to God his days were spent ; His torments did increase so soar , His heart was able to bear no more . I stepped into a hollow Tree , Because I would his passion see ; With folded arms , looking to' th' Skies , The tears , alas , stood in his eyes . And careless of his life he seem'd , Pity he was no more esteem'd , Then down he lay upon the ground , No ease of sorrow could be found . thus he lamented in woeful case , Seven long years , within few days ; Saying while I live , I must remain , And find no help to ease my pain . For she that should my griefs remove , She does disdain to be my love ; And hath done so , since she did hear , That I to her goodwill did bear . the Gods above come ease my pain , Sith heavy grief does it constrain , For while my Corpse remain on earth , She'll show the causes of my death . And every Tree that here does stand , Shall be engraven with my hand , That they long time may Witness bear , Love was the cause that I dy'd here . Nature to her did so much right , And in as many Virtues dight , Scorning to take the help of art , As ever did embrace a heart . Being so good , so truly try'd Oh some for less were Deify'd ; Full of pity as she may be , And yet perhaps not so to me . When first I saw her pleasant face , Methought a pleasant sighed it was ; Her beauty took my wits away , I knew not how one word to say , A Gentleman took her to Dance , She gallantly herself did prance ; And kept her stepts all in due time , Which made me wish she had been mine . But when I thought she'd been mine own , Then was she furthest from me flown ; She gave no ear unto my cry [ Which makes me here in sorrow die . ] F [ Or ] she [ was i ] n [ anothe ] r [ min ] worser , Which to my pain I often find , Of all hope's I am beguil'd , Which makes me walk the woods so wild . To silent Trees I made my moan , The birds and beasts did hear me groan ; Yet she that could my sorrows remove , Disloyal wretch to me did prove , My love to her was constant pure , And to my end shall so endure ; And Jove to her I hope will send A grieved mind before her end . I have forsaken friends and Kin , My days to end these Woods within , My pleasures passed I now forsake , And of the world my leave I take . Bear witness Heaven of my grief , To ease my heart , send some relief ; Fair maids unto your Loves be true , If the first be good , change not for a new . O young men all be warn'd by me , Gaze not too much on women's beauty ; Lest that you be so fettered fast , You connote be released at last . Some women's wiles are too much known , In love once changing stick to none ; They swear they love you with their heart , When tongue and mind are both a part . My love to her I did reveal , And nothing from her did conceal ; Though at first she seemed coy , She said I was her only joy . And none but I her love should have , What need I any more to crave ? But Hoggard like , she me abus'd , Another taken and I refus'd When he'd bewail'd his sorrows long , H [ e tO ] ook his Lute that by him hung And on the same he sweetly play'd , While there upon these words he said : Oh Death when will that hour come , That I have waited for so long ? For while I live , I languish still , Finding no help to ease my ill . Then quite he flung his Lute away , And took his Sword that by him lay . Says oft hast thou been thy master's friend , And now thou must his torment end . He gave true Sentence in that place , To end his life in woeful case ; The hilt he struck into the ground , And gave himself a deadly wound . Then unto him I ran amain , But Oh alas it was in vain : For long before to him I came , His Death he had upon the same . I found his Grave was ready made , Wherein I thought he should be laid : And in that place I laid him down , And over spread his Morning Gown . Over his Grave his sword I laid , Whereby his death he had receiv'd , Upon his Lute a Peal I rung , And by the place his Lute I hung , Then I beheld on every Tree Her name that was his only joy : Which long before his face did stand , Because she god the upper hand . This Maiden that did all this wrong , To live a Maid thought it o're long ? But married was to such a one , As daily made her sighs and groan . Her coyness to her former love , Disloyal now does truly prove ; Take heed fair Maidens for you see , Wrongs always will revenged be . 