E . 335 The Slighted Maid . OR , The Pining Lover . With sighs and moans she does entreat her Dear , while he seems to be deaf and will not hear ; At length his frozen heart begins to melt , being moved with the passion she had felt . To the Tune of , I prithee Love turn to me . WAs ever Maiden so scorned , by one that she lov'd so dear : Long time I have sighed and mourned , and still my love will not hear . O turn to me my own dear heart , and I prithee Love turn to me ; For thou art the Lad I long for , and alas what remedy . My Lodging it is on the could ground , and very hard is my fare : But that Which troubles me most , is the unkindness of my Dear . O turn to me my own Sweetheart , and I prithee Love turn to me ; For thou art the man I long for , and alas what remedy . O stop not thy ears to the wailings , of me a poor harmless Maid . You know we are subject to failings , blind Cupid hath me betrayed . And now I must cry Oh turn Love . and I prithee Love turn to me . For thou art the man that alone can procure my liberty . How canst thou be so hard hearted , and cruel to me alone . If ever we should be parted , then all my delight is gone . But ever I cry Oh turn Love , and I prithee Love turn to me For thou art the man that alone art the cause of my misery . The second part , to the same tune . ILe make thee pretty sweet posies , and constant I ever will prove . I'le strow thy chamber with roses , and all to delight my Love . Then turn to me my own dear heart , and I prithee Love turn to me , For thou art the man that alone can procure my liberty . I'le do my endeavour to please thee , by making thy bed full soft . Of all thy sorrows I'll ease thee , by kissing thy lips full oft . Then turn to me my own dear heart , and I prithee Love turn to me , For thou art the man that alone can procure my liberty . But thou wilt harden thy heart still , and be deaf to my pitiful moan : So I must endure the smart still , and tumble in straw all alone . While still I cry Oh turn Love , and I prithee Love turn to me , For thou art the man that alone art the cause of my misery . If that thou still do disdain me , I never will love the more . Thy cruelty shall never pain me , for I'll have another in store . But still I cry Oh turn Love , and I prithee Love turn to me , For thou art the man that alone art the cause of my misery . By hearing her pitiful clamour , the passion of Love he felt , He could no longer disdain her , his frozen heart it did melt ; For ever she cried Oh turn Love , and I prithee Love turn to me , for thou art the man , that alone can procure my liberty . He said my Love I will please thee thy heaviness grieves me soar , But let not sorrow once seize thee , I never will grieve thee more . I'll turn to thee my own kind heart , dear Love I'le turn to thee . For I am the man that now art come to procure thy liberty . I'le crown thee with garlands of straw then and marry thee with a rush ring . My frozen heart it will thaw then , and merrily we will sing , But ever she cried Oh turn Love , and I prithee Love turn to me , For thou art the man , that alone can release my misery . Most lovingly he imbrac't her and call'd her his hearts delight , And close by his side he plac't her , all sorrow was banished quite , And now she for joy cried , turn Love and I prithee Love turn to me For thou art the man , that alone hast released me of misery . FINIS . E.335 The Slighted Maid . OR , The Pining Lover . With sighs and moans she does entreat her Dear , while he seems to be deaf and will not hear ; At length his frozen heart begins to melt , being moved with the passion she had felt . To the Tune of , I prithee Love turn to me . WAs ever Maiden so scorned , by one that she lov'd so dear : Long time I have sighed and mourned , and still my love will not hear . O turn to me my own dear heart , and I prithee Love turn to me ; For thou art the Lad I long for , and alas what remedy . My Lodging it is on the could ground , and very hard is my fare : But that Which troubles me most , is the unkindness of my Dear . O turn to me my own Sweetheart , and I prithee Love turn to me ; For thou art the man I long for , and alas what remedy . O stop not thy ears to the wailings , of me a poor harmless Maid . You know we are subject to failings , blind Cupid hath me betrayed . And now I must cry Oh turn Love . and I prithee Love turn to me . For thou art the man that alone can procure my liberty . How canst thou be so hard hearted , and cruel to me alone . If ever we should be parted , then all my delight is gone . But ever I cry Oh turn Love , and I prithee Love turn to me For thou art the man that alone art the cause of my misery . The second part , to the same tune . ILe make thee pretty sweet posies , and constant I ever will prove . I'le strow thy chamber with roses , and all to delight my Love . Then turn to me my own dear heart , and I prithee Love turn to me , For thou art the man that alone can procure my liberty . I'le do my endeavour to please thee , by making thy bed full soft . Of all thy sorrows I'll ease thee , by kissing thy lips full oft . Then turn to me my own dear heart , and I prithee Love turn to me , For thou art the man that alone can procure my liberty . But thou wilt harden thy heart still , and be deaf to my pitiful moan : So I must endure the smart still , and tumble in straw all alone . While still I cry Oh turn Love , and I prithee Love turn to me , For thou art the man that alone art the cause of my misery . If that thou still do disdain me , I never will love the more . Thy cruelty shall never pain me , for I'll have another in store . But still I cry Oh turn Love , and I prithee Love turn to me , For thou art the man that alone art the cause of my misery . By hearing her pitiful clamour , the passion of Love he felt , He could no longer disdain her , his frozen heart it did melt ; For ever she cried Oh turn Love , and I prithee Love turn to me , for thou art the man , that alone can procure my liberty . He said my Love I will please thee thy heaviness grieves me soar , But let not sorrow once seize thee , I never will grieve thee more . I'll turn to thee my own kind heart , dear Love I'le turn to thee . For I am the man that now art come to procure thy liberty . I'le crown thee with garlands of straw then and marry thee with a rush ring . My frozen heart it will thaw then , and merrily we will sing , But ever she cried Oh turn Love , and I prithee Love turn to me , For thou art the man , that alone can release my misery . Most lovingly he imbrac't her and call'd her his hearts delight , And close by his side he plac't her , all sorrow was banished quite , And now she for joy cried , turn Love and I prithee Love turn to me For thou art the man , that alone hast released me of misery . FINIS . 