E . 334 Sir Walter Raleigh Sailing in the Lowlands . Showing how the famous Ship called the sweet Trinity was taken by a false Galley , and how it was again restored by the craft of a little Seaboy , who sunk the Galley ; as the following Song will declare . To the Tune of , The Sailing in the Lowlands . SIr Walter Rawleigh ha's built a ship in the Neatherlands , Sir Walter Rawleigh ha's built a ship in the Netherlands ? And it is called the sweet Trinity , And was taken by the false Gallaly , sailing in the Lowlands : Is there never a Seaman bold in the Netherlands : Is there never a Seamen bold in the Netherlands ? That will go take this false Gallaly , And to redeem the sweet Trinity , sailing in the Lowlands . Then spoke the little Shipboy in the Netherlands , Then spoke the little Shipboy in the Netherlands , Master , master , what will you give me , And I will take this false Gallaly , And release the sweet Trinity , sailing in the Lowlands . I'le give thee gold , and I'le give thee fee in the Netherlands , I'le give thee gold , and I'le give thee fee in the Netherlands ; And my eldest daughter thy wife shall be , sailing in the Lowlands . He set his breast , and away he did swim in the Netherlands , He set his breast , and away did swim in the Netherlands . Until he came to the false Gallaly , sailing in the Lowlands , HE had and Augor fit for the once , in the Netherlands , He had and Augor fit for the once , in the Netherlands ; The which will boar Fifteen good holes at once , sailing in the Lowlands Some were at Cards , and at somt Dice in the Netherlands , Some were at Cards , and some at Dice in the Netherlands , Until the salt water flash'd in their eyes , sailing in the Lowlands . Some cut their hats , and some cut their caps in the Netherlands ; Some cut their hats , and some cut their caps in the Netherlands , For to stop the salt-water gaps , sailing in the Lowlands . He set his breast and away did swim in the Netherlands , He set his breast and away did swim in the Netherlands ; Until he came to his own ship again , sailing in the Lowlands , I have done the work I promised to do in the Netherlands , I have done the work I promised to do in the Netherlands . For I have sunk the false Gallaly , And released the sweet Trinity , sailing in the Lowlands . You promised me gold , and you promised me fee , in the Netherlands , You promised me gold and you promised me fee in the Netherlands , Your eldest daughter my wife she must be , sailing in the Lowlands . You shall have gold , and you shall have fee in the Netherlands . You shall have gold , and you shall have a fee in the Netherlands . But my eldest daughter your wife shall never be for sailing in the Lowlands . Then fare you well , you cozening Lord in the Netherlands , Then fare you well , you cozening Lord in the Netherlands . Seeing you are not so good as your word , for sailing in the Lowlands . And thus I shall conclude my Song of the sailing in the Lowlands , And , thus I shall conclude my Song of the sailing in the Lowlands ; Wishing all happiness to all Seamen both old & young in their sailing in the Lowlands . This may be printed R.L.S. Printed for J. Conyers , at the Black-Raven the first shop in Fetter-Lane next Holborn . E . 334 Sir Walter Raleigh Sailing in the Lowlands . Showing how the famous Ship called the sweet Trinity was taken by a false Galley , and how it was again restored by the craft of a little Seaboy , who sunk the Galley ; as the following Song will declare . To the Tune of , The Sailing in the Lowlands . SIr Walter Rawleigh ha's built a ship in the Neatherlands , Sir Walter Rawleigh ha's built a ship in the Netherlands ? And it is called the sweet Trinity , And was taken by the false Gallaly , sailing in the Lowlands : Is there never a Seaman bold in the Netherlands : Is there never a Seamen bold in the Netherlands ? That will go take this false Gallaly , And to redeem the sweet Trinity , sailing in the Lowlands . Then spoke the little Shipboy in the Netherlands , Then spoke the little Shipboy in the Netherlands , Master , master , what will you give me , And I will take this false Gallaly , And release the sweet Trinity , sailing in the Lowlands . I'le give thee gold , and I'le give thee fee in the Netherlands , I'le give thee gold , and I'le give thee fee in the Netherlands ; And my eldest daughter thy wife shall be , sailing in the Lowlands . He set his breast , and away he did swim in the Netherlands , He set his breast , and away did swim in the Netherlands . Until he came to the false Gallaly , sailing in the Lowlands , HE had and Augor fit for the once , in the Netherlands , He had and Augor fit for the once , in the Netherlands ; The which will boar Fifteen good holes at once , sailing in the Lowlands Some were at Cards , and at somt Dice in the Netherlands , Some were at Cards , and some at Dice in the Netherlands , Until the salt water flash'd in their eyes , sailing in the Lowlands . Some cut their hats , and some cut their caps in the Netherlands ; Some cut their hats , and some cut their caps in the Netherlands , For to stop the salt-water gaps , sailing in the Lowlands . He set his breast and away did swim in the Netherlands , He set his breast and away did swim in the Netherlands ; Until he came to his own ship again , sailing in the Lowlands , I have done the work I promised to do in the Netherlands , I have done the work I promised to do in the Netherlands . For I have sunk the false Gallaly , And released the sweet Trinity , sailing in the Lowlands . You promised me gold , and you promised me fee , in the Netherlands , You promised me gold and you promised me fee in the Netherlands , Your eldest daughter my wife she must be , sailing in the Lowlands . You shall have gold , and you shall have fee in the Netherlands . You shall have gold , and you shall have a fee in the Netherlands . But my eldest daughter your wife shall never be for sailing in the Lowlands . Then fare you well , you cozening Lord in the Netherlands , Then fare you well , you cozening Lord in the Netherlands . Seeing you are not so good as your word , for sailing in the Lowlands . And thus I shall conclude my Song of the sailing in the Lowlands , And , thus I shall conclude my Song of the sailing in the Lowlands ; Wishing all happiness to all Seamen both old & young in their sailing in the Lowlands . This may be printed R.L.S. Printed for J. Conyers , at the Black-Raven the first shop in Fetter-Lane next Holborn . 