E : 388 The West Country Wooing , OR , The Merry conceited Couple . In pleasant terms , he lets her know his mind , And fairly wooes her , for to make her kind : At first she seemed coy to his persuasion , And put him off , with many a sly evasion : But finding at the last his love was constant , Her heart she did resign from that same instant . Tune of , When Sol will cast no ligh Or , My pretty little Rogue . MY Joy and only Dear : come fit down by me , For thou shalt plainly hear I mean to try thee , If thou canst love a Lad brisk , young and lively , I'le make thy heart full glad , thou shalt live finely . Thy pretty rolling eye , and waste so slender , Thy forehead smooth and high thy lips so tender Hath so ensnar'd my heart that I must love thee Therefore i'le not depart , till pity move thee . Alas kind Sir , she said , what hath possessed you , For to delude a Maid , be not so hasty , Your flattering words that passed , can no ways move me ; For to repent at last , or yield to love you , The second Part , To the same Tune . WE know that youngmen can cog , lie , and flatter , And make vows , now and then , to mend the matter ; With such slights cunningly they do deceive us , Bring us to beggary , and then they leave us . Fear not my Dear , ( quoth he ) that I dissemble , Or that such false young men , I do resemble , I have both house and land good gold and riches , And all at thy command : pray mark my speeches . Your house and land perhaps you think may move me , But I fear after claps , if I should love you , Therefore my Maidenhead , I will make much on't , For ne're a false youngman shall have a touch on't . O stay my Love he said , make further trial , Be not so resolute in your denial , Fear not but you shall find , I will content thee , And bravely please thy mind , none shalt prevent me . What pleasure can a Maid find in your dealing , When you her kindness think , not worth concealing , Youngmen are apt to blab what's done in private , And well I understand what 'tis you drive at . My pretty Rogue , he said , do not misdoubt me , Why should you live a Maid , and think I flout you , In my love , I promise , for to persever , And seal it with a kiss , to last for ever . If that you love as much as you profess it , And that your truth is such , as you express it , Quoth she take hand and heart , and use your pleasure , For I will never part , from such a treasure . O how it Joys my mind , ( quoth he my jewel , That thou wilt now be kind , and no more cruel , Venus that Goddess she will smile to know it , How we in love agree , when we shall show it . So from that happy hour , they were united , And to a pleasant Bower , he her invited , Where they with sport and play , kindly embracing , There passed the time away , Lovers Joys tracing , London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . E : 388 The West Country Wooing , OR , The Merry conceited Couple . In pleasant terms , he lets her know his mind , And fairly wooes her , for to make her kind : At first she seemed coy to his persuasion , And put him off , with many a sly evasion : But finding at the last his love was constant , Her heart she did resign from that same instant . Tune of , When Sol will cast no ligh Or , My pretty little Rogue . MY Joy and only Dear : come fit down by me , For thou shalt plainly hear I mean to try thee , If thou canst love a Lad brisk , young and lively , I'le make thy heart full glad , thou shalt live finely . Thy pretty rolling eye , and waste so slender , Thy forehead smooth and high thy lips so tender Hath so ensnar'd my heart that I must love thee Therefore i'le not depart , till pity move thee . Alas kind Sir , she said , what hath possessed you , For to delude a Maid , be not so hasty , Your flattering words that passed , can no ways move me ; For to repent at last , or yield to love you , The second Part , To the same Tune . WE know that youngmen can cog , lie , and flatter , And make vows , now and then , to mend the matter ; With such slights cunningly they do deceive us , Bring us to beggary , and then they leave us . Fear not my Dear , ( quoth he ) that I dissemble , Or that such false young men , I do resemble , I have both house and land good gold and riches , And all at thy command : pray mark my speeches . Your house and land perhaps you think may move me , But I fear after claps , if I should love you , Therefore my Maidenhead , I will make much on't , For ne're a false youngman shall have a touch on't . O stay my Love he said , make further trial , Be not so resolute in your denial , Fear not but you shall find , I will content thee , And bravely please thy mind , none shalt prevent me . What pleasure can a Maid find in your dealing , When you her kindness think , not worth concealing , Youngmen are apt to blab what's done in private , And well I understand what 'tis you drive at . My pretty Rogue , he said , do not misdoubt me , Why should you live a Maid , and think I flout you , In my love , I promise , for to persever , And seal it with a kiss , to last for ever . If that you love as much as you profess it , And that your truth is such , as you express it , Quoth she take hand and heart , and use your pleasure , For I will never part , from such a treasure . O how it Joys my mind , ( quoth he my jewel , That thou wilt now be kind , and no more cruel , Venus that Goddess she will smile to know it , How we in love agree , when we shall show it . So from that happy hour , they were united , And to a pleasant Bower , he her invited , Where they with sport and play , kindly embracing , There passed the time away , Lovers Joys tracing , London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . E : 383 Well met Neighbour : OR , A dainty discourse betwixt Nell and Sisse , of men that do use their wives amiss : Then all you good women their cases pity , the cause you shall hear if you list to this ditty . To the tune of Ragged and Torn . WHither away good neighbour , what makes you to trudge so fast ? I'm going to Margeryes Labour , I'm sent for in very great has Yet for all this your speed , I pray you go softly a while , For I have a thing in my head that will hold us talking a mile : Herd you not lately of Hugh , how soundly his wife he banged , He beatrice her black and blue O such a Rogue would be hanged . Is't possible neighbour Sisse , that they do no better agree ? Nay I have more news then this of others as bad as he : And seeing we both go one way , wee'l give to our haste some scope , Though you from the labour do stay sheel do well enough I hope : Know you not Laurence the Miller , Oh he is as good as ere twangd , His wife says he threatens to kill her , Oh such a Rogue would be hanged . O fie on these dastardly Knaves , for those that will beat their wives They dare not with swords or staves meet men in the field for their lives : But if that my husband should not use me so well as he ought , My hands I should hardly hold for idem give him as good as he borough But know you not Kett the Baker oh he is as good as ere twangd , He threatens his wife to forsake her Oh such a Rogue would be hanged . Why what is his reason for that ? in troth neighbour I do not know , But when he's as drunk as a Rat , then sheel act the part of a shrow : Tush , thats such a catching disease few women their silence can keep , Let every one say what they please but a shrew's better then a sheep : But know you not Ralph the plummer , I he is as good as ere twangd : He walks with a wench every summer Oh such a Rogue would be hanged . What does his poor wife the meanwhile ? at home she does sadly remain , And at his return she will smile , and lovingly him entertain : In troth then he serves her but right , but if that it were my case , The wench that he kept but one night , should go with no nose on her face : But know you not Same the Turner , oh he is as good as ere twangd , He throws his wife i' that fire to burn her Oh such a Rogue would be hanged . The second part , To the same tune . I Pray you how happened that , what should be the cause of this strife ? A man brought a new Beaver hat , unto his next neighbours wife , And she spoke unto her good man , to buy such another for her , Which made him to curse and to ban , and thus began all the stir . But know you not Franke the Glover , oh he is as good as ere twangd , His wife says he does not love her , Oh such a Rogue would be hanged . But what do you thinke's the occasion that separates them in affection ? Hees led by a queans persuasion to bring his poor wife in subjection , Should my good man use me thus I'de feritt both him and his minion , To love them that love not us is folly in my opinion : But know you not Ned the painter ? oh he is as good as ere twangd , Hee's turned a great Tavern haunter Oh such a Rogue would be hanged . This seems a great wonder to me , and a thing which I hardly can think For lately so strict was he , that you hardly could get him to drink Tush , thats a thing commonly seen , theres many that seem so civil : In a place convenient have been as bad as who's most evil : But know you not Stephen the weaver oh he is as good as ere twangd , Has deceiv'd my maid , now heel leave her Oh such a Rogue would be hanged . Why neighbour I hope you but jest , has he your maid Nan beguiled ? This true neighbour Nell I protest , and I doubt now she will run wild : This pity that maids are so kind to trust them that are so fickle , For now you may well understand she is left in a very bad pickle : But know you not George the felmon-ger oh he is as good as ere twangd , He let his first wife die for hunger , Oh such a Rogue would be hanged . In sadness neighbour Sisse you have made me my time oreslip , If Margery should do amiss 'twould make me to bite my lip : And therefore in haste farewell . oh Margery now I come , Adieu sweet neighbour Nell , hush , say no more but mum . For staying from Madge this true , I confess I deserve to be banged : And this is all long of Hugh , Oh such a Rogue would be hanged . M.P. FINIS . Printed at London for Thomas Lambert . E : 383 Well met Neighbour : OR , A dainty discourse betwixt Nell and Sisse , of men that do use their wives amiss : Then all you good women their cases pity , the cause you shall hear if you list to this ditty . To the tune of Ragged and Torn . WHither away good neighbour , what makes you to trudge so fast ? I'm going to Margeryes Labour , I'm sent for in very great has Yet for all this your speed , I pray you go softly a while , For I have a thing in my head that will hold us talking a mile : Herd you not lately of Hugh , how soundly his wife he banged , He beatrice her black and blue O such a Rogue would be hanged . Is't possible neighbour Sisse , that they do no better agree ? Nay I have more news then this of others as bad as he : And seeing we both go one way , wee'l give to our haste some scope , Though you from the labour do stay sheel do well enough I hope : Know you not Laurence the Miller , Oh he is as good as ere twangd , His wife says he threatens to kill her , Oh such a Rogue would be hanged . O fie on these dastardly Knaves , for those that will beat their wives They dare not with swords or staves meet men in the field for their lives : But if that my husband should not use me so well as he ought , My hands I should hardly hold for idem give him as good as he borough But know you not Kett the Baker oh he is as good as ere twangd , He threatens his wife to forsake her Oh such a Rogue would be hanged . Why what is his reason for that ? in troth neighbour I do not know , But when he's as drunk as a Rat , then sheel act the part of a shrow : Tush , thats such a catching disease few women their silence can keep , Let every one say what they please but a shrew's better then a sheep : But know you not Ralph the plummer , I he is as good as ere twangd : He walks with a wench every summer Oh such a Rogue would be hanged . What does his poor wife the meanwhile ? at home she does sadly remain , And at his return she will smile , and lovingly him entertain : In troth then he serves her but right , but if that it were my case , The wench that he kept but one night , should go with no nose on her face : But know you not Same the Turner , oh he is as good as ere twangd , He throws his wife i' that fire to burn her Oh such a Rogue would be hanged . The second part , To the same tune . I Pray you how happened that , what should be the cause of this strife ? A man brought a new Beaver hat , unto his next neighbours wife , And she spoke unto her good man , to buy such another for her , Which made him to curse and to ban , and thus began all the stir . But know you not Franke the Glover , oh he is as good as ere twangd , His wife says he does not love her , Oh such a Rogue would be hanged . But what do you thinke's the occasion that separates them in affection ? Hees led by a queans persuasion to bring his poor wife in subjection , Should my good man use me thus I'de feritt both him and his minion , To love them that love not us is folly in my opinion : But know you not Ned the painter ? oh he is as good as ere twangd , Hee's turned a great Tavern haunter Oh such a Rogue would be hanged . This seems a great wonder to me , and a thing which I hardly can think For lately so strict was he , that you hardly could get him to drink Tush , thats a thing commonly seen , theres many that seem so civil : In a place convenient have been as bad as who's most evil : But know you not Stephen the weaver oh he is as good as ere twangd , Has deceiv'd my maid , now heel leave her Oh such a Rogue would be hanged . Why neighbour I hope you but jest , has he your maid Nan beguiled ? This true neighbour Nell I protest , and I doubt now she will run wild : This pity that maids are so kind to trust them that are so fickle , For now you may well understand she is left in a very bad pickle : But know you not George the felmon-ger oh he is as good as ere twangd , He let his first wife die for hunger , Oh such a Rogue would be hanged . In sadness neighbour Sisse you have made me my time oreslip , If Margery should do amiss 'twould make me to bite my lip : And therefore in haste farewell . oh Margery now I come , Adieu sweet neighbour Nell , hush , say no more but mum . For staying from Madge this true , I confess I deserve to be banged : And this is all long of Hugh , Oh such a Rogue would be hanged . M.P. FINIS . Printed at London for Thomas Lambert . 