A wondered Example of God's Justice , showed upon one Jasper Conningham , a Gentleman born in Scotland , who was of opinion that there was neither God nor Devil . To the Tune of , Oh Neighbour Robert . IT was a Scotchman , a Scotchman lewd of Life , That long had Lived unlawful from his wife : His name was Jasper Conningham , as I did understand ; Whose dwelling was in Aberdine , a town in fair Scotland . He had a sister which was both fair and bright , Worshipfully wedded unto a worthy Knight , Godly , wise , and virtuous in every thing was she : A fairer comely Lady , in Scotland could not be . Her Wicked Brother such inward pains did prove , That with his fair Sister he greatly was in Love : He watches time and wooes her , he shows to her his mind , And still he says sweet sister be not to me unkind . This comely Lady in mild and gentle wise , Unto her Brother thus modestly replies ; The Lord forbid dear brother I sho [ u ] ld consent at all , To such a damned actium to bring our souls in thrall . Is not great torments prepar'd for hateful since ? Is not God as righteous as ever he hath been ? Is not hell prepared with quenchless flames of fire , To give such wicked persons , their due deserved hire . Wherefore dear brother repent and and call for grace , Let not these motions within your heart take place : Consider how to judgement , we shall one day be brought , To answer for our folles which in this Life we wrought . Her brother hearing her godly Christian talk , Within the Garden as they alone did walk Blasphemously replied , as shameless as he stood , Saying she had declared a tale of Robin Hood . You are deceived fair sister then said he , To talk of Heavens Glory , or hells Plagues to me ; These are devised fables to keep poor souls in fear , That were by wise men written , though no such things there were . You speak of a reckoning , and of a Judgement day : And after Life is ended , and flesh consum'd away : And of a God most justly , will plague all things amiss , And those that do believe it , are much deceiv'd I wis . Alas , he said , my sister , these things are nothing so , No God nor Devil is biding , in heaven nor hell I know : All things are wrought by na [ tO ] ure the Earth , the air , and Sky , There is no joy nor sorrow after that men do die . Therefore let me have pleasure while here I do remain I fear not Gods displeasure nor hells tormenting pa [ i ] n : No sooner had he spoken this foul blasphemous thing , But that a heavy judgement upon him God did bring . For in the Garden , whereas he did abide , Suddenly a fire sprang up on every side , Which round about enclosed this Damned Wretch that Day Who ror'd and cri'd most grievous , But could not start away . The second Part , to the same Tune . THis fearful fire up to his knees did rise , Burning blue like brimstone in most outrageous wise : The Lady which beheld it , run crying in for aid To pluck away her brother which in the fire stayed . But nought prevailed , for all that they could do , Long staves and also pitchforks they reached him unto ; Because they durst not venture near to the fiery flame , He taking hold upon them to draw him out of the same . But not a finger nor hand that he could move , His arms hung dead behind him , great pains that he did prove , And now he bans and curses the day that he was born , And wishes that his carcase by devils might be torn . Now feel I surely , quoth he , there is a God , That soar does plague me , with his strong iron rod . O hide me from his presence , his looks are death to me , Nothing but wrath and vengeance , about him I do see . I have despised him , but can no whit repent , My heart is hardened , my mind cannot relent , No pity nor compassion , nor mercy is in store , For me vile wretched creature , despis'd for evermore . I am in hell tormented and to endless pain , Look how the devils torment me in stretching every vain , Look how they swarm about me , o what hell fiends are these , Woe Worth the time that ever , I did the Lord displease . I burn in flaming fire , yet do no whit consume , My conscience does torment me , that did in since presume . Alas my loving Sister , now I do know full well , There is a God most righteous , and eke a devil in hell . And with these speeches his eyes fell from his head , And by the strings hung dangling below his chin stark dead . See how the devils then he said , have plucked my eyes out quite , That always was unworthy to view the heavens light . Then from his mouth there fell , his foul blasphemous tongue , In ugly manner most piteously it hung . And there away it roted in all the peoples sighed , By Lice and filthy vermin , it was consumed quite . With ghastly groaning and Shrieks that sounded high , Two hours after this cursed man did lie , And there at length he died , and then the fire ceased His carcase stunk more filthy then any carrion beast . No man was able for to endure the smell , Nor yet to come to bury him , as true report does tell ; Until he was consumed he laid above the ground , The doors about the garden , therefore was Locked round . Let all Blasphemers take warning by this thing , Lest that Gods vengeance they do upon them bring . And Lord grant all Christians thy holy grace and fear , They may think on the punishments that Conningham had here . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . A wondered Example of God's Justice , showed upon one Jasper Conningham , a Gentleman born in Scotland , who was of opinion that there was neither God nor Devil . To the Tune of , Oh Neighbour Robert . IT was a Scotchman , a Scotchman lewd of Life , That long had Lived unlawful from his wife : His name was Jasper Conningham , as I did understand ; Whose dwelling was in Aberdine , a town in fair Scotland . He had a sister which was both fair and bright , Worshipfully wedded unto a worthy Knight , Godly , wise , and virtuous in every thing was she : A fairer comely Lady , in Scotland could not be . Her Wicked Brother such inward pains did prove , That with his fair Sister he greatly was in Love : He watches time and wooes her , he shows to her his mind , And still he says sweet sister be not to me unkind . This comely Lady in mild and gentle wise , Unto her Brother thus modestly replies ; The Lord forbid dear brother I sho [ u ] ld consent at all , To such a damned actium to bring our souls in thrall . Is not great torments prepar'd for hateful since ? Is not God as righteous as ever he hath been ? Is not hell prepared with quenchless flames of fire , To give such wicked persons , their due deserved hire . Wherefore dear brother repent and and call for grace , Let not these motions within your heart take place : Consider how to judgement , we shall one day be brought , To answer for our folles which in this Life we wrought . Her brother hearing her godly Christian talk , Within the Garden as they alone did walk Blasphemously replied , as shameless as he stood , Saying she had declared a tale of Robin Hood . You are deceived fair sister then said he , To talk of Heavens Glory , or hells Plagues to me ; These are devised fables to keep poor souls in fear , That were by wise men written , though no such things there were . You speak of a reckoning , and of a Judgement day : And after Life is ended , and flesh consum'd away : And of a God most justly , will plague all things amiss , And those that do believe it , are much deceiv'd I wis . Alas , he said , my sister , these things are nothing so , No God nor Devil is biding , in heaven nor hell I know : All things are wrought by na [ tO ] ure the Earth , the air , and Sky , There is no joy nor sorrow after that men do die . Therefore let me have pleasure while here I do remain I fear not Gods displeasure nor hells tormenting pa [ i ] n : No sooner had he spoken this foul blasphemous thing , But that a heavy judgement upon him God did bring . For in the Garden , whereas he did abide , Suddenly a fire sprang up on every side , Which round about enclosed this Damned Wretch that Day Who ror'd and cri'd most grievous , But could not start away . The second Part , to the same Tune . THis fearful fire up to his knees did rise , Burning blue like brimstone in most outrageous wise : The Lady which beheld it , run crying in for aid To pluck away her brother which in the fire stayed . But nought prevailed , for all that they could do , Long staves and also pitchforks they reached him unto ; Because they durst not venture near to the fiery flame , He taking hold upon them to draw him out of the same . But not a finger nor hand that he could move , His arms hung dead behind him , great pains that he did prove , And now he bans and curses the day that he was born , And wishes that his carcase by devils might be torn . Now feel I surely , quoth he , there is a God , That soar does plague me , with his strong iron rod . O hide me from his presence , his looks are death to me , Nothing but wrath and vengeance , about him I do see . I have despised him , but can no whit repent , My heart is hardened , my mind cannot relent , No pity nor compassion , nor mercy is in store , For me vile wretched creature , despis'd for evermore . I am in hell tormented and to endless pain , Look how the devils torment me in stretching every vain , Look how they swarm about me , o what hell fiends are these , Woe Worth the time that ever , I did the Lord displease . I burn in flaming fire , yet do no whit consume , My conscience does torment me , that did in since presume . Alas my loving Sister , now I do know full well , There is a God most righteous , and eke a devil in hell . And with these speeches his eyes fell from his head , And by the strings hung dangling below his chin stark dead . See how the devils then he said , have plucked my eyes out quite , That always was unworthy to view the heavens light . Then from his mouth there fell , his foul blasphemous tongue , In ugly manner most piteously it hung . And there away it roted in all the peoples sighed , By Lice and filthy vermin , it was consumed quite . With ghastly groaning and Shrieks that sounded high , Two hours after this cursed man did lie , And there at length he died , and then the fire ceased His carcase stunk more filthy then any carrion beast . No man was able for to endure the smell , Nor yet to come to bury him , as true report does tell ; Until he was consumed he laid above the ground , The doors about the garden , therefore was Locked round . Let all Blasphemers take warning by this thing , Lest that Gods vengeance they do upon them bring . And Lord grant all Christians thy holy grace and fear , They may think on the punishments that Conningham had here . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 