E : 337 Slippery Will , or The old Bachelors complaint , with his advice to all young men not to do as he had done : His youthful time he spent away , Which makes him now this Proverb say , That he that will not when he may , When he would , he should have nay . To the tune of , The Bonny Bonny Broom . LOng have I liv'd a Bachelors life , and had no mind to marry , But now I would feign have a wife , either Doll , Kate , Sis , or Marry . These foure did love me very well , I had my choice of many , But one did all the rest excel , and that was pretty Nanny : Oh young men all , to you I cry and call , make not too long delay , For if you will not when you may , when you would , you shall have nay . These Lasses fair did love me very deer , when I was in my prime , But now give ear and you shall hear , how I spent away my time : I promis'd Kate to be her true Love , and would not falsify , But soon I did contrary prove , o I cannot it deny . O young , etc After Kate I went and wooed Doll , she was my duck and my deer , Her own sweet heart she did me call , of me she had no fear , But I left her for Sifles sweet sake , for which poor Kate did grieve , And she did proclamations make , that no Maid should me believe . O young , etc , Now Sisly she my true love must be : many fine words I her told , And she most faithfully believed me , and gave me silver and gold ; Which freely I in company did spend and made no care , She called me her deer honey , and bade I should not spare . O young , etc Now I having wasted much of her coin , she then began to grow weary , Then did she seek me to combine , that I with her should marry . But I was loath to yield unto her will , I told her I would tarry . Then afterwards I did use my skill , for to be beloved of Mary . O young , etc Now Marry she did think verily , that I had been her own , But she was much deceiv'd in me , as plainly shall be shown , She was so cunning , crafty and wise , that she would not part with her money , Then when I found her so precise , I went and wooed Nanny . O young men all , to you I cry and call , make not too long delay , For if you will not when you may , when you would , you shall have nay . The second part . To the same tune . SWeet Nan did love me deer indeed , she would not see me to lack , She gave me money to serve my need , and apparel to my back , She called me her honey , conny , deer , her true delight and her love , And always bade that I should not fear , but that she would constant prove . O young men all , to you I cry and call , make not too long delay , For if you will not when you may , when you would you shall have nay . Thus did I spend away my time of youth , and now begin to ware old , The Proverb now I find is truth , Hight love soon wareth cold . I went and tried my Lasses over again , but I found them all very strange , They tell me now it is in vain , so often to fleet and change . O young , etc When I came to prove my first true Love , asking her if she did well : But now she does contrary prove , and with'd that the Devil of Hell Might take me up upon his back , and carry me about to fell ; She bid me thence away to pack , and not come where she does swell . O young , etc From Kate to Doll I did then repair , and called her my own Sweetheart , She asked me what I did there , and bade me thence depart , She cal'd me slave and cheating knave , and swore she would procure Some punishment for me to have , that I might smart endure . O young , etc I hearing her to threaten me so , went quickly from her sighed , Then to my Sisly I did go , which was my hearts delight ; But when she saw me at the door , she would not let me in , But told me of my faults before , and said , She would baste my skin Oh young , etc Then wandering from thence I went , and came to Mistress Marry , Who was resolv'd with full intent , my life for to miscarry : She fetched a spit and ran at me , thinking to end my life , She used me most cruelly , and at me drew her knife . O young , etc Then presently to Nan I hi'd , to see if she would be kind , But she at me did rail and chide , and swore she would beatrice me blind . She took her Distaff in her hand , and laid on me very soar ; I thought it was no boot to stand , but god me out of door . O young , etc I must confess that I did amiss , in loving of so many , Oh but now what a plague is this : I am not beloved of any : My heart is grieved very soar , to think on former joys , Oh I shall never see them more , then list to me young boys . For time and tide does quickly glide , and time for none will stay , Then take your time when as you may , or perhaps you may have nay . FINIS . Printed at London for E . B.E : 337 Slippery Will , or The old Bachelors complaint , with his advice to all young men not to do as he had done : His youthful time he spent away , Which makes him now this Proverb say , That he that will not when he may , When he would , he should have nay . To the tune of , The Bonny Bonny Broom . LOng have I liv'd a Bachelors life , and had no mind to marry , But now I would feign have a wife , either Doll , Kate , Sis , or Marry . These foure did love me very well , I had my choice of many , But one did all the rest excel , and that was pretty Nanny : Oh young men all , to you I cry and call , make not too long delay , For if you will not when you may , when you would , you shall have nay . These Lasses fair did love me very deer , when I was in my prime , But now give ear and you shall hear , how I spent away my time : I promis'd Kate to be her true Love , and would not falsify , But soon I did contrary prove , o I cannot it deny . O young , etc After Kate I went and wooed Doll , she was my duck and my deer , Her own sweet heart she did me call , of me she had no fear , But I left her for Sifles sweet sake , for which poor Kate did grieve , And she did proclamations make , that no Maid should me believe . O young , etc , Now Sisly she my true love must be : many fine words I her told , And she most faithfully believed me , and gave me silver and gold ; Which freely I in company did spend and made no care , She called me her deer honey , and bade I should not spare . O young , etc Now I having wasted much of her coin , she then began to grow weary , Then did she seek me to combine , that I with her should marry . But I was loath to yield unto her will , I told her I would tarry . Then afterwards I did use my skill , for to be beloved of Mary . O young , etc Now Marry she did think verily , that I had been her own , But she was much deceiv'd in me , as plainly shall be shown , She was so cunning , crafty and wise , that she would not part with her money , Then when I found her so precise , I went and wooed Nanny . O young men all , to you I cry and call , make not too long delay , For if you will not when you may , when you would , you shall have nay . The second part . To the same tune . SWeet Nan did love me deer indeed , she would not see me to lack , She gave me money to serve my need , and apparel to my back , She called me her honey , conny , deer , her true delight and her love , And always bade that I should not fear , but that she would constant prove . O young men all , to you I cry and call , make not too long delay , For if you will not when you may , when you would you shall have nay . Thus did I spend away my time of youth , and now begin to ware old , The Proverb now I find is truth , Hight love soon wareth cold . I went and tried my Lasses over again , but I found them all very strange , They tell me now it is in vain , so often to fleet and change . O young , etc When I came to prove my first true Love , asking her if she did well : But now she does contrary prove , and with'd that the Devil of Hell Might take me up upon his back , and carry me about to fell ; She bid me thence away to pack , and not come where she does swell . O young , etc From Kate to Doll I did then repair , and called her my own Sweetheart , She asked me what I did there , and bade me thence depart , She cal'd me slave and cheating knave , and swore she would procure Some punishment for me to have , that I might smart endure . O young , etc I hearing her to threaten me so , went quickly from her sighed , Then to my Sisly I did go , which was my hearts delight ; But when she saw me at the door , she would not let me in , But told me of my faults before , and said , She would baste my skin Oh young , etc Then wandering from thence I went , and came to Mistress Marry , Who was resolv'd with full intent , my life for to miscarry : She fetched a spit and ran at me , thinking to end my life , She used me most cruelly , and at me drew her knife . O young , etc Then presently to Nan I hi'd , to see if she would be kind , But she at me did rail and chide , and swore she would beatrice me blind . She took her Distaff in her hand , and laid on me very soar ; I thought it was no boot to stand , but god me out of door . O young , etc I must confess that I did amiss , in loving of so many , Oh but now what a plague is this : I am not beloved of any : My heart is grieved very soar , to think on former joys , Oh I shall never see them more , then list to me young boys . For time and tide does quickly glide , and time for none will stay , Then take your time when as you may , or perhaps you may have nay . FINIS . Printed at London for E.B. 