The Woman to the BLOW ; And the Man to the HEN-ROOST ; OR , A fine way to cure a Cot-quean . The Tune is , I have for all good Wives a Song , BOth Men and Women listen well a merry Jest I will you tell , Betwixt a Goodman and a Wife , Who fell the other day at strife , He chid her for her Huswivery , And she found fault as well as he . With him for's work without the doors , Quoth he , a pox on all such whores , Sith you and I cannot agree , Let's change our work content quoth she My wheel and Distaff here take thou , And I will drive the Cart and Blow . This was concluded betwixt them both , To Cart and Blow the goodwife go'th , The goodman he at home does tarry , To see that nothing does miscarry , And apron he before him put . Judge , was not this a handsome Slut , He fleets the Milk , he makes the Cheese He gropes the Hens , the Turks & Gees , He Brews & Bakes as well as he can , But not as it should be done , poor man , As he did make his Cheese one day , Two pigs their belys brake with whay Nothing that he in hand did take , Did come to good , once he did Bake , And burn'd the Bred as black as a stock Another time he went to rock The Cradle , and threw the Child o' that floor , And brok his Nose , and hurt it soar . He went to Milk one evening tide , A skittish Cow on the wrong side , His pail was full of Milk , God wot , She kicked and spilled it every jot , Beside she hit him a blow o' that face , Which was scant whole in six weeks space Thus was he serv'd , and yet too well , And more mischances yet befell , Before his Apron he'd leave off , Though all his Neighbours did him scoff , Now list and mark one pretty jest , 'Twill make you laugh above all the rest , As he to Churn his Butter went , One morning with a good intent , The Cot-quean fool did surely dream , For he had quite forgotten the Cream , He churn'd all day , with all his might . And yet he could get no Butter at night , The second part , to the same tune . It strange indeed for me to utter that without Cream he should make buter Now having showed his Huswivery , Who did all things thus oukwardly , Unto the Goodwife isle turn my Rhyme . And tell you how she spent her time . She daily us'd to drive the Blow , But to do 't well she knew not how , She made so many bank i' that ground , He had been better have given five pound That she had never tan't in hand , So sorely she had spoiled his Land. As she did sow the seed likewise , She made a feast for Crows and Pies , She threw a handful at a place , And left all bore another space , At th' Harrow she could not rule her Mare But hid one Land and left two bore . And shortly after on a day , As she came home with a load of Hay , She overthrew it , nay and worse , She broke the Cart , and killed a Horse , The goodman the same time had ill luck , He let in the Sow , and she kil'd a Duck . And being grieved at his heart , For loss on 's Duck , his Horse and Cart. And many hurts on both sides done , His eyes did with salt water run , Oh now , quoth he , full well I see , The Wheel's for her , the Blow for me . I thee entreat quoth he good Wife , To take thy charge , and all my life , I'll never meddle with Huswivery more , Nor find such faults as I did before , Give me the Car-whip and the Flail , Take thou the Chyrn and Milking-pail The good-Wife she was well content , And about her Huswivery she went , He to Hedging and to Ditching , Reaping , Mowing , Lading , Pitching , He would be twatling still before , But after he never twatled more . I wish all Wives that troubled be . With Hose and Doublet , Huswivery , To serve them as this Woman did , Then may they work and never be chid , Though she i' that interim had some loss , Thereby she was eas'd of a cross , Take heed of this you Husbandmen , Let Wives alone to grope the Hen , And meddle you with the Horse and Ox And keep your Lambs from Wolf & Fox So shall you live contented lives , And take sweet pleasure in your wives FINIS . M.P. London , Printed for F. Grove dwelling on Snow-hill . The Woman to the BLOW ; And the Man to the HEN-ROOST ; OR , A fine way to cure a Cot-quean . The Tune is , I have for all good Wives a Song , BOth Men and Women listen well a merry Jest I will you tell , Betwixt a Goodman and a Wife , Who fell the other day at strife , He chid her for her Huswivery , And she found fault as well as he . With him for's work without the doors , Quoth he , a pox on all such whores , Sith you and I cannot agree , Let's change our work content quoth she My wheel and Distaff here take thou , And I will drive the Cart and Blow . This was concluded betwixt them both , To Cart and Blow the goodwife go'th , The goodman he at home does tarry , To see that nothing does miscarry , And apron he before him put . Judge , was not this a handsome Slut , He fleets the Milk , he makes the Cheese He gropes the Hens , the Turks & Gees , He Brews & Bakes as well as he can , But not as it should be done , poor man , As he did make his Cheese one day , Two pigs their belys brake with whay Nothing that he in hand did take , Did come to good , once he did Bake , And burn'd the Bred as black as a stock Another time he went to rock The Cradle , and threw the Child o' that floor , And brok his Nose , and hurt it soar . He went to Milk one evening tide , A skittish Cow on the wrong side , His pail was full of Milk , God wot , She kicked and spilled it every jot , Beside she hit him a blow o' that face , Which was scant whole in six weeks space Thus was he serv'd , and yet too well , And more mischances yet befell , Before his Apron he'd leave off , Though all his Neighbours did him scoff , Now list and mark one pretty jest , 'Twill make you laugh above all the rest , As he to Churn his Butter went , One morning with a good intent , The Cot-quean fool did surely dream , For he had quite forgotten the Cream , He churn'd all day , with all his might . And yet he could get no Butter at night , The second part , to the same tune . It strange indeed for me to utter that without Cream he should make buter Now having showed his Huswivery , Who did all things thus oukwardly , Unto the Goodwife isle turn my Rhyme . And tell you how she spent her time . She daily us'd to drive the Blow , But to do 't well she knew not how , She made so many bank i' that ground , He had been better have given five pound That she had never tan't in hand , So sorely she had spoiled his Land. As she did sow the seed likewise , She made a feast for Crows and Pies , She threw a handful at a place , And left all bore another space , At th' Harrow she could not rule her Mare But hid one Land and left two bore . And shortly after on a day , As she came home with a load of Hay , She overthrew it , nay and worse , She broke the Cart , and killed a Horse , The goodman the same time had ill luck , He let in the Sow , and she kil'd a Duck . And being grieved at his heart , For loss on 's Duck , his Horse and Cart. And many hurts on both sides done , His eyes did with salt water run , Oh now , quoth he , full well I see , The Wheel's for her , the Blow for me . I thee entreat quoth he good Wife , To take thy charge , and all my life , I'll never meddle with Huswivery more , Nor find such faults as I did before , Give me the Car-whip and the Flail , Take thou the Chyrn and Milking-pail The good-Wife she was well content , And about her Huswivery she went , He to Hedging and to Ditching , Reaping , Mowing , Lading , Pitching , He would be twatling still before , But after he never twatled more . I wish all Wives that troubled be . With Hose and Doublet , Huswivery , To serve them as this Woman did , Then may they work and never be chid , Though she i' that interim had some loss , Thereby she was eas'd of a cross , Take heed of this you Husbandmen , Let Wives alone to grope the Hen , And meddle you with the Horse and Ox And keep your Lambs from Wolf & Fox So shall you live contented lives , And take sweet pleasure in your wives FINIS . M.P. London , Printed for F. Grove dwelling on Snow-hill . 