The World's Wonder . Or , A strange and miraculous work of Gods pro - vidence , showed to a poor distressed widow and her seven small father - less children , who lived by a burned six penny-loaf of bred , and a little water , for above seven weeks , in the wild of Kent To the Tune of , Chevy Chase . TAke comfort Christians all , for never shall you see , The faithful sort forsaken quite , and left in misery , Who lives and loves to hear , the truth in each degree , The story of a Widows plaint , let them give ear to me . Who by this widow here sufficient have been try'd , The which was left both poor and bore when as her Husband dy'd . And seven young Children small , upon her hands likewise , And knew not how to buy them bred , their hunger to suffice . She labours night and day , she spins and takes great pain , And many a thing to buy them bred , God knows she lays to pawn . But when this help did fail , as time consumeth all , Oh! then she knew not how to keep , her hungry Children small . Most Mighty God she said , cast down a tender eye , And suffer not thy servants here , in hunger for to die . Thou that the Ravens did send , Elias for to feed , When that he was in Wilderness , in extreme want and need . And reigned bred from Heaven , old Israel to preserve , And wouldst not in the Lyons den , let Daniel pine nor starve . I know my Lord she said , thou didst five thousand feed , With five small loaves of barley bred , as we in Scripture read . And each one had enough , their hunger to sustain , And afterwards twelve baskets full , of scraps did still remain , I know my Lord she said , thou art so mighty still , And therefore every thing be done , according to thy will . Her prayer ended thus , Her children cried straight way , Oh mother dear give us some bred , we have eat none today . Give me some bred said one , give me some bred said another , And thus the silly Infants flock , about their careful mother . The good soul hearing this , persuades them to be still , Oh soon at night my Lambs quoth she , you shall have bred your fill . I will to market go , though corn be wondrous dear , And fell my Gown to buy a peck , if you will be quiet here . THe Children smil'd at this , content they did remain , Good Mother every one could say , come quickly home again . Three miles this woman went , unto the Market-town , And for five shillings at the last , she sold her russet Gown . Who being glad in heart , to Market straight she hies , But there alas her purse was cut , ere any corn she buys , She cryeth out God wot , she weeps and makes great moan , To every one that passes by , her grief she makes it known . But yet behold and see here in her woeful case Her husbands brother he was one that sold corn in that place . This woeful Woman then , did him desire and pray , To trust her with one peck of corn , till the next market day . But he denies her flat , and thus he tells her plain I shall not have to serve my turn , till corn does come again . More heed you might have took , unto your purse quoth he , And not to loose your money here , so found and foolishly . These dogged answers cut this good soul to the heart , Especially when she did think , upon her infants smart . Who sits and strives at home , poor souls but all in va [ i ] ne , Which of them should the biggest piece , of bred and butter gain . But far alas were they , from butter bred or cheese , Or any thing to comfort them that their poor Mother see's . But now behold Gods work , as homeward she return'd A baker's boy gave her a loaf which was in baking burn'd . She gave God thanks for that , and joyful in her hand She bears the bred home to her babes which waiting for her stand . She kisses them each one , and with a cheerful look And said we will to supper go when you have said your book . Mean time she makes a fire and apples therein throw , The widow and her seven Children , to supper sweetly go . The apples roasted well , and she does cut them bred , On every piece most lovingly she does the Apple spread . Instead of drink they had , a cup of water clear , And every Child rejoiced much and said , here is good cheer . Behold when they had sup't , for God their food did bless When they had sup't and were suffic'd , the loaf was never the less , For seven weeks spam [ c ] e together as storys plainly spread , The Widow and her seven children by this one loaf was fed . The Cut-purse-man I say , he broke his neck in Kent , E're he of this poor Widows Coin , one single penny had spent , And yet behold and see , her husband's churlish brother , Which would not lend a peck of corn , to succour one or other , Had straight way after this , his corn clean wash't away , All by a mighty flood that rose , before the break of day . The Gentlemen and such which did this wonder see , Unto the Widow gave such gifts , that never more wanted she . Take comfort Christians all , for never shall you see , The faithful sort forsaken quite , and left in misery . FINIS . London Printed for Grove on Snow-hill . The World's Wonder . Or , A strange and miraculous work of Gods pro - vidence , showed to a poor distressed widow and her seven small father - less children , who lived by a burned six penny-loaf of bred , and a little water , for above seven weeks , in the wild of Kent To the Tune of , Chevy Chase . TAke comfort Christians all , for never shall you see , The faithful sort forsaken quite , and left in misery , Who lives and loves to hear , the truth in each degree , The story of a Widows plaint , let them give ear to me . Who by this widow here sufficient have been try'd , The which was left both poor and bore when as her Husband dy'd . And seven young Children small , upon her hands likewise , And knew not how to buy them bred , their hunger to suffice . She labours night and day , she spins and takes great pain , And many a thing to buy them bred , God knows she lays to pawn . But when this help did fail , as time consumeth all , Oh! then she knew not how to keep , her hungry Children small . Most Mighty God she said , cast down a tender eye , And suffer not thy servants here , in hunger for to die . Thou that the Ravens did send , Elias for to feed , When that he was in Wilderness , in extreme want and need . And reigned bred from Heaven , old Israel to preserve , And wouldst not in the Lyons den , let Daniel pine nor starve . I know my Lord she said , thou didst five thousand feed , With five small loaves of barley bred , as we in Scripture read . And each one had enough , their hunger to sustain , And afterwards twelve baskets full , of scraps did still remain , I know my Lord she said , thou art so mighty still , And therefore every thing be done , according to thy will . Her prayer ended thus , Her children cried straight way , Oh mother dear give us some bred , we have eat none today . Give me some bred said one , give me some bred said another , And thus the silly Infants flock , about their careful mother . The good soul hearing this , persuades them to be still , Oh soon at night my Lambs quoth she , you shall have bred your fill . I will to market go , though corn be wondrous dear , And fell my Gown to buy a peck , if you will be quiet here . THe Children smil'd at this , content they did remain , Good Mother every one could say , come quickly home again . Three miles this woman went , unto the Market-town , And for five shillings at the last , she sold her russet Gown . Who being glad in heart , to Market straight she hies , But there alas her purse was cut , ere any corn she buys , She cryeth out God wot , she weeps and makes great moan , To every one that passes by , her grief she makes it known . But yet behold and see here in her woeful case Her husbands brother he was one that sold corn in that place . This woeful Woman then , did him desire and pray , To trust her with one peck of corn , till the next market day . But he denies her flat , and thus he tells her plain I shall not have to serve my turn , till corn does come again . More heed you might have took , unto your purse quoth he , And not to loose your money here , so found and foolishly . These dogged answers cut this good soul to the heart , Especially when she did think , upon her infants smart . Who sits and strives at home , poor souls but all in va [ i ] ne , Which of them should the biggest piece , of bred and butter gain . But far alas were they , from butter bred or cheese , Or any thing to comfort them that their poor Mother see's . But now behold Gods work , as homeward she return'd A baker's boy gave her a loaf which was in baking burn'd . She gave God thanks for that , and joyful in her hand She bears the bred home to her babes which waiting for her stand . She kisses them each one , and with a cheerful look And said we will to supper go when you have said your book . Mean time she makes a fire and apples therein throw , The widow and her seven Children , to supper sweetly go . The apples roasted well , and she does cut them bred , On every piece most lovingly she does the Apple spread . Instead of drink they had , a cup of water clear , And every Child rejoiced much and said , here is good cheer . Behold when they had sup't , for God their food did bless When they had sup't and were suffic'd , the loaf was never the less , For seven weeks spam [ c ] e together as storys plainly spread , The Widow and her seven children by this one loaf was fed . The Cut-purse-man I say , he broke his neck in Kent , E're he of this poor Widows Coin , one single penny had spent , And yet behold and see , her husband's churlish brother , Which would not lend a peck of corn , to succour one or other , Had straight way after this , his corn clean wash't away , All by a mighty flood that rose , before the break of day . The Gentlemen and such which did this wonder see , Unto the Widow gave such gifts , that never more wanted she . Take comfort Christians all , for never shall you see , The faithful sort forsaken quite , and left in misery . FINIS . London Printed for Grove on Snow-hill . 