E : 348 The Tragedy of Phillis , Complaining of the Disloyal Love of Amintas . To a New Court Tune . AMintas on a Summer's day to shun Apollo's beams , Was driving of his flock away , to taste some cooling streams . And through a Forest as they went hard by a rivers side , A voice which from a grove was sent invited him to bide . The voice well seem'd for to be wray some Malecontented mind , For oft times did he hear it say ten thousand times unkind : The remnant of that raging moan did all escape his ear , For every word brought forth a groan and every groan a tear . And nearer when it did repair , both face and voice he knew , He saw that Phillis was come there her plaints for to renew , Thus leaving her unto her plaints and sorrow slaking groans , He herd her deadly discontents thus all breakt forth at once . Amintas is thy love to me of such a light account , That thou disdainest to look on me or love as thou was wont . Were those the Oaths that thou didst make the Vows thou didst conceive , When I for thy contentment sake my hearts delight did leave . How oft didst thou protest to me the Heaven should turn to nought , The Sun should first obscured be , ere thou wouldst change thy thought . Then heaven dissolve without delay Sun show thy face no more , Amintas love is lost for aye , and woe is me therefore . Well might I if I had been wise foreseen what now I find , But too much love did dull mine eyes and made my judgement blind : But Oh alas ! the effect does prove , that it was plain deceit , For true and undefiled love will never turn to hate . All thy behaviours were ( God knows ) too smooth and too discreet , Like Sugar which empoisoned grows , suspects because it's sweet . Thine oaths and vows did promise more then well thou couldst perform Much like a calm that comes before and unexpected storm . God knows it would not grieve me much for to be kil'd for thee , But o , too near it does me touch that thou shouldst murder me ; God knows I care not for the pain can come for loss of breath , This thy unkindness cruel Swain that gives me to the death . Amintas tell me if thou may , if any fault of mine Hath given thee cause for to betray mine hearts delight and thine : No , no alas it could not be , my love to thee was such , Unless that I if urged thee in loving thee too much . But o , alas what do I gain , by this my found complaint , My dolour doubles my disdain my grief thy joy augment . Although it yields no greater good , it oft does ease my mind , For to reproach the ingratitude of him that is unkind . With that her hand , cold , wan and pale , upon her breast she lays And seeing that her breath did fail , she sighs and then she says , Amintas , and with that poor Maid she sigh'd again full soar , But after that she never said , nor sigh'd , nor breath'd no more : Finis . E : 348 The Tragedy of Phillis , Complaining of the Disloyal Love of Amintas . To a New Court Tune . AMintas on a Summer's day to shun Apollo's beams , Was driving of his flock away , to taste some cooling streams . And through a Forest as they went hard by a rivers side , A voice which from a grove was sent invited him to bide . The voice well seem'd for to be wray some Malecontented mind , For oft times did he hear it say ten thousand times unkind : The remnant of that raging moan did all escape his ear , For every word brought forth a groan and every groan a tear . And nearer when it did repair , both face and voice he knew , He saw that Phillis was come there her plaints for to renew , Thus leaving her unto her plaints and sorrow slaking groans , He herd her deadly discontents thus all breakt forth at once . Amintas is thy love to me of such a light account , That thou disdainest to look on me or love as thou was wont . Were those the Oaths that thou didst make the Vows thou didst conceive , When I for thy contentment sake my hearts delight did leave . How oft didst thou protest to me the Heaven should turn to nought , The Sun should first obscured be , ere thou wouldst change thy thought . Then heaven dissolve without delay Sun show thy face no more , Amintas love is lost for aye , and woe is me therefore . Well might I if I had been wise foreseen what now I find , But too much love did dull mine eyes and made my judgement blind : But Oh alas ! the effect does prove , that it was plain deceit , For true and undefiled love will never turn to hate . All thy behaviours were ( God knows ) too smooth and too discreet , Like Sugar which empoisoned grows , suspects because it's sweet . Thine oaths and vows did promise more then well thou couldst perform Much like a calm that comes before and unexpected storm . God knows it would not grieve me much for to be kil'd for thee , But o , too near it does me touch that thou shouldst murder me ; God knows I care not for the pain can come for loss of breath , This thy unkindness cruel Swain that gives me to the death . Amintas tell me if thou may , if any fault of mine Hath given thee cause for to betray mine hearts delight and thine : No , no alas it could not be , my love to thee was such , Unless that I if urged thee in loving thee too much . But o , alas what do I gain , by this my found complaint , My dolour doubles my disdain my grief thy joy augment . Although it yields no greater good , it oft does ease my mind , For to reproach the ingratitude of him that is unkind . With that her hand , cold , wan and pale , upon her breast she lays And seeing that her breath did fail , she sighs and then she says , Amintas , and with that poor Maid she sigh'd again full soar , But after that she never said , nor sigh'd , nor breath'd no more : Finis . 