A Worthy example of a Virtuous Wife , who fed her Father with her own Milk , being condemned to be starved to death , and afterwards pardoned by the Emperor . The tune is Flying Fame . IN Rome , I read , a Noble man , the Emperor did offend , And for that fact he was adjudg'd unto a cruel end . That he should be in Prison cast , with Irons many one , And there be famished unto death , and brought to skin and bone . And more , if any one were known , by night or yet by day , To bring him any kind of food , his hunger to allay , The Emperor swore a mighty Oath , without remorse quoth he , They should sustain the cruelest death , that could devised be . This cruel sentence once pronounc'd the Noble man was cast , Into a Dungeon dark and deep , with Irons fettered fast . Where when he had with hunger great , remained ten days space , And neither tasted meat nor drink , in this most woeful case . The tears along his Aged Face , most plenteously did fallen , And grievously he did begin , for to complain withal . O Lord quoth he what shall I do , so hungry Lord am I , For want of bred one bit of bred , I famish starve and die . How precious is on grain of wheat , unto my hungry soul , One crust , one crumb one little piece my hunger to control . Had I this Dungeon heap'd with gold , I would forgo it all , To buy and purchase one brown Loaf , yea were it ne're so small . O that I had but every day , one bit of it bred to eat , Though ne're so mouldy , black or brown , my comfort would be great . Yea albeit I took it up , trod down in dirt and mire , It would be pleasing to my taste , and sweet to my desire . Good haw happy is the Hind , that labours all the day , The drudging the Peasant poor , that at command does stay : They have their ordinary meals , they take no heed at all , Of those sweet crumbs and crust that they do carelessly let fallen . How happy is the little chick , that without fear may go , And pick up those most precious crumbs , which they away do throw , Oh that some pretty little mouse , so much my friend would be , To bring some old forsaken crust , into this place to me . BUT , o , my heart , it is in vain , no succour can I have , No meat , no drink , nor water eke , my loathed life to save . O bring some bred for Christs his sake , some bred , some bred for me , I die , I die for lack of Food , nought but stone walls I see . Thus day and night he cried out , in most outrageous sort , That all the Country far and near , were griev'd at his report , And though that many friends he had , and daughters in the Town , Yet none durst come to succour him , fearing the Emperors frown . Yet now behold one daughter dear , he had as I do find , Who liv'd in his displeasure great , for matching against his mind . Although he liv'd in mean estate , she was a virtuous wife ; And for to help her Father dear , she ventured thus her life . She quickly to her sisters went , and did of them entreat , That by some secret means they would , convey their Father meat . Our Father deer does starve she faid , the Emperors wrath is such , He dies alas for want of Food , whereof we have too much . Sweet sisters therefore use some means , his life for to preserve , And suffer not our Father dear , in prison for to starve . Alas quoth they what shall we do , his hunger to sustain , You know 'tis death to any one , that would his life maintain . And though we wish him well quoth they , we never will agree To spoil ourselves , we had as lief , that he should die as we : And sister if you love yourself , let this attempt alone , Though you do ne're so secret work , at length it will be known . O hath our Father brought us up , and nourished us quoth she ; And shall we now forsake him quite in his extremity : No , I will venture life and limb , to do my Father good ; The worst that is I can but die , to fit a Tyrants mood . With that away in haste she hies , and to the Jail she goes , But with her woeful Father dear , she might not speak God knows ; Except the Emperor would grant , her favour in that case This keeper would admit no wight , to enter in that place . Then she unto the Emperor hies , and falling on her knee , With wringing hands and bitter tears , these words pronounced she . My hopeless Father gracious Lord , offending of your Grace , Is judg'd unto a pining death , within a woeful place . Which I confess he hath deserv'd , yet mighty Prince quoth she , Vouchsafe in gracious sort to grant one simple boon to me . It chanced so I match'd myself against my Father's mind , Whereby I did procure his wrath , are Fortune hath assign'd . And seeing now the time is come , he must resign his breath , Vouchsafe that I may speak with him , before his hour of death , And reconcile myself to him , his favour to obtain ; That when he die I may not then under his curse remain . The Emperor granted her request , conditionally that she , Each time unto her Father came should thoroughly searched be , No bred nor meat she with her brought , to help him there distressed , But every day she nourish'd him , with her most tender breast . Thus by her milk he was preserv'd a twelve month and a day , And was most fair and fat to see , yet no man knew which way , The Emperor musing much thereat at length did understand , How he was fed and yet his Law , not broke at any hand . And much admiring at the same , and her great virtue shown , He pardon'd him and honour [ ' ] worser her , with great preferment known , Her Father ever after that did love her as his life , And blessed the time that she was made a loving wedded wife . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and William Gilbertson . A Worthy example of a Virtuous Wife , who fed her Father with her own Milk , being condemned to be starved to death , and afterwards pardoned by the Emperor . The tune is Flying Fame . IN Rome , I read , a Noble man , the Emperor did offend , And for that fact he was adjudg'd unto a cruel end . That he should be in Prison cast , with Irons many one , And there be famished unto death , and brought to skin and bone . And more , if any one were known , by night or yet by day , To bring him any kind of food , his hunger to allay , The Emperor swore a mighty Oath , without remorse quoth he , They should sustain the cruelest death , that could devised be . This cruel sentence once pronounc'd the Noble man was cast , Into a Dungeon dark and deep , with Irons fettered fast . Where when he had with hunger great , remained ten days space , And neither tasted meat nor drink , in this most woeful case . The tears along his Aged Face , most plenteously did fallen , And grievously he did begin , for to complain withal . O Lord quoth he what shall I do , so hungry Lord am I , For want of bred one bit of bred , I famish starve and die . How precious is on grain of wheat , unto my hungry soul , One crust , one crumb one little piece my hunger to control . Had I this Dungeon heap'd with gold , I would forgo it all , To buy and purchase one brown Loaf , yea were it ne're so small . O that I had but every day , one bit of it bred to eat , Though ne're so mouldy , black or brown , my comfort would be great . Yea albeit I took it up , trod down in dirt and mire , It would be pleasing to my taste , and sweet to my desire . Good haw happy is the Hind , that labours all the day , The drudging the Peasant poor , that at command does stay : They have their ordinary meals , they take no heed at all , Of those sweet crumbs and crust that they do carelessly let fallen . How happy is the little chick , that without fear may go , And pick up those most precious crumbs , which they away do throw , Oh that some pretty little mouse , so much my friend would be , To bring some old forsaken crust , into this place to me . BUT , o , my heart , it is in vain , no succour can I have , No meat , no drink , nor water eke , my loathed life to save . O bring some bred for Christs his sake , some bred , some bred for me , I die , I die for lack of Food , nought but stone walls I see . Thus day and night he cried out , in most outrageous sort , That all the Country far and near , were griev'd at his report , And though that many friends he had , and daughters in the Town , Yet none durst come to succour him , fearing the Emperors frown . Yet now behold one daughter dear , he had as I do find , Who liv'd in his displeasure great , for matching against his mind . Although he liv'd in mean estate , she was a virtuous wife ; And for to help her Father dear , she ventured thus her life . She quickly to her sisters went , and did of them entreat , That by some secret means they would , convey their Father meat . Our Father deer does starve she faid , the Emperors wrath is such , He dies alas for want of Food , whereof we have too much . Sweet sisters therefore use some means , his life for to preserve , And suffer not our Father dear , in prison for to starve . Alas quoth they what shall we do , his hunger to sustain , You know 'tis death to any one , that would his life maintain . And though we wish him well quoth they , we never will agree To spoil ourselves , we had as lief , that he should die as we : And sister if you love yourself , let this attempt alone , Though you do ne're so secret work , at length it will be known . O hath our Father brought us up , and nourished us quoth she ; And shall we now forsake him quite in his extremity : No , I will venture life and limb , to do my Father good ; The worst that is I can but die , to fit a Tyrants mood . With that away in haste she hies , and to the Jail she goes , But with her woeful Father dear , she might not speak God knows ; Except the Emperor would grant , her favour in that case This keeper would admit no wight , to enter in that place . Then she unto the Emperor hies , and falling on her knee , With wringing hands and bitter tears , these words pronounced she . My hopeless Father gracious Lord , offending of your Grace , Is judg'd unto a pining death , within a woeful place . Which I confess he hath deserv'd , yet mighty Prince quoth she , Vouchsafe in gracious sort to grant one simple boon to me . It chanced so I match'd myself against my Father's mind , Whereby I did procure his wrath , are Fortune hath assign'd . And seeing now the time is come , he must resign his breath , Vouchsafe that I may speak with him , before his hour of death , And reconcile myself to him , his favour to obtain ; That when he die I may not then under his curse remain . The Emperor granted her request , conditionally that she , Each time unto her Father came should thoroughly searched be , No bred nor meat she with her brought , to help him there distressed , But every day she nourish'd him , with her most tender breast . Thus by her milk he was preserv'd a twelve month and a day , And was most fair and fat to see , yet no man knew which way , The Emperor musing much thereat at length did understand , How he was fed and yet his Law , not broke at any hand . And much admiring at the same , and her great virtue shown , He pardon'd him and honour [ ' ] worser her , with great preferment known , Her Father ever after that did love her as his life , And blessed the time that she was made a loving wedded wife . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and William Gilbertson . 