E : 351 The Triumphs of four Nations ; OR , A happy Conclusion of Peace , Betwixt England , France , Denmark , and Holland . As it was confirm'd on Sunday night July the 21. at Breda ; where , after four hours Conference in the Castle , the Plenipotentiaries about nine in the evening signed the Articles of Peace ; which DONE Mounsieur Fleming , the Sweedish Mediator , in a short Speech Congratulated the happy issue of so great a work ; After which , the Plenipotentiaries saluting and complementing each other , the Conference ended : As they came out of the Castle , the Canons were thrice discharged round the Town , the Musqueteers giving their volleys from the Works , and the Horse drawn up upon the Plain , saluting them with their Trumpets , the whole Town quitting their Houses to express their Joy to them as they passed by ; This Joyful News was brought on Friday last July 26. from Breda , by the Right Worshipful Sir John Coventry , to the King , bringing with him the Articles of Peace , as they were Signed there by the Plenipotentiaries . Tune is , Packingtons Pound . LIft up thy head England & lay by thy mourning , thy much desir'd long absent Peace is returning Like health after sickness , and ease after pain ; Like joy after sorrow , or Sun after Rain : The found of it comes , Muc [ h ] sweeter than Drums , And more welcome is unto all the Kingdoms ; By Truth , Love and friendship , delights do increase , The Joys of a Nation is Plenty and Peace . Last Sunday was sevennight at Breday 'twas pas [ tO ] Which I hope will prove all our comforts at la [ st ] The Plenipotentiaries signed to peace , That our bound up trading might have a release The townsmen did laugh , Rejoice , sing , and quaff , Thrice round about Breda the Canons we [ ? ] The Musketeers made many volleys to rattle , And Trumpets did found as in heat of a Battle By Truth , etc The Second Part , to the same Tune , SIr John Coventry unto White-hall did bring , Last Friday this happy brave News to the King Which fill'd all their hearts with such pleasure & joy , They cast up their Caps & sung Vive le Roy , That we do agree , With our Enemy , The Dane , Dutch , and French are as joyful as we The Dutch who in victual did not so abound , Paid more for and ounce than we paid for a pound .. By Truth , Love & Friendship , delights do increase . The strength of a Nation is Plenty and Peace . The French-man hath reason this peace to desire Because he hath many more Irons i'th fire ; The Dane without trading will never grow rich The best of his Lading is Fir-pole and Pitch ; Then let us with joy , Our Talon employ , And fill Ships with goods that were wont to destroy When Vessels bore nothing but Powder & Led , The Traders , and Laders , and trading is dead , By Truth , etc Why should we not live all as brother with brother The Scripture commands us not to love one another Why should not contention and dissension cease , Since the King of all Kings to the Prince of all Peace By union we may , Both prosper and pay , By discord we do one another betray , The Devil and Discord like Lightning & Thunder In June and July are seldom asunder : By Truth , etc If Peace does continue without and within , I hope London City will be built again , Which was much retarded for want of a Peace , For what man can built where no Foundation is ; Without it there's none , Will built on his own , Peace is the foundation , & the corner stone , If we have not Peace both upon Sea and Land , The Cities foundation will be in the Sand , By Truth , etc All workmen from all parts of England may come To work and get money without fear of Drum , The Country man now will to labour be willing , Not fearing to be burn'd i'th hand with a shilling The Gun and the Drum , Will shortly be dumb , Then Madge may have Roger , & Tib may have Tom ; Now howling , & scowling among the kind-heartes Shall be left with young Wenches for Sweethearts departed : By Truth , etc Our Merchant's upon the green Ocean so curl'd Shall safely pass free to all parts of the world , And in their deep bottoms bring silks and slip slops To please pretty Ladies and City wives chops , Figs , Almonds and Spice , With Sugar and Rice , Which is a young Gentlewoman's Paradise Then silver and gold ( so dangerous in power ) Like Traitors , shall both be committed to th' Tower By Truth , etc Then singing and Music will be in request , And Jug shall be dancing as well as the best , About the green Maypole , with Gillian and Jack , For Ale and Stew'd Pruens for Custard & Cake ; True Charity then , Will be amongst men . Or else we may look for these troubles again , Short comforts will be in a Nation no doubt , Where Peace is concluded , and God is left out . By Truth , etc God bless this peace to us with a right and understanding . Keep our hearts and minds under his great commanding ; God bless King & Kingdom and send that our hate Unto one another in Church and in State , May be nullifi'd , God keep us from Pride , Ambition , Wrath , Malice & Discord beside ; when nation fights nation , & brother beats brother They are like earthen vessels that break one another By Truth , Love , and Friendship , etc FINIS . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , next door to the Dolphin in West-Smithfield . With Allowance . E : 351 The Triumphs of four Nations ; OR , A happy Conclusion of Peace , Betwixt England , France , Denmark , and Holland . As it was confirm'd on Sunday night July the 21. at Breda ; where , after four hours Conference in the Castle , the Plenipotentiaries about nine in the evening signed the Articles of Peace ; which DONE Mounsieur Fleming , the Sweedish Mediator , in a short Speech Congratulated the happy issue of so great a work ; After which , the Plenipotentiaries saluting and complementing each other , the Conference ended : As they came out of the Castle , the Canons were thrice discharged round the Town , the Musqueteers giving their volleys from the Works , and the Horse drawn up upon the Plain , saluting them with their Trumpets , the whole Town quitting their Houses to express their Joy to them as they passed by ; This Joyful News was brought on Friday last July 26. from Breda , by the Right Worshipful Sir John Coventry , to the King , bringing with him the Articles of Peace , as they were Signed there by the Plenipotentiaries . Tune is , Packingtons Pound . LIft up thy head England & lay by thy mourning , thy much desir'd long absent Peace is returning Like health after sickness , and ease after pain ; Like joy after sorrow , or Sun after Rain : The found of it comes , Muc [ h ] sweeter than Drums , And more welcome is unto all the Kingdoms ; By Truth , Love and friendship , delights do increase , The Joys of a Nation is Plenty and Peace . Last Sunday was sevennight at Breday 'twas pas [ tO ] Which I hope will prove all our comforts at la [ st ] The Plenipotentiaries signed to peace , That our bound up trading might have a release The townsmen did laugh , Rejoice , sing , and quaff , Thrice round about Breda the Canons we [ ? ] The Musketeers made many volleys to rattle , And Trumpets did found as in heat of a Battle By Truth , etc The Second Part , to the same Tune , SIr John Coventry unto White-hall did bring , Last Friday this happy brave News to the King Which fill'd all their hearts with such pleasure & joy , They cast up their Caps & sung Vive le Roy , That we do agree , With our Enemy , The Dane , Dutch , and French are as joyful as we The Dutch who in victual did not so abound , Paid more for and ounce than we paid for a pound .. By Truth , Love & Friendship , delights do increase . The strength of a Nation is Plenty and Peace . The French-man hath reason this peace to desire Because he hath many more Irons i'th fire ; The Dane without trading will never grow rich The best of his Lading is Fir-pole and Pitch ; Then let us with joy , Our Talon employ , And fill Ships with goods that were wont to destroy When Vessels bore nothing but Powder & Led , The Traders , and Laders , and trading is dead , By Truth , etc Why should we not live all as brother with brother The Scripture commands us not to love one another Why should not contention and dissension cease , Since the King of all Kings to the Prince of all Peace By union we may , Both prosper and pay , By discord we do one another betray , The Devil and Discord like Lightning & Thunder In June and July are seldom asunder : By Truth , etc If Peace does continue without and within , I hope London City will be built again , Which was much retarded for want of a Peace , For what man can built where no Foundation is ; Without it there's none , Will built on his own , Peace is the foundation , & the corner stone , If we have not Peace both upon Sea and Land , The Cities foundation will be in the Sand , By Truth , etc All workmen from all parts of England may come To work and get money without fear of Drum , The Country man now will to labour be willing , Not fearing to be burn'd i'th hand with a shilling The Gun and the Drum , Will shortly be dumb , Then Madge may have Roger , & Tib may have Tom ; Now howling , & scowling among the kind-heartes Shall be left with young Wenches for Sweethearts departed : By Truth , etc Our Merchant's upon the green Ocean so curl'd Shall safely pass free to all parts of the world , And in their deep bottoms bring silks and slip slops To please pretty Ladies and City wives chops , Figs , Almonds and Spice , With Sugar and Rice , Which is a young Gentlewoman's Paradise Then silver and gold ( so dangerous in power ) Like Traitors , shall both be committed to th' Tower By Truth , etc Then singing and Music will be in request , And Jug shall be dancing as well as the best , About the green Maypole , with Gillian and Jack , For Ale and Stew'd Pruens for Custard & Cake ; True Charity then , Will be amongst men . Or else we may look for these troubles again , Short comforts will be in a Nation no doubt , Where Peace is concluded , and God is left out . By Truth , etc God bless this peace to us with a right and understanding . Keep our hearts and minds under his great commanding ; God bless King & Kingdom and send that our hate Unto one another in Church and in State , May be nullifi'd , God keep us from Pride , Ambition , Wrath , Malice & Discord beside ; when nation fights nation , & brother beats brother They are like earthen vessels that break one another By Truth , Love , and Friendship , etc FINIS . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , next door to the Dolphin in West-Smithfield . With Allowance . 