The Young-womans Complain OR , A Caveat to all Maids to have a care how they be Married to Old Men . The Tune is , What should a young woman do with and old man , etc Or , The Tyrant . COme all you young damsels both beauteous and free , I'll Summon you all to listen to me ; A Song of misguiding , concerning my Marriage , Sorrow's the cause of this my ill carriage ; A Maiden of fifteen as it may appear She Married and Old-man of Seventy-two year ; And by her misfortune well prove it I can , That she is soar troubled with and Old-man . When he sits down by me , hee'l presently blame me , He often does chide me and threatens to lame me ; Then fain would I hide me but cannot tell where . He calls me young Giglet , and sometime bold whore ; But hold thy tongue man , for I am none such , I dare not call Cuckold though I think as much : She throws by her Bracelets her Hat and her Fan , Sing curs'd be the time that I saw this Old-man . To speak of his Livings his Land or his Fee , Or of his Relations too tedious 'twill be ; His humping , his grumping his cursing , and swearing , He's almost quite blind , and herd of his hearing , His Pate it is bald , and his Beard it is thin , His Breath it does stink , and short is his thing : And now let him do what ever he can , Judge if it be fitting to love this Old-man . In Bed as I lie , he groaneth he cryeth Like one that is dying in sorrow he lies : Instead of Loves blisses he scraches and grumbles And all the night long he tosses and tumbles , And lying and dying and telling the Clock , Weeping and wailing , expecting a Knock : And wiping away her tears as they ran , What shall a young woman do with this old man . The second part , to the same Tune . HE stoops in the shoulders and goes almost double He is always to me a continual trouble , His Breast it sticks forth even almost with's snout , He seldom goes far without letting a rout , His hands they do shake , and he's very lame , And all his whole body is quite out of frame , His Nose it is long , and his face pale and wan . With all the ill properties of and Old man . When he walks abroad with me sometime in the street He limps , and he stumbles , the boys they do see't , And laugh him to scorn , he creeps and he grumbles , He coughs and he spits , and at last he down tumbles Then I cry and lament that ere I was born . But to quit his love , isle make him wear the horn ; For let me do what ever I may or can , I still shall be plagu'd with this doting old man . If I with some youngmen do chance for to meet , And do but them friendly and courteously greet , Then he begins presently to scold and brawl , And a thousand base names he then will me call , Which makes me with grief and sorrow lament , And now it's too late I fear to repen But isle get a Youngster that please me well can , Then a fig for this doting feeble old man . I forc'd was to marry him 'cause of his Wealth , But isle have another now , and then by stealth : For with him I must never expect any joy ; Which vexes me worst I shall never have a boy ; Therefore I'm resolv'd to live merry and jolly , And take the best course to quite Melancholy . For what should a young-wo-man do with this old man But make him a Cuckold as soon as she can There's young men enough , which will make much of me And I unto them will be gallant and free : They'l court me and kiss and please me full well , And I will not want it , the truth I you tell ; His Chests I'll set open , his money let fly , For I'll led a merry life , until I die . What should a young-woman do with this old man , But make him a Cuckold as soon as she can . My advice is to you all Maids that are young , That you get you Husband , that will you not wrong , For sure youth with age will never agree , As by this Ditty you plainly may see ; Therefore take you warning all by my miscarriage , Be sure to be wise in your choice of Marriage : For I'll assure you , do what you can , You never can love such , and Old doting man . Finis . London , Printed for W. Gilbertson in Giltspur-street without Newgate . The Young-womans Complain OR , A Caveat to all Maids to have a care how they be Married to Old Men . The Tune is , What should a young woman do with and old man , etc Or , The Tyrant . COme all you young damsels both beauteous and free , I'll Summon you all to listen to me ; A Song of misguiding , concerning my Marriage , Sorrow's the cause of this my ill carriage ; A Maiden of fifteen as it may appear She Married and Old-man of Seventy-two year ; And by her misfortune well prove it I can , That she is soar troubled with and Old-man . When he sits down by me , hee'l presently blame me , He often does chide me and threatens to lame me ; Then fain would I hide me but cannot tell where . He calls me young Giglet , and sometime bold whore ; But hold thy tongue man , for I am none such , I dare not call Cuckold though I think as much : She throws by her Bracelets her Hat and her Fan , Sing curs'd be the time that I saw this Old-man . To speak of his Livings his Land or his Fee , Or of his Relations too tedious 'twill be ; His humping , his grumping his cursing , and swearing , He's almost quite blind , and herd of his hearing , His Pate it is bald , and his Beard it is thin , His Breath it does stink , and short is his thing : And now let him do what ever he can , Judge if it be fitting to love this Old-man . In Bed as I lie , he groaneth he cryeth Like one that is dying in sorrow he lies : Instead of Loves blisses he scraches and grumbles And all the night long he tosses and tumbles , And lying and dying and telling the Clock , Weeping and wailing , expecting a Knock : And wiping away her tears as they ran , What shall a young woman do with this old man . The second part , to the same Tune . HE stoops in the shoulders and goes almost double He is always to me a continual trouble , His Breast it sticks forth even almost with's snout , He seldom goes far without letting a rout , His hands they do shake , and he's very lame , And all his whole body is quite out of frame , His Nose it is long , and his face pale and wan . With all the ill properties of and Old man . When he walks abroad with me sometime in the street He limps , and he stumbles , the boys they do see't , And laugh him to scorn , he creeps and he grumbles , He coughs and he spits , and at last he down tumbles Then I cry and lament that ere I was born . But to quit his love , isle make him wear the horn ; For let me do what ever I may or can , I still shall be plagu'd with this doting old man . If I with some youngmen do chance for to meet , And do but them friendly and courteously greet , Then he begins presently to scold and brawl , And a thousand base names he then will me call , Which makes me with grief and sorrow lament , And now it's too late I fear to repen But isle get a Youngster that please me well can , Then a fig for this doting feeble old man . I forc'd was to marry him 'cause of his Wealth , But isle have another now , and then by stealth : For with him I must never expect any joy ; Which vexes me worst I shall never have a boy ; Therefore I'm resolv'd to live merry and jolly , And take the best course to quite Melancholy . For what should a young-wo-man do with this old man But make him a Cuckold as soon as she can There's young men enough , which will make much of me And I unto them will be gallant and free : They'l court me and kiss and please me full well , And I will not want it , the truth I you tell ; His Chests I'll set open , his money let fly , For I'll led a merry life , until I die . What should a young-woman do with this old man , But make him a Cuckold as soon as she can . My advice is to you all Maids that are young , That you get you Husband , that will you not wrong , For sure youth with age will never agree , As by this Ditty you plainly may see ; Therefore take you warning all by my miscarriage , Be sure to be wise in your choice of Marriage : For I'll assure you , do what you can , You never can love such , and Old doting man . Finis . London , Printed for W. Gilbertson in Giltspur-street without Newgate . 