A Worthy Kings Description : Both Country and City give ear to this ditty , While that I the praises sing , And fame his honour out does Ring , That best deserveth to wear the Crown ; For Worth there's none can put him down And this is no flattering , to describe a worthy King ; His Subject's here their desires explain , Desiring that he may enjoy his own again . BRave news there is I understand , Brought by one that late did land , Many that heretofore were sad , Their hearts full merry are , and glad , And rejoice for his sake , That amends will us make , And will please us all as then , for he that we did lack is now returning back For to enjoy his own again . Fair England will be well content With the chief of men in government , When the Churches Champion smiles upon her , Earth's Majesty and Nature's honour ; His foes unto him he will draw , Hee's the director of the Law . And the Nations Rights he will mointain : these things will appear before the next new year . When the King enjoys his own again . When the Sceptre of mercy he does hold , And true Justice does unfold , And when he does his own embrace , There you may see the glass of grace , And the terror of Treason Which is but Reason . The poor men Cause he will maintain ; no man can this deny , hee's the life of Lyalty , When that he enjoys , etc His command if Right is without dispute , Then will his power be absolute : In him Wisdom is very rife , And his favour will lengthen life ; His Subject's his charge will be , And his care for their safety . This pleasure will true peace maintain , which we shall prove his joy to be our love , When the King , etc His wisdom is not to be paralel'd By all that e're the Sceptre held , 'cause it is without all equality , We hope no man can this deny : He is of great renown , And best deserves the Crown ; For why he hath most right to reign , thus says the Trump of fame that he deserves the same , For to enjoy , etc If for the same he be appointed , And he be call'd the Lords anointed ; Like a King he must be served , Add be tenderly preserved : Then he the head must be Of the public body : If that his right he does regain , he will tender of us be if that we live to see Him to enjoy , etc The Second Part , To the same Tune . HEe's a blessing over his people by plare , And Gods Vicegerent full of grace : He is no foreign Conqueror , But our Supreme Governor , His safety his Counsels cares , And his health his Subject's prayers : While that on Earth he does remain , his pleasure is his Peers . that great Jehovah fears , And to enjoy his own again . And for to cheer his Subject's sadness , His content will be their gladness , His presence must Reverenced be , According to his high degree ; His person must not be scorned , But his civil Court adorned , When in fair England he does reign , all men shall be free , and set at liberty , When the King , etc What rightful thing by him is said , Ought not for to be disobey'd ; One thing cannot be denied . That his wants must be supplied , Nor his place unregarded , But Royally Rewarded , And richly his state maintain : then let our prayers be these happy days to see . That the King may enjoy , etc Although a God he cannot be , Hee's more then and ordinary man we see , we do hope hee's so divine , That from the right hee'l not decline . Nor yet will he delay Gods laws to obey , And all men's Rights for to maintain , which suddenly will be , when that men do see That the King , etc I now crave pardon for this bold thing , For describing of a worthy King , And heartily for him will pray Unto the Lord both night and day , And under Heaven him commend , That the Lord will him defend , That he in this Land long time may Reign , these blessings then will be who ever lives to see The King , etc Then shall London Conduits run with Wine , With melodious noise of Music fine ; Then Bells' shall Ring , and Bone fires burn , For joy of his gracious return , From sorrow we Hope to be free , From Tyranny and slavish pain , then let us all rejoice both with heart and voice , When the King enjoys his own again . FINIS . A Worthy Kings Description : Both Country and City give ear to this ditty , While that I the praises sing , And fame his honour out does Ring , That best deserveth to wear the Crown ; For Worth there's none can put him down And this is no flattering , to describe a worthy King ; His Subject's here their desires explain , Desiring that he may enjoy his own again . BRave news there is I understand , Brought by one that late did land , Many that heretofore were sad , Their hearts full merry are , and glad , And rejoice for his sake , That amends will us make , And will please us all as then , for he that we did lack is now returning back For to enjoy his own again . Fair England will be well content With the chief of men in government , When the Churches Champion smiles upon her , Earth's Majesty and Nature's honour ; His foes unto him he will draw , Hee's the director of the Law . And the Nations Rights he will mointain : these things will appear before the next new year . When the King enjoys his own again . When the Sceptre of mercy he does hold , And true Justice does unfold , And when he does his own embrace , There you may see the glass of grace , And the terror of Treason Which is but Reason . The poor men Cause he will maintain ; no man can this deny , hee's the life of Lyalty , When that he enjoys , etc His command if Right is without dispute , Then will his power be absolute : In him Wisdom is very rife , And his favour will lengthen life ; His Subject's his charge will be , And his care for their safety . This pleasure will true peace maintain , which we shall prove his joy to be our love , When the King , etc His wisdom is not to be paralel'd By all that e're the Sceptre held , 'cause it is without all equality , We hope no man can this deny : He is of great renown , And best deserves the Crown ; For why he hath most right to reign , thus says the Trump of fame that he deserves the same , For to enjoy , etc If for the same he be appointed , And he be call'd the Lords anointed ; Like a King he must be served , Add be tenderly preserved : Then he the head must be Of the public body : If that his right he does regain , he will tender of us be if that we live to see Him to enjoy , etc The Second Part , To the same Tune . HEe's a blessing over his people by plare , And Gods Vicegerent full of grace : He is no foreign Conqueror , But our Supreme Governor , His safety his Counsels cares , And his health his Subject's prayers : While that on Earth he does remain , his pleasure is his Peers . that great Jehovah fears , And to enjoy his own again . And for to cheer his Subject's sadness , His content will be their gladness , His presence must Reverenced be , According to his high degree ; His person must not be scorned , But his civil Court adorned , When in fair England he does reign , all men shall be free , and set at liberty , When the King , etc What rightful thing by him is said , Ought not for to be disobey'd ; One thing cannot be denied . That his wants must be supplied , Nor his place unregarded , But Royally Rewarded , And richly his state maintain : then let our prayers be these happy days to see . That the King may enjoy , etc Although a God he cannot be , Hee's more then and ordinary man we see , we do hope hee's so divine , That from the right hee'l not decline . Nor yet will he delay Gods laws to obey , And all men's Rights for to maintain , which suddenly will be , when that men do see That the King , etc I now crave pardon for this bold thing , For describing of a worthy King , And heartily for him will pray Unto the Lord both night and day , And under Heaven him commend , That the Lord will him defend , That he in this Land long time may Reign , these blessings then will be who ever lives to see The King , etc Then shall London Conduits run with Wine , With melodious noise of Music fine ; Then Bells' shall Ring , and Bone fires burn , For joy of his gracious return , From sorrow we Hope to be free , From Tyranny and slavish pain , then let us all rejoice both with heart and voice , When the King enjoys his own again . FINIS . 