The young men Resolution to the Maidens Request ; A witty Dialogue between a young Man and a Maid . Wherein she asks him when he intends to marry , And he resolves her how long he will tarry . To the tune of , In Summer time . AS I was walking under a grove , within myself as I supposed ; My mind did often times remove , and by no means could be disclosed : At length by chance a friend I met , which caused me long time to tarry , And then of me she did entreat , to tell her when I did mean to marry . Sweet heart quoth I if you would know . then mark these words and I'll reveal it ; Since in your mind you bear it so , and in your heart you do conseal it ; She promis'd me for to make no words , but of such things she would be wary , And thus in brief I did degin , to tell her when I mean't to marry . When Shrove-tide falls in Easter week and Christmas in the mid'st of July . And Lawyers for no fees will plead , and Tailors they deal just and truly . When all deceits are quite put down , and truth by all men is preferred ; And Indigo die Read and Brown , Oh then my love and I'le be married . When Saffron grows on every tree and every stream flows milk and honey , And sugar grows in Karret fields , and Usurers refuse good money : When Country men for Judges sits , and Lammas falls in February , And millers they their Tole forgets , Oh then my love and I will marry . The second part , to the same Tune . WHen men and beasts i'th ocean flows and fish in green fields are feed-ing When muscle shells i' that streets do grow , and swans upon dry rocks are breeding , when Cockle shells are Diamond rings , and glass to pearl may be compared ; And Gold is made of the grey goose wings , Oh then my Love and I'le be married . When summer does not dry up mire , and men on earth do leave to flatter ; When bakers they do use no fire , and brewers they do use no water , When mountains are by men removed , and England into France is carried And all maids prove true to their Loves , Oh then my Love and I'le be married . When Hostesses do reckon true , and Dutch-men leave off drinking brandy . When Cats do bark , and Dogs do mew , and Brimstone's took for Sugarcandy , Or when that Whitsuntide does fallen , within the month of January , And a Cobbler works without and awl , Oh then my Love and I will marry . When women know not how to scold , and Maids of sweethearts ne're ear thinking When men i that fire complain of cold , and ships on Salisbury Plain fear sinking When horse-coursers turn bonest men , and London unto York is carried Or when you out of one can take ten , Oh then my Love and I'le be married . When Candlesticks do serve for Bells' , and frying-pans are us'd for Ladles , Or when in the Sea they dig for wells , and porrige pots they make for cradles ; When maids forget to go a maying , and a man on his back and ox can carry Or when the mice with the cat be playing , 'tis then my Love and I will marry , Good Sir , since you have told me when ; you are resolved for to marry ; I wish with all my heart till then , that for a wife you still might tarry : For if all young men were of your mind , and maids not better were preferred , I think it would be when the Devil is blind that we and our Lovers should be married . FINIS . By J . S London , Printed for Eliz. Andrews , in little St. Bartholomews Court in West-Smithfield . The young men Resolution to the Maidens Request ; A witty Dialogue between a young Man and a Maid . Wherein she asks him when he intends to marry , And he resolves her how long he will tarry . To the tune of , In Summer time . AS I was walking under a grove , within myself as I supposed ; My mind did often times remove , and by no means could be disclosed : At length by chance a friend I met , which caused me long time to tarry , And then of me she did entreat , to tell her when I did mean to marry . Sweet heart quoth I if you would know . then mark these words and I'll reveal it ; Since in your mind you bear it so , and in your heart you do conseal it ; She promis'd me for to make no words , but of such things she would be wary , And thus in brief I did degin , to tell her when I mean't to marry . When Shrove-tide falls in Easter week and Christmas in the mid'st of July . And Lawyers for no fees will plead , and Tailors they deal just and truly . When all deceits are quite put down , and truth by all men is preferred ; And Indigo die Read and Brown , Oh then my love and I'le be married . When Saffron grows on every tree and every stream flows milk and honey , And sugar grows in Karret fields , and Usurers refuse good money : When Country men for Judges sits , and Lammas falls in February , And millers they their Tole forgets , Oh then my love and I will marry . The second part , to the same Tune . WHen men and beasts i'th ocean flows and fish in green fields are feed-ing When muscle shells i' that streets do grow , and swans upon dry rocks are breeding , when Cockle shells are Diamond rings , and glass to pearl may be compared ; And Gold is made of the grey goose wings , Oh then my Love and I'le be married . When summer does not dry up mire , and men on earth do leave to flatter ; When bakers they do use no fire , and brewers they do use no water , When mountains are by men removed , and England into France is carried And all maids prove true to their Loves , Oh then my Love and I'le be married . When Hostesses do reckon true , and Dutch-men leave off drinking brandy . When Cats do bark , and Dogs do mew , and Brimstone's took for Sugarcandy , Or when that Whitsuntide does fallen , within the month of January , And a Cobbler works without and awl , Oh then my Love and I will marry . When women know not how to scold , and Maids of sweethearts ne're ear thinking When men i that fire complain of cold , and ships on Salisbury Plain fear sinking When horse-coursers turn bonest men , and London unto York is carried Or when you out of one can take ten , Oh then my Love and I'le be married . When Candlesticks do serve for Bells' , and frying-pans are us'd for Ladles , Or when in the Sea they dig for wells , and porrige pots they make for cradles ; When maids forget to go a maying , and a man on his back and ox can carry Or when the mice with the cat be playing , 'tis then my Love and I will marry , Good Sir , since you have told me when ; you are resolved for to marry ; I wish with all my heart till then , that for a wife you still might tarry : For if all young men were of your mind , and maids not better were preferred , I think it would be when the Devil is blind that we and our Lovers should be married . FINIS . By J . S London , Printed for Eliz. Andrews , in little St. Bartholomews Court in West-Smithfield . 