E : 355 The true Lovers Joy : OR , The Reward of Constany BEING , And Amorous Diaologue between a Seaman and his Love : The Maid implores the aid of Charon's Boat , That to the gloomy shades her soul might float ; With sighs and groans , much weary and oppressed , At length he herd her moan , and gave her rest From all past dangers , and from future harms , She safe arriv'd , and anchor'd in his arms . To a New Tune , much in Request . Maid . HArk Charon , come away , bring forth thy Boat and Oars , And carry me poor harmless Maid unto the Elizium Shores . Charon . Who calls Charon in haste , while I fit here in pain I carry none but pure and chaste , such as true Love hath slay . I come dear soul I come , thy face does so incharm me , Come in my Boat and take thy room , neither wind nor wave shall harm thee . Maid . Now I am come in thy Boat , I am a Maid undone , Sighing my heart is almost broke , for my Love he is from me gone . Thus as I pass the shades , i'le tell you a mournful tale , So full of sighs as we do pass , shall serve us for a gayl . And so beguiled the time , i'le sing you a true Loves song , Mine eyes shall stow a Sea of tears to carry the Boat along . WHat's become of those hard hearts , of a Virgin takes no pity , They'r sailing to Virginny parts , where Neptune hath built a City . O Cupid hath wounded me , and hath pierc'd my tender heart , To call for one whom I lov'd so dear , who cares but little for't . Thus in the shades below , we'l waste the tedious hours , No gusts of winds , but sighs shall blow , the Boat with Charons Oars . His Answer . Stay gentle Charon stay , and let thy Boat alone , Row not the harmless Maid away that sits and makes her moan . For she that calls so fast , and sighs so at thy stay , A Virgin is as pure and chaste , as e're true Love did slay . She's no dear soul for thee , let not her face incharm thee , Though room within thy Boat there be . her beauty there may harm thee . O fair one , if you go , i'm more undone than you , My heart does equal sorrow know , and still my Love is true . The shades you must not pass , nor mournful stories tell Instead of sighing gales , alas ! a kiss will do as well . You'd better stay ashore , and sing us a true Loves song , There's Sea enough he needs no more , to carry his Boat along . No heart so hard I know , but would gladly ease your pain , Else let him to Virginny go , and never return again . If Cupid hath wounded you , he had wounded me before , If you love as you say you do , I love you as much or more . In Beds of softest Down , we'l spend the short liv'd nights , No gusts of wind or sighs shall drown the current of our delights . Maid . Come gentle Charon come , and me to shore remove , The wind despairing sighs did blow , shall waft me unto my Love . How slow the Boatsman steers , if he no faster ply , My Love to rid me of my fears , shall lend me his wings to fly . To thee dear Love I float , finding thee just and true . And bid to Charon and his Boat , eternally adieu . Make haste , make haste my Dear , for if thou longer stay , through the floods without all fear , my Arms shall make their way . Welcome my Love to shore I'le keep thee now from harms , And thou shalt ride forever more , at Anchor in my Arms. Printed for Phillip Brooksby in West-Smithfield . E : 355 The true Lovers Joy : OR , The Reward of Constany BEING , And Amorous Diaologue between a Seaman and his Love : The Maid implores the aid of Charon's Boat , That to the gloomy shades her soul might float ; With sighs and groans , much weary and oppressed , At length he herd her moan , and gave her rest From all past dangers , and from future harms , She safe arriv'd , and anchor'd in his arms . To a New Tune , much in Request . Maid . HArk Charon , come away , bring forth thy Boat and Oars , And carry me poor harmless Maid unto the Elizium Shores . Charon . Who calls Charon in haste , while I fit here in pain I carry none but pure and chaste , such as true Love hath slay . I come dear soul I come , thy face does so incharm me , Come in my Boat and take thy room , neither wind nor wave shall harm thee . Maid . Now I am come in thy Boat , I am a Maid undone , Sighing my heart is almost broke , for my Love he is from me gone . Thus as I pass the shades , i'le tell you a mournful tale , So full of sighs as we do pass , shall serve us for a gayl . And so beguiled the time , i'le sing you a true Loves song , Mine eyes shall stow a Sea of tears to carry the Boat along . WHat's become of those hard hearts , of a Virgin takes no pity , They'r sailing to Virginny parts , where Neptune hath built a City . O Cupid hath wounded me , and hath pierc'd my tender heart , To call for one whom I lov'd so dear , who cares but little for't . Thus in the shades below , we'l waste the tedious hours , No gusts of winds , but sighs shall blow , the Boat with Charons Oars . His Answer . Stay gentle Charon stay , and let thy Boat alone , Row not the harmless Maid away that sits and makes her moan . For she that calls so fast , and sighs so at thy stay , A Virgin is as pure and chaste , as e're true Love did slay . She's no dear soul for thee , let not her face incharm thee , Though room within thy Boat there be . her beauty there may harm thee . O fair one , if you go , i'm more undone than you , My heart does equal sorrow know , and still my Love is true . The shades you must not pass , nor mournful stories tell Instead of sighing gales , alas ! a kiss will do as well . You'd better stay ashore , and sing us a true Loves song , There's Sea enough he needs no more , to carry his Boat along . No heart so hard I know , but would gladly ease your pain , Else let him to Virginny go , and never return again . If Cupid hath wounded you , he had wounded me before , If you love as you say you do , I love you as much or more . In Beds of softest Down , we'l spend the short liv'd nights , No gusts of wind or sighs shall drown the current of our delights . Maid . Come gentle Charon come , and me to shore remove , The wind despairing sighs did blow , shall waft me unto my Love . How slow the Boatsman steers , if he no faster ply , My Love to rid me of my fears , shall lend me his wings to fly . To thee dear Love I float , finding thee just and true . And bid to Charon and his Boat , eternally adieu . Make haste , make haste my Dear , for if thou longer stay , through the floods without all fear , my Arms shall make their way . Welcome my Love to shore I'le keep thee now from harms , And thou shalt ride forever more , at Anchor in my Arms. Printed for Phillip Brooksby in West-Smithfield . 