A LULLABY . COme little babe , come silly soul , thy father's shame & mother's grief Born as I doubt to all our doles , and to thyself unhappy chief . Sing Lullaby and keep it warm , Poor soul it thinks no creature harm , Thou little thinkest , and least does know , the cause of this thy mother's moan . Thou wantest wit to wail or woe , and I myself am left alone : Why dost thou weep , why dost thou wail And know'st not what does thee ail : Come silly wretch , ah silly heart , my only joy what can I more , If there be any wrong thy smart , that may thy destiny deplore . 'Tis I , I say , against my will , I wait the time , but be thou still ; And dost thou smile , Oh thou sweet face , I would thy Dad the same might see , No doubt but it would purchase grace , I know it will for thee and me : But come to Mother babe and play , Poor Father false is fled away . Sweet Babe if [ ' ] tO be thy fortune chance , thy father home again to send , If death does strike me with his Lance , yet may'st thou me to him commend . If any ask thy Mother's name , Tell how by love she purchased blame ; Then will his gentle heart soon yield , I know him of a Noble mind . Although a Lion in the field , a Lamb in town thou shalt him find ; Ask blessing Lad , be not afraid , His sugared Lips hath we betray'd ; Then mayest thou joy and be right glad , although in woe I seem to mourn , Thy father is no Rascal Lad , and able youth of blood and bone . His glancing look if he once smile , Right honest women will beguile : Come little boy and rock asleep , sing Lullaby and do not cry ; I can do nought else but weep , and fit by the Lullaby ; God bless the babe and Lullaby , From this thy Father's quality . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . A LULLABY . COme little babe , come silly soul , thy father's shame & mother's grief Born as I doubt to all our doles , and to thyself unhappy chief . Sing Lullaby and keep it warm , Poor soul it thinks no creature harm , Thou little thinkest , and least does know , the cause of this thy mother's moan . Thou wantest wit to wail or woe , and I myself am left alone : Why dost thou weep , why dost thou wail And know'st not what does thee ail : Come silly wretch , ah silly heart , my only joy what can I more , If there be any wrong thy smart , that may thy destiny deplore . 'Tis I , I say , against my will , I wait the time , but be thou still ; And dost thou smile , Oh thou sweet face , I would thy Dad the same might see , No doubt but it would purchase grace , I know it will for thee and me : But come to Mother babe and play , Poor Father false is fled away . Sweet Babe if [ ' ] tO be thy fortune chance , thy father home again to send , If death does strike me with his Lance , yet may'st thou me to him commend . If any ask thy Mother's name , Tell how by love she purchased blame ; Then will his gentle heart soon yield , I know him of a Noble mind . Although a Lion in the field , a Lamb in town thou shalt him find ; Ask blessing Lad , be not afraid , His sugared Lips hath we betray'd ; Then mayest thou joy and be right glad , although in woe I seem to mourn , Thy father is no Rascal Lad , and able youth of blood and bone . His glancing look if he once smile , Right honest women will beguile : Come little boy and rock asleep , sing Lullaby and do not cry ; I can do nought else but weep , and fit by the Lullaby ; God bless the babe and Lullaby , From this thy Father's quality . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 