E : 360 The two Constant Lovers . Or , A pattern of true Love expressed in this loving Dialogue between Samuell and Sara . To a pleasant new tune . AS I by chance was walking , on a Summer's day , I herd two Lovers talking , and thus they did say : With a mournful Ditty , she began her tale , Which mov'd my heart with pity , her for to bewail . Sara . My love I have desired , for to speak with you , My heart within was fired , until that I know : Whither you were living , in good health or no , My heart it was grieved , until I did know . Samuell . What sweet heart what ails thee , thus for to complain , Let not ill befall thee , thou shalt me obtain : Though I were absented , from thee for a space , I'll not be prevented of thy comely face . Sara . Samuell my own Sweating , I to thee must tell , In a heavy greeting , what hath us befell : My friends do grudge and murmur , and to me they say ; That we must part a sunder , or else they'l thee destroy . Samuel . My Love be not grieved , though thy friends do frown : Thou shalt be relieved . none shall put thee down : I for thy sweet favour , will adventure much , Though thy friends and Brother , do against me grutch . Sara . O my own deer Sweating , I am griev'd in heart , That I give thee such greeting , for to breed thy smar Barnwell my own Brother , Captain being he , Swears that of all other , killed thou shalt be . The Second Part. Samuell . SAra be not fearful , though thy Brother swear ; Of thy self be careful , I no man do fear : What care I for Barnwell , though he a Captain be , He shall find that Samuell , is as good as he . Sara . O my loving Samuell , look where he does doe , 'Tis my brother Barnwell , now begins our woe : Would that we together had not met this day . O my Judas brother , will my life bewray . Now comes Captain Barnwell , to these Lovers twaine , And made count that Samuell , he could soon have slain : But it prov'd contrary to his bloody mind , In the sighed of Sara , conquest he resign'd . Then said he to Samuell , what do you make here ? I'm with my sweetheart Sara , put her not in fear : Barnwell in a fury swore he would prevent , His own sister Sara , of her hearts content . Sara . O my Brother Barnwell , let me you entreat , Not to wrong my Samuell , in your bloody hea He had ne're offended you at any time , Let me be condemned , save his life take mine . I sayes Captain Barnwell , Sara thou shalt see , Then he call'd to Samuell , come and answer me : I thy death hath vowed , ere I further go ; Then sweet Sara bowed , saying do not so . Samuell . Samuel being heedful , of his tyranny ; Says Sara be not fearful , thou anon shalt see : Though thy Brother Barnwel , vow my life to spill , Thou shalt see that Samuel , hath both strength and skill . Now these words being spoken , they to Weapons go , Samuel gave him a token , with a dreadful blow : And withal enclosed , with his Enemy , Then Barnwell he supposed , that himself should die . Then says loving Samuel , are you now content ? I sayes Captain Barnwell , and withal consent , That my Sister Sara shall be made thy wife ; So thou wilt but spare me and not take my life . Thus in place they ceased for the present time , Sara much was eased of her troubled mind : And enjoy'd her Samuell , to her hearts content , And her Brother Barnwel , gave his free consent . Now these Lovers twaine live in joy and peace , Pray heaven upon them rain plenty and increase : And to all true Lovers , wheresoe'r they be , Aid them with thy favour , that have such Constancy . FINIS . LONDON Printed for Fr. Cole [ s ] T. Vere , and W. Gilberson . E : 360 The two Constant Lovers . Or , A pattern of true Love expressed in this loving Dialogue between Samuell and Sara . To a pleasant new tune . AS I by chance was walking , on a Summer's day , I herd two Lovers talking , and thus they did say : With a mournful Ditty , she began her tale , Which mov'd my heart with pity , her for to bewail . Sara . My love I have desired , for to speak with you , My heart within was fired , until that I know : Whither you were living , in good health or no , My heart it was grieved , until I did know . Samuell . What sweet heart what ails thee , thus for to complain , Let not ill befall thee , thou shalt me obtain : Though I were absented , from thee for a space , I'll not be prevented of thy comely face . Sara . Samuell my own Sweating , I to thee must tell , In a heavy greeting , what hath us befell : My friends do grudge and murmur , and to me they say ; That we must part a sunder , or else they'l thee destroy . Samuel . My Love be not grieved , though thy friends do frown : Thou shalt be relieved . none shall put thee down : I for thy sweet favour , will adventure much , Though thy friends and Brother , do against me grutch . Sara . O my own deer Sweating , I am griev'd in heart , That I give thee such greeting , for to breed thy smar Barnwell my own Brother , Captain being he , Swears that of all other , killed thou shalt be . The Second Part. Samuell . SAra be not fearful , though thy Brother swear ; Of thy self be careful , I no man do fear : What care I for Barnwell , though he a Captain be , He shall find that Samuell , is as good as he . Sara . O my loving Samuell , look where he does doe , 'Tis my brother Barnwell , now begins our woe : Would that we together had not met this day . O my Judas brother , will my life bewray . Now comes Captain Barnwell , to these Lovers twaine , And made count that Samuell , he could soon have slain : But it prov'd contrary to his bloody mind , In the sighed of Sara , conquest he resign'd . Then said he to Samuell , what do you make here ? I'm with my sweetheart Sara , put her not in fear : Barnwell in a fury swore he would prevent , His own sister Sara , of her hearts content . Sara . O my Brother Barnwell , let me you entreat , Not to wrong my Samuell , in your bloody hea He had ne're offended you at any time , Let me be condemned , save his life take mine . I sayes Captain Barnwell , Sara thou shalt see , Then he call'd to Samuell , come and answer me : I thy death hath vowed , ere I further go ; Then sweet Sara bowed , saying do not so . Samuell . Samuel being heedful , of his tyranny ; Says Sara be not fearful , thou anon shalt see : Though thy Brother Barnwel , vow my life to spill , Thou shalt see that Samuel , hath both strength and skill . Now these words being spoken , they to Weapons go , Samuel gave him a token , with a dreadful blow : And withal enclosed , with his Enemy , Then Barnwell he supposed , that himself should die . Then says loving Samuel , are you now content ? I sayes Captain Barnwell , and withal consent , That my Sister Sara shall be made thy wife ; So thou wilt but spare me and not take my life . Thus in place they ceased for the present time , Sara much was eased of her troubled mind : And enjoy'd her Samuell , to her hearts content , And her Brother Barnwel , gave his free consent . Now these Lovers twaine live in joy and peace , Pray heaven upon them rain plenty and increase : And to all true Lovers , wheresoe'r they be , Aid them with thy favour , that have such Constancy . FINIS . LONDON Printed for Fr. Cole [ s ] T. Vere , and W. Gilberson . 