E : 359 A TURN-COAT of the TIMES : Who does by Experience , profess and protest , That of all Professions a Turn coat's the best . Tune is , The King's deligh or , True Love is a Gift for a Queen . AS I was walking through Hide-park , as I us'd to do ; some two or three months ago , I laid me all along , Without any fear of wrong , And listen'd unto a Song ; It came from a powdered Thing , As fine as a Lord or a King , he knew not that I was god so nigh , And thus he began to sing : I am a Turncoat Knave , Although I do bear it brave ; and do not show all I have ; I can with tongue and pen Court every sort of Men , And kill 'em as fast again . With Zealots I can pray , With Cavileers I can play , with Shopkeepers I can clog and lie , And cozen as fast as they . When first the wars began , And 'Prentices led the van , 'twas I that did set them on ; When they cried Bishops down In Country , Court and Town , Quoth I , And have at the Crown : The Covenant I did take , For from and fashion's sake ; but when it would not support my Plot , 'Twas like and old Almanac . When Independency Had Superiority , I was of the same degree ; When Keepers did command , I then had a holy hand , In Deans and in Chapters land , But when I began to 'spy Protectorship drew nigh , and Keepers were thrown o're the bar , Old Oliver , then cry'd I . When Sectarifts god the day , I used my yea , and nay , to flatter and them betray : In Parliament I got , And there a Member sat , To tumble down Church and State , For I was a trusty Trout In all that I went about ; and there we did vow to fit till now , But Oliver turn'd us out . We put down the House of Peers We killed the Cavileers , and tippled the Widows tears ; We sequested Men's estates , And made 'em pay monthly rates To Trumpeters and their Mates . Rebellion we did Print , And altered all the Mint ; no Knavery then was done by Men , But I had a finger in't . When Charles was put to flight , Then I was at Worster fight , and god a good booty by't ; At that most fatal fallen I kill'd and plunder'd all , The Weakest went to the wall ; While my merry Mates fell on , To pillaging I was gone , there is many ( thought I ) will come by and by , And why should not I be one ? We triumphed like the Turk , We crippled the Scottish Kirk , that sets us at first to work ; When Cromwell did but frown , They yielded every Town , St. Andrew's Cross went down ; But when old Noll did die , And Richard his Son put by , I knew not how to guide my blow , Where now shall I be ? thought I . I must confess the Rump , Did put me in a dump , I knew not what would be trump ; When Dick had lost the day , My gaming was at a stay , I could not tell what to play ; When Monk was upon that Score , I thought I would play no more , I did not think what he would be at , I ne'r was so mumpt before . But now I am at Court , With Men of the better sort , to purchase a good Report ; I have the eyes and ears Of many brave noble Peers , And flight the poor-Cavileers ; Poor Knaves they know not how , To flatter , cringe and bow , for he that is wise , and means to rise , He must be a Turncoat too . Licensed according to Order . London : Printed by and for W.O. and are to be sold the Booksellers . E : 359 A TURN-COAT of the TIMES : Who does by Experience , profess and protest , That of all Professions a Turn coat's the best . Tune is , The King's deligh or , True Love is a Gift for a Queen . AS I was walking through Hide-park , as I us'd to do ; some two or three months ago , I laid me all along , Without any fear of wrong , And listen'd unto a Song ; It came from a powdered Thing , As fine as a Lord or a King , he knew not that I was god so nigh , And thus he began to sing : I am a Turncoat Knave , Although I do bear it brave ; and do not show all I have ; I can with tongue and pen Court every sort of Men , And kill 'em as fast again . With Zealots I can pray , With Cavileers I can play , with Shopkeepers I can clog and lie , And cozen as fast as they . When first the wars began , And 'Prentices led the van , 'twas I that did set them on ; When they cried Bishops down In Country , Court and Town , Quoth I , And have at the Crown : The Covenant I did take , For from and fashion's sake ; but when it would not support my Plot , 'Twas like and old Almanac . When Independency Had Superiority , I was of the same degree ; When Keepers did command , I then had a holy hand , In Deans and in Chapters land , But when I began to 'spy Protectorship drew nigh , and Keepers were thrown o're the bar , Old Oliver , then cry'd I . When Sectarifts god the day , I used my yea , and nay , to flatter and them betray : In Parliament I got , And there a Member sat , To tumble down Church and State , For I was a trusty Trout In all that I went about ; and there we did vow to fit till now , But Oliver turn'd us out . We put down the House of Peers We killed the Cavileers , and tippled the Widows tears ; We sequested Men's estates , And made 'em pay monthly rates To Trumpeters and their Mates . Rebellion we did Print , And altered all the Mint ; no Knavery then was done by Men , But I had a finger in't . When Charles was put to flight , Then I was at Worster fight , and god a good booty by't ; At that most fatal fallen I kill'd and plunder'd all , The Weakest went to the wall ; While my merry Mates fell on , To pillaging I was gone , there is many ( thought I ) will come by and by , And why should not I be one ? We triumphed like the Turk , We crippled the Scottish Kirk , that sets us at first to work ; When Cromwell did but frown , They yielded every Town , St. Andrew's Cross went down ; But when old Noll did die , And Richard his Son put by , I knew not how to guide my blow , Where now shall I be ? thought I . I must confess the Rump , Did put me in a dump , I knew not what would be trump ; When Dick had lost the day , My gaming was at a stay , I could not tell what to play ; When Monk was upon that Score , I thought I would play no more , I did not think what he would be at , I ne'r was so mumpt before . But now I am at Court , With Men of the better sort , to purchase a good Report ; I have the eyes and ears Of many brave noble Peers , And flight the poor-Cavileers ; Poor Knaves they know not how , To flatter , cringe and bow , for he that is wise , and means to rise , He must be a Turncoat too . Licensed according to Order . London : Printed by and for W.O. and are to be sold the Booksellers . 