E : 356 The True Loves Knot Untied . Being the right path , whereby to advice Princely Virgins how to behave themselves , by the example of the re - noun Princess , the Lady Arabella , and the second Son to the Lord Seymore , late Earl of Hertford . To the Tune of , Frogs Galliards . AS I from Ireland did pass , I saw a Ship at Anchor lay , Another Ship likewise there was which from fair England took her way . The Ship that sail'd from fair England unknown unto our gracious King , The Lord Chief Justice did command that they should us to London bring . I drew more near , and saw more plain Lady Arabella in distress , She wrung her hands , and wept amain , bewailing of her heaviness , When near fair London Tower she came whereas her landing place should be , The King and Queen with all their train did meet this Lady gallantly . Now now Arabella , then our King unto this Lady straight did say , Who hath first ty'd you to these things , that you from England took your way ? None but my self , my gracious Liege , this ten long years I've been in love , With the Lord Seymors second Son , the Earl of Hertford so we prove . Though he be not the mightiest man of goods and Livings in the Land , Yet I have lands us to maintain , so much your grace does understand . My lands and livings are well known unto your Books of Majesty , Amounting to twelvescore pound a week , beside what I do give , quoth she . In gallant Derbyshire likewise I ninescore Beadsmen maintain there With hats and gowns , & house-rent free , and every man five marks the year . I never raised rend said she nor yet oppressed the Tenant poor I never took no Bribes nor fines , for why , I had enough before . The second part to the same Tune WHom of your Nobles will do so for to maintain the Commonalty Such multitudes would never grow , nor be such store of poverty . I would I had a Milkmaid been , or born of some more low degree , Then I might have lov'd where I like and no man could have hindered me . Or would I were some Yeomans Child , for to receive my portion now , According unto my degree , as other Virgins whom I know . The highest branch that springs aloft , needs must beshade the middle tree , Needs must the shadow of them both , shadow the third in his degree . But when the tree is cut and gone , and from the ground is born away The lowest tree that there does stand in time may grow as high as they . Once when I thought to have been Queen but yet that still I do deny , I know your Grace had right to th' Crown before Elizabeth did die . You of the eldest Sister came , I of the second in degree , The Earl of Hertford of the third . a man of royal blood quoth she . And so good night my Sovereign Liege , since in the Tower I must lie , I hope your Grace will condescend , that I may have my liberty . Lady Arabella said our King I to your Freedom would consent , If you would turn and go to Church there to receieve the Sacrament . And so good night Arabella fair , our King to her replied again , I will take Counsel of my Nobility , that you your Freedom may obtain . Once more to prison must I go Lady Arabella then did say . To leave my Love breeds all my woe the which will be my lives decay . Love is a knot none can unknit fancy a liking of the heart , He whom I love I cannot forget though from his presence I must part . The meanest people enjoy their mates , but I was born unhappily , For being crossed by cruel fate , I want both love and liberty . But death I hope , will end the strife farewell , farewell , dear Love , quoth she Once had I thought to have been thy wife but now am forc'd to part from thee . At this sad meeting she had cause in heart and mind to grieve full soar , After that Arabella fair did never see Lord Seymore more . FINIS . London , Printed for F.G. on Snow-hill . Entered according to Order . E : 356 The True Loves Knot Untied . Being the right path , whereby to advice Princely Virgins how to behave themselves , by the example of the re - noun Princess , the Lady Arabella , and the second Son to the Lord Seymore , late Earl of Hertford . To the Tune of , Frogs Galliards . AS I from Ireland did pass , I saw a Ship at Anchor lay , Another Ship likewise there was which from fair England took her way . The Ship that sail'd from fair England unknown unto our gracious King , The Lord Chief Justice did command that they should us to London bring . I drew more near , and saw more plain Lady Arabella in distress , She wrung her hands , and wept amain , bewailing of her heaviness , When near fair London Tower she came whereas her landing place should be , The King and Queen with all their train did meet this Lady gallantly . Now now Arabella , then our King unto this Lady straight did say , Who hath first ty'd you to these things , that you from England took your way ? None but my self , my gracious Liege , this ten long years I've been in love , With the Lord Seymors second Son , the Earl of Hertford so we prove . Though he be not the mightiest man of goods and Livings in the Land , Yet I have lands us to maintain , so much your grace does understand . My lands and livings are well known unto your Books of Majesty , Amounting to twelvescore pound a week , beside what I do give , quoth she . In gallant Derbyshire likewise I ninescore Beadsmen maintain there With hats and gowns , & house-rent free , and every man five marks the year . I never raised rend said she nor yet oppressed the Tenant poor I never took no Bribes nor fines , for why , I had enough before . The second part to the same Tune WHom of your Nobles will do so for to maintain the Commonalty Such multitudes would never grow , nor be such store of poverty . I would I had a Milkmaid been , or born of some more low degree , Then I might have lov'd where I like and no man could have hindered me . Or would I were some Yeomans Child , for to receive my portion now , According unto my degree , as other Virgins whom I know . The highest branch that springs aloft , needs must beshade the middle tree , Needs must the shadow of them both , shadow the third in his degree . But when the tree is cut and gone , and from the ground is born away The lowest tree that there does stand in time may grow as high as they . Once when I thought to have been Queen but yet that still I do deny , I know your Grace had right to th' Crown before Elizabeth did die . You of the eldest Sister came , I of the second in degree , The Earl of Hertford of the third . a man of royal blood quoth she . And so good night my Sovereign Liege , since in the Tower I must lie , I hope your Grace will condescend , that I may have my liberty . Lady Arabella said our King I to your Freedom would consent , If you would turn and go to Church there to receieve the Sacrament . And so good night Arabella fair , our King to her replied again , I will take Counsel of my Nobility , that you your Freedom may obtain . Once more to prison must I go Lady Arabella then did say . To leave my Love breeds all my woe the which will be my lives decay . Love is a knot none can unknit fancy a liking of the heart , He whom I love I cannot forget though from his presence I must part . The meanest people enjoy their mates , but I was born unhappily , For being crossed by cruel fate , I want both love and liberty . But death I hope , will end the strife farewell , farewell , dear Love , quoth she Once had I thought to have been thy wife but now am forc'd to part from thee . At this sad meeting she had cause in heart and mind to grieve full soar , After that Arabella fair did never see Lord Seymore more . FINIS . London , Printed for F.G. on Snow-hill . Entered according to Order . 