P : 358 ( 7 ) The reply and challenge of King ROBERT the second , the first of the STUARTS , unto HENRY the fourth King of England , unjustly challenging his Homage . DUring the reign of the Roy Robert , The first King of the good Stewar Henry of England the third King In Scotland sent and asked this thing At King Robert , why he not made Him Homage for his Lands braid ? Or why he caused through his guilt So meikle saikless blood be spilled ? He said he aught of heritage In London to make him homage : After the right of Brutus King , Who had England in Governing . When good King Robert wise and wight Had herd and seen his writ by sighs Therethrough he grew in malent , And shows Barons of his inten And call'd a Counsel in Stirling Town , And there came Lords of great renown ; And at that time he asked it , That he might answer by his own wit . Our Lords were fain of that thing , Receiv'd them to their noble King : Without counsel of any man , To dyte and Write this King began . This was the effect of his writing , In all was sooth and no leasing . We Robert now by Gods might , King of Scots and Isles aright , Inhabits to the Ocean Sea , Our heritage is ever free . To thee Hary of Longcastle , Thine epistle I considered well : Duke of that ilk thou should'st be call'd , It was thy righteous style of old . Towards the first point degrading , No care I will take of such thing : Nought for a King I will call thee , For hurting of Kings Majesty . Wit thou that we have understand For to declare and take in hand Thy writings inward we have seen , Both first and last what thou dost mean ; Therefore thou shalt and answer have Of mine own self not of the lave . To the first point , God witness bear , No blood for me be spilled in wear ; But if it be for my defence , Through thy corrupted violence , And where thou writes and shows to us , Sen born were sons of old Brutus , That our Antecessors should be Servants to yours in each degree : Thou leid thereof , it is well known , We are ay free within our own , Although John Baliol made a band , Contrair the right of fair Scotland ; That he was false , we will defend , Unto us all it is well kenned . Our heritage is ever free , Since Scot of Egypt took the sea . But you have been thirl'd and overharl'd The great refuse of all the world . Ay inborn treason among you fell , Oft times the Chronicles can you tell , That you have ever vanquished been , Ten thousand pounds of gold so sheen To Julius Cesar paid you Of tribute . Thus you were not free , During the lives of many Emperor's . Unto your land been Conquerors , Four hundred fourscoresixteen years , As in your history well appears . While Scots and Picts right manfully , [ A ] ssisted by noble Grahame valiantly Abolishing the walls of Adrian , Expelled the Roman with might & main . By holding in their possession , The whole lands of Humber up and down : With yearly tribute paid of before , About the space of years threescore . With Saxons then you were ov'rthrown With them two Christians of their own : And other folk in company All born servants of Turkey , Came with such power in great haste , And made your lands of blood all waste ; And slew your Gentles of England , At Salisbury I understand . Into a token , the hanging stones That Brutus set up for the Nonce , In a lasting memorial , That Saxons have ov'rset you all . Sin Heslapts son of Denmark King , The third time rose ov'r you to reign ; Who made in England plain conquiese , Sin left among you at last wise , A Dame in ilk house as is known , He did defile within your own , And occupied both maids and wives , In bondage thus you led your lives ; When this was done and all by past , The fifth conquiese approached fast , By that Bastard of Normandie , Who conquest England halilie ; And yet among you reigns that blood , And meikle other which is not good . If thou trows this not true to be , The Register read , and thou shalt see ; And Chronicles of bold Britain , Since that Gathelus first began . Thou are [ tO ] not righteous for to reign , Thy own Realm knows well this thing , In London thou sware in Parliament ; England ten years thou should absent ; Then was thou plainly men-sworn , Or the third year was outworn ; Thou rose treasonably for to reign , And slew Richard thy native King , Forsooth the Proverb tells of this Which oftentimes true found it is : Flyt with his neighbour , they will tell All the mischief that him befell . But Scotland yet I dare well say , Is ever free unto this day ; And never brought in subjection , Except and man-sworn of your crown , That was Longshanks , called Edward , Took on him to declare the part Between Bruce and John Ballioun , When through the false illusion ; Where that John Baliol had no right , Took treasonably to hold by slight ; Castles and Strengths of our Country You god by your subtility . While William Wallace wight and wise , Right worthily rescu'd us thrice ; When Robert the Bruce racklesly First tint , sin won us worthily . With Stewart , Grahame , & good Dowglas That proved well in many a place ; And James Randald wise and wight , As there was not a worthier Knight ; Then these expell'd your false barnage , And fred our Realm of all thirlage . How far they marched within your land , York may bear witness I understand ; Upon their wall our Banner stood , For fear of force , and sparing blood , Then presently without delay Ten thousand marks of gold did pay , To signify that they would yield , We being Master's of the field . Then on we march'd with bow and spear , All of you being in a fear ; The Queen was sent with her Ladies , With kirkmen with their beids & friars To beg for pity until a day . We did consent , and went away ; Three quarters of a year I tell , Remaining then , returning but battle . If thou trow us not , trow of this , Of sixty thousand , there was no miss , At Bonnok-burn discomfit was And your false King away did pass ; Through a traitor that well kenned , Then free in England he him send ; Or else we had taken your King , That had all England in governing . When Henry then was come and gane Then Edward of Carnaverane Discomfit was he at by hand , By Messengers I understand ; Sir Walter Stewart then in high , He chased him all openly To Skanbrynth Castle ere he him left , Sin to his horse returned oft . By then the Clergy of England Renewed again with stalwart hand At Newrie , as it was well known , There hastily they were ov'rthrown By the good Dowglas , sooth to say And James Dowglas Earl of Murray . There thirty thousand were dung dead , Without succour or remeed : Of Priests that were of shorn Crown , That hardy men were of renown . Sin after that Robert the Bruce Took state , and wholly could reduce Northumberland all to himself , You cannot say but this befell , Then you were fain ere we would cease To procure marriage then for peace . And sought our Prince , the Bruce Davie , With your Dame Danie for to alley . You made that Evident and Band Under the great seal of England : The which we call a golden Charter , Of England he made many a Traitor . Which we have plainly for to show , If you the verity would know : And then your falsehood supplying , When Edward lately took his Ring , That this is true I testify To prove on sixty against sixtie , Or fourty for fourty if thou like , Or twenty or ten of thy Kinrick : Nine , eight , or seven , or three , or two , Born of ancient blood also , Or if thou think it comes not so , Let us part it between us two : I proffer me to prove on thee , That we in Scotland yet are free , I will fight with thee hand for hand , In the defence of fair Scotland . This writ to London it was send , And from the Counsel had it kenned . Then they considered it in plain , But no answer came back again . Now blessed be God for that he sent , The field is ours , no blood is spent , FINIS . P : 358 ( 7 ) The reply and challenge of King ROBERT the second , the first of the STUARTS , unto HENRY the fourth King of England , unjustly challenging his Homage . DUring the reign of the Roy Robert , The first King of the good Stewar Henry of England the third King In Scotland sent and asked this thing At King Robert , why he not made Him Homage for his Lands braid ? Or why he caused through his guilt So meikle saikless blood be spilled ? He said he aught of heritage In London to make him homage : After the right of Brutus King , Who had England in Governing . When good King Robert wise and wight Had herd and seen his writ by sighs Therethrough he grew in malent , And shows Barons of his inten And call'd a Counsel in Stirling Town , And there came Lords of great renown ; And at that time he asked it , That he might answer by his own wit . Our Lords were fain of that thing , Receiv'd them to their noble King : Without counsel of any man , To dyte and Write this King began . This was the effect of his writing , In all was sooth and no leasing . We Robert now by Gods might , King of Scots and Isles aright , Inhabits to the Ocean Sea , Our heritage is ever free . To thee Hary of Longcastle , Thine epistle I considered well : Duke of that ilk thou should'st be call'd , It was thy righteous style of old . Towards the first point degrading , No care I will take of such thing : Nought for a King I will call thee , For hurting of Kings Majesty . Wit thou that we have understand For to declare and take in hand Thy writings inward we have seen , Both first and last what thou dost mean ; Therefore thou shalt and answer have Of mine own self not of the lave . To the first point , God witness bear , No blood for me be spilled in wear ; But if it be for my defence , Through thy corrupted violence , And where thou writes and shows to us , Sen born were sons of old Brutus , That our Antecessors should be Servants to yours in each degree : Thou leid thereof , it is well known , We are ay free within our own , Although John Baliol made a band , Contrair the right of fair Scotland ; That he was false , we will defend , Unto us all it is well kenned . Our heritage is ever free , Since Scot of Egypt took the sea . But you have been thirl'd and overharl'd The great refuse of all the world . Ay inborn treason among you fell , Oft times the Chronicles can you tell , That you have ever vanquished been , Ten thousand pounds of gold so sheen To Julius Cesar paid you Of tribute . Thus you were not free , During the lives of many Emperor's . Unto your land been Conquerors , Four hundred fourscoresixteen years , As in your history well appears . While Scots and Picts right manfully , [ A ] ssisted by noble Grahame valiantly Abolishing the walls of Adrian , Expelled the Roman with might & main . By holding in their possession , The whole lands of Humber up and down : With yearly tribute paid of before , About the space of years threescore . With Saxons then you were ov'rthrown With them two Christians of their own : And other folk in company All born servants of Turkey , Came with such power in great haste , And made your lands of blood all waste ; And slew your Gentles of England , At Salisbury I understand . Into a token , the hanging stones That Brutus set up for the Nonce , In a lasting memorial , That Saxons have ov'rset you all . Sin Heslapts son of Denmark King , The third time rose ov'r you to reign ; Who made in England plain conquiese , Sin left among you at last wise , A Dame in ilk house as is known , He did defile within your own , And occupied both maids and wives , In bondage thus you led your lives ; When this was done and all by past , The fifth conquiese approached fast , By that Bastard of Normandie , Who conquest England halilie ; And yet among you reigns that blood , And meikle other which is not good . If thou trows this not true to be , The Register read , and thou shalt see ; And Chronicles of bold Britain , Since that Gathelus first began . Thou are [ tO ] not righteous for to reign , Thy own Realm knows well this thing , In London thou sware in Parliament ; England ten years thou should absent ; Then was thou plainly men-sworn , Or the third year was outworn ; Thou rose treasonably for to reign , And slew Richard thy native King , Forsooth the Proverb tells of this Which oftentimes true found it is : Flyt with his neighbour , they will tell All the mischief that him befell . But Scotland yet I dare well say , Is ever free unto this day ; And never brought in subjection , Except and man-sworn of your crown , That was Longshanks , called Edward , Took on him to declare the part Between Bruce and John Ballioun , When through the false illusion ; Where that John Baliol had no right , Took treasonably to hold by slight ; Castles and Strengths of our Country You god by your subtility . While William Wallace wight and wise , Right worthily rescu'd us thrice ; When Robert the Bruce racklesly First tint , sin won us worthily . With Stewart , Grahame , & good Dowglas That proved well in many a place ; And James Randald wise and wight , As there was not a worthier Knight ; Then these expell'd your false barnage , And fred our Realm of all thirlage . How far they marched within your land , York may bear witness I understand ; Upon their wall our Banner stood , For fear of force , and sparing blood , Then presently without delay Ten thousand marks of gold did pay , To signify that they would yield , We being Master's of the field . Then on we march'd with bow and spear , All of you being in a fear ; The Queen was sent with her Ladies , With kirkmen with their beids & friars To beg for pity until a day . We did consent , and went away ; Three quarters of a year I tell , Remaining then , returning but battle . If thou trow us not , trow of this , Of sixty thousand , there was no miss , At Bonnok-burn discomfit was And your false King away did pass ; Through a traitor that well kenned , Then free in England he him send ; Or else we had taken your King , That had all England in governing . When Henry then was come and gane Then Edward of Carnaverane Discomfit was he at by hand , By Messengers I understand ; Sir Walter Stewart then in high , He chased him all openly To Skanbrynth Castle ere he him left , Sin to his horse returned oft . By then the Clergy of England Renewed again with stalwart hand At Newrie , as it was well known , There hastily they were ov'rthrown By the good Dowglas , sooth to say And James Dowglas Earl of Murray . There thirty thousand were dung dead , Without succour or remeed : Of Priests that were of shorn Crown , That hardy men were of renown . Sin after that Robert the Bruce Took state , and wholly could reduce Northumberland all to himself , You cannot say but this befell , Then you were fain ere we would cease To procure marriage then for peace . And sought our Prince , the Bruce Davie , With your Dame Danie for to alley . You made that Evident and Band Under the great seal of England : The which we call a golden Charter , Of England he made many a Traitor . Which we have plainly for to show , If you the verity would know : And then your falsehood supplying , When Edward lately took his Ring , That this is true I testify To prove on sixty against sixtie , Or fourty for fourty if thou like , Or twenty or ten of thy Kinrick : Nine , eight , or seven , or three , or two , Born of ancient blood also , Or if thou think it comes not so , Let us part it between us two : I proffer me to prove on thee , That we in Scotland yet are free , I will fight with thee hand for hand , In the defence of fair Scotland . This writ to London it was send , And from the Counsel had it kenned . Then they considered it in plain , But no answer came back again . Now blessed be God for that he sent , The field is ours , no blood is spent , FINIS . 