P : 358 ( 6 ) The Cripples Raze . THere was a Raze in Glasgow Town , the like was never seen [ I ] n Stirling , Lorn , nor yet in Down , nor yet in Aberden . Two Cripples did take on that Raze , for pride between them fell : The like was never into no place , but once into Dunkell . In Februar that Raze was run , on Munday after noon ; But I think there was little spun till once this Raze was done . They needed neither Horse nor Meir , the way was tied and clean , For neither had they lance nor spear to just upon the green . Seven feet was counted and three ein , they had between them baith ; The like , I think , was never seen in Glasgow , I perceive . They had three staves to run withal , because their legs were short . You never saw , nor never shall , I think a braver sport , I have been East , I have been West , but not in Germanie ; In all the parts that ere I passed , the like I did not see . There were right many Gentlemen came here this raze to see For any think that I did ken , young Limpy won the gree , The lasses ran in troops and pairs , down for to see that Raze ; And some fell here and some fell there , and some fell on there face : And some of them fell in the stank while they were wet and weary : They gave the Cripples little thank , 'cause they began that steiry . Their bony locks which did hing down , were drowked all with rain . So were their Wast ; coats & their gown , ere they came back again . What way this bargain first began , I know not certainly : For all the bouts they ever ran , young Limpy won the gree . What ever he was that did them start , I think he did some wrong : [ B ] ecause that he did take the part with him that was most strong . Their pokes and all were casten by , to make them to be light ; And all their duds hung out to dry , wherein they lie all night . The youngest Cripple had great slight and souple of himself , At every bend , he was so light , I think he lap five ell . The eldest he began to tyre , and fagged cruelly The wind it blew him in the mire , which many one did see . The eldest on was stiff and old , the way was something dreigh ; The day indeed was something cold , the wind blue wonder high . Young limpy had no wand nor whip , for ought that we did see ; He cast him and his belly up , and in the dirt lay he , At that he took a great disdain , and grieved mightily , Ere he won to his feet again , young Limpy won the gree , , And then the shoulders gave a shout the lasses play'd ti high , And all the lads cry'd round about Young Limpy's wone the gree , And then they brought him to the town as he had wone the Bell . The eldest Cripple fell in swoon , because he god the Mell. John Ferguson he gets the wit that limpy won the gree , They say he did it through despite , judge if it be a lie , He hath good drink into his house , who ever likes to buy You know he hath and honest wife , can ruse it by and by . John Ferguson's a fellow fine , at home in his own house , He cares no more a drink of wine , then some does for a lous . Now at this time I'le say no more , but here I will conclude : All kind of things I wll abhor , that seems to be rude . FINIS . P : 358 ( 6 ) The Cripples Raze . THere was a Raze in Glasgow Town , the like was never seen [ I ] n Stirling , Lorn , nor yet in Down , nor yet in Aberden . Two Cripples did take on that Raze , for pride between them fell : The like was never into no place , but once into Dunkell . In Februar that Raze was run , on Munday after noon ; But I think there was little spun till once this Raze was done . They needed neither Horse nor Meir , the way was tied and clean , For neither had they lance nor spear to just upon the green . Seven feet was counted and three ein , they had between them baith ; The like , I think , was never seen in Glasgow , I perceive . They had three staves to run withal , because their legs were short . You never saw , nor never shall , I think a braver sport , I have been East , I have been West , but not in Germanie ; In all the parts that ere I passed , the like I did not see . There were right many Gentlemen came here this raze to see For any think that I did ken , young Limpy won the gree , The lasses ran in troops and pairs , down for to see that Raze ; And some fell here and some fell there , and some fell on there face : And some of them fell in the stank while they were wet and weary : They gave the Cripples little thank , 'cause they began that steiry . Their bony locks which did hing down , were drowked all with rain . So were their Wast ; coats & their gown , ere they came back again . What way this bargain first began , I know not certainly : For all the bouts they ever ran , young Limpy won the gree . What ever he was that did them start , I think he did some wrong : [ B ] ecause that he did take the part with him that was most strong . Their pokes and all were casten by , to make them to be light ; And all their duds hung out to dry , wherein they lie all night . The youngest Cripple had great slight and souple of himself , At every bend , he was so light , I think he lap five ell . The eldest he began to tyre , and fagged cruelly The wind it blew him in the mire , which many one did see . The eldest on was stiff and old , the way was something dreigh ; The day indeed was something cold , the wind blue wonder high . Young limpy had no wand nor whip , for ought that we did see ; He cast him and his belly up , and in the dirt lay he , At that he took a great disdain , and grieved mightily , Ere he won to his feet again , young Limpy won the gree , , And then the shoulders gave a shout the lasses play'd ti high , And all the lads cry'd round about Young Limpy's wone the gree , And then they brought him to the town as he had wone the Bell . The eldest Cripple fell in swoon , because he god the Mell. John Ferguson he gets the wit that limpy won the gree , They say he did it through despite , judge if it be a lie , He hath good drink into his house , who ever likes to buy You know he hath and honest wife , can ruse it by and by . John Ferguson's a fellow fine , at home in his own house , He cares no more a drink of wine , then some does for a lous . Now at this time I'le say no more , but here I will conclude : All kind of things I wll abhor , that seems to be rude . FINIS . 