b A lamentable new Ballad upon the Earl of Essex his death . To the tune of , Essex last good night . ALL you that cry , Oh hone Oh , hone , come now and [ s ] ing , Oh Lord with me , For why our Jewel is from us gone , the valiant Knight of Chivalry : Of rich and poor beloved was he , in time and honourable Knigh When by our Laws condemned was he , and lately took his la [ st ] goodnight . Count him not like to Campion , ( these traitorous men ) or Babington , Nor like the Eale of Wesmerland , by whom a number we undone : He never yet hurt mother's son , his quarrel still maintain'd the right , Which makes the tears my cheeks down run when I think on his last goodnight . The Portingals can witness [ es ] be . his Dagger at Lisbone gate he flung : And like a Knight of Chivalry , his Chain upon the same he hung : Would God that he would thither come , to fetch them both in honour right , Which thing was by his honour done , yet lately took his last goodnight . The Frenchmen they can testify , the Town ot Gourney he took in , And march'd to Roane immediately . not caring for his foes a pin : With bullets then he pierc'd their skin , and made them flee far from his sighed , He at that time did credit win , and now hath taken his l [ a ] st goodnight . And stately Cales can witness well , even by his Proclamatio [ n ] righ He did command them all straightly , to have a care of Infants [ l ] ives ; That none should ravish M [ ai ] worser nor Wife , which was against their oh [ rd ] er right , Therefore they pray'd for his [ lo ] ng life , which lately took his last g [ oh ] od-night . Would God he had never Ireland known , nor set his feet on Flaunders ground : Then might we well enjoy our own , where now our Jewel will not be found , Which makes our woes still to abound , trickling with salt tears in our sighed , To hear his name in our ears to found , Lord Devereux took his last goodnigh [ tO . ] Ashwensday on that dismal day , when he came forth of his chamber doors Upon a Scaffold there he saw . his headsman standing him before , The Nobles all they did deplore , shedding their salt tears in his sighed , He said farewell to rich and poor , at his good-morrow and goodnight . My Lords quoth he , you stand but by , to see performance of the Law , It's I that have deserved to die , and yield my life unto the blow , I have deserv'd to die , I know , but never against my Countries right , Nor to my Queen was never foe , upon my death at my goodnight . Farewell Elizabeth my gracious Queen , God bless thee and thy Council all : Farewell yond Knights of Chivalry , farewell my Soldiers stout and tall , Farewell the Commons great and small , into the hands of men I light , My life shall make amends for all , for Essex bids the world goodnight . Farewell deer wife and children three , farewell my young and tender son , Comfort your selves , mourn not for me , although your fallen be now begun : My time is come the glass is run comfort your selves in former light , Seeing by my fallen you are undone , your father bids the world goodnight [ . ] Derick , thou knowest , at Cales I sav'd thy life , lost for a Rape there done , Which thou thy self canst testify , thine own hand three and twenty h [ È?ung , ] But now thou seest my life is come , by chance into thy hands I light , Strike out the blow that I may know , thou Essex lov'd at his goodnight . When England counted me a Papist , the works of Papists I defy , I never worshipped Saint , nor Angel in hea [ ven ] nor to the Virgin Marry I , But to Christ , which for my sins did di [ e ] trickling with sad tears in his sighed , Spreading my arms to God on high , Lord Jesus receive my soul this night . FINIS . Printed at London for Cuthbert Wri [ ght ] b A lamentable new Ballad upon the Earl of Essex his death . To the tune of , Essex last good night . ALL you that cry , Oh hone Oh , hone , come now and [ s ] ing , Oh Lord with me , For why our Jewel is from us gone , the valiant Knight of Chivalry : Of rich and poor beloved was he , in time and honourable Knigh When by our Laws condemned was he , and lately took his la [ st ] goodnight . Count him not like to Campion , ( these traitorous men ) or Babington , Nor like the Eale of Wesmerland , by whom a number we undone : He never yet hurt mother's son , his quarrel still maintain'd the right , Which makes the tears my cheeks down run when I think on his last goodnight . The Portingals can witness [ es ] be . his Dagger at Lisbone gate he flung : And like a Knight of Chivalry , his Chain upon the same he hung : Would God that he would thither come , to fetch them both in honour right , Which thing was by his honour done , yet lately took his last goodnight . The Frenchmen they can testify , the Town ot Gourney he took in , And march'd to Roane immediately . not caring for his foes a pin : With bullets then he pierc'd their skin , and made them flee far from his sighed , He at that time did credit win , and now hath taken his l [ a ] st goodnight . And stately Cales can witness well , even by his Proclamatio [ n ] righ He did command them all straightly , to have a care of Infants [ l ] ives ; That none should ravish M [ ai ] worser nor Wife , which was against their oh [ rd ] er right , Therefore they pray'd for his [ lo ] ng life , which lately took his last g [ oh ] od-night . Would God he had never Ireland known , nor set his feet on Flaunders ground : Then might we well enjoy our own , where now our Jewel will not be found , Which makes our woes still to abound , trickling with salt tears in our sighed , To hear his name in our ears to found , Lord Devereux took his last goodnigh [ tO . ] Ashwensday on that dismal day , when he came forth of his chamber doors Upon a Scaffold there he saw . his headsman standing him before , The Nobles all they did deplore , shedding their salt tears in his sighed , He said farewell to rich and poor , at his good-morrow and goodnight . My Lords quoth he , you stand but by , to see performance of the Law , It's I that have deserved to die , and yield my life unto the blow , I have deserv'd to die , I know , but never against my Countries right , Nor to my Queen was never foe , upon my death at my goodnight . Farewell Elizabeth my gracious Queen , God bless thee and thy Council all : Farewell yond Knights of Chivalry , farewell my Soldiers stout and tall , Farewell the Commons great and small , into the hands of men I light , My life shall make amends for all , for Essex bids the world goodnight . Farewell deer wife and children three , farewell my young and tender son , Comfort your selves , mourn not for me , although your fallen be now begun : My time is come the glass is run comfort your selves in former light , Seeing by my fallen you are undone , your father bids the world goodnight [ . ] Derick , thou knowest , at Cales I sav'd thy life , lost for a Rape there done , Which thou thy self canst testify , thine own hand three and twenty h [ È?ung , ] But now thou seest my life is come , by chance into thy hands I light , Strike out the blow that I may know , thou Essex lov'd at his goodnight . When England counted me a Papist , the works of Papists I defy , I never worshipped Saint , nor Angel in hea [ ven ] nor to the Virgin Marry I , But to Christ , which for my sins did di [ e ] trickling with sad tears in his sighed , Spreading my arms to God on high , Lord Jesus receive my soul this night . FINIS . Printed at London for Cuthbert Wri [ ght ] 