P : 358 ( 10 ) A proper New Ballad , Entitled , The wind hath blown my played away , Or , A discourse betwixt a young Man , and the Elphin-Knight , To be sung , with its own pleasant New Tune . The Elphin Knight sits on yond Hill , Ba , ba , ba , lilli , ba , He blows his Horn both loud and shrill , the wind hath blown my played avua . He blows it East , he blows it West , Ba , ba , ba , lilli , ba , He blows it where he liketh best , the wind hath blown my played avua . I wish that Horn were in my Kiss , Ba , ba , ba , lilli , ba , Yea , and the Knight in my Arms two the wind hath blown my played avua . She had no sooner these words said , Ba , ba , ba , lilli , ba , When that the Knight came to her bed , the wind hath blown my played avua . Thou art over young a Maid quoth he , Ba ba , ba , lilli , ba . Married with me if thou wouldst be , the wind hath blown my played avua . I have a sister younger then I , Ba , ba , ba , lilli , ba , And she was married yesterday , the wind hath blown my played avua . Married with me if thou wouldst be , Ba , ba . ba , lilli , ba , A Courtesy thou must do to me , the wind hath blown my played avua . For thou must shape a Sark to me , Ba , ba , ba . lilli , ba , Without any cut or heme , quoth he , the wind hath blown my played avua . Thou must shape it needle & Sheerlesse , Ba , ba , ba , lilli , ba , And also sue it needle-Threedlesse , the wind hath blown my played avua . If that piece of Courtesy I do to thee , Ba , ba , ba , lilli , ba , Another thou must do to me , the wind hath blown my played avua . I have and Aiker of good Leyland , Ba , ba , ba , lilli , ba , Which lies low by yond Sea-strand , the wind hath blown my played avua . For thou must ear it with thy Horn , Ba , ba , ba , lilli , ba , So must thou sow it with thy Corn , the wind hath blown my played avua . And big a Cart of stone and Lime , Ba , ba , ba , lilli , ba , Robin-Red-breast he must trail it hame , the wind hath blown my played avua . Thou must Barn it in a Mouse-holl , Ba , ba , ba , lilli , ba . And thrash it into thy shoes soll , the wind hoth blown my played avua . And thou must Winnow it in thy looff , ba , ba , ba , lilli , ba , And also seek it in thy Glove , the wind hath blown thy played avua . For thou must bring it over the sea , ba , ba , ba , lilli , ba , And thou must bring it dry home to me , the wind hath blown thy played avua . When thou hast got thy turns well-done ba , ba , ba , lilli , ba , Then come to me & get thy Sack then , the wind hath blown my played avua . I'l not quite my played for my life ; ba , ba , ba , lilli , ba , It haps my seven bairns and my wife the wind shall not blow my played avua . My Maidenhead , I'le then keep still , ba , ba , ba , lilli , ba . Let the Elphin-Knight do what he will the wind's not blown my played avua . My played avua , my played avua , and e're the hill and far avua , And far avua , to Norrowa my played shall not be blown avua . FINIS . P : 358 ( 10 ) A proper New Ballad , Entitled , The wind hath blown my played away , Or , A discourse betwixt a young Man , and the Elphin-Knight , To be sung , with its own pleasant New Tune . The Elphin Knight sits on yond Hill , Ba , ba , ba , lilli , ba , He blows his Horn both loud and shrill , the wind hath blown my played avua . He blows it East , he blows it West , Ba , ba , ba , lilli , ba , He blows it where he liketh best , the wind hath blown my played avua . I wish that Horn were in my Kiss , Ba , ba , ba , lilli , ba , Yea , and the Knight in my Arms two the wind hath blown my played avua . She had no sooner these words said , Ba , ba , ba , lilli , ba , When that the Knight came to her bed , the wind hath blown my played avua . Thou art over young a Maid quoth he , Ba ba , ba , lilli , ba . Married with me if thou wouldst be , the wind hath blown my played avua . I have a sister younger then I , Ba , ba , ba , lilli , ba , And she was married yesterday , the wind hath blown my played avua . Married with me if thou wouldst be , Ba , ba . ba , lilli , ba , A Courtesy thou must do to me , the wind hath blown my played avua . For thou must shape a Sark to me , Ba , ba , ba . lilli , ba , Without any cut or heme , quoth he , the wind hath blown my played avua . Thou must shape it needle & Sheerlesse , Ba , ba , ba , lilli , ba , And also sue it needle-Threedlesse , the wind hath blown my played avua . If that piece of Courtesy I do to thee , Ba , ba , ba , lilli , ba , Another thou must do to me , the wind hath blown my played avua . I have and Aiker of good Leyland , Ba , ba , ba , lilli , ba , Which lies low by yond Sea-strand , the wind hath blown my played avua . For thou must ear it with thy Horn , Ba , ba , ba , lilli , ba , So must thou sow it with thy Corn , the wind hath blown my played avua . And big a Cart of stone and Lime , Ba , ba , ba , lilli , ba , Robin-Red-breast he must trail it hame , the wind hath blown my played avua . Thou must Barn it in a Mouse-holl , Ba , ba , ba , lilli , ba . And thrash it into thy shoes soll , the wind hoth blown my played avua . And thou must Winnow it in thy looff , ba , ba , ba , lilli , ba , And also seek it in thy Glove , the wind hath blown thy played avua . For thou must bring it over the sea , ba , ba , ba , lilli , ba , And thou must bring it dry home to me , the wind hath blown thy played avua . When thou hast got thy turns well-done ba , ba , ba , lilli , ba , Then come to me & get thy Sack then , the wind hath blown my played avua . I'l not quite my played for my life ; ba , ba , ba , lilli , ba , It haps my seven bairns and my wife the wind shall not blow my played avua . My Maidenhead , I'le then keep still , ba , ba , ba , lilli , ba . Let the Elphin-Knight do what he will the wind's not blown my played avua . My played avua , my played avua , and e're the hill and far avua , And far avua , to Norrowa my played shall not be blown avua . FINIS . 