v Captain Barnard's Grenadier . WE marched out of Gloucester the 19th of June , Colours being flying and soldiers in full bloom , Little did I think that my truelove was so near , My heart was stole away by Captain Barnard's grenadier . My father and my Mother confin'd me in a room , I jump'd out of the window and I went into the town , It was my good fortune to meet with my dearest dear My heart was stole away by Captain Barnard's grenadier . My love goes to the Captian so valiant and so bold He is clothed , all in scarlet , and laced round with go [ ld ] I wash'd my love his linen , to please my dearest dear , My heart was stole away by Captain Barnard's grenadie [ r . ] The lads loves the music our Captain does command , They play such pleasant tunes all on our royal band ; They play'd the sweetest marches that ever I did hear When I was in the grove with Captain Barnard's grena - dier . 'Tis in came Timothy Clayton with his all wooing drum , He swore he'd kiss'd the bonniest girl that was in all the room ; With his shoes as black as jet he's powder'd from ear to ear , Yet she swore she'd go along , with Captain Barnard's , grenadier . FINIS . v Captain Barnard's Grenadier . WE marched out of Gloucester the 19th of June , Colours being flying and soldiers in full bloom , Little did I think that my truelove was so near , My heart was stole away by Captain Barnard's grenadier . My father and my Mother confin'd me in a room , I jump'd out of the window and I went into the town , It was my good fortune to meet with my dearest dear My heart was stole away by Captain Barnard's grenadier . My love goes to the Captian so valiant and so bold He is clothed , all in scarlet , and laced round with go [ ld ] I wash'd my love his linen , to please my dearest dear , My heart was stole away by Captain Barnard's grenadie [ r . ] The lads loves the music our Captain does command , They play such pleasant tunes all on our royal band ; They play'd the sweetest marches that ever I did hear When I was in the grove with Captain Barnard's grena - dier . 'Tis in came Timothy Clayton with his all wooing drum , He swore he'd kiss'd the bonniest girl that was in all the room ; With his shoes as black as jet he's powder'd from ear to ear , Yet she swore she'd go along , with Captain Barnard's , grenadier . FINIS . 