The Ballad of constant Susanna . THere dwelled a man in Babylon , of reputation great by fame : He took to wife a fair woman , Susanna she was call'd by name : A woman fair and virtuous , Lady , Lady , Why should we not of her learn thus to live godly ? Virtuously her life she led , she feared God , she stood in awe , As in the story we have read , was well brought up in Moses Law , Her Parents they were godly folk , Lady , Lady , Why should we not then sing & talk , of this Lady . That year two Judges there was made , which were the Elders of Babylon , To Joachims house was all their trade who was Susannas husband then , Joachim was a great rich man , Lady , Lady , These Elders oft to his house came , for this Lady : Joachim had and Orchard by , fast joining to his house or place , Whereas Susanna commonly , her self did daily there solace , And that these Elders soon had spied , Lady , Lady , And privily themselves did hide , for that Lady , Her chaste and constant life was tried by these two Elders of Babylon , A time convenient they espied , to have this Lady all alone : In this Orchard it came to pass , Lady , Lady , Where she alone her self did wash , her fair body , These Elders came to her anon , and thus they said , Fair dame , God speed Thy doors are fast , thy maids are gone , consent to us and do this deed , For we are men of no mistrust , Lady , Lady , And yet to thee we have a lust , Oh fair Lady , If that to us thou dost say nay , a testimonial we will bring , We will say that one with thee lay , how canst thou then avoid this thing Therefore consent to us and turn , Lady , Lady , For we to thee in lust do burn , Oh fair Lady . Then did she sighs , and said , alas , now woe is me on every side , Was ever wretch in such a case , shall I consent and do this deed ? Whither I do or do it not , Lady , Lady , It is my death , right well I wot , Oh true Lady , Better it were for me to fallen , into your hands this day guiltless , Then that I should consent at all to this your shameful wickedness , And even with that ( whereas she stood ) Lady , Lady , Unto the Lord she cried aloud , pitifully . These Elders both likewise again , against Susanna aloud they cried , Their filthy lust could not obtain , their wickedness they sought to hide Unto her friends they then her brought Lady , Lady , And with all speed the life they sought of that Lady , On the morrow she was brought forth before the people there to stand , That they might hear & know the truth how these two Elders Susanna found These Elders swore and thus did say Lady , Lady , How that they saw a young man lay with that Lady : Judgement there was for no offence , Susanna then causeless must die : These Elders boar such evidence , against her they did verify , Who were believed then indeed , Lady , Lady , Against Susanna to proceed , that she should die . Susannas friends that stood her by , they did lament and were full woe , When as they saw no remedy , but that to death she then must go : Susanna then both true and just , Lady , Lady , In God was all her hope and trust , to him did cry . The Lord her voice herd and beheld , the Daughters cry of Israel : His Spirit he raised in a child , whose name was call [ ' ] worser young Daniel Who cried aloud whereas he stood , Lady , Lady , I am clear of the guiltless blood of this Lady , Are you such fools , quoth Daniel then , in judgement you have not done well , Nor yet the right way you have gone , to judge a Daughter of Israel , By this witness of false disdain , Lady , Lady , Wherefore to judgement turn again for that Lady : And when to judgement they were set , he called for those wicked men , And soon he did them separate , putting the one from the other then , He asked the one where he did see that fair Lady . He said under a Mulberry-tree : who lied falsely . Thou liest said Danie [ l ] , on thy head thy sentence is before the Lord : He bade that forth he might be led , and bring the other that boar record To see how they two did agree for this Lady : He said under a Pomegranate tree , Who lied falsely . Said Daniel as he did before , behold the Messenger of the Lord Stands waiting for you at the door , even for to cut thee with a sword . And even with that the multitude aloud did cry , Give thanks to God : so to conclude , for this Lady ; They dealt like with these wicked men according as the Scripture says , They dealt as with their neighbour then by Moses Law were put to death , The Innocent preserved was , Lady , Lady , As God by Daniel brought to pass , for this Lady . FINIS . Printed at London for H. Gosson . The Ballad of constant Susanna . THere dwelled a man in Babylon , of reputation great by fame : He took to wife a fair woman , Susanna she was call'd by name : A woman fair and virtuous , Lady , Lady , Why should we not of her learn thus to live godly ? Virtuously her life she led , she feared God , she stood in awe , As in the story we have read , was well brought up in Moses Law , Her Parents they were godly folk , Lady , Lady , Why should we not then sing & talk , of this Lady . That year two Judges there was made , which were the Elders of Babylon , To Joachims house was all their trade who was Susannas husband then , Joachim was a great rich man , Lady , Lady , These Elders oft to his house came , for this Lady : Joachim had and Orchard by , fast joining to his house or place , Whereas Susanna commonly , her self did daily there solace , And that these Elders soon had spied , Lady , Lady , And privily themselves did hide , for that Lady , Her chaste and constant life was tried by these two Elders of Babylon , A time convenient they espied , to have this Lady all alone : In this Orchard it came to pass , Lady , Lady , Where she alone her self did wash , her fair body , These Elders came to her anon , and thus they said , Fair dame , God speed Thy doors are fast , thy maids are gone , consent to us and do this deed , For we are men of no mistrust , Lady , Lady , And yet to thee we have a lust , Oh fair Lady , If that to us thou dost say nay , a testimonial we will bring , We will say that one with thee lay , how canst thou then avoid this thing Therefore consent to us and turn , Lady , Lady , For we to thee in lust do burn , Oh fair Lady . Then did she sighs , and said , alas , now woe is me on every side , Was ever wretch in such a case , shall I consent and do this deed ? Whither I do or do it not , Lady , Lady , It is my death , right well I wot , Oh true Lady , Better it were for me to fallen , into your hands this day guiltless , Then that I should consent at all to this your shameful wickedness , And even with that ( whereas she stood ) Lady , Lady , Unto the Lord she cried aloud , pitifully . These Elders both likewise again , against Susanna aloud they cried , Their filthy lust could not obtain , their wickedness they sought to hide Unto her friends they then her brought Lady , Lady , And with all speed the life they sought of that Lady , On the morrow she was brought forth before the people there to stand , That they might hear & know the truth how these two Elders Susanna found These Elders swore and thus did say Lady , Lady , How that they saw a young man lay with that Lady : Judgement there was for no offence , Susanna then causeless must die : These Elders boar such evidence , against her they did verify , Who were believed then indeed , Lady , Lady , Against Susanna to proceed , that she should die . Susannas friends that stood her by , they did lament and were full woe , When as they saw no remedy , but that to death she then must go : Susanna then both true and just , Lady , Lady , In God was all her hope and trust , to him did cry . The Lord her voice herd and beheld , the Daughters cry of Israel : His Spirit he raised in a child , whose name was call [ ' ] worser young Daniel Who cried aloud whereas he stood , Lady , Lady , I am clear of the guiltless blood of this Lady , Are you such fools , quoth Daniel then , in judgement you have not done well , Nor yet the right way you have gone , to judge a Daughter of Israel , By this witness of false disdain , Lady , Lady , Wherefore to judgement turn again for that Lady : And when to judgement they were set , he called for those wicked men , And soon he did them separate , putting the one from the other then , He asked the one where he did see that fair Lady . He said under a Mulberry-tree : who lied falsely . Thou liest said Danie [ l ] , on thy head thy sentence is before the Lord : He bade that forth he might be led , and bring the other that boar record To see how they two did agree for this Lady : He said under a Pomegranate tree , Who lied falsely . Said Daniel as he did before , behold the Messenger of the Lord Stands waiting for you at the door , even for to cut thee with a sword . And even with that the multitude aloud did cry , Give thanks to God : so to conclude , for this Lady ; They dealt like with these wicked men according as the Scripture says , They dealt as with their neighbour then by Moses Law were put to death , The Innocent preserved was , Lady , Lady , As God by Daniel brought to pass , for this Lady . FINIS . Printed at London for H. Gosson . 