H : 18269 A warning to Englan [ worser ] , let London begin : To repent their iniquity , & fly from their since . ISAY . i . The Ox knoweth his owner , and the Ass his master's crib , but Israell hath not known : my people hath not understand . Ah , since - full nation , a people laden with iniquity : a seed of the wicked , corrupt children : they have forsaken the Lord , they have provo - ked the holy one of Israell to anger : they are turned backward . O Endland be vigilant , and repent thee with speed , And mark well the myrours of thy visitation : Prepare thee to prayer , for it was never more need , And langwish for thy lewd life , with great lamentation . When God drowned the world in the days of Noy , For that since only ( I say ) which we daily do frequen He sent Noy to preach to them , or he did them destroy , And gave them sixe score years , a space for to repent . Zodome and Gomorra also , were sunk in fire full hight , Burning all in Brimstone , until they were destroyed : And yet they were forewarned long , by the prophet Lot , With Repentance unto them , continually he cried . But that happy city Ninivie , among all the rest , They herd Jonas his preaching when he came thither : Repenting straight ways , and of GOD they were blessed , A goodly myrour to LONDON , if they would consider . O London , London , Jerusalem I may thee call , For why ? thy conversation agreeth thereto now : They would take no warning before the plague did fallen , And at this present day O LONDON , no more dost thou . What tokens have be of late , of Gods fearful ire ? The like before was never seen , in no time ( I trow ) Thy chief and beautiful Temple was defaced with fire , A goodly admonition sure ( if thou couldst it know ) Neither could the Pestilence provoke us to repent , Nor cruel wars warn us that the end is at hand : No , we mock at Gods threatenings like beasts impudent , No doubt , Gods justice must needs plague the land . For we will not repent , nor our wicked lives amend , But continue still in wickedness , procuring Gods curse : What earnest preachers does the Lord us daily send ? It is but pearls before swine , for we are worse & worse . If a man rebuke drunkenness , swearing or blasphemy , He shall in this wise be mocked of one iavell or and other : [ ? ] is good godly man , [ ? ] e toe holy for our company , [ ? ] are a precisian I tO [ ? ] r some unspotted brother . Alas , is this your repentance after so long preaching ? I pray you read the xii chap. of S. Mathewes gospel : Christ says , of every idle word we shall give a reckoning , Then swearers and blasphemers , shall be punished in hell . Dear christians , consider our state this present year , Both with war and other plagues , we are round enclosed : Let us turn to the Lord our God with trembling & fear , With hearty thanks giving for his great mercies offered . Remember the x Lepers , in the xvii of Lycia certain , When the Lord had cleansed them of their soar infirmity : One poor Samaritane come to Jesus Christ again , To give him hearty thanks for his great benignity . So let us give thanks to God in heart both all & some , A [ n ] worser repent our former lives , without any longer delay : [ ? ] ear lest a grievous plague among us hastily come , [ W ] ithout speedy repentance , look for it we may . Bring forth the fruits of the gospel , I mean a godly life , Leave your filthy hypocrisy which stinketh in Gods sighed Leave your abominable pride , amend both man & wife , Leave your horrible blasphemy wherein you so delight . prey England pray , and London leave thy wicked trade , Especially Covetousness , Gluttony , and all filthy lus And remember our merciful God who hath us all made , A body that is mortal , and shall turn to dust . For our noble queen Elizabeth , let us all heartily [ ? ] And for her honourable counsel , that God give that [ ? ] To maintain his glorious Gospel both night [ ? ] To the advancement of Virtue , all wickedness to ra [ ? ] FINIS . quod William Birch Imprinted at London , in little Britaine : by Alexander Lacie . H : 18269 A warning to Englan [ worser ] , let London begin : To repent their iniquity , & fly from their since . ISAY . i . The Ox knoweth his owner , and the Ass his master's crib , but Israell hath not known : my people hath not understand . Ah , since - full nation , a people laden with iniquity : a seed of the wicked , corrupt children : they have forsaken the Lord , they have provo - ked the holy one of Israell to anger : they are turned backward . O Endland be vigilant , and repent thee with speed , And mark well the myrours of thy visitation : Prepare thee to prayer , for it was never more need , And langwish for thy lewd life , with great lamentation . When God drowned the world in the days of Noy , For that since only ( I say ) which we daily do frequen He sent Noy to preach to them , or he did them destroy , And gave them sixe score years , a space for to repent . Zodome and Gomorra also , were sunk in fire full hight , Burning all in Brimstone , until they were destroyed : And yet they were forewarned long , by the prophet Lot , With Repentance unto them , continually he cried . But that happy city Ninivie , among all the rest , They herd Jonas his preaching when he came thither : Repenting straight ways , and of GOD they were blessed , A goodly myrour to LONDON , if they would consider . O London , London , Jerusalem I may thee call , For why ? thy conversation agreeth thereto now : They would take no warning before the plague did fallen , And at this present day O LONDON , no more dost thou . What tokens have be of late , of Gods fearful ire ? The like before was never seen , in no time ( I trow ) Thy chief and beautiful Temple was defaced with fire , A goodly admonition sure ( if thou couldst it know ) Neither could the Pestilence provoke us to repent , Nor cruel wars warn us that the end is at hand : No , we mock at Gods threatenings like beasts impudent , No doubt , Gods justice must needs plague the land . For we will not repent , nor our wicked lives amend , But continue still in wickedness , procuring Gods curse : What earnest preachers does the Lord us daily send ? It is but pearls before swine , for we are worse & worse . If a man rebuke drunkenness , swearing or blasphemy , He shall in this wise be mocked of one iavell or and other : [ ? ] is good godly man , [ ? ] e toe holy for our company , [ ? ] are a precisian I tO [ ? ] r some unspotted brother . Alas , is this your repentance after so long preaching ? I pray you read the xii chap. of S. Mathewes gospel : Christ says , of every idle word we shall give a reckoning , Then swearers and blasphemers , shall be punished in hell . Dear christians , consider our state this present year , Both with war and other plagues , we are round enclosed : Let us turn to the Lord our God with trembling & fear , With hearty thanks giving for his great mercies offered . Remember the x Lepers , in the xvii of Lycia certain , When the Lord had cleansed them of their soar infirmity : One poor Samaritane come to Jesus Christ again , To give him hearty thanks for his great benignity . So let us give thanks to God in heart both all & some , A [ n ] worser repent our former lives , without any longer delay : [ ? ] ear lest a grievous plague among us hastily come , [ W ] ithout speedy repentance , look for it we may . Bring forth the fruits of the gospel , I mean a godly life , Leave your filthy hypocrisy which stinketh in Gods sighed Leave your abominable pride , amend both man & wife , Leave your horrible blasphemy wherein you so delight . prey England pray , and London leave thy wicked trade , Especially Covetousness , Gluttony , and all filthy lus And remember our merciful God who hath us all made , A body that is mortal , and shall turn to dust . For our noble queen Elizabeth , let us all heartily [ ? ] And for her honourable counsel , that God give that [ ? ] To maintain his glorious Gospel both night [ ? ] To the advancement of Virtue , all wickedness to ra [ ? ] FINIS . quod William Birch Imprinted at London , in little Britaine : by Alexander Lacie . 