H : 18268 The complaint of a sinner , vexed with pain , Desiring the joy , that ever shall remain . After W.E. moralized . THe God of love , that sits above , Does know us , Does know us , How sinful that we be : Sent his word , the two edged sword To show us , To show us , Our since and iniquity . That every vice may vanquished be , O Lord arise for thy mercy Do this our God and bind us , For ever and ever thine own : The truth will always find us , By the seeds that we have sown . The truth will tell if we would lie , The touchstone does the tree well try . And as we have a soul to save , Uprightly , Uprightly , Though troubled still with since : We should not take , that did us make , So lightly , So lightly , This worldly wealth to win . But if we will the Lord provoke We may look for his heavy stroke , As his word hath appointed The Scripture does plainly tell : Yet shall not his holy anointed Once taste the pains of Hell . Now have I told the jeoperdy , But Christ is our just remedy . With woeful hearts though god forbears To plague us , To plague us , We ought for to lamen Thy word always , both night & day Persuade us , Persuade us , Inwardly for to repent . And every one to call for grace Since the touchstone in every place , Does flourish fresh and shine That the whole world may see : And all that will be thine , Must come with tears to thee . We will not boast our merits Lord , Since thy deer son made the accord We read of old , what Prophets told Full truly , Full truly , And wrote it long a go : A Maiden mild , should bear a child Full duly , Full duly , And it proved even so . But yet God wot , the Jewes of kind Believed it not , but were still blind , And are unto this day Refusing the Triumphant truth : That the Prophet Esaye did say And wrote it to age and youth . But thereto they would not accord , But cruelly crucified the Lord . But let us now , both bend and bow , And speed us , And speed us , To follow the true trace : For he hath sent , his Testament , To feed us . To feed us , And call us unto grace . Unworthy now although we be Yet you see how his deer mercy , To us he does still give And liberal gifts us send : That we might sure believe And our lewd lives amend : Therefore let us our hearts incline , That pearls be not cast unto swine The flesh ( I say ) both night & day , Does hold us , Does hold us , From following the true trace : But thy deer son , does bid us come , And bold us , And bold us , To call to thee for grace . Thus sayeth our saviour Jesu Come unto me , and I will ease you , If you will call and knock That are over laden with since : Then will I open the lock And be ready to let you in . For I am he that bought you deer , Therefore behold , and draw you near . FINIS . W. Birch . Imprinted at London by Alexander Lacy , for Richard Applow , dwelling in Pater noster row , hard by the Castle Tavern . H : 18268 The complaint of a sinner , vexed with pain , Desiring the joy , that ever shall remain . After W.E. moralized . THe God of love , that sits above , Does know us , Does know us , How sinful that we be : Sent his word , the two edged sword To show us , To show us , Our since and iniquity . That every vice may vanquished be , O Lord arise for thy mercy Do this our God and bind us , For ever and ever thine own : The truth will always find us , By the seeds that we have sown . The truth will tell if we would lie , The touchstone does the tree well try . And as we have a soul to save , Uprightly , Uprightly , Though troubled still with since : We should not take , that did us make , So lightly , So lightly , This worldly wealth to win . But if we will the Lord provoke We may look for his heavy stroke , As his word hath appointed The Scripture does plainly tell : Yet shall not his holy anointed Once taste the pains of Hell . Now have I told the jeoperdy , But Christ is our just remedy . With woeful hearts though god forbears To plague us , To plague us , We ought for to lamen Thy word always , both night & day Persuade us , Persuade us , Inwardly for to repent . And every one to call for grace Since the touchstone in every place , Does flourish fresh and shine That the whole world may see : And all that will be thine , Must come with tears to thee . We will not boast our merits Lord , Since thy deer son made the accord We read of old , what Prophets told Full truly , Full truly , And wrote it long a go : A Maiden mild , should bear a child Full duly , Full duly , And it proved even so . But yet God wot , the Jewes of kind Believed it not , but were still blind , And are unto this day Refusing the Triumphant truth : That the Prophet Esaye did say And wrote it to age and youth . But thereto they would not accord , But cruelly crucified the Lord . But let us now , both bend and bow , And speed us , And speed us , To follow the true trace : For he hath sent , his Testament , To feed us . To feed us , And call us unto grace . Unworthy now although we be Yet you see how his deer mercy , To us he does still give And liberal gifts us send : That we might sure believe And our lewd lives amend : Therefore let us our hearts incline , That pearls be not cast unto swine The flesh ( I say ) both night & day , Does hold us , Does hold us , From following the true trace : But thy deer son , does bid us come , And bold us , And bold us , To call to thee for grace . Thus sayeth our saviour Jesu Come unto me , and I will ease you , If you will call and knock That are over laden with since : Then will I open the lock And be ready to let you in . For I am he that bought you deer , Therefore behold , and draw you near . FINIS . W. Birch . Imprinted at London by Alexander Lacy , for Richard Applow , dwelling in Pater noster row , hard by the Castle Tavern . 