H : 18263 The cruel assault of Gods Fort. BY Edward the sixt , of England king , A Fort was made gods truth to shield In whose life time / by good ruling , Both friend and foe to it did yield . But when for sin of his own flock , The Lord in wrath took him away : Leaving the Fort to his next stock / The enemies then sought out their prey . Then blew up trumpets of Papists sound Soldiers to call / and wages gave : Come who so would / was armed round , None they refused , but dressed them brave . The field was pytcht of Papists part , With corned caps , tippets , and gowns . Their ordnance lay ready in cart , To beatrice the fort of gods truth down . The general Gardner / brave and stout And Captain Boner , marched forth amain , Bourne with standard , cried out , All arm / all arm , our shavelings train . The Ancient which that Bourn bore / Were fierce wolves teeth , with blood besprent Fire and Faggot , which did declare , Their ravenous hearts to Christians meant . Then doctor Martin , as clarke of army With Doctor Story , the master Gunner : These two in office , were as trusty , As Gardner , Bourne / or bishop Bonner . A cry was made , throughout the hos With fire and hemp , all to destroy : Where ever they were , in all the cost , That did the Popes power seek to noy . The Fort thus sieged on every side , With cry so fierce , to kill them all : A fort for fear durst not abide , But from Gods Fort to them did fallen . Then might you hear the Canons roar / Which Bourne and Watson falsely sho Yield , yield these cried , from heretics lore Or batter we shall / both wall and fort . No / no ( quoth they within the Fort ) We yield us not Gods truth to stain : Though you destroy us in this sort / God shall our Fort / with force maintain . With that they all the Fort within / With sighs and sobs to God out cried : Thou Lord of hosts , way not our sin , But aid thy flock so woe betide . For though with sin , we caused this day That our good king you shouldst thus take : Yet Lord with bitterness of soul we pray , Strength us against this firy lake . This done they blowde a cheerful blast , Unto the soldiers in the For Arm you / arm you , in all the haste , Our enemies now to Fort resort . The Ancient which was spread on wall , Had a white Lamb , with read spots thick : And in gold letters were these words all , Why do you Sauls , against me kick ? Forth came Rogers , Hooper & Sanders Upon the walls the Fort to fend : We yield not ( said they ) to such destroyers , But fight we will unto the end . To these Steven Gardner , gave onset , And laid on load , as wolf on prey : He took them prisoners , with his false net / And sent them to the fire straightway . Then Story the master of the shot / On Papists rampire brave and proud : For spilling blood he cared not , Assault / assault he cried aloud . These were no sooner of the wall , But up leapt Rydley and Latimer : To rescue Gods fort , so never to fallen . And did with force , the foes encounter . And bishop Cranmer / though with gyle , The enemies stole him from thee For Yet boldly fought with them a while , And followed his mates , in like sort . Then doctor Weston , at these out shot , The pellets of Room , and them did maim : So that away they passed not , But were destroyed with fire and flame . But Bradford then on wall up leapt , And Philpot eke by him did stand : Cardmaker and Tailor also up crept , And these by truth did noy their band . Bishop Boner , on these laid hand , And to Smithfield sent them in has But to the death / these did withstand , And would not yield to enemies blast . Then blew the Papists to assault , And set a watch about thee For Of knights and yeomen to find some fault / To make them yield after this sort . And sworen men in every cost , They did compel to watch and spy : If any did resist their host / They must present them for to die . The Fort with enemies laid round about , And all the captains so cruelly slain : The soldiers thereof with courage stout , Kept yet the walls with might and main . Now scale the walls ( quoth Boner then ) Behold the captains we have slain : Ransack the Fort / destroy all men / Both women & children let none remain , Then scaling lathers were up rearde , And John Auales on them with targe : His knees had crosses because he feared , The steps would break and hang him large Up came Beard , by Vales his man / Armed all round as drunkards use : His head was closed , with good ale can / And in his hand a Taverners cruse . But they in Fort / did with them play / And cast them bribes , which made them yield , They striving who should have the prey , Fought one with other in their own field . Yet battered was this Fort full soar / With vehemrnt shot on Papists par The walls they bet still more and more / But yet the fortmen would not start . Then pushed the Papists with their pikes , The Hargabusses shot out amain : And dyms the air and many strikes / Of them that did the Fort sustain . The Holberts and the Bowmen eke , Came pressing towards the Fort with speed : These were the rakehels that did seek , To have men's goods played Cains deed . There might you see the Fort about Great streams of blood & bodies slain . The hands of all the host throughout , With blood of Saints they did them stain . In this assault the infants out cried , And eke their mother's as widows left , To see their friends before them died / And all their goods from them bereft . Though thus the Fort , was almost gone , By cruel assault of enemies bold : Yet some within the Fort alone , To God did cry / Lord keep thy hold . Then God did send his slave Death down Into the Papists host among : Which slew the chiefest in all the town / And greatest captains in the throng . By this great stroke of might Jove , The vehement force of Papists fell : And sent this Fort ( which is his Love ) A godly captain to keep it well . Which when in Fort she did appear / And flag of truce spread in her hand : Aloud she cried , cease now your ire / And yield to me right heir of England : Then scattered were the Papists host / Their flags of fire to ground did fallen . Their flaming brands which oft they tossed , Were clean out quentch at our Queens call . Cry was then made to God on high / Of all the souldtours in the For O praise the Lord for victory , In helping us after this sort . Now yield ( they cried ) our brothers dear , Which have against Gods truth so stood : Behold our Queen does proffer here , To grant you peace to change your mood . Which if her clemency you refuse / And plead not for your lives graun The law of arms she must needs use / On such as are to her repugnant . Yield , yield therefore you chief captains Example give to all your hos Or else will God revenge with pains / The blood of those whom you have rost . And all the Christians of this England / Your trumpets found to God's high praise , On Gods head let a Bay garland / For your triumph of all these frays . Yeld now your lives after such sort , As God may not this Fort so plague . Strength now your selves in this gods fort That you yield no more to enemies rage . So God will spare us our Queen long , So God will make our land increase : So God will build our fort so strong , That no enemies dare to it press . To this say all right christian men , God save our Queen . Amen . Amen . Quod J.A. Imprinted at London by John Awdeley , dwelling by great S. Bartelmewes beyond Aldersgate . H : 18263 The cruel assault of Gods Fort. BY Edward the sixt , of England king , A Fort was made gods truth to shield In whose life time / by good ruling , Both friend and foe to it did yield . But when for sin of his own flock , The Lord in wrath took him away : Leaving the Fort to his next stock / The enemies then sought out their prey . Then blew up trumpets of Papists sound Soldiers to call / and wages gave : Come who so would / was armed round , None they refused , but dressed them brave . The field was pytcht of Papists part , With corned caps , tippets , and gowns . Their ordnance lay ready in cart , To beatrice the fort of gods truth down . The general Gardner / brave and stout And Captain Boner , marched forth amain , Bourne with standard , cried out , All arm / all arm , our shavelings train . The Ancient which that Bourn bore / Were fierce wolves teeth , with blood besprent Fire and Faggot , which did declare , Their ravenous hearts to Christians meant . Then doctor Martin , as clarke of army With Doctor Story , the master Gunner : These two in office , were as trusty , As Gardner , Bourne / or bishop Bonner . A cry was made , throughout the hos With fire and hemp , all to destroy : Where ever they were , in all the cost , That did the Popes power seek to noy . The Fort thus sieged on every side , With cry so fierce , to kill them all : A fort for fear durst not abide , But from Gods Fort to them did fallen . Then might you hear the Canons roar / Which Bourne and Watson falsely sho Yield , yield these cried , from heretics lore Or batter we shall / both wall and fort . No / no ( quoth they within the Fort ) We yield us not Gods truth to stain : Though you destroy us in this sort / God shall our Fort / with force maintain . With that they all the Fort within / With sighs and sobs to God out cried : Thou Lord of hosts , way not our sin , But aid thy flock so woe betide . For though with sin , we caused this day That our good king you shouldst thus take : Yet Lord with bitterness of soul we pray , Strength us against this firy lake . This done they blowde a cheerful blast , Unto the soldiers in the For Arm you / arm you , in all the haste , Our enemies now to Fort resort . The Ancient which was spread on wall , Had a white Lamb , with read spots thick : And in gold letters were these words all , Why do you Sauls , against me kick ? Forth came Rogers , Hooper & Sanders Upon the walls the Fort to fend : We yield not ( said they ) to such destroyers , But fight we will unto the end . To these Steven Gardner , gave onset , And laid on load , as wolf on prey : He took them prisoners , with his false net / And sent them to the fire straightway . Then Story the master of the shot / On Papists rampire brave and proud : For spilling blood he cared not , Assault / assault he cried aloud . These were no sooner of the wall , But up leapt Rydley and Latimer : To rescue Gods fort , so never to fallen . And did with force , the foes encounter . And bishop Cranmer / though with gyle , The enemies stole him from thee For Yet boldly fought with them a while , And followed his mates , in like sort . Then doctor Weston , at these out shot , The pellets of Room , and them did maim : So that away they passed not , But were destroyed with fire and flame . But Bradford then on wall up leapt , And Philpot eke by him did stand : Cardmaker and Tailor also up crept , And these by truth did noy their band . Bishop Boner , on these laid hand , And to Smithfield sent them in has But to the death / these did withstand , And would not yield to enemies blast . Then blew the Papists to assault , And set a watch about thee For Of knights and yeomen to find some fault / To make them yield after this sort . And sworen men in every cost , They did compel to watch and spy : If any did resist their host / They must present them for to die . The Fort with enemies laid round about , And all the captains so cruelly slain : The soldiers thereof with courage stout , Kept yet the walls with might and main . Now scale the walls ( quoth Boner then ) Behold the captains we have slain : Ransack the Fort / destroy all men / Both women & children let none remain , Then scaling lathers were up rearde , And John Auales on them with targe : His knees had crosses because he feared , The steps would break and hang him large Up came Beard , by Vales his man / Armed all round as drunkards use : His head was closed , with good ale can / And in his hand a Taverners cruse . But they in Fort / did with them play / And cast them bribes , which made them yield , They striving who should have the prey , Fought one with other in their own field . Yet battered was this Fort full soar / With vehemrnt shot on Papists par The walls they bet still more and more / But yet the fortmen would not start . Then pushed the Papists with their pikes , The Hargabusses shot out amain : And dyms the air and many strikes / Of them that did the Fort sustain . The Holberts and the Bowmen eke , Came pressing towards the Fort with speed : These were the rakehels that did seek , To have men's goods played Cains deed . There might you see the Fort about Great streams of blood & bodies slain . The hands of all the host throughout , With blood of Saints they did them stain . In this assault the infants out cried , And eke their mother's as widows left , To see their friends before them died / And all their goods from them bereft . Though thus the Fort , was almost gone , By cruel assault of enemies bold : Yet some within the Fort alone , To God did cry / Lord keep thy hold . Then God did send his slave Death down Into the Papists host among : Which slew the chiefest in all the town / And greatest captains in the throng . By this great stroke of might Jove , The vehement force of Papists fell : And sent this Fort ( which is his Love ) A godly captain to keep it well . Which when in Fort she did appear / And flag of truce spread in her hand : Aloud she cried , cease now your ire / And yield to me right heir of England : Then scattered were the Papists host / Their flags of fire to ground did fallen . Their flaming brands which oft they tossed , Were clean out quentch at our Queens call . Cry was then made to God on high / Of all the souldtours in the For O praise the Lord for victory , In helping us after this sort . Now yield ( they cried ) our brothers dear , Which have against Gods truth so stood : Behold our Queen does proffer here , To grant you peace to change your mood . Which if her clemency you refuse / And plead not for your lives graun The law of arms she must needs use / On such as are to her repugnant . Yield , yield therefore you chief captains Example give to all your hos Or else will God revenge with pains / The blood of those whom you have rost . And all the Christians of this England / Your trumpets found to God's high praise , On Gods head let a Bay garland / For your triumph of all these frays . Yeld now your lives after such sort , As God may not this Fort so plague . Strength now your selves in this gods fort That you yield no more to enemies rage . So God will spare us our Queen long , So God will make our land increase : So God will build our fort so strong , That no enemies dare to it press . To this say all right christian men , God save our Queen . Amen . Amen . Quod J.A. Imprinted at London by John Awdeley , dwelling by great S. Bartelmewes beyond Aldersgate . 