H : 18264 And Epitaph upon the death Master John Viron Preacher . THou soul which on Christes breast , dost rest as John loved , And corpse which art like his also , with earth enVironed : Full joyful mayest thou be , but we ( alas ) may wail , Thy presence to forgo so soon , thy voice so soon to fail . But o thy pain and toil , in God thee praise we shall , That thou ensample now mayest be , unto thy fellows all . Which ceasedst not at morn , at noon , nor yet at night , To preach Gods word , to beat down vice , and to put sin to flight . Thine native country thou , regardedst not a whyt , When God did call thee forth to preach , but out thou wentest with it . Which when in thine own tongue , thou mightest not preach in Fraunce , Yet forth thou wentest , and by God led , to us wast brought by chance . Where thou with painful watch , didst learn our English tongue , And with as painful diligence , didst preach Gods truth among . No Tyrant , nor fierce laws , could make thee us forsake : But in the mydst of raging storms , with Gods Saints part didst take . And since thou hast well showed , whose servant thou hast be , In preaching and in writing both , which to Gods praise is seen . But now who shall lament ? or who may joy now flee ? Even every state from top to toe , both high and low degree . The poor may wail his miss , which with both tongue and hand , Did well refresh their weary state , which often they in stand . The rich may moan with them , his barking voice to want , That kept from them that karking beast , which richesse daily haunt . And though his like yet live , and many such there be : Yet shall we miss him in our life , and numbers more then he . But o London , London , thou oughtest chief to wail , The people such , and vices great , may at his want soar quail . For twice so many as there be , and myllions like to him , Were not sufficient to draw back , thy people from their sin . But shall I show the thanks , which in thee he hath god ? O London , London , Sodome was , not so ill unto Lot . His pains deserved praise , but some in thee him gave : Obprobrious words , and slanders vile , even to his bodies grave . But what for that they thus , have used him so ill : His virtues were thereby more known , in spite of their ill will ? And eke their lying blasts , are so laid in their face : That they may shame and weep thereat , if they have any grace . But now thou flock and fold , which he in life did guide : What cause hast thou to wail his want , and count thee woe betide ? Which hadst a Shepherd good , that did his duty rygh In saving Rams from danger near , and helping Lambs to might . From pasture unto pasture , he did thee bring to feed , And never ceased to make thee from faith to faith proceed . There rests no more for you , his pains now to requite : But so to walk as he you taught , and speak of him the right . And thou Oh England now , to end and moan with these : Lament thou mayest also with us , a workman thus to lose . Thy harvest is so great , and Laborers so few , Yea of those few some Loiterers , full ill them selves do show . And let us here by take , a warning to us all , That sing harvest is so great , and woorkemens number small : Our fruit must needs be lost ourselves to famish brought , Our Land laid like a wilderness , and brought at length to nought . But thou Oh Lord and God , of this our harvest great , Spare thou our workmen , and more send , that labour will with sweat . That as we moan for John , enVironed by death , Thou wilt us glad with many a Paule , enspirde with heavenly breath . Finis . Quod John Awdelie . Imprinted at London / by John Awdely , dwelling in little Britayne street by great Saint Bartelmewes . H : 18264 And Epitaph upon the death Master John Viron Preacher . THou soul which on Christes breast , dost rest as John loved , And corpse which art like his also , with earth enVironed : Full joyful mayest thou be , but we ( alas ) may wail , Thy presence to forgo so soon , thy voice so soon to fail . But o thy pain and toil , in God thee praise we shall , That thou ensample now mayest be , unto thy fellows all . Which ceasedst not at morn , at noon , nor yet at night , To preach Gods word , to beat down vice , and to put sin to flight . Thine native country thou , regardedst not a whyt , When God did call thee forth to preach , but out thou wentest with it . Which when in thine own tongue , thou mightest not preach in Fraunce , Yet forth thou wentest , and by God led , to us wast brought by chance . Where thou with painful watch , didst learn our English tongue , And with as painful diligence , didst preach Gods truth among . No Tyrant , nor fierce laws , could make thee us forsake : But in the mydst of raging storms , with Gods Saints part didst take . And since thou hast well showed , whose servant thou hast be , In preaching and in writing both , which to Gods praise is seen . But now who shall lament ? or who may joy now flee ? Even every state from top to toe , both high and low degree . The poor may wail his miss , which with both tongue and hand , Did well refresh their weary state , which often they in stand . The rich may moan with them , his barking voice to want , That kept from them that karking beast , which richesse daily haunt . And though his like yet live , and many such there be : Yet shall we miss him in our life , and numbers more then he . But o London , London , thou oughtest chief to wail , The people such , and vices great , may at his want soar quail . For twice so many as there be , and myllions like to him , Were not sufficient to draw back , thy people from their sin . But shall I show the thanks , which in thee he hath god ? O London , London , Sodome was , not so ill unto Lot . His pains deserved praise , but some in thee him gave : Obprobrious words , and slanders vile , even to his bodies grave . But what for that they thus , have used him so ill : His virtues were thereby more known , in spite of their ill will ? And eke their lying blasts , are so laid in their face : That they may shame and weep thereat , if they have any grace . But now thou flock and fold , which he in life did guide : What cause hast thou to wail his want , and count thee woe betide ? Which hadst a Shepherd good , that did his duty rygh In saving Rams from danger near , and helping Lambs to might . From pasture unto pasture , he did thee bring to feed , And never ceased to make thee from faith to faith proceed . There rests no more for you , his pains now to requite : But so to walk as he you taught , and speak of him the right . And thou Oh England now , to end and moan with these : Lament thou mayest also with us , a workman thus to lose . Thy harvest is so great , and Laborers so few , Yea of those few some Loiterers , full ill them selves do show . And let us here by take , a warning to us all , That sing harvest is so great , and woorkemens number small : Our fruit must needs be lost ourselves to famish brought , Our Land laid like a wilderness , and brought at length to nought . But thou Oh Lord and God , of this our harvest great , Spare thou our workmen , and more send , that labour will with sweat . That as we moan for John , enVironed by death , Thou wilt us glad with many a Paule , enspirde with heavenly breath . Finis . Quod John Awdelie . Imprinted at London / by John Awdely , dwelling in little Britayne street by great Saint Bartelmewes . 