H : 18271 A worthy Mirror , wherein you may Mark , And excellent discourse of a breeding Lark . To the tune of new Rogero . By reading whereof , perceive well you may , What trust is in friends , or in kinsfolk to stay . A Lark sometime did breed , within a field of Corn : And had increase when as the grain was ready to be shorn . She wary of the time , and careful for her nes Debated wisely with her self , what thing to do were bes For to abide the rage , of cruel Reapers hand : She knew it was to perilous , with safety for to stand . And to dislodge her brood , unable yet to fly : ( Not knowing whither to remove ) great harms might hap thereby . Therefore she meant to stay , till force constrained to fleet , And in the while for to provide , some other place as meet : The better to provide , the purpose of her mind : She would forthwith go seek abroad , and leave her young behind : But first she had them all , attend their mother's will : Which careful was for to eschew , each likelihood of ill . This Corn is ripe ( quoth she ) w [ h ] erein we nestled are : The which ( if heed prevents not harms ) might cause our mortal care . Therefore to fence with skill , the sequel of mishaps : I will provide some other place , for fear of after claps . While I for this and food , am flown hence away , With heedful ears attentive be , what comers by do say . Thus said , she vaunst herself , upon her longest toe : And mounted up into the skies , still singing as she flow . Anon she home returned , full fraught with choice of mea But lo , ( a sudden change ) her Birds for fear could nothing eat . Therewith aghast she cried , what how ? what means this ? I charge you on my blessing , tell what thing hath chanced amiss ? Are these my welcomes home , or thanks for food I have ? the wonted were with chirping cheer , to gape before I gave . But now such quames oppress . your former quiet kind : That ( quite transformde ) dumb mute things and senseless soul I find . The prime and eldest Bird , ( thus checked ) began to say : Alas deer Dame such news we herd , since you were flown away : That were it not the trust , that we repose in you : Our lives were lost remediless , we know it well ynouw : The owner of the plot , came hither with his Son : And said to him , this Wheat must down , it is more then time it were done . Go get thee to my Friends , and bid them come to morn : And tell them that I crave their helps , to reap a piece of Corn . The Lark that was the Dam , stood in a dump a while : And after said , his friends ( quoth he ) and then began to smile . Tush , friends are hard to find , true friendship seeled appears : A man may miss to have a friend , that lives old Nestors years . True Damon and his friend , long ere our time were dead : It was in Greece , a great way hence , where such true love was bred : Our Country is too cold , to foster up a friend : Till proof be made , each one will say , still yours unto the end . But try in time of need , and all your friends are flown . Such fruitless seed , such fickle stay , in faithless friends be sown : Therefore be of good cheer , revive your dulled sprights : Expel the care , that causeless thus , bereaves you of delights . Let not surmized fear , deprive your eyes of sleep : My self will be among you still , that safely shall you keep . And swear eene be the Tuft , that grows upon my crown : If all his help be in his friends , this Corn shall not go down . The young assured by her , that such and oath did swear : Did pass the time in wonted sleep , and banished former fear : And when the drowsy night , was fled from gladsome day : She bade them wake and look about , for she must go her way . And said I warrant you , these friends will not come here : Yet notwithstanding , listen well , and tell me what you hear . Anone the Farmer came , enraged well nigh mad : And sware , who so depends on friends , his case is worse then bad : I will go fetch my kin , to help me with this gear . In things of greater weight then this , their kindred shall appear : The Larks , their Dam returned , informed her of all : And how that he himself was gone , his kindred for to call . But when she herd of kin , she laughing cried amain : A pin for kin , a fig for friends , yet kin the worst of twaine . This man himself is poor , though wealthy kin he have : And kindred now a days does quail , when need compels to crave . No no , he shall return , with ill contented mind : His pains shall yield but loss of time , no succour he shall find . They all are so addict , unto their private gain : That if you lack power to requite , your suits are all in vain . My self am over charged , with harvest you may see : And nearer is my skin then shirt , this shall their answer be . Therefore as erst of friends , so say I now of kin : We shall receive no hurt by them , nor he no profit win : Yet listen once again , what now his refuge is . For kindred shall be like to friends , be well assured of this : I must go furnish up , a nest I have begun . And will return and bring you meat , as soon as it is done . Then up she clam the Clouds , with such a lusty Lay : That it rejoyst her younglings hearts , as in their nest they lay : And much they did commend , their Mother's lofty gate . And thought it long till time had brought themselves to such estate : Thus while their twinkling eyes , were roving too and from : The saw whereas the Farmer came , who was their mortal foe . Who after due complaints , thus said in the end . I will from henceforth trust my self , and not to kin nor friend : Who gives me glozing words , and fail me at my need : May in my Pater noster be , but never in my Creed . My self will have it down , since needs it must be so : For proof hath taught me too much wit , to trust to any more . The birds that listening lay , attentive to the same : Informde their mother of the whole , as soon as ere thee came : You marry then ( quoth she ) the case now altered is . We will no longer here abide , I always feared this : But out she god them all , and trudged away apace : And through the corn she brought them safe into another place . God send her luck to shun , both Hawk and Fowlers gin , And me the happen to have no need , of friend , nor yet of kin . Imprinted at London , by Richard Jhones , dwelling near unto Holborne Bridge . 1589. H : 18271 A worthy Mirror , wherein you may Mark , And excellent discourse of a breeding Lark . To the tune of new Rogero . By reading whereof , perceive well you may , What trust is in friends , or in kinsfolk to stay . A Lark sometime did breed , within a field of Corn : And had increase when as the grain was ready to be shorn . She wary of the time , and careful for her nes Debated wisely with her self , what thing to do were bes For to abide the rage , of cruel Reapers hand : She knew it was to perilous , with safety for to stand . And to dislodge her brood , unable yet to fly : ( Not knowing whither to remove ) great harms might hap thereby . Therefore she meant to stay , till force constrained to fleet , And in the while for to provide , some other place as meet : The better to provide , the purpose of her mind : She would forthwith go seek abroad , and leave her young behind : But first she had them all , attend their mother's will : Which careful was for to eschew , each likelihood of ill . This Corn is ripe ( quoth she ) w [ h ] erein we nestled are : The which ( if heed prevents not harms ) might cause our mortal care . Therefore to fence with skill , the sequel of mishaps : I will provide some other place , for fear of after claps . While I for this and food , am flown hence away , With heedful ears attentive be , what comers by do say . Thus said , she vaunst herself , upon her longest toe : And mounted up into the skies , still singing as she flow . Anon she home returned , full fraught with choice of mea But lo , ( a sudden change ) her Birds for fear could nothing eat . Therewith aghast she cried , what how ? what means this ? I charge you on my blessing , tell what thing hath chanced amiss ? Are these my welcomes home , or thanks for food I have ? the wonted were with chirping cheer , to gape before I gave . But now such quames oppress . your former quiet kind : That ( quite transformde ) dumb mute things and senseless soul I find . The prime and eldest Bird , ( thus checked ) began to say : Alas deer Dame such news we herd , since you were flown away : That were it not the trust , that we repose in you : Our lives were lost remediless , we know it well ynouw : The owner of the plot , came hither with his Son : And said to him , this Wheat must down , it is more then time it were done . Go get thee to my Friends , and bid them come to morn : And tell them that I crave their helps , to reap a piece of Corn . The Lark that was the Dam , stood in a dump a while : And after said , his friends ( quoth he ) and then began to smile . Tush , friends are hard to find , true friendship seeled appears : A man may miss to have a friend , that lives old Nestors years . True Damon and his friend , long ere our time were dead : It was in Greece , a great way hence , where such true love was bred : Our Country is too cold , to foster up a friend : Till proof be made , each one will say , still yours unto the end . But try in time of need , and all your friends are flown . Such fruitless seed , such fickle stay , in faithless friends be sown : Therefore be of good cheer , revive your dulled sprights : Expel the care , that causeless thus , bereaves you of delights . Let not surmized fear , deprive your eyes of sleep : My self will be among you still , that safely shall you keep . And swear eene be the Tuft , that grows upon my crown : If all his help be in his friends , this Corn shall not go down . The young assured by her , that such and oath did swear : Did pass the time in wonted sleep , and banished former fear : And when the drowsy night , was fled from gladsome day : She bade them wake and look about , for she must go her way . And said I warrant you , these friends will not come here : Yet notwithstanding , listen well , and tell me what you hear . Anone the Farmer came , enraged well nigh mad : And sware , who so depends on friends , his case is worse then bad : I will go fetch my kin , to help me with this gear . In things of greater weight then this , their kindred shall appear : The Larks , their Dam returned , informed her of all : And how that he himself was gone , his kindred for to call . But when she herd of kin , she laughing cried amain : A pin for kin , a fig for friends , yet kin the worst of twaine . This man himself is poor , though wealthy kin he have : And kindred now a days does quail , when need compels to crave . No no , he shall return , with ill contented mind : His pains shall yield but loss of time , no succour he shall find . They all are so addict , unto their private gain : That if you lack power to requite , your suits are all in vain . My self am over charged , with harvest you may see : And nearer is my skin then shirt , this shall their answer be . Therefore as erst of friends , so say I now of kin : We shall receive no hurt by them , nor he no profit win : Yet listen once again , what now his refuge is . For kindred shall be like to friends , be well assured of this : I must go furnish up , a nest I have begun . And will return and bring you meat , as soon as it is done . Then up she clam the Clouds , with such a lusty Lay : That it rejoyst her younglings hearts , as in their nest they lay : And much they did commend , their Mother's lofty gate . And thought it long till time had brought themselves to such estate : Thus while their twinkling eyes , were roving too and from : The saw whereas the Farmer came , who was their mortal foe . Who after due complaints , thus said in the end . I will from henceforth trust my self , and not to kin nor friend : Who gives me glozing words , and fail me at my need : May in my Pater noster be , but never in my Creed . My self will have it down , since needs it must be so : For proof hath taught me too much wit , to trust to any more . The birds that listening lay , attentive to the same : Informde their mother of the whole , as soon as ere thee came : You marry then ( quoth she ) the case now altered is . We will no longer here abide , I always feared this : But out she god them all , and trudged away apace : And through the corn she brought them safe into another place . God send her luck to shun , both Hawk and Fowlers gin , And me the happen to have no need , of friend , nor yet of kin . Imprinted at London , by Richard Jhones , dwelling near unto Holborne Bridge . 1589. 