H : 18279 : The Chronicle of all the Kings : that have Reigned in Englande : Sith the Conquest of Wyllyam Conqueror . And Shows the Days of their Crownacion . And how many Years They did Reign . With the Days of their Death . And where they were buried . Wyllyam Conqueror . THis mighty Wyllyam / Duke of Normandye As Books old , makes mention By Just title , and by his Chivalry Made King by Conquest of Brutes Albion Put out Harolde , and took Possession And Boar his Crown xx . year . xi . months , and xxii days And buried at Cane as the Chronicle says , Crowned the xxv day of Decembre , The year of our Lord God a. M.lxvi . And died the xi day of Septembre , The year of our lord a. M.lxxxvii . Wyllyam Rufus . NExte him in ordre , by Succession Was wyllyam Rufus his son crowned King Which to Godwarde had no devotion Destroyed Churches , of new and old building To make a Forest pleasant for hunting Bore the Crown xii year . xi . months , & xvi days in deed Buried at westminster , the Chronicle you may rede Crowned the xxvii . day of Septembre , The year of our lord a M. lxxxvii . And died the fyrst day of August The year of our lord a M. and a C. Henrye the Fyrste . THan his brother nexte , called the fyrste Henrye Was at London Crowned as I find Whose brother , Robert Duke of Normandye Made him war , the Chronicle makes mind Reconciled , all rancour set behind XXXv . year iiii . months , and xi days , by record of writing He reigned and lies buried at Redynge , Crowned the v day of August , The year of our lord a M. a C. And died the seconde day of Decembre , The year of our lord a M. a C xxxv . Stephen his Cousin . STephen his Cousin , when Henry was dead Toward Englande gan to cross his sail The Archbishop set upon his head A rich Crown , being of his Counsel And xviii . year xi . months , and xiiii . days with travail Bore his Crown , and had never rest And lies at Feversam buried in a chest , Crowned the xxvi day of Decembre The year of our lord a M. a C.xxxvi . And died the xxv . day of Octobre The year of our lord a M. a C liiii . Edwarde the Thyrde . THe thyrde Edwarde , born at Wyndsore Which in Knighthood had , so great a price Enherytoure of Fraunce , withouten more Bore in his Arms quarterly , thre Flowerdelyce And he got Calys by his prudent devyce He reigned in Englande l. year v. months , and vii . days And lies at westminster , as the Chronicle says . Crowned the seconde day of Februarye , The year of our lord a M.iii . C.xxv . And died the xxi . day of June , The year of our lord a M.iii . C.lxxvii . Rycharde the Seconde . SOnne of Edwarde , Rycharde the seconde In whose time was peace great plenty wedded Queen Anne of Ceume , as it is found Elyzabeth of Fraunce , after who list to see And xxii year iiii months , and ii . days he reigned parde And at Langley buried fyrst , so stood the case And after to westminster his body carried was , Crowned the xvi . day of Julye The year of our lord a M.iii . C.lxxvii . And died the xxix . day of Septembre The year of our lord a M.iii . C . lxxxxix . Henrye the Fourth . HEnry the fourth , next crowned in certain A famous knight , and of great semelynes From his exile when he came home again Travailed after , with war and great sickness Xiii . year v months , and xviii days in sothenes He reigned and lies in Cauntorbury in that holy place God of his mercy do his soul grace , Crowned the xiii . day of Octobre The year of our lord a M.iii . C . lxxxxix . And died the xx day of Marche The year of our lord a M.iiii . C.xii . Henrye the Fyfte . THe fyfte Henry of Knyghthod load star Wise and right manly , plainly to termyne Right fortunate , proved , in peace and war Greatly expert , in martial dyssyplyne Able to stand among the worthies nyne Reigned ix . year v. months , & xxiiii . days who list regard Lies at westminster , not far from S. Edwarde . Crowned the ix day of August , The year of our lord a M.iiii . C.xiii . And died the xxxi . day of August The year of our lord a M.iiii . C.xxii . Henrye the Syxte . HEnrye the syxte , that in his tendre age Crowned was king of realms twayne Endued with grace , and heavenly wisdom sage Drade and doubted , he was for certain And over that , as it is written plain He reigned xxxviii year vi . months , and xviii . days And lies at wyndsore as the Chronicle says , Crowned the xvi day of Novembre The year of our lord a M.iiii . C.xxiii , And died the iiii day of Marche The year of our lord a M.iiii . C.lx . Edwarde the Fourth . AFter whom , of noble memory Was Edwarde the iiii of that name A noble prince , a governor most worthy Full excellent were his acts withouten blame And enrolled within the house of fame He reigned xxii . year . one month viii days and no more And his body lies buried at Wyndsore , Crowned the xxviii day of June , The year of our lord a M.iiii . C.lxi . And died the ix day of Apryll , The year of our lord a M.iiii . C.lxxxiii . H : 18279 : The Chronicle of all the Kings : that have Reigned in Englande : Sith the Conquest of Wyllyam Conqueror . And Shows the Days of their Crownacion . And how many Years They did Reign . With the Days of their Death . And where they were buried . Wyllyam Conqueror . THis mighty Wyllyam / Duke of Normandye As Books old , makes mention By Just title , and by his Chivalry Made King by Conquest of Brutes Albion Put out Harolde , and took Possession And Boar his Crown xx . year . xi . months , and xxii days And buried at Cane as the Chronicle says , Crowned the xxv day of Decembre , The year of our Lord God a. M.lxvi . And died the xi day of Septembre , The year of our lord a. M.lxxxvii . Wyllyam Rufus . NExte him in ordre , by Succession Was wyllyam Rufus his son crowned King Which to Godwarde had no devotion Destroyed Churches , of new and old building To make a Forest pleasant for hunting Bore the Crown xii year . xi . months , & xvi days in deed Buried at westminster , the Chronicle you may rede Crowned the xxvii . day of Septembre , The year of our lord a M. lxxxvii . And died the fyrst day of August The year of our lord a M. and a C. Henrye the Fyrste . THan his brother nexte , called the fyrste Henrye Was at London Crowned as I find Whose brother , Robert Duke of Normandye Made him war , the Chronicle makes mind Reconciled , all rancour set behind XXXv . year iiii . months , and xi days , by record of writing He reigned and lies buried at Redynge , Crowned the v day of August , The year of our lord a M. a C. And died the seconde day of Decembre , The year of our lord a M. a C xxxv . Stephen his Cousin . STephen his Cousin , when Henry was dead Toward Englande gan to cross his sail The Archbishop set upon his head A rich Crown , being of his Counsel And xviii . year xi . months , and xiiii . days with travail Bore his Crown , and had never rest And lies at Feversam buried in a chest , Crowned the xxvi day of Decembre The year of our lord a M. a C.xxxvi . And died the xxv . day of Octobre The year of our lord a M. a C liiii . Edwarde the Thyrde . THe thyrde Edwarde , born at Wyndsore Which in Knighthood had , so great a price Enherytoure of Fraunce , withouten more Bore in his Arms quarterly , thre Flowerdelyce And he got Calys by his prudent devyce He reigned in Englande l. year v. months , and vii . days And lies at westminster , as the Chronicle says . Crowned the seconde day of Februarye , The year of our lord a M.iii . C.xxv . And died the xxi . day of June , The year of our lord a M.iii . C.lxxvii . Rycharde the Seconde . SOnne of Edwarde , Rycharde the seconde In whose time was peace great plenty wedded Queen Anne of Ceume , as it is found Elyzabeth of Fraunce , after who list to see And xxii year iiii months , and ii . days he reigned parde And at Langley buried fyrst , so stood the case And after to westminster his body carried was , Crowned the xvi . day of Julye The year of our lord a M.iii . C.lxxvii . And died the xxix . day of Septembre The year of our lord a M.iii . C . lxxxxix . Henrye the Fourth . HEnry the fourth , next crowned in certain A famous knight , and of great semelynes From his exile when he came home again Travailed after , with war and great sickness Xiii . year v months , and xviii days in sothenes He reigned and lies in Cauntorbury in that holy place God of his mercy do his soul grace , Crowned the xiii . day of Octobre The year of our lord a M.iii . C . lxxxxix . And died the xx day of Marche The year of our lord a M.iiii . C.xii . Henrye the Fyfte . THe fyfte Henry of Knyghthod load star Wise and right manly , plainly to termyne Right fortunate , proved , in peace and war Greatly expert , in martial dyssyplyne Able to stand among the worthies nyne Reigned ix . year v. months , & xxiiii . days who list regard Lies at westminster , not far from S. Edwarde . Crowned the ix day of August , The year of our lord a M.iiii . C.xiii . And died the xxxi . day of August The year of our lord a M.iiii . C.xxii . Henrye the Syxte . HEnrye the syxte , that in his tendre age Crowned was king of realms twayne Endued with grace , and heavenly wisdom sage Drade and doubted , he was for certain And over that , as it is written plain He reigned xxxviii year vi . months , and xviii . days And lies at wyndsore as the Chronicle says , Crowned the xvi day of Novembre The year of our lord a M.iiii . C.xxiii , And died the iiii day of Marche The year of our lord a M.iiii . C.lx . Edwarde the Fourth . AFter whom , of noble memory Was Edwarde the iiii of that name A noble prince , a governor most worthy Full excellent were his acts withouten blame And enrolled within the house of fame He reigned xxii . year . one month viii days and no more And his body lies buried at Wyndsore , Crowned the xxviii day of June , The year of our lord a M.iiii . C.lxi . And died the ix day of Apryll , The year of our lord a M.iiii . C.lxxxiii . 