H : 18278 THere be many that speak much of Jesus Christ , and bear a fair show of his holiness and virtue : but none are able to conceive ( much less to declare ) the sweet comforts of his heavenly grace , saving such as hold faith in a good conscience , without hypocrisy , pride , and covetousness , and be reformed in their lives with charity , peace , and unity . THE HEARTY CONFESSION OF A CHRISTIAN , Devised for his own comfort , written for his remembrance , and now published for the use of M.H. and others his faithful and private friends only . 1. Cor. 3.18 . Let no man deceive himself , if any man seem to be wise among you in this world , let him be ( as ) a fool : that he may be ( come ) wise . 19. For the wisdom of this world is foolishness before God , etc The argument of the song . 1. COR . 1 . 30. But you are of him in Christ Jesus , who was made unto us wisdom from God , yea , and righteousness , & holiness , and redemption . 31. That , as it is written , he that boasts , or rejoiceth , let him boast , and rejoice in the Lord . A spiritual song of thanksgiving , with prayer unto God , containing the full effect of true religion in a Christian . The forespeech with the drift and sub - stance of the Song . THe sum of all the comforts , which I find In holy writ to ease my troubled mind : Is this , that God* my nature did unite Unto his Godhead full of grace , and might ? * The uniting of two nature's in the person of Christ , who is our Emmanuell , that is , God with us , very man as we are sin excepted . In Christ who stands between God and me For ever more my Saviour to be . Ruling me , as my * Prophet , Priest , and King , On me bestowing every needful thing . * The annexing of three offi - ces in the person of Chist , name - lie of Prophet , Priest , & King , who is our full and perfect Sa - viour . Not only for my present consolation , But also for my eternal salvation . I will therefore sing of his wondrous praise For his exceeding love to me always . The Song . Doctrine by way of example . 1. WHere I by nature* through my parents fall , Am so distemper'd in my members all , And bent to ill ( which bears in me full sway ) As from all goodness draws me guite away And thus in since original am drown'd : Christ is my * perfect innocence found : Him , as that brazen snake , if I adore , In me shall no sickness nor no soar . * Against our birth sin , come - monly called original sin . * The proper remedy is , the u - niting of two nature's in Christ by his incarnation upon earth . Application of the Doctrine prayer wise . O Christ forgive my natural infection , Which to thy law will not be in subjection , And so provokes me to daily strife , Whilst I am nousled in this noisome life , And grant me thy * pure nature to express , Henceforth in my behaviour , more or less , Till flesh and blood by death thou shalt subdue , My state in heav'n for ever to renew . * That is divine substance , ma - jestie , or godliness : as , Mat. 5 . 48. Joh. 13.15 . and 17.20.21 . 22. 1. Cor. 11.1 . Ephe. 5.1 . Colos. 1.10 1. Thes. 2.12 . Heb. 1.3 . 1. Pet. 1.15 . 2. Pet. 1 . 4.etc . Doctrine . 2. * Where through my * folly , & mine own igno-rance , I know not how Gods glory to advance , Nor to dispose my self in any sort For others help , nor for mine own comfort And thus am blind , and no truth I can see ; Christ is most * perfect wisdom unto me : Him , as that faithful guide , if I attend , I shall not need any way to offend . * Against all our other sins , commonly called actual sins , the proper remedy is the an - nexing of three offices in Christ by his heavenly dispensation . And first of his Prophecy . * Against our ignorance , which is the mother of all sin and mischief . * The proper remedy is his wisdom , which is the root of all grace , and welfare . Application . O Christ forgive my judgement dark & weak , Which causeth me thy blessed Laws to break , And so provokes me to daily strife , While I do wander in this wav'ring life , And grant me thy deep knowledge to express Henceforth in my behaviour more or less , Till flesh and blood by death thou shalt subdue , My state in heav'n for ever to renew . Doctrine . 3. * Where I* ungodly am , and superstitious , Unreverent , profane , and irreligious , Leading my life after a worldly fashion Against the rule of my heavenly vocation , And thus am set in and ilfavor'd case ; Christ is my* perfect holiness , and grace : Him , as that holy of holies , if I frequent , My blots , and blemishes shall soon be spent . * Further of his Priesthood . * Against our unholiness , and breach of the first table . * The proper remedy , is his ho lines . Application . O Christ forgive my foul and ugly vice , Which doth my soul , and body both disguise , And so provokes me to daily strife , Whilst I am foiled in this filthy life . And grant me thy fair beauty to express , Henceforth in my behaviour more or less , Till flesh and blood by death thou shalt subdue , My state in heaven for ever to renew . Doctrine . 4. * Where I am * toyl'd with care of earthly pelf , And do not love my neighbour , as my self : But hurt his state , life , bed , goods , and good name In thought , word , deed , and lusting for the same , And so am filled full of all iniquity : Christ is my * perfect righteousness , and equity : Him , as that upright judge , if I obey , I cannot hurt my neighbour any way . * Moreover of his Priesthood . * Against our unrighteousness , and breach of the second table . * The proper remedy , is h [ is ] righteousness . Application . O Christ , forgive my violence and treachery , Which makes me offer others much injury , And so provokes me to daily strife , While I am carking in this careful life . And grant me thy high justice to express Henceforth in my behaviour more or less , Till flesh and blond , by death thou shalt subdue . My state in heaven for ever to renew . Doctrine . 5. * Where I am * bondslave to all kind of misery , Sold under since , and subject to all infamy , Falling down headlong to utter destruction , By natural , and actual corruption , And thus am feeble , frail , and transitory ; Christ my * redemption is , and perfect glory : Him , as that Lord of hosts , if I do serve , From force of foes he will me sure preserve . * Lastly of his kingdom . * Against our bindage & [ ? ] serie , which is the just pun [ is - ] meant of all our sins . * The proper remedy , is his [ re - ] demption and glory , whi [ changed is ] the due reward of his ex [ cee - ] ding mercy towards us . Application . O Christ forgive my wretched imperfection , Which pulls me from thine happy protection , And so provokes me to daily strife , While I do warfare in this weary life , And grant me thy * free ransom to express Henceforth in my behaviour more or less , Till flesh and blood , by death thou shalt subdue , My state in heaven for ever to renew . * Namely by relieving of the needy , after thy Royal exam - ple , according to the power of thy grace in me . Io. 13.14.15 . Rom. 12.16 . Ephe. 5.21 . Phi 2 5 . 6.7.etc . 1. Pet. 1.17 . 18.19 . Ephe. 4.7.8 . Iam. 2 . 8 . etc . Amen . FINIS . AT LONDON Printed by Thomas Orwin , for Christo - pher Hunt. 1593. H : 18278 THere be many that speak much of Jesus Christ , and bear a fair show of his holiness and virtue : but none are able to conceive ( much less to declare ) the sweet comforts of his heavenly grace , saving such as hold faith in a good conscience , without hypocrisy , pride , and covetousness , and be reformed in their lives with charity , peace , and unity . THE HEARTY CONFESSION OF A CHRISTIAN , Devised for his own comfort , written for his remembrance , and now published for the use of M.H. and others his faithful and private friends only . 1. Cor. 3.18 . Let no man deceive himself , if any man seem to be wise among you in this world , let him be ( as ) a fool : that he may be ( come ) wise . 19. For the wisdom of this world is foolishness before God , etc The argument of the song . 1. COR . 1 . 30. But you are of him in Christ Jesus , who was made unto us wisdom from God , yea , and righteousness , & holiness , and redemption . 31. That , as it is written , he that boasts , or rejoiceth , let him boast , and rejoice in the Lord . A spiritual song of thanksgiving , with prayer unto God , containing the full effect of true religion in a Christian . The forespeech with the drift and sub - stance of the Song . THe sum of all the comforts , which I find In holy writ to ease my troubled mind : Is this , that God* my nature did unite Unto his Godhead full of grace , and might ? * The uniting of two nature's in the person of Christ , who is our Emmanuell , that is , God with us , very man as we are sin excepted . In Christ who stands between God and me For ever more my Saviour to be . Ruling me , as my * Prophet , Priest , and King , On me bestowing every needful thing . * The annexing of three offi - ces in the person of Chist , name - lie of Prophet , Priest , & King , who is our full and perfect Sa - viour . Not only for my present consolation , But also for my eternal salvation . I will therefore sing of his wondrous praise For his exceeding love to me always . The Song . Doctrine by way of example . 1. WHere I by nature* through my parents fall , Am so distemper'd in my members all , And bent to ill ( which bears in me full sway ) As from all goodness draws me guite away And thus in since original am drown'd : Christ is my * perfect innocence found : Him , as that brazen snake , if I adore , In me shall no sickness nor no soar . * Against our birth sin , come - monly called original sin . * The proper remedy is , the u - niting of two nature's in Christ by his incarnation upon earth . Application of the Doctrine prayer wise . O Christ forgive my natural infection , Which to thy law will not be in subjection , And so provokes me to daily strife , Whilst I am nousled in this noisome life , And grant me thy * pure nature to express , Henceforth in my behaviour , more or less , Till flesh and blood by death thou shalt subdue , My state in heav'n for ever to renew . * That is divine substance , ma - jestie , or godliness : as , Mat. 5 . 48. Joh. 13.15 . and 17.20.21 . 22. 1. Cor. 11.1 . Ephe. 5.1 . Colos. 1.10 1. Thes. 2.12 . Heb. 1.3 . 1. Pet. 1.15 . 2. Pet. 1 . 4.etc . Doctrine . 2. * Where through my * folly , & mine own igno-rance , I know not how Gods glory to advance , Nor to dispose my self in any sort For others help , nor for mine own comfort And thus am blind , and no truth I can see ; Christ is most * perfect wisdom unto me : Him , as that faithful guide , if I attend , I shall not need any way to offend . * Against all our other sins , commonly called actual sins , the proper remedy is the an - nexing of three offices in Christ by his heavenly dispensation . And first of his Prophecy . * Against our ignorance , which is the mother of all sin and mischief . * The proper remedy is his wisdom , which is the root of all grace , and welfare . Application . O Christ forgive my judgement dark & weak , Which causeth me thy blessed Laws to break , And so provokes me to daily strife , While I do wander in this wav'ring life , And grant me thy deep knowledge to express Henceforth in my behaviour more or less , Till flesh and blood by death thou shalt subdue , My state in heav'n for ever to renew . Doctrine . 3. * Where I* ungodly am , and superstitious , Unreverent , profane , and irreligious , Leading my life after a worldly fashion Against the rule of my heavenly vocation , And thus am set in and ilfavor'd case ; Christ is my* perfect holiness , and grace : Him , as that holy of holies , if I frequent , My blots , and blemishes shall soon be spent . * Further of his Priesthood . * Against our unholiness , and breach of the first table . * The proper remedy , is his ho lines . Application . O Christ forgive my foul and ugly vice , Which doth my soul , and body both disguise , And so provokes me to daily strife , Whilst I am foiled in this filthy life . And grant me thy fair beauty to express , Henceforth in my behaviour more or less , Till flesh and blood by death thou shalt subdue , My state in heaven for ever to renew . Doctrine . 4. * Where I am * toyl'd with care of earthly pelf , And do not love my neighbour , as my self : But hurt his state , life , bed , goods , and good name In thought , word , deed , and lusting for the same , And so am filled full of all iniquity : Christ is my * perfect righteousness , and equity : Him , as that upright judge , if I obey , I cannot hurt my neighbour any way . * Moreover of his Priesthood . * Against our unrighteousness , and breach of the second table . * The proper remedy , is h [ is ] righteousness . Application . O Christ , forgive my violence and treachery , Which makes me offer others much injury , And so provokes me to daily strife , While I am carking in this careful life . And grant me thy high justice to express Henceforth in my behaviour more or less , Till flesh and blond , by death thou shalt subdue . My state in heaven for ever to renew . Doctrine . 5. * Where I am * bondslave to all kind of misery , Sold under since , and subject to all infamy , Falling down headlong to utter destruction , By natural , and actual corruption , And thus am feeble , frail , and transitory ; Christ my * redemption is , and perfect glory : Him , as that Lord of hosts , if I do serve , From force of foes he will me sure preserve . * Lastly of his kingdom . * Against our bindage & [ ? ] serie , which is the just pun [ is - ] meant of all our sins . * The proper remedy , is his [ re - ] demption and glory , whi [ changed is ] the due reward of his ex [ cee - ] ding mercy towards us . Application . O Christ forgive my wretched imperfection , Which pulls me from thine happy protection , And so provokes me to daily strife , While I do warfare in this weary life , And grant me thy * free ransom to express Henceforth in my behaviour more or less , Till flesh and blood , by death thou shalt subdue , My state in heaven for ever to renew . * Namely by relieving of the needy , after thy Royal exam - ple , according to the power of thy grace in me . Io. 13.14.15 . Rom. 12.16 . Ephe. 5.21 . Phi 2 5 . 6.7.etc . 1. Pet. 1.17 . 18.19 . Ephe. 4.7.8 . Iam. 2 . 8 . etc . Amen . FINIS . AT LONDON Printed by Thomas Orwin , for Christo - pher Hunt. 1593. 