H : 18274 Against filthy writing / and such like delighting , WHat mean the rhymes that run thus large in every shop to fell ? With wanton found , and filthy sense , me think it grees not well We are not Ethnics we forsooth , at least profess not so Why range we then to Ethnics trade ? come back , where will you go ? Tell me is Christ , or Cupide Lord ? does God or Venus reign ? And whose are we ? whom ought we serve ? I ask it , answer plain If wanton Venus , then go forth , if Cupide , keep your trade If God , or Christ , come back the best , or sure you will be made Does God ? is he the Lord in deed ? and should we him obey ? Then his commandment ought to guide , all that we do or say But show me his commandment then , thou filthy writer thou Let seet , I cease , if not , give place , or shameless show thee now . WE are no foes to music we , a miss your man does take us so friends to things corrupt and vile , you all shall never make us If you deny them such to be , I stand to prove it I , If you confess ( defend them not ) why then do you reply ? But such they be I will maintain , which yet you both defend And judge them fools , that them mislike , would God you might amend But , substance only I regard , let Accidencis go Both you and we , bee that we be , I therefore leave it so And yet I wish your terms in deed , upon some reason stayed If mine be not , reprove them right , I'll blot that I have said And that I wrote , or now do wright , against you as may seem What cause I had , and have , I yield , to modest men to deem I wish you well I do protest , ( as God will , I will so ) I cannot help , as friend you wot , nor will not hurt as so But for the vile corrupting rhymes , which you confess to wright My soul and heart abhors their sense , as far from my delight And those that use them for their glee , as you do vaunt you will I tell you plainly what I think , I judge them to be ill This boasting late in part hath caused , me now to say my mind Though challenges of yours also , in every place I find . Thomas Brice . Imprinted at London by John Alde for Edmond Halley and are to be sold in Lumbard street at the sign of the Egle. H : 18274 Against filthy writing / and such like delighting , WHat mean the rhymes that run thus large in every shop to fell ? With wanton found , and filthy sense , me think it grees not well We are not Ethnics we forsooth , at least profess not so Why range we then to Ethnics trade ? come back , where will you go ? Tell me is Christ , or Cupide Lord ? does God or Venus reign ? And whose are we ? whom ought we serve ? I ask it , answer plain If wanton Venus , then go forth , if Cupide , keep your trade If God , or Christ , come back the best , or sure you will be made Does God ? is he the Lord in deed ? and should we him obey ? Then his commandment ought to guide , all that we do or say But show me his commandment then , thou filthy writer thou Let seet , I cease , if not , give place , or shameless show thee now . WE are no foes to music we , a miss your man does take us so friends to things corrupt and vile , you all shall never make us If you deny them such to be , I stand to prove it I , If you confess ( defend them not ) why then do you reply ? But such they be I will maintain , which yet you both defend And judge them fools , that them mislike , would God you might amend But , substance only I regard , let Accidencis go Both you and we , bee that we be , I therefore leave it so And yet I wish your terms in deed , upon some reason stayed If mine be not , reprove them right , I'll blot that I have said And that I wrote , or now do wright , against you as may seem What cause I had , and have , I yield , to modest men to deem I wish you well I do protest , ( as God will , I will so ) I cannot help , as friend you wot , nor will not hurt as so But for the vile corrupting rhymes , which you confess to wright My soul and heart abhors their sense , as far from my delight And those that use them for their glee , as you do vaunt you will I tell you plainly what I think , I judge them to be ill This boasting late in part hath caused , me now to say my mind Though challenges of yours also , in every place I find . Thomas Brice . Imprinted at London by John Alde for Edmond Halley and are to be sold in Lumbard street at the sign of the Egle. 