H : 18276 The Refuge of a Sinner / Wherein are briefly declared the chiefest Points of true Salvation . Soiled in sins ( Oh Lord , ) a wretched sinful Ghost , To thee I call , to thee I sue , that shewest of mercy most , Who can me help but thou , in whom all help does rest ? My sin is more than man can mends , and that thou knowest best . On whom then shall I call , to whom shall I make moan ? Sith man is mightless sin to cure , I seek to thee alone . In thee I know all might and power does remain , And at thy hands I am well sure , mercy I shall obtain . Thy promise can not fail , wherein I me repose : To thee alone , ( else to no man ) my heart will sin disclose . The Sinner thou dost save : no Saviour else I find Thou only satisfied haste for the sins of all mankind . The Sacrifice whereof , thou offeredst once for aye : Whereby his wrath for Adams guilt , thy father put away . And by thy death alone , Mankind restored is , There was no means mercy for man to get of him but this . Now thou hast mercy bought , if man by thee will crave : And who that seeks by other means , small mercy might he have . Wherefore ( Oh Lord ) on thee , for mercy do I call : Let not my sins consume me clean , and I dampened to fallen . The merits of my works , were they never so jus I here forsake , and them resign , to such as in them trust . There is no mumming Mass , can make amends for me : Nor of the Saints departed hence , I trust in none but thee . No pardon can me purge , but thy pardon alone , Nor yet no pillynge Pilgrimage , made unto Stock or Stone . No Psalter nor yet Psalms , said to thy Creatures : No ring of Bells , no Organ Pipes , nor Song that my soul cures . Thy blood hath bought my soul , and boots all my bale . And not men works nor chanted charms , devised in Mammons dale . Thou sittest where thou seest , our works all and some : The secret thoughts of every heart , before thy judgement come . Shall I then plead my works ? thou knowest them bet than I , Forget them Lord , I claim them not , for mercy do I cry . Have mercy on me Lord , forgive my trespass wrought , And from hence forth grant me thy grace , to guide me , deed & thought . That all my works may sound , due glory unto thee : That Heaven and earth , and all therein , may yield thee praise for me . For where as ought is done , by man after thy will : That work is thine , and thine the praise : man can do nought but ill For of my self I know , in me is nought but sin , In Sin I walckte , in Sin I suckte : in Sin I did begin . And have I not thy grace , to Sin again I shall : Without thy grace so weak I am , no choice for me but fallen . Shall I than cease to call , thy grace that I may have ? Thy faithful promise is to give , to them in faith that crave . Of mercy than and grace , my faith does me assure : And by thy death to have at end , the Joys that shall endure . Finis . Ro. Burdet Esquyer . Bonum quo communius eo melius . Imprinted at London by Richarde Johnes : and are to be sold at his Shop in Paules Churchyearde , at the Southwest Door of Paules Church . Anno. 1565. Aprilis . 14. H : 18276 The Refuge of a Sinner / Wherein are briefly declared the chiefest Points of true Salvation . Soiled in sins ( Oh Lord , ) a wretched sinful Ghost , To thee I call , to thee I sue , that shewest of mercy most , Who can me help but thou , in whom all help does rest ? My sin is more than man can mends , and that thou knowest best . On whom then shall I call , to whom shall I make moan ? Sith man is mightless sin to cure , I seek to thee alone . In thee I know all might and power does remain , And at thy hands I am well sure , mercy I shall obtain . Thy promise can not fail , wherein I me repose : To thee alone , ( else to no man ) my heart will sin disclose . The Sinner thou dost save : no Saviour else I find Thou only satisfied haste for the sins of all mankind . The Sacrifice whereof , thou offeredst once for aye : Whereby his wrath for Adams guilt , thy father put away . And by thy death alone , Mankind restored is , There was no means mercy for man to get of him but this . Now thou hast mercy bought , if man by thee will crave : And who that seeks by other means , small mercy might he have . Wherefore ( Oh Lord ) on thee , for mercy do I call : Let not my sins consume me clean , and I dampened to fallen . The merits of my works , were they never so jus I here forsake , and them resign , to such as in them trust . There is no mumming Mass , can make amends for me : Nor of the Saints departed hence , I trust in none but thee . No pardon can me purge , but thy pardon alone , Nor yet no pillynge Pilgrimage , made unto Stock or Stone . No Psalter nor yet Psalms , said to thy Creatures : No ring of Bells , no Organ Pipes , nor Song that my soul cures . Thy blood hath bought my soul , and boots all my bale . And not men works nor chanted charms , devised in Mammons dale . Thou sittest where thou seest , our works all and some : The secret thoughts of every heart , before thy judgement come . Shall I then plead my works ? thou knowest them bet than I , Forget them Lord , I claim them not , for mercy do I cry . Have mercy on me Lord , forgive my trespass wrought , And from hence forth grant me thy grace , to guide me , deed & thought . That all my works may sound , due glory unto thee : That Heaven and earth , and all therein , may yield thee praise for me . For where as ought is done , by man after thy will : That work is thine , and thine the praise : man can do nought but ill For of my self I know , in me is nought but sin , In Sin I walckte , in Sin I suckte : in Sin I did begin . And have I not thy grace , to Sin again I shall : Without thy grace so weak I am , no choice for me but fallen . Shall I than cease to call , thy grace that I may have ? Thy faithful promise is to give , to them in faith that crave . Of mercy than and grace , my faith does me assure : And by thy death to have at end , the Joys that shall endure . Finis . Ro. Burdet Esquyer . Bonum quo communius eo melius . Imprinted at London by Richarde Johnes : and are to be sold at his Shop in Paules Churchyearde , at the Southwest Door of Paules Church . Anno. 1565. Aprilis . 14. 