H : 18275 And Epitaph declaring the life and end of D. Edmund Boner etc LO now the lingering hope is past , that late the Papists had : Their bragging breasts which boiled in hate , their hearts with care have clad . They looked long for wished time , of Antichristes return : When they in wonted wise might spoil , and heaps of Martyrs burn . But see the providence of God , their malice to assuage : He hath bereft these Papists proud , the pillar of their rage . Their whip , their sword , their fire brand , of wrath their chiefest stay : The spoiler of the Christian flock , of whom he made a pray . For bloody burning Boner now , hath made exchange of life : That whilelome was the murderer , of infant , man , and wife . Yet sometime he a favorer , and did profess the troth : Defiyng Pope and Popishness , five times with solemn oath : And letted not for to accuse , and note of heinous crime : Such as were slack to do the like , during Lord Cromwels time . A learned Epistle eke he wrat , in praise and in defence : Of Bishop Gardiners work the book , of true obedience . Wherein he does accuse the Pope , his Church and Romish rabble : Of heinous crimes right horrible , and deeds detestable . As tyranny , usurpyng state , reproachful unto God : Of England eke a very spoil , to Christ his flock a rod . He names the Pope a greedy wolf , he joys in his decay : Hoping the truth long trodden down , at length should bear the sway . He praiseth much the noble Prince , and calls K. Henry virtuous : That in suppressing Popish power , he is so studious . Whereby most plainly may appear , how Boner had a tas Of Christ and of his Gospel pure , though he them scorned at last . In Denmarke eke Ambassador , he published with speed : The book and Epistle nam before , as worthy works in deed . Then sent Ambassador to Fraunce , from Henry puissant King : He furthered with free consent , the English Bibles Printing . And caused diverse of the same , it seemed of godly zeal : For to be placed within Paules Church , Christes truth for to reveal . He caused five hundred Testaments , be Printed , this I know : And those as precious jewels did , upon his friends bestow . But as a wavering weather cock , Lord Cromwell being dead : Forsaking Christ and all his laws , to papistry he fled . And of a Paule became a Saule , a Herode thirsting blood : As on young Mekins well was seen , his cruel killing mood . For when one quest had cleared the boy , and judged him guiltless quite : He caused another Quest be called , and him condemned by might . Thus drave he forth king Henries days , but when his noble son : In father's place to regal throne , by due descent was come . Then called to count for his offence , as justice thought it fi In humble wise before the Lords , himself he did submit . But afterwards most stubbornly , with great contempt and scorn : He did deny his former fact , as one , ere then forsworn , For which offence in prison cast , where he with wealth was fed : Without regard of God or prince , a perverst life he led . But when in brother's sacred seat , God would Queen Marry place : This wilful man from prison called , by her especial grace , Abusing much the lenity , and mercy of the Queen : Such bloody broils began to brue , as erst was never seen . And like a roaring Lion he , of Plutoes poisoned band : Made havoc of the saints of God , his Christ he did withstand . He trodden his gospel under foot , as much as in him lay : With tormoyle great , and torments huge , the Church he did affray . And pity none would he allow , no mercy might him move : His broiling breast inflamed so , with popish father's love . With coals and candle light also , of some the hands he bren Of some the hair , from of their face , with cruel claws he rend . Some men he beat upon the face , but some , most like a beas He scourged with whips & rods ( Oh wretch ) that deed , all men detest . And breathing forth his tyranny , consumed with fire and flame : The old , the young , the rich , the poor , the halt , the blind , and lame . What should I say , my heart it rues , the peoples tears record : The wailed woes for saints so slain , which is to be abhorred . But all this might not move his mind , for wit gave place to will : Both grace and reason fled him from , his heart was hardened still . But when God of his providence , our famous Queen did send : To stay the rage of tyranny , and wasteful wreaks to end . The mercy of Elizabeth , though it does far exceed : Could not reclaim his cureless heart , which errors still did feed . But that he used unreverently , with scoffs in mocking wise : Her graces high Commissioners , both worthy , grave , and wise . So when the people prayed for him , reproachful words he gave : Most vile , not christianlike , as one that had a soul to save . The second time to prison brought , where he his life did leave : Where learned men persuaded him , unto the truth to cleave , And fly the fancies of the fond , wherewith he was abused : Unwilling still to hear them speak , good Council he refused . So that until his dying hour , he showed no perfect sign : Of a repentant heart or mind , that would from sin decline . But as he lived a loathed life , unconstant , vile , and vain : Forsaking faith and nature's kind , which God hath in disdain . His glory aye the peoples grief , the poor men pain his pride : ( A woeful flock where such a wolf , appointed was for guide ) Even so his end was doleful to , wherein did well appear : On him the judgement just of God , right wonderful to hear . For dead his face as black as coal , and monstruous withal : His grisly look so terrible , as might a man appall . Was to the good a very glass , wherein they all may learn : To shun , the way that Boner went , and better path deserne . Yet though in life he would not grant , Christes mercy for to crave : He willed his wretched Corpse with pomp , brought should be to the grave . Unto the Church whereas sometime , a Prelate placed was he : Even there his solemn obsiquies , and funerals to be . But sith it was so far unmeet , a place for him more fit Within the Churchyard of S. George , he hath a homely pit . And sith he loved not the light , but did the same despise : At midnight was he buried there , from view of peoples eyes . Wherefore the Papists all beware , forsake this Romish whore : And fear the Judgements of the Lord , which will you else devour . Recant you all your heresies , and leave your perverse way : Wherein you walked so stubbornly , so long and many a day . Love God , obey your sovereign , and pray for her estate : Renounce you all your Maummetry , lest you repent to late . Finis . T. Bro. the younger . Imprinted at London , by John Day , dwelling over Aldersgate . Cum gratia & Privilegio Regiae Majestatis . H : 18275 And Epitaph declaring the life and end of D. Edmund Boner etc LO now the lingering hope is past , that late the Papists had : Their bragging breasts which boiled in hate , their hearts with care have clad . They looked long for wished time , of Antichristes return : When they in wonted wise might spoil , and heaps of Martyrs burn . But see the providence of God , their malice to assuage : He hath bereft these Papists proud , the pillar of their rage . Their whip , their sword , their fire brand , of wrath their chiefest stay : The spoiler of the Christian flock , of whom he made a pray . For bloody burning Boner now , hath made exchange of life : That whilelome was the murderer , of infant , man , and wife . Yet sometime he a favorer , and did profess the troth : Defiyng Pope and Popishness , five times with solemn oath : And letted not for to accuse , and note of heinous crime : Such as were slack to do the like , during Lord Cromwels time . A learned Epistle eke he wrat , in praise and in defence : Of Bishop Gardiners work the book , of true obedience . Wherein he does accuse the Pope , his Church and Romish rabble : Of heinous crimes right horrible , and deeds detestable . As tyranny , usurpyng state , reproachful unto God : Of England eke a very spoil , to Christ his flock a rod . He names the Pope a greedy wolf , he joys in his decay : Hoping the truth long trodden down , at length should bear the sway . He praiseth much the noble Prince , and calls K. Henry virtuous : That in suppressing Popish power , he is so studious . Whereby most plainly may appear , how Boner had a tas Of Christ and of his Gospel pure , though he them scorned at last . In Denmarke eke Ambassador , he published with speed : The book and Epistle nam before , as worthy works in deed . Then sent Ambassador to Fraunce , from Henry puissant King : He furthered with free consent , the English Bibles Printing . And caused diverse of the same , it seemed of godly zeal : For to be placed within Paules Church , Christes truth for to reveal . He caused five hundred Testaments , be Printed , this I know : And those as precious jewels did , upon his friends bestow . But as a wavering weather cock , Lord Cromwell being dead : Forsaking Christ and all his laws , to papistry he fled . And of a Paule became a Saule , a Herode thirsting blood : As on young Mekins well was seen , his cruel killing mood . For when one quest had cleared the boy , and judged him guiltless quite : He caused another Quest be called , and him condemned by might . Thus drave he forth king Henries days , but when his noble son : In father's place to regal throne , by due descent was come . Then called to count for his offence , as justice thought it fi In humble wise before the Lords , himself he did submit . But afterwards most stubbornly , with great contempt and scorn : He did deny his former fact , as one , ere then forsworn , For which offence in prison cast , where he with wealth was fed : Without regard of God or prince , a perverst life he led . But when in brother's sacred seat , God would Queen Marry place : This wilful man from prison called , by her especial grace , Abusing much the lenity , and mercy of the Queen : Such bloody broils began to brue , as erst was never seen . And like a roaring Lion he , of Plutoes poisoned band : Made havoc of the saints of God , his Christ he did withstand . He trodden his gospel under foot , as much as in him lay : With tormoyle great , and torments huge , the Church he did affray . And pity none would he allow , no mercy might him move : His broiling breast inflamed so , with popish father's love . With coals and candle light also , of some the hands he bren Of some the hair , from of their face , with cruel claws he rend . Some men he beat upon the face , but some , most like a beas He scourged with whips & rods ( Oh wretch ) that deed , all men detest . And breathing forth his tyranny , consumed with fire and flame : The old , the young , the rich , the poor , the halt , the blind , and lame . What should I say , my heart it rues , the peoples tears record : The wailed woes for saints so slain , which is to be abhorred . But all this might not move his mind , for wit gave place to will : Both grace and reason fled him from , his heart was hardened still . But when God of his providence , our famous Queen did send : To stay the rage of tyranny , and wasteful wreaks to end . The mercy of Elizabeth , though it does far exceed : Could not reclaim his cureless heart , which errors still did feed . But that he used unreverently , with scoffs in mocking wise : Her graces high Commissioners , both worthy , grave , and wise . So when the people prayed for him , reproachful words he gave : Most vile , not christianlike , as one that had a soul to save . The second time to prison brought , where he his life did leave : Where learned men persuaded him , unto the truth to cleave , And fly the fancies of the fond , wherewith he was abused : Unwilling still to hear them speak , good Council he refused . So that until his dying hour , he showed no perfect sign : Of a repentant heart or mind , that would from sin decline . But as he lived a loathed life , unconstant , vile , and vain : Forsaking faith and nature's kind , which God hath in disdain . His glory aye the peoples grief , the poor men pain his pride : ( A woeful flock where such a wolf , appointed was for guide ) Even so his end was doleful to , wherein did well appear : On him the judgement just of God , right wonderful to hear . For dead his face as black as coal , and monstruous withal : His grisly look so terrible , as might a man appall . Was to the good a very glass , wherein they all may learn : To shun , the way that Boner went , and better path deserne . Yet though in life he would not grant , Christes mercy for to crave : He willed his wretched Corpse with pomp , brought should be to the grave . Unto the Church whereas sometime , a Prelate placed was he : Even there his solemn obsiquies , and funerals to be . But sith it was so far unmeet , a place for him more fit Within the Churchyard of S. George , he hath a homely pit . And sith he loved not the light , but did the same despise : At midnight was he buried there , from view of peoples eyes . Wherefore the Papists all beware , forsake this Romish whore : And fear the Judgements of the Lord , which will you else devour . Recant you all your heresies , and leave your perverse way : Wherein you walked so stubbornly , so long and many a day . Love God , obey your sovereign , and pray for her estate : Renounce you all your Maummetry , lest you repent to late . Finis . T. Bro. the younger . Imprinted at London , by John Day , dwelling over Aldersgate . Cum gratia & Privilegio Regiae Majestatis . 