H : 18277 A Complaint against the wicked enemies of Christ in that they have so tyrannusly handled the poor Chrystians . ALas what grief is this unto all christen men : That tyrants still do rain to work mischief's again . They prosper in the land , whose practise late hath be , Both to destroy our realm and Elisabeth our Queen . How did they Tower her and kept her there in thrall , When they could not charge her with any crime at all . But they being thirsty would fain have sucked her blood , For when they put her there they meant her grace no good Which was the prelates fetch for why they stood in awe , That if her grace did reign she would reject their Law . Wherefore this cursed sort did give many a say , To take her in a tryppe to make her clean away . Such imps of Sathans kind do stand and flourish still , Which do suppress all truth and do maintain all ill . For they have spoiled this realm and made it very Poor They brought in Foren power to Turn us out of door . Suche fruteles trees do grow they spread abroad and stand , Whose cursed Branches live and do Corrupt the land , For when the Olive trees and eke the pleasant Vines Did bring us forth good fruits and delectable wines . They sharpened their Toles to cut them by the ground , That they might spring no more nor never more be found . For fume they brinte with fire and some again they pinde , And sum they tear and racked and sum remain behind . Again this cursed sort did scrape out of the mould The carks of the dead and many more they would . If time had served their turn according to their trust , King Harry and his sun had both been Burned to dust , Does it not now appear what love and eke what seal They had unto our Kings that Ruled our common weal . Howe did they rail on them in pulpettes every where , With vile opprobrious terms and that without all fear . Alas that such should live that seek all to destroy , Such members would be rid that do nothing but noy , For where they hunt to spoil their nature's can not seize , Till they have murdered those that be the suns of peace . Alas I rue it much that such Pypicked pates Should be about a Queen or come within her gates . There counsels be corrupt for they smel all of blood , There practys be all ill how can they then be good , Who can or will commend this charity of priests , That be such murderers and have such bloody fists . Howe coldly do they pray for Elisabeth our queen , There doings have been herd there practys have be seen . O cursed seed of Cayne and members of the Devil All destitute of grace , replenished with evil . Who love the name of you , but such as you do bribe , Oh you blind balamites oh vile and cursed Tribe , The infants in the womb have cause to Curse your seed , And eke the fatherless for your accursed deed . Howe many live this day whose Parents you have killed , And turned their Children out into the streets and filde . There to lie and pine and said that it was Sin Either to give them food or else to take them in . What pity were it now to toss and to turn them , To hew them in pieces to Broil and to burn them . To fle them from the Crown to the souls of their feet . To try if such torments be Pleasant and sweet . And specially Bonner the fire would fain taste him , But burn him it could not his grece would so Baste him . Would god it might try him for if that day were cume , Many hands would be ready to give Fire to his Bum. That smithfelde might smel him and here the tyrants voice , That fatherless Children and infants might Rejoice . Whose father's and mother's this tyrant hath furthered , To be cruelly burned and most shamefully murdered , Oh trayterus tyrant oh false perjured Best , Thy broiling and burning is known and manifest . And all thy tyrants which thou hast frequented And also hast practyst , and lewdly invented . How hast thou tried them with torch and with taper Burning their hands and feet to make them to waver . Yea how didst thou stock them o murtherus thief , There neck there hands and feet only for their belief . Both within thy Coal house and in the lollers tower , The poor and simple men had many a sharp shower . Through thy good counsellers Clunnye and John avales , These are the two rake hells that brought the all the tales . How were the poor lodged , how were their bells fed . With hunger and Could and stones to rest their head . Alas what beasts are they that lurk under that weed , Are they not Ravening wolves judge them by their deed . What injury were it now to rid those bloody bests , That seeketh friendship now with money and with feasts , Now they have spoiled our realm they fere and stand in doubt , If bribery help them not then will their knavery out But god for his mercy seize the bloody stream , And grant that his glory may flourish in our Realm . FINIS . H : 18277 A Complaint against the wicked enemies of Christ in that they have so tyrannusly handled the poor Chrystians . ALas what grief is this unto all christen men : That tyrants still do rain to work mischief's again . They prosper in the land , whose practise late hath be , Both to destroy our realm and Elisabeth our Queen . How did they Tower her and kept her there in thrall , When they could not charge her with any crime at all . But they being thirsty would fain have sucked her blood , For when they put her there they meant her grace no good Which was the prelates fetch for why they stood in awe , That if her grace did reign she would reject their Law . Wherefore this cursed sort did give many a say , To take her in a tryppe to make her clean away . Such imps of Sathans kind do stand and flourish still , Which do suppress all truth and do maintain all ill . For they have spoiled this realm and made it very Poor They brought in Foren power to Turn us out of door . Suche fruteles trees do grow they spread abroad and stand , Whose cursed Branches live and do Corrupt the land , For when the Olive trees and eke the pleasant Vines Did bring us forth good fruits and delectable wines . They sharpened their Toles to cut them by the ground , That they might spring no more nor never more be found . For fume they brinte with fire and some again they pinde , And sum they tear and racked and sum remain behind . Again this cursed sort did scrape out of the mould The carks of the dead and many more they would . If time had served their turn according to their trust , King Harry and his sun had both been Burned to dust , Does it not now appear what love and eke what seal They had unto our Kings that Ruled our common weal . Howe did they rail on them in pulpettes every where , With vile opprobrious terms and that without all fear . Alas that such should live that seek all to destroy , Such members would be rid that do nothing but noy , For where they hunt to spoil their nature's can not seize , Till they have murdered those that be the suns of peace . Alas I rue it much that such Pypicked pates Should be about a Queen or come within her gates . There counsels be corrupt for they smel all of blood , There practys be all ill how can they then be good , Who can or will commend this charity of priests , That be such murderers and have such bloody fists . Howe coldly do they pray for Elisabeth our queen , There doings have been herd there practys have be seen . O cursed seed of Cayne and members of the Devil All destitute of grace , replenished with evil . Who love the name of you , but such as you do bribe , Oh you blind balamites oh vile and cursed Tribe , The infants in the womb have cause to Curse your seed , And eke the fatherless for your accursed deed . Howe many live this day whose Parents you have killed , And turned their Children out into the streets and filde . There to lie and pine and said that it was Sin Either to give them food or else to take them in . What pity were it now to toss and to turn them , To hew them in pieces to Broil and to burn them . To fle them from the Crown to the souls of their feet . To try if such torments be Pleasant and sweet . And specially Bonner the fire would fain taste him , But burn him it could not his grece would so Baste him . Would god it might try him for if that day were cume , Many hands would be ready to give Fire to his Bum. That smithfelde might smel him and here the tyrants voice , That fatherless Children and infants might Rejoice . Whose father's and mother's this tyrant hath furthered , To be cruelly burned and most shamefully murdered , Oh trayterus tyrant oh false perjured Best , Thy broiling and burning is known and manifest . And all thy tyrants which thou hast frequented And also hast practyst , and lewdly invented . How hast thou tried them with torch and with taper Burning their hands and feet to make them to waver . Yea how didst thou stock them o murtherus thief , There neck there hands and feet only for their belief . Both within thy Coal house and in the lollers tower , The poor and simple men had many a sharp shower . Through thy good counsellers Clunnye and John avales , These are the two rake hells that brought the all the tales . How were the poor lodged , how were their bells fed . With hunger and Could and stones to rest their head . Alas what beasts are they that lurk under that weed , Are they not Ravening wolves judge them by their deed . What injury were it now to rid those bloody bests , That seeketh friendship now with money and with feasts , Now they have spoiled our realm they fere and stand in doubt , If bribery help them not then will their knavery out But god for his mercy seize the bloody stream , And grant that his glory may flourish in our Realm . FINIS . 