H : 58204 AND ANSWER To the AUTHOR of Humble Thanks for His Majesties Gracious Declaration FOR LIBERTY of CONSCIENCE . 'TWixt Heaven and thee , how sprung these fatal jars , That thou ( Poor Robin ) rail'st against the Stars ? To thee what have their influences done , With so much zeal to bark against the Moon ? On Heavens Tables if thou knew'st what's writ As well as on the Earthly what is set , We would allow thou might'st the feud maintain , Enabled by the belly not thy brain : These things , alas , transcend thy scrutiny , Their Language is but Arabic to thee ; Thou that could'st never yet higher advance , Then Dod , and Cleaver , and the Concordance . Thou know'st not that the Square of Mercury To Mars afflicts a Punner's brain , yet we Find it alas , to be too true in thee . We know what Saturn did at Barthol'mew , And some are of opinion so do you : In those Dog-days had been the fittest time To curse thy Stars ( Poor Robin ) in lewd rhyme ; Mount Ano for Parnassus then had gone , Thou might'st have made with tears and Helicon , And fetch'd a Pegasus from Abingdon . But Now to rave , when a propitious ray Has shin'd on thee , and turn'd thy night to day ; Now that the Claret-dispensation's come , And thou may'st vie for Toe with Him at Room ; Assum'd the pristine Rubies of thy beauty , And art made capable of being gouty : What is it less then when no foe was near us , With so much heat to cry out , Curse you Meroz ! What have those Reverend Prelates done to thee Thus to blaspheme their pious memory ? Gloc'ster , and learned Durham's name shall live , When thine in Grubstreet hardly shall survive . Unmanner'd man ! in Stars , and Men , ill read , To trample on the Ashes of the Dead ! Well! since the Royal Clemency has given Each man his leave to choose his way to Heaven , Clean , and unclean Beasts into one Ark driven : Since pressing i' th' Church-Militant disappears , And all men now are Gospel Volunteers ; Since we are all united , let's agree , Think you no worse of us , then of you , we ; For by your foul reflections we'r afraid , You write the Good Old Cause in Masquerade . Instead of bonds and persecution , Wherewith you us'd to make the Pulpit groan , Thank our kind Prince who with compassionate eyes Look'd down and pitied your infirmities . This may be done without or Rope , or Bell , And thus Dear Dogg'rel , heartily farewell . From the Star in Colemanstreet , LONDON . SIR , Yours , Y.Z. With Allowance , May 6. 1672. LONDON , Printed for J. Edwin at the three Roses in Ludgate-street , 1672. H : 58204 AND ANSWER To the AUTHOR of Humble Thanks for His Majesties Gracious Declaration FOR LIBERTY of CONSCIENCE . 'TWixt Heaven and thee , how sprung these fatal jars , That thou ( Poor Robin ) rail'st against the Stars ? To thee what have their influences done , With so much zeal to bark against the Moon ? On Heavens Tables if thou knew'st what's writ As well as on the Earthly what is set , We would allow thou might'st the feud maintain , Enabled by the belly not thy brain : These things , alas , transcend thy scrutiny , Their Language is but Arabic to thee ; Thou that could'st never yet higher advance , Then Dod , and Cleaver , and the Concordance . Thou know'st not that the Square of Mercury To Mars afflicts a Punner's brain , yet we Find it alas , to be too true in thee . We know what Saturn did at Barthol'mew , And some are of opinion so do you : In those Dog-days had been the fittest time To curse thy Stars ( Poor Robin ) in lewd rhyme ; Mount Ano for Parnassus then had gone , Thou might'st have made with tears and Helicon , And fetch'd a Pegasus from Abingdon . But Now to rave , when a propitious ray Has shin'd on thee , and turn'd thy night to day ; Now that the Claret-dispensation's come , And thou may'st vie for Toe with Him at Room ; Assum'd the pristine Rubies of thy beauty , And art made capable of being gouty : What is it less then when no foe was near us , With so much heat to cry out , Curse you Meroz ! What have those Reverend Prelates done to thee Thus to blaspheme their pious memory ? Gloc'ster , and learned Durham's name shall live , When thine in Grubstreet hardly shall survive . Unmanner'd man ! in Stars , and Men , ill read , To trample on the Ashes of the Dead ! Well! since the Royal Clemency has given Each man his leave to choose his way to Heaven , Clean , and unclean Beasts into one Ark driven : Since pressing i' th' Church-Militant disappears , And all men now are Gospel Volunteers ; Since we are all united , let's agree , Think you no worse of us , then of you , we ; For by your foul reflections we'r afraid , You write the Good Old Cause in Masquerade . Instead of bonds and persecution , Wherewith you us'd to make the Pulpit groan , Thank our kind Prince who with compassionate eyes Look'd down and pitied your infirmities . This may be done without or Rope , or Bell , And thus Dear Dogg'rel , heartily farewell . From the Star in Colemanstreet , LONDON . SIR , Yours , Y.Z. With Allowance , May 6. 1672. LONDON , Printed for J. Edwin at the three Roses in Ludgate-street , 1672. 