H : 18282 A greater thanks , for Churchyards welcome home . I bade not Court farewell for such hight welcome home , But glad to leave the costly Court and live like country mome . From thence I willing wen and thought in very deed , To make ( ere mischiefs fell on heaps ) a Virtue of a need . But my cheeff friend came there , to whom for duties sake I road , and did ( by destinies lot ) a further journey make . Which friend drew me by love , to see the Court again : But since my sudden coming there does breed in you disdain : I find more fumish flames , by this found frantic smoke : And see ( perhaps ) a further fire , then you with craft can cloak . But till your fingers burn , you care not what you do : Well , I will help to kindle coals , and clap on faggots toe . To bring your hands in heat , because the air is cold : Ka. me : Knave thee : I say no more , the proverb is full old . If Crows of Cheap cry Ka , the bawl does back rebound : For sure I owe not all their town , the half of twentie pound . And thyrteene candles great , oh every pound allow : Then call and audite of my debt , and cast my charges now . Yet know I cut tailed Curs , can never byght in frame : Till courage claps them on the backs and thrusts them on the game . Come on you snaring whelps I fear your force no whi Though loud you bark you dare not bite your teeth are tender yet . Baight me like Bull at stake , I have good flesh and bone : To try it out ( as hap shall serve ) with any Dog alone . No other answer sure , I make : now skan this well : But leave the Lob that railed on me , the babble and the bell . writ not to this again , in silence shall you si As void of answer every way , as you are void of wit . FINIS . ( quod ) plain Churchyard . Imprinted at London in little Britaine by Alex - ander Lacy : for Arthour Pepwel , dwell - ling in Paules churchyard , at the sign of the Kings head . H : 18282 A greater thanks , for Churchyards welcome home . I bade not Court farewell for such hight welcome home , But glad to leave the costly Court and live like country mome . From thence I willing wen and thought in very deed , To make ( ere mischiefs fell on heaps ) a Virtue of a need . But my cheeff friend came there , to whom for duties sake I road , and did ( by destinies lot ) a further journey make . Which friend drew me by love , to see the Court again : But since my sudden coming there does breed in you disdain : I find more fumish flames , by this found frantic smoke : And see ( perhaps ) a further fire , then you with craft can cloak . But till your fingers burn , you care not what you do : Well , I will help to kindle coals , and clap on faggots toe . To bring your hands in heat , because the air is cold : Ka. me : Knave thee : I say no more , the proverb is full old . If Crows of Cheap cry Ka , the bawl does back rebound : For sure I owe not all their town , the half of twentie pound . And thyrteene candles great , oh every pound allow : Then call and audite of my debt , and cast my charges now . Yet know I cut tailed Curs , can never byght in frame : Till courage claps them on the backs and thrusts them on the game . Come on you snaring whelps I fear your force no whi Though loud you bark you dare not bite your teeth are tender yet . Baight me like Bull at stake , I have good flesh and bone : To try it out ( as hap shall serve ) with any Dog alone . No other answer sure , I make : now skan this well : But leave the Lob that railed on me , the babble and the bell . writ not to this again , in silence shall you si As void of answer every way , as you are void of wit . FINIS . ( quod ) plain Churchyard . Imprinted at London in little Britaine by Alex - ander Lacy : for Arthour Pepwel , dwell - ling in Paules churchyard , at the sign of the Kings head . 