H : 79187 A New Narrative of the Old Plot BEING A New Ballad . To the Tune of , Some say the Papists had a Plot , etc I . WHen Traitors did at Pop'ry rail , Because it taught Confession : When Bankrupts bawl'd for Property , And Bastards for Succession . II When Tony durst espouse the Cause , Spite of his Pox and Gou When Speaking W ------ 's purg'd the House By spewing Members out . III . When H ------ tO a twy-fac't Pamphlet wrote , The Emblem of his Soul : When Oats swore whom he pleas'd in's Plot , And reign'd without Control . IV. When L ------ ce too lampoon'd the Court , And libell'd Cats and Dogs : When Witnesses , like Musromes , sprung Out of the Irish Bogs . V. Then Perkin thought 'twas time to prove His Claim to Kingship fair ; And faith 'tis fit the Peoples Son Should be the Peoples Heir . VI . So fill'd with Zeal He and his Knight Caress and Court the Rout ; And my Lord Duke goes up and down To show his Grace about . VII . Tho F ---- Lord Gr ---- would not engage Upon that idle score ; For He would have a Commonwealth , As well as Common-whore . VIII . He envy'd his old Friend a Crown , But why I can't devise ; For's Grace had grac't his Lordship's head With horns of noble Size . IX . Then Johnson wrote his Patrons Creed , A Doctrine fetch't from Hell : 'Twas Christianlike to disobey , And Gospel to rebel . X. Julian's his Pattern and his Text ; A meaner Theam He scorns : First represents Him at the Desk , And then Apostate turns . XI . Like his , his Patron Zeal grew high , Th' Exclusion to advance ; And the right Heir must be debarr'd , For fear of Room and France . XII . The Zealous Commons then resolv'd , ( And They knew what they did ) By whomsoe're the King should fallen , The Papists throats should bleed . XIII . So murd'ring Poigniards off are slipped Into a guiltless hand : And Innocence is sacrific'd , While Malefactors stand . XIV . By Hell's Assistance then they fram'd Their Damn'd Association : And Worthy Men , and Men Worthy , Divided all the Nation . XV . Fools oft and Madmen leave the less , And choose the greater evil : Thus They for fear of Popery , Run headlong to the Devil . XVI . At last these Loyal Souls propose To ease their Sovereign's Cares ; If He'll fit down , and first remove Their Jealousies and Fears . XVII . Just the old Trick and Sham Device Of Belzebub their Sire : He but fallen down and worship Them , They'll grant his hearts desire . XVIII . Nay Lives and Fortune's then shall be Entirely all his own ; If He will fairly once disclaim A Brother and a Crown . LONDON , Printed for Charles Corbet at the Oxford-Arms in Warwick-Lane , 1683. H : 79187 A New Narrative of the Old Plot BEING A New Ballad . To the Tune of , Some say the Papists had a Plot , etc I . WHen Traitors did at Pop'ry rail , Because it taught Confession : When Bankrupts bawl'd for Property , And Bastards for Succession . II When Tony durst espouse the Cause , Spite of his Pox and Gou When Speaking W ------ 's purg'd the House By spewing Members out . III . When H ------ tO a twy-fac't Pamphlet wrote , The Emblem of his Soul : When Oats swore whom he pleas'd in's Plot , And reign'd without Control . IV. When L ------ ce too lampoon'd the Court , And libell'd Cats and Dogs : When Witnesses , like Musromes , sprung Out of the Irish Bogs . V. Then Perkin thought 'twas time to prove His Claim to Kingship fair ; And faith 'tis fit the Peoples Son Should be the Peoples Heir . VI . So fill'd with Zeal He and his Knight Caress and Court the Rout ; And my Lord Duke goes up and down To show his Grace about . VII . Tho F ---- Lord Gr ---- would not engage Upon that idle score ; For He would have a Commonwealth , As well as Common-whore . VIII . He envy'd his old Friend a Crown , But why I can't devise ; For's Grace had grac't his Lordship's head With horns of noble Size . IX . Then Johnson wrote his Patrons Creed , A Doctrine fetch't from Hell : 'Twas Christianlike to disobey , And Gospel to rebel . X. Julian's his Pattern and his Text ; A meaner Theam He scorns : First represents Him at the Desk , And then Apostate turns . XI . Like his , his Patron Zeal grew high , Th' Exclusion to advance ; And the right Heir must be debarr'd , For fear of Room and France . XII . The Zealous Commons then resolv'd , ( And They knew what they did ) By whomsoe're the King should fallen , The Papists throats should bleed . XIII . So murd'ring Poigniards off are slipped Into a guiltless hand : And Innocence is sacrific'd , While Malefactors stand . XIV . By Hell's Assistance then they fram'd Their Damn'd Association : And Worthy Men , and Men Worthy , Divided all the Nation . XV . Fools oft and Madmen leave the less , And choose the greater evil : Thus They for fear of Popery , Run headlong to the Devil . XVI . At last these Loyal Souls propose To ease their Sovereign's Cares ; If He'll fit down , and first remove Their Jealousies and Fears . XVII . Just the old Trick and Sham Device Of Belzebub their Sire : He but fallen down and worship Them , They'll grant his hearts desire . XVIII . Nay Lives and Fortune's then shall be Entirely all his own ; If He will fairly once disclaim A Brother and a Crown . LONDON , Printed for Charles Corbet at the Oxford-Arms in Warwick-Lane , 1683. 