H : 18281 Great thanks to the welcome , in Churchyards behalf : To him that hath bleared , and cried like a Calf . Full well by his crying a man may now know , Where veil may be bought of a price very low : The head and the purtnaunce , with gather though small , As cheap as a Sheeps head , the horns bought withal . Restless heads , I well perceive , to be acquainted sure : Can rashly fede on matters grose as meat for them unpure . So well I do perceive by one , who hath of late take pain : By penned verce on high Churchyard to welcome home again . In taunting wise ( alas thou fool ) what needed thus thy head To travail in such flickering vearce , sith all thy wits be fled ? Dost thou know thou chattering Pie on whom thou dost thus rail ? Or hast thou cause by gawled back , to wag and wince thy tail ? As no revenge , this men account , to wreak thy angry mood ? To charge him with a vowed oath , for wearing of a hood . Thy nature ill , does well declare , thy rancour and thy spigh To heads that bore and naked are , yet needs not lanthorn light . But canst thou spare a hood indeed ? of hoods hast thou such store ? How can thy horns for hoods be seen ? hushed hushed , I say no more . Let Churchyard live & reign in place to his contented mind , And so let every horned beast go range , like to his kind . For cloughie Clem , and William to need not to take more pain , Sith Adam Bel , for Clem of the clough the monstrous Sheep hath slain . And outlaws are ( as I hear say ) for this , so heinous deed : So farewell . C. with horned cap , good night , and eke good speed . Thus do I cease with hoods Robin , now Robin Hood farewell : And Robinson in Churchyards stead , shall wear the hood and bell . And if this rude and simple verce may not a warning bee , To stay your cocking craking head take heed lest that you see : The cokscombe knocked about your pate , then hoods no more will seem Your horns to hide , but all men shall a monster thee esteem . And as for Churchyards coming hom was not of his free will , But for to please such stats whose hests may both command and will . Thus bid I thee farewell a while , as one that keeps his pen : To answer such as shall presume , to blea like Calves in den . FINIS . ( quod ) Ra. Sm. Imprinted at London in little Britaine , by Alexander Lacy , for Frauncis Coldocke , dwelling in Paules churchyard , at the sign of the green Dragon . H : 18281 Great thanks to the welcome , in Churchyards behalf : To him that hath bleared , and cried like a Calf . Full well by his crying a man may now know , Where veil may be bought of a price very low : The head and the purtnaunce , with gather though small , As cheap as a Sheeps head , the horns bought withal . Restless heads , I well perceive , to be acquainted sure : Can rashly fede on matters grose as meat for them unpure . So well I do perceive by one , who hath of late take pain : By penned verce on high Churchyard to welcome home again . In taunting wise ( alas thou fool ) what needed thus thy head To travail in such flickering vearce , sith all thy wits be fled ? Dost thou know thou chattering Pie on whom thou dost thus rail ? Or hast thou cause by gawled back , to wag and wince thy tail ? As no revenge , this men account , to wreak thy angry mood ? To charge him with a vowed oath , for wearing of a hood . Thy nature ill , does well declare , thy rancour and thy spigh To heads that bore and naked are , yet needs not lanthorn light . But canst thou spare a hood indeed ? of hoods hast thou such store ? How can thy horns for hoods be seen ? hushed hushed , I say no more . Let Churchyard live & reign in place to his contented mind , And so let every horned beast go range , like to his kind . For cloughie Clem , and William to need not to take more pain , Sith Adam Bel , for Clem of the clough the monstrous Sheep hath slain . And outlaws are ( as I hear say ) for this , so heinous deed : So farewell . C. with horned cap , good night , and eke good speed . Thus do I cease with hoods Robin , now Robin Hood farewell : And Robinson in Churchyards stead , shall wear the hood and bell . And if this rude and simple verce may not a warning bee , To stay your cocking craking head take heed lest that you see : The cokscombe knocked about your pate , then hoods no more will seem Your horns to hide , but all men shall a monster thee esteem . And as for Churchyards coming hom was not of his free will , But for to please such stats whose hests may both command and will . Thus bid I thee farewell a while , as one that keeps his pen : To answer such as shall presume , to blea like Calves in den . FINIS . ( quod ) Ra. Sm. Imprinted at London in little Britaine , by Alexander Lacy , for Frauncis Coldocke , dwelling in Paules churchyard , at the sign of the green Dragon . 