H : 79183 AND ELEGY On the much Lamented Sir WILLIAM WALLER , Who Valiantly Hang'd Himself at Rotterdam . RIse , Grim Alecto , rise ( 'tis fit to choose For Hellish matter and Infernal Muse : ) Thou who at Fox Hall did'st Inspire those Sots , Tongue , Oats and Kirby to Contrive their Plots ; Who did'st through wondrous Labarinths of Ill , Conduct Sir Godfrey safe to Primrose-Hill ; And by Mysterious Ways , and Oaths most quaint , Of and Old Faggot made us a Young Sain Plots thou canst make and mar : Thou Stygian Whore Assist me once ! I'll ne'r invoke thee more . The Hellborn Dame Assents ; Her Head she shakes , Pregnant of Plots , and Perywick'd with Snakes ; At her Right-Ear and Oats and Bedlow hung , And at her Left Prance Everard and Tongue : Thus Gravely she Recounts what the Curs'd Elf Sir Waller Confess'd , e're he Hang'd himself . Good Father Ferguson , quoth He , now I Do mean to make Confession Verily . When willing Senators wisely were afraid Of Horrid Scarecrows , they Temselves had made ; When Chapel of St. Stephen , and Place of Peers , Were overflow'd with sudden Floods of Fears : When Easy Mortals stop'd their Ears and Eyes , With Uncouth Tales , and Incoherent Lies ; When Knaves , and Thieves , and Cheats grew Rich by Plots , I wisely Worship'd Bedlow and Great Oats ; Because I scarcely then was worth Ten Groats . These my Right Worthy Patrons with great ease , Soon made my Worship Justice of the Peace . Arm'd with this Power ( as if I had a Charter To Rob and Spoil ) I gave no Mortal quarter . Even Aged Matrons , in my nightly Trade , I Grop'd ; Such might be Priests in Masquerade : My Skill herein was great ; I god the Start Of Brother Chamberlain in his own Art. And with my Coadjutors at my Tail , Gill , Merry , Jones , Snow , Chetwyn , Prance , Mansel ; In Obscure Holes , and Lanes I Briskly Blunder'd , And every Papist , that I found , I Plundr'd : Even Protestants themselves scap'd not my Gynnes ; Though they were Guelphs , their Goods were Gibellins . John Gadbury's Maps and Globes were not Protected ; Such as I lik'd , were Popishly Affected . Now see me on a Steed , more big by far , Then that my Rebel Sire Bestrid in War ; Towards Tuthil-fields the way I do Traverse , With a Rude Rout of Miscreants at my Arse . To th' Fields we come . Lo , Parson Farringdon , Like a Brave Knipperdolling , Marches on , With Hat Erect on Cane ( 'twas to seem Taller ) He Cries ; I' th' Name of Gad , a Waller , a Waller . As , when to warn men to Bear-Garden Plays , Exalted Pugg from's Rosinant Surveys Attendant Crowds of Dogs , Thieves , Bums and Boys , Expressing in his Pleasant Face his Joys : Like Pugg look'd I , when Billing and his Blades Denuded their Dull , Sullen , Loggerheads , Throwing their Everlasting Caps to th' Sky , Bawling a Waller with a Full-mouth'd Cry . Environ'd with my Rogues I bent my Course , To Lady Dormer's , where without Remorse , Spoons , Tankards , Pictures , Plataeae I took away , ( Alas such Popish Trinkets were just Prey ! ) And after narrow Search , like cunning Fox , I seiz'd a Priest , hid in a Pepper-Box ; The Priest to Newgate had his Mittimus , The Box , being Silver , did belong to Us. Then in New-Pallace-yard of Westminster , I most Courageously did make a Fire , And , True-Dissenter like , in zealous Scorn , At Noonday did my Saviours Picture Burn : A worthy Prank of Reformation-work , That outdoes Father Jew , and Brother Turk ; And tells the Christian World I durst Act , what My Grandsire Pilate would have Blushed at . With Gun , I and my Knaves to th' Savoy came ; Like Skilful Thieves in Pikerings House we Rome ; Closets and Trunks we break ; one did unfold Full Fourscore Pieces of Egyptian Gold : Good Quids , quoth I ; my Brothers , not a word ; All this is Ours ; we're People of the Lord : This Gun , we Bought i' th' Minories , 'tmust be laid , And we must find't out in Pikering's Bed. Then Early in the Morning , let's repair To tell our Patriots at Westminster : ( Not of the Fourscore Pounds we Stole in Gold ) That Pikering's Gun is Found , and in Safe hold ; This Gun , clos'd up in Feather-Bed so dark , That Dextrous Gunner us'd in James's-Park : And , if their Honours Vote to have't laid by , 'Twill serve a Surer Marks-man* with one Eye . My Sancha-Pancha Prance and I , in Lent A Journey took to Newark upon Trent ; To seize Old Beddingfield , who like a Fop Forsook's quiet Grave to keep a Ribbon-Shop : He was grown Young again ; say what you will , These Cunning Jesuits will be Jesuits still : The Mayor and We Rob'd him of all his Things , Two Spoons , one Old Plate , Horse , Ribbons , Gloves , Rings . But why should I my Mighty Deeds declare ? I'll Hang myself now in this wild Despair . Why do I Live ? Brave Anthony is gone , And Essex with his Razor cries , Ah Hone ! Bold Walcot's Hang'd , and close behind his Breech , Stands Noble Russel making a True Speech : All-killing Armstrong and Bold Grey are Fled ; Prince Monmouth Sneaks , and dares not show his Head. All's Lost ; Go Ferguson , get a Rope , go , go ; Here's a Convenient Beam will serve Us Two : Then at one Swing himself Sir Waller Hurl'd , To's Fellow-Traytors in the other World . * Rumbold . Printed by N.T. at the Entrance into the Old-Spring-Garden , 1683. 'H : 79183 AND ELEGY On the much Lamented Sir WILLIAM WALLER , Who Valiantly Hang'd Himself at Rotterdam . RIse , Grim Alecto , rise ( 'tis fit to choose For Hellish matter and Infernal Muse : ) Thou who at Fox Hall did'st Inspire those Sots , Tongue , Oats and Kirby to Contrive their Plots ; Who did'st through wondrous Labarinths of Ill , Conduct Sir Godfrey safe to Primrose-Hill ; And by Mysterious Ways , and Oaths most quaint , Of and Old Faggot made us a Young Sain Plots thou canst make and mar : Thou Stygian Whore Assist me once ! I'll ne'r invoke thee more . The Hellborn Dame Assents ; Her Head she shakes , Pregnant of Plots , and Perywick'd with Snakes ; At her Right-Ear and Oats and Bedlow hung , And at her Left Prance Everard and Tongue : Thus Gravely she Recounts what the Curs'd Elf Sir Waller Confess'd , e're he Hang'd himself . Good Father Ferguson , quoth He , now I Do mean to make Confession Verily . When willing Senators wisely were afraid Of Horrid Scarecrows , they Temselves had made ; When Chapel of St. Stephen , and Place of Peers , Were overflow'd with sudden Floods of Fears : When Easy Mortals stop'd their Ears and Eyes , With Uncouth Tales , and Incoherent Lies ; When Knaves , and Thieves , and Cheats grew Rich by Plots , I wisely Worship'd Bedlow and Great Oats ; Because I scarcely then was worth Ten Groats . These my Right Worthy Patrons with great ease , Soon made my Worship Justice of the Peace . Arm'd with this Power ( as if I had a Charter To Rob and Spoil ) I gave no Mortal quarter . Even Aged Matrons , in my nightly Trade , I Grop'd ; Such might be Priests in Masquerade : My Skill herein was great ; I god the Start Of Brother Chamberlain in his own Art. And with my Coadjutors at my Tail , Gill , Merry , Jones , Snow , Chetwyn , Prance , Mansel ; In Obscure Holes , and Lanes I Briskly Blunder'd , And every Papist , that I found , I Plundr'd : Even Protestants themselves scap'd not my Gynnes ; Though they were Guelphs , their Goods were Gibellins . John Gadbury's Maps and Globes were not Protected ; Such as I lik'd , were Popishly Affected . Now see me on a Steed , more big by far , Then that my Rebel Sire Bestrid in War ; Towards Tuthil-fields the way I do Traverse , With a Rude Rout of Miscreants at my Arse . To th' Fields we come . Lo , Parson Farringdon , Like a Brave Knipperdolling , Marches on , With Hat Erect on Cane ( 'twas to seem Taller ) He Cries ; I' th' Name of Gad , a Waller , a Waller . As , when to warn men to Bear-Garden Plays , Exalted Pugg from's Rosinant Surveys Attendant Crowds of Dogs , Thieves , Bums and Boys , Expressing in his Pleasant Face his Joys : Like Pugg look'd I , when Billing and his Blades Denuded their Dull , Sullen , Loggerheads , Throwing their Everlasting Caps to th' Sky , Bawling a Waller with a Full-mouth'd Cry . Environ'd with my Rogues I bent my Course , To Lady Dormer's , where without Remorse , Spoons , Tankards , Pictures , Plataeae I took away , ( Alas such Popish Trinkets were just Prey ! ) And after narrow Search , like cunning Fox , I seiz'd a Priest , hid in a Pepper-Box ; The Priest to Newgate had his Mittimus , The Box , being Silver , did belong to Us. Then in New-Pallace-yard of Westminster , I most Courageously did make a Fire , And , True-Dissenter like , in zealous Scorn , At Noonday did my Saviours Picture Burn : A worthy Prank of Reformation-work , That outdoes Father Jew , and Brother Turk ; And tells the Christian World I durst Act , what My Grandsire Pilate would have Blushed at . With Gun , I and my Knaves to th' Savoy came ; Like Skilful Thieves in Pikerings House we Rome ; Closets and Trunks we break ; one did unfold Full Fourscore Pieces of Egyptian Gold : Good Quids , quoth I ; my Brothers , not a word ; All this is Ours ; we're People of the Lord : This Gun , we Bought i' th' Minories , 'tmust be laid , And we must find't out in Pikering's Bed. Then Early in the Morning , let's repair To tell our Patriots at Westminster : ( Not of the Fourscore Pounds we Stole in Gold ) That Pikering's Gun is Found , and in Safe hold ; This Gun , clos'd up in Feather-Bed so dark , That Dextrous Gunner us'd in James's-Park : And , if their Honours Vote to have't laid by , 'Twill serve a Surer Marks-man* with one Eye . My Sancha-Pancha Prance and I , in Lent A Journey took to Newark upon Trent ; To seize Old Beddingfield , who like a Fop Forsook's quiet Grave to keep a Ribbon-Shop : He was grown Young again ; say what you will , These Cunning Jesuits will be Jesuits still : The Mayor and We Rob'd him of all his Things , Two Spoons , one Old Plate , Horse , Ribbons , Gloves , Rings . But why should I my Mighty Deeds declare ? I'll Hang myself now in this wild Despair . Why do I Live ? Brave Anthony is gone , And Essex with his Razor cries , Ah Hone ! Bold Walcot's Hang'd , and close behind his Breech , Stands Noble Russel making a True Speech : All-killing Armstrong and Bold Grey are Fled ; Prince Monmouth Sneaks , and dares not show his Head. All's Lost ; Go Ferguson , get a Rope , go , go ; Here's a Convenient Beam will serve Us Two : Then at one Swing himself Sir Waller Hurl'd , To's Fellow-Traytors in the other World . * Rumbold . Printed by N.T. at the Entrance into the Old-Spring-Garden , 1683. ' 