H : 79222 AND ELEGY In Commemoration of the Right Worshipful Sir WILLIAM SCROGGS , Late Lord Chief Justice of His MAJESTIES Court of KINGS-BENCH , who the - parted this Life , the 25th of this Instant October . 1683. THou pleasing Muse , who late did'st gay appear Gaudy as Spring , and with thy Songs did'st cheer My well pleas'd thoughts , now like to Sable night Array thy self , disrob'd of all thy light ; With Cyprus bind thy Brows ; this mournful Theam Admits no Day , Grief here is too extreme To be observ'd by vulgar prying Eyes , Who know not in true Grief to Sympathise . This noble Sorrow is unfeign'd . True Love In Mercenary numbers scorns to move , But still keeps Harmony with that above . He's gone . The Brave among the Great lies low ; True Tyrant Death , who will no pity show , Snatch'd him from hence : at least his better part Which shines above , bright as his great desert . In Heaven he Triumphs , while on Earth his Name Is Breath'd aloud by the strong blast of fame ; The Man who truly Loyal durst to be , When Torrent Faction rag'd to that degree , That once again it push'd at Monarchy : Who Atlas like , did help sustain the weight Of Leaning Empire , when the wheel of fate Almost flew from it's Axle , and a fear Possess'd some Men , Heav'n did neglect it's care ; Even then his great unbias'd Soul stood firm , No fear of Danger , nor no threats could charm His moving Orb e're to run Retrogade , His Princes Int'rest , his chief care was made ; He fear'd no frowns , in vain Temptations were , Uprightness still did all his Actions square ; In public and in private , Justice shin'd In more uprightness n'er before inshrin'd : In vain aspersions were , like Crystal He Cast of the stains of unjust obloquy . The banded party , which in Treason set , Was by his Prudence countermin'd ; the fret Of Monarchy , the rude Anarchial rout , Who sought to bring their black designs about , Quel'd by that awful power deriv'd from him Who wears the British Empires Diadem . In haughty pride they durst no more appear , But in close Corners , hissing loud , they rear Their Heads , impolitic , until at last , That Venom that would fain three Kingdoms blast Was on the ground in vain at Random cast . The Laws great Oracle in him is set , Center'd in him both Law and Reason met . Precedents justly pois'd had still due place , And due Proportion rul'd in every Case . Orphans and Widows tears who were oppressed , Never departed from him unredressed . The Proud and Rich , who thought 'twas in their Power The Scales of Justice , with a Golden shower , To turn with ease , found her pois'd Balance right , Not to be alter'd , nor by Gold or Might . Retir'd from business , still his mind was bent T'improve that Talant his Creator lent , And make it plain appear , in each degree , He was the Pattern of Humility . Then let his Memory for ever live ; Times self to that can n'er a perjod give ; The Gowns chief boast to after times he'l be , Ages to come shall read his History ; And strive to Copy his deserved praise ; Thinking him worthy of Immortal Bays , EPITAPH . BEneath this Marble , how can it be said Immortal'' Scroggs , a Man so just is laid ? 'Tis but his dust , Reader , suppose no more , The rest's in Heaven , 'tis there lay'd up in store , Till with loud sounds the Trumpet wakes the dead , And rising dust is with fresh Beauty clad ; Then shall he live above the World's renown , And wear forever Virtues shining Crown . FINIS . LONDON : Printed by J. Grantham , in the Year , MDCLXXXIII . H : 79222 AND ELEGY In Commemoration of the Right Worshipful Sir WILLIAM SCROGGS , Late Lord Chief Justice of His MAJESTIES Court of KINGS-BENCH , who the - parted this Life , the 25th of this Instant October . 1683. THou pleasing Muse , who late did'st gay appear Gaudy as Spring , and with thy Songs did'st cheer My well pleas'd thoughts , now like to Sable night Array thy self , disrob'd of all thy light ; With Cyprus bind thy Brows ; this mournful Theam Admits no Day , Grief here is too extreme To be observ'd by vulgar prying Eyes , Who know not in true Grief to Sympathise . This noble Sorrow is unfeign'd . True Love In Mercenary numbers scorns to move , But still keeps Harmony with that above . He's gone . The Brave among the Great lies low ; True Tyrant Death , who will no pity show , Snatch'd him from hence : at least his better part Which shines above , bright as his great desert . In Heaven he Triumphs , while on Earth his Name Is Breath'd aloud by the strong blast of fame ; The Man who truly Loyal durst to be , When Torrent Faction rag'd to that degree , That once again it push'd at Monarchy : Who Atlas like , did help sustain the weight Of Leaning Empire , when the wheel of fate Almost flew from it's Axle , and a fear Possess'd some Men , Heav'n did neglect it's care ; Even then his great unbias'd Soul stood firm , No fear of Danger , nor no threats could charm His moving Orb e're to run Retrogade , His Princes Int'rest , his chief care was made ; He fear'd no frowns , in vain Temptations were , Uprightness still did all his Actions square ; In public and in private , Justice shin'd In more uprightness n'er before inshrin'd : In vain aspersions were , like Crystal He Cast of the stains of unjust obloquy . The banded party , which in Treason set , Was by his Prudence countermin'd ; the fret Of Monarchy , the rude Anarchial rout , Who sought to bring their black designs about , Quel'd by that awful power deriv'd from him Who wears the British Empires Diadem . In haughty pride they durst no more appear , But in close Corners , hissing loud , they rear Their Heads , impolitic , until at last , That Venom that would fain three Kingdoms blast Was on the ground in vain at Random cast . The Laws great Oracle in him is set , Center'd in him both Law and Reason met . Precedents justly pois'd had still due place , And due Proportion rul'd in every Case . Orphans and Widows tears who were oppressed , Never departed from him unredressed . The Proud and Rich , who thought 'twas in their Power The Scales of Justice , with a Golden shower , To turn with ease , found her pois'd Balance right , Not to be alter'd , nor by Gold or Might . Retir'd from business , still his mind was bent T'improve that Talant his Creator lent , And make it plain appear , in each degree , He was the Pattern of Humility . Then let his Memory for ever live ; Times self to that can n'er a perjod give ; The Gowns chief boast to after times he'l be , Ages to come shall read his History ; And strive to Copy his deserved praise ; Thinking him worthy of Immortal Bays , EPITAPH . BEneath this Marble , how can it be said Immortal'' Scroggs , a Man so just is laid ? 'Tis but his dust , Reader , suppose no more , The rest's in Heaven , 'tis there lay'd up in store , Till with loud sounds the Trumpet wakes the dead , And rising dust is with fresh Beauty clad ; Then shall he live above the World's renown , And wear forever Virtues shining Crown . FINIS . LONDON : Printed by J. Grantham , in the Year , MDCLXXXIII . 