H : 133299 THE RE-RESURRECTION Of the RUMP : Or , Rebellion and Tyranny revived . The third Edition . To the Tune of the Blacksmith . IF none be offended with the Sent , Though I foul my Mouth , I'll be content , To sing of the Rump of a Parliament , Which nobody can deny . I have sometime fed on a Rump in Souse , And a man may imagine the Rump of a Louse ; But till now was ne're herd of the Rump of a House , Which nobody can deny . There's a Rump of Beef , and the Rump of a Goose , And a Rump whose Neck was hang'd in a Noose ; But ours is a Rump can play fast and lose , Which nobody can deny . A Rump had Jane Shore , and a Rump Messaleen , And a Rump had Antonyes resolute Queen ; But such a Rump as ours is , never was seen , Which nobody can deny . Two short years together we English have scarce Been rid of thy rampant Nose ( Old Mars ) But now thou hast god a prodigious Arse , Which nobody can deny . When the parts of the Body did all fallen out , Some votes it is like did pass for the Snout ; But that the Rump should be King was never a doubt , Which nobody can deny . A Cat has a Rump , and a Cat has nine Lives , Yet when her heads off , her Rump never strives ; But our Rump from the grave hath made two Retrieves , Which nobody can deny . That the Rump may all their Enemies quail , They'l borrow the Devils Coat of Mail , And all to defend their Estate in Tail , Which nobody can deny . But though their Scale now seem to be the Upper , There's no need of the charge of a Thanksgiving supper , For if they be the Rump , the Army's their Crupper , Which nobody can deny . There is a saying belongs to the Rump , Which is good , although it be worn to the Stump , That on the Buttocks I'll give thee a Thump Which nobody can deny . There's a Proverb in which the Rump claims a part , Which hath in it more of Sense than of Art , That for all you can do , I care not a Fart , Which nobody can deny . There's another Proverb gives the Rump for his Crest , But Alderman Atkins made it a Jest , That of all kind of Lucks , shitten Luck is the best , Which nobody can deny . There is another Proverb that never will fail , That the good the Rump will do when they prevail , Is to give us a Flop with a Foxtail , Which nobody can deny . There is a Saying which is made by no Fools ; I never can hear on't but my Heart it cools , That the Rump will spend all we have in Close Stools Which nobody can deny . There's and Observation wise and deep , Which without and Onion will make me to weep ; That Flies will blow Maggots in the Rump of a Sheep , Which nobody can deny . And some that can see the Wood from the Trees , Say this Sanctify'd Rump in time we may lose ; For the Cooks do challenge the Rumps for their Fees . Which nobody can deny . When the Rump do fit we will make it our Moan , That a reason be ' nacted if there be not one , Why a Fart hath a Tongue , and a Fyest hath none ? Which nobody can deny . And whil'st within the Walls they Lurk , To satisfy us , will be a good work ; Who hath most Religion , the Rump , or the Turk , Which nobody can deny . A Rump's a Fag-end , like the Balk of a Furrow , And is to the whole like the Jail to the Burrough ; T'is the Bran that is left , when the Meal is run through Which nobody can deny . Consider the World , the Heav'n is the head on't , The Earth is the middle , and we men are fed on't ; But Hell is the Rump , and no more can be said on't . Which nobody can deny . Flectere si nequeunt super [ oh ] s Achaeronta movebunt . FINIS , In English , The RUMP . H : 133299 THE RE-RESURRECTION Of the RUMP : Or , Rebellion and Tyranny revived . The third Edition . To the Tune of the Blacksmith . IF none be offended with the Sent , Though I foul my Mouth , I'll be content , To sing of the Rump of a Parliament , Which nobody can deny . I have sometime fed on a Rump in Souse , And a man may imagine the Rump of a Louse ; But till now was ne're herd of the Rump of a House , Which nobody can deny . There's a Rump of Beef , and the Rump of a Goose , And a Rump whose Neck was hang'd in a Noose ; But ours is a Rump can play fast and lose , Which nobody can deny . A Rump had Jane Shore , and a Rump Messaleen , And a Rump had Antonyes resolute Queen ; But such a Rump as ours is , never was seen , Which nobody can deny . Two short years together we English have scarce Been rid of thy rampant Nose ( Old Mars ) But now thou hast god a prodigious Arse , Which nobody can deny . When the parts of the Body did all fallen out , Some votes it is like did pass for the Snout ; But that the Rump should be King was never a doubt , Which nobody can deny . A Cat has a Rump , and a Cat has nine Lives , Yet when her heads off , her Rump never strives ; But our Rump from the grave hath made two Retrieves , Which nobody can deny . That the Rump may all their Enemies quail , They'l borrow the Devils Coat of Mail , And all to defend their Estate in Tail , Which nobody can deny . But though their Scale now seem to be the Upper , There's no need of the charge of a Thanksgiving supper , For if they be the Rump , the Army's their Crupper , Which nobody can deny . There is a saying belongs to the Rump , Which is good , although it be worn to the Stump , That on the Buttocks I'll give thee a Thump Which nobody can deny . There's a Proverb in which the Rump claims a part , Which hath in it more of Sense than of Art , That for all you can do , I care not a Fart , Which nobody can deny . There's another Proverb gives the Rump for his Crest , But Alderman Atkins made it a Jest , That of all kind of Lucks , shitten Luck is the best , Which nobody can deny . There is another Proverb that never will fail , That the good the Rump will do when they prevail , Is to give us a Flop with a Foxtail , Which nobody can deny . There is a Saying which is made by no Fools ; I never can hear on't but my Heart it cools , That the Rump will spend all we have in Close Stools Which nobody can deny . There's and Observation wise and deep , Which without and Onion will make me to weep ; That Flies will blow Maggots in the Rump of a Sheep , Which nobody can deny . And some that can see the Wood from the Trees , Say this Sanctify'd Rump in time we may lose ; For the Cooks do challenge the Rumps for their Fees . Which nobody can deny . When the Rump do fit we will make it our Moan , That a reason be ' nacted if there be not one , Why a Fart hath a Tongue , and a Fyest hath none ? Which nobody can deny . And whil'st within the Walls they Lurk , To satisfy us , will be a good work ; Who hath most Religion , the Rump , or the Turk , Which nobody can deny . A Rump's a Fag-end , like the Balk of a Furrow , And is to the whole like the Jail to the Burrough ; T'is the Bran that is left , when the Meal is run through Which nobody can deny . Consider the World , the Heav'n is the head on't , The Earth is the middle , and we men are fed on't ; But Hell is the Rump , and no more can be said on't . Which nobody can deny . Flectere si nequeunt super [ oh ] s Achaeronta movebunt . FINIS , In English , The RUMP . 