H : 133286 AND ESSAYE Upon his Royal Highness the Duke of YORK His Adventure against the DUTCH . SInce the proud Dutch will yet again provoke Heaven and the Duke to give the second stroke , May he strike deep , and let the angry Fates Make the Hogen Mogen , Poor distressed States . Why may'nt good Prayers do as much as charms , And make the Duke secure from shot and harms ? If Pray'rs repeated backwards have such might , Sure they have greater when repeated right . May th' English Sea ( like that fam'd steed would take No other but his Master on his back ) Stoop to receive Great James , but praunc'd and throw The Dutch , and trample o're th' usurping Foe , May't smile and frown at once , and ev'ry wave To him a Bulwark be to's Foes a Grave . There let 'um with their bodies satisfy Neptune for th' Earth they stole out of the Sea This fit some Colonies should be sent down , To people once again their drowned Town : Whose Steeples at low-tide peep out o' th' Sea , Showing what's become of all their Piety . May the kind Winds which from the British Shore Come whistling , on his head soft blessings pour . And when he fights like Vassals let them run , With their swift feet to aid the tardy Gun. But to the Duth may their infections breath Not only Storms and Tempests bring but Death . Let 'um with oblique blasts their Bullets spoil , Or make 'um on their Master's heads recoil . And if the sacrilegious Led comes near Great James , let it straight melt into a Tear : And fallen at's feet , o're come by's powerful rays While no bold Thunder hurt's his conquering Bays . When e're his bellowing Guns shall roar for prey , Impatient even of the short delay , Of these swift Messengers , they just now sent , Whirling through the amazed Element May the sure Bullets , they ( like Spiders ) spun From their own bowels , prove destruction . And never from their bellies let 'um go But into those of the capacious Foe . Then may the Guns , as though they'd Victory god , With a great shout applaud the lucky shot . May the great cloud of Smoke be , while they fight , To our men Day , to those Egyptians Night . And when our Ships laden with Fire and Death , Directed by some Wind's auspicious breath . Shall catch their perjur'd Hulks , may they enlarge Whatever is committed to their charge . Chains , Bullets , Fire , and whatsoever else kills . As though they were Pandora's box of Ills. Let those ambitious Semeles of theirs Die i' th' embraces of our Thunderers . Let ne're a drunken Bacchus of them fly , For safety to the shelter of Jove's thigh . May our great Admiral still Victorious prove , Assisted by the Almighty Power above . Let wild-Fire from his Guns so swiftly fly , As if h'ad borrow'd lightning from the Sky . And if from theirs any attaque his Ship , Let it like lambent Meteors harmless skip , And on his Sails a lucky Castor be , A certain token of Prosperity . While o're the Dutch-men to inhance their fears , Nothing but Hellen's boding Torch appears . And when great York from Sea return's again , May Squadrons of Dutch-Ships augment his train . Let Captive Holland into England come , And Conquering England into Holland rome . FINIS . Printed for W. Gilbert at the Half Moon in St. Pauls Churchyard , 1672. H : 133286 AND ESSAYE Upon his Royal Highness the Duke of YORK His Adventure against the DUTCH . SInce the proud Dutch will yet again provoke Heaven and the Duke to give the second stroke , May he strike deep , and let the angry Fates Make the Hogen Mogen , Poor distressed States . Why may'nt good Prayers do as much as charms , And make the Duke secure from shot and harms ? If Pray'rs repeated backwards have such might , Sure they have greater when repeated right . May th' English Sea ( like that fam'd steed would take No other but his Master on his back ) Stoop to receive Great James , but praunc'd and throw The Dutch , and trample o're th' usurping Foe , May't smile and frown at once , and ev'ry wave To him a Bulwark be to's Foes a Grave . There let 'um with their bodies satisfy Neptune for th' Earth they stole out of the Sea This fit some Colonies should be sent down , To people once again their drowned Town : Whose Steeples at low-tide peep out o' th' Sea , Showing what's become of all their Piety . May the kind Winds which from the British Shore Come whistling , on his head soft blessings pour . And when he fights like Vassals let them run , With their swift feet to aid the tardy Gun. But to the Duth may their infections breath Not only Storms and Tempests bring but Death . Let 'um with oblique blasts their Bullets spoil , Or make 'um on their Master's heads recoil . And if the sacrilegious Led comes near Great James , let it straight melt into a Tear : And fallen at's feet , o're come by's powerful rays While no bold Thunder hurt's his conquering Bays . When e're his bellowing Guns shall roar for prey , Impatient even of the short delay , Of these swift Messengers , they just now sent , Whirling through the amazed Element May the sure Bullets , they ( like Spiders ) spun From their own bowels , prove destruction . And never from their bellies let 'um go But into those of the capacious Foe . Then may the Guns , as though they'd Victory god , With a great shout applaud the lucky shot . May the great cloud of Smoke be , while they fight , To our men Day , to those Egyptians Night . And when our Ships laden with Fire and Death , Directed by some Wind's auspicious breath . Shall catch their perjur'd Hulks , may they enlarge Whatever is committed to their charge . Chains , Bullets , Fire , and whatsoever else kills . As though they were Pandora's box of Ills. Let those ambitious Semeles of theirs Die i' th' embraces of our Thunderers . Let ne're a drunken Bacchus of them fly , For safety to the shelter of Jove's thigh . May our great Admiral still Victorious prove , Assisted by the Almighty Power above . Let wild-Fire from his Guns so swiftly fly , As if h'ad borrow'd lightning from the Sky . And if from theirs any attaque his Ship , Let it like lambent Meteors harmless skip , And on his Sails a lucky Castor be , A certain token of Prosperity . While o're the Dutch-men to inhance their fears , Nothing but Hellen's boding Torch appears . And when great York from Sea return's again , May Squadrons of Dutch-Ships augment his train . Let Captive Holland into England come , And Conquering England into Holland rome . FINIS . Printed for W. Gilbert at the Half Moon in St. Pauls Churchyard , 1672. 