H : 133301 And ENCOMIUM , OR Congratulatory POEM Occasionally Written , upon the Happy Successes of Capt. Thomas Harman , Commander Of his MAJESTIE'S Friggate , the TIGER . With and Exact Relation of His late Signal Victory Off Cadis . I shall , no Heathen Deity Implore : Be those Idolaters who need it more . The Subject will my Pen with Wit Infuse ; And of a Barren , ---- make a fruitful Muse . BRAVE SIR John Harman , his great Name will be , A sacred Relic to Posterity : Which as a Favour each large Soul shall bind Upon his Arm , and so fresh Courage find . His Actions with thy Actions , shine so clear , Though but one Living , plainly both appear . Go on bold Youth inspir'd with his great Soul , Who cou'd his Passion , as his Men , Control ; Thou wantest nothing to attain that height Which he injoy'd ---- But to be made a ----- Knight . Shou'd we look back , and trace him from his Youth , Our highest Praises wou'd fallen short of Truth . His early Rays like a read Sun did break , Manhood shone through him , e're he well cou'd speak . If in his East he promised so much , Why shou'd we wonder that his Acts are such . The rest --- and this his Southern ! ---- scarce make good His promises , though with expense of Blood . He for his King and Country Nobly Fought , And gain'd that Honour which the Other sought . But stay quick Muse , You in a little Room Wou'd crow'd up all ---- You quite forget the Boom . * After so many Men in Boats destroy'd , As Death with conquering , seem'd almost cloy'd : When Death's more swift then Lightning flew ith' Air , And turn'd all hope's of Conquest , to despair ! When the Proud Turks defied us from their Wall , Then Honour did , to Noble Harman , call : Come Gallant Spark of Valour , now come forth , And with thy Native Courage , show thy Worth ; Give me thy Hand --- when this great work is done , I'le bring thee off --- as now I led thee on . So , bravely Fought , fear not the thundering Showers , Know I Protect thy Life from all their Powers . 'Tis done ! --- The Turks are shaken with the English -- shout And universal Joy flies round about . Which gave a Shock to the poor trembling Town , As if the Fabric had been tumbling down . * At Boagee where the seven Capital Ships of are - gier were destroy'd . Now , now begins the dreadful Scene of Fate , Triumphing Death , set open wide Hell-gate ; And drove the Tawny-souls by hundreds in A just Reward for all their horrid Sin. Their best of Ships in sultry Flames appear , Oh , cou'd we make such Bonfires all the year ? How many Christian Captives , may thank Thee ; Thou , thou the only Instrumental Cause Of giving Captives : Freedom ; Pagans , Laws . When he was Convoy to a Mighty Fleet , And many Capers at one time did meet . His discreet Conduct to secure his own , Appear'd , when of so many , Lost not one . When through all Dangers he had them Convay'd , ( And not as some , their Countrymen Betray'd . ) A greater Actium call's him now away , To give out Precepts how they shou'd Obey . He a new Method took , and taught 'em how They must , and theirs ; to Brittains Monarch bow . And though they'r always exercis'd in War , He made them know we can Surpass 'um far ? Witness , those Ships He took , and forc'd a Shore , And thirty Slaves by him condemn'd to th' Oar. In Barbary , what part so e're he came , They fright their Children with his very Name . From thence my Muse , shall Tack about , and stand For Cai'z , the Magazine of every Land. Vice-Admiral de Wit , Cruceign about , But all in Vain , could find no Purchase out ; In three days space , for Cai'z again did Steer , But after him the Tiger came too near , For suddenly a strange Report was spread , That he for Safety into Harbour fled . Bold Evertson carreening in the Bay , Hearing in what a Case their Honour lay . Advis'd de Wit immediately to send A Challenge , and so the Difference end : Hoping to gain Opinion from the Town , And by this Act , their former Actions Crown . To Sally . Five Salli men of War burned and taken with thirty Slaves . De Wit resolv'd the next days Trial , shou'd Decide the Quarrel , though through streams of Blood . Harman obliged now by Honours Laws , Cou'd do no less then Fight his Countries cause ; And now both sides in haste preparing be , Although the Dutch not question'd , Victory , Depending on his numbers , swollen with Pride , Since Evertson has him so well supply'd , With sevenscore Men , above his compliment , Whose courages all Resolutely bent , And if in Looks , some certainty might be , Their manly-faces promis'd Victory . Cou'd Strength have carried it , th' Engagement had Gone , on the Weaker-side but very bad . From such and Act , what Honour cou'd he gain , Though he had Sunk Her , and the Captain Slain : Unequal Numbers make a Conquest , none , For what's a Conquest when the Glory's gone . But now for Both , the Time to Actium calls , While Multitudes are placed on the Walls , And on the Sandy Beach appear such Crowds , Their very shadows seem to darken Clouds ! All gazing at the Champions going out , And of a sudden gave a lofty Shout ; Although they had but little Wind before , Their Acclamations blow 'um from the Shore . A pleasant Gale : and now two Leagues at Sea : ( Both in their swelling Pride and Gallantry . ) Both made a stand : when from the Shore they cry'd ; Some for the English ; most oth' Flemmings side . The Weather-gage , the Tiger having god , And both so near , within a Pistolls shot , Did ring such peals of Thunder in his ear , As made him Curse he ever came so near , This first Broadside , his Men and Ship so Toar : She like a Rack , They , weltering in their Gore . Those bravely Fought , which did a Live remain , As if they had the spirits of the Slave Fighting in them the Battle o're again , For more like Devils they appear'd , then Men : Inrag'd , as Furies , in Confusion Fought ; Grown Desperate , rather Death , then Conquest , sought . But He , ( as other good Commanders shou'd ) Esteem'd One sav'd , more then a stream of Blood Drawn from the Foe : Such was his Noble care , Though he Destroy'd ---- Yet he had rather spare . But to be short ; he laid her soon Aboard Upon the Bough ; and then the Tiger Roared : The fierceness of her Nature , now is shown : They , Enter shouting : But the other groan ; Which from the shore the found Reverberates ; And so they Echo back their adverse Fates . Here give Me Leave , a little to Digress , And briefly show our Nations Happiness : In having such Commanders in the Fleet , Whose equal Judgements , with their Valours meet . At last She's forc'd to yield unto his Power : ( The miserable Effects of one short Hour ! ) For in less time , the Battles won and lost , Wh [ i ] changed so much Honour gain'd , with little Cost ; Re [ ? ] all that word ; the Cost was very great , Er' [ e ] we injoy'd the Victory Complete . But if he well recovers of the Wound ; Act [ i ] we , with passive Valour , shall be Crown'd , And so erect his Fame , on such a Base , As [ n ] either Time , nor Envy , shall deface . And [ worser ] if one Unexperienc'd can Divine , His Glories ne'r shall Set , but always Shine In Honours Orb , there fixed , our Friends to cheer : But [ tO ] Meteor-like ; possess our Foes with fear . Sum [ c ] h powerful Influence upon thy Foes , Se [ c ] ures thy Friends , a joyful , sweet , Repose . In freta dum fluvij current , dum montibus Umbra . L [ u ] strabunt , connexa , Polus dum Sydera posce Semper honos , nomenque tuum , laudesque Manebunt . Vergil . lib : I Aeneid . T.G. LONDON Printed by H. Bruges , 1674. with Allowance . H : 133301 And ENCOMIUM , OR Congratulatory POEM Occasionally Written , upon the Happy Successes of Capt. Thomas Harman , Commander Of his MAJESTIE'S Friggate , the TIGER . With and Exact Relation of His late Signal Victory Off Cadis . I shall , no Heathen Deity Implore : Be those Idolaters who need it more . The Subject will my Pen with Wit Infuse ; And of a Barren , ---- make a fruitful Muse . BRAVE SIR John Harman , his great Name will be , A sacred Relic to Posterity : Which as a Favour each large Soul shall bind Upon his Arm , and so fresh Courage find . His Actions with thy Actions , shine so clear , Though but one Living , plainly both appear . Go on bold Youth inspir'd with his great Soul , Who cou'd his Passion , as his Men , Control ; Thou wantest nothing to attain that height Which he injoy'd ---- But to be made a ----- Knight . Shou'd we look back , and trace him from his Youth , Our highest Praises wou'd fallen short of Truth . His early Rays like a read Sun did break , Manhood shone through him , e're he well cou'd speak . If in his East he promised so much , Why shou'd we wonder that his Acts are such . The rest --- and this his Southern ! ---- scarce make good His promises , though with expense of Blood . He for his King and Country Nobly Fought , And gain'd that Honour which the Other sought . But stay quick Muse , You in a little Room Wou'd crow'd up all ---- You quite forget the Boom . * After so many Men in Boats destroy'd , As Death with conquering , seem'd almost cloy'd : When Death's more swift then Lightning flew ith' Air , And turn'd all hope's of Conquest , to despair ! When the Proud Turks defied us from their Wall , Then Honour did , to Noble Harman , call : Come Gallant Spark of Valour , now come forth , And with thy Native Courage , show thy Worth ; Give me thy Hand --- when this great work is done , I'le bring thee off --- as now I led thee on . So , bravely Fought , fear not the thundering Showers , Know I Protect thy Life from all their Powers . 'Tis done ! --- The Turks are shaken with the English -- shout And universal Joy flies round about . Which gave a Shock to the poor trembling Town , As if the Fabric had been tumbling down . * At Boagee where the seven Capital Ships of are - gier were destroy'd . Now , now begins the dreadful Scene of Fate , Triumphing Death , set open wide Hell-gate ; And drove the Tawny-souls by hundreds in A just Reward for all their horrid Sin. Their best of Ships in sultry Flames appear , Oh , cou'd we make such Bonfires all the year ? How many Christian Captives , may thank Thee ; Thou , thou the only Instrumental Cause Of giving Captives : Freedom ; Pagans , Laws . When he was Convoy to a Mighty Fleet , And many Capers at one time did meet . His discreet Conduct to secure his own , Appear'd , when of so many , Lost not one . When through all Dangers he had them Convay'd , ( And not as some , their Countrymen Betray'd . ) A greater Actium call's him now away , To give out Precepts how they shou'd Obey . He a new Method took , and taught 'em how They must , and theirs ; to Brittains Monarch bow . And though they'r always exercis'd in War , He made them know we can Surpass 'um far ? Witness , those Ships He took , and forc'd a Shore , And thirty Slaves by him condemn'd to th' Oar. In Barbary , what part so e're he came , They fright their Children with his very Name . From thence my Muse , shall Tack about , and stand For Cai'z , the Magazine of every Land. Vice-Admiral de Wit , Cruceign about , But all in Vain , could find no Purchase out ; In three days space , for Cai'z again did Steer , But after him the Tiger came too near , For suddenly a strange Report was spread , That he for Safety into Harbour fled . Bold Evertson carreening in the Bay , Hearing in what a Case their Honour lay . Advis'd de Wit immediately to send A Challenge , and so the Difference end : Hoping to gain Opinion from the Town , And by this Act , their former Actions Crown . To Sally . Five Salli men of War burned and taken with thirty Slaves . De Wit resolv'd the next days Trial , shou'd Decide the Quarrel , though through streams of Blood . Harman obliged now by Honours Laws , Cou'd do no less then Fight his Countries cause ; And now both sides in haste preparing be , Although the Dutch not question'd , Victory , Depending on his numbers , swollen with Pride , Since Evertson has him so well supply'd , With sevenscore Men , above his compliment , Whose courages all Resolutely bent , And if in Looks , some certainty might be , Their manly-faces promis'd Victory . Cou'd Strength have carried it , th' Engagement had Gone , on the Weaker-side but very bad . From such and Act , what Honour cou'd he gain , Though he had Sunk Her , and the Captain Slain : Unequal Numbers make a Conquest , none , For what's a Conquest when the Glory's gone . But now for Both , the Time to Actium calls , While Multitudes are placed on the Walls , And on the Sandy Beach appear such Crowds , Their very shadows seem to darken Clouds ! All gazing at the Champions going out , And of a sudden gave a lofty Shout ; Although they had but little Wind before , Their Acclamations blow 'um from the Shore . A pleasant Gale : and now two Leagues at Sea : ( Both in their swelling Pride and Gallantry . ) Both made a stand : when from the Shore they cry'd ; Some for the English ; most oth' Flemmings side . The Weather-gage , the Tiger having god , And both so near , within a Pistolls shot , Did ring such peals of Thunder in his ear , As made him Curse he ever came so near , This first Broadside , his Men and Ship so Toar : She like a Rack , They , weltering in their Gore . Those bravely Fought , which did a Live remain , As if they had the spirits of the Slave Fighting in them the Battle o're again , For more like Devils they appear'd , then Men : Inrag'd , as Furies , in Confusion Fought ; Grown Desperate , rather Death , then Conquest , sought . But He , ( as other good Commanders shou'd ) Esteem'd One sav'd , more then a stream of Blood Drawn from the Foe : Such was his Noble care , Though he Destroy'd ---- Yet he had rather spare . But to be short ; he laid her soon Aboard Upon the Bough ; and then the Tiger Roared : The fierceness of her Nature , now is shown : They , Enter shouting : But the other groan ; Which from the shore the found Reverberates ; And so they Echo back their adverse Fates . Here give Me Leave , a little to Digress , And briefly show our Nations Happiness : In having such Commanders in the Fleet , Whose equal Judgements , with their Valours meet . At last She's forc'd to yield unto his Power : ( The miserable Effects of one short Hour ! ) For in less time , the Battles won and lost , Wh [ i ] changed so much Honour gain'd , with little Cost ; Re [ ? ] all that word ; the Cost was very great , Er' [ e ] we injoy'd the Victory Complete . But if he well recovers of the Wound ; Act [ i ] we , with passive Valour , shall be Crown'd , And so erect his Fame , on such a Base , As [ n ] either Time , nor Envy , shall deface . And [ worser ] if one Unexperienc'd can Divine , His Glories ne'r shall Set , but always Shine In Honours Orb , there fixed , our Friends to cheer : But [ tO ] Meteor-like ; possess our Foes with fear . Sum [ c ] h powerful Influence upon thy Foes , Se [ c ] ures thy Friends , a joyful , sweet , Repose . In freta dum fluvij current , dum montibus Umbra . L [ u ] strabunt , connexa , Polus dum Sydera posce Semper honos , nomenque tuum , laudesque Manebunt . Vergil . lib : I Aeneid . T.G. LONDON Printed by H. Bruges , 1674. with Allowance . 