H : 133231 AND ELEGY On the DEATH of Sir EDMOND SAUNDERS , LATE Lord Chief Justice of England , Who died the 19th of June , 1683. IT is Decreed by Fate's unchanging Doom , ( For Fate will to no Composition come ) That ev'ry Head must visit the Cold Tomb. 'Tis Nature's Universal Law , that all To their first Principles at length must fallen ; But yet we are allow'd to vent our Grief For the Deserving Dead , and seek Relief In flowing Tears , and , as we can , Repair The Breach that Death hath made upon us here , When Saunders dy'd . But o ! a loss so vastly great , That it seem'd wanting only to complete The Measure of our Sorrows , which of late Have had so many Subject's , from sad Fate . Brave Men apace forsake th' Unworthy Earth , Which seems now teeming with some monstrous Birth . Sedition sings now this Great Man is gone , But thy vain Mirth will not continue long : For other Saunders's will the Dead succeed . And then , most cursed Sedition , thou must bleed . His great Example should be set to show And teach succeeding Ages what to do . Loyal and bold throughout his Active Life , His Duty and his Interest ne're at strife ; But What the one did seriously advice With that the other heartily complies ; And , mark the end , see how he glorious dies ! His Honour's fresh and green upon his Head , Still Live , and ever shall , though he is Dead : Death may the Body into Ashes turn , But his high Virtue shall outlive his Urn. His Merit Rais'd him to this high Degree ; For Prince and People none more fit than He. That understood the King's most rightful Power , And therefore thought all Subject's justly lower . Nor threats nor Flatteries on him prevail , To set his Conscience wickedly to sale . He was too Great and Good to serve a Cause Against his Reason , Sense , and Nations Laws , Large Knowledge always keeps its Owners tied In worst of Times , while every blast does fright Unthinking Ignorance , and shocks it quite . Our Noble Sanders to his Parts had joyn'd All that might make his Generous Soul Refin'd . Deep insight in the Mysteries of the Law , From whence he did such wholsom-Counsels draw For all the Nations Peace , who owe to him Both present Blessings , and the future time . Not every day such Men as he are born , How ought we therefore such a Loss to mourn . Justice herself should put black Sables on . the Learned of the Law , who best can tell How much Great Sanders did the most excel In your most noble Faculty ; So hard To be o'recome , Had he not bravely dar'd ; Not daunted with the hardships of the way , He urg'd his steady course , and gain'd the Day . Bestow some Tears upon the mournful Hearse That may atone for this unhallow'd Verse . For how can Numbers flow , with easy grace When Sorrow has all o're possess'd their place . Some better Barred shall rise in better times . And sing thy Noble Praise in shining Lines . Thy Name shall never die , while Virtue lives Thy Memory Eternally survives . EPITAPH . SAunders the Great and Just , lies here , Who was to King and People dear ; For Knowledge in the Laws , Renown'd , With Honour due his Worth was crown'd : But , lo , he die ! there's nought can save From Rage of the Devouring Grave . LONDON , Printed for J. Norris , at the Kings Arms without Temple-Bar . 1683. H : 133231 AND ELEGY On the DEATH of Sir EDMOND SAUNDERS , LATE Lord Chief Justice of England , Who died the 19th of June , 1683. IT is Decreed by Fate's unchanging Doom , ( For Fate will to no Composition come ) That ev'ry Head must visit the Cold Tomb. 'Tis Nature's Universal Law , that all To their first Principles at length must fallen ; But yet we are allow'd to vent our Grief For the Deserving Dead , and seek Relief In flowing Tears , and , as we can , Repair The Breach that Death hath made upon us here , When Saunders dy'd . But o ! a loss so vastly great , That it seem'd wanting only to complete The Measure of our Sorrows , which of late Have had so many Subject's , from sad Fate . Brave Men apace forsake th' Unworthy Earth , Which seems now teeming with some monstrous Birth . Sedition sings now this Great Man is gone , But thy vain Mirth will not continue long : For other Saunders's will the Dead succeed . And then , most cursed Sedition , thou must bleed . His great Example should be set to show And teach succeeding Ages what to do . Loyal and bold throughout his Active Life , His Duty and his Interest ne're at strife ; But What the one did seriously advice With that the other heartily complies ; And , mark the end , see how he glorious dies ! His Honour's fresh and green upon his Head , Still Live , and ever shall , though he is Dead : Death may the Body into Ashes turn , But his high Virtue shall outlive his Urn. His Merit Rais'd him to this high Degree ; For Prince and People none more fit than He. That understood the King's most rightful Power , And therefore thought all Subject's justly lower . Nor threats nor Flatteries on him prevail , To set his Conscience wickedly to sale . He was too Great and Good to serve a Cause Against his Reason , Sense , and Nations Laws , Large Knowledge always keeps its Owners tied In worst of Times , while every blast does fright Unthinking Ignorance , and shocks it quite . Our Noble Sanders to his Parts had joyn'd All that might make his Generous Soul Refin'd . Deep insight in the Mysteries of the Law , From whence he did such wholsom-Counsels draw For all the Nations Peace , who owe to him Both present Blessings , and the future time . Not every day such Men as he are born , How ought we therefore such a Loss to mourn . Justice herself should put black Sables on . the Learned of the Law , who best can tell How much Great Sanders did the most excel In your most noble Faculty ; So hard To be o'recome , Had he not bravely dar'd ; Not daunted with the hardships of the way , He urg'd his steady course , and gain'd the Day . Bestow some Tears upon the mournful Hearse That may atone for this unhallow'd Verse . For how can Numbers flow , with easy grace When Sorrow has all o're possess'd their place . Some better Barred shall rise in better times . And sing thy Noble Praise in shining Lines . Thy Name shall never die , while Virtue lives Thy Memory Eternally survives . EPITAPH . SAunders the Great and Just , lies here , Who was to King and People dear ; For Knowledge in the Laws , Renown'd , With Honour due his Worth was crown'd : But , lo , he die ! there's nought can save From Rage of the Devouring Grave . LONDON , Printed for J. Norris , at the Kings Arms without Temple-Bar . 1683. 