H : 133285 The Glory of Dying in WAR : WITH A particular Application to the Death OF THE Late EARL of SANDWICH . Blessed Sandwich ! Earth's envy ! Heaven's delight ! Whom the Gods honoured to die in Fight ! A Glory far beyond the pow'r of Verse ; Only , for Mars , and Cannons , to rehearse . 'Tis Nature's pride ; Virtue's reward ; a Bliss Would make the Angels slight their happiness , And Court this Death ; Maugre the blind mistake Of vulgar sp'rits , and those lean Souls , who make It terrible ; choosing rather to go Ten years tormented with a Gouty Toe , Or war against a Cough , their loathing tongues Spitting the filth , out of their conquer'd lungs : Or else their Corpse , with Salves and Sear-Cloths please ; Live rotten Monuments of their disease ; And carry pale-fac'd Death about to show , Making a Grave , and stink , where e're they go . While thou , Great Sandwich , mad'st a Nobler choice , Not to be prais'd enough by humane voice . Who in defence of King and Country di'd , Have ever hitherto been Deifi'd . The sharpest Teeth of Time could never skar The Glory of a man was kill'd i' th' War. If Advocates gain honour by a Cause Concerning Trespass in the Common-Laws ; What merits he , who pleads with dint of Sword ? And may be kill'd , or kill at every word : Who speaks with Lightning and with dreadful Thunder , Making the Earth to shake , all Mortals wonder : By whose success , Kingdoms or fallen , or stand , Has the fortune of Princes in his hand ; Nay , the worship of the Gods ! nay , the lives Of ourselves , our servants , children and wives . In this Concern stout Sandwich bravely stood , Until he floated in a Sea of Blood : Repell'd the fury of the Hogen Might ; Shiver'd their Valour , banish'd 'em the Figh And then to make his Victory complete , The Heavens stoop'd and took him from the Fleet , Leaving his Body on the gentle Bed Of Neptune , where the Seagods honoured His Hearse , and with the Glories of the Main Conducted it to shore ; when with a Train Of Honours it was met , and in great State Placed among the Gods o' th' Second Rate . Thus while his Corpse insults with Royal love , His Soul is led in Triumph by Great Jove . Heaven and Earth do both conspire to built Trophies unto the man that die i' th' Field . Now come , you cursed Diseases , that have led Your Captive Coward to his dying Bed ; Show me what ease , what comfort you afford The Proselyte you gained from the Sword . 'Tis true , you give a little time ; for what ? To make him feel his grief , or lie and ro A Cap , a Doctor , and a tender Nurse ; And so you plague his Body with his Purse : You put him on a Rack ; he ne're confessed , Nor yet by flatteries , your Death was best . Tell me , sick Clay , what Honour , what Renown It is to die upon a Bed of Down ? No , no ; the way to Glory does not lie through the pangs of a sad Malady : Not he who is a Slave to Death , and stands Ready to serve her Messengers Commands ; Submits to every disease , and falls , When e're a petty Cold , or Fever calls : That man's a man of life , and valour , can Bid Death stand off ; and when he please , come on ; That , for his Countries sake , dares single meet All the Death-Heads o' th' Hogen Mogen Fleet ! Make Death serve him , in killing others , then Commands it to return to him again ; And lift him from this doleful Vale of Tears , ( Without the help of Sickness , or of Years ) Unto Eternal Joy , and Bliss , and Glory , Where Angels love to Chant , and tell his Story . Thus did , thus liv'd , thus di'd , admir'd by all ; SANDWICH the Great , and Valiant Admiral . London : Printed by J.C. 1672. H : 133285 The Glory of Dying in WAR : WITH A particular Application to the Death OF THE Late EARL of SANDWICH . Blessed Sandwich ! Earth's envy ! Heaven's delight ! Whom the Gods honoured to die in Fight ! A Glory far beyond the pow'r of Verse ; Only , for Mars , and Cannons , to rehearse . 'Tis Nature's pride ; Virtue's reward ; a Bliss Would make the Angels slight their happiness , And Court this Death ; Maugre the blind mistake Of vulgar sp'rits , and those lean Souls , who make It terrible ; choosing rather to go Ten years tormented with a Gouty Toe , Or war against a Cough , their loathing tongues Spitting the filth , out of their conquer'd lungs : Or else their Corpse , with Salves and Sear-Cloths please ; Live rotten Monuments of their disease ; And carry pale-fac'd Death about to show , Making a Grave , and stink , where e're they go . While thou , Great Sandwich , mad'st a Nobler choice , Not to be prais'd enough by humane voice . Who in defence of King and Country di'd , Have ever hitherto been Deifi'd . The sharpest Teeth of Time could never skar The Glory of a man was kill'd i' th' War. If Advocates gain honour by a Cause Concerning Trespass in the Common-Laws ; What merits he , who pleads with dint of Sword ? And may be kill'd , or kill at every word : Who speaks with Lightning and with dreadful Thunder , Making the Earth to shake , all Mortals wonder : By whose success , Kingdoms or fallen , or stand , Has the fortune of Princes in his hand ; Nay , the worship of the Gods ! nay , the lives Of ourselves , our servants , children and wives . In this Concern stout Sandwich bravely stood , Until he floated in a Sea of Blood : Repell'd the fury of the Hogen Might ; Shiver'd their Valour , banish'd 'em the Figh And then to make his Victory complete , The Heavens stoop'd and took him from the Fleet , Leaving his Body on the gentle Bed Of Neptune , where the Seagods honoured His Hearse , and with the Glories of the Main Conducted it to shore ; when with a Train Of Honours it was met , and in great State Placed among the Gods o' th' Second Rate . Thus while his Corpse insults with Royal love , His Soul is led in Triumph by Great Jove . Heaven and Earth do both conspire to built Trophies unto the man that die i' th' Field . Now come , you cursed Diseases , that have led Your Captive Coward to his dying Bed ; Show me what ease , what comfort you afford The Proselyte you gained from the Sword . 'Tis true , you give a little time ; for what ? To make him feel his grief , or lie and ro A Cap , a Doctor , and a tender Nurse ; And so you plague his Body with his Purse : You put him on a Rack ; he ne're confessed , Nor yet by flatteries , your Death was best . Tell me , sick Clay , what Honour , what Renown It is to die upon a Bed of Down ? No , no ; the way to Glory does not lie through the pangs of a sad Malady : Not he who is a Slave to Death , and stands Ready to serve her Messengers Commands ; Submits to every disease , and falls , When e're a petty Cold , or Fever calls : That man's a man of life , and valour , can Bid Death stand off ; and when he please , come on ; That , for his Countries sake , dares single meet All the Death-Heads o' th' Hogen Mogen Fleet ! Make Death serve him , in killing others , then Commands it to return to him again ; And lift him from this doleful Vale of Tears , ( Without the help of Sickness , or of Years ) Unto Eternal Joy , and Bliss , and Glory , Where Angels love to Chant , and tell his Story . Thus did , thus liv'd , thus di'd , admir'd by all ; SANDWICH the Great , and Valiant Admiral . London : Printed by J.C. 1672. 