H : 134252 A SONG of the Light of the three Nations turn'd into DARKNES Or Oats made Freeman of Whitington's College , for Perjury , Scandalum Magnatum , and something like Treason . To and excellent old Tune called Cavalilly-man . COme all our Caballers & Parliament Votes That stickl'd for hanging & cuting of throats , Lament the misfortune of perjured Oats . Who first must be Pillor'd and after be Hang'd . What Devil suspected this , 5 years agon , When I was in hope's to hang up half the Town , I Swore against Miter and Cursed the Crown . But now must be Pillor'd and after be Hang'd . I cursed the Bishops and hang'd up the Priests , I swore myself Doctor yet never could Preach , But a Cant full of Blasphemy all I could reach . I now must be Pillor'd , and after be Hang'd . Now Otes is i' th' Cubboard & Manger with Colt , The Caldron may boil me for fear I should melted , here I've ne'r a Bum for a Wheel-Barrow jolt . Yet now must be Pillor'd and after be Hang'd . My forty Commissions and Spanish black Bills , Invisible Arms lodg'd upon Hills , Such old perjur'd Nonsense my Narrative fills . That I now must be Pillor'd and after be Hang'd . My twelve pounds a Week I want to support For stinking i' th' City and fouling the Court , Like Devil in Dungeon I'm now hamper'd fort . Yet first must be Pillor'd and after be Hang'd They hang us in order , the Devil knows how , 'Zounds all that e're put one paw to the Blow , I ne'r fear'd the Devil would fail me till now . That I first must be Pillor'd & after be hang'd For Calling the Duke a Papist and Traitor , I often have call'd the King little better , I'm fast by the heels like a Beast in a Fetter . I first must be Pillor'd and after be Hang'd . I swore that the Queen would Poison the King , That Wakeman had moneys the Poison to bring , When I knew in my heart there was no such thing . I now must be Pillor'd and after be Hang'd . I'm Resolv'd to be hang'd dead drunk like Hugh Peter If I can but have my Skin stuffed with good Liquour , Then I shall limp to old Tapskie much quicker . But I first must be Pillor'd and after be hang'd London Printed for J. Dean , Bookseller in Cranborn-street near Newport House in Leicester-Fields 1684. H : 134252 A SONG of the Light of the three Nations turn'd into DARKNES Or Oats made Freeman of Whitington's College , for Perjury , Scandalum Magnatum , and something like Treason . To and excellent old Tune called Cavalilly-man . COme all our Caballers & Parliament Votes That stickl'd for hanging & cuting of throats , Lament the misfortune of perjured Oats . Who first must be Pillor'd and after be Hang'd . What Devil suspected this , 5 years agon , When I was in hope's to hang up half the Town , I Swore against Miter and Cursed the Crown . But now must be Pillor'd and after be Hang'd . I cursed the Bishops and hang'd up the Priests , I swore myself Doctor yet never could Preach , But a Cant full of Blasphemy all I could reach . I now must be Pillor'd , and after be Hang'd . Now Otes is i' th' Cubboard & Manger with Colt , The Caldron may boil me for fear I should melted , here I've ne'r a Bum for a Wheel-Barrow jolt . Yet now must be Pillor'd and after be Hang'd . My forty Commissions and Spanish black Bills , Invisible Arms lodg'd upon Hills , Such old perjur'd Nonsense my Narrative fills . That I now must be Pillor'd and after be Hang'd . My twelve pounds a Week I want to support For stinking i' th' City and fouling the Court , Like Devil in Dungeon I'm now hamper'd fort . Yet first must be Pillor'd and after be Hang'd They hang us in order , the Devil knows how , 'Zounds all that e're put one paw to the Blow , I ne'r fear'd the Devil would fail me till now . That I first must be Pillor'd & after be hang'd For Calling the Duke a Papist and Traitor , I often have call'd the King little better , I'm fast by the heels like a Beast in a Fetter . I first must be Pillor'd and after be Hang'd . I swore that the Queen would Poison the King , That Wakeman had moneys the Poison to bring , When I knew in my heart there was no such thing . I now must be Pillor'd and after be Hang'd . I'm Resolv'd to be hang'd dead drunk like Hugh Peter If I can but have my Skin stuffed with good Liquour , Then I shall limp to old Tapskie much quicker . But I first must be Pillor'd and after be hang'd London Printed for J. Dean , Bookseller in Cranborn-street near Newport House in Leicester-Fields 1684. 