H : 134701 A New SONG : OR , The Old Woman's Wish . To the Tune of the Old men Wish . I . SInce Beauty now fails And I find I decay , Let this be my Wish ; In a Chimney not gay , May I have a warm corner And a Bench that's complete And a cleanly young Wench To sweep the Hearth neat . May I govern the Young By my wholesome advice ; And as older , grow nearer To be Stil'd prophetess ; Without pride , yet my name Than the Sibills not less II In a Garden that's furnish'd With herbs for the Still , And a bed of choice Salads , Which I weed at my will ; With a spacious Mead , And a delicate Cow And and Arbour to set And hear Colly to low . May I govern the Young etc III . With a boiled Chick on Sunday , And a Dumpling that's soft , And a full teeming Jug , With a motto that Oft May have puzzled the learned , By the Old Sages writ ; Which in Letters of blue , Is stain'd round about it . May I govern the Young etc IV. With a Book of Feat tales , And pleasant Old Story's And riddles by Saxons made Long lived before us : With a dish of Minc'd Meat , Or Pigs Pettitoes ; No gristles nor Brawn , To give dangerous blows . May I govern the Young etc V. With a Conscience untainted , May I pass my last day , And when I am gone , May the good Women say In the Morning at mattens , In the E'en at her Ale , She's gone , and he's happy Can tell out her tale : For she govern'd the Young By her wholesome advice ; And as older grew nearer , To be stil'd prophetess ; Without pride , yet her name Then the Sibils not less . By SP . LONDON , Printed by G. Croom , over against Baynard's Castle in Thames-street . 1684. H : 134701 A New SONG : OR , The Old Woman's Wish . To the Tune of the Old men Wish . I . SInce Beauty now fails And I find I decay , Let this be my Wish ; In a Chimney not gay , May I have a warm corner And a Bench that's complete And a cleanly young Wench To sweep the Hearth neat . May I govern the Young By my wholesome advice ; And as older , grow nearer To be Stil'd prophetess ; Without pride , yet my name Than the Sibills not less II In a Garden that's furnish'd With herbs for the Still , And a bed of choice Salads , Which I weed at my will ; With a spacious Mead , And a delicate Cow And and Arbour to set And hear Colly to low . May I govern the Young etc III . With a boiled Chick on Sunday , And a Dumpling that's soft , And a full teeming Jug , With a motto that Oft May have puzzled the learned , By the Old Sages writ ; Which in Letters of blue , Is stain'd round about it . May I govern the Young etc IV. With a Book of Feat tales , And pleasant Old Story's And riddles by Saxons made Long lived before us : With a dish of Minc'd Meat , Or Pigs Pettitoes ; No gristles nor Brawn , To give dangerous blows . May I govern the Young etc V. With a Conscience untainted , May I pass my last day , And when I am gone , May the good Women say In the Morning at mattens , In the E'en at her Ale , She's gone , and he's happy Can tell out her tale : For she govern'd the Young By her wholesome advice ; And as older grew nearer , To be stil'd prophetess ; Without pride , yet her name Then the Sibils not less . By SP . LONDON , Printed by G. Croom , over against Baynard's Castle in Thames-street . 1684. 