H : 134741 The Bully WHIG : OR , The Poor Whores Lamentation for the Apprehending OF Sir THOMAS ARMSTRONG . To the Tune of , Ah! Cruel Bloody Fate ! etc I . AH ! Cruel Bloody Tom ! What canst thou hope for more , Than to receive the Doom Of all thy Crimes before ? For all thy bold Conspiracies Thy Head must pay the score ; Thy Cheats and Lies , Thy Box and Dice , Will serve thy turn no more . II Ungrateful thankless Wretch ! How could'st thou hope in vain ( Without the reach of Catch ) Thy Treasons to maintain ? For Murders long since done and passed , Thou Pardons hast had store , And yet would'st still Stab on , and kill , As if thou hop'dst for more . III . Yet Tom , e'r he would starve , More Blood resolv'd to've spilled ; Thy flight did only serve To justify thy Guil While They whose harmless Innocence Submit to Chains at home , Are each day freed , While Traitors bleed , And suffer in their room . IV. When Whigs a PLOT did Vote , What Peer Justice fled ? In the FANATIC PLOT Tom durst not show his head . Now Sacred Justice rules above , The Guiltless are set free , And the Napper's napt , And Clapper clapped In his CONSPIRACY . V. Like Cain , thou hast a Mark Of Murder on thy Brow ; Remote , and in the dark , Black Gilded did still pursue : Nor England , Holland , France , or Spain , The Traitor can defend ; He will be found In Fetters bound , To pay for't in the end . VI . Tom might about the Town Have bully'd , huff'd and roar'd , By every Venus known , Been for a Mars ador'd : By friendly Pimping and false Dice Thou might'st have longer liv'd , Hector'd and shamm'd , And swore and gam'd , Hadst thou no Plots contriv'd . VII . Tom once was Cock-a-hoop Of all the Huffs in Town ; But now his Pride must stoop , His Courage is pull'd down : So long his Spurs are grown , poor Tom Can neither fly nor fight ; Ah Cruel Fate ! That at this rate The 'Squire shou'd foil the Knight ! VIII . But now no remedy , It being his just Reward ; In his own Trap , you see , The Tiger is ensnar'd : So may all Traitors fare , till all Who for their Gilded did fly , With Bully Tom By timely Doom Like him , unpity'd die . Sold at the Entrance into the Old-Spring-Garden , 1684. H : 134741 The Bully WHIG : OR , The Poor Whores Lamentation for the Apprehending OF Sir THOMAS ARMSTRONG . To the Tune of , Ah! Cruel Bloody Fate ! etc I . AH ! Cruel Bloody Tom ! What canst thou hope for more , Than to receive the Doom Of all thy Crimes before ? For all thy bold Conspiracies Thy Head must pay the score ; Thy Cheats and Lies , Thy Box and Dice , Will serve thy turn no more . II Ungrateful thankless Wretch ! How could'st thou hope in vain ( Without the reach of Catch ) Thy Treasons to maintain ? For Murders long since done and passed , Thou Pardons hast had store , And yet would'st still Stab on , and kill , As if thou hop'dst for more . III . Yet Tom , e'r he would starve , More Blood resolv'd to've spilled ; Thy flight did only serve To justify thy Guil While They whose harmless Innocence Submit to Chains at home , Are each day freed , While Traitors bleed , And suffer in their room . IV. When Whigs a PLOT did Vote , What Peer Justice fled ? In the FANATIC PLOT Tom durst not show his head . Now Sacred Justice rules above , The Guiltless are set free , And the Napper's napt , And Clapper clapped In his CONSPIRACY . V. Like Cain , thou hast a Mark Of Murder on thy Brow ; Remote , and in the dark , Black Gilded did still pursue : Nor England , Holland , France , or Spain , The Traitor can defend ; He will be found In Fetters bound , To pay for't in the end . VI . Tom might about the Town Have bully'd , huff'd and roar'd , By every Venus known , Been for a Mars ador'd : By friendly Pimping and false Dice Thou might'st have longer liv'd , Hector'd and shamm'd , And swore and gam'd , Hadst thou no Plots contriv'd . VII . Tom once was Cock-a-hoop Of all the Huffs in Town ; But now his Pride must stoop , His Courage is pull'd down : So long his Spurs are grown , poor Tom Can neither fly nor fight ; Ah Cruel Fate ! That at this rate The 'Squire shou'd foil the Knight ! VIII . But now no remedy , It being his just Reward ; In his own Trap , you see , The Tiger is ensnar'd : So may all Traitors fare , till all Who for their Gilded did fly , With Bully Tom By timely Doom Like him , unpity'd die . Sold at the Entrance into the Old-Spring-Garden , 1684. 