H : 18284 Churchyards farewell . AS wit is never good till it be dearly bough So friends until their truth be tried , may pass for things of nought . For friendship all in words , a kind of flattering is . And if I think my woorthiest friend may be abused by this , I ought in plain flat terms to show him what I think , And blaze the meaning of my mind by paper , pen , and Ink . Because the doors be bard , where my good will should pass : And buzzing Bees do creep in place , where Churcheyards credit was . The fowlers merry pipe betrays the careless bird : And fleering fawners lie in wait , to geeve their friends a gird . When fortune turns his face , beware the Syrenes song : Beware the busy Clawbackes fine whose friendship lasts not long . Think you the flies do flock about the flesh in vain ? Doth not the Bee seek out the flower some honey there to gain ? Doo courtiers all for love , approach the princes gates ? Doth plainness in these double days , repair to great estates ? No sure in masking robes goes mischief muffled now : And subtle sleights with snakish stings , do lodge in smiling brow . And your affections blind , hath you bewitched so , You have no power to find your friends , nor to discern your foe . You fill the fleesinge fists , and let the needy lack : And sharp their teeth whose crafty tungs can bite behind your back . I pray you tell me now , if hap would let you slide , How many would through thick & thin for love with you abide ? Perhaps a heap of such could hungry hangers on , Whose nature gives the court a fig when worldly hap is gone . Can you not see the cause , that brings them swarming in ? And where the wheel of Fortune sways , the world favour win ? Had not your elders wise , good trial of such trash ? Did you not see what worthy wits at length were left in lash : By trusting some to far , and heaping hope in those That seemed friends to outward sighed , and yet were secret foes ? O let me licence have to paint these peacocks out , Whose feathers wavereth with the wind and so turns tail about : Yet flicker with their wings , to faun the face awhile , Until their sudden flight they take , and so their friends beguile . What should we judge of them , that stare in faces still : Where lo , for all their curtsy great , they bear but small good will . And where they seldom come , but when some suit they have : They make a sign to see my Lord , yet seek by sleight to crave . What makes them watch their hours , and thrust in thickest priest . It is for friendship that they bear unto a certain lease . My Lord must help to get , now crowche and kneel they all : Now stand they up like saints in shrine , or nailed against a wall ? Now fig they here and there , as thorns were in their heals Now trudge about these whirlegigges , as world did run on wheels . Now cast they friendly looks , all over the chambers gay . Now give they place as God were there , now turn they every way . Now talk they trim in print , and prate of Robin hood : Much like the knights of Arthers court , that knew full well their good . Some through a finer mean , do creep in credits lap : And vale their bonettes by devise , as favour followed cap . Suche Jugglers blear your eyes , and smile within their sleeve : When honour in his harmless mood Doth best of them believe . Were you but once a day , in simple servants place , And like a looker on you stood , to pry upon this case : Then should you thoroughly see , who plays the wily fox : And how the Wolf can frame himself , to draw in yoke like ox . Then should the muffled men , show forth their faces bore And thereby noble hearts should learn to know what flatterers are . The glory of your state , heaves up your head so high : That many things do escape your view , which we see full with eye . And who is now so bold , that dare flat warning give , To such as in top of pomp , or princely pleasures live . I muse what new found chance , hath so disguised the state That men oft times for speaking plain , do purchase endless hate . Whilst fraud and feigned cheer doth evil honour feed : And noman dare a plaster give , to heal the wound in deed : Full fickle shall you walk , and never want disease . They should be banished from your court that are so glad to please With twittell twatlyng tales . The truth like larm bell . Should shortly sound in tender ears and learn you to do well . But sure the sweetest nuts do noorishe worms apace , And flatterers of the finest stamp , in court have finest place . I am to plain therefore , my pen hath drunk to much ? And alie head makes idle hand , the quick to near to touch . Nay , nay , some one must speak , although the vice it be : Or else the play were done you wot , then Lordings pardon me . For free of every Hance I thank the gods I am , And serves no turn but for a vice , since first to court I came . To make the Ladies laugh , that leads the retchless lives Who late , or never woodcock like at later Lammas thrives . Yet if the fool had got , at his departing thence A night cap , or a motley coat , or else some spending pence . It had be well enough : but nothing there I found For nothing from their budgets fell they were so straitly bound . the lie sir Daw in deed , canst thou so long be there But needs must fallen into thy hands , some paring of the pear ? A hungry paring Lord he hath that there does weigh He watches like a greedy hound that stands at receigh That oft for lack of game , runs home his panche to fill Or starves in forest or in park , at least at keepers will . Look what to court he brought it is consumed and gone And there the flesh of every joint , is worn unto the bone . The carraine crows of Cheap in steyng bones so bore Would clap the fell in counter too , to breed him further care . Nay fie on such good hap , on Soldiers faith I swear : To fell the Court and City both , and he that takes me there . Let him cut of mine ears , and slit my nose aright And make a curtoll of the beast , that hath a head so light . To linger out my years for moon shine in the well A hood , a hood , for such a fool , a babble and a bell . A coxcomb is to good for such a calf I trow . As of my Lord my leave I take , so now again I go . Where fortune shall assign , my staff to light or fallen . And thus I know a truer friend , was not among them all . Then to my power I was , to you and all your raze Nor unto whom I daily wish , more bless happen and grace . FINIS . quod Churchyard . Printed in Fleetestreete , for Edwarde Russell . H : 18284 Churchyards farewell . AS wit is never good till it be dearly bough So friends until their truth be tried , may pass for things of nought . For friendship all in words , a kind of flattering is . And if I think my woorthiest friend may be abused by this , I ought in plain flat terms to show him what I think , And blaze the meaning of my mind by paper , pen , and Ink . Because the doors be bard , where my good will should pass : And buzzing Bees do creep in place , where Churcheyards credit was . The fowlers merry pipe betrays the careless bird : And fleering fawners lie in wait , to geeve their friends a gird . When fortune turns his face , beware the Syrenes song : Beware the busy Clawbackes fine whose friendship lasts not long . Think you the flies do flock about the flesh in vain ? Doth not the Bee seek out the flower some honey there to gain ? Doo courtiers all for love , approach the princes gates ? Doth plainness in these double days , repair to great estates ? No sure in masking robes goes mischief muffled now : And subtle sleights with snakish stings , do lodge in smiling brow . And your affections blind , hath you bewitched so , You have no power to find your friends , nor to discern your foe . You fill the fleesinge fists , and let the needy lack : And sharp their teeth whose crafty tungs can bite behind your back . I pray you tell me now , if hap would let you slide , How many would through thick & thin for love with you abide ? Perhaps a heap of such could hungry hangers on , Whose nature gives the court a fig when worldly hap is gone . Can you not see the cause , that brings them swarming in ? And where the wheel of Fortune sways , the world favour win ? Had not your elders wise , good trial of such trash ? Did you not see what worthy wits at length were left in lash : By trusting some to far , and heaping hope in those That seemed friends to outward sighed , and yet were secret foes ? O let me licence have to paint these peacocks out , Whose feathers wavereth with the wind and so turns tail about : Yet flicker with their wings , to faun the face awhile , Until their sudden flight they take , and so their friends beguile . What should we judge of them , that stare in faces still : Where lo , for all their curtsy great , they bear but small good will . And where they seldom come , but when some suit they have : They make a sign to see my Lord , yet seek by sleight to crave . What makes them watch their hours , and thrust in thickest priest . It is for friendship that they bear unto a certain lease . My Lord must help to get , now crowche and kneel they all : Now stand they up like saints in shrine , or nailed against a wall ? Now fig they here and there , as thorns were in their heals Now trudge about these whirlegigges , as world did run on wheels . Now cast they friendly looks , all over the chambers gay . Now give they place as God were there , now turn they every way . Now talk they trim in print , and prate of Robin hood : Much like the knights of Arthers court , that knew full well their good . Some through a finer mean , do creep in credits lap : And vale their bonettes by devise , as favour followed cap . Suche Jugglers blear your eyes , and smile within their sleeve : When honour in his harmless mood Doth best of them believe . Were you but once a day , in simple servants place , And like a looker on you stood , to pry upon this case : Then should you thoroughly see , who plays the wily fox : And how the Wolf can frame himself , to draw in yoke like ox . Then should the muffled men , show forth their faces bore And thereby noble hearts should learn to know what flatterers are . The glory of your state , heaves up your head so high : That many things do escape your view , which we see full with eye . And who is now so bold , that dare flat warning give , To such as in top of pomp , or princely pleasures live . I muse what new found chance , hath so disguised the state That men oft times for speaking plain , do purchase endless hate . Whilst fraud and feigned cheer doth evil honour feed : And noman dare a plaster give , to heal the wound in deed : Full fickle shall you walk , and never want disease . They should be banished from your court that are so glad to please With twittell twatlyng tales . The truth like larm bell . Should shortly sound in tender ears and learn you to do well . But sure the sweetest nuts do noorishe worms apace , And flatterers of the finest stamp , in court have finest place . I am to plain therefore , my pen hath drunk to much ? And alie head makes idle hand , the quick to near to touch . Nay , nay , some one must speak , although the vice it be : Or else the play were done you wot , then Lordings pardon me . For free of every Hance I thank the gods I am , And serves no turn but for a vice , since first to court I came . To make the Ladies laugh , that leads the retchless lives Who late , or never woodcock like at later Lammas thrives . Yet if the fool had got , at his departing thence A night cap , or a motley coat , or else some spending pence . It had be well enough : but nothing there I found For nothing from their budgets fell they were so straitly bound . the lie sir Daw in deed , canst thou so long be there But needs must fallen into thy hands , some paring of the pear ? A hungry paring Lord he hath that there does weigh He watches like a greedy hound that stands at receigh That oft for lack of game , runs home his panche to fill Or starves in forest or in park , at least at keepers will . Look what to court he brought it is consumed and gone And there the flesh of every joint , is worn unto the bone . The carraine crows of Cheap in steyng bones so bore Would clap the fell in counter too , to breed him further care . Nay fie on such good hap , on Soldiers faith I swear : To fell the Court and City both , and he that takes me there . Let him cut of mine ears , and slit my nose aright And make a curtoll of the beast , that hath a head so light . To linger out my years for moon shine in the well A hood , a hood , for such a fool , a babble and a bell . A coxcomb is to good for such a calf I trow . As of my Lord my leave I take , so now again I go . Where fortune shall assign , my staff to light or fallen . And thus I know a truer friend , was not among them all . Then to my power I was , to you and all your raze Nor unto whom I daily wish , more bless happen and grace . FINIS . quod Churchyard . Printed in Fleetestreete , for Edwarde Russell . 