H : 134718 AND ELEGY On the DEATH of William Lord RUSSEL , Who was Beheaded for High-Treason , in Lincolns-Inn-Fields , July the 21st . 1683. TO sighs when Rebels fallen , or shed a Tear , Must , doubtless , make Me Criminal appear ; Not that I love thy Treason , but thy Name , Which all ador'd , and in the Book of Fame Gave thee a place befitting thy Deserts ; But now thou wound'st all loyal honest Hearts Who shall we trust , if such as You Rebel ? So the great Lucifer from Heaven fell . RUSSEEL with Hell and Furies too combine ! To kill the KING and all the Royal Line ! Ah me ! it is too true ! His now lost Head Confirms whatever has on him been said . O that I live to hear the fatal found , Whose very accent does my Heartstrings wound ! Is this your Loyalty ; Is this your Zeal , To damn your Soul for a curs'd Commonweal ? Though once I lov'd Thee , now I hate thy Name , And thus I'll rend it from the Book of Fame , That future Ages , when they read thy shame , May praise Heav'ns Justice , and abhor thy Name . Who , but a Monster , could Rebellious prove To such Indulgence , Clemency and Love , As our Dread Sov'reign evermore bestows Upon his Friends , nay on his very Foes , Which slew his Father , and would Him Depose ? O that our Island should such Monsters breed , Which , Nero-like , delight to see her bleed ! Look down just Heav'n , with Vengeance upon those That are our Sov'reigns and our Churches Foes , And as thou hast , still all their Plots disclose : Oh let 'em not , although with Hell they join , E'r be successful in their damn'd Design , Whose only aim was to find out a way To turn our Sion to Acaldema , And make all Loyal honest men their Prey . Is't thus you would defend the King & Laws ? Confusion seize you , and your Good Old Cause , And save our Sov'reign from your Bloody Paws . Unpity'd , therefore , let each Traitor die , While all that Loyal are , Amen doe cry . EPITAPH . HEre under lies a Rebel , whose Design Was to have murder'd all the Royal Line , But was prevented by the Power-Divine : The great Opposer of our Sov'reign's Laws , Who dy'd a Martyr for the Good Old Cause . May Heaven still defend the King and Throne , And may such cursed Rebels e'ry one Meet the same Fate ; then would our Isle be blessed With Peace and Plenty , and a Halcyon-rest . Prin by Nath. Thompson , at the Entrance into the Old-Spring-Garden near Charing-Cross , 1683. H : 134718 AND ELEGY On the DEATH of William Lord RUSSEL , Who was Beheaded for High-Treason , in Lincolns-Inn-Fields , July the 21st . 1683. TO sighs when Rebels fallen , or shed a Tear , Must , doubtless , make Me Criminal appear ; Not that I love thy Treason , but thy Name , Which all ador'd , and in the Book of Fame Gave thee a place befitting thy Deserts ; But now thou wound'st all loyal honest Hearts Who shall we trust , if such as You Rebel ? So the great Lucifer from Heaven fell . RUSSEEL with Hell and Furies too combine ! To kill the KING and all the Royal Line ! Ah me ! it is too true ! His now lost Head Confirms whatever has on him been said . O that I live to hear the fatal found , Whose very accent does my Heartstrings wound ! Is this your Loyalty ; Is this your Zeal , To damn your Soul for a curs'd Commonweal ? Though once I lov'd Thee , now I hate thy Name , And thus I'll rend it from the Book of Fame , That future Ages , when they read thy shame , May praise Heav'ns Justice , and abhor thy Name . Who , but a Monster , could Rebellious prove To such Indulgence , Clemency and Love , As our Dread Sov'reign evermore bestows Upon his Friends , nay on his very Foes , Which slew his Father , and would Him Depose ? O that our Island should such Monsters breed , Which , Nero-like , delight to see her bleed ! Look down just Heav'n , with Vengeance upon those That are our Sov'reigns and our Churches Foes , And as thou hast , still all their Plots disclose : Oh let 'em not , although with Hell they join , E'r be successful in their damn'd Design , Whose only aim was to find out a way To turn our Sion to Acaldema , And make all Loyal honest men their Prey . Is't thus you would defend the King & Laws ? Confusion seize you , and your Good Old Cause , And save our Sov'reign from your Bloody Paws . Unpity'd , therefore , let each Traitor die , While all that Loyal are , Amen doe cry . EPITAPH . HEre under lies a Rebel , whose Design Was to have murder'd all the Royal Line , But was prevented by the Power-Divine : The great Opposer of our Sov'reign's Laws , Who dy'd a Martyr for the Good Old Cause . May Heaven still defend the King and Throne , And may such cursed Rebels e'ry one Meet the same Fate ; then would our Isle be blessed With Peace and Plenty , and a Halcyon-rest . Prin by Nath. Thompson , at the Entrance into the Old-Spring-Garden near Charing-Cross , 1683. 