H : 134747 AND ELEGIE On the never to be forgotten Sir Thomas Armstrong Knight ; Executed for Conspiring the Death of His most Sacred Majesty , and Royal Brother , June 20. 1684. With some Satyrical Reflections on the whole Faction . STand forth you damn'd deluding Priests of Baal , And found from out each Trumpet Mouth a Call : Let it be loud and shrill , that ev'ry Man May hear the noise , from Beersheba to Dan ; To summon all the Faction , that they may In doleful Hums and Haws , bewail this day , And to their Just Confusion howl and roar , For the great Bully of their Cause , is now no more . But now methinks I hear the Faction cry , Oh hone ! Where's all thy Pomp and Gallantry ? Thy Great Commands , thy Interest and thy State ? The many Crouds which did upon thee wait ? When thou like Atlas on thy shoulders boar , That mighty World which we so much adore ( That Pageant Hero , Offspring of a Whore . ) Behold you stubborn Crew , the certain Fate That waits upon the hardened Reprobate . See ; the effects of Treason's Terrible , In this life Infamy , and i' th' next a Hell , While Heav'n attends on Kings with special Care , The Traitor to himself becomes a snare : Drove out like Cain , to wander through the World , By his own thoughts into Distraction hurl'd , Despis'd by all , perplexed with hourly fear , And by his Friends push't like the hunted Deer , Like a mad Dog , still houted as he ran , A just Reward for th' base Rebellious man . How often has kind Heaven preserv'd the Crown , And tumbled the Audacious Rebel down ? How many Warnings have they had of late ? How often read their own impending Fate ? That still they dare their wicked Acts pursue , And know what Heaven has ordain'd their due ? That man who cou'd not reas'nably desire To raise his Fortune's , and his Glories higher , Who did enjoy , unto a wish , such store , That all his Ancestors scarce herd of more , Shou'd by his own procuring fallen so low , As if he'd study'd his own overthrow , Looks like a story yet without a Name , And may be stil'd the first Novel in Fame ? So the fam'd Angels , Turbulent as Great , Who always waited 'bout the Mercy-Seat , Desiring to be something yet unknown , Blunder'd at all , and would have grasped the Crown , Till Heaven's Great Monarch , saw they wou'd Rebel , Then dashed their Hope's , and damn'd them down to Hell . And now methinks I see to th' fatal place A Troop of Whiggs with Faction in each Face , And Red-swoln Eyes , moving with mournful pace , Pitying the Mighty Sampson of their Cause , Cursing their Fates , and Railing at the Laws . The Sisters too appear , with sniveling Cries , To celebrate their Stallions Obsequies ; From th' Playhouse and from Change , how they resort , From Country , City , nay , there's some from Court , From the Old C --- ss wither'd and decay'd , To a Whig Brewers Youthful Lovely Maid . Gods ! What a Troop is here ? sure Hercules Had found enough so many Whores to please . Repent , you Factious Rout , Repent and be Forewarn'd by this bold Traitors Destiny . Go home the Factious Dogs , and mend your Lives ; Be Loyal , and make honest all your Wives . You keep from Conventicles first , and then Keep all your Wives from Conventicling Men . Leave off your Railing 'gainst the King and State , Your foolish Prating , and more foolish Hate . Obey the Laws , and bravely act your parts , And to the Church unite in Tongues and Hearts ; Be sudden too , before it proves too late , Lest you partake of this bold Traitors Fate . And if the Faction thinks it worth the Cost , ( To keep this Bully's Name from being lost ) To raise a Pillar , to perpetuate His Wond'rous Actions , and Ignoble Fate , Let 'em about it straight , and when 'tis done , I'le Crown the Work with this Inscription . Bold Fame thou Ly'st ! Read here all you That wou'd this Mighty Mortal know ; First , he was one of low degree , But rose to and Hyperbole . Famous t' excess in ev'ry thing , But duty to his God , and King ; In Oaths as Great as any He , That ever Grac'd the Triple Tree ; So Absolute , when Drenched in Wine , He might have been the God o' th' Vine . His Brutal Lust was still so strong , He never spar'd , or old , or young ; In Cards and Dice he was well known , T' outcheat the Cheaters of the Town . These were his Virtues , if you'd know His Vices too pray read below . Not wholly Whig , nor Atheist neither , But something form'd of both together , Famous in horrid Blasphemies , Practic'd in base Adulteries . In Murders vers'd as black , and foul As his Degenerated Soul. In's Maxims too , as great a Beast , As * those his honest Father dressed . The Factions Bully , Sisters Stallion : Now Hang'd , and Damn'd , for his Rebellion . * His Father was a Groom . LONDON , Printed for William Bateman , in the Old Change . H : 134747 AND ELEGIE On the never to be forgotten Sir Thomas Armstrong Knight ; Executed for Conspiring the Death of His most Sacred Majesty , and Royal Brother , June 20. 1684. With some Satyrical Reflections on the whole Faction . STand forth you damn'd deluding Priests of Baal , And found from out each Trumpet Mouth a Call : Let it be loud and shrill , that ev'ry Man May hear the noise , from Beersheba to Dan ; To summon all the Faction , that they may In doleful Hums and Haws , bewail this day , And to their Just Confusion howl and roar , For the great Bully of their Cause , is now no more . But now methinks I hear the Faction cry , Oh hone ! Where's all thy Pomp and Gallantry ? Thy Great Commands , thy Interest and thy State ? The many Crouds which did upon thee wait ? When thou like Atlas on thy shoulders boar , That mighty World which we so much adore ( That Pageant Hero , Offspring of a Whore . ) Behold you stubborn Crew , the certain Fate That waits upon the hardened Reprobate . See ; the effects of Treason's Terrible , In this life Infamy , and i' th' next a Hell , While Heav'n attends on Kings with special Care , The Traitor to himself becomes a snare : Drove out like Cain , to wander through the World , By his own thoughts into Distraction hurl'd , Despis'd by all , perplexed with hourly fear , And by his Friends push't like the hunted Deer , Like a mad Dog , still houted as he ran , A just Reward for th' base Rebellious man . How often has kind Heaven preserv'd the Crown , And tumbled the Audacious Rebel down ? How many Warnings have they had of late ? How often read their own impending Fate ? That still they dare their wicked Acts pursue , And know what Heaven has ordain'd their due ? That man who cou'd not reas'nably desire To raise his Fortune's , and his Glories higher , Who did enjoy , unto a wish , such store , That all his Ancestors scarce herd of more , Shou'd by his own procuring fallen so low , As if he'd study'd his own overthrow , Looks like a story yet without a Name , And may be stil'd the first Novel in Fame ? So the fam'd Angels , Turbulent as Great , Who always waited 'bout the Mercy-Seat , Desiring to be something yet unknown , Blunder'd at all , and would have grasped the Crown , Till Heaven's Great Monarch , saw they wou'd Rebel , Then dashed their Hope's , and damn'd them down to Hell . And now methinks I see to th' fatal place A Troop of Whiggs with Faction in each Face , And Red-swoln Eyes , moving with mournful pace , Pitying the Mighty Sampson of their Cause , Cursing their Fates , and Railing at the Laws . The Sisters too appear , with sniveling Cries , To celebrate their Stallions Obsequies ; From th' Playhouse and from Change , how they resort , From Country , City , nay , there's some from Court , From the Old C --- ss wither'd and decay'd , To a Whig Brewers Youthful Lovely Maid . Gods ! What a Troop is here ? sure Hercules Had found enough so many Whores to please . Repent , you Factious Rout , Repent and be Forewarn'd by this bold Traitors Destiny . Go home the Factious Dogs , and mend your Lives ; Be Loyal , and make honest all your Wives . You keep from Conventicles first , and then Keep all your Wives from Conventicling Men . Leave off your Railing 'gainst the King and State , Your foolish Prating , and more foolish Hate . Obey the Laws , and bravely act your parts , And to the Church unite in Tongues and Hearts ; Be sudden too , before it proves too late , Lest you partake of this bold Traitors Fate . And if the Faction thinks it worth the Cost , ( To keep this Bully's Name from being lost ) To raise a Pillar , to perpetuate His Wond'rous Actions , and Ignoble Fate , Let 'em about it straight , and when 'tis done , I'le Crown the Work with this Inscription . Bold Fame thou Ly'st ! Read here all you That wou'd this Mighty Mortal know ; First , he was one of low degree , But rose to and Hyperbole . Famous t' excess in ev'ry thing , But duty to his God , and King ; In Oaths as Great as any He , That ever Grac'd the Triple Tree ; So Absolute , when Drenched in Wine , He might have been the God o' th' Vine . His Brutal Lust was still so strong , He never spar'd , or old , or young ; In Cards and Dice he was well known , T' outcheat the Cheaters of the Town . These were his Virtues , if you'd know His Vices too pray read below . Not wholly Whig , nor Atheist neither , But something form'd of both together , Famous in horrid Blasphemies , Practic'd in base Adulteries . In Murders vers'd as black , and foul As his Degenerated Soul. In's Maxims too , as great a Beast , As * those his honest Father dressed . The Factions Bully , Sisters Stallion : Now Hang'd , and Damn'd , for his Rebellion . * His Father was a Groom . LONDON , Printed for William Bateman , in the Old Change . 