H : 134720 AND ELEGY On the Death of the LORD RUSSEL , Who was Beheaded in LINCOLNS-INN-Fields , On Saturday the 21st . of July , 1683. WHat Powr's , what Saints , or who shall I invoke To Charm the Axe , before the mighty Stroke ? Gods will not do't ; for Man 'tis vain to Plead , What if Caligula should intercede ? What if I raise great Nero from his Urn ? Or he that did th' Ephesian Temple Burn ? Can Cataline , Cethegus , Mahomet , Judas , or Jack of Leyden , do the Feat ? Will these evade the Stroke that Fate portends ? No! these are too much Envious to be Friends . Who then , my Lord , shall I invoke for you ? Will Shaftsbury , Luther , or Jack Calvin do , Oats , Bedloe , Prance , Dugdale , Turbervile , That , with your help , made Monarchy to reel , And like t' have turn'd it to a Commonweal . Nor these , my Lord , cannot these Patriots do't , That once had Power to bring all things about , And cut off poor old Staffords Head to sho'at . Then ! must the Mercenary Axe proceed , Since you've not cheated Catch , as Essex did ; For which , perchance , there may Disputes ensue , Who was the better Subject of the Two , He that worser [ i ] worser save Five Pounds , or had his endue . But these are Feuds I never shall desire , Though 'twas not fairly done to cheat th' Esquire ; I pity Greatness ; not because 'tis you , But from my Nature , and to Greatness due : So th' Miracle be done , I care not how , Whither to Axe or Hall [ tO ] er they do bow , My moderate Zeal would any way allow ; The most Expedient surely best should please , That ridds the Nation of her worst Disease ; Essex show'd some remorse , which fain would be Mistaken for and ill-shap'd Loyalty . Would Monmouth , Armstrong , Ferguson , and Grey , Reflect as deeply , they would take h [ i ] s way ; But who can hope for such a Consequence From Natural Fools , and hardened Impudence ? Those who've rais'd their Fortune's by their Prince , Liv'd by the warmth of his kind Influence . From Pardons and Indulgence , sucked their Breath , And now to seek their Great Preservers Death ! Inhumane Vipers ! pass the Frolic round , And save your injur'd Prince two thousand pound ; Or else cum in , who knows but you may find And Ignoramus Jury to your mind ? Such as once sav'd your dear Achitophel , Which then did Authorise you to Rebel . David has been too merciful , 'tis known , And may perchance , forgive Young Absalom . Now give me leave to call my Fancy in , And talk of Russel , where I did begin . To what unequal heights didst thou Aspire ! What was it thou couldst want or could'st Desire ? Greatness thou hadst , and all the Plumbs of th' Earth , Only a Crown , that did not fit thy Birth : And how seem'd that to thee ? a Glorious Thing ! Which thy own Pow'r did make so Tottering . Farewell found Russell , those may mourn thy fate , That hope , like thee , by Treason to be Grea [ tO ] . Essex's despairing factious Hand did doe , What neuter Catch that Esquire perform'd for you , And what I hope will follow all your Crew . LONDON , Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball , near the Hospital-Gate , in West-Smithfield , 1683. H : 134720 AND ELEGY On the Death of the LORD RUSSEL , Who was Beheaded in LINCOLNS-INN-Fields , On Saturday the 21st . of July , 1683. WHat Powr's , what Saints , or who shall I invoke To Charm the Axe , before the mighty Stroke ? Gods will not do't ; for Man 'tis vain to Plead , What if Caligula should intercede ? What if I raise great Nero from his Urn ? Or he that did th' Ephesian Temple Burn ? Can Cataline , Cethegus , Mahomet , Judas , or Jack of Leyden , do the Feat ? Will these evade the Stroke that Fate portends ? No! these are too much Envious to be Friends . Who then , my Lord , shall I invoke for you ? Will Shaftsbury , Luther , or Jack Calvin do , Oats , Bedloe , Prance , Dugdale , Turbervile , That , with your help , made Monarchy to reel , And like t' have turn'd it to a Commonweal . Nor these , my Lord , cannot these Patriots do't , That once had Power to bring all things about , And cut off poor old Staffords Head to sho'at . Then ! must the Mercenary Axe proceed , Since you've not cheated Catch , as Essex did ; For which , perchance , there may Disputes ensue , Who was the better Subject of the Two , He that worser [ i ] worser save Five Pounds , or had his endue . But these are Feuds I never shall desire , Though 'twas not fairly done to cheat th' Esquire ; I pity Greatness ; not because 'tis you , But from my Nature , and to Greatness due : So th' Miracle be done , I care not how , Whither to Axe or Hall [ tO ] er they do bow , My moderate Zeal would any way allow ; The most Expedient surely best should please , That ridds the Nation of her worst Disease ; Essex show'd some remorse , which fain would be Mistaken for and ill-shap'd Loyalty . Would Monmouth , Armstrong , Ferguson , and Grey , Reflect as deeply , they would take h [ i ] s way ; But who can hope for such a Consequence From Natural Fools , and hardened Impudence ? Those who've rais'd their Fortune's by their Prince , Liv'd by the warmth of his kind Influence . From Pardons and Indulgence , sucked their Breath , And now to seek their Great Preservers Death ! Inhumane Vipers ! pass the Frolic round , And save your injur'd Prince two thousand pound ; Or else cum in , who knows but you may find And Ignoramus Jury to your mind ? Such as once sav'd your dear Achitophel , Which then did Authorise you to Rebel . David has been too merciful , 'tis known , And may perchance , forgive Young Absalom . Now give me leave to call my Fancy in , And talk of Russel , where I did begin . To what unequal heights didst thou Aspire ! What was it thou couldst want or could'st Desire ? Greatness thou hadst , and all the Plumbs of th' Earth , Only a Crown , that did not fit thy Birth : And how seem'd that to thee ? a Glorious Thing ! Which thy own Pow'r did make so Tottering . Farewell found Russell , those may mourn thy fate , That hope , like thee , by Treason to be Grea [ tO ] . Essex's despairing factious Hand did doe , What neuter Catch that Esquire perform'd for you , And what I hope will follow all your Crew . LONDON , Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball , near the Hospital-Gate , in West-Smithfield , 1683. 