H : 134708 Englands Sorrow For the Death of his late Majesty King CHARLES the [ II ] Of Blessed Memory . UNsluce your Tears for Shame : what can you keep Your Eyes within their Sockets , and not Weep ? Have we a Jewel lost , more worth by far Than Affrica and both the Indies are ? And can you stop the Currant of your Tears , And not Beflood yourselves o're Head and Ears ? O Fie ! fallen down before his holy Shrine , And Weep as fast as ever it did Rain , Stamp , and with Tears inundate all your Cheeks , And split his very Marblestone with Streeks ; For we have lost that lovely Silver Dove , Which was a Pledge of God Almighty's Love : 'Tis Flown away ; and left its Corporal Ark , ( Until the Resurrecton ) in the Dark : Our splended Sun is Set , and gone away , And ne'er will Rise again till Judgement Day : The Meekest , Sweetest , and the Best of Kings , Is mounted on a pair of Angels Wings ; And by a Summon sent from God ) is gone To set upon the Everlasting Throne : O! that I might ( if it but Lawful were ) Whisper with Reverence at his Sacred Ear , And ask if he in earnest had his Breath Stop'd by the Handkerchief of Saucy Death ; I can't believe it was ; sure 'tis a Lie . The Elect shall only Changed be , not Die : And he I'm confident was one of those Who being almost free from since was Chosen : And so he did not Die as some Report , But went a Live to the Celestial Court ; There to receive ( stead of a fading Crown ) One that I'm sure will never Tumble Down . Therefore ( when we perpend his Happiness , If we do Mourn ) we ought to Mourn the less : For ( though found Nature bids us Weep a while , When we consider that ) we ought to Smile . Truly ( to Mourn no more ) I hold it Best ; Come draw his Curtains close , and let him Res Though he is gone , yet he has left in's stead The Bravest Prince that ever wore a Head : Long may he Live to wear the Crown and Flourish , Till all his Enemies Fret , Pine and Perish . by J. Knap [ , Me. Dr. ] LONDON , Printed by George Croom , at the Sign of the Blue-Ball in Thames-street , over against Baynard's-C [ astle . 1685. ] H : 134708 Englands Sorrow For the Death of his late Majesty King CHARLES the [ II ] Of Blessed Memory . UNsluce your Tears for Shame : what can you keep Your Eyes within their Sockets , and not Weep ? Have we a Jewel lost , more worth by far Than Affrica and both the Indies are ? And can you stop the Currant of your Tears , And not Beflood yourselves o're Head and Ears ? O Fie ! fallen down before his holy Shrine , And Weep as fast as ever it did Rain , Stamp , and with Tears inundate all your Cheeks , And split his very Marblestone with Streeks ; For we have lost that lovely Silver Dove , Which was a Pledge of God Almighty's Love : 'Tis Flown away ; and left its Corporal Ark , ( Until the Resurrecton ) in the Dark : Our splended Sun is Set , and gone away , And ne'er will Rise again till Judgement Day : The Meekest , Sweetest , and the Best of Kings , Is mounted on a pair of Angels Wings ; And by a Summon sent from God ) is gone To set upon the Everlasting Throne : O! that I might ( if it but Lawful were ) Whisper with Reverence at his Sacred Ear , And ask if he in earnest had his Breath Stop'd by the Handkerchief of Saucy Death ; I can't believe it was ; sure 'tis a Lie . The Elect shall only Changed be , not Die : And he I'm confident was one of those Who being almost free from since was Chosen : And so he did not Die as some Report , But went a Live to the Celestial Court ; There to receive ( stead of a fading Crown ) One that I'm sure will never Tumble Down . Therefore ( when we perpend his Happiness , If we do Mourn ) we ought to Mourn the less : For ( though found Nature bids us Weep a while , When we consider that ) we ought to Smile . Truly ( to Mourn no more ) I hold it Best ; Come draw his Curtains close , and let him Res Though he is gone , yet he has left in's stead The Bravest Prince that ever wore a Head : Long may he Live to wear the Crown and Flourish , Till all his Enemies Fret , Pine and Perish . by J. Knap [ , Me. Dr. ] LONDON , Printed by George Croom , at the Sign of the Blue-Ball in Thames-street , over against Baynard's-C [ astle . 1685. ] 