H : 134933 THE Salamanca Doctor's Farewell . OR , TITUS'S Exaltation to the Pillory , upon his Conviction of PERJURY . A BALLAD . To the Tune of , Packingtons Pound . I . COme listen , you Whigs , to my pitiful Moan , All you that have Ears , when the Doctor has none ; In Sackcloth and Ashes let's sadly be jogging , To behold our dear Saviour oth' Nation a flogging . The Tories to spite us , As a Goblin to fright us , With a damn'd wooden Ruff will bedeck our Friend Titus : Then mourn all to see this ungrateful Behaviour , From these lewd Popish Tories to the dear Nation-Saviour . II From three prostrate Kingdoms at once to adore me , And no less than three Parliaments kneeling before me ; From hanging of Lords with a Word and a Frown , And no more than and Oath to the shaking a Crown : For all these brave Pranks , Now to have no more thanks , Than to look thro' a Hold , thro' two damn'd oaken Planks . Oh! mourn you poor Whigs with sad Lamentation , To see the hard Fate of the Saviour oth' Nation . III . For ever farewell the true Protestant Famous Old days of th' Illustrious great Ignoramus ; Had the great Headsman Bethel , that honest Catch Royal , But sat at the Helm still , the Rogues I'de defy all ; The kind Teckelite Crew , To the Alcoran true , Spite of Law , Oaths or Gospel , would save poor true Blue : But the Tories are up , and no Quarter nor Favour , To trusty old Titus , the great Nation-Saviour . IV. There once was a Time , Boys , when to the World's wonder , I could kill with a Breath more than Jove with his Thunder ; But , o ! my great Narrative's made but a Fable , My Pilgrim's and Armies confounded like Babel : O they've struck me quite dumb , And to tickle my Bum , Have my Oracles turn'd all to a Tale of Tom Thumb . Oh! weep all to see this ungrateful Behaviour , In thus ridiculing the great Nation-Saviour . V. From Honour and Favour , and Joys , my full swing ; From 12 pound a week , and the World in a string ; Ah poor falling Titus ! 'tis a cursed Debasement , To be pelted with Eggs thro' a lewd wooden Casement ! And o muckle Tony , To see thy old Crony , With a Face all benointed with wild Locust Honey : 'Twould make thy old TAPP weep with sad Lamentation , For trusty old Titus , thy Saviour oth' Nation . VI . See the Rabble all round me in Battle array , Against my wood Castle their Batteries play ; With Turnep-Granadoes the Storm is begun , All weapons more mortal than Pickering's screw'd Gun : Oh! my Torture begins To punish my Sins , For peeping thro' Key-holes , to spy Dukes and Queen's ! Which makes me to roar out with sad Lamentation , For this tragical Blow to the Saviour oth' Nation . VII . A curse on the day , when the Papists to run down , I left buggering at Omers , to swear Plots at London ; And o my dear Friends ! 'tis a damnable hard case , To think how they'll pepper my sanctify'd Carcase ; Were my Skin but as tough , As my Conscience of Buff , Let 'em pelt their Heart-bloods , I'd hold out well enough [ ; ] But o these sad Buffets of Mortification , To maul the poor Hide of the Saviour oth' Nation . VIII . Had the Parliament sat till they'd once more but put Three Kingdoms into the Geneva old Cut , With what Homage and Duty to Titus in Glory , Had the worshipping Saints turn'd their Bums up before me : But o the poor Stallion , Alamode de Italian , To be futred at last like and English Rascallion . O mourn all you Brothers of th' Association , To see this sad Fate of the Saviour oth' Nation . IX . Cou'd I once but get lose from these troublesome Tackles , A pocky stone Doublet , and plaguy steel Shackles , I'd leave the damn'd Tories , and to do myself justice , I'd e'n go a mumping with my honest Friend Eustace . Little Commyns and Oats , In two Pilgrim Coats , We'd truss our black Bills up , and all our old Plots ; We'd leave the base World all for their damn'd rude Behavi-ours To two such heroic true Protestant Saviours . X. But alack and a day ! the worst is behind still , Which makes me fetch Groans that wou'd e'n turn a Windmill Were the Pillory all , I should never be vexed , But o to my sorrow the Gallows comes next ; To my doleful sad Fate , I find tho' too late , To this Collar of Wood comes a hempen Crevat ; Which makes me thus roar out with sad Lamentation , To think how they'll truss up the Saviour oth' Nation . Printed for G.C. and sold by Randal Taylor near Stationers-Hall , 1685. H : 134933 THE Salamanca Doctor's Farewell . OR , TITUS'S Exaltation to the Pillory , upon his Conviction of PERJURY . A BALLAD . To the Tune of , Packingtons Pound . I . COme listen , you Whigs , to my pitiful Moan , All you that have Ears , when the Doctor has none ; In Sackcloth and Ashes let's sadly be jogging , To behold our dear Saviour oth' Nation a flogging . The Tories to spite us , As a Goblin to fright us , With a damn'd wooden Ruff will bedeck our Friend Titus : Then mourn all to see this ungrateful Behaviour , From these lewd Popish Tories to the dear Nation-Saviour . II From three prostrate Kingdoms at once to adore me , And no less than three Parliaments kneeling before me ; From hanging of Lords with a Word and a Frown , And no more than and Oath to the shaking a Crown : For all these brave Pranks , Now to have no more thanks , Than to look thro' a Hold , thro' two damn'd oaken Planks . Oh! mourn you poor Whigs with sad Lamentation , To see the hard Fate of the Saviour oth' Nation . III . For ever farewell the true Protestant Famous Old days of th' Illustrious great Ignoramus ; Had the great Headsman Bethel , that honest Catch Royal , But sat at the Helm still , the Rogues I'de defy all ; The kind Teckelite Crew , To the Alcoran true , Spite of Law , Oaths or Gospel , would save poor true Blue : But the Tories are up , and no Quarter nor Favour , To trusty old Titus , the great Nation-Saviour . IV. There once was a Time , Boys , when to the World's wonder , I could kill with a Breath more than Jove with his Thunder ; But , o ! my great Narrative's made but a Fable , My Pilgrim's and Armies confounded like Babel : O they've struck me quite dumb , And to tickle my Bum , Have my Oracles turn'd all to a Tale of Tom Thumb . Oh! weep all to see this ungrateful Behaviour , In thus ridiculing the great Nation-Saviour . V. From Honour and Favour , and Joys , my full swing ; From 12 pound a week , and the World in a string ; Ah poor falling Titus ! 'tis a cursed Debasement , To be pelted with Eggs thro' a lewd wooden Casement ! And o muckle Tony , To see thy old Crony , With a Face all benointed with wild Locust Honey : 'Twould make thy old TAPP weep with sad Lamentation , For trusty old Titus , thy Saviour oth' Nation . VI . See the Rabble all round me in Battle array , Against my wood Castle their Batteries play ; With Turnep-Granadoes the Storm is begun , All weapons more mortal than Pickering's screw'd Gun : Oh! my Torture begins To punish my Sins , For peeping thro' Key-holes , to spy Dukes and Queen's ! Which makes me to roar out with sad Lamentation , For this tragical Blow to the Saviour oth' Nation . VII . A curse on the day , when the Papists to run down , I left buggering at Omers , to swear Plots at London ; And o my dear Friends ! 'tis a damnable hard case , To think how they'll pepper my sanctify'd Carcase ; Were my Skin but as tough , As my Conscience of Buff , Let 'em pelt their Heart-bloods , I'd hold out well enough [ ; ] But o these sad Buffets of Mortification , To maul the poor Hide of the Saviour oth' Nation . VIII . Had the Parliament sat till they'd once more but put Three Kingdoms into the Geneva old Cut , With what Homage and Duty to Titus in Glory , Had the worshipping Saints turn'd their Bums up before me : But o the poor Stallion , Alamode de Italian , To be futred at last like and English Rascallion . O mourn all you Brothers of th' Association , To see this sad Fate of the Saviour oth' Nation . IX . Cou'd I once but get lose from these troublesome Tackles , A pocky stone Doublet , and plaguy steel Shackles , I'd leave the damn'd Tories , and to do myself justice , I'd e'n go a mumping with my honest Friend Eustace . Little Commyns and Oats , In two Pilgrim Coats , We'd truss our black Bills up , and all our old Plots ; We'd leave the base World all for their damn'd rude Behavi-ours To two such heroic true Protestant Saviours . X. But alack and a day ! the worst is behind still , Which makes me fetch Groans that wou'd e'n turn a Windmill Were the Pillory all , I should never be vexed , But o to my sorrow the Gallows comes next ; To my doleful sad Fate , I find tho' too late , To this Collar of Wood comes a hempen Crevat ; Which makes me thus roar out with sad Lamentation , To think how they'll truss up the Saviour oth' Nation . Printed for G.C. and sold by Randal Taylor near Stationers-Hall , 1685. 