H : 18285 The Epitaph of the honourable Earl of Penbroke , Baron of Cardiffe , and Knight of the most Noble order of the garter . Who died Lord stueward of the Queens majesties household , and of her privy counsel . SInce plaints want power to pierce the skies , or rays the dead from grave , No tears nor sighs may well suffies , to wail the loss we have . Then lordings wipe your blobbred eyes , and sobb no more alas : For death and deastnye does assign , all life like shade shall pass . No seat nor Scepture certain is , the high and low a like : In spite of pomp and worldly bliss , fallen both amid the dyke . But when a prop that stayed the state , drops down as you do see : The lookers on in muse do stand , at crack of such a tree . Which leaves the world in morning weeds , behind to weep the loss , ( Whiles fruit is fled from brantch and bow , as gold forsakes the dross ) Oh Penbroke wilt thou part so soon , what haste hath hied thee hence : Had I been warned I had perfuemd , thy Tomb with frankincense . But called so swiftly to my pen , the sweet incense I won yet swear I by the sacred Gods , though skill and sense be skant . Thou shalt not hide in clotts of clay , thy rich rare gifts of kind , Nor skrawlling worms shall make no pray , upon thy noble mind . The Court that knew thy constant heart , bydds thee return again , That art for troth and freendshipp fast , a perfect pattern plain . A father where the counsel sat of tongue and talk divine , As he at birth had stolen the grace , of all the Musis nine . His looks did speak when silent lips , locked up great things in head , yea ev'ry word passed Penbrokes mouth , peysd well a pound of led . No lightness lodged in his brows , and sure a man in deed , That well might ties from Troyjans raze , and honour Hectors seed . Of nature noble void of blot , in Court and country throw : As curteys as the little Lamb , or Faucon gentle now . In bounty did his heart abound , where cause made place before : Not won by fear , but held by love , what might be wished more . To such as fav'red learning's lore , ( though he no school point knew ) His purse and hand as closely crept , as hawk wear clapped in mew . To those that seemed somewhat to be , whose hearts he saw aspier : He gave good hope in sign of hap , to further there desire . To Prince and country true as steel , no blast could bear him down , He kept his promise faith and oath , in Court , in field and town . Devout to God his life well shows , his death does that declare , On Christ alone , the corner stone , he only laid his care . O manly Penbroke yet me thinks , I see thee march upright , Thy jesture and thy jolly port , stands still before my sighed . Thy cleanly fineness trimly framed , sprang out of noble bres And all thou didst within thy days , a noble mind expressed . But nothing here so clean or gay , can keep the life alive , Both wealth and Lordship leaps away , when death our date does drive . yet death when he hath done his worst , dare not molest the spreete : That God does claim and angels think , for Abrams bosom meet . FINIS . A verse of farewell . I lost a friend , you lost no less , who lest lost , lost to much , Who looks to light upon the like , in Court shall find few such . Quoth Churchyard . Imprinted at London , in Fletestreat at the sign of the Faucon by Wylliam Gryffith : and are to be sold at his shop in S. Dunstones Churchyard . 1570. March . 27. H : 18285 The Epitaph of the honourable Earl of Penbroke , Baron of Cardiffe , and Knight of the most Noble order of the garter . Who died Lord stueward of the Queens majesties household , and of her privy counsel . SInce plaints want power to pierce the skies , or rays the dead from grave , No tears nor sighs may well suffies , to wail the loss we have . Then lordings wipe your blobbred eyes , and sobb no more alas : For death and deastnye does assign , all life like shade shall pass . No seat nor Scepture certain is , the high and low a like : In spite of pomp and worldly bliss , fallen both amid the dyke . But when a prop that stayed the state , drops down as you do see : The lookers on in muse do stand , at crack of such a tree . Which leaves the world in morning weeds , behind to weep the loss , ( Whiles fruit is fled from brantch and bow , as gold forsakes the dross ) Oh Penbroke wilt thou part so soon , what haste hath hied thee hence : Had I been warned I had perfuemd , thy Tomb with frankincense . But called so swiftly to my pen , the sweet incense I won yet swear I by the sacred Gods , though skill and sense be skant . Thou shalt not hide in clotts of clay , thy rich rare gifts of kind , Nor skrawlling worms shall make no pray , upon thy noble mind . The Court that knew thy constant heart , bydds thee return again , That art for troth and freendshipp fast , a perfect pattern plain . A father where the counsel sat of tongue and talk divine , As he at birth had stolen the grace , of all the Musis nine . His looks did speak when silent lips , locked up great things in head , yea ev'ry word passed Penbrokes mouth , peysd well a pound of led . No lightness lodged in his brows , and sure a man in deed , That well might ties from Troyjans raze , and honour Hectors seed . Of nature noble void of blot , in Court and country throw : As curteys as the little Lamb , or Faucon gentle now . In bounty did his heart abound , where cause made place before : Not won by fear , but held by love , what might be wished more . To such as fav'red learning's lore , ( though he no school point knew ) His purse and hand as closely crept , as hawk wear clapped in mew . To those that seemed somewhat to be , whose hearts he saw aspier : He gave good hope in sign of hap , to further there desire . To Prince and country true as steel , no blast could bear him down , He kept his promise faith and oath , in Court , in field and town . Devout to God his life well shows , his death does that declare , On Christ alone , the corner stone , he only laid his care . O manly Penbroke yet me thinks , I see thee march upright , Thy jesture and thy jolly port , stands still before my sighed . Thy cleanly fineness trimly framed , sprang out of noble bres And all thou didst within thy days , a noble mind expressed . But nothing here so clean or gay , can keep the life alive , Both wealth and Lordship leaps away , when death our date does drive . yet death when he hath done his worst , dare not molest the spreete : That God does claim and angels think , for Abrams bosom meet . FINIS . A verse of farewell . I lost a friend , you lost no less , who lest lost , lost to much , Who looks to light upon the like , in Court shall find few such . Quoth Churchyard . Imprinted at London , in Fletestreat at the sign of the Faucon by Wylliam Gryffith : and are to be sold at his shop in S. Dunstones Churchyard . 1570. March . 27. 