H : 18288 A new ballad Entitled , Daniels sifting in these our days : aptly applied to the true Preachers of the Gospel . What God hath willed us , to that good ear give : For Daniels are abroad : sifting with their Seeve . GOOd Daniels sifting , in Gods church about , The footsteps out finding : of those as be stout . Against Gods word divine , which all aught to know In their own mother tongue : what duty they owe . To God alone justly , to serve him with love , For all are not trusty : as his word does prove . Now if God we obeyed , as he hath us taught , Then were our faith stayed : in him that us bought . By Daniels , the Preachers : so this understand , Which do preach Christ truly : in every land . Without Pope or popery , our souls for to save , By faith in Christ only , of whom we it crave . And Gods book this Seeve is , that they in hand take , And his word the Ashes , there out for to shake . In Temples and Churches , where people resort , To have for their souls health : the food of comfort . The people is the ground , on whom now does fallen , Those high divine Ashes : that makes the true trial . Whose footsteps shall apeere without fraud or guile , Of young and old people : now mark well this style . By these footsteps I mean , the whole life of man , And of all women kind : these things now well scan . Who so in these Ashes , now treadeth awry , Their steps shall be well known : to God & men eye . As was in Bells Temple , a God without life , Whereas footing was found : of Man , Child , & Wife . Who eat up the victuals , from that false God Bell , And deceived the King : as the text does tell . But Daniell by sifting , all them to light brought , And also Bells Pristes : that wickedly wrought . Even so now our Sifters , that siftes at this day , With Gods word shall find ou those in the broad way . When they hear the law read , unto them full plain , As God hath commanded : so to be certain . The which law and Gospel , receive in good part , And out of the broad way : betimes look you start . The footsteps that Adam , and Eve first did trace , To the forboden tree : brought them in woe case . And all we by their fallen in bondage be set , Day by day masked still in Sathans great net . The firste bloody footsteps , that Cayne did commit , To his brother Abell : remains in some yet . As in Ruffians and Rogges , that desperate be , Whose footsteps from much sin cannot escape free . The pride of great Nemrode , that in him did rain , Was known by his footsteps , and all his whole train . So likewise shall theirs do , that buildeth excess , In any kind of trade : abusing Richesse . Queen Jezabell that did , Gods true Prophets kill , Her footeyng was found ou against her own will . The Dogs her blood lapped in Jezraell , This soar grievous plague : was cast on Jezabell . So lykwyse the footsteps of Gods enemies , Shall well be spied : when as his will is . And have their reward due , for shedding of blood , Of Gods elect people : when the Lord thinks it good . Remember how Pharao , though he was a King , His footsteps were found ou of persecuting . He with his whole army , of men drowned were , In midst of the read sea : God did them not spare . Even so from time to time , you may read and see , How God plagueth Tyrants : for their iniquity . He is the same God still , sinners to correct , Except they repent now : he will them rejecte . Sodome and Gomorra , their footing was found , What ways they then walked : upon the Lords ground . They lived to them selves in the sink of sin , Till fire and brimstone : thereby they did win . Let this be a warning , so now in like case , To whores and whoremongers : that yet lacketh grace . Whose close tripping footsteps , will shortly appear , By our Daniells sifting : they can not escape clear . The coveiteous footsteps , of Ahabs great spite , To have Nabaoths vinjard : did come unto light . For the which the Lord , with Ahab was wroth , And sent to him Elyah : who told him the troth . How the Lord would plague him and all his household , For the death of Nobaoth : as Elyah him told . Beware now by Ahab , to get worldly muck , For many one thereby : hath had but ill luck . Sir Rapax , sir Capax and sir Tenax also , And you master Usurers : that now in wealth flow . Be not imps of Ahab , common wealth to annoy , lest you with your footsteps : the Lord do destroy . The Scribes , the Pharasies , and Lawyers likewise , Their footing was well known : of their enterprise . How they came unto Christ , to take him in a trip , But he over came them : and gave them the slip . So Lawyers that wrest law , and matters prolong , Their footsteps will appear of making right wrong . Woe be to such sayeth Christ , whose sentence is great , Wherefore repent in time : and for mercy entreat . Thus for to conclude now , let all men repent , And to lead a new life : by Gods Testament . Ere death steal upon us , our footsteps to find , Contrary to Gods will : and to nature's kind . Wherefore sifting Daniells , now ply your vocations , Declare Gods word truly , unto all nations . God is your head Captain , your shield and defence , Without fear or parcialytie , now do your diligence . By sifting and sorting , the good from the bad , Then God will be pleased : and his people glad . To hear what God willeth , to that good ear give , And to all such Preachers , as use well the Seeve . FINIS . Imprinted at London , by Richarde Johnes : dwelling in the upper end of Fleetlane , at the sign of the spread Eagle . And are to be sold : at his Shop joining to the Soutwest Door of Saint Paules Church . The xxii day of October . 1572. H : 18288 A new ballad Entitled , Daniels sifting in these our days : aptly applied to the true Preachers of the Gospel . What God hath willed us , to that good ear give : For Daniels are abroad : sifting with their Seeve . GOOd Daniels sifting , in Gods church about , The footsteps out finding : of those as be stout . Against Gods word divine , which all aught to know In their own mother tongue : what duty they owe . To God alone justly , to serve him with love , For all are not trusty : as his word does prove . Now if God we obeyed , as he hath us taught , Then were our faith stayed : in him that us bought . By Daniels , the Preachers : so this understand , Which do preach Christ truly : in every land . Without Pope or popery , our souls for to save , By faith in Christ only , of whom we it crave . And Gods book this Seeve is , that they in hand take , And his word the Ashes , there out for to shake . In Temples and Churches , where people resort , To have for their souls health : the food of comfort . The people is the ground , on whom now does fallen , Those high divine Ashes : that makes the true trial . Whose footsteps shall apeere without fraud or guile , Of young and old people : now mark well this style . By these footsteps I mean , the whole life of man , And of all women kind : these things now well scan . Who so in these Ashes , now treadeth awry , Their steps shall be well known : to God & men eye . As was in Bells Temple , a God without life , Whereas footing was found : of Man , Child , & Wife . Who eat up the victuals , from that false God Bell , And deceived the King : as the text does tell . But Daniell by sifting , all them to light brought , And also Bells Pristes : that wickedly wrought . Even so now our Sifters , that siftes at this day , With Gods word shall find ou those in the broad way . When they hear the law read , unto them full plain , As God hath commanded : so to be certain . The which law and Gospel , receive in good part , And out of the broad way : betimes look you start . The footsteps that Adam , and Eve first did trace , To the forboden tree : brought them in woe case . And all we by their fallen in bondage be set , Day by day masked still in Sathans great net . The firste bloody footsteps , that Cayne did commit , To his brother Abell : remains in some yet . As in Ruffians and Rogges , that desperate be , Whose footsteps from much sin cannot escape free . The pride of great Nemrode , that in him did rain , Was known by his footsteps , and all his whole train . So likewise shall theirs do , that buildeth excess , In any kind of trade : abusing Richesse . Queen Jezabell that did , Gods true Prophets kill , Her footeyng was found ou against her own will . The Dogs her blood lapped in Jezraell , This soar grievous plague : was cast on Jezabell . So lykwyse the footsteps of Gods enemies , Shall well be spied : when as his will is . And have their reward due , for shedding of blood , Of Gods elect people : when the Lord thinks it good . Remember how Pharao , though he was a King , His footsteps were found ou of persecuting . He with his whole army , of men drowned were , In midst of the read sea : God did them not spare . Even so from time to time , you may read and see , How God plagueth Tyrants : for their iniquity . He is the same God still , sinners to correct , Except they repent now : he will them rejecte . Sodome and Gomorra , their footing was found , What ways they then walked : upon the Lords ground . They lived to them selves in the sink of sin , Till fire and brimstone : thereby they did win . Let this be a warning , so now in like case , To whores and whoremongers : that yet lacketh grace . Whose close tripping footsteps , will shortly appear , By our Daniells sifting : they can not escape clear . The coveiteous footsteps , of Ahabs great spite , To have Nabaoths vinjard : did come unto light . For the which the Lord , with Ahab was wroth , And sent to him Elyah : who told him the troth . How the Lord would plague him and all his household , For the death of Nobaoth : as Elyah him told . Beware now by Ahab , to get worldly muck , For many one thereby : hath had but ill luck . Sir Rapax , sir Capax and sir Tenax also , And you master Usurers : that now in wealth flow . Be not imps of Ahab , common wealth to annoy , lest you with your footsteps : the Lord do destroy . The Scribes , the Pharasies , and Lawyers likewise , Their footing was well known : of their enterprise . How they came unto Christ , to take him in a trip , But he over came them : and gave them the slip . So Lawyers that wrest law , and matters prolong , Their footsteps will appear of making right wrong . Woe be to such sayeth Christ , whose sentence is great , Wherefore repent in time : and for mercy entreat . Thus for to conclude now , let all men repent , And to lead a new life : by Gods Testament . Ere death steal upon us , our footsteps to find , Contrary to Gods will : and to nature's kind . Wherefore sifting Daniells , now ply your vocations , Declare Gods word truly , unto all nations . God is your head Captain , your shield and defence , Without fear or parcialytie , now do your diligence . By sifting and sorting , the good from the bad , Then God will be pleased : and his people glad . To hear what God willeth , to that good ear give , And to all such Preachers , as use well the Seeve . FINIS . Imprinted at London , by Richarde Johnes : dwelling in the upper end of Fleetlane , at the sign of the spread Eagle . And are to be sold : at his Shop joining to the Soutwest Door of Saint Paules Church . The xxii day of October . 1572. 