H : 134936 The Doctor Degraded ; Or The REWARD of DECEI Being and Account of the Right Perfidious , and Perjury'd TITUS OATES ; Who Received Sentence at the Kings-Bench-Bar , at Westminster the 16th day of May , 1685. ON Saturday the 16th Day of May 1685. Titus Oates , being then brought to the Kings - Bench-Bar , Westminster , about a 11 of the Clock by a strong Guard , My Lord Chief Justice and others of his Brothers being on the Bench , was called ; the Attorney Ge - neral , craved Judgement of the Court against Titus Oats , for his Per - juries ; Oats craved time till Monday , but it was denied him ; then the Right Honourable the Lord Chief Justice pro - ceeded to declare the Hei - nousness of his Crime . saying , It was formerly , by the Law of this Land , punishable with Death . And after that , being somewhat moderated , the Penalty was , to have the Parties Tongue cut out . And being yet far - there taken into Consi - deration , the Punishment was left to the discretion of the Court . So they Proceeded not to Life or Member , notwithstand - king his Lordship said he had consulted with all the Judges of England , and that they were una - nimously of opinion , that the power was in the Court to Proceed to any Sentence under that re - striction ; and having in a most Emphatical Speech , from point to point , re - lated the matter at large , his Lordship left the Pro - nounciation of the Sen - tense to Judge Withens , who told the Prisoner , that his Nature was Come - passionate , and that he delighted not in passing Sentence on his fellow Creatures ; yet in case of such a Crime , he must confess he did it without remorse , and having fur - there expressed himself in detestation of the Prison - ners offence , and Elo - quently discoursed it at large , he was pleased to Pronounce the following Sentence , viz. Fined on each Indict - meant 1000 Marks . That on Munday the 18th of this Instant he walk about Westminster Hall , with a Paper upon his Forehead , mention - king his Crime : And of - terwards stripp'd of his Canonical Habit , Stand upon and in the Pillory before the Hall Gate , be - tween thee hours of 11 and One , for the space of and hour to stand . Tuesday the 19th . at the Royal Exchange . Wednesday the 20th . to be Whip'd from Ald - gate to Newgate . Friday the 22d . from Newgate to Tyburn . Aug. the 9th to stand at Westminster . August , the 10th at Charing-Cross . August the 11th at Temple-Bar . September the 2d at the Royal Exchange . Aprill the 24th 1686. to stand in the Pillory at Tyburn , facing the Gall - lows . To lie in Gaol dur - ing Life . And to stand Annually in the Pillory , August the 9th . at Westminster . August the 10th at Charing-Cross . August the 11th at Temple-Bar . September , the 2d at the Royal Exchange . O Cruel Fate ! why art thou thus unkind , So wavering and unconstant in thy Mind , To turn ( like weather-Cocks ) with every Wind ? Did'st thou not once make Oats thy Favourite , Thy only Darling , and thy dear Delight ? And mounted him upon thy Wings so high , That he could almost touch the very Sky , And now must Oates stand in the Pillory ? There to be Battered so with Rotten Eggs , Both on the Face , the Body and the Legs , That he will wish himself in Hell for Ease , And Beg as Beggars do for Bred and Cheese , That Oats might not be Thresh'd as Men do Peas . And must he too ( when once he has stood there ) Be sent to Ride upon the Three-Leg'd-Mare ? Zouns what's the meaning of it with a Pox ? Is that the way to pay his Christmas-Box ? Was he not once the Saviour of the Nation , And must he be Contemn'd and out of Fashion ? Call'd Perjur'd Rogue and slighted be by all , And toss'd about just like a Tennis-Ball . What if he did Forswear himself a little , Must his sweet Bum be rubb'd thus with a Nettle ? O fie ! 'Tis not well done to Rob the Spittle . But 'tis in vain I see to Mourn for Oats , For if we Roar until we split our Throats , We cannot help the poor distressed thing ; No hope's to get a Pardon of the King , Therefore he must endure his Suffering . Indeed ( if to Lament would do him good ) Then we would Weep that's to be understood : But , my beloved Brothers in the Lord , That cannot keep him from a Hempen-Cord , Or from his peeping through a Two-inch-Board . And so 'tis needless that we Vex or Fret , God's holy Will be done , we must Submit . However let poor Oats be Brisk and Bonny ( Long as he Lives ) he shall not want for Money , For to his Hive we'll bring both Wax and Honey . Yet ( if he should be Hang'd and Die that way ) Oats will spring up again at Judgement Day , Although there will not be a bit of Hay . But 'tis a great Disgrace that Oh brave Oats ( The Rampant Doctor of Religious Plots ) Is not ( in state ) Promoted up on High ; The just Reward of bloody Perjury . Yet he's no Coward , fearing to be Halter'd , Unless of late his Courage should be Alter'd : Fight Dog , fight Bear , he value's not a Fig , He always was and e'er will be a Whig , And stand up for the Cause we know full well , Though he were sure almost to go to Hell . Therefore if he be Hang'd , and in a Cart Carried to Tyburn , what cares he a Fart , At last the Dearest Friends of all must Part. And now Beloved Brother Oates adieu , Although this story looks a little Blue , Yet what I Wrote of thee is very True . LONDON , Printed by George Groom , at the Sign of the Blue-Ball in Thames-street , over against Baynard's-Castle . 1685. H : 134936 The Doctor Degraded ; Or The REWARD of DECEI Being and Account of the Right Perfidious , and Perjury'd TITUS OATES ; Who Received Sentence at the Kings-Bench-Bar , at Westminster the 16th day of May , 1685. ON Saturday the 16th Day of May 1685. Titus Oates , being then brought to the Kings - Bench-Bar , Westminster , about a 11 of the Clock by a strong Guard , My Lord Chief Justice and others of his Brothers being on the Bench , was called ; the Attorney Ge - neral , craved Judgement of the Court against Titus Oats , for his Per - juries ; Oats craved time till Monday , but it was denied him ; then the Right Honourable the Lord Chief Justice pro - ceeded to declare the Hei - nousness of his Crime . saying , It was formerly , by the Law of this Land , punishable with Death . And after that , being somewhat moderated , the Penalty was , to have the Parties Tongue cut out . And being yet far - there taken into Consi - deration , the Punishment was left to the discretion of the Court . So they Proceeded not to Life or Member , notwithstand - king his Lordship said he had consulted with all the Judges of England , and that they were una - nimously of opinion , that the power was in the Court to Proceed to any Sentence under that re - striction ; and having in a most Emphatical Speech , from point to point , re - lated the matter at large , his Lordship left the Pro - nounciation of the Sen - tense to Judge Withens , who told the Prisoner , that his Nature was Come - passionate , and that he delighted not in passing Sentence on his fellow Creatures ; yet in case of such a Crime , he must confess he did it without remorse , and having fur - there expressed himself in detestation of the Prison - ners offence , and Elo - quently discoursed it at large , he was pleased to Pronounce the following Sentence , viz. Fined on each Indict - meant 1000 Marks . That on Munday the 18th of this Instant he walk about Westminster Hall , with a Paper upon his Forehead , mention - king his Crime : And of - terwards stripp'd of his Canonical Habit , Stand upon and in the Pillory before the Hall Gate , be - tween thee hours of 11 and One , for the space of and hour to stand . Tuesday the 19th . at the Royal Exchange . Wednesday the 20th . to be Whip'd from Ald - gate to Newgate . Friday the 22d . from Newgate to Tyburn . Aug. the 9th to stand at Westminster . August , the 10th at Charing-Cross . August the 11th at Temple-Bar . September the 2d at the Royal Exchange . Aprill the 24th 1686. to stand in the Pillory at Tyburn , facing the Gall - lows . To lie in Gaol dur - ing Life . And to stand Annually in the Pillory , August the 9th . at Westminster . August the 10th at Charing-Cross . August the 11th at Temple-Bar . September , the 2d at the Royal Exchange . O Cruel Fate ! why art thou thus unkind , So wavering and unconstant in thy Mind , To turn ( like weather-Cocks ) with every Wind ? Did'st thou not once make Oats thy Favourite , Thy only Darling , and thy dear Delight ? And mounted him upon thy Wings so high , That he could almost touch the very Sky , And now must Oates stand in the Pillory ? There to be Battered so with Rotten Eggs , Both on the Face , the Body and the Legs , That he will wish himself in Hell for Ease , And Beg as Beggars do for Bred and Cheese , That Oats might not be Thresh'd as Men do Peas . And must he too ( when once he has stood there ) Be sent to Ride upon the Three-Leg'd-Mare ? Zouns what's the meaning of it with a Pox ? Is that the way to pay his Christmas-Box ? Was he not once the Saviour of the Nation , And must he be Contemn'd and out of Fashion ? Call'd Perjur'd Rogue and slighted be by all , And toss'd about just like a Tennis-Ball . What if he did Forswear himself a little , Must his sweet Bum be rubb'd thus with a Nettle ? O fie ! 'Tis not well done to Rob the Spittle . But 'tis in vain I see to Mourn for Oats , For if we Roar until we split our Throats , We cannot help the poor distressed thing ; No hope's to get a Pardon of the King , Therefore he must endure his Suffering . Indeed ( if to Lament would do him good ) Then we would Weep that's to be understood : But , my beloved Brothers in the Lord , That cannot keep him from a Hempen-Cord , Or from his peeping through a Two-inch-Board . And so 'tis needless that we Vex or Fret , God's holy Will be done , we must Submit . However let poor Oats be Brisk and Bonny ( Long as he Lives ) he shall not want for Money , For to his Hive we'll bring both Wax and Honey . Yet ( if he should be Hang'd and Die that way ) Oats will spring up again at Judgement Day , Although there will not be a bit of Hay . But 'tis a great Disgrace that Oh brave Oats ( The Rampant Doctor of Religious Plots ) Is not ( in state ) Promoted up on High ; The just Reward of bloody Perjury . Yet he's no Coward , fearing to be Halter'd , Unless of late his Courage should be Alter'd : Fight Dog , fight Bear , he value's not a Fig , He always was and e'er will be a Whig , And stand up for the Cause we know full well , Though he were sure almost to go to Hell . Therefore if he be Hang'd , and in a Cart Carried to Tyburn , what cares he a Fart , At last the Dearest Friends of all must Part. And now Beloved Brother Oates adieu , Although this story looks a little Blue , Yet what I Wrote of thee is very True . LONDON , Printed by George Groom , at the Sign of the Blue-Ball in Thames-street , over against Baynard's-Castle . 1685. 