H : 135101 A POEM ON THE CORONATION OF JAMES the II King OF Great-Britain , France and Ireland , etc Who was Crowned at Wistminster-Abey the 23th of April , 1685. Julium Sidus micat inter omnes , velut inter ignes Luna Minores Horat. A Thron's Promotions Pyramid , and Kings Are God's Vicegerants , and the Healthful Springs Whence Judgement both and Equity do flow , To cause the Flowers of Peace and Plenty Grow , Which bear , and yield the Fruits of sweet Content , The Root and Nosegey of a Government . For as the Sun darts forth his Beams and Light , To clear the World from Darkness of the Night ; A Gracious King makes Anarchy to Fly , By Justice joyn'd with Sovereignty . 'Tis Providence ( that's nominated Fate ) Guides and Governs all things in Church and State . Promotion and a Kingdoms Royal Crown Comes not by Chance ; 'tis God alone throws down The Proud ; Exalting those ( who for Defence ) Take his decree and sure Omnipotence . Now since the Triumph of this joyful Day Hath turn'd the Wheels of and Hyperbole ; And Expectation hath conceiv'd in Vain A Gemini ; and Labour without Pain Hath brought forth One , who is ( without Contest ) Of Royal Blood , and Sovereign Kings the Bes Great JAMES , who with his Conquest of Renown , And Sacred Head , hath honour'd Englands Crown ; Let all his Subject's found and echo forth A Loyal Simphonia to his Worth . The first rate Sovereign that was sadly tossed , From Wind to Wave , and was given o'r for Lost , 'Twixt Scilla and Charibis , now hath passed The Shore of Shipwracks , and Arriv'd at last At that safe Harbour , where ( though Billows Roar ) No Tempest can prevail against him More . Call and convene the Histories of Time , With all the Poems have been Wrote in Rhyme , And all the Hyrogliphicks that have been 'Twixt Trismegistas and late Guiccardeen : Then let the great Chronologers point forth A Prince that was more Eminent in Worth ; For Gratitude ( the Glory of a King , The Life of Loyalty , and only thing That Binds a Subject firmly to persist In Truth , to live and Die a Loyalist ) Is his Predominant ; he casts and Eye On those who did prove True , when Anarchy Eclips'd the Royal Raze ; and does repay Their Deeds and Service , till this very Day . And furthermore , ( as 'tis by all Confessed ) Our present MARY is of Queen's the Best ; Though Malice Judge and Envy's Jury Fit Upon her Size , no Blemish shee'll admit ; Her spotless Reputation does Defy The rigid Critic of Hypocrecy . Cast all the virtues to one Total worth , Her Fume of parts will point the Product forth . But why should I presume thus to rehearse A Them that's far beyond the reach of Verse ; Her innate Candor sends forth a Light , Can show her Splendour , in the darkest Night . Her Fame's enough her person to extole , And send her praises to the Artick-Pole . And though blind Mortals now should not her prize , Yet after ages will her canonise . Hence then State-grumbling Critics get you gone , With all your pranks of Combination . In Israel the Schismatics and Sects The very Prince of Peace himself did vex ; So Trimmers now , and Counterfeits throw dirt At Church and State ; and make Religion Squirt . Yet thou Great JAMES Vicegerant unto God , Whose Providence hath brought Thee safe , dry-shod , Through that Red-Sea which threatened to fallen down Upon thine Highness , and o'rwhelm thy Crown , Mind his great power ; and keep before thine eye His Glory ; that thy Name may never die ; But have ( when thou art laid in Earth's vast Womb ) The Good and Great Engraven on thy Tomb . All flesh is grass ; turn back , and look behind The vail of by past ages ; and thou'lt fiind Time's glistering Glories are but shadows vain ; And Man once Dead returns not again : Crowns are but Cobwebs , and the Life of Man Compared to Long Eternity's a Span. P.K. LONDON , Printed by George Croom , at the Sign of the Blue Ball in Thames-street , over against Baynard's-Castle . 1685. H : 135101 A POEM ON THE CORONATION OF JAMES the II King OF Great-Britain , France and Ireland , etc Who was Crowned at Wistminster-Abey the 23th of April , 1685. Julium Sidus micat inter omnes , velut inter ignes Luna Minores Horat. A Thron's Promotions Pyramid , and Kings Are God's Vicegerants , and the Healthful Springs Whence Judgement both and Equity do flow , To cause the Flowers of Peace and Plenty Grow , Which bear , and yield the Fruits of sweet Content , The Root and Nosegey of a Government . For as the Sun darts forth his Beams and Light , To clear the World from Darkness of the Night ; A Gracious King makes Anarchy to Fly , By Justice joyn'd with Sovereignty . 'Tis Providence ( that's nominated Fate ) Guides and Governs all things in Church and State . Promotion and a Kingdoms Royal Crown Comes not by Chance ; 'tis God alone throws down The Proud ; Exalting those ( who for Defence ) Take his decree and sure Omnipotence . Now since the Triumph of this joyful Day Hath turn'd the Wheels of and Hyperbole ; And Expectation hath conceiv'd in Vain A Gemini ; and Labour without Pain Hath brought forth One , who is ( without Contest ) Of Royal Blood , and Sovereign Kings the Bes Great JAMES , who with his Conquest of Renown , And Sacred Head , hath honour'd Englands Crown ; Let all his Subject's found and echo forth A Loyal Simphonia to his Worth . The first rate Sovereign that was sadly tossed , From Wind to Wave , and was given o'r for Lost , 'Twixt Scilla and Charibis , now hath passed The Shore of Shipwracks , and Arriv'd at last At that safe Harbour , where ( though Billows Roar ) No Tempest can prevail against him More . Call and convene the Histories of Time , With all the Poems have been Wrote in Rhyme , And all the Hyrogliphicks that have been 'Twixt Trismegistas and late Guiccardeen : Then let the great Chronologers point forth A Prince that was more Eminent in Worth ; For Gratitude ( the Glory of a King , The Life of Loyalty , and only thing That Binds a Subject firmly to persist In Truth , to live and Die a Loyalist ) Is his Predominant ; he casts and Eye On those who did prove True , when Anarchy Eclips'd the Royal Raze ; and does repay Their Deeds and Service , till this very Day . And furthermore , ( as 'tis by all Confessed ) Our present MARY is of Queen's the Best ; Though Malice Judge and Envy's Jury Fit Upon her Size , no Blemish shee'll admit ; Her spotless Reputation does Defy The rigid Critic of Hypocrecy . Cast all the virtues to one Total worth , Her Fume of parts will point the Product forth . But why should I presume thus to rehearse A Them that's far beyond the reach of Verse ; Her innate Candor sends forth a Light , Can show her Splendour , in the darkest Night . Her Fame's enough her person to extole , And send her praises to the Artick-Pole . And though blind Mortals now should not her prize , Yet after ages will her canonise . Hence then State-grumbling Critics get you gone , With all your pranks of Combination . In Israel the Schismatics and Sects The very Prince of Peace himself did vex ; So Trimmers now , and Counterfeits throw dirt At Church and State ; and make Religion Squirt . Yet thou Great JAMES Vicegerant unto God , Whose Providence hath brought Thee safe , dry-shod , Through that Red-Sea which threatened to fallen down Upon thine Highness , and o'rwhelm thy Crown , Mind his great power ; and keep before thine eye His Glory ; that thy Name may never die ; But have ( when thou art laid in Earth's vast Womb ) The Good and Great Engraven on thy Tomb . All flesh is grass ; turn back , and look behind The vail of by past ages ; and thou'lt fiind Time's glistering Glories are but shadows vain ; And Man once Dead returns not again : Crowns are but Cobwebs , and the Life of Man Compared to Long Eternity's a Span. P.K. LONDON , Printed by George Croom , at the Sign of the Blue Ball in Thames-street , over against Baynard's-Castle . 1685. 