H : 135085 THE SECOND PART Of the LOYAL LETANY . THat it may please Thee to decree Our Wishes may completed be We pray'd for in the Letany . Quesumus te Domine . That it may please Thee to disown The Plots and Prayers of every one Who seek thy Anointed to de-Throne . Quesumus , etc That it may please Thee to prevent All such to Fit in Parliament , Who did the Exclusive Bill invent . Quesumus , etc That it may please Thee to debar All those who would foment a War , And of B ------- worser make and Heir . Quesumus , etc That it may please Thee to see good To Punish those who lately wou'd Have wash'd their Hands in Charles's Blood . Quesumus , etc That it may please Thee to Display Their Cants and Cheats who do Betray And led thy Chosen Flock Astray . Quesumus , etc That it may please Thee to Disdain And render all their Prayers in Vain , Who make their Godliness their Gain . Quesumus , etc That it may please Thee in good time The Heads of Oats and Prance may Climb To Rouse's Pole , ------- we want a Rhyme . Quesumus , etc That it may please Thee to Confute And strike them Dumb who dare dispute ( 'gainst Law ) for Pi ------ ton and S ---- te . Quesumus , etc That it may please Thee Oh that we May ne'er again be shamm'd to see And Army Rais'd Invisibly Quesumus , etc That it may please Thee these our Eyes May ne'er behold in woeful wise Our Murdered Corpse , when next we Rise . Quesumus , etc That it may please Thee for to Grant We ne'er a Scotish Whigg may want , To teach us when we are Hang'd to Cant. Quesumus , etc That it may please Thee to deliver Us from those that would endeavour The King and Parliament to Sever . Quesumus , etc That it may please Thee to Increase In Englands Bosom Wealth and Peace : And may it never never Cease . Quesumus , etc That it may please Thee to dispense Thy best and kindest Influence Upon the Head of James our Prince . Quesumus , etc That it may please Thee to Defend 'gainst secret Foe and flattering Friend , His Life and Crown , World without End. Quesumus te Domine . LONDON , Printed by George Croom , at the Sign of the Blue-Ball in Thames-street over against Baynard's-Castle . 1685. H : 135085 THE SECOND PART Of the LOYAL LETANY . THat it may please Thee to decree Our Wishes may completed be We pray'd for in the Letany . Quesumus te Domine . That it may please Thee to disown The Plots and Prayers of every one Who seek thy Anointed to de-Throne . Quesumus , etc That it may please Thee to prevent All such to Fit in Parliament , Who did the Exclusive Bill invent . Quesumus , etc That it may please Thee to debar All those who would foment a War , And of B ------- worser make and Heir . Quesumus , etc That it may please Thee to see good To Punish those who lately wou'd Have wash'd their Hands in Charles's Blood . Quesumus , etc That it may please Thee to Display Their Cants and Cheats who do Betray And led thy Chosen Flock Astray . Quesumus , etc That it may please Thee to Disdain And render all their Prayers in Vain , Who make their Godliness their Gain . Quesumus , etc That it may please Thee in good time The Heads of Oats and Prance may Climb To Rouse's Pole , ------- we want a Rhyme . Quesumus , etc That it may please Thee to Confute And strike them Dumb who dare dispute ( 'gainst Law ) for Pi ------ ton and S ---- te . Quesumus , etc That it may please Thee Oh that we May ne'er again be shamm'd to see And Army Rais'd Invisibly Quesumus , etc That it may please Thee these our Eyes May ne'er behold in woeful wise Our Murdered Corpse , when next we Rise . Quesumus , etc That it may please Thee for to Grant We ne'er a Scotish Whigg may want , To teach us when we are Hang'd to Cant. Quesumus , etc That it may please Thee to deliver Us from those that would endeavour The King and Parliament to Sever . Quesumus , etc That it may please Thee to Increase In Englands Bosom Wealth and Peace : And may it never never Cease . Quesumus , etc That it may please Thee to dispense Thy best and kindest Influence Upon the Head of James our Prince . Quesumus , etc That it may please Thee to Defend 'gainst secret Foe and flattering Friend , His Life and Crown , World without End. Quesumus te Domine . LONDON , Printed by George Croom , at the Sign of the Blue-Ball in Thames-street over against Baynard's-Castle . 1685. 