H : 135086 The Reward of Loyalty , Being a SONG of the times , advising every man to be faithful to God , Loyal to his King , and honest to his Neighbour , and not to meddle with State Affairs . To the Tune of Hark the Thundering Cannons Roar . I. LOyalty's a Noble thing , Service done unto a King , Honour , and Reward does bring , And flys up to Promotion ; Treason is a trick of State , Which the Devil makes a bait , To a proud aspiring Pait , To overturn a Nation . II I never knew ( since time began ) And open Rogue , and great Trapan Turn a True , and Faithful Man To GOD , or yet be Loyal . He who to a KING that's brave Proves a false deceitful Knave Is Seditions simple Slave , Be true to JAMES the Royal. III . Newgate Traitor tell me now , What turns all thy Projects too ? And Exploits thou thought to do Against the Lords Anointed , Rebels that the Nation hate Must submit to Divine Fate Which Ruleth both the Church & State , And runs as GOD appointed . IV. Ne'r was KING of more Renown , Then Great James that wears the Crown ; Rebels Names he does write down , Until he be at leisure . Loyalists he does requite , Gratitude is his delight , But the Rascal Rout does sligh He's just as was Old Caesar . V. When Hogan Mogan did disdain To take on Brittains Yoke again , He led the Fleet unto the Main , And bravely did behave him . When Brains and Bullets fled about , He prov'd himself both wise , and stout ; And cry'd , Let's have the other bout , We will both Fight and Slave them . VI . He is the First Rate-Sovereign Blood , Laden with the Kingdoms good , Toss'd betwixt the Wind and Flood , When providence ensureth . Though the Church Religious Vail Were made Treasons highest Sail The hope of Hypocrites would fail , For Truth alone endureth . VII . Heap me a rousing Glass with Wine , Let no Man at this Health repine , To JAMES the great I'll drink off mine , He knows both Sword and Sceptre . Wen Madness did make Brittain dance The Tragedy of base Mischance His Practice did his Parts enhance , And was complete still after . VIII . Honest Fellow live content , Kindly take what GOD hath sent , Think what way to pay thy Rend , And strive to fly no higher . He's a Fool ( at any rate ) Medl'th with Affairs of State ; He'll repent when 'tis too late , And say that I'm no Lyar. IX . Fear the LORD , Honour the KING , Submit to Fate in ( every thing ) Do thy business and sing , And never think on sorrow . In private Eat thy Honey Comb , Kiss thy Wife when thou'rt at home ; Never think on what may come , For none hath seen to Morrow . London , Printed for J Hizzey , 1685. H : 135086 The Reward of Loyalty , Being a SONG of the times , advising every man to be faithful to God , Loyal to his King , and honest to his Neighbour , and not to meddle with State Affairs . To the Tune of Hark the Thundering Cannons Roar . I. LOyalty's a Noble thing , Service done unto a King , Honour , and Reward does bring , And flys up to Promotion ; Treason is a trick of State , Which the Devil makes a bait , To a proud aspiring Pait , To overturn a Nation . II I never knew ( since time began ) And open Rogue , and great Trapan Turn a True , and Faithful Man To GOD , or yet be Loyal . He who to a KING that's brave Proves a false deceitful Knave Is Seditions simple Slave , Be true to JAMES the Royal. III . Newgate Traitor tell me now , What turns all thy Projects too ? And Exploits thou thought to do Against the Lords Anointed , Rebels that the Nation hate Must submit to Divine Fate Which Ruleth both the Church & State , And runs as GOD appointed . IV. Ne'r was KING of more Renown , Then Great James that wears the Crown ; Rebels Names he does write down , Until he be at leisure . Loyalists he does requite , Gratitude is his delight , But the Rascal Rout does sligh He's just as was Old Caesar . V. When Hogan Mogan did disdain To take on Brittains Yoke again , He led the Fleet unto the Main , And bravely did behave him . When Brains and Bullets fled about , He prov'd himself both wise , and stout ; And cry'd , Let's have the other bout , We will both Fight and Slave them . VI . He is the First Rate-Sovereign Blood , Laden with the Kingdoms good , Toss'd betwixt the Wind and Flood , When providence ensureth . Though the Church Religious Vail Were made Treasons highest Sail The hope of Hypocrites would fail , For Truth alone endureth . VII . Heap me a rousing Glass with Wine , Let no Man at this Health repine , To JAMES the great I'll drink off mine , He knows both Sword and Sceptre . Wen Madness did make Brittain dance The Tragedy of base Mischance His Practice did his Parts enhance , And was complete still after . VIII . Honest Fellow live content , Kindly take what GOD hath sent , Think what way to pay thy Rend , And strive to fly no higher . He's a Fool ( at any rate ) Medl'th with Affairs of State ; He'll repent when 'tis too late , And say that I'm no Lyar. IX . Fear the LORD , Honour the KING , Submit to Fate in ( every thing ) Do thy business and sing , And never think on sorrow . In private Eat thy Honey Comb , Kiss thy Wife when thou'rt at home ; Never think on what may come , For none hath seen to Morrow . London , Printed for J Hizzey , 1685. 