H : 29514 A Tragical SONG : OR , Mr. Wil. Montfort , The Famous Actor Unfortunately Kill'd . Tune of Mary Live Long . GOod People draw near , And hear my sad Ditty With Hearts full of Pity , This Tragical Year Is bloody indeed : Some they fairly do fight , Others stab'd in the Night , as they do go home , Brave Montfort the Player , B [ r ] have Montfort the Player , He lately was one . His Name still will last In Court Town or Country , By Cits , or the Gentry , Till Ages are passed For Acts on the Stage ; For in playing a Part , He excels the fam'd Heart , Or Moon that's dead too , Nay , no one thats living , Nay , no one thats living , Can Montfort outdo . His Carriage was such , In all Conversation , To be free from Passion , And never thought much To oblige any one ; From a Lord to a Cit , He was free with his Wit , And Courteous withal : But now alas Killing , But now alas Killing , Is us'd all in all . Each one does lament His death , since life's shortn'd By bloody misfortune , And cries out amain Poor Montfort is gone , It is all over the Town , Was the like ever known , To use a man so , when coming to's Lodging , when coming to's Lodging , He should be run through . O cruel hard Fate , Since Murder's in fashion , With the English Nation , That men cannot escape , Being kill'd by the Sword ; One can hardly pass by , But another does cry , Lets kill the next man . Some never will leave it , Some never will leave it , Until they be hang'd . Here's Montfort of late , Though young and beloved , How soon Life is moved , When malice or hate Shall once resolve Death , As he went without Light , He was run through that Night , And dy'd the next day ; So he thats Moon-blinded , So he thats Moon blinded May soon loose his way . London , Printed for Charles Barns . H : 29514 A Tragical SONG : OR , Mr. Wil. Montfort , The Famous Actor Unfortunately Kill'd . Tune of Mary Live Long . GOod People draw near , And hear my sad Ditty With Hearts full of Pity , This Tragical Year Is bloody indeed : Some they fairly do fight , Others stab'd in the Night , as they do go home , Brave Montfort the Player , B [ r ] have Montfort the Player , He lately was one . His Name still will last In Court Town or Country , By Cits , or the Gentry , Till Ages are passed For Acts on the Stage ; For in playing a Part , He excels the fam'd Heart , Or Moon that's dead too , Nay , no one thats living , Nay , no one thats living , Can Montfort outdo . His Carriage was such , In all Conversation , To be free from Passion , And never thought much To oblige any one ; From a Lord to a Cit , He was free with his Wit , And Courteous withal : But now alas Killing , But now alas Killing , Is us'd all in all . Each one does lament His death , since life's shortn'd By bloody misfortune , And cries out amain Poor Montfort is gone , It is all over the Town , Was the like ever known , To use a man so , when coming to's Lodging , when coming to's Lodging , He should be run through . O cruel hard Fate , Since Murder's in fashion , With the English Nation , That men cannot escape , Being kill'd by the Sword ; One can hardly pass by , But another does cry , Lets kill the next man . Some never will leave it , Some never will leave it , Until they be hang'd . Here's Montfort of late , Though young and beloved , How soon Life is moved , When malice or hate Shall once resolve Death , As he went without Light , He was run through that Night , And dy'd the next day ; So he thats Moon-blinded , So he thats Moon blinded May soon loose his way . London , Printed for Charles Barns . 