H : 29510 A New PROPHECY OF Several strange and wondered Revolutions that shall happen to the Kingdom of ENGLAND in or about and Hundred Years hence . To a New Playhouse Tune . I . ALL you that can find Ears , and you that have None , ( But not to mistake me , I mean that have One ) Come listen awhile , and I'le tell you a Tale Which with Jugler's Knot , you shall have by Retail ; And therefore I hope it will not give Offence , Since they're all to be over and Hundred Years hence . II With drooping Whitefryers we then shall begin , Where Wit now does multiply as does their since ; For 'tis so increas'd that We never can fail Of a Dozen of Wits , for a Doz'n of Ale . By the Votes it is plain that they must pack thence , And that long before Half and hundred Years hence . III . To Lewis le Grand we now find ev'ry Widgeon From cheating all Mankind , to fly for Religion ; All Martyrs they'll bellow , Alsatia's their own , And they will get them both when James gets a Crown ; All which , if we live , we shall see to commence But a few days before and Hundred Years hence . IV. But I doubt long before they'll all be forgotten , And James with his Beggarly Crew will lie rotten ; And such Popish Kittens we vow to restore , When Poets and Jacobites ne're shall be Poor ; All this and much more will appear to our Sense , If ever it comes 'tis and Hundred Years hence . V. Our Taxes are great , but they may save our Throats , Or from Lewis who makes 'em pay for their Coats , Or damnable Room that we may not adore , Who piously forces Excise for a Whore ; Our Money we'll give for our Noble Defence , That we may be Happy and Hundred Years hence . VI . We Children will get then , and pay for their Heads , That they may not be damn'd for handling of Beads ; We'll turn up our Doxies , and Soldiers procure , That the Bald-pated Tribe we may not endure ; We'll deal with our Damsels , that we may from thence Have Brood's that will stand to't and Hundred Years hence . VII . We this will perform , and now pay for the Work To keep out the Devil , the Pope , and the Turk , That Jemmy the Elder may never reign more , Or Jemmy the Younger may never come o're ; All which to prevent , our Pounds , Shillings and Pence , Shall willingly fly till and Hundred Years hence . VIII . But --- Room for Cuckolds without any Jest-O , Advance Pater Patriae with Manifesto , Which had better instead of Count Dada's Tarse , Have serv'd to wipe Sacred Modena's Arse , From whence daily issues such choice Frankincense , As may give and Hogo and Hundred Years hence . IX . Our Halls stuffed with Monks , and our Towns loose their Charters , And Room once again shall set up her Head Quarters ; In Smithfield once more at the Stake we shall burn , And Berwick and Peters shall make a Return , Dragoon'd we shall be out of Cash and our Sense , By th' Bastards beyond Sea , and Hundred Years hence . X. We to Faux and th' glorious Raviliac shall pray , And England be bless'd with a Saint for each day , When Sir John and Sir William's great Fame amount In Read Letters by the Gregorian Account ; When St. Pauls shall be chang'd to St. Peters Immense , No doubt this will happen and Hundred Years hence . XI . With a Glass of rich Burdeux , or a Cup of Nantz , We shortly from thence will supply all our Wants ; All this I predict without help of a Star , By a General Peace , or a General War : This WILLIAM secures us in the Present Tense , That we mayn't be Bug-beard and Hundred Years hence . FINIS . LONDON Printed , and Sold by John Mayos at the Golden Cross in Thames-street near Queenhithe . 1697. H : 29510 A New PROPHECY OF Several strange and wondered Revolutions that shall happen to the Kingdom of ENGLAND in or about and Hundred Years hence . To a New Playhouse Tune . I . ALL you that can find Ears , and you that have None , ( But not to mistake me , I mean that have One ) Come listen awhile , and I'le tell you a Tale Which with Jugler's Knot , you shall have by Retail ; And therefore I hope it will not give Offence , Since they're all to be over and Hundred Years hence . II With drooping Whitefryers we then shall begin , Where Wit now does multiply as does their since ; For 'tis so increas'd that We never can fail Of a Dozen of Wits , for a Doz'n of Ale . By the Votes it is plain that they must pack thence , And that long before Half and hundred Years hence . III . To Lewis le Grand we now find ev'ry Widgeon From cheating all Mankind , to fly for Religion ; All Martyrs they'll bellow , Alsatia's their own , And they will get them both when James gets a Crown ; All which , if we live , we shall see to commence But a few days before and Hundred Years hence . IV. But I doubt long before they'll all be forgotten , And James with his Beggarly Crew will lie rotten ; And such Popish Kittens we vow to restore , When Poets and Jacobites ne're shall be Poor ; All this and much more will appear to our Sense , If ever it comes 'tis and Hundred Years hence . V. Our Taxes are great , but they may save our Throats , Or from Lewis who makes 'em pay for their Coats , Or damnable Room that we may not adore , Who piously forces Excise for a Whore ; Our Money we'll give for our Noble Defence , That we may be Happy and Hundred Years hence . VI . We Children will get then , and pay for their Heads , That they may not be damn'd for handling of Beads ; We'll turn up our Doxies , and Soldiers procure , That the Bald-pated Tribe we may not endure ; We'll deal with our Damsels , that we may from thence Have Brood's that will stand to't and Hundred Years hence . VII . We this will perform , and now pay for the Work To keep out the Devil , the Pope , and the Turk , That Jemmy the Elder may never reign more , Or Jemmy the Younger may never come o're ; All which to prevent , our Pounds , Shillings and Pence , Shall willingly fly till and Hundred Years hence . VIII . But --- Room for Cuckolds without any Jest-O , Advance Pater Patriae with Manifesto , Which had better instead of Count Dada's Tarse , Have serv'd to wipe Sacred Modena's Arse , From whence daily issues such choice Frankincense , As may give and Hogo and Hundred Years hence . IX . Our Halls stuffed with Monks , and our Towns loose their Charters , And Room once again shall set up her Head Quarters ; In Smithfield once more at the Stake we shall burn , And Berwick and Peters shall make a Return , Dragoon'd we shall be out of Cash and our Sense , By th' Bastards beyond Sea , and Hundred Years hence . X. We to Faux and th' glorious Raviliac shall pray , And England be bless'd with a Saint for each day , When Sir John and Sir William's great Fame amount In Read Letters by the Gregorian Account ; When St. Pauls shall be chang'd to St. Peters Immense , No doubt this will happen and Hundred Years hence . XI . With a Glass of rich Burdeux , or a Cup of Nantz , We shortly from thence will supply all our Wants ; All this I predict without help of a Star , By a General Peace , or a General War : This WILLIAM secures us in the Present Tense , That we mayn't be Bug-beard and Hundred Years hence . FINIS . LONDON Printed , and Sold by John Mayos at the Golden Cross in Thames-street near Queenhithe . 1697. 