H : 29432a AND ELEGY On the DEATH of Mr. WILLIAM SHERWOOD , Victualler at the Sign of the Lion and Ball in Read Lion-street , who after having lain for some time in State , was Buried at St. Andrews , Holbourn , on Tuesday the 22d . instant , his Corpse being Attended by 300 Persons , beside several Files of Granadeers , of which he was Lieutenant . AT last our Hope's are fled , and he's departed , And leaves us Fuddling Sinners broken hearted , To think how Death could take delight in Bauking The bold Designs of Honourable Chalking ; Who now shall set young Lawyers Clerks a roaring , And countenance the Noble Art of Scoring ? Who shall instruct the Soldiers in procedure , And dare to give Cross words to Grim File-Leader , Who Cloath'd in Buff , disdains Reproof , and scorns To use his Gun , since he can use his Horns ? Ah Sherwood , to thy great Example's owing That Sots are skill'd in Drink , and Warriors knowing , That Bars are render'd White by Midnight debtors And many a Name is Book'd in Ample Letters ; And should thy virtues want to be recorded , Thy Transcendent Worth be unrewarded , How would this Thankless Age be call'd Ungrateful , And hearty Soakers go without their Pate-full ? High were thy Thoughts , and Soaring thy Designs Above thy Station , and above our Lines . Thy Mind as frothy as thy Working Ale But Sour thy Temper like thy Beer when Stale . Yet thou hadst Virtues , and couldst rarely Neck it , When thou vouchsafst thyself to turn the Spicket ; And being gracious pleas'd to let the Tap run , Quitting thy glorious Sash for foul Blue Apron : Witness the many Pots of Pearl , I've seen Drawn by thy Hands , most nicely dash'd , and clean ; And potent Mugs of powerful Ale and Beer , Frothing at Top , as if thy Mind was there . But I do wrong to this departed Ghost In treating him , as if a Common Host. His Frowns Command , and charge me to forbear , And loose the Vic [ ? ] ler in the Man of War. Methinks I see him on a Muster-day , Dress'd like a Hero , Fanciful and Gay ; The Face well Scour'd with Soap , and by his side , There stands the price of Majesty his Bride , Who puts his Ruffles into Pleits , and dresses Her Charming Spouse with thousand soft Caresses , As his proud Soul contemplates his Condition , And thanks Short-Pots for getting his Commission ; While he gives Drink for Name of Noble Captain . Perceiving not the snares which he is trapped in . Awful he looks , and dreadful to the Sighed , And meditates the pleasures of the Fight ; Which stead of Dangers , and of hateful Bullets Presents him with Roast-Beef , and Legs of Pullets . But why alas ! Am I thus long deceiv'd ? And fancy life in one of Life bereav'd ? Yonder He lies , and breathless is his Carcase Damn't , I could almost Swear , 'tis such a hard Case . Behold the Champion , who when living durst Fight to appease his Hunger and his Thirst , In Bloodless Battles , and in harmless Broils , Employ'd his Labours , and pursu'd his Soils , Now Moulder into Ashes , and decline Speechless , as is the Lion on his Sign . O Death ! What mischief did e're Sherwood do thee ? Though He Kill'd none , his Liquours sent 'em to thee ; His Punch , his Brandy , and his Heath'nish Spirits Might have atton'd for his default of Merits , Since Carbuncled Offenders come by Scores And own the Conquest of his damn'd All-fours ; As they with glancing Pimples on their Faces Illuminate thy dark and loathsome places . But I in vain my sighs and tears have spent , And fruitless vows for Sherwood upward sent , Sighs are in vain , unless their cause was juster , He'll ne're return again to go to Muster : And fearless of Abuses or of Slander Will show himself a terrible Commander . Yet Heavens be prais'd , that though the Tapster's gone The taps are still in use , and Spickets run , That the blessed Cellar which H'has left , produces [ ? ] some Liquours , and Celestial Juices , [ ? ] chosen who such a Loss survive , Happy in Life , if those but keep alive . EPITAPH . BEneath this silent Stone there lies And insolent Householder , Who living followed two Employs , A Victualler and a Soldier , The first Employment swell'd his purse , The last puffed up his Mind , Which of the two's the greatest Curse E'en let the Readers find . His Wealth , that purchas'd him his Pride , His Pride god a Commission But what that god we can't decide , Who know not his Condition . He's dead and that's enough t'acquaint A Man of any sense , That if He's looking for a Saint He must go farther hence . Short Pots you know and under siz'd May chance to get Estates But never make us Canoniz'd Or open Heavens Gates . A Tawdry Sash may also show The Post a Man inherits , But Reader neither I nor you Can swear that Man has Merits . What e're he was , 'tis all the same To me who am a Writing ; You give him but a Sinners Name , I'll swear his since wan't Fighting . FINIS . LONDON : Printed for A.B. near Chancery-Lane . 1699. H : 29432a AND ELEGY On the DEATH of Mr. WILLIAM SHERWOOD , Victualler at the Sign of the Lion and Ball in Read Lion-street , who after having lain for some time in State , was Buried at St. Andrews , Holbourn , on Tuesday the 22d . instant , his Corpse being Attended by 300 Persons , beside several Files of Granadeers , of which he was Lieutenant . AT last our Hope's are fled , and he's departed , And leaves us Fuddling Sinners broken hearted , To think how Death could take delight in Bauking The bold Designs of Honourable Chalking ; Who now shall set young Lawyers Clerks a roaring , And countenance the Noble Art of Scoring ? Who shall instruct the Soldiers in procedure , And dare to give Cross words to Grim File-Leader , Who Cloath'd in Buff , disdains Reproof , and scorns To use his Gun , since he can use his Horns ? Ah Sherwood , to thy great Example's owing That Sots are skill'd in Drink , and Warriors knowing , That Bars are render'd White by Midnight debtors And many a Name is Book'd in Ample Letters ; And should thy virtues want to be recorded , Thy Transcendent Worth be unrewarded , How would this Thankless Age be call'd Ungrateful , And hearty Soakers go without their Pate-full ? High were thy Thoughts , and Soaring thy Designs Above thy Station , and above our Lines . Thy Mind as frothy as thy Working Ale But Sour thy Temper like thy Beer when Stale . Yet thou hadst Virtues , and couldst rarely Neck it , When thou vouchsafst thyself to turn the Spicket ; And being gracious pleas'd to let the Tap run , Quitting thy glorious Sash for foul Blue Apron : Witness the many Pots of Pearl , I've seen Drawn by thy Hands , most nicely dash'd , and clean ; And potent Mugs of powerful Ale and Beer , Frothing at Top , as if thy Mind was there . But I do wrong to this departed Ghost In treating him , as if a Common Host. His Frowns Command , and charge me to forbear , And loose the Vic [ ? ] ler in the Man of War. Methinks I see him on a Muster-day , Dress'd like a Hero , Fanciful and Gay ; The Face well Scour'd with Soap , and by his side , There stands the price of Majesty his Bride , Who puts his Ruffles into Pleits , and dresses Her Charming Spouse with thousand soft Caresses , As his proud Soul contemplates his Condition , And thanks Short-Pots for getting his Commission ; While he gives Drink for Name of Noble Captain . Perceiving not the snares which he is trapped in . Awful he looks , and dreadful to the Sighed , And meditates the pleasures of the Fight ; Which stead of Dangers , and of hateful Bullets Presents him with Roast-Beef , and Legs of Pullets . But why alas ! Am I thus long deceiv'd ? And fancy life in one of Life bereav'd ? Yonder He lies , and breathless is his Carcase Damn't , I could almost Swear , 'tis such a hard Case . Behold the Champion , who when living durst Fight to appease his Hunger and his Thirst , In Bloodless Battles , and in harmless Broils , Employ'd his Labours , and pursu'd his Soils , Now Moulder into Ashes , and decline Speechless , as is the Lion on his Sign . O Death ! What mischief did e're Sherwood do thee ? Though He Kill'd none , his Liquours sent 'em to thee ; His Punch , his Brandy , and his Heath'nish Spirits Might have atton'd for his default of Merits , Since Carbuncled Offenders come by Scores And own the Conquest of his damn'd All-fours ; As they with glancing Pimples on their Faces Illuminate thy dark and loathsome places . But I in vain my sighs and tears have spent , And fruitless vows for Sherwood upward sent , Sighs are in vain , unless their cause was juster , He'll ne're return again to go to Muster : And fearless of Abuses or of Slander Will show himself a terrible Commander . Yet Heavens be prais'd , that though the Tapster's gone The taps are still in use , and Spickets run , That the blessed Cellar which H'has left , produces [ ? ] some Liquours , and Celestial Juices , [ ? ] chosen who such a Loss survive , Happy in Life , if those but keep alive . EPITAPH . BEneath this silent Stone there lies And insolent Householder , Who living followed two Employs , A Victualler and a Soldier , The first Employment swell'd his purse , The last puffed up his Mind , Which of the two's the greatest Curse E'en let the Readers find . His Wealth , that purchas'd him his Pride , His Pride god a Commission But what that god we can't decide , Who know not his Condition . He's dead and that's enough t'acquaint A Man of any sense , That if He's looking for a Saint He must go farther hence . Short Pots you know and under siz'd May chance to get Estates But never make us Canoniz'd Or open Heavens Gates . A Tawdry Sash may also show The Post a Man inherits , But Reader neither I nor you Can swear that Man has Merits . What e're he was , 'tis all the same To me who am a Writing ; You give him but a Sinners Name , I'll swear his since wan't Fighting . FINIS . LONDON : Printed for A.B. near Chancery-Lane . 1699. 