H : 80038 AND ESSAY Upon the late VICTORY obtained by His Royal Highness the Duke of York , Against the DUTCH , upon June 3. 1665. By the Author of Iter Boreale . GOUT ! I conjure thee by the powerful Names Of CHARLES and JAMES , and their victorious Fame's , On this great Day set all thy Prisoners free , ( Triumphs command a Goal-Delivery ) Set them all free , leave not a limping Toe From my Lord Chancellors to mine below ; Unless thou giv'st us leave this day to dance , Thou'rt not th' old Loyal Gout , but com'st from France . 'Tis done , my grief obeys the Sovereign Charms , I feel a Bonfire in my joints , which warms And thaws the frozen jelly ; I am grown Twenty years younger ; Victory hath done What puzzled Physic : Give the Dutch a Rout , Probatum est , 'twill cure and English Gout . Come then , put nimble Socks upon my Feet , They shall be Skippers to our Royal Fleet , Which now returns in dances on our Seas , A Conqueror above Hyperbole's . A Sea which with Bucephalus does scorn Less than and Alexander should be born On her proud Back ; but to a Loyal Rein Yields foaming Mouth , and bends her curled Main : And conscious that she is too strait a stage For Charles to act on , swell'd with Loyal Rage , Urges the Belgic and the Gallick shore To yield more room , Her Master must have more . Ingrateful Neighbours ! 'twas our kinder Isle , With Her own Blood , made Your Geneva Style Writ in small Print [ Poor States and soar perplexed ] Swell to the [ HIGH AND MIGHTY LORDS ] in Text ; And can you be such Snakes to sting that Breast , Which in Your Winter gave you Warmth and Rest ? Poor Flemish Frogs , if Your Ambition thirst To swell to English Greatness , You will burst . Could You believe Our Royal Head would fail To Nod those down who fell before our Tail ? Or could Your Amsterdam by her commands , Make London carry Coals to warm her Hands ? A bold Attempt ! Pray practise it no more ; We sav'd our Coals , yet gave you fire good store . It is enough ; The righteous Heavens have now Judg'd the Grand Quarrel betwixt us and you . The Sentence is --- The Surface must be ours , But for the bottom of the Sea , 'tis yours : Thither your Opdam with some thousands , are Gone down to take possession of your share . Methinks I hear great Triton found a Call , And through th' affrighted Ocean summon all His scaly Regiments , to come and take Part of that Feast which Charles Their King does make ; Where they may glut Revenge , quit the old score , And feed on those who fed on them before ; Whom when they have digested , who can find Whither they're fish , or flesh , or what's their Kind ? Van-Cod , Van-Ling , Van-Herring will be cry'd About their Streets ; All Fish , so Dutchified . Their States may find their Capers in their Dish , And meet their Admirals in Butter'd Fish . Thus they'l imbody , and increase their Crew ; A cunning way to make each Dutch-man two . And on themselves , they now must feed or fast ; Their Herring Trade is brought unto its Last . To the KING . GReat Sir , Belov'd of God and Man , admit My Loyal zeal to run before my Wit . This is my Pens miscarriage , not a Birth ; Her haste hath made her bring blind Puppies forth . My aims in this attempt , are to provoke , And kindle flames more Noble , by my smoke ; My wisp of Straw may set great Wood on Fire , And my weak Breath Your Organs may inspire . among those Flags y' have taken from the Dutch , Command your Denham to hang up his Crutch : He is a man both of his Hands and Feet , And with great Numbers can Your Navy meet , His quicker Eye Your Conquest can survey ; His Hand , York's Temples Crown with flourishing Bay , Waller ( great Poet and true Prophet too ) Whose curious Pencil in Rich Colours drew The Type of this grand Triumph for your view , ( The Fishers ( like their Herrings ) bleeding new ) With the same Hand shall give the World the sights Of what it must expect when England Fights . That Son and Heir of Pindars Muse and Fame , Your modest Cowley , with Your Breath will flame , And make those Belgic Beasts , who live , aspire To fallen Your Sacrifice in his pure Fire . He shall proclaim Our JAMES great Neptune's Wonder , And , like a Jove , Fighting in Clouds and Thunder . Licensed June 16. 1665. ROGER L'ESTRANGE Lindon , Printed by A. Maxwell for Fabian Stedman , at his shop in St. Dunstans Churchyard in Fleetstreet , 1665. H : 80038 AND ESSAY Upon the late VICTORY obtained by His Royal Highness the Duke of York , Against the DUTCH , upon June 3. 1665. By the Author of Iter Boreale . GOUT ! I conjure thee by the powerful Names Of CHARLES and JAMES , and their victorious Fame's , On this great Day set all thy Prisoners free , ( Triumphs command a Goal-Delivery ) Set them all free , leave not a limping Toe From my Lord Chancellors to mine below ; Unless thou giv'st us leave this day to dance , Thou'rt not th' old Loyal Gout , but com'st from France . 'Tis done , my grief obeys the Sovereign Charms , I feel a Bonfire in my joints , which warms And thaws the frozen jelly ; I am grown Twenty years younger ; Victory hath done What puzzled Physic : Give the Dutch a Rout , Probatum est , 'twill cure and English Gout . Come then , put nimble Socks upon my Feet , They shall be Skippers to our Royal Fleet , Which now returns in dances on our Seas , A Conqueror above Hyperbole's . A Sea which with Bucephalus does scorn Less than and Alexander should be born On her proud Back ; but to a Loyal Rein Yields foaming Mouth , and bends her curled Main : And conscious that she is too strait a stage For Charles to act on , swell'd with Loyal Rage , Urges the Belgic and the Gallick shore To yield more room , Her Master must have more . Ingrateful Neighbours ! 'twas our kinder Isle , With Her own Blood , made Your Geneva Style Writ in small Print [ Poor States and soar perplexed ] Swell to the [ HIGH AND MIGHTY LORDS ] in Text ; And can you be such Snakes to sting that Breast , Which in Your Winter gave you Warmth and Rest ? Poor Flemish Frogs , if Your Ambition thirst To swell to English Greatness , You will burst . Could You believe Our Royal Head would fail To Nod those down who fell before our Tail ? Or could Your Amsterdam by her commands , Make London carry Coals to warm her Hands ? A bold Attempt ! Pray practise it no more ; We sav'd our Coals , yet gave you fire good store . It is enough ; The righteous Heavens have now Judg'd the Grand Quarrel betwixt us and you . The Sentence is --- The Surface must be ours , But for the bottom of the Sea , 'tis yours : Thither your Opdam with some thousands , are Gone down to take possession of your share . Methinks I hear great Triton found a Call , And through th' affrighted Ocean summon all His scaly Regiments , to come and take Part of that Feast which Charles Their King does make ; Where they may glut Revenge , quit the old score , And feed on those who fed on them before ; Whom when they have digested , who can find Whither they're fish , or flesh , or what's their Kind ? Van-Cod , Van-Ling , Van-Herring will be cry'd About their Streets ; All Fish , so Dutchified . Their States may find their Capers in their Dish , And meet their Admirals in Butter'd Fish . Thus they'l imbody , and increase their Crew ; A cunning way to make each Dutch-man two . And on themselves , they now must feed or fast ; Their Herring Trade is brought unto its Last . To the KING . GReat Sir , Belov'd of God and Man , admit My Loyal zeal to run before my Wit . This is my Pens miscarriage , not a Birth ; Her haste hath made her bring blind Puppies forth . My aims in this attempt , are to provoke , And kindle flames more Noble , by my smoke ; My wisp of Straw may set great Wood on Fire , And my weak Breath Your Organs may inspire . among those Flags y' have taken from the Dutch , Command your Denham to hang up his Crutch : He is a man both of his Hands and Feet , And with great Numbers can Your Navy meet , His quicker Eye Your Conquest can survey ; His Hand , York's Temples Crown with flourishing Bay , Waller ( great Poet and true Prophet too ) Whose curious Pencil in Rich Colours drew The Type of this grand Triumph for your view , ( The Fishers ( like their Herrings ) bleeding new ) With the same Hand shall give the World the sights Of what it must expect when England Fights . That Son and Heir of Pindars Muse and Fame , Your modest Cowley , with Your Breath will flame , And make those Belgic Beasts , who live , aspire To fallen Your Sacrifice in his pure Fire . He shall proclaim Our JAMES great Neptune's Wonder , And , like a Jove , Fighting in Clouds and Thunder . Licensed June 16. 1665. ROGER L'ESTRANGE Lindon , Printed by A. Maxwell for Fabian Stedman , at his shop in St. Dunstans Churchyard in Fleetstreet , 1665. 