H : 84064 A Congratulatory POEM TO THE RIGHT HONOURABLE Sir WILLIAM PRITCHARD . Lord Mayor of the City of London . IN that great Train which loudly does rehearse Your just Encomiums in Lofty Verse ; Whose every Line the Lauriat does shake , And of a Faculty a trade wou [ l ] worser make : '' 'Mongst these my Lord , that for such treasures hope Give your poor Scribbler leave to Interlope : Admit that Humble Muse , that never knew To couple Verse , till now Inspir'd by you . To say , my Lord , that you , if Fate should frown Must be the Genius to Preserve this Town ; And none so fit to Bless the City Throne , Except brave Loyal Moor , might still Reign on . Hail then , thou City Monarch ! may thy Reign With Peace and Plenty , all the Land maintain . Observe how all along the Streets the Crowd With Joyful Sounds , does Welcome in their Lord ; When on the Thames , how all along the Shore , 'Twas hard to say , who did express it more , Or whither Men or Cannons that did Roar . Caesar Himself and Royal York are come , And all the Court , to bid you Welcome Home : Your Pageants , Whifflers , and Oxilaries , They come on Course , and your Artillery , But Caesar came to Grace your Loyalty . The Giddy Rabble that Illeterate Beast , Who Factious Traitors had with fear possessed ; Convincing Time in spite of Whining Zeal , Has shown the Blessing of a Common-Weal ; That they'r designs tho' ne'r so Meekly dressed , Was only Mutiny for Interest ; That Long-ear'd Rout , and their Achittophel , That think it since to Live and not Rebel : Those Pious Elders , that Jenaeva Rabble , That hop , once more , to make old Pauls a Stable ; Or rather see her in her Ashes lie , Then hear in Her the true Episcopy : Beside , she is too Great , the Charge Profuse , They could Convert her into better Use . These , my good Lord , your Predecessor found , To be the Incects Barren'd all the Ground ; And with that Sword which now is in your Hand , He strove to Weed out from our Fertile Land : But Old Achittophel , that Reverend barred , Whom Heaven intended Man and Nature Mar'd With Treats , and something else , I dare not say , I think 'twas Treason ; boar a part away . But he has set his House in Order now , And is gone down in Order thereunto --- --- Assist you Powers , and tie the Damons up , For should they find him they would cut the Rope : He's for their work on Earth , they understand , And what can signify one Fire-Brand ? My Lord , I Blush at my Impertinence , Yet thus far I dare plead my own Defence ; That did you know , the Man that Fate has spent In Tragic Scenes , that little Fortune lent ; You would not have him praise the Instrument . I wish your Lordship many Years of Bliss , A Jubilee of Days , and all like this ; That each Propitious Star may be your Guide , That Fair-ey'd Truth may never be deny'd ; That when you quit your trust , you'l find a Brother , To King , to Church , and State , just such another . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , near the Hospital-gate , in West-Smithfield . 1682. H : 84064 A Congratulatory POEM TO THE RIGHT HONOURABLE Sir WILLIAM PRITCHARD . Lord Mayor of the City of London . IN that great Train which loudly does rehearse Your just Encomiums in Lofty Verse ; Whose every Line the Lauriat does shake , And of a Faculty a trade wou [ l ] worser make : '' 'Mongst these my Lord , that for such treasures hope Give your poor Scribbler leave to Interlope : Admit that Humble Muse , that never knew To couple Verse , till now Inspir'd by you . To say , my Lord , that you , if Fate should frown Must be the Genius to Preserve this Town ; And none so fit to Bless the City Throne , Except brave Loyal Moor , might still Reign on . Hail then , thou City Monarch ! may thy Reign With Peace and Plenty , all the Land maintain . Observe how all along the Streets the Crowd With Joyful Sounds , does Welcome in their Lord ; When on the Thames , how all along the Shore , 'Twas hard to say , who did express it more , Or whither Men or Cannons that did Roar . Caesar Himself and Royal York are come , And all the Court , to bid you Welcome Home : Your Pageants , Whifflers , and Oxilaries , They come on Course , and your Artillery , But Caesar came to Grace your Loyalty . The Giddy Rabble that Illeterate Beast , Who Factious Traitors had with fear possessed ; Convincing Time in spite of Whining Zeal , Has shown the Blessing of a Common-Weal ; That they'r designs tho' ne'r so Meekly dressed , Was only Mutiny for Interest ; That Long-ear'd Rout , and their Achittophel , That think it since to Live and not Rebel : Those Pious Elders , that Jenaeva Rabble , That hop , once more , to make old Pauls a Stable ; Or rather see her in her Ashes lie , Then hear in Her the true Episcopy : Beside , she is too Great , the Charge Profuse , They could Convert her into better Use . These , my good Lord , your Predecessor found , To be the Incects Barren'd all the Ground ; And with that Sword which now is in your Hand , He strove to Weed out from our Fertile Land : But Old Achittophel , that Reverend barred , Whom Heaven intended Man and Nature Mar'd With Treats , and something else , I dare not say , I think 'twas Treason ; boar a part away . But he has set his House in Order now , And is gone down in Order thereunto --- --- Assist you Powers , and tie the Damons up , For should they find him they would cut the Rope : He's for their work on Earth , they understand , And what can signify one Fire-Brand ? My Lord , I Blush at my Impertinence , Yet thus far I dare plead my own Defence ; That did you know , the Man that Fate has spent In Tragic Scenes , that little Fortune lent ; You would not have him praise the Instrument . I wish your Lordship many Years of Bliss , A Jubilee of Days , and all like this ; That each Propitious Star may be your Guide , That Fair-ey'd Truth may never be deny'd ; That when you quit your trust , you'l find a Brother , To King , to Church , and State , just such another . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , near the Hospital-gate , in West-Smithfield . 1682. 