H : 88857 AND ELEGY ON THE Death of the Right Noble PRINCE HENRY HOWARD , Duke of NORFOLK , Who Departed this Life the 13th . day of this Instant January , 1684. NORKFOLK is Dead like Lightning , which no part O' th' Body touches , but first strikes the Heart ! This Found is Fatal , for there's not in all The stock of Sorrow , any Charm can call Death sooner up ; there's Music in the breath Of Thunder , and a sweetness in the Death : It brings with it , if we with this compare , All the loud Noises that torment the Air . They Cure ( Physirians say ) the Element , Sick with dull Vapours , and to Banishment , Confine Infections : But this Dismal shriek , Without the least Redress , is utter'd like The last day's Summons , when Earth's Glories lie A scatter [ ' ] worser heap , and Time itself must Die . What now hath it to boast of ? can we have A thought less dark then th' horror of the Grave ? Now thou dost dwell below ; as brave a Soul , As humane sighs and tears did e're condole : Sprung from those great Progenitors , whose Name Shines high and glorious in the Book of Fame : Renown'd for Martial Deeds , true English born , Such as for ever shall our Isle adorn ; Who in their great Example still do live , And to brave Spi [ r ] its still Instructions give : Pointing the way to Honour , by true worth , Such as themselves did to the world set forth . Howard ! a Name which France has forc'd to shake , The very Found has driv'n whole Armies back ; But all their Prowess and Heroic Might , No Death the Universal Monarch , fright ; To Fate their Glorious Heads at length did bow , And Godlike Men like Beasts , in Dust lie low ; Nor was Great Norfolk then his Father's less , But all their Virtues did at large express . Of the first Magnitude a fixed Star , Never Eccentric in the British Sphere ; But always Loyal to his Prince , he stood In every Shock of State , and stemm'd the Flood Of Popular Rage , and did himself approve , To his own Honour , and the Royal Love ; Blessed with great Titles , Wealth , and ample Power , And by his own great Regarded more . Valiant and Wise , in Dangers often tossed , But yet his Godlike Courage never lost . When Fortune frown'd , he found himself then most Resolv'd , and with collected strength abides Th' impetuous rage of Winds and adverse Tides ; Always undaunted , and his Noble Mind , Not blood [ i ] est threats cou'd force , nor flatteries blind . A Hero so complete , not every day Is form'd , but Heav'n does once and Age display Some wondrous work , a while to bless our eyes , And then destroys , lest we should Idolise : But yet the Memory thereof remains , And we're allow'd in tears to ease our pains . Our loss is Universal , all should weep , A Anniversary our eyes should keep , To some sad Numbers tun'd , some Solemn Verse , That may his Glories and our Griefs rehearse ; Nor should we cease to grieve and to admire , Until our wearied Souls , like his Expire . The EPITAPH . HEre is true Eloquence , The Grave alone speaks Sense ; It says that Mortal Joys , Each blast of Time Destroys ; But he that has Liv'd Just , His Glory keeps in Dust. FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without New-Gate , 1684. H : 88857 AND ELEGY ON THE Death of the Right Noble PRINCE HENRY HOWARD , Duke of NORFOLK , Who Departed this Life the 13th . day of this Instant January , 1684. NORKFOLK is Dead like Lightning , which no part O' th' Body touches , but first strikes the Heart ! This Found is Fatal , for there's not in all The stock of Sorrow , any Charm can call Death sooner up ; there's Music in the breath Of Thunder , and a sweetness in the Death : It brings with it , if we with this compare , All the loud Noises that torment the Air . They Cure ( Physirians say ) the Element , Sick with dull Vapours , and to Banishment , Confine Infections : But this Dismal shriek , Without the least Redress , is utter'd like The last day's Summons , when Earth's Glories lie A scatter [ ' ] worser heap , and Time itself must Die . What now hath it to boast of ? can we have A thought less dark then th' horror of the Grave ? Now thou dost dwell below ; as brave a Soul , As humane sighs and tears did e're condole : Sprung from those great Progenitors , whose Name Shines high and glorious in the Book of Fame : Renown'd for Martial Deeds , true English born , Such as for ever shall our Isle adorn ; Who in their great Example still do live , And to brave Spi [ r ] its still Instructions give : Pointing the way to Honour , by true worth , Such as themselves did to the world set forth . Howard ! a Name which France has forc'd to shake , The very Found has driv'n whole Armies back ; But all their Prowess and Heroic Might , No Death the Universal Monarch , fright ; To Fate their Glorious Heads at length did bow , And Godlike Men like Beasts , in Dust lie low ; Nor was Great Norfolk then his Father's less , But all their Virtues did at large express . Of the first Magnitude a fixed Star , Never Eccentric in the British Sphere ; But always Loyal to his Prince , he stood In every Shock of State , and stemm'd the Flood Of Popular Rage , and did himself approve , To his own Honour , and the Royal Love ; Blessed with great Titles , Wealth , and ample Power , And by his own great Regarded more . Valiant and Wise , in Dangers often tossed , But yet his Godlike Courage never lost . When Fortune frown'd , he found himself then most Resolv'd , and with collected strength abides Th' impetuous rage of Winds and adverse Tides ; Always undaunted , and his Noble Mind , Not blood [ i ] est threats cou'd force , nor flatteries blind . A Hero so complete , not every day Is form'd , but Heav'n does once and Age display Some wondrous work , a while to bless our eyes , And then destroys , lest we should Idolise : But yet the Memory thereof remains , And we're allow'd in tears to ease our pains . Our loss is Universal , all should weep , A Anniversary our eyes should keep , To some sad Numbers tun'd , some Solemn Verse , That may his Glories and our Griefs rehearse ; Nor should we cease to grieve and to admire , Until our wearied Souls , like his Expire . The EPITAPH . HEre is true Eloquence , The Grave alone speaks Sense ; It says that Mortal Joys , Each blast of Time Destroys ; But he that has Liv'd Just , His Glory keeps in Dust. FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without New-Gate , 1684. 