H : 80081 VOX CLERO , Lily burlero , OR , The Second Part OF A Merry New Ballad . To be sung in the Jerusalem-Chamber , the 24th of this Instant January . To the Tune of Youth , Youth , thou hadst , etc ( 1 ) CAnonical Black-Coats , like Birds of a Feather , In Town and from Country are flocking together ; As if our Religion was never intended , But for want of a better , to be still amended . Commissioners all Ecclesiastical , To make a new Creed , meet at Westminster Hall . Yet Tories had rather see Protestants burn , Than that their old Liturgy should not serve the turn . ( 2 ) There's no Catholic Note that more does belong To a Fallible Church than to be in the wrong . And if the deceived may also deceive , Then in what a Condition are those that Believe . In Divinity Schools Are forg'd many Tools , Whereby Knaves get their Living by working on Fools . Yet Tories had rather ------ ( 3 ) Whole Troops of Crape-Gowns , with their Captains in Lawn , In the Pail of the Church together were drawn . A Learned good Doctor did fairly propose , To let in our Friends , and shut out our Foes , But Rochester stood by , And refus'd to comply , For he scorn'd all Commissions , unless they were high . And rather the Tories would see the Inquisition , Than part with one tittle of vain Repetition . ( 4 ) This Maggot o' th' Mass , the Prayers , you call common , Conceiv'd by a Boy , brought forth by a Woman , Who to cure all the Sores in the Souls of the Nation Have publish'd this Noble Receipt for Salvation : Cut in parcels it is , Lest the Parson should miss , Who prays all by Spurt , as his Tith-Pigs do piss ; Yet Tories had rather ------ ( 5 ) To show that our Soul not likely to starve is , Here's both the first Course , and the second Service ; 'Tis serv'd up to relish your Ale and your Toast well , With a Cut of the 'Pistle , and a Slice of the Gospel . Then the Curate so pert , Brings in the Desert . Lord , how Robin Spencer rejoices at heart ! When Man , with the Lady of Babylon's Rag on , Stands by the dark Candle , and the empty Flagon . ( 6 ) Stand firm to your Sins , and have a great care That you mend not your Lives , lest you spoil all the Prayer . You must never press forward , round , round , you must reel , And since , and Repent , like a Dog in a Wheel . Be still the same Men In the Morning at Ten , In the Evening , at Three , have at it again . But who would have thought that old Cranmer and Ridley Shou'd confess all the Sins of Sheppard and Sedley . ( 7 ) The Kit-Wrens of our Creed , those Spiritual Surveyors , First found that our Matrimony wanted repairs . Grave Tenison thought things obscenely expressed , And fain wou'd have left out the Cream of the Jest . But 'twould not be decreed To leave out the Creed , For 'twould dry-bob our Marriage , and mar all the breed . So Tories had better see ------ ( 8 ) When our Sacraments old Hocus pocus is done , One would think it is Bred , or else it is none ; Tho' our Senses say Bred , as to God we must bow , Or the Church has ta'ne care all our Cake shall be Dough . Shou'd they mystery boast , And wou'd call it the Host , In a cup of Canary 'twould serve for a Toast . Yet Tories had rather ------ ( 9 ) From a Brother o' th' Mug , grown a Peer with a Mitre . They promise our Souls than their Lawn should be whiter , Till with Passive Obedience the Nation enslav'd ; One had better be damn'd than so to be sav'd . Old Noll had a Trick To keep Souls from old Neck , Without either Bishop , or a Bishopric . But Presbyter Puppies needs the King wou'd restore , And by putting him in , put 'emselves out o' door . ( 10 ) With the Tail of and Horse , when such gambols were played , What might we expect from the jolly Nag's Head ? On their Jure Divino , whip , they mount in the Air , And run their Tantivy , the Devil knows whither . Then begin they to sing , No Bishop , no King , Till together , old Neck has 'um all in a string , And still you might beatrice the Lawn Sleeves in a Mortar , Yet not find so much Brain as in Oliver's Porter . FINIS . 'H : 80081 VOX CLERO , Lily burlero , OR , The Second Part OF A Merry New Ballad . To be sung in the Jerusalem-Chamber , the 24th of this Instant January . To the Tune of Youth , Youth , thou hadst , etc ( 1 ) CAnonical Black-Coats , like Birds of a Feather , In Town and from Country are flocking together ; As if our Religion was never intended , But for want of a better , to be still amended . Commissioners all Ecclesiastical , To make a new Creed , meet at Westminster Hall . Yet Tories had rather see Protestants burn , Than that their old Liturgy should not serve the turn . ( 2 ) There's no Catholic Note that more does belong To a Fallible Church than to be in the wrong . And if the deceived may also deceive , Then in what a Condition are those that Believe . In Divinity Schools Are forg'd many Tools , Whereby Knaves get their Living by working on Fools . Yet Tories had rather ------ ( 3 ) Whole Troops of Crape-Gowns , with their Captains in Lawn , In the Pail of the Church together were drawn . A Learned good Doctor did fairly propose , To let in our Friends , and shut out our Foes , But Rochester stood by , And refus'd to comply , For he scorn'd all Commissions , unless they were high . And rather the Tories would see the Inquisition , Than part with one tittle of vain Repetition . ( 4 ) This Maggot o' th' Mass , the Prayers , you call common , Conceiv'd by a Boy , brought forth by a Woman , Who to cure all the Sores in the Souls of the Nation Have publish'd this Noble Receipt for Salvation : Cut in parcels it is , Lest the Parson should miss , Who prays all by Spurt , as his Tith-Pigs do piss ; Yet Tories had rather ------ ( 5 ) To show that our Soul not likely to starve is , Here's both the first Course , and the second Service ; 'Tis serv'd up to relish your Ale and your Toast well , With a Cut of the 'Pistle , and a Slice of the Gospel . Then the Curate so pert , Brings in the Desert . Lord , how Robin Spencer rejoices at heart ! When Man , with the Lady of Babylon's Rag on , Stands by the dark Candle , and the empty Flagon . ( 6 ) Stand firm to your Sins , and have a great care That you mend not your Lives , lest you spoil all the Prayer . You must never press forward , round , round , you must reel , And since , and Repent , like a Dog in a Wheel . Be still the same Men In the Morning at Ten , In the Evening , at Three , have at it again . But who would have thought that old Cranmer and Ridley Shou'd confess all the Sins of Sheppard and Sedley . ( 7 ) The Kit-Wrens of our Creed , those Spiritual Surveyors , First found that our Matrimony wanted repairs . Grave Tenison thought things obscenely expressed , And fain wou'd have left out the Cream of the Jest . But 'twould not be decreed To leave out the Creed , For 'twould dry-bob our Marriage , and mar all the breed . So Tories had better see ------ ( 8 ) When our Sacraments old Hocus pocus is done , One would think it is Bred , or else it is none ; Tho' our Senses say Bred , as to God we must bow , Or the Church has ta'ne care all our Cake shall be Dough . Shou'd they mystery boast , And wou'd call it the Host , In a cup of Canary 'twould serve for a Toast . Yet Tories had rather ------ ( 9 ) From a Brother o' th' Mug , grown a Peer with a Mitre . They promise our Souls than their Lawn should be whiter , Till with Passive Obedience the Nation enslav'd ; One had better be damn'd than so to be sav'd . Old Noll had a Trick To keep Souls from old Neck , Without either Bishop , or a Bishopric . But Presbyter Puppies needs the King wou'd restore , And by putting him in , put 'emselves out o' door . ( 10 ) With the Tail of and Horse , when such gambols were played , What might we expect from the jolly Nag's Head ? On their Jure Divino , whip , they mount in the Air , And run their Tantivy , the Devil knows whither . Then begin they to sing , No Bishop , no King , Till together , old Neck has 'um all in a string , And still you might beatrice the Lawn Sleeves in a Mortar , Yet not find so much Brain as in Oliver's Porter . FINIS . ' 