H : 80037 The Grateful Nonconformist ; OR , A RETURN of THANKS To Sir JOHN BABER Knight , and Doctor of Physic , who sent the AUTHOR Ten Crowns . TEn Crowns at once ! and to one man ! and he As despicable as bad Poets be ! Who scarce had wit , ( if you requir'd the same ) To make and Anagram upon your name ; Or to out-pun a Barber , or prepare And Epitaph to serve a Quinb'rough May'r : A limping-Levite , ( who scarce in his prime ) Could woo and Abigail , or say Grace [ i ] n Rhyme : Ten Crowns to such a thing ! Friend 'tis a Dose Able to raise dead Ben , or Dav'nan's Nose ; Able to make a Courtier turn a Friend , And more then all of them in Victuals spend . This free Free-Parliament , whose Gifts do found Full Five and twenty hundred thousand pound , You have outdone them , Sir ; yours was your own , And some of It shall last when Theirs is gone . Ten Crowns at once ! and now at such a time , When love to such as I am is a Crime Greater than his recorded in Jane Shore , Who gave but one poor loaf to th' starv'd Whore : What now to help a Nonconformist ! now , When Ministers are broke , that will not bow : When 'tis to be unblest , to be ungirt ; To wear no Sirplice , does deserve no Shir No Broth , no Meat ; no Service , no Protection ; No Cross , no Coin ; no Collect , no Collection : You are a daring Knight , thus to be kind . If Trusty Roger get it in the Wind , Hee'l smell a Plot , a Presbyterian Plot , Especially for what you gave the ( Sco ) And if the Spiritual Court take fire from Crack , They'l clap a Parritor upon your Back , And make you shrug , as if you wore the Collar Of a Cashiered Red-Coat , or poor Scholar . What will you plead , Sir , if they put you to 't ? Was it the Doctor or the Knight did do't ? Did you , as Doctor , flux some Usurer , And with your quick make his dull Silver stir ? Or did your Zeal you a Knight-Templer make , To give the Church the Booties you should take ? Or , was it your desire to beg Applause , Or show affection to the GOOD OLD CAUSE ? Was't to feed Faction , or uphold the stickle Between the Old Church and New Conventicle ? No , none of these ; but I have hit the thing , It was because You knew I lov'd the King . Ten Crowns at once ! Sir you'l suspected be For no good Protestant , you are so free : So much at once ! Sure you ne're gave before ; Or else , I doubt , mean to do so no more : This is enough to make a man protest Religio Medici to be the best . The Christians for whose sakes we are undone , Would have cry'd out , Oh 'tis too much for one Either to give or Take ! what needs this waste ? O how they love to have us keep a Fast ! Five private Meetings ( whereat each four Men In black Coats and white Caps ( you'l call them then A Teem of Ministers ) have tugg'd all day , Deserving Provender , but scarce god Hay ; Where I ( myself have drawn my part some hours ) Have not afforded such returns as yours ; I'd wish them watch , and keep me sober still ; Not want of guilt in them , nor want of Will In me , but want of Wine does make me Tame , Or else I'd sacrifice them to the Flame Of a high-blazing Satyr ; here's a Man Who ne'er pretended at your Rates , yet can More freely feed us , with Coin and good Dishes Than they , ( yet that's their Alms ) with sighs & wishes . O for a Rapture ! how shall I describe The love of thousands to their Reading Tribe ? Who so maintain'd them when they lost their Places , They did not loose one Pimple from their Faces ; But after all , full fraught with Flesh and Flagon , Came forth like Monks , or Priests of Bell and Dragon : One would have judg'd , by their high looks and smells , They had layn-in in Cellars not in Cells ; Where they grew big and batten'd : for no doubt Some that went Firkins in , came Hogsheads out . But ours in two years time are Skin and Bones , And look like Grandams , or old Apple-Johns : One Lazarus among them was too much ; But er't be long , we all shall look like such ; And when that comes to pass the world shall see Who are the Ghostly Father's , They or we : And then our Bellies without better fare Will prove as empty as their Noddles are . Though We be silenc't , our Guts won't be so ; But make a Conventicle as they go : And by their Grumbling show greet Disconten And if you listen Strange Reports do Vent . Peace , Colon , peace , and cease thy croaking din ; Thou art condemn'd to be a Chitterlin . Except thy Latitudinarian Tripes Conform , and turn themselves to Organ Pipes . Niggardly Puritans ! blush at the odds Betwixt their BONNER's and our meager DOD's ; You give your drink in Thimbles , they in Bowls ; Your Church is poor St. Faiths , but theirs is POWLS . And while you Priests and Altars do despise , Yourselves prove Priests , and we your Sacrifice . But why do I permit my Muse to whine ? I wish my Brothers all such Cheeks as mine ; And those that wish them well , such Hearts as thine . My noble BABER ! I have chosen you For my Physician , and my Champion too : Give me sumetimes but such a Dose , and I Will ne'er wish other Cordial till I die : And then proclaim you a most Valiant Knight ; Show but such Metal , though you never fight . FINIS . H : 80037 The Grateful Nonconformist ; OR , A RETURN of THANKS To Sir JOHN BABER Knight , and Doctor of Physic , who sent the AUTHOR Ten Crowns . TEn Crowns at once ! and to one man ! and he As despicable as bad Poets be ! Who scarce had wit , ( if you requir'd the same ) To make and Anagram upon your name ; Or to out-pun a Barber , or prepare And Epitaph to serve a Quinb'rough May'r : A limping-Levite , ( who scarce in his prime ) Could woo and Abigail , or say Grace [ i ] n Rhyme : Ten Crowns to such a thing ! Friend 'tis a Dose Able to raise dead Ben , or Dav'nan's Nose ; Able to make a Courtier turn a Friend , And more then all of them in Victuals spend . This free Free-Parliament , whose Gifts do found Full Five and twenty hundred thousand pound , You have outdone them , Sir ; yours was your own , And some of It shall last when Theirs is gone . Ten Crowns at once ! and now at such a time , When love to such as I am is a Crime Greater than his recorded in Jane Shore , Who gave but one poor loaf to th' starv'd Whore : What now to help a Nonconformist ! now , When Ministers are broke , that will not bow : When 'tis to be unblest , to be ungirt ; To wear no Sirplice , does deserve no Shir No Broth , no Meat ; no Service , no Protection ; No Cross , no Coin ; no Collect , no Collection : You are a daring Knight , thus to be kind . If Trusty Roger get it in the Wind , Hee'l smell a Plot , a Presbyterian Plot , Especially for what you gave the ( Sco ) And if the Spiritual Court take fire from Crack , They'l clap a Parritor upon your Back , And make you shrug , as if you wore the Collar Of a Cashiered Red-Coat , or poor Scholar . What will you plead , Sir , if they put you to 't ? Was it the Doctor or the Knight did do't ? Did you , as Doctor , flux some Usurer , And with your quick make his dull Silver stir ? Or did your Zeal you a Knight-Templer make , To give the Church the Booties you should take ? Or , was it your desire to beg Applause , Or show affection to the GOOD OLD CAUSE ? Was't to feed Faction , or uphold the stickle Between the Old Church and New Conventicle ? No , none of these ; but I have hit the thing , It was because You knew I lov'd the King . Ten Crowns at once ! Sir you'l suspected be For no good Protestant , you are so free : So much at once ! Sure you ne're gave before ; Or else , I doubt , mean to do so no more : This is enough to make a man protest Religio Medici to be the best . The Christians for whose sakes we are undone , Would have cry'd out , Oh 'tis too much for one Either to give or Take ! what needs this waste ? O how they love to have us keep a Fast ! Five private Meetings ( whereat each four Men In black Coats and white Caps ( you'l call them then A Teem of Ministers ) have tugg'd all day , Deserving Provender , but scarce god Hay ; Where I ( myself have drawn my part some hours ) Have not afforded such returns as yours ; I'd wish them watch , and keep me sober still ; Not want of guilt in them , nor want of Will In me , but want of Wine does make me Tame , Or else I'd sacrifice them to the Flame Of a high-blazing Satyr ; here's a Man Who ne'er pretended at your Rates , yet can More freely feed us , with Coin and good Dishes Than they , ( yet that's their Alms ) with sighs & wishes . O for a Rapture ! how shall I describe The love of thousands to their Reading Tribe ? Who so maintain'd them when they lost their Places , They did not loose one Pimple from their Faces ; But after all , full fraught with Flesh and Flagon , Came forth like Monks , or Priests of Bell and Dragon : One would have judg'd , by their high looks and smells , They had layn-in in Cellars not in Cells ; Where they grew big and batten'd : for no doubt Some that went Firkins in , came Hogsheads out . But ours in two years time are Skin and Bones , And look like Grandams , or old Apple-Johns : One Lazarus among them was too much ; But er't be long , we all shall look like such ; And when that comes to pass the world shall see Who are the Ghostly Father's , They or we : And then our Bellies without better fare Will prove as empty as their Noddles are . Though We be silenc't , our Guts won't be so ; But make a Conventicle as they go : And by their Grumbling show greet Disconten And if you listen Strange Reports do Vent . Peace , Colon , peace , and cease thy croaking din ; Thou art condemn'd to be a Chitterlin . Except thy Latitudinarian Tripes Conform , and turn themselves to Organ Pipes . Niggardly Puritans ! blush at the odds Betwixt their BONNER's and our meager DOD's ; You give your drink in Thimbles , they in Bowls ; Your Church is poor St. Faiths , but theirs is POWLS . And while you Priests and Altars do despise , Yourselves prove Priests , and we your Sacrifice . But why do I permit my Muse to whine ? I wish my Brothers all such Cheeks as mine ; And those that wish them well , such Hearts as thine . My noble BABER ! I have chosen you For my Physician , and my Champion too : Give me sumetimes but such a Dose , and I Will ne'er wish other Cordial till I die : And then proclaim you a most Valiant Knight ; Show but such Metal , though you never fight . FINIS . 