H : 88866 The THAMES Uncas'd : OR , The Watermans Song upon the Thaw . To the Tune of Hey Boys up go we . 1. COme , you merry men all Of Watermans-hall , Let's hoist out our Boats and careen ; The Thames it does melt , And the Cold is scarce felt , Not and Isicle's now to be seen . Let's pull down each Skull That hung up in Hall , Like Weapon so rusty , and row : Let's cheerly fallen to't , If we've not forgotten ; For the Frost is over now . 2. Let's set up our Masts That stood like Posts , As Props to our Tents on the Thames , Or Sign-posts made , With and Ancient displai'd , While our Oars were the great Cross-beams . Let's hoist up our Sail That was a side-Vail To hide Doll when with Brandy she'd glow ; Or a Roof compos'd , You might else have been froz'd , Though the Frost be over now . 3. We'll no longer stand With a Tapsters hand , With the Spigot in hand for and Oar , Crying out , Our Trade is cold , Here's four gallons in hold , I have drawn out but half my store . Prithee Lads stand to't , And help pump it out , That the Vessel once more may flow : Then come again With a thirsty Train ; But the Frost is over now . 4. Let's tune our Throats To our usual Notes Of Twitnam , Richmond , heigh ; Sir , Skuller , Sir ? Oars , Sir ? Loudly roar , Sir , Here's Dick , Sir , you won't pass him by ? Instead of good Ale , And Brandywine stale , Let's cry out , Westward hoe . Shall we Moreclack make , Or for Brandford tack , For the Frost is over now ? 5. We'll take no Boat That once did float , And service good had done , And on his Keel Clap Sledge for heel , And enforce him like Traitor to run : So to make him appear Like a China Carr , With a tawdry painted Prow , And a tire or more Of Potguns four : For the Frost is over now . 6. Let's call in our men , Lest forty to ten , From such a long Vacation , And converse oft With the lose and soft Landlopers of the Nation . They resty prove , Or fallen in love With Jenny's coalblack Brow ; And then no more On the Seas will roar : Though the Frost be over now . 7. For some were led Odd Paths to tread , And bear the Waters on Their brawny backs , Who with flying Jacks Have triumph'd thereupon ; Or to get Chink , To carry Link , Though 'twas out of their Element Oh ; And in the night Cry , Have a Light , Though the Frost is over now . 8. Others there were On Icy Sphere , Wheel'd Mortals in a Round That us'd to tack , And Angles make , That Port it might be found : Or on the Main A Voyage gain By Equinoctial Bow , And Haven god , Drink off their Pot ; But the Frost is over now . 9. They us'd to stare On Northern Bear ; But now on Earthly Bull They turn their looks Quite off the hooks , And on the Cause look dull . Us'd to survey The Dog-Star , they No other Whelps allow To bark and ball Within Ken o' th' Hall ; But the Frost is over now . 10. Had Thames been thaw'd , And Whale had tow'd Himself up by his Fin , They all had then , E'en as one man , Have hoop'd and hoop'd again . Their Anchors shook , And spread with Hook , And made him stoop full low ; T' other rural sport They care not for't ; But the Frost is over now . 11. The Dutch that in great Large shoals us'd to meet , And clapped their crook'd Scates on their foot , Now no more dare appear To make folken stare . While on the smooth Surface they float . They betaken each man To their Butter and Kan , And by their side have their Ufroe ; Their Cabbage they boil , And eat Herring with Oil : For the Frost is over now . 12. The Sledges load Shall no more defraud The Boat of its Cargo large ; From Southwark-Strand , We again may land Coals , so may the Western Barge . Shall we that have gone To Newcastle each one , Let the Carmen over us crow ? No , no , my Boys , We'll renew our Joys , For the Frost is over now . 13. Nor shall Hackney-Coach , Where Whores do debauch , Upon our Thames now run ; They have plow'd her Face , And nigh spoil'd her Grace , Where the Frost-nail'd Horse has gone . Nor shall they ball , To Westminster-hall Will your gowned Worship go ? We wept in despite While the Rogues went tied ; But the Frost is over now . 14. The Town too's gone That they waited on , And the People flock'd to see : It fled in one night Quite out of our sighed , As the Castles enchanted that be ; While Country Squire Whom Journey might tire , With watery eyes cannot view The Street a long way That he came to survey ; For the Frost is over now . 15. Not a Horn can he buy , Nor and Earthen-ware-toy , His Wife or his Children to cheer : Since Isis does turn Her watery Urn , All the Pitchers are march'd off here . Nay , on the Thames wide There remains not a Slide On which he may whisk to and from : He returns as he came , To his Country Dame , For the Frost is over now . 16. We're freed now each Mate From the Care and Debate That attended us all so long , To determine Affairs Betwixt the two Stairs , Down which all the People throng . If you come once again , Take some other men , For the weight of it makes us to bow : E'en determine't yourselves , For your're quarrelsome Elves , And the Frost is over now . 17. What a Pox made you meet To come here to cheat We Watermen of our Gain ? Had you kept in your Furs , We had voided these Stirs , And you of cold the pain . But to get your Coin You'd up to the Loin , Though your Arse should never thaw : Go get to your homes , And make whole your Bums , Since the Frost is over now . 18. Mean time , if ought Of Honour you've god , Let the Printers have their endue , Who printed your Names On the River Thames , While their hands with the cold look'd blue : There's mine , there's thine , Will for Ages shine , Now the Thames aloft does flow ; Then let's gang hence To our Boats commence , For the Frost is over now . LONDON : Printed for the Author , and sold by J. Norris at the Kings-Arms without Temple-bar . 1684. H : 88866 The THAMES Uncas'd : OR , The Watermans Song upon the Thaw . To the Tune of Hey Boys up go we . 1. COme , you merry men all Of Watermans-hall , Let's hoist out our Boats and careen ; The Thames it does melt , And the Cold is scarce felt , Not and Isicle's now to be seen . Let's pull down each Skull That hung up in Hall , Like Weapon so rusty , and row : Let's cheerly fallen to't , If we've not forgotten ; For the Frost is over now . 2. Let's set up our Masts That stood like Posts , As Props to our Tents on the Thames , Or Sign-posts made , With and Ancient displai'd , While our Oars were the great Cross-beams . Let's hoist up our Sail That was a side-Vail To hide Doll when with Brandy she'd glow ; Or a Roof compos'd , You might else have been froz'd , Though the Frost be over now . 3. We'll no longer stand With a Tapsters hand , With the Spigot in hand for and Oar , Crying out , Our Trade is cold , Here's four gallons in hold , I have drawn out but half my store . Prithee Lads stand to't , And help pump it out , That the Vessel once more may flow : Then come again With a thirsty Train ; But the Frost is over now . 4. Let's tune our Throats To our usual Notes Of Twitnam , Richmond , heigh ; Sir , Skuller , Sir ? Oars , Sir ? Loudly roar , Sir , Here's Dick , Sir , you won't pass him by ? Instead of good Ale , And Brandywine stale , Let's cry out , Westward hoe . Shall we Moreclack make , Or for Brandford tack , For the Frost is over now ? 5. We'll take no Boat That once did float , And service good had done , And on his Keel Clap Sledge for heel , And enforce him like Traitor to run : So to make him appear Like a China Carr , With a tawdry painted Prow , And a tire or more Of Potguns four : For the Frost is over now . 6. Let's call in our men , Lest forty to ten , From such a long Vacation , And converse oft With the lose and soft Landlopers of the Nation . They resty prove , Or fallen in love With Jenny's coalblack Brow ; And then no more On the Seas will roar : Though the Frost be over now . 7. For some were led Odd Paths to tread , And bear the Waters on Their brawny backs , Who with flying Jacks Have triumph'd thereupon ; Or to get Chink , To carry Link , Though 'twas out of their Element Oh ; And in the night Cry , Have a Light , Though the Frost is over now . 8. Others there were On Icy Sphere , Wheel'd Mortals in a Round That us'd to tack , And Angles make , That Port it might be found : Or on the Main A Voyage gain By Equinoctial Bow , And Haven god , Drink off their Pot ; But the Frost is over now . 9. They us'd to stare On Northern Bear ; But now on Earthly Bull They turn their looks Quite off the hooks , And on the Cause look dull . Us'd to survey The Dog-Star , they No other Whelps allow To bark and ball Within Ken o' th' Hall ; But the Frost is over now . 10. Had Thames been thaw'd , And Whale had tow'd Himself up by his Fin , They all had then , E'en as one man , Have hoop'd and hoop'd again . Their Anchors shook , And spread with Hook , And made him stoop full low ; T' other rural sport They care not for't ; But the Frost is over now . 11. The Dutch that in great Large shoals us'd to meet , And clapped their crook'd Scates on their foot , Now no more dare appear To make folken stare . While on the smooth Surface they float . They betaken each man To their Butter and Kan , And by their side have their Ufroe ; Their Cabbage they boil , And eat Herring with Oil : For the Frost is over now . 12. The Sledges load Shall no more defraud The Boat of its Cargo large ; From Southwark-Strand , We again may land Coals , so may the Western Barge . Shall we that have gone To Newcastle each one , Let the Carmen over us crow ? No , no , my Boys , We'll renew our Joys , For the Frost is over now . 13. Nor shall Hackney-Coach , Where Whores do debauch , Upon our Thames now run ; They have plow'd her Face , And nigh spoil'd her Grace , Where the Frost-nail'd Horse has gone . Nor shall they ball , To Westminster-hall Will your gowned Worship go ? We wept in despite While the Rogues went tied ; But the Frost is over now . 14. The Town too's gone That they waited on , And the People flock'd to see : It fled in one night Quite out of our sighed , As the Castles enchanted that be ; While Country Squire Whom Journey might tire , With watery eyes cannot view The Street a long way That he came to survey ; For the Frost is over now . 15. Not a Horn can he buy , Nor and Earthen-ware-toy , His Wife or his Children to cheer : Since Isis does turn Her watery Urn , All the Pitchers are march'd off here . Nay , on the Thames wide There remains not a Slide On which he may whisk to and from : He returns as he came , To his Country Dame , For the Frost is over now . 16. We're freed now each Mate From the Care and Debate That attended us all so long , To determine Affairs Betwixt the two Stairs , Down which all the People throng . If you come once again , Take some other men , For the weight of it makes us to bow : E'en determine't yourselves , For your're quarrelsome Elves , And the Frost is over now . 17. What a Pox made you meet To come here to cheat We Watermen of our Gain ? Had you kept in your Furs , We had voided these Stirs , And you of cold the pain . But to get your Coin You'd up to the Loin , Though your Arse should never thaw : Go get to your homes , And make whole your Bums , Since the Frost is over now . 18. Mean time , if ought Of Honour you've god , Let the Printers have their endue , Who printed your Names On the River Thames , While their hands with the cold look'd blue : There's mine , there's thine , Will for Ages shine , Now the Thames aloft does flow ; Then let's gang hence To our Boats commence , For the Frost is over now . LONDON : Printed for the Author , and sold by J. Norris at the Kings-Arms without Temple-bar . 1684. 