H : 123914a A strange Sighed to be seen at Westminster . WIthin this House is to be seen Such a Monster as hath not been At any time in England , nay In Europe , Affrick , Asia : 'Tis a round body without a head Almost these three years , yet not dead . 'Tis like that beast I once did see Whose tail stood where the head should be : And ( which was never known before ) Though't want a head , it has horns good store It has very little hair , and yet ( You'l say ) it has far more hair then with 'Thas may eyes , and many ears , 'Tis full of jealousies and fears ; 'Thas many mouths , and many hands , 'Tis full of questions and commands ; 'Tis arm'd with muskets , pikes , it fears Nought in the world , but Cavaliers . 'Twas born in England , but begotten Betwixt the English and the Scot ; Though some are of opinion rather That the Devil was its father ; And the City ( which is worse ) Was its mother , and its nurse . Some say ( though perhaps in scorn ) That it was a Cretian born ; But not unlike , for it has the fashion Just as may be of that Nation ; For this a liar , none o'th lest , A slow belly , and evil beast ; Of what Religion none can tell , It much resembles that in hell : Some say it is a Jew disguis'd , And why ? because this circumcis'd ; For 'twas deprived long ago Of many a Member we all know . In some points this a Jesuited Priest , In some it is a Calvinist ; For this not justifi'd ( it says ) By good works , but Public Faith . Some cal't and Anabaptist , some Think now that Antichrist is come . 'Tis a creature of and uncouth kind Both for its body and its mind ; Make haste to see't , or 'twill be gone , For now this sick , and drawing on . Finis . Oxford , Printed for Wil. Web. 1643. H : 123914a A strange Sighed to be seen at Westminster . WIthin this House is to be seen Such a Monster as hath not been At any time in England , nay In Europe , Affrick , Asia : 'Tis a round body without a head Almost these three years , yet not dead . 'Tis like that beast I once did see Whose tail stood where the head should be : And ( which was never known before ) Though't want a head , it has horns good store It has very little hair , and yet ( You'l say ) it has far more hair then with 'Thas may eyes , and many ears , 'Tis full of jealousies and fears ; 'Thas many mouths , and many hands , 'Tis full of questions and commands ; 'Tis arm'd with muskets , pikes , it fears Nought in the world , but Cavaliers . 'Twas born in England , but begotten Betwixt the English and the Scot ; Though some are of opinion rather That the Devil was its father ; And the City ( which is worse ) Was its mother , and its nurse . Some say ( though perhaps in scorn ) That it was a Cretian born ; But not unlike , for it has the fashion Just as may be of that Nation ; For this a liar , none o'th lest , A slow belly , and evil beast ; Of what Religion none can tell , It much resembles that in hell : Some say it is a Jew disguis'd , And why ? because this circumcis'd ; For 'twas deprived long ago Of many a Member we all know . In some points this a Jesuited Priest , In some it is a Calvinist ; For this not justifi'd ( it says ) By good works , but Public Faith . Some cal't and Anabaptist , some Think now that Antichrist is come . 'Tis a creature of and uncouth kind Both for its body and its mind ; Make haste to see't , or 'twill be gone , For now this sick , and drawing on . Finis . Oxford , Printed for Wil. Web. 1643. 