H : 133149 POEM ON THE CONDEMNATION OF William Viscount Stafford . Fantane Religio potuit suadere Malorum ? Aid me , Apollo , lay aside thy Lyre , With Numbers high , yet sad , my Muse inspire ; In moving strains , assist me to repeat A Noble's fallen , ( would he were Good as Great ! ) O Stafford ! Stafford ! how could'st thou , when Death Led in by Time , stood waiting for thy Breath ; By such ignoble ways and Methods strive , To cut off those few Years thou had'st to live : Alas ! what Bliss couldst thou expect to come , ( O're-press'd with Age ) when Nature's powerful doom , Had left thee nought to hope for but a Tomb. Why should'st thou then in such a horrid Cause , Turn Traitor to Divine and Humane Laws ? Ah! how could'st thou , thou , so unnatural be To him who was so good , so kind to thee ? How could'st thou plot 'gainst such a King as he ? One who had heap'd such Honours on thy Head , And yet could'st thou , ingrateful , wish him Dead ; Not only wish him so , but in that strife , To act a part that was to take his Life ; Yet , 'cause thy Blood from noble springs does flow , Would Error and not Malice made thee so ! Would thou wertenberg over-reach'd , that so the since Might be less thine then theirs that drew thee in : Fain would I think it were with thee , as they , And Ignis Fatuus leads out o'th' way : Too credulous they follow the false Light , And bless themselves for such a Guide i' that Night , And think where e're it leads they'r still i'th right . And yet at last , ( with toil and trouble crossed , ) They feel the Pain , but find the Labour los They see the flatt'ring Light o'th sudden gone , And they to their Despair are left alone In Fens , or Brakes , or Floods , to make their moan ; So thou O're-sway'd by'th Pious-seeming Wits , Of Hells chief Agents , ( Juggling Jesuits ) ( By specious Arguments , and pious fraud , Such as Romes Pandemonium does applaud ) Wer't in that Hellish Brood drawn in to be And Actor in that Dismal Tragedy , That boldly aim'd at Sacred Majesty ; But Heaven step'd in and fav'd the tottering Throne , ( Just when it could be sav'd by Heaven alone ) And all the Plots of Room and Hell were known . All did I say ! Ah! no ; yet such , so Vile , So base , so dire , were found in Albions Isle ? As Scithia ( where the Sun dares scarce appear , Where Horrid Winter brood's , ) would blush to hear ; That those whom Heaven had plac'd so near the Crown With Impious Hands should strive to pull it down . Unhappy State of Monarchs , who do good , Even to those that strive to shed their Blood , And they not know it , but with gentle breath , Speak those foul Serpents fair that plot their Death . Ah! Stafford ! how couldst thou so base become ? ( So false to England ! to be True to ROME ? ) How couldst thou Plot his Death who always strove Not to Command , but fairly win thy Love ? Ah! how couldst thou so base and Treacherous prove ! Couldst thou think Heaven asleep at such a time ? Or could'st believe it did approve thy Crime ? Or to such Treasons would Success have given ? Ah! no ; a King's the Substitute of Heaven , And Angels are his Guard . The Giants so of Old wag'd War with JOVE , Striving by Arms , to win the Seats Above : Though Bold , yet vainly in th' Attempt they fell , And for their hop'd of Heaven , were plung'd in Hell . The Dreadful Thunder ruin'd their Designs , And in their torments Heavens just vengeance shines . Consider this , Oh! Stafford , and Repent , Use well that little time that Heaven hath lent ; That little time , ( for long it cannot be , E're thou must enter Vast Eternity . ) Oh! use it well , let it to Tears be given , Be Penitent , and make thy peace with Heaven ; That when the fatal stroke shall end thy Days , Its Mercy and Justice may have equal Praise . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for T. Benskin , in Green's Rends , near Fleet-Bridge . H : 133149 POEM ON THE CONDEMNATION OF William Viscount Stafford . Fantane Religio potuit suadere Malorum ? Aid me , Apollo , lay aside thy Lyre , With Numbers high , yet sad , my Muse inspire ; In moving strains , assist me to repeat A Noble's fallen , ( would he were Good as Great ! ) O Stafford ! Stafford ! how could'st thou , when Death Led in by Time , stood waiting for thy Breath ; By such ignoble ways and Methods strive , To cut off those few Years thou had'st to live : Alas ! what Bliss couldst thou expect to come , ( O're-press'd with Age ) when Nature's powerful doom , Had left thee nought to hope for but a Tomb. Why should'st thou then in such a horrid Cause , Turn Traitor to Divine and Humane Laws ? Ah! how could'st thou , thou , so unnatural be To him who was so good , so kind to thee ? How could'st thou plot 'gainst such a King as he ? One who had heap'd such Honours on thy Head , And yet could'st thou , ingrateful , wish him Dead ; Not only wish him so , but in that strife , To act a part that was to take his Life ; Yet , 'cause thy Blood from noble springs does flow , Would Error and not Malice made thee so ! Would thou wertenberg over-reach'd , that so the since Might be less thine then theirs that drew thee in : Fain would I think it were with thee , as they , And Ignis Fatuus leads out o'th' way : Too credulous they follow the false Light , And bless themselves for such a Guide i' that Night , And think where e're it leads they'r still i'th right . And yet at last , ( with toil and trouble crossed , ) They feel the Pain , but find the Labour los They see the flatt'ring Light o'th sudden gone , And they to their Despair are left alone In Fens , or Brakes , or Floods , to make their moan ; So thou O're-sway'd by'th Pious-seeming Wits , Of Hells chief Agents , ( Juggling Jesuits ) ( By specious Arguments , and pious fraud , Such as Romes Pandemonium does applaud ) Wer't in that Hellish Brood drawn in to be And Actor in that Dismal Tragedy , That boldly aim'd at Sacred Majesty ; But Heaven step'd in and fav'd the tottering Throne , ( Just when it could be sav'd by Heaven alone ) And all the Plots of Room and Hell were known . All did I say ! Ah! no ; yet such , so Vile , So base , so dire , were found in Albions Isle ? As Scithia ( where the Sun dares scarce appear , Where Horrid Winter brood's , ) would blush to hear ; That those whom Heaven had plac'd so near the Crown With Impious Hands should strive to pull it down . Unhappy State of Monarchs , who do good , Even to those that strive to shed their Blood , And they not know it , but with gentle breath , Speak those foul Serpents fair that plot their Death . Ah! Stafford ! how couldst thou so base become ? ( So false to England ! to be True to ROME ? ) How couldst thou Plot his Death who always strove Not to Command , but fairly win thy Love ? Ah! how couldst thou so base and Treacherous prove ! Couldst thou think Heaven asleep at such a time ? Or could'st believe it did approve thy Crime ? Or to such Treasons would Success have given ? Ah! no ; a King's the Substitute of Heaven , And Angels are his Guard . The Giants so of Old wag'd War with JOVE , Striving by Arms , to win the Seats Above : Though Bold , yet vainly in th' Attempt they fell , And for their hop'd of Heaven , were plung'd in Hell . The Dreadful Thunder ruin'd their Designs , And in their torments Heavens just vengeance shines . Consider this , Oh! Stafford , and Repent , Use well that little time that Heaven hath lent ; That little time , ( for long it cannot be , E're thou must enter Vast Eternity . ) Oh! use it well , let it to Tears be given , Be Penitent , and make thy peace with Heaven ; That when the fatal stroke shall end thy Days , Its Mercy and Justice may have equal Praise . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for T. Benskin , in Green's Rends , near Fleet-Bridge . 