H : 123912 Mr. Hampdens Speech occasioned upon the Londoners Pe - tition for PEACE . BUt will you now to peace incline , And languish in the main design , and leave us in the lurch ; I would not Monarchy destroy , But only as the way t'injoy the ruins of the Church . Is not the Bishops Bill deni'd , And we still threatened to be tri'd ? you see the King embraces Those counsels he approv'd before , Nor does he promise which is more that we shall have their places . Did I for this bring in the Scot , ( For 'tis no secret now ) the plot was ''S [ a ] y's and mine together ; Did I for this return again ? And spent a winter then in vain once more t'invite them hither . Though more our money then our cause Their brotherly assistance draws my labour was not lost ; At my return I brought you thence Necessity , their strong pretence , and this shall quit your cost . Did I for this my Country bring , To help their Knight against their King , and raise the first division ; Yet I the business did decline Though I contriv'd the whole design , and taught them to petition . So many nights spent in the City In that invisible Committee , the wheel that governs all ; From thence the change in Church & State , And all the mischiefs bears their date from Haberdashers Hall . Did we force Ireland to despair ? Upon the King to cast the war to make the world abhor him ; Because the Rebels used his name , Though we ourselves can do the same while both alike are for him . Then the same fire we kindled here while we pretend to quench that there , and wisely lost that Nation ; To do as crafty beggars use To main themselves only t'abuse the simple men compassion . Have I so often passed between Winsor and Westminster unseen ? and did myself divide , To keep his Excellence in awe , And give the Parliament the Law , for they knew none beside . Did I for this take pains to teach Our zealous ignorance to preach , and did their lungs inspire Read 'em their texts , shew'd them their parts And taught them all their little arts to fling abroad the fire Sometime to beg , sometime to threaten , Then say the Cavaliers are beaten , and struck the peoples ears ; And straight when victories grow cheap , And will no more advance the heap to r [ a ] i'm the price of fears , And now the books , and now the bells' , And now our arts the Preacher tells to edify the people ; All our Divinity is news , And we have made of equal use the pulpit and the steeple . And shall we kindle all this flame Only to put it out again , and must we now give over , And only end where we begun , In vain this mischief we have done if we can do no more . If men in peace may have their right , Where is this necessity to fight and break both law and oath ? Who say that they fight for the cause , And to defend the King and laws , but 'tis against them both . Either the cause at first was ill , Or being good it is so still , and thence they will infer That either now , or at the first They were dceived , or which is worst that we ourselves may err . But plague and famine will come in , For they and we are near of kin , and cannot go asunder ; For while the wicked starve indeed , The Saints have ready at their need Gods providence and plunder . Princes we are if we prevail , And gallant villains if we fail when to our fame 'tis told , It will not be our least of praise When our new state we could not raise we have destroi'd the old . Then let us slay , fight , and vote Till London be not worth a groat , o 'tis a patient Beast , When we have gal'd and tir'd that mule , And can no longer have the rule , weel have our spoil at least . FINIS . H : 123912 Mr. Hampdens Speech occasioned upon the Londoners Pe - tition for PEACE . BUt will you now to peace incline , And languish in the main design , and leave us in the lurch ; I would not Monarchy destroy , But only as the way t'injoy the ruins of the Church . Is not the Bishops Bill deni'd , And we still threatened to be tri'd ? you see the King embraces Those counsels he approv'd before , Nor does he promise which is more that we shall have their places . Did I for this bring in the Scot , ( For 'tis no secret now ) the plot was ''S [ a ] y's and mine together ; Did I for this return again ? And spent a winter then in vain once more t'invite them hither . Though more our money then our cause Their brotherly assistance draws my labour was not lost ; At my return I brought you thence Necessity , their strong pretence , and this shall quit your cost . Did I for this my Country bring , To help their Knight against their King , and raise the first division ; Yet I the business did decline Though I contriv'd the whole design , and taught them to petition . So many nights spent in the City In that invisible Committee , the wheel that governs all ; From thence the change in Church & State , And all the mischiefs bears their date from Haberdashers Hall . Did we force Ireland to despair ? Upon the King to cast the war to make the world abhor him ; Because the Rebels used his name , Though we ourselves can do the same while both alike are for him . Then the same fire we kindled here while we pretend to quench that there , and wisely lost that Nation ; To do as crafty beggars use To main themselves only t'abuse the simple men compassion . Have I so often passed between Winsor and Westminster unseen ? and did myself divide , To keep his Excellence in awe , And give the Parliament the Law , for they knew none beside . Did I for this take pains to teach Our zealous ignorance to preach , and did their lungs inspire Read 'em their texts , shew'd them their parts And taught them all their little arts to fling abroad the fire Sometime to beg , sometime to threaten , Then say the Cavaliers are beaten , and struck the peoples ears ; And straight when victories grow cheap , And will no more advance the heap to r [ a ] i'm the price of fears , And now the books , and now the bells' , And now our arts the Preacher tells to edify the people ; All our Divinity is news , And we have made of equal use the pulpit and the steeple . And shall we kindle all this flame Only to put it out again , and must we now give over , And only end where we begun , In vain this mischief we have done if we can do no more . If men in peace may have their right , Where is this necessity to fight and break both law and oath ? Who say that they fight for the cause , And to defend the King and laws , but 'tis against them both . Either the cause at first was ill , Or being good it is so still , and thence they will infer That either now , or at the first They were dceived , or which is worst that we ourselves may err . But plague and famine will come in , For they and we are near of kin , and cannot go asunder ; For while the wicked starve indeed , The Saints have ready at their need Gods providence and plunder . Princes we are if we prevail , And gallant villains if we fail when to our fame 'tis told , It will not be our least of praise When our new state we could not raise we have destroi'd the old . Then let us slay , fight , and vote Till London be not worth a groat , o 'tis a patient Beast , When we have gal'd and tir'd that mule , And can no longer have the rule , weel have our spoil at least . FINIS . 