H : 94219 ENGLAND'S REMEMBRANCER OF THE Day of her Visitation , and of the Woes Near to be revealed , except She Repent . O England , England , long hath been thy day , Great Signs and wonders God hath wrought in thee : Thy Visitation it will wear away , And then great Woes thou suddenly shalt see . God sundry ways hath sought thee to return , In peace and plenty he did to thee call ; But thou wast proud , against him thou didst spurn , Yea thou wast vain , and so begun thy fallen , To beatrice , imprison , and to persecute , Making strange Laws against God's Innocent ; With rage and fury thou didst prosecute Them , on all such as call'd thee to repent . The lives of many of Gods servants have In stinking holes and prisons wore away : Yea prison bonds have brought them to their grave , So that they might not live another day . But know thou this , though we in secret die , And thou in holes our bodies dost destroy ; Our blood aloud unto the Lord will cry , And bring such Plagues as shall thee soar annoy . Can you not see what all your rage hath wrought , Your Persecutions and your Banishment ? They have God's Judgments much upon you brought , Though you regard not what the Lord hath sent . You in your sins do but the harder grow , And wickedness does more and more increase ; [ ? ] persecute will be your overthrow , Unless from that great wickedness you cease . Repent and turn , come fit in dust and ashes ; O weep and mourn , bewail your time mis-spen Return and mend , while God gives gentle lashes , Or else his wrath shall you in shivers rend . Like to the potsherds of the earth , you shall Be broke in pieces by his angry stroke : For he in fury will upon you fallen , If that by since you do him still provoke : You grow so bad there's little hope's of you ; I would be silent and no more would say , And if I might I would in secret be , To wait on God , and pass my time away , Until that day in which Gods Judgments shall Break peoples hearts , lay low the haughty mind ; Bring tenderness to harken to God's call , In which the poor shall peace and comfort find . But yet again I must to England cry , And one more warning unto London give : Oh England , turn from thine iniquity ; Repent Oh London , that thou yet mayest live . O English Nation hasten , O make haste To do the things that are both good and just ; Or else God's Judgments will soon make thee wast , And lay thy strength and honour in the dust . Unless thou turn , and do thy sins forsake ; Unless thou do thy persecution cease ; Unless for conscience thou indulgence make , Great woes on thee will yet again increase , Unless that good men shall have liberty , Unless thy penal Laws be done away ; Unless thou cease from bloody cruelty . [ I ] must thee tell , that God will bring a day Of greater howlings and Calamities , And woes more dreadful shall beset thee round ; Thou hast not yet seen half the misery's , That shall within thy bowels yet abound . My heart is sad , mine eyes for sorrow weep ; My soul's oppressed , and I in secret cry : O that with peace I might in silence keep , And not a Prophet be of misery . Before the Lord my soul is bowed low ; For who may stand when once Jehovah frowns . This I must cry , that woe all flesh shall know ; Woe's on the Land , Seas , Cities and in Towns . Woe you false Prophets , that poor souls deceive , Who for self ends fear not to make a lie : No root nor branch of you the Lord will leave , But you shall sink with your iniquity . Woe to you Lawyers , that corrupt the Law , And do not fear to pervert true judgement On you your works destruction will draw , Except you mend , and speedily repent . Woe to you Rulers , that have not done well ; Your time will end , the Judge is at the door , Who will destroy and cast you into Hell , Except you mend , and shall do so no more . Woe to all you that have done violence Against those that do meet to Worship God . As you have used God's poor Innocents So you shall feel God's woeful smarting rod . Woe to all you that issue forth command , To force and prison unto Banishmen Ev'n so shall you be driven by God's hand , In fearful Plagues to endless punishment . Woe to all you whom yet the Lord does spare , But though God smites , yet you grow worse and worse : Your time is short , and then will come your share In endless pains , with Devils in the curse . Woe every man , both high , low , rich and poor , Who hath shed blood , and hurt God's Innocent ; Their blood for vengeance unto Heaven does roar , For woes upon you till you do repent . What shall I say ! for God will make appear To great and small , that woeful times hast on ; In which all people shall both quake and fear ; For God will not let such men long alone , As beatrice , imprison , and are violent Against all such as wish you to amend ; And such as cry and call you to repent , Ye from their land in Banishment would send : Oh foolish folk , you are both deaf and blind ; Destruction's near , it hath beset you round ; Plague , Sword and Famine of the sorest kind , Except you mend , these will on you abound . O that you could believe what good men say , Who see the end of what is now begun : This is the Eve of that most dreadful day , In which all faces shall grow pale and wan . O English people that you could yet hear ! Ah that you could but mind the mournful cry That is for you , to hear this in God's fear , Repent , repent , for why , why will you die ? O that you would believe what Christ hath said , And be not like unto the World of old ; Who in their sins were by the Flood destroy'd , Because they would not mend when they were told , Though Noah preached they would not repent ; The Lord did wait , but they would not amend : And when God's suffering patience was spent , He did upon them utter ruin send . Remember what befell the Sodomites , And many others that I could unfold ; Who did as Pharaoh by the Israelites , Lift up themselves , and hate to be controul'd . Jerusalem would not believe those Signs , Which God did show to call them to amend : For they knew not the preaching of the times , Until God did destruction on them send . Like as did these , so dost thou do , Oh land , Thou eat'st and drink'st , and risest up to play ; Thou heap'st up since , and dost not understand That near is come the Lord's most dreadful day , Wherein God now will inquisition make , And seek his slave , whose blood the earth does hid , Therefore repent , and all your sins forsake , If you have hope God's judgments to abide . When silent voice shall in all souls preach loud , Then suddenly men shall be in amaze ; Then woe , yea woe to all the wicked crowd : For they with horror then shall fear and gaze . The dry bones noise shall cause the World to quake ; For now on them the breath of life does hover , The Lord to them does now begin to speak , That they may live to show God's mighty power , O suddenly men shall themselves bewail With woeful cries , with gnashing teeth and pain , To find no moan nor tears shall then prevail ; To seek repentance then will be in vain . O you that live , a little time you have ; Break off from since , your evil life amend ; And let not wickedness your souls enslave , Until God does his wrath upon you send , And take you hence in fury and in haste , And in your sins you die as many have , Who in their lustest their precious time did wast , Until grim death did mark them for their grave . Yet from the Lord , I may to England tell The only way how to escape these woes ; Cease Persecution , and it shall be well . Grant liberty , this will subdue your foes . Embrace God's truth , let it have place in thee ; And let the Law in humane things take place : But leave man's Conscience in Religion free , To worship God , as guided by his Grace . Then you shall know the truth that makes free , With peace in God this Land shall be possessed . If ye'l fear God you shall victorious be , And Nations shall bow down to you as blessed . But if you will not cease from Banishment , From persecution and iniquity ; Yet you shall know the Lord hath to you sent Me , to forewarn you of your misery . Written the last of the last Month 1665. J. Raunce . H : 94219 ENGLAND'S REMEMBRANCER OF THE Day of her Visitation , and of the Woes Near to be revealed , except She Repent . O England , England , long hath been thy day , Great Signs and wonders God hath wrought in thee : Thy Visitation it will wear away , And then great Woes thou suddenly shalt see . God sundry ways hath sought thee to return , In peace and plenty he did to thee call ; But thou wast proud , against him thou didst spurn , Yea thou wast vain , and so begun thy fallen , To beatrice , imprison , and to persecute , Making strange Laws against God's Innocent ; With rage and fury thou didst prosecute Them , on all such as call'd thee to repent . The lives of many of Gods servants have In stinking holes and prisons wore away : Yea prison bonds have brought them to their grave , So that they might not live another day . But know thou this , though we in secret die , And thou in holes our bodies dost destroy ; Our blood aloud unto the Lord will cry , And bring such Plagues as shall thee soar annoy . Can you not see what all your rage hath wrought , Your Persecutions and your Banishment ? They have God's Judgments much upon you brought , Though you regard not what the Lord hath sent . You in your sins do but the harder grow , And wickedness does more and more increase ; [ ? ] persecute will be your overthrow , Unless from that great wickedness you cease . Repent and turn , come fit in dust and ashes ; O weep and mourn , bewail your time mis-spen Return and mend , while God gives gentle lashes , Or else his wrath shall you in shivers rend . Like to the potsherds of the earth , you shall Be broke in pieces by his angry stroke : For he in fury will upon you fallen , If that by since you do him still provoke : You grow so bad there's little hope's of you ; I would be silent and no more would say , And if I might I would in secret be , To wait on God , and pass my time away , Until that day in which Gods Judgments shall Break peoples hearts , lay low the haughty mind ; Bring tenderness to harken to God's call , In which the poor shall peace and comfort find . But yet again I must to England cry , And one more warning unto London give : Oh England , turn from thine iniquity ; Repent Oh London , that thou yet mayest live . O English Nation hasten , O make haste To do the things that are both good and just ; Or else God's Judgments will soon make thee wast , And lay thy strength and honour in the dust . Unless thou turn , and do thy sins forsake ; Unless thou do thy persecution cease ; Unless for conscience thou indulgence make , Great woes on thee will yet again increase , Unless that good men shall have liberty , Unless thy penal Laws be done away ; Unless thou cease from bloody cruelty . [ I ] must thee tell , that God will bring a day Of greater howlings and Calamities , And woes more dreadful shall beset thee round ; Thou hast not yet seen half the misery's , That shall within thy bowels yet abound . My heart is sad , mine eyes for sorrow weep ; My soul's oppressed , and I in secret cry : O that with peace I might in silence keep , And not a Prophet be of misery . Before the Lord my soul is bowed low ; For who may stand when once Jehovah frowns . This I must cry , that woe all flesh shall know ; Woe's on the Land , Seas , Cities and in Towns . Woe you false Prophets , that poor souls deceive , Who for self ends fear not to make a lie : No root nor branch of you the Lord will leave , But you shall sink with your iniquity . Woe to you Lawyers , that corrupt the Law , And do not fear to pervert true judgement On you your works destruction will draw , Except you mend , and speedily repent . Woe to you Rulers , that have not done well ; Your time will end , the Judge is at the door , Who will destroy and cast you into Hell , Except you mend , and shall do so no more . Woe to all you that have done violence Against those that do meet to Worship God . As you have used God's poor Innocents So you shall feel God's woeful smarting rod . Woe to all you that issue forth command , To force and prison unto Banishmen Ev'n so shall you be driven by God's hand , In fearful Plagues to endless punishment . Woe to all you whom yet the Lord does spare , But though God smites , yet you grow worse and worse : Your time is short , and then will come your share In endless pains , with Devils in the curse . Woe every man , both high , low , rich and poor , Who hath shed blood , and hurt God's Innocent ; Their blood for vengeance unto Heaven does roar , For woes upon you till you do repent . What shall I say ! for God will make appear To great and small , that woeful times hast on ; In which all people shall both quake and fear ; For God will not let such men long alone , As beatrice , imprison , and are violent Against all such as wish you to amend ; And such as cry and call you to repent , Ye from their land in Banishment would send : Oh foolish folk , you are both deaf and blind ; Destruction's near , it hath beset you round ; Plague , Sword and Famine of the sorest kind , Except you mend , these will on you abound . O that you could believe what good men say , Who see the end of what is now begun : This is the Eve of that most dreadful day , In which all faces shall grow pale and wan . O English people that you could yet hear ! Ah that you could but mind the mournful cry That is for you , to hear this in God's fear , Repent , repent , for why , why will you die ? O that you would believe what Christ hath said , And be not like unto the World of old ; Who in their sins were by the Flood destroy'd , Because they would not mend when they were told , Though Noah preached they would not repent ; The Lord did wait , but they would not amend : And when God's suffering patience was spent , He did upon them utter ruin send . Remember what befell the Sodomites , And many others that I could unfold ; Who did as Pharaoh by the Israelites , Lift up themselves , and hate to be controul'd . Jerusalem would not believe those Signs , Which God did show to call them to amend : For they knew not the preaching of the times , Until God did destruction on them send . Like as did these , so dost thou do , Oh land , Thou eat'st and drink'st , and risest up to play ; Thou heap'st up since , and dost not understand That near is come the Lord's most dreadful day , Wherein God now will inquisition make , And seek his slave , whose blood the earth does hid , Therefore repent , and all your sins forsake , If you have hope God's judgments to abide . When silent voice shall in all souls preach loud , Then suddenly men shall be in amaze ; Then woe , yea woe to all the wicked crowd : For they with horror then shall fear and gaze . The dry bones noise shall cause the World to quake ; For now on them the breath of life does hover , The Lord to them does now begin to speak , That they may live to show God's mighty power , O suddenly men shall themselves bewail With woeful cries , with gnashing teeth and pain , To find no moan nor tears shall then prevail ; To seek repentance then will be in vain . O you that live , a little time you have ; Break off from since , your evil life amend ; And let not wickedness your souls enslave , Until God does his wrath upon you send , And take you hence in fury and in haste , And in your sins you die as many have , Who in their lustest their precious time did wast , Until grim death did mark them for their grave . Yet from the Lord , I may to England tell The only way how to escape these woes ; Cease Persecution , and it shall be well . Grant liberty , this will subdue your foes . Embrace God's truth , let it have place in thee ; And let the Law in humane things take place : But leave man's Conscience in Religion free , To worship God , as guided by his Grace . Then you shall know the truth that makes free , With peace in God this Land shall be possessed . If ye'l fear God you shall victorious be , And Nations shall bow down to you as blessed . But if you will not cease from Banishment , From persecution and iniquity ; Yet you shall know the Lord hath to you sent Me , to forewarn you of your misery . Written the last of the last Month 1665. J. Raunce . 