H : 123909 THE SATYRIC ELEGIE Upon the Execution of Master NATHANIEL TOMKINS July the 5. 1643. To the Citizens of London . THIS Tomkins ( glad spectators ) whom you see Hang as the Trophy of your tyranny ; Whose loyal harmless blood is spilled By , and for you , yet no pale guilt Dwells in your faces : with dry eyes You murder , and call't Sacrifice ; I will not say of fools : but sure no man Can call such heathen Offerings Christian . Such bloody , deep-dy'd Crimson facts Must not be call'd Apostles acts , ( Though Case were godfather : ) the Dove Descended on the Son of Love , And not the Kite or Eagle : no such fowl Must stand as Emblem of a Christian soul . Though your new Buffe-Divines can draw Blood from the Gospel , and make't Law ; ( A killing Letter ) and can bring Christ into th' field to kill the King ; When both the Cannon , and the Musket shot , Proclaim'd you guilty of a Pouder-plo Blacker than Fauxess , and more fell , Than that you say was hatched in Hell . When to defend them you let fly At King , Prince , Duke , Nobility . This true you bear a bloody Cross , but this No badge of murder , but Religion is . And Walworth's Dagger in your field , Shows a Lord Major a Rebel kill'd : But now he is one , and yet he And Walworth wears one Livery . For my part , since Edge-hill , I 'count that we Live not by right , but only courtesy . He that dares smite my King , is more , Than I dare think , ( grand Seignior ) And I his vassal , and my breath Is his whose nod or frown is death . ( Brittain ) where's now thy liberty ! thy walk Is not thine own , thy gesture , nor thy talk . Thou mayest smile Treason now : a look , If cast a squint upon a book , Sign'd with H.E. will strike th' as dead As Basilisks , or Gorgons head . Isles were Informers punishment at Room , Where they liv'd Exiles ) ours is now become Their Paradise : He that can spy Malignant in the face or eye , Is a made man ! need nothing fear , Preferments grow at Westminster , For knaves and Sycophants , and such as can Ruin three Kingdoms to make up one man . Thus fell brave Tomkins , rather thus He hood ! as did Calimachus , And more , spoke dead , ( for he did come A dead man to receive his doom ) Which as he did foreknow , he scorn'd , nor cou'd Their number , or their malice chill his blood . He stood undaunted ! nor did fear The Sawpit Lord , or Manchester : Nor yet Sir Johns blood-guilty front , With Straffords head engrav'd upon't . Nor the rest of City Judges that were there For nothing but to murder and forswear . Thus dy'd the Roman Thrasea , ( Brave man ) and thus fell Seneca . Both wise , and rich , and fortunate , Save in his tyrant pupils hate Nero , who laugh't to see Room fry , and sung Unto his Harp the flames of Ilium . You do the same and worse , for now A Kingdom's all on fire , while you ( Idle and glad spectators ) lend Fresh fuel , lest the fire should spend . Look to't ( thou bloody City ) fast and pray , London , that this prove not Acheldama : From your black doom wee'll this conclusion draw , You have no Gospel , Tomkins had no Law . Printed at OXFORD , by Will . Web. 1643. H : 123909 THE SATYRIC ELEGIE Upon the Execution of Master NATHANIEL TOMKINS July the 5. 1643. To the Citizens of London . THIS Tomkins ( glad spectators ) whom you see Hang as the Trophy of your tyranny ; Whose loyal harmless blood is spilled By , and for you , yet no pale guilt Dwells in your faces : with dry eyes You murder , and call't Sacrifice ; I will not say of fools : but sure no man Can call such heathen Offerings Christian . Such bloody , deep-dy'd Crimson facts Must not be call'd Apostles acts , ( Though Case were godfather : ) the Dove Descended on the Son of Love , And not the Kite or Eagle : no such fowl Must stand as Emblem of a Christian soul . Though your new Buffe-Divines can draw Blood from the Gospel , and make't Law ; ( A killing Letter ) and can bring Christ into th' field to kill the King ; When both the Cannon , and the Musket shot , Proclaim'd you guilty of a Pouder-plo Blacker than Fauxess , and more fell , Than that you say was hatched in Hell . When to defend them you let fly At King , Prince , Duke , Nobility . This true you bear a bloody Cross , but this No badge of murder , but Religion is . And Walworth's Dagger in your field , Shows a Lord Major a Rebel kill'd : But now he is one , and yet he And Walworth wears one Livery . For my part , since Edge-hill , I 'count that we Live not by right , but only courtesy . He that dares smite my King , is more , Than I dare think , ( grand Seignior ) And I his vassal , and my breath Is his whose nod or frown is death . ( Brittain ) where's now thy liberty ! thy walk Is not thine own , thy gesture , nor thy talk . Thou mayest smile Treason now : a look , If cast a squint upon a book , Sign'd with H.E. will strike th' as dead As Basilisks , or Gorgons head . Isles were Informers punishment at Room , Where they liv'd Exiles ) ours is now become Their Paradise : He that can spy Malignant in the face or eye , Is a made man ! need nothing fear , Preferments grow at Westminster , For knaves and Sycophants , and such as can Ruin three Kingdoms to make up one man . Thus fell brave Tomkins , rather thus He hood ! as did Calimachus , And more , spoke dead , ( for he did come A dead man to receive his doom ) Which as he did foreknow , he scorn'd , nor cou'd Their number , or their malice chill his blood . He stood undaunted ! nor did fear The Sawpit Lord , or Manchester : Nor yet Sir Johns blood-guilty front , With Straffords head engrav'd upon't . Nor the rest of City Judges that were there For nothing but to murder and forswear . Thus dy'd the Roman Thrasea , ( Brave man ) and thus fell Seneca . Both wise , and rich , and fortunate , Save in his tyrant pupils hate Nero , who laugh't to see Room fry , and sung Unto his Harp the flames of Ilium . You do the same and worse , for now A Kingdom's all on fire , while you ( Idle and glad spectators ) lend Fresh fuel , lest the fire should spend . Look to't ( thou bloody City ) fast and pray , London , that this prove not Acheldama : From your black doom wee'll this conclusion draw , You have no Gospel , Tomkins had no Law . Printed at OXFORD , by Will . Web. 1643. 