H : 59724 The SPEECH of a FIFE LAIRD Newly come from the Grave . WHat Accident , what strange Mishap Awakes me from my Heav'nly Nap ? What Sp'rit ? What Godhead by the lave , Hath rais'd my Body from the Grave ? It is a hundred Years almost , Since I was buri'd in the Dust , And now I think that I am living , Or else , but doubt , my Brains are raving ; Yet do I feel ( while as I study ) The Faculties of all my Body : I Taste , I Smell , I Touch , I Hear , I find my Sighed exceeding clear : Then I'm alive , yea sure I am , I know it by my Corp'ral Frame : But in what part where I can be , My wav'ring Brains yet torture me . Once I was called a great Fife Laird , I dwelled not far from the Hall-yard : But who enjoys my Land and Pleugh , My Castle , and my fine Coal-heugh : I can find out no living Man , Can tell me this , do what I can Yet if my Mem'ry serve me well , This is the Shire where I did dwell ; This is the Part where I was born : For so beneath me stands Kinghorn : And thereabouts the Lowmond Hill Stands as it stood yet ever still . There is Bruntisland , Aberdore , I see Fife's Coast along the Shore , Yet I am right , and for my Life , This is my native Country Fife , O! but 'tis long and many a Year , Since last my Feet did travel here . I find great Change in old Lairds Places , I know the Ground , but not the Faces , Where shall I turn me first about , For my Acquaintance is worn out ? O! this is strange , that ev'n in Fife , I do know neither Man nor Wife ; No Earl , no Lord , no Laird , no People , But Lesly and the Mark Inch-Steeple , Old Noble Weems , and that is all , I think enjoy their Father's Hall . For from Dumfermling to Fife-ness I do know none that does possess His Grandsire's Castles and his Tow'rs : All is away that once was ours . I'm full of Wrath , I scorn to tarry , I know them no more than the Fairy : But I admire and marvel strange What is the Cause of this great Change . I hear a murmuring Report , Passing among the Common Sor For some say this , and some say that , And others tell , I know not wha Some say the Fife Lairds ever rues , Since they began to take the Lews : That Bargain first did brew their Bale , As tell the honest Men of Creil . Some do ascribe their Supplantation , Unto the Lawyers Congregation . No , but this is a false Suppose : For all things wits that well not goes . Be what it will , there is some Source Hath bred this universal Curse ; This Transmigration and Earthquake , That caus'd the Lairds of Fife to break . He that enthrones a Shepherdling , He that dethrones a potent King ; And he that makes a Cotter Laird , The Baron's Bairns to delve a Yard : Almighty , He that shakes the Mountains , And brings great Rivers from small Fountains It is the Power of his Hand , That makes both Lords and Lairds have Land. Yet there , may be , as all Men knaws And Evident and well seen Cause , A public and a common Evil , That made the meikle Master Devil To cast his Club all Fife throughout , And lent each Laird a deadly Rout. Mark then , I'll tell you , how it was , What way this Wonder came to pass : It sets me best the Truth to Pen , Because I fear no Mortal Men . When I was born at Middle-yard weight , There was no word of Laird or Knight , The greatest Stile of Honour then , Was to be titled the Good-Man . But changing Time hath chang'd the Case , And puts a Laird in th' Good-man's place . For Why ? my Gossip Goodman John , And honest James , whom I think on ; When we did meet while at the Hawking , We us'd no Cringes but Hands shaking , No Bowing , Shouldering , Gambo-scraping , No French Whistling , or Dutch gaping . We had no Garments in our Land , But what were spun by th' Gooodwife's hand : No Drap de-berry , Clothes of seal : No Stuffs ingrain'd in Cocheneel , No Plush , no Tissue , Cramosie ; No China , Turky Taffety ; No proud Pyropus , Paragon , Or Chackarally , there was none , No Figurata , or Water-chamble No Bishop-satine , or Silk-chamblet , No Cloth of Gold , or Bever-hats , We care'd no more for , than the Cats : No windy flourish'd flying Feathers , No sweet permusted shambo Leathers , No Hilt or Crampet richly hatched : A Lance , a Sword in hand we snatched . Such base and B [ oh ] yish Vanities , Did not beseem our Dignities : We were all ready and complete , Stout for our Friends , on Horse or Feet , True to our Prince to shed our Blood , For Kirk , and for our Common Good . Such Men we were , it is well known , As in our Chronicles are shown . This made [ ? ] dwell into our Land , And our Po [ st ] erity to stand . But when [ th ] e young Laird became vain , And went away to France and Spain , Rome raking , wandering here and there : O! then became our bootless Care : Pride puffed him up , because he was Far travel'd and return'd and Ass. Then must the Laird , the Good-man's Oye , Be Knighted straight ; and make convoy , Coach'd through the Streets with Horses four , Foot-grooms Pasmented o'er and o'er . Himself cut out and slashed so wide , Ev'n his whole shirt his Skin does hide . Gowpherd , Gratnizied Cloaks rare pointed , Embroider'd , lac'd , with Boots disjointed , A Belt embossed with Gold and Pearl : False Hair made craftily to curl : Side Breeks be button'd o'er the Garter's , Was ne'er the like seen in our Quarters . Tobacco and Wine Frontinack , Potato-Pasties , Spanish Sack , Such uncouth Food , such Meat and Drink , Could never in our Stomachs sink : Then must the Grandson swear and swagger And show himself the bravest Bragger , A Bon-companion and a Drinker , A delicate and dainty Ginker . So is seen on't . These foolish Jigs , Hath caus'd his Worship fell his Rigs . My Lady , as she is a Woman , Is born a Helper to undo Man , Her Ladyship must have a share , For she is Playmaker and more ; For she invents a thousand Toys , That House and Hold and all destroys , As Scarfs , Shephroas , Tuffs , and Rings , Fairdings , Facings , and Powderings Rebats , Ribbons , Bans , and Ruffs , Lapbends , Shagbands , Cuffs and Muffs , Folding outlays , Pearling sprigs , Atrys , Vardigals , Periwigs : Hats , Hoods , Wires and also Kells , Washing-balls , and perfuming Smells : French-gows cut out and double banded Jet Rings to make her pleasant handed : A Fan , a Feather , Bracelets , Gloves , All new come-busks she dearly loves : For such trim bony Baby-clouts , Still on the Laird she greets and shouts : Which made the Laird take up more Gear , Than all the Lands or Rigs could bear . These are the Emblems , that declares The Merchant's thriftless needless wares : The Tailor's curious Vanity , My Lady's Prodigality . This is the Truth which I discover : I do not care for Feid or Favour ; For what I was , yet still I am , And honest , plain , true dealing Man ; And if these Words of mine would mend them I care not by , though I offend them . Here is the Cause most plainly shown , That have our Country overthrown . 'Tis said of old , that other's Harms , Is oftentimes the wise Man's Arms : And he is thought most wise of all , That learns Good from his Neighbour's Fallen : It grieves my Heart to see this Age , I cannot stay to act more Stage : I will engrave me in the Ground , And rest there till the Trumpet found ; And if I have said ought astray , Which may a Messon's Mind dismay , I do appeal before the Throne Of the great Powers three in one : The Supreme Sovereignty , The Parliament of verity . And if you think my Words offends , You must be there , I's make amends . FINIS . H : 59724 The SPEECH of a FIFE LAIRD Newly come from the Grave . WHat Accident , what strange Mishap Awakes me from my Heav'nly Nap ? What Sp'rit ? What Godhead by the lave , Hath rais'd my Body from the Grave ? It is a hundred Years almost , Since I was buri'd in the Dust , And now I think that I am living , Or else , but doubt , my Brains are raving ; Yet do I feel ( while as I study ) The Faculties of all my Body : I Taste , I Smell , I Touch , I Hear , I find my Sighed exceeding clear : Then I'm alive , yea sure I am , I know it by my Corp'ral Frame : But in what part where I can be , My wav'ring Brains yet torture me . Once I was called a great Fife Laird , I dwelled not far from the Hall-yard : But who enjoys my Land and Pleugh , My Castle , and my fine Coal-heugh : I can find out no living Man , Can tell me this , do what I can Yet if my Mem'ry serve me well , This is the Shire where I did dwell ; This is the Part where I was born : For so beneath me stands Kinghorn : And thereabouts the Lowmond Hill Stands as it stood yet ever still . There is Bruntisland , Aberdore , I see Fife's Coast along the Shore , Yet I am right , and for my Life , This is my native Country Fife , O! but 'tis long and many a Year , Since last my Feet did travel here . I find great Change in old Lairds Places , I know the Ground , but not the Faces , Where shall I turn me first about , For my Acquaintance is worn out ? O! this is strange , that ev'n in Fife , I do know neither Man nor Wife ; No Earl , no Lord , no Laird , no People , But Lesly and the Mark Inch-Steeple , Old Noble Weems , and that is all , I think enjoy their Father's Hall . For from Dumfermling to Fife-ness I do know none that does possess His Grandsire's Castles and his Tow'rs : All is away that once was ours . I'm full of Wrath , I scorn to tarry , I know them no more than the Fairy : But I admire and marvel strange What is the Cause of this great Change . I hear a murmuring Report , Passing among the Common Sor For some say this , and some say that , And others tell , I know not wha Some say the Fife Lairds ever rues , Since they began to take the Lews : That Bargain first did brew their Bale , As tell the honest Men of Creil . Some do ascribe their Supplantation , Unto the Lawyers Congregation . No , but this is a false Suppose : For all things wits that well not goes . Be what it will , there is some Source Hath bred this universal Curse ; This Transmigration and Earthquake , That caus'd the Lairds of Fife to break . He that enthrones a Shepherdling , He that dethrones a potent King ; And he that makes a Cotter Laird , The Baron's Bairns to delve a Yard : Almighty , He that shakes the Mountains , And brings great Rivers from small Fountains It is the Power of his Hand , That makes both Lords and Lairds have Land. Yet there , may be , as all Men knaws And Evident and well seen Cause , A public and a common Evil , That made the meikle Master Devil To cast his Club all Fife throughout , And lent each Laird a deadly Rout. Mark then , I'll tell you , how it was , What way this Wonder came to pass : It sets me best the Truth to Pen , Because I fear no Mortal Men . When I was born at Middle-yard weight , There was no word of Laird or Knight , The greatest Stile of Honour then , Was to be titled the Good-Man . But changing Time hath chang'd the Case , And puts a Laird in th' Good-man's place . For Why ? my Gossip Goodman John , And honest James , whom I think on ; When we did meet while at the Hawking , We us'd no Cringes but Hands shaking , No Bowing , Shouldering , Gambo-scraping , No French Whistling , or Dutch gaping . We had no Garments in our Land , But what were spun by th' Gooodwife's hand : No Drap de-berry , Clothes of seal : No Stuffs ingrain'd in Cocheneel , No Plush , no Tissue , Cramosie ; No China , Turky Taffety ; No proud Pyropus , Paragon , Or Chackarally , there was none , No Figurata , or Water-chamble No Bishop-satine , or Silk-chamblet , No Cloth of Gold , or Bever-hats , We care'd no more for , than the Cats : No windy flourish'd flying Feathers , No sweet permusted shambo Leathers , No Hilt or Crampet richly hatched : A Lance , a Sword in hand we snatched . Such base and B [ oh ] yish Vanities , Did not beseem our Dignities : We were all ready and complete , Stout for our Friends , on Horse or Feet , True to our Prince to shed our Blood , For Kirk , and for our Common Good . Such Men we were , it is well known , As in our Chronicles are shown . This made [ ? ] dwell into our Land , And our Po [ st ] erity to stand . But when [ th ] e young Laird became vain , And went away to France and Spain , Rome raking , wandering here and there : O! then became our bootless Care : Pride puffed him up , because he was Far travel'd and return'd and Ass. Then must the Laird , the Good-man's Oye , Be Knighted straight ; and make convoy , Coach'd through the Streets with Horses four , Foot-grooms Pasmented o'er and o'er . Himself cut out and slashed so wide , Ev'n his whole shirt his Skin does hide . Gowpherd , Gratnizied Cloaks rare pointed , Embroider'd , lac'd , with Boots disjointed , A Belt embossed with Gold and Pearl : False Hair made craftily to curl : Side Breeks be button'd o'er the Garter's , Was ne'er the like seen in our Quarters . Tobacco and Wine Frontinack , Potato-Pasties , Spanish Sack , Such uncouth Food , such Meat and Drink , Could never in our Stomachs sink : Then must the Grandson swear and swagger And show himself the bravest Bragger , A Bon-companion and a Drinker , A delicate and dainty Ginker . So is seen on't . These foolish Jigs , Hath caus'd his Worship fell his Rigs . My Lady , as she is a Woman , Is born a Helper to undo Man , Her Ladyship must have a share , For she is Playmaker and more ; For she invents a thousand Toys , That House and Hold and all destroys , As Scarfs , Shephroas , Tuffs , and Rings , Fairdings , Facings , and Powderings Rebats , Ribbons , Bans , and Ruffs , Lapbends , Shagbands , Cuffs and Muffs , Folding outlays , Pearling sprigs , Atrys , Vardigals , Periwigs : Hats , Hoods , Wires and also Kells , Washing-balls , and perfuming Smells : French-gows cut out and double banded Jet Rings to make her pleasant handed : A Fan , a Feather , Bracelets , Gloves , All new come-busks she dearly loves : For such trim bony Baby-clouts , Still on the Laird she greets and shouts : Which made the Laird take up more Gear , Than all the Lands or Rigs could bear . These are the Emblems , that declares The Merchant's thriftless needless wares : The Tailor's curious Vanity , My Lady's Prodigality . This is the Truth which I discover : I do not care for Feid or Favour ; For what I was , yet still I am , And honest , plain , true dealing Man ; And if these Words of mine would mend them I care not by , though I offend them . Here is the Cause most plainly shown , That have our Country overthrown . 'Tis said of old , that other's Harms , Is oftentimes the wise Man's Arms : And he is thought most wise of all , That learns Good from his Neighbour's Fallen : It grieves my Heart to see this Age , I cannot stay to act more Stage : I will engrave me in the Ground , And rest there till the Trumpet found ; And if I have said ought astray , Which may a Messon's Mind dismay , I do appeal before the Throne Of the great Powers three in one : The Supreme Sovereignty , The Parliament of verity . And if you think my Words offends , You must be there , I's make amends . FINIS . 