H : 133589 A Worthy Panegyric UPON MONARCHY ; Written Anno MDCLVIII . By a Learned and truly Loyal Gentleman , for Information of the miserably misled Commonwealths - Men ( falsely so called ) of that Deluded Age ; and now revived by One that honours the Author , and the Established Government of these Nations . I . IF wanting Wings one may ascend the Skies , And Phoebus view , without and Eagles Eyes ; Then Rouse up ( Muse ) from thy Lethargic Strains , And ( having first invok'd the God of Brains ) Let the Grand Subject of thy Measures be , No Soul to England like a Monarchy . * II It is the Image of that Domination , By which Jehovah rules the whole Creation ; Angels nor Saints , do in his Kingdom share , God is Sole-Monarch , they , but Subject's are : Whose Laws are such , as when they did Rebel , Sequestered not , but sent them strait to Hell . III . As Old , as that Paternal Sovereignty , God plac'd in Adam , rul'd his People by ; Disown'd of None , but them whose Minds aspire , And Envy ONE should have what All desire : For be't a Few or Many we live under , Such shall repine , still , while not of the Number . IIII . The Ancients did a Monarchy prefer , Made all their Gods submit to Jupiter ; And ( when Affairs and Nations first began ) Princes DECREES were th' only Laws of Man ; Experience will avow it , where there's any , One HONEST MAN is sooner found than MANY . V. The Rational Soul performs a Princes part , She rules the Body by Monarchic Art ; Poor Cranes , and silly Bees ( with shivering Wings , ) Observe their Leaders , and obey their Kings : Nature her self , disdains a Crowded Throne , The Body's Monstrous , has more Heads than ONE . VI . A Monarchy's that Politic simple State , Consists in Unity ( inseparate Pure and entire ; ) a Government that stands , When others fallen , touch'd but with levelling hands : So Natural and with such Skill endu'd , It makes ONE Body of a Multitude . VII . In Order ( wherein latter things depend On former ) that's most perfect does attend On Unity : But this can never be The Popular State , nor Aristocracy ; For where or All , or Many bear the Sway , Such Order , to Confusion leads the way . VIII . A Monarchy more quickly does attain The End propos'd ; for 'tis the Single-Brain That ripens Council , and concealeth best Princely Designs , 'till Deeds proclaim 'em blessed . While Numerous Heads are rarely of one Mind , Slow in their Motion , louder than the Wind. IX . Treason , nor Force , so suddenly divides Th' United Strength that in a Crown resides : Sedition prospers not , it seldom here , Results and Object of the Prince's Fear : Then when and Empire , Rome was ne'r so strong , Nor Triumph'd under other Rule so long . X. A Monarchy abates those Feverish Fits Of Emulation a Free-State begets : A Prince cannot his Reins so quickly slack , Or throw his Burden on another's Back : But where so many Rulers have Command , The Work's transferr'd , and toss'd from Hand to Hand . XI . The People , or the Nobles to debate The deep Concernments of a troubled State , Set Times and Places have assign'd them , they First meet , and then adjourn from Day to Day ! Whereas a Monarch , who by Nature's ONE , Deliberates always , never's off his Throne . XII . But hold ! Me thinks I see the three Estates Conven'd ; thrown open Prison-Doors and Grates , Extinct our paltry Jealousies and Fears , Grace offer'd to All , but Cavaliers And ------ ! yet with Patience they abound , In Hope's of Better , now the Wheel go's round . * Monarchia a Monos Archon , The Rule of one Prince or Governor without a Peer , or the Government of one man over many . As in England etc Britannia ab initio mundi semper fuit Regia , & Regimen illius simile ille Caelorum . Howel . LONDON , Printed for W.B. MDCLXXX . H : 133589 A Worthy Panegyric UPON MONARCHY ; Written Anno MDCLVIII . By a Learned and truly Loyal Gentleman , for Information of the miserably misled Commonwealths - Men ( falsely so called ) of that Deluded Age ; and now revived by One that honours the Author , and the Established Government of these Nations . I . IF wanting Wings one may ascend the Skies , And Phoebus view , without and Eagles Eyes ; Then Rouse up ( Muse ) from thy Lethargic Strains , And ( having first invok'd the God of Brains ) Let the Grand Subject of thy Measures be , No Soul to England like a Monarchy . * II It is the Image of that Domination , By which Jehovah rules the whole Creation ; Angels nor Saints , do in his Kingdom share , God is Sole-Monarch , they , but Subject's are : Whose Laws are such , as when they did Rebel , Sequestered not , but sent them strait to Hell . III . As Old , as that Paternal Sovereignty , God plac'd in Adam , rul'd his People by ; Disown'd of None , but them whose Minds aspire , And Envy ONE should have what All desire : For be't a Few or Many we live under , Such shall repine , still , while not of the Number . IIII . The Ancients did a Monarchy prefer , Made all their Gods submit to Jupiter ; And ( when Affairs and Nations first began ) Princes DECREES were th' only Laws of Man ; Experience will avow it , where there's any , One HONEST MAN is sooner found than MANY . V. The Rational Soul performs a Princes part , She rules the Body by Monarchic Art ; Poor Cranes , and silly Bees ( with shivering Wings , ) Observe their Leaders , and obey their Kings : Nature her self , disdains a Crowded Throne , The Body's Monstrous , has more Heads than ONE . VI . A Monarchy's that Politic simple State , Consists in Unity ( inseparate Pure and entire ; ) a Government that stands , When others fallen , touch'd but with levelling hands : So Natural and with such Skill endu'd , It makes ONE Body of a Multitude . VII . In Order ( wherein latter things depend On former ) that's most perfect does attend On Unity : But this can never be The Popular State , nor Aristocracy ; For where or All , or Many bear the Sway , Such Order , to Confusion leads the way . VIII . A Monarchy more quickly does attain The End propos'd ; for 'tis the Single-Brain That ripens Council , and concealeth best Princely Designs , 'till Deeds proclaim 'em blessed . While Numerous Heads are rarely of one Mind , Slow in their Motion , louder than the Wind. IX . Treason , nor Force , so suddenly divides Th' United Strength that in a Crown resides : Sedition prospers not , it seldom here , Results and Object of the Prince's Fear : Then when and Empire , Rome was ne'r so strong , Nor Triumph'd under other Rule so long . X. A Monarchy abates those Feverish Fits Of Emulation a Free-State begets : A Prince cannot his Reins so quickly slack , Or throw his Burden on another's Back : But where so many Rulers have Command , The Work's transferr'd , and toss'd from Hand to Hand . XI . The People , or the Nobles to debate The deep Concernments of a troubled State , Set Times and Places have assign'd them , they First meet , and then adjourn from Day to Day ! Whereas a Monarch , who by Nature's ONE , Deliberates always , never's off his Throne . XII . But hold ! Me thinks I see the three Estates Conven'd ; thrown open Prison-Doors and Grates , Extinct our paltry Jealousies and Fears , Grace offer'd to All , but Cavaliers And ------ ! yet with Patience they abound , In Hope's of Better , now the Wheel go's round . * Monarchia a Monos Archon , The Rule of one Prince or Governor without a Peer , or the Government of one man over many . As in England etc Britannia ab initio mundi semper fuit Regia , & Regimen illius simile ille Caelorum . Howel . LONDON , Printed for W.B. MDCLXXX . 