H : 133533 A PARALLEL BETWIXT POPERY and PHANATICISM , IN A LETTER to T.S. SIR , I'M inform'd , your Royal Jurat In 'lection was to be your Curate : I'm likewise told y 'are disappointed , By Mandate from the Lord's Anointed . Your Congregation sure is Righteous That's worth the care of Charles and Titus . Titus and Charles had had more fitness , For Charles is second with a Witness . But since he fail'd , let fancy help it , And we'll suppose him in your Pulpit , Which would have look'd , when he was god in't , Like and Oat-Meal Tub , with a PLOT in' ( To say who made the Plot , would rub , But sure some Cooper made the Tub ) There might you hear him talk at once Sir , Geneva , London , Rome , and Munster ; For all Religions in the Town Are cloak'd in his Chameleon Gown . For as the Ancients us'd to scan Nine Tailors to one single Man ; And others learnedly have writ , That thrice three Spinsters make one With So he , though h' left them all in lurches , Is Product of as many Churches . Tho some affirm , when there's but Nine , That neither's due to this Divine : However , he's esteem'd by some The mighty Bulwark against Rome ; Yet others say with cause enough , His Girdle only's Cannon-Proof : Yet that's Defence enough for us , For he's all over Blunderbus . But Sir , since Arbitrary Power Hath useless made your Glass of hour , And laid Embargo upon O ------ By luck we have retriev'd his Notes ; Which since he was deny'd to preach , Took pet , and dwindled to a Speech . 'Behold the double Saviour of your Nation , 'Who daily preach and swear for your Salvation ! 'Behold the wicked Priest , and Jesuit-taker ! 'Behold the King's most excellent Oath-maker , 'Who now comes down out of his endless Bounty , 'To raise new Vicegerents for your County ! 'I have try'd all Religions once , some twice , 'Div'd like and Indian for the Pearl of Price ; 'Walk'd like a Glowworm by my Light within , 'Have learned to eat my God , and stab my King : 'Only I never lov'd the Quakers bawling , 'For fear indeed they should have spoil'd my Calling . 'I wish my stay at Omers had been shorter , 'For they e'ne us'd me like a very Porter , 'To drink , and carry Letters ; yet their steering 'Mended my hand a little in my swearing . 'At length in England's Church I cast my Anchor , 'And there discover'd all the Jesuits Rancour , 'Ript up the Plot , prevented the King's fallen , 'Sav'd the ingrateful Lawn-sleeves ( Rascals all ) ; 'Strung up some dozen of Ignatius Raze , 'Sent Stafford to his own uncertain place : 'And when as one man they departed hence 'With all the Oaths and Vows of Innocence , 'I shew'd the World their Mental Reservations , 'The Juggles of their Oaths and Protestations : 'In short , I penned men's Faith to that degree , 'They hardly would believe or them or me . 'That Church hath been so train'd with sense and reason , 'They hate implicit Faith as bad as Treason : 'Not that they doubt the Plot ( for all their jeering , ) 'But 'tis for better Reasons than my swearing . 'This mads my Soul ; and I shall find a time 'To make them fallen , unless they help me climb : 'With Oxford too I'm at no less defiance , 'Who dirtily refus'd me her Alliance , ''Till I could prove that Swearing was a Science ; 'Whereas the very posture of the Actor 'Shews 'tis no Science , but a Manufacture . 'There's ne're a Gown-man but myself , I tell you , 'Without a Legion of Popes in's Belly : 'Nay , in your godly Country 're some Betrayers , 'For there I'd like t' have been trapan'd to Prayers , 'As if I'd nought to do but sing or say ; ''Twas but upon last Commination day , 'The silly Rat had baited Hooks with Hooks , 'Thinking to decoy me into Pray'rs with Books . 'Besides , among all People but the Blades , 'Swearing and Cursing are two several Trades . 'But such and Insect in Divinity 'Cannot deserve and angry Thought from me , 'Who dare to grapple the whole Hierarchy . 'Mind they their Trade , and canvas Paul and Luke , 'I am above their Censure and Rebuke , 'Nor do I fear their friend your Loyal Duke . 'One single godly Speech of mine defi'd 'Your Princes Favourite , and your Country's Pride . 'When I came rattling with a Coach and six , 'King Coel's supreme Burgesses to fix , 'I stum'd the Mobile , and chang'd their Choices , 'And stalking with their Ears obtain'd their Voices : 'By which he sees ( if Heav'n do not forbid ) 'That I can undo all his Father did . But after all my most industrious searches , Sir Francis Draking , as it were the Churches , I find my subtle Master's told me true , They have no toppers of a Plot like you . At that , enrag'd , up starts a Loyal Youth , Quoth he , Sans swearing , thou hast once spoke truth : Th' Religion ( if thou hast it ) is profound , And thou art turn'd from Room exactly round ; Room and Geneva are a sort of Twins , Sworn Sisters , and sworn Enemies to Kings : And for all you look so Protestantly big , You're still a Papist Masquerade in Whig . Phanaticism is Popery improv'd . Their bold Ignatius strikes to your Buchanan , Their Irish to your English Forty and One ; Their Plots are bubbles to your late Intrigue , Your Cov'nant hath out-kill'd their holy League . A strange harmonious Discord there appears , Betwixt your darling Shibboleth , and theirs ; Touch but their Strings , and all your Octaves shake , And though some ceremonious Jars you make , The Tybur disembogues into your Lake . So two false Gamesters quarrel when they meet A true , to blind and reinforce the Cheat . the both agree your Monarch to betray , Depose and Murder , though a different way : Both level your Church-Censures at the Crown , You both pursue the King ; but this I'le own , They pitch your Game , you fairly hunt it down . So have I seen a Royal Stag e'rewhile Fallen by your Hounds that hath escap'd their toil ; Nor must your Subject's fairer Quarter hope , Or from your single or the cluster'd Pope ; They must be Slaves to which soe're prevails , And either roast , or stink to death in Gaols . No Age nor Sex but must his Censures share ; They dart Anathema's , yet more severe , From their accumulative Porphyry Chair : He , modest Man , but censures for your Faults ; They damn for Clothes and Gestures , yea even Thoughts ; And all the Choice you have , unless you turn , Must be a Halter to avoid and Urn , As if 'twere better to hang than burn . Not only th' Ague , but all other Ills Are cur'd by th' Jesuit's Powder , and your Pills , By which you purg'd the Church , and scour'd the Nation , In order to a thorough Reformation . the both assert with Apostolic Buff , Convince with Backsword , and with Pistol-proof , And ominous Sulphur make your Reasons tough : Their Faith in Absolution makes them since , Yours in Election hath as fruitful been . For where's the difference , bating the Priests Fee , That God forgives , or that he will not see ; Not that your Friends will Damn for six Pence less , You spend in Capons what you save in Cash : Your Basons , Tankards , Caudle-Cups , and Spoons , Turn to as good account as Duckatoons . The service of their Church , and of your Cause , Blanches the breach of all the sacred Laws : You deal with Oaths as Potters with their Clay , You take them by the lump , and then essay To mould them for your turn ; if that wo'nt do , You break 'm strait , and fallen to work with new . The only two that ever seem'd to sham you , Were theirs of Secrecy , and your Solemn Dam -- me ; You abhor Repentance both , even when you die , And your last Breath is spent in Perjury : For who with more Astonishment can look On their St. Coleman , than on your St. Cook ? The Saints are much alike for all their din , For theirs forswear the Fact , and yours the Sin. Ye're like a bad half Crown with one fair side , Whose loyal Stamp does the base Metal hide , Th' other will own the Brass , and justify 't , But by your edges you may both be try'd . Hence Tories say , whither you rule the Isle , Or th' Jesuits , is only Cross and Pile ; But CHARLES they say hath been too wisely bred , To venture them with's Cross , or you with's Head. Printed for E. Pool . H : 133533 A PARALLEL BETWIXT POPERY and PHANATICISM , IN A LETTER to T.S. SIR , I'M inform'd , your Royal Jurat In 'lection was to be your Curate : I'm likewise told y 'are disappointed , By Mandate from the Lord's Anointed . Your Congregation sure is Righteous That's worth the care of Charles and Titus . Titus and Charles had had more fitness , For Charles is second with a Witness . But since he fail'd , let fancy help it , And we'll suppose him in your Pulpit , Which would have look'd , when he was god in't , Like and Oat-Meal Tub , with a PLOT in' ( To say who made the Plot , would rub , But sure some Cooper made the Tub ) There might you hear him talk at once Sir , Geneva , London , Rome , and Munster ; For all Religions in the Town Are cloak'd in his Chameleon Gown . For as the Ancients us'd to scan Nine Tailors to one single Man ; And others learnedly have writ , That thrice three Spinsters make one With So he , though h' left them all in lurches , Is Product of as many Churches . Tho some affirm , when there's but Nine , That neither's due to this Divine : However , he's esteem'd by some The mighty Bulwark against Rome ; Yet others say with cause enough , His Girdle only's Cannon-Proof : Yet that's Defence enough for us , For he's all over Blunderbus . But Sir , since Arbitrary Power Hath useless made your Glass of hour , And laid Embargo upon O ------ By luck we have retriev'd his Notes ; Which since he was deny'd to preach , Took pet , and dwindled to a Speech . 'Behold the double Saviour of your Nation , 'Who daily preach and swear for your Salvation ! 'Behold the wicked Priest , and Jesuit-taker ! 'Behold the King's most excellent Oath-maker , 'Who now comes down out of his endless Bounty , 'To raise new Vicegerents for your County ! 'I have try'd all Religions once , some twice , 'Div'd like and Indian for the Pearl of Price ; 'Walk'd like a Glowworm by my Light within , 'Have learned to eat my God , and stab my King : 'Only I never lov'd the Quakers bawling , 'For fear indeed they should have spoil'd my Calling . 'I wish my stay at Omers had been shorter , 'For they e'ne us'd me like a very Porter , 'To drink , and carry Letters ; yet their steering 'Mended my hand a little in my swearing . 'At length in England's Church I cast my Anchor , 'And there discover'd all the Jesuits Rancour , 'Ript up the Plot , prevented the King's fallen , 'Sav'd the ingrateful Lawn-sleeves ( Rascals all ) ; 'Strung up some dozen of Ignatius Raze , 'Sent Stafford to his own uncertain place : 'And when as one man they departed hence 'With all the Oaths and Vows of Innocence , 'I shew'd the World their Mental Reservations , 'The Juggles of their Oaths and Protestations : 'In short , I penned men's Faith to that degree , 'They hardly would believe or them or me . 'That Church hath been so train'd with sense and reason , 'They hate implicit Faith as bad as Treason : 'Not that they doubt the Plot ( for all their jeering , ) 'But 'tis for better Reasons than my swearing . 'This mads my Soul ; and I shall find a time 'To make them fallen , unless they help me climb : 'With Oxford too I'm at no less defiance , 'Who dirtily refus'd me her Alliance , ''Till I could prove that Swearing was a Science ; 'Whereas the very posture of the Actor 'Shews 'tis no Science , but a Manufacture . 'There's ne're a Gown-man but myself , I tell you , 'Without a Legion of Popes in's Belly : 'Nay , in your godly Country 're some Betrayers , 'For there I'd like t' have been trapan'd to Prayers , 'As if I'd nought to do but sing or say ; ''Twas but upon last Commination day , 'The silly Rat had baited Hooks with Hooks , 'Thinking to decoy me into Pray'rs with Books . 'Besides , among all People but the Blades , 'Swearing and Cursing are two several Trades . 'But such and Insect in Divinity 'Cannot deserve and angry Thought from me , 'Who dare to grapple the whole Hierarchy . 'Mind they their Trade , and canvas Paul and Luke , 'I am above their Censure and Rebuke , 'Nor do I fear their friend your Loyal Duke . 'One single godly Speech of mine defi'd 'Your Princes Favourite , and your Country's Pride . 'When I came rattling with a Coach and six , 'King Coel's supreme Burgesses to fix , 'I stum'd the Mobile , and chang'd their Choices , 'And stalking with their Ears obtain'd their Voices : 'By which he sees ( if Heav'n do not forbid ) 'That I can undo all his Father did . But after all my most industrious searches , Sir Francis Draking , as it were the Churches , I find my subtle Master's told me true , They have no toppers of a Plot like you . At that , enrag'd , up starts a Loyal Youth , Quoth he , Sans swearing , thou hast once spoke truth : Th' Religion ( if thou hast it ) is profound , And thou art turn'd from Room exactly round ; Room and Geneva are a sort of Twins , Sworn Sisters , and sworn Enemies to Kings : And for all you look so Protestantly big , You're still a Papist Masquerade in Whig . Phanaticism is Popery improv'd . Their bold Ignatius strikes to your Buchanan , Their Irish to your English Forty and One ; Their Plots are bubbles to your late Intrigue , Your Cov'nant hath out-kill'd their holy League . A strange harmonious Discord there appears , Betwixt your darling Shibboleth , and theirs ; Touch but their Strings , and all your Octaves shake , And though some ceremonious Jars you make , The Tybur disembogues into your Lake . So two false Gamesters quarrel when they meet A true , to blind and reinforce the Cheat . the both agree your Monarch to betray , Depose and Murder , though a different way : Both level your Church-Censures at the Crown , You both pursue the King ; but this I'le own , They pitch your Game , you fairly hunt it down . So have I seen a Royal Stag e'rewhile Fallen by your Hounds that hath escap'd their toil ; Nor must your Subject's fairer Quarter hope , Or from your single or the cluster'd Pope ; They must be Slaves to which soe're prevails , And either roast , or stink to death in Gaols . No Age nor Sex but must his Censures share ; They dart Anathema's , yet more severe , From their accumulative Porphyry Chair : He , modest Man , but censures for your Faults ; They damn for Clothes and Gestures , yea even Thoughts ; And all the Choice you have , unless you turn , Must be a Halter to avoid and Urn , As if 'twere better to hang than burn . Not only th' Ague , but all other Ills Are cur'd by th' Jesuit's Powder , and your Pills , By which you purg'd the Church , and scour'd the Nation , In order to a thorough Reformation . the both assert with Apostolic Buff , Convince with Backsword , and with Pistol-proof , And ominous Sulphur make your Reasons tough : Their Faith in Absolution makes them since , Yours in Election hath as fruitful been . For where's the difference , bating the Priests Fee , That God forgives , or that he will not see ; Not that your Friends will Damn for six Pence less , You spend in Capons what you save in Cash : Your Basons , Tankards , Caudle-Cups , and Spoons , Turn to as good account as Duckatoons . The service of their Church , and of your Cause , Blanches the breach of all the sacred Laws : You deal with Oaths as Potters with their Clay , You take them by the lump , and then essay To mould them for your turn ; if that wo'nt do , You break 'm strait , and fallen to work with new . The only two that ever seem'd to sham you , Were theirs of Secrecy , and your Solemn Dam -- me ; You abhor Repentance both , even when you die , And your last Breath is spent in Perjury : For who with more Astonishment can look On their St. Coleman , than on your St. Cook ? The Saints are much alike for all their din , For theirs forswear the Fact , and yours the Sin. Ye're like a bad half Crown with one fair side , Whose loyal Stamp does the base Metal hide , Th' other will own the Brass , and justify 't , But by your edges you may both be try'd . Hence Tories say , whither you rule the Isle , Or th' Jesuits , is only Cross and Pile ; But CHARLES they say hath been too wisely bred , To venture them with's Cross , or you with's Head. Printed for E. Pool . H : 133353 MINERVA's Check to the Author , Attempting to write and ELEGY Upon the Right Honourable and much to be Lamented ROGER First Earl of ORRERY , Who departed this Life at CASTLE-MARTER in the County of CORK in IRELAND , 16 Octobris Anno 1679. THat News hath Wings , we ev'ry day do find , And Ill does ever leave the best behind : Admire not then the death of ORRERY , Renown'd all's days , should in a moment fly . Both far and near the World to terrify . At C [ oh ] rk , at Dublin , London , and at Paris Too soon't arrives , and ROME , but there ne'er tarries , Till at both Indies , or where e'er more far is . 'Mongst the World's Treasuries , it there declare , Than any theirs , a Pearl more rich , more rare W' have lost ; thus ranging all the World about , Finds many zealous mournful Poets ou But still I thought the Muses triple Trine , And Learned Crew concern'd , must have design Some Eagles Quill should make the worthy Pen , To write their Dictates on the best of Men ; But chanc'd to view a mournful Elegy Upon his Death , enough to stupify The Reader , while the Poet did invite Each Poetaster on him Distichs t'write . This Author took I for good warrant to it , To be as bold as any Errant Poe But quick as Thought Minerva said in haste , Hold , hold , poor man ! don't Time and Paper waste ; He was my Foster Child , 'twas my good hap The Babe to dandle first upon my Lap , Who kindly took my Breasts , and throve so well , That in the Liberal Arts he did excel . Thy grov'ling Fancy , and too low pitch'd Eye , Cannot reach up unto the Poets Sky : Be not like those that to shoot up are bold , At what their dazzled sense cannot behold : Thine hand to th' Stars thou may'st extend as well , As ORRERY's due praise conceive , or tell : His Noble Birth , Life , Death , is a fit Story , Reserv'd to Crown some Poet Laureat's Glory : His Dust is Sacred , therefore do not dare The Muses Darling , and the Graces Dear , With thy rude Rhimes , devoid of Time and Measure , Once to profane , ( a Sacred Poet's Treasure . ) I bless'd him young thus 'bove thy reach , and stature , Beside what Mars bestow'd on's Noble Nature . Thou fain would'st tell how th' Graces still invite him Their Guest , when Mars does cease t'excite him Brighter in Arms , than's Arts erewhile to shine , In God's and's King's cause still defending thine . His care to breed brave Horses thou would'st write , In Peace for Pleasure , and in War for figh Thou fain would'st talk on's Vict'ry at Knockny Clarshy , And give him ( next to God ) the God-a-mercy ; While thousands yet alive would with thee say , His Prowess ( under God ) obtain'd that Day But what is this to all that he hath done , To th' Towns and Castles he by force hath wone ? Thou'dst find and endless Task on't , to declare His Peaceful Virtues , or's exploits in War. In general terms I know thou'dst praise thus far , Prudent in Counsel , prosperous in War : But home to speak his praise , and to descend Unto particulars , there were no end . Singly admire his prudence in the thing , So well contriv'd that did restore the King , Whose constant Loyalty since th' Restoration 'S a worthy pattern to th' unstable Nation . Thou kenst not of the Knots , or the Meanders Of State-Intrigues , display'd 'mongst bold Commanders . Then lay thy Pen by , don't i'th' least Eclipse A General's Glory by thy Pen , or Lips. Let England , Scotland , Ireland , mourning say , For threescore years and more enjoy'd have they , In ORRERY and Atlas , lost this day . His death's a loss unparallel'd , the King A grave wise Counsellor , and most loving Subject hath lost , the Church a Gracious Son , The Realm a Peer , yea , and a Peerless one ; The Court a Pillar , th' Army a Commander Of high Conduct , as was great Alexander ; The Countries' loss as great yea greater rather , In ORRERY is lost a most dear Father . Th' hast company enough , who , than to mourn , Can't other glory add unto his Urn. I tell thee still thou need'st not , can'st not write Great ORRERY's due praise , who Shines too bright His Sacred Poems now but in the Press , Will speak his noble praise in fairer dress : His Wit and Worth were 'bove thy Ken or Story , Who therefore's wrapped into immortal Glory . But 'cause thou had'st a mind to do thy best , Thou , with his Coat of Arms , a Mourner rest . Thou art forewarn'd ( she said . ) Now farewell Friend . So ere I had begun , I made and END . T.B. LONDON : Printed for Rowland Reynolds , at the Middle-Exchange in the Strand . 1680. H : 133353 MINERVA's Check to the Author , Attempting to write and ELEGY Upon the Right Honourable and much to be Lamented ROGER First Earl of ORRERY , Who departed this Life at CASTLE-MARTER in the County of CORK in IRELAND , 16 Octobris Anno 1679. THat News hath Wings , we ev'ry day do find , And Ill does ever leave the best behind : Admire not then the death of ORRERY , Renown'd all's days , should in a moment fly . Both far and near the World to terrify . At C [ oh ] rk , at Dublin , London , and at Paris Too soon't arrives , and ROME , but there ne'er tarries , Till at both Indies , or where e'er more far is . 'Mongst the World's Treasuries , it there declare , Than any theirs , a Pearl more rich , more rare W' have lost ; thus ranging all the World about , Finds many zealous mournful Poets ou But still I thought the Muses triple Trine , And Learned Crew concern'd , must have design Some Eagles Quill should make the worthy Pen , To write their Dictates on the best of Men ; But chanc'd to view a mournful Elegy Upon his Death , enough to stupify The Reader , while the Poet did invite Each Poetaster on him Distichs t'write . This Author took I for good warrant to it , To be as bold as any Errant Poe But quick as Thought Minerva said in haste , Hold , hold , poor man ! don't Time and Paper waste ; He was my Foster Child , 'twas my good hap The Babe to dandle first upon my Lap , Who kindly took my Breasts , and throve so well , That in the Liberal Arts he did excel . Thy grov'ling Fancy , and too low pitch'd Eye , Cannot reach up unto the Poets Sky : Be not like those that to shoot up are bold , At what their dazzled sense cannot behold : Thine hand to th' Stars thou may'st extend as well , As ORRERY's due praise conceive , or tell : His Noble Birth , Life , Death , is a fit Story , Reserv'd to Crown some Poet Laureat's Glory : His Dust is Sacred , therefore do not dare The Muses Darling , and the Graces Dear , With thy rude Rhimes , devoid of Time and Measure , Once to profane , ( a Sacred Poet's Treasure . ) I bless'd him young thus 'bove thy reach , and stature , Beside what Mars bestow'd on's Noble Nature . Thou fain would'st tell how th' Graces still invite him Their Guest , when Mars does cease t'excite him Brighter in Arms , than's Arts erewhile to shine , In God's and's King's cause still defending thine . His care to breed brave Horses thou would'st write , In Peace for Pleasure , and in War for figh Thou fain would'st talk on's Vict'ry at Knockny Clarshy , And give him ( next to God ) the God-a-mercy ; While thousands yet alive would with thee say , His Prowess ( under God ) obtain'd that Day But what is this to all that he hath done , To th' Towns and Castles he by force hath wone ? Thou'dst find and endless Task on't , to declare His Peaceful Virtues , or's exploits in War. In general terms I know thou'dst praise thus far , Prudent in Counsel , prosperous in War : But home to speak his praise , and to descend Unto particulars , there were no end . Singly admire his prudence in the thing , So well contriv'd that did restore the King , Whose constant Loyalty since th' Restoration 'S a worthy pattern to th' unstable Nation . Thou kenst not of the Knots , or the Meanders Of State-Intrigues , display'd 'mongst bold Commanders . Then lay thy Pen by , don't i'th' least Eclipse A General's Glory by thy Pen , or Lips. Let England , Scotland , Ireland , mourning say , For threescore years and more enjoy'd have they , In ORRERY and Atlas , lost this day . His death's a loss unparallel'd , the King A grave wise Counsellor , and most loving Subject hath lost , the Church a Gracious Son , The Realm a Peer , yea , and a Peerless one ; The Court a Pillar , th' Army a Commander Of high Conduct , as was great Alexander ; The Countries' loss as great yea greater rather , In ORRERY is lost a most dear Father . Th' hast company enough , who , than to mourn , Can't other glory add unto his Urn. I tell thee still thou need'st not , can'st not write Great ORRERY's due praise , who Shines too bright His Sacred Poems now but in the Press , Will speak his noble praise in fairer dress : His Wit and Worth were 'bove thy Ken or Story , Who therefore's wrapped into immortal Glory . But 'cause thou had'st a mind to do thy best , Thou , with his Coat of Arms , a Mourner rest . Thou art forewarn'd ( she said . ) Now farewell Friend . So ere I had begun , I made and END . T.B. LONDON : Printed for Rowland Reynolds , at the Middle-Exchange in the Strand . 1680. 