H : 133587 On the Arrival of His Royal Highness , THE DUKE INTO ENGLAND , A Congratulatory POEM . NOw Heaven Smiles ; Our Clouded Orb looks brigh The Sun's return'd , and has dispell'd our Night . Rejoice all Loyal Souls : Let all this Isle , Be Cover'd with and Universal Smile . Great JAMES is come ! Blessed be the Happy Day , That did His wished-for Person safe Convey . Our Hearts , the Limits of our Breasts , o'erflow , And oft for passage to our Mouths do go , Eager His Princely Person for to meet , And to lie prostrate at His Royal Feet . Let all His Foes ( tho' Foes without a Cause ) Look back a while , and on His Actions pause : Enumerate all His Virtues ; Glories , Name , Then say why they such Goodness did profane , And strove with Slander to Eclipse His Fame . May all that wou'd His Glories so decrease , Or cease to be , or to be Envious cease . May they in Shame hang down their Hated Head ; And never raise 'um till their Rancour's dead . Ungrateful Men ! What Hazards did He Shun ? How oft to Death and Danger did He Run ? To Save your Lives , and Liberties Secure , What Hardships , and what Misery's Endure ? How oft His Royal Person too Expose , Amid ( except your Selves ) His greatest Foes ? When He from HOLLAND fraught with Triumphs came , And Fame had taught the World no other Name , Then your Acknowledgments you did Express , To His vast Conduct ow'd your Happiness . Then Caps flew up , and Brimmers too were fill'd ; His Health went round , and not a Drop was spill'd ; But in the Fullness of your Flowing Bowls , You show'd the Gladness of your well-pleas'd Souls . Now Silent as the Night all hushed you lie , ( Unknown unto your Selves the Reason why ) And let ( Oh! Shame to speak it ! ) Gratitude to die . Yet all Untainted Loyal Hearts do Sing , Welcome , GREAT SIR , Dear Brother of our KING . Welcome to us ; such Hearty Welcome , SIR , As Wealth t'th' Poor , or Rest t'th' Traveller , Or to the Death-beleager'd his Deliverer . Yet farther Welcome , which no Good Man controls , Welcome as Paradise is to our Souls : May they who to Your Welcome don't agree , There find no Welcome , but excluded be . We're so transported at Your Glorious Sighed , We're lost in Ecstasy , and vast Deligh Our Souls do Bless You wheresoe'er You go ; To You we all do Veneration owe . To Grace Your Mind as Heav'n took special Care , So did it too to make Your Body Rare . Joy of our Eyes , our Minds chief Darling too , Let all that wou'd be Truly Great , Copy You. O that I were Inspir'd ! that I might tell How oft our Mighty HERO did Excel In Glorious Acts ! How oft His Warlike Arm His Enemies did Defeat , and Country Charm ! But all His Godlike Acts no Tongue can tell , For they're so great , they are Ineffable . Our Dazl'd Sense can't all His Glories see , They are too strong for our Humanity : 'Tis Heav'n that bestow'd 'um best can tell , For they're to us Incomprehensible . When from His Royal Brother came Command , That He forthwith should Quit His Native Land , And to some Foreign Shore Himself Convey , Being all Obedience , straight withdrew away . Scarce was it spoke , but He forthwith Obey'd ; Nor was there any Murmuring Question made ; But as the Meanest , Poorest Subject , He His Duty show'd , and Brother's Sovereignty . Immense Obedience ! Ne'er to be forgotten , Nor in Oblivion's Grave unthought of rot ; But to's Immortal Fame and Glory be Recorded left to all Posterity . Let LONDON Ring till't Echo on the THAMES , Long Live the KING , and's Royal Brother JAMES . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for G.K. MDCLXXX . H : 133587 On the Arrival of His Royal Highness , THE DUKE INTO ENGLAND , A Congratulatory POEM . NOw Heaven Smiles ; Our Clouded Orb looks brigh The Sun's return'd , and has dispell'd our Night . Rejoice all Loyal Souls : Let all this Isle , Be Cover'd with and Universal Smile . Great JAMES is come ! Blessed be the Happy Day , That did His wished-for Person safe Convey . Our Hearts , the Limits of our Breasts , o'erflow , And oft for passage to our Mouths do go , Eager His Princely Person for to meet , And to lie prostrate at His Royal Feet . Let all His Foes ( tho' Foes without a Cause ) Look back a while , and on His Actions pause : Enumerate all His Virtues ; Glories , Name , Then say why they such Goodness did profane , And strove with Slander to Eclipse His Fame . May all that wou'd His Glories so decrease , Or cease to be , or to be Envious cease . May they in Shame hang down their Hated Head ; And never raise 'um till their Rancour's dead . Ungrateful Men ! What Hazards did He Shun ? How oft to Death and Danger did He Run ? To Save your Lives , and Liberties Secure , What Hardships , and what Misery's Endure ? How oft His Royal Person too Expose , Amid ( except your Selves ) His greatest Foes ? When He from HOLLAND fraught with Triumphs came , And Fame had taught the World no other Name , Then your Acknowledgments you did Express , To His vast Conduct ow'd your Happiness . Then Caps flew up , and Brimmers too were fill'd ; His Health went round , and not a Drop was spill'd ; But in the Fullness of your Flowing Bowls , You show'd the Gladness of your well-pleas'd Souls . Now Silent as the Night all hushed you lie , ( Unknown unto your Selves the Reason why ) And let ( Oh! Shame to speak it ! ) Gratitude to die . Yet all Untainted Loyal Hearts do Sing , Welcome , GREAT SIR , Dear Brother of our KING . Welcome to us ; such Hearty Welcome , SIR , As Wealth t'th' Poor , or Rest t'th' Traveller , Or to the Death-beleager'd his Deliverer . Yet farther Welcome , which no Good Man controls , Welcome as Paradise is to our Souls : May they who to Your Welcome don't agree , There find no Welcome , but excluded be . We're so transported at Your Glorious Sighed , We're lost in Ecstasy , and vast Deligh Our Souls do Bless You wheresoe'er You go ; To You we all do Veneration owe . To Grace Your Mind as Heav'n took special Care , So did it too to make Your Body Rare . Joy of our Eyes , our Minds chief Darling too , Let all that wou'd be Truly Great , Copy You. O that I were Inspir'd ! that I might tell How oft our Mighty HERO did Excel In Glorious Acts ! How oft His Warlike Arm His Enemies did Defeat , and Country Charm ! But all His Godlike Acts no Tongue can tell , For they're so great , they are Ineffable . Our Dazl'd Sense can't all His Glories see , They are too strong for our Humanity : 'Tis Heav'n that bestow'd 'um best can tell , For they're to us Incomprehensible . When from His Royal Brother came Command , That He forthwith should Quit His Native Land , And to some Foreign Shore Himself Convey , Being all Obedience , straight withdrew away . Scarce was it spoke , but He forthwith Obey'd ; Nor was there any Murmuring Question made ; But as the Meanest , Poorest Subject , He His Duty show'd , and Brother's Sovereignty . Immense Obedience ! Ne'er to be forgotten , Nor in Oblivion's Grave unthought of rot ; But to's Immortal Fame and Glory be Recorded left to all Posterity . Let LONDON Ring till't Echo on the THAMES , Long Live the KING , and's Royal Brother JAMES . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for G.K. MDCLXXX . 