H : 133434 The Genius of True English-men , Tacitus de vit . Jul. Agr. cap . 13. Britanni delectum ac Tributa & Injuncta Imperij Munera impigri obe - unt , si Injuriae absint , has aegri tolerant ; Jam domiti ut pareant nondum ut Serviant . The Britains are a sort of People that pay very freely all manner of Tributes and Taxes to the Empire Loyally Imposed , but cannot endure Injuries ; and had rather Perish than live as Slaves . THe Freeborn English Generous and Wise , Hate Chains , but do not Government despise ; Rights of the CROWN , Tributes and Taxes they , ( When Lawfully demanded ) freely pay : Force they abhor , and Wrongs they scorn to bear , More guided by their Judgement than their Fear , JUSTICE with them is never call'd Severe . Here Power by Tyranny was never god , LAWS may ( perhaps ) Enslave , but FORCE cannot . Rash Counsels here have still the worst Effect , The surest way to Reign , is to Protect . KINGS are least safe in their Unbounded Will , Joyn'd with the wretched Power of doing ill ; Forsaken most when they're most Absolute , LAWs guard the MAN , and only bind the Brutus . To Force that Guard with the worst so to join , Can never be a Prudent KING's Design , What KING would change to be a Catiline ? Break his own Laws , shake and unquestion'd Throne , Conspire with Vassals to Usurp his own . 'Tis rather some base Fav'rites Vile Pretence , To Tyrannise at the wrong'd KING's Expense . Let France grow Proud beneath the Tyrants Lust , While the Racked People crawl and lick the Dust. The Mighty Genius of this Isle disdains Ambition , Slavery , and Golden Chains : ENGLAND to Servile Yokes did never bow , What Conqu'rors ne'r presum'd who dare do now ? ROMAN nor NORMAN never could pretend To have Enslav'd , but made this Isle their Friend . London , Printed for Francis Smith at the Elephant & Castle in Cornhil , 1680. H : 133434 The Genius of True English-men , Tacitus de vit . Jul. Agr. cap . 13. Britanni delectum ac Tributa & Injuncta Imperij Munera impigri obe - unt , si Injuriae absint , has aegri tolerant ; Jam domiti ut pareant nondum ut Serviant . The Britains are a sort of People that pay very freely all manner of Tributes and Taxes to the Empire Loyally Imposed , but cannot endure Injuries ; and had rather Perish than live as Slaves . THe Freeborn English Generous and Wise , Hate Chains , but do not Government despise ; Rights of the CROWN , Tributes and Taxes they , ( When Lawfully demanded ) freely pay : Force they abhor , and Wrongs they scorn to bear , More guided by their Judgement than their Fear , JUSTICE with them is never call'd Severe . Here Power by Tyranny was never god , LAWS may ( perhaps ) Enslave , but FORCE cannot . Rash Counsels here have still the worst Effect , The surest way to Reign , is to Protect . KINGS are least safe in their Unbounded Will , Joyn'd with the wretched Power of doing ill ; Forsaken most when they're most Absolute , LAWs guard the MAN , and only bind the Brutus . To Force that Guard with the worst so to join , Can never be a Prudent KING's Design , What KING would change to be a Catiline ? Break his own Laws , shake and unquestion'd Throne , Conspire with Vassals to Usurp his own . 'Tis rather some base Fav'rites Vile Pretence , To Tyrannise at the wrong'd KING's Expense . Let France grow Proud beneath the Tyrants Lust , While the Racked People crawl and lick the Dust. The Mighty Genius of this Isle disdains Ambition , Slavery , and Golden Chains : ENGLAND to Servile Yokes did never bow , What Conqu'rors ne'r presum'd who dare do now ? ROMAN nor NORMAN never could pretend To have Enslav'd , but made this Isle their Friend . London , Printed for Francis Smith at the Elephant & Castle in Cornhil , 1680. 