H : 18293 The true form and shape of a monstrous Child / Which was born in Stony Stratforde , in North Hamptonshire . The year of our Lord , M . CCCCC.LXV . This is the before part . This is the back part . THis Child was born on Fryday , being the xxvi day of January , betwixt vi and vii of the clock in the morning , and live two hours , and was christened by the Mydwyfe , and are both Women Children , having two bodies , joining together . With iiii arms , and iiii legs perfect , & from the Navel upward one Face , two Eyes , one Nose , and one Mouth , and three Ears , one being upon the back side of the Head , a little above the nape of the Neck , having hear growing upon the Head. Which Child was born out of Wedlock . The Father's name is Rychard Sotherne , who is now fled And the Mother is yet living in the same Town . And this Child was brought up to London , where it was seen of dyvers worshipful men and women of the City . And also of the Country . To witness that it is a Troth and no Fable , But a warning of God , to move all people to amendment of life . YOu that do see this Clilde disfigured here , Two Babes in one , disguised to behold , Think with your selves , when such things do appear All is not well , as wise heads may be bold : But god that can in secrets show the sign Can bring much more to pass , by pour divine . And we that live to see this wonder , how The gaze is given , to make this marvel great , Let one by one that this beholdeth now , Be warned as the wonder gives conceate : To live to mend the wondrous shape we see , Contrary much , in all that ought to be . For as we find , this figure seemeth strange , Because it shows , proporsion not in ure , So bore in mind , how time can chop and chance , Disguising works , in wills that be unsure : From mean to more , from more to much excess , Where Nature wills , desire should be less . Finis . W. Elderton . Imprinted at London in Fletestrete beneath the Condui at the sign of S. John Evangelist , by Thomas Colwell . H : 18293 The true form and shape of a monstrous Child / Which was born in Stony Stratforde , in North Hamptonshire . The year of our Lord , M . CCCCC.LXV . This is the before part . This is the back part . THis Child was born on Fryday , being the xxvi day of January , betwixt vi and vii of the clock in the morning , and live two hours , and was christened by the Mydwyfe , and are both Women Children , having two bodies , joining together . With iiii arms , and iiii legs perfect , & from the Navel upward one Face , two Eyes , one Nose , and one Mouth , and three Ears , one being upon the back side of the Head , a little above the nape of the Neck , having hear growing upon the Head. Which Child was born out of Wedlock . The Father's name is Rychard Sotherne , who is now fled And the Mother is yet living in the same Town . And this Child was brought up to London , where it was seen of dyvers worshipful men and women of the City . And also of the Country . To witness that it is a Troth and no Fable , But a warning of God , to move all people to amendment of life . YOu that do see this Clilde disfigured here , Two Babes in one , disguised to behold , Think with your selves , when such things do appear All is not well , as wise heads may be bold : But god that can in secrets show the sign Can bring much more to pass , by pour divine . And we that live to see this wonder , how The gaze is given , to make this marvel great , Let one by one that this beholdeth now , Be warned as the wonder gives conceate : To live to mend the wondrous shape we see , Contrary much , in all that ought to be . For as we find , this figure seemeth strange , Because it shows , proporsion not in ure , So bore in mind , how time can chop and chance , Disguising works , in wills that be unsure : From mean to more , from more to much excess , Where Nature wills , desire should be less . Finis . W. Elderton . Imprinted at London in Fletestrete beneath the Condui at the sign of S. John Evangelist , by Thomas Colwell . 