H : 133843 A CONGRATULARY POEM On the Right Honourable Sir PATIENCE WARD , Knight and Baronet , LORD MAYOR of the City of LONDON . AS when Ambassadors from Princes come , We all by custom from our Houses run To see the Stranger , Great , the Noble High , The Representive of a Deity . Scripture and Reason style them so by Birth , Great Men , like Kings , are still like Gods on Earth : The truth of which , no Just Man can deny , Being ordain'd by heavenly destiny . But why it should be thus , I cannot say , Then what shall happen the succeeding Day , Being a Secret kept in Heavens own hand , As Rain descends on good and barren Land. Yet in a worldly sense it may be taken For Natural Reason , and not be forsaken , Because bus'ness of that important nature It very nearly does concern each creature , As Natives of their own fine Country dear , To whom , of all things , still they should be near : Much more at a Magistrate of our own , Because his Power extends throughout the Town , Being and Office 'twixt Country and City , That all therein does share , both fools and witty . Since next the King , to him we owe all things , Peace , Plenty , Trade , and Money-offrings : For by his wise Conduct , and Prudence high , He'l make our Fame reach to the starry Sky , Being a man by Nature , and by Name , To be a Soul wrapped in immortal Fame . Patience by Name , a Virtue great and high , Burning and shining like the Sun in th' Sky ; Endow'd with Learning , and such famous Arts , That by their force he soon will gain our hearts ; Adorning of him in this his humane Raze , More than his Indian Pearl , or his Gold Lace . Since Virtue's a colour of that deep hue , That 'tis as Rich as the gay Rainbow's blue . The Merchant traffics where he please to go ; So Virtue trades with Heaven and Earth below . Philosophers say , she's th' Glory of each one , As the pretty Flower's guilded by the Sun. Logicians say , as well to each degree , You'r happy still in your Humanity ; For Bodies shap't , and so proportion'd well , Are ab Origine , from Heaven , not Hell . Seraphic Love always prefers its own , As the kind Father strongly loves his Son. The Speech you made , it does so plainly tell How many Virtues in your Mind does dwell ; As the Tree is , alike is still the Fruit , Or the gay Summer with dull Winter suit . When the Sun shines , 'tis then a pleasant day , And when not seen , 'tis a foul After-play So as we look and speak , such men we are , [ A Maxim of the Learn'd Philosopher , ] Telling how face and heart do go together , Making men to enjoy the best weather ; While other platforms of a lower of die , Are but mere Strangers to humanity ; Like the dull Carrier's Horse , that still moves on In the same road , until he comes home ; Then does grim death approach , and tell them all , His never failing dart will make them fallen . But that for ever they must pass and go To Heaven's glory , or to Hell's Sorrow . Seamen and Pilots rule their manners still , According to their Captain , good or ill ; Who from him no other Religion take , Nay Navigation itself forsake ; As he instructed is in every Art , The Legislator to his better hear Even so as a great man or Ruler's given , Each Man's prove , to make him still his Heaven . As he smiles ; then we look brisk and gay , As all things flourish in the Month of May : But if he looks but angry , and he frown , So then do we , and all our mirth is gone . Showing th' inconstancy of joy in all , Of Lunaries and Terrestrial : So that Example will be known and seen Like a bright Duchess or and Indian Queen . ? This plain both from experience and from Reason , Things that are always certain and in season : For Nature shows all things are fed by sense , And their superior bodies influence All their kind heats , by which they still are fed , Flow from those streams , and so are nourished . Since Heavens superior as we plainly see , As Man excels Beasts in Felicity : For he that makes does top the Object gay , As Night is but the Curtain of the day . In short , welcome great Sir , unto your Seat , A place of Honour and of high Retrea To all you'r welcome , and to all most near , To all Prince , Virtue still does make you dear . Since blood with the Astrologer portends Things that are great , and you for greater ends : For Virtue rises from the Plant most rare , As trees in Summer still most fruitful are . Great Sir all happiness attend you still , That you may pass the great Gunshot of ill , And when Death summons you , that you appear , You shall with Angels gay , look bright and clear . I leave you as a President for Sages , To future times , and to succeeding Ages . W.W. LONDON , Printed for Rich. Janaway . 1680. H : 133843 A CONGRATULARY POEM On the Right Honourable Sir PATIENCE WARD , Knight and Baronet , LORD MAYOR of the City of LONDON . AS when Ambassadors from Princes come , We all by custom from our Houses run To see the Stranger , Great , the Noble High , The Representive of a Deity . Scripture and Reason style them so by Birth , Great Men , like Kings , are still like Gods on Earth : The truth of which , no Just Man can deny , Being ordain'd by heavenly destiny . But why it should be thus , I cannot say , Then what shall happen the succeeding Day , Being a Secret kept in Heavens own hand , As Rain descends on good and barren Land. Yet in a worldly sense it may be taken For Natural Reason , and not be forsaken , Because bus'ness of that important nature It very nearly does concern each creature , As Natives of their own fine Country dear , To whom , of all things , still they should be near : Much more at a Magistrate of our own , Because his Power extends throughout the Town , Being and Office 'twixt Country and City , That all therein does share , both fools and witty . Since next the King , to him we owe all things , Peace , Plenty , Trade , and Money-offrings : For by his wise Conduct , and Prudence high , He'l make our Fame reach to the starry Sky , Being a man by Nature , and by Name , To be a Soul wrapped in immortal Fame . Patience by Name , a Virtue great and high , Burning and shining like the Sun in th' Sky ; Endow'd with Learning , and such famous Arts , That by their force he soon will gain our hearts ; Adorning of him in this his humane Raze , More than his Indian Pearl , or his Gold Lace . Since Virtue's a colour of that deep hue , That 'tis as Rich as the gay Rainbow's blue . The Merchant traffics where he please to go ; So Virtue trades with Heaven and Earth below . Philosophers say , she's th' Glory of each one , As the pretty Flower's guilded by the Sun. Logicians say , as well to each degree , You'r happy still in your Humanity ; For Bodies shap't , and so proportion'd well , Are ab Origine , from Heaven , not Hell . Seraphic Love always prefers its own , As the kind Father strongly loves his Son. The Speech you made , it does so plainly tell How many Virtues in your Mind does dwell ; As the Tree is , alike is still the Fruit , Or the gay Summer with dull Winter suit . When the Sun shines , 'tis then a pleasant day , And when not seen , 'tis a foul After-play So as we look and speak , such men we are , [ A Maxim of the Learn'd Philosopher , ] Telling how face and heart do go together , Making men to enjoy the best weather ; While other platforms of a lower of die , Are but mere Strangers to humanity ; Like the dull Carrier's Horse , that still moves on In the same road , until he comes home ; Then does grim death approach , and tell them all , His never failing dart will make them fallen . But that for ever they must pass and go To Heaven's glory , or to Hell's Sorrow . Seamen and Pilots rule their manners still , According to their Captain , good or ill ; Who from him no other Religion take , Nay Navigation itself forsake ; As he instructed is in every Art , The Legislator to his better hear Even so as a great man or Ruler's given , Each Man's prove , to make him still his Heaven . As he smiles ; then we look brisk and gay , As all things flourish in the Month of May : But if he looks but angry , and he frown , So then do we , and all our mirth is gone . Showing th' inconstancy of joy in all , Of Lunaries and Terrestrial : So that Example will be known and seen Like a bright Duchess or and Indian Queen . ? This plain both from experience and from Reason , Things that are always certain and in season : For Nature shows all things are fed by sense , And their superior bodies influence All their kind heats , by which they still are fed , Flow from those streams , and so are nourished . Since Heavens superior as we plainly see , As Man excels Beasts in Felicity : For he that makes does top the Object gay , As Night is but the Curtain of the day . In short , welcome great Sir , unto your Seat , A place of Honour and of high Retrea To all you'r welcome , and to all most near , To all Prince , Virtue still does make you dear . Since blood with the Astrologer portends Things that are great , and you for greater ends : For Virtue rises from the Plant most rare , As trees in Summer still most fruitful are . Great Sir all happiness attend you still , That you may pass the great Gunshot of ill , And when Death summons you , that you appear , You shall with Angels gay , look bright and clear . I leave you as a President for Sages , To future times , and to succeeding Ages . W.W. LONDON , Printed for Rich. Janaway . 1680. 