H : 18295 A ballat entitled Northomberland news / Wherein you may see what Rebels do use . Come tumbling down come tumbling down . That will not yet be true to the Crown . YOU Northcountrie nodies why be you so brag To rise and raise honour to Romish renown You know that at Tiborne there stands a Nag For such as will never be true to the crown . Come tumbling . etc What mean you to follow the man in the Moon , With battz bows and arrows and bills very brown . His shining with shame will be shadowed so soon , It will grieve him that ever he troubled the Crown . Come tumbling . etc Though Popery wrought a great while ago , That Percie provoked King Harry to frown . Yet who would have thought there were any more , That would not yet be true to the Crown . Come tumbling . etc Our Queen is the daughter of Henry theight , Who brought every Altar and Imagery down , He left her and tawght her a remedy straight , For any that would not be true to the Crown . Come tumbling . etc And though you do greet her like Traitors with treason To whom you owe honour with cap and knee down . I am sure that saint Peter will say it is reason , To rule you that will not be true to the Crown . Come tumbling . etc And though you do say there is matter amiss , Which you would redress by noble Renown . What any way worse then Rebellion is , Of any that will not be true to the Crown . Come tumbling . etc What Strangers can be , more stranger then you , That gather together both carter and clown . And study to stir to seek and to see , Which way to devise to trouble the Crown . Come tumbling . etc Sir Jhon Shorn your morrow Mass Priest , Say to Lob look about will you knee down : We will have a Mass before Jesus Christ , And that is the way to trouble the Crown . Come tumbling . etc The Knights to their knaves say stick and be stout , Our banners and staves shall bring us Renown . We have Nobles and others that be as devowt , To help us at this time to trouble the Crown . Come tumbling . etc The Rebels come flinging but what comes after , A song worth the singing heigh down a down down . A Tyborne Typpett a roope or a halter , For any that will not be true to the Crown . Come tumbling . etc For though you spoil Churches and burn up the Bible , And worship gay Crosses in every town . Your Idols you asses are never possible , To save you that will not be true to the Crown . Come tumbling . etc And though you do carry the banner of force , And Jolly round Robyn under your gown . You know that saint George hath a praunsinge horse , Can make enie Rebel to stoop to the Crown . Come tumbling . etc The Westmerland Bull must come to the stake , The Lion will roar still till he be down . Northumberland then will tremble and quake , For woe that he was so false to the Crown . Come tumbling . etc And Catholics old that hold with the Pope , And carry dead Images up and down . To take better hold they shall have a Roope , To teach them once to be true to the Crown . Come tumbling . etc Let every Priest that sayeth any Mass , Either choose to take the Crucifix down . Or hang as high as the Crucifix was , Except he will be true to the Crown . Come tumbling . etc For God is a God of Jelosie such , He looks to have his holy Renown . Or else he will mislike very much , To gyve any one his excellent Crown . Come tumbling . etc God prosper the Queen as I trust that he shall , And grant of his mercy with blessed Renown . The North , and West , country , the south , east , and all , The people of Englande may cleave to the Crown . Come tumbling . And I wish that Good Preachers & other true teachers , Would visit the vynearde whose branches be down . That all the North Country yet nosseld in Popeerie , Might know their duty to God and the Crown . Come tumbling . etc Finis quoth . W.E. Imprinted at London in Paules Churcheyarde , at the sign of the Lucrece by Thomas Purfoote . H : 18295 A ballat entitled Northomberland news / Wherein you may see what Rebels do use . Come tumbling down come tumbling down . That will not yet be true to the Crown . YOU Northcountrie nodies why be you so brag To rise and raise honour to Romish renown You know that at Tiborne there stands a Nag For such as will never be true to the crown . Come tumbling . etc What mean you to follow the man in the Moon , With battz bows and arrows and bills very brown . His shining with shame will be shadowed so soon , It will grieve him that ever he troubled the Crown . Come tumbling . etc Though Popery wrought a great while ago , That Percie provoked King Harry to frown . Yet who would have thought there were any more , That would not yet be true to the Crown . Come tumbling . etc Our Queen is the daughter of Henry theight , Who brought every Altar and Imagery down , He left her and tawght her a remedy straight , For any that would not be true to the Crown . Come tumbling . etc And though you do greet her like Traitors with treason To whom you owe honour with cap and knee down . I am sure that saint Peter will say it is reason , To rule you that will not be true to the Crown . Come tumbling . etc And though you do say there is matter amiss , Which you would redress by noble Renown . What any way worse then Rebellion is , Of any that will not be true to the Crown . Come tumbling . etc What Strangers can be , more stranger then you , That gather together both carter and clown . And study to stir to seek and to see , Which way to devise to trouble the Crown . Come tumbling . etc Sir Jhon Shorn your morrow Mass Priest , Say to Lob look about will you knee down : We will have a Mass before Jesus Christ , And that is the way to trouble the Crown . Come tumbling . etc The Knights to their knaves say stick and be stout , Our banners and staves shall bring us Renown . We have Nobles and others that be as devowt , To help us at this time to trouble the Crown . Come tumbling . etc The Rebels come flinging but what comes after , A song worth the singing heigh down a down down . A Tyborne Typpett a roope or a halter , For any that will not be true to the Crown . Come tumbling . etc For though you spoil Churches and burn up the Bible , And worship gay Crosses in every town . Your Idols you asses are never possible , To save you that will not be true to the Crown . Come tumbling . etc And though you do carry the banner of force , And Jolly round Robyn under your gown . You know that saint George hath a praunsinge horse , Can make enie Rebel to stoop to the Crown . Come tumbling . etc The Westmerland Bull must come to the stake , The Lion will roar still till he be down . Northumberland then will tremble and quake , For woe that he was so false to the Crown . Come tumbling . etc And Catholics old that hold with the Pope , And carry dead Images up and down . To take better hold they shall have a Roope , To teach them once to be true to the Crown . Come tumbling . etc Let every Priest that sayeth any Mass , Either choose to take the Crucifix down . Or hang as high as the Crucifix was , Except he will be true to the Crown . Come tumbling . etc For God is a God of Jelosie such , He looks to have his holy Renown . Or else he will mislike very much , To gyve any one his excellent Crown . Come tumbling . etc God prosper the Queen as I trust that he shall , And grant of his mercy with blessed Renown . The North , and West , country , the south , east , and all , The people of Englande may cleave to the Crown . Come tumbling . And I wish that Good Preachers & other true teachers , Would visit the vynearde whose branches be down . That all the North Country yet nosseld in Popeerie , Might know their duty to God and the Crown . Come tumbling . etc Finis quoth . W.E. Imprinted at London in Paules Churcheyarde , at the sign of the Lucrece by Thomas Purfoote . 