H : 133877 A PANEGYRICK TO His Royal Highness . Upon His MAJESTIES late DECLARATION . Especially drawn from Unio Dissidentium Page 2. Part 14. Page 3. Part 3. Page 4. Part 3. and 4. OF a Just King , the Pow'rful Words declare Great James Presumptive and Appa-rent Heir : ( The words betoken one and selfsame Thing : Though some , Them would under distinction bring ) Such Declaration , Henry Third of France Wisely made use of , when some 'gan advance Pretensive Heirs , Fourth Henry to displace , ( A lawful Heir , though much remote in Raze . ) Such Declaration by both kings must be , And Act impulsed by Divine Decree , What good effects from first of these did flow , The Gallick Chronicles at large do show : Check'd Henry after Care and War became Eternally great in his Fame and Name . Great Duke in this Declarement acquiesce , In sweet repose and rest thy self possess . This heavenly opening of thy Brother's Breast , ( With all due Reverence be it expressed , ) Hath likeness unto that in Sacred Text. Save that a Brother's own'd in stead of Son , What more than this can in the Case be done ? [ Who dare henceforth this Kingly Act gainsay , ] Who dare against Thy Royal Highness bray , Surely the Mouths of the Tumultuous Crew , Are stopped , or else to Means we bid Adieu , Where a Kings word is , There is Power , ( so says The Sacred Writ on which we ground our Faith . ) Henceforth of just necessity must cease Those Clamours which so much disturb Thy peace , Henceforth no Voyage over British Seas , Or cold Retirement under Scotch Degrees Needest thou to take , but still abide where Birth Thou first receiv'dst ( passing time in Mirth ) By Sovereign belov'd , by Friends carest , Rever'd by all , and by the Heavens blessed , Exactly making good that Expectation , Of being mighty Pillar to this Nation : A Stay of State , a strong supporting Prop , Ordain'd to Scale the Point of Honours top : Long since foretold of Thee , as we may see At large expressed in day Fatality . Nor canst be spar'd from Serene Charles his side . Being active vigilant , helpful to Guide Affairs of State by land as well as Sea , For last of which none more renown'd can be , Let Arragon her Testimonial give , And Thy Dutch Victory in Sixty five . Which Higgons muse hath so inspir'dly sung . Making Thee Neptunes Hero's chief among . None may so well that glorious Motto claim , Of being terror of the Ocean main , ( Which Louis did for Michael's Knights ordain . As once a Servant of King Edwards went With Royal Cup his Master to present , One foot did trip ; being quick he did prevent ( With t'other leg the Fallen ) Godwin of Kent , Eccl. 8.4 . 906. Fr. Gen. Hist. 881. Math. 3. 16. 17. See the Fatality . Ashmold Garter p. 119. Laughing , said to the King , Ev'n thus , one Brother We see is ready still to help another . The King reply'd , Just so might Alphred me , But , That remov'd by base Treachery . The Belgic Sheaf and AEsops Moral Teach , Betwixt own Brother's there should be no Breach . The Scripture says , They must together dwell , Union's their Heaven , Disunion's their Hell . Unworthy are They , whosoe'r they are Fraternal Union to break that dare . Then in despite of such as would disjoiyne Your persons , live together says Eloigne . When men are absent , their back friends dare say And do those things which else they'd ne'r essay ; Divide & Impera we may English make , First separate , and then Advantage take . Long live Great Prince , who not desirest to see Thy Lieges' Funeral Solemnity , But guided by and equal and just Soul , Humbly submit'st unto Divine control , Nor dost expect , but stay to see the Fate , Ordain'd above , Sign'd from Eternal Date . We read of Louis a Montpensier Peer , Who that [ oh ] ugh his Father had been dead 5 year [ , ] Yet took such Grief at seeing of his Grave , As did straight after him of life bereave ; Even just so , James we may expect to Die , When Charles submits to mortal Destiny : Gods wondrous hand , after a long Exile , Them hand in hand brought back to Native Isle , When wisest men esteemed their state forlorn , They saw them stated in the Land where Born ; A strange agreement they have underwent , Sometime of Bliss , sometime of Disconten Why may not then Fraternal Sympathy Cooperate to dying Harmony ? When thinking what they've suffered in times past , One can't endure the other to outlast ; But as they've liv'd together so to die , May be their Fate ordain'd by God on high ; The possibility of this is no doubt , By various Authors we may make it out . Let 'em both live until they have outdone , That Age which David calls a wondrous one : That Royal Prophet whose Afflictions were So great , and with which James his may compare . Those Clouds are clear'd , the Sun is now braced out , His Brother's Rays encompass him about ; Apollo's Rays , That can alone dispel All fumes and vapours though exhaled from Hell ; Those Rays late issued from the Declaration , Forever making Calm and Still the Nation . Psal. 133. I. Pro. 64. 19. Gen. Hist. Fran. 792 , Weav . mon . p. 598. Ps. 90 , 10 in metro . See the Swans Wellcouort p. 4. Abs-hinc AEthereas cessans volitare per auras ( Optatus ) placidae Tutus adesto Domi , Audent absentis nonnulli rodere famam , Cum fuerit praesens ora reclusa tenen Est inimica cohors . Dux inclite Cominus esto Si forsan fueris Eminus ista ferit . LONDON , Printed for the Author , Sold by J.G. 1680. H : 133877 A PANEGYRICK TO His Royal Highness . Upon His MAJESTIES late DECLARATION . Especially drawn from Unio Dissidentium Page 2. Part 14. Page 3. Part 3. Page 4. Part 3. and 4. OF a Just King , the Pow'rful Words declare Great James Presumptive and Appa-rent Heir : ( The words betoken one and selfsame Thing : Though some , Them would under distinction bring ) Such Declaration , Henry Third of France Wisely made use of , when some 'gan advance Pretensive Heirs , Fourth Henry to displace , ( A lawful Heir , though much remote in Raze . ) Such Declaration by both kings must be , And Act impulsed by Divine Decree , What good effects from first of these did flow , The Gallick Chronicles at large do show : Check'd Henry after Care and War became Eternally great in his Fame and Name . Great Duke in this Declarement acquiesce , In sweet repose and rest thy self possess . This heavenly opening of thy Brother's Breast , ( With all due Reverence be it expressed , ) Hath likeness unto that in Sacred Text. Save that a Brother's own'd in stead of Son , What more than this can in the Case be done ? [ Who dare henceforth this Kingly Act gainsay , ] Who dare against Thy Royal Highness bray , Surely the Mouths of the Tumultuous Crew , Are stopped , or else to Means we bid Adieu , Where a Kings word is , There is Power , ( so says The Sacred Writ on which we ground our Faith . ) Henceforth of just necessity must cease Those Clamours which so much disturb Thy peace , Henceforth no Voyage over British Seas , Or cold Retirement under Scotch Degrees Needest thou to take , but still abide where Birth Thou first receiv'dst ( passing time in Mirth ) By Sovereign belov'd , by Friends carest , Rever'd by all , and by the Heavens blessed , Exactly making good that Expectation , Of being mighty Pillar to this Nation : A Stay of State , a strong supporting Prop , Ordain'd to Scale the Point of Honours top : Long since foretold of Thee , as we may see At large expressed in day Fatality . Nor canst be spar'd from Serene Charles his side . Being active vigilant , helpful to Guide Affairs of State by land as well as Sea , For last of which none more renown'd can be , Let Arragon her Testimonial give , And Thy Dutch Victory in Sixty five . Which Higgons muse hath so inspir'dly sung . Making Thee Neptunes Hero's chief among . None may so well that glorious Motto claim , Of being terror of the Ocean main , ( Which Louis did for Michael's Knights ordain . As once a Servant of King Edwards went With Royal Cup his Master to present , One foot did trip ; being quick he did prevent ( With t'other leg the Fallen ) Godwin of Kent , Eccl. 8.4 . 906. Fr. Gen. Hist. 881. Math. 3. 16. 17. See the Fatality . Ashmold Garter p. 119. Laughing , said to the King , Ev'n thus , one Brother We see is ready still to help another . The King reply'd , Just so might Alphred me , But , That remov'd by base Treachery . The Belgic Sheaf and AEsops Moral Teach , Betwixt own Brother's there should be no Breach . The Scripture says , They must together dwell , Union's their Heaven , Disunion's their Hell . Unworthy are They , whosoe'r they are Fraternal Union to break that dare . Then in despite of such as would disjoiyne Your persons , live together says Eloigne . When men are absent , their back friends dare say And do those things which else they'd ne'r essay ; Divide & Impera we may English make , First separate , and then Advantage take . Long live Great Prince , who not desirest to see Thy Lieges' Funeral Solemnity , But guided by and equal and just Soul , Humbly submit'st unto Divine control , Nor dost expect , but stay to see the Fate , Ordain'd above , Sign'd from Eternal Date . We read of Louis a Montpensier Peer , Who that [ oh ] ugh his Father had been dead 5 year [ , ] Yet took such Grief at seeing of his Grave , As did straight after him of life bereave ; Even just so , James we may expect to Die , When Charles submits to mortal Destiny : Gods wondrous hand , after a long Exile , Them hand in hand brought back to Native Isle , When wisest men esteemed their state forlorn , They saw them stated in the Land where Born ; A strange agreement they have underwent , Sometime of Bliss , sometime of Disconten Why may not then Fraternal Sympathy Cooperate to dying Harmony ? When thinking what they've suffered in times past , One can't endure the other to outlast ; But as they've liv'd together so to die , May be their Fate ordain'd by God on high ; The possibility of this is no doubt , By various Authors we may make it out . Let 'em both live until they have outdone , That Age which David calls a wondrous one : That Royal Prophet whose Afflictions were So great , and with which James his may compare . Those Clouds are clear'd , the Sun is now braced out , His Brother's Rays encompass him about ; Apollo's Rays , That can alone dispel All fumes and vapours though exhaled from Hell ; Those Rays late issued from the Declaration , Forever making Calm and Still the Nation . Psal. 133. I. Pro. 64. 19. Gen. Hist. Fran. 792 , Weav . mon . p. 598. Ps. 90 , 10 in metro . See the Swans Wellcouort p. 4. Abs-hinc AEthereas cessans volitare per auras ( Optatus ) placidae Tutus adesto Domi , Audent absentis nonnulli rodere famam , Cum fuerit praesens ora reclusa tenen Est inimica cohors . Dux inclite Cominus esto Si forsan fueris Eminus ista ferit . LONDON , Printed for the Author , Sold by J.G. 1680. 