H : 133855 THE Loyal Protestants NEW LITANY , FRom the Romish Whore with her Triple Crown , From the Plots she hath hatch'd , and her Babes now disown , Though they dy'd with a Lie in their mouth is well known . Libera nos Domine . From such as presume to speak ill of Queen Bess , From a Popish Midwife in a Sanctified Dress , Adorn'd with a wooden Ruff for a Crest Libera nos , etc From Judas the Pursebearers Protestant face , From any more of his Machiavel raze That henceforth may ever succeed in his place [ Libera nos , etc From a Doctor that durst prepare such a Dose ] That would take a Protestant Prince by the Nose , ( Although it be spoken under the Rose . ) Libera nos , etc From a Papist that Curses the Catholic Whore , Although in his heart he the same do adore , And still is contriving more Plots than before , Libera nos , etc From a Jesuit dressed up in Masquerade , That understands his Bloodthirsty Trade , That can neither by Justice or Mercy be laid . Libera nos , etc From Bumpkin and Citt that at random doe range , And for a Sham-Plot do true honesty change , Though come off by the LEE , methinks it is STRANGE . Libera nos , etc From such a hard Fortune as barely to write But only for Bred from Morning till Night ; That would more than a Crack-farts Courage affright . Libera nos , etc From those that Sedition do daily invent To render a breach and gross discontent Betwixt our Great King and Loyal Parliament , Libera nos , etc From such as do daily possess us with fears , And yet at the same do prick up their ears , Which care not which Course our Council now Steers . Libera nos , etc That the Romish Whore may be stripped of her dress , And cast in the Pit that is call'd bottomless ; That her Plots , Loyal Subject's no more may distress . Quesimus te Domine . That Queen Besses Enemies run the same Fate As lately they did in the last Eighty eight , May never one want to peep through a Grate . Quesimus , etc That the Purse-bearer Judas his Protestant face May never resume his former high place , Except for to fallen in Eternal Disgrace . Quesimus , etc That the Doctor beyond Sea in spite of his skill , [ May never return , but keep close there still ; Or else may he Die by his own Poisonous Pill . Quesimus , etc ] That Popish Cur in honest disguise That Curses us all before he do rise , May his Plots be confounded though never so wise . Quesimus , etc That such whose hands are still dipped in Blood , And intend to make second Noah's Flood , That all such may perish , and all of their Brood , Quesimus , etc That such as do render the Plot for a Fable , And make it the talk of each Coffee-House Table ; To enter Heaven Gates may they never be able . Quesimus , etc That such as are forced to write but for Bred May be by the daily Providence fed , Much rather than those who will Plot till they're dead , Quesimus , etc That Seditious Spirits may now be suppressed , And that in true earnest , not only in Jest , That such may never more feather their Nest. Quesimus , etc That those who do daily possess us with fears , May fallen themselves together by th' Ears ; And quit us all from that Cloud which appears . Quesimus te Domine . London , Printed for T. Davis , 1680. H : 133855 THE Loyal Protestants NEW LITANY , FRom the Romish Whore with her Triple Crown , From the Plots she hath hatch'd , and her Babes now disown , Though they dy'd with a Lie in their mouth is well known . Libera nos Domine . From such as presume to speak ill of Queen Bess , From a Popish Midwife in a Sanctified Dress , Adorn'd with a wooden Ruff for a Crest Libera nos , etc From Judas the Pursebearers Protestant face , From any more of his Machiavel raze That henceforth may ever succeed in his place [ Libera nos , etc From a Doctor that durst prepare such a Dose ] That would take a Protestant Prince by the Nose , ( Although it be spoken under the Rose . ) Libera nos , etc From a Papist that Curses the Catholic Whore , Although in his heart he the same do adore , And still is contriving more Plots than before , Libera nos , etc From a Jesuit dressed up in Masquerade , That understands his Bloodthirsty Trade , That can neither by Justice or Mercy be laid . Libera nos , etc From Bumpkin and Citt that at random doe range , And for a Sham-Plot do true honesty change , Though come off by the LEE , methinks it is STRANGE . Libera nos , etc From such a hard Fortune as barely to write But only for Bred from Morning till Night ; That would more than a Crack-farts Courage affright . Libera nos , etc From those that Sedition do daily invent To render a breach and gross discontent Betwixt our Great King and Loyal Parliament , Libera nos , etc From such as do daily possess us with fears , And yet at the same do prick up their ears , Which care not which Course our Council now Steers . Libera nos , etc That the Romish Whore may be stripped of her dress , And cast in the Pit that is call'd bottomless ; That her Plots , Loyal Subject's no more may distress . Quesimus te Domine . That Queen Besses Enemies run the same Fate As lately they did in the last Eighty eight , May never one want to peep through a Grate . Quesimus , etc That the Purse-bearer Judas his Protestant face May never resume his former high place , Except for to fallen in Eternal Disgrace . Quesimus , etc That the Doctor beyond Sea in spite of his skill , [ May never return , but keep close there still ; Or else may he Die by his own Poisonous Pill . Quesimus , etc ] That Popish Cur in honest disguise That Curses us all before he do rise , May his Plots be confounded though never so wise . Quesimus , etc That such whose hands are still dipped in Blood , And intend to make second Noah's Flood , That all such may perish , and all of their Brood , Quesimus , etc That such as do render the Plot for a Fable , And make it the talk of each Coffee-House Table ; To enter Heaven Gates may they never be able . Quesimus , etc That such as are forced to write but for Bred May be by the daily Providence fed , Much rather than those who will Plot till they're dead , Quesimus , etc That Seditious Spirits may now be suppressed , And that in true earnest , not only in Jest , That such may never more feather their Nest. Quesimus , etc That those who do daily possess us with fears , May fallen themselves together by th' Ears ; And quit us all from that Cloud which appears . Quesimus te Domine . London , Printed for T. Davis , 1680. 