H : 133845 A Second ELEGY On that Incomparable HEROE , THOMAS Earl of OSSORY : Who died on Fryday the 30th of July 1680. HE's dead ? this true --- I question it no more ; Nay rather fear'd than doubted it before : But Grief for OSSORY is ne'r too late , Since future Ages will bewail his Fate . Even this late Sorrow , which my Muse puts on , Had been less true , had it appear'd more soon ; For nimble sorrow quickly change their show , The long-liv'd Grief is in its Birth most slow . When first I herd Great OSSORY'S dismal Kneel , A stupid horror straight upon me fell , Wrapped all my Senses in Astonishment , Nor did so much as leave for Tears a Vent . Like Niobe , I seem'd to be in one , Both Mourner then and Monumental Stone . Nor certainly , had I that Swoon surviv'd ; But must have dy'd , had not my sorrows liv'd . Yet ? it no weakness : Charles himself , we hear , Withdrew , and shed for Ossory a tear . What Heart more great ? Yet ev'n that could not hold , When to his Ears so sad a Theam was told . Were any Heart in all his Kingdoms found , Which the sad News with sorrow did not wound ? A Traitors Death he justly might receive , That with his King and Country would not grieve . When on the Sickly Bed Great OSSORY lay , And Fear had not quite took all hope away ; How eagerly the pious people strove , To show a fear , which shew'd so much of Love , Liv's he said they --- when , yes , the Doctor se'd , How many Blessings showr'd they on his Head. He lives --- the Echo o'r all England flew ; Ev'n fierce Morocco's King did fear 'twas true . As on cold Oeta's Top , the Son of Jove ! With double Heat of Fire and Poison strove ; And all the World stood trembling for his sake : Only Eurystheus hop'd the rest would take : Such pains our Hero did that time endure , Tormented with a direful Calenture . While three great Nations trembled for his Head ; Only the barbarous Moor could wish him dead . Thy loss brave OSSORY , Tangiere deplores , Worse at thy Death dismayed , than at the Moors . The English Gallants there dejected stand . Wanting to their stout Hearts , thy Valiant Hand . Trelauny's Ghost walk'd sadly by the Mole , And Shriek'd instead of Thee , to meet thy Soul : He hop'd t'have been Reveng'd by thy sharp Blade And thou , as Pale as He , dost walk --- a Shade . The English-Church , that had no better Friend , ( Next Heav'n & Charles , who does her Faith defend ) Grieves at thy Death and fears her own sad Lot , Since Fates , thus accessary to the Plot . He whose Ambition all o'r world Alarms , Looks now for more success unto his Arms , Since Thou , who didst at Mons such acts of Praise , Hast yielded now to Death the Victor's Bays . Thy Sire , great Ormond , in thy Life more great , ( Because by thee preserv'd , from Envy's hate ) Like some vast Oak now rob'd of's leaves does stand By's Trophies scarce secur'd from Woodman's hand Yet He ( though Envy burst ) is still secure , Not in's own Worth so much , nor Virtues pure , ( Though they the strictest Test may well endure ; ) No nor in Charles his great Affection ; But only , ? cause he had so great a Son. Why were the Heavens to England so severe , As not to let thee Flourish longer here ? As thus to cut Thee off in thy full prime , And give Thee so much Good for so short time ? Only to show thy Worth in Field and Court , and then to snatch Thee hence , as if in sport ? Had we not known Thee , we had been content ; But who could know --- and not thy loss lament ! Yet since thy Death was fix'd by rigid Fate , And to desire thy Self is now too late ; Thanks mighty Hector of our second Troy , Thanks for Astyanax , thy hopeful Boy , Young James , who influenc'd with Charles his Care , May shortly prove in Valour too thine Heir , FINIS . LONDON , Printed by D. Mallet . 1680. H : 133845 A Second ELEGY On that Incomparable HEROE , THOMAS Earl of OSSORY : Who died on Fryday the 30th of July 1680. HE's dead ? this true --- I question it no more ; Nay rather fear'd than doubted it before : But Grief for OSSORY is ne'r too late , Since future Ages will bewail his Fate . Even this late Sorrow , which my Muse puts on , Had been less true , had it appear'd more soon ; For nimble sorrow quickly change their show , The long-liv'd Grief is in its Birth most slow . When first I herd Great OSSORY'S dismal Kneel , A stupid horror straight upon me fell , Wrapped all my Senses in Astonishment , Nor did so much as leave for Tears a Vent . Like Niobe , I seem'd to be in one , Both Mourner then and Monumental Stone . Nor certainly , had I that Swoon surviv'd ; But must have dy'd , had not my sorrows liv'd . Yet ? it no weakness : Charles himself , we hear , Withdrew , and shed for Ossory a tear . What Heart more great ? Yet ev'n that could not hold , When to his Ears so sad a Theam was told . Were any Heart in all his Kingdoms found , Which the sad News with sorrow did not wound ? A Traitors Death he justly might receive , That with his King and Country would not grieve . When on the Sickly Bed Great OSSORY lay , And Fear had not quite took all hope away ; How eagerly the pious people strove , To show a fear , which shew'd so much of Love , Liv's he said they --- when , yes , the Doctor se'd , How many Blessings showr'd they on his Head. He lives --- the Echo o'r all England flew ; Ev'n fierce Morocco's King did fear 'twas true . As on cold Oeta's Top , the Son of Jove ! With double Heat of Fire and Poison strove ; And all the World stood trembling for his sake : Only Eurystheus hop'd the rest would take : Such pains our Hero did that time endure , Tormented with a direful Calenture . While three great Nations trembled for his Head ; Only the barbarous Moor could wish him dead . Thy loss brave OSSORY , Tangiere deplores , Worse at thy Death dismayed , than at the Moors . The English Gallants there dejected stand . Wanting to their stout Hearts , thy Valiant Hand . Trelauny's Ghost walk'd sadly by the Mole , And Shriek'd instead of Thee , to meet thy Soul : He hop'd t'have been Reveng'd by thy sharp Blade And thou , as Pale as He , dost walk --- a Shade . The English-Church , that had no better Friend , ( Next Heav'n & Charles , who does her Faith defend ) Grieves at thy Death and fears her own sad Lot , Since Fates , thus accessary to the Plot . He whose Ambition all o'r world Alarms , Looks now for more success unto his Arms , Since Thou , who didst at Mons such acts of Praise , Hast yielded now to Death the Victor's Bays . Thy Sire , great Ormond , in thy Life more great , ( Because by thee preserv'd , from Envy's hate ) Like some vast Oak now rob'd of's leaves does stand By's Trophies scarce secur'd from Woodman's hand Yet He ( though Envy burst ) is still secure , Not in's own Worth so much , nor Virtues pure , ( Though they the strictest Test may well endure ; ) No nor in Charles his great Affection ; But only , ? cause he had so great a Son. Why were the Heavens to England so severe , As not to let thee Flourish longer here ? As thus to cut Thee off in thy full prime , And give Thee so much Good for so short time ? Only to show thy Worth in Field and Court , and then to snatch Thee hence , as if in sport ? Had we not known Thee , we had been content ; But who could know --- and not thy loss lament ! Yet since thy Death was fix'd by rigid Fate , And to desire thy Self is now too late ; Thanks mighty Hector of our second Troy , Thanks for Astyanax , thy hopeful Boy , Young James , who influenc'd with Charles his Care , May shortly prove in Valour too thine Heir , FINIS . LONDON , Printed by D. Mallet . 1680. 