H : 134126 AND ELEGY , On the Death of Algernon Sidney Esq ; Who was found Guilty of HIGH-TREASON , AND Beheaded at Tower-Hill on Friday the 7th of December , 1683. WOnder not ( Reader ) if you here descry Satyr usurp the place of Elegy ; No deep fetch't sighs , no tears , nor mournful Verse , Must e're attend and old Rebellious Hearse : Traitors like stately Tapers set on high , Blaze for a while , then dwindle , stink , and Die . Th' Apostate Angel since from Heaven he fell , Smells of th' loathsome , sulphurous stench of Hell , And odious wretched Name is still the fate Of Rebel man , when e're he proves ungrate . Ungrateful Sidney ! See the ill success Of Rampant and Triumphant wickedness ! Justly the Ax must cut his thread of Life Who vainly spent his Threescore Years in strife . When Traitors pulses beatrice so wondrous high , To blood a Vein is the securest way . And old stanch't Rebel , cursed at his Birth , A Foe to Heaven , and a Plague to Earth . Early in Treason he began t' excel , Wou'd in his Cradle scratch , bite , and Rebel . As strength encreas'd , so Spite and Malice reign'd , And still prevail'd o're his ill temper'd mind . Fierce was his humour , furious was his Zeal , A found admirer of a Commonweal . This made the Rebel Saint with cursed Sword , In wrath , pursue the Anointed of the Lord . His Lawful King in all things he withstood , Till now n'ere cloy'd with fulsome draughts of blood , Then farewell Sidney ! now expect no more To sport and roll in Royal Purple gore . All your Rebellious cheats must have and end , For Heaven its Viceregent will defend . Th' Almighty Thunder justly when he nods Shakes the proud Fabric of these Demi-Gods . Republic Monsters that wou'd Heaven invade , By's pow'rfull word with Earth are level made . Gigantic Commonwealth's Men thus are hurl'd , From distant Sky's , into the lower World . Learn then by Sidney's fate , the Factious Crew Good , Honest , Loyal methods to pursue Nor seek another Sov'ragn to undo ; If once you're pardon'd show your penitence , No more such base , vile wretches to commence , But if you are resolv'd to be perverse Then gall and Satyr shall be mixed in Verse . For those who're apt to murmur and Rebel No Lecture's fit for them but Death , and Hell . The EPITAPH . REader , if Whig thou art , thou'lt laugh At this insipid EPITAPH . O fie ! get Onions for thine Eyes , For here thy Patron Sidney lies . But where's his wandering Spirit gone , Since here he suff'red Martyrdom ? To Heaven . Oh! it cannot be , For Heaven is a Monarchy . Where then I pray ? To Purgatory . That's and idle , Romish Story . Such Saints as he can't go to Hell ? Where is he gone I prithee tell , The Learned say t' Achitophel . London , Printed by George Croom , at the Blew-Ball in Thames-street , over against Baynard's Castle , 1683. H : 134126 AND ELEGY , On the Death of Algernon Sidney Esq ; Who was found Guilty of HIGH-TREASON , AND Beheaded at Tower-Hill on Friday the 7th of December , 1683. WOnder not ( Reader ) if you here descry Satyr usurp the place of Elegy ; No deep fetch't sighs , no tears , nor mournful Verse , Must e're attend and old Rebellious Hearse : Traitors like stately Tapers set on high , Blaze for a while , then dwindle , stink , and Die . Th' Apostate Angel since from Heaven he fell , Smells of th' loathsome , sulphurous stench of Hell , And odious wretched Name is still the fate Of Rebel man , when e're he proves ungrate . Ungrateful Sidney ! See the ill success Of Rampant and Triumphant wickedness ! Justly the Ax must cut his thread of Life Who vainly spent his Threescore Years in strife . When Traitors pulses beatrice so wondrous high , To blood a Vein is the securest way . And old stanch't Rebel , cursed at his Birth , A Foe to Heaven , and a Plague to Earth . Early in Treason he began t' excel , Wou'd in his Cradle scratch , bite , and Rebel . As strength encreas'd , so Spite and Malice reign'd , And still prevail'd o're his ill temper'd mind . Fierce was his humour , furious was his Zeal , A found admirer of a Commonweal . This made the Rebel Saint with cursed Sword , In wrath , pursue the Anointed of the Lord . His Lawful King in all things he withstood , Till now n'ere cloy'd with fulsome draughts of blood , Then farewell Sidney ! now expect no more To sport and roll in Royal Purple gore . All your Rebellious cheats must have and end , For Heaven its Viceregent will defend . Th' Almighty Thunder justly when he nods Shakes the proud Fabric of these Demi-Gods . Republic Monsters that wou'd Heaven invade , By's pow'rfull word with Earth are level made . Gigantic Commonwealth's Men thus are hurl'd , From distant Sky's , into the lower World . Learn then by Sidney's fate , the Factious Crew Good , Honest , Loyal methods to pursue Nor seek another Sov'ragn to undo ; If once you're pardon'd show your penitence , No more such base , vile wretches to commence , But if you are resolv'd to be perverse Then gall and Satyr shall be mixed in Verse . For those who're apt to murmur and Rebel No Lecture's fit for them but Death , and Hell . The EPITAPH . REader , if Whig thou art , thou'lt laugh At this insipid EPITAPH . O fie ! get Onions for thine Eyes , For here thy Patron Sidney lies . But where's his wandering Spirit gone , Since here he suff'red Martyrdom ? To Heaven . Oh! it cannot be , For Heaven is a Monarchy . Where then I pray ? To Purgatory . That's and idle , Romish Story . Such Saints as he can't go to Hell ? Where is he gone I prithee tell , The Learned say t' Achitophel . London , Printed by George Croom , at the Blew-Ball in Thames-street , over against Baynard's Castle , 1683. H : 134126 AND ELEGY , On the Death of Algernon Sidney Esq ; Who was found Guilty of HIGH-TREASON , AND Beheaded at Tower-Hill on Friday the 7th of December , 1683. WOnder not ( Reader ) if you here descry Satyr usurp the place of Elegy ; No deep fetch't sighs , no tears , nor mournful Verse , Must e're attend and old Rebellious Hearse : Traitors like stately Tapers set on high , Blaze for a while , then dwindle , stink , and Die . Th' Apostate Angel since from Heaven he fell , Smells of th' loathsome , sulphurous stench of Hell , And odious wretched Name is still the fate Of Rebel man , when e're he proves ungrate . Ungrateful Sidney ! See the ill success Of Rampant and Triumphant wickedness ! Justly the Ax must cut his thread of Life Who vainly spent his Threescore Years in strife . When Traitors pulses beatrice so wondrous high , To blood a Vein is the securest way . And old stanch't Rebel , cursed at his Birth , A Foe to Heaven , and a Plague to Earth . Early in Treason he began t' excel , Wou'd in his Cradle scratch , bite , and Rebel . As strength encreas'd , so Spite and Malice reign'd , And still prevail'd o're his ill temper'd mind . Fierce was his humour , furious was his Zeal , A found admirer of a Commonweal . This made the Rebel Saint with cursed Sword , In wrath , pursue the Anointed of the Lord . His Lawful King in all things he withstood , Till now n'ere cloy'd with fulsome draughts of blood , Then farewell Sidney ! now expect no more To sport and roll in Royal Purple gore . All your Rebellious cheats must have and end , For Heaven its Viceregent will defend . Th' Almighty Thunder justly when he nods Shakes the proud Fabric of these Demi-Gods . Republic Monsters that wou'd Heaven invade , By's pow'rfull word with Earth are level made . Gigantic Commonwealth's Men thus are hurl'd , From distant Sky's , into the lower World . Learn then by Sidney's fate , the Factious Crew Good , Honest , Loyal methods to pursue Nor seek another Sov'ragn to undo ; If once you're pardon'd show your penitence , No more such base , vile wretches to commence , But if you are resolv'd to be perverse Then gall and Satyr shall be mixed in Verse . For those who're apt to murmur and Rebel No Lecture's fit for them but Death , and Hell . The EPITAPH . REader , if Whig thou art , thou'lt laugh At this insipid EPITAPH . O fie ! get Onions for thine Eyes , For here thy Patron Sidney lies . But where's his wandering Spirit gone , Since here he suff'red Martyrdom ? To Heaven . Oh! it cannot be , For Heaven is a Monarchy . Where then I pray ? To Purgatory . That's and idle , Romish Story . Such Saints as he can't go to Hell ? Where is he gone I prithee tell , The Learned say t' Achitophel . London , Printed by George Croom , at the Blew-Ball in Thames-street , over against Baynard's Castle , 1683. H : 134126 AND ELEGY , On the Death of Algernon Sidney Esq ; Who was found Guilty of HIGH-TREASON , AND Beheaded at Tower-Hill on Friday the 7th of December , 1683. WOnder not ( Reader ) if you here descry Satyr usurp the place of Elegy ; No deep fetch't sighs , no tears , nor mournful Verse , Must e're attend and old Rebellious Hearse : Traitors like stately Tapers set on high , Blaze for a while , then dwindle , stink , and Die . Th' Apostate Angel since from Heaven he fell , Smells of th' loathsome , sulphurous stench of Hell , And odious wretched Name is still the fate Of Rebel man , when e're he proves ungrate . Ungrateful Sidney ! See the ill success Of Rampant and Triumphant wickedness ! Justly the Ax must cut his thread of Life Who vainly spent his Threescore Years in strife . When Traitors pulses beatrice so wondrous high , To blood a Vein is the securest way . And old stanch't Rebel , cursed at his Birth , A Foe to Heaven , and a Plague to Earth . Early in Treason he began t' excel , Wou'd in his Cradle scratch , bite , and Rebel . As strength encreas'd , so Spite and Malice reign'd , And still prevail'd o're his ill temper'd mind . Fierce was his humour , furious was his Zeal , A found admirer of a Commonweal . This made the Rebel Saint with cursed Sword , In wrath , pursue the Anointed of the Lord . His Lawful King in all things he withstood , Till now n'ere cloy'd with fulsome draughts of blood , Then farewell Sidney ! now expect no more To sport and roll in Royal Purple gore . All your Rebellious cheats must have and end , For Heaven its Viceregent will defend . Th' Almighty Thunder justly when he nods Shakes the proud Fabric of these Demi-Gods . Republic Monsters that wou'd Heaven invade , By's pow'rfull word with Earth are level made . Gigantic Commonwealth's Men thus are hurl'd , From distant Sky's , into the lower World . Learn then by Sidney's fate , the Factious Crew Good , Honest , Loyal methods to pursue Nor seek another Sov'ragn to undo ; If once you're pardon'd show your penitence , No more such base , vile wretches to commence , But if you are resolv'd to be perverse Then gall and Satyr shall be mixed in Verse . For those who're apt to murmur and Rebel No Lecture's fit for them but Death , and Hell . The EPITAPH . REader , if Whig thou art , thou'lt laugh At this insipid EPITAPH . O fie ! get Onions for thine Eyes , For here thy Patron Sidney lies . But where's his wandering Spirit gone , Since here he suff'red Martyrdom ? To Heaven . Oh! it cannot be , For Heaven is a Monarchy . Where then I pray ? To Purgatory . That's and idle , Romish Story . Such Saints as he can't go to Hell ? Where is he gone I prithee tell , The Learned say t' Achitophel . London , Printed by George Croom , at the Blew-Ball in Thames-street , over against Baynard's Castle , 1683. 