H : 134141 A Welcome to his Royal Highness INTO THE CITY , April the Twentieth , 1682. Per J.P. Citizen of LONDON . Motto . Invenias paucos hic ut in orbe Bonos . CLad with the Infant Glories of the Spring , Haste pious Muse , Great JAMES Divin'ly Sing ; Rideing secure in peaceful Albions Bay , Grateful to Her above the Newborn Day . Welcome Great Sir , salutes you ev'ry where , Belov'd by JOVE , by Birth His chiefest care : With busy joy our Sevenfold Lute we String , To tell in Notes your safety to the King ; Mov'd with soft Numbers envy here is shown , Each strives to bid you welcome to the Town . With melting Harmony our Harps are Strung , Soft as the Love with which the Throne is Hung : Such Mirth your Presence adds to Monarchy , In spite of Rage , and Factious Anarchy Those Closet-Products of Damn'd Whiggery : Such new rais'd Plagues of every Corporation , We will allay by Anti-Association ; Laden with Loyalty our Arms shall be That Golden Bracelet of Blessed Unity , The sole unbias'd Basis of true Property : Next after CHARLES a Monarch you may claim , At whose Protection all our Fortune's aim . ENGLAND Triumphant now may brighter Shine , Blessed with the Rays of thy good Father's Line ; Crown'd with Religions peaceful Olive , She With Tory Zeal a Monument to Thee Shall raise of ever verdant Piety . Long did our Royal Monarch in his mind Hug your Return , and hop'd that some kind Wind Would lodge you safe within His Sacred Arms , Where scarce His Sceptre feels more pleasing Charms , Oh! could we raise our groveling Souls to Thee , Fill'd with a smooth Majestic Harmony ! For to a Crown , that Monarch of Delight , Virtue like Thine Victorious takes her Flight . But cease my Muse , in wishes speak the rest , While with two Godlike Souls our Albion's Blessed . Vivat Rex Carolus , & Caroli Frater . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for James Vade , at the Cock and Sugar-Loaf in Fleet-street . H : 134141 A Welcome to his Royal Highness INTO THE CITY , April the Twentieth , 1682. Per J.P. Citizen of LONDON . Motto . Invenias paucos hic ut in orbe Bonos . CLad with the Infant Glories of the Spring , Haste pious Muse , Great JAMES Divin'ly Sing ; Rideing secure in peaceful Albions Bay , Grateful to Her above the Newborn Day . Welcome Great Sir , salutes you ev'ry where , Belov'd by JOVE , by Birth His chiefest care : With busy joy our Sevenfold Lute we String , To tell in Notes your safety to the King ; Mov'd with soft Numbers envy here is shown , Each strives to bid you welcome to the Town . With melting Harmony our Harps are Strung , Soft as the Love with which the Throne is Hung : Such Mirth your Presence adds to Monarchy , In spite of Rage , and Factious Anarchy Those Closet-Products of Damn'd Whiggery : Such new rais'd Plagues of every Corporation , We will allay by Anti-Association ; Laden with Loyalty our Arms shall be That Golden Bracelet of Blessed Unity , The sole unbias'd Basis of true Property : Next after CHARLES a Monarch you may claim , At whose Protection all our Fortune's aim . ENGLAND Triumphant now may brighter Shine , Blessed with the Rays of thy good Father's Line ; Crown'd with Religions peaceful Olive , She With Tory Zeal a Monument to Thee Shall raise of ever verdant Piety . Long did our Royal Monarch in his mind Hug your Return , and hop'd that some kind Wind Would lodge you safe within His Sacred Arms , Where scarce His Sceptre feels more pleasing Charms , Oh! could we raise our groveling Souls to Thee , Fill'd with a smooth Majestic Harmony ! For to a Crown , that Monarch of Delight , Virtue like Thine Victorious takes her Flight . But cease my Muse , in wishes speak the rest , While with two Godlike Souls our Albion's Blessed . Vivat Rex Carolus , & Caroli Frater . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for James Vade , at the Cock and Sugar-Loaf in Fleet-street . 