H : 134417 Protestants Petition against Popery , etc FRom sawing the Crown 'twixt Fanatics and Friars ; From Whitehall Scaffolds , and Smithfield Fires ; From the Jesuits Morals , outdone by the Tryers , Libera nos Domine . From every Religion which Treason allows ; From the Geneva Stiffness , and the Roman Bows ; From affronting of God , or adoring of Shows , Libera nos Domine . From slicing the Pope into Presbyter John , More saucy in Consort than he is alone ; From a Legion of Devils to extirpate one , Libera nos Domine . From fermenting the Rout with Chimerical Fears ; From buying with Blood , and enjoying with Tears , A Liberty copied by that of Argiers , Libera nos Domine . From being twice chous'd with the same sort of Cant ; From defending the King by Scotch Covenant ; From Reforming the Church till we leave nothing on't , Libera nos Domine . From a bifronted Conscience , like the Sign of and Alehouse , That faces the Church , and outfaces the Gallows , With one side stark raw , and the other side callous , Libera nos Domine . From a Supreme Vicar to shackle the King ; From a long round Senate , which means the same thing ; From a Monk without , and a Devil within , Libera nos Domine . From advancing God's Church by such Sins as wou'd fright you , From listing of Rebels to aid the Almighty ; From taking of Ratsbane for Elixir Vitae , Libera nos Domine . From the Popish Rage , and the Popular Fret , Which with Brotherly Malice their Sov'reign beset ; From rescinding Bull , and reforming Bullet , Libera nos Domine . From the Lords in the Tower , and the Lords that are out ; From assaulting the King by Dagger or Vote ; From our Ruin Point blank , or Nine Mile about , Libera nos Domine . From the Dark-Lanthorn Plot , and the Green-Ribbon Club ; From brewing Sedition in a Sanctified Tub ; From reforming a Prince by the Model of Job , Libera nos Domine . From the National Wealth by a Junto possessed , By cajoling of one half , and plundering the rest ; From the Commonwealths Arms with his Holiness's Crest , Libera nos Domine . The SECOND PART . FRom measuring Devotion with Beads , or with Sand , In a Language or Phrase that we don't understand ; From a Preacher with Relics or Spoons in his Hand , Libera nos Domine . From stripping Religion to avoid the Excesses Of a cumbersome Ruff , and a Collar of SS ; From His Holiness , and Their Holinesses , Libera nos Domine . From Plot upon Plot , which no Herald admits , Nor any Man else that is well in his Wits ; From Conscience that comes like and Ague , by Fits , Libera nos Domine . From the Pope in One Stick , or the Pope in a Faggot ; From the Catholic Worm , and Schismatical Maggot ; From such as swear round to keep what they ha' god , Libera nos Domine . From Penance reformed to a Stool of Repentance ; From a new Inquisition to aid the Tridentines , And the Savager Courts where the Godly give Sentence , Libera nos Domine . From setting Christ's Vicar to tease his Viceregent ; From the Saints in whom the same since is inherent , The best Friends he has , though they seldom appear in't , Libera nos Domine . From St. Omers Consult , and a Leyden Cabal , Inveterate Foes both to Pauls and Whitehal ; From a Plot pro and con , like a Tennis-ball , Libera nos Domine . From the Roman Disease , and Geneva Physician ; From admitting Profaneness to purge Superstition ; From Raviliack's or Bradshaw's Commission , Libera nos Domine . From taking the Covenant , or balking the Test ; From both the Renouncers when th' are but in jest ; From the Pope's hatching Eggs in a Presbyter's Nest , Libera nos Domine . From the Godly Disguises of Cropping and Shaving , The different Ear-marks of Fooling and Knaving , Though both can do both for the sake of Soulsaving , Libera nos Domine . From a Jesuit transformed to a Sanctified Elder , And cursing Romes Church to her dear Hans-en-Kelder ; From hugging her Brats , and yet hope w' have expell'd her , Libera nos Domine . From the Mass and the Directory bound in one Volumn ; From the Trent Conventicle , and the Dort What d'e call 'um ; From the Votaries of Saints , and those that Peter 'um and Paul 'um , Libera nos Domine . From transforming a Cowl to and alamode Jump ; From the Jesuit's Bucket in the Minister's Pump ; From a Representative Monster , that's all over Rump , Libera nos Domine . FINIS . LONDON Printed for B [ . ] Tooke 1681H : 134417 Protestants Petition against Popery , etc FRom sawing the Crown 'twixt Fanatics and Friars ; From Whitehall Scaffolds , and Smithfield Fires ; From the Jesuits Morals , outdone by the Tryers , Libera nos Domine . From every Religion which Treason allows ; From the Geneva Stiffness , and the Roman Bows ; From affronting of God , or adoring of Shows , Libera nos Domine . From slicing the Pope into Presbyter John , More saucy in Consort than he is alone ; From a Legion of Devils to extirpate one , Libera nos Domine . From fermenting the Rout with Chimerical Fears ; From buying with Blood , and enjoying with Tears , A Liberty copied by that of Argiers , Libera nos Domine . From being twice chous'd with the same sort of Cant ; From defending the King by Scotch Covenant ; From Reforming the Church till we leave nothing on't , Libera nos Domine . From a bifronted Conscience , like the Sign of and Alehouse , That faces the Church , and outfaces the Gallows , With one side stark raw , and the other side callous , Libera nos Domine . From a Supreme Vicar to shackle the King ; From a long round Senate , which means the same thing ; From a Monk without , and a Devil within , Libera nos Domine . From advancing God's Church by such Sins as wou'd fright you , From listing of Rebels to aid the Almighty ; From taking of Ratsbane for Elixir Vitae , Libera nos Domine . From the Popish Rage , and the Popular Fret , Which with Brotherly Malice their Sov'reign beset ; From rescinding Bull , and reforming Bullet , Libera nos Domine . From the Lords in the Tower , and the Lords that are out ; From assaulting the King by Dagger or Vote ; From our Ruin Point blank , or Nine Mile about , Libera nos Domine . From the Dark-Lanthorn Plot , and the Green-Ribbon Club ; From brewing Sedition in a Sanctified Tub ; From reforming a Prince by the Model of Job , Libera nos Domine . From the National Wealth by a Junto possessed , By cajoling of one half , and plundering the rest ; From the Commonwealths Arms with his Holiness's Crest , Libera nos Domine . The SECOND PART . FRom measuring Devotion with Beads , or with Sand , In a Language or Phrase that we don't understand ; From a Preacher with Relics or Spoons in his Hand , Libera nos Domine . From stripping Religion to avoid the Excesses Of a cumbersome Ruff , and a Collar of SS ; From His Holiness , and Their Holinesses , Libera nos Domine . From Plot upon Plot , which no Herald admits , Nor any Man else that is well in his Wits ; From Conscience that comes like and Ague , by Fits , Libera nos Domine . From the Pope in One Stick , or the Pope in a Faggot ; From the Catholic Worm , and Schismatical Maggot ; From such as swear round to keep what they ha' god , Libera nos Domine . From Penance reformed to a Stool of Repentance ; From a new Inquisition to aid the Tridentines , And the Savager Courts where the Godly give Sentence , Libera nos Domine . From setting Christ's Vicar to tease his Viceregent ; From the Saints in whom the same since is inherent , The best Friends he has , though they seldom appear in't , Libera nos Domine . From St. Omers Consult , and a Leyden Cabal , Inveterate Foes both to Pauls and Whitehal ; From a Plot pro and con , like a Tennis-ball , Libera nos Domine . From the Roman Disease , and Geneva Physician ; From admitting Profaneness to purge Superstition ; From Raviliack's or Bradshaw's Commission , Libera nos Domine . From taking the Covenant , or balking the Test ; From both the Renouncers when th' are but in jest ; From the Pope's hatching Eggs in a Presbyter's Nest , Libera nos Domine . From the Godly Disguises of Cropping and Shaving , The different Ear-marks of Fooling and Knaving , Though both can do both for the sake of Soulsaving , Libera nos Domine . From a Jesuit transformed to a Sanctified Elder , And cursing Romes Church to her dear Hans-en-Kelder ; From hugging her Brats , and yet hope w' have expell'd her , Libera nos Domine . From the Mass and the Directory bound in one Volumn ; From the Trent Conventicle , and the Dort What d'e call 'um ; From the Votaries of Saints , and those that Peter 'um and Paul 'um , Libera nos Domine . From transforming a Cowl to and alamode Jump ; From the Jesuit's Bucket in the Minister's Pump ; From a Representative Monster , that's all over Rump , Libera nos Domine . FINIS . LONDON Printed for B [ . ] Tooke 1681H : 134417 Protestants Petition against Popery , etc FRom sawing the Crown 'twixt Fanatics and Friars ; From Whitehall Scaffolds , and Smithfield Fires ; From the Jesuits Morals , outdone by the Tryers , Libera nos Domine . From every Religion which Treason allows ; From the Geneva Stiffness , and the Roman Bows ; From affronting of God , or adoring of Shows , Libera nos Domine . From slicing the Pope into Presbyter John , More saucy in Consort than he is alone ; From a Legion of Devils to extirpate one , Libera nos Domine . From fermenting the Rout with Chimerical Fears ; From buying with Blood , and enjoying with Tears , A Liberty copied by that of Argiers , Libera nos Domine . From being twice chous'd with the same sort of Cant ; From defending the King by Scotch Covenant ; From Reforming the Church till we leave nothing on't , Libera nos Domine . From a bifronted Conscience , like the Sign of and Alehouse , That faces the Church , and outfaces the Gallows , With one side stark raw , and the other side callous , Libera nos Domine . From a Supreme Vicar to shackle the King ; From a long round Senate , which means the same thing ; From a Monk without , and a Devil within , Libera nos Domine . From advancing God's Church by such Sins as wou'd fright you , From listing of Rebels to aid the Almighty ; From taking of Ratsbane for Elixir Vitae , Libera nos Domine . From the Popish Rage , and the Popular Fret , Which with Brotherly Malice their Sov'reign beset ; From rescinding Bull , and reforming Bullet , Libera nos Domine . From the Lords in the Tower , and the Lords that are out ; From assaulting the King by Dagger or Vote ; From our Ruin Point blank , or Nine Mile about , Libera nos Domine . From the Dark-Lanthorn Plot , and the Green-Ribbon Club ; From brewing Sedition in a Sanctified Tub ; From reforming a Prince by the Model of Job , Libera nos Domine . From the National Wealth by a Junto possessed , By cajoling of one half , and plundering the rest ; From the Commonwealths Arms with his Holiness's Crest , Libera nos Domine . The SECOND PART . FRom measuring Devotion with Beads , or with Sand , In a Language or Phrase that we don't understand ; From a Preacher with Relics or Spoons in his Hand , Libera nos Domine . From stripping Religion to avoid the Excesses Of a cumbersome Ruff , and a Collar of SS ; From His Holiness , and Their Holinesses , Libera nos Domine . From Plot upon Plot , which no Herald admits , Nor any Man else that is well in his Wits ; From Conscience that comes like and Ague , by Fits , Libera nos Domine . From the Pope in One Stick , or the Pope in a Faggot ; From the Catholic Worm , and Schismatical Maggot ; From such as swear round to keep what they ha' god , Libera nos Domine . From Penance reformed to a Stool of Repentance ; From a new Inquisition to aid the Tridentines , And the Savager Courts where the Godly give Sentence , Libera nos Domine . From setting Christ's Vicar to tease his Viceregent ; From the Saints in whom the same since is inherent , The best Friends he has , though they seldom appear in't , Libera nos Domine . From St. Omers Consult , and a Leyden Cabal , Inveterate Foes both to Pauls and Whitehal ; From a Plot pro and con , like a Tennis-ball , Libera nos Domine . From the Roman Disease , and Geneva Physician ; From admitting Profaneness to purge Superstition ; From Raviliack's or Bradshaw's Commission , Libera nos Domine . From taking the Covenant , or balking the Test ; From both the Renouncers when th' are but in jest ; From the Pope's hatching Eggs in a Presbyter's Nest , Libera nos Domine . From the Godly Disguises of Cropping and Shaving , The different Ear-marks of Fooling and Knaving , Though both can do both for the sake of Soulsaving , Libera nos Domine . From a Jesuit transformed to a Sanctified Elder , And cursing Romes Church to her dear Hans-en-Kelder ; From hugging her Brats , and yet hope w' have expell'd her , Libera nos Domine . From the Mass and the Directory bound in one Volumn ; From the Trent Conventicle , and the Dort What d'e call 'um ; From the Votaries of Saints , and those that Peter 'um and Paul 'um , Libera nos Domine . From transforming a Cowl to and alamode Jump ; From the Jesuit's Bucket in the Minister's Pump ; From a Representative Monster , that's all over Rump , Libera nos Domine . FINIS . LONDON Printed for B [ . ] Tooke 1681H : 134417 Protestants Petition against Popery , etc FRom sawing the Crown 'twixt Fanatics and Friars ; From Whitehall Scaffolds , and Smithfield Fires ; From the Jesuits Morals , outdone by the Tryers , Libera nos Domine . From every Religion which Treason allows ; From the Geneva Stiffness , and the Roman Bows ; From affronting of God , or adoring of Shows , Libera nos Domine . From slicing the Pope into Presbyter John , More saucy in Consort than he is alone ; From a Legion of Devils to extirpate one , Libera nos Domine . From fermenting the Rout with Chimerical Fears ; From buying with Blood , and enjoying with Tears , A Liberty copied by that of Argiers , Libera nos Domine . From being twice chous'd with the same sort of Cant ; From defending the King by Scotch Covenant ; From Reforming the Church till we leave nothing on't , Libera nos Domine . From a bifronted Conscience , like the Sign of and Alehouse , That faces the Church , and outfaces the Gallows , With one side stark raw , and the other side callous , Libera nos Domine . From a Supreme Vicar to shackle the King ; From a long round Senate , which means the same thing ; From a Monk without , and a Devil within , Libera nos Domine . From advancing God's Church by such Sins as wou'd fright you , From listing of Rebels to aid the Almighty ; From taking of Ratsbane for Elixir Vitae , Libera nos Domine . From the Popish Rage , and the Popular Fret , Which with Brotherly Malice their Sov'reign beset ; From rescinding Bull , and reforming Bullet , Libera nos Domine . From the Lords in the Tower , and the Lords that are out ; From assaulting the King by Dagger or Vote ; From our Ruin Point blank , or Nine Mile about , Libera nos Domine . From the Dark-Lanthorn Plot , and the Green-Ribbon Club ; From brewing Sedition in a Sanctified Tub ; From reforming a Prince by the Model of Job , Libera nos Domine . From the National Wealth by a Junto possessed , By cajoling of one half , and plundering the rest ; From the Commonwealths Arms with his Holiness's Crest , Libera nos Domine . The SECOND PART . FRom measuring Devotion with Beads , or with Sand , In a Language or Phrase that we don't understand ; From a Preacher with Relics or Spoons in his Hand , Libera nos Domine . From stripping Religion to avoid the Excesses Of a cumbersome Ruff , and a Collar of SS ; From His Holiness , and Their Holinesses , Libera nos Domine . From Plot upon Plot , which no Herald admits , Nor any Man else that is well in his Wits ; From Conscience that comes like and Ague , by Fits , Libera nos Domine . From the Pope in One Stick , or the Pope in a Faggot ; From the Catholic Worm , and Schismatical Maggot ; From such as swear round to keep what they ha' god , Libera nos Domine . From Penance reformed to a Stool of Repentance ; From a new Inquisition to aid the Tridentines , And the Savager Courts where the Godly give Sentence , Libera nos Domine . From setting Christ's Vicar to tease his Viceregent ; From the Saints in whom the same since is inherent , The best Friends he has , though they seldom appear in't , Libera nos Domine . From St. Omers Consult , and a Leyden Cabal , Inveterate Foes both to Pauls and Whitehal ; From a Plot pro and con , like a Tennis-ball , Libera nos Domine . From the Roman Disease , and Geneva Physician ; From admitting Profaneness to purge Superstition ; From Raviliack's or Bradshaw's Commission , Libera nos Domine . From taking the Covenant , or balking the Test ; From both the Renouncers when th' are but in jest ; From the Pope's hatching Eggs in a Presbyter's Nest , Libera nos Domine . From the Godly Disguises of Cropping and Shaving , The different Ear-marks of Fooling and Knaving , Though both can do both for the sake of Soulsaving , Libera nos Domine . From a Jesuit transformed to a Sanctified Elder , And cursing Romes Church to her dear Hans-en-Kelder ; From hugging her Brats , and yet hope w' have expell'd her , Libera nos Domine . From the Mass and the Directory bound in one Volumn ; From the Trent Conventicle , and the Dort What d'e call 'um ; From the Votaries of Saints , and those that Peter 'um and Paul 'um , Libera nos Domine . From transforming a Cowl to and alamode Jump ; From the Jesuit's Bucket in the Minister's Pump ; From a Representative Monster , that's all over Rump , Libera nos Domine . FINIS . LONDON Printed for B [ . ] Tooke 1681 