H : 134150 A Congratulatory POEM on the WHIGG's Entertainment . HOllow Boys , Hollow , Hollow once again ! 'Tother half Crown shall then reward your pain . Alas , Poor Whigg , where wilt thou sneaking go , Thy Wine is spilled , thy Pies , and Cakes are Dough ? Down go the Coppers , Tables , Shelves and all , And so Farewell to Haberdasher's Hall ! Damn'd Protestants ! that when the Court abhor't , Dare eat , and drink without a Patent for't . And what true Catholics , no doubt , will say , Was ten times worse , upon a Fasting day ! No Northern Healths would with Huzza's be crown'd , No Loyal Dammee's there would rend the Ground . These hungry Covenanting Currs , contrive To gobble up the King's Prerogative . In Pasties , Plots , in Custard , Treason lies , And hight Rebellion lurks in Pudding-Pyes . Fear always through Perspective looks , and thus A Sausage must be dubb'd a Blunderbuss . Poor Woodcocks , Loyal Subject's counted be ; Condemn'd by sly Fanatics , Treachery . Spits Rapiers are to stab obedient Geese , A Stately Pasty is a Mortar-piece . Glasses are Hand-Granadoes , which may fallen At Charing-Cross , or Fire the Milky Hall . Cooks Shops hatch close Designs upon the State 'Gainst Calves , and Capons to ASSOCIATE ; Which if the Traitors freely won't confess , Our Jury's them shall all-to-be-Address . Those that were never marked by the Beast , Shall neither Buy , nor Fell , nor Fast , nor Feast . While this Indulgence we to Friends afford , Change rusty Cassocks for a glittering Sword . But if they have nor Coat nor Gown to fell , Godfrey's Cravat will do the Job as well . London , Printed for E. Smith , 1682. H : 134150 A Congratulatory POEM on the WHIGG's Entertainment . HOllow Boys , Hollow , Hollow once again ! 'Tother half Crown shall then reward your pain . Alas , Poor Whigg , where wilt thou sneaking go , Thy Wine is spilled , thy Pies , and Cakes are Dough ? Down go the Coppers , Tables , Shelves and all , And so Farewell to Haberdasher's Hall ! Damn'd Protestants ! that when the Court abhor't , Dare eat , and drink without a Patent for't . And what true Catholics , no doubt , will say , Was ten times worse , upon a Fasting day ! No Northern Healths would with Huzza's be crown'd , No Loyal Dammee's there would rend the Ground . These hungry Covenanting Currs , contrive To gobble up the King's Prerogative . In Pasties , Plots , in Custard , Treason lies , And hight Rebellion lurks in Pudding-Pyes . Fear always through Perspective looks , and thus A Sausage must be dubb'd a Blunderbuss . Poor Woodcocks , Loyal Subject's counted be ; Condemn'd by sly Fanatics , Treachery . Spits Rapiers are to stab obedient Geese , A Stately Pasty is a Mortar-piece . Glasses are Hand-Granadoes , which may fallen At Charing-Cross , or Fire the Milky Hall . Cooks Shops hatch close Designs upon the State 'Gainst Calves , and Capons to ASSOCIATE ; Which if the Traitors freely won't confess , Our Jury's them shall all-to-be-Address . Those that were never marked by the Beast , Shall neither Buy , nor Fell , nor Fast , nor Feast . While this Indulgence we to Friends afford , Change rusty Cassocks for a glittering Sword . But if they have nor Coat nor Gown to fell , Godfrey's Cravat will do the Job as well . London , Printed for E. Smith , 1682. 