H : 134454 PROTESTANTS CONGRATULATION . To the CITY For their Excellent CHOICE of MEMBERS To Serve in PARLIAMENT , October 7 , 1679. VIZ . The Right Honourable Sir Robert Clayton , Lord Mayor Elect. William Love , Esq ; Sir Thomas Player , Chamberlain of London , And Thomas Pilkington , Merchant . Who all Served for that Honourable CITY in the last ever-memorable PARLIAMENT . HAil Worthy Citizens ! For what this Day You've done so Well , not only we Repay Deserved Thanks , but the Next Age shall Learn By your firm Steps their Duty to Discern . When Romes sly Factors with their usual Arts And private Lures thought to Divide your Hearts ; And Mints of Slander in Cabals had Coyn'd , Stale foolish Lies , Which Impudence Design'd You should take Currant ; and then Fright you so As to Contribute to your own Or'ethrow . You Fadom'd strait their Plot , and with one Voice Agreed upon a Found and well-try'd Choice . Heaven which er'e-while in Sympathizing Tears And Sable Weeds bewail'd our needless Fears On this Presaging Morn , more Bright appears : The Sky look'd Clear as were our Joys ; The Sun Himself being Proud to View what you had done . Be gone you private Panders for the Whore , With Forty One you Bubble us no more . We now know how your then concealed Springs Mov'd Faction ; and Murder'd the best of Kings . Those Arts you still Pursue , To play your Game Would fain Engage us in a second Flame . And your Confounded Popish Plot to hide , Would gladly cast it clear on t' other side . The Eagle once from her own Pinions found That Arrow Feather'd , which gave her a Wound : So England's Church was like to be Betray'd By false pretended Sons in Masquerade . But Thanks , brave City , which well Understands , To Judge 'twixt Jacob's Voice and Esau's Hands . You Scorn'd to Gratify their Factious Pride , Who only studied how they might Divide . Vain are Romes Plots , in vain does Haughty France To Universal Tyranny advance And think to Ridd the World of Protestants While CHARLES Survives , and Mighty Britain stands Defying all their Heads , and all their Hands . And London firm in Loyalty and Zeal Gives such Blessed Voices for the Public Weal . London ! That shall in aftertimes become Fatal ( beyond what Carthage wish'd ) to Room . Methinks I see and Universal Smile , And Beams of Joy spread through our Triple Isle : Methinks I see with what a Generous Scorn The Wheadling Make-bates hope's were overborne , While General Echo's through the Hall did found For Clayton , Player , Love , and Pilkington . The Thames with nimble Ebbs hastens to bear The News to Neptune's Court , who with due care Sends some bold English Tributary Wave , That with the Tidings Tybur shall Outbrave . Hush then , dull Libellers ! whose Croaking Noise Proclaims you Egypt's Vermin by your Voice : That Atheist Ruffian , with his Hue and Cry , Drunk , as he's wont , in his Old Goal may lie ; While Peter Dulman shakes his empty Skull , And Vomits Slanders a whole Green-Bag full . Forgive me , Worthies ! That I here should Name These viler Insects nibbling at your Fame . To do well , and Hear Ill is Virtues Fate ; You now are call'd to a Sublimer State , Push on their Envy , and disdain their Hate . In that Great Senate where you are to go , No Interest but your King's and Nations know . Act like yourselves , Act as yourselves have done , Fear not the Malice of a Saucy Tongue Set , like some Clocks , on purpose to go wrong . Think on your Charge , which under God , controls The Fate of many hundred thousand Souls . Act so for King and Country , that you may Be ever thought as Worthy as to Day . FINIS . London , Printed for Benjamin Harris in the Piazza under the Royal Exchange in Cornhill , 1679. H : 134454 PROTESTANTS CONGRATULATION . To the CITY For their Excellent CHOICE of MEMBERS To Serve in PARLIAMENT , October 7 , 1679. VIZ . The Right Honourable Sir Robert Clayton , Lord Mayor Elect. William Love , Esq ; Sir Thomas Player , Chamberlain of London , And Thomas Pilkington , Merchant . Who all Served for that Honourable CITY in the last ever-memorable PARLIAMENT . HAil Worthy Citizens ! For what this Day You've done so Well , not only we Repay Deserved Thanks , but the Next Age shall Learn By your firm Steps their Duty to Discern . When Romes sly Factors with their usual Arts And private Lures thought to Divide your Hearts ; And Mints of Slander in Cabals had Coyn'd , Stale foolish Lies , Which Impudence Design'd You should take Currant ; and then Fright you so As to Contribute to your own Or'ethrow . You Fadom'd strait their Plot , and with one Voice Agreed upon a Found and well-try'd Choice . Heaven which er'e-while in Sympathizing Tears And Sable Weeds bewail'd our needless Fears On this Presaging Morn , more Bright appears : The Sky look'd Clear as were our Joys ; The Sun Himself being Proud to View what you had done . Be gone you private Panders for the Whore , With Forty One you Bubble us no more . We now know how your then concealed Springs Mov'd Faction ; and Murder'd the best of Kings . Those Arts you still Pursue , To play your Game Would fain Engage us in a second Flame . And your Confounded Popish Plot to hide , Would gladly cast it clear on t' other side . The Eagle once from her own Pinions found That Arrow Feather'd , which gave her a Wound : So England's Church was like to be Betray'd By false pretended Sons in Masquerade . But Thanks , brave City , which well Understands , To Judge 'twixt Jacob's Voice and Esau's Hands . You Scorn'd to Gratify their Factious Pride , Who only studied how they might Divide . Vain are Romes Plots , in vain does Haughty France To Universal Tyranny advance And think to Ridd the World of Protestants While CHARLES Survives , and Mighty Britain stands Defying all their Heads , and all their Hands . And London firm in Loyalty and Zeal Gives such Blessed Voices for the Public Weal . London ! That shall in aftertimes become Fatal ( beyond what Carthage wish'd ) to Room . Methinks I see and Universal Smile , And Beams of Joy spread through our Triple Isle : Methinks I see with what a Generous Scorn The Wheadling Make-bates hope's were overborne , While General Echo's through the Hall did found For Clayton , Player , Love , and Pilkington . The Thames with nimble Ebbs hastens to bear The News to Neptune's Court , who with due care Sends some bold English Tributary Wave , That with the Tidings Tybur shall Outbrave . Hush then , dull Libellers ! whose Croaking Noise Proclaims you Egypt's Vermin by your Voice : That Atheist Ruffian , with his Hue and Cry , Drunk , as he's wont , in his Old Goal may lie ; While Peter Dulman shakes his empty Skull , And Vomits Slanders a whole Green-Bag full . Forgive me , Worthies ! That I here should Name These viler Insects nibbling at your Fame . To do well , and Hear Ill is Virtues Fate ; You now are call'd to a Sublimer State , Push on their Envy , and disdain their Hate . In that Great Senate where you are to go , No Interest but your King's and Nations know . Act like yourselves , Act as yourselves have done , Fear not the Malice of a Saucy Tongue Set , like some Clocks , on purpose to go wrong . Think on your Charge , which under God , controls The Fate of many hundred thousand Souls . Act so for King and Country , that you may Be ever thought as Worthy as to Day . FINIS . London , Printed for Benjamin Harris in the Piazza under the Royal Exchange in Cornhill , 1679. H : 134454 PROTESTANTS CONGRATULATION To the CITY For their Excellent CHOICE of MEMBERS To Serve in PARLIAMENT , October 7 , 1679. VIZ . The Right Honourable Sir Robert Clayton , Lord Mayor Elect. William Love , Esq ; Sir Thomas Player , Chamberlain of London , And Thomas Pilkington , Merchant . Who all Served for that Honourable CITY in the last ever-memorable PARLIAMENT . HAil Worthy Citizens ! For what this Day You've done so Well , not only we Repay Deserved Thanks , but the Next Age shall Learn By your firm Steps their Duty to Discern . When Romes sly Factors with their usual Arts And private Lures thought to Divide your Hearts ; And Mints of Slander in Cabals had Coyn'd , Stale foolish Lies , Which Impudence Design'd You should take Currant ; and then Fright you so As to Contribute to your own Or'ethrow . You Fadom'd strait their Plot , and with one Voice Agreed upon a Found and well-try'd Choice . Heaven which er'e-while in Sympathizing Tears And Sable Weeds bewail'd our needless Fears On this Presaging Morn , more Bright appears : The Sky look'd Clear as were our Joys ; The Sun Himself being Proud to View what you had done . Be gone you private Panders for the Whore , With Forty One you Bubble us no more . We now know how your then concealed Springs Mov'd Faction ; and Murder'd the best of Kings . Those Arts you still Pursue , To play your Game Would fain Engage us in a second Flame . And your Confounded Popish Plot to hide , Would gladly cast it clear on t' other side . The Eagle once from her own Pinions found That Arrow Feather'd , which gave her a Wound : So England's Church was like to be Betray'd By false pretended Sons in Masquerade . But Thanks , brave City , which well Understands , To Judge 'twixt Jacob's Voice and Esau's Hands . You Scorn'd to Gratify their Factious Pride , Who only studied how they might Divide . Vain are Romes Plots , in vain does Haughty France To Universal Tyranny advance And think to Ridd the World of Protestants While CHARLES Survives , and Mighty Britain stands Defying all their Heads , and all their Hands . And London firm in Loyalty and Zeal Gives such Blessed Voices for the Public Weal . London ! That shall in aftertimes become Fatal ( beyond what Carthage wish'd ) to Room . Methinks I see and Universal Smile , And Beams of Joy spread through our Triple Isle : Methinks I see with what a Generous Scorn The Wheadling Make-bates hope's were overborne , While General Echo's through the Hall did found For Clayton , Player , Love , and Pilkington . The Thames with nimble Ebbs hastens to bear The News to Neptune's Court , who with due care Sends some bold English Tributary Wave , That with the Tidings Tybur shall Outbrave . Hush then , dull Libellers ! whose Croaking Noise Proclaims you Egypt's Vermin by your Voice : That Atheist Ruffian , with his Hue and Cry , Drunk , as he's wont , in his Old Goal may lie ; While Peter Dulman shakes his empty Skull , And Vomits Slanders a whole Green-Bag full . Forgive me , Worthies ! That I here should Name These viler Insects nibbling at your Fame . To do well , and Hear Ill is Virtues Fate ; You now are call'd to a Sublimer State , Push on their Envy , and disdain their Hate . In that Great Senate where you are to go , No Interest but your King's and Nations know . Act like yourselves , Act as yourselves have done , Fear not the Malice of a Saucy Tongue Set , like some Clocks , on purpose to go wrong . Think on your Charge , which under God , controls The Fate of many hundred thousand Souls . Act so for King and Country , that you may Be ever thought as Worthy as to Day . FINIS . London , Printed for Benjamin Harris in the Piazza under the Royal Exchange in Cornhill , 1679. H : 134454 PROTESTANTS CONGRATULATION To the CITY For their Excellent CHOICE of MEMBERS To Serve in PARLIAMENT , October 7 , 1679. VIZ . The Right Honourable Sir Robert Clayton , Lord Mayor Elect. William Love , Esq ; Sir Thomas Player , Chamberlain of London , And Thomas Pilkington , Merchant . Who all Served for that Honourable CITY in the last ever-memorable PARLIAMENT . HAil Worthy Citizens ! For what this Day You've done so Well , not only we Repay Deserved Thanks , but the Next Age shall Learn By your firm Steps their Duty to Discern . When Romes sly Factors with their usual Arts And private Lures thought to Divide your Hearts ; And Mints of Slander in Cabals had Coyn'd , Stale foolish Lies , Which Impudence Design'd You should take Currant ; and then Fright you so As to Contribute to your own Or'ethrow . You Fadom'd strait their Plot , and with one Voice Agreed upon a Found and well-try'd Choice . Heaven which er'e-while in Sympathizing Tears And Sable Weeds bewail'd our needless Fears On this Presaging Morn , more Bright appears : The Sky look'd Clear as were our Joys ; The Sun Himself being Proud to View what you had done . Be gone you private Panders for the Whore , With Forty One you Bubble us no more . We now know how your then concealed Springs Mov'd Faction ; and Murder'd the best of Kings . Those Arts you still Pursue , To play your Game Would fain Engage us in a second Flame . And your Confounded Popish Plot to hide , Would gladly cast it clear on t' other side . The Eagle once from her own Pinions found That Arrow Feather'd , which gave her a Wound : So England's Church was like to be Betray'd By false pretended Sons in Masquerade . But Thanks , brave City , which well Understands , To Judge 'twixt Jacob's Voice and Esau's Hands . You Scorn'd to Gratify their Factious Pride , Who only studied how they might Divide . Vain are Romes Plots , in vain does Haughty France To Universal Tyranny advance And think to Ridd the World of Protestants While CHARLES Survives , and Mighty Britain stands Defying all their Heads , and all their Hands . And London firm in Loyalty and Zeal Gives such Blessed Voices for the Public Weal . London ! That shall in aftertimes become Fatal ( beyond what Carthage wish'd ) to Room . Methinks I see and Universal Smile , And Beams of Joy spread through our Triple Isle : Methinks I see with what a Generous Scorn The Wheadling Make-bates hope's were overborne , While General Echo's through the Hall did found For Clayton , Player , Love , and Pilkington . The Thames with nimble Ebbs hastens to bear The News to Neptune's Court , who with due care Sends some bold English Tributary Wave , That with the Tidings Tybur shall Outbrave . Hush then , dull Libellers ! whose Croaking Noise Proclaims you Egypt's Vermin by your Voice : That Atheist Ruffian , with his Hue and Cry , Drunk , as he's wont , in his Old Goal may lie ; While Peter Dulman shakes his empty Skull , And Vomits Slanders a whole Green-Bag full . Forgive me , Worthies ! That I here should Name These viler Insects nibbling at your Fame . To do well , and Hear Ill is Virtues Fate ; You now are call'd to a Sublimer State , Push on their Envy , and disdain their Hate . In that Great Senate where you are to go , No Interest but your King's and Nations know . Act like yourselves , Act as yourselves have done , Fear not the Malice of a Saucy Tongue Set , like some Clocks , on purpose to go wrong . Think on your Charge , which under God , controls The Fate of many hundred thousand Souls . Act so for King and Country , that you may Be ever thought as Worthy as to Day . FINIS . London , Printed for Benjamin Harris in the Piazza under the Royal Exchange in Cornhill , 1679. 