H : 134806 A LOOKING-GLASS FOR The Lord Chancellor ; OR , A Brief Summary of some of his Notorious Crimes . WHat horrid guilt surpriz'd the Man , That in each cause still wone the day ; Who always us'd to led the Van , And knew no Justice to Obey . That he should leave the glorious Court , The Splendid Place of his Resort , Where he had all things at Command , To fly into another Land ? It was because a Monarch Great , A Mighty Prince , a Protestant , Was come to Rectify the State Of England , by a Parliament . Which Settlement he did abhor , Who was a Traitor to the Crown ; Advis'd the King the Laws to mar , To pull the Rights and Charters down . He always sided with the Times , Being guilty of Notorious Crimes ; Gave Counsel to himself and fled , For fear the Law should reach his Head. Tho Vengeance suffer'd not to fly , But fill'd his Conscience full of guilt , And loudly after him did Cry , For all the Blood that he had Spil Being Apprehended , back was brought , For all the Evil he had wrought ; Committed Pris'ner , on Tower-Hill , His Dream in order to fulfil : Which Dream Presag'd his fatal Woe , That first Advanc'd he should be high , Ev'n next unto the Crown but two , At last be Hang'd in shame to die . The two first hath already been , As Oats did at the Bar declare , When wrongfully he Sentenc'd him , Who bid him of the Third beware . The King may cry , Alas , Alas , By's Evil Counsel I'm undone , Which I too often did Embrace , A Fatal Shaking to my Throne : The Citizens may Curse the Day That ever Nature gave him Breath , And loudly Cry , Away , away With such a fellow from the Earth ; Who doomed was unto Disgrace , Before the Parliament , was brought Upon his knees , when in his place Great Misdemeanours he had wrough Who smother'd the whole Popish Plot , That Godfrey's Death might be forgo Who did Invade our Charters Right , And in our Ruin did deligh Who abhorred all Petitioning When we His Majesty did Entreat , Insinuating to the King To pull us down , we were too great . He also ( as says the Records ) When on the Bench gave his Consent , To Bail out all the Popish Lords , Although Impeach'd by Parliament . Who did against Lord Russel plead , And Sentenc'd him to Death severe ; A Valiant Protestant indeed , Against whom nothing was found clear . He Worthy Cornish doom'd to die , Though he'd committed no Offence , And like a Villain , Treacherously His Jury 'gainst him did incense . When Noble Essex in the Tower Was Murther'd by a Barbarous hand , He to the utmost of his Power Did its Discovery withstand . Nay more , this barb'rous Murder he ( Which never ought to be forgotten ) Proof 'gainst Lord Russel made to be , That he was guilty of a Plot . He Murther'd Innocents in th' West , And did the bood of Thousands spill , Caus'd those inhumane death's to taste , Who had been far from doing ill : This Bawling fellow made a sport Of Scoffing Men out of their own , And god a Name at last in Court , By Bawling Jefferies to be known . Innumerable were his Crimes , Half which this Paper can't relate , For all his Evils done at times , He must be Sacrific'd to th' State . The Man that Judg'd in every Cause , And yet did Justice unto none , Must stand Indicted by our Laws , And as a Pris'ner , Plead his own : A Fatal Fallen from Bench to Bar , The just demerit of his Crimes , Which will his Honour greatly mar , By Changing Laws , has Changed Times . He needs not Counsel for to Fee , His Judges all will do him Right , He Council for himself may be , And keep his Guineas out of sighed , Until the Hangman do appear To do him Justice on Tower-Hill , Where greatest Shouts will fill the Sphere , When Jefferies does his Dream fulfil . FINIS . London . Printed for [ ? ] H : 134806 A LOOKING-GLASS FOR The Lord Chancellor ; OR , A Brief Summary of some of his Notorious Crimes . WHat horrid guilt surpriz'd the Man , That in each cause still wone the day ; Who always us'd to led the Van , And knew no Justice to Obey . That he should leave the glorious Court , The Splendid Place of his Resort , Where he had all things at Command , To fly into another Land ? It was because a Monarch Great , A Mighty Prince , a Protestant , Was come to Rectify the State Of England , by a Parliament . Which Settlement he did abhor , Who was a Traitor to the Crown ; Advis'd the King the Laws to mar , To pull the Rights and Charters down . He always sided with the Times , Being guilty of Notorious Crimes ; Gave Counsel to himself and fled , For fear the Law should reach his Head. Tho Vengeance suffer'd not to fly , But fill'd his Conscience full of guilt , And loudly after him did Cry , For all the Blood that he had Spil Being Apprehended , back was brought , For all the Evil he had wrought ; Committed Pris'ner , on Tower-Hill , His Dream in order to fulfil : Which Dream Presag'd his fatal Woe , That first Advanc'd he should be high , Ev'n next unto the Crown but two , At last be Hang'd in shame to die . The two first hath already been , As Oats did at the Bar declare , When wrongfully he Sentenc'd him , Who bid him of the Third beware . The King may cry , Alas , Alas , By's Evil Counsel I'm undone , Which I too often did Embrace , A Fatal Shaking to my Throne : The Citizens may Curse the Day That ever Nature gave him Breath , And loudly Cry , Away , away With such a fellow from the Earth ; Who doomed was unto Disgrace , Before the Parliament , was brought Upon his knees , when in his place Great Misdemeanours he had wrough Who smother'd the whole Popish Plot , That Godfrey's Death might be forgo Who did Invade our Charters Right , And in our Ruin did deligh Who abhorred all Petitioning When we His Majesty did Entreat , Insinuating to the King To pull us down , we were too great . He also ( as says the Records ) When on the Bench gave his Consent , To Bail out all the Popish Lords , Although Impeach'd by Parliament . Who did against Lord Russel plead , And Sentenc'd him to Death severe ; A Valiant Protestant indeed , Against whom nothing was found clear . He Worthy Cornish doom'd to die , Though he'd committed no Offence , And like a Villain , Treacherously His Jury 'gainst him did incense . When Noble Essex in the Tower Was Murther'd by a Barbarous hand , He to the utmost of his Power Did its Discovery withstand . Nay more , this barb'rous Murder he ( Which never ought to be forgotten ) Proof 'gainst Lord Russel made to be , That he was guilty of a Plot . He Murther'd Innocents in th' West , And did the bood of Thousands spill , Caus'd those inhumane death's to taste , Who had been far from doing ill : This Bawling fellow made a sport Of Scoffing Men out of their own , And god a Name at last in Court , By Bawling Jefferies to be known . Innumerable were his Crimes , Half which this Paper can't relate , For all his Evils done at times , He must be Sacrific'd to th' State . The Man that Judg'd in every Cause , And yet did Justice unto none , Must stand Indicted by our Laws , And as a Pris'ner , Plead his own : A Fatal Fallen from Bench to Bar , The just demerit of his Crimes , Which will his Honour greatly mar , By Changing Laws , has Changed Times . He needs not Counsel for to Fee , His Judges all will do him Right , He Council for himself may be , And keep his Guineas out of sighed , Until the Hangman do appear To do him Justice on Tower-Hill , Where greatest Shouts will fill the Sphere , When Jefferies does his Dream fulfil . FINIS . London . Printed for [ ? ] 