H : 135122 AND ELEGY On the MODERN HEROE , REDMON o HANLAN , Surnamed The TORY . COme Gentle Muse , assist my pen To praise the worthiest of men , With whom , your ancient Heroes put In balance , weigh not shell of Nut. As for great Hanlan's reputation , We shall evince by demonstration . Of them , let Jason first be nam'd , For clean conveyance so much fam'd . For whose each lock of Golden wool , Bold Redmon has a thousand stole . Nor did their owners escape so cheap , He often took both Fleece , and Sheep . Nay Mercury himself , though made A God , for his great skill i'th trade ; Compar'd , would look like Picaroon To First-Rate Ship , or Star to Moon . Next Hercules , about whose Club Strange tales you tell , like those of Tub : Would the unequal combat shun , O're-match'd by his dead doing Gun. For if with Blunderbuss compar'd , Like all that met it , 'twoud have fear'd . The force of this Achilles hide Well tan'd as 'twas , wou'd ne'r abide . Shou'd lusty Blunder once assault him , In spite of Fate it would have maul'd him . Hector ; that of the Greeks made spoil , As you and Homer keep a coil ; Ne're bolder set upon his foes Than he , who told them to their nose , You must deliver up your Purse , Or by my Shoul you'l fare the worse . Which said , if enemy seem'd stout , Soon half a dozen balls flew out , And strait one Army fell to rout . Which if our party no worse far'd Than losing Prize , and being scar'd : For th' famous Warrior was complete In all that makes a General great , Knew when to fight , when to retreat . In which no Mountains , Rocks , or Woods , Cou'd stop his course , nor Bogs , nor Floods ; As oft he manifested , when Pursu'd by Floyd , and his six men . Showing a pair of heels so light , That some mistook it for plain flight . But they are much mista'ne , alas ! And chiefly in the Millers case : For though his men and he retir'd With speed , after the Mill was fir'd ; Yet none must think the Count wou'd run From one old Miller and his Son. Attribute then the haste was made Only to fear of Ambuscade . But death , although he ran so fast , Has god the heels of him at last . For which , the tears are numberless That have been shed , as you may guess . But to his friends one comfort's left , Although he be of life bereft , He shan't partake the common fate ; For neither Redmon's limbs nor pate Shall under sordid rubbish lie Forgotten , but shall be plac'd on high , Monuments of his Chivalry . Where , if his shining Beard , and Hair , Should like some new made Star appear , ( For Stars , in times past , Heroes were ) To all that dare his Rivals be , They will portend black destiny . H : 135122 AND ELEGY On the MODERN HEROE , REDMON o HANLAN , Surnamed The TORY . COme Gentle Muse , assist my pen To praise the worthiest of men , With whom , your ancient Heroes put In balance , weigh not shell of Nut. As for great Hanlan's reputation , We shall evince by demonstration . Of them , let Jason first be nam'd , For clean conveyance so much fam'd . For whose each lock of Golden wool , Bold Redmon has a thousand stole . Nor did their owners escape so cheap , He often took both Fleece , and Sheep . Nay Mercury himself , though made A God , for his great skill i'th trade ; Compar'd , would look like Picaroon To First-Rate Ship , or Star to Moon . Next Hercules , about whose Club Strange tales you tell , like those of Tub : Would the unequal combat shun , O're-match'd by his dead doing Gun. For if with Blunderbuss compar'd , Like all that met it , 'twoud have fear'd . The force of this Achilles hide Well tan'd as 'twas , wou'd ne'r abide . Shou'd lusty Blunder once assault him , In spite of Fate it would have maul'd him . Hector ; that of the Greeks made spoil , As you and Homer keep a coil ; Ne're bolder set upon his foes Than he , who told them to their nose , You must deliver up your Purse , Or by my Shoul you'l fare the worse . Which said , if enemy seem'd stout , Soon half a dozen balls flew out , And strait one Army fell to rout . Which if our party no worse far'd Than losing Prize , and being scar'd : For th' famous Warrior was complete In all that makes a General great , Knew when to fight , when to retreat . In which no Mountains , Rocks , or Woods , Cou'd stop his course , nor Bogs , nor Floods ; As oft he manifested , when Pursu'd by Floyd , and his six men . Showing a pair of heels so light , That some mistook it for plain flight . But they are much mista'ne , alas ! And chiefly in the Millers case : For though his men and he retir'd With speed , after the Mill was fir'd ; Yet none must think the Count wou'd run From one old Miller and his Son. Attribute then the haste was made Only to fear of Ambuscade . But death , although he ran so fast , Has god the heels of him at last . For which , the tears are numberless That have been shed , as you may guess . But to his friends one comfort's left , Although he be of life bereft , He shan't partake the common fate ; For neither Redmon's limbs nor pate Shall under sordid rubbish lie Forgotten , but shall be plac'd on high , Monuments of his Chivalry . Where , if his shining Beard , and Hair , Should like some new made Star appear , ( For Stars , in times past , Heroes were ) To all that dare his Rivals be , They will portend black destiny . 