H : 134810 To the Brazen-Head . WHat Strepitantious Noise is it that sounds From Raised Banks , or from the Lower Grounds ? From Hollow Caverns , Labyrinths from afar , Threatening Confusions of a Dreadful War ? What Dismal Cries of people in Despair Fill the vast Region of the Troubled Air ? The Tune of Horror , or of what's as strange , That strikes uneven like a World of Change , With such a Bold Surprise attacks my Sense , Beyond the Power of Counsel or Defence ? But tho' Blind Fortune rolls her turning Wheel With a perpetual Motion , who can feel This Surge of Fate , push't on with Fire and Steel ? You precious Moments of Serener Days ! When many Victories enlarg'd my Praise , And all things ran in a most easy Stream , Back unto me their Ocean and Supreme . Are you all vanish'd by the sudden Fright , And left m' incompass'd with a Dismal Night ? By my own Subject's in suspicion held , Murmurings , as bad as if they had Rebell'd ? You all Controlling Powers of things above ! Whose easier Dictates guide the World by Love ! Avert th' Impendent Misery's , and show Us Earthly Gods to Govern here below ! The Answer . 'TIS well you've thought upon the chiefest Cause : Change nothing of Religion nor the Laws , And then no Discontent shall here Invade , For Thieves would enter out of a Bravade , To rectify all wrongs , when their Intent 'S themselves t' enrich , and not the Government . Let the Great Monarch this good Motto wear , Not only in his Arms but every where . Integer Vitae , is my whole Defence , Scelerisque purus , a most strong Defence ; Non eget Mauri , that no Forces need , Jaculis nec Arcu , which Contentions breed : Nec venenatis gravida Sagittis Pharetra , to make Loyal his own Cities . FINIS . H : 134810 To the Brazen-Head . WHat Strepitantious Noise is it that sounds From Raised Banks , or from the Lower Grounds ? From Hollow Caverns , Labyrinths from afar , Threatening Confusions of a Dreadful War ? What Dismal Cries of people in Despair Fill the vast Region of the Troubled Air ? The Tune of Horror , or of what's as strange , That strikes uneven like a World of Change , With such a Bold Surprise attacks my Sense , Beyond the Power of Counsel or Defence ? But tho' Blind Fortune rolls her turning Wheel With a perpetual Motion , who can feel This Surge of Fate , push't on with Fire and Steel ? You precious Moments of Serener Days ! When many Victories enlarg'd my Praise , And all things ran in a most easy Stream , Back unto me their Ocean and Supreme . Are you all vanish'd by the sudden Fright , And left m' incompass'd with a Dismal Night ? By my own Subject's in suspicion held , Murmurings , as bad as if they had Rebell'd ? You all Controlling Powers of things above ! Whose easier Dictates guide the World by Love ! Avert th' Impendent Misery's , and show Us Earthly Gods to Govern here below ! The Answer . 'TIS well you've thought upon the chiefest Cause : Change nothing of Religion nor the Laws , And then no Discontent shall here Invade , For Thieves would enter out of a Bravade , To rectify all wrongs , when their Intent 'S themselves t' enrich , and not the Government . Let the Great Monarch this good Motto wear , Not only in his Arms but every where . Integer Vitae , is my whole Defence , Scelerisque purus , a most strong Defence ; Non eget Mauri , that no Forces need , Jaculis nec Arcu , which Contentions breed : Nec venenatis gravida Sagittis Pharetra , to make Loyal his own Cities . FINIS . 