H : 18304 The end and Confession of John Felton who suffered in Paules Churcheyeard in London , the viii of August , for high Treason . 1570. Eke man desires to have report , of news both strange and rare : And covits for to know those things , whereby they may be aware . For to avoid those doings great , that might on them befall : For by example are they taught to do , and what they shall Receive for their malicious minds , and wicked Treasons great : As now of late it hath been seen through Justice judgements seat . That holds the sword to do the right , and strike where blows should fallen : And punish for their wicked lives , eke one whom she does call . The poor , the rich , the learned , the wise the beggar and the snudge : The King sometime too hath it felt , aswell as hath the drudge . Wherefore be laws decreed and made but for to punish those , That will not by their Prince be rewld but seems to be their foes . As now is seen by Felton lo , that lately here did die , In Paules Churchyard he left his life , on Galows taule and high . Who from the prison where he lay , was drawn on Hardell there : For good example of all such , that they might take the fear . For to beware of such like fact , as well in word as deed : lest they for their like hire at last no better like to speed . Now mark his end and what I shall report here of his death : For why these ears of mine did here , and eyes while that his breath Remained in his wicked corpse , which stubbornly did die : As one me thought something bestraught through Treasons cruelty . His Gown of Grograin he put of , which on his back he had : And eke his Doublet which was made of Satin somewhat sad . Into his Shirt he then was stripped , and up the Ladder he Did mount , for to receive that death , that eke man there might see . These words he spoke , and said allowed my Masters all and some : One thing I have to say to you , now that I here am come . That is , I pray you all with me bear record what I say : I here protest before you all , this present dying day , That I was never Traitor sure , nor Treason to my Queen Did never do , nor never thought , that ever hath been seen . And for the fact wherefore I die , I can it not deny : But at the Gate where as the Bull was hanged , there was I , In company , on more with me , did hang it up together : And though in place , I had not been , it had not escaped ever . From hanging up , for suredly , for that same present day : It had been hanged , in that place , though I had been away . Then said the Shreve , unto him , O Felton do remember : That thou hast been , a Traitor great and to the Queen offender . And surely thou most Traitorously , and stubbornly hast thou sought , The best thou couldst to go about , thy Prince to bring to nought . And eke the Realm and all the rest , as much as in thee lay , Thou soughst by thy Traitorous heart , to bring unto decay . Therefore call unto God the Lord , and pray him from thy har That he receive thy soul to rest , when thou from hence shalt part . Well so I do , and here I crave , you all good people pray For me , that ready is to die , and then began to say , Into thy hands , O Lord my God , I yield my Soul and Breath : For thou hast me redeemed , I say , with thy most precious death . In manus tuas Domine , and so the rest he said , The Hangman then did throw him of , and so his breath was stayed . He hanged there upon the Tree , and in a little space : They cut him down incontinent , that Justice might take place . Where as he quartered should be , according to the Law : And to the Judgement that he had , to make those stand in awe . That be of his affinity : and surely there be some , That thinks that he deserved not death in all that he hath dONE . He then dismembered was straight way , when he had ended than His Belly ripped open wide , his Bowels all he got . And to the fire he straight them threw , which ready there was made : And there consumed all to dust , as is the fierce trade . His Head cut of , the Hangman then , did take it up in hand : And up aloft he did it show , to all that there did stand . And then his body in Fowre parts , was quartered in that place : More pity that his Traitorous Heart , could take no better grace . And thus he had just desert , as well he had deserved : I would the rest that not repents , were likewise also served . Beware you Papists all beware , be true unto your Queen : Let not your Traitorous hearts be bent as here tofore hath been . Stand not against the living God , spurn not against his Law : Kick not against the Prick I say , but have him still in awe . Be not ashamed to torn in time , set shamefastness aside : No shame it is to turn to God , though you have gone far wide , The farther you have gone astray , and wicked ways hath led , The ernester you should return , from that most wicked Bed , Wherein you lay a sleep long while , forgetting of his grace : Now call therefore unto the Lord , to set you in that place , Where you may have eternal rest , and live in heaven high : And rest in Abrahams bosom too , when that you needs must die . And for that grace that God may give , as I have said before : I humbly pray continually , both now and evermore . Our Prince , our Queen Elizabeth , a happy state to have : Let us all pray with one accord , her noble grace to save . And his to keep from all his foes , and shield eternally : From wicked wights that go about , to seek continually : His whole decay : the Lord defend , his noble royal har From yielding to those Foes of hers , that daily plays their part . For to bereeve her of her right , and of his stately Crown : All those ( I say ) that so does seek , God shortly throw them down . Thus here I end , and once again , the living God I pray : Our noble Queen Elizabeth , preserve both night and day . FINIS . quod F.G. Imprinted at London , in Fleetstreete , by William How : for William Pickering : and are to be sold at his shop at S. Magnus corner . H : 18304 The end and Confession of John Felton who suffered in Paules Churcheyeard in London , the viii of August , for high Treason . 1570. Eke man desires to have report , of news both strange and rare : And covits for to know those things , whereby they may be aware . For to avoid those doings great , that might on them befall : For by example are they taught to do , and what they shall Receive for their malicious minds , and wicked Treasons great : As now of late it hath been seen through Justice judgements seat . That holds the sword to do the right , and strike where blows should fallen : And punish for their wicked lives , eke one whom she does call . The poor , the rich , the learned , the wise the beggar and the snudge : The King sometime too hath it felt , aswell as hath the drudge . Wherefore be laws decreed and made but for to punish those , That will not by their Prince be rewld but seems to be their foes . As now is seen by Felton lo , that lately here did die , In Paules Churchyard he left his life , on Galows taule and high . Who from the prison where he lay , was drawn on Hardell there : For good example of all such , that they might take the fear . For to beware of such like fact , as well in word as deed : lest they for their like hire at last no better like to speed . Now mark his end and what I shall report here of his death : For why these ears of mine did here , and eyes while that his breath Remained in his wicked corpse , which stubbornly did die : As one me thought something bestraught through Treasons cruelty . His Gown of Grograin he put of , which on his back he had : And eke his Doublet which was made of Satin somewhat sad . Into his Shirt he then was stripped , and up the Ladder he Did mount , for to receive that death , that eke man there might see . These words he spoke , and said allowed my Masters all and some : One thing I have to say to you , now that I here am come . That is , I pray you all with me bear record what I say : I here protest before you all , this present dying day , That I was never Traitor sure , nor Treason to my Queen Did never do , nor never thought , that ever hath been seen . And for the fact wherefore I die , I can it not deny : But at the Gate where as the Bull was hanged , there was I , In company , on more with me , did hang it up together : And though in place , I had not been , it had not escaped ever . From hanging up , for suredly , for that same present day : It had been hanged , in that place , though I had been away . Then said the Shreve , unto him , O Felton do remember : That thou hast been , a Traitor great and to the Queen offender . And surely thou most Traitorously , and stubbornly hast thou sought , The best thou couldst to go about , thy Prince to bring to nought . And eke the Realm and all the rest , as much as in thee lay , Thou soughst by thy Traitorous heart , to bring unto decay . Therefore call unto God the Lord , and pray him from thy har That he receive thy soul to rest , when thou from hence shalt part . Well so I do , and here I crave , you all good people pray For me , that ready is to die , and then began to say , Into thy hands , O Lord my God , I yield my Soul and Breath : For thou hast me redeemed , I say , with thy most precious death . In manus tuas Domine , and so the rest he said , The Hangman then did throw him of , and so his breath was stayed . He hanged there upon the Tree , and in a little space : They cut him down incontinent , that Justice might take place . Where as he quartered should be , according to the Law : And to the Judgement that he had , to make those stand in awe . That be of his affinity : and surely there be some , That thinks that he deserved not death in all that he hath dONE . He then dismembered was straight way , when he had ended than His Belly ripped open wide , his Bowels all he got . And to the fire he straight them threw , which ready there was made : And there consumed all to dust , as is the fierce trade . His Head cut of , the Hangman then , did take it up in hand : And up aloft he did it show , to all that there did stand . And then his body in Fowre parts , was quartered in that place : More pity that his Traitorous Heart , could take no better grace . And thus he had just desert , as well he had deserved : I would the rest that not repents , were likewise also served . Beware you Papists all beware , be true unto your Queen : Let not your Traitorous hearts be bent as here tofore hath been . Stand not against the living God , spurn not against his Law : Kick not against the Prick I say , but have him still in awe . Be not ashamed to torn in time , set shamefastness aside : No shame it is to turn to God , though you have gone far wide , The farther you have gone astray , and wicked ways hath led , The ernester you should return , from that most wicked Bed , Wherein you lay a sleep long while , forgetting of his grace : Now call therefore unto the Lord , to set you in that place , Where you may have eternal rest , and live in heaven high : And rest in Abrahams bosom too , when that you needs must die . And for that grace that God may give , as I have said before : I humbly pray continually , both now and evermore . Our Prince , our Queen Elizabeth , a happy state to have : Let us all pray with one accord , her noble grace to save . And his to keep from all his foes , and shield eternally : From wicked wights that go about , to seek continually : His whole decay : the Lord defend , his noble royal har From yielding to those Foes of hers , that daily plays their part . For to bereeve her of her right , and of his stately Crown : All those ( I say ) that so does seek , God shortly throw them down . Thus here I end , and once again , the living God I pray : Our noble Queen Elizabeth , preserve both night and day . FINIS . quod F.G. Imprinted at London , in Fleetstreete , by William How : for William Pickering : and are to be sold at his shop at S. Magnus corner . 