H : 18302 And excellent Ditty made upon the great victory , which the French king obtained against the Duke de Main , and the Romish Rebels in his kingdom , upon Ashwednesday being the fourth day of March last passed . 1590. To the tune of the new Tantara . TRiumph good Christians and rejoice , This wondrous news to hear : Wherein the power of mighty Jove , So greatly does appear . God is the stay and strength of those That in him puts his trus And what he ever promised them , He keepeth firm and just . Let canons roar and Muskets shoot , Let Fife and Ensigns play : Let Trumpets shrill and dubbing drums , Found forth this joyful day . Who knows not how the Duke the Main , By title from the Gwize , Hath sought to rule as king in Fraunce . And cause [ ? ] All joined themselves in battle ray , Upon firm land in Fraunce , Intending to have slain the king , Yet had a worse chance . Let canons roar and Muskets shoot etc Whereby the enemy was that time , Full thirtie thousand strong : The king his power was but weak , To right his open wrong . He had not passed ten thousand men , In his defence to fight , Which was great ods as all men knows , To put all these to flight . Let canons roar [ and ] Muskets shoot etc In valiant sort he cheered his men , And lovingly he said : God is with us , our quarrels good , Be therefore not dismayed . My trust is still that as the Lord , Hath me before defended : So he will fight against my foes , That have my death pretended . Let canons roar and Muskets shoot etc My quarrel does pertain to God , In whom I put my trus And in the promise he hath made , I know he will be just . Be valiant now and fight like men , And God will be your guide : And I with you will spend my blood , And not once step aside . Let canons roar and Muskets shoot etc Together then the Armies went , Which made a wondrous shoe : On either side they fought full fierce , Each sought the others woe . The Canons roared and Muskets shot , And made a warlike noies : Their Trumpets found and dubbing drums , Encreaste the soldiers joys . Let canons roar and Muskets shoot etc The Fife made warlike melody , The ensigns were displayed : On either side they curredge cried , The king was not dismayed . But like a Soldier and a king , A standard he did take : And slew the man that bore the same , Which made his enemies quake . Let canons roar and Muskets shoot etc The Duke de Main for all his power , Was forste from field to fly : His heals were better then his hands , He fought so valiantly . His power was stricken with such fear , That they did fly in haste : Whereby the king did win the field , His enemies were disgraste . Let canons roar and Muskets shoot etc He and his power did follow them , Full five hours in the chase : From eight at morn till towards night , He fought in the enemies face . This victory he did obtain , Such was his good success , And many thousand enemies slain , Report sayeth sure no less . Let canons roar and Muskets shoot etc What tents and furniture for war , What treasure and jewels rich : Hereby the king and soldiers god , You may suppose was miche . And prisoners taken of account , As you shall shortly here , Who for their treason to their king , I think will pay full deer . Let canons roar and Muskets shoot etc See here the handiwork of God , Who harmless savde the king . And sent him treasure in great store , And every warlike thing . H : 18302 And excellent Ditty made upon the great victory , which the French king obtained against the Duke de Main , and the Romish Rebels in his kingdom , upon Ashwednesday being the fourth day of March last passed . 1590. To the tune of the new Tantara . TRiumph good Christians and rejoice , This wondrous news to hear : Wherein the power of mighty Jove , So greatly does appear . God is the stay and strength of those That in him puts his trus And what he ever promised them , He keepeth firm and just . Let canons roar and Muskets shoot , Let Fife and Ensigns play : Let Trumpets shrill and dubbing drums , Found forth this joyful day . Who knows not how the Duke the Main , By title from the Gwize , Hath sought to rule as king in Fraunce . And cause [ ? ] All joined themselves in battle ray , Upon firm land in Fraunce , Intending to have slain the king , Yet had a worse chance . Let canons roar and Muskets shoot etc Whereby the enemy was that time , Full thirtie thousand strong : The king his power was but weak , To right his open wrong . He had not passed ten thousand men , In his defence to fight , Which was great ods as all men knows , To put all these to flight . Let canons roar [ and ] Muskets shoot etc In valiant sort he cheered his men , And lovingly he said : God is with us , our quarrels good , Be therefore not dismayed . My trust is still that as the Lord , Hath me before defended : So he will fight against my foes , That have my death pretended . Let canons roar and Muskets shoot etc My quarrel does pertain to God , In whom I put my trus And in the promise he hath made , I know he will be just . Be valiant now and fight like men , And God will be your guide : And I with you will spend my blood , And not once step aside . Let canons roar and Muskets shoot etc Together then the Armies went , Which made a wondrous shoe : On either side they fought full fierce , Each sought the others woe . The Canons roared and Muskets shot , And made a warlike noies : Their Trumpets found and dubbing drums , Encreaste the soldiers joys . Let canons roar and Muskets shoot etc The Fife made warlike melody , The ensigns were displayed : On either side they curredge cried , The king was not dismayed . But like a Soldier and a king , A standard he did take : And slew the man that bore the same , Which made his enemies quake . Let canons roar and Muskets shoot etc The Duke de Main for all his power , Was forste from field to fly : His heals were better then his hands , He fought so valiantly . His power was stricken with such fear , That they did fly in haste : Whereby the king did win the field , His enemies were disgraste . Let canons roar and Muskets shoot etc He and his power did follow them , Full five hours in the chase : From eight at morn till towards night , He fought in the enemies face . This victory he did obtain , Such was his good success , And many thousand enemies slain , Report sayeth sure no less . Let canons roar and Muskets shoot etc What tents and furniture for war , What treasure and jewels rich : Hereby the king and soldiers god , You may suppose was miche . And prisoners taken of account , As you shall shortly here , Who for their treason to their king , I think will pay full deer . Let canons roar and Muskets shoot etc See here the handiwork of God , Who harmless savde the king . And sent him treasure in great store , And every warlike thing . 