H : 135130 The CONDEMNATION OF WHIG and TORY . I am neither Whig nor Tory , But a Subject truly Loyal , As you'll see by what's before ye ; Who still does pray for the Royal C.R. SIrs , What's the matter ? 's all the World grown mad ? Or is't our Isle alone , that with this sad Distemper is possess'd ? Surely we , Our Stately Bedlam built by Prophesy : To two Extremes we all do madly run ; And Moderation ( which should heal us ) shun . Better it were , both th' Tories and the Whiggs , Had spent their time in whipping Tops and Giggs , Than thus disturb our Peace , make such a stir , For and against a Popish Successor ; When God knows whither it be so or no ; Or if it be , can change him from a Foe To our Religion , make him a Faithful Friend , And Zealous Protestant before his End ; Or if we have not Faith enough to hope For his Redemption from the French and Pope . Yet God can us preserve from all our Fears , By adding many more to Charles his Years ; Who ( Thanks to Heaven ) yet does fill the Throne , And may do ( till Rome's Downfall ) if my own , And other Prayers be herd , who daily cry For Heavens Blessings on His Majesty ; For's long and happy Reign , and 'twould become Others to doe so , rather than beatrice the Drum , And noise abroad their Fears , distract the Rout , And kindle Flames they know not to put out ; Provoke His Majesty , and all because They cannot have their Will o'th King and Laws ; And therefore rob him of his People's Hearts , ( It's Felony , I'll prov't whoever starts ) His Right to them's undoubted , they're his Store , His Strength , his Wealth , who steals them , makes him poor . Does wrong him more than he that takes your Purse Wrongs you , or he that fairly steals your Horse . But there are others whom I must not spare , Who contribute ( at least ) as large a Share To our Distractions , and while they pretend To greater Loyalty than others , bend Their Wits , their Actions , Pens , their Tongues and Lips , The Splendour of our Sovereign to eclipse , By crying up the Highborn Prince , his Brother , As if the World , nor we had such another , When ( Thanks to Heaven ) we have the Elder Brother . Him they extol , of him all places ring , They'l scarce allow's to cry God save the King . Drink but the King's Health , before 'tis half gone round , Th' other must follow , and must all confound That take it not , or they must drink , or die , Or fly the place , or fight the Company . Such their Devotion is to th' Rising Sun , They cannot stay until our day be done . But hold , bold Wights , too forwardly you run , Our Sun shines bright , and's little passed its Noon ; We hope to bask still in his warmer Beams , And when towards Evening he casts larger Streams , To rest our selves under the quiet Shade , His happy Government for us has made . I hate to see him jostled from his Throne , Or in it either , be't by more or one , That seek to eclipse his Glory , drown his Name , With the loud Noises of the growing Fame Of James the Second , a Prince whom I admire ; But still Great Charles his Name must found the higher . It grieves and vexes too , sometime to a Rage , To hear him treated , as going off the Stage , As if his Work were o're , his Raze were run , And only gaz'd at , as the Setting Sun. And though he's sprightly , strong , found , brisk and brave , Yet they'll needs have it , he's one Foot i'th Grave . All to call off the People's Hearts and Eyes , From him to th' Sun they look should next arise . But Heaven will disappoint their Hope's , I trust , By blessing Charles with a Long Reign and Just , Removing Jealousies and causeless Fears , Both from his Commons and his Loyal Peers , Creating mutual Confidence in both , The want of which has caus'd ( I'm very loath To say ) how many Mischiefs , and how great I'd rather try to find out a Receipt , To cure our Ills , they're only to repeat . The while the World stands we can ne'er expect , From a prevailing Party , Faction , Sect ; But from and Union of True Protestants , ( And O , 'tis that our Kingdom Chiefly wants ) And a right Understanding 'twixt our King , And all his Faithful Subject's , who do bring Hearts full of Loyalty , and Zeal to serve Him , and their Country , and both to preserve . And when he calls , may he a Parliament As ready find , to own confess , repent Th' unkindness , rashness of some Votes that passed The lower House : As forward yet at last To treat their Royal Sovereign with all true Reverence and Obedience which is due To Sacred Majesty ; t' accept , embrace His Royal Offers ( made with so much Grace ) To join with them in whatsoever shall Be thought effectual to secure us all , Against , alas , our too just Fears of Rome , Both at the present , and for time to come . ( One thing excepted only ) and let't still Excepted be for me , while those that will Approve themselves good Patriots , do betake Themselves to find Expedients , or to make Such into Acts , as by his Majesty , In a late Speech was laid before their Eye , As means effectual thought , for to restrain Papists and Popery breaking in again . But let not be forgotten then due Supplies , T' enable him to succour his Allies . ( Who must a Prey be to th' devouring Bans Of the proud French , 'less rescu'd by his Hands ; ) And to restore the Grandeur of his Court , Enable him to relieve those resort To him for Shelter , who do hither fly , To shun the Cruelties of Popery . To maintain his Right , and Honour of the Seas , Curb the Insulting Pirates that disease And plague our Merchant's ev'n as they please . Nay , let him know when you've been very kind , The rest , in's Peoples Purses that's behind , 'S ready at's Call , to defend him and's Isles , From French , Turk , Pope , Papists , and all their Wiles , That Popery ne'er enter here again , And let the People cry Amen , Amen . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for R.W. in the Year , 1681. H : 135130 The CONDEMNATION OF WHIG and TORY . I am neither Whig nor Tory , But a Subject truly Loyal , As you'll see by what's before ye ; Who still does pray for the Royal C.R. SIrs , What's the matter ? 's all the World grown mad ? Or is't our Isle alone , that with this sad Distemper is possess'd ? Surely we , Our Stately Bedlam built by Prophesy : To two Extremes we all do madly run ; And Moderation ( which should heal us ) shun . Better it were , both th' Tories and the Whiggs , Had spent their time in whipping Tops and Giggs , Than thus disturb our Peace , make such a stir , For and against a Popish Successor ; When God knows whither it be so or no ; Or if it be , can change him from a Foe To our Religion , make him a Faithful Friend , And Zealous Protestant before his End ; Or if we have not Faith enough to hope For his Redemption from the French and Pope . Yet God can us preserve from all our Fears , By adding many more to Charles his Years ; Who ( Thanks to Heaven ) yet does fill the Throne , And may do ( till Rome's Downfall ) if my own , And other Prayers be herd , who daily cry For Heavens Blessings on His Majesty ; For's long and happy Reign , and 'twould become Others to doe so , rather than beatrice the Drum , And noise abroad their Fears , distract the Rout , And kindle Flames they know not to put out ; Provoke His Majesty , and all because They cannot have their Will o'th King and Laws ; And therefore rob him of his People's Hearts , ( It's Felony , I'll prov't whoever starts ) His Right to them's undoubted , they're his Store , His Strength , his Wealth , who steals them , makes him poor . Does wrong him more than he that takes your Purse Wrongs you , or he that fairly steals your Horse . But there are others whom I must not spare , Who contribute ( at least ) as large a Share To our Distractions , and while they pretend To greater Loyalty than others , bend Their Wits , their Actions , Pens , their Tongues and Lips , The Splendour of our Sovereign to eclipse , By crying up the Highborn Prince , his Brother , As if the World , nor we had such another , When ( Thanks to Heaven ) we have the Elder Brother . Him they extol , of him all places ring , They'l scarce allow's to cry God save the King . Drink but the King's Health , before 'tis half gone round , Th' other must follow , and must all confound That take it not , or they must drink , or die , Or fly the place , or fight the Company . Such their Devotion is to th' Rising Sun , They cannot stay until our day be done . But hold , bold Wights , too forwardly you run , Our Sun shines bright , and's little passed its Noon ; We hope to bask still in his warmer Beams , And when towards Evening he casts larger Streams , To rest our selves under the quiet Shade , His happy Government for us has made . I hate to see him jostled from his Throne , Or in it either , be't by more or one , That seek to eclipse his Glory , drown his Name , With the loud Noises of the growing Fame Of James the Second , a Prince whom I admire ; But still Great Charles his Name must found the higher . It grieves and vexes too , sometime to a Rage , To hear him treated , as going off the Stage , As if his Work were o're , his Raze were run , And only gaz'd at , as the Setting Sun. And though he's sprightly , strong , found , brisk and brave , Yet they'll needs have it , he's one Foot i'th Grave . All to call off the People's Hearts and Eyes , From him to th' Sun they look should next arise . But Heaven will disappoint their Hope's , I trust , By blessing Charles with a Long Reign and Just , Removing Jealousies and causeless Fears , Both from his Commons and his Loyal Peers , Creating mutual Confidence in both , The want of which has caus'd ( I'm very loath To say ) how many Mischiefs , and how great I'd rather try to find out a Receipt , To cure our Ills , they're only to repeat . The while the World stands we can ne'er expect , From a prevailing Party , Faction , Sect ; But from and Union of True Protestants , ( And O , 'tis that our Kingdom Chiefly wants ) And a right Understanding 'twixt our King , And all his Faithful Subject's , who do bring Hearts full of Loyalty , and Zeal to serve Him , and their Country , and both to preserve . And when he calls , may he a Parliament As ready find , to own confess , repent Th' unkindness , rashness of some Votes that passed The lower House : As forward yet at last To treat their Royal Sovereign with all true Reverence and Obedience which is due To Sacred Majesty ; t' accept , embrace His Royal Offers ( made with so much Grace ) To join with them in whatsoever shall Be thought effectual to secure us all , Against , alas , our too just Fears of Rome , Both at the present , and for time to come . ( One thing excepted only ) and let't still Excepted be for me , while those that will Approve themselves good Patriots , do betake Themselves to find Expedients , or to make Such into Acts , as by his Majesty , In a late Speech was laid before their Eye , As means effectual thought , for to restrain Papists and Popery breaking in again . But let not be forgotten then due Supplies , T' enable him to succour his Allies . ( Who must a Prey be to th' devouring Bans Of the proud French , 'less rescu'd by his Hands ; ) And to restore the Grandeur of his Court , Enable him to relieve those resort To him for Shelter , who do hither fly , To shun the Cruelties of Popery . To maintain his Right , and Honour of the Seas , Curb the Insulting Pirates that disease And plague our Merchant's ev'n as they please . Nay , let him know when you've been very kind , The rest , in's Peoples Purses that's behind , 'S ready at's Call , to defend him and's Isles , From French , Turk , Pope , Papists , and all their Wiles , That Popery ne'er enter here again , And let the People cry Amen , Amen . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for R.W. in the Year , 1681. 