H : 18305 A description of Nortons falcehod of Yorke shire , and of his fatal farewell . The fatal fine of Traitors lo : By Justice due , deserving so . OF late ( alas ) the great untruth Of Traitors , how it sped Who list to know , shall here [ ? ] have How late allegiance fled . If Rivers rage against the Sea. And swell with soddeine rain : How glad are they to fallen again , And trace their wonted train ? If fire by force would forge the fallen Of any sumptuous place , If water floods bid him leave of , His flames he will disgrace . If God command the winds to cease , His blasts are laid full low : If God command the seas to calm , They will not rage or flow . All things at Gods commandment be , If he their state regard : And no man lives whose destiny By him is unprepared . But when a man forsakes the ship , And rolls in wallowing waves : And of his voluntary will , His own good hap depraves : How shall he hope to escape the gulf ? How shall he think to deal ? How shall his fancy bring him found To Safeties shore with sail ? How shall his fraught in fine succeed ? Alas what shall he gain ? What fear by storms do make him quake How oft subject to pain ? How sundry times in Dangers den Is thrown the man unwise ? Who climes withouten hold on high , Beware , I him advise . All such as trust to false contracts , Or secret harms conspire ? Be sure , with Nortons they shall taste A right deserved hire . They can not look for better speed , No death for such too fell ? God grant the justice of the world Put by the pains of hell . For such a pensive case it is , That English hearts did dare To pass the bounds of duties law , Or of their country care . And mercy hath so long released Offenders ( God does know ) And bounty of our courteous Queen Too long hath spared her foe . But God , whose grace inspires her heart , Will not abide the spite Of Rebels rage , who ramp to reach From her , her title quite . Although she flow in pitiful zeal , And loves to suck no blood : Yet God a caveat will her lend T'appease those Vipers mood . A man that sees his house on fire , Will seek to quench the flame : Else from the spoil some part convey , Else seek the heat to tame . Who seee a penthouse weather beat , And hears a boistrouse wind : But heedful safety of himself , Will force him succour find ? The pitiful patient Pelican , Her blood although she shed : Yet will she seem her date to end , Or care her young be sped . The Eagle flings her young ones down That sighed of sun refuse : Unperfect fowls she deadly hates , And rightly such misuse . The Crane would fly up to the Sun , I herd it once of old : And with the king of birds did strive By Fame , I herd it told And do woe she would not fall f [ ? ] e no , But higher still did moun [ tO ] : Till passed her reach ( says old report ) Shame made a back recoun [ ? ] I touch no Arms herein at all [ ? ] But show a fable wise : Whose moral sense does repr [ ? ] Of clymers high the guise . Who builds a house of many [ ? ] , and laith not ground work [ ? ] But does extort the ground b [ ? ] g , His building can not dure [ ? ] Who seels surmising to disp [ ? ] a Ruler sent by GOD : Is subject sure , devoid of grace [ ? ] The cause of his own rod . A bird that will her nest defile By right should lose a wing : And then is she not flying fowl , But slow as other thing . And he that loses all at games , Or spends in fowl excess : And hope's by haps to heal his harm , Must drink of deer distress . To speak of bridles to restrain This wilful wayward crew : They care not for the book of God , To Princes , men untrue . To country , causers of much woe , To faithful friends , a fallen : And to their own estates , a sting , To others , sharp as gall . O Lord , how long these Lizerds lurked , Good GOD , how great a while Were they in hand with feigned hearts Their country to defile ? How did they frame their furniture ? How fit they made their tools : How Symon sought our english Troie To bring to Roman scooles . How Simon Magus played his part , How Babilon bawd did rage : How Basan bulls begun to bell , How Judas sought his wage . How Jannes and Jambres did abide The brunt of brainsick acts , How Dathan , Chore , Abiram seemed To dash our Moyses facts . How Roman merchant set a fresh His pardons brave a sale , How always some against the Truth Would dream a senseless tale . Gods vicar from his god received The keys to loose and bind : Baals chaplein thought h [ ? ] fire would [ ? ] e Such was his pagan mind . Good Lord how hits the text their [ ? ] ts That says such men shall be In their religion hight nor cold Of much variety . And sundry sorts of sects surt [ ? ] Division shall appear : Against the father , son sha [ ? ] yve , Gainst mother , daughter [ ? ] re . Is it not come to pass trow y [ ? ] ? Yea , bastards sure they be , Who our good mother Queen of [ ? ] Withstand rebelliously . Can God his vengeance long retain [ ? ] Where his true servants feel Injuriouse spites of godless men , Who turn as does a wheel ? No no , his suffering long ( be sure ) Will pay his foes at las His mercy moved once away , He shall them quite out cast With sentence just for their untruth , And breaking of his will : The fruits of their seditious seeds , The barns of earth shall fill . Their souls God wot soar clogged with crime And their posterity Bespotted soar with their abuse , And stand by their folly . Their livings left their name a shame , Their deeds with poison sped : Their deaths a wage for want of grace Their honours quite is dead . Their flesh to feed the kites and crows Their arms a maze for men : Their guerdon as examples are To dash dolte Dunces den . Throw up your snouts you sluggish sort You mumming masking rout : Extol your exclamations up , Baals chaplains , champions stout . Make suit for pardons , papists brave , For traitors indulgence : Send out some purgatory scraps , Some Bulls with Peter pence . O swarm of Drones , how dare you still With labouring Bees contend ? You sought for honey from the hives , But gall you found in end . These wasps do wast , their stings be out Their spite will not avail : These Peacocks proud are naked left Of their displayed tail . These Turkye cocks in colour read , So long have lurked aloof : The Bear ( although but slow of foot ) Hath plucked his wings by proof . The Moon her borrowed light hath lost , She wained as we see : Who hoped by hap of others harms , A full Moon once to be . The Lion suffered long the Bull , His noble mind to try : Until the Bull was raging wood , And from his stake did high . Then time it was to bid him stay Perforce , his horns to cu And make him leave his raging tunes In silence to be put . And all the calves of Basan kind Are weaned from their wish : The Hircan Tigers tamed now , Lemathon eats no fish . Behold before your baleful eyes The purchase of your part , Survey your sudden sorrowful sighed With sighs of double heart . Lament the lack of your allies Religious rebels all : Bewepe that ill success of yours , Come curse your sudden fallen . And when you have your guiles out sought And all your craft approved , Peccavimus shall be your song Your ground work is removed . And look how Nortons sped their wills Even so their sect shall have , No better let them hope to gain But gallows without grave . FINIS . quod William Gibson . Imprinted at London by Alexander Lacie , for Henrie Kyrkeham , dwelling at the sign of the black Boy , at the middle North door of Paules church . H : 18305 A description of Nortons falcehod of Yorke shire , and of his fatal farewell . The fatal fine of Traitors lo : By Justice due , deserving so . OF late ( alas ) the great untruth Of Traitors , how it sped Who list to know , shall here [ ? ] have How late allegiance fled . If Rivers rage against the Sea. And swell with soddeine rain : How glad are they to fallen again , And trace their wonted train ? If fire by force would forge the fallen Of any sumptuous place , If water floods bid him leave of , His flames he will disgrace . If God command the winds to cease , His blasts are laid full low : If God command the seas to calm , They will not rage or flow . All things at Gods commandment be , If he their state regard : And no man lives whose destiny By him is unprepared . But when a man forsakes the ship , And rolls in wallowing waves : And of his voluntary will , His own good hap depraves : How shall he hope to escape the gulf ? How shall he think to deal ? How shall his fancy bring him found To Safeties shore with sail ? How shall his fraught in fine succeed ? Alas what shall he gain ? What fear by storms do make him quake How oft subject to pain ? How sundry times in Dangers den Is thrown the man unwise ? Who climes withouten hold on high , Beware , I him advise . All such as trust to false contracts , Or secret harms conspire ? Be sure , with Nortons they shall taste A right deserved hire . They can not look for better speed , No death for such too fell ? God grant the justice of the world Put by the pains of hell . For such a pensive case it is , That English hearts did dare To pass the bounds of duties law , Or of their country care . And mercy hath so long released Offenders ( God does know ) And bounty of our courteous Queen Too long hath spared her foe . But God , whose grace inspires her heart , Will not abide the spite Of Rebels rage , who ramp to reach From her , her title quite . Although she flow in pitiful zeal , And loves to suck no blood : Yet God a caveat will her lend T'appease those Vipers mood . A man that sees his house on fire , Will seek to quench the flame : Else from the spoil some part convey , Else seek the heat to tame . Who seee a penthouse weather beat , And hears a boistrouse wind : But heedful safety of himself , Will force him succour find ? The pitiful patient Pelican , Her blood although she shed : Yet will she seem her date to end , Or care her young be sped . The Eagle flings her young ones down That sighed of sun refuse : Unperfect fowls she deadly hates , And rightly such misuse . The Crane would fly up to the Sun , I herd it once of old : And with the king of birds did strive By Fame , I herd it told And do woe she would not fall f [ ? ] e no , But higher still did moun [ tO ] : Till passed her reach ( says old report ) Shame made a back recoun [ ? ] I touch no Arms herein at all [ ? ] But show a fable wise : Whose moral sense does repr [ ? ] Of clymers high the guise . Who builds a house of many [ ? ] , and laith not ground work [ ? ] But does extort the ground b [ ? ] g , His building can not dure [ ? ] Who seels surmising to disp [ ? ] a Ruler sent by GOD : Is subject sure , devoid of grace [ ? ] The cause of his own rod . A bird that will her nest defile By right should lose a wing : And then is she not flying fowl , But slow as other thing . And he that loses all at games , Or spends in fowl excess : And hope's by haps to heal his harm , Must drink of deer distress . To speak of bridles to restrain This wilful wayward crew : They care not for the book of God , To Princes , men untrue . To country , causers of much woe , To faithful friends , a fallen : And to their own estates , a sting , To others , sharp as gall . O Lord , how long these Lizerds lurked , Good GOD , how great a while Were they in hand with feigned hearts Their country to defile ? How did they frame their furniture ? How fit they made their tools : How Symon sought our english Troie To bring to Roman scooles . How Simon Magus played his part , How Babilon bawd did rage : How Basan bulls begun to bell , How Judas sought his wage . How Jannes and Jambres did abide The brunt of brainsick acts , How Dathan , Chore , Abiram seemed To dash our Moyses facts . How Roman merchant set a fresh His pardons brave a sale , How always some against the Truth Would dream a senseless tale . Gods vicar from his god received The keys to loose and bind : Baals chaplein thought h [ ? ] fire would [ ? ] e Such was his pagan mind . Good Lord how hits the text their [ ? ] ts That says such men shall be In their religion hight nor cold Of much variety . And sundry sorts of sects surt [ ? ] Division shall appear : Against the father , son sha [ ? ] yve , Gainst mother , daughter [ ? ] re . Is it not come to pass trow y [ ? ] ? Yea , bastards sure they be , Who our good mother Queen of [ ? ] Withstand rebelliously . Can God his vengeance long retain [ ? ] Where his true servants feel Injuriouse spites of godless men , Who turn as does a wheel ? No no , his suffering long ( be sure ) Will pay his foes at las His mercy moved once away , He shall them quite out cast With sentence just for their untruth , And breaking of his will : The fruits of their seditious seeds , The barns of earth shall fill . Their souls God wot soar clogged with crime And their posterity Bespotted soar with their abuse , And stand by their folly . Their livings left their name a shame , Their deeds with poison sped : Their deaths a wage for want of grace Their honours quite is dead . Their flesh to feed the kites and crows Their arms a maze for men : Their guerdon as examples are To dash dolte Dunces den . Throw up your snouts you sluggish sort You mumming masking rout : Extol your exclamations up , Baals chaplains , champions stout . Make suit for pardons , papists brave , For traitors indulgence : Send out some purgatory scraps , Some Bulls with Peter pence . O swarm of Drones , how dare you still With labouring Bees contend ? You sought for honey from the hives , But gall you found in end . These wasps do wast , their stings be out Their spite will not avail : These Peacocks proud are naked left Of their displayed tail . These Turkye cocks in colour read , So long have lurked aloof : The Bear ( although but slow of foot ) Hath plucked his wings by proof . The Moon her borrowed light hath lost , She wained as we see : Who hoped by hap of others harms , A full Moon once to be . The Lion suffered long the Bull , His noble mind to try : Until the Bull was raging wood , And from his stake did high . Then time it was to bid him stay Perforce , his horns to cu And make him leave his raging tunes In silence to be put . And all the calves of Basan kind Are weaned from their wish : The Hircan Tigers tamed now , Lemathon eats no fish . Behold before your baleful eyes The purchase of your part , Survey your sudden sorrowful sighed With sighs of double heart . Lament the lack of your allies Religious rebels all : Bewepe that ill success of yours , Come curse your sudden fallen . And when you have your guiles out sought And all your craft approved , Peccavimus shall be your song Your ground work is removed . And look how Nortons sped their wills Even so their sect shall have , No better let them hope to gain But gallows without grave . FINIS . quod William Gibson . Imprinted at London by Alexander Lacie , for Henrie Kyrkeham , dwelling at the sign of the black Boy , at the middle North door of Paules church . 