H : 135789 THE PRESENT STATE OF ENGLAND : A Pleasant New True Ballad , To the Tune of , The Taylor and his Lass : Or , It was in the Prime , Of Coucumber Time . JAck Presbyter's up , And hope's at one Swoop , To swallow King , Bishop , and Alla : The Miter and Crown , Must both tumble down , Or the Kingdom he tells you will Fall-a . Sure 'tis a hard Fate , That to prop up the State , We must pull down the State-Religion : But the Saints have a new one , More holy and true one , Composed of Fox and Wigeon . And Engine they've god , Call'd a Damn'd Popish Plot , Shall bring in a Through-Reformation : Which though't be half Fable , It mads the poor Rabble , And puts out of Wits half the Nation . Thus their Work's quickly done , For each Mother's Son That to Church , or to King is Loyal , Shall straight be Indicted , Or else be soar Frighted , To be brought to their Fiery Trial . 'Tis no more but pretend , He's to Popery a Friend ; The Brothers cry loud , he's a Traitor ; And their sure Evidences , Bring against him Pretences : And all of a Treasonable Nature . Th' Impeachers are such , So Honourable and Rich , That no Bribe can to Falsehood invite 'em : Though they Contradict themselves , And every Body else , A good Lusty Vote can Right 'em . No Matter for Blood , Their Oaths shall Stand Good , In Despite of all Circumstances : The City-Cabals , Say they cannot swear False ; And each Pamphlet their Honour enhances . Who dares to deny , But One single Lie , Of the Many they swear on their Credi He's brought on his Knees , Is Rebuk't , and pays Fees ; And must cry Peccavi he did it . If any's so bold , Their Tricks to unfold , Or offers to prove them Liars ; Straight up steps another , And swears for Rogue-Brother , And flings the poor Wretch in the Briars . Thus Villains , 'bout Ten , The worst Scum of Men , While the Godly Party Maintain 'em , All England do Govern , And each such a Sovereign , The King must not speak again 'em Old Noll , and Dad Neck , Have taught them the Trick To make Plots , and then to Reveal 'em : Thus runs round the Jig , Of Politic Whigg , Sure Pardon if they do not Conceal 'em . Then Inspir'd they bring in , For sad Men of since , Any one that is Honest and Loyal : But if Pardon's deny'd , All flock on Fitz-Side , To Hector the Mercy Royal. Thus most Men for Fears , Dare not for their Ears , But Whigg and his Rout to second ; Which if they Refuse , They're far worse than Jews , And Papists or Traitors are reckon'd . And every poor Ape , Who for Changes does gape , And to be Preferr'd by the Party : To help Good-Old-Cause , Wide stretches his Jaws , With loud Lies to show himself Hearty . And those Worthies Three , Care , Curtis , Langley , Do Publish them , fast as they make 'em : The being in Print , Signifies something in't ; And the Rabble for Gospel mistake 'em . Meanwhile --- Pendent Laughs , And at --- Byter scoffs , And at's Hotheaded Zeal does flout-a ; The Coxcomb to see , Thus shaking the Tree , While he's ready to gather the Fruit-a . Let Papists be Hang'd , And Presbyters WORSER ------ , And may goggl'd-Ey'd Traitors perish : But let True Hearts sing , Long Live Charles our Kin [ g ] The Church , and the State to Cherish . FINIS . First Printed at Edinburgh ; And Reprinted at London , in the Year , 1681. H : 135789 THE PRESENT STATE OF ENGLAND : A Pleasant New True Ballad , To the Tune of , The Taylor and his Lass : Or , It was in the Prime , Of Coucumber Time . JAck Presbyter's up , And hope's at one Swoop , To swallow King , Bishop , and Alla : The Miter and Crown , Must both tumble down , Or the Kingdom he tells you will Fall-a . Sure 'tis a hard Fate , That to prop up the State , We must pull down the State-Religion : But the Saints have a new one , More holy and true one , Composed of Fox and Wigeon . And Engine they've god , Call'd a Damn'd Popish Plot , Shall bring in a Through-Reformation : Which though't be half Fable , It mads the poor Rabble , And puts out of Wits half the Nation . Thus their Work's quickly done , For each Mother's Son That to Church , or to King is Loyal , Shall straight be Indicted , Or else be soar Frighted , To be brought to their Fiery Trial . 'Tis no more but pretend , He's to Popery a Friend ; The Brothers cry loud , he's a Traitor ; And their sure Evidences , Bring against him Pretences : And all of a Treasonable Nature . Th' Impeachers are such , So Honourable and Rich , That no Bribe can to Falsehood invite 'em : Though they Contradict themselves , And every Body else , A good Lusty Vote can Right 'em . No Matter for Blood , Their Oaths shall Stand Good , In Despite of all Circumstances : The City-Cabals , Say they cannot swear False ; And each Pamphlet their Honour enhances . Who dares to deny , But One single Lie , Of the Many they swear on their Credi He's brought on his Knees , Is Rebuk't , and pays Fees ; And must cry Peccavi he did it . If any's so bold , Their Tricks to unfold , Or offers to prove them Liars ; Straight up steps another , And swears for Rogue-Brother , And flings the poor Wretch in the Briars . Thus Villains , 'bout Ten , The worst Scum of Men , While the Godly Party Maintain 'em , All England do Govern , And each such a Sovereign , The King must not speak again 'em Old Noll , and Dad Neck , Have taught them the Trick To make Plots , and then to Reveal 'em : Thus runs round the Jig , Of Politic Whigg , Sure Pardon if they do not Conceal 'em . Then Inspir'd they bring in , For sad Men of since , Any one that is Honest and Loyal : But if Pardon's deny'd , All flock on Fitz-Side , To Hector the Mercy Royal. Thus most Men for Fears , Dare not for their Ears , But Whigg and his Rout to second ; Which if they Refuse , They're far worse than Jews , And Papists or Traitors are reckon'd . And every poor Ape , Who for Changes does gape , And to be Preferr'd by the Party : To help Good-Old-Cause , Wide stretches his Jaws , With loud Lies to show himself Hearty . And those Worthies Three , Care , Curtis , Langley , Do Publish them , fast as they make 'em : The being in Print , Signifies something in't ; And the Rabble for Gospel mistake 'em . Meanwhile --- Pendent Laughs , And at --- Byter scoffs , And at's Hotheaded Zeal does flout-a ; The Coxcomb to see , Thus shaking the Tree , While he's ready to gather the Fruit-a . Let Papists be Hang'd , And Presbyters WORSER ------ , And may goggl'd-Ey'd Traitors perish : But let True Hearts sing , Long Live Charles our Kin [ g ] The Church , and the State to Cherish . FINIS . First Printed at Edinburgh ; And Reprinted at London , in the Year , 1681. H : 135789 THE PRESENT STATE OF ENGLAND : A Pleasant New True Ballad , To the Tune of , The Taylor and his Lass : Or , It was in the Prime , Of Coucumber Time . JAck Presbyter's up , And hope's at one Swoop , To swallow King , Bishop , and Alla : The Miter and Crown , Must both tumble down , Or the Kingdom he tells you will Fall-a . Sure 'tis a hard Fate , That to prop up the State , We must pull down the State-Religion : But the Saints have a new one , More holy and true one , Composed of Fox and Wigeon . And Engine they've god , Call'd a Damn'd Popish Plot , Shall bring in a Through-Reformation : Which though't be half Fable , It mads the poor Rabble , And puts out of Wits half the Nation . Thus their Work's quickly done , For each Mother's Son That to Church , or to King is Loyal , Shall straight be Indicted , Or else be soar Frighted , To be brought to their Fiery Trial . 'Tis no more but pretend , He's to Popery a Friend ; The Brothers cry loud , he's a Traitor ; And their sure Evidences , Bring against him Pretences : And all of a Treasonable Nature . Th' Impeachers are such , So Honourable and Rich , That no Bribe can to Falsehood invite 'em : Though they Contradict themselves , And every Body else , A good Lusty Vote can Right 'em . No Matter for Blood , Their Oaths shall Stand Good , In Despite of all Circumstances : The City-Cabals , Say they cannot swear False ; And each Pamphlet their Honour enhances . Who dares to deny , But One single Lie , Of the Many they swear on their Credi He's brought on his Knees , Is Rebuk't , and pays Fees ; And must cry Peccavi he did it . If any's so bold , Their Tricks to unfold , Or offers to prove them Liars ; Straight up steps another , And swears for Rogue-Brother , And flings the poor Wretch in the Briars . Thus Villains , 'bout Ten , The worst Scum of Men , While the Godly Party Maintain 'em , All England do Govern , And each such a Sovereign , The King must not speak again 'em Old Noll , and Dad Neck , Have taught them the Trick To make Plots , and then to Reveal 'em : Thus runs round the Jig , Of Politic Whigg , Sure Pardon if they do not Conceal 'em . Then Inspir'd they bring in , For sad Men of since , Any one that is Honest and Loyal : But if Pardon's deny'd , All flock on Fitz-Side , To Hector the Mercy Royal. Thus most Men for Fears , Dare not for their Ears , But Whigg and his Rout to second ; Which if they Refuse , They're far worse than Jews , And Papists or Traitors are reckon'd . And every poor Ape , Who for Changes does gape , And to be Preferr'd by the Party : To help Good-Old-Cause , Wide stretches his Jaws , With loud Lies to show himself Hearty . And those Worthies Three , Care , Curtis , Langley , Do Publish them , fast as they make 'em : The being in Print , Signifies something in't ; And the Rabble for Gospel mistake 'em . Meanwhile --- Pendent Laughs , And at --- Byter scoffs , And at's Hotheaded Zeal does flout-a ; The Coxcomb to see , Thus shaking the Tree , While he's ready to gather the Fruit-a . Let Papists be Hang'd , And Presbyters WORSER ------ , And may goggl'd-Ey'd Traitors perish : But let True Hearts sing , Long Live Charles our Kin [ g ] The Church , and the State to Cherish . FINIS . First Printed at Edinburgh ; And Reprinted at London , in the Year , 1681. H : 135789 THE PRESENT STATE OF ENGLAND : A Pleasant New True Ballad , To the Tune of , The Taylor and his Lass : Or , It was in the Prime , Of Coucumber Time . JAck Presbyter's up , And hope's at one Swoop , To swallow King , Bishop , and Alla : The Miter and Crown , Must both tumble down , Or the Kingdom he tells you will Fall-a . Sure 'tis a hard Fate , That to prop up the State , We must pull down the State-Religion : But the Saints have a new one , More holy and true one , Composed of Fox and Wigeon . And Engine they've god , Call'd a Damn'd Popish Plot , Shall bring in a Through-Reformation : Which though't be half Fable , It mads the poor Rabble , And puts out of Wits half the Nation . Thus their Work's quickly done , For each Mother's Son That to Church , or to King is Loyal , Shall straight be Indicted , Or else be soar Frighted , To be brought to their Fiery Trial . 'Tis no more but pretend , He's to Popery a Friend ; The Brothers cry loud , he's a Traitor ; And their sure Evidences , Bring against him Pretences : And all of a Treasonable Nature . Th' Impeachers are such , So Honourable and Rich , That no Bribe can to Falsehood invite 'em : Though they Contradict themselves , And every Body else , A good Lusty Vote can Right 'em . No Matter for Blood , Their Oaths shall Stand Good , In Despite of all Circumstances : The City-Cabals , Say they cannot swear False ; And each Pamphlet their Honour enhances . Who dares to deny , But One single Lie , Of the Many they swear on their Credi He's brought on his Knees , Is Rebuk't , and pays Fees ; And must cry Peccavi he did it . If any's so bold , Their Tricks to unfold , Or offers to prove them Liars ; Straight up steps another , And swears for Rogue-Brother , And flings the poor Wretch in the Briars . Thus Villains , 'bout Ten , The worst Scum of Men , While the Godly Party Maintain 'em , All England do Govern , And each such a Sovereign , The King must not speak again 'em Old Noll , and Dad Neck , Have taught them the Trick To make Plots , and then to Reveal 'em : Thus runs round the Jig , Of Politic Whigg , Sure Pardon if they do not Conceal 'em . Then Inspir'd they bring in , For sad Men of since , Any one that is Honest and Loyal : But if Pardon's deny'd , All flock on Fitz-Side , To Hector the Mercy Royal. Thus most Men for Fears , Dare not for their Ears , But Whigg and his Rout to second ; Which if they Refuse , They're far worse than Jews , And Papists or Traitors are reckon'd . And every poor Ape , Who for Changes does gape , And to be Preferr'd by the Party : To help Good-Old-Cause , Wide stretches his Jaws , With loud Lies to show himself Hearty . And those Worthies Three , Care , Curtis , Langley , Do Publish them , fast as they make 'em : The being in Print , Signifies something in't ; And the Rabble for Gospel mistake 'em . Meanwhile --- Pendent Laughs , And at --- Byter scoffs , And at's Hotheaded Zeal does flout-a ; The Coxcomb to see , Thus shaking the Tree , While he's ready to gather the Fruit-a . Let Papists be Hang'd , And Presbyters WORSER ------ , And may goggl'd-Ey'd Traitors perish : But let True Hearts sing , Long Live Charles our Kin [ g ] The Church , and the State to Cherish . FINIS . First Printed at Edinburgh ; And Reprinted at London , in the Year , 1681. 