H : 135794 THE NARRATIVE . COme prick up your Ears , if they are not gone For this Deponent has lost his own ; [ H ] is Neck goes next 'tis Forty to one . Which no body can deny [ N ] owe this Deponent does depose , [ TO ] hat he was once , one of the Kings Foes . [ B ] ut now , he thanks God , he's none of those , Sure our Deponent will lie . Next he swears' there was Harry the Eight , Who was divorc'd from's first Wife Kate , [ A ] and that he cut off another's Pate , Which no body can deny . [ E ] ven so , quoth he , I can witness bring , [ TO ] hat the Queen did consent to the death of the King , [ B ] ut we are inform'd , there was no such thing , Sure our Deponent will lie . He swears that before the Tower of Babel , Cain knock'd on the head his brother Abel ; Here he swears to a Truth and not to a Fable ; Which not body can deny , Even so , quoth he , this bloody work , Was carry'd on by his Brother of York , But his Highness is neither a Jew nor a Turk , For our Deponent will lie . He swears that once in Noah's time , There was a great Flood which brought a great stream , And all were drown'd that could not swim , Which no body can deny . And now , ( God help us ) we're all in a Fright , He swears we might have been ruin'd quite , Our throats should all have been cut in the night . Sure our Deponent will lie . Farther he swears , that St. Peter from Heaven Had such and absolute power given , That who he pleas'd were condem'd or forgiven ; Which not body can deny . Even so , he swears that Commissions went out From the Pope , to raise both Horse and Foot , That whom they pleas'd they might slash and cut . Sure our Deponent will lie . Some where or other St. Paul does aver , That and Oath puts and end to all bustle and stir , By which he confirms , that 'tis lawful to swear , Which no body can deny . There was foolish swearing in former days , But our Deponent hath alter'd the case , For 'has made more mischief than ever there was , Sure our Deponent will lie . LONDON : Printed for Anthony Jackson , 1681. H : 135794 THE NARRATIVE . COme prick up your Ears , if they are not gone For this Deponent has lost his own ; [ H ] is Neck goes next 'tis Forty to one . Which no body can deny [ N ] owe this Deponent does depose , [ TO ] hat he was once , one of the Kings Foes . [ B ] ut now , he thanks God , he's none of those , Sure our Deponent will lie . Next he swears' there was Harry the Eight , Who was divorc'd from's first Wife Kate , [ A ] and that he cut off another's Pate , Which no body can deny . [ E ] ven so , quoth he , I can witness bring , [ TO ] hat the Queen did consent to the death of the King , [ B ] ut we are inform'd , there was no such thing , Sure our Deponent will lie . He swears that before the Tower of Babel , Cain knock'd on the head his brother Abel ; Here he swears to a Truth and not to a Fable ; Which not body can deny , Even so , quoth he , this bloody work , Was carry'd on by his Brother of York , But his Highness is neither a Jew nor a Turk , For our Deponent will lie . He swears that once in Noah's time , There was a great Flood which brought a great stream , And all were drown'd that could not swim , Which no body can deny . And now , ( God help us ) we're all in a Fright , He swears we might have been ruin'd quite , Our throats should all have been cut in the night . Sure our Deponent will lie . Farther he swears , that St. Peter from Heaven Had such and absolute power given , That who he pleas'd were condem'd or forgiven ; Which not body can deny . Even so , he swears that Commissions went out From the Pope , to raise both Horse and Foot , That whom they pleas'd they might slash and cut . Sure our Deponent will lie . Some where or other St. Paul does aver , That and Oath puts and end to all bustle and stir , By which he confirms , that 'tis lawful to swear , Which no body can deny . There was foolish swearing in former days , But our Deponent hath alter'd the case , For 'has made more mischief than ever there was , Sure our Deponent will lie . LONDON : Printed for Anthony Jackson , 1681. 