H : 135782 THE Lecherous ANABAPTIS OR , The Dipper Dipped . A New Protestant Ballad To the Tune of Packingtons Pound . 1. O You Roundheads and Whiggs , for ever be silent , Cease to scandalise Tory , and honest Tantivy ; I'le tell you strange News that happened nigh Lent , Which if you disprove , I swear I'le forgive you : Of Protestant Francis , That tells us Romances , Of horrible Plots more strange then Miles Prances ; For Frank twelve Geneva good Bibles did proffer , To lie with his Maid , but she slighted his offer . 2. This Protestant Newsmonger , and Munster Imp , Endeavour'd to Switchel her upon the Sabbath , And made his Bibles his lecherous Pimp ; But some think that they together near lay both : For the Maid was as Chaste As Lucretia , at least , But had he been Tarquin , there had been the Jest ; For Frank twelve Geneva good Bibles did proffer , To lie with his Maid , but she slighted his offer . 3. Then he offer'd one Bible if he might but Grope her , But the resolute Quean still stoutly deny'd him ; Quoth she , Master Frank you a Lecherous Fop are , And after that manner severely did chide him : You're the Brothers' Teacher , And Anabaptist Preacher : [ R ] eply'd he then to her , You a Papist and Bitch are ; For Frank twelve Geneva good Bibles did proffer , To lie with his Maid , but she slighted his offer . 4. He writes twice a week News Domestic & Foreign , As Seditious as Care , Ben. Harris , or Curtis ; Great Lies in abundance from France & from Lorrain But never says word of his Maid : what a Cur 'tis ? He tells us strange Stories , Of Papists and Tories ; But this I'le say for him , that his Maid no Whore is : For Frank twelve Geneva good Bibles did proffer , To lie with his Maid , but she slighted his offer . 5. Then Frank be not angry cause she would not comply , For Saints in this world have misfortunes & crosses : Suppose that she had the best Thing you could try , You could have but tickled it with your Probosses ; After that you wou'd curse , You were not starv'd at Nurse , Because you would then be twelve Bibles the worse : For Frank twelve Geneva good Bibles did proffer , To lie with his Maid , but she slighted his offer . 6. From this Godly deed , St. Francis , you're call'd , Because you endeavour'd to save your Maids Soul , Though Satan your Pious intentions forstall'd , And the Scriptures could not prevail on the Fool : Though she wou'd not grant , Yet deny it we can't , But that you deserv'd to be called a Saint ; For Frank twelve Geneva good Bibles did proffer , To lie with his Maid , but she slighted his offer . LONDON : Printed for Benjamin Harris , 1681. H : 135782 THE Lecherous ANABAPTIS OR , The Dipper Dipped . A New Protestant Ballad To the Tune of Packingtons Pound . 1. O You Roundheads and Whiggs , for ever be silent , Cease to scandalise Tory , and honest Tantivy ; I'le tell you strange News that happened nigh Lent , Which if you disprove , I swear I'le forgive you : Of Protestant Francis , That tells us Romances , Of horrible Plots more strange then Miles Prances ; For Frank twelve Geneva good Bibles did proffer , To lie with his Maid , but she slighted his offer . 2. This Protestant Newsmonger , and Munster Imp , Endeavour'd to Switchel her upon the Sabbath , And made his Bibles his lecherous Pimp ; But some think that they together near lay both : For the Maid was as Chaste As Lucretia , at least , But had he been Tarquin , there had been the Jest ; For Frank twelve Geneva good Bibles did proffer , To lie with his Maid , but she slighted his offer . 3. Then he offer'd one Bible if he might but Grope her , But the resolute Quean still stoutly deny'd him ; Quoth she , Master Frank you a Lecherous Fop are , And after that manner severely did chide him : You're the Brothers' Teacher , And Anabaptist Preacher : [ R ] eply'd he then to her , You a Papist and Bitch are ; For Frank twelve Geneva good Bibles did proffer , To lie with his Maid , but she slighted his offer . 4. He writes twice a week News Domestic & Foreign , As Seditious as Care , Ben. Harris , or Curtis ; Great Lies in abundance from France & from Lorrain But never says word of his Maid : what a Cur 'tis ? He tells us strange Stories , Of Papists and Tories ; But this I'le say for him , that his Maid no Whore is : For Frank twelve Geneva good Bibles did proffer , To lie with his Maid , but she slighted his offer . 5. Then Frank be not angry cause she would not comply , For Saints in this world have misfortunes & crosses : Suppose that she had the best Thing you could try , You could have but tickled it with your Probosses ; After that you wou'd curse , You were not starv'd at Nurse , Because you would then be twelve Bibles the worse : For Frank twelve Geneva good Bibles did proffer , To lie with his Maid , but she slighted his offer . 6. From this Godly deed , St. Francis , you're call'd , Because you endeavour'd to save your Maids Soul , Though Satan your Pious intentions forstall'd , And the Scriptures could not prevail on the Fool : Though she wou'd not grant , Yet deny it we can't , But that you deserv'd to be called a Saint ; For Frank twelve Geneva good Bibles did proffer , To lie with his Maid , but she slighted his offer . LONDON : Printed for Benjamin Harris , 1681. H : 135782 THE Lecherous ANABAPTIS OR , The Dipper Dipped . A New Protestant Ballad , To the Tune of Packingtons Pound . 1. O You Roundheads and Whiggs , for ever be silent , Cease to scandalise Tory , and honest Tantivy ; I'le tell you strange News that happened nigh Lent , Which if you disprove , I swear I'le forgive you : Of Protestant Francis , That tells us Romances , Of horrible Plots more strange then Miles Prances ; For Frank twelve Geneva good Bibles did proffer , To lie with his Maid , but she slighted his offer . 2. This Protestant Newsmonger , and Munster Imp , Endeavour'd to Switchel her upon the Sabbath , And made his Bibles his lecherous Pimp ; But some think that they together near lay both : For the Maid was as Chaste As Lucretia , at least , But had he been Tarquin , there had been the Jest ; For Frank twelve Geneva good Bibles did proffer , To lie with his Maid , but she slighted his offer . 3. Then he offer'd one Bible if he might but Grope her , But the resolute Quean still stoutly deny'd him ; Quoth she , Master Frank you a Lecherous Fop are , And after that manner severely did chide him : You're the Brothers' Teacher , And Anabaptist Preacher : [ R ] eply'd he then to her , You a Papist and Bitch are ; For Frank twelve Geneva good Bibles did proffer , To lie with his Maid , but she slighted his offer . 4. He writes twice a week News Domestic & Foreign , As Seditious as Care , Ben. Harris , or Curtis ; Great Lies in abundance from France & from Lorrain But never says word of his Maid : what a Cur 'tis ? He tells us strange Stories , Of Papists and Tories ; But this I'le say for him , that his Maid no Whore is : For Frank twelve Geneva good Bibles did proffer , To lie with his Maid , but she slighted his offer . 5. Then Frank be not angry cause she would not comply , For Saints in this world have misfortunes & crosses : Suppose that she had the best Thing you could try , You could have but tickled it with your Probosses ; After that you wou'd curse , You were not starv'd at Nurse , Because you would then be twelve Bibles the worse : For Frank twelve Geneva good Bibles did proffer , To lie with his Maid , but she slighted his offer . 6. From this Godly deed , St. Francis , you're call'd , Because you endeavour'd to save your Maids Soul , Though Satan your Pious intentions forstall'd , And the Scriptures could not prevail on the Fool : Though she wou'd not grant , Yet deny it we can't , But that you deserv'd to be called a Saint ; For Frank twelve Geneva good Bibles did proffer , To lie with his Maid , but she slighted his offer . LONDON : Printed for Benjamin Harris , 1681. H : 135782 THE Lecherous ANABAPTIS OR , The Dipper Dipped . A New Protestant Ballad , To the Tune of Packingtons Pound . 1. O You Roundheads and Whiggs , for ever be silent , Cease to scandalise Tory , and honest Tantivy ; I'le tell you strange News that happened nigh Lent , Which if you disprove , I swear I'le forgive you : Of Protestant Francis , That tells us Romances , Of horrible Plots more strange then Miles Prances ; For Frank twelve Geneva good Bibles did proffer , To lie with his Maid , but she slighted his offer . 2. This Protestant Newsmonger , and Munster Imp , Endeavour'd to Switchel her upon the Sabbath , And made his Bibles his lecherous Pimp ; But some think that they together near lay both : For the Maid was as Chaste As Lucretia , at least , But had he been Tarquin , there had been the Jest ; For Frank twelve Geneva good Bibles did proffer , To lie with his Maid , but she slighted his offer . 3. Then he offer'd one Bible if he might but Grope her , But the resolute Quean still stoutly deny'd him ; Quoth she , Master Frank you a Lecherous Fop are , And after that manner severely did chide him : You're the Brothers' Teacher , And Anabaptist Preacher : [ R ] eply'd he then to her , You a Papist and Bitch are ; For Frank twelve Geneva good Bibles did proffer , To lie with his Maid , but she slighted his offer . 4. He writes twice a week News Domestic & Foreign , As Seditious as Care , Ben. Harris , or Curtis ; Great Lies in abundance from France & from Lorrain But never says word of his Maid : what a Cur 'tis ? He tells us strange Stories , Of Papists and Tories ; But this I'le say for him , that his Maid no Whore is : For Frank twelve Geneva good Bibles did proffer , To lie with his Maid , but she slighted his offer . 5. Then Frank be not angry cause she would not comply , For Saints in this world have misfortunes & crosses : Suppose that she had the best Thing you could try , You could have but tickled it with your Probosses ; After that you wou'd curse , You were not starv'd at Nurse , Because you would then be twelve Bibles the worse : For Frank twelve Geneva good Bibles did proffer , To lie with his Maid , but she slighted his offer . 6. From this Godly deed , St. Francis , you're call'd , Because you endeavour'd to save your Maids Soul , Though Satan your Pious intentions forstall'd , And the Scriptures could not prevail on the Fool : Though she wou'd not grant , Yet deny it we can't , But that you deserv'd to be called a Saint ; For Frank twelve Geneva good Bibles did proffer , To lie with his Maid , but she slighted his offer . LONDON : Printed for Benjamin Harris , 1681. 