H : 135792 The Tune to the Devonshire Can Or , and Answer to the PARLIAMENT Dissolved at Oxford . ------ Nonne vides ut nudum remigio latus . Horat. Ode XIIII Lib. I THE safety of the KING and's Royal Throne , Depends on those 500 KINGS alone ; Those , under whom some say three Kingdoms groan . The Commons no new Methods will assign , Of choosing KINGS they know the Royal Line , Was wont to be reputed as Divine . Your English-men who understand who gave , Their KING his Royal grandure scorn to have , His Majesty their General , their Slave . As frantic and outrageous as were , Their VOTES ; they shew'd their Vigilence and care , And nought like those could dissipate our fear . They are Dissolv'd and with them all our hope's , Prepare for Smithfeild fires for Racks and Ropes ; For that's the pleasing Exercise of POPES . Now to create Intestine Broils what need Is there , of those experienc'd things take heed , When'th States Blood's hight 'tis dangerous to bleed . In all true Hearts it would a Love create , To see the Supreme power dissipate , All Pensioners , those Spungers of our State . The Commons aims were but to regulate , Things shuffl'd out of place in Church and State , Not to cramp Justice but corroborate . When they offend they justly feel the smart , Impos'd on them by some ambitious heart ; Who's swellen envy breaks out like a F --- tO . But here's the mischief , they espouse the Law , Hate those who Subjects from Allegiance draw , And of their Royal Master stand in awe . We've grounds to hope when next they meet they'l bring , Wise Counsels , Grave Proposals , ev'ry thing , Conducive to the Peace of People and KING . If so , we'll sing adieu to PLOTS , in vain Shall Rogues attempt to shake our Peace again , And then great CHARLES most happily will reign . London : Printed for T. Raw in London yard , near St. Pauls . 1681H : 135792 The Tune to the Devonshire Can Or , and Answer to the PARLIAMENT Dissolved at Oxford . ------ Nonne vides ut nudum remigio latus . Horat. Ode XIIII Lib. I THE safety of the KING and's Royal Throne , Depends on those 500 KINGS alone ; Those , under whom some say three Kingdoms groan . The Commons no new Methods will assign , Of choosing KINGS they know the Royal Line , Was wont to be reputed as Divine . Your English-men who understand who gave , Their KING his Royal grandure scorn to have , His Majesty their General , their Slave . As frantic and outrageous as were , Their VOTES ; they shew'd their Vigilence and care , And nought like those could dissipate our fear . They are Dissolv'd and with them all our hope's , Prepare for Smithfeild fires for Racks and Ropes ; For that's the pleasing Exercise of POPES . Now to create Intestine Broils what need Is there , of those experienc'd things take heed , When'th States Blood's hight 'tis dangerous to bleed . In all true Hearts it would a Love create , To see the Supreme power dissipate , All Pensioners , those Spungers of our State . The Commons aims were but to regulate , Things shuffl'd out of place in Church and State , Not to cramp Justice but corroborate . When they offend they justly feel the smart , Impos'd on them by some ambitious heart ; Who's swellen envy breaks out like a F --- tO . But here's the mischief , they espouse the Law , Hate those who Subjects from Allegiance draw , And of their Royal Master stand in awe . We've grounds to hope when next they meet they'l bring , Wise Counsels , Grave Proposals , ev'ry thing , Conducive to the Peace of People and KING . If so , we'll sing adieu to PLOTS , in vain Shall Rogues attempt to shake our Peace again , And then great CHARLES most happily will reign . London : Printed for T. Raw in London yard , near St. Pauls . 1681 