H : 135797 A New Presbyterian Ballad to the Old Tune of The clean contrary way . I . Alas poor Whiggs , our Senat's gone , Our Glory's now a setting : The Popish Plot's laid at our door , A Bastard of our getting : Our bloody Cheats , and Shifts and Tricks , And all our Devilish Play Will be disclos'd and we prov'd Saints The clean contrary way . II [ WORSER ] iscoverers will Discovered be , As paltry Purjur'd stuff , [ A ] and we the Hellish Plotters , that Prepar'd such Hell-hound-Proof : We had the face to guild their Vice , And them like Saints display , [ A ] and wheedled them to swear the Truth The clean contrary way . III . We made their piteous Nonsense good , And Contradictions true , [ A ] and relished their unlikely Tales , So blundering like blind Hugh . What car'd we , if they damn'd themselves ? So we obtain'd the day , [ A ] and meritorious make our work The clean contrary way . IV. When men did scruple to believe Things , so absurd to Reason , We scorned Reasons Balance , and We still cry'd , Treason , Treason : When the Informers halted had Our hubbubs boar the sway , [ A ] ffrighting folks into their Wits , The clean contrary way . V. [ Sum ] changed Toolls we rak'd for Evidence , Like those , that search in Ditches , [ A ] and darksome holes for poisonous Toads , And hungry sucking Leeches : We gull'd Fitz-harris for more guile , The guiltless to betray : [ F ] or which he'l reap a sweet reward The clean contrary way . VI . We made the Papists Traitors all , That none the Snare might escape , [ A ] and all the Royal Protestants We would bring in the Trap : [ TO ] heigh must be Romanizers too , What e'r they do or say [ A ] and zealous wishers to the Pope The clean contrary way . VII . The Realms Religion , that's by Law In its Establishment , We made as if afraid to loose , Though from it we dissent ; The Church of England in the dust That Level we would lay To show our selves true Protestants The clean contrary way . VIII . The long-black-rebel-Parliament We stood to vindicate , We blossom'd new in th' good Old Cause Of Commonwealth and State ; Yet Monmouths Duke cry'd up the while And us'd him like a Toy A future Monarch he's design'd , The clean contrary way . IX . 'Twas such , as we , for Charles the first , With many a Protestation His Glory did so much pretend , His Weal and Preservation ; But drew the Sword against his Friends , And forc'd them all away , And him forlorn they did preserve , The clean contrary way . X. It such , as we , the second Charles Did scornfully disown , Call'd him the common Enemy Debar'd him from his Throne : Who now , but we , cry out of Plots , And for his safety pray , And stand up stout in his defence The clean contrary way . XI . It such , as we , in Scotland late Twice actually Rebel'd , And ( Maugre all the Mercy here ) Our English venom swel'd : We to Oblivions Act so kind Unkind Oblivion pay Like cherished Vipers yielding thanks The clean contrary way . XII . Yet we assum'd the confidence Though conscious of what's passed , To busy our Petitions bold , So frequent and so fas Instead of Blest , we Blasted are , Alack and well aday ! And we henceforth shall trusted be The clean contrary way . London printed in the Year 1681. H : 135797 A New Presbyterian Ballad to the Old Tune of The clean contrary way . I . Alas poor Whiggs , our Senat's gone , Our Glory's now a setting : The Popish Plot's laid at our door , A Bastard of our getting : Our bloody Cheats , and Shifts and Tricks , And all our Devilish Play Will be disclos'd and we prov'd Saints The clean contrary way . II [ WORSER ] iscoverers will Discovered be , As paltry Purjur'd stuff , [ A ] and we the Hellish Plotters , that Prepar'd such Hell-hound-Proof : We had the face to guild their Vice , And them like Saints display , [ A ] and wheedled them to swear the Truth The clean contrary way . III . We made their piteous Nonsense good , And Contradictions true , [ A ] and relished their unlikely Tales , So blundering like blind Hugh . What car'd we , if they damn'd themselves ? So we obtain'd the day , [ A ] and meritorious make our work The clean contrary way . IV. When men did scruple to believe Things , so absurd to Reason , We scorned Reasons Balance , and We still cry'd , Treason , Treason : When the Informers halted had Our hubbubs boar the sway , [ A ] ffrighting folks into their Wits , The clean contrary way . V. [ Sum ] changed Toolls we rak'd for Evidence , Like those , that search in Ditches , [ A ] and darksome holes for poisonous Toads , And hungry sucking Leeches : We gull'd Fitz-harris for more guile , The guiltless to betray : [ F ] or which he'l reap a sweet reward The clean contrary way . VI . We made the Papists Traitors all , That none the Snare might escape , [ A ] and all the Royal Protestants We would bring in the Trap : [ TO ] heigh must be Romanizers too , What e'r they do or say [ A ] and zealous wishers to the Pope The clean contrary way . VII . The Realms Religion , that's by Law In its Establishment , We made as if afraid to loose , Though from it we dissent ; The Church of England in the dust That Level we would lay To show our selves true Protestants The clean contrary way . VIII . The long-black-rebel-Parliament We stood to vindicate , We blossom'd new in th' good Old Cause Of Commonwealth and State ; Yet Monmouths Duke cry'd up the while And us'd him like a Toy A future Monarch he's design'd , The clean contrary way . IX . 'Twas such , as we , for Charles the first , With many a Protestation His Glory did so much pretend , His Weal and Preservation ; But drew the Sword against his Friends , And forc'd them all away , And him forlorn they did preserve , The clean contrary way . X. It such , as we , the second Charles Did scornfully disown , Call'd him the common Enemy Debar'd him from his Throne : Who now , but we , cry out of Plots , And for his safety pray , And stand up stout in his defence The clean contrary way . XI . It such , as we , in Scotland late Twice actually Rebel'd , And ( Maugre all the Mercy here ) Our English venom swel'd : We to Oblivions Act so kind Unkind Oblivion pay Like cherished Vipers yielding thanks The clean contrary way . XII . Yet we assum'd the confidence Though conscious of what's passed , To busy our Petitions bold , So frequent and so fas Instead of Blest , we Blasted are , Alack and well aday ! And we henceforth shall trusted be The clean contrary way . London printed in the Year 1681. 