H : 18306 A Most true and marvelous strange wonder , the like hath seldom been seen , of . XVII . Monstrous fishes , taken in Suffolke , at Downam bridge , within a mile of Ipswiche . The . XI . day of October . In the year of our Lord God . M . D.LX.VIII . FYrste you shall understand , that the beginners first Venturers to take these fish , was Nycholas Gibbins , and Jhon Carnaby , with their men : after came John Baker , and Robert Haulley with their men , being all Sailors & Shipmen dwelling in Ipswiche , with other , besides many of the country there about , which when they harden of it , came thither to help , and see the taking of them . Also , of these xvii fishes , there was a male , and a female , that was more howge and monstrous then the other xv For the least of these ii fishes , were xxvii foot long : and as big in the middle eke of them , as iii Buttes of Malmezie , and of a marvelous great strength , as it is well known to dyvers in Ipswich & other places , beside those men above nam . For they tied one of these fishes to a boat , to bring hit to Ips - which wharf , and being so tied to the boat , swam away with the boat & all the men that wear in it , towards the sea a marvaylous swift pace , for all that they could do : this was when the tIED came in , for they had made provision before , when the water was loo , to tie great ropes about their tails and fins with small boats , and by such means as they could . ( And as I said before ) the tIED coming in & the fish having water , swam away with the boat so fast towards the sea , that if there had not been rescue of other boats and such vessels as they had there , that boat and all they in it , had been lost and utterly cast away . But as God would have it , by the help of tother boats or vessels , tieng the fish also . Brought him by force to a convenient place , and tied him fast to a tree with strong Cable ropes , and so using them one by one , found means to bring them to Ipswych wharf . Where they were laid with great labour and trouble , beside breaking of their wyndlace & a great Cable rope , with haling them up , they wear of such marvaylous greatness , strength and weight . Some of them say upon the wharf ii days and a night before they wear dead , and yet they struck them with Axes & other weapons to kill them . The river wherein they wear taken was coloured read , with the blood that issued from their wounds , while they wear a taking , the water being so deep that a Hoy might well ride thearin . There was also iii Butchers a hold day cutting out one of these fishes , and as ma - nigh to carry it away with hand barous to the town warehouse , and the Butchers were fain to put on boots to stand in to cut it out , it was so deep & full of garbyge ? this fish was a men height in thickness , from the top of the back to the bone : and his bones as harden as stones , that the Butchers marred all their Axes they occupied a bout them . The other xv fishes were xxiiii foot long , and some of them , xxi . foot , and big accor ding to their length . But the ii biggist , male and female , was xxvii foot long , and as big in the middle as iii Buttes of malmsie . Havinge a round snout . His mouth wide , gaping above a yard broad . And had xliiii . teeth , one being weighed & waith a pound & a half , viii . inches & a half long , and above vi inches in compass a bout , yet none of the biggest . Also a great long tongue , a marvelous big head , & is a yard between the eyes . Upon their heads were holes , as big that a man might put in both his fists at once , out of the which they did spout a great quantity of water while they were a taking , that they had almost drowned ii boats men and all , with spouting of water : for the water would assende uppwarde from the fishes , as high as any house , and so fallen down & weet all them that were within their reach most cruelly . Also they were white beneath the eyes a hand broad , their eyes black , and no bigger then the eyes of a Calf . Their backs as black as ink , so smooth & bright that one might have seen his face on it , as in a dim Glass . Their bellies as white as milk . And upon their backs they had eke of them one great black Fin growing , and sum of them were a yard and a half long , very thick , & strong , and ii great black ones underneath the before part of his belly . Also the male , one of the ii biggest had a yard , that when it was out , was more then iii quarters of a yard long , and as big towards his body as a men arm sleeve & all , by the elboe . His tail was iii yards long , and ii yards broad very thick & black , & wonderful strong : for x tall men stood upon his tail , & he liftng his tail up , over thrue them all . Also when he had lifted up his tail it was of such monstrous weight strength , and bygnes , that when it fell the very ground would ring , and shake therewith . This fish was cut out in pieces , and given away to diverse in the town that did eat of it , and was very good meat , either roasted or bakt , ( so much of it as was kept sweet ) and the meat of them bakt tasted like read Dear . And as they cut it out it was weighed by pee - ces , so that the very body of this one fish , weighed . LII . hondred the bore carckas , beside many little peecis that was given away unweighed to cravers that stood by , & besides a Cart load of garbyge that came out of his belly , so that all together was above threescore hondred and od . If the men of Ipswych had known so much betime while they were sweet , as they have sense , they might have made ii C. mark more of them then is now made . But now they be barreled upp to make Oil of , and will not be sold for a great piece of money . And this you may see , the perfect and true description , of these strange fish , wherein is to be noted , the strange and marvelous handy works of the Lord , blessed be God in all his gifts , & holy in all his works , the Lords name be praised , in them , and for them , for ever and ever . So be it . Quod. Timothie Granger . Imprinted at London in Fleetestreate , at the sign of S. John Evangelist by Thomas Colwell . H : 18306 A Most true and marvelous strange wonder , the like hath seldom been seen , of . XVII . Monstrous fishes , taken in Suffolke , at Downam bridge , within a mile of Ipswiche . The . XI . day of October . In the year of our Lord God . M . D.LX.VIII . FYrste you shall understand , that the beginners first Venturers to take these fish , was Nycholas Gibbins , and Jhon Carnaby , with their men : after came John Baker , and Robert Haulley with their men , being all Sailors & Shipmen dwelling in Ipswiche , with other , besides many of the country there about , which when they harden of it , came thither to help , and see the taking of them . Also , of these xvii fishes , there was a male , and a female , that was more howge and monstrous then the other xv For the least of these ii fishes , were xxvii foot long : and as big in the middle eke of them , as iii Buttes of Malmezie , and of a marvelous great strength , as it is well known to dyvers in Ipswich & other places , beside those men above nam . For they tied one of these fishes to a boat , to bring hit to Ips - which wharf , and being so tied to the boat , swam away with the boat & all the men that wear in it , towards the sea a marvaylous swift pace , for all that they could do : this was when the tIED came in , for they had made provision before , when the water was loo , to tie great ropes about their tails and fins with small boats , and by such means as they could . ( And as I said before ) the tIED coming in & the fish having water , swam away with the boat so fast towards the sea , that if there had not been rescue of other boats and such vessels as they had there , that boat and all they in it , had been lost and utterly cast away . But as God would have it , by the help of tother boats or vessels , tieng the fish also . Brought him by force to a convenient place , and tied him fast to a tree with strong Cable ropes , and so using them one by one , found means to bring them to Ipswych wharf . Where they were laid with great labour and trouble , beside breaking of their wyndlace & a great Cable rope , with haling them up , they wear of such marvaylous greatness , strength and weight . Some of them say upon the wharf ii days and a night before they wear dead , and yet they struck them with Axes & other weapons to kill them . The river wherein they wear taken was coloured read , with the blood that issued from their wounds , while they wear a taking , the water being so deep that a Hoy might well ride thearin . There was also iii Butchers a hold day cutting out one of these fishes , and as ma - nigh to carry it away with hand barous to the town warehouse , and the Butchers were fain to put on boots to stand in to cut it out , it was so deep & full of garbyge ? this fish was a men height in thickness , from the top of the back to the bone : and his bones as harden as stones , that the Butchers marred all their Axes they occupied a bout them . The other xv fishes were xxiiii foot long , and some of them , xxi . foot , and big accor ding to their length . But the ii biggist , male and female , was xxvii foot long , and as big in the middle as iii Buttes of malmsie . Havinge a round snout . His mouth wide , gaping above a yard broad . And had xliiii . teeth , one being weighed & waith a pound & a half , viii . inches & a half long , and above vi inches in compass a bout , yet none of the biggest . Also a great long tongue , a marvelous big head , & is a yard between the eyes . Upon their heads were holes , as big that a man might put in both his fists at once , out of the which they did spout a great quantity of water while they were a taking , that they had almost drowned ii boats men and all , with spouting of water : for the water would assende uppwarde from the fishes , as high as any house , and so fallen down & weet all them that were within their reach most cruelly . Also they were white beneath the eyes a hand broad , their eyes black , and no bigger then the eyes of a Calf . Their backs as black as ink , so smooth & bright that one might have seen his face on it , as in a dim Glass . Their bellies as white as milk . And upon their backs they had eke of them one great black Fin growing , and sum of them were a yard and a half long , very thick , & strong , and ii great black ones underneath the before part of his belly . Also the male , one of the ii biggest had a yard , that when it was out , was more then iii quarters of a yard long , and as big towards his body as a men arm sleeve & all , by the elboe . His tail was iii yards long , and ii yards broad very thick & black , & wonderful strong : for x tall men stood upon his tail , & he liftng his tail up , over thrue them all . Also when he had lifted up his tail it was of such monstrous weight strength , and bygnes , that when it fell the very ground would ring , and shake therewith . This fish was cut out in pieces , and given away to diverse in the town that did eat of it , and was very good meat , either roasted or bakt , ( so much of it as was kept sweet ) and the meat of them bakt tasted like read Dear . And as they cut it out it was weighed by pee - ces , so that the very body of this one fish , weighed . LII . hondred the bore carckas , beside many little peecis that was given away unweighed to cravers that stood by , & besides a Cart load of garbyge that came out of his belly , so that all together was above threescore hondred and od . If the men of Ipswych had known so much betime while they were sweet , as they have sense , they might have made ii C. mark more of them then is now made . But now they be barreled upp to make Oil of , and will not be sold for a great piece of money . And this you may see , the perfect and true description , of these strange fish , wherein is to be noted , the strange and marvelous handy works of the Lord , blessed be God in all his gifts , & holy in all his works , the Lords name be praised , in them , and for them , for ever and ever . So be it . Quod. Timothie Granger . Imprinted at London in Fleetestreate , at the sign of S. John Evangelist by Thomas Colwell . 