H : 135783 The Protestant CUCKOLD : A New BALLAD Being a full and perfect Relation how B.H. the Protestant-News - forger , caught his beloved Wife Ruth in Ill Circumstances . To the Tune of Packingtons Pound ; Or , Timothy Dash the Scriveners Apprentice . Deprendi miserum est . ------ Hor. 1. Though the Town does abound so with Plots and with Shams , Yet I a true Story to you will relate ; The Godly can sport too , and play you like Lambs , Which does appear true by poor Benjamin's Fate . There's a Judgement in't , Which I can't choose but hint , Because he a Lie once from * Crookhorn did prin O you Tories look big , and rejoice at this News , For Benjamin's Wife is made free of the Stews . * WORSER . M.'s Cure . 2. Your Wife full of cares , and of fears , my dear Ben , Durst not lie alone in this Dangerous Age ; And finding beside you'd no Ink in your Pen , With a Scrivener she thought it high time to engage : Then take't not in scorn , Though you are well born , That your Spouse has furnish't you with and Inkhorn . O you Tories look big , etc 3. These Fines , as I take them , are things Arbitrary , That a Subject can't lie with his Wife ev'ry Night ; Young Stationers beware , who hereafter shall marry , That your Brides you caress and please with all your migh Or to some young Lover , Their wants they'l discover , For long they'l not lie in Sheets without a Cover . O you Tories look big , etc 4. But now to the Matter of Fact we do come , How Benjamin leave of the Marshal did get , That he with his Dearest might then lie at home , But th' Apprentice ( alas ) had no notice of i For no sooner were Ben And his Wife laid in Den , But the Youngster began to Whistle , and Hem. O you Tories look big , etc 5. Madam hearing it , to the Window did creep , To tell Timothy his place was supply'd ; And fancying her Cuckold was laid fast asleep , She told Tim next Night he should not be deny'd : But it was a mistake , For Ben was awake , And slily resolv'd the Appointment to break : O you Tories look big , etc 6. As soon as she'd sung her Abi a Fenestra , She softly again to her warm Bed did make , Where Ben much enrag'd could almost eat his Flesh raw , But yet the close Cuckold no notice would take : Yet still as he lay , He long'd much for day , So his Wife did for next Night , as guess well you may , O you Tories look big , and rejoice at this News , For Benjamin's Wife is made free of the Stews . 7. Up rose Ben when 'twas day , and the Sun did appear , But He , poor Cuckold , was under a Cloud ; Ruth kissing him , cry'd , Wilt thou leave me , my Dear ? Then like a true Jilt fell a weeping aloud : But she never dreamed That Benjamin meant Her meeting the Scrivener so to prevent . O you Tories look big , etc 8. Just at the time when begins Treason-Fair , And Fanatical Rebels crowd Dicks Coffee-house , Then Timothy did to Miss H ------ repair , And thought himself safe as ere in Cheese was Mouse : For the Zealous Jade , Ben a True Cuckold made , And now he's no longer one in Masquerade . O you Tories look big , etc 9. But the Joys of this World are all transitory , And alas the Tragedy now does begin ; For Ben at the door does cry out , Where are you ? Being somewhat impatient till he was let in : Then with a huge Club , He poor Dash did Drub , Who struggled in vain that off he might Rub. O you Tories look big , etc 10. The Neighbours that herd the Youth murder cry , To keep the Kings Peace , the door open did force , Endeavouring the good man for to pacify , Telling him , he had taken her for better for worse : But think it who cou'd , That Horn him she wou'd , Who so kindly o'th' Pillory with her Husband stood . O you Tories look big , etc LONDON : Printed for Francis Smith , 1681. H : 135783 The Protestant CUCKOLD : A New BALLAD Being a full and perfect Relation how B.H. the Protestant-News - forger , caught his beloved Wife Ruth in Ill Circumstances . To the Tune of Packingtons Pound ; Or , Timothy Dash the Scriveners Apprentice . Deprendi miserum est . ------ Hor. 1. Though the Town does abound so with Plots and with Shams , Yet I a true Story to you will relate ; The Godly can sport too , and play you like Lambs , Which does appear true by poor Benjamin's Fate . There's a Judgement in't , Which I can't choose but hint , Because he a Lie once from * Crookhorn did prin O you Tories look big , and rejoice at this News , For Benjamin's Wife is made free of the Stews . * WORSER . M.'s Cure . 2. Your Wife full of cares , and of fears , my dear Ben , Durst not lie alone in this Dangerous Age ; And finding beside you'd no Ink in your Pen , With a Scrivener she thought it high time to engage : Then take't not in scorn , Though you are well born , That your Spouse has furnish't you with and Inkhorn . O you Tories look big , etc 3. These Fines , as I take them , are things Arbitrary , That a Subject can't lie with his Wife ev'ry Night ; Young Stationers beware , who hereafter shall marry , That your Brides you caress and please with all your migh Or to some young Lover , Their wants they'l discover , For long they'l not lie in Sheets without a Cover . O you Tories look big , etc 4. But now to the Matter of Fact we do come , How Benjamin leave of the Marshal did get , That he with his Dearest might then lie at home , But th' Apprentice ( alas ) had no notice of i For no sooner were Ben And his Wife laid in Den , But the Youngster began to Whistle , and Hem. O you Tories look big , etc 5. Madam hearing it , to the Window did creep , To tell Timothy his place was supply'd ; And fancying her Cuckold was laid fast asleep , She told Tim next Night he should not be deny'd : But it was a mistake , For Ben was awake , And slily resolv'd the Appointment to break : O you Tories look big , etc 6. As soon as she'd sung her Abi a Fenestra , She softly again to her warm Bed did make , Where Ben much enrag'd could almost eat his Flesh raw , But yet the close Cuckold no notice would take : Yet still as he lay , He long'd much for day , So his Wife did for next Night , as guess well you may , O you Tories look big , and rejoice at this News , For Benjamin's Wife is made free of the Stews . 7. Up rose Ben when 'twas day , and the Sun did appear , But He , poor Cuckold , was under a Cloud ; Ruth kissing him , cry'd , Wilt thou leave me , my Dear ? Then like a true Jilt fell a weeping aloud : But she never dreamed That Benjamin meant Her meeting the Scrivener so to prevent . O you Tories look big , etc 8. Just at the time when begins Treason-Fair , And Fanatical Rebels crowd Dicks Coffee-house , Then Timothy did to Miss H ------ repair , And thought himself safe as ere in Cheese was Mouse : For the Zealous Jade , Ben a True Cuckold made , And now he's no longer one in Masquerade . O you Tories look big , etc 9. But the Joys of this World are all transitory , And alas the Tragedy now does begin ; For Ben at the door does cry out , Where are you ? Being somewhat impatient till he was let in : Then with a huge Club , He poor Dash did Drub , Who struggled in vain that off he might Rub. O you Tories look big , etc 10. The Neighbours that herd the Youth murder cry , To keep the Kings Peace , the door open did force , Endeavouring the good man for to pacify , Telling him , he had taken her for better for worse : But think it who cou'd , That Horn him she wou'd , Who so kindly o'th' Pillory with her Husband stood . O you Tories look big , etc LONDON : Printed for Francis Smith , 1681. 