H : 135823 A NEW IGNORAMUS : Being the second New SONG . To the same Old Tune , Law lies a Bleeding . ( 1 ) SInce Popish Plotters , Join'd with Bogg-Trotters , Sham-Plots are made as fast , as Pots are form'd by Potters Against these Juries There no such Cure is , As what our Law provides , our True and Loyal Juries . The Actium and Paction That breeds our Distraction , Is secretly Contrived by the Popish Faction . Who sham us and flame us , Trepan us , and damn us , And then grow enraged when they hear Ignoramus . ( 2 ) Traitors are rotten , Yet not forgotten , Nor Meal Tub Devices , which never well did Cotten . At ev'ry Season Inventing Treason , And Shams that none believed that had or Sense or Reason With fetches and stretches , These notorious Wretches Would get Loyal Subject's into their Bloody Clutches . They sham us , and flame us , etc ( 3 ) If wicked Tories Could pack their Juries , That would believe Black , White , and all their Lying Stories Then by Art Stygian Whigg's prov'd a Widgeon , And should be Hang'd for Plotting against the Popes Religion . They'd hear a , and swear a Thing that was as mere a Gross Lie as e'r was told , and find it Billa vera . They sham us , and flame us , etc ( 4 ) This IGNORAMUS , For which they blame us , And to the Pit of Hell , so often Curse and Damn us , Are men by Trial , Honest and Loyal , And for their King and Country ready are to Die all , They show it , and Vow it , Honest men do know it , Their Loyalty they hold , and never will forgo it . They sham us , and flame us , etc ( 5 ) At the Old-Baily Where men don't dally , And Traitors oft are Try'd , as Coleman , Whitebread , Staley , Was late Indicted , Witnesses cited , A Loyal Protestant , who spite of Rogues was Righted , Offences commences 'Gainst all men's Senses , 'Cause the honest Jury believed not Evidences . They sham us , and flame us , etc ( 6 ) For which a Villain Who for Ten Shilling To Hang a Protestant shall be found very willing , Now at this Season And without Reason , Shall call the Jury Traitors , and the Law make Treason : In fashion is Passion , Curses and Damnation , How quiet should we be , were Rogues sent to their Station . They sham us , and flame us , etc ( 7 ) 'Las what is Conscience Ith' Jesuites own Sense , For the Church one may Lie , and forswear without offence . Now what a Lurry , Keeps barking Tory , 'Cause he is not able the Innocent to whorry ! Does wrangle and brangle , 'Cause he cannot entangle , Nor bring honest Tony to the Block or Triangle . They sham us , and flame us , etc ( 8 ) I'le tell you What , Sir , You must go Plot , Sir , And get better Witness e'r Wise Men go to Pot Sir , When such abettors , Protestant haters , Would damn their Souls to Hell to make them wicked Traitors , We mind it and wind it , And are not now blinded , For what we now reject , no honest Jury'le find it , They sham us , and flame us , They ram us and damn us , When , according to the Law , we find IGNORAMUS . LONDON , Printed for Charles Leigh , 1681. H : 135823 A NEW IGNORAMUS : Being the second New SONG . To the same Old Tune , Law lies a Bleeding . ( 1 ) SInce Popish Plotters , Join'd with Bogg-Trotters , Sham-Plots are made as fast , as Pots are form'd by Potters Against these Juries There no such Cure is , As what our Law provides , our True and Loyal Juries . The Actium and Paction That breeds our Distraction , Is secretly Contrived by the Popish Faction . Who sham us and flame us , Trepan us , and damn us , And then grow enraged when they hear Ignoramus . ( 2 ) Traitors are rotten , Yet not forgotten , Nor Meal Tub Devices , which never well did Cotten . At ev'ry Season Inventing Treason , And Shams that none believed that had or Sense or Reason With fetches and stretches , These notorious Wretches Would get Loyal Subject's into their Bloody Clutches . They sham us , and flame us , etc ( 3 ) If wicked Tories Could pack their Juries , That would believe Black , White , and all their Lying Stories Then by Art Stygian Whigg's prov'd a Widgeon , And should be Hang'd for Plotting against the Popes Religion . They'd hear a , and swear a Thing that was as mere a Gross Lie as e'r was told , and find it Billa vera . They sham us , and flame us , etc ( 4 ) This IGNORAMUS , For which they blame us , And to the Pit of Hell , so often Curse and Damn us , Are men by Trial , Honest and Loyal , And for their King and Country ready are to Die all , They show it , and Vow it , Honest men do know it , Their Loyalty they hold , and never will forgo it . They sham us , and flame us , etc ( 5 ) At the Old-Baily Where men don't dally , And Traitors oft are Try'd , as Coleman , Whitebread , Staley , Was late Indicted , Witnesses cited , A Loyal Protestant , who spite of Rogues was Righted , Offences commences 'Gainst all men's Senses , 'Cause the honest Jury believed not Evidences . They sham us , and flame us , etc ( 6 ) For which a Villain Who for Ten Shilling To Hang a Protestant shall be found very willing , Now at this Season And without Reason , Shall call the Jury Traitors , and the Law make Treason : In fashion is Passion , Curses and Damnation , How quiet should we be , were Rogues sent to their Station . They sham us , and flame us , etc ( 7 ) 'Las what is Conscience Ith' Jesuites own Sense , For the Church one may Lie , and forswear without offence . Now what a Lurry , Keeps barking Tory , 'Cause he is not able the Innocent to whorry ! Does wrangle and brangle , 'Cause he cannot entangle , Nor bring honest Tony to the Block or Triangle . They sham us , and flame us , etc ( 8 ) I'le tell you What , Sir , You must go Plot , Sir , And get better Witness e'r Wise Men go to Pot Sir , When such abettors , Protestant haters , Would damn their Souls to Hell to make them wicked Traitors , We mind it and wind it , And are not now blinded , For what we now reject , no honest Jury'le find it , They sham us , and flame us , They ram us and damn us , When , according to the Law , we find IGNORAMUS . LONDON , Printed for Charles Leigh , 1681. H : 135823 A NEW IGNORAMUS : Being the second New SONG . To the same Old Tune , Law lies a Bleeding . ( 1 ) SInce Popish Plotters , Join'd with Bogg-Trotters , Sham-Plots are made as fast , as Pots are form'd by Potters Against these Juries There no such Cure is , As what our Law provides , our True and Loyal Juries . The Actium and Paction That breeds our Distraction , Is secretly Contrived by the Popish Faction . Who sham us and flame us , Trepan us , and damn us , And then grow enraged when they hear Ignoramus . ( 2 ) Traitors are rotten , Yet not forgotten , Nor Meal Tub Devices , which never well did Cotten . At ev'ry Season Inventing Treason , And Shams that none believed that had or Sense or Reason With fetches and stretches , These notorious Wretches Would get Loyal Subject's into their Bloody Clutches . They sham us , and flame us , etc ( 3 ) If wicked Tories Could pack their Juries , That would believe Black , White , and all their Lying Stories Then by Art Stygian Whigg's prov'd a Widgeon , And should be Hang'd for Plotting against the Popes Religion . They'd hear a , and swear a Thing that was as mere a Gross Lie as e'r was told , and find it Billa vera . They sham us , and flame us , etc ( 4 ) This IGNORAMUS , For which they blame us , And to the Pit of Hell , so often Curse and Damn us , Are men by Trial , Honest and Loyal , And for their King and Country ready are to Die all , They show it , and Vow it , Honest men do know it , Their Loyalty they hold , and never will forgo it . They sham us , and flame us , etc ( 5 ) At the Old-Baily Where men don't dally , And Traitors oft are Try'd , as Coleman , Whitebread , Staley , Was late Indicted , Witnesses cited , A Loyal Protestant , who spite of Rogues was Righted , Offences commences 'Gainst all men's Senses , 'Cause the honest Jury believed not Evidences . They sham us , and flame us , etc ( 6 ) For which a Villain Who for Ten Shilling To Hang a Protestant shall be found very willing , Now at this Season And without Reason , Shall call the Jury Traitors , and the Law make Treason : In fashion is Passion , Curses and Damnation , How quiet should we be , were Rogues sent to their Station . They sham us , and flame us , etc ( 7 ) 'Las what is Conscience Ith' Jesuites own Sense , For the Church one may Lie , and forswear without offence . Now what a Lurry , Keeps barking Tory , 'Cause he is not able the Innocent to whorry ! Does wrangle and brangle , 'Cause he cannot entangle , Nor bring honest Tony to the Block or Triangle . They sham us , and flame us , etc ( 8 ) I'le tell you What , Sir , You must go Plot , Sir , And get better Witness e'r Wise Men go to Pot Sir , When such abettors , Protestant haters , Would damn their Souls to Hell to make them wicked Traitors , We mind it and wind it , And are not now blinded , For what we now reject , no honest Jury'le find it , They sham us , and flame us , They ram us and damn us , When , according to the Law , we find IGNORAMUS . LONDON , Printed for Charles Leigh , 1681. H : 135823 A NEW IGNORAMUS : Being the second New SONG . To the same Old Tune , Law lies a Bleeding . ( 1 ) SInce Popish Plotters , Join'd with Bogg-Trotters , Sham-Plots are made as fast , as Pots are form'd by Potters Against these Juries There no such Cure is , As what our Law provides , our True and Loyal Juries . The Actium and Paction That breeds our Distraction , Is secretly Contrived by the Popish Faction . Who sham us and flame us , Trepan us , and damn us , And then grow enraged when they hear Ignoramus . ( 2 ) Traitors are rotten , Yet not forgotten , Nor Meal Tub Devices , which never well did Cotten . At ev'ry Season Inventing Treason , And Shams that none believed that had or Sense or Reason With fetches and stretches , These notorious Wretches Would get Loyal Subject's into their Bloody Clutches . They sham us , and flame us , etc ( 3 ) If wicked Tories Could pack their Juries , That would believe Black , White , and all their Lying Stories Then by Art Stygian Whigg's prov'd a Widgeon , And should be Hang'd for Plotting against the Popes Religion . They'd hear a , and swear a Thing that was as mere a Gross Lie as e'r was told , and find it Billa vera . They sham us , and flame us , etc ( 4 ) This IGNORAMUS , For which they blame us , And to the Pit of Hell , so often Curse and Damn us , Are men by Trial , Honest and Loyal , And for their King and Country ready are to Die all , They show it , and Vow it , Honest men do know it , Their Loyalty they hold , and never will forgo it . They sham us , and flame us , etc ( 5 ) At the Old-Baily Where men don't dally , And Traitors oft are Try'd , as Coleman , Whitebread , Staley , Was late Indicted , Witnesses cited , A Loyal Protestant , who spite of Rogues was Righted , Offences commences 'Gainst all men's Senses , 'Cause the honest Jury believed not Evidences . They sham us , and flame us , etc ( 6 ) For which a Villain Who for Ten Shilling To Hang a Protestant shall be found very willing , Now at this Season And without Reason , Shall call the Jury Traitors , and the Law make Treason : In fashion is Passion , Curses and Damnation , How quiet should we be , were Rogues sent to their Station . They sham us , and flame us , etc ( 7 ) 'Las what is Conscience Ith' Jesuites own Sense , For the Church one may Lie , and forswear without offence . Now what a Lurry , Keeps barking Tory , 'Cause he is not able the Innocent to whorry ! Does wrangle and brangle , 'Cause he cannot entangle , Nor bring honest Tony to the Block or Triangle . They sham us , and flame us , etc ( 8 ) I'le tell you What , Sir , You must go Plot , Sir , And get better Witness e'r Wise Men go to Pot Sir , When such abettors , Protestant haters , Would damn their Souls to Hell to make them wicked Traitors , We mind it and wind it , And are not now blinded , For what we now reject , no honest Jury'le find it , They sham us , and flame us , They ram us and damn us , When , according to the Law , we find IGNORAMUS . LONDON , Printed for Charles Leigh , 1681. 