H : 135822 [ I ] GNORAMUS : And Excellent New Song . To the Tune of , Lay by your Pleading , Law lies a bleeding . ( 1 ) SInce Reformation With Whig's in Fashion , [ TO ] here's neither Equity nor Justice in the Nation . Against their Furies , There no such Cure is , [ ? ] lately hath been wrought by Ignoramus-Juries . Compaction of Faction , That breeds all Distraction , [ ? ] at the Zenith Point , but will not bear and Actium . They sham us , and flame us , And ram us , and damn us , [ A ] and then , in spite of Law , come off with Ignoramus . ( 2 ) O , how they Plotted , Brimighams Voted , [ A ] and all the Mobile the Holy Cause promoted . They preach'd up Treason , At ev'ry season , [ A ] and taught the Multitude Rebellion was but Reason , With Breaches , Impeaches , And most Loyal Speeches , With Royal Blood again to glut the thirsty Leeches . They sham us and flame us , etc ( 3 ) 'Tis such a Jury Wou'd pass no Tory , Were he as Innocent as a Saint in Glory : But let a Brother Ravish his Mother , [ A ] ssassinate his King , he wou'd find no other . They shamed , and blamed , At Loyalists aimed ; But when a Whig's repriev'd , the Town with Beacons flamed . They sham us , and flame us , etc ( 4 ) This Ignoramus With which they sham us , Wou'd find against a York , to raise a M --- tO h-amus Who clears a Traitor ; And a King Hater Against his Lawful Prince wou'd find sufficient matter . They sought it , and wrought it , Like Rebels they fought it , And with the price of Royal Martyrs blood they bought it . They sham us , and flame us , etc ( 5 ) At the Old-Baily , Where Rogues flock daily , A greater Traitor far then Coleman , White or Staley , Was late Indicted , Witnesses cited , But then he was set free ; so the King was righted . 'Gainst Princes , Offences Prov'd in all senses ; But 'gainst a Whig there is no Truth in Evidences . They sham us , and flame us , etc ( 6 ) But wot you what , Sir ? They found it not , Sir ; 'Twas ev'ry Jurors Case , and there lay all the Plot , Sir . For at this season , Shou'd they do reason , Which of themselves shou'd escape , if they found it Treason ? Compassion in fashion , The Int'rest of th' Nation : O , what a Godly point is self-preservation ! They sham us , and flame us , etc ( 7 ) 'Las what is Conscience In Baxter's own sense , When Int'rest lies at stake , and Oath and Law is Nonsense . Now they will banter Quaker and Ranter , To find a Royalist , and clear a Covenanter . They'l wrangle and brangle , The Soul entangle , To save the Traitors Neck from the old Triangle . They flame us , and sham us , etc ( 8 ) Alas ! for pity Of this good City , What will the Tories say in their Drunken Dity ? When all Abettors , And Monarch Haters , The Brothers damn'd their Souls to save malicious Traitors . But mind it , long winded , With prejudice blinded , Lest what they did reject , another Jury find it . Then sham us , and flame us , And ram us , and damn us , When against King and Law you find and Ignoramus . LONDON : Printed in the year MDCLXXXI . H : 135822 [ I ] GNORAMUS : And Excellent New Song . To the Tune of , Lay by your Pleading , Law lies a bleeding . ( 1 ) SInce Reformation With Whig's in Fashion , [ TO ] here's neither Equity nor Justice in the Nation . Against their Furies , There no such Cure is , [ ? ] lately hath been wrought by Ignoramus-Juries . Compaction of Faction , That breeds all Distraction , [ ? ] at the Zenith Point , but will not bear and Actium . They sham us , and flame us , And ram us , and damn us , [ A ] and then , in spite of Law , come off with Ignoramus . ( 2 ) O , how they Plotted , Brimighams Voted , [ A ] and all the Mobile the Holy Cause promoted . They preach'd up Treason , At ev'ry season , [ A ] and taught the Multitude Rebellion was but Reason , With Breaches , Impeaches , And most Loyal Speeches , With Royal Blood again to glut the thirsty Leeches . They sham us and flame us , etc ( 3 ) 'Tis such a Jury Wou'd pass no Tory , Were he as Innocent as a Saint in Glory : But let a Brother Ravish his Mother , [ A ] ssassinate his King , he wou'd find no other . They shamed , and blamed , At Loyalists aimed ; But when a Whig's repriev'd , the Town with Beacons flamed . They sham us , and flame us , etc ( 4 ) This Ignoramus With which they sham us , Wou'd find against a York , to raise a M --- tO h-amus Who clears a Traitor ; And a King Hater Against his Lawful Prince wou'd find sufficient matter . They sought it , and wrought it , Like Rebels they fought it , And with the price of Royal Martyrs blood they bought it . They sham us , and flame us , etc ( 5 ) At the Old-Baily , Where Rogues flock daily , A greater Traitor far then Coleman , White or Staley , Was late Indicted , Witnesses cited , But then he was set free ; so the King was righted . 'Gainst Princes , Offences Prov'd in all senses ; But 'gainst a Whig there is no Truth in Evidences . They sham us , and flame us , etc ( 6 ) But wot you what , Sir ? They found it not , Sir ; 'Twas ev'ry Jurors Case , and there lay all the Plot , Sir . For at this season , Shou'd they do reason , Which of themselves shou'd escape , if they found it Treason ? Compassion in fashion , The Int'rest of th' Nation : O , what a Godly point is self-preservation ! They sham us , and flame us , etc ( 7 ) 'Las what is Conscience In Baxter's own sense , When Int'rest lies at stake , and Oath and Law is Nonsense . Now they will banter Quaker and Ranter , To find a Royalist , and clear a Covenanter . They'l wrangle and brangle , The Soul entangle , To save the Traitors Neck from the old Triangle . They flame us , and sham us , etc ( 8 ) Alas ! for pity Of this good City , What will the Tories say in their Drunken Dity ? When all Abettors , And Monarch Haters , The Brothers damn'd their Souls to save malicious Traitors . But mind it , long winded , With prejudice blinded , Lest what they did reject , another Jury find it . Then sham us , and flame us , And ram us , and damn us , When against King and Law you find and Ignoramus . LONDON : Printed in the year MDCLXXXI . H : 135822 [ I ] GNORAMUS : And Excellent New Song . To the Tune of , Lay by your Pleading , Law lies a bleeding . ( 1 ) SInce Reformation With Whig's in Fashion , [ TO ] here's neither Equity nor Justice in the Nation . Against their Furies , There no such Cure is , [ ? ] lately hath been wrought by Ignoramus-Juries . Compaction of Faction , That breeds all Distraction , [ ? ] at the Zenith Point , but will not bear and Actium . They sham us , and flame us , And ram us , and damn us , [ A ] and then , in spite of Law , come off with Ignoramus . ( 2 ) O , how they Plotted , Brimighams Voted , [ A ] and all the Mobile the Holy Cause promoted . They preach'd up Treason , At ev'ry season , [ A ] and taught the Multitude Rebellion was but Reason , With Breaches , Impeaches , And most Loyal Speeches , With Royal Blood again to glut the thirsty Leeches . They sham us and flame us , etc ( 3 ) 'Tis such a Jury Wou'd pass no Tory , Were he as Innocent as a Saint in Glory : But let a Brother Ravish his Mother , [ A ] ssassinate his King , he wou'd find no other . They shamed , and blamed , At Loyalists aimed ; But when a Whig's repriev'd , the Town with Beacons flamed . They sham us , and flame us , etc ( 4 ) This Ignoramus With which they sham us , Wou'd find against a York , to raise a M --- tO h-amus Who clears a Traitor ; And a King Hater Against his Lawful Prince wou'd find sufficient matter . They sought it , and wrought it , Like Rebels they fought it , And with the price of Royal Martyrs blood they bought it . They sham us , and flame us , etc ( 5 ) At the Old-Baily , Where Rogues flock daily , A greater Traitor far then Coleman , White or Staley , Was late Indicted , Witnesses cited , But then he was set free ; so the King was righted . 'Gainst Princes , Offences Prov'd in all senses ; But 'gainst a Whig there is no Truth in Evidences . They sham us , and flame us , etc ( 6 ) But wot you what , Sir ? They found it not , Sir ; 'Twas ev'ry Jurors Case , and there lay all the Plot , Sir . For at this season , Shou'd they do reason , Which of themselves shou'd escape , if they found it Treason ? Compassion in fashion , The Int'rest of th' Nation : O , what a Godly point is self-preservation ! They sham us , and flame us , etc ( 7 ) 'Las what is Conscience In Baxter's own sense , When Int'rest lies at stake , and Oath and Law is Nonsense . Now they will banter Quaker and Ranter , To find a Royalist , and clear a Covenanter . They'l wrangle and brangle , The Soul entangle , To save the Traitors Neck from the old Triangle . They flame us , and sham us , etc ( 8 ) Alas ! for pity Of this good City , What will the Tories say in their Drunken Dity ? When all Abettors , And Monarch Haters , The Brothers damn'd their Souls to save malicious Traitors . But mind it , long winded , With prejudice blinded , Lest what they did reject , another Jury find it . Then sham us , and flame us , And ram us , and damn us , When against King and Law you find and Ignoramus . LONDON : Printed in the year MDCLXXXI . H : 135822 [ I ] GNORAMUS : And Excellent New Song . To the Tune of , Lay by your Pleading , Law lies a bleeding . ( 1 ) SInce Reformation With Whig's in Fashion , [ TO ] here's neither Equity nor Justice in the Nation . Against their Furies , There no such Cure is , [ ? ] lately hath been wrought by Ignoramus-Juries . Compaction of Faction , That breeds all Distraction , [ ? ] at the Zenith Point , but will not bear and Actium . They sham us , and flame us , And ram us , and damn us , [ A ] and then , in spite of Law , come off with Ignoramus . ( 2 ) O , how they Plotted , Brimighams Voted , [ A ] and all the Mobile the Holy Cause promoted . They preach'd up Treason , At ev'ry season , [ A ] and taught the Multitude Rebellion was but Reason , With Breaches , Impeaches , And most Loyal Speeches , With Royal Blood again to glut the thirsty Leeches . They sham us and flame us , etc ( 3 ) 'Tis such a Jury Wou'd pass no Tory , Were he as Innocent as a Saint in Glory : But let a Brother Ravish his Mother , [ A ] ssassinate his King , he wou'd find no other . They shamed , and blamed , At Loyalists aimed ; But when a Whig's repriev'd , the Town with Beacons flamed . They sham us , and flame us , etc ( 4 ) This Ignoramus With which they sham us , Wou'd find against a York , to raise a M --- tO h-amus Who clears a Traitor ; And a King Hater Against his Lawful Prince wou'd find sufficient matter . They sought it , and wrought it , Like Rebels they fought it , And with the price of Royal Martyrs blood they bought it . They sham us , and flame us , etc ( 5 ) At the Old-Baily , Where Rogues flock daily , A greater Traitor far then Coleman , White or Staley , Was late Indicted , Witnesses cited , But then he was set free ; so the King was righted . 'Gainst Princes , Offences Prov'd in all senses ; But 'gainst a Whig there is no Truth in Evidences . They sham us , and flame us , etc ( 6 ) But wot you what , Sir ? They found it not , Sir ; 'Twas ev'ry Jurors Case , and there lay all the Plot , Sir . For at this season , Shou'd they do reason , Which of themselves shou'd escape , if they found it Treason ? Compassion in fashion , The Int'rest of th' Nation : O , what a Godly point is self-preservation ! They sham us , and flame us , etc ( 7 ) 'Las what is Conscience In Baxter's own sense , When Int'rest lies at stake , and Oath and Law is Nonsense . Now they will banter Quaker and Ranter , To find a Royalist , and clear a Covenanter . They'l wrangle and brangle , The Soul entangle , To save the Traitors Neck from the old Triangle . They flame us , and sham us , etc ( 8 ) Alas ! for pity Of this good City , What will the Tories say in their Drunken Dity ? When all Abettors , And Monarch Haters , The Brothers damn'd their Souls to save malicious Traitors . But mind it , long winded , With prejudice blinded , Lest what they did reject , another Jury find it . Then sham us , and flame us , And ram us , and damn us , When against King and Law you find and Ignoramus . LONDON : Printed in the year MDCLXXXI . 