H : 135800 Advice to His GRACE . AWake , vain Man ; 'tis time th' Abuse to see ; Awake , and guard thy heedless Loyalty From all the Snares are laid for It and Thee . No longer let that busy juggling Crew ( Who to their own misdeeds entitle You , ) Abuse Your ear : Consider , Sir , the State Of our unhappy Isle , disturb'd of late With causeless Jealousies , ungrounded Fear , Obstinate Faction , and Seditious Care ; Gone quite distracted for Religion's sake ; And nothing their hight Brains can cooler make , ( So great's the deprivation of their sense , ) But the excluding of their lawful Prince : A Prince , in whose each Act is clearly shown , That Heaven design'd Him to adorn a Throne ; Which ( tho' He scorns by Treason to pursue , ) He ne'r will quit , if it become His endue . Then lay betimes Your mad Ambition down ; Nor let the dazzling Lustre of a Crown Bewitch Your Thoughts ; but think what mighty care Attends the Crowns that lawful Princes wear ; But when ill Title's added to the weight , How insupportable's the Load of State ! Believe those working Brains Your Name abuse ; You only for their Property do use : And when they're strong enough to stand alone ; You , as and useless Thing , away'l be thrown . Think too , how dear you have already paid , For the fine Projects Your false Friends had laid . When by the Rabbles fruitless Zeal You lost Your Royal Father's Love , Your growing Fortune cross'd ; Say , was Your Bargain , think you , worth the Cost ? Remember what Relation , Sir , you bear To Royal Charles ; Subject and Son You are ; Two Names that strict Obedience does require ; What Frenzy then does Your rash Thoughts Inspire , Thus by Disloyal Deeds to add more Cares , To them of the bright Burden that he wears ? Why with such eager speed hunt You a Crown You're so unfit to wear , were it Your own ? With Bows , and Legs , and little Arts , You try , A rude , unthinking Tumults love to buy : And he who stoops to do so mean a Thing , Shows He , by Heaven , was ne're design'd for King . Would You be Great ? do Things are Great and Brave ; And scorn to be the Mobile's dull Slaves : Tell the base Great Ones , and the shouting Throng , You scorn a Crown worn in another's wrong . Prove Your high Birth by Deeds Noble and Good ; But strive not to Legitimate Your Blood . Ephelia . H : 135800 Advice to His GRACE . AWake , vain Man ; 'tis time th' Abuse to see ; Awake , and guard thy heedless Loyalty From all the Snares are laid for It and Thee . No longer let that busy juggling Crew ( Who to their own misdeeds entitle You , ) Abuse Your ear : Consider , Sir , the State Of our unhappy Isle , disturb'd of late With causeless Jealousies , ungrounded Fear , Obstinate Faction , and Seditious Care ; Gone quite distracted for Religion's sake ; And nothing their hight Brains can cooler make , ( So great's the deprivation of their sense , ) But the excluding of their lawful Prince : A Prince , in whose each Act is clearly shown , That Heaven design'd Him to adorn a Throne ; Which ( tho' He scorns by Treason to pursue , ) He ne'r will quit , if it become His endue . Then lay betimes Your mad Ambition down ; Nor let the dazzling Lustre of a Crown Bewitch Your Thoughts ; but think what mighty care Attends the Crowns that lawful Princes wear ; But when ill Title's added to the weight , How insupportable's the Load of State ! Believe those working Brains Your Name abuse ; You only for their Property do use : And when they're strong enough to stand alone ; You , as and useless Thing , away'l be thrown . Think too , how dear you have already paid , For the fine Projects Your false Friends had laid . When by the Rabbles fruitless Zeal You lost Your Royal Father's Love , Your growing Fortune cross'd ; Say , was Your Bargain , think you , worth the Cost ? Remember what Relation , Sir , you bear To Royal Charles ; Subject and Son You are ; Two Names that strict Obedience does require ; What Frenzy then does Your rash Thoughts Inspire , Thus by Disloyal Deeds to add more Cares , To them of the bright Burden that he wears ? Why with such eager speed hunt You a Crown You're so unfit to wear , were it Your own ? With Bows , and Legs , and little Arts , You try , A rude , unthinking Tumults love to buy : And he who stoops to do so mean a Thing , Shows He , by Heaven , was ne're design'd for King . Would You be Great ? do Things are Great and Brave ; And scorn to be the Mobile's dull Slaves : Tell the base Great Ones , and the shouting Throng , You scorn a Crown worn in another's wrong . Prove Your high Birth by Deeds Noble and Good ; But strive not to Legitimate Your Blood . Ephelia . H : 135800 Advice to His GRACE . AWake , vain Man ; 'tis time th' Abuse to see ; Awake , and guard thy heedless Loyalty From all the Snares are laid for It and Thee . No longer let that busy juggling Crew ( Who to their own misdeeds entitle You , ) Abuse Your ear : Consider , Sir , the State Of our unhappy Isle , disturb'd of late With causeless Jealousies , ungrounded Fear , Obstinate Faction , and Seditious Care ; Gone quite distracted for Religion's sake ; And nothing their hight Brains can cooler make , ( So great's the deprivation of their sense , ) But the excluding of their lawful Prince : A Prince , in whose each Act is clearly shown , That Heaven design'd Him to adorn a Throne ; Which ( tho' He scorns by Treason to pursue , ) He ne'r will quit , if it become His endue . Then lay betimes Your mad Ambition down ; Nor let the dazzling Lustre of a Crown Bewitch Your Thoughts ; but think what mighty care Attends the Crowns that lawful Princes wear ; But when ill Title's added to the weight , How insupportable's the Load of State ! Believe those working Brains Your Name abuse ; You only for their Property do use : And when they're strong enough to stand alone ; You , as and useless Thing , away'l be thrown . Think too , how dear you have already paid , For the fine Projects Your false Friends had laid . When by the Rabbles fruitless Zeal You lost Your Royal Father's Love , Your growing Fortune cross'd ; Say , was Your Bargain , think you , worth the Cost ? Remember what Relation , Sir , you bear To Royal Charles ; Subject and Son You are ; Two Names that strict Obedience does require ; What Frenzy then does Your rash Thoughts Inspire , Thus by Disloyal Deeds to add more Cares , To them of the bright Burden that he wears ? Why with such eager speed hunt You a Crown You're so unfit to wear , were it Your own ? With Bows , and Legs , and little Arts , You try , A rude , unthinking Tumults love to buy : And he who stoops to do so mean a Thing , Shows He , by Heaven , was ne're design'd for King . Would You be Great ? do Things are Great and Brave ; And scorn to be the Mobile's dull Slaves : Tell the base Great Ones , and the shouting Throng , You scorn a Crown worn in another's wrong . Prove Your high Birth by Deeds Noble and Good ; But strive not to Legitimate Your Blood . Ephelia . H : 135800 Advice to His GRACE . AWake , vain Man ; 'tis time th' Abuse to see ; Awake , and guard thy heedless Loyalty From all the Snares are laid for It and Thee . No longer let that busy juggling Crew ( Who to their own misdeeds entitle You , ) Abuse Your ear : Consider , Sir , the State Of our unhappy Isle , disturb'd of late With causeless Jealousies , ungrounded Fear , Obstinate Faction , and Seditious Care ; Gone quite distracted for Religion's sake ; And nothing their hight Brains can cooler make , ( So great's the deprivation of their sense , ) But the excluding of their lawful Prince : A Prince , in whose each Act is clearly shown , That Heaven design'd Him to adorn a Throne ; Which ( tho' He scorns by Treason to pursue , ) He ne'r will quit , if it become His endue . Then lay betimes Your mad Ambition down ; Nor let the dazzling Lustre of a Crown Bewitch Your Thoughts ; but think what mighty care Attends the Crowns that lawful Princes wear ; But when ill Title's added to the weight , How insupportable's the Load of State ! Believe those working Brains Your Name abuse ; You only for their Property do use : And when they're strong enough to stand alone ; You , as and useless Thing , away'l be thrown . Think too , how dear you have already paid , For the fine Projects Your false Friends had laid . When by the Rabbles fruitless Zeal You lost Your Royal Father's Love , Your growing Fortune cross'd ; Say , was Your Bargain , think you , worth the Cost ? Remember what Relation , Sir , you bear To Royal Charles ; Subject and Son You are ; Two Names that strict Obedience does require ; What Frenzy then does Your rash Thoughts Inspire , Thus by Disloyal Deeds to add more Cares , To them of the bright Burden that he wears ? Why with such eager speed hunt You a Crown You're so unfit to wear , were it Your own ? With Bows , and Legs , and little Arts , You try , A rude , unthinking Tumults love to buy : And he who stoops to do so mean a Thing , Shows He , by Heaven , was ne're design'd for King . Would You be Great ? do Things are Great and Brave ; And scorn to be the Mobile's dull Slaves : Tell the base Great Ones , and the shouting Throng , You scorn a Crown worn in another's wrong . Prove Your high Birth by Deeds Noble and Good ; But strive not to Legitimate Your Blood . Ephelia . 