H : 135815 A Congratulation on the Happy Discovery of the Hellish Fanatic Plot . To the Tune of , Now , now the Fight's done . 1. COme now let's Rejoice , And the City Bells' ring , And the Bonfires kindle , While unto the KING We pay on our Knees The grand Tribute that's due , Of Thanks and Oblations , Which now we renew , For Mercies that we Have received of late , From Prudence and Justice Diverting our Fate . 2. The Curtain is drawn , And the Clouds are dispers'd ; The PLOT's come to light , That in darkness did Nes Jack Calvin's display'd With his Colours in Grain , And who were the Traitors And Villains 'tis plain : The Traps that they laid , And the Snares that they set , Have caught them at last In their own silly Net . 3. The Foreman himself , That Offspring of Hell , In whose wicked Breast All Treason does dwell , To the Tower is sent , With his Triple Name , While the Triple-Tree groans For his Carcase again , And many Rogues more Their Leader will follow Unto the same Place , While we whoop and Hollow . 4. The Libeling Tribe Who so long have Reign'd , And sowed Sedition , Shall now be Arraign'd ; Their Shams and their Lies Shall do them no good , When they come to the Tree , There's no Shamming that Wood : Janeway and Curtis In the Forlorn Hope , Then Vile , Smith and Care Shall Neck the next Rope . 5. So , so , let them die That would Monarchs destroy , And spit all their Venom Our Land to annoy : If that their Pow'r were To their Malice equal , And their Courage the same , They'd soon ruin all ; But their Courage is low , And their Power but small ; Their Treason is High , And must have a Fallen . 6. When Trojans of Old ( Our Ancestors ) were In danger of Shipwreck , And toss'd here and there ; Great Neptune soon quell'd Those Rebels and Storms , With brandished Trident , And free'd them from harms ; They fled from his Face , Through the guilt of their Cause , As these from our Lion , If he stretch out his Paws . 7. Go Devils , be gone To the Region below , Here's no bus'ness of yours , Or ought left to do : No Tempter we need , We can act all our selves , Without any help From you silly Elves ; For what Presbyter Acts , He thinks a disgrace All Hell should outdo him , Or dare show their Face . 8. For produce all the Ill That Hell ever hatch'd , 'Tis nothing at all , When it comer to be match's With what has been Plotted By Traitors of late , Who aim'd at the Ruin Of Church , and of State : By Perjury , Bribes , By suborning all Evil , By Murder , and worse Than e're came from th' Devil . 9. Now Presbyter come And submit thy stiff Neck , Thou labour'st in vain Our great Monarch to check ; Whose Power Divine No Mortals control , But hazard the loss Of both Body and Soul : Then banish for ever Your Commonwealth hope , Which tends to destruction , And ends with A ROPE . EPILOGUE . With Wine of all sorts Let the Conduits run free , And each true heart drink The KING's Health on his Knee , No Treason shall lodge In our Breasts while we live , To God , and to Caesar Their Due we will give ; We'l pray with our Hearts , And fight with our Hands , Against all Fanatics , When Great CHARLES Commands . H : 135815 A Congratulation on the Happy Discovery of the Hellish Fanatic Plot . To the Tune of , Now , now the Fight's done . 1. COme now let's Rejoice , And the City Bells' ring , And the Bonfires kindle , While unto the KING We pay on our Knees The grand Tribute that's due , Of Thanks and Oblations , Which now we renew , For Mercies that we Have received of late , From Prudence and Justice Diverting our Fate . 2. The Curtain is drawn , And the Clouds are dispers'd ; The PLOT's come to light , That in darkness did Nes Jack Calvin's display'd With his Colours in Grain , And who were the Traitors And Villains 'tis plain : The Traps that they laid , And the Snares that they set , Have caught them at last In their own silly Net . 3. The Foreman himself , That Offspring of Hell , In whose wicked Breast All Treason does dwell , To the Tower is sent , With his Triple Name , While the Triple-Tree groans For his Carcase again , And many Rogues more Their Leader will follow Unto the same Place , While we whoop and Hollow . 4. The Libeling Tribe Who so long have Reign'd , And sowed Sedition , Shall now be Arraign'd ; Their Shams and their Lies Shall do them no good , When they come to the Tree , There's no Shamming that Wood : Janeway and Curtis In the Forlorn Hope , Then Vile , Smith and Care Shall Neck the next Rope . 5. So , so , let them die That would Monarchs destroy , And spit all their Venom Our Land to annoy : If that their Pow'r were To their Malice equal , And their Courage the same , They'd soon ruin all ; But their Courage is low , And their Power but small ; Their Treason is High , And must have a Fallen . 6. When Trojans of Old ( Our Ancestors ) were In danger of Shipwreck , And toss'd here and there ; Great Neptune soon quell'd Those Rebels and Storms , With brandished Trident , And free'd them from harms ; They fled from his Face , Through the guilt of their Cause , As these from our Lion , If he stretch out his Paws . 7. Go Devils , be gone To the Region below , Here's no bus'ness of yours , Or ought left to do : No Tempter we need , We can act all our selves , Without any help From you silly Elves ; For what Presbyter Acts , He thinks a disgrace All Hell should outdo him , Or dare show their Face . 8. For produce all the Ill That Hell ever hatch'd , 'Tis nothing at all , When it comer to be match's With what has been Plotted By Traitors of late , Who aim'd at the Ruin Of Church , and of State : By Perjury , Bribes , By suborning all Evil , By Murder , and worse Than e're came from th' Devil . 9. Now Presbyter come And submit thy stiff Neck , Thou labour'st in vain Our great Monarch to check ; Whose Power Divine No Mortals control , But hazard the loss Of both Body and Soul : Then banish for ever Your Commonwealth hope , Which tends to destruction , And ends with A ROPE . EPILOGUE . With Wine of all sorts Let the Conduits run free , And each true heart drink The KING's Health on his Knee , No Treason shall lodge In our Breasts while we live , To God , and to Caesar Their Due we will give ; We'l pray with our Hearts , And fight with our Hands , Against all Fanatics , When Great CHARLES Commands . H : 135815 A Congratulation on the Happy Discovery of the Hellish Fanatic Plot . To the Tune of , Now , now the Fight's done . 1. COme now let's Rejoice , And the City Bells' ring , And the Bonfires kindle , While unto the KING We pay on our Knees The grand Tribute that's due , Of Thanks and Oblations , Which now we renew , For Mercies that we Have received of late , From Prudence and Justice Diverting our Fate . 2. The Curtain is drawn , And the Clouds are dispers'd ; The PLOT's come to light , That in darkness did Nes Jack Calvin's display'd With his Colours in Grain , And who were the Traitors And Villains 'tis plain : The Traps that they laid , And the Snares that they set , Have caught them at last In their own silly Net . 3. The Foreman himself , That Offspring of Hell , In whose wicked Breast All Treason does dwell , To the Tower is sent , With his Triple Name , While the Triple-Tree groans For his Carcase again , And many Rogues more Their Leader will follow Unto the same Place , While we whoop and Hollow . 4. The Libeling Tribe Who so long have Reign'd , And sowed Sedition , Shall now be Arraign'd ; Their Shams and their Lies Shall do them no good , When they come to the Tree , There's no Shamming that Wood : Janeway and Curtis In the Forlorn Hope , Then Vile , Smith and Care Shall Neck the next Rope . 5. So , so , let them die That would Monarchs destroy , And spit all their Venom Our Land to annoy : If that their Pow'r were To their Malice equal , And their Courage the same , They'd soon ruin all ; But their Courage is low , And their Power but small ; Their Treason is High , And must have a Fallen . 6. When Trojans of Old ( Our Ancestors ) were In danger of Shipwreck , And toss'd here and there ; Great Neptune soon quell'd Those Rebels and Storms , With brandished Trident , And free'd them from harms ; They fled from his Face , Through the guilt of their Cause , As these from our Lion , If he stretch out his Paws . 7. Go Devils , be gone To the Region below , Here's no bus'ness of yours , Or ought left to do : No Tempter we need , We can act all our selves , Without any help From you silly Elves ; For what Presbyter Acts , He thinks a disgrace All Hell should outdo him , Or dare show their Face . 8. For produce all the Ill That Hell ever hatch'd , 'Tis nothing at all , When it comer to be match's With what has been Plotted By Traitors of late , Who aim'd at the Ruin Of Church , and of State : By Perjury , Bribes , By suborning all Evil , By Murder , and worse Than e're came from th' Devil . 9. Now Presbyter come And submit thy stiff Neck , Thou labour'st in vain Our great Monarch to check ; Whose Power Divine No Mortals control , But hazard the loss Of both Body and Soul : Then banish for ever Your Commonwealth hope , Which tends to destruction , And ends with A ROPE . EPILOGUE . With Wine of all sorts Let the Conduits run free , And each true heart drink The KING's Health on his Knee , No Treason shall lodge In our Breasts while we live , To God , and to Caesar Their Due we will give ; We'l pray with our Hearts , And fight with our Hands , Against all Fanatics , When Great CHARLES Commands . H : 135815 A Congratulation on the Happy Discovery of the Hellish Fanatic Plot . To the Tune of , Now , now the Fight's done . 1. COme now let's Rejoice , And the City Bells' ring , And the Bonfires kindle , While unto the KING We pay on our Knees The grand Tribute that's due , Of Thanks and Oblations , Which now we renew , For Mercies that we Have received of late , From Prudence and Justice Diverting our Fate . 2. The Curtain is drawn , And the Clouds are dispers'd ; The PLOT's come to light , That in darkness did Nes Jack Calvin's display'd With his Colours in Grain , And who were the Traitors And Villains 'tis plain : The Traps that they laid , And the Snares that they set , Have caught them at last In their own silly Net . 3. The Foreman himself , That Offspring of Hell , In whose wicked Breast All Treason does dwell , To the Tower is sent , With his Triple Name , While the Triple-Tree groans For his Carcase again , And many Rogues more Their Leader will follow Unto the same Place , While we whoop and Hollow . 4. The Libeling Tribe Who so long have Reign'd , And sowed Sedition , Shall now be Arraign'd ; Their Shams and their Lies Shall do them no good , When they come to the Tree , There's no Shamming that Wood : Janeway and Curtis In the Forlorn Hope , Then Vile , Smith and Care Shall Neck the next Rope . 5. So , so , let them die That would Monarchs destroy , And spit all their Venom Our Land to annoy : If that their Pow'r were To their Malice equal , And their Courage the same , They'd soon ruin all ; But their Courage is low , And their Power but small ; Their Treason is High , And must have a Fallen . 6. When Trojans of Old ( Our Ancestors ) were In danger of Shipwreck , And toss'd here and there ; Great Neptune soon quell'd Those Rebels and Storms , With brandished Trident , And free'd them from harms ; They fled from his Face , Through the guilt of their Cause , As these from our Lion , If he stretch out his Paws . 7. Go Devils , be gone To the Region below , Here's no bus'ness of yours , Or ought left to do : No Tempter we need , We can act all our selves , Without any help From you silly Elves ; For what Presbyter Acts , He thinks a disgrace All Hell should outdo him , Or dare show their Face . 8. For produce all the Ill That Hell ever hatch'd , 'Tis nothing at all , When it comer to be match's With what has been Plotted By Traitors of late , Who aim'd at the Ruin Of Church , and of State : By Perjury , Bribes , By suborning all Evil , By Murder , and worse Than e're came from th' Devil . 9. Now Presbyter come And submit thy stiff Neck , Thou labour'st in vain Our great Monarch to check ; Whose Power Divine No Mortals control , But hazard the loss Of both Body and Soul : Then banish for ever Your Commonwealth hope , Which tends to destruction , And ends with A ROPE . EPILOGUE . With Wine of all sorts Let the Conduits run free , And each true heart drink The KING's Health on his Knee , No Treason shall lodge In our Breasts while we live , To God , and to Caesar Their Due we will give ; We'l pray with our Hearts , And fight with our Hands , Against all Fanatics , When Great CHARLES Commands . 