H : 135803 THE NEWGATE Salutation : OR A DIALOGUE between Sir W.W. and Mrs. Cellier . To the Tune of , The Fight is now ended . 1. OLd Stories of State grow now out of date , And Factious Promoters obstructed by Fate ; Great Charles in his Throne Protects Us alone , Without those wild Maggots that Calvin has blown ; And now in the calm a Reflection I'le make , Of a kind Salutation in Newgate of late . 2. 'Twixt a Knight of the Cause , whose great Eminence , By Popish Rat-catching , and smooth Impudence ; Belov'd by all those that are the Kings Foes , Yet in the Reception he dreaded some blows ; For when Fire and Water by accident greet , Those unruly Elements clash when they meet . 3. And downright Dame Cellier , who still keeps her place , To which He prefer'd her with Marks of Disgrace : But now they are met in Newgate to Treat , Id'e freely give Six Pence you had seen the Set . For She was Transported , and stood in a maze , While He like and Owl among Lapwings did gaze . 4. He snuffl'd with's Nose , and made a long pause , In's New-fashion'd Cloak he wrap'd up the Old Cause , And cry'd Madam Cellier , I hope we are Friends ; Wer't now in my Power I'de make you amends . Pray turn not my Stomach with lancing old Sores , My squeazy Misfortunes are far worse than yours . 5. Great Sir ! You are welcome unto this Great House , I scorn to throw Water upon a drown'd Mouse ; None of my Relations I have seen this year , Could be half so welcome should they be brought here . Your great Vigilance , and your Zeal does surpass , In Courage , DONE Quixot ; in Zeal , Hudibrass . 6. I'th silent of Night , no Goblin nor Spright , Could e're work such Wonders as you did Sir Knight , In finding out Priests without help of Christ . You were the Knight Errant on all such Exploits ; No Janus's two Faces , nor Argus's strange Eyes , E're bilked up their Fortune's , like you by surprise . 7. Though you were betray'd by Oh --- and his Bums ; Those Amber Necklaces like Beads on your Thumbs , Supply'd you with Coin Sir those Debts for to pay , Beside those Rich Medals in ambush for Prey ; Or some score of Pounds Bedingf . ( pull'd out on's Bed ) Though two years at least after he had been dead . 8. Gusman to your Worship was but a mere Sot , He never had Sense to find out a Sham Plot ; But you by the Art Sir of Legerdemain , What you put in the Meal Tub , could fetch out again , But all you near Jugglers Confederates do keep , As my Maid and you in the Meal Tub did meet . 9. The Knight in his passion found Truth would confute , St. Francis then enter'd to end the Dispute . Sir , This is no place for your Safety and Honour , She's void of the Light which the Cause upon her . Come give me your Hand Sir into my own Room , To consult who supply's our kind Ladies at home . 10. Now since we are inform'd the Knight is god lose , Yet finding some Clause of his Case in the noose Wrapped up in the tangle , Great Charles he did dun , To Pardon his Treasons , what's past , and to come . But and answer most fit I hope he did receive , For a Treacherous Fool , and a sly busy Knave . LONDON . Printed for the Use of the Students in Whittington's College . H : 135803 THE NEWGATE Salutation : OR A DIALOGUE between Sir W.W. and Mrs. Cellier . To the Tune of , The Fight is now ended . 1. OLd Stories of State grow now out of date , And Factious Promoters obstructed by Fate ; Great Charles in his Throne Protects Us alone , Without those wild Maggots that Calvin has blown ; And now in the calm a Reflection I'le make , Of a kind Salutation in Newgate of late . 2. 'Twixt a Knight of the Cause , whose great Eminence , By Popish Rat-catching , and smooth Impudence ; Belov'd by all those that are the Kings Foes , Yet in the Reception he dreaded some blows ; For when Fire and Water by accident greet , Those unruly Elements clash when they meet . 3. And downright Dame Cellier , who still keeps her place , To which He prefer'd her with Marks of Disgrace : But now they are met in Newgate to Treat , Id'e freely give Six Pence you had seen the Set . For She was Transported , and stood in a maze , While He like and Owl among Lapwings did gaze . 4. He snuffl'd with's Nose , and made a long pause , In's New-fashion'd Cloak he wrap'd up the Old Cause , And cry'd Madam Cellier , I hope we are Friends ; Wer't now in my Power I'de make you amends . Pray turn not my Stomach with lancing old Sores , My squeazy Misfortunes are far worse than yours . 5. Great Sir ! You are welcome unto this Great House , I scorn to throw Water upon a drown'd Mouse ; None of my Relations I have seen this year , Could be half so welcome should they be brought here . Your great Vigilance , and your Zeal does surpass , In Courage , DONE Quixot ; in Zeal , Hudibrass . 6. I'th silent of Night , no Goblin nor Spright , Could e're work such Wonders as you did Sir Knight , In finding out Priests without help of Christ . You were the Knight Errant on all such Exploits ; No Janus's two Faces , nor Argus's strange Eyes , E're bilked up their Fortune's , like you by surprise . 7. Though you were betray'd by Oh --- and his Bums ; Those Amber Necklaces like Beads on your Thumbs , Supply'd you with Coin Sir those Debts for to pay , Beside those Rich Medals in ambush for Prey ; Or some score of Pounds Bedingf . ( pull'd out on's Bed ) Though two years at least after he had been dead . 8. Gusman to your Worship was but a mere Sot , He never had Sense to find out a Sham Plot ; But you by the Art Sir of Legerdemain , What you put in the Meal Tub , could fetch out again , But all you near Jugglers Confederates do keep , As my Maid and you in the Meal Tub did meet . 9. The Knight in his passion found Truth would confute , St. Francis then enter'd to end the Dispute . Sir , This is no place for your Safety and Honour , She's void of the Light which the Cause upon her . Come give me your Hand Sir into my own Room , To consult who supply's our kind Ladies at home . 10. Now since we are inform'd the Knight is god lose , Yet finding some Clause of his Case in the noose Wrapped up in the tangle , Great Charles he did dun , To Pardon his Treasons , what's past , and to come . But and answer most fit I hope he did receive , For a Treacherous Fool , and a sly busy Knave . LONDON . Printed for the Use of the Students in Whittington's College . H : 135803 THE NEWGATE Salutation : OR A DIALOGUE between Sir W.W. and Mrs. Cellier . To the Tune of , The Fight is now ended . 1. OLd Stories of State grow now out of date , And Factious Promoters obstructed by Fate ; Great Charles in his Throne Protects Us alone , Without those wild Maggots that Calvin has blown ; And now in the calm a Reflection I'le make , Of a kind Salutation in Newgate of late . 2. 'Twixt a Knight of the Cause , whose great Eminence , By Popish Rat-catching , and smooth Impudence ; Belov'd by all those that are the Kings Foes , Yet in the Reception he dreaded some blows ; For when Fire and Water by accident greet , Those unruly Elements clash when they meet . 3. And downright Dame Cellier , who still keeps her place , To which He prefer'd her with Marks of Disgrace : But now they are met in Newgate to Treat , Id'e freely give Six Pence you had seen the Set . For She was Transported , and stood in a maze , While He like and Owl among Lapwings did gaze . 4. He snuffl'd with's Nose , and made a long pause , In's New-fashion'd Cloak he wrap'd up the Old Cause , And cry'd Madam Cellier , I hope we are Friends ; Wer't now in my Power I'de make you amends . Pray turn not my Stomach with lancing old Sores , My squeazy Misfortunes are far worse than yours . 5. Great Sir ! You are welcome unto this Great House , I scorn to throw Water upon a drown'd Mouse ; None of my Relations I have seen this year , Could be half so welcome should they be brought here . Your great Vigilance , and your Zeal does surpass , In Courage , DONE Quixot ; in Zeal , Hudibrass . 6. I'th silent of Night , no Goblin nor Spright , Could e're work such Wonders as you did Sir Knight , In finding out Priests without help of Christ . You were the Knight Errant on all such Exploits ; No Janus's two Faces , nor Argus's strange Eyes , E're bilked up their Fortune's , like you by surprise . 7. Though you were betray'd by Oh --- and his Bums ; Those Amber Necklaces like Beads on your Thumbs , Supply'd you with Coin Sir those Debts for to pay , Beside those Rich Medals in ambush for Prey ; Or some score of Pounds Bedingf . ( pull'd out on's Bed ) Though two years at least after he had been dead . 8. Gusman to your Worship was but a mere Sot , He never had Sense to find out a Sham Plot ; But you by the Art Sir of Legerdemain , What you put in the Meal Tub , could fetch out again , But all you near Jugglers Confederates do keep , As my Maid and you in the Meal Tub did meet . 9. The Knight in his passion found Truth would confute , St. Francis then enter'd to end the Dispute . Sir , This is no place for your Safety and Honour , She's void of the Light which the Cause upon her . Come give me your Hand Sir into my own Room , To consult who supply's our kind Ladies at home . 10. Now since we are inform'd the Knight is god lose , Yet finding some Clause of his Case in the noose Wrapped up in the tangle , Great Charles he did dun , To Pardon his Treasons , what's past , and to come . But and answer most fit I hope he did receive , For a Treacherous Fool , and a sly busy Knave . LONDON . Printed for the Use of the Students in Whittington's College . H : 135803 THE NEWGATE Salutation : OR A DIALOGUE between Sir W.W. and Mrs. Cellier . To the Tune of , The Fight is now ended . 1. OLd Stories of State grow now out of date , And Factious Promoters obstructed by Fate ; Great Charles in his Throne Protects Us alone , Without those wild Maggots that Calvin has blown ; And now in the calm a Reflection I'le make , Of a kind Salutation in Newgate of late . 2. 'Twixt a Knight of the Cause , whose great Eminence , By Popish Rat-catching , and smooth Impudence ; Belov'd by all those that are the Kings Foes , Yet in the Reception he dreaded some blows ; For when Fire and Water by accident greet , Those unruly Elements clash when they meet . 3. And downright Dame Cellier , who still keeps her place , To which He prefer'd her with Marks of Disgrace : But now they are met in Newgate to Treat , Id'e freely give Six Pence you had seen the Set . For She was Transported , and stood in a maze , While He like and Owl among Lapwings did gaze . 4. He snuffl'd with's Nose , and made a long pause , In's New-fashion'd Cloak he wrap'd up the Old Cause , And cry'd Madam Cellier , I hope we are Friends ; Wer't now in my Power I'de make you amends . Pray turn not my Stomach with lancing old Sores , My squeazy Misfortunes are far worse than yours . 5. Great Sir ! You are welcome unto this Great House , I scorn to throw Water upon a drown'd Mouse ; None of my Relations I have seen this year , Could be half so welcome should they be brought here . Your great Vigilance , and your Zeal does surpass , In Courage , DONE Quixot ; in Zeal , Hudibrass . 6. I'th silent of Night , no Goblin nor Spright , Could e're work such Wonders as you did Sir Knight , In finding out Priests without help of Christ . You were the Knight Errant on all such Exploits ; No Janus's two Faces , nor Argus's strange Eyes , E're bilked up their Fortune's , like you by surprise . 7. Though you were betray'd by Oh --- and his Bums ; Those Amber Necklaces like Beads on your Thumbs , Supply'd you with Coin Sir those Debts for to pay , Beside those Rich Medals in ambush for Prey ; Or some score of Pounds Bedingf . ( pull'd out on's Bed ) Though two years at least after he had been dead . 8. Gusman to your Worship was but a mere Sot , He never had Sense to find out a Sham Plot ; But you by the Art Sir of Legerdemain , What you put in the Meal Tub , could fetch out again , But all you near Jugglers Confederates do keep , As my Maid and you in the Meal Tub did meet . 9. The Knight in his passion found Truth would confute , St. Francis then enter'd to end the Dispute . Sir , This is no place for your Safety and Honour , She's void of the Light which the Cause upon her . Come give me your Hand Sir into my own Room , To consult who supply's our kind Ladies at home . 10. Now since we are inform'd the Knight is god lose , Yet finding some Clause of his Case in the noose Wrapped up in the tangle , Great Charles he did dun , To Pardon his Treasons , what's past , and to come . But and answer most fit I hope he did receive , For a Treacherous Fool , and a sly busy Knave . LONDON . Printed for the Use of the Students in Whittington's College . 