H : 135799 A Proper New Brummigham Ballad to the Tune of Heigh then up go we . KNow now my Brothers Heaven is clear And all the Clouds are gone The Righteous now shall flourish And good days are coming on Come now my brothers and be glad And eke rejoice with me Lawn sleeves and Rochetts shall go down And heigh then up go we . We'l break the windows which the Whore Of Babylon hath painted And then when Popish Saints are down The Brownists shall be Sainted : There's neither Cross nor Crucifix Shall stand for men to see Romes Pride and Trumpery shall go down And heigh , etc What ever the Popish hands have built Our hammer shall undo , We'l break their pipes and burn their caps And pull down Churches too : We'l Exercise within the Groves And teach beneath the Tree We'l make a Pulpit of a Cart And heigh , etc We'l down with Deans and Prebens too But I rejoice to tell you How then we will eat Pigg and Goose And Capon by the belly : We'l burn our Father's witty Tombs And make the Schoolmen flee We'l down with all that smells of wit And hey , etc We'l down with all the Versities Where Learning is professed , Because they practise and maintain The language of the Beas We'l drive the Doctors out of doors And their Arts where ere they be We'l down with Arts and Learning both And hey , etc The Ramping Beast among the rest Which are in Churches painted , The Unicorn you know whose horn Our Father's oft have dented : The Crosses in the Lions Crown As superstitious be Methinks the times cry pull 'um down And heigh , etc The name of Lords shall be abhorr'd For every man's a Brother , No reason why in Church or State One man shall rule another : But when the change of Government Shall set her fingers free We'l make the wanton Sister stoop And heigh , etc And when the Antichristian Crew Be crushed and overthrown We'l teach the Nobles how to bow And keep the Gentry down : Good manners hath and ill report And turn'd to pride you see Therefore we'l cry good manners down And heigh , etc If that the King and Parliament Accord not both together We have more cause to be content This is our sunshine weather : But if Reason should take place , That they should once agree Woe ! would be to the Fanatics case And heigh then down go we . If Parliaments will give consent By us for to be guided Then Protestants they shall not want What Papists have abided : They straight to Tyburn shall be drawn , Where Catch shall make them free : But if once we see him cut them down Then heigh etc These Protestants who can abide ? They be fools in our conceit , We'l pull them down on every side Like Tares among the Wheat ; Though they pull up some Romish Weeds Whereby to set them free , Yet we'l sow our Seditious Seeds ; And heigh etc What shall we do now in this Case ? Let's put it to a venture ? If we can hold out seven years space We'l Sue forth our Indenture ; A time may come to make us Rue , And time may set us free , Except the Gallows claim her endue . And heigh then up go we . London printed in the Year 1681. H : 135799 A Proper New Brummigham Ballad to the Tune of Heigh then up go we . KNow now my Brothers Heaven is clear And all the Clouds are gone The Righteous now shall flourish And good days are coming on Come now my brothers and be glad And eke rejoice with me Lawn sleeves and Rochetts shall go down And heigh then up go we . We'l break the windows which the Whore Of Babylon hath painted And then when Popish Saints are down The Brownists shall be Sainted : There's neither Cross nor Crucifix Shall stand for men to see Romes Pride and Trumpery shall go down And heigh , etc What ever the Popish hands have built Our hammer shall undo , We'l break their pipes and burn their caps And pull down Churches too : We'l Exercise within the Groves And teach beneath the Tree We'l make a Pulpit of a Cart And heigh , etc We'l down with Deans and Prebens too But I rejoice to tell you How then we will eat Pigg and Goose And Capon by the belly : We'l burn our Father's witty Tombs And make the Schoolmen flee We'l down with all that smells of wit And hey , etc We'l down with all the Versities Where Learning is professed , Because they practise and maintain The language of the Beas We'l drive the Doctors out of doors And their Arts where ere they be We'l down with Arts and Learning both And hey , etc The Ramping Beast among the rest Which are in Churches painted , The Unicorn you know whose horn Our Father's oft have dented : The Crosses in the Lions Crown As superstitious be Methinks the times cry pull 'um down And heigh , etc The name of Lords shall be abhorr'd For every man's a Brother , No reason why in Church or State One man shall rule another : But when the change of Government Shall set her fingers free We'l make the wanton Sister stoop And heigh , etc And when the Antichristian Crew Be crushed and overthrown We'l teach the Nobles how to bow And keep the Gentry down : Good manners hath and ill report And turn'd to pride you see Therefore we'l cry good manners down And heigh , etc If that the King and Parliament Accord not both together We have more cause to be content This is our sunshine weather : But if Reason should take place , That they should once agree Woe ! would be to the Fanatics case And heigh then down go we . If Parliaments will give consent By us for to be guided Then Protestants they shall not want What Papists have abided : They straight to Tyburn shall be drawn , Where Catch shall make them free : But if once we see him cut them down Then heigh etc These Protestants who can abide ? They be fools in our conceit , We'l pull them down on every side Like Tares among the Wheat ; Though they pull up some Romish Weeds Whereby to set them free , Yet we'l sow our Seditious Seeds ; And heigh etc What shall we do now in this Case ? Let's put it to a venture ? If we can hold out seven years space We'l Sue forth our Indenture ; A time may come to make us Rue , And time may set us free , Except the Gallows claim her endue . And heigh then up go we . London printed in the Year 1681. H : 135799 A Proper New Brummigham Ballad to the Tune of Heigh then up go we . KNow now my Brothers Heaven is clear And all the Clouds are gone The Righteous now shall flourish And good days are coming on Come now my brothers and be glad And eke rejoice with me Lawn sleeves and Rochetts shall go down And heigh then up go we . We'l break the windows which the Whore Of Babylon hath painted And then when Popish Saints are down The Brownists shall be Sainted : There's neither Cross nor Crucifix Shall stand for men to see Romes Pride and Trumpery shall go down And heigh , etc What ever the Popish hands have built Our hammer shall undo , We'l break their pipes and burn their caps And pull down Churches too : We'l Exercise within the Groves And teach beneath the Tree We'l make a Pulpit of a Cart And heigh , etc We'l down with Deans and Prebens too But I rejoice to tell you How then we will eat Pigg and Goose And Capon by the belly : We'l burn our Father's witty Tombs And make the Schoolmen flee We'l down with all that smells of wit And hey , etc We'l down with all the Versities Where Learning is professed , Because they practise and maintain The language of the Beas We'l drive the Doctors out of doors And their Arts where ere they be We'l down with Arts and Learning both And hey , etc The Ramping Beast among the rest Which are in Churches painted , The Unicorn you know whose horn Our Father's oft have dented : The Crosses in the Lions Crown As superstitious be Methinks the times cry pull 'um down And heigh , etc The name of Lords shall be abhorr'd For every man's a Brother , No reason why in Church or State One man shall rule another : But when the change of Government Shall set her fingers free We'l make the wanton Sister stoop And heigh , etc And when the Antichristian Crew Be crushed and overthrown We'l teach the Nobles how to bow And keep the Gentry down : Good manners hath and ill report And turn'd to pride you see Therefore we'l cry good manners down And heigh , etc If that the King and Parliament Accord not both together We have more cause to be content This is our sunshine weather : But if Reason should take place , That they should once agree Woe ! would be to the Fanatics case And heigh then down go we . If Parliaments will give consent By us for to be guided Then Protestants they shall not want What Papists have abided : They straight to Tyburn shall be drawn , Where Catch shall make them free : But if once we see him cut them down Then heigh etc These Protestants who can abide ? They be fools in our conceit , We'l pull them down on every side Like Tares among the Wheat ; Though they pull up some Romish Weeds Whereby to set them free , Yet we'l sow our Seditious Seeds ; And heigh etc What shall we do now in this Case ? Let's put it to a venture ? If we can hold out seven years space We'l Sue forth our Indenture ; A time may come to make us Rue , And time may set us free , Except the Gallows claim her endue . And heigh then up go we . London printed in the Year 1681. H : 135799 A Proper New Brummigham Ballad to the Tune of Heigh then up go we . KNow now my Brothers Heaven is clear And all the Clouds are gone The Righteous now shall flourish And good days are coming on Come now my brothers and be glad And eke rejoice with me Lawn sleeves and Rochetts shall go down And heigh then up go we . We'l break the windows which the Whore Of Babylon hath painted And then when Popish Saints are down The Brownists shall be Sainted : There's neither Cross nor Crucifix Shall stand for men to see Romes Pride and Trumpery shall go down And heigh , etc What ever the Popish hands have built Our hammer shall undo , We'l break their pipes and burn their caps And pull down Churches too : We'l Exercise within the Groves And teach beneath the Tree We'l make a Pulpit of a Cart And heigh , etc We'l down with Deans and Prebens too But I rejoice to tell you How then we will eat Pigg and Goose And Capon by the belly : We'l burn our Father's witty Tombs And make the Schoolmen flee We'l down with all that smells of wit And hey , etc We'l down with all the Versities Where Learning is professed , Because they practise and maintain The language of the Beas We'l drive the Doctors out of doors And their Arts where ere they be We'l down with Arts and Learning both And hey , etc The Ramping Beast among the rest Which are in Churches painted , The Unicorn you know whose horn Our Father's oft have dented : The Crosses in the Lions Crown As superstitious be Methinks the times cry pull 'um down And heigh , etc The name of Lords shall be abhorr'd For every man's a Brother , No reason why in Church or State One man shall rule another : But when the change of Government Shall set her fingers free We'l make the wanton Sister stoop And heigh , etc And when the Antichristian Crew Be crushed and overthrown We'l teach the Nobles how to bow And keep the Gentry down : Good manners hath and ill report And turn'd to pride you see Therefore we'l cry good manners down And heigh , etc If that the King and Parliament Accord not both together We have more cause to be content This is our sunshine weather : But if Reason should take place , That they should once agree Woe ! would be to the Fanatics case And heigh then down go we . If Parliaments will give consent By us for to be guided Then Protestants they shall not want What Papists have abided : They straight to Tyburn shall be drawn , Where Catch shall make them free : But if once we see him cut them down Then heigh etc These Protestants who can abide ? They be fools in our conceit , We'l pull them down on every side Like Tares among the Wheat ; Though they pull up some Romish Weeds Whereby to set them free , Yet we'l sow our Seditious Seeds ; And heigh etc What shall we do now in this Case ? Let's put it to a venture ? If we can hold out seven years space We'l Sue forth our Indenture ; A time may come to make us Rue , And time may set us free , Except the Gallows claim her endue . And heigh then up go we . London printed in the Year 1681. 