H : 135846 The Ignoramus Ballad . To the Tune of , Let Oliver now be Forgotten . 1. LEt Fourty eight now be remember'd , And what was then Acted behold ; The High Court of Justice is tender'd To cast our Fate in the same Mould . All things are prepared and ready , The Faction Constant and steady , At Moments call , T' appear ne'r dread you ; And all the Proud Tories shall fallen . 2. Behold a whole College is coming , In Equipage like to Sir Hue ; With Anger and Courage he's Foaming , With Colours of Orange and Blue . The Dray-mans Horse he has mounted , And no small Fool is accounted among the Rabble , He Swears th' Anointed He'l tumble down now like a Babel . 3. With Blunderbuss , Sword and with Pistol , With Powder and Bullet likewise ; By Treason and Force to resist all , He doubts not of winning the Prize : The King he will bring to his Lure , Or else take him Prisoner be Sure , Unto Guildhall ; Where he shall Endure , Till he yield to the Parliaments ALL . 4. But God , our Soveraign's Protector , Against all his Enemies Train , Has timely Reveal'd the Projector , And render'd their Plotting as Vain : The Parliament soon He Dissolved , Preventing our being Involved , In the Old Snare , As 'twas Resolved ; You see what such Traitors will dare . 5. When Blunderbuss first was Accused , And unto the Tower was sent ; The Jury of Rebels refused , To find him , as 'twas their Intent . But Honester men there were found out , Resolving , so to bring it about To find the Bill , By giving the Rout To all Ignoramus his Skill . 6. And now he is brought to his Trial , And Guilty of Treason is found ; Yet he had the Face to Denial , There's nought can his Treason Confound : Old Nick's at his Elbow still Pressing , And Frightens him from his Confessing : He has no Hope , By any Addressing , To shelter his Neck from the Rope . 7. Now W ------ e , that Hogshead of Treason , With his Ignoramus , comes next ; Whose Jury I think will find Reason , T' Invalid his Specious pretext . The Idol ( he says ) must be pull'd down Of Whitehall , with His Sceptre and Crown : A Hector Bold , Though seeming to Frown , His Courage will quickly be Cold. 8. Now WORSER ------ ld's come to the Trapp too , For Falsely Suborning to Swear ; Great Lucifer's Chaplain is napt too , And's Drawer must bring up the Rear : The Parson may Preach in the Manger , To free them all from the Danger ; But all in Vain , Believe me , ( a Stranger , ) The Hangman must open a Vein . Printed for N.T. Anno Dom. 1681. H : 135846 The Ignoramus Ballad . To the Tune of , Let Oliver now be Forgotten . 1. LEt Fourty eight now be remember'd , And what was then Acted behold ; The High Court of Justice is tender'd To cast our Fate in the same Mould . All things are prepared and ready , The Faction Constant and steady , At Moments call , T' appear ne'r dread you ; And all the Proud Tories shall fallen . 2. Behold a whole College is coming , In Equipage like to Sir Hue ; With Anger and Courage he's Foaming , With Colours of Orange and Blue . The Dray-mans Horse he has mounted , And no small Fool is accounted among the Rabble , He Swears th' Anointed He'l tumble down now like a Babel . 3. With Blunderbuss , Sword and with Pistol , With Powder and Bullet likewise ; By Treason and Force to resist all , He doubts not of winning the Prize : The King he will bring to his Lure , Or else take him Prisoner be Sure , Unto Guildhall ; Where he shall Endure , Till he yield to the Parliaments ALL . 4. But God , our Soveraign's Protector , Against all his Enemies Train , Has timely Reveal'd the Projector , And render'd their Plotting as Vain : The Parliament soon He Dissolved , Preventing our being Involved , In the Old Snare , As 'twas Resolved ; You see what such Traitors will dare . 5. When Blunderbuss first was Accused , And unto the Tower was sent ; The Jury of Rebels refused , To find him , as 'twas their Intent . But Honester men there were found out , Resolving , so to bring it about To find the Bill , By giving the Rout To all Ignoramus his Skill . 6. And now he is brought to his Trial , And Guilty of Treason is found ; Yet he had the Face to Denial , There's nought can his Treason Confound : Old Nick's at his Elbow still Pressing , And Frightens him from his Confessing : He has no Hope , By any Addressing , To shelter his Neck from the Rope . 7. Now W ------ e , that Hogshead of Treason , With his Ignoramus , comes next ; Whose Jury I think will find Reason , T' Invalid his Specious pretext . The Idol ( he says ) must be pull'd down Of Whitehall , with His Sceptre and Crown : A Hector Bold , Though seeming to Frown , His Courage will quickly be Cold. 8. Now WORSER ------ ld's come to the Trapp too , For Falsely Suborning to Swear ; Great Lucifer's Chaplain is napt too , And's Drawer must bring up the Rear : The Parson may Preach in the Manger , To free them all from the Danger ; But all in Vain , Believe me , ( a Stranger , ) The Hangman must open a Vein . Printed for N.T. Anno Dom. 1681. H : 135846 The Ignoramus Ballad . To the Tune of , Let Oliver now be Forgotten . 1. LEt Fourty eight now be remember'd , And what was then Acted behold ; The High Court of Justice is tender'd To cast our Fate in the same Mould . All things are prepared and ready , The Faction Constant and steady , At Moments call , T' appear ne'r dread you ; And all the Proud Tories shall fallen . 2. Behold a whole College is coming , In Equipage like to Sir Hue ; With Anger and Courage he's Foaming , With Colours of Orange and Blue . The Dray-mans Horse he has mounted , And no small Fool is accounted among the Rabble , He Swears th' Anointed He'l tumble down now like a Babel . 3. With Blunderbuss , Sword and with Pistol , With Powder and Bullet likewise ; By Treason and Force to resist all , He doubts not of winning the Prize : The King he will bring to his Lure , Or else take him Prisoner be Sure , Unto Guildhall ; Where he shall Endure , Till he yield to the Parliaments ALL . 4. But God , our Soveraign's Protector , Against all his Enemies Train , Has timely Reveal'd the Projector , And render'd their Plotting as Vain : The Parliament soon He Dissolved , Preventing our being Involved , In the Old Snare , As 'twas Resolved ; You see what such Traitors will dare . 5. When Blunderbuss first was Accused , And unto the Tower was sent ; The Jury of Rebels refused , To find him , as 'twas their Intent . But Honester men there were found out , Resolving , so to bring it about To find the Bill , By giving the Rout To all Ignoramus his Skill . 6. And now he is brought to his Trial , And Guilty of Treason is found ; Yet he had the Face to Denial , There's nought can his Treason Confound : Old Nick's at his Elbow still Pressing , And Frightens him from his Confessing : He has no Hope , By any Addressing , To shelter his Neck from the Rope . 7. Now W ------ e , that Hogshead of Treason , With his Ignoramus , comes next ; Whose Jury I think will find Reason , T' Invalid his Specious pretext . The Idol ( he says ) must be pull'd down Of Whitehall , with His Sceptre and Crown : A Hector Bold , Though seeming to Frown , His Courage will quickly be Cold. 8. Now WORSER ------ ld's come to the Trapp too , For Falsely Suborning to Swear ; Great Lucifer's Chaplain is napt too , And's Drawer must bring up the Rear : The Parson may Preach in the Manger , To free them all from the Danger ; But all in Vain , Believe me , ( a Stranger , ) The Hangman must open a Vein . Printed for N.T. Anno Dom. 1681. H : 135846 The Ignoramus Ballad . To the Tune of , Let Oliver now be Forgotten . 1. LEt Fourty eight now be remember'd , And what was then Acted behold ; The High Court of Justice is tender'd To cast our Fate in the same Mould . All things are prepared and ready , The Faction Constant and steady , At Moments call , T' appear ne'r dread you ; And all the Proud Tories shall fallen . 2. Behold a whole College is coming , In Equipage like to Sir Hue ; With Anger and Courage he's Foaming , With Colours of Orange and Blue . The Dray-mans Horse he has mounted , And no small Fool is accounted among the Rabble , He Swears th' Anointed He'l tumble down now like a Babel . 3. With Blunderbuss , Sword and with Pistol , With Powder and Bullet likewise ; By Treason and Force to resist all , He doubts not of winning the Prize : The King he will bring to his Lure , Or else take him Prisoner be Sure , Unto Guildhall ; Where he shall Endure , Till he yield to the Parliaments ALL . 4. But God , our Soveraign's Protector , Against all his Enemies Train , Has timely Reveal'd the Projector , And render'd their Plotting as Vain : The Parliament soon He Dissolved , Preventing our being Involved , In the Old Snare , As 'twas Resolved ; You see what such Traitors will dare . 5. When Blunderbuss first was Accused , And unto the Tower was sent ; The Jury of Rebels refused , To find him , as 'twas their Intent . But Honester men there were found out , Resolving , so to bring it about To find the Bill , By giving the Rout To all Ignoramus his Skill . 6. And now he is brought to his Trial , And Guilty of Treason is found ; Yet he had the Face to Denial , There's nought can his Treason Confound : Old Nick's at his Elbow still Pressing , And Frightens him from his Confessing : He has no Hope , By any Addressing , To shelter his Neck from the Rope . 7. Now W ------ e , that Hogshead of Treason , With his Ignoramus , comes next ; Whose Jury I think will find Reason , T' Invalid his Specious pretext . The Idol ( he says ) must be pull'd down Of Whitehall , with His Sceptre and Crown : A Hector Bold , Though seeming to Frown , His Courage will quickly be Cold. 8. Now WORSER ------ ld's come to the Trapp too , For Falsely Suborning to Swear ; Great Lucifer's Chaplain is napt too , And's Drawer must bring up the Rear : The Parson may Preach in the Manger , To free them all from the Danger ; But all in Vain , Believe me , ( a Stranger , ) The Hangman must open a Vein . Printed for N.T. Anno Dom. 1681. 