H : 135832 Murder Unparalel'd : Or , and Account of the Bloody Murder of THOMAS THINE , Esq ; On Sunday the 12th . of February 1682. To the Tune of Troy Town . ( 1 ) COme and assist my Trembling Pen , While I endeavour to explain , The Bloody minds of cruel Men , That will no wickedness refrain . But Bloody Humours to fulfil , Innocent Blood they daily spill . ( 2 ) Now my sad story I'le begin , The like I think you n'er did hear , How that the great Esquire Thin , Was Murther'd it does plain appear . Their Bloody minds for to fulfil , This Squire most horridly they kill . ( 3 ) On Sunday last this Gentleman , Clear of all Scandals and Reproach , At several places he had been , Accompany'd with his Grace in Coach . This worthy Person thought no ill , While Villains sought his Blood to spill . ( 4 ) And thus they pass'd the Streets along , Till seven or eight a Clock at Night , And then his Grace he would be gone , In whom so much he did delight . Poor soul he little thought of ill , While Villains sought his Blood to spill . ( 5 ) His Grace he was no sooner gone , But this sad accident befell , By Villains he was set upon , Near to a place that's called Pellmell . Their Hellish minds they did fulfil , And there his precious Blood did spill . ( 6 ) Up to his Coach these Villains ride , As by his Servants it is said , With Weapons which they did provide , Whil'st he poor Soul was not afraid . For harmless Souls do fear no ill , While Villains seek their Blood to spill . ( 8 ) Meeting with him as they desir'd , Their Hellish courage then grew hight , Into his Coach at him they fir'd , And to him many Bullets Shot . And so like Villains him they kill'd , And his most precious Blood they spill'd ( 7 ) Away like Villains then they fled , With horror doubtless in their mind , This worthy Soul three quarters dead , Bleeding i'th' Coach they left behind . Now had the Villains god their will , That sought his precious Blood to spill . ( 9 ) When these unwelcome tidings came , Unto the Dukes astonish'd ear , His wond'rous sorrow for the same , Did on a sudden plain appear . He strait pursu'd those that did spill , His precious Blood that thought no ill . ( 10 ) This Person then did all the night , Pursue these Murderers in vain , Till Sol with his resplendent light , Did to our fight return again . But could not find those that did kill , That harmless soul as thought no ill . ( 11 ) But Heaven did presently find out What with great care he could not do , 'Twas well he was the Coach gone out , Or he might have been murther'd too , For they who did this Squire kill , Would fear the Blood of none to spill . ( 12 ) These Villains they were seiz'd at last , And brought before his Majesty , This horrid thing they then confessed , Now Prisoners they in Newgate lie . And be condemned no doubt they will , That Squire Thyn's sweet blood did spill . LONDON , Printed for the Author , J.M. 1682 : H : 135832 Murder Unparalel'd : Or , and Account of the Bloody Murder of THOMAS THINE , Esq ; On Sunday the 12th . of February 1682. To the Tune of Troy Town . ( 1 ) COme and assist my Trembling Pen , While I endeavour to explain , The Bloody minds of cruel Men , That will no wickedness refrain . But Bloody Humours to fulfil , Innocent Blood they daily spill . ( 2 ) Now my sad story I'le begin , The like I think you n'er did hear , How that the great Esquire Thin , Was Murther'd it does plain appear . Their Bloody minds for to fulfil , This Squire most horridly they kill . ( 3 ) On Sunday last this Gentleman , Clear of all Scandals and Reproach , At several places he had been , Accompany'd with his Grace in Coach . This worthy Person thought no ill , While Villains sought his Blood to spill . ( 4 ) And thus they pass'd the Streets along , Till seven or eight a Clock at Night , And then his Grace he would be gone , In whom so much he did delight . Poor soul he little thought of ill , While Villains sought his Blood to spill . ( 5 ) His Grace he was no sooner gone , But this sad accident befell , By Villains he was set upon , Near to a place that's called Pellmell . Their Hellish minds they did fulfil , And there his precious Blood did spill . ( 6 ) Up to his Coach these Villains ride , As by his Servants it is said , With Weapons which they did provide , Whil'st he poor Soul was not afraid . For harmless Souls do fear no ill , While Villains seek their Blood to spill . ( 8 ) Meeting with him as they desir'd , Their Hellish courage then grew hight , Into his Coach at him they fir'd , And to him many Bullets Shot . And so like Villains him they kill'd , And his most precious Blood they spill'd ( 7 ) Away like Villains then they fled , With horror doubtless in their mind , This worthy Soul three quarters dead , Bleeding i'th' Coach they left behind . Now had the Villains god their will , That sought his precious Blood to spill . ( 9 ) When these unwelcome tidings came , Unto the Dukes astonish'd ear , His wond'rous sorrow for the same , Did on a sudden plain appear . He strait pursu'd those that did spill , His precious Blood that thought no ill . ( 10 ) This Person then did all the night , Pursue these Murderers in vain , Till Sol with his resplendent light , Did to our fight return again . But could not find those that did kill , That harmless soul as thought no ill . ( 11 ) But Heaven did presently find out What with great care he could not do , 'Twas well he was the Coach gone out , Or he might have been murther'd too , For they who did this Squire kill , Would fear the Blood of none to spill . ( 12 ) These Villains they were seiz'd at last , And brought before his Majesty , This horrid thing they then confessed , Now Prisoners they in Newgate lie . And be condemned no doubt they will , That Squire Thyn's sweet blood did spill . LONDON , Printed for the Author , J.M. 1682 : H : 135832 Murder Unparalel'd : Or , and Account of the Bloody Murder of THOMAS THINE , Esq ; On Sunday the 12th . of February 1682. To the Tune of Troy Town . ( 1 ) COme and assist my Trembling Pen , While I endeavour to explain , The Bloody minds of cruel Men , That will no wickedness refrain . But Bloody Humours to fulfil , Innocent Blood they daily spill . ( 2 ) Now my sad story I'le begin , The like I think you n'er did hear , How that the great Esquire Thin , Was Murther'd it does plain appear . Their Bloody minds for to fulfil , This Squire most horridly they kill . ( 3 ) On Sunday last this Gentleman , Clear of all Scandals and Reproach , At several places he had been , Accompany'd with his Grace in Coach . This worthy Person thought no ill , While Villains sought his Blood to spill . ( 4 ) And thus they pass'd the Streets along , Till seven or eight a Clock at Night , And then his Grace he would be gone , In whom so much he did delight . Poor soul he little thought of ill , While Villains sought his Blood to spill . ( 5 ) His Grace he was no sooner gone , But this sad accident befell , By Villains he was set upon , Near to a place that's called Pellmell . Their Hellish minds they did fulfil , And there his precious Blood did spill . ( 6 ) Up to his Coach these Villains ride , As by his Servants it is said , With Weapons which they did provide , Whil'st he poor Soul was not afraid . For harmless Souls do fear no ill , While Villains seek their Blood to spill . ( 8 ) Meeting with him as they desir'd , Their Hellish courage then grew hight , Into his Coach at him they fir'd , And to him many Bullets Shot . And so like Villains him they kill'd , And his most precious Blood they spill'd ( 7 ) Away like Villains then they fled , With horror doubtless in their mind , This worthy Soul three quarters dead , Bleeding i'th' Coach they left behind . Now had the Villains god their will , That sought his precious Blood to spill . ( 9 ) When these unwelcome tidings came , Unto the Dukes astonish'd ear , His wond'rous sorrow for the same , Did on a sudden plain appear . He strait pursu'd those that did spill , His precious Blood that thought no ill . ( 10 ) This Person then did all the night , Pursue these Murderers in vain , Till Sol with his resplendent light , Did to our fight return again . But could not find those that did kill , That harmless soul as thought no ill . ( 11 ) But Heaven did presently find out What with great care he could not do , 'Twas well he was the Coach gone out , Or he might have been murther'd too , For they who did this Squire kill , Would fear the Blood of none to spill . ( 12 ) These Villains they were seiz'd at last , And brought before his Majesty , This horrid thing they then confessed , Now Prisoners they in Newgate lie . And be condemned no doubt they will , That Squire Thyn's sweet blood did spill . LONDON , Printed for the Author , J.M. 1682 : H : 135832 Murder Unparalel'd : Or , and Account of the Bloody Murder of THOMAS THINE , Esq ; On Sunday the 12th . of February 1682. To the Tune of Troy Town . ( 1 ) COme and assist my Trembling Pen , While I endeavour to explain , The Bloody minds of cruel Men , That will no wickedness refrain . But Bloody Humours to fulfil , Innocent Blood they daily spill . ( 2 ) Now my sad story I'le begin , The like I think you n'er did hear , How that the great Esquire Thin , Was Murther'd it does plain appear . Their Bloody minds for to fulfil , This Squire most horridly they kill . ( 3 ) On Sunday last this Gentleman , Clear of all Scandals and Reproach , At several places he had been , Accompany'd with his Grace in Coach . This worthy Person thought no ill , While Villains sought his Blood to spill . ( 4 ) And thus they pass'd the Streets along , Till seven or eight a Clock at Night , And then his Grace he would be gone , In whom so much he did delight . Poor soul he little thought of ill , While Villains sought his Blood to spill . ( 5 ) His Grace he was no sooner gone , But this sad accident befell , By Villains he was set upon , Near to a place that's called Pellmell . Their Hellish minds they did fulfil , And there his precious Blood did spill . ( 6 ) Up to his Coach these Villains ride , As by his Servants it is said , With Weapons which they did provide , Whil'st he poor Soul was not afraid . For harmless Souls do fear no ill , While Villains seek their Blood to spill . ( 8 ) Meeting with him as they desir'd , Their Hellish courage then grew hight , Into his Coach at him they fir'd , And to him many Bullets Shot . And so like Villains him they kill'd , And his most precious Blood they spill'd ( 7 ) Away like Villains then they fled , With horror doubtless in their mind , This worthy Soul three quarters dead , Bleeding i'th' Coach they left behind . Now had the Villains god their will , That sought his precious Blood to spill . ( 9 ) When these unwelcome tidings came , Unto the Dukes astonish'd ear , His wond'rous sorrow for the same , Did on a sudden plain appear . He strait pursu'd those that did spill , His precious Blood that thought no ill . ( 10 ) This Person then did all the night , Pursue these Murderers in vain , Till Sol with his resplendent light , Did to our fight return again . But could not find those that did kill , That harmless soul as thought no ill . ( 11 ) But Heaven did presently find out What with great care he could not do , 'Twas well he was the Coach gone out , Or he might have been murther'd too , For they who did this Squire kill , Would fear the Blood of none to spill . ( 12 ) These Villains they were seiz'd at last , And brought before his Majesty , This horrid thing they then confessed , Now Prisoners they in Newgate lie . And be condemned no doubt they will , That Squire Thyn's sweet blood did spill . LONDON , Printed for the Author , J.M. 1682 : 