H : 135852 OLD JEMMY And Excellent New Ballad . To and Excellent New Tune , called , Young Jemmy . [ 1 ] OLd Jemmy is a Lad Right lawfully descended ; No Bastard born nor bred , Nor for a Whig suspended : The True and Lawful Heir to th' Crown , By Right of Birth and Laws , And bravely will maintain his own , In spite of all his Foes . [ 2 ] Old Jemmy is the Top And Chief among the Princes No Mobile gay Fop , With Brimigham pretences : A Heart and Soul so wondrous great , And such a conqu'ring Eye , That every Loyal Lad fears not In Jemmy's Cause to die . [ 3 ] Old Jammy is a Prince Of Noble Resolutions , Whose Powerful Influence Can order our Confusions : But Oh! He fights with such a Grace , No Force can him withstand ; No God of War but must give place Where Jemmy leads the Van. [ 4 ] To Jemmy every Swain Does pay due Veneration ; And Scotland does maintain His Title to the Nation . The Pride of all the Court he stands , The Patron of his Cause , The Joy and Hope of all his Friends , The Terror of his Foes . [ 5 ] Maliciously they Vote , To work Old Jemmy's Ruin , And zealously promote A Bill for his undoing : Both Lords and Commons most agree To pull His Highness down ; But ( 'spight of all their Policy ) Old Jemmy's Heir to th' Crown . [ 6 ] The Schismatic and Saint , The Quaker and the Atheist , Swear by the Covenant , Old Jemmy is a Papist ; While all the Holy Crew did plot To pull His Highness down , Great Albany the Noble Scot Did raise unto a Crown . [ 7 ] Great Albany they swear , He before any other , Shall be immediate Heir Unto His Royal Brother , Who will , in spite of all his Foes , His Lawful Rights maintain , And all the Fops that interpose , Old Jemmy's York again . [ 8 ] The Whigs and Zealots Plot To banish him the Nation , But the Renowned Scot Hath wrought his Restauration . With high Respects they treat his Grace , His Royal Cause maintain ; Brave Albany ( to Scotland's Praise ) Is Mighty York again . [ 9 ] Against his envious Fates The Kirk hath taught a Lesson ; A Blessing on the States , To settle the Succession . They real were , both Knight and Lord , And will His Rights maintain ; By Royal Parliament restor'd , Old Jemmy's come again . [ 10 ] And now He's come again , In spite of all Pretenders , Great Albany shall Reign among the Faiths Defenders . Let Whig and Brimigham repine ; They show their Teeth in vain ; The Glory of the British Line , Old Jemmy's come again . LONDON : Printed by Nath. Thompson , 1681. H : 135852 OLD JEMMY And Excellent New Ballad . To and Excellent New Tune , called , Young Jemmy . [ 1 ] OLd Jemmy is a Lad Right lawfully descended ; No Bastard born nor bred , Nor for a Whig suspended : The True and Lawful Heir to th' Crown , By Right of Birth and Laws , And bravely will maintain his own , In spite of all his Foes . [ 2 ] Old Jemmy is the Top And Chief among the Princes No Mobile gay Fop , With Brimigham pretences : A Heart and Soul so wondrous great , And such a conqu'ring Eye , That every Loyal Lad fears not In Jemmy's Cause to die . [ 3 ] Old Jammy is a Prince Of Noble Resolutions , Whose Powerful Influence Can order our Confusions : But Oh! He fights with such a Grace , No Force can him withstand ; No God of War but must give place Where Jemmy leads the Van. [ 4 ] To Jemmy every Swain Does pay due Veneration ; And Scotland does maintain His Title to the Nation . The Pride of all the Court he stands , The Patron of his Cause , The Joy and Hope of all his Friends , The Terror of his Foes . [ 5 ] Maliciously they Vote , To work Old Jemmy's Ruin , And zealously promote A Bill for his undoing : Both Lords and Commons most agree To pull His Highness down ; But ( 'spight of all their Policy ) Old Jemmy's Heir to th' Crown . [ 6 ] The Schismatic and Saint , The Quaker and the Atheist , Swear by the Covenant , Old Jemmy is a Papist ; While all the Holy Crew did plot To pull His Highness down , Great Albany the Noble Scot Did raise unto a Crown . [ 7 ] Great Albany they swear , He before any other , Shall be immediate Heir Unto His Royal Brother , Who will , in spite of all his Foes , His Lawful Rights maintain , And all the Fops that interpose , Old Jemmy's York again . [ 8 ] The Whigs and Zealots Plot To banish him the Nation , But the Renowned Scot Hath wrought his Restauration . With high Respects they treat his Grace , His Royal Cause maintain ; Brave Albany ( to Scotland's Praise ) Is Mighty York again . [ 9 ] Against his envious Fates The Kirk hath taught a Lesson ; A Blessing on the States , To settle the Succession . They real were , both Knight and Lord , And will His Rights maintain ; By Royal Parliament restor'd , Old Jemmy's come again . [ 10 ] And now He's come again , In spite of all Pretenders , Great Albany shall Reign among the Faiths Defenders . Let Whig and Brimigham repine ; They show their Teeth in vain ; The Glory of the British Line , Old Jemmy's come again . LONDON : Printed by Nath. Thompson , 1681. H : 135852 OLD JEMMY And Excellent New Ballad . To and Excellent New Tune , called , Young Jemmy . [ 1 ] OLd Jemmy is a Lad Right lawfully descended ; No Bastard born nor bred , Nor for a Whig suspended : The True and Lawful Heir to th' Crown , By Right of Birth and Laws , And bravely will maintain his own , In spite of all his Foes . [ 2 ] Old Jemmy is the Top And Chief among the Princes No Mobile gay Fop , With Brimigham pretences : A Heart and Soul so wondrous great , And such a conqu'ring Eye , That every Loyal Lad fears not In Jemmy's Cause to die . [ 3 ] Old Jammy is a Prince Of Noble Resolutions , Whose Powerful Influence Can order our Confusions : But Oh! He fights with such a Grace , No Force can him withstand ; No God of War but must give place Where Jemmy leads the Van. [ 4 ] To Jemmy every Swain Does pay due Veneration ; And Scotland does maintain His Title to the Nation . The Pride of all the Court he stands , The Patron of his Cause , The Joy and Hope of all his Friends , The Terror of his Foes . [ 5 ] Maliciously they Vote , To work Old Jemmy's Ruin , And zealously promote A Bill for his undoing : Both Lords and Commons most agree To pull His Highness down ; But ( 'spight of all their Policy ) Old Jemmy's Heir to th' Crown . [ 6 ] The Schismatic and Saint , The Quaker and the Atheist , Swear by the Covenant , Old Jemmy is a Papist ; While all the Holy Crew did plot To pull His Highness down , Great Albany the Noble Scot Did raise unto a Crown . [ 7 ] Great Albany they swear , He before any other , Shall be immediate Heir Unto His Royal Brother , Who will , in spite of all his Foes , His Lawful Rights maintain , And all the Fops that interpose , Old Jemmy's York again . [ 8 ] The Whigs and Zealots Plot To banish him the Nation , But the Renowned Scot Hath wrought his Restauration . With high Respects they treat his Grace , His Royal Cause maintain ; Brave Albany ( to Scotland's Praise ) Is Mighty York again . [ 9 ] Against his envious Fates The Kirk hath taught a Lesson ; A Blessing on the States , To settle the Succession . They real were , both Knight and Lord , And will His Rights maintain ; By Royal Parliament restor'd , Old Jemmy's come again . [ 10 ] And now He's come again , In spite of all Pretenders , Great Albany shall Reign among the Faiths Defenders . Let Whig and Brimigham repine ; They show their Teeth in vain ; The Glory of the British Line , Old Jemmy's come again . LONDON : Printed by Nath. Thompson , 1681. H : 135852 OLD JEMMY And Excellent New Ballad . To and Excellent New Tune , called , Young Jemmy . [ 1 ] OLd Jemmy is a Lad Right lawfully descended ; No Bastard born nor bred , Nor for a Whig suspended : The True and Lawful Heir to th' Crown , By Right of Birth and Laws , And bravely will maintain his own , In spite of all his Foes . [ 2 ] Old Jemmy is the Top And Chief among the Princes No Mobile gay Fop , With Brimigham pretences : A Heart and Soul so wondrous great , And such a conqu'ring Eye , That every Loyal Lad fears not In Jemmy's Cause to die . [ 3 ] Old Jammy is a Prince Of Noble Resolutions , Whose Powerful Influence Can order our Confusions : But Oh! He fights with such a Grace , No Force can him withstand ; No God of War but must give place Where Jemmy leads the Van. [ 4 ] To Jemmy every Swain Does pay due Veneration ; And Scotland does maintain His Title to the Nation . The Pride of all the Court he stands , The Patron of his Cause , The Joy and Hope of all his Friends , The Terror of his Foes . [ 5 ] Maliciously they Vote , To work Old Jemmy's Ruin , And zealously promote A Bill for his undoing : Both Lords and Commons most agree To pull His Highness down ; But ( 'spight of all their Policy ) Old Jemmy's Heir to th' Crown . [ 6 ] The Schismatic and Saint , The Quaker and the Atheist , Swear by the Covenant , Old Jemmy is a Papist ; While all the Holy Crew did plot To pull His Highness down , Great Albany the Noble Scot Did raise unto a Crown . [ 7 ] Great Albany they swear , He before any other , Shall be immediate Heir Unto His Royal Brother , Who will , in spite of all his Foes , His Lawful Rights maintain , And all the Fops that interpose , Old Jemmy's York again . [ 8 ] The Whigs and Zealots Plot To banish him the Nation , But the Renowned Scot Hath wrought his Restauration . With high Respects they treat his Grace , His Royal Cause maintain ; Brave Albany ( to Scotland's Praise ) Is Mighty York again . [ 9 ] Against his envious Fates The Kirk hath taught a Lesson ; A Blessing on the States , To settle the Succession . They real were , both Knight and Lord , And will His Rights maintain ; By Royal Parliament restor'd , Old Jemmy's come again . [ 10 ] And now He's come again , In spite of all Pretenders , Great Albany shall Reign among the Faiths Defenders . Let Whig and Brimigham repine ; They show their Teeth in vain ; The Glory of the British Line , Old Jemmy's come again . LONDON : Printed by Nath. Thompson , 1681. 