H : 135828 A General Sale of Rebellious Householdstuff . To the Tune of Old Symon the King . ( 1 ) REbellion hath broken up House , and hath left me old Lumber to fell ; Come hither and take your choice , I'le promise to use you well . Will you buy the old Speaker's Chair , which was warm , and easy to sit-in , And oftentimes hath been made clean , when as it was fouler then fitting , Says old Symon the King , Says old Symon the King , With his threadbare Clothes , and his mamsey Nose , Sing heigh ding ding , a ding ding . ( 2 ) Will you buy any Bacon-flitches ? they'r the fattest that ever were spent ; They'r the sides of the Old Committees , fed up with th' Long Parliament . Here's a pair of Bellows and Tongue's , and for a small matter I'le fell 'em ; They'r made of the Presbyters Lungs , to blow up the Coals of Rebellion , Says old Symon the King , etc ( 3 ) [ I ] had thought to have given them once to some Black-Smith for his Forge ; But , now I have consider'd on't , they'r Consecrated to th' Church ; For i'le give them to some Choir , to make the Organs to roar , And the little Pipes squeak higher then ever they did before , Says old Symon the King , etc ( 4 ) Here's a couple of Stools for sale , the one square , and t'other is round ; Betwixt them both the Tail of the RUMP fell unto the Ground . Will you buy the States Council-Table , which was made of the good Wain-Scot ; The frame was a tottering Babble to uphold th' Independent Plot ? Says old Symon the King , etc ( 5 ) Here's the Beesom of Reformation , which should have made clean the Floor ; But it swept the Wealth out of th' Nation , and left us Dirt good store . Will you buy the States Spinning-wheel , which spun for the Ropers Trade ? But better it had stood still , for now it has spun a fair Thread , Says old Symon the King , etc ( 6 ) Here's a very good Clyster-Pipe , which was made of a Butchers stump ; And ofttimes it hath been us'd to cure the Colds of the RUMP . Here's a lump of Pilgrim Salve , which once was a Justice of Peace , Who Nol and the Devil did serve ; but now it is come to This , Says old Symon the King , etc ( 7 ) Here's a Roll of States Tobacco , if any Good Fellow will take i It's neither Virginia nor Spanish , but i'le tell you how they do make it ; This Covenant mixed with Engagement , with and Abjuration-Oath ; And many of them that did take it complain it is foul in the Mouth , Says old Symon the King , etc ( 8 ) Yet the Ashes may happily serve to cure the Scab of the Nation , When they have and Itch to serve a Rebellion by Innovation , A Lantern here is to be bought , the like was scarce e're begotten : For many a Plot'r has found out , before they ever were thought-on , Says old Symon the King , etc ( 9 ) Will you buy the Rump's great Saddle , which once did carry the Nation ? And here's the Bit and the Bridle , and Curb of Dissimulation . Here's the Breeches of the Rump , with a fair dissembling Cloak , And a Presbyterian Jump , with and Independent smock , Says old Symon the King , etc ( 10 ) Here's Olivers Brewing Vessels , and here's his Dray and his Slings : Here's Hewson's Aul and his Bristles , with diverse other odd things . And what does the price belong to all these matters before you ? I'le fell them all for and Old song , and so I do end my story , Says old Symon the King , Says old Symon the King , With his threadbare Clothes , and his mamsey Nose , Sing heigh ding , ding , a ding ding . LONDON : Printed for ALLEN BANKS , 1682. H : 135828 A General Sale of Rebellious Householdstuff . To the Tune of Old Symon the King . ( 1 ) REbellion hath broken up House , and hath left me old Lumber to fell ; Come hither and take your choice , I'le promise to use you well . Will you buy the old Speaker's Chair , which was warm , and easy to sit-in , And oftentimes hath been made clean , when as it was fouler then fitting , Says old Symon the King , Says old Symon the King , With his threadbare Clothes , and his mamsey Nose , Sing heigh ding ding , a ding ding . ( 2 ) Will you buy any Bacon-flitches ? they'r the fattest that ever were spent ; They'r the sides of the Old Committees , fed up with th' Long Parliament . Here's a pair of Bellows and Tongue's , and for a small matter I'le fell 'em ; They'r made of the Presbyters Lungs , to blow up the Coals of Rebellion , Says old Symon the King , etc ( 3 ) [ I ] had thought to have given them once to some Black-Smith for his Forge ; But , now I have consider'd on't , they'r Consecrated to th' Church ; For i'le give them to some Choir , to make the Organs to roar , And the little Pipes squeak higher then ever they did before , Says old Symon the King , etc ( 4 ) Here's a couple of Stools for sale , the one square , and t'other is round ; Betwixt them both the Tail of the RUMP fell unto the Ground . Will you buy the States Council-Table , which was made of the good Wain-Scot ; The frame was a tottering Babble to uphold th' Independent Plot ? Says old Symon the King , etc ( 5 ) Here's the Beesom of Reformation , which should have made clean the Floor ; But it swept the Wealth out of th' Nation , and left us Dirt good store . Will you buy the States Spinning-wheel , which spun for the Ropers Trade ? But better it had stood still , for now it has spun a fair Thread , Says old Symon the King , etc ( 6 ) Here's a very good Clyster-Pipe , which was made of a Butchers stump ; And ofttimes it hath been us'd to cure the Colds of the RUMP . Here's a lump of Pilgrim Salve , which once was a Justice of Peace , Who Nol and the Devil did serve ; but now it is come to This , Says old Symon the King , etc ( 7 ) Here's a Roll of States Tobacco , if any Good Fellow will take i It's neither Virginia nor Spanish , but i'le tell you how they do make it ; This Covenant mixed with Engagement , with and Abjuration-Oath ; And many of them that did take it complain it is foul in the Mouth , Says old Symon the King , etc ( 8 ) Yet the Ashes may happily serve to cure the Scab of the Nation , When they have and Itch to serve a Rebellion by Innovation , A Lantern here is to be bought , the like was scarce e're begotten : For many a Plot'r has found out , before they ever were thought-on , Says old Symon the King , etc ( 9 ) Will you buy the Rump's great Saddle , which once did carry the Nation ? And here's the Bit and the Bridle , and Curb of Dissimulation . Here's the Breeches of the Rump , with a fair dissembling Cloak , And a Presbyterian Jump , with and Independent smock , Says old Symon the King , etc ( 10 ) Here's Olivers Brewing Vessels , and here's his Dray and his Slings : Here's Hewson's Aul and his Bristles , with diverse other odd things . And what does the price belong to all these matters before you ? I'le fell them all for and Old song , and so I do end my story , Says old Symon the King , Says old Symon the King , With his threadbare Clothes , and his mamsey Nose , Sing heigh ding , ding , a ding ding . LONDON : Printed for ALLEN BANKS , 1682. H : 135828 A General Sale of Rebellious Householdstuff . To the Tune of Old Symon the King . ( 1 ) REbellion hath broken up House , and hath left me old Lumber to fell ; Come hither and take your choice , I'le promise to use you well . Will you buy the old Speaker's Chair , which was warm , and easy to sit-in , And oftentimes hath been made clean , when as it was fouler then fitting , Says old Symon the King , Says old Symon the King , With his threadbare Clothes , and his mamsey Nose , Sing heigh ding ding , a ding ding . ( 2 ) Will you buy any Bacon-flitches ? they'r the fattest that ever were spent ; They'r the sides of the Old Committees , fed up with th' Long Parliament . Here's a pair of Bellows and Tongue's , and for a small matter I'le fell 'em ; They'r made of the Presbyters Lungs , to blow up the Coals of Rebellion , Says old Symon the King , etc ( 3 ) [ I ] had thought to have given them once to some Black-Smith for his Forge ; But , now I have consider'd on't , they'r Consecrated to th' Church ; For i'le give them to some Choir , to make the Organs to roar , And the little Pipes squeak higher then ever they did before , Says old Symon the King , etc ( 4 ) Here's a couple of Stools for sale , the one square , and t'other is round ; Betwixt them both the Tail of the RUMP fell unto the Ground . Will you buy the States Council-Table , which was made of the good Wain-Scot ; The frame was a tottering Babble to uphold th' Independent Plot ? Says old Symon the King , etc ( 5 ) Here's the Beesom of Reformation , which should have made clean the Floor ; But it swept the Wealth out of th' Nation , and left us Dirt good store . Will you buy the States Spinning-wheel , which spun for the Ropers Trade ? But better it had stood still , for now it has spun a fair Thread , Says old Symon the King , etc ( 6 ) Here's a very good Clyster-Pipe , which was made of a Butchers stump ; And ofttimes it hath been us'd to cure the Colds of the RUMP . Here's a lump of Pilgrim Salve , which once was a Justice of Peace , Who Nol and the Devil did serve ; but now it is come to This , Says old Symon the King , etc ( 7 ) Here's a Roll of States Tobacco , if any Good Fellow will take i It's neither Virginia nor Spanish , but i'le tell you how they do make it ; This Covenant mixed with Engagement , with and Abjuration-Oath ; And many of them that did take it complain it is foul in the Mouth , Says old Symon the King , etc ( 8 ) Yet the Ashes may happily serve to cure the Scab of the Nation , When they have and Itch to serve a Rebellion by Innovation , A Lantern here is to be bought , the like was scarce e're begotten : For many a Plot'r has found out , before they ever were thought-on , Says old Symon the King , etc ( 9 ) Will you buy the Rump's great Saddle , which once did carry the Nation ? And here's the Bit and the Bridle , and Curb of Dissimulation . Here's the Breeches of the Rump , with a fair dissembling Cloak , And a Presbyterian Jump , with and Independent smock , Says old Symon the King , etc ( 10 ) Here's Olivers Brewing Vessels , and here's his Dray and his Slings : Here's Hewson's Aul and his Bristles , with diverse other odd things . And what does the price belong to all these matters before you ? I'le fell them all for and Old song , and so I do end my story , Says old Symon the King , Says old Symon the King , With his threadbare Clothes , and his mamsey Nose , Sing heigh ding , ding , a ding ding . LONDON : Printed for ALLEN BANKS , 1682. H : 135828 A General Sale of Rebellious Householdstuff . To the Tune of Old Symon the King . ( 1 ) REbellion hath broken up House , and hath left me old Lumber to fell ; Come hither and take your choice , I'le promise to use you well . Will you buy the old Speaker's Chair , which was warm , and easy to sit-in , And oftentimes hath been made clean , when as it was fouler then fitting , Says old Symon the King , Says old Symon the King , With his threadbare Clothes , and his mamsey Nose , Sing heigh ding ding , a ding ding . ( 2 ) Will you buy any Bacon-flitches ? they'r the fattest that ever were spent ; They'r the sides of the Old Committees , fed up with th' Long Parliament . Here's a pair of Bellows and Tongue's , and for a small matter I'le fell 'em ; They'r made of the Presbyters Lungs , to blow up the Coals of Rebellion , Says old Symon the King , etc ( 3 ) [ I ] had thought to have given them once to some Black-Smith for his Forge ; But , now I have consider'd on't , they'r Consecrated to th' Church ; For i'le give them to some Choir , to make the Organs to roar , And the little Pipes squeak higher then ever they did before , Says old Symon the King , etc ( 4 ) Here's a couple of Stools for sale , the one square , and t'other is round ; Betwixt them both the Tail of the RUMP fell unto the Ground . Will you buy the States Council-Table , which was made of the good Wain-Scot ; The frame was a tottering Babble to uphold th' Independent Plot ? Says old Symon the King , etc ( 5 ) Here's the Beesom of Reformation , which should have made clean the Floor ; But it swept the Wealth out of th' Nation , and left us Dirt good store . Will you buy the States Spinning-wheel , which spun for the Ropers Trade ? But better it had stood still , for now it has spun a fair Thread , Says old Symon the King , etc ( 6 ) Here's a very good Clyster-Pipe , which was made of a Butchers stump ; And ofttimes it hath been us'd to cure the Colds of the RUMP . Here's a lump of Pilgrim Salve , which once was a Justice of Peace , Who Nol and the Devil did serve ; but now it is come to This , Says old Symon the King , etc ( 7 ) Here's a Roll of States Tobacco , if any Good Fellow will take i It's neither Virginia nor Spanish , but i'le tell you how they do make it ; This Covenant mixed with Engagement , with and Abjuration-Oath ; And many of them that did take it complain it is foul in the Mouth , Says old Symon the King , etc ( 8 ) Yet the Ashes may happily serve to cure the Scab of the Nation , When they have and Itch to serve a Rebellion by Innovation , A Lantern here is to be bought , the like was scarce e're begotten : For many a Plot'r has found out , before they ever were thought-on , Says old Symon the King , etc ( 9 ) Will you buy the Rump's great Saddle , which once did carry the Nation ? And here's the Bit and the Bridle , and Curb of Dissimulation . Here's the Breeches of the Rump , with a fair dissembling Cloak , And a Presbyterian Jump , with and Independent smock , Says old Symon the King , etc ( 10 ) Here's Olivers Brewing Vessels , and here's his Dray and his Slings : Here's Hewson's Aul and his Bristles , with diverse other odd things . And what does the price belong to all these matters before you ? I'le fell them all for and Old song , and so I do end my story , Says old Symon the King , Says old Symon the King , With his threadbare Clothes , and his mamsey Nose , Sing heigh ding , ding , a ding ding . LONDON : Printed for ALLEN BANKS , 1682. 