H : 135851 Stephen Colledge's GHOST TO THE FANATICAL CABAL . FRom the unfathom'd Bowels of those cells , Where death and everlasting horror dwells , I come with timely notice to prevent A restless and eternal discontent , lest you ( my once belov'd ) too late repent . What e're the great designing Grandees said , My willing soul officiously obey'd , I was and active Puppet and was proud , To squeak out Treason to the listening Crowd , While S --- behind the Curtain sat , And taught my busy babbling tongue to prate , But now my Quondam Tutor give that o're , And trust your vain projecting head no more ; Though with deliberation you assail , Think how the Silver slime betrays the Snail . Tell Dr. Titus and without offence To his imaginary Reverence . 'Twere better that the truth had been expos'd As naked as himself and as disclos'd : It was imprudence in him and a freik To stretch the Plot so far to make it break . Poor Implement to some designing head , And then by fairer promises betray'd . Let M ------ curb ambition lest it grow , And only swell him high to hurl him low , The Eagles lawful brood can only gaze Like unconcern'd Spectators at the Rays , Too weak his eyes , his countenance too down To look against the Lustre of a Crown . Now for the scribbling Tribe , my last advice Is seasonable Caution to be nice , Too boldly in their function they transgress , Too fatally Licentious is the Press . The giddy and believing Rout they please With Mercuryes and Impartiallities , While into the unpleasant Dose is thrown Protestancy to make the Cup go down ; I fill'd a Bumper to the Rising Sun , And drank Sedition till I was undone . But now my conscious soul repines in vain , Repentance only aggravates the pain , The fatal Doom can never be retriev'd , Murder may sooner hope to be repriev'd . How durst these parched Lips pronounce such things Against the best & worthiest of Kings ? I must that sacrilegious Arm condemn , Dares spoil his temples of the Diadem , That Ornament was Heavens sole gift , & why Did we Supreme Authority deny ? With what ill Genius were we possessed To force his Royal Brother from his breas No sooner we Petition'd , but he'd give ; Till we incroach'd upon Prerogative , Then when he saw what Mysteries were meant . He , tender of his honour , did resent ; And pull'd our Battle Architecture down , Erected in defiance to his Crown . But hold , approaching day peeps through the Sky , And whispers to the guilty Ghosts to fly . My date of time's expir'd , and I must go , The Cock with his third Summons tells me so . Now must I stalk and like a Goblin rove Through wayless paths and melancholy Groves Down to the deep Abyss where discord reigns , And Treasons punished with eternal pains . There , no kind Ignoramus can restore My drooping Vitals and allay the soar , Instead of Acclamations and applause Which my attempting rashness us'd to cause Nought but the Yells of furies now I hear , And crawlling Snakes shall hourly hiss despair . This , this will be your Doom if you proceed , Your Politics will fail you when you need , Divine severity must be your fate With a Relentless Never for the Date . FINIS . Printed for A. Turner , 1681. H : 135851 Stephen Colledge's GHOST TO THE FANATICAL CABAL . FRom the unfathom'd Bowels of those cells , Where death and everlasting horror dwells , I come with timely notice to prevent A restless and eternal discontent , lest you ( my once belov'd ) too late repent . What e're the great designing Grandees said , My willing soul officiously obey'd , I was and active Puppet and was proud , To squeak out Treason to the listening Crowd , While S --- behind the Curtain sat , And taught my busy babbling tongue to prate , But now my Quondam Tutor give that o're , And trust your vain projecting head no more ; Though with deliberation you assail , Think how the Silver slime betrays the Snail . Tell Dr. Titus and without offence To his imaginary Reverence . 'Twere better that the truth had been expos'd As naked as himself and as disclos'd : It was imprudence in him and a freik To stretch the Plot so far to make it break . Poor Implement to some designing head , And then by fairer promises betray'd . Let M ------ curb ambition lest it grow , And only swell him high to hurl him low , The Eagles lawful brood can only gaze Like unconcern'd Spectators at the Rays , Too weak his eyes , his countenance too down To look against the Lustre of a Crown . Now for the scribbling Tribe , my last advice Is seasonable Caution to be nice , Too boldly in their function they transgress , Too fatally Licentious is the Press . The giddy and believing Rout they please With Mercuryes and Impartiallities , While into the unpleasant Dose is thrown Protestancy to make the Cup go down ; I fill'd a Bumper to the Rising Sun , And drank Sedition till I was undone . But now my conscious soul repines in vain , Repentance only aggravates the pain , The fatal Doom can never be retriev'd , Murder may sooner hope to be repriev'd . How durst these parched Lips pronounce such things Against the best & worthiest of Kings ? I must that sacrilegious Arm condemn , Dares spoil his temples of the Diadem , That Ornament was Heavens sole gift , & why Did we Supreme Authority deny ? With what ill Genius were we possessed To force his Royal Brother from his breas No sooner we Petition'd , but he'd give ; Till we incroach'd upon Prerogative , Then when he saw what Mysteries were meant . He , tender of his honour , did resent ; And pull'd our Battle Architecture down , Erected in defiance to his Crown . But hold , approaching day peeps through the Sky , And whispers to the guilty Ghosts to fly . My date of time's expir'd , and I must go , The Cock with his third Summons tells me so . Now must I stalk and like a Goblin rove Through wayless paths and melancholy Groves Down to the deep Abyss where discord reigns , And Treasons punished with eternal pains . There , no kind Ignoramus can restore My drooping Vitals and allay the soar , Instead of Acclamations and applause Which my attempting rashness us'd to cause Nought but the Yells of furies now I hear , And crawlling Snakes shall hourly hiss despair . This , this will be your Doom if you proceed , Your Politics will fail you when you need , Divine severity must be your fate With a Relentless Never for the Date . FINIS . Printed for A. Turner , 1681. H : 135851 Stephen Colledge's GHOST TO THE FANATICAL CABAL . FRom the unfathom'd Bowels of those cells , Where death and everlasting horror dwells , I come with timely notice to prevent A restless and eternal discontent , lest you ( my once belov'd ) too late repent . What e're the great designing Grandees said , My willing soul officiously obey'd , I was and active Puppet and was proud , To squeak out Treason to the listening Crowd , While S --- behind the Curtain sat , And taught my busy babbling tongue to prate , But now my Quondam Tutor give that o're , And trust your vain projecting head no more ; Though with deliberation you assail , Think how the Silver slime betrays the Snail . Tell Dr. Titus and without offence To his imaginary Reverence . 'Twere better that the truth had been expos'd As naked as himself and as disclos'd : It was imprudence in him and a freik To stretch the Plot so far to make it break . Poor Implement to some designing head , And then by fairer promises betray'd . Let M ------ curb ambition lest it grow , And only swell him high to hurl him low , The Eagles lawful brood can only gaze Like unconcern'd Spectators at the Rays , Too weak his eyes , his countenance too down To look against the Lustre of a Crown . Now for the scribbling Tribe , my last advice Is seasonable Caution to be nice , Too boldly in their function they transgress , Too fatally Licentious is the Press . The giddy and believing Rout they please With Mercuryes and Impartiallities , While into the unpleasant Dose is thrown Protestancy to make the Cup go down ; I fill'd a Bumper to the Rising Sun , And drank Sedition till I was undone . But now my conscious soul repines in vain , Repentance only aggravates the pain , The fatal Doom can never be retriev'd , Murder may sooner hope to be repriev'd . How durst these parched Lips pronounce such things Against the best & worthiest of Kings ? I must that sacrilegious Arm condemn , Dares spoil his temples of the Diadem , That Ornament was Heavens sole gift , & why Did we Supreme Authority deny ? With what ill Genius were we possessed To force his Royal Brother from his breas No sooner we Petition'd , but he'd give ; Till we incroach'd upon Prerogative , Then when he saw what Mysteries were meant . He , tender of his honour , did resent ; And pull'd our Battle Architecture down , Erected in defiance to his Crown . But hold , approaching day peeps through the Sky , And whispers to the guilty Ghosts to fly . My date of time's expir'd , and I must go , The Cock with his third Summons tells me so . Now must I stalk and like a Goblin rove Through wayless paths and melancholy Groves Down to the deep Abyss where discord reigns , And Treasons punished with eternal pains . There , no kind Ignoramus can restore My drooping Vitals and allay the soar , Instead of Acclamations and applause Which my attempting rashness us'd to cause Nought but the Yells of furies now I hear , And crawlling Snakes shall hourly hiss despair . This , this will be your Doom if you proceed , Your Politics will fail you when you need , Divine severity must be your fate With a Relentless Never for the Date . FINIS . Printed for A. Turner , 1681. H : 135851 Stephen Colledge's GHOST TO THE FANATICAL CABAL . FRom the unfathom'd Bowels of those cells , Where death and everlasting horror dwells , I come with timely notice to prevent A restless and eternal discontent , lest you ( my once belov'd ) too late repent . What e're the great designing Grandees said , My willing soul officiously obey'd , I was and active Puppet and was proud , To squeak out Treason to the listening Crowd , While S --- behind the Curtain sat , And taught my busy babbling tongue to prate , But now my Quondam Tutor give that o're , And trust your vain projecting head no more ; Though with deliberation you assail , Think how the Silver slime betrays the Snail . Tell Dr. Titus and without offence To his imaginary Reverence . 'Twere better that the truth had been expos'd As naked as himself and as disclos'd : It was imprudence in him and a freik To stretch the Plot so far to make it break . Poor Implement to some designing head , And then by fairer promises betray'd . Let M ------ curb ambition lest it grow , And only swell him high to hurl him low , The Eagles lawful brood can only gaze Like unconcern'd Spectators at the Rays , Too weak his eyes , his countenance too down To look against the Lustre of a Crown . Now for the scribbling Tribe , my last advice Is seasonable Caution to be nice , Too boldly in their function they transgress , Too fatally Licentious is the Press . The giddy and believing Rout they please With Mercuryes and Impartiallities , While into the unpleasant Dose is thrown Protestancy to make the Cup go down ; I fill'd a Bumper to the Rising Sun , And drank Sedition till I was undone . But now my conscious soul repines in vain , Repentance only aggravates the pain , The fatal Doom can never be retriev'd , Murder may sooner hope to be repriev'd . How durst these parched Lips pronounce such things Against the best & worthiest of Kings ? I must that sacrilegious Arm condemn , Dares spoil his temples of the Diadem , That Ornament was Heavens sole gift , & why Did we Supreme Authority deny ? With what ill Genius were we possessed To force his Royal Brother from his breas No sooner we Petition'd , but he'd give ; Till we incroach'd upon Prerogative , Then when he saw what Mysteries were meant . He , tender of his honour , did resent ; And pull'd our Battle Architecture down , Erected in defiance to his Crown . But hold , approaching day peeps through the Sky , And whispers to the guilty Ghosts to fly . My date of time's expir'd , and I must go , The Cock with his third Summons tells me so . Now must I stalk and like a Goblin rove Through wayless paths and melancholy Groves Down to the deep Abyss where discord reigns , And Treasons punished with eternal pains . There , no kind Ignoramus can restore My drooping Vitals and allay the soar , Instead of Acclamations and applause Which my attempting rashness us'd to cause Nought but the Yells of furies now I hear , And crawlling Snakes shall hourly hiss despair . This , this will be your Doom if you proceed , Your Politics will fail you when you need , Divine severity must be your fate With a Relentless Never for the Date . FINIS . Printed for A. Turner , 1681. 