H : 135860 Rare Show Or the true Protestant Procession . A new Ballad to the Tune of the Northumberland man . 1. THis is the Cabal of some Protestant Lords A forging the turn that not long since they had , Here W ------ n sitteth and searches Records to find Flaws in good Statutes , & varnish the bad . 2. This is the Lord Tony that slyly sits here Who to sham and contrive has never deny'd And rather then the Good Cause shou'd fallen through his fear He'l let out Rebellion by broaching his side . 3. This is Popular Perkin that smirks and looks gay The women extols the Spark up to the sky , None dances with so great a grace , as they say , Yet some body thinks that he capers too high . 4. Here flourishing E ----- the tongue o'th Gang With Rhetorical Artifice fancies fine things , First vainly composeth a taking Harangue then fosters a Villain in Libeling Kings . 5. Here's Docter Informant that ne'r wou'd stick out To traffic in Oaths or tell a Stately , Observe how he firks all the Jesuits about , First blaws on a Beuk , and so Papists God b -- y . 6. Here's Wilmore thats troubl'd with scruples & stings His Citizens conscience is nice and demure , A Traytor's Indicted for treasonable things , But he tells you this false , he's a Protestant sure . 7. These are some sage Citizens that you see there , Who out of their Zeal all our rights to maintain And to keep out all slavery , have taken a care to put up in the streets two Posts and a Chain . 8. These are some Apprentices that still do retain Some Tenets their Master's approve and allows , They come to direct a wise Monarch to Reign Instead of sweeping their shop and cleaning of shoes . 9. This is the Committee where grievance is scann'd Which Remonstrates the danger that threatens the State Good service is here by suspicion Trapan'd And Allegiance is reckon'd Malignancy straight . 10. Her's the Synod of Saints that will sometime refresh The failings of nature with means of their own . They'l preach you the mortification of flesh With eyes up to Heaven and Breeches let down . 11. These are the Cabal of the Covenantiers That think they maintain the Religion the best By pulling down Churches and their Overseers And routing the Defender of Faith with the rest . 12. These are the Remains of the Levelling Rump That stink in the House and fresh Commons annoy , And lest the right James shou'd be turn'd up for Trump They cry out , a Court Carded will their gaming destroy . 13. That Lumber of Trumpery buzzing about Are silly Subscribers that come at first dash , To make up a large Petitioning rout Of Link-bois and all such true Protestant trash . 14. These there are the Hucksters that Treason retail , They'l fell you a sheet with a pennyworth in 't ; That's Courantier Care that never will fail to scribble , while Langly dares Publish and Print . 15. That's the Club of a Pack of ingenious friends that made Charles a Scotch Pedlar in the Rare show , And I hope that our Monarch to make them amends will give them a Yard of St. Johnstons or two , Printed for A.B. 1681. H : 135860 Rare Show Or the true Protestant Procession . A new Ballad to the Tune of the Northumberland man . 1. THis is the Cabal of some Protestant Lords A forging the turn that not long since they had , Here W ------ n sitteth and searches Records to find Flaws in good Statutes , & varnish the bad . 2. This is the Lord Tony that slyly sits here Who to sham and contrive has never deny'd And rather then the Good Cause shou'd fallen through his fear He'l let out Rebellion by broaching his side . 3. This is Popular Perkin that smirks and looks gay The women extols the Spark up to the sky , None dances with so great a grace , as they say , Yet some body thinks that he capers too high . 4. Here flourishing E ----- the tongue o'th Gang With Rhetorical Artifice fancies fine things , First vainly composeth a taking Harangue then fosters a Villain in Libeling Kings . 5. Here's Docter Informant that ne'r wou'd stick out To traffic in Oaths or tell a Stately , Observe how he firks all the Jesuits about , First blaws on a Beuk , and so Papists God b -- y . 6. Here's Wilmore thats troubl'd with scruples & stings His Citizens conscience is nice and demure , A Traytor's Indicted for treasonable things , But he tells you this false , he's a Protestant sure . 7. These are some sage Citizens that you see there , Who out of their Zeal all our rights to maintain And to keep out all slavery , have taken a care to put up in the streets two Posts and a Chain . 8. These are some Apprentices that still do retain Some Tenets their Master's approve and allows , They come to direct a wise Monarch to Reign Instead of sweeping their shop and cleaning of shoes . 9. This is the Committee where grievance is scann'd Which Remonstrates the danger that threatens the State Good service is here by suspicion Trapan'd And Allegiance is reckon'd Malignancy straight . 10. Her's the Synod of Saints that will sometime refresh The failings of nature with means of their own . They'l preach you the mortification of flesh With eyes up to Heaven and Breeches let down . 11. These are the Cabal of the Covenantiers That think they maintain the Religion the best By pulling down Churches and their Overseers And routing the Defender of Faith with the rest . 12. These are the Remains of the Levelling Rump That stink in the House and fresh Commons annoy , And lest the right James shou'd be turn'd up for Trump They cry out , a Court Carded will their gaming destroy . 13. That Lumber of Trumpery buzzing about Are silly Subscribers that come at first dash , To make up a large Petitioning rout Of Link-bois and all such true Protestant trash . 14. These there are the Hucksters that Treason retail , They'l fell you a sheet with a pennyworth in 't ; That's Courantier Care that never will fail to scribble , while Langly dares Publish and Print . 15. That's the Club of a Pack of ingenious friends that made Charles a Scotch Pedlar in the Rare show , And I hope that our Monarch to make them amends will give them a Yard of St. Johnstons or two , Printed for A.B. 1681. 