H : 135863 A Pastoral Copy presented to His MAJESTY at CAMBRIDGE , by a Nobleman of that UNIVERSITY . HAIL , mighty PAN ! what Present shall we pay To your Auspicious Deity to day ? We are the meanest of your rustic Swains ; And have no other Palace but our Plains . Untaught in Courtly Gallantry we come To give the entertainment of our home . Part of the poor increase our fortune's have , And that beside , your kind indulgence gave . Those bashful Nymphs , our Muses , blush to see , A Train so gay attend your Deity . While they clad in their homespun stuff scarce dare Look on the great procession , though from far . With what a trembling reverence their hands Cull all the choicest flow'rs that grace the Lands , To bind your brows with such and Ornament , As all their Artless consults cou'd invent ! 'Tis you , Great Sir , that gives us peaceful days . One smile from you revives our dying Bays : For when th' appearing Bustles of the State Seem'd to disturb our Studies , as of late , Under the spreading umbrage of your Oak We sat securely from the Thunderstroke . But now the pow'rful glory of your Crown Has forc't the found aspiring Vapours down ; Has banish't all the thickening mists afar , And once again has clear'd the troubl'd Air . Now in the kinder Sunshine of your Reign , We'l bask our selves , and feel new life again . We'l dedicate Solemnities to you , And all our ancient harmless sports renew . Upon the banks of aged Cam we'l fit , While some kind covert , shades us from the heat . There on our Reeds we'l pipe unto the Groves , And make the watery Nymphs forget their Loves . The Current shall with gentle murmurs run , and pleased at its calm , smile on the Sun. The gentle Gales shall in soft Breezes sing , among the listening Trees , God bless the King . LONDON : Printed for Richard Janeway , in Queens-head-Alley in Pater-No - ster-Row . 1681. H : 135863 A Pastoral Copy presented to His MAJESTY at CAMBRIDGE , by a Nobleman of that UNIVERSITY . HAIL , mighty PAN ! what Present shall we pay To your Auspicious Deity to day ? We are the meanest of your rustic Swains ; And have no other Palace but our Plains . Untaught in Courtly Gallantry we come To give the entertainment of our home . Part of the poor increase our fortune's have , And that beside , your kind indulgence gave . Those bashful Nymphs , our Muses , blush to see , A Train so gay attend your Deity . While they clad in their homespun stuff scarce dare Look on the great procession , though from far . With what a trembling reverence their hands Cull all the choicest flow'rs that grace the Lands , To bind your brows with such and Ornament , As all their Artless consults cou'd invent ! 'Tis you , Great Sir , that gives us peaceful days . One smile from you revives our dying Bays : For when th' appearing Bustles of the State Seem'd to disturb our Studies , as of late , Under the spreading umbrage of your Oak We sat securely from the Thunderstroke . But now the pow'rful glory of your Crown Has forc't the found aspiring Vapours down ; Has banish't all the thickening mists afar , And once again has clear'd the troubl'd Air . Now in the kinder Sunshine of your Reign , We'l bask our selves , and feel new life again . We'l dedicate Solemnities to you , And all our ancient harmless sports renew . Upon the banks of aged Cam we'l fit , While some kind covert , shades us from the heat . There on our Reeds we'l pipe unto the Groves , And make the watery Nymphs forget their Loves . The Current shall with gentle murmurs run , and pleased at its calm , smile on the Sun. The gentle Gales shall in soft Breezes sing , among the listening Trees , God bless the King . LONDON : Printed for Richard Janeway , in Queens-head-Alley in Pater-No - ster-Row . 1681. H : 135863 A Pastoral Copy presented to His MAJESTY at CAMBRIDGE , by a Nobleman of that UNIVERSITY . HAIL , mighty PAN ! what Present shall we pay To your Auspicious Deity to day ? We are the meanest of your rustic Swains ; And have no other Palace but our Plains . Untaught in Courtly Gallantry we come To give the entertainment of our home . Part of the poor increase our fortune's have , And that beside , your kind indulgence gave . Those bashful Nymphs , our Muses , blush to see , A Train so gay attend your Deity . While they clad in their homespun stuff scarce dare Look on the great procession , though from far . With what a trembling reverence their hands Cull all the choicest flow'rs that grace the Lands , To bind your brows with such and Ornament , As all their Artless consults cou'd invent ! 'Tis you , Great Sir , that gives us peaceful days . One smile from you revives our dying Bays : For when th' appearing Bustles of the State Seem'd to disturb our Studies , as of late , Under the spreading umbrage of your Oak We sat securely from the Thunderstroke . But now the pow'rful glory of your Crown Has forc't the found aspiring Vapours down ; Has banish't all the thickening mists afar , And once again has clear'd the troubl'd Air . Now in the kinder Sunshine of your Reign , We'l bask our selves , and feel new life again . We'l dedicate Solemnities to you , And all our ancient harmless sports renew . Upon the banks of aged Cam we'l fit , While some kind covert , shades us from the heat . There on our Reeds we'l pipe unto the Groves , And make the watery Nymphs forget their Loves . The Current shall with gentle murmurs run , and pleased at its calm , smile on the Sun. The gentle Gales shall in soft Breezes sing , among the listening Trees , God bless the King . LONDON : Printed for Richard Janeway , in Queens-head-Alley in Pater-No - ster-Row . 1681. H : 135863 A Pastoral Copy presented to His MAJESTY at CAMBRIDGE , by a Nobleman of that UNIVERSITY . HAIL , mighty PAN ! what Present shall we pay To your Auspicious Deity to day ? We are the meanest of your rustic Swains ; And have no other Palace but our Plains . Untaught in Courtly Gallantry we come To give the entertainment of our home . Part of the poor increase our fortune's have , And that beside , your kind indulgence gave . Those bashful Nymphs , our Muses , blush to see , A Train so gay attend your Deity . While they clad in their homespun stuff scarce dare Look on the great procession , though from far . With what a trembling reverence their hands Cull all the choicest flow'rs that grace the Lands , To bind your brows with such and Ornament , As all their Artless consults cou'd invent ! 'Tis you , Great Sir , that gives us peaceful days . One smile from you revives our dying Bays : For when th' appearing Bustles of the State Seem'd to disturb our Studies , as of late , Under the spreading umbrage of your Oak We sat securely from the Thunderstroke . But now the pow'rful glory of your Crown Has forc't the found aspiring Vapours down ; Has banish't all the thickening mists afar , And once again has clear'd the troubl'd Air . Now in the kinder Sunshine of your Reign , We'l bask our selves , and feel new life again . We'l dedicate Solemnities to you , And all our ancient harmless sports renew . Upon the banks of aged Cam we'l fit , While some kind covert , shades us from the heat . There on our Reeds we'l pipe unto the Groves , And make the watery Nymphs forget their Loves . The Current shall with gentle murmurs run , and pleased at its calm , smile on the Sun. The gentle Gales shall in soft Breezes sing , among the listening Trees , God bless the King . LONDON : Printed for Richard Janeway , in Queens-head-Alley in Pater-No - ster-Row . 1681. 