H : 135877 The Tories Confession , Or , A merry song in Answer to The WHIGS Exaltation : To the same Tune of Forty One . [ 1 ] A Pox on Whigs we'l now grow wise Let's cry out guard the Throne , By that we'l damn the Good Old Cause And make the Game our own Religion , that shall stoop to us , and so shall Liberty , We'l make their Laws as thin as Lawn , such Tory Rogues are we . [ 2 ] When once that Preaching Whining Crew are crush'd and quite undone , The Poor we'l banish by our Laws , and all the rest we'l burn . Then Abbey-Lands shall be possessed by those whose Right they be , We'l cry up Laws , but none we'l use , such Tory Rogues are we . [ 3 ] The Name of Protestant we hate , the Whigs they know it well , And since we can't it longer hide let's Truth gently tell . Now Dam me is good Manners grown , and tends to Gallantry , We'l S --- the Nation out of Doors , such cursed Rogues are we . [ 4 ] What care we for a Parliament , no Money comes from thence , Would they but give us Coin enough , we'd spend the Nations pence . These twopenny Statesmen all shall down , a glorious sighed to see , To finish all we'l plunder 'um too , such Sons of Whores are we . [ 5 ] We'l built more Universities , for there lies all our hope , And to th' Crape Gown we'l cringe & creep supposing 'twere a Pope ; Say what he will we'l him believe , if true or false it be , And while he prays we'l Drink his Health , such Tory Rogues are we . [ 6 ] What pimping Whig shall dare control , or check the lawful Heir , We'l take the Rascal by the Pole , and Pox of all his Hair . Then here goes honest James's Health , come drink it on your Knee , Dzowns we'l have none but honest souls , such Tory Rogues as we . [ 7 ] These Crafty Whigs are subtle Knaves to give um all their endue , And yet we bauk'd the Popish Plot , though they had sworn it true . For this you know who we may thank , But Mum for that , yet we Are bound to pray and praise him for't , such Tory Rogues are we . [ 8 ] When all these zealous Whigs are down , we'l drink and fallen a roaring , And then set up the Triple Crown , 'twill Saint us all for whoring . When we have quite inslav'd um all , our selves cannot be free . Then prithee Devil claim thy own , for heigh to Hell go we . [ 9 ] We'l choose their Sheriffs and Juries too and then pretend 'tis Law , We'l bring more Irish o're to swear 'gainst those they never saw : We'l seize their Charters , then they must come beg um on their Knee , If this won't do we'l call the French , such cursed Rogues are we . LONDON Printed for T.H. MDCLXXXII . H : 135877 The Tories Confession , Or , A merry song in Answer to The WHIGS Exaltation : To the same Tune of Forty One . [ 1 ] A Pox on Whigs we'l now grow wise Let's cry out guard the Throne , By that we'l damn the Good Old Cause And make the Game our own Religion , that shall stoop to us , and so shall Liberty , We'l make their Laws as thin as Lawn , such Tory Rogues are we . [ 2 ] When once that Preaching Whining Crew are crush'd and quite undone , The Poor we'l banish by our Laws , and all the rest we'l burn . Then Abbey-Lands shall be possessed by those whose Right they be , We'l cry up Laws , but none we'l use , such Tory Rogues are we . [ 3 ] The Name of Protestant we hate , the Whigs they know it well , And since we can't it longer hide let's Truth gently tell . Now Dam me is good Manners grown , and tends to Gallantry , We'l S --- the Nation out of Doors , such cursed Rogues are we . [ 4 ] What care we for a Parliament , no Money comes from thence , Would they but give us Coin enough , we'd spend the Nations pence . These twopenny Statesmen all shall down , a glorious sighed to see , To finish all we'l plunder 'um too , such Sons of Whores are we . [ 5 ] We'l built more Universities , for there lies all our hope , And to th' Crape Gown we'l cringe & creep supposing 'twere a Pope ; Say what he will we'l him believe , if true or false it be , And while he prays we'l Drink his Health , such Tory Rogues are we . [ 6 ] What pimping Whig shall dare control , or check the lawful Heir , We'l take the Rascal by the Pole , and Pox of all his Hair . Then here goes honest James's Health , come drink it on your Knee , Dzowns we'l have none but honest souls , such Tory Rogues as we . [ 7 ] These Crafty Whigs are subtle Knaves to give um all their endue , And yet we bauk'd the Popish Plot , though they had sworn it true . For this you know who we may thank , But Mum for that , yet we Are bound to pray and praise him for't , such Tory Rogues are we . [ 8 ] When all these zealous Whigs are down , we'l drink and fallen a roaring , And then set up the Triple Crown , 'twill Saint us all for whoring . When we have quite inslav'd um all , our selves cannot be free . Then prithee Devil claim thy own , for heigh to Hell go we . [ 9 ] We'l choose their Sheriffs and Juries too and then pretend 'tis Law , We'l bring more Irish o're to swear 'gainst those they never saw : We'l seize their Charters , then they must come beg um on their Knee , If this won't do we'l call the French , such cursed Rogues are we . LONDON Printed for T.H. MDCLXXXII . H : 135877 The Tories Confession , Or , A merry song in Answer to The WHIGS Exaltation : To the same Tune of Forty One . [ 1 ] A Pox on Whigs we'l now grow wise Let's cry out guard the Throne , By that we'l damn the Good Old Cause And make the Game our own Religion , that shall stoop to us , and so shall Liberty , We'l make their Laws as thin as Lawn , such Tory Rogues are we . [ 2 ] When once that Preaching Whining Crew are crush'd and quite undone , The Poor we'l banish by our Laws , and all the rest we'l burn . Then Abbey-Lands shall be possessed by those whose Right they be , We'l cry up Laws , but none we'l use , such Tory Rogues are we . [ 3 ] The Name of Protestant we hate , the Whigs they know it well , And since we can't it longer hide let's Truth gently tell . Now Dam me is good Manners grown , and tends to Gallantry , We'l S --- the Nation out of Doors , such cursed Rogues are we . [ 4 ] What care we for a Parliament , no Money comes from thence , Would they but give us Coin enough , we'd spend the Nations pence . These twopenny Statesmen all shall down , a glorious sighed to see , To finish all we'l plunder 'um too , such Sons of Whores are we . [ 5 ] We'l built more Universities , for there lies all our hope , And to th' Crape Gown we'l cringe & creep supposing 'twere a Pope ; Say what he will we'l him believe , if true or false it be , And while he prays we'l Drink his Health , such Tory Rogues are we . [ 6 ] What pimping Whig shall dare control , or check the lawful Heir , We'l take the Rascal by the Pole , and Pox of all his Hair . Then here goes honest James's Health , come drink it on your Knee , Dzowns we'l have none but honest souls , such Tory Rogues as we . [ 7 ] These Crafty Whigs are subtle Knaves to give um all their endue , And yet we bauk'd the Popish Plot , though they had sworn it true . For this you know who we may thank , But Mum for that , yet we Are bound to pray and praise him for't , such Tory Rogues are we . [ 8 ] When all these zealous Whigs are down , we'l drink and fallen a roaring , And then set up the Triple Crown , 'twill Saint us all for whoring . When we have quite inslav'd um all , our selves cannot be free . Then prithee Devil claim thy own , for heigh to Hell go we . [ 9 ] We'l choose their Sheriffs and Juries too and then pretend 'tis Law , We'l bring more Irish o're to swear 'gainst those they never saw : We'l seize their Charters , then they must come beg um on their Knee , If this won't do we'l call the French , such cursed Rogues are we . LONDON Printed for T.H. MDCLXXXII . H : 135877 The Tories Confession , Or , A merry song in Answer to The WHIGS Exaltation : To the same Tune of Forty One . [ 1 ] A Pox on Whigs we'l now grow wise Let's cry out guard the Throne , By that we'l damn the Good Old Cause And make the Game our own Religion , that shall stoop to us , and so shall Liberty , We'l make their Laws as thin as Lawn , such Tory Rogues are we . [ 2 ] When once that Preaching Whining Crew are crush'd and quite undone , The Poor we'l banish by our Laws , and all the rest we'l burn . Then Abbey-Lands shall be possessed by those whose Right they be , We'l cry up Laws , but none we'l use , such Tory Rogues are we . [ 3 ] The Name of Protestant we hate , the Whigs they know it well , And since we can't it longer hide let's Truth gently tell . Now Dam me is good Manners grown , and tends to Gallantry , We'l S --- the Nation out of Doors , such cursed Rogues are we . [ 4 ] What care we for a Parliament , no Money comes from thence , Would they but give us Coin enough , we'd spend the Nations pence . These twopenny Statesmen all shall down , a glorious sighed to see , To finish all we'l plunder 'um too , such Sons of Whores are we . [ 5 ] We'l built more Universities , for there lies all our hope , And to th' Crape Gown we'l cringe & creep supposing 'twere a Pope ; Say what he will we'l him believe , if true or false it be , And while he prays we'l Drink his Health , such Tory Rogues are we . [ 6 ] What pimping Whig shall dare control , or check the lawful Heir , We'l take the Rascal by the Pole , and Pox of all his Hair . Then here goes honest James's Health , come drink it on your Knee , Dzowns we'l have none but honest souls , such Tory Rogues as we . [ 7 ] These Crafty Whigs are subtle Knaves to give um all their endue , And yet we bauk'd the Popish Plot , though they had sworn it true . For this you know who we may thank , But Mum for that , yet we Are bound to pray and praise him for't , such Tory Rogues are we . [ 8 ] When all these zealous Whigs are down , we'l drink and fallen a roaring , And then set up the Triple Crown , 'twill Saint us all for whoring . When we have quite inslav'd um all , our selves cannot be free . Then prithee Devil claim thy own , for heigh to Hell go we . [ 9 ] We'l choose their Sheriffs and Juries too and then pretend 'tis Law , We'l bring more Irish o're to swear 'gainst those they never saw : We'l seize their Charters , then they must come beg um on their Knee , If this won't do we'l call the French , such cursed Rogues are we . LONDON Printed for T.H. MDCLXXXII . 