H : 135881 The LOYAL SCOT ; And Excellent New SONG To and Excellent New SCOTCH Tune . [ 1 ] Bred of Geud ! I think the Nation's mad , And nene but Knaves and Perjur'd Loons do rule the Roast ; And for and Honest Karl ne Living's to be had ; Why sure the Deel is Landed on the English Coast . I ha' ne'r been here sin' Forty Three , And now thro' Scotland gang to see our gracious King ; But Wunds a Geud , instead of Mirth and Merry Glee , I find and Sniveling Presbyter is coming in . [ 2 ] For they talk of Horrid Popish Plots , and Heav'n knows what , When all the wiser world knows well what they'd be at ; For with sike like Sanctity the Geudest King They did to Death and Ruin bring . When on the Civil Broils they first did enter in , ( as well you ken ) with Popery they did begin ; And with Liberty and Public Geud was muckle din , When the Deel a bit they meant the Thing . [ 3 ] That Machine of Monstrous Policy , I mean old S --------- for Loyalty so fam'd ; The voice of all the Geudly Rabble Mobile , The falsest Loon that ever Envy destin'd Damn'd . Heav'n sure never meant so fou a Thing , But to inform the World where Villainy did dwell : And sike a Traitor both to Commonwealth and KING The muckle Deel did surely never hatch in Hell . [ 4 ] For , like Roman Cateline , to gain his pious Ends , He pimps for all the Lose Rebellious Fops in Toon ; And with treats & treason daily crams his City-Friends , From the Link-man to the Scarlet-Goon . And with high Debauchery they carry on the Cause , And Geudly Reformation is the Sham pretence ; And Religiously defy Divine and Humane Laws , With Obedience to their Rightful Prince . [ 5 ] Then a SPEAKER to this Grand Cabal , Old Envy Tony seated at the Head o' th' Board , His Learn'd Oration for Rebellion makes to All , Applauded and approv'd by ev'ry Factious Lord . Cully Jemmy then they Vote for KING , Whom curse confound for being sike a senseless Loon ; Can they who did their lawful Lord to th' Scaffold bring Be just to him that has no Title to a Croon . [ 6 ] But they find he is a Blockhead fitted for their Use , A Fool by Nature , and a Knave by Custom grown ; A Gay-Fop-Monarch , whom the Rabble may abuse ; And their business done , will soon Unthrone . But Jemmy swears and vows , gan he can get the Croon , He by the Laws of Forty Ene wou'd guided be ; And Profane Lawn-sleeves and Surplices again must down , Then heigh for our Old Presbytery . [ 7 ] B ------ a Statesman would be thought , And reason geud that he shou'd bear that Rev'rend Name ; Since he was one of them that first began the PLOT , How the King might Banter , & Three Kingdoms Sham . All the Malcontents His Noble Grace To this Rehearsal did invite , to hear and see : But while he wittily contriv'd it but a Farce , The busier Noddles turn'd it into Tragedy . [ 8 ] And now each Actor does begin to play his Part , And too so well he cons his Geer , and takes his Cue , Till they learn to play the Rebel so by rote of Heart , That the Fictitious Story seems as true . And now , without control , they apprehend and hang ; And with the Nation all is Gospel that they Swear ; Then Bonny Jockey prithee back to Scotland gang , For a Loyal Lad's in danger here . LONDON , Printed for Alexander Banks , Anno Dom. MDCLXXXII . H : 135881 The LOYAL SCOT ; And Excellent New SONG To and Excellent New SCOTCH Tune . [ 1 ] Bred of Geud ! I think the Nation's mad , And nene but Knaves and Perjur'd Loons do rule the Roast ; And for and Honest Karl ne Living's to be had ; Why sure the Deel is Landed on the English Coast . I ha' ne'r been here sin' Forty Three , And now thro' Scotland gang to see our gracious King ; But Wunds a Geud , instead of Mirth and Merry Glee , I find and Sniveling Presbyter is coming in . [ 2 ] For they talk of Horrid Popish Plots , and Heav'n knows what , When all the wiser world knows well what they'd be at ; For with sike like Sanctity the Geudest King They did to Death and Ruin bring . When on the Civil Broils they first did enter in , ( as well you ken ) with Popery they did begin ; And with Liberty and Public Geud was muckle din , When the Deel a bit they meant the Thing . [ 3 ] That Machine of Monstrous Policy , I mean old S --------- for Loyalty so fam'd ; The voice of all the Geudly Rabble Mobile , The falsest Loon that ever Envy destin'd Damn'd . Heav'n sure never meant so fou a Thing , But to inform the World where Villainy did dwell : And sike a Traitor both to Commonwealth and KING The muckle Deel did surely never hatch in Hell . [ 4 ] For , like Roman Cateline , to gain his pious Ends , He pimps for all the Lose Rebellious Fops in Toon ; And with treats & treason daily crams his City-Friends , From the Link-man to the Scarlet-Goon . And with high Debauchery they carry on the Cause , And Geudly Reformation is the Sham pretence ; And Religiously defy Divine and Humane Laws , With Obedience to their Rightful Prince . [ 5 ] Then a SPEAKER to this Grand Cabal , Old Envy Tony seated at the Head o' th' Board , His Learn'd Oration for Rebellion makes to All , Applauded and approv'd by ev'ry Factious Lord . Cully Jemmy then they Vote for KING , Whom curse confound for being sike a senseless Loon ; Can they who did their lawful Lord to th' Scaffold bring Be just to him that has no Title to a Croon . [ 6 ] But they find he is a Blockhead fitted for their Use , A Fool by Nature , and a Knave by Custom grown ; A Gay-Fop-Monarch , whom the Rabble may abuse ; And their business done , will soon Unthrone . But Jemmy swears and vows , gan he can get the Croon , He by the Laws of Forty Ene wou'd guided be ; And Profane Lawn-sleeves and Surplices again must down , Then heigh for our Old Presbytery . [ 7 ] B ------ a Statesman would be thought , And reason geud that he shou'd bear that Rev'rend Name ; Since he was one of them that first began the PLOT , How the King might Banter , & Three Kingdoms Sham . All the Malcontents His Noble Grace To this Rehearsal did invite , to hear and see : But while he wittily contriv'd it but a Farce , The busier Noddles turn'd it into Tragedy . [ 8 ] And now each Actor does begin to play his Part , And too so well he cons his Geer , and takes his Cue , Till they learn to play the Rebel so by rote of Heart , That the Fictitious Story seems as true . And now , without control , they apprehend and hang ; And with the Nation all is Gospel that they Swear ; Then Bonny Jockey prithee back to Scotland gang , For a Loyal Lad's in danger here . LONDON , Printed for Alexander Banks , Anno Dom. MDCLXXXII . H : 135881 The LOYAL SCOT ; And Excellent New SONG To and Excellent New SCOTCH Tune . [ 1 ] Bred of Geud ! I think the Nation's mad , And nene but Knaves and Perjur'd Loons do rule the Roast ; And for and Honest Karl ne Living's to be had ; Why sure the Deel is Landed on the English Coast . I ha' ne'r been here sin' Forty Three , And now thro' Scotland gang to see our gracious King ; But Wunds a Geud , instead of Mirth and Merry Glee , I find and Sniveling Presbyter is coming in . [ 2 ] For they talk of Horrid Popish Plots , and Heav'n knows what , When all the wiser world knows well what they'd be at ; For with sike like Sanctity the Geudest King They did to Death and Ruin bring . When on the Civil Broils they first did enter in , ( as well you ken ) with Popery they did begin ; And with Liberty and Public Geud was muckle din , When the Deel a bit they meant the Thing . [ 3 ] That Machine of Monstrous Policy , I mean old S --------- for Loyalty so fam'd ; The voice of all the Geudly Rabble Mobile , The falsest Loon that ever Envy destin'd Damn'd . Heav'n sure never meant so fou a Thing , But to inform the World where Villainy did dwell : And sike a Traitor both to Commonwealth and KING The muckle Deel did surely never hatch in Hell . [ 4 ] For , like Roman Cateline , to gain his pious Ends , He pimps for all the Lose Rebellious Fops in Toon ; And with treats & treason daily crams his City-Friends , From the Link-man to the Scarlet-Goon . And with high Debauchery they carry on the Cause , And Geudly Reformation is the Sham pretence ; And Religiously defy Divine and Humane Laws , With Obedience to their Rightful Prince . [ 5 ] Then a SPEAKER to this Grand Cabal , Old Envy Tony seated at the Head o' th' Board , His Learn'd Oration for Rebellion makes to All , Applauded and approv'd by ev'ry Factious Lord . Cully Jemmy then they Vote for KING , Whom curse confound for being sike a senseless Loon ; Can they who did their lawful Lord to th' Scaffold bring Be just to him that has no Title to a Croon . [ 6 ] But they find he is a Blockhead fitted for their Use , A Fool by Nature , and a Knave by Custom grown ; A Gay-Fop-Monarch , whom the Rabble may abuse ; And their business done , will soon Unthrone . But Jemmy swears and vows , gan he can get the Croon , He by the Laws of Forty Ene wou'd guided be ; And Profane Lawn-sleeves and Surplices again must down , Then heigh for our Old Presbytery . [ 7 ] B ------ a Statesman would be thought , And reason geud that he shou'd bear that Rev'rend Name ; Since he was one of them that first began the PLOT , How the King might Banter , & Three Kingdoms Sham . All the Malcontents His Noble Grace To this Rehearsal did invite , to hear and see : But while he wittily contriv'd it but a Farce , The busier Noddles turn'd it into Tragedy . [ 8 ] And now each Actor does begin to play his Part , And too so well he cons his Geer , and takes his Cue , Till they learn to play the Rebel so by rote of Heart , That the Fictitious Story seems as true . And now , without control , they apprehend and hang ; And with the Nation all is Gospel that they Swear ; Then Bonny Jockey prithee back to Scotland gang , For a Loyal Lad's in danger here . LONDON , Printed for Alexander Banks , Anno Dom. MDCLXXXII . H : 135881 The LOYAL SCOT ; And Excellent New SONG To and Excellent New SCOTCH Tune . [ 1 ] Bred of Geud ! I think the Nation's mad , And nene but Knaves and Perjur'd Loons do rule the Roast ; And for and Honest Karl ne Living's to be had ; Why sure the Deel is Landed on the English Coast . I ha' ne'r been here sin' Forty Three , And now thro' Scotland gang to see our gracious King ; But Wunds a Geud , instead of Mirth and Merry Glee , I find and Sniveling Presbyter is coming in . [ 2 ] For they talk of Horrid Popish Plots , and Heav'n knows what , When all the wiser world knows well what they'd be at ; For with sike like Sanctity the Geudest King They did to Death and Ruin bring . When on the Civil Broils they first did enter in , ( as well you ken ) with Popery they did begin ; And with Liberty and Public Geud was muckle din , When the Deel a bit they meant the Thing . [ 3 ] That Machine of Monstrous Policy , I mean old S --------- for Loyalty so fam'd ; The voice of all the Geudly Rabble Mobile , The falsest Loon that ever Envy destin'd Damn'd . Heav'n sure never meant so fou a Thing , But to inform the World where Villainy did dwell : And sike a Traitor both to Commonwealth and KING The muckle Deel did surely never hatch in Hell . [ 4 ] For , like Roman Cateline , to gain his pious Ends , He pimps for all the Lose Rebellious Fops in Toon ; And with treats & treason daily crams his City-Friends , From the Link-man to the Scarlet-Goon . And with high Debauchery they carry on the Cause , And Geudly Reformation is the Sham pretence ; And Religiously defy Divine and Humane Laws , With Obedience to their Rightful Prince . [ 5 ] Then a SPEAKER to this Grand Cabal , Old Envy Tony seated at the Head o' th' Board , His Learn'd Oration for Rebellion makes to All , Applauded and approv'd by ev'ry Factious Lord . Cully Jemmy then they Vote for KING , Whom curse confound for being sike a senseless Loon ; Can they who did their lawful Lord to th' Scaffold bring Be just to him that has no Title to a Croon . [ 6 ] But they find he is a Blockhead fitted for their Use , A Fool by Nature , and a Knave by Custom grown ; A Gay-Fop-Monarch , whom the Rabble may abuse ; And their business done , will soon Unthrone . But Jemmy swears and vows , gan he can get the Croon , He by the Laws of Forty Ene wou'd guided be ; And Profane Lawn-sleeves and Surplices again must down , Then heigh for our Old Presbytery . [ 7 ] B ------ a Statesman would be thought , And reason geud that he shou'd bear that Rev'rend Name ; Since he was one of them that first began the PLOT , How the King might Banter , & Three Kingdoms Sham . All the Malcontents His Noble Grace To this Rehearsal did invite , to hear and see : But while he wittily contriv'd it but a Farce , The busier Noddles turn'd it into Tragedy . [ 8 ] And now each Actor does begin to play his Part , And too so well he cons his Geer , and takes his Cue , Till they learn to play the Rebel so by rote of Heart , That the Fictitious Story seems as true . And now , without control , they apprehend and hang ; And with the Nation all is Gospel that they Swear ; Then Bonny Jockey prithee back to Scotland gang , For a Loyal Lad's in danger here . LONDON , Printed for Alexander Banks , Anno Dom. MDCLXXXII . 