H : 135911 EPILOGUE TO Her Royal Highness , On Her RETURN from SCOTLAND . Written by Mr. OTWAY . ALL you , who this Day's Jubilee attend , And every Loyal Muses Loyal Friend ; That come to treat your longing wishes here , Turn your desiring Eyes and feast 'em , there . Thus falling on your Knees with me implore , May this poor Land ne'er loose that Presence more : But if there any in this Circle be , That come so cursed to envy what they see : From the vain Fool that would be great too soon , To the dull Knave that writ the last Lampoon ! Let such , as Victims to that Beautie's Fame , Hang their vile blasted Heads , and Die with shame . Our mighty Blessing is at last return'd , The joy arriv'd for which so long we mourn'd : From whom our present peace we' expect increas't , And all our future Generations bles Time have a Care : bring safe the hour of joy When some blessed Tongue proclaims a Royal Boy : And when 'tis born , let Nature's hand be strong ; Bless him with days of strength and make 'em long ; Till charg'd with honours we behold him stand , Three Kingdoms Banners waiting his Command , His Father's Conquering Sword within his Hand : Then th' English Lions in the Air advance , And with them roaring Music to the Dance , Carry a Quo Warranto into France . Printed for Jacob Tonson , at the Judge's Head in Chancery-lane , 1682. H : 135911 EPILOGUE TO Her Royal Highness , On Her RETURN from SCOTLAND . Written by Mr. OTWAY . ALL you , who this Day's Jubilee attend , And every Loyal Muses Loyal Friend ; That come to treat your longing wishes here , Turn your desiring Eyes and feast 'em , there . Thus falling on your Knees with me implore , May this poor Land ne'er loose that Presence more : But if there any in this Circle be , That come so cursed to envy what they see : From the vain Fool that would be great too soon , To the dull Knave that writ the last Lampoon ! Let such , as Victims to that Beautie's Fame , Hang their vile blasted Heads , and Die with shame . Our mighty Blessing is at last return'd , The joy arriv'd for which so long we mourn'd : From whom our present peace we' expect increas't , And all our future Generations bles Time have a Care : bring safe the hour of joy When some blessed Tongue proclaims a Royal Boy : And when 'tis born , let Nature's hand be strong ; Bless him with days of strength and make 'em long ; Till charg'd with honours we behold him stand , Three Kingdoms Banners waiting his Command , His Father's Conquering Sword within his Hand : Then th' English Lions in the Air advance , And with them roaring Music to the Dance , Carry a Quo Warranto into France . Printed for Jacob Tonson , at the Judge's Head in Chancery-lane , 1682. 