H : 135913 A New BALLAD Being a Comparison between one that cut off his own Nose , and another that cut his own Throat to gain Renown . Tune of Hang sorrow cast away care , etc I . THere is and old story That's much to the Glory Of one that was called Sophyrus , Whose Feats may be read Though the man be dead By any that are desirous . II This man had a Nose As you may suppose In the middle of his face But cut it off clear Like a brave Cavalier To get the Kings good grace . III . The manner is known So wee'l let that alone Yet by the way you must note Though he slashed his face In every place He had a great care of his throat . IV. Now will any man dare This Wight to compare With and Hero that I can name Who by cutting his throat Grew a man of great note And purchas'd Eternal Fame . V. Sophyrus did well But he does excel If he be but right understood For this a plain case As the Nose on his Face It was done for the peoples good . VI . The design was brave The people to save By letting his own throat bleed But the Fiend that repines At all good designs Did hinder it to succeed . VII . For his hand being up To spill the last drop Of the peoples saving blood He made him flinch At the tother inch And so prevented the good . VIII . So he uses his throat For the people to Vote Yet some are so wicked to hope This obliging knife Though it spared his life Has mark't a fair place for the Rope . IX . Now who ever bares spleen To the King or the Queen Or to James the Duke of York , He shall have my Vote To cut his own Throat Provided he'l perfect the work . A.T. FINIS . H : 135913 A New BALLAD Being a Comparison between one that cut off his own Nose , and another that cut his own Throat to gain Renown . Tune of Hang sorrow cast away care , etc I . THere is and old story That's much to the Glory Of one that was called Sophyrus , Whose Feats may be read Though the man be dead By any that are desirous . II This man had a Nose As you may suppose In the middle of his face But cut it off clear Like a brave Cavalier To get the Kings good grace . III . The manner is known So wee'l let that alone Yet by the way you must note Though he slashed his face In every place He had a great care of his throat . IV. Now will any man dare This Wight to compare With and Hero that I can name Who by cutting his throat Grew a man of great note And purchas'd Eternal Fame . V. Sophyrus did well But he does excel If he be but right understood For this a plain case As the Nose on his Face It was done for the peoples good . VI . The design was brave The people to save By letting his own throat bleed But the Fiend that repines At all good designs Did hinder it to succeed . VII . For his hand being up To spill the last drop Of the peoples saving blood He made him flinch At the tother inch And so prevented the good . VIII . So he uses his throat For the people to Vote Yet some are so wicked to hope This obliging knife Though it spared his life Has mark't a fair place for the Rope . IX . Now who ever bares spleen To the King or the Queen Or to James the Duke of York , He shall have my Vote To cut his own Throat Provided he'l perfect the work . A.T. FINIS . 