H : 135927 THE WHIGG and TORY's Friendly DIALOGUE , OR , Admonition to Unity , as the greatest help and inlet to peace and quietness . To the Tune of , Heigh Boys up go We . Whigg . NOw now yond Tories pray give o're , run not the poor Whiggs down , Although they cannot damn and whore yet they may love the Crown : And love in heart their Sovereign Charles , all Reasons will allow , As well as those , Gods Laws oppose , and to and Altar bow . Tory. Hold Whigg , you Tongue is too profuse , then do more inveigh , Against us that were ne'r his Foes , but for him still do pray : We'l venture Lives and Forunes too , his right for to maintain , While you do strive , for to deprive , the Heir we would have Reign . Whigg . 'Tis our design for to be free from dangers that do threaten , You know there was a time when we by no Men could be beaten : You think to get the upper hand , and then to make us bow , But 'tis believ'd , you are deceiv'd , where's Tory Thompson now ? Tory. 'Tis true , once Cromwel led your Van , you own'd him as you head , And him you thought a famous Man , who did the King behead : For that a Curse upon this Land , I fear there does remain , But blessed be he , we hope to see , after great Charles to Reign . Whigg . The Pope would England overcome , which I hope ne'r to see , If we should subject be to Room , in what a case were we : How many Martyrs suffered Death , that did refuse to bow To Idols , therefore lost their breath , but where's Ned Coleman now ? Tory. Thou prattling Fellow , 'tis not that which we desire to have . Thou pratest of thou know'st not what , our party to outbrave : Though Monmouth is a Princely Man , yet we will tell you plain , We will deprive him if we can , that York in time may Reign . Whigg . Bet in the interim of time , let Subject's all agree , It is a matter so srbline , it can't determin'd be : By Mortals , that in little time , to death must stoop and bow , Obey the King in every thing , and let's be friendly now . Tory. Now thou dost like a Christian speak , none knows who first shall die , The strong may go before the weak , and in his cold Grave lie : The young before the old may drop , and fly from Death in vain , 'Tis he our breathes must surely stop , let whom God pleases Reign . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Rainbow , near St. Andrews Church in Holborn . 1682. H : 135927 THE WHIGG and TORY's Friendly DIALOGUE , OR , Admonition to Unity , as the greatest help and inlet to peace and quietness . To the Tune of , Heigh Boys up go We . Whigg . NOw now yond Tories pray give o're , run not the poor Whiggs down , Although they cannot damn and whore yet they may love the Crown : And love in heart their Sovereign Charles , all Reasons will allow , As well as those , Gods Laws oppose , and to and Altar bow . Tory. Hold Whigg , you Tongue is too profuse , then do more inveigh , Against us that were ne'r his Foes , but for him still do pray : We'l venture Lives and Forunes too , his right for to maintain , While you do strive , for to deprive , the Heir we would have Reign . Whigg . 'Tis our design for to be free from dangers that do threaten , You know there was a time when we by no Men could be beaten : You think to get the upper hand , and then to make us bow , But 'tis believ'd , you are deceiv'd , where's Tory Thompson now ? Tory. 'Tis true , once Cromwel led your Van , you own'd him as you head , And him you thought a famous Man , who did the King behead : For that a Curse upon this Land , I fear there does remain , But blessed be he , we hope to see , after great Charles to Reign . Whigg . The Pope would England overcome , which I hope ne'r to see , If we should subject be to Room , in what a case were we : How many Martyrs suffered Death , that did refuse to bow To Idols , therefore lost their breath , but where's Ned Coleman now ? Tory. Thou prattling Fellow , 'tis not that which we desire to have . Thou pratest of thou know'st not what , our party to outbrave : Though Monmouth is a Princely Man , yet we will tell you plain , We will deprive him if we can , that York in time may Reign . Whigg . Bet in the interim of time , let Subject's all agree , It is a matter so srbline , it can't determin'd be : By Mortals , that in little time , to death must stoop and bow , Obey the King in every thing , and let's be friendly now . Tory. Now thou dost like a Christian speak , none knows who first shall die , The strong may go before the weak , and in his cold Grave lie : The young before the old may drop , and fly from Death in vain , 'Tis he our breathes must surely stop , let whom God pleases Reign . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Rainbow , near St. Andrews Church in Holborn . 1682. 