H : 135928 A Message from Tory-Land To the Whig-Makers in Albian . To the Tune of , Sawney and Jockey . [ 1 ] FRom Room I am come , His Holiness sent me To you his fast Favourites , to compliment you Saint Peters Successor his friends does impute you Expecting you'l firmly abide in your duty , And daily scribble , nibble , quibble , Your mother defend , you suck'd at her nipple , She who did breed you , led you , feed you , Claims your Assistance now she does need you . [ 2 ] And with me I bring the Popes Dispensations , To furnish you all on any Occasions , Then swear and forswear as occasion requires , And Cities inflame with your Catholic fires , If you can't turn um , scorn um , burn um , Else with your sanctified Daggers adorn um , Bring to Perfection Distraction , and Faction , The Pope will account it a glorious actium . [ 3 ] I come to encourage Projectors and Actors , His Holiness implements , & the Church Factors Your Zeal for the Cause is put to a Trial , When you at the Gallows can die in denial , Thousands of Crosses , Masses , passes To mount your blessed Souls to Peters embraces , You his Inditers , Biters , and Writers , Have done him more Service then Armies of Fighters [ 4 ] Poor Towzer return'd when the Parliament en-ded His Politic wit our Cause still befriended For his flying Pen so swift is in Motion , More blessed with the Craft of St. Giles's devotion Thy Observator's matter , scatter , In Room he's a Saint that in Albian's a Traitor , Since these Dissenters ventures , enters , Toss the Plot back , we'l swear't at adventures . [ 5 ] The chief of our Foes are now out of favour , This , this is the time , there ne'r was a braver , Our Politics now hath and excellent face on't , Then down with these Whigs , not bore um and ace ont Those dull Romances , Prances , fancies , To Catholic Nat much credit advances , Let his Pen Rogue on , tug on , jog on , Were Albian our own , stand clear Hogan Mogan [ 6 ] Godfrey's Murder was rarely contriv'd , To kill himself , he walk'd abroad while he lived , Heraclitus , Nat and the brave Observator , Ingeniously each hath stated the matter , For if to fright us , Titus indite us , These valiant Heroe's stand up to right us , those who were stringed , swinged , hanged As innocent Babes were certainly wronged , [ 7 ] But dear Madam Celiers intrigue did miscarry , You see that 'tis dangerous to be unwary , these Heretics must by all means be destroyed , And all the Church Rights by us be enjoyed , Yet if we arm us , ram us , damn us these Heretic Dogs will find Ignoramus , Still it miscarries , it tarries , it varies , Yet never were days so blessed as Queen Maries . [ 8 ] Cloud the Whigs Evidence with high Derision , And make it your Care to foment Division , Divide if you can the Prince from the people , And that will advance the Crown that is Triple . Now is the time boys , mine boys , thine boys , Eclipse but the Whigs , the Tories will shine boys , But if you'l root um , smooth um , blot um , Cut the Duke's Legs , and swear the Whigs cut um . [ 9 ] If mortal Assistance should happen to fail you , As't did to St. Coleman , St. Whitebread , St. Staley , St. Pickering , St. Grove , or such Holy Martyrs , stand fast to the Cause , ne'r valve your Quarters . You shall be when dead , painted , sainted , With Purgatory you shall ne'r be acquainted , When you are Torter'd , Quarter'd , Martyr'd , Y'are Cananiz'd Saints all pardon is granted . [ 10 ] There ne'r was more hope since the Spanish Invasion to bring in subjection this Heretic Nation , And now should it fail and our Plot be defeated , 'tis vain to expect 'twill e're be completed , Win it and wear it , clear it , share it , Possession's the due reward of your merit , You shall have Guinnies , and it no since is to built up with blood on the Protestants-Finis . R.S. Printed for J. Conyers at the Black Raven in Duck-Lane , MDCLXXXII . H : 135928 A Message from Tory-Land To the Whig-Makers in Albian . To the Tune of , Sawney and Jockey . [ 1 ] FRom Room I am come , His Holiness sent me To you his fast Favourites , to compliment you Saint Peters Successor his friends does impute you Expecting you'l firmly abide in your duty , And daily scribble , nibble , quibble , Your mother defend , you suck'd at her nipple , She who did breed you , led you , feed you , Claims your Assistance now she does need you . [ 2 ] And with me I bring the Popes Dispensations , To furnish you all on any Occasions , Then swear and forswear as occasion requires , And Cities inflame with your Catholic fires , If you can't turn um , scorn um , burn um , Else with your sanctified Daggers adorn um , Bring to Perfection Distraction , and Faction , The Pope will account it a glorious actium . [ 3 ] I come to encourage Projectors and Actors , His Holiness implements , & the Church Factors Your Zeal for the Cause is put to a Trial , When you at the Gallows can die in denial , Thousands of Crosses , Masses , passes To mount your blessed Souls to Peters embraces , You his Inditers , Biters , and Writers , Have done him more Service then Armies of Fighters [ 4 ] Poor Towzer return'd when the Parliament en-ded His Politic wit our Cause still befriended For his flying Pen so swift is in Motion , More blessed with the Craft of St. Giles's devotion Thy Observator's matter , scatter , In Room he's a Saint that in Albian's a Traitor , Since these Dissenters ventures , enters , Toss the Plot back , we'l swear't at adventures . [ 5 ] The chief of our Foes are now out of favour , This , this is the time , there ne'r was a braver , Our Politics now hath and excellent face on't , Then down with these Whigs , not bore um and ace ont Those dull Romances , Prances , fancies , To Catholic Nat much credit advances , Let his Pen Rogue on , tug on , jog on , Were Albian our own , stand clear Hogan Mogan [ 6 ] Godfrey's Murder was rarely contriv'd , To kill himself , he walk'd abroad while he lived , Heraclitus , Nat and the brave Observator , Ingeniously each hath stated the matter , For if to fright us , Titus indite us , These valiant Heroe's stand up to right us , those who were stringed , swinged , hanged As innocent Babes were certainly wronged , [ 7 ] But dear Madam Celiers intrigue did miscarry , You see that 'tis dangerous to be unwary , these Heretics must by all means be destroyed , And all the Church Rights by us be enjoyed , Yet if we arm us , ram us , damn us these Heretic Dogs will find Ignoramus , Still it miscarries , it tarries , it varies , Yet never were days so blessed as Queen Maries . [ 8 ] Cloud the Whigs Evidence with high Derision , And make it your Care to foment Division , Divide if you can the Prince from the people , And that will advance the Crown that is Triple . Now is the time boys , mine boys , thine boys , Eclipse but the Whigs , the Tories will shine boys , But if you'l root um , smooth um , blot um , Cut the Duke's Legs , and swear the Whigs cut um . [ 9 ] If mortal Assistance should happen to fail you , As't did to St. Coleman , St. Whitebread , St. Staley , St. Pickering , St. Grove , or such Holy Martyrs , stand fast to the Cause , ne'r valve your Quarters . You shall be when dead , painted , sainted , With Purgatory you shall ne'r be acquainted , When you are Torter'd , Quarter'd , Martyr'd , Y'are Cananiz'd Saints all pardon is granted . [ 10 ] There ne'r was more hope since the Spanish Invasion to bring in subjection this Heretic Nation , And now should it fail and our Plot be defeated , 'tis vain to expect 'twill e're be completed , Win it and wear it , clear it , share it , Possession's the due reward of your merit , You shall have Guinnies , and it no since is to built up with blood on the Protestants-Finis . R.S. Printed for J. Conyers at the Black Raven in Duck-Lane , MDCLXXXII . 