H : 135944 A Whig Ballad , OR , A SUMMONS To a fresh ASSOCIATION . To the Tune of Tumble down Dick . ON Month of September we summon you All , Our Summons is by our Good Lord Mayor's Call , As you Love Common-Wealth , and Abhor White-Hall : Which no body can deny . Tho Vote for P --- and Weaver WORSER --- ( The Whiggs thrice-beloved , not Citizens , Choice ; ) No matter what Reason , so you make a Noise ; Which not body can deny . ( Ralph B --- having , after a long Tory-Tugg , Instead of a Druggist , himself prov'd a Drug , Paid Fine to a Lover of Dear Mother Mugg : ) Which , etc You All here are cited to Common-Hall Vote . Each one to lift up his True Protestant Throat , And bawl in Defiance of Men of good Note : Which , etc These are therefore to summon each Evesdropping Citt , Who for a State-Holder has dubb'd himself fit , And damns All that's Loyal without Fear or With Which , etc To Roar at Guild-Hall like Homerical Mars , In defiance oth' Head , with regard to the * A --- ( Guild-Hall is your Stage , and Sedition your Farce . ) Which , etc * Rump . Now after a Summons so Debonair , Held forth by Proprietor of the Chair , We challenge All Whiggs to Guild-Hall to repair : Which , etc For if half be True , that of late has been bruited , The Rioting Whiglanders soon will be Routed , As sure as DONE Hornish by Bull was Cornuted : Which , etc Then either born up by bold Holder forth , You'l bravely confront your * Deadly Foe North , Contending like Men of True Protestant Worth : Which , etc * Dudley . Or else , like Men-worthy , at Home you will Stay . Solacing your Wives the Jack Pres-byter way ; If so , Good Old Cause must sing Welladay . Which , etc H : 135944 A Whig Ballad , OR , A SUMMONS To a fresh ASSOCIATION . To the Tune of Tumble down Dick . ON Month of September we summon you All , Our Summons is by our Good Lord Mayor's Call , As you Love Common-Wealth , and Abhor White-Hall : Which no body can deny . Tho Vote for P --- and Weaver WORSER --- ( The Whiggs thrice-beloved , not Citizens , Choice ; ) No matter what Reason , so you make a Noise ; Which not body can deny . ( Ralph B --- having , after a long Tory-Tugg , Instead of a Druggist , himself prov'd a Drug , Paid Fine to a Lover of Dear Mother Mugg : ) Which , etc You All here are cited to Common-Hall Vote . Each one to lift up his True Protestant Throat , And bawl in Defiance of Men of good Note : Which , etc These are therefore to summon each Evesdropping Citt , Who for a State-Holder has dubb'd himself fit , And damns All that's Loyal without Fear or With Which , etc To Roar at Guild-Hall like Homerical Mars , In defiance oth' Head , with regard to the * A --- ( Guild-Hall is your Stage , and Sedition your Farce . ) Which , etc * Rump . Now after a Summons so Debonair , Held forth by Proprietor of the Chair , We challenge All Whiggs to Guild-Hall to repair : Which , etc For if half be True , that of late has been bruited , The Rioting Whiglanders soon will be Routed , As sure as DONE Hornish by Bull was Cornuted : Which , etc Then either born up by bold Holder forth , You'l bravely confront your * Deadly Foe North , Contending like Men of True Protestant Worth : Which , etc * Dudley . Or else , like Men-worthy , at Home you will Stay . Solacing your Wives the Jack Pres-byter way ; If so , Good Old Cause must sing Welladay . Which , etc 