H : 135929 The Complete Swearing-Master : A Rare New Salamanca BALLAD . To the Tune of , Now now the Fight's done . [ 1 ] ONce on a time , the Dr. did Swear , By the help of his Friend the Prince of the Air , He was busy in Consult , one day in Spain , And on the same day in England again , And the Dr. did Swear , that Noble DONE John , Though little and Black , was a tall Fair Man. [ 2 ] The Dr. Swore he brought Commissions to Town , From Father Oliva , to men of Renown : To raise mighty Force , the King to destroy , For which many Ruffians the Pope did employ ; And the Dr. did Swear that little DONE John , Was Fair and also a very tall Man. [ 3 ] That forty thousand Pilgrim's there were , Arm'd with Black Bills , that march'd in the Air , And ready to strike , when Pope should command , And carry to Room poor little England . And the Dr. did Swear , as few others can , That little DONE John is a tall Fair Man. [ 4 ] And the Dr. did Swear he had Letters full many , But for all he Swore , he ne'r produc'd any , It's much he kept none to make out the matter , But it may be he lost them , in crossing the water ; But that's all one , the Dr. Swore on , That little DONE John was a tall Fair Man. [ 5 ] He Swore two hundred thousand pounds sent , To Ireland , which was all to be spent , In Squibs to burn houses , Ammunition and Bills , And pay Popish Doctors for King-killing Pills : Which he swore had been done if the Plot had gone on , And then Swore DONE John a very Fair Man. [ 6 ] And the Dr. did swear he knew not some men , Yet afterwards Swore , he knew them again ; And the Dr. did Swear by fair candlelight , He could not discern a Man from a Mite : But believe him who will , for I hardly can , That little DONE John is a tall Fair Man. [ 7 ] And he swore he always a Protestant was , And ne'r car'd a Fart for Pope or for Mass , And he swore he went to St. Omers to find What the Jesuits had against England design'd . And the Dr. did swear , deny it who can , That little DONE John is a tall Fair Man. [ 8 ] And the Dr. did swear a thousand things more , That discovering the plot had made him so poor , And he swore himself 700 pounds worse , But a pox of all lies , take that with a curse : But I'le not beleiv't , although others can , That little DONE John is a tall Fair Man. [ 9 ] Now if it should please the Dr. to swear To keep his hand in , a Man is a Bear ; Or the Dr. will swear his Soul to the Devil , He shall do it for me , I love to be Civil ; Every man in his way , let the Dr. swear on , But I beg his excuse in the size of DONE John. [ 10 ] The Dr. may swear the Crow to be white , Or a Pigmey to be of Gigantic height , Or double his numbers of Pilgrim's and Bills , And swear them drawn up in Lincolns-Inn-fields . I hear't and believ't as much as I can , That little DONE John is a tall Fair Man. [ 11 ] There's no stopping the tide , let the Dr. swear on , The black is the fair , or the fair the black Man , Or swear what he will I care not a TO --- , I'de as soon as his , take another men word : So Dr. be damn'd and swear all you can , DONE John is not tall , nor yet a Fair Man : LONDON : Printed for Allen Banks , 1682. H : 135929 The Complete Swearing-Master : A Rare New Salamanca BALLAD . To the Tune of , Now now the Fight's done . [ 1 ] ONce on a time , the Dr. did Swear , By the help of his Friend the Prince of the Air , He was busy in Consult , one day in Spain , And on the same day in England again , And the Dr. did Swear , that Noble DONE John , Though little and Black , was a tall Fair Man. [ 2 ] The Dr. Swore he brought Commissions to Town , From Father Oliva , to men of Renown : To raise mighty Force , the King to destroy , For which many Ruffians the Pope did employ ; And the Dr. did Swear that little DONE John , Was Fair and also a very tall Man. [ 3 ] That forty thousand Pilgrim's there were , Arm'd with Black Bills , that march'd in the Air , And ready to strike , when Pope should command , And carry to Room poor little England . And the Dr. did Swear , as few others can , That little DONE John is a tall Fair Man. [ 4 ] And the Dr. did Swear he had Letters full many , But for all he Swore , he ne'r produc'd any , It's much he kept none to make out the matter , But it may be he lost them , in crossing the water ; But that's all one , the Dr. Swore on , That little DONE John was a tall Fair Man. [ 5 ] He Swore two hundred thousand pounds sent , To Ireland , which was all to be spent , In Squibs to burn houses , Ammunition and Bills , And pay Popish Doctors for King-killing Pills : Which he swore had been done if the Plot had gone on , And then Swore DONE John a very Fair Man. [ 6 ] And the Dr. did swear he knew not some men , Yet afterwards Swore , he knew them again ; And the Dr. did Swear by fair candlelight , He could not discern a Man from a Mite : But believe him who will , for I hardly can , That little DONE John is a tall Fair Man. [ 7 ] And he swore he always a Protestant was , And ne'r car'd a Fart for Pope or for Mass , And he swore he went to St. Omers to find What the Jesuits had against England design'd . And the Dr. did swear , deny it who can , That little DONE John is a tall Fair Man. [ 8 ] And the Dr. did swear a thousand things more , That discovering the plot had made him so poor , And he swore himself 700 pounds worse , But a pox of all lies , take that with a curse : But I'le not beleiv't , although others can , That little DONE John is a tall Fair Man. [ 9 ] Now if it should please the Dr. to swear To keep his hand in , a Man is a Bear ; Or the Dr. will swear his Soul to the Devil , He shall do it for me , I love to be Civil ; Every man in his way , let the Dr. swear on , But I beg his excuse in the size of DONE John. [ 10 ] The Dr. may swear the Crow to be white , Or a Pigmey to be of Gigantic height , Or double his numbers of Pilgrim's and Bills , And swear them drawn up in Lincolns-Inn-fields . I hear't and believ't as much as I can , That little DONE John is a tall Fair Man. [ 11 ] There's no stopping the tide , let the Dr. swear on , The black is the fair , or the fair the black Man , Or swear what he will I care not a TO --- , I'de as soon as his , take another men word : So Dr. be damn'd and swear all you can , DONE John is not tall , nor yet a Fair Man : LONDON : Printed for Allen Banks , 1682. 