H : 18309 A Joyful Song of the Royal receiving of the Queens most excellent Majesty into her highness Camp at Tilsburie in Essex : on Thursday and Fryday the eight and ninth of August . 1588. To the Tune of Triumph and Joy . GOod English men whose valiant hearts , With courage great and manly parts , Do mind to daunt the overthwarts , of any foe to England . Attend a while and you shall hear , What love and kindness does appear . From the princely mind of our love deer , Elizabeth Queen of England . To cheer her soldiers one and all , Of honour great or title small , Or by what name you will them call , [ ? ] e [ ? ] of England . The time being dangerous now you know , That foreign enemies to and from , For to invade us make a show , and our good Queen of England . Her Majesty by grave advice , Considering how the danger lies , By all good means she can devise , for the safety of all England . Hath pointed men of honour right , With all the speed they could or might , A Camp of men there should be pight , on Tilsburie hill in England . Her grace being given to understand , The mighty power of this her land , And the willing hearts therein she found , from every shire in England . The mighty troops have showed the same , That day by day to London came , From shires and towns too long to name , to serve the Queen of England . Her grace to glad their hearts again , In princely person took the pain , To honour the troops and Martial train , in Tilsburie camp in England . On Thursday the eight of August last , Her Majesty by water past , When storms of wind did blow so fast , would fear some folk in England . And at her fort she went on land , That near to Tilsburie ( strong ) does stand , Where all things furnished there she found , for the safe defence of England . The great shot then , did rage and roar , Replied by a fort on the other shore , Whose powdered pellets what wou [ ld ] you have more , would fear any foe to England Her highness then to the camp did go , The order there to see and know : Which , her Lord general did dutifully show , in Tilsburie camp in England . And every Captain to her came , And every Officer of fame , To show their duty and their name . to their sovereign Queen of England . Of tents and cabins , thousands three , Some built with bows and many a tree , And many of canvas she might see . in Tilsburie camp in England . Each Captain had his colours brave , Set over his tent in wind to wave , With them their officers there they have , to serve the Queen of England . The other lodgings had their sign , For soldiers where to sup and dine , And for to sleep : with order fine , in Tilsburie Camp in England . And vittaling booths , there plenty were , Where they sold meat , bred , cheese and beer , One should have been hanged for selling too dear in Tilsburie camp in England . To tell the joy of all and some , When that her Majesty was come , Such playing on phiphes and many a drum , to welcome the Queen of England . Displaying of Ensigns very brave , Such throwing of hats what would you have , Such cries of joy , God keep and save , our noble Queen of England . And then to bid her grace good night , Great Ordnance shot with pellets pight , Fourteene fair pieces of great might , to fear the foes of England . Her Majesty went then away , To the Court , where that her highness lay , And came again on the next day , to Tilsburie camp in England . The Captains yearly did prepare , To have their battle set out fair , Against her highness coming there , to Tilsburie camp in England And long before her highness came , Each point was ordered so in frame , Which served to set forth the fame , of a royal camp in England . The gallant horsemen mounted brave , With stomachs stout that courage have , Whose countenance stern might well deprave in sighed , the foe of England . The armed men , bowmen , and the shot , Of Muskets and Calivers hight , None of these wanted well I wot , in Tilsburie camp in England . Fiftie ensigns spread there were , Of several colours fine and fair , Of drums and phyphes , grea [ tO ] numbers there , in Tilsburie camp in England . The battle plac'd in order due , mighty host I tell you true , A famous sighed it was to view . that royal camp in England . The host thus set in battle ray , In braver sort then I can say , For want of knowledge to display , so goodly a camp in England . How the main battle , and the wings , The vanguard , rearewarde , and such things , The horsemen whose sharp lances stings , in fight the foe of England . The Noble men , and men of fame , In duty bound did show the same , To wait when that her highness came , our sovereign Queen of England . And she being come into the field , A martial staff , my Lord did yield , Unto her highness , being our shield , and marshal chief of England . Then road she along the camp to see , To every Captain orderly , Amid the ranks so royally , the marshal chief of England . What princely words her grace declared , What gracious thanks in every ward , To every soldier none she sparde , that served any where for England . With princely promise none should lack , Meat or drink , or cloth for back , Gold and silver should not slack , to her marshal men of England . Then might she see the hats to fly And every soldier shouted high , For our good Queen wee'l fight or die , on any foe to England . And many a Captain kissed her hand As she passed forth through every band , And left her train far off to stand , from her marshal men of England . Two hours she spent among them there , Her princely pleasure to declare , Where many a one did say and swear , to live and die for England . And would not ask one penny pay , To charge her highness any way , But of their own would find a stay , to serve her grace for England . To my Lords pavilion then she went A sumptuous fair and famous tent , Where dinner time her highness spent , with martial men of England . In the evening when the tide was come , Her highness thanked them all and some , With trumpets shrile and found of drum , returned the queen of England . To the blockhouse where she took her barge , There diverse Captains had their charge , Then shot the cannons off at large . to honour the queen of England . And thus her highness went away , For whose long life all England pray , King Henries daughter , and our stay , Elizabeth queen of England . What subject would not spend his life , And all he hath to stay the strife , Of foreign foe that seeks so rife , to invade this realm of England . Therefore deer country men I say , With heart to God let us all pray , To bless our Armies night and day , that serve our Queen for England . FINIS . T.I. LONDON Printed by John W [ olf ] e for Richard Jones . 1588. H : 18309 A Joyful Song of the Royal receiving of the Queens most excellent Majesty into her highness Camp at Tilsburie in Essex : on Thursday and Fryday the eight and ninth of August . 1588. To the Tune of Triumph and Joy . GOod English men whose valiant hearts , With courage great and manly parts , Do mind to daunt the overthwarts , of any foe to England . Attend a while and you shall hear , What love and kindness does appear . From the princely mind of our love deer , Elizabeth Queen of England . To cheer her soldiers one and all , Of honour great or title small , Or by what name you will them call , [ ? ] e [ ? ] of England . The time being dangerous now you know , That foreign enemies to and from , For to invade us make a show , and our good Queen of England . Her Majesty by grave advice , Considering how the danger lies , By all good means she can devise , for the safety of all England . Hath pointed men of honour right , With all the speed they could or might , A Camp of men there should be pight , on Tilsburie hill in England . Her grace being given to understand , The mighty power of this her land , And the willing hearts therein she found , from every shire in England . The mighty troops have showed the same , That day by day to London came , From shires and towns too long to name , to serve the Queen of England . Her grace to glad their hearts again , In princely person took the pain , To honour the troops and Martial train , in Tilsburie camp in England . On Thursday the eight of August last , Her Majesty by water past , When storms of wind did blow so fast , would fear some folk in England . And at her fort she went on land , That near to Tilsburie ( strong ) does stand , Where all things furnished there she found , for the safe defence of England . The great shot then , did rage and roar , Replied by a fort on the other shore , Whose powdered pellets what wou [ ld ] you have more , would fear any foe to England Her highness then to the camp did go , The order there to see and know : Which , her Lord general did dutifully show , in Tilsburie camp in England . And every Captain to her came , And every Officer of fame , To show their duty and their name . to their sovereign Queen of England . Of tents and cabins , thousands three , Some built with bows and many a tree , And many of canvas she might see . in Tilsburie camp in England . Each Captain had his colours brave , Set over his tent in wind to wave , With them their officers there they have , to serve the Queen of England . The other lodgings had their sign , For soldiers where to sup and dine , And for to sleep : with order fine , in Tilsburie Camp in England . And vittaling booths , there plenty were , Where they sold meat , bred , cheese and beer , One should have been hanged for selling too dear in Tilsburie camp in England . To tell the joy of all and some , When that her Majesty was come , Such playing on phiphes and many a drum , to welcome the Queen of England . Displaying of Ensigns very brave , Such throwing of hats what would you have , Such cries of joy , God keep and save , our noble Queen of England . And then to bid her grace good night , Great Ordnance shot with pellets pight , Fourteene fair pieces of great might , to fear the foes of England . Her Majesty went then away , To the Court , where that her highness lay , And came again on the next day , to Tilsburie camp in England . The Captains yearly did prepare , To have their battle set out fair , Against her highness coming there , to Tilsburie camp in England And long before her highness came , Each point was ordered so in frame , Which served to set forth the fame , of a royal camp in England . The gallant horsemen mounted brave , With stomachs stout that courage have , Whose countenance stern might well deprave in sighed , the foe of England . The armed men , bowmen , and the shot , Of Muskets and Calivers hight , None of these wanted well I wot , in Tilsburie camp in England . Fiftie ensigns spread there were , Of several colours fine and fair , Of drums and phyphes , grea [ tO ] numbers there , in Tilsburie camp in England . The battle plac'd in order due , mighty host I tell you true , A famous sighed it was to view . that royal camp in England . The host thus set in battle ray , In braver sort then I can say , For want of knowledge to display , so goodly a camp in England . How the main battle , and the wings , The vanguard , rearewarde , and such things , The horsemen whose sharp lances stings , in fight the foe of England . The Noble men , and men of fame , In duty bound did show the same , To wait when that her highness came , our sovereign Queen of England . And she being come into the field , A martial staff , my Lord did yield , Unto her highness , being our shield , and marshal chief of England . Then road she along the camp to see , To every Captain orderly , Amid the ranks so royally , the marshal chief of England . What princely words her grace declared , What gracious thanks in every ward , To every soldier none she sparde , that served any where for England . With princely promise none should lack , Meat or drink , or cloth for back , Gold and silver should not slack , to her marshal men of England . Then might she see the hats to fly And every soldier shouted high , For our good Queen wee'l fight or die , on any foe to England . And many a Captain kissed her hand As she passed forth through every band , And left her train far off to stand , from her marshal men of England . Two hours she spent among them there , Her princely pleasure to declare , Where many a one did say and swear , to live and die for England . And would not ask one penny pay , To charge her highness any way , But of their own would find a stay , to serve her grace for England . To my Lords pavilion then she went A sumptuous fair and famous tent , Where dinner time her highness spent , with martial men of England . In the evening when the tide was come , Her highness thanked them all and some , With trumpets shrile and found of drum , returned the queen of England . To the blockhouse where she took her barge , There diverse Captains had their charge , Then shot the cannons off at large . to honour the queen of England . And thus her highness went away , For whose long life all England pray , King Henries daughter , and our stay , Elizabeth queen of England . What subject would not spend his life , And all he hath to stay the strife , Of foreign foe that seeks so rife , to invade this realm of England . Therefore deer country men I say , With heart to God let us all pray , To bless our Armies night and day , that serve our Queen for England . FINIS . T.I. LONDON Printed by John W [ olf ] e for Richard Jones . 1588. 