H : 18307 Lycia Huttons lamentation : which he wrote the day before his death , being condemned to be hanged at Yorke this last assizes for his robberies and trespasses committed . To the [ tO ] une of Wandering and wavering . I Am a poor prisoner condemned to die , ah woe is me woe is me for my great folly , Fast fettered in irons in place where I lie Be warned young wantons , hemp passes green holly My parents were of good degree by whom I would not counseled be , Lord Jesu forgive me with mercy relieve me , Receive Oh sweet saviour my spirit unto thee . My name is Hutton , yea Lycia of bad life ah woe is me woe is me for my great folly : Which on the highway robbed man and wife , be warned young wantons , etc Enticed by many a graceless mate , Whose counsel I repent too late . Lord , etc Not twentie years old alas was I ah woe is me woe is me , etc When I began this felony be warned young wantons , etc With me went still twelve yeomen , tall Which I did my twelve a Apostles call . Lord , etc There was no Squire nor barron bold ah woe is me woe is me for my great folly : That road the way with silver or gold , be warned young wantons , etc But I and my twelve Apostles gay , would lighten their load ere they went away , lord , etc This news procured my kinsfolks grief , ah woe is me woe is me They hearing I was a famous thief be warned young wantons , They wept they wailde they wrong their hands that thus I should hazard life and lands . lord , etc They made me a Jailor a little before , ah woe , etc to keep in prison offenders store , be warned , etc But such a Jailor was never none , I went and let them out every one . lord , etc I wist their sorrow soar grieved me ah woe is me , etc Such proper men should hanged be be warned young , etc My office then I did defy And ran away for company . lord , etc Three years I lived upon the spoil ah woe is me , etc Giving many a carl the soil be warned young etc Yet never did I kill man nor wife though lewdly long I led my life . lord , etc But all too bad my deeds hath been , ah woe is me , etc , Offending my country and my good queen , be warned young , etc All men in Yorke-shire talk of me , A stronger thief there could not be . lord , etc Upon S. Lukes day was I born , ah woe , etc whom want of grace hath made a scorn . be war . etc in honour of my birth day then , I robbed in a bravery nineteene men . Lord , etc The country weary to bear this wrong , ah woe is me , etc With huse and cries pursued me long , be war , etc Though long I escaped , yet lo at last . London I was in newgate cast . There did I lie with a grieved [ mi ] nde , ah woe is me , etc Although the keeper was gentle and kind , be warned young etc [ Y ] et was he not so kind as I , [ TO ] oh let m [ e go ] at liberty . lord , etc At last the sheriff of Yorke-shire came , ah woe is me , etc And in a warrant he had my name , be warned young , etc [ Quoth ] he at Yorke thou must be tried , With me therefore hence must thou ride . lord , etc Like pangs of death his words did found , ah woe is me , etc My hands and arms full fast he bound , be warned etc Good sir quoth I , I had rather stay , I have no heart to ride that way . lord , etc When no entreaty might prevail , ah woe is me , etc I called for beer , for wine and ale , be warned , etc And when my heart was in woeful case , I drunk to my friends with a smiling face . lord , etc With clubs and staves I was guarded then , ah woe is me , etc I never before had such waiting men be warned , etc If they had ridden before amain , Beshrew me if I had called them again . lord , etc And when unto Yorke that I was come , ah , etc Each one on me did pass their doom . be war . etc and while you live this sentence note , Evil men can never have good report . lord , etc Before the judges when I was brought , ah woe is me , etc Be sure I had a careful thought , be , etc Ninescore inditements and seaventeene , against me there was read and seen . lord , etc And each of these was felony found , ah woe is me . etc which did my heart with sorrow wound , be , etc What should I herein longer stay , For this I was condemned that day . lord , etc My death each hour I do attend , ah woe is me : In prayer and tears my time I spend . be etc And all my loving friends this day , I do entreat for me to pray . Lord etc I have deserved long since to die , ah woe etc A viler sinner lived not then I : be etc On friends I hopte my life to save , But I am fittest for my grave : Lord etc Adue my loving friends each one , ah woe is me woe is me for my great folly , Think on my words when I am gone , be warned young wantons , etc When on the ladder you shall me view , think I am nearer heaven then you . Lord etc FINIS . Hutton . Printed at London for Thomas Millington . 1598. H : 18307 Lycia Huttons lamentation : which he wrote the day before his death , being condemned to be hanged at Yorke this last assizes for his robberies and trespasses committed . To the [ tO ] une of Wandering and wavering . I Am a poor prisoner condemned to die , ah woe is me woe is me for my great folly , Fast fettered in irons in place where I lie Be warned young wantons , hemp passes green holly My parents were of good degree by whom I would not counseled be , Lord Jesu forgive me with mercy relieve me , Receive Oh sweet saviour my spirit unto thee . My name is Hutton , yea Lycia of bad life ah woe is me woe is me for my great folly : Which on the highway robbed man and wife , be warned young wantons , etc Enticed by many a graceless mate , Whose counsel I repent too late . Lord , etc Not twentie years old alas was I ah woe is me woe is me , etc When I began this felony be warned young wantons , etc With me went still twelve yeomen , tall Which I did my twelve a Apostles call . Lord , etc There was no Squire nor barron bold ah woe is me woe is me for my great folly : That road the way with silver or gold , be warned young wantons , etc But I and my twelve Apostles gay , would lighten their load ere they went away , lord , etc This news procured my kinsfolks grief , ah woe is me woe is me They hearing I was a famous thief be warned young wantons , They wept they wailde they wrong their hands that thus I should hazard life and lands . lord , etc They made me a Jailor a little before , ah woe , etc to keep in prison offenders store , be warned , etc But such a Jailor was never none , I went and let them out every one . lord , etc I wist their sorrow soar grieved me ah woe is me , etc Such proper men should hanged be be warned young , etc My office then I did defy And ran away for company . lord , etc Three years I lived upon the spoil ah woe is me , etc Giving many a carl the soil be warned young etc Yet never did I kill man nor wife though lewdly long I led my life . lord , etc But all too bad my deeds hath been , ah woe is me , etc , Offending my country and my good queen , be warned young , etc All men in Yorke-shire talk of me , A stronger thief there could not be . lord , etc Upon S. Lukes day was I born , ah woe , etc whom want of grace hath made a scorn . be war . etc in honour of my birth day then , I robbed in a bravery nineteene men . Lord , etc The country weary to bear this wrong , ah woe is me , etc With huse and cries pursued me long , be war , etc Though long I escaped , yet lo at last . London I was in newgate cast . There did I lie with a grieved [ mi ] nde , ah woe is me , etc Although the keeper was gentle and kind , be warned young etc [ Y ] et was he not so kind as I , [ TO ] oh let m [ e go ] at liberty . lord , etc At last the sheriff of Yorke-shire came , ah woe is me , etc And in a warrant he had my name , be warned young , etc [ Quoth ] he at Yorke thou must be tried , With me therefore hence must thou ride . lord , etc Like pangs of death his words did found , ah woe is me , etc My hands and arms full fast he bound , be warned etc Good sir quoth I , I had rather stay , I have no heart to ride that way . lord , etc When no entreaty might prevail , ah woe is me , etc I called for beer , for wine and ale , be warned , etc And when my heart was in woeful case , I drunk to my friends with a smiling face . lord , etc With clubs and staves I was guarded then , ah woe is me , etc I never before had such waiting men be warned , etc If they had ridden before amain , Beshrew me if I had called them again . lord , etc And when unto Yorke that I was come , ah , etc Each one on me did pass their doom . be war . etc and while you live this sentence note , Evil men can never have good report . lord , etc Before the judges when I was brought , ah woe is me , etc Be sure I had a careful thought , be , etc Ninescore inditements and seaventeene , against me there was read and seen . lord , etc And each of these was felony found , ah woe is me . etc which did my heart with sorrow wound , be , etc What should I herein longer stay , For this I was condemned that day . lord , etc My death each hour I do attend , ah woe is me : In prayer and tears my time I spend . be etc And all my loving friends this day , I do entreat for me to pray . Lord etc I have deserved long since to die , ah woe etc A viler sinner lived not then I : be etc On friends I hopte my life to save , But I am fittest for my grave : Lord etc Adue my loving friends each one , ah woe is me woe is me for my great folly , Think on my words when I am gone , be warned young wantons , etc When on the ladder you shall me view , think I am nearer heaven then you . Lord etc FINIS . Hutton . Printed at London for Thomas Millington . 1598. 