H : 135939 A NEW SONG . To the Tune of Robin Goodfellow . THough S --- is cleared by The Cunning Ignoramus Sway : He guilty stands of Treachery That does not Heavens decrees obey , Kings are Elected , Never rejected , But by the Heavenly pow'rs above ; Then pray you why Should little And ------ Then have a hand in a Kings remove . II He is so mad , I wonder much , That's going to his Grave on Crutch , That Knows the Laws , some Princes draws among the Whiggs , to The Good Old Cause . His praises aloud Are resounded by the Crowd , Makes the little Pigmy strut and stare ; Then pray you why May not little And ------ Once more wear his Loyalty thread bore . III . His Policy must greater be , Ere he attains his Zealous ends ; Although he wheadles the City Beagles , And such poor Mechanic Friends , They will turn as fast Honest men at the last As they before turn'd fools and Knaves ; Then pray you why May not little And --- Once more his Turncoat honour save . IV. Must we be led in Misery By the blind that can but will not see ; Their frantic brains brought into th' wain Those Royal Stars of Charlemain ; And if not watched , Or by Ty --- Catched , Will strive to do it once again ; Then pray you why May not little And --- Be the bearer up of that fine Train . V. Might they have their wills , what would they make Of this small gruntling groaning Ape , A God they cannot , a King they shall not And Idol their zealous concerns may not , No , but they would , If that they could Set up him a second Cromwell soon ; Then pray you why May not little And --- For once be made the man i' th' Moon . VI . VI . This changing Imp is now become Our Loyal Cities only grace , The Devil ne're made sike another Loon To aim before at a Royal place , Nothing but Coo --- Must be their Hooper , On Ashley not on Heaven , they call ; Then pray you why May not little And --- Once in a Chair of State Look Tall . VII . But if the Law , as once before , Was of the Tyrant Sword in Awe : Little Jack a Dandy that never yet swore , For safety would to a Monarch draw , He would leave the City , Yes , and Committee ; To the King he would for mercy haste ; Then pray you why Should little And --- Any more idle time in his Cabals waste . VIII . To Jealousy now more are given Than Ancient Lechers , wise and grave : This cunning Fox , though he be Poxt , His policy will honour save . He scorns for to rail , Though a Clap seize his Tail At any thing of woman Kind ; Then pray you why May not little And --- With Whor --- be both lame and blind . IX . But if he said the Whore was honest That betray'd him in his Youth , The zealous all , both great and small , Would all believe it for a truth , Bear him to Wallbrook Cross , And Set him on the Horse , Dismount the Image of your King ; Then pray you why May not little And --- Look as like as he can to sike a Thing . X. Then on your Knees , most reverently , Fallen down and worship the Melted Calf : Or take him and han ------ him decently For that's the better way by half , Then all may see Cursed Policy be Brought to a right deserved end ; Then pray you why May not little And --- Shake hands at TO ------ hill with his friends XI . Some old men doubtless there are Of women mad passed all compare : This Lustful Ram , we need not doubt , Although he is pinched with the Gout , Will fit in State , Frigg into debate The factious people all he can ; Then pray you why May not little And --- Or Wheadle M ------ led the Van. XII . No place within the Earthly Ball , Beside this Kingdom gives birth To men so vile , as would beguile Their Country , lay their Kings in Earth Before they are grown , Scarce Set upon a Throne , They are degraded and cast down ; Then pray you why May not little And --- Be seen like a Mouse in and Ermine Gown . XIII . When they are well they cannot keep so , All the Universe can tell , Their zealous Piety makes them weep so , They are not afraid to rule in Hell : Give them the Sceptre , Drunk with a Lector , Tey fell both Kings and Souls for Gold ; Then pray you why May not little And --- With a Second Monarch now make bold . LONDON , Printed for C. Tebroc , Anno Dom. 1682. H : 135939 A NEW SONG . To the Tune of Robin Goodfellow . THough S --- is cleared by The Cunning Ignoramus Sway : He guilty stands of Treachery That does not Heavens decrees obey , Kings are Elected , Never rejected , But by the Heavenly pow'rs above ; Then pray you why Should little And ------ Then have a hand in a Kings remove . II He is so mad , I wonder much , That's going to his Grave on Crutch , That Knows the Laws , some Princes draws among the Whiggs , to The Good Old Cause . His praises aloud Are resounded by the Crowd , Makes the little Pigmy strut and stare ; Then pray you why May not little And ------ Once more wear his Loyalty thread bore . III . His Policy must greater be , Ere he attains his Zealous ends ; Although he wheadles the City Beagles , And such poor Mechanic Friends , They will turn as fast Honest men at the last As they before turn'd fools and Knaves ; Then pray you why May not little And --- Once more his Turncoat honour save . IV. Must we be led in Misery By the blind that can but will not see ; Their frantic brains brought into th' wain Those Royal Stars of Charlemain ; And if not watched , Or by Ty --- Catched , Will strive to do it once again ; Then pray you why May not little And --- Be the bearer up of that fine Train . V. Might they have their wills , what would they make Of this small gruntling groaning Ape , A God they cannot , a King they shall not And Idol their zealous concerns may not , No , but they would , If that they could Set up him a second Cromwell soon ; Then pray you why May not little And --- For once be made the man i' th' Moon . VI . VI . This changing Imp is now become Our Loyal Cities only grace , The Devil ne're made sike another Loon To aim before at a Royal place , Nothing but Coo --- Must be their Hooper , On Ashley not on Heaven , they call ; Then pray you why May not little And --- Once in a Chair of State Look Tall . VII . But if the Law , as once before , Was of the Tyrant Sword in Awe : Little Jack a Dandy that never yet swore , For safety would to a Monarch draw , He would leave the City , Yes , and Committee ; To the King he would for mercy haste ; Then pray you why Should little And --- Any more idle time in his Cabals waste . VIII . To Jealousy now more are given Than Ancient Lechers , wise and grave : This cunning Fox , though he be Poxt , His policy will honour save . He scorns for to rail , Though a Clap seize his Tail At any thing of woman Kind ; Then pray you why May not little And --- With Whor --- be both lame and blind . IX . But if he said the Whore was honest That betray'd him in his Youth , The zealous all , both great and small , Would all believe it for a truth , Bear him to Wallbrook Cross , And Set him on the Horse , Dismount the Image of your King ; Then pray you why May not little And --- Look as like as he can to sike a Thing . X. Then on your Knees , most reverently , Fallen down and worship the Melted Calf : Or take him and han ------ him decently For that's the better way by half , Then all may see Cursed Policy be Brought to a right deserved end ; Then pray you why May not little And --- Shake hands at TO ------ hill with his friends XI . Some old men doubtless there are Of women mad passed all compare : This Lustful Ram , we need not doubt , Although he is pinched with the Gout , Will fit in State , Frigg into debate The factious people all he can ; Then pray you why May not little And --- Or Wheadle M ------ led the Van. XII . No place within the Earthly Ball , Beside this Kingdom gives birth To men so vile , as would beguile Their Country , lay their Kings in Earth Before they are grown , Scarce Set upon a Throne , They are degraded and cast down ; Then pray you why May not little And --- Be seen like a Mouse in and Ermine Gown . XIII . When they are well they cannot keep so , All the Universe can tell , Their zealous Piety makes them weep so , They are not afraid to rule in Hell : Give them the Sceptre , Drunk with a Lector , Tey fell both Kings and Souls for Gold ; Then pray you why May not little And --- With a Second Monarch now make bold . LONDON , Printed for C. Tebroc , Anno Dom. 1682. 