H : 135951 The whole work of Love . OR : A NEW POEM , On a Young Lady ; who is violently in Love with a Gentleman of LINCOLNS-INN ; By a Student in the said ART . LOVE is a thing that's not on Reason laid , But upon Nature and her Dictates made : Fancy I mean ; for that prescribes the way , For Love at last , to make her Holly-Day . Our thoughts like Winds , that vary every Hour , When blowing on a Thatched-house , or a Tower : Which is the Case , of this our Lady , then Sometime she's high , and then she's still again ; At last , Love is taken by its own Hook , Like a Sea-nimph , near , to a purling Brook : Changing its Waters , and its Element , Gay ; Love , it discovers all , to go to Play . And then , Circling about his belov'd Arms , And that for ever , on Loves Immortal Charms : And goes into the Chamber , of th' Marriage Bed , There to take Pleasure , and lay down its Head. Love like a Soldier , coming to the Field , At length is Conquerr'd , and is forc'd to yield ; Since every thing , does unto a Centre tend The result of Nature , and of Friendships end . Love is a God! and does what it pleases , It Cures Wounds , and when it will , us eases : The Master Spring , of each humane desire , Love is and Angel , of the Angelick Choir . But , now it seems : and that at the last , Love , like a Seaman , does his Anchor case Resolving in Port , for to Wash and Tallow , Let the Seas be Green , Dark , Blew or Yellow . For she it seems ; if any means be left , Turns Pirate , and so commits a Theft . Have him she will , or else this Life depar Love , is a thing beyond the Power of Art. It is as strong as Death , we all do know , It is a thing , that still does cure our woe . Were't not for this , 'twould be no joy to Live ; And in the World : and that for to survive ; The Powers above ! on us this gift does throw , That so , all Pleasures , we may fully know : Having tasted , that we Epicures , may turn , And so for ever , in Loves fire to burn . For , of all Animals , Lovers fire to burn . Since that's the Life , of humane happiness ; Without that , each Person's like to a Rat , And has no Pleasure , except that of the Cat. For Love's a thing , distinguishes us from Beasts , It raises Honour , and our Vitals Feasts : Plants us in the from , of Virtuosoes great , And so does Crown , our frail and fickle State . Therefore at last , Love now has fixed its Eye , Upon a Gentleman , of much Gallantry ; Like to the Eagle , resolving for a Prey , Takes up the Kite , and marches quite away : And when that all her wild measures has sown , Love is resolv'd , to make the Town her own . Have him she will , and Marry him ; at last , Love shuts the Door , and then besure all's fast . To sum up all , our Gentleman does say He Loves not Bog-wiggs : and that on any Lay ; That his Mistress , most fine , such things should wear , As the Tree does Fruit , in Summer of the Year . He is a Man , for Nature : only so , And in her Paths , with her would run and go : Would not have her , each thing from Art exchange , For all things , but Nature , are to him most strange . So , if Love will have it , a Marriage to be , We'l all come see the Ivy and Oak Tree : Twining together , by Nature's Commands , The thing is done , and the World claps Hands . FINIS . London , Printed by T. Haly , for the Author . 1682. H : 135951 The whole work of Love . OR : A NEW POEM , On a Young Lady ; who is violently in Love with a Gentleman of LINCOLNS-INN ; By a Student in the said ART . LOVE is a thing that's not on Reason laid , But upon Nature and her Dictates made : Fancy I mean ; for that prescribes the way , For Love at last , to make her Holly-Day . Our thoughts like Winds , that vary every Hour , When blowing on a Thatched-house , or a Tower : Which is the Case , of this our Lady , then Sometime she's high , and then she's still again ; At last , Love is taken by its own Hook , Like a Sea-nimph , near , to a purling Brook : Changing its Waters , and its Element , Gay ; Love , it discovers all , to go to Play . And then , Circling about his belov'd Arms , And that for ever , on Loves Immortal Charms : And goes into the Chamber , of th' Marriage Bed , There to take Pleasure , and lay down its Head. Love like a Soldier , coming to the Field , At length is Conquerr'd , and is forc'd to yield ; Since every thing , does unto a Centre tend The result of Nature , and of Friendships end . Love is a God! and does what it pleases , It Cures Wounds , and when it will , us eases : The Master Spring , of each humane desire , Love is and Angel , of the Angelick Choir . But , now it seems : and that at the last , Love , like a Seaman , does his Anchor case Resolving in Port , for to Wash and Tallow , Let the Seas be Green , Dark , Blew or Yellow . For she it seems ; if any means be left , Turns Pirate , and so commits a Theft . Have him she will , or else this Life depar Love , is a thing beyond the Power of Art. It is as strong as Death , we all do know , It is a thing , that still does cure our woe . Were't not for this , 'twould be no joy to Live ; And in the World : and that for to survive ; The Powers above ! on us this gift does throw , That so , all Pleasures , we may fully know : Having tasted , that we Epicures , may turn , And so for ever , in Loves fire to burn . For , of all Animals , Lovers fire to burn . Since that's the Life , of humane happiness ; Without that , each Person's like to a Rat , And has no Pleasure , except that of the Cat. For Love's a thing , distinguishes us from Beasts , It raises Honour , and our Vitals Feasts : Plants us in the from , of Virtuosoes great , And so does Crown , our frail and fickle State . Therefore at last , Love now has fixed its Eye , Upon a Gentleman , of much Gallantry ; Like to the Eagle , resolving for a Prey , Takes up the Kite , and marches quite away : And when that all her wild measures has sown , Love is resolv'd , to make the Town her own . Have him she will , and Marry him ; at last , Love shuts the Door , and then besure all's fast . To sum up all , our Gentleman does say He Loves not Bog-wiggs : and that on any Lay ; That his Mistress , most fine , such things should wear , As the Tree does Fruit , in Summer of the Year . He is a Man , for Nature : only so , And in her Paths , with her would run and go : Would not have her , each thing from Art exchange , For all things , but Nature , are to him most strange . So , if Love will have it , a Marriage to be , We'l all come see the Ivy and Oak Tree : Twining together , by Nature's Commands , The thing is done , and the World claps Hands . FINIS . London , Printed by T. Haly , for the Author . 1682. 