H : 135949 Advice to the City or the Wiggs Loyalty explain'd Remember you wiggs what was formerly done , remember your mischiefs in forty and one , when friend opposs'd friend , & father the son , then then the old cause , went rarely on the cap sat aloft . and low was the crown , the Rabble god up , and the nobles went down , Lay elders in tubbs . rul'd Bishops in robes . who mourn'd the sad fate and dreadful disaster , of their royal master . by rebels betrayed . Then - London be wise & baffle their power and let them play the old game no more , hang hang up the Sheriffs . those baboons in power , those popular thieves . those rats of the Tower , whose canting tale the rabble believes in a hurry , and never sorry merrily they still go on , fie for shame wee'r to tame , since they claim the combat , Tan ta ra ra ra tan , ta ra ra ra , Dub , a dub , a let the Drum beatrice the strong militia guard the throne . chorus follow's every verse . 2 When faction possesses the popular voice The cause is supply'd still with nonsense & noise And Tony their speaker the rabble leads on He knows if we prosper that he must run Carolina must be his next station of ease And London be rid of her worst disease From plots and from spies From treason and lies We shall ever be free And the law shall be able To punish a Rebel as cunning as he : then London etc 3 Rebellion ner'e wanted a loyal pretence These Villains swear all's for the good of their Prince Oppose our elections to show what they dare And losing their Charter arrest the Mayor Fool Ji [ ? ] ks was the first o'th cuckouldly crew With Ells and Jeakll and Hubb [ ? ] rd the Jew Fam'd sparks of the town For wealth and renown Give the Devil his due And such as we fear Had their Sovereign been there had arrested him too : then London etc Printed for C. Tebroc Price 2d . H : 135949 Advice to the City or the Wiggs Loyalty explain'd Remember you wiggs what was formerly done , remember your mischiefs in forty and one , when friend opposs'd friend , & father the son , then then the old cause , went rarely on the cap sat aloft . and low was the crown , the Rabble god up , and the nobles went down , Lay elders in tubbs . rul'd Bishops in robes . who mourn'd the sad fate and dreadful disaster , of their royal master . by rebels betrayed . Then - London be wise & baffle their power and let them play the old game no more , hang hang up the Sheriffs . those baboons in power , those popular thieves . those rats of the Tower , whose canting tale the rabble believes in a hurry , and never sorry merrily they still go on , fie for shame wee'r to tame , since they claim the combat , Tan ta ra ra ra tan , ta ra ra ra , Dub , a dub , a let the Drum beatrice the strong militia guard the throne . chorus follow's every verse . 2 When faction possesses the popular voice The cause is supply'd still with nonsense & noise And Tony their speaker the rabble leads on He knows if we prosper that he must run Carolina must be his next station of ease And London be rid of her worst disease From plots and from spies From treason and lies We shall ever be free And the law shall be able To punish a Rebel as cunning as he : then London etc 3 Rebellion ner'e wanted a loyal pretence These Villains swear all's for the good of their Prince Oppose our elections to show what they dare And losing their Charter arrest the Mayor Fool Ji [ ? ] ks was the first o'th cuckouldly crew With Ells and Jeakll and Hubb [ ? ] rd the Jew Fam'd sparks of the town For wealth and renown Give the Devil his due And such as we fear Had their Sovereign been there had arrested him too : then London etc Printed for C. Tebroc Price 2d . H : 135949 Advice to the City or the Wiggs Loyalty explain'd Remember you wiggs what was formerly done , remember your mischiefs in forty and one , when friend opposs'd friend , & father the son , then then the old cause , went rarely on the cap sat aloft . and low was the crown , the Rabble god up , and the nobles went down , Lay elders in tubbs . rul'd Bishops in robes . who mourn'd the sad fate and dreadful disaster , of their royal master . by rebels betrayed . Then - London be wise & baffle their power and let them play the old game no more , hang hang up the Sheriffs . those baboons in power , those popular thieves . those rats of the Tower , whose canting tale the rabble believes in a hurry , and never sorry merrily they still go on , fie for shame wee'r to tame , since they claim the combat , Tan ta ra ra ra tan , ta ra ra ra , Dub , a dub , a let the Drum beatrice the strong militia guard the throne . chorus follow's every verse . 2 When faction possesses the popular voice The cause is supply'd still with nonsense & noise And Tony their speaker the rabble leads on He knows if we prosper that he must run Carolina must be his next station of ease And London be rid of her worst disease From plots and from spies From treason and lies We shall ever be free And the law shall be able To punish a Rebel as cunning as he : then London etc 3 Rebellion ner'e wanted a loyal pretence These Villains swear all's for the good of their Prince Oppose our elections to show what they dare And losing their Charter arrest the Mayor Fool Ji [ ? ] ks was the first o'th cuckouldly crew With Ells and Jeakll and Hubb [ ? ] rd the Jew Fam'd sparks of the town For wealth and renown Give the Devil his due And such as we fear Had their Sovereign been there had arrested him too : then London etc Printed for C. Tebroc Price 2d . H : 135949 Advice to the City or the Wiggs Loyalty explain'd Remember you wiggs what was formerly done , remember your mischiefs in forty and one , when friend opposs'd friend , & father the son , then then the old cause , went rarely on the cap sat aloft . and low was the crown , the Rabble god up , and the nobles went down , Lay elders in tubbs . rul'd Bishops in robes . who mourn'd the sad fate and dreadful disaster , of their royal master . by rebels betrayed . Then - London be wise & baffle their power and let them play the old game no more , hang hang up the Sheriffs . those baboons in power , those popular thieves . those rats of the Tower , whose canting tale the rabble believes in a hurry , and never sorry merrily they still go on , fie for shame wee'r to tame , since they claim the combat , Tan ta ra ra ra tan , ta ra ra ra , Dub , a dub , a let the Drum beatrice the strong militia guard the throne . chorus follow's every verse . 2 When faction possesses the popular voice The cause is supply'd still with nonsense & noise And Tony their speaker the rabble leads on He knows if we prosper that he must run Carolina must be his next station of ease And London be rid of her worst disease From plots and from spies From treason and lies We shall ever be free And the law shall be able To punish a Rebel as cunning as he : then London etc 3 Rebellion ner'e wanted a loyal pretence These Villains swear all's for the good of their Prince Oppose our elections to show what they dare And losing their Charter arrest the Mayor Fool Ji [ ? ] ks was the first o'th cuckouldly crew With Ells and Jeakll and Hubb [ ? ] rd the Jew Fam'd sparks of the town For wealth and renown Give the Devil his due And such as we fear Had their Sovereign been there had arrested him too : then London etc Printed for C. Tebroc Price 2d . 