H : 135975 A New SONG of Moggies Jealousy : OR , Jockies Vindication . Moggy from Jockey she needs wou'd depart , Though Jockey he lov'd his Moggy at heart ; Jockey he wondered at Moggies strange huff , But Moggy was jealous , and that was enough . To the Tune of , You London Lads be merry , Or , Woo't thou be wilful still my Foe . WHere art thou ganging my Moggy , and where art thou ganging my Dove , And woo't thou go from thy poor Jockey , and so dearly that he does love ? I'm ganging to fair Edenborough , to spir for a Lad that is true ; And if I return not tomorrow , then Jockey I'm bid thee adieu . How thinkest thou that I can endure , to part with thee all a long night ? When I am not able , thou art sure , to have thee once out of my sighs 'Tis a folly my Jockey to flatter , for I must gang where I did tell ; Or offer to mince up the matter , so Jockey I'm bid thee farewell . But shall I gang with thee , my fair one , and shall I gang with thee my Joe : And shall it be welcome my dear one , to gang with my Moggy , or no ? We'l hand in hand trip to the House , that stands within ken of the Town ; And there I will have a carouse , and for ever take leave of my Loon . But what have I done my Moggy , that thou art so willing to part With poor unfortunate Jockey , and break his too loving hear I'm warrant his heart for a Plack , ye'as mere a Mon then to rue ; For a thing that you cannot lack , and so Jockey I'm bid thee adieu . Then must we part , my Jewel , and I never see thee no mere ? And canst thou be so cruel to eyn that loves thee so dear ? And have I not lov'd thee as muckle , and have I not shown it as true ? But I scorn to another to truckle , so Jockey I'm bid thee adieu . Now Heaven preserve my good Woman , Ods Bred , she's jealous I trow ; My Moggy these tyers are not common , thy heart has had muckle to do : 'Tis only a lovesick mistake , that ever can make me untrue ; But the Parson amends he shall make , if you never will bid me adieu . How willingly I do believe thee , and tie thee once more to my heart ; But if thou again does deceive me , for ever , for ever we'l par But I'm am in hope's that my Jockey , will never more prove so untrue : But ever be kind to his Moggy , nor I'm never bid him adieu . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the sign of the Rain - bow , in Holbourn . H : 135975 A New SONG of Moggies Jealousy : OR , Jockies Vindication . Moggy from Jockey she needs wou'd depart , Though Jockey he lov'd his Moggy at heart ; Jockey he wondered at Moggies strange huff , But Moggy was jealous , and that was enough . To the Tune of , You London Lads be merry , Or , Woo't thou be wilful still my Foe . WHere art thou ganging my Moggy , and where art thou ganging my Dove , And woo't thou go from thy poor Jockey , and so dearly that he does love ? I'm ganging to fair Edenborough , to spir for a Lad that is true ; And if I return not tomorrow , then Jockey I'm bid thee adieu . How thinkest thou that I can endure , to part with thee all a long night ? When I am not able , thou art sure , to have thee once out of my sighs 'Tis a folly my Jockey to flatter , for I must gang where I did tell ; Or offer to mince up the matter , so Jockey I'm bid thee farewell . But shall I gang with thee , my fair one , and shall I gang with thee my Joe : And shall it be welcome my dear one , to gang with my Moggy , or no ? We'l hand in hand trip to the House , that stands within ken of the Town ; And there I will have a carouse , and for ever take leave of my Loon . But what have I done my Moggy , that thou art so willing to part With poor unfortunate Jockey , and break his too loving hear I'm warrant his heart for a Plack , ye'as mere a Mon then to rue ; For a thing that you cannot lack , and so Jockey I'm bid thee adieu . Then must we part , my Jewel , and I never see thee no mere ? And canst thou be so cruel to eyn that loves thee so dear ? And have I not lov'd thee as muckle , and have I not shown it as true ? But I scorn to another to truckle , so Jockey I'm bid thee adieu . Now Heaven preserve my good Woman , Ods Bred , she's jealous I trow ; My Moggy these tyers are not common , thy heart has had muckle to do : 'Tis only a lovesick mistake , that ever can make me untrue ; But the Parson amends he shall make , if you never will bid me adieu . How willingly I do believe thee , and tie thee once more to my heart ; But if thou again does deceive me , for ever , for ever we'l par But I'm am in hope's that my Jockey , will never more prove so untrue : But ever be kind to his Moggy , nor I'm never bid him adieu . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the sign of the Rain - bow , in Holbourn . H : 135975 A New SONG of Moggies Jealousy : OR , Jockies Vindication . Moggy from Jockey she needs wou'd depart , Though Jockey he lov'd his Moggy at heart ; Jockey he wondered at Moggies strange huff , But Moggy was jealous , and that was enough . To the Tune of , You London Lads be merry , Or , Woo't thou be wilful still my Foe . WHere art thou ganging my Moggy , and where art thou ganging my Dove , And woo't thou go from thy poor Jockey , and so dearly that he does love ? I'm ganging to fair Edenborough , to spir for a Lad that is true ; And if I return not tomorrow , then Jockey I'm bid thee adieu . How thinkest thou that I can endure , to part with thee all a long night ? When I am not able , thou art sure , to have thee once out of my sighs 'Tis a folly my Jockey to flatter , for I must gang where I did tell ; Or offer to mince up the matter , so Jockey I'm bid thee farewell . But shall I gang with thee , my fair one , and shall I gang with thee my Joe : And shall it be welcome my dear one , to gang with my Moggy , or no ? We'l hand in hand trip to the House , that stands within ken of the Town ; And there I will have a carouse , and for ever take leave of my Loon . But what have I done my Moggy , that thou art so willing to part With poor unfortunate Jockey , and break his too loving hear I'm warrant his heart for a Plack , ye'as mere a Mon then to rue ; For a thing that you cannot lack , and so Jockey I'm bid thee adieu . Then must we part , my Jewel , and I never see thee no mere ? And canst thou be so cruel to eyn that loves thee so dear ? And have I not lov'd thee as muckle , and have I not shown it as true ? But I scorn to another to truckle , so Jockey I'm bid thee adieu . Now Heaven preserve my good Woman , Ods Bred , she's jealous I trow ; My Moggy these tyers are not common , thy heart has had muckle to do : 'Tis only a lovesick mistake , that ever can make me untrue ; But the Parson amends he shall make , if you never will bid me adieu . How willingly I do believe thee , and tie thee once more to my heart ; But if thou again does deceive me , for ever , for ever we'l par But I'm am in hope's that my Jockey , will never more prove so untrue : But ever be kind to his Moggy , nor I'm never bid him adieu . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the sign of the Rain - bow , in Holbourn . H : 135975 A New SONG of Moggies Jealousy : OR , Jockies Vindication . Moggy from Jockey she needs wou'd depart , Though Jockey he lov'd his Moggy at heart ; Jockey he wondered at Moggies strange huff , But Moggy was jealous , and that was enough . To the Tune of , You London Lads be merry , Or , Woo't thou be wilful still my Foe . WHere art thou ganging my Moggy , and where art thou ganging my Dove , And woo't thou go from thy poor Jockey , and so dearly that he does love ? I'm ganging to fair Edenborough , to spir for a Lad that is true ; And if I return not tomorrow , then Jockey I'm bid thee adieu . How thinkest thou that I can endure , to part with thee all a long night ? When I am not able , thou art sure , to have thee once out of my sighs 'Tis a folly my Jockey to flatter , for I must gang where I did tell ; Or offer to mince up the matter , so Jockey I'm bid thee farewell . But shall I gang with thee , my fair one , and shall I gang with thee my Joe : And shall it be welcome my dear one , to gang with my Moggy , or no ? We'l hand in hand trip to the House , that stands within ken of the Town ; And there I will have a carouse , and for ever take leave of my Loon . But what have I done my Moggy , that thou art so willing to part With poor unfortunate Jockey , and break his too loving hear I'm warrant his heart for a Plack , ye'as mere a Mon then to rue ; For a thing that you cannot lack , and so Jockey I'm bid thee adieu . Then must we part , my Jewel , and I never see thee no mere ? And canst thou be so cruel to eyn that loves thee so dear ? And have I not lov'd thee as muckle , and have I not shown it as true ? But I scorn to another to truckle , so Jockey I'm bid thee adieu . Now Heaven preserve my good Woman , Ods Bred , she's jealous I trow ; My Moggy these tyers are not common , thy heart has had muckle to do : 'Tis only a lovesick mistake , that ever can make me untrue ; But the Parson amends he shall make , if you never will bid me adieu . How willingly I do believe thee , and tie thee once more to my heart ; But if thou again does deceive me , for ever , for ever we'l par But I'm am in hope's that my Jockey , will never more prove so untrue : But ever be kind to his Moggy , nor I'm never bid him adieu . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the sign of the Rain - bow , in Holbourn . 