H : 135962 A NEW POEM ON THE Lord Mayor , HAil Loyal Sir ! who timely did'st provide Against our Ruin , and has turn'd the Tide ; Wisely composing this our frantic Age : How have you quell'd the bold Fanatics Rage ? Those Wolves will now seem Lambs upon the Stage . When Pious Factions did in Crowds appear , You wrought our Safety with a Father's Care ; With easy Conduct , and by Right of Laws O'erthrew the Idols of the Canting Cause ; Taught the bold Heard to know their Servile Bounds , Such was your Zeal to heal the Nation's Wounds . Schism from you receiv'd a Fatal Blow , The Church now flourishes in their Overthrow ; The Fountain purg'd , Celestial Streams must flow . While to the Land Religious Peace you bring ; At once you honour God , and serve your King . Thus you improve the Talon of your Trust , The Kingdom's Happiness proclaims you Just . Under your Wings we're safe ; for while you sway , Not India's Wealth can England's Peace betray . London , the Pride and Glory of the Land , The Spring of Peace , and War's enflaming Brand , You rule the Nation as you that Command . Indulgent Patriot ! Guardian of our Fate ! Dissensions Scourge , and Pillar of the State , Your great Success foretells that happy Day , When Justice shall o'er Belial-Conscience sway , And zealous Traitors suffer for their Crimes ; You blast the dang'rous Projects of the Times . A Nations Blessing , Thee , we must confess , Great in your Office , which may you possess , Till by your Sov'raign's Favours rais'd more high , Our one continued Blessing may you die . Oh! who can sing thy Praise , or who can tell Your growing Worth ? so far it does excel ------ Your Virtues such , and such your Sacred Fame , Our grateful Land thus celebrates your Name . London , Printed for J. Hindley . 1682. H : 135962 A NEW POEM ON THE Lord Mayor , HAil Loyal Sir ! who timely did'st provide Against our Ruin , and has turn'd the Tide ; Wisely composing this our frantic Age : How have you quell'd the bold Fanatics Rage ? Those Wolves will now seem Lambs upon the Stage . When Pious Factions did in Crowds appear , You wrought our Safety with a Father's Care ; With easy Conduct , and by Right of Laws O'erthrew the Idols of the Canting Cause ; Taught the bold Heard to know their Servile Bounds , Such was your Zeal to heal the Nation's Wounds . Schism from you receiv'd a Fatal Blow , The Church now flourishes in their Overthrow ; The Fountain purg'd , Celestial Streams must flow . While to the Land Religious Peace you bring ; At once you honour God , and serve your King . Thus you improve the Talon of your Trust , The Kingdom's Happiness proclaims you Just . Under your Wings we're safe ; for while you sway , Not India's Wealth can England's Peace betray . London , the Pride and Glory of the Land , The Spring of Peace , and War's enflaming Brand , You rule the Nation as you that Command . Indulgent Patriot ! Guardian of our Fate ! Dissensions Scourge , and Pillar of the State , Your great Success foretells that happy Day , When Justice shall o'er Belial-Conscience sway , And zealous Traitors suffer for their Crimes ; You blast the dang'rous Projects of the Times . A Nations Blessing , Thee , we must confess , Great in your Office , which may you possess , Till by your Sov'raign's Favours rais'd more high , Our one continued Blessing may you die . Oh! who can sing thy Praise , or who can tell Your growing Worth ? so far it does excel ------ Your Virtues such , and such your Sacred Fame , Our grateful Land thus celebrates your Name . London , Printed for J. Hindley . 1682. 