H : 135970 A DIVINE POEM . AH Lord , my sins are very great , And my corruptions many ; Oh! let me not , I thee entreat Be overcome by any . BOw down thine ear unto me , Lord , Have mercy on my Soul , Subdue my Spiritual Enemies , And all my lustest control , CAuse me to love the Lord above With all my heart and might , And let my Conversation be Wellpleasing in thy sighed . DO not condemn my Soul , Oh Lord ; But for thy mercy sake , Which is both sure and plentiful , Some pity on me take . ENrich me with thy heavenly Grace , Endue me with thy Spirit ; And let my Soul when hence it goes , Eternal Life inherit . FOrget me not , I pray thee , Lord , But still remember me , That unto all Eternity , I may give thanks to thee . GRant me , that I may never dare To live in any since ; Nor let me not at any time Be catch't in Satans Gin . HOwever thou dost deal with me , Give me and upright heart , And let my will submit to thee , And never from thee start . INdeed it is to be admir'd How gracious thou hast been Unto me from my Youth till now , Though I have liv'd in since . KIndness thou dost bestow on me Every day and hour ; Yea , every moment , Lord , on me Thy mercies thou dost pour . LIft up my heart unto thee , Lord , Unto a thankful frame ; And let me ever honour thee , And praise thee for the same . MAke me think vilely of my self ; Show me my want of Grace ; Let not the love of any since Within my heart have place . NOthing's too hard for thee , Oh Lord , Oh! therefore undertake To pluck my strong corruptions down , Even for the Lord Christ his sake . O ! let not any of my sins Come into memory With thee , Oh Lord , but let them be Conceal'd eternally . PRepare me for Eternity , And let my Souls lamp be Furnished with the Oil of Grace , When death shall seize on me . QUicken me by thy Spirit , Lord , When I shall wait on thee In every Ordinance of thine , Which thou affordest me . REmove from me the guilt of since , And its pollutions too ; And let it be my earnest care All evil to eschew . SEcure me from eternal death , And let my Soul make sure Of and Inheritance with thee , Which ever shall endure . THe time which thou affordest me , It's but a span , Oh Lord ; Therefore let me redeem the time Which thou dost me afford . VOuchsafe to lift mine heart to thee , To lift mine heart above all things below , And let it be my earnest care Christ crucified to know . Whither I live or die , Oh Lord , Let me be wholly thine , And let thy gracious countenance Upon me ever shine . XAmine all my inward wants , Supply me with thy Grace : Let not the love of any since Within my heart have place . YEa longer I shall live , Oh Lord , Let me still better grow , And let it be my earnest care The Lord of Life to know . ZEal for thine honour give me , Lord , And let me holy be ; Guide me by thy counsel here , And to Glory take thou me . London , Printed for William Marshal at the Bible in Newgate-street , 1682. H : 135970 A DIVINE POEM . AH Lord , my sins are very great , And my corruptions many ; Oh! let me not , I thee entreat Be overcome by any . BOw down thine ear unto me , Lord , Have mercy on my Soul , Subdue my Spiritual Enemies , And all my lustest control , CAuse me to love the Lord above With all my heart and might , And let my Conversation be Wellpleasing in thy sighed . DO not condemn my Soul , Oh Lord ; But for thy mercy sake , Which is both sure and plentiful , Some pity on me take . ENrich me with thy heavenly Grace , Endue me with thy Spirit ; And let my Soul when hence it goes , Eternal Life inherit . FOrget me not , I pray thee , Lord , But still remember me , That unto all Eternity , I may give thanks to thee . GRant me , that I may never dare To live in any since ; Nor let me not at any time Be catch't in Satans Gin . HOwever thou dost deal with me , Give me and upright heart , And let my will submit to thee , And never from thee start . INdeed it is to be admir'd How gracious thou hast been Unto me from my Youth till now , Though I have liv'd in since . KIndness thou dost bestow on me Every day and hour ; Yea , every moment , Lord , on me Thy mercies thou dost pour . LIft up my heart unto thee , Lord , Unto a thankful frame ; And let me ever honour thee , And praise thee for the same . MAke me think vilely of my self ; Show me my want of Grace ; Let not the love of any since Within my heart have place . NOthing's too hard for thee , Oh Lord , Oh! therefore undertake To pluck my strong corruptions down , Even for the Lord Christ his sake . O ! let not any of my sins Come into memory With thee , Oh Lord , but let them be Conceal'd eternally . PRepare me for Eternity , And let my Souls lamp be Furnished with the Oil of Grace , When death shall seize on me . QUicken me by thy Spirit , Lord , When I shall wait on thee In every Ordinance of thine , Which thou affordest me . REmove from me the guilt of since , And its pollutions too ; And let it be my earnest care All evil to eschew . SEcure me from eternal death , And let my Soul make sure Of and Inheritance with thee , Which ever shall endure . THe time which thou affordest me , It's but a span , Oh Lord ; Therefore let me redeem the time Which thou dost me afford . VOuchsafe to lift mine heart to thee , To lift mine heart above all things below , And let it be my earnest care Christ crucified to know . Whither I live or die , Oh Lord , Let me be wholly thine , And let thy gracious countenance Upon me ever shine . XAmine all my inward wants , Supply me with thy Grace : Let not the love of any since Within my heart have place . YEa longer I shall live , Oh Lord , Let me still better grow , And let it be my earnest care The Lord of Life to know . ZEal for thine honour give me , Lord , And let me holy be ; Guide me by thy counsel here , And to Glory take thou me . London , Printed for William Marshal at the Bible in Newgate-street , 1682. 