H : 135981 A New - - years Gift to the TEMPLERS , On that Eminent Lawyer Sir Edmond Saunders , His being Chosen Lord Chief-Justice of England . When Plotting Knaves from Justice fly away , Then Loyal Templars shall come into Play ; When Rogues , and Traitors , dare not show their Face , Then Honest men again shall come in place . To the Tune of , Joy to the Bridegroom . [ 1 ] OLd Tony's fled , from Justice gone , And all his shamming Plots are done ; The Plague is ceas'd and gone away , Then let us make a Holiday . And to great Charles our Gracious King In joyful consorts let us sing . [ 2 ] To Amsterdam the Traytor's fled , To save his false designing head ; Thither the holy Brothers crowd , A Murrin scatter all the Brood . That to great Charles our Gracious King In joyful consorts We may sing . [ 3 ] At Hague they keep their Randezvou , Like Crows this Carrion they pursue , Waller and Willmore , all the crew , With Starkey , Smith , the chase pursue . While to great Charles our Gracious King , We in a joyful consort sing . [ 4 ] But now the Wolf is gone astray , The harmless Sheep may sport and play ; When Traitors dare not show their face , Then honest men shall come in place . Who to great Charles our Gracious King Will in a joyful consort sing . [ 5 ] While Tony with his Plots are fled , And never more to show their head ; Renowned Saunder's to their grief , Is made of England Justice Chief . That Lawyers may rejoice and sing In joyful consorts to their King . [ 6 ] To Temple this , and Templars Fame , Shall purchase and Immortal name ; That Sovereign Justice Right and Law , Shou'd from those Crystal Fountains flow , Let Templars then rejoice and sing In joyful consorts to their King . [ 7 ] Brave Saunder's Lord Chief Justice nam'd , For Law and Justice so much Fam'd : To th' Subject's his due Rights will give , To th' King his just Prerogative . Then to great Charles our Gracious King In joyful consorts let us sing . [ 8 ] No more shall Shreives Whig-Juries blind , And Loyalists shall Justice find ; Nor Ignoramus Law prevail , A curse oth' Nation to entail . But to great Charles our Gracious King All shall in joyful consorts sing . [ 9 ] With me let all the Land rejoice , That he has made this happy choice : That Justice through the Land may flow , And all find Justice with their Law . While to great Charles our Gracious King We may in a joyful consort sing . [ 10 ] Long live great Charles , and Royal James , Of future Age the happy Themes , To fit upon the British Throne , When Tony and his Tribe are gone . Then to great Charles our Gracious King In joyful consorts let us sing . Printed by Nat. Thompson at the entrance into the Old-Spring-Garden , near Charing-Cross . H : 135981 A New - - years Gift to the TEMPLERS , On that Eminent Lawyer Sir Edmond Saunders , His being Chosen Lord Chief-Justice of England . When Plotting Knaves from Justice fly away , Then Loyal Templars shall come into Play ; When Rogues , and Traitors , dare not show their Face , Then Honest men again shall come in place . To the Tune of , Joy to the Bridegroom . [ 1 ] OLd Tony's fled , from Justice gone , And all his shamming Plots are done ; The Plague is ceas'd and gone away , Then let us make a Holiday . And to great Charles our Gracious King In joyful consorts let us sing . [ 2 ] To Amsterdam the Traytor's fled , To save his false designing head ; Thither the holy Brothers crowd , A Murrin scatter all the Brood . That to great Charles our Gracious King In joyful consorts We may sing . [ 3 ] At Hague they keep their Randezvou , Like Crows this Carrion they pursue , Waller and Willmore , all the crew , With Starkey , Smith , the chase pursue . While to great Charles our Gracious King , We in a joyful consort sing . [ 4 ] But now the Wolf is gone astray , The harmless Sheep may sport and play ; When Traitors dare not show their face , Then honest men shall come in place . Who to great Charles our Gracious King Will in a joyful consort sing . [ 5 ] While Tony with his Plots are fled , And never more to show their head ; Renowned Saunder's to their grief , Is made of England Justice Chief . That Lawyers may rejoice and sing In joyful consorts to their King . [ 6 ] To Temple this , and Templars Fame , Shall purchase and Immortal name ; That Sovereign Justice Right and Law , Shou'd from those Crystal Fountains flow , Let Templars then rejoice and sing In joyful consorts to their King . [ 7 ] Brave Saunder's Lord Chief Justice nam'd , For Law and Justice so much Fam'd : To th' Subject's his due Rights will give , To th' King his just Prerogative . Then to great Charles our Gracious King In joyful consorts let us sing . [ 8 ] No more shall Shreives Whig-Juries blind , And Loyalists shall Justice find ; Nor Ignoramus Law prevail , A curse oth' Nation to entail . But to great Charles our Gracious King All shall in joyful consorts sing . [ 9 ] With me let all the Land rejoice , That he has made this happy choice : That Justice through the Land may flow , And all find Justice with their Law . While to great Charles our Gracious King We may in a joyful consort sing . [ 10 ] Long live great Charles , and Royal James , Of future Age the happy Themes , To fit upon the British Throne , When Tony and his Tribe are gone . Then to great Charles our Gracious King In joyful consorts let us sing . Printed by Nat. Thompson at the entrance into the Old-Spring-Garden , near Charing-Cross . 