H : 180160 C.R. In a Cloud . IT is no strange thing To hear that the King Hath made his escapes ; For Jove did the same , And god him a name ( For shifting and Rapes . ) What he did for Lust ( For Jupiter must With a fair one sport . ) King Charles did not do , His Juno's no shrew , Hee's not gone to Court . No Danaes Power In a Brazen Tower Hath made him turn shower , You know well of old That he had no Gold , C.R. was too poor . Nor ever did low For Europa-Cow , And feed among Beasts , Nor deceiv'd the Heards In a Goatish Beard , So quaint he was dressed . But he is retir'd , As he was d [ e ] sir'd , For sweet Liberty . When every man claims , And makes her his aims , Won't you have Princes free ? Away with such Knaves , Who Liberty craves , For their own pure trains Yet would environ Their King , and in Iron Bind him , and in chains . We have herd in a manner Of the King and Tanner , But the King was firs But these Translators Of the State-matters , Make the King the worst . Instead of a Crown , They'll pull him down , As not fit for trust ; Instead of God save , His life they will have , And's Honour ith' dust . Salt Peters , and Dell , You have preached well To your Auditory : This Doctrine you may Read in Loyola ; Here's a fine story . Would any man think , The Agitators drink Of the waters of Tiber ? Or that Babylons whore Were Peters Paramour , Or Dells next Neighbour ? Protestant God night , Welcome Jesuite , Welcome pretty Nuns , Our Daughters shall be Whores of Piety , And Rebels our Sons . Charles keep in thy Cloud , And there safe thee shrewd , Nor break , but as Day . The mid Region be Thy Artillery , Where Clouds bear the sway . Peep a little from thence , And lift to what sense we make of thy Letters , Every one does think That great Caesars Ink , Never wrote better . And as for the matter , We cannot here flatter , The Royal Inditer , But say , as true 'tis , Thy Pen ( as was his ) Is of a ready Writer . We're sorry to see , That such Treachery Should be in our Land ; Or that any thing Should force our good King To his running hand . His Letters he throws , Like Parthian Arrows , And Conquers flying . Ten thousand are sold , They'll never be old , New , new , news they're crying . D' you see , do you see , How the Presbytery Joy their first nam , The Assembly men prinke Up their Ears ; I think They were near maimed . But be not too crank In the second rank , The Independents Will look to your waters , And then follow after Th' Army their defendants . Satisfaction's next , To his party perplexed , And gone to the Pot , 'Cause th' have adhered , And are to be feared , And even the Scot . Now mark his Len voy , And cry Vive-le-Roy ; Can any think so , God will bless those Peers Who refuse to hear Their King ? Surely no . As hee's Royal to all , So he Personal Is honest , and just , In his care you see For delivery Of his Pictures in trust . There's none but a King , Could do such a thing , Who is Princely bent , Truly to restore , ( Who can do any more ? What the Ladies lend . O most gallant Prince , Whose free Conscience , No evil shall clog , He does Whaly beseech , To send home the Grew Bitch , Before he will jog . And his deportment Shows afore he went , Him a Gentleman much ; Who would not neglect His civil respects To Whaly and such . So did he think fit , Mountague to greet . And's fellows , whose fame's Were good , and discourses And so were the horses , He sent his son James . His Letters all done , Away he is gone , And leaves these Papers , To be read in the night , ( But not without light , ) For by them was Tapers . Or if so before , They broke up the door , To look for C.R. The Tapers went out , In his Cloak without doubt , There was a bright star . What wonders are here ? Yet we do not fear , Highminded and proud ; Nor our sins revoke , Yet see Stars in a Cloak , And Kings in a Cloud . Now we're all at a gaze , To discover which ways This Angel was gone , Where more him attend , God did his Guards send , And ease those at Hampton . God keep our C.R. From Martin-King-marre , And such evil sprights , Who have late brought in That cursed Doctrine , With their newfound lights . But thou blessed Isle , That preservest a while Thy King , be thou wise , Do not thou betray , Nor open thy Bay , Nor suffer surprise . Our Isles shall be glad , The Isle of Wight had The keeping our Pan ; And England will be In Unanimity . As the Isle of one Man. FINIS . Printed in the Year MDCXLVII . H : 180160 C.R. In a Cloud . IT is no strange thing To hear that the King Hath made his escapes ; For Jove did the same , And god him a name ( For shifting and Rapes . ) What he did for Lust ( For Jupiter must With a fair one sport . ) King Charles did not do , His Juno's no shrew , Hee's not gone to Court . No Danaes Power In a Brazen Tower Hath made him turn shower , You know well of old That he had no Gold , C.R. was too poor . Nor ever did low For Europa-Cow , And feed among Beasts , Nor deceiv'd the Heards In a Goatish Beard , So quaint he was dressed . But he is retir'd , As he was d [ e ] sir'd , For sweet Liberty . When every man claims , And makes her his aims , Won't you have Princes free ? Away with such Knaves , Who Liberty craves , For their own pure trains Yet would environ Their King , and in Iron Bind him , and in chains . We have herd in a manner Of the King and Tanner , But the King was firs But these Translators Of the State-matters , Make the King the worst . Instead of a Crown , They'll pull him down , As not fit for trust ; Instead of God save , His life they will have , And's Honour ith' dust . Salt Peters , and Dell , You have preached well To your Auditory : This Doctrine you may Read in Loyola ; Here's a fine story . Would any man think , The Agitators drink Of the waters of Tiber ? Or that Babylons whore Were Peters Paramour , Or Dells next Neighbour ? Protestant God night , Welcome Jesuite , Welcome pretty Nuns , Our Daughters shall be Whores of Piety , And Rebels our Sons . Charles keep in thy Cloud , And there safe thee shrewd , Nor break , but as Day . The mid Region be Thy Artillery , Where Clouds bear the sway . Peep a little from thence , And lift to what sense we make of thy Letters , Every one does think That great Caesars Ink , Never wrote better . And as for the matter , We cannot here flatter , The Royal Inditer , But say , as true 'tis , Thy Pen ( as was his ) Is of a ready Writer . We're sorry to see , That such Treachery Should be in our Land ; Or that any thing Should force our good King To his running hand . His Letters he throws , Like Parthian Arrows , And Conquers flying . Ten thousand are sold , They'll never be old , New , new , news they're crying . D' you see , do you see , How the Presbytery Joy their first nam , The Assembly men prinke Up their Ears ; I think They were near maimed . But be not too crank In the second rank , The Independents Will look to your waters , And then follow after Th' Army their defendants . Satisfaction's next , To his party perplexed , And gone to the Pot , 'Cause th' have adhered , And are to be feared , And even the Scot . Now mark his Len voy , And cry Vive-le-Roy ; Can any think so , God will bless those Peers Who refuse to hear Their King ? Surely no . As hee's Royal to all , So he Personal Is honest , and just , In his care you see For delivery Of his Pictures in trust . There's none but a King , Could do such a thing , Who is Princely bent , Truly to restore , ( Who can do any more ? What the Ladies lend . O most gallant Prince , Whose free Conscience , No evil shall clog , He does Whaly beseech , To send home the Grew Bitch , Before he will jog . And his deportment Shows afore he went , Him a Gentleman much ; Who would not neglect His civil respects To Whaly and such . So did he think fit , Mountague to greet . And's fellows , whose fame's Were good , and discourses And so were the horses , He sent his son James . His Letters all done , Away he is gone , And leaves these Papers , To be read in the night , ( But not without light , ) For by them was Tapers . Or if so before , They broke up the door , To look for C.R. The Tapers went out , In his Cloak without doubt , There was a bright star . What wonders are here ? Yet we do not fear , Highminded and proud ; Nor our sins revoke , Yet see Stars in a Cloak , And Kings in a Cloud . Now we're all at a gaze , To discover which ways This Angel was gone , Where more him attend , God did his Guards send , And ease those at Hampton . God keep our C.R. From Martin-King-marre , And such evil sprights , Who have late brought in That cursed Doctrine , With their newfound lights . But thou blessed Isle , That preservest a while Thy King , be thou wise , Do not thou betray , Nor open thy Bay , Nor suffer surprise . Our Isles shall be glad , The Isle of Wight had The keeping our Pan ; And England will be In Unanimity . As the Isle of one Man. FINIS . Printed in the Year MDCXLVII . 