H : 135986 DAGON's FALLEN : OR , The WHIGS Lamentation for the Death of Anthony King of Poland , To the Tune of , Philander , etc [ 1 ] AH Cruel Bloody Fate ! What canst thou now do more ? Ala [ s ] s ! 'tis now too late Poor Toney to restore : Why should the flattering Fates persuade , That Toney still should live , In England here , Or in Holland there , Yet all our hope's deceive . [ 2 ] A Noble Peer He was , And of Notorious Fame ; But now He's gone ( alas ! ) A Pilgrim o're the Main : The Prop and Pillar of our hope The Patron of our CAUSE , The Scorn and Hate Of Church and State , The Urchin of the Laws . [ 3 ] Of matchless Policy Was this Renowned Peer , The bane of Monarchy , The Peoples Hope and Fear , The Joy of all True-Protestants , The Tories Scorn and Dread ; But now He's gone Who cursed the Throne , Alas ! poor Toney's dead . [ 4 ] For Commonwealth He stood , Pretending Liberty ; And for the Public Good Would pull down Monarchy : The Church and State he would divorce , The Holy CAUSE to wed : And in time did hope To confound the Pope , To be himself the Head. [ 5 ] A TAP in's side he boar , To broach all sorts of Ill , For which Seditious Store The Crowd ador'd him still : He spit his Venom through the Town , With which the Saints possessed , Would preach and prate 'Gainst Church and State , While He perform'd the rest . [ 6 ] When any change of State , Or Mischief was at hand , He had a working Pate , And Devil , at command : He forg'd a PLOT , for which the Heads Of Faction gave their Votes ; But now the PLOT Is gone to pot , What will become of Oats ? [ 7 ] Under the fair pretence Of Right , Religion , Law , Excluding the True Prince , The Church would overthrow : With such Religious Shams he brought The Rabble on his side ; And , for his sport , The Town and Court In Parties would divide . [ 8 ] Now what's become of all His squinting Policy , Which wrought your Dagon's Fallen , From Justice forc'd to fly ? Old and Decrepit , full of pains , As he of Gilded was full : He fell to Fate , And now ( too late ) He leaves us to condole . [ 9 ] Now , learn you Whigs in time , By his deserved Fallen , To expiate his Crime , E'r Fate revenge you all ; For Rights , Religion , Liberty , Are but the Sham-pretence To Anarchy ; But Loyalty Obeys the Lawful Prince : LONDON : Printed by Nath. Thompson , at the Entrance into the Old-Spring-garden near Charing Cross , Anno Domini , 1683. H : 135986 DAGON's FALLEN : OR , The WHIGS Lamentation for the Death of Anthony King of Poland , To the Tune of , Philander , etc [ 1 ] AH Cruel Bloody Fate ! What canst thou now do more ? Ala [ s ] s ! 'tis now too late Poor Toney to restore : Why should the flattering Fates persuade , That Toney still should live , In England here , Or in Holland there , Yet all our hope's deceive . [ 2 ] A Noble Peer He was , And of Notorious Fame ; But now He's gone ( alas ! ) A Pilgrim o're the Main : The Prop and Pillar of our hope The Patron of our CAUSE , The Scorn and Hate Of Church and State , The Urchin of the Laws . [ 3 ] Of matchless Policy Was this Renowned Peer , The bane of Monarchy , The Peoples Hope and Fear , The Joy of all True-Protestants , The Tories Scorn and Dread ; But now He's gone Who cursed the Throne , Alas ! poor Toney's dead . [ 4 ] For Commonwealth He stood , Pretending Liberty ; And for the Public Good Would pull down Monarchy : The Church and State he would divorce , The Holy CAUSE to wed : And in time did hope To confound the Pope , To be himself the Head. [ 5 ] A TAP in's side he boar , To broach all sorts of Ill , For which Seditious Store The Crowd ador'd him still : He spit his Venom through the Town , With which the Saints possessed , Would preach and prate 'Gainst Church and State , While He perform'd the rest . [ 6 ] When any change of State , Or Mischief was at hand , He had a working Pate , And Devil , at command : He forg'd a PLOT , for which the Heads Of Faction gave their Votes ; But now the PLOT Is gone to pot , What will become of Oats ? [ 7 ] Under the fair pretence Of Right , Religion , Law , Excluding the True Prince , The Church would overthrow : With such Religious Shams he brought The Rabble on his side ; And , for his sport , The Town and Court In Parties would divide . [ 8 ] Now what's become of all His squinting Policy , Which wrought your Dagon's Fallen , From Justice forc'd to fly ? Old and Decrepit , full of pains , As he of Gilded was full : He fell to Fate , And now ( too late ) He leaves us to condole . [ 9 ] Now , learn you Whigs in time , By his deserved Fallen , To expiate his Crime , E'r Fate revenge you all ; For Rights , Religion , Liberty , Are but the Sham-pretence To Anarchy ; But Loyalty Obeys the Lawful Prince : LONDON : Printed by Nath. Thompson , at the Entrance into the Old-Spring-garden near Charing Cross , Anno Domini , 1683. 