H : 144951 THE BISHOPS LAST GOOD-NIGHT . Where Popery and Innovations do begin , There Treason will by degrees come in . If they had ruled still , where had we been ? God keep us from Prelates , Popish Prelates . Bishops . Citizens . The Pope . Jesuit , Fryer , and Papist . I . COme down Prelates , all arrow , Your Protestation brings you low , Have not we always told you so ; You are too saucy Prelates , Come down Prelates . II Canterbury your Arms from the Steeple high , The storms have caused low to lie , You know not how soon your self may die , Prepare your self Canterbury ; Down must Canterbury . III . Yorke , when you were Lincolne of late , You were in the Tower , yet still you will prate , How dare you Protest against the whole State , You are too bold Yorke , Come down proud Yorke . IV. Durham , how dare you be so bold , To have the Parliament by you controlled , T'were better you to the Scots had been sold , You are deceived Durham , Come down old Durham . V. Coventry , and Lichfeild , your Popery is known , T'were better you had let the Parliament alone , But now it's too late to make your moan , You are fast Coventry , Come down Coventry . VI . Norwich , is your Remonstrance come to this , We now see what your humility is ; Were you removed from Exeter for this , You are led away Norwich , Come down Norwich . VII . Asaph , what a change is here , You that even now was so great a Peer , And now a Prisoner this new year ; You must lie by it Asaph , In the Tower Asaph . VIII . Bath and Wels , where is now thy hope , Canst thou not get a pardon from the Pope , To pass away without a Rope ? Where art thou Bath and Wels ? Down must Both and Wels. IX . Hereford , was never so promoted , Since out of the Convocation he was rooted , To hasten this project it was well footed , To bring thee down Hereford , Down must Hereford . X. Oxford , the Students will curse thy fact , For doing of such and ungodly Act , Thy credit now is utterly crac You are not for Oxford , But the Tower Oxford . XI . Ely , thou hast always to thy power , Left the Church naked in a storm and shower , And now ( for't ) thou must to thy old friend ith' Tower ; To the Tower must Ely , Come away Ely . XII . Gloster , go tell old William now , That thou art made perforce to bow , Merely drawn in , thou knowest though how , You must away Gloster , To prison poor Gloster . XIII . Peterborough , England knows thee well , Where is thy candle , book , and Bell ? Thy Pardons now will never fell , There's no help Peterborough , Go must Peterborough . XIIII . Landaff , provide for [ St ] . Davids day , Lest the Leek , and Red-herring run away , Are you resolved to go or to stay ? You are called for Landaff , Come in Landaff . FINIS . London Printed in the year that ended , When the Prelates Protestation against the Parliament was vended , And they were sent to the Tower , as the old year ended , By a dozen together , In frosty weather . Anno Dom. 1642. H : 144951 THE BISHOPS LAST GOOD-NIGHT . Where Popery and Innovations do begin , There Treason will by degrees come in . If they had ruled still , where had we been ? God keep us from Prelates , Popish Prelates . Bishops . Citizens . The Pope . Jesuit , Fryer , and Papist . I . COme down Prelates , all arrow , Your Protestation brings you low , Have not we always told you so ; You are too saucy Prelates , Come down Prelates . II Canterbury your Arms from the Steeple high , The storms have caused low to lie , You know not how soon your self may die , Prepare your self Canterbury ; Down must Canterbury . III . Yorke , when you were Lincolne of late , You were in the Tower , yet still you will prate , How dare you Protest against the whole State , You are too bold Yorke , Come down proud Yorke . IV. Durham , how dare you be so bold , To have the Parliament by you controlled , T'were better you to the Scots had been sold , You are deceived Durham , Come down old Durham . V. Coventry , and Lichfeild , your Popery is known , T'were better you had let the Parliament alone , But now it's too late to make your moan , You are fast Coventry , Come down Coventry . VI . Norwich , is your Remonstrance come to this , We now see what your humility is ; Were you removed from Exeter for this , You are led away Norwich , Come down Norwich . VII . Asaph , what a change is here , You that even now was so great a Peer , And now a Prisoner this new year ; You must lie by it Asaph , In the Tower Asaph . VIII . Bath and Wels , where is now thy hope , Canst thou not get a pardon from the Pope , To pass away without a Rope ? Where art thou Bath and Wels ? Down must Both and Wels. IX . Hereford , was never so promoted , Since out of the Convocation he was rooted , To hasten this project it was well footed , To bring thee down Hereford , Down must Hereford . X. Oxford , the Students will curse thy fact , For doing of such and ungodly Act , Thy credit now is utterly crac You are not for Oxford , But the Tower Oxford . XI . Ely , thou hast always to thy power , Left the Church naked in a storm and shower , And now ( for't ) thou must to thy old friend ith' Tower ; To the Tower must Ely , Come away Ely . XII . Gloster , go tell old William now , That thou art made perforce to bow , Merely drawn in , thou knowest though how , You must away Gloster , To prison poor Gloster . XIII . Peterborough , England knows thee well , Where is thy candle , book , and Bell ? Thy Pardons now will never fell , There's no help Peterborough , Go must Peterborough . XIIII . Landaff , provide for [ St ] . Davids day , Lest the Leek , and Red-herring run away , Are you resolved to go or to stay ? You are called for Landaff , Come in Landaff . FINIS . London Printed in the year that ended , When the Prelates Protestation against the Parliament was vended , And they were sent to the Tower , as the old year ended , By a dozen together , In frosty weather . Anno Dom. 1642. 