H : 180157 THE ORGANS ECCHO . To the Tune of the Cathedral SERVICE . 1. MEMENTO MORI , I'll tell you a strange Story , Will make you all sorry , For our old friend William ; Alas , poor William . 2. As he was in his Bravery , And thought to bring us all in slavery , The Parliament found out his Knavery , And so fell William ; Alas , poor William . 3. His Popelike domineering , And some other Tricks appearing , Provok'd Sir Edward Deering To blame the old Prelate ; Alas , poor Prelate . 4. Some say , he was in hope To bring England again to th' Pope , But now he is in danger of and Axe or a Rope , Farewell old Canterbury ; Alas , poor Canterbury . 5. There's another of the same Litter , Whose Breech cannot choose but twitter , He was against all goodness so bitter , 'Twas the Bishop of Ely ; Alas , poor Ely . 6. And all the rest of that Lordly Crew , Their great Insolences are like to rue , As soon as the Parliament their lives do view : Come down , brave Prelates ; Alas , poor Prelates . 7. You know likewise in this two or three year , Many a one for Lamb paid very deer , But now he begins to stink for fear ; Therefore take heed Doctor Lamb : Alas , poor Doctor Lamb . 8. Then there is also one Doctor Duck , The Proverb says , What's worse then ill luck , We hope the Parliament his feathers will pluck , For being so busy , Doctor Duck ; Alas , poor Doctor Duck . 9. Deanes and Chapters , with their Retinue , Are not like long for to continue , They have so abused their great Revenue , That down must Ceremonies ; Alas , Popish Ceremonies . 10. Ecclesiastical Courts are down too , they say , England may be glad of that happy day , They have of late born such a great sway , That farewell those poor Doctors ; Alas , poor Proctors . 11. And now the Papists are at their wits ends , To see the downfall of so many Friends ; But they shall all rue it ere the Parliament ends , Believe it , Roman Catholics Alas , poor Catholics . [ 12. ] There is another that hardly thrives , Which many men of life deprives , Hee's now in Newgate for having two Wives : It is the young Hangman ; Alas , poor Hangman . FINIS . Printed in the year 1641H : 180157 THE ORGANS ECCHO . To the Tune of the Cathedral SERVICE . 1. MEMENTO MORI , I'll tell you a strange Story , Will make you all sorry , For our old friend William ; Alas , poor William . 2. As he was in his Bravery , And thought to bring us all in slavery , The Parliament found out his Knavery , And so fell William ; Alas , poor William . 3. His Popelike domineering , And some other Tricks appearing , Provok'd Sir Edward Deering To blame the old Prelate ; Alas , poor Prelate . 4. Some say , he was in hope To bring England again to th' Pope , But now he is in danger of and Axe or a Rope , Farewell old Canterbury ; Alas , poor Canterbury . 5. There's another of the same Litter , Whose Breech cannot choose but twitter , He was against all goodness so bitter , 'Twas the Bishop of Ely ; Alas , poor Ely . 6. And all the rest of that Lordly Crew , Their great Insolences are like to rue , As soon as the Parliament their lives do view : Come down , brave Prelates ; Alas , poor Prelates . 7. You know likewise in this two or three year , Many a one for Lamb paid very deer , But now he begins to stink for fear ; Therefore take heed Doctor Lamb : Alas , poor Doctor Lamb . 8. Then there is also one Doctor Duck , The Proverb says , What's worse then ill luck , We hope the Parliament his feathers will pluck , For being so busy , Doctor Duck ; Alas , poor Doctor Duck . 9. Deanes and Chapters , with their Retinue , Are not like long for to continue , They have so abused their great Revenue , That down must Ceremonies ; Alas , Popish Ceremonies . 10. Ecclesiastical Courts are down too , they say , England may be glad of that happy day , They have of late born such a great sway , That farewell those poor Doctors ; Alas , poor Proctors . 11. And now the Papists are at their wits ends , To see the downfall of so many Friends ; But they shall all rue it ere the Parliament ends , Believe it , Roman Catholics Alas , poor Catholics . [ 12. ] There is another that hardly thrives , Which many men of life deprives , Hee's now in Newgate for having two Wives : It is the young Hangman ; Alas , poor Hangman . FINIS . Printed in the year 1641 