H : 180165 The Loyal Subject's Jubilee , or Cromwell's Farewell to England , being a Poem on his ad - vancing to Ireland , July the 11. 1649. This high contempt not for to Fast and pray , And hold as blessed Saint Cromwell's Holy day , The Devils a Saint , if he deserves to be One for his Machiavellian Treachery . Insatiate Monster , that does swallow down At once a Kingdom and a glorious Crown , Whose splendour dazzled Mortals while it stood On Charles his head , but dim'd since dipped in blood May every stone that did adorn it round , As witnesses against thee once be found , And weigh thee down to Hell , thou horrid fell lion , To have reward for this thy grand Rebellion . But first thy progress into Ireland take , And see what preparations they will make , ( To entertain thee ) for that end a day Wee'l set apart , and for thee this we'l pray ; Come ye grim Furies of the Stigian Lake , With hideous cries , and make the welking shake , Rouse Charon up , winds , Seas , and all implore , To waft this Rebel to the Irish shore , Where such a Feast prepar'd for him shall be , The like at Grocers-Hall he ne're did see : Ormond chief Cook will be to please his pallet , And send a fiery Bullet for a Salad , Which shall such terror to his Saintship bring , And make him cry , would he had spar'd our King ; The blood methinks does startle in his face , That he no rest can take in any place , His Exits come , Ireland the Stage must be , Where he must act his latest Tragedy , Where he his life shall spend in discontent , And bid farewell to Englands Parliament . May thy horses founder , thy Soldiers weary grow Upon their march they can no further go , Or if march on upon the Irish fight , Take to their heals , and finely give thee flight , And may this noise of their most eager running , Still make thee think that Charles the II coming To claim his due with a victorious hand , And purge all Rebels from his English Land. May the day look black , and soon convert to night , Only thy ruby Nose to give thee light ; And that thou mayest to shipping safely get , Hell for thy lifeguard shall the Furies set , Charon thy Ferryman shall be , and once being over , Mayest thou never come to vex the English shore . Finis . H : 180165 The Loyal Subject's Jubilee , or Cromwell's Farewell to England , being a Poem on his ad - vancing to Ireland , July the 11. 1649. This high contempt not for to Fast and pray , And hold as blessed Saint Cromwell's Holy day , The Devils a Saint , if he deserves to be One for his Machiavellian Treachery . Insatiate Monster , that does swallow down At once a Kingdom and a glorious Crown , Whose splendour dazzled Mortals while it stood On Charles his head , but dim'd since dipped in blood May every stone that did adorn it round , As witnesses against thee once be found , And weigh thee down to Hell , thou horrid fell lion , To have reward for this thy grand Rebellion . But first thy progress into Ireland take , And see what preparations they will make , ( To entertain thee ) for that end a day Wee'l set apart , and for thee this we'l pray ; Come ye grim Furies of the Stigian Lake , With hideous cries , and make the welking shake , Rouse Charon up , winds , Seas , and all implore , To waft this Rebel to the Irish shore , Where such a Feast prepar'd for him shall be , The like at Grocers-Hall he ne're did see : Ormond chief Cook will be to please his pallet , And send a fiery Bullet for a Salad , Which shall such terror to his Saintship bring , And make him cry , would he had spar'd our King ; The blood methinks does startle in his face , That he no rest can take in any place , His Exits come , Ireland the Stage must be , Where he must act his latest Tragedy , Where he his life shall spend in discontent , And bid farewell to Englands Parliament . May thy horses founder , thy Soldiers weary grow Upon their march they can no further go , Or if march on upon the Irish fight , Take to their heals , and finely give thee flight , And may this noise of their most eager running , Still make thee think that Charles the II coming To claim his due with a victorious hand , And purge all Rebels from his English Land. May the day look black , and soon convert to night , Only thy ruby Nose to give thee light ; And that thou mayest to shipping safely get , Hell for thy lifeguard shall the Furies set , Charon thy Ferryman shall be , and once being over , Mayest thou never come to vex the English shore . Finis . 