H : 180166 A NEW SONG : BEING A DIALOGUE BETWEEN A WHIGG and TORY . Concerning the Election of Sheriffs . TORY , Come , let us all at last agree , Debate's a Cursed Fashion : 'Tis only base Disloyalty , Infects the King and Nation . Whig . HOw ! What , in such a Case Unite ? 'Twould be a plain Repentance : A Whig , can n'er turn Proselyte , Before he hears his Sentence . Tory. Whence are you thus inspir'd with Zeal ? Sure 'tis the Devil's Motion ; Two Sheriffs n'er made a Commonweal , That's but a Formal Notion . Whig . In troth , the depth you do not see , Of all our Stir and Fury ; Our Guilty Crimes must n'er go Free , But by a well-pick't Jury . Tory. If then it be self Preservation , That you from Sheriffs claim , Why may not We , and half the Nation , Expect and seek the same ! Whig . Alas ! with us 'tis otherwise , Though we don't draw our Swords ; We may be hang'd for being wise , Or speaking dangerous Words . Tory. But now you see , by the Effect , Since all is past and done , That North and Rich are true Elect , And have the Conquest wone ! Whig . Then needs must Tyburn have us all , For which we were created ; For when You rise , We needs must fallen , And with our Noise be hated . Tory. Take heed then of the good Old Cause , Be sure to rule your Tongue ; These honest Men must rule by the Laws , Which ne'r will do you wrong . Whig . Tell me no more of wholesome Laws , Which hold with Reason still ; By Factions I must get Applause , And gratify my Will . Tory. Come Whig , 'tis time to leave this way , And change your bad Condition ; In all things now the King obey , And not your own Ambition . London , Printed for T.P. in the Year 1682. H : 180166 A NEW SONG : BEING A DIALOGUE BETWEEN A WHIGG and TORY . Concerning the Election of Sheriffs . TORY , Come , let us all at last agree , Debate's a Cursed Fashion : 'Tis only base Disloyalty , Infects the King and Nation . Whig . HOw ! What , in such a Case Unite ? 'Twould be a plain Repentance : A Whig , can n'er turn Proselyte , Before he hears his Sentence . Tory. Whence are you thus inspir'd with Zeal ? Sure 'tis the Devil's Motion ; Two Sheriffs n'er made a Commonweal , That's but a Formal Notion . Whig . In troth , the depth you do not see , Of all our Stir and Fury ; Our Guilty Crimes must n'er go Free , But by a well-pick't Jury . Tory. If then it be self Preservation , That you from Sheriffs claim , Why may not We , and half the Nation , Expect and seek the same ! Whig . Alas ! with us 'tis otherwise , Though we don't draw our Swords ; We may be hang'd for being wise , Or speaking dangerous Words . Tory. But now you see , by the Effect , Since all is past and done , That North and Rich are true Elect , And have the Conquest wone ! Whig . Then needs must Tyburn have us all , For which we were created ; For when You rise , We needs must fallen , And with our Noise be hated . Tory. Take heed then of the good Old Cause , Be sure to rule your Tongue ; These honest Men must rule by the Laws , Which ne'r will do you wrong . Whig . Tell me no more of wholesome Laws , Which hold with Reason still ; By Factions I must get Applause , And gratify my Will . Tory. Come Whig , 'tis time to leave this way , And change your bad Condition ; In all things now the King obey , And not your own Ambition . London , Printed for T.P. in the Year 1682. 