H : 180164 AND ELEGIE On the Death of that most Noble and Heroic KNIGHT , SIR CHARLES LUCAS , Governor of Colchester , and General of the Essexian Forces , who was Murdered by the Excellent Rebel Fairfax , the day on which Colchester was Surrendered , August 27. 1648. I Cannot weep , their Ponniards that do fallen My eyes , refuse to drop : but were my gall Transparent , all might see , a bitter flood Wafting my soul away , with Lucas blood ; Though but a Rivulet , more strong then Nile The Loyal Blood , that flow'd from him and Lile , Like a huge torrent , bears Rebellion down To Carisbrooke , conveying Charles his Crown . Have all the Gods , sign'd Edicts unto Mars , And covenanted , for perpetual Wars , That we must wade in Blood , and dive in Gore , And all for less , then for a Spartan Whore ? Menalaus fought 'gainst Illium , for a face We boar each other , but to win disgrace , A square Cap , pair of Linen Sleeves and Hood Draws Swords , swells Battles , and destroys all Good . Say you sly Sophisters , whose Votes are Acts , Who blow up Pluto's mansion with your Facts : Who Flaunt in Gawdy Triumph , feeding high , Lucullus-like to heighten Luxury , Whom tumble on your Ivory Beds , whose will For to Act mischief , does surpass your skill ; Whose madness make you Antic , such as they Who taste the bite of the Tarantula . Must Brittaine's Caesar , be a Monk for ever , And Anchorite , Manumited never ? While Hammond's worship feeds Him with a bit , Sometime a knock , if he remember it , While you his gracious Master's think it meet To toss to Air , three Kingdoms with your feet . Dam'd Nero-like , minding your Sports and Games , While Ireland swallowed by devouring Flames . And England , though by Mulciber not burn'd , Yet by your Jarring , to a Chaos turn'd : The fiery Anabaptist is in Fight Perpetually with the cold Adamite . The hardy Independent does make War Against the easy natur'd Presbyter : And both of them fight jointly with the Arian , Against [ the truly good ] Episcoparian , While that Religion , with Astraea's gone For to seek out some safer mansion . 'Tis so ; you have agreed still Kings to be , Although you crack the Kingdom's Axletree : 'Twill break if you fit long , mean time all those That love their Sovereign , are the Kingdoms foes : Strange Paradoxes these , that those must die As Traitors , who grasp steel for Sovereignty : And those who drench their Swords in Loyal Blood , Are the sole seekers of the Kingdoms good : Some Sphinx salve this AEnigma unto me , And by the Gods , I will a Rebel be . But all my Faith , although conjoined in one , Cannot persuade me 'tis Religion To murder pious Kings ; to Plunder lie , And to grow Great , by Blood and Treachery ; To fat my self , augmenting others woes , Selling the needy , for a pair of shoes . Pim's spectacles with a Geneva Print , Although fresh coin'd in learned Calvins Mint , Must not so tame my sense , but that I'le swear There's no true Subject , save the Cavalier . But you most mighty Monsters , who outvie The strange man-eating Anthropophagi , With Cataline , have sworn to Level all To your distinction Diabolical . Was't not enough , you Vipers , that you flew Tomkins and Challoner in open view ? Sucked Bourchers blood , and took great Burleigh's breath , By Wild , Steel , Steel and Wild betrai'd to Death Against the course and current of the Laws , Which dooms to Death , your cursed Rebellious Cause , That you this seven years , whil'st none controls , Have quafft our purple Blood in mazor Bowls . But to conclude , your cruelties immense , In butchering true spotless Innocence , Wounding fair Truth , and dooming Zeal to die , By murdering Lucas for his Loyalty ; Whose worthy farewell challengeth applause , Though dead be , yet survives ( Fame pleads the Cause ) Fallen in his middle Age ; but what of that ? He fell full ripe , snatched by the hand of Fate . Goodness does measure Age . I'll cease to moan : He lived long , although he dy'd so soon . When Fates impartial hand shall summon me , It will increase my joy to visit Thee . Blame not the THREE for this sad fate ; They do Consume themselves in tears as well as you . They had resolv'd , upon the common Stage , He should have Acted out old Nestors age : But Jove would have him near him , and decreed He by the hands of Perjur'd slaves should bleed : No other way there was , for him to come , With happy speed , to blessed Elizium : Where next Jehovah's Throne , he now does fit , Beholds the Rebels Acts , and smiles at it ; Knowing , at last they shall receive their Hire With Cataline , in never dying Fire . FINIS . H : 180164 AND ELEGIE On the Death of that most Noble and Heroic KNIGHT , SIR CHARLES LUCAS , Governor of Colchester , and General of the Essexian Forces , who was Murdered by the Excellent Rebel Fairfax , the day on which Colchester was Surrendered , August 27. 1648. I Cannot weep , their Ponniards that do fallen My eyes , refuse to drop : but were my gall Transparent , all might see , a bitter flood Wafting my soul away , with Lucas blood ; Though but a Rivulet , more strong then Nile The Loyal Blood , that flow'd from him and Lile , Like a huge torrent , bears Rebellion down To Carisbrooke , conveying Charles his Crown . Have all the Gods , sign'd Edicts unto Mars , And covenanted , for perpetual Wars , That we must wade in Blood , and dive in Gore , And all for less , then for a Spartan Whore ? Menalaus fought 'gainst Illium , for a face We boar each other , but to win disgrace , A square Cap , pair of Linen Sleeves and Hood Draws Swords , swells Battles , and destroys all Good . Say you sly Sophisters , whose Votes are Acts , Who blow up Pluto's mansion with your Facts : Who Flaunt in Gawdy Triumph , feeding high , Lucullus-like to heighten Luxury , Whom tumble on your Ivory Beds , whose will For to Act mischief , does surpass your skill ; Whose madness make you Antic , such as they Who taste the bite of the Tarantula . Must Brittaine's Caesar , be a Monk for ever , And Anchorite , Manumited never ? While Hammond's worship feeds Him with a bit , Sometime a knock , if he remember it , While you his gracious Master's think it meet To toss to Air , three Kingdoms with your feet . Dam'd Nero-like , minding your Sports and Games , While Ireland swallowed by devouring Flames . And England , though by Mulciber not burn'd , Yet by your Jarring , to a Chaos turn'd : The fiery Anabaptist is in Fight Perpetually with the cold Adamite . The hardy Independent does make War Against the easy natur'd Presbyter : And both of them fight jointly with the Arian , Against [ the truly good ] Episcoparian , While that Religion , with Astraea's gone For to seek out some safer mansion . 'Tis so ; you have agreed still Kings to be , Although you crack the Kingdom's Axletree : 'Twill break if you fit long , mean time all those That love their Sovereign , are the Kingdoms foes : Strange Paradoxes these , that those must die As Traitors , who grasp steel for Sovereignty : And those who drench their Swords in Loyal Blood , Are the sole seekers of the Kingdoms good : Some Sphinx salve this AEnigma unto me , And by the Gods , I will a Rebel be . But all my Faith , although conjoined in one , Cannot persuade me 'tis Religion To murder pious Kings ; to Plunder lie , And to grow Great , by Blood and Treachery ; To fat my self , augmenting others woes , Selling the needy , for a pair of shoes . Pim's spectacles with a Geneva Print , Although fresh coin'd in learned Calvins Mint , Must not so tame my sense , but that I'le swear There's no true Subject , save the Cavalier . But you most mighty Monsters , who outvie The strange man-eating Anthropophagi , With Cataline , have sworn to Level all To your distinction Diabolical . Was't not enough , you Vipers , that you flew Tomkins and Challoner in open view ? Sucked Bourchers blood , and took great Burleigh's breath , By Wild , Steel , Steel and Wild betrai'd to Death Against the course and current of the Laws , Which dooms to Death , your cursed Rebellious Cause , That you this seven years , whil'st none controls , Have quafft our purple Blood in mazor Bowls . But to conclude , your cruelties immense , In butchering true spotless Innocence , Wounding fair Truth , and dooming Zeal to die , By murdering Lucas for his Loyalty ; Whose worthy farewell challengeth applause , Though dead be , yet survives ( Fame pleads the Cause ) Fallen in his middle Age ; but what of that ? He fell full ripe , snatched by the hand of Fate . Goodness does measure Age . I'll cease to moan : He lived long , although he dy'd so soon . When Fates impartial hand shall summon me , It will increase my joy to visit Thee . Blame not the THREE for this sad fate ; They do Consume themselves in tears as well as you . They had resolv'd , upon the common Stage , He should have Acted out old Nestors age : But Jove would have him near him , and decreed He by the hands of Perjur'd slaves should bleed : No other way there was , for him to come , With happy speed , to blessed Elizium : Where next Jehovah's Throne , he now does fit , Beholds the Rebels Acts , and smiles at it ; Knowing , at last they shall receive their Hire With Cataline , in never dying Fire . FINIS . 