H : 180171 Love and Jealousy : OR , A Song in the Duke of GUIES . TEll me Thirsis , tell your anguish , why you sighs , and why you languish ; when the Nymph whom you adore , Grants the blessing of possessing , what can Love and I do more ? Love and I , what can Love and I do more ? what can Love and I do more ? Think 'tis Love beyond all measure , makes me faint away with pleasure , strength of Cordials may destroy , and the blessing of possessing , kills me with excess of joy . Thirsis how can I believe you , but confess and I'le forgive you ; Men are false and so are you , never Nature fram'd a Creature , to enjoy and yet be true . Thirsis how can I believe you , but confess and I'le forgive you ; Men are false and so are you ; never Nature fram'd a creature , to enjoy and yet be true . Mine's a flame beyond expiring , still possessing , still desiring , fit for Loves Imperial Crown ; ever shining , and refining , still the more 'tis melted down . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , near the Hospital-gate , in West-Smithfield : 1683. H : 180171 Love and Jealousy : OR , A Song in the Duke of GUIES . TEll me Thirsis , tell your anguish , why you sighs , and why you languish ; when the Nymph whom you adore , Grants the blessing of possessing , what can Love and I do more ? Love and I , what can Love and I do more ? what can Love and I do more ? Think 'tis Love beyond all measure , makes me faint away with pleasure , strength of Cordials may destroy , and the blessing of possessing , kills me with excess of joy . Thirsis how can I believe you , but confess and I'le forgive you ; Men are false and so are you , never Nature fram'd a Creature , to enjoy and yet be true . Thirsis how can I believe you , but confess and I'le forgive you ; Men are false and so are you ; never Nature fram'd a creature , to enjoy and yet be true . Mine's a flame beyond expiring , still possessing , still desiring , fit for Loves Imperial Crown ; ever shining , and refining , still the more 'tis melted down . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , near the Hospital-gate , in West-Smithfield : 1683. 