H : 180170 THE King of Poland's LAST SPEECH To His COUNTRY-MEN . I Know , you hope all once to be Great Men of Note and Majesty ; For this our now Supremacy Is Nonsense . Why should one Man for ever sway A Sceptre , ( who's but made of Clay ? ) Why may not we our selves obey In Conscience ? But now 'tis come , Alas , we see , That all our Fame turns Infamy : Ah! such a thing is Policy With Tories The buzzing Jealousies and Fears , Into the Peoples list'ning Ears , For all those many busy years , Are Stories . Since in late Plots w' have gone astray , 'Tis time to look another way , And not in such a Case delay ; T'will harm us . No doubt , y'have herd of Fortione , Of all the Pranks that then were done , And of the happy Conquest wone : Let's arm us ; And play those very Cards again , For all those Ancients were but Men ; Five Israelites may well beatrice Ten Philistines . Let's cry Oppression through the Town , Oppression of the Court and Gown , And raise in Tumult every Clown , to Listings . We'll first expose the Laws to Shame , And next the Loyal Part defame ; If Good or Bad , they're all the same , No odds make . Yet let Religion be the Word , To shade Rebellion and the Sword ; Then play the Devil under board , For God's-sake . Then be not wanting in your Lies ; In Plots and Shams , and Forgeries ; To blind the weak and gazing Eyes , With Fables . But if you would enjoy the Land , Let the dark Roman join his Hand , He Force and Council can command In Cabals . Which though it seem as strange as Nile , T'is Lawful to unite in Guile ; Our Intrest's ne're the worse that while , But further . For all their Principles are mine ; Their Tricks to guild a black Design ; Their Warrants to unite and join In Murder . What if you were not born to Land , Or to be Persons in Command ; T'is ne'r the worse at second Hand , But Fashion . Is it not base ( a Curse ) to see , When we should all live equally , Such odds and such Majority I'th' Nation . And though we find no fault in State , Or any other Potentate ; Yet those great Names will raise debate , And wroth , Sirs . Since then t'will be so good a Feat . Let's once ( for all ) the Work complete : For nothing else can make us Great , In troth , Sirs . My Optics ( Friends ) almost can see A new form'd Lump of Anarchy ; While under foot lies Monarchy , And hated . Methinks I see those very Men , I hate and envy , once again , From many Thousands unto Ten , Abated . Ah! sweet Revenge , and bold Ambition , Infects both Us , and half the Nation ; The cause of Wise Association So lately : And well't may plague us all , to see Some , though no better Men than We , To live in Pomp for Loyalty , So stately . I knew when once the Good Old Cause Was nam'd aloud with great Applaue : Blessed Times for Liberty ! No Laws , To fright all : Therefore , if once it come to Test , And we again with Laurel blessed , The Stronger Side must be the best , At Whitehall . And if all Lords you chance to be , Who knows what Hell designs for me ? We'l make our Lives one Jubilee , And Wonder . So being out of Breath , and spent ; Alas , ( said he ) much more is meant . At last ( with Pox ) he hurrying went ; Like Thunder . LONDON , Printed for J.P. in the Year 1682. H : 180170 THE King of Poland's LAST SPEECH To His COUNTRY-MEN . I Know , you hope all once to be Great Men of Note and Majesty ; For this our now Supremacy Is Nonsense . Why should one Man for ever sway A Sceptre , ( who's but made of Clay ? ) Why may not we our selves obey In Conscience ? But now 'tis come , Alas , we see , That all our Fame turns Infamy : Ah! such a thing is Policy With Tories The buzzing Jealousies and Fears , Into the Peoples list'ning Ears , For all those many busy years , Are Stories . Since in late Plots w' have gone astray , 'Tis time to look another way , And not in such a Case delay ; T'will harm us . No doubt , y'have herd of Fortione , Of all the Pranks that then were done , And of the happy Conquest wone : Let's arm us ; And play those very Cards again , For all those Ancients were but Men ; Five Israelites may well beatrice Ten Philistines . Let's cry Oppression through the Town , Oppression of the Court and Gown , And raise in Tumult every Clown , to Listings . We'll first expose the Laws to Shame , And next the Loyal Part defame ; If Good or Bad , they're all the same , No odds make . Yet let Religion be the Word , To shade Rebellion and the Sword ; Then play the Devil under board , For God's-sake . Then be not wanting in your Lies ; In Plots and Shams , and Forgeries ; To blind the weak and gazing Eyes , With Fables . But if you would enjoy the Land , Let the dark Roman join his Hand , He Force and Council can command In Cabals . Which though it seem as strange as Nile , T'is Lawful to unite in Guile ; Our Intrest's ne're the worse that while , But further . For all their Principles are mine ; Their Tricks to guild a black Design ; Their Warrants to unite and join In Murder . What if you were not born to Land , Or to be Persons in Command ; T'is ne'r the worse at second Hand , But Fashion . Is it not base ( a Curse ) to see , When we should all live equally , Such odds and such Majority I'th' Nation . And though we find no fault in State , Or any other Potentate ; Yet those great Names will raise debate , And wroth , Sirs . Since then t'will be so good a Feat . Let's once ( for all ) the Work complete : For nothing else can make us Great , In troth , Sirs . My Optics ( Friends ) almost can see A new form'd Lump of Anarchy ; While under foot lies Monarchy , And hated . Methinks I see those very Men , I hate and envy , once again , From many Thousands unto Ten , Abated . Ah! sweet Revenge , and bold Ambition , Infects both Us , and half the Nation ; The cause of Wise Association So lately : And well't may plague us all , to see Some , though no better Men than We , To live in Pomp for Loyalty , So stately . I knew when once the Good Old Cause Was nam'd aloud with great Applaue : Blessed Times for Liberty ! No Laws , To fright all : Therefore , if once it come to Test , And we again with Laurel blessed , The Stronger Side must be the best , At Whitehall . And if all Lords you chance to be , Who knows what Hell designs for me ? We'l make our Lives one Jubilee , And Wonder . So being out of Breath , and spent ; Alas , ( said he ) much more is meant . At last ( with Pox ) he hurrying went ; Like Thunder . LONDON , Printed for J.P. in the Year 1682. 