H : 180174 No Protestant Plot , Or , The Whigs Loyalty : With the Doctor's New Discovery . To the Tune of , Burton House , Or , Londons Loyalty . Entered according to Drder . [ I. ] HELLS restless Factious Agents still Plot on , And Eighty Three smells rank of Forty One ; The Royal Martyrs Foes pursue his Sons , Who seek their Lives with Blunderbuss and Guns : The Infernal Regicides so inflam'd with Zeal , Are for Killing King , and Duke , t' Erect a Commonweal ; This is the Daily Trade and Practice of our Modern Whiggs , Tho' they're always baffled in their Damn'd Intrigues . [ II ] What! Ho! cries Titus , rise you sleepy Heads , Unless you'l all be Murder'd in your Beds ; Fierce Hannibal of France is at your Gate , Come Rascals , Mutiny e're it is too late : The Spanish Pilgrim's , once hir'd to cut your Throats , Are Landed now at Milford Haven , believe your Saviour Oats ; And the Horrid Popish Army , that were hid under Ground , Are , I'le take my Oath , within a Trumpets Found . [ III . ] See there , a Fighting Army in the Air ! But now it vanishes , and disappears ; A Spectre told strange Things to Honest Bess , Which much amaz'd the Hatfield Prophetess : I told 'em true at first , what Black Designs would be Carry'd on against the King , and Royal Albany , By the discontented Whiggs ; but Rebel Tony since , Made me contradict my former Evidence . [ IV. ] I've lost my Swearing Trade , now by this Hand , Must I be forc'd to starve , or leave the Land ; My injur'd Prince has long since on me frown'd , For Perjuries against his Life and Crown : I'le follow Rumbold , Wade , Nelthorp , Walcot , Hone , With that Cruel Blood-Hound Burton , who've all fled the Town ; For if I tarry here much longer , I harbour dreadful Fears , That I shall be Hang'd , or forfeit both my Ears . [ V. ] Unparallel'd Assassins , that could dare To attempt the Life of Joves Vicegerent here : Of whom the Gods do take such special care , None ought to mutter Treason to the Air ; But cut-Throat Protestants may do any thing , And Inform the Roman-catholics how to Murder Kings ; They take it in great Dudgeon to be equaliz'd for Villainy , Yet their Hellish Crimes must pass for Loyalty . [ VI . ] But thanks to Heaven , who did curb their Power , And has preserv'd us from that Fatal Hour : When Villains were to Massacre us all , And Noll's Successors to possess White-hall ; Rumsey has taken up New-gate for his Bower , And the Lord Russel is gone to fortify the Tower : While we that stand for Church and State , with gerat security can Sing , And Pray Jove to preserve the Life of Charles our King . FINIS . Printed for Charles Corbet , at the Oxford-Arms in Warwick-Lane . 1683. H : 180174 No Protestant Plot , Or , The Whigs Loyalty : With the Doctor's New Discovery . To the Tune of , Burton House , Or , Londons Loyalty . Entered according to Drder . [ I. ] HELLS restless Factious Agents still Plot on , And Eighty Three smells rank of Forty One ; The Royal Martyrs Foes pursue his Sons , Who seek their Lives with Blunderbuss and Guns : The Infernal Regicides so inflam'd with Zeal , Are for Killing King , and Duke , t' Erect a Commonweal ; This is the Daily Trade and Practice of our Modern Whiggs , Tho' they're always baffled in their Damn'd Intrigues . [ II ] What! Ho! cries Titus , rise you sleepy Heads , Unless you'l all be Murder'd in your Beds ; Fierce Hannibal of France is at your Gate , Come Rascals , Mutiny e're it is too late : The Spanish Pilgrim's , once hir'd to cut your Throats , Are Landed now at Milford Haven , believe your Saviour Oats ; And the Horrid Popish Army , that were hid under Ground , Are , I'le take my Oath , within a Trumpets Found . [ III . ] See there , a Fighting Army in the Air ! But now it vanishes , and disappears ; A Spectre told strange Things to Honest Bess , Which much amaz'd the Hatfield Prophetess : I told 'em true at first , what Black Designs would be Carry'd on against the King , and Royal Albany , By the discontented Whiggs ; but Rebel Tony since , Made me contradict my former Evidence . [ IV. ] I've lost my Swearing Trade , now by this Hand , Must I be forc'd to starve , or leave the Land ; My injur'd Prince has long since on me frown'd , For Perjuries against his Life and Crown : I'le follow Rumbold , Wade , Nelthorp , Walcot , Hone , With that Cruel Blood-Hound Burton , who've all fled the Town ; For if I tarry here much longer , I harbour dreadful Fears , That I shall be Hang'd , or forfeit both my Ears . [ V. ] Unparallel'd Assassins , that could dare To attempt the Life of Joves Vicegerent here : Of whom the Gods do take such special care , None ought to mutter Treason to the Air ; But cut-Throat Protestants may do any thing , And Inform the Roman-catholics how to Murder Kings ; They take it in great Dudgeon to be equaliz'd for Villainy , Yet their Hellish Crimes must pass for Loyalty . [ VI . ] But thanks to Heaven , who did curb their Power , And has preserv'd us from that Fatal Hour : When Villains were to Massacre us all , And Noll's Successors to possess White-hall ; Rumsey has taken up New-gate for his Bower , And the Lord Russel is gone to fortify the Tower : While we that stand for Church and State , with gerat security can Sing , And Pray Jove to preserve the Life of Charles our King . FINIS . Printed for Charles Corbet , at the Oxford-Arms in Warwick-Lane . 1683. 