H : 180181 The Turn of Time , OR , The Perjod of Rebellion Dedicated , to the infamous Members late Sitting at Westminster . 1. NOw now , your gone I vow , and all your treasons blasted . Vengeance no longer will allow what seaven years hath lasted . Then shut up shop , and take your heals , and with all speed away . Pride , totters , and Rebellion reels ; heigh for Utopia . 2. Your damned plots , and jealousies , your Schisms , and your fears , Your Oaths and your conspiracies apparently appears . Then put to Sea , avoid delay for CHARLES , must once more Reign . You are but dead if that you stay , or ere return again . 3. Ther's some that say ; you went away because a stinking vault , Beneath your House of mischief lay ; Oh privy ! much in fault , To drive away so rare a crew by thy most noisome smell . In Pilgrim's weeds we will thee view , no lake's , but holy Cell ; 4. But fie no , it is not so , no execrement could drive The Saints from their Seraglio , who for a crown durst strive . It was the fear , of CHARLES return , that sent the Members packing . The triple tree , they fear'd to see ; they hate the thought of racking . 5. Since you intend ; ne're to depend , a Presbeterian mule ; Bridled , and Saddled does attend , a bonny blue Capt. Fool . Will lackey by you , till you come , within the sighed of * Scone , Where Mahomets Elizium , you shall possess , alone . * a City in the heart of Scotland . 6. O rare ! me thinks , the Devil winks , and all the powers below ; Are puzel'd , Machavill he thinks , his sons , do stupid grow . And Cattaline is angry much , that traitors worse then he : Should fallen when as , their hope's were such ; with Nimrod , great to be . 7. Now all your plots , joyn'd with the Scots , do not the least avail you ; For why , these hardy Northern sots , mean shortly to assail you . Their high Sanhedrim angry are , their Cobblers , and Sowgelders , Must not the sweets of England share ; and be adopted Elders . 8. Nor is this all , like to befall ; beave Poyer's Myrmidons , Resolved are , for burial , like Mars , his dearest sons . And to the death for to oppose , your traitorous commands They swear 'tis fit , you should not fit while Pembrooke , Castle stands . 9. Your most adulterated Church the Synods prostitute , You now alas leave in the lurch , for Marshal , is grown mute ; Her vitiation , we deplore , her sorrow is our truth . But shortly we will her restore , to her first form , and truth . 10. This most unexpiated since , will sure your ruin be ; And sink you all for what hath been , to hells profundity . Medea like to cure our ill , our age for to renew . You did our ancient order kill , and yet we want , a new . 11. While you your Babell do erect , in one hand ther's a sword ; Your enterprise for to protect , by all men so abhorred . And in the other hand you bear a trowel stones to lay ; But now the Walls , you never rear , your workmen want their pay . 12. While that the King , was governing , ere your damn'd treasons was . Loyalty was a golden thing , and England walled with brass . But we are now , of nothing sure , but Blasphemies and errors . And are in nothing now secure , but that we know , our terrors : 13. Cheer up again , dread Sovereign , now locked up in a cage . Behold to set thee up again , in Warlike equipage . All England ready are to rise ; the Scots too , needs will fight . And for the time to come be wise , ner'e more resign thy right . 14. And Hammond , thou Egyptian Dog ; thou monster of mankind , Thou worse then a Molo [ ? ] ian Hog , who bearest a Judas mind . Prepare thy self , to die a death , no traitor ever knew . By tortures to resign thy breath , in all the peoples view . 15. His Majesty , thy livery , upon his eye does wear ; Both black and blue , beaten by thee , Oh Devil ! void of fear , His fare is poor , two varlets base , do only on him wait . O direful execrable case ! is this King CRARLES his Fate . 16. But Harry Martin laughs at this , and Say does say 'tis well . Cromwell , esteems it his chief bliss , of Hammonds guise , to tell . Tom Fairfax , swears this makes for him , Ranisborow skips for joy . And Barkstead , drinks bowels to the brim , healths , to the Kings annoy . 17. But Martin now , thy fate I vow , is very near at hand . What strength , the pocks will thee allow , which hath eat up thy land . And shortly , will thy body too ; now summon up to save thee . Else Gregory , will claim his due and then the Devil have thee . 18 And Nol , thy end , is ne're at hand , thy Kingdom is departed . Thou must no longer rule the land , but as a Rogue be Carted . And by a Carmans blessed guide , visit the fatal tree . Then there's and end of all thy pride , and thy base treachery . 19 , You twins in mischief Say , and Tom , two Rebels , chief'st in actium ; To pluck King CHARLES , his glory from , and so support your faction . Behold a Sledge , and Axe , and fire , a hangman , ready too . Stands ready to give you your hire , who all Ils , durst to do . 20. And Rainsborow , thy Reign is out , great Admiral at Sea. It were a sin thy fallen to doubt , Oh Skipper ! of Degree . And Barkstead , thou ere long alas ; White-hall , must yield perforce . Great Kings ner'e built that stately Mass , to shelter foot , and horse . 21. The turn of time , we now have seen Rebellion's , on the ground ; While we cry God save King and Queen ; let Drums , and Trumpets found . Let all the people now sing loud in mirthful joyous sort . Hang all the Parliants base crow'd but God preserve the Court . FINISH : 180181 The Turn of Time , OR , The Perjod of Rebellion Dedicated , to the infamous Members late Sitting at Westminster . 1. NOw now , your gone I vow , and all your treasons blasted . Vengeance no longer will allow what seaven years hath lasted . Then shut up shop , and take your heals , and with all speed away . Pride , totters , and Rebellion reels ; heigh for Utopia . 2. Your damned plots , and jealousies , your Schisms , and your fears , Your Oaths and your conspiracies apparently appears . Then put to Sea , avoid delay for CHARLES , must once more Reign . You are but dead if that you stay , or ere return again . 3. Ther's some that say ; you went away because a stinking vault , Beneath your House of mischief lay ; Oh privy ! much in fault , To drive away so rare a crew by thy most noisome smell . In Pilgrim's weeds we will thee view , no lake's , but holy Cell ; 4. But fie no , it is not so , no execrement could drive The Saints from their Seraglio , who for a crown durst strive . It was the fear , of CHARLES return , that sent the Members packing . The triple tree , they fear'd to see ; they hate the thought of racking . 5. Since you intend ; ne're to depend , a Presbeterian mule ; Bridled , and Saddled does attend , a bonny blue Capt. Fool . Will lackey by you , till you come , within the sighed of * Scone , Where Mahomets Elizium , you shall possess , alone . * a City in the heart of Scotland . 6. O rare ! me thinks , the Devil winks , and all the powers below ; Are puzel'd , Machavill he thinks , his sons , do stupid grow . And Cattaline is angry much , that traitors worse then he : Should fallen when as , their hope's were such ; with Nimrod , great to be . 7. Now all your plots , joyn'd with the Scots , do not the least avail you ; For why , these hardy Northern sots , mean shortly to assail you . Their high Sanhedrim angry are , their Cobblers , and Sowgelders , Must not the sweets of England share ; and be adopted Elders . 8. Nor is this all , like to befall ; beave Poyer's Myrmidons , Resolved are , for burial , like Mars , his dearest sons . And to the death for to oppose , your traitorous commands They swear 'tis fit , you should not fit while Pembrooke , Castle stands . 9. Your most adulterated Church the Synods prostitute , You now alas leave in the lurch , for Marshal , is grown mute ; Her vitiation , we deplore , her sorrow is our truth . But shortly we will her restore , to her first form , and truth . 10. This most unexpiated since , will sure your ruin be ; And sink you all for what hath been , to hells profundity . Medea like to cure our ill , our age for to renew . You did our ancient order kill , and yet we want , a new . 11. While you your Babell do erect , in one hand ther's a sword ; Your enterprise for to protect , by all men so abhorred . And in the other hand you bear a trowel stones to lay ; But now the Walls , you never rear , your workmen want their pay . 12. While that the King , was governing , ere your damn'd treasons was . Loyalty was a golden thing , and England walled with brass . But we are now , of nothing sure , but Blasphemies and errors . And are in nothing now secure , but that we know , our terrors : 13. Cheer up again , dread Sovereign , now locked up in a cage . Behold to set thee up again , in Warlike equipage . All England ready are to rise ; the Scots too , needs will fight . And for the time to come be wise , ner'e more resign thy right . 14. And Hammond , thou Egyptian Dog ; thou monster of mankind , Thou worse then a Molo [ ? ] ian Hog , who bearest a Judas mind . Prepare thy self , to die a death , no traitor ever knew . By tortures to resign thy breath , in all the peoples view . 15. His Majesty , thy livery , upon his eye does wear ; Both black and blue , beaten by thee , Oh Devil ! void of fear , His fare is poor , two varlets base , do only on him wait . O direful execrable case ! is this King CRARLES his Fate . 16. But Harry Martin laughs at this , and Say does say 'tis well . Cromwell , esteems it his chief bliss , of Hammonds guise , to tell . Tom Fairfax , swears this makes for him , Ranisborow skips for joy . And Barkstead , drinks bowels to the brim , healths , to the Kings annoy . 17. But Martin now , thy fate I vow , is very near at hand . What strength , the pocks will thee allow , which hath eat up thy land . And shortly , will thy body too ; now summon up to save thee . Else Gregory , will claim his due and then the Devil have thee . 18 And Nol , thy end , is ne're at hand , thy Kingdom is departed . Thou must no longer rule the land , but as a Rogue be Carted . And by a Carmans blessed guide , visit the fatal tree . Then there's and end of all thy pride , and thy base treachery . 19 , You twins in mischief Say , and Tom , two Rebels , chief'st in actium ; To pluck King CHARLES , his glory from , and so support your faction . Behold a Sledge , and Axe , and fire , a hangman , ready too . Stands ready to give you your hire , who all Ils , durst to do . 20. And Rainsborow , thy Reign is out , great Admiral at Sea. It were a sin thy fallen to doubt , Oh Skipper ! of Degree . And Barkstead , thou ere long alas ; White-hall , must yield perforce . Great Kings ner'e built that stately Mass , to shelter foot , and horse . 21. The turn of time , we now have seen Rebellion's , on the ground ; While we cry God save King and Queen ; let Drums , and Trumpets found . Let all the people now sing loud in mirthful joyous sort . Hang all the Parliants base crow'd but God preserve the Court . FINIS 