H : 180175 A Dialogue between JACK CATCH and his Journey-Man ; Concerning their Profession and present Affair in the world . They are afraid they cannot send so many to Heaven , as Baxter , Lobb , and Bull , has sent to HELL . JACK . COme prithee Neck , Look sharp , be quick , for now begins our Harvest ; Throw by thy Coat , Thou'st have a Cloak , for Charles is now in earns His Friends no more shall hang like dogs to please a bloody Faction ; Our damn'd Fanatic Plotting Rogues , shall breed no more distraction . NICK . Then use your Art , And play your part , and leave your course of Whoring ; Of Axe and Ropes , Clear all the Shops , be stocked without scoring : You must not use three blows at one , now Trading comes in faster ; Lest you be Hang'd for fumbling John , and I be made your Master . JACK . O peace good Neck , A Drunken trick , but made well for the Saints tho' ; For they each drop , Of Blood licked up , and scrap'd the Scaffold also : To make the factious fools believe , a Traitor dy'd a Martyr ; But now the Whigs to undeceive , he dy'd more like a Tartar . NICK . The worst I find , Yet stays behind , and hates to hang in order ; His Grace and Peers , In Towns or Shires , or skulks upon the Borders : Argile , and Melvin , Ferguson , and Rumbold the blind Malster : Nelthorp Elby , Cocheran , are all run from the Halter . JACK . Chesteeres and Lobb's , Two Whigish scabs , they preached nought but Treason , At th' end o'th' Farce , Now hangs and Arse , at groaning Tyburns Reason : The roaring Bull throws by his Gown , and wipes his greasy Whiskers : While Mother Criswel rubs him down , and claps him 'twixt two sisters . NICK . Both Gibs and Row And Norton too , are run to save their Bacon ; Would I were drunk , With my sweet Punk , were they but hang'd or taken : Charlton of the old Rump , and Treason still promoting , He's come to town both Leg and Slump , we'l spoil his art of Voting . NICK . By Heavens Jack , Of all the pack , he's like to bring us Coal boy , For all his gang , He'l Peach and Hang , to keep out of the Hold boy : He'l send for's party bundel'd up , like loads of Kentish Faggots , Then with the Hatchet and the Rope , we'l spoil their Fiery Maggots . JACK . If this Trade hold , We'l want no Gold , old Stumps their chief Pay Master ; Of Every Rogue , And Treacherous Dog , that sought the Kings Disaster : Five hundred pound I'le have at least , if e're I take a Prentice , Come let's go drink , our Trade's the best we'l make 'um know what Hemp is . Printed for J. Dean , in Cranborn-Street , in Leicester-Fields near Newport-House , 1683. H : 180175 A Dialogue between JACK CATCH and his Journey-Man ; Concerning their Profession and present Affair in the world . They are afraid they cannot send so many to Heaven , as Baxter , Lobb , and Bull , has sent to HELL . JACK . COme prithee Neck , Look sharp , be quick , for now begins our Harvest ; Throw by thy Coat , Thou'st have a Cloak , for Charles is now in earns His Friends no more shall hang like dogs to please a bloody Faction ; Our damn'd Fanatic Plotting Rogues , shall breed no more distraction . NICK . Then use your Art , And play your part , and leave your course of Whoring ; Of Axe and Ropes , Clear all the Shops , be stocked without scoring : You must not use three blows at one , now Trading comes in faster ; Lest you be Hang'd for fumbling John , and I be made your Master . JACK . O peace good Neck , A Drunken trick , but made well for the Saints tho' ; For they each drop , Of Blood licked up , and scrap'd the Scaffold also : To make the factious fools believe , a Traitor dy'd a Martyr ; But now the Whigs to undeceive , he dy'd more like a Tartar . NICK . The worst I find , Yet stays behind , and hates to hang in order ; His Grace and Peers , In Towns or Shires , or skulks upon the Borders : Argile , and Melvin , Ferguson , and Rumbold the blind Malster : Nelthorp Elby , Cocheran , are all run from the Halter . JACK . Chesteeres and Lobb's , Two Whigish scabs , they preached nought but Treason , At th' end o'th' Farce , Now hangs and Arse , at groaning Tyburns Reason : The roaring Bull throws by his Gown , and wipes his greasy Whiskers : While Mother Criswel rubs him down , and claps him 'twixt two sisters . NICK . Both Gibs and Row And Norton too , are run to save their Bacon ; Would I were drunk , With my sweet Punk , were they but hang'd or taken : Charlton of the old Rump , and Treason still promoting , He's come to town both Leg and Slump , we'l spoil his art of Voting . NICK . By Heavens Jack , Of all the pack , he's like to bring us Coal boy , For all his gang , He'l Peach and Hang , to keep out of the Hold boy : He'l send for's party bundel'd up , like loads of Kentish Faggots , Then with the Hatchet and the Rope , we'l spoil their Fiery Maggots . JACK . If this Trade hold , We'l want no Gold , old Stumps their chief Pay Master ; Of Every Rogue , And Treacherous Dog , that sought the Kings Disaster : Five hundred pound I'le have at least , if e're I take a Prentice , Come let's go drink , our Trade's the best we'l make 'um know what Hemp is . Printed for J. Dean , in Cranborn-Street , in Leicester-Fields near Newport-House , 1683. 