H : 18311 And answer to a Papistical Bill / cast in the streets of Northampton , and brought before the Judges at the last Syses . 1570 . The Papists bill . HOw now my masters married Priests , How like you of these news ? You must forsake your wicked lives , Your wives must to the stews . The Answer . How now my master's popish Priests , How like you of these news ? You must forsake your Sodomites lives , For down is gone your stews . 2. The papistical bill . What need our women now take care , What life they now do lead ? Since every preaching knave must have A whore in house to tread . 2. The Protestant . What need our men now to take care , What way they go or tread , For those Priests which were whoremongers Must now marry wife or maid . 3. The Papist . There is not now a strumpet whore , In all the land to have : They are suddenly snatched up , With some Geneva knave . 3. The Protestant . Sith there is now no strumpet whore , In England for to have : Speak well then of the Gospel good , And do no more so rave . 4. The Papist . Master Wiborne , alias tiborne tick , There dwells in this town : Which sought by all the means he could , The Easter to pluck down . 4. The Protestant . And where that godly Preacher sought , There dwelling in that town : Your knavery and hypocrisy , At Easter to pluck down . 5. The papist . But I of him dare well pronounce , And time the truth shall try : That he shall trust unto his heals , Or else in Smithfield fry . 5. The protestant . For this of him you dare pronounce , And thousandes of his side : Not like to CHRIST , but to the Pope , Who loves to see Christ fride . 6. The papist . Not he , but thousandes of his sect , Must to Geneva seek : The wrestling of the Gospel wrong , Prevails them not a leek . 6. The Protestant . If that in Room and Geneva The whores were all well seen : The wrestling of the Gospel pure , By that men might well deem . 7. The Papist . The Devil when he would Christ attempt , In Scripture seemed wise : And for him they thee Scriptures take , To maintain all their lies . 7. The Protestant . CHRIST , when the devil did him tempt , By Scripture did confute : But Papists pass on that no less , Then Fawkners on Hawks mute . 8. The Papist . Therefore be packing prating knaves , Your railing is to plain : Commit your Bastards to the bag , And high you hence again . 8. The Protestant Saint Frances preaching to the Birds , All countries hath well spied : So as if Fools should be hanged up , The Papists sure should ride . 9. The Papist . And where I told you of your wives , Take you for them no care : Shift for your selves , and trudge with speed lest halter be your share . 9. The Protestant . Idolatry and adultery , For them you take no care , But every godly common wealth , May wish such tyborne fare . 10. The Papist . FINIS . quod Non est Inventus . 10. The protestant . FINIS . Coronat opus , Exitus acta probat . Imprinted at London by John Awdely dwelling in little Britain street without Alders - gate . 1570. Three helps de vised by the Pope for his Maiden Priests . FIrst that Priests might examine in confessions , wives , & Maids of their whoredom , & by that they knew to make their bar - gains , and the people loo - king on , must think it con - fession , and committing the like with them , they had po were to give them a knavish absolution . 2 The seconde help ap - peareth Glos in Caus. ii.q 3. cap . Absi That if any of his Clergy should be found embracing a woman , it must be expounded and presup - posed he does it to bless her . 3 The third help , that in every City ( like as it is now in Room ) one stews at the least to be permitted . Experientia docet . Doctor Weston in Eng - land , who was burned , but not with coals , billets , fag - gets , straw , nor redes . Also , the twoo Maiden Bishops at the last counsel of Trent 1562 , being ta - ken blessing men's wives , the one was thrust through with a Boars spear , the oh - there hanged out of a win - dow , in the sighed of all the people . Et cetera . H : 18311 And answer to a Papistical Bill / cast in the streets of Northampton , and brought before the Judges at the last Syses . 1570 . The Papists bill . HOw now my masters married Priests , How like you of these news ? You must forsake your wicked lives , Your wives must to the stews . The Answer . How now my master's popish Priests , How like you of these news ? You must forsake your Sodomites lives , For down is gone your stews . 2. The papistical bill . What need our women now take care , What life they now do lead ? Since every preaching knave must have A whore in house to tread . 2. The Protestant . What need our men now to take care , What way they go or tread , For those Priests which were whoremongers Must now marry wife or maid . 3. The Papist . There is not now a strumpet whore , In all the land to have : They are suddenly snatched up , With some Geneva knave . 3. The Protestant . Sith there is now no strumpet whore , In England for to have : Speak well then of the Gospel good , And do no more so rave . 4. The Papist . Master Wiborne , alias tiborne tick , There dwells in this town : Which sought by all the means he could , The Easter to pluck down . 4. The Protestant . And where that godly Preacher sought , There dwelling in that town : Your knavery and hypocrisy , At Easter to pluck down . 5. The papist . But I of him dare well pronounce , And time the truth shall try : That he shall trust unto his heals , Or else in Smithfield fry . 5. The protestant . For this of him you dare pronounce , And thousandes of his side : Not like to CHRIST , but to the Pope , Who loves to see Christ fride . 6. The papist . Not he , but thousandes of his sect , Must to Geneva seek : The wrestling of the Gospel wrong , Prevails them not a leek . 6. The Protestant . If that in Room and Geneva The whores were all well seen : The wrestling of the Gospel pure , By that men might well deem . 7. The Papist . The Devil when he would Christ attempt , In Scripture seemed wise : And for him they thee Scriptures take , To maintain all their lies . 7. The Protestant . CHRIST , when the devil did him tempt , By Scripture did confute : But Papists pass on that no less , Then Fawkners on Hawks mute . 8. The Papist . Therefore be packing prating knaves , Your railing is to plain : Commit your Bastards to the bag , And high you hence again . 8. The Protestant Saint Frances preaching to the Birds , All countries hath well spied : So as if Fools should be hanged up , The Papists sure should ride . 9. The Papist . And where I told you of your wives , Take you for them no care : Shift for your selves , and trudge with speed lest halter be your share . 9. The Protestant . Idolatry and adultery , For them you take no care , But every godly common wealth , May wish such tyborne fare . 10. The Papist . FINIS . quod Non est Inventus . 10. The protestant . FINIS . Coronat opus , Exitus acta probat . Imprinted at London by John Awdely dwelling in little Britain street without Alders - gate . 1570. Three helps de vised by the Pope for his Maiden Priests . FIrst that Priests might examine in confessions , wives , & Maids of their whoredom , & by that they knew to make their bar - gains , and the people loo - king on , must think it con - fession , and committing the like with them , they had po were to give them a knavish absolution . 2 The seconde help ap - peareth Glos in Caus. ii.q 3. cap . Absi That if any of his Clergy should be found embracing a woman , it must be expounded and presup - posed he does it to bless her . 3 The third help , that in every City ( like as it is now in Room ) one stews at the least to be permitted . Experientia docet . Doctor Weston in Eng - land , who was burned , but not with coals , billets , fag - gets , straw , nor redes . Also , the twoo Maiden Bishops at the last counsel of Trent 1562 , being ta - ken blessing men's wives , the one was thrust through with a Boars spear , the oh - there hanged out of a win - dow , in the sighed of all the people . Et cetera . H : 18311 And answer to a Papistical Bill / cast in the streets of Northampton , and brought before the Judges at the last Syses . 1570 . The Papists bill . HOw now my masters married Priests , How like you of these news ? You must forsake your wicked lives , Your wives must to the stews . The Answer . How now my master's popish Priests , How like you of these news ? You must forsake your Sodomites lives , For down is gone your stews . 2. The papistical bill . What need our women now take care , What life they now do lead ? Since every preaching knave must have A whore in house to tread . 2. The Protestant . What need our men now to take care , What way they go or tread , For those Priests which were whoremongers Must now marry wife or maid . 3. The Papist . There is not now a strumpet whore , In all the land to have : They are suddenly snatched up , With some Geneva knave . 3. The Protestant . Sith there is now no strumpet whore , In England for to have : Speak well then of the Gospel good , And do no more so rave . 4. The Papist . Master Wiborne , alias tiborne tick , There dwells in this town : Which sought by all the means he could , The Easter to pluck down . 4. The Protestant . And where that godly Preacher sought , There dwelling in that town : Your knavery and hypocrisy , At Easter to pluck down . 5. The papist . But I of him dare well pronounce , And time the truth shall try : That he shall trust unto his heals , Or else in Smithfield fry . 5. The protestant . For this of him you dare pronounce , And thousandes of his side : Not like to CHRIST , but to the Pope , Who loves to see Christ fride . 6. The papist . Not he , but thousandes of his sect , Must to Geneva seek : The wrestling of the Gospel wrong , Prevails them not a leek . 6. The Protestant . If that in Room and Geneva The whores were all well seen : The wrestling of the Gospel pure , By that men might well deem . 7. The Papist . The Devil when he would Christ attempt , In Scripture seemed wise : And for him they thee Scriptures take , To maintain all their lies . 7. The Protestant . CHRIST , when the devil did him tempt , By Scripture did confute : But Papists pass on that no less , Then Fawkners on Hawks mute . 8. The Papist . Therefore be packing prating knaves , Your railing is to plain : Commit your Bastards to the bag , And high you hence again . 8. The Protestant Saint Frances preaching to the Birds , All countries hath well spied : So as if Fools should be hanged up , The Papists sure should ride . 9. The Papist . And where I told you of your wives , Take you for them no care : Shift for your selves , and trudge with speed lest halter be your share . 9. The Protestant . Idolatry and adultery , For them you take no care , But every godly common wealth , May wish such tyborne fare . 10. The Papist . FINIS . quod Non est Inventus . 10. The protestant . FINIS . Coronat opus , Exitus acta probat . Three helps de vised by the Pope for his Maiden Priests . FIrst that Priests might examine in confessions , wives , & Maids of their whoredom , & by that they knew to make their bar - gains , and the people loo - king on , must think it con - fession , and committing the like with them , they had po were to give them a knavish absolution . 2 The seconde help ap - peareth Glos in Caus. ii.q 3. cap . Absi That if any of his Clergy should be found embracing a woman , it must be expounded and presup - posed he does it to bless her . 3 The third help , that in every City ( like as it is now in Room ) one stews at the least to be permitted . Experientia docet . Doctor Weston in Eng - land , who was burned , but not with coals , billets , fag - gets , straw , nor redes . Also , the twoo Maiden Bishops at the last counsel of Trent 1562 , being ta - ken blessing men's wives , the one was thrust through with a Boars spear , the oh - there hanged out of a win - dow , in the sighed of all the people . Et cetera . Imprinted at London by John Awdely dwelling in little Britain street without Alders - gate . 1570. H : 18311 And answer to a Papistical Bill / cast in the streets of Northampton , and brought before the Judges at the last Syses . 1570 . The Papists bill . HOw now my masters married Priests , How like you of these news ? You must forsake your wicked lives , Your wives must to the stews . The Answer . How now my master's popish Priests , How like you of these news ? You must forsake your Sodomites lives , For down is gone your stews . 2. The papistical bill . What need our women now take care , What life they now do lead ? Since every preaching knave must have A whore in house to tread . 2. The Protestant . What need our men now to take care , What way they go or tread , For those Priests which were whoremongers Must now marry wife or maid . 3. The Papist . There is not now a strumpet whore , In all the land to have : They are suddenly snatched up , With some Geneva knave . 3. The Protestant . Sith there is now no strumpet whore , In England for to have : Speak well then of the Gospel good , And do no more so rave . 4. The Papist . Master Wiborne , alias tiborne tick , There dwells in this town : Which sought by all the means he could , The Easter to pluck down . 4. The Protestant . And where that godly Preacher sought , There dwelling in that town : Your knavery and hypocrisy , At Easter to pluck down . 5. The papist . But I of him dare well pronounce , And time the truth shall try : That he shall trust unto his heals , Or else in Smithfield fry . 5. The protestant . For this of him you dare pronounce , And thousandes of his side : Not like to CHRIST , but to the Pope , Who loves to see Christ fride . 6. The papist . Not he , but thousandes of his sect , Must to Geneva seek : The wrestling of the Gospel wrong , Prevails them not a leek . 6. The Protestant . If that in Room and Geneva The whores were all well seen : The wrestling of the Gospel pure , By that men might well deem . 7. The Papist . The Devil when he would Christ attempt , In Scripture seemed wise : And for him they thee Scriptures take , To maintain all their lies . 7. The Protestant . CHRIST , when the devil did him tempt , By Scripture did confute : But Papists pass on that no less , Then Fawkners on Hawks mute . 8. The Papist . Therefore be packing prating knaves , Your railing is to plain : Commit your Bastards to the bag , And high you hence again . 8. The Protestant Saint Frances preaching to the Birds , All countries hath well spied : So as if Fools should be hanged up , The Papists sure should ride . 9. The Papist . And where I told you of your wives , Take you for them no care : Shift for your selves , and trudge with speed lest halter be your share . 9. The Protestant . Idolatry and adultery , For them you take no care , But every godly common wealth , May wish such tyborne fare . 10. The Papist . FINIS . quod Non est Inventus . 10. The protestant . FINIS . Coronat opus , Exitus acta probat . Three helps de vised by the Pope for his Maiden Priests . FIrst that Priests might examine in confessions , wives , & Maids of their whoredom , & by that they knew to make their bar - gains , and the people loo - king on , must think it con - fession , and committing the like with them , they had po were to give them a knavish absolution . 2 The seconde help ap - peareth Glos in Caus. ii.q 3. cap . Absi That if any of his Clergy should be found embracing a woman , it must be expounded and presup - posed he does it to bless her . 3 The third help , that in every City ( like as it is now in Room ) one stews at the least to be permitted . Experientia docet . Doctor Weston in Eng - land , who was burned , but not with coals , billets , fag - gets , straw , nor redes . Also , the twoo Maiden Bishops at the last counsel of Trent 1562 , being ta - ken blessing men's wives , the one was thrust through with a Boars spear , the oh - there hanged out of a win - dow , in the sighed of all the people . Et cetera . Imprinted at London by John Awdely dwelling in little Britain street without Alders - gate . 1570. 