H : 180179 The Cities Loyalty to their KING . WHy kept your Train-Bands such a stir ? why sent you them by clusters , Then went unto Saint James's Park , why took you then their musters ? Why rid my Lord up Fleet-street , with Coaches at least twenty ? And fill'd , they say , with Alddrmen , as good they had been empty : London is a brave Town , yet I their cases pity , Their Mayor and some few Aldermen , have clean undone the City . The Prentices are gallant Blades , and to the King are clifty , But the Lord Maior and Aldermen , are scarce so wise as thrifty : I'll pray for the Apprentices , they to the King were hearty ; For they have done all that they can , to advance their Sovereigns party : London , etc What's now become of your brave Poyntz , and of your General Massey ? If you Petition for a peace , these Gallants they will slash ye : Where now are all your Reformadoes , to Scotland gone together ? 'Twere better they were fairly trust , then they should bring them hither : London , etc But if your Aldermen were false , or Glyn that's your Recorder , Let them never betray you more , but hang them up in order : All these men may be coached as well as any other sinner Up Holborne , and ride forward still to Tyburne to their dinner : London , etc Gond send the valiant General may restore the King to glory , Then that name I have honoured so , will famous be in story : Which if he do not I much fear the ruin of the Nation , ( And that I should be loath to see ) his Houses desolation : London is a brave Town , yet I their cases pity , Their Mayor and some few Aldermen have clean undone the City . The MEMBERS Justi - fication . DEn . Hollis is a gallant man , and was for them too crafty , What he pretended for the King , was for the Members safety : Sir Stapleton's a stern brave boy , although his Spouse be courtly , He went to Yorke , and's labour lost , he could not bring Franck Wortley : The Parliament hath sitten close , as ere did Knight in saddle , For they have sitten full six years , and now their eggs prove addle . Brave Fairfax did himself besiege poor Franke , and him hath undone , Yet lost more men in taking him , then he did taking London : Now whither is Will . Waller gone ? to Sea with Prince Elector , Will he forsake his Lady so , and leave her no Protector ? The Parliament , etc Jack Maynard is a loyal blade , yet blind as any Beetle , He purchases the Bishops Lands , yet scarce can see Pauls steeple . Both Glyn and Harlow are for Wales , and Lewis for his Madams , These Brittaines will not change their bloods , with Noa's no scarce with Adams : The Parliament , etc Clotworthy is a zealous man , yet hath his purse well lined ; So hath Wat Long , yet he's we know religiously inclined : But Nichols is for Pluto's Court , in inquest of his Father , Or's Uncle Pym , and there he found , Strewed , Hambden , Pym , together : The Parliament , etc These three have Pluto's Mercury sent , and wonder they prove such men , To make three Kingdoms one poor State , and do it worse then Dutch-men : Their Synod now sits in great fear , and so does Jack Presbyter , That we shall have a King again , and once more see a Miter : Yet they have sitten wondrous close , As ere did Knight in saddle , For they have sitten full seven years , And now their Eggs prove addle . FINIS . H : 180179 The Cities Loyalty to their KING . WHy kept your Train-Bands such a stir ? why sent you them by clusters , Then went unto Saint James's Park , why took you then their musters ? Why rid my Lord up Fleet-street , with Coaches at least twenty ? And fill'd , they say , with Alddrmen , as good they had been empty : London is a brave Town , yet I their cases pity , Their Mayor and some few Aldermen , have clean undone the City . The Prentices are gallant Blades , and to the King are clifty , But the Lord Maior and Aldermen , are scarce so wise as thrifty : I'll pray for the Apprentices , they to the King were hearty ; For they have done all that they can , to advance their Sovereigns party : London , etc What's now become of your brave Poyntz , and of your General Massey ? If you Petition for a peace , these Gallants they will slash ye : Where now are all your Reformadoes , to Scotland gone together ? 'Twere better they were fairly trust , then they should bring them hither : London , etc But if your Aldermen were false , or Glyn that's your Recorder , Let them never betray you more , but hang them up in order : All these men may be coached as well as any other sinner Up Holborne , and ride forward still to Tyburne to their dinner : London , etc Gond send the valiant General may restore the King to glory , Then that name I have honoured so , will famous be in story : Which if he do not I much fear the ruin of the Nation , ( And that I should be loath to see ) his Houses desolation : London is a brave Town , yet I their cases pity , Their Mayor and some few Aldermen have clean undone the City . The MEMBERS Justi - fication . DEn . Hollis is a gallant man , and was for them too crafty , What he pretended for the King , was for the Members safety : Sir Stapleton's a stern brave boy , although his Spouse be courtly , He went to Yorke , and's labour lost , he could not bring Franck Wortley : The Parliament hath sitten close , as ere did Knight in saddle , For they have sitten full six years , and now their eggs prove addle . Brave Fairfax did himself besiege poor Franke , and him hath undone , Yet lost more men in taking him , then he did taking London : Now whither is Will . Waller gone ? to Sea with Prince Elector , Will he forsake his Lady so , and leave her no Protector ? The Parliament , etc Jack Maynard is a loyal blade , yet blind as any Beetle , He purchases the Bishops Lands , yet scarce can see Pauls steeple . Both Glyn and Harlow are for Wales , and Lewis for his Madams , These Brittaines will not change their bloods , with Noa's no scarce with Adams : The Parliament , etc Clotworthy is a zealous man , yet hath his purse well lined ; So hath Wat Long , yet he's we know religiously inclined : But Nichols is for Pluto's Court , in inquest of his Father , Or's Uncle Pym , and there he found , Strewed , Hambden , Pym , together : The Parliament , etc These three have Pluto's Mercury sent , and wonder they prove such men , To make three Kingdoms one poor State , and do it worse then Dutch-men : Their Synod now sits in great fear , and so does Jack Presbyter , That we shall have a King again , and once more see a Miter : Yet they have sitten wondrous close , As ere did Knight in saddle , For they have sitten full seven years , And now their Eggs prove addle . FINIS . 