H : 180176 THE Lord RUSSELS Last Farewell to the World . A SONG . FArewel , farewell to Mortal Powers , and found Ambitious Fools ; Now guiltless Blood requires ours , from Providence that Rules . Farewell to Monmouth , Horned Gray , who are from Justice fled ; And left me to this fatal Day , to lose my Plotting Head. II Of all the Lords of our Cabals , I am the first that Dies Byth' hand of Justice , which foretells a Counter Sacrifice ; That Blazing-Star at Stafford's Death , foretold a fatal Change : Now I declare , with my last breath , it is but just Revenge . III . Farewell to our late Parliaments , which made Three Kingdoms shake ; Our Lawless Votes ( my Soul torments ) was for Rebellions sake : Th' Exclusive Bill I did promote with vigour , spleen , and power ; Thereby to cut a Monarchs Throat , that caus'd this Bleeding Hour . IV. The best of Kings I sought to Kill , and draw'd in Thousands more : Who neither wanted Wealth nor Will , and Traitors long before : Beside the Peasants and the poor , for Insurrection bent ; To lay the Kingdom all in gore , to please a Parliament . V. We neither feared Law nor Right , Prerogative nor Fate ; Impeached Queen and Duke for spite , to make the King afraid : We thought he durst not call to' count our great Conspiring Heads ; But now like me they all must mount , and fallen into the Shades . VI . If we had Hang'd Tony and Tom , when first the Plot begun ; Then I to this had never come , nor James from Justice run : Denying of the Plot's in vain , since Essex cut's own Throat ; Both Rouse and Walcot owns the same , and all the rest must do't . VII . For my Confession I commit toth' Groaning-Board's Divine ; 'Tis his desire to Word it fit , I hope for no Design ; If Whiggish Cant , he puts upon't , with 'quivocating Shams ; Then score him up , on our account , his Libel to the Flames . Finis . Printed for J. Dean , Bookseller in Cranborn-Street , in Leicester-Fields , near Newport-House , 1683. H : 180176 THE Lord RUSSELS Last Farewell to the World . A SONG . FArewel , farewell to Mortal Powers , and found Ambitious Fools ; Now guiltless Blood requires ours , from Providence that Rules . Farewell to Monmouth , Horned Gray , who are from Justice fled ; And left me to this fatal Day , to lose my Plotting Head. II Of all the Lords of our Cabals , I am the first that Dies Byth' hand of Justice , which foretells a Counter Sacrifice ; That Blazing-Star at Stafford's Death , foretold a fatal Change : Now I declare , with my last breath , it is but just Revenge . III . Farewell to our late Parliaments , which made Three Kingdoms shake ; Our Lawless Votes ( my Soul torments ) was for Rebellions sake : Th' Exclusive Bill I did promote with vigour , spleen , and power ; Thereby to cut a Monarchs Throat , that caus'd this Bleeding Hour . IV. The best of Kings I sought to Kill , and draw'd in Thousands more : Who neither wanted Wealth nor Will , and Traitors long before : Beside the Peasants and the poor , for Insurrection bent ; To lay the Kingdom all in gore , to please a Parliament . V. We neither feared Law nor Right , Prerogative nor Fate ; Impeached Queen and Duke for spite , to make the King afraid : We thought he durst not call to' count our great Conspiring Heads ; But now like me they all must mount , and fallen into the Shades . VI . If we had Hang'd Tony and Tom , when first the Plot begun ; Then I to this had never come , nor James from Justice run : Denying of the Plot's in vain , since Essex cut's own Throat ; Both Rouse and Walcot owns the same , and all the rest must do't . VII . For my Confession I commit toth' Groaning-Board's Divine ; 'Tis his desire to Word it fit , I hope for no Design ; If Whiggish Cant , he puts upon't , with 'quivocating Shams ; Then score him up , on our account , his Libel to the Flames . Finis . Printed for J. Dean , Bookseller in Cranborn-Street , in Leicester-Fields , near Newport-House , 1683. 