H : 180180 The ROSE of Delight , Or , And excellent new Song in the praise of his GRACE James D. of Monmouth : My Female Wishes may they never end , For I Great Monmouth still will be thy friend , While I retain my poor immortal soul , I'le Joy with thee , and wanting thee condoul . Tune of , No , no 'tis in vain to sighs and complain , NOtwithstanding the frown that descends from the Crown on my Lord that once was so dear , Prefer'd above other , undone by a Brother , & the hate of and Uncle so near , then let them tread on & end as begun , my love it shall ne'r be forgotten , but in envy's despite I'l take my delight in Mon-mouth ; ne'r known in a Plot . Of great places at Court , Turn'd him out , as a sport , Pretending that he soar'd too high , Or fearing he might At last claim a Right And become a great Beam in their Eye ; 'Cause the Mobile ran And admired each man , Yea , Welcom'd him with a glad Heart , But who can do less For whom God does bless , since Monmouth we know thy desert . These monsters of Room They first hatch'd his Doom , Because that he stood in their way , And stop'd their Carrire , When their Plots did appear , To make our Religion their Prey : Now each Famous Lord , As much is abhor'd And term'd as great monsters as he By that Tory Crew , Who hath nothing to do But scandal brave Monmouth's degree . May they Shimei like In Cursing delight , Till the Fallen on their own Heads rebound , And he like the Palm Suppressed , firmer stand , And the more shall be blessed with Renown , For who can he be That's so happy as he , That smilingly so can forgive , The dangers of late , suppos'd from the State , Brave Monmouth be happy , and live . For the Heavens may grow clear , And great Charles may appear With the smiles of a King as before , As he promis'd to me , He ever would be , And he my great Monmouth restore To his Places of state , That he may be great , And his Enemies unmask'd may be , Who endeavoured to bring Him in frowns with the King : Brave Monmouth I love Charles and thee . May thy Royal Father Sway the Sceptre forever , And flourishing Govern this Land , May the Turk and the Atheist , Presbyterian and Papist Turn one , and in Unity stand , Then shall be firm Peace , And our Jar's they shall cease , In Church , Government when we agree , And in the mean time , may the Crown keep the line ; Brave Monmouth we happier shall be . Printed for J. Conyers at the black raven in Duck-laneH : 180180 The ROSE of Delight , Or , And excellent new Song in the praise of his GRACE James D. of Monmouth : My Female Wishes may they never end , For I Great Monmouth still will be thy friend , While I retain my poor immortal soul , I'le Joy with thee , and wanting thee condoul . Tune of , No , no 'tis in vain to sighs and complain , NOtwithstanding the frown that descends from the Crown on my Lord that once was so dear , Prefer'd above other , undone by a Brother , & the hate of and Uncle so near , then let them tread on & end as begun , my love it shall ne'r be forgotten , but in envy's despite I'l take my delight in Mon-mouth ; ne'r known in a Plot . Of great places at Court , Turn'd him out , as a sport , Pretending that he soar'd too high , Or fearing he might At last claim a Right And become a great Beam in their Eye ; 'Cause the Mobile ran And admired each man , Yea , Welcom'd him with a glad Heart , But who can do less For whom God does bless , since Monmouth we know thy desert . These monsters of Room They first hatch'd his Doom , Because that he stood in their way , And stop'd their Carrire , When their Plots did appear , To make our Religion their Prey : Now each Famous Lord , As much is abhor'd And term'd as great monsters as he By that Tory Crew , Who hath nothing to do But scandal brave Monmouth's degree . May they Shimei like In Cursing delight , Till the Fallen on their own Heads rebound , And he like the Palm Suppressed , firmer stand , And the more shall be blessed with Renown , For who can he be That's so happy as he , That smilingly so can forgive , The dangers of late , suppos'd from the State , Brave Monmouth be happy , and live . For the Heavens may grow clear , And great Charles may appear With the smiles of a King as before , As he promis'd to me , He ever would be , And he my great Monmouth restore To his Places of state , That he may be great , And his Enemies unmask'd may be , Who endeavoured to bring Him in frowns with the King : Brave Monmouth I love Charles and thee . May thy Royal Father Sway the Sceptre forever , And flourishing Govern this Land , May the Turk and the Atheist , Presbyterian and Papist Turn one , and in Unity stand , Then shall be firm Peace , And our Jar's they shall cease , In Church , Government when we agree , And in the mean time , may the Crown keep the line ; Brave Monmouth we happier shall be . Printed for J. Conyers at the black raven in Duck-lane 