H : 180173 Murder Out at Last , IN A Ballad on the New PLOT . To the Tune of , Heigh Boys up go We . I . NOw , now the Plot is all come out , That caus'd our Doubts and Fears , And all the Tribe that made the Rout , Both Commoners and Peers ; The mighty Patrons of the Cause , 'Gainst Pagan Popery , Who rais'd a Gibbet for our Foes , And hey Boys up go we . II With Sanctify'd Religious Zeal The Brothers did agree , To raise our Ancient Commonweal On Christian Liberty : To undermine the Church and State , And blow up MONARCHY ; But now , alas ! 'tis our own Fate , And hey Boys up go we . III . A Holy Covenant we took , To Sacrifice the KING , And next to Him the Royal DUKE , A Bloody Offering ; For which , according to the Vote , The Papists all shou'd die ; But now the Saints have chang'd their note , And hey Boys up go we . IV. Our Zealous Covenanting Saints , Associating Peers , Each Heart for fear with Patients Pants , To loose more than his Ears ; Toney's dead , and Monmouth's fled , The Helm is turn'd a Lee , The Plot ( the Nail ) is knock'd o' th' head , And heigh then up go we . V. No longer may the Papists boast Their Bloody Black Designs ; Old Room thy Ancient Glory's lost , For all thy Learn'd Divines : For Royal Murders , Treasons base , And matchless Treachery , The Jesuits must now give place , And hey Boys up go we . VI . How well did we contrive the Plot , And laid it at their Door , For which old Stafford went to Pot , And many Guiltless more : But now the Tide is come about , The truth of all we see ; And when the Murder all is out , Then heigh Boys up go we . VII . Rumsey's Gold , and Rumbold bold , Conspire to kill the KING , And Pickering , in fatal hold , Must answer for the thing ; Nelthorp , West , and all the rest , With Perkin may agree , To be o'th' Tower and Throne possessed ; Then heigh Boys up go we . VIII . Our City Riots , Country Routs , That to Rebellion tend , Our Races , and our Hunting-bouts In Insurrections end ; The Rebel now is catch'd i'th' Snare He lay'd for MONARCHY ; At last the Gallows claims it share , And hey Boys up go we . Printed by N.T. at the entrance into the Old-Spring-Garden , near Charing-Cross , 1683. H : 180173 Murder Out at Last , IN A Ballad on the New PLOT . To the Tune of , Heigh Boys up go We . I . NOw , now the Plot is all come out , That caus'd our Doubts and Fears , And all the Tribe that made the Rout , Both Commoners and Peers ; The mighty Patrons of the Cause , 'Gainst Pagan Popery , Who rais'd a Gibbet for our Foes , And hey Boys up go we . II With Sanctify'd Religious Zeal The Brothers did agree , To raise our Ancient Commonweal On Christian Liberty : To undermine the Church and State , And blow up MONARCHY ; But now , alas ! 'tis our own Fate , And hey Boys up go we . III . A Holy Covenant we took , To Sacrifice the KING , And next to Him the Royal DUKE , A Bloody Offering ; For which , according to the Vote , The Papists all shou'd die ; But now the Saints have chang'd their note , And hey Boys up go we . IV. Our Zealous Covenanting Saints , Associating Peers , Each Heart for fear with Patients Pants , To loose more than his Ears ; Toney's dead , and Monmouth's fled , The Helm is turn'd a Lee , The Plot ( the Nail ) is knock'd o' th' head , And heigh then up go we . V. No longer may the Papists boast Their Bloody Black Designs ; Old Room thy Ancient Glory's lost , For all thy Learn'd Divines : For Royal Murders , Treasons base , And matchless Treachery , The Jesuits must now give place , And hey Boys up go we . VI . How well did we contrive the Plot , And laid it at their Door , For which old Stafford went to Pot , And many Guiltless more : But now the Tide is come about , The truth of all we see ; And when the Murder all is out , Then heigh Boys up go we . VII . Rumsey's Gold , and Rumbold bold , Conspire to kill the KING , And Pickering , in fatal hold , Must answer for the thing ; Nelthorp , West , and all the rest , With Perkin may agree , To be o'th' Tower and Throne possessed ; Then heigh Boys up go we . VIII . Our City Riots , Country Routs , That to Rebellion tend , Our Races , and our Hunting-bouts In Insurrections end ; The Rebel now is catch'd i'th' Snare He lay'd for MONARCHY ; At last the Gallows claims it share , And hey Boys up go we . Printed by N.T. at the entrance into the Old-Spring-Garden , near Charing-Cross , 1683. 