H : 18317 The description of a rare or rather most monstrous fish taken on the East cost of Holland the xvii of November , Anno 1566. The works of God how great and strange they be A picture plain behold hear may you see . Hear thou hast ( gentle friend ) the picture shape and fashion of a fish strange and marvelous taken ( as is said ) in Holland , having on his fins hard scales in form much like the beggars dishes , which in that Country they were wont to wear in scoff & derision , his eyes like and owl & mouthed as a Popin gay his tail reed and fower cornered like to a priests Cap , which fish hath be seen and viewed of most Nobles and Pears of Flaunders , who hath plucked of his scales like to dishes and keeps them for a show and for the more credit hereof , you shall understand that the vii of December the said fish was brought to the City of Antwarpt where it was openly showed and seen as well of English men as other strangers , what this monster with other uncouth sights seen of late do Prognosticate and signify unto us , that I leave to thy conjecture ( loving Reader ) beseeching God the Lord and governor of all creatures not to deal with us according to our deserts but for Christ his sons sake to power his mercy upon us and grant us Grace to amend and to do those things which are pleasant and acceptable in his sighed thorough Jesus Christe our Lord . Amen . AS thou this formed fish dost see I Changed from his state So many men in eke degree . From kind degenerate , To monsters men are turned now , Disguised in their ray . For in their fond inventions new They keep no mean ne stay , Their manners mad and monstrous , what should I now descry ? Or yet their cates delicious , why should I them espy ? If one that lived in this land , A fortye years before : Could be released from the band , To be as he was yore . would he not wonder wondrously , when he our monsters spied , In so small time so foolishly From auntiant custom flyed ? These monsters therefore God does send , To put us all in mind . Such shaples shapes for to amend , which now are out of kind , Or else the God of kind and shape will shaples us detest , And with his plague will punish us . But more to speak I rest . Imprinted at London in Pawles Churchyard by Thomas Purfoote at the sign of the Lucrece . H : 18317 The description of a rare or rather most monstrous fish taken on the East cost of Holland the xvii of November , Anno 1566. The works of God how great and strange they be A picture plain behold hear may you see . Hear thou hast ( gentle friend ) the picture shape and fashion of a fish strange and marvelous taken ( as is said ) in Holland , having on his fins hard scales in form much like the beggars dishes , which in that Country they were wont to wear in scoff & derision , his eyes like and owl & mouthed as a Popin gay his tail reed and fower cornered like to a priests Cap , which fish hath be seen and viewed of most Nobles and Pears of Flaunders , who hath plucked of his scales like to dishes and keeps them for a show and for the more credit hereof , you shall understand that the vii of December the said fish was brought to the City of Antwarpt where it was openly showed and seen as well of English men as other strangers , what this monster with other uncouth sights seen of late do Prognosticate and signify unto us , that I leave to thy conjecture ( loving Reader ) beseeching God the Lord and governor of all creatures not to deal with us according to our deserts but for Christ his sons sake to power his mercy upon us and grant us Grace to amend and to do those things which are pleasant and acceptable in his sighed thorough Jesus Christe our Lord . Amen . AS thou this formed fish dost see I Changed from his state So many men in eke degree . From kind degenerate , To monsters men are turned now , Disguised in their ray . For in their fond inventions new They keep no mean ne stay , Their manners mad and monstrous , what should I now descry ? Or yet their cates delicious , why should I them espy ? If one that lived in this land , A fortye years before : Could be released from the band , To be as he was yore . would he not wonder wondrously , when he our monsters spied , In so small time so foolishly From auntiant custom flyed ? These monsters therefore God does send , To put us all in mind . Such shaples shapes for to amend , which now are out of kind , Or else the God of kind and shape will shaples us detest , And with his plague will punish us . But more to speak I rest . Imprinted at London in Pawles Churchyard by Thomas Purfoote at the sign of the Lucrece . 