H : 18312 And Epitaph upon the death of the honourable , sir Edward Saunders Knight , Lord chief Baron of the Exchequer , who died the .19 . of November . 1576. YOU Muses wear your mourning weeds , strike on the fatal Drome , Sound Triton out the Trump of Fame , in spite of Parcas dome : Distil Parnassus pleasant drops , possess Pierides plase , Apollo help with doleful tune , to wail this woeful case . Wring hard your hands , wail on your loss , lament the fate that fell , With sobs and sighs to Saunders say , o Saunders now farewell . Whom Phoebus fed with Pallas pap , as one of Sibils seed , Lo here where Death did rest his corpses , the vermins foul to feed : Whom Imps of Jove with Nectar sweet , long in Libethres noursht , Behold how dreadful Death him brought , to that whence he came first . Lycurgus he for learned laws , Rhadamanthus raze that ran , Another Nestor for advice , Zaleucus fame that won . A Damon deer unto his friend , in faith like Phocion found , A Cato that could counsel give , to prince a subject found : Not Athens for their Solon sage , not Room for Numa wail , As we for Saunders death have cause , in flooddes of tears to sail . Not Sparta carded for Chilos death , ne proud Prienna pressed , To weep for Bias as we wail , our Sanders late possessed . His learned paths his talents rare , so now by Death appears , As he that Salomon sought to serve , in prime and youthful years , His counsel sad , his rules , his laws , in country soil so wrought , As though in Cuma he had been , of sage Sibilla taugh His virtuous life was such I say , as Virtue did embrace , By Virtue taught in virtuous school , to grow in virtuous raze : Might tender babes , might orphantes weak , might widows rear the cry , The found thereof should pierce the clouds , to scale the empire sky : To bid the gods to battle bend , and to dissend in sighed , Though far unfit , and mates unmeet , with mortal men to fight . Too late ( alas ) we wish his life , to soon deceived us Death , Too little wit we have to seek , the dead again to breath . What helpless is , must careless be , as Nature's course doth show , For Death shall reap what life hath sown , by Nature this we know : Where is that erce Achilles fled , where is king Turnus shroud , What is become of Priamus state , where is Periander proud : Hector , Hanno , Hanibal , dead , Pompei , Pirrhus spilled , Scipio , Cirus , Caesar slain , and Alexander killed . So long there Fortune fast did floe , and charged Fame to found , Till frowning Fortune foiled by fate , which fawning Fortune found : Shun Fortune's feats , shake Fortune of , to none is Fortune found , Sith none may say of Fortune so , I Fortune faithful found . Behold where Fortune flowed so fast , and favoured Saunders lure , Till fickle Fortune false again , did Saunders death procure . Lo clothed could in clods of clay , in drossy dust remain , By fate returned from whence he came , to his mother's womb again . Who wellnigh thirtie years was Judge , before a Judge did fallen , And judged by that mighty Judge , which Judge shall judge us all . The heavens may of right rejoice , and earth may it bewail , Sith heaven won , and earth hath lost , the guide and ark of vail . There gain is much , our loss is great , there mirth our moan is such , That they may laugh as cause do yield , and we may weep as much : Oh happy he , unhappy we , his happen doth aye increase , Happy he , and hapless we , his hap shall never cease . We live to die , he died to live , we want , and he possessed , We bide in bands , he baths in bliss , the gods above him blessed . Being born to live , he lived to die , and died to God so plain , That birth , that life , that death , do show , that he shall live again : His youth to age , his age to death , his death to fame applied , His fame to time , his time to God , thus Saunders lived and died . O happy life , Oh happier Death , Oh tenne times happy he , Whose happen it was such happen to have , a Judge this age to be . O joyful time , o blessed soil , where Pallas rules with wit , Oh noble state , Oh sacred seat , where Saba sage doth sit . Like Susan found , like Sara sad , with Hesters mace in hand , With Judiths sword Bellona like , to rule this noble land . I had my will , you have your wish , I laugh , rejoyse you may , I won now much , you gain no less , to see this happy day . Wherein I died , wherein you live , O triple happy cost , Wherein I joyed in glory great , wherein you triumpth most . Kneel on your knees knock hard your breasts , found forth the joyful Drome , Clap loud your hands , sound Echo say , the golden world is come . Rejoice you Judges may of right , your mirth may now be such , As never erst you Judges had , in England mirth so much . Here Cuma is , here Sibill reigns , on Delphos seat to sit , Here she like Phoebus rules , that can Gordius knot unknit . I lived to nature long enough , I lived to honour much , I lived at wish , I died at will , to see my country such . As neither needs it Numas laws nor yet Apollos sword , For Maugre Mars , yet Mars shall of this our Queen afeard . O peerless pearl , Oh Diamond deer , Oh Queen of Queens farewell , Your royal Majesty god preserve , in England long to dwell . Farwell the Phoenix of the world , farewell my sovereign Queen , Farewell most noble virtuous prince , Minervas mate I ween . No Juel , Gem , no Gold to give , no pearls from Pactolus lo , No Persian Gaze , no Indian stones , no Tagus sands to show . But faith and will to native soil alive and dead I find , My heart my mind my love I leave , unto my prince behind . Farewell you nobles of this land , farewell you Judges grave , Farewell my fellows friends and mates , your Queen I say God save . What rise in time in time doth fallen , what flows in time doth ebb , What lives in time . in time shall die , and yield to Parcas web . The sun to darkness shall be turned , the stars from skies shall fallen , The Moon to blood , the world with fire shall be consumed all . As smoke or vapour vanish straight , as bubbles rise and fallen , As clouds do pass , or shadow shifts we live , we die so all . Our pomp our pride , our triumph most , our glory great herein , Like shattering shadow pass away , as though none such had been . Earth , water , air , and fire , as they were erst before , A lump confused , and Chaos called , so shall they once be more . And all to earth , that came from earth , and to the grave descend , For earth on earth , to earth shall go , and earth shall the end : As Christ descended up in clouds , so Christ in clouds shall come , To judge both good and bad on earth , at dreadful day of dome . From whence our flesh shall rise again , even from the drossy dust , And so shall pass , I hope unto , the mansion of the just . Lodowick LLoyd . Imprinted at London by H.S. for Henry Disle , dwelling at the Southwest door of Saint Paules Church , and are there to be sold December .3 . H : 18312 And Epitaph upon the death of the honourable , sir Edward Saunders Knight , Lord chief Baron of the Exchequer , who died the .19 . of November . 1576. YOU Muses wear your mourning weeds , strike on the fatal Drome , Sound Triton out the Trump of Fame , in spite of Parcas dome : Distil Parnassus pleasant drops , possess Pierides plase , Apollo help with doleful tune , to wail this woeful case . Wring hard your hands , wail on your loss , lament the fate that fell , With sobs and sighs to Saunders say , o Saunders now farewell . Whom Phoebus fed with Pallas pap , as one of Sibils seed , Lo here where Death did rest his corpses , the vermins foul to feed : Whom Imps of Jove with Nectar sweet , long in Libethres noursht , Behold how dreadful Death him brought , to that whence he came first . Lycurgus he for learned laws , Rhadamanthus raze that ran , Another Nestor for advice , Zaleucus fame that won . A Damon deer unto his friend , in faith like Phocion found , A Cato that could counsel give , to prince a subject found : Not Athens for their Solon sage , not Room for Numa wail , As we for Saunders death have cause , in flooddes of tears to sail . Not Sparta carded for Chilos death , ne proud Prienna pressed , To weep for Bias as we wail , our Sanders late possessed . His learned paths his talents rare , so now by Death appears , As he that Salomon sought to serve , in prime and youthful years , His counsel sad , his rules , his laws , in country soil so wrought , As though in Cuma he had been , of sage Sibilla taugh His virtuous life was such I say , as Virtue did embrace , By Virtue taught in virtuous school , to grow in virtuous raze : Might tender babes , might orphantes weak , might widows rear the cry , The found thereof should pierce the clouds , to scale the empire sky : To bid the gods to battle bend , and to dissend in sighed , Though far unfit , and mates unmeet , with mortal men to fight . Too late ( alas ) we wish his life , to soon deceived us Death , Too little wit we have to seek , the dead again to breath . What helpless is , must careless be , as Nature's course doth show , For Death shall reap what life hath sown , by Nature this we know : Where is that erce Achilles fled , where is king Turnus shroud , What is become of Priamus state , where is Periander proud : Hector , Hanno , Hanibal , dead , Pompei , Pirrhus spilled , Scipio , Cirus , Caesar slain , and Alexander killed . So long there Fortune fast did floe , and charged Fame to found , Till frowning Fortune foiled by fate , which fawning Fortune found : Shun Fortune's feats , shake Fortune of , to none is Fortune found , Sith none may say of Fortune so , I Fortune faithful found . Behold where Fortune flowed so fast , and favoured Saunders lure , Till fickle Fortune false again , did Saunders death procure . Lo clothed could in clods of clay , in drossy dust remain , By fate returned from whence he came , to his mother's womb again . Who wellnigh thirtie years was Judge , before a Judge did fallen , And judged by that mighty Judge , which Judge shall judge us all . The heavens may of right rejoice , and earth may it bewail , Sith heaven won , and earth hath lost , the guide and ark of vail . There gain is much , our loss is great , there mirth our moan is such , That they may laugh as cause do yield , and we may weep as much : Oh happy he , unhappy we , his happen doth aye increase , Happy he , and hapless we , his hap shall never cease . We live to die , he died to live , we want , and he possessed , We bide in bands , he baths in bliss , the gods above him blessed . Being born to live , he lived to die , and died to God so plain , That birth , that life , that death , do show , that he shall live again : His youth to age , his age to death , his death to fame applied , His fame to time , his time to God , thus Saunders lived and died . O happy life , Oh happier Death , Oh tenne times happy he , Whose happen it was such happen to have , a Judge this age to be . O joyful time , o blessed soil , where Pallas rules with wit , Oh noble state , Oh sacred seat , where Saba sage doth sit . Like Susan found , like Sara sad , with Hesters mace in hand , With Judiths sword Bellona like , to rule this noble land . I had my will , you have your wish , I laugh , rejoyse you may , I won now much , you gain no less , to see this happy day . Wherein I died , wherein you live , O triple happy cost , Wherein I joyed in glory great , wherein you triumpth most . Kneel on your knees knock hard your breasts , found forth the joyful Drome , Clap loud your hands , sound Echo say , the golden world is come . Rejoice you Judges may of right , your mirth may now be such , As never erst you Judges had , in England mirth so much . Here Cuma is , here Sibill reigns , on Delphos seat to sit , Here she like Phoebus rules , that can Gordius knot unknit . I lived to nature long enough , I lived to honour much , I lived at wish , I died at will , to see my country such . As neither needs it Numas laws nor yet Apollos sword , For Maugre Mars , yet Mars shall of this our Queen afeard . O peerless pearl , Oh Diamond deer , Oh Queen of Queens farewell , Your royal Majesty god preserve , in England long to dwell . Farwell the Phoenix of the world , farewell my sovereign Queen , Farewell most noble virtuous prince , Minervas mate I ween . No Juel , Gem , no Gold to give , no pearls from Pactolus lo , No Persian Gaze , no Indian stones , no Tagus sands to show . But faith and will to native soil alive and dead I find , My heart my mind my love I leave , unto my prince behind . Farewell you nobles of this land , farewell you Judges grave , Farewell my fellows friends and mates , your Queen I say God save . What rise in time in time doth fallen , what flows in time doth ebb , What lives in time . in time shall die , and yield to Parcas web . The sun to darkness shall be turned , the stars from skies shall fallen , The Moon to blood , the world with fire shall be consumed all . As smoke or vapour vanish straight , as bubbles rise and fallen , As clouds do pass , or shadow shifts we live , we die so all . Our pomp our pride , our triumph most , our glory great herein , Like shattering shadow pass away , as though none such had been . Earth , water , air , and fire , as they were erst before , A lump confused , and Chaos called , so shall they once be more . And all to earth , that came from earth , and to the grave descend , For earth on earth , to earth shall go , and earth shall the end : As Christ descended up in clouds , so Christ in clouds shall come , To judge both good and bad on earth , at dreadful day of dome . From whence our flesh shall rise again , even from the drossy dust , And so shall pass , I hope unto , the mansion of the just . Lodowick LLoyd . Imprinted at London by H.S. for Henry Disle , dwelling at the Southwest door of Saint Paules Church , and are there to be sold December .3 . 