H : 18321 Of the ends and deaths of two Prisoners / lately pressed to death in Newgate . 1569. TRue Preachers which God liketh well , To you I run with all my heart , Your words with me are like to dwell , Until this life I shall depart . As for the rest whose tongues are tIED , To them who runs , he runs far wide . What so does best commend the truth , All falsehood likewise discommendes , I know you Preachers tender youth , And visits them like faithful friends . Yet if there hap a dismoll day , The Wolves would tear your lives away But they that humbly do you hear , And eke well bear your words away , Having their understandings clear , Needs never fear the dismoll day . Nor will seek peace here in this life , Where nought is found but war and strife . So they that do , nor yet will hear , When they be called , and truth is told , Ill haps to them unwares is near , Yet blindness makes Bayards bold . But they that warned are in time , Half armed are gainst dangerous crime . A trial fust I found of late , Where Preachers did them selves address , To spend the day within Newgate , To comfort two whom Law had press . There did I see that comfort great , Whereof our Preachers oft entreat . There saw I more , do what they might , Sharp judgement pass , the Press at hand , The one would not remit his spite But does the same to understand , By blasphemies most horrible , And countenance most terrible . Ne would believe that he should die , Which plainly did to us appear , By toyish countenance smilingly , Which seemed very monstrous gear . And yet he was of perfect mind , But thus he showed his devilish kind . With him persuasions would not serve , In all my life I saw none such : He sware great oaths he would not starve , If ought there were within the hutch . And to it he went full eagerly , As one that thought he should not die . Anon there came a prisoner in , That irons had clapped on good store . Gods heart quoth Wat , you will not lyn , These parts you played like slaves before . And up he snatch hight coals in hand , To throw at one that by did stand . This stander by a Keeper was , That hardly handled him always : Wherefore if he might bring to pass , That Keeper should now end his days . Though he did burn in hell therefors . Such Keepers should keep there no more . This desperate fool entreated was , By Master Young and others there , To pray for them that did trespass , And to forgive , sith death is near . Gods wounds quoth he , it is shame for you , That cry not against this tyranny . Why will not bolts or fetters serve , Think you ( quoth Wat ) to hold this man ? He hath no money though he starve , His hose and doublet must trudge than . If hell there be , or plagues to fallen , These Villains will be plagued all . For my part if I boil in led , I cannot hold but braivle this out . Would I might fight how ever I sped , Chuld course that Over and fleering Lout . No more good Wat , quoth Master Young , Thou hurt it thy self most with that tonge . Thus parted be and Master Young , Much grieved for his senseless soul . But I remained and used my tonge , As God did force vice to control , But What no changeling would not rest , But fell a fresh unto a test . As I might then I did erhort , Them both with me to go and pray , Where I would speak to their comfort , If that the Lord did not say nay , The time is short , therefore quoth I , Let us seek the Lord while he is nigh . I pray you be content quoth Wat , The Lord hath mercy enough in store , I may yet have my part of that , As he to others hath given before . You must repent and call for grace , ( Quoth I ) else never look to see Gods face . Then was the tother glad of me , And gave to God great thanks and praise , That he might have my company , With him for to remain always . Wherein such comfort great he found , That tears of joy dropped to the ground . I see now God is good ( quoth he ) And will not have my soul be lost , But hath provided you for me , Not sparing any pain nor cost . You come from God , your words are sweet , I feel Gods grace my heart does meet . I would I had known you before , But now it is in right good time : For though my carcase be forlorn , My soul to God I feel does climb . O hear me ( say he ) to the rest , Ill haps to me is for the best . Hear how this misery hath wrought , The taming of my flesh so proud : My soul to God that hath it bought , I do commend with voice so loud . Knowing that he does hear my cry , And pardons me immediately , Would God the world did hear my voice And would be warned by my death , Then would they not in evil rejoice , But praise the Lord whiles they have breath . And love him that hath loved them well , Who hath redeemed their souls from hell . O God ( quoth he ) is this thy kind , To care for him that knew not thee ? I never had thee erst in mind , Yet now thy grace hath healed me . Due thanks to thee I cannot give , That hast now made me to believe . O tell me I pray , what is your name , Say he to me unknown you are : To you likewise I am the same , But God that knows us is not far . He will reward you this I trust , Sith I cannot that die needs must . So God dealt with me yester day , A friend he sent us in Limbo : Whose good estate God bless always , For that good lore that came him from . His name was Draper Alderman , Which was my comfort great as than . He prayed with us most earnestly , No scorn was in his velvet coat , With tears he kyst us lovingly , And went with mourning cheer God wot . So does the power of the Lord , Make diverse men in truth accord . Thus God hath found me out at length , And stayed me of my wicked raze And me moved with perfect strength No tonge can rightly praise such grace I would my death were much more vile That others might beware therwhile . So then we prayed each one for other With trickling tears of joy and grief In truth I took him for my brother Though never so much he were a thief . Then death to him could not come ill , For of Gods grace he had his fill . Then forth we went and made a fire , I dined there with bred and cheese : To sing some Psalms was his desire , So each man soonge in their degrees . O Lord turn not away thy face , From him that lies prostrate in place . But Watson fell unto his food As one that hungry was in deed And merely eat that he thought good , But threw the rest the dogs to feed . I saw no thought that he did take , Nor lykelyhoode from sin to wake . Then up came Master Young again Their deaths now being at the door But Watson could not yet refrain , But laughs it out still more and more , Still all in vain to him was said , Yet all the rest down kneeling prayed . Then Scarlet took him by the hand And preached , though small to his regard Yet all the rest might understand , His words deserved to be harden . And yet he could not hold but smiles , Indeed he was begylde therwhyles . A Prisoners tale that he did trust Made him that way to lose his life So there the matter was discussed , The press at length did end their strife . He trusted that which was untrue , Until it was to late to rue . Lo thus much I thought good to write For those that warned yet will be That they in evil no more delight , Nor to such council do agree . Who did this ill one so pervarte , That heavy press burst Watsons heart . Imprinted at London by John Awdely , dwelling in little Britaine street without Aldersgate . H : 18321 Of the ends and deaths of two Prisoners / lately pressed to death in Newgate . 1569. TRue Preachers which God liketh well , To you I run with all my heart , Your words with me are like to dwell , Until this life I shall depart . As for the rest whose tongues are tIED , To them who runs , he runs far wide . What so does best commend the truth , All falsehood likewise discommendes , I know you Preachers tender youth , And visits them like faithful friends . Yet if there hap a dismoll day , The Wolves would tear your lives away But they that humbly do you hear , And eke well bear your words away , Having their understandings clear , Needs never fear the dismoll day . Nor will seek peace here in this life , Where nought is found but war and strife . So they that do , nor yet will hear , When they be called , and truth is told , Ill haps to them unwares is near , Yet blindness makes Bayards bold . But they that warned are in time , Half armed are gainst dangerous crime . A trial fust I found of late , Where Preachers did them selves address , To spend the day within Newgate , To comfort two whom Law had press . There did I see that comfort great , Whereof our Preachers oft entreat . There saw I more , do what they might , Sharp judgement pass , the Press at hand , The one would not remit his spite But does the same to understand , By blasphemies most horrible , And countenance most terrible . Ne would believe that he should die , Which plainly did to us appear , By toyish countenance smilingly , Which seemed very monstrous gear . And yet he was of perfect mind , But thus he showed his devilish kind . With him persuasions would not serve , In all my life I saw none such : He sware great oaths he would not starve , If ought there were within the hutch . And to it he went full eagerly , As one that thought he should not die . Anon there came a prisoner in , That irons had clapped on good store . Gods heart quoth Wat , you will not lyn , These parts you played like slaves before . And up he snatch hight coals in hand , To throw at one that by did stand . This stander by a Keeper was , That hardly handled him always : Wherefore if he might bring to pass , That Keeper should now end his days . Though he did burn in hell therefors . Such Keepers should keep there no more . This desperate fool entreated was , By Master Young and others there , To pray for them that did trespass , And to forgive , sith death is near . Gods wounds quoth he , it is shame for you , That cry not against this tyranny . Why will not bolts or fetters serve , Think you ( quoth Wat ) to hold this man ? He hath no money though he starve , His hose and doublet must trudge than . If hell there be , or plagues to fallen , These Villains will be plagued all . For my part if I boil in led , I cannot hold but braivle this out . Would I might fight how ever I sped , Chuld course that Over and fleering Lout . No more good Wat , quoth Master Young , Thou hurt it thy self most with that tonge . Thus parted be and Master Young , Much grieved for his senseless soul . But I remained and used my tonge , As God did force vice to control , But What no changeling would not rest , But fell a fresh unto a test . As I might then I did erhort , Them both with me to go and pray , Where I would speak to their comfort , If that the Lord did not say nay , The time is short , therefore quoth I , Let us seek the Lord while he is nigh . I pray you be content quoth Wat , The Lord hath mercy enough in store , I may yet have my part of that , As he to others hath given before . You must repent and call for grace , ( Quoth I ) else never look to see Gods face . Then was the tother glad of me , And gave to God great thanks and praise , That he might have my company , With him for to remain always . Wherein such comfort great he found , That tears of joy dropped to the ground . I see now God is good ( quoth he ) And will not have my soul be lost , But hath provided you for me , Not sparing any pain nor cost . You come from God , your words are sweet , I feel Gods grace my heart does meet . I would I had known you before , But now it is in right good time : For though my carcase be forlorn , My soul to God I feel does climb . O hear me ( say he ) to the rest , Ill haps to me is for the best . Hear how this misery hath wrought , The taming of my flesh so proud : My soul to God that hath it bought , I do commend with voice so loud . Knowing that he does hear my cry , And pardons me immediately , Would God the world did hear my voice And would be warned by my death , Then would they not in evil rejoice , But praise the Lord whiles they have breath . And love him that hath loved them well , Who hath redeemed their souls from hell . O God ( quoth he ) is this thy kind , To care for him that knew not thee ? I never had thee erst in mind , Yet now thy grace hath healed me . Due thanks to thee I cannot give , That hast now made me to believe . O tell me I pray , what is your name , Say he to me unknown you are : To you likewise I am the same , But God that knows us is not far . He will reward you this I trust , Sith I cannot that die needs must . So God dealt with me yester day , A friend he sent us in Limbo : Whose good estate God bless always , For that good lore that came him from . His name was Draper Alderman , Which was my comfort great as than . He prayed with us most earnestly , No scorn was in his velvet coat , With tears he kyst us lovingly , And went with mourning cheer God wot . So does the power of the Lord , Make diverse men in truth accord . Thus God hath found me out at length , And stayed me of my wicked raze And me moved with perfect strength No tonge can rightly praise such grace I would my death were much more vile That others might beware therwhile . So then we prayed each one for other With trickling tears of joy and grief In truth I took him for my brother Though never so much he were a thief . Then death to him could not come ill , For of Gods grace he had his fill . Then forth we went and made a fire , I dined there with bred and cheese : To sing some Psalms was his desire , So each man soonge in their degrees . O Lord turn not away thy face , From him that lies prostrate in place . But Watson fell unto his food As one that hungry was in deed And merely eat that he thought good , But threw the rest the dogs to feed . I saw no thought that he did take , Nor lykelyhoode from sin to wake . Then up came Master Young again Their deaths now being at the door But Watson could not yet refrain , But laughs it out still more and more , Still all in vain to him was said , Yet all the rest down kneeling prayed . Then Scarlet took him by the hand And preached , though small to his regard Yet all the rest might understand , His words deserved to be harden . And yet he could not hold but smiles , Indeed he was begylde therwhyles . A Prisoners tale that he did trust Made him that way to lose his life So there the matter was discussed , The press at length did end their strife . He trusted that which was untrue , Until it was to late to rue . Lo thus much I thought good to write For those that warned yet will be That they in evil no more delight , Nor to such council do agree . Who did this ill one so pervarte , That heavy press burst Watsons heart . Imprinted at London by John Awdely , dwelling in little Britaine street without Aldersgate . 