H : 18326 A proper new ballad expressing the fame's , Concerning a warning to all London dams , To the tune of the black Almain . YOu London dams , whose passing fame's Through out the world is spread , In to the sky , ascending high To every place is fled : For thorough each land and place , For beauty's kindly grace : You are renowned over all , You have the praise and ever shall . What wight on earth that can behold More dearer and fairer dams then you ? Therefore to extol you I may be bold , Your paces and graces so gay to vieu . For Virtues lore , and other things more Of truth you do excel , I may well guess , for comeliness Of all , you bear the bell : As trim in your array As be the flowers in Maye With roset hew so bravely dight As twinkling stars that shineth by night . For courtesy in every part Not many nor any resemble you can , In lady Nature's camely art So gravely and bravely to every man . And oft when you go , fair dams on a row In to the fields so green , You fit and view the beautiful hew Of flowers that there be seen : Which lady FLORA hath So garnished in each path With all the pleasures that may be ( Fair dams ) are there to pleasure you Till Frost does come and nip the top , And lop them and crop them , not one to be seen So when that Death does hap to your lot , Consider and gather what beauty hath been . For as the flower , does change in and hour That was so fair to see , Consider and gather ( fair dams ) the weather May change as well with ye : And turn your joys as soon As frost the flowers hath done So sudden Death may change as well Your beauty's that now does excel , And turn your sweets to bitter and sour When death with his breath comes stealing near : Such haps may hap to come in and hour Which ever or never you little did fear . Wherefore I say , fair dams so gay That Death is busyest now , To catch you hence , where no defence May make him once to bow : Experience well does try You see it with your eye , How quickly some are taken hence Not youthful years may make defence : And strange diseases many are seen Increasing and preasyng to vex us each day , But sure the like hath ever been May hove you and move you to God to pray . And learn to know , as grass does grow And withereth in to hay , Remember therefore , keep virtue in store For so you shall decay : And pity on the poor With some part of your store , Look that your lamps may ready be The dreadful day approaches nigh : When Christ shall come to judge our deeds No fairness nor clearness can help you than , The corn to separate from the weeds Fair dams , when comes the day of dome . Now that I have said , let it be weighed It is no jestyng toy , Not all your treasure , can you pleasure It is but fading toy : Therefore remember me What I have said to ye , And thus the Lord preserve the Queen Long space with us to live and reign : As we are all bound incessantly To desire with prayer both night and day , God to preserve her majesty Amen , let all her good subject's say . FINIS . quoth Steven Peell . Imprinted at S. Katherins by Alexander Lacie for Henrie Kyrkham , dwelling at the middle North door of S. Paules church . H : 18326 A proper new ballad expressing the fame's , Concerning a warning to all London dams , To the tune of the black Almain . YOu London dams , whose passing fame's Through out the world is spread , In to the sky , ascending high To every place is fled : For thorough each land and place , For beauty's kindly grace : You are renowned over all , You have the praise and ever shall . What wight on earth that can behold More dearer and fairer dams then you ? Therefore to extol you I may be bold , Your paces and graces so gay to vieu . For Virtues lore , and other things more Of truth you do excel , I may well guess , for comeliness Of all , you bear the bell : As trim in your array As be the flowers in Maye With roset hew so bravely dight As twinkling stars that shineth by night . For courtesy in every part Not many nor any resemble you can , In lady Nature's camely art So gravely and bravely to every man . And oft when you go , fair dams on a row In to the fields so green , You fit and view the beautiful hew Of flowers that there be seen : Which lady FLORA hath So garnished in each path With all the pleasures that may be ( Fair dams ) are there to pleasure you Till Frost does come and nip the top , And lop them and crop them , not one to be seen So when that Death does hap to your lot , Consider and gather what beauty hath been . For as the flower , does change in and hour That was so fair to see , Consider and gather ( fair dams ) the weather May change as well with ye : And turn your joys as soon As frost the flowers hath done So sudden Death may change as well Your beauty's that now does excel , And turn your sweets to bitter and sour When death with his breath comes stealing near : Such haps may hap to come in and hour Which ever or never you little did fear . Wherefore I say , fair dams so gay That Death is busyest now , To catch you hence , where no defence May make him once to bow : Experience well does try You see it with your eye , How quickly some are taken hence Not youthful years may make defence : And strange diseases many are seen Increasing and preasyng to vex us each day , But sure the like hath ever been May hove you and move you to God to pray . And learn to know , as grass does grow And withereth in to hay , Remember therefore , keep virtue in store For so you shall decay : And pity on the poor With some part of your store , Look that your lamps may ready be The dreadful day approaches nigh : When Christ shall come to judge our deeds No fairness nor clearness can help you than , The corn to separate from the weeds Fair dams , when comes the day of dome . Now that I have said , let it be weighed It is no jestyng toy , Not all your treasure , can you pleasure It is but fading toy : Therefore remember me What I have said to ye , And thus the Lord preserve the Queen Long space with us to live and reign : As we are all bound incessantly To desire with prayer both night and day , God to preserve her majesty Amen , let all her good subject's say . FINIS . quoth Steven Peell . Imprinted at S. Katherins by Alexander Lacie for Henrie Kyrkham , dwelling at the middle North door of S. Paules church . 