H : 18328 And Epitaph on the death of the right noble and most virtuous Lady Margarit Duglasis good grace , Countisse of Livinox ( & Daughter to the renowned & most excellent Lady Margarit Queen , Sister to the magnificent & most mighty Prince Henry the eight of England , Fraunce and Ireland , King , and by Gods permission Queen of Scotland , ) who diseased this life the ninth day of March . Anno. 1577. at his mannoure in Hackney in the county of Midelsex and lies interred the .3 . day of April at Westminster in the Chaple of King Henry the seventh , her worthy Grandfather of Englande , Fraunce and Ireland King etc The year of our Lord God . 1578 , and in the .20 . year of our sovereign Lady Queen , Elizabeth by the grace of God of Englande , Fraunce and Irelande , Queen , defendor of the faith . etc REporte run on , ring forth thy doleful Bel , That worldly wights , may wail our great annoy : In Court and Town , our cause of woe do tell , That stand distressed bereft of all our joy . With care see that , thy skyl thou do employ , To blaze our luckless hap throughout each land : That mortal wights , our gretes may understand . And as we wail , so let constraint of pain , Enforce them weep , to think upon our loss : In woeful wise , with us , let them complain , That yield of care , to bear the bitter cross . Let waves of woe , their minds in anguish toss , Let floods of flowing tears , each where be seen : To wail this Dame , the Daughter of a Queen . Lady Marga - rits grace Daugh - ter to the eldest Daugh - ter of Henrye the .7 . now dis - ceased , born at Harbo - tell three years before ill May day . In princely place , let Prince and Peers lament , Let Noble Lords , and Ladies yield to wail : For from the Court a Jwel rich is hent , And such a one as to her great avail , Deserveth fame , though Death her life do quail , Where she might help , she would no harm procure : You all can tell , her friendship was most pure . A foe to vice and such as vicious were , This noble dame continually did res A friendly heart she did to virtue bear , The fruits whereof did flourish in her breast . To rich and poor true friendship she professed , Her words with deeds confirmed were each hour : Then nobles all lament this fragrant flower . Cast of your silks , your coastly robes forbear , Abandon Joy , let mirth and exile be : Vouchsafe a while your mourning weeds to wear , Beweep this dame born of so high degree . A royal prince , Henry the seaventh even he , Of England , Fraunce , and Ireland , famous king , Her Gran-syre was consider you this thing . Her Lady mother's grace , that Margarit hight , Of Scotland was , whilom the crowned queen : And sister to , the eigth Henry by right , Whose flowering fame in England shines green . Allied by birth this gem was to our queen , Then noble states , mind you her blood and birth : And help with tears to bring her to the earth . Send forth your sobes , let floods fall from your eyes , This gracious gem , this pearl of prize beweep : And in your hearts , of Livinox that Countess wise , For virtue vouch , a true record to keep . And though her corpses in earth lie closed deep , Consent to make memorial of her name : That conquereth death by force of worthy fame . Her love to God was always faithful found , Her life she led in loyalty and awe : On truth she stayed , to prince her troth was sound , And stood in dread for to transgress the law . Infortune fell could not her heart with draw , From God nor prince , her thought could never change , Ne was her love to country shown as strange . Then Brittaines kind that fit in honours stal , Forget not you , to bid this dame adieu : And you in court , that meanest are of all , With tears prepare , your loving friend to rew . While life she joyed she was a friend to you , Her heart was meek and humble to the end : Just cause you have to weep so good a friend . You suitors poor , have lost a Margarit deer , A precious pearl , the pillar of your trus Who willing was , your due demands to hear , And to the prince to further causes just . Think on this Phoenix rare of right you must , Whose want , with woe vouchsafe a time to wail , Her shrine remains , her presence you do fail . In wedlock's right , while she possessed life , This peerless dame most dutiful was found : Unto her worthy spouse she was a constant wife , Faith knit loves knot , truth was her trusty ground Two sons she had most fit to be renowned The one of Scots the diadem did wear : Whose fatal sin is known to every ear . Henrye King of Scots . his eldest son . While he as prince did bear the royal sway , The commons hearts most curtuously he won : But treason false in cankered hearts did stay , And traitors fierce to work his spoil begun . Yet weldeth now the sceptre ( there ) his son , Whose death did nyp this Countess to the gall : Yet did she joy , his seed was safe from thrall . Her other son Lord Charles that worthy wight , Espoused she see , whose seed she did embrace : Yet death in time bereft him from her sighed , Whose want in her a double dole did place . Betwixt these extremes yet did this Ladies grace , Use patience sweet to salve her inward grief : And praised God that was her comfort chief . But as their raze the course of time beware out , And they to death constrained were to bend : So to her state ( Time ) his compass coursed about , And touched her corpses with sickness sharp in end . In which by faith on Christ she did depend , Whose only blood she did affy and trus By faith should purge , her since and make her just . Her hope was heaven , this world she did detest , And when that death began to draw full nigh : To bear his stroke she patience pure possessed , And unto heaven for safeguard sweet did fly . She unto God with heart and mind did cry , Preserve our queen and bless this little land : Her foes confound with thy out stretched hand . Lord Charles her son , Earl of Livinox buried at hackney This done she bids the noble Pears adieu , She takes her leave of friends and servants all : My time is come , I take my leave of you , The fruit thats ripe , is soonest apt to fallen . And though to death my body now be thrall , I die , to live in heaven with Christ my love : And hope to rest with his elect above . This said , her breath forthwith began to fail , And fading life , inclines to draw to end : She leaves this world unto her great avail , For Jesus Christ is found her surest friend . From danger great , his soul he does defend , Sin is defaced by virtue of his blood : And he alone hath done this Countess good . Her Daughter deer that loving Lady kind , Her Gracesse death to mourn is ready pres The Lady young that nature hath asynde , As yet for food to claim the Nurse's breast . Even as it can with sorrow is possessed , And Scotlands King , his Grandames death does moan : In Court and Town a cause of care is shown . Wife & Lady to the lord Charles Earl of Livinox Charles King of Scotland . Her servants all beweep his noble grace , The poor each where , her loss with tears lament From whom no time she once would turn her face Her heart and hand they say , each hour was bent . Their need to help , and Hackney does assent , with wringing hands to wail this worthies wrack That gave them food and clad the naked back . But what can tears or piercing plaints prevail , Her time was come , and death hath cut her down : Thre score , three years she liv'd till death did quail , The life of his most worthy high renown . And now her head of life hath god the Crown , Her blessed soul before the heavenly king : Does hymes of Joy with saints & Angels sing . Finis . I. Phillips Imprinted at London for Edward White and are to be sold at the little North door of Paules at the Sign of the Gun . Vivit post funera virtus . H : 18328 And Epitaph on the death of the right noble and most virtuous Lady Margarit Duglasis good grace , Countisse of Livinox ( & Daughter to the renowned & most excellent Lady Margarit Queen , Sister to the magnificent & most mighty Prince Henry the eight of England , Fraunce and Ireland , King , and by Gods permission Queen of Scotland , ) who diseased this life the ninth day of March . Anno. 1577. at his mannoure in Hackney in the county of Midelsex and lies interred the .3 . day of April at Westminster in the Chaple of King Henry the seventh , her worthy Grandfather of Englande , Fraunce and Ireland King etc The year of our Lord God . 1578 , and in the .20 . year of our sovereign Lady Queen , Elizabeth by the grace of God of Englande , Fraunce and Irelande , Queen , defendor of the faith . etc REporte run on , ring forth thy doleful Bel , That worldly wights , may wail our great annoy : In Court and Town , our cause of woe do tell , That stand distressed bereft of all our joy . With care see that , thy skyl thou do employ , To blaze our luckless hap throughout each land : That mortal wights , our gretes may understand . And as we wail , so let constraint of pain , Enforce them weep , to think upon our loss : In woeful wise , with us , let them complain , That yield of care , to bear the bitter cross . Let waves of woe , their minds in anguish toss , Let floods of flowing tears , each where be seen : To wail this Dame , the Daughter of a Queen . Lady Marga - rits grace Daugh - ter to the eldest Daugh - ter of Henrye the .7 . now dis - ceased , born at Harbo - tell three years before ill May day . In princely place , let Prince and Peers lament , Let Noble Lords , and Ladies yield to wail : For from the Court a Jwel rich is hent , And such a one as to her great avail , Deserveth fame , though Death her life do quail , Where she might help , she would no harm procure : You all can tell , her friendship was most pure . A foe to vice and such as vicious were , This noble dame continually did res A friendly heart she did to virtue bear , The fruits whereof did flourish in her breast . To rich and poor true friendship she professed , Her words with deeds confirmed were each hour : Then nobles all lament this fragrant flower . Cast of your silks , your coastly robes forbear , Abandon Joy , let mirth and exile be : Vouchsafe a while your mourning weeds to wear , Beweep this dame born of so high degree . A royal prince , Henry the seaventh even he , Of England , Fraunce , and Ireland , famous king , Her Gran-syre was consider you this thing . Her Lady mother's grace , that Margarit hight , Of Scotland was , whilom the crowned queen : And sister to , the eigth Henry by right , Whose flowering fame in England shines green . Allied by birth this gem was to our queen , Then noble states , mind you her blood and birth : And help with tears to bring her to the earth . Send forth your sobes , let floods fall from your eyes , This gracious gem , this pearl of prize beweep : And in your hearts , of Livinox that Countess wise , For virtue vouch , a true record to keep . And though her corpses in earth lie closed deep , Consent to make memorial of her name : That conquereth death by force of worthy fame . Her love to God was always faithful found , Her life she led in loyalty and awe : On truth she stayed , to prince her troth was sound , And stood in dread for to transgress the law . Infortune fell could not her heart with draw , From God nor prince , her thought could never change , Ne was her love to country shown as strange . Then Brittaines kind that fit in honours stal , Forget not you , to bid this dame adieu : And you in court , that meanest are of all , With tears prepare , your loving friend to rew . While life she joyed she was a friend to you , Her heart was meek and humble to the end : Just cause you have to weep so good a friend . You suitors poor , have lost a Margarit deer , A precious pearl , the pillar of your trus Who willing was , your due demands to hear , And to the prince to further causes just . Think on this Phoenix rare of right you must , Whose want , with woe vouchsafe a time to wail , Her shrine remains , her presence you do fail . In wedlock's right , while she possessed life , This peerless dame most dutiful was found : Unto her worthy spouse she was a constant wife , Faith knit loves knot , truth was her trusty ground Two sons she had most fit to be renowned The one of Scots the diadem did wear : Whose fatal sin is known to every ear . Henrye King of Scots . his eldest son . While he as prince did bear the royal sway , The commons hearts most curtuously he won : But treason false in cankered hearts did stay , And traitors fierce to work his spoil begun . Yet weldeth now the sceptre ( there ) his son , Whose death did nyp this Countess to the gall : Yet did she joy , his seed was safe from thrall . Her other son Lord Charles that worthy wight , Espoused she see , whose seed she did embrace : Yet death in time bereft him from her sighed , Whose want in her a double dole did place . Betwixt these extremes yet did this Ladies grace , Use patience sweet to salve her inward grief : And praised God that was her comfort chief . But as their raze the course of time beware out , And they to death constrained were to bend : So to her state ( Time ) his compass coursed about , And touched her corpses with sickness sharp in end . In which by faith on Christ she did depend , Whose only blood she did affy and trus By faith should purge , her since and make her just . Her hope was heaven , this world she did detest , And when that death began to draw full nigh : To bear his stroke she patience pure possessed , And unto heaven for safeguard sweet did fly . She unto God with heart and mind did cry , Preserve our queen and bless this little land : Her foes confound with thy out stretched hand . Lord Charles her son , Earl of Livinox buried at hackney This done she bids the noble Pears adieu , She takes her leave of friends and servants all : My time is come , I take my leave of you , The fruit thats ripe , is soonest apt to fallen . And though to death my body now be thrall , I die , to live in heaven with Christ my love : And hope to rest with his elect above . This said , her breath forthwith began to fail , And fading life , inclines to draw to end : She leaves this world unto her great avail , For Jesus Christ is found her surest friend . From danger great , his soul he does defend , Sin is defaced by virtue of his blood : And he alone hath done this Countess good . Her Daughter deer that loving Lady kind , Her Gracesse death to mourn is ready pres The Lady young that nature hath asynde , As yet for food to claim the Nurse's breast . Even as it can with sorrow is possessed , And Scotlands King , his Grandames death does moan : In Court and Town a cause of care is shown . Wife & Lady to the lord Charles Earl of Livinox Charles King of Scotland . Her servants all beweep his noble grace , The poor each where , her loss with tears lament From whom no time she once would turn her face Her heart and hand they say , each hour was bent . Their need to help , and Hackney does assent , with wringing hands to wail this worthies wrack That gave them food and clad the naked back . But what can tears or piercing plaints prevail , Her time was come , and death hath cut her down : Thre score , three years she liv'd till death did quail , The life of his most worthy high renown . And now her head of life hath god the Crown , Her blessed soul before the heavenly king : Does hymes of Joy with saints & Angels sing . Finis . I. Phillips Imprinted at London for Edward White and are to be sold at the little North door of Paules at the Sign of the Gun . Vivit post funera virtus . 