H : 180183 The Cries OF Westminster . Or a Whole Pack of Parliametary Knavery opened , and set to sale . Come Customers , come : Pray see what you lack , Her's Parliament Wares of all sorts in my Pack . WHo buys any Parliament Privileges ? My new Privileges . 'Twill teach you many pretty things , And raise you above Gods or Kings . These are the Cries of Westminster , That are herd both far and near . But a while I pray stand by , And you shall hear another cry . Who buys the Parliaments Declaration against the King : New , new , new . 'Twill surely unblind your eyes , That you may read a hundred lies : Thus go the Cries , etc Buy a new Ordinance to repair Churches : A new Ordinance , new , new , new . The Achans now restore the Wedge , To salve their Saintships Sacrilege . Thus go the cries , etc Buy a new Ordinance of the Commons , against Sage-players . Newly printed , and newly come forth . Saints now alone must Act for Riches , The Plot out-smells old Atkins breeches . Thus go the Cries , etc Buy a new Order of Parliament , That none shall make any more Addresses to the King , or receive any Message from him , upon pain of High-treason , Imprisonment , death , or plun - dering : But when these shall swing in a string , true Subject's will obey their King . Challonner , Mildmay , Martin , Vein , Are fitting of their crowns to reign . These are the Cries , etc Buy a new Plot , found out by Sir John Wray , to blow up the Thames , or the City to betray , 'tis as true as all the rest , before never known by man nor beast . 'Twill keep you still in Jealousies and Fears , And sets you all together by the Ears . Thus go the cries , etc Buy the Four Bills sent by the Parliament , from Selden and my Lady Kenned ; after long De - bate of this blessed Parliament ; Who buys the Four Bills here . Great CHARLES he will not betray his Trust unto such as they ; his Ho - nors still entire , his Conscience try'd nine times ith' Fire , the Devil give all his foes their hire and raise them towards heaven above a halter nyer . Let all the People say , Amen , For we shall ne're have Peace till then . Thus go the cries , etc Who bies any Bishops Houses , or their goods , Books , householdstuff or hoods , here are good pasture grouds , corn , hay and grass in all our Rouds , if it be not all good , the De - will confound's . Amen . May all the Trees to gibbits turn , Or firing make , to hang or burn , Thus go the cries , etc Have you any old Arrears for the Army , isle give you tickets for em ; have you any Subsidies , Poll-money , Loanes or Contributions , have you any Plate , Horse , or Arms , old bodkins or Thimbles or wedding Rings , have you any ; Have you any more Irish Adventures for sale of lands , or a trick for one meal a week . City Loans have you any ; or Assessments for the Scotts ; have you any Five and Twenty Parts , weekly or monthly Assessments for Essex , Fair - fax , Manchesters , the Scots or Irish Army , Free - Quarter have you any . Have you any of his Majesties Revenue to fell , Old Sequestrations or Plunder ; have you any more Exizes , or For - tification-money , or Fynes for Delinquents Compositions , etc or a new Ordinance for 400000l . the month . This is our Liberty for to pay The Saints that now King Charles betray . Thus go the cries of Westminster , That are herd both far and near , But a wile I pray stand by , And you will hear another cry . H : 180183 The Cries OF Westminster . Or a Whole Pack of Parliametary Knavery opened , and set to sale . Come Customers , come : Pray see what you lack , Her's Parliament Wares of all sorts in my Pack . WHo buys any Parliament Privileges ? My new Privileges . 'Twill teach you many pretty things , And raise you above Gods or Kings . These are the Cries of Westminster , That are herd both far and near . But a while I pray stand by , And you shall hear another cry . Who buys the Parliaments Declaration against the King : New , new , new . 'Twill surely unblind your eyes , That you may read a hundred lies : Thus go the Cries , etc Buy a new Ordinance to repair Churches : A new Ordinance , new , new , new . The Achans now restore the Wedge , To salve their Saintships Sacrilege . Thus go the cries , etc Buy a new Ordinance of the Commons , against Sage-players . Newly printed , and newly come forth . Saints now alone must Act for Riches , The Plot out-smells old Atkins breeches . Thus go the Cries , etc Buy a new Order of Parliament , That none shall make any more Addresses to the King , or receive any Message from him , upon pain of High-treason , Imprisonment , death , or plun - dering : But when these shall swing in a string , true Subject's will obey their King . Challonner , Mildmay , Martin , Vein , Are fitting of their crowns to reign . These are the Cries , etc Buy a new Plot , found out by Sir John Wray , to blow up the Thames , or the City to betray , 'tis as true as all the rest , before never known by man nor beast . 'Twill keep you still in Jealousies and Fears , And sets you all together by the Ears . Thus go the cries , etc Buy the Four Bills sent by the Parliament , from Selden and my Lady Kenned ; after long De - bate of this blessed Parliament ; Who buys the Four Bills here . Great CHARLES he will not betray his Trust unto such as they ; his Ho - nors still entire , his Conscience try'd nine times ith' Fire , the Devil give all his foes their hire and raise them towards heaven above a halter nyer . Let all the People say , Amen , For we shall ne're have Peace till then . Thus go the cries , etc Who bies any Bishops Houses , or their goods , Books , householdstuff or hoods , here are good pasture grouds , corn , hay and grass in all our Rouds , if it be not all good , the De - will confound's . Amen . May all the Trees to gibbits turn , Or firing make , to hang or burn , Thus go the cries , etc Have you any old Arrears for the Army , isle give you tickets for em ; have you any Subsidies , Poll-money , Loanes or Contributions , have you any Plate , Horse , or Arms , old bodkins or Thimbles or wedding Rings , have you any ; Have you any more Irish Adventures for sale of lands , or a trick for one meal a week . City Loans have you any ; or Assessments for the Scotts ; have you any Five and Twenty Parts , weekly or monthly Assessments for Essex , Fair - fax , Manchesters , the Scots or Irish Army , Free - Quarter have you any . Have you any of his Majesties Revenue to fell , Old Sequestrations or Plunder ; have you any more Exizes , or For - tification-money , or Fynes for Delinquents Compositions , etc or a new Ordinance for 400000l . the month . This is our Liberty for to pay The Saints that now King Charles betray . Thus go the cries of Westminster , That are herd both far and near , But a wile I pray stand by , And you will hear another cry . 