H : 180184 Have among you my Master's . GIve ear , give ear , unto my Ditty , All you good people love this City ; 'Tis high time you repent . For if th' offended Army come This City will be quite undone : Your cases I lament . When you your outworks should defend , Some Villain whom you think your friend May set the Town on fire . Then will they straight to plunder fallen , And in and instant rob you all : Then they have their desire . If once the Army do appear Within ten miles , they come too near , They have so many friends . Send all they call for , with new Ropes About their necks ; there may be hope's That may make some amends . For thus much from me understand , What e're they ask they may command ; Take heed you do not dally . If they shall find with them you halt , And take you tripping in a fault , You'll pay deer for your folly . Make ready those who laid the plot ( Who e're they were ) to call the Scot , They have undone the Nation : Then make the Synod ready next , Who have so much abus'd the Text For th' Churches Reformation . To bring the Scotch Presbytery in , They with Rebellion did begin , Then preached the Mitre down . These new Popes thought they could dispense With Treason or the like offence ; Especially their own . Or else ( methinks ) they durst not sure The King , and Bishops both abjure When they the Covenant took . Though many oaths they all have taken , By this they have the King forsaken , If they be pleas'd to look . Next bring in those who did devise Your Sequestrations , and Excise ; Down with their Goldsmiths Hall , Or rather hell , for none comes there , But he himself must first forswear ; And that's the worst of all . Beside he must himself confess A grand Malignant , that's no less Then Traitor in their sense : And make himself a Traitor , more Then ever he was yet before , By a far worse offence . He must use their forg'd Seal e're he From their Committees can be free : That's Treason Paramount . This favour they to us afford , To make us Traitors on Record , And in the Laws account . But o ! those subtle men must not ( Above all others ) be forgotten , We Jewes of Malta call ; Who lately have a new trick found , To make men for their own compound , These get the Devil and all . The State we know it lately hath Borrowed too much on public Faith ; These juggling Jewes they say , By Ordinance of Parliament Get threescore pounds at least per cent . And they have present pay . Th' abused who the money lent , Are with this great loss well content They may some part secure : Thus are their private Stocks imploy'd , And all their Creditors destroy'd , By those their Loans ensure . Brave Soldiers couple these together Like Hellhounds , and then send them hither ; Try them but in the Tower . Let brave Judge Jenkins give them Law , And honest Will . th' Inditements draw , They'll dispatch in and hour . Yet I dare swear that they should find Ith' good old Judge a noble mind , And should more justice have With mercy , and with judgement mixed , ( For so true Justice should be fixed ) Then ever yet they gave . If th' Army do their Sovereign own , And shall restore him to his Crown , 'Twill be a glorious thing . Though in their hearts the Prophets ly'd , It will prove true they prophecy'd Hee'll be a glorious King . Thou wilt deserve immortal glory , And famous be in every story , If this be done by thee . Though th' English were well-near as bold , As the Scots were their Sovereign sold , Fairfax will glorious be . Wee'll Bonfires make , our Bells' shall ring , Our Children shall thy praises sing ; I hope that day to see , That we who now thy Prisoners are , Shall have in thee so great a share , To love and honour thee . FINIS . H : 180184 Have among you my Master's . GIve ear , give ear , unto my Ditty , All you good people love this City ; 'Tis high time you repent . For if th' offended Army come This City will be quite undone : Your cases I lament . When you your outworks should defend , Some Villain whom you think your friend May set the Town on fire . Then will they straight to plunder fallen , And in and instant rob you all : Then they have their desire . If once the Army do appear Within ten miles , they come too near , They have so many friends . Send all they call for , with new Ropes About their necks ; there may be hope's That may make some amends . For thus much from me understand , What e're they ask they may command ; Take heed you do not dally . If they shall find with them you halt , And take you tripping in a fault , You'll pay deer for your folly . Make ready those who laid the plot ( Who e're they were ) to call the Scot , They have undone the Nation : Then make the Synod ready next , Who have so much abus'd the Text For th' Churches Reformation . To bring the Scotch Presbytery in , They with Rebellion did begin , Then preached the Mitre down . These new Popes thought they could dispense With Treason or the like offence ; Especially their own . Or else ( methinks ) they durst not sure The King , and Bishops both abjure When they the Covenant took . Though many oaths they all have taken , By this they have the King forsaken , If they be pleas'd to look . Next bring in those who did devise Your Sequestrations , and Excise ; Down with their Goldsmiths Hall , Or rather hell , for none comes there , But he himself must first forswear ; And that's the worst of all . Beside he must himself confess A grand Malignant , that's no less Then Traitor in their sense : And make himself a Traitor , more Then ever he was yet before , By a far worse offence . He must use their forg'd Seal e're he From their Committees can be free : That's Treason Paramount . This favour they to us afford , To make us Traitors on Record , And in the Laws account . But o ! those subtle men must not ( Above all others ) be forgotten , We Jewes of Malta call ; Who lately have a new trick found , To make men for their own compound , These get the Devil and all . The State we know it lately hath Borrowed too much on public Faith ; These juggling Jewes they say , By Ordinance of Parliament Get threescore pounds at least per cent . And they have present pay . Th' abused who the money lent , Are with this great loss well content They may some part secure : Thus are their private Stocks imploy'd , And all their Creditors destroy'd , By those their Loans ensure . Brave Soldiers couple these together Like Hellhounds , and then send them hither ; Try them but in the Tower . Let brave Judge Jenkins give them Law , And honest Will . th' Inditements draw , They'll dispatch in and hour . Yet I dare swear that they should find Ith' good old Judge a noble mind , And should more justice have With mercy , and with judgement mixed , ( For so true Justice should be fixed ) Then ever yet they gave . If th' Army do their Sovereign own , And shall restore him to his Crown , 'Twill be a glorious thing . Though in their hearts the Prophets ly'd , It will prove true they prophecy'd Hee'll be a glorious King . Thou wilt deserve immortal glory , And famous be in every story , If this be done by thee . Though th' English were well-near as bold , As the Scots were their Sovereign sold , Fairfax will glorious be . Wee'll Bonfires make , our Bells' shall ring , Our Children shall thy praises sing ; I hope that day to see , That we who now thy Prisoners are , Shall have in thee so great a share , To love and honour thee . FINIS . 