H : 180196 Burnbank and George Fachney's last Shif OR , A strange Plot at a dead Lift . Mischiefs are like the Cockatrice's Eye , If they see first , they kill ; if seen , they die . Sir John Suckling's Works . WHileom I sung two memorable Men , And dipped in Gall and Vinegar my Pen ; Burnbank and Fachney , Heroes in their Time , Whose matchless Deeds demand immortal Rhime : Once more their mighty Fates I must rehearse , Not in course Doggerel , but in lofty Verse . While punny Rogues practise their snacking Trade , To mean Attempts and Shifts by Instinct led ; Their Talents raise them 'bove their vulgar Ken , And boldly , they perform Things unessay'd by Men ; Rob , Roy , Jardens , Baillies , and the Schaws , Can truff a Purse , and mock at human Laws ; But Fachney and Burnbank low Arts abhor , Accomplish Crimes were never herd before . Knights of the Post , Knights of the Pad are Fools , Unworthy to be made their Under-tools . Once Niostratus to propale his Name . Found to be known , tho' with immortal Shame , Destroy'd Diana's Temple with a Fire ; Two hundred Year's Toil did in two Hours expire . A Piece of Noble Gallantry indeed ; But our Two Heroes Fame do theirs Exceed . My Muse , record the Actions of these Two , And sing the Men whom all Mankind should know . Burnbank , while yet a Child , was ripe in Evil , A very faithful Servant to the Devil ; Well warm'd in Vice , with and immoderate Heat , It made his Bosom heave , and Pulses bea And Fachney tho' he be a young Beginner , Is like to prove a very hopeful Sinner . Like Nettles in fat Soil , they grow so fast , I'm much afraid they'll both be hang'd at last . I cannot trace their Crimes in this short Page , For to relate them , would consume and Age . Consult the Journal-Books , and there you'll see , They're very fit to grace the Gallow lee . Tho' Bankie did escape by Mights of Mary ; Woe's me , it prov'd the Death of Hunchback Hary . His Crimes , by Act of Banishment , were purg'd : But since the Judge condemn both to be scourg'd , Then cunning Fachney and Burnbank agree To open Doors , by making of a Key : They lay a Solid Plot to make their Way , Taking th' Impression of the Key in Clay . As Drowsy Keeper nodded in his Chair ; Not dreaming in the least the Rogues were there , They stole the Figure of his Key ; and then They gave the Draught on Paper with their Pen . They Vulcan Hasty god to employ his Art , The Drunken Rogue forgotten to act his Part , And blab'd the Secret out , to their great Shame ; For which they say , he should be hang'd , not them , Tho' very many People do agree , 'Twere Justice for to hang up all the Three . H : 180196 Burnbank and George Fachney's last Shif OR , A strange Plot at a dead Lift . Mischiefs are like the Cockatrice's Eye , If they see first , they kill ; if seen , they die . Sir John Suckling's Works . WHileom I sung two memorable Men , And dipped in Gall and Vinegar my Pen ; Burnbank and Fachney , Heroes in their Time , Whose matchless Deeds demand immortal Rhime : Once more their mighty Fates I must rehearse , Not in course Doggerel , but in lofty Verse . While punny Rogues practise their snacking Trade , To mean Attempts and Shifts by Instinct led ; Their Talents raise them 'bove their vulgar Ken , And boldly , they perform Things unessay'd by Men ; Rob , Roy , Jardens , Baillies , and the Schaws , Can truff a Purse , and mock at human Laws ; But Fachney and Burnbank low Arts abhor , Accomplish Crimes were never herd before . Knights of the Post , Knights of the Pad are Fools , Unworthy to be made their Under-tools . Once Niostratus to propale his Name . Found to be known , tho' with immortal Shame , Destroy'd Diana's Temple with a Fire ; Two hundred Year's Toil did in two Hours expire . A Piece of Noble Gallantry indeed ; But our Two Heroes Fame do theirs Exceed . My Muse , record the Actions of these Two , And sing the Men whom all Mankind should know . Burnbank , while yet a Child , was ripe in Evil , A very faithful Servant to the Devil ; Well warm'd in Vice , with and immoderate Heat , It made his Bosom heave , and Pulses bea And Fachney tho' he be a young Beginner , Is like to prove a very hopeful Sinner . Like Nettles in fat Soil , they grow so fast , I'm much afraid they'll both be hang'd at last . I cannot trace their Crimes in this short Page , For to relate them , would consume and Age . Consult the Journal-Books , and there you'll see , They're very fit to grace the Gallow lee . Tho' Bankie did escape by Mights of Mary ; Woe's me , it prov'd the Death of Hunchback Hary . His Crimes , by Act of Banishment , were purg'd : But since the Judge condemn both to be scourg'd , Then cunning Fachney and Burnbank agree To open Doors , by making of a Key : They lay a Solid Plot to make their Way , Taking th' Impression of the Key in Clay . As Drowsy Keeper nodded in his Chair ; Not dreaming in the least the Rogues were there , They stole the Figure of his Key ; and then They gave the Draught on Paper with their Pen . They Vulcan Hasty god to employ his Art , The Drunken Rogue forgotten to act his Part , And blab'd the Secret out , to their great Shame ; For which they say , he should be hang'd , not them , Tho' very many People do agree , 'Twere Justice for to hang up all the Three . 