H : 180200 [ 1 ] THE Unjust Judge's CREED , REPLIED To Mr. EZEKIEL EDGWORTH , Arch-Deacon of Newgate . Qui Bavium non odit , amet tua carmina Maevi . J. YOu rambled once , and seem'd to say , That Judges must be judg'd one day ; T'would fix on us such foul Disgraces , To th' mighty less'ning of our Places . Is't fit for Us to be control'd By slavish Fear , so want bright Gold From dangers distant , but how far Could ne'er be prov'd yet by you Sir ? What! shall not we Men hang , or quit , Or Witness sham , as we think fit ? I tell thee , Priest , I've Authors read , And know as much as can be said ; Nought's after Death , Death's but a Puff , A Groan , when Nature plays us off . Let's all lay by both Hope and Fear , Of future State let's take no Care , For we shall be but as we were . Time still devours us , spite of Art , And Death destroys our thinking part . So th' tale of Hell and th' old grim Sir , 'Bout which you Black-Coats keep such stir , Are but vain , empty , idle Dreams , Arising from distemper'd Brains . The [ 2 ] The Arch-Deacons ANSWER . IF that be true your Lordship says , You may , like Bulls , live Jovial Days : Bulls only have the better on't , You sometimes fear , which they do not . Their Fronts are curl'd , though not with Care Nor Choice , yet they've their entire share . They court their Miss , their Meat , their Drink ; Thrice happy Brutus's , they never think Of Peace , or War , or Dutch , or French , Or new Intrigue of Madam-Wench . They careless are , how bought , how sold ; Or whither Tagus sands be Gold . Hereafter ( although ) Death should be And Inlet to Eternity , Then your Lordship pays t'a farthing , Both for Justice and your ------- Howe're , if't be as you divine , The Hermit's as well's the Libertine . For it's Futurity of State , Distinguishing our unknown Fate , That good from bad does separate . Live then , My Lord , that you may've room To hope , not fear , a State to Come . FINIS . H : 180200 [ 1 ] THE Unjust Judge's CREED , REPLIED To Mr. EZEKIEL EDGWORTH , Arch-Deacon of Newgate . Qui Bavium non odit , amet tua carmina Maevi . J. YOu rambled once , and seem'd to say , That Judges must be judg'd one day ; T'would fix on us such foul Disgraces , To th' mighty less'ning of our Places . Is't fit for Us to be control'd By slavish Fear , so want bright Gold From dangers distant , but how far Could ne'er be prov'd yet by you Sir ? What! shall not we Men hang , or quit , Or Witness sham , as we think fit ? I tell thee , Priest , I've Authors read , And know as much as can be said ; Nought's after Death , Death's but a Puff , A Groan , when Nature plays us off . Let's all lay by both Hope and Fear , Of future State let's take no Care , For we shall be but as we were . Time still devours us , spite of Art , And Death destroys our thinking part . So th' tale of Hell and th' old grim Sir , 'Bout which you Black-Coats keep such stir , Are but vain , empty , idle Dreams , Arising from distemper'd Brains . The [ 2 ] The Arch-Deacons ANSWER . IF that be true your Lordship says , You may , like Bulls , live Jovial Days : Bulls only have the better on't , You sometimes fear , which they do not . Their Fronts are curl'd , though not with Care Nor Choice , yet they've their entire share . They court their Miss , their Meat , their Drink ; Thrice happy Brutus's , they never think Of Peace , or War , or Dutch , or French , Or new Intrigue of Madam-Wench . They careless are , how bought , how sold ; Or whither Tagus sands be Gold . Hereafter ( although ) Death should be And Inlet to Eternity , Then your Lordship pays t'a farthing , Both for Justice and your ------- Howe're , if't be as you divine , The Hermit's as well's the Libertine . For it's Futurity of State , Distinguishing our unknown Fate , That good from bad does separate . Live then , My Lord , that you may've room To hope , not fear , a State to Come . FINIS . 