H : 180194 ELEGY on the murnful Banishment of James Campbel of Burnbank to the West-Indies . NOw let Salt-Tears run down our Cheeks , The only Son of Mungo Cleeks , Is to be banish'd in few Weeks o're to Virginie , I'd rather gi'n a in my Breeks and that's a Guinea . Fiend cut the Coots that takes him there , I'm sure it's far from being fair , For very ill can we him spare , we'll led sad Lives , Alas ! he'll Counsel us no more to Guide ill Wives . They had better led him down the Bow , To take a Dance in Hary's Tow , Then many Hearts would Merry grow , nane would complain , They'd say , when they dressed his black Pow , he's fair o're seen . But now that's unco' kind of Law , To send poor Bankie clean avua , To Pagan Folk he never saw they've wrang'd him , They'd better us'd him like Bogha , and fairly hang'd him . Why should they persecute With Rigour , Poor Bankie in his Prime and Vigour , The Spark that made so fine a Figure , through all his Life ; Cause he gar'd Highland John McGregor Debauch a Wife . Tho' Bankie's Head contriv'd the Plot , And John for some few Crowns he god , Crap in into her wanton Spot with Higland Graith ; That never would have wrang'd her Throat I'll give my Aith . What will be Bankie's Occupation , When he is banish'd frae this Nation , Into a far farast Plantation Come and I'll Venture Cheatry , Adultery and Furnication , Makes a rare Planter . And if that he be spared Alive To see his bram Plantation thrive , Rogues and Limmers , all will Strive for to gae there , A wally Trade with him they'll drive , but here they're bore . O! but my Heart it fairly grieves , To think that he with Whores and Thieves ; Man Drudge among , Tobacca Leaves dreeping with Sweet , While a the Wages he receives , is heal Folks Meat . Blae will he look to think he's lost His creditable Castle Post . And's banish't to and Indian Coast for being a Knave , Of Bankie now we'll nae more boast for he's a Slave . Dreep Burial Guns you warlike Folk That lives upon the Castle-Rock , Because that your Store-keeper's broke and like to beg , Ye'd better Shot him through the Dock wi' great Muns-Meg . Tho' daft Ginks said he was a Rouk , Telling what Stands of Arms he took , And put them in his ain Pock nook 'twas very fair , They're Fools and speak without the Book he kept them there . I'm sure before he want his Bred , For , Oh he has a witty Head , With Mercury h'll be their Dead or in a Stank , He'll gar them sink like as much Led it's like Burnbank , Poor Jamie Mushet , Grizie Bell , Twa Folk that's very like him fell Were they wi' him they'd a sae fell wi' little clamour They'd send some Souls to Heaven or Hell , had they a Hammer . Him on the Street we'll nae more see , Running like a bussy Bee , Contriving ay the other Plea he was a Jewel , But now he's Banish't o're the Sea Oh that's Crewel . When Messengers lift up their Hands To touch his Shoulders wi' their Wands , Soon did he give them the long Sands and drew his Raper He reckoned Captions , Bills and Bans but useless Paper Oh but he had a cunning way When Creditors refused Delay And Fiend a Plack he had to pay within his Spung He paid there Skins , and some Folk say half Stick'd George Young Tho' he was Poor he was right Sprush With Scarlet Hose and Coat of Plush ; He into Ladys Rooms would rush flew round their waste Sin took them by the Cutty Much in a P --- k hast He's left you now to Chase the Black , As he did you upon their Backs , He'll coup them till their Curpons crack , at the old Sport , There is nae Kirk Treasurer there that takes , any Thing for't . Alas poor Emelie Marine , The Days are gane that ye've seen , Aft hae you with him wanton been , at hough me Gandy , He's gi'n you money Gown of Green , and Gluts of Brandy . I pity you poor Glasgow Kate , Wha I would kenned both Air and Late , Fit trembling at the Castle Gate , in Frost and Hail , Just for to get your common Fate , a well paid Tail . I'm fear'd three Ghosts will haunt his Walls , Mushet's , Blair's and Peggie Hall's , And when he sees such grim Cabals , he'll droop his Head , The LORD have Mercy on his Saul , they'll be his dead . And when Cow Death shuts up his Een , And he's laid where he'll ne're be seen , lest he wear out of Memory clean , upon his Grave , That a' my ken what Blade he's been , these Lines Engrave . Epitaph . HEre lies the Head that Mischief plotted , and Feet that Satan's Erands trotted , For greed of Gear , but when he god it , Oh filthy Varlet , He quickly ran thro' every Grot o' it , wi' some vile Harlot . Banish't by Old Reikie's Law , For Rape and Murders twa , The first was sent here avua , and now he's dead . He was the worst Sighed e're we saw , else Money lee'd . Since he was one of Satan's Brood , And never did the Thing was Good , But often dy'd his Hands in Blood , for want of Grace , Now he is gone as we conclude , to a black Place . H : 180194 ELEGY on the murnful Banishment of James Campbel of Burnbank to the West-Indies . NOw let Salt-Tears run down our Cheeks , The only Son of Mungo Cleeks , Is to be banish'd in few Weeks o're to Virginie , I'd rather gi'n a in my Breeks and that's a Guinea . Fiend cut the Coots that takes him there , I'm sure it's far from being fair , For very ill can we him spare , we'll led sad Lives , Alas ! he'll Counsel us no more to Guide ill Wives . They had better led him down the Bow , To take a Dance in Hary's Tow , Then many Hearts would Merry grow , nane would complain , They'd say , when they dressed his black Pow , he's fair o're seen . But now that's unco' kind of Law , To send poor Bankie clean avua , To Pagan Folk he never saw they've wrang'd him , They'd better us'd him like Bogha , and fairly hang'd him . Why should they persecute With Rigour , Poor Bankie in his Prime and Vigour , The Spark that made so fine a Figure , through all his Life ; Cause he gar'd Highland John McGregor Debauch a Wife . Tho' Bankie's Head contriv'd the Plot , And John for some few Crowns he god , Crap in into her wanton Spot with Higland Graith ; That never would have wrang'd her Throat I'll give my Aith . What will be Bankie's Occupation , When he is banish'd frae this Nation , Into a far farast Plantation Come and I'll Venture Cheatry , Adultery and Furnication , Makes a rare Planter . And if that he be spared Alive To see his bram Plantation thrive , Rogues and Limmers , all will Strive for to gae there , A wally Trade with him they'll drive , but here they're bore . O! but my Heart it fairly grieves , To think that he with Whores and Thieves ; Man Drudge among , Tobacca Leaves dreeping with Sweet , While a the Wages he receives , is heal Folks Meat . Blae will he look to think he's lost His creditable Castle Post . And's banish't to and Indian Coast for being a Knave , Of Bankie now we'll nae more boast for he's a Slave . Dreep Burial Guns you warlike Folk That lives upon the Castle-Rock , Because that your Store-keeper's broke and like to beg , Ye'd better Shot him through the Dock wi' great Muns-Meg . Tho' daft Ginks said he was a Rouk , Telling what Stands of Arms he took , And put them in his ain Pock nook 'twas very fair , They're Fools and speak without the Book he kept them there . I'm sure before he want his Bred , For , Oh he has a witty Head , With Mercury h'll be their Dead or in a Stank , He'll gar them sink like as much Led it's like Burnbank , Poor Jamie Mushet , Grizie Bell , Twa Folk that's very like him fell Were they wi' him they'd a sae fell wi' little clamour They'd send some Souls to Heaven or Hell , had they a Hammer . Him on the Street we'll nae more see , Running like a bussy Bee , Contriving ay the other Plea he was a Jewel , But now he's Banish't o're the Sea Oh that's Crewel . When Messengers lift up their Hands To touch his Shoulders wi' their Wands , Soon did he give them the long Sands and drew his Raper He reckoned Captions , Bills and Bans but useless Paper Oh but he had a cunning way When Creditors refused Delay And Fiend a Plack he had to pay within his Spung He paid there Skins , and some Folk say half Stick'd George Young Tho' he was Poor he was right Sprush With Scarlet Hose and Coat of Plush ; He into Ladys Rooms would rush flew round their waste Sin took them by the Cutty Much in a P --- k hast He's left you now to Chase the Black , As he did you upon their Backs , He'll coup them till their Curpons crack , at the old Sport , There is nae Kirk Treasurer there that takes , any Thing for't . Alas poor Emelie Marine , The Days are gane that ye've seen , Aft hae you with him wanton been , at hough me Gandy , He's gi'n you money Gown of Green , and Gluts of Brandy . I pity you poor Glasgow Kate , Wha I would kenned both Air and Late , Fit trembling at the Castle Gate , in Frost and Hail , Just for to get your common Fate , a well paid Tail . I'm fear'd three Ghosts will haunt his Walls , Mushet's , Blair's and Peggie Hall's , And when he sees such grim Cabals , he'll droop his Head , The LORD have Mercy on his Saul , they'll be his dead . And when Cow Death shuts up his Een , And he's laid where he'll ne're be seen , lest he wear out of Memory clean , upon his Grave , That a' my ken what Blade he's been , these Lines Engrave . Epitaph . HEre lies the Head that Mischief plotted , and Feet that Satan's Erands trotted , For greed of Gear , but when he god it , Oh filthy Varlet , He quickly ran thro' every Grot o' it , wi' some vile Harlot . Banish't by Old Reikie's Law , For Rape and Murders twa , The first was sent here avua , and now he's dead . He was the worst Sighed e're we saw , else Money lee'd . Since he was one of Satan's Brood , And never did the Thing was Good , But often dy'd his Hands in Blood , for want of Grace , Now he is gone as we conclude , to a black Place . H : 180194 ELEGY on the murnful Banishment of James Campbel of Burnbank to the West-Indies . NOw let Salt-Tears run down our Cheeks , The only Son of Mungo Cleeks , Is to be banish'd in few Weeks o're to Virginie , I'd rather gi'n a in my Breeks and that's a Guinea . Fiend cut the Coots that takes him there , I'm sure it's far from being fair , For very ill can we him spare , we'll led sad Lives , Alas ! he'll Counsel us no more to Guide ill Wives . They had better led him down the Bow , To take a Dance in Hary's Tow , Then many Hearts would Merry grow , nane would complain , They'd say , when they dressed his black Pow , he's fair o're seen . But now that's unco' kind of Law , To send poor Bankie clean avua , To Pagan Folk he never saw they've wrang'd him , They'd better us'd him like Bogha , and fairly hang'd him . Why should they persecute With Rigour , Poor Bankie in his Prime and Vigour , The Spark that made so fine a Figure , through all his Life ; Cause he gar'd Highland John McGregor Debauch a Wife . Tho' Bankie's Head contriv'd the Plot , And John for some few Crowns he god , Crap in into her wanton Spot with Higland Graith ; That never would have wrang'd her Throat I'll give my Aith . What will be Bankie's Occupation , When he is banish'd frae this Nation , Into a far farast Plantation Come and I'll Venture Cheatry , Adultery and Furnication , Makes a rare Planter . And if that he be spared Alive To see his bram Plantation thrive , Rogues and Limmers , all will Strive for to gae there , A wally Trade with him they'll drive , but here they're bore . O! but my Heart it fairly grieves , To think that he with Whores and Thieves ; Man Drudge among , Tobacca Leaves dreeping with Sweet , While a the Wages he receives , is heal Folks Meat . Blae will he look to think he's lost His creditable Castle Post . And's banish't to and Indian Coast for being a Knave , Of Bankie now we'll nae more boast for he's a Slave . Dreep Burial Guns you warlike Folk That lives upon the Castle-Rock , Because that your Store-keeper's broke and like to beg , Ye'd better Shot him through the Dock wi' great Muns-Meg . Tho' daft Ginks said he was a Rouk , Telling what Stands of Arms he took , And put them in his ain Pock nook 'twas very fair , They're Fools and speak without the Book he kept them there . I'm sure before he want his Bred , For , Oh he has a witty Head , With Mercury h'll be their Dead or in a Stank , He'll gar them sink like as much Led it's like Burnbank , Poor Jamie Mushet , Grizie Bell , Twa Folk that's very like him fell Were they wi' him they'd a sae fell wi' little clamour They'd send some Souls to Heaven or Hell , had they a Hammer . Him on the Street we'll nae more see , Running like a bussy Bee , Contriving ay the other Plea he was a Jewel , But now he's Banish't o're the Sea Oh that's Crewel . When Messengers lift up their Hands To touch his Shoulders wi' their Wands , Soon did he give them the long Sands and drew his Raper He reckoned Captions , Bills and Bans but useless Paper Oh but he had a cunning way When Creditors refused Delay And Fiend a Plack he had to pay within his Spung He paid there Skins , and some Folk say half Stick'd George Young Tho' he was Poor he was right Sprush With Scarlet Hose and Coat of Plush ; He into Ladys Rooms would rush flew round their waste Sin took them by the Cutty Much in a P --- k hast He's left you now to Chase the Black , As he did you upon their Backs , He'll coup them till their Curpons crack , at the old Sport , There is nae Kirk Treasurer there that takes , any Thing for't . Alas poor Emelie Marine , The Days are gane that ye've seen , Aft hae you with him wanton been , at hough me Gandy , He's gi'n you money Gown of Green , and Gluts of Brandy . I pity you poor Glasgow Kate , Wha I would kenned both Air and Late , Fit trembling at the Castle Gate , in Frost and Hail , Just for to get your common Fate , a well paid Tail . I'm fear'd three Ghosts will haunt his Walls , Mushet's , Blair's and Peggie Hall's , And when he sees such grim Cabals , he'll droop his Head , The LORD have Mercy on his Saul , they'll be his dead . And when Cow Death shuts up his Een , And he's laid where he'll ne're be seen , lest he wear out of Memory clean , upon his Grave , That a' my ken what Blade he's been , these Lines Engrave . Epitaph . HEre lies the Head that Mischief plotted , and Feet that Satan's Erands trotted , For greed of Gear , but when he god it , Oh filthy Varlet , He quickly ran thro' every Grot o' it , wi' some vile Harlot . Banish't by Old Reikie's Law , For Rape and Murders twa , The first was sent here avua , and now he's dead . He was the worst Sighed e're we saw , else Money lee'd . Since he was one of Satan's Brood , And never did the Thing was Good , But often dy'd his Hands in Blood , for want of Grace , Now he is gone as we conclude , to a black Place . H : 180194 ELEGY on the murnful Banishment of James Campbel of Burnbank to the West-Indies . NOw let Salt-Tears run down our Cheeks , The only Son of Mungo Cleeks , Is to be banish'd in few Weeks o're to Virginie , I'd rather gi'n a in my Breeks and that's a Guinea . Fiend cut the Coots that takes him there , I'm sure it's far from being fair , For very ill can we him spare , we'll led sad Lives , Alas ! he'll Counsel us no more to Guide ill Wives . They had better led him down the Bow , To take a Dance in Hary's Tow , Then many Hearts would Merry grow , nane would complain , They'd say , when they dressed his black Pow , he's fair o're seen . But now that's unco' kind of Law , To send poor Bankie clean avua , To Pagan Folk he never saw they've wrang'd him , They'd better us'd him like Bogha , and fairly hang'd him . Why should they persecute With Rigour , Poor Bankie in his Prime and Vigour , The Spark that made so fine a Figure , through all his Life ; Cause he gar'd Highland John McGregor Debauch a Wife . Tho' Bankie's Head contriv'd the Plot , And John for some few Crowns he god , Crap in into her wanton Spot with Higland Graith ; That never would have wrang'd her Throat I'll give my Aith . What will be Bankie's Occupation , When he is banish'd frae this Nation , Into a far farast Plantation Come and I'll Venture Cheatry , Adultery and Furnication , Makes a rare Planter . And if that he be spared Alive To see his bram Plantation thrive , Rogues and Limmers , all will Strive for to gae there , A wally Trade with him they'll drive , but here they're bore . O! but my Heart it fairly grieves , To think that he with Whores and Thieves ; Man Drudge among , Tobacca Leaves dreeping with Sweet , While a the Wages he receives , is heal Folks Meat . Blae will he look to think he's lost His creditable Castle Post . And's banish't to and Indian Coast for being a Knave , Of Bankie now we'll nae more boast for he's a Slave . Dreep Burial Guns you warlike Folk That lives upon the Castle-Rock , Because that your Store-keeper's broke and like to beg , Ye'd better Shot him through the Dock wi' great Muns-Meg . Tho' daft Ginks said he was a Rouk , Telling what Stands of Arms he took , And put them in his ain Pock nook 'twas very fair , They're Fools and speak without the Book he kept them there . I'm sure before he want his Bred , For , Oh he has a witty Head , With Mercury h'll be their Dead or in a Stank , He'll gar them sink like as much Led it's like Burnbank , Poor Jamie Mushet , Grizie Bell , Twa Folk that's very like him fell Were they wi' him they'd a sae fell wi' little clamour They'd send some Souls to Heaven or Hell , had they a Hammer . Him on the Street we'll nae more see , Running like a bussy Bee , Contriving ay the other Plea he was a Jewel , But now he's Banish't o're the Sea Oh that's Crewel . When Messengers lift up their Hands To touch his Shoulders wi' their Wands , Soon did he give them the long Sands and drew his Raper He reckoned Captions , Bills and Bans but useless Paper Oh but he had a cunning way When Creditors refused Delay And Fiend a Plack he had to pay within his Spung He paid there Skins , and some Folk say half Stick'd George Young Tho' he was Poor he was right Sprush With Scarlet Hose and Coat of Plush ; He into Ladys Rooms would rush flew round their waste Sin took them by the Cutty Much in a P --- k hast He's left you now to Chase the Black , As he did you upon their Backs , He'll coup them till their Curpons crack , at the old Sport , There is nae Kirk Treasurer there that takes , any Thing for't . Alas poor Emelie Marine , The Days are gane that ye've seen , Aft hae you with him wanton been , at hough me Gandy , He's gi'n you money Gown of Green , and Gluts of Brandy . I pity you poor Glasgow Kate , Wha I would kenned both Air and Late , Fit trembling at the Castle Gate , in Frost and Hail , Just for to get your common Fate , a well paid Tail . I'm fear'd three Ghosts will haunt his Walls , Mushet's , Blair's and Peggie Hall's , And when he sees such grim Cabals , he'll droop his Head , The LORD have Mercy on his Saul , they'll be his dead . And when Cow Death shuts up his Een , And he's laid where he'll ne're be seen , lest he wear out of Memory clean , upon his Grave , That a' my ken what Blade he's been , these Lines Engrave . Epitaph . HEre lies the Head that Mischief plotted , and Feet that Satan's Erands trotted , For greed of Gear , but when he god it , Oh filthy Varlet , He quickly ran thro' every Grot o' it , wi' some vile Harlot . Banish't by Old Reikie's Law , For Rape and Murders twa , The first was sent here avua , and now he's dead . He was the worst Sighed e're we saw , else Money lee'd . Since he was one of Satan's Brood , And never did the Thing was Good , But often dy'd his Hands in Blood , for want of Grace , Now he is gone as we conclude , to a black Place . 