H : 272402 The SAINTS Jubilee , OR The fullness of Joy to the sweet Singers of Sion . --------- olim haec meminisse juvabit . WHen first Petitions newly pen'd did fly , And Loyal Straffords head did bleedingly . To satisfy the Peoples Cruelty , Our joys did then appear . When pious Laud unto the Tower was sent , And Commons House the King did circumvent , Obtaining a Triennial Parliament , Our joys did then increase . When Commons push'd the Bishops off their seats And by their Artifice and juggling feats , Fill'd up the House with pious frauds and cheats . Our joys , etc When Pym with many more as good as he , Made us deny our Ancient Liberty , And bid defiance to his Majesty , Our joys , etc When Plotting Presbyter preach'd in the Nation , And snuffling through the nose was all in fashion , And Frenzy was mista'ne for Inspiration , Our joys , etc When zealous Brothers gave their Silver beware , And holy Sisters all that they could share , And all to fight the Beast call'd Common-Prayer , Our joys , etc When it was voted for a foolish story , And Nonconformists ( zealous of God's glory ) Did all conform unto the Directory , Our joys , etc When Cromwel led his men with canting words Fight , Saints , the Battle , now it is the Lords , Your weapons are long Prayers , but longer Swords , Our joys , etc When from his Offices at first but small , Out witting Essex , Fairfax , and 'em all , He did advance himself to General ; Our joys , etc When Cobler-Hewson ran beyond his Last , First clean'd his waxed thumbs , then buckled fast His Sword about his Sanctified Wast . Our joys , etc When Crop-ear'd Peters first set up to preach , Whose Lungs to Twentiethly Beloved could reach , Did from his Tub the Factious people teach , Our joys , etc When the debate of No Lords , first arose , No House of Peers : No , we will have no Laws , Our Magna Charta is the Good old Cause . Our joys , etc When we our Ancient Liberties forsook , And made the Covenant our Statute-Book ; Our Oracles were Bradshaw , Ireton , Cook . Our joys , etc When Commons ( they who durst do any thing , Because the Lords submitted ) did begin , Bold desperate Votes , and voted out the King . Our joys , etc When Vote for Non-addresses made no stay , But most Victoriously did make its way , The Crown was stak'd for which the House did play . Our joys , etc Another Vote ! A new unheard of Court , High Court of Justice ! All the House was for't ; For here they knew would be the greatest sport . Our joys , etc Here was the Head a second Prize lay'd down , Bradshaw soon won't and took it up ; as soon , We had five hundred Heads instead of one . Our joys , etc When Toleration for all Sects began , And Conscience was a Slave to ev'ry man , To Quaker , Independent , Puritan , Our joys , etc When leave was given to act all Villainy , I'de kill my friend , another should rob me , And neither of us ever questioned be . Our joys , etc When there could be no breach of Privilege , When Saints could sin by Licence , and allege , That Robbing Churches was no Sacrilege . Our joys were then at full . H : 272402 The SAINTS Jubilee , OR The fullness of Joy to the sweet Singers of Sion . --------- olim haec meminisse juvabit . WHen first Petitions newly pen'd did fly , And Loyal Straffords head did bleedingly . To satisfy the Peoples Cruelty , Our joys did then appear . When pious Laud unto the Tower was sent , And Commons House the King did circumvent , Obtaining a Triennial Parliament , Our joys did then increase . When Commons push'd the Bishops off their seats And by their Artifice and juggling feats , Fill'd up the House with pious frauds and cheats . Our joys , etc When Pym with many more as good as he , Made us deny our Ancient Liberty , And bid defiance to his Majesty , Our joys , etc When Plotting Presbyter preach'd in the Nation , And snuffling through the nose was all in fashion , And Frenzy was mista'ne for Inspiration , Our joys , etc When zealous Brothers gave their Silver beware , And holy Sisters all that they could share , And all to fight the Beast call'd Common-Prayer , Our joys , etc When it was voted for a foolish story , And Nonconformists ( zealous of God's glory ) Did all conform unto the Directory , Our joys , etc When Cromwel led his men with canting words Fight , Saints , the Battle , now it is the Lords , Your weapons are long Prayers , but longer Swords , Our joys , etc When from his Offices at first but small , Out witting Essex , Fairfax , and 'em all , He did advance himself to General ; Our joys , etc When Cobler-Hewson ran beyond his Last , First clean'd his waxed thumbs , then buckled fast His Sword about his Sanctified Wast . Our joys , etc When Crop-ear'd Peters first set up to preach , Whose Lungs to Twentiethly Beloved could reach , Did from his Tub the Factious people teach , Our joys , etc When the debate of No Lords , first arose , No House of Peers : No , we will have no Laws , Our Magna Charta is the Good old Cause . Our joys , etc When we our Ancient Liberties forsook , And made the Covenant our Statute-Book ; Our Oracles were Bradshaw , Ireton , Cook . Our joys , etc When Commons ( they who durst do any thing , Because the Lords submitted ) did begin , Bold desperate Votes , and voted out the King . Our joys , etc When Vote for Non-addresses made no stay , But most Victoriously did make its way , The Crown was stak'd for which the House did play . Our joys , etc Another Vote ! A new unheard of Court , High Court of Justice ! All the House was for't ; For here they knew would be the greatest sport . Our joys , etc Here was the Head a second Prize lay'd down , Bradshaw soon won't and took it up ; as soon , We had five hundred Heads instead of one . Our joys , etc When Toleration for all Sects began , And Conscience was a Slave to ev'ry man , To Quaker , Independent , Puritan , Our joys , etc When leave was given to act all Villainy , I'de kill my friend , another should rob me , And neither of us ever questioned be . Our joys , etc When there could be no breach of Privilege , When Saints could sin by Licence , and allege , That Robbing Churches was no Sacrilege . Our joys were then at full . 