H : 183927 The Manner of the Barbarous Murder of JAMES , Late Lord Arch-Bishop of St. Andrews , Primate and Metropolitan of all Scotland , And one of his Majesties most Honourable Privy-Council of that Kingdom ; May 3. 1679. WHen Rome , by Godfrey's Death , had proudly shown The greatest Horror could by Man be done ; Hell stood amaz'd a while , and blushed to see It self out done by Romish Cruelty : At length , Grim Lucifer the Silence broke ; And to his Imps , in furious tone he spoke : See yonder reeking Murder ! Come , lets fit In strong debate , and strive to rival it ; Or else , as Novices , to Room wee'l go , And send the Pope to Mount our Throne below . In hight dispute , the black Cabal had spent A little Time , when with a full Consent , It was resolv'd ; Ten Furies , who expressed A greater Love to Blood , than all the rest , Should with as many Scottish Ruffians Join To act , on Pious SHARP , this Damn'd Design ; For , who that knows that Murder , can ( indeed ) Think it by any here on Earth Decreed ? When every horrid Circumstance does tell , It could be Plotted no where but in Hell : Though some sad Mortals do delight in Blood , They could not be thus Wicked , if they wou'd . For what Infernal could enhance the Gilded , More than in this , A Prelates Blood was Spilled ! Whose Sacred Function , was enough to quell The Thoughts of Vengeance in and Infidel . But yet nor this , nor's Silver colour'd Hairs , His Learning , Piety , his Daughters Pray'rs ; His Virtues , Prudence , Loyalty , nor Age , Were Charms enough , to stop these Ruffians Rage : Who only therefore Long'd to shed his Blood ; Because they knew him Innocent , and Good : That so their Crime might unexampled seem , Not in the Murder , but in Murdering him . Nor does the manner of this Murder , less The height of their Impiety express : Behold ! how like a Dog , they Haul and Draw Him from his Coach , not fearing Heav'n nor Law ! See , how the Coachman Tumbles from his Box ; And poor Postillion fell'd , like Fatted Ox ! Whil'st on her Knees , the weeping Daughter Craves Her Father's Life , and's threatened by the Slaves ! Whil'st others , by a Show'r of Passes Given , Let out his Blood , and send his Soul to Heaven ! If any Villians , for the Future , wou'd Know the worst way , to dip their Hands in Blood , Let them to Scotland go , to end that Strife , This Prelate's Fallen , will Teach them to the Life ! London , Printed for J.S. and B.H. 1679. H : 183927 The Manner of the Barbarous Murder of JAMES , Late Lord Arch-Bishop of St. Andrews , Primate and Metropolitan of all Scotland , And one of his Majesties most Honourable Privy-Council of that Kingdom ; May 3. 1679. WHen Rome , by Godfrey's Death , had proudly shown The greatest Horror could by Man be done ; Hell stood amaz'd a while , and blushed to see It self out done by Romish Cruelty : At length , Grim Lucifer the Silence broke ; And to his Imps , in furious tone he spoke : See yonder reeking Murder ! Come , lets fit In strong debate , and strive to rival it ; Or else , as Novices , to Room wee'l go , And send the Pope to Mount our Throne below . In hight dispute , the black Cabal had spent A little Time , when with a full Consent , It was resolv'd ; Ten Furies , who expressed A greater Love to Blood , than all the rest , Should with as many Scottish Ruffians Join To act , on Pious SHARP , this Damn'd Design ; For , who that knows that Murder , can ( indeed ) Think it by any here on Earth Decreed ? When every horrid Circumstance does tell , It could be Plotted no where but in Hell : Though some sad Mortals do delight in Blood , They could not be thus Wicked , if they wou'd . For what Infernal could enhance the Gilded , More than in this , A Prelates Blood was Spilled ! Whose Sacred Function , was enough to quell The Thoughts of Vengeance in and Infidel . But yet nor this , nor's Silver colour'd Hairs , His Learning , Piety , his Daughters Pray'rs ; His Virtues , Prudence , Loyalty , nor Age , Were Charms enough , to stop these Ruffians Rage : Who only therefore Long'd to shed his Blood ; Because they knew him Innocent , and Good : That so their Crime might unexampled seem , Not in the Murder , but in Murdering him . Nor does the manner of this Murder , less The height of their Impiety express : Behold ! how like a Dog , they Haul and Draw Him from his Coach , not fearing Heav'n nor Law ! See , how the Coachman Tumbles from his Box ; And poor Postillion fell'd , like Fatted Ox ! Whil'st on her Knees , the weeping Daughter Craves Her Father's Life , and's threatened by the Slaves ! Whil'st others , by a Show'r of Passes Given , Let out his Blood , and send his Soul to Heaven ! If any Villians , for the Future , wou'd Know the worst way , to dip their Hands in Blood , Let them to Scotland go , to end that Strife , This Prelate's Fallen , will Teach them to the Life ! London , Printed for J.S. and B.H. 1679. 