H : 183926 THE TIME-SERVERS : Or , A TOUCH OF THE TIMES . Being a DIALOGUE between Tory , Towzer , and Tantivee , At the News of the Dissolution of the Late Worthy Parliament at Oxford , The EXPLANATION of the FIGURE . REader , here is presented to thy View The true Effigies of a Popish Crew : And Irish TORY , and a Popish Priest , And the Cur TOWZER ( to make up the jest ) All on the speed for Room ; TORY o'ertakes The Clergy , and , his Company thus bespeaks , Spur on ( Sir Priest ) Spur on , The day's our own , If that a Papist comes t'injoy the Crown : The Parliament's dissolv'd , the Coast is clear , No other Obstacles we need to fear : Macmarra cursed be , and Harris too , That lets the world know what it should not do , In spite of all their tricks let us but join , Our Forces , all is ours , my life for thine . Do you but prate and write , let me alone To make the way for a Succession By other means , and our Attempts shall be Rewarded both with wealth and dignity ; Act with thy Brains , and I'll act with my Sword , Thou shalt a Bishop be , and I a Lord . When that day comes --- With that the Priest spurs on , Bawling ( at every jog ) Succession : Let things go how they will , better or worse , The Saddle should be laid on the right Horse ; I'm for the true Successor's constant sway O'th' British Sceptre , let the world say Nay : Let Care himself , and his Fanatic Crew , Say what they will , Princes must have their endue . Princes must have their rights , Religion Must always pay its homage to the Crown : This my belief , I know no Deity On Earth to be ador'd , but Sovereignty . The question lies not , how we are t'Obey Or Suffer , but whose right it is to Sway The Sceptre , Theyr's the right , the duty's ours , To be obedient to the Higher Powers . Conscience , that silly thing , that keeps in awe The trembling Vulgar , must not check the Law ; The Laws of Empire are most sacred things , People will have their endue , and why not Kings . The times were glorious , and the Nation flourish'd , When th' English Church by Mother Church was nourish'd . But since 'twas weaned from her Breasts , we find How She is wafted , languished and pin'd ; Revenue's gone , Promotions scarce and few , Not half enough for the Tantivee-Crew . The times must mend , we must reform the State , And I will do't , or sink under my Fate : Winged with all the haste I can , I come To pay my Homage to the Church of Rome ; Towzer run on , and TORY clear the way , Till I a Mitre get I will not stay . And then he hum'd himself , and spur'd again A full Tantivee speed with a lose rein , And bent Body ; Towzer trips before ( As brisk now as he was in times of Yore ) And while the other bawl's Succession , This barks and yelps nothing but Fortione . A cunning Cur to think to drown our fears Of future dangers with forgotten Years : Well thus they troop together till they come Unto the confines of desired Room , And here the Holy-Father ready stands With smiling Countenance , and reared Hands Lift up to bless them , In the one is Gold , The other does a gorgeous Mitre hold , These ( as the guerdons of their merits ) he Allures them with ; And thus betray'd are we 'Twixt our known Enemies , and feigned friends , Aiming by serving thus their own base ends , Us into Popish Slavery to bring , Which God in Heaven prevent --- God Save the King . FINIS . London , Printed for W.H. and are to be Sold by R. Janeway in Pater-Noster-Row . 1681. H : 183926 THE TIME-SERVERS : Or , A TOUCH OF THE TIMES . Being a DIALOGUE between Tory , Towzer , and Tantivee , At the News of the Dissolution of the Late Worthy Parliament at Oxford , The EXPLANATION of the FIGURE . REader , here is presented to thy View The true Effigies of a Popish Crew : And Irish TORY , and a Popish Priest , And the Cur TOWZER ( to make up the jest ) All on the speed for Room ; TORY o'ertakes The Clergy , and , his Company thus bespeaks , Spur on ( Sir Priest ) Spur on , The day's our own , If that a Papist comes t'injoy the Crown : The Parliament's dissolv'd , the Coast is clear , No other Obstacles we need to fear : Macmarra cursed be , and Harris too , That lets the world know what it should not do , In spite of all their tricks let us but join , Our Forces , all is ours , my life for thine . Do you but prate and write , let me alone To make the way for a Succession By other means , and our Attempts shall be Rewarded both with wealth and dignity ; Act with thy Brains , and I'll act with my Sword , Thou shalt a Bishop be , and I a Lord . When that day comes --- With that the Priest spurs on , Bawling ( at every jog ) Succession : Let things go how they will , better or worse , The Saddle should be laid on the right Horse ; I'm for the true Successor's constant sway O'th' British Sceptre , let the world say Nay : Let Care himself , and his Fanatic Crew , Say what they will , Princes must have their endue . Princes must have their rights , Religion Must always pay its homage to the Crown : This my belief , I know no Deity On Earth to be ador'd , but Sovereignty . The question lies not , how we are t'Obey Or Suffer , but whose right it is to Sway The Sceptre , Theyr's the right , the duty's ours , To be obedient to the Higher Powers . Conscience , that silly thing , that keeps in awe The trembling Vulgar , must not check the Law ; The Laws of Empire are most sacred things , People will have their endue , and why not Kings . The times were glorious , and the Nation flourish'd , When th' English Church by Mother Church was nourish'd . But since 'twas weaned from her Breasts , we find How She is wafted , languished and pin'd ; Revenue's gone , Promotions scarce and few , Not half enough for the Tantivee-Crew . The times must mend , we must reform the State , And I will do't , or sink under my Fate : Winged with all the haste I can , I come To pay my Homage to the Church of Rome ; Towzer run on , and TORY clear the way , Till I a Mitre get I will not stay . And then he hum'd himself , and spur'd again A full Tantivee speed with a lose rein , And bent Body ; Towzer trips before ( As brisk now as he was in times of Yore ) And while the other bawl's Succession , This barks and yelps nothing but Fortione . A cunning Cur to think to drown our fears Of future dangers with forgotten Years : Well thus they troop together till they come Unto the confines of desired Room , And here the Holy-Father ready stands With smiling Countenance , and reared Hands Lift up to bless them , In the one is Gold , The other does a gorgeous Mitre hold , These ( as the guerdons of their merits ) he Allures them with ; And thus betray'd are we 'Twixt our known Enemies , and feigned friends , Aiming by serving thus their own base ends , Us into Popish Slavery to bring , Which God in Heaven prevent --- God Save the King . FINIS . London , Printed for W.H. and are to be Sold by R. Janeway in Pater-Noster-Row . 1681. 