H : 289722 The DORSETSHIRE GARLAND . Or , The BEGGAR's WEDDING . ALL you that delight in a jest that is true , Give ear to these lines I unfold unto you ; I'm sure you will smile when the same you hear , This frolic was acted in fair Dorsetshire . Now a noble knight of renown lived there , Who had a daughter of beauty most clear , Hard by liv'd a merchant who had riches store , Who had but one son , whom he did much adore . This knight and merchant being neighbours near , In friendship they liv'd , and lov'd each other dear . Now they had agreed , these infants so dear , Shou'd be man and wi [ f ] e when come to riper year . The merchant fell sick , and the lady likewise , They sent for the knight with tears in their eyes , Saying , From the world we soon must part , And leave our baby the joy of our heart . I hope if we leave our dear child to your care , With all our estate and wordly affair , You'll take care of him when we' [ r ] e laid in the grave , Nay furthermore grant us the th [ i ] ng that we crave . That you do not break your promise to me , But give your fair daughter his bride to be , But if he should die ere he to age does come , That [ e ] n all that I leave him is to be your own . To the church of England I [ ' ] worser have him brought , And to serve his maker let him be taught ; That we may meet together in heaven above , Dear sir , said the knight , for the friendship and love That has pas'd betwixt us , I'll take special care , How I do bring up your young son and heir , Now [ i ] f that the Lord so long gives me li [ f ] e , My daughter shall be your son's sweet wife . So then for the babies they sent for with speed , And the merchant said , Now my heart does bleed , For to leave them behind , but it must be done , Death calls me hence , and my glass is run . His will being made , I'm content , he did say , And kissed the babes with lips cold as clay . So both in one minute did yield up their breath , The happiest couple that lived on earth . The merchant and his wife both laid in one grave , He takes home the child , and kept it most brave ; So the knight's daughter and the merchant's son , Became the public talk around the town . These children loved each other so dear , This covetous knight began for to fear , His promise he now accounts as a jest , How he must perform , which disturbed his rest . My daughter , said he , is a beauty most bright , She will be fit for a lord or a knight . But ten thousand pounds left to the boy , I must find means his life to destroy . HE hired a beggar the child to kill , So the innocent babe thinking no ill , As they both at sport were busy at play , The treacherous knight with a false laugh did say , Come , Jemmy , will you go and take the air ? And I , worthy sir , said the daughter so fair , For to gather daisies with J [ e ] mmy will go , But her father answer'd , It must not be so . You must stay at home till he comes back again , So this innocent child like a lamb to be slave , Did go with the beggar many a long mile , Who at length to him did speak with a smile ; Pray where are you going , sir , tell unto me , Must I go no more pretty Susan to see ? So his innocent talk made the beggar r [ e ] lent , So home to his wife with the child away wen And told her the story , the woman then said , Lo ! he's a fine creature , and a well-favour'd babe , So a begging with us I pray let him go . We'll call him our son , let us order it so . But five years of age was this merchant's son , Yet he for the loss of his Susan did mourn . So the beggarman's wife to her husband did say , Come , let us contrive to steal Susan away , I [ tO ] is but justice to cheat the cruel man , That wants this innocent for to trepan ; So the beggar to Dorset than instantly went , For to steal young Susan was resolute bent . He brought her ten miles , 'till they came to a town And stripped off her clothes as she mightn't be known , And over a hedge he threw them indeed , And ho [ m ] ewards at night did hasten with speed . In two or three hours he arriv'd at his cell , Where a noble legion of beggars did dwell , Where now I must leave those beggars so young , And return to the knight who did bitterly mourn . And hue and cry he sends to every town , For finding his daughter there is five hundred pound . They brought him the clothes a [ s ] found i [ n the ] field , Which made him believe his daughter [ was ] kill'd Now heaven's ! he said , I see is just , This innocent babe whom I had in trust , Her blood cries for vengeance , I have my desert , I have lost my daughter , the joy of my hear [ tO ] . So now let us leave this base traitor to mourn , Who wander'd about like one that's forlorn ; And turn to young Jemmy and Susan also , Who along with the rest now a mumping did go . Now the B [ e ] ggar them for his children did own , And most dutiful children a [ s ] ever were known , Which pleas'd him so well , to Doll he did say , The money that was gave me this babe to slay , He shall have for his portion , and twice as much more , And since that each other they do so adore , If they do live to the age of eighteen , We'll have the best wedding that ever was seen . For Jemmy and Susan in marriage shall join , Do not me control for this frolic of mine , A score of bold suitor [ s ] I swear shall be there , We will [ l ] keep this wedding in fair Dorsetshire : We will gi [ v ] e it out up [ on ] such a day . A brave beggar's wedding there is to be , The gentry will be eager to see such a sighed , And if he is living , that base perjur'd Knight . When [ ' ] tO at this wedding is done and all o'er , I'll take this young coup [ l ] e unto his own door , And make him a present of his daughter fair , And take to him Jemmy , his son and heir . Old Doll she was pleased to hear him say so , So merry [ l ] y out they a cruising did go , For thirteen long years they at this rate did run , At length the fix'd time for the wedding was come . THE richest attire that ever was bought with silver and gold it was richly wrought , For the bridegroom and bride they then did prepare , And so took their Journey into Dorsetshire . A score of the best that belong'd to the tribe , They took along with them to credit the bride , The lame wi [ tO ] h their crutches , the halt and the blind , Were plac'd in great order to follow behind . And having been two or three days in the town , The fame of this wedding it spread up and down , The rich and the poor were all curious to see , And many resolv'd the bride's guest to be . They hired the noblest hall in the town , That rich and the poor might get room to fit down , But Jemmy and Susan were both kept secure , 'Till they in their splendour appear'd at the door . Some hundred [ s ] of people stood by for to gaze , At the sighed of the couple were struck in amaze ; For she did appear like and angel divine [ e ] , And he did the rest of his sex f [ a ] r outshine . Old Doll and her husband did follow the bride , With a budget of good bred and cheese by her side And after came hoping the blind and the lame , Such a wedding in England was ne'er before seen . This couple were not asham'd of their guest , Because they nothing did know of their birth , But join'd in marriage , they back did return , And now for the pastime they had , sir , at home . They furnish'd the table with good wedding cheer They mump'd on the road to fair Dorchester , Good rhine of fat bacon , and old musty cheese , And noggins of ale as much as you please . Dinner being over , starts up one of the guest , And pull'd out his bagpipes , and play'd up the best , The lame and blind went to dancing the hay , And the gentry flock'd as they would to a play . among the rest came this treacherous knight , Fixing his eyes on his daughter so bright , His heart it did flutter and throb in his breast , His spirits were seiz'd and his mind oppressed . Old Doll cry'd , We must have a Jig of the bride Come , play up a merry hornpipe , she cry'd , Which Susan performed with so much grace , That she wone the praise of every one in the place . Nay come , said the old man , 'tis a child of my own Come , jovial piper , strike up t'other tune ; A health to the bridegroom let pass round the room , Tho' a beggar brought up he's a merchant's son born The knight hearing this stepped up to the bride , Let me speak to you , fair creature , he cry'd ; If you have the mark of a rose on your breast , Then you are my daughter I vow and protest . She shew'd him the mark , he immediately cry'dH : 289722 The DORSETSHIRE GARLAND . Or , The BEGGAR's WEDDING . ALL you that delight in a jest that is true , Give ear to these lines I unfold unto you ; I'm sure you will smile when the same you hear , This frolic was acted in fair Dorsetshire . Now a noble knight of renown lived there , Who had a daughter of beauty most clear , Hard by liv'd a merchant who had riches store , Who had but one son , whom he did much adore . This knight and merchant being neighbours near , In friendship they liv'd , and lov'd each other dear . Now they had agreed , these infants so dear , Shou'd be man and wi [ f ] e when come to riper year . The merchant fell sick , and the lady likewise , They sent for the knight with tears in their eyes , Saying , From the world we soon must part , And leave our baby the joy of our heart . I hope if we leave our dear child to your care , With all our estate and wordly affair , You'll take care of him when we' [ r ] e laid in the grave , Nay furthermore grant us the th [ i ] ng that we crave . That you do not break your promise to me , But give your fair daughter his bride to be , But if he should die ere he to age does come , That [ e ] n all that I leave him is to be your own . To the church of England I [ ' ] worser have him brought , And to serve his maker let him be taught ; That we may meet together in heaven above , Dear sir , said the knight , for the friendship and love That has pas'd betwixt us , I'll take special care , How I do bring up your young son and heir , Now [ i ] f that the Lord so long gives me li [ f ] e , My daughter shall be your son's sweet wife . So then for the babies they sent for with speed , And the merchant said , Now my heart does bleed , For to leave them behind , but it must be done , Death calls me hence , and my glass is run . His will being made , I'm content , he did say , And kissed the babes with lips cold as clay . So both in one minute did yield up their breath , The happiest couple that lived on earth . The merchant and his wife both laid in one grave , He takes home the child , and kept it most brave ; So the knight's daughter and the merchant's son , Became the public talk around the town . These children loved each other so dear , This covetous knight began for to fear , His promise he now accounts as a jest , How he must perform , which disturbed his rest . My daughter , said he , is a beauty most bright , She will be fit for a lord or a knight . But ten thousand pounds left to the boy , I must find means his life to destroy . HE hired a beggar the child to kill , So the innocent babe thinking no ill , As they both at sport were busy at play , The treacherous knight with a false laugh did say , Come , Jemmy , will you go and take the air ? And I , worthy sir , said the daughter so fair , For to gather daisies with J [ e ] mmy will go , But her father answer'd , It must not be so . You must stay at home till he comes back again , So this innocent child like a lamb to be slave , Did go with the beggar many a long mile , Who at length to him did speak with a smile ; Pray where are you going , sir , tell unto me , Must I go no more pretty Susan to see ? So his innocent talk made the beggar r [ e ] lent , So home to his wife with the child away wen And told her the story , the woman then said , Lo ! he's a fine creature , and a well-favour'd babe , So a begging with us I pray let him go . We'll call him our son , let us order it so . But five years of age was this merchant's son , Yet he for the loss of his Susan did mourn . So the beggarman's wife to her husband did say , Come , let us contrive to steal Susan away , I [ tO ] is but justice to cheat the cruel man , That wants this innocent for to trepan ; So the beggar to Dorset than instantly went , For to steal young Susan was resolute bent . He brought her ten miles , 'till they came to a town And stripped off her clothes as she mightn't be known , And over a hedge he threw them indeed , And ho [ m ] ewards at night did hasten with speed . In two or three hours he arriv'd at his cell , Where a noble legion of beggars did dwell , Where now I must leave those beggars so young , And return to the knight who did bitterly mourn . And hue and cry he sends to every town , For finding his daughter there is five hundred pound . They brought him the clothes a [ s ] found i [ n the ] field , Which made him believe his daughter [ was ] kill'd Now heaven's ! he said , I see is just , This innocent babe whom I had in trust , Her blood cries for vengeance , I have my desert , I have lost my daughter , the joy of my hear [ tO ] . So now let us leave this base traitor to mourn , Who wander'd about like one that's forlorn ; And turn to young Jemmy and Susan also , Who along with the rest now a mumping did go . Now the B [ e ] ggar them for his children did own , And most dutiful children a [ s ] ever were known , Which pleas'd him so well , to Doll he did say , The money that was gave me this babe to slay , He shall have for his portion , and twice as much more , And since that each other they do so adore , If they do live to the age of eighteen , We'll have the best wedding that ever was seen . For Jemmy and Susan in marriage shall join , Do not me control for this frolic of mine , A score of bold suitor [ s ] I swear shall be there , We will [ l ] keep this wedding in fair Dorsetshire : We will gi [ v ] e it out up [ on ] such a day . A brave beggar's wedding there is to be , The gentry will be eager to see such a sighed , And if he is living , that base perjur'd Knight . When [ ' ] tO at this wedding is done and all o'er , I'll take this young coup [ l ] e unto his own door , And make him a present of his daughter fair , And take to him Jemmy , his son and heir . Old Doll she was pleased to hear him say so , So merry [ l ] y out they a cruising did go , For thirteen long years they at this rate did run , At length the fix'd time for the wedding was come . THE richest attire that ever was bought with silver and gold it was richly wrought , For the bridegroom and bride they then did prepare , And so took their Journey into Dorsetshire . A score of the best that belong'd to the tribe , They took along with them to credit the bride , The lame wi [ tO ] h their crutches , the halt and the blind , Were plac'd in great order to follow behind . And having been two or three days in the town , The fame of this wedding it spread up and down , The rich and the poor were all curious to see , And many resolv'd the bride's guest to be . They hired the noblest hall in the town , That rich and the poor might get room to fit down , But Jemmy and Susan were both kept secure , 'Till they in their splendour appear'd at the door . Some hundred [ s ] of people stood by for to gaze , At the sighed of the couple were struck in amaze ; For she did appear like and angel divine [ e ] , And he did the rest of his sex f [ a ] r outshine . Old Doll and her husband did follow the bride , With a budget of good bred and cheese by her side And after came hoping the blind and the lame , Such a wedding in England was ne'er before seen . This couple were not asham'd of their guest , Because they nothing did know of their birth , But join'd in marriage , they back did return , And now for the pastime they had , sir , at home . They furnish'd the table with good wedding cheer They mump'd on the road to fair Dorchester , Good rhine of fat bacon , and old musty cheese , And noggins of ale as much as you please . Dinner being over , starts up one of the guest , And pull'd out his bagpipes , and play'd up the best , The lame and blind went to dancing the hay , And the gentry flock'd as they would to a play . among the rest came this treacherous knight , Fixing his eyes on his daughter so bright , His heart it did flutter and throb in his breast , His spirits were seiz'd and his mind oppressed . Old Doll cry'd , We must have a Jig of the bride Come , play up a merry hornpipe , she cry'd , Which Susan performed with so much grace , That she wone the praise of every one in the place . Nay come , said the old man , 'tis a child of my own Come , jovial piper , strike up t'other tune ; A health to the bridegroom let pass round the room , Tho' a beggar brought up he's a merchant's son born The knight hearing this stepped up to the bride , Let me speak to you , fair creature , he cry'd ; If you have the mark of a rose on your breast , Then you are my daughter I vow and protest . She shew'd him the mark , he immediately cry'd , Take home the bridegroom and the sweet bride , For this is my Joy that's been missing so long , And her dear Joy the merchant's young son . Bring the guests with you unto my home , I'll kindly receive you , and when I have done , I'll inform the world of my treacherous deed , Who can deny what the heavens decreed ? The cripples snatch'd up their crutches and run , To see what great miracles there had been done , Her father confess'd the whole matter that night , All praised the beggar that sav'd the babe's life . All people upbraided him for his base crime , With grief he died within a short time , And left this young couple six thousand a year , Who are styled the beggars of fair Dorsetshire . Old Doll and her husband in splendour did dwell , This couple they loved them very well . You misers that are of a covetous mind , Strive not to prevent what the powers design'd . , Take home the bridegroom and the sweet bride , For this is my Joy that's been missing so long , And her dear Joy the merchant's young son . Bring the guests with you unto my home , I'll kindly receive you , and when I have done , I'll inform the world of my treacherous deed , Who can deny what the heavens decreed ? The cripples snatch'd up their crutches and run , To see what great miracles there had been done , Her father confess'd the whole matter that night , All praised the beggar that sav'd the babe's life . All people upbraided him for his base crime , With grief he died within a short time , And left this young couple six thousand a year , Who are styled the beggars of fair Dorsetshire . Old Doll and her husband in splendour did dwell , This couple they loved them very well . You misers that are of a covetous mind , Strive not to prevent what the powers design'd . H : 289722 The DORSETSHIRE GARLAND . Or , The BEGGAR's WEDDING . ALL you that delight in a jest that is true , Give ear to these lines I unfold unto you ; I'm sure you will smile when the same you hear , This frolic was acted in fair Dorsetshire . Now a noble knight of renown lived there , Who had a daughter of beauty most clear , Hard by liv'd a merchant who had riches store , Who had but one son , whom he did much adore . This knight and merchant being neighbours near , In friendship they liv'd , and lov'd each other dear . Now they had agreed , these infants so dear , Shou'd be man and wi [ f ] e when come to riper year . The merchant fell sick , and the lady likewise , They sent for the knight with tears in their eyes , Saying , From the world we soon must part , And leave our baby the joy of our heart . I hope if we leave our dear child to your care , With all our estate and wordly affair , You'll take care of him when we' [ r ] e laid in the grave , Nay furthermore grant us the th [ i ] ng that we crave . That you do not break your promise to me , But give your fair daughter his bride to be , But if he should die ere he to age does come , That [ e ] n all that I leave him is to be your own . To the church of England I [ ' ] worser have him brought , And to serve his maker let him be taught ; That we may meet together in heaven above , Dear sir , said the knight , for the friendship and love That has pas'd betwixt us , I'll take special care , How I do bring up your young son and heir , Now [ i ] f that the Lord so long gives me li [ f ] e , My daughter shall be your son's sweet wife . So then for the babies they sent for with speed , And the merchant said , Now my heart does bleed , For to leave them behind , but it must be done , Death calls me hence , and my glass is run . His will being made , I'm content , he did say , And kissed the babes with lips cold as clay . So both in one minute did yield up their breath , The happiest couple that lived on earth . The merchant and his wife both laid in one grave , He takes home the child , and kept it most brave ; So the knight's daughter and the merchant's son , Became the public talk around the town . These children loved each other so dear , This covetous knight began for to fear , His promise he now accounts as a jest , How he must perform , which disturbed his rest . My daughter , said he , is a beauty most bright , She will be fit for a lord or a knight . But ten thousand pounds left to the boy , I must find means his life to destroy . HE hired a beggar the child to kill , So the innocent babe thinking no ill , As they both at sport were busy at play , The treacherous knight with a false laugh did say , Come , Jemmy , will you go and take the air ? And I , worthy sir , said the daughter so fair , For to gather daisies with J [ e ] mmy will go , But her father answer'd , It must not be so . You must stay at home till he comes back again , So this innocent child like a lamb to be slave , Did go with the beggar many a long mile , Who at length to him did speak with a smile ; Pray where are you going , sir , tell unto me , Must I go no more pretty Susan to see ? So his innocent talk made the beggar r [ e ] lent , So home to his wife with the child away wen And told her the story , the woman then said , Lo ! he's a fine creature , and a well-favour'd babe , So a begging with us I pray let him go . We'll call him our son , let us order it so . But five years of age was this merchant's son , Yet he for the loss of his Susan did mourn . So the beggarman's wife to her husband did say , Come , let us contrive to steal Susan away , I [ tO ] is but justice to cheat the cruel man , That wants this innocent for to trepan ; So the beggar to Dorset than instantly went , For to steal young Susan was resolute bent . He brought her ten miles , 'till they came to a town And stripped off her clothes as she mightn't be known , And over a hedge he threw them indeed , And ho [ m ] ewards at night did hasten with speed . In two or three hours he arriv'd at his cell , Where a noble legion of beggars did dwell , Where now I must leave those beggars so young , And return to the knight who did bitterly mourn . And hue and cry he sends to every town , For finding his daughter there is five hundred pound . They brought him the clothes a [ s ] found i [ n the ] field , Which made him believe his daughter [ was ] kill'd Now heaven's ! he said , I see is just , This innocent babe whom I had in trust , Her blood cries for vengeance , I have my desert , I have lost my daughter , the joy of my hear [ tO ] . So now let us leave this base traitor to mourn , Who wander'd about like one that's forlorn ; And turn to young Jemmy and Susan also , Who along with the rest now a mumping did go . Now the B [ e ] ggar them for his children did own , And most dutiful children a [ s ] ever were known , Which pleas'd him so well , to Doll he did say , The money that was gave me this babe to slay , He shall have for his portion , and twice as much more , And since that each other they do so adore , If they do live to the age of eighteen , We'll have the best wedding that ever was seen . For Jemmy and Susan in marriage shall join , Do not me control for this frolic of mine , A score of bold suitor [ s ] I swear shall be there , We will [ l ] keep this wedding in fair Dorsetshire : We will gi [ v ] e it out up [ on ] such a day . A brave beggar's wedding there is to be , The gentry will be eager to see such a sighed , And if he is living , that base perjur'd Knight . When [ ' ] tO at this wedding is done and all o'er , I'll take this young coup [ l ] e unto his own door , And make him a present of his daughter fair , And take to him Jemmy , his son and heir . Old Doll she was pleased to hear him say so , So merry [ l ] y out they a cruising did go , For thirteen long years they at this rate did run , At length the fix'd time for the wedding was come . THE richest attire that ever was bought with silver and gold it was richly wrought , For the bridegroom and bride they then did prepare , And so took their Journey into Dorsetshire . A score of the best that belong'd to the tribe , They took along with them to credit the bride , The lame wi [ tO ] h their crutches , the halt and the blind , Were plac'd in great order to follow behind . And having been two or three days in the town , The fame of this wedding it spread up and down , The rich and the poor were all curious to see , And many resolv'd the bride's guest to be . They hired the noblest hall in the town , That rich and the poor might get room to fit down , But Jemmy and Susan were both kept secure , 'Till they in their splendour appear'd at the door . Some hundred [ s ] of people stood by for to gaze , At the sighed of the couple were struck in amaze ; For she did appear like and angel divine [ e ] , And he did the rest of his sex f [ a ] r outshine . Old Doll and her husband did follow the bride , With a budget of good bred and cheese by her side And after came hoping the blind and the lame , Such a wedding in England was ne'er before seen . This couple were not asham'd of their guest , Because they nothing did know of their birth , But join'd in marriage , they back did return , And now for the pastime they had , sir , at home . They furnish'd the table with good wedding cheer They mump'd on the road to fair Dorchester , Good rhine of fat bacon , and old musty cheese , And noggins of ale as much as you please . Dinner being over , starts up one of the guest , And pull'd out his bagpipes , and play'd up the best , The lame and blind went to dancing the hay , And the gentry flock'd as they would to a play . among the rest came this treacherous knight , Fixing his eyes on his daughter so bright , His heart it did flutter and throb in his breast , His spirits were seiz'd and his mind oppressed . Old Doll cry'd , We must have a Jig of the bride Come , play up a merry hornpipe , she cry'd , Which Susan performed with so much grace , That she wone the praise of every one in the place . Nay come , said the old man , 'tis a child of my own Come , jovial piper , strike up t'other tune ; A health to the bridegroom let pass round the room , Tho' a beggar brought up he's a merchant's son born The knight hearing this stepped up to the bride , Let me speak to you , fair creature , he cry'd ; If you have the mark of a rose on your breast , Then you are my daughter I vow and protest . She shew'd him the mark , he immediately cry'dH : 289722 The DORSETSHIRE GARLAND . Or , The BEGGAR's WEDDING . ALL you that delight in a jest that is true , Give ear to these lines I unfold unto you ; I'm sure you will smile when the same you hear , This frolic was acted in fair Dorsetshire . Now a noble knight of renown lived there , Who had a daughter of beauty most clear , Hard by liv'd a merchant who had riches store , Who had but one son , whom he did much adore . This knight and merchant being neighbours near , In friendship they liv'd , and lov'd each other dear . Now they had agreed , these infants so dear , Shou'd be man and wi [ f ] e when come to riper year . The merchant fell sick , and the lady likewise , They sent for the knight with tears in their eyes , Saying , From the world we soon must part , And leave our baby the joy of our heart . I hope if we leave our dear child to your care , With all our estate and wordly affair , You'll take care of him when we' [ r ] e laid in the grave , Nay furthermore grant us the th [ i ] ng that we crave . That you do not break your promise to me , But give your fair daughter his bride to be , But if he should die ere he to age does come , That [ e ] n all that I leave him is to be your own . To the church of England I [ ' ] worser have him brought , And to serve his maker let him be taught ; That we may meet together in heaven above , Dear sir , said the knight , for the friendship and love That has pas'd betwixt us , I'll take special care , How I do bring up your young son and heir , Now [ i ] f that the Lord so long gives me li [ f ] e , My daughter shall be your son's sweet wife . So then for the babies they sent for with speed , And the merchant said , Now my heart does bleed , For to leave them behind , but it must be done , Death calls me hence , and my glass is run . His will being made , I'm content , he did say , And kissed the babes with lips cold as clay . So both in one minute did yield up their breath , The happiest couple that lived on earth . The merchant and his wife both laid in one grave , He takes home the child , and kept it most brave ; So the knight's daughter and the merchant's son , Became the public talk around the town . These children loved each other so dear , This covetous knight began for to fear , His promise he now accounts as a jest , How he must perform , which disturbed his rest . My daughter , said he , is a beauty most bright , She will be fit for a lord or a knight . But ten thousand pounds left to the boy , I must find means his life to destroy . HE hired a beggar the child to kill , So the innocent babe thinking no ill , As they both at sport were busy at play , The treacherous knight with a false laugh did say , Come , Jemmy , will you go and take the air ? And I , worthy sir , said the daughter so fair , For to gather daisies with J [ e ] mmy will go , But her father answer'd , It must not be so . You must stay at home till he comes back again , So this innocent child like a lamb to be slave , Did go with the beggar many a long mile , Who at length to him did speak with a smile ; Pray where are you going , sir , tell unto me , Must I go no more pretty Susan to see ? So his innocent talk made the beggar r [ e ] lent , So home to his wife with the child away wen And told her the story , the woman then said , Lo ! he's a fine creature , and a well-favour'd babe , So a begging with us I pray let him go . We'll call him our son , let us order it so . But five years of age was this merchant's son , Yet he for the loss of his Susan did mourn . So the beggarman's wife to her husband did say , Come , let us contrive to steal Susan away , I [ tO ] is but justice to cheat the cruel man , That wants this innocent for to trepan ; So the beggar to Dorset than instantly went , For to steal young Susan was resolute bent . He brought her ten miles , 'till they came to a town And stripped off her clothes as she mightn't be known , And over a hedge he threw them indeed , And ho [ m ] ewards at night did hasten with speed . In two or three hours he arriv'd at his cell , Where a noble legion of beggars did dwell , Where now I must leave those beggars so young , And return to the knight who did bitterly mourn . And hue and cry he sends to every town , For finding his daughter there is five hundred pound . They brought him the clothes a [ s ] found i [ n the ] field , Which made him believe his daughter [ was ] kill'd Now heaven's ! he said , I see is just , This innocent babe whom I had in trust , Her blood cries for vengeance , I have my desert , I have lost my daughter , the joy of my hear [ tO ] . So now let us leave this base traitor to mourn , Who wander'd about like one that's forlorn ; And turn to young Jemmy and Susan also , Who along with the rest now a mumping did go . Now the B [ e ] ggar them for his children did own , And most dutiful children a [ s ] ever were known , Which pleas'd him so well , to Doll he did say , The money that was gave me this babe to slay , He shall have for his portion , and twice as much more , And since that each other they do so adore , If they do live to the age of eighteen , We'll have the best wedding that ever was seen . For Jemmy and Susan in marriage shall join , Do not me control for this frolic of mine , A score of bold suitor [ s ] I swear shall be there , We will [ l ] keep this wedding in fair Dorsetshire : We will gi [ v ] e it out up [ on ] such a day . A brave beggar's wedding there is to be , The gentry will be eager to see such a sighed , And if he is living , that base perjur'd Knight . When [ ' ] tO at this wedding is done and all o'er , I'll take this young coup [ l ] e unto his own door , And make him a present of his daughter fair , And take to him Jemmy , his son and heir . Old Doll she was pleased to hear him say so , So merry [ l ] y out they a cruising did go , For thirteen long years they at this rate did run , At length the fix'd time for the wedding was come . THE richest attire that ever was bought with silver and gold it was richly wrought , For the bridegroom and bride they then did prepare , And so took their Journey into Dorsetshire . A score of the best that belong'd to the tribe , They took along with them to credit the bride , The lame wi [ tO ] h their crutches , the halt and the blind , Were plac'd in great order to follow behind . And having been two or three days in the town , The fame of this wedding it spread up and down , The rich and the poor were all curious to see , And many resolv'd the bride's guest to be . They hired the noblest hall in the town , That rich and the poor might get room to fit down , But Jemmy and Susan were both kept secure , 'Till they in their splendour appear'd at the door . Some hundred [ s ] of people stood by for to gaze , At the sighed of the couple were struck in amaze ; For she did appear like and angel divine [ e ] , And he did the rest of his sex f [ a ] r outshine . Old Doll and her husband did follow the bride , With a budget of good bred and cheese by her side And after came hoping the blind and the lame , Such a wedding in England was ne'er before seen . This couple were not asham'd of their guest , Because they nothing did know of their birth , But join'd in marriage , they back did return , And now for the pastime they had , sir , at home . They furnish'd the table with good wedding cheer They mump'd on the road to fair Dorchester , Good rhine of fat bacon , and old musty cheese , And noggins of ale as much as you please . Dinner being over , starts up one of the guest , And pull'd out his bagpipes , and play'd up the best , The lame and blind went to dancing the hay , And the gentry flock'd as they would to a play . among the rest came this treacherous knight , Fixing his eyes on his daughter so bright , His heart it did flutter and throb in his breast , His spirits were seiz'd and his mind oppressed . Old Doll cry'd , We must have a Jig of the bride Come , play up a merry hornpipe , she cry'd , Which Susan performed with so much grace , That she wone the praise of every one in the place . Nay come , said the old man , 'tis a child of my own Come , jovial piper , strike up t'other tune ; A health to the bridegroom let pass round the room , Tho' a beggar brought up he's a merchant's son born The knight hearing this stepped up to the bride , Let me speak to you , fair creature , he cry'd ; If you have the mark of a rose on your breast , Then you are my daughter I vow and protest . She shew'd him the mark , he immediately cry'd , Take home the bridegroom and the sweet bride , For this is my Joy that's been missing so long , And her dear Joy the merchant's young son . Bring the guests with you unto my home , I'll kindly receive you , and when I have done , I'll inform the world of my treacherous deed , Who can deny what the heavens decreed ? The cripples snatch'd up their crutches and run , To see what great miracles there had been done , Her father confess'd the whole matter that night , All praised the beggar that sav'd the babe's life . All people upbraided him for his base crime , With grief he died within a short time , And left this young couple six thousand a year , Who are styled the beggars of fair Dorsetshire . Old Doll and her husband in splendour did dwell , This couple they loved them very well . You misers that are of a covetous mind , Strive not to prevent what the powers design'd . , Take home the bridegroom and the sweet bride , For this is my Joy that's been missing so long , And her dear Joy the merchant's young son . Bring the guests with you unto my home , I'll kindly receive you , and when I have done , I'll inform the world of my treacherous deed , Who can deny what the heavens decreed ? The cripples snatch'd up their crutches and run , To see what great miracles there had been done , Her father confess'd the whole matter that night , All praised the beggar that sav'd the babe's life . All people upbraided him for his base crime , With grief he died within a short time , And left this young couple six thousand a year , Who are styled the beggars of fair Dorsetshire . Old Doll and her husband in splendour did dwell , This couple they loved them very well . You misers that are of a covetous mind , Strive not to prevent what the powers design'd . 