H : 289724 The Wanton WIFE of BATH . IN BATH a WANTON WIFE did dwell , As CHAUCER he did write , Who did in Pleasure spend her Days In many a found Delight . Upon a Time soar sick she was , And at the length did die ; Her Soul arriv'd at Heaven's Gate , And there knock'd heartily . Then ADAM came unto the Gate , Who knocketh there ? quoth he , I am the Wife of BATH , she said , And fain would come to thee . Thou art a Sinner , ADAM said , And here no Place shall have ; Alas ! for you , good sir , she said , Now trip thou doting Knave . I will come in spite she said , Of all such Churls as thee ; Thou wer't the Cause of all our Woe , Our Pain and Misery . And first broke God's Commandment , In Pleasure with thy Wife , When ADAM herd her tell that Tale , He ran away for Life . Then down came JACOB to the Gate , Who bid her pack to Hell : You false Deceiver , why , said she , You might be there as well : For you deceiv'd your Father dear , And your own Brother too ; So away went JACOB presently , And made no more ado . She knock'd again with Might and Main , And LOT came to the Gate , How now , quoth she , thou doubting Ass , Who bid thee here to wait ? With thy two Daughters thou didst lie , On them two Bastards go And thus most tauntingly she chaste Against poor silly LOT . Who knocketh there ? quoth JUDITH then , With such shrill sounding Notes ? This Noise , fine Minx , thou can'st not bear , Quoth she , for cutting Throats . Good Lord , how JUDITH blush'd for shame When she herd her say so , King DAVID hearing of the same , Unto the Gate did go . Quoth DAVID who knocks there so loud ? And causeth all this strife : You were more kind , good Sir , said she , Unto URIAH'S Wife ; When thou did'st cause thy Servant In Battle to be slave ; Thou causest then more Strife than I ; Who would come here so fain . The Woman's mad , quoth SOLOMON , Thus for to taunt a King : Not half so mad as you , she said , I know in many Things ; You had seven Hundred Wives he said , For whom thou didst provide ; Yet for all this three Hundred Whores Thou didst maintain beside ; And these made thee forsake thy God , And worship Stocks and Stones ; Beside the Charge they put thee to In breeding of young Bones : Hadst thou not been beside thy Wits , Thou wouldst not thus have ventur'd , And therefore I do marvel much How thou this Place hast enter'd . I never herd , quoth Jonas then , So vile a Scold as this : You Whoreson , run away said she , For thou did more amiss I think , quoth THOMAS , Women's Tongues Of Aspen Leaves are made : You misbelieving Wretch , said she , All is not true that's said . When MARY MAGDALEN herd her chafe , She came unto the Gate ; Quoth she , good Woman you must think Upon your former State ; No Sinners enter in this Place , Quoth MARY MAGDALEN : 'Twere ill for you , fair Mistress mild , She answer'd her again . You for you Honesty , said she , Should once been ston'd to Death , Had not our Saviour CHRIST came by , And wrote upon the Earth : It is not thro' your Occupation , You are become divine ; My Soul in Christ's passion , Will be as safe as thine . Then rose the good Apostle PAUL , Unto the Wife he cry'd . Except you shake your Sins away , Thou here must be deny'd . Remember PAUL what thou hast done , All thro' a lewd Desire ; How thou didst persecute God's church With Wrath as hight as Fire . Then up starts PETER at the last , And to the Gate he hies ; Found fool , said he , knock not so fast , Thou weariest CHRIST with Cries . PETER she cries , content thyself , For Mercy may be wone . I never did deny my Lord , As thou thyself hast done . When as our Saviour CHRIST herd this , With heavenly Angels bright . He came unto this sinful Soul , Who trembled at the sighed . Of him for Mercy she did crave , Quoth he thou hast refus'd My proffer'd Grace and Mercy too , And much my Name abus'd . Sure I have sinn'd Oh Lord , said she , And spent my Time in vain , But bring me like a wandering Sheep Into thy Fold again . O Lord my God I will amend , My former wicked Vice ; The Thief at these repentant Words passed into Paradise . My Laws and my Commandments Said Christ were known too thee But not the same in any wise , Not yet a wit did you . I grant the same , My Lord she said , Most lewdly I did live ; But yet the loving Father did , The Prodigal forgive . So I forgive thy soul , he said , Thro' thy repentant cry : Come thou therefore into my rest . I will not thee deny . H : 289724 The Wanton WIFE of BATH . IN BATH a WANTON WIFE did dwell , As CHAUCER he did write , Who did in Pleasure spend her Days In many a found Delight . Upon a Time soar sick she was , And at the length did die ; Her Soul arriv'd at Heaven's Gate , And there knock'd heartily . Then ADAM came unto the Gate , Who knocketh there ? quoth he , I am the Wife of BATH , she said , And fain would come to thee . Thou art a Sinner , ADAM said , And here no Place shall have ; Alas ! for you , good sir , she said , Now trip thou doting Knave . I will come in spite she said , Of all such Churls as thee ; Thou wer't the Cause of all our Woe , Our Pain and Misery . And first broke God's Commandment , In Pleasure with thy Wife , When ADAM herd her tell that Tale , He ran away for Life . Then down came JACOB to the Gate , Who bid her pack to Hell : You false Deceiver , why , said she , You might be there as well : For you deceiv'd your Father dear , And your own Brother too ; So away went JACOB presently , And made no more ado . She knock'd again with Might and Main , And LOT came to the Gate , How now , quoth she , thou doubting Ass , Who bid thee here to wait ? With thy two Daughters thou didst lie , On them two Bastards go And thus most tauntingly she chaste Against poor silly LOT . Who knocketh there ? quoth JUDITH then , With such shrill sounding Notes ? This Noise , fine Minx , thou can'st not bear , Quoth she , for cutting Throats . Good Lord , how JUDITH blush'd for shame When she herd her say so , King DAVID hearing of the same , Unto the Gate did go . Quoth DAVID who knocks there so loud ? And causeth all this strife : You were more kind , good Sir , said she , Unto URIAH'S Wife ; When thou did'st cause thy Servant In Battle to be slave ; Thou causest then more Strife than I ; Who would come here so fain . The Woman's mad , quoth SOLOMON , Thus for to taunt a King : Not half so mad as you , she said , I know in many Things ; You had seven Hundred Wives he said , For whom thou didst provide ; Yet for all this three Hundred Whores Thou didst maintain beside ; And these made thee forsake thy God , And worship Stocks and Stones ; Beside the Charge they put thee to In breeding of young Bones : Hadst thou not been beside thy Wits , Thou wouldst not thus have ventur'd , And therefore I do marvel much How thou this Place hast enter'd . I never herd , quoth Jonas then , So vile a Scold as this : You Whoreson , run away said she , For thou did more amiss I think , quoth THOMAS , Women's Tongues Of Aspen Leaves are made : You misbelieving Wretch , said she , All is not true that's said . When MARY MAGDALEN herd her chafe , She came unto the Gate ; Quoth she , good Woman you must think Upon your former State ; No Sinners enter in this Place , Quoth MARY MAGDALEN : 'Twere ill for you , fair Mistress mild , She answer'd her again . You for you Honesty , said she , Should once been ston'd to Death , Had not our Saviour CHRIST came by , And wrote upon the Earth : It is not thro' your Occupation , You are become divine ; My Soul in Christ's passion , Will be as safe as thine . Then rose the good Apostle PAUL , Unto the Wife he cry'd . Except you shake your Sins away , Thou here must be deny'd . Remember PAUL what thou hast done , All thro' a lewd Desire ; How thou didst persecute God's church With Wrath as hight as Fire . Then up starts PETER at the last , And to the Gate he hies ; Found fool , said he , knock not so fast , Thou weariest CHRIST with Cries . PETER she cries , content thyself , For Mercy may be wone . I never did deny my Lord , As thou thyself hast done . When as our Saviour CHRIST herd this , With heavenly Angels bright . He came unto this sinful Soul , Who trembled at the sighed . Of him for Mercy she did crave , Quoth he thou hast refus'd My proffer'd Grace and Mercy too , And much my Name abus'd . Sure I have sinn'd Oh Lord , said she , And spent my Time in vain , But bring me like a wandering Sheep Into thy Fold again . O Lord my God I will amend , My former wicked Vice ; The Thief at these repentant Words passed into Paradise . My Laws and my Commandments Said Christ were known too thee But not the same in any wise , Not yet a wit did you . I grant the same , My Lord she said , Most lewdly I did live ; But yet the loving Father did , The Prodigal forgive . So I forgive thy soul , he said , Thro' thy repentant cry : Come thou therefore into my rest . I will not thee deny . H : 289724 The Wanton WIFE of BATH . IN BATH a WANTON WIFE did dwell , As CHAUCER he did write , Who did in Pleasure spend her Days In many a found Delight . Upon a Time soar sick she was , And at the length did die ; Her Soul arriv'd at Heaven's Gate , And there knock'd heartily . Then ADAM came unto the Gate , Who knocketh there ? quoth he , I am the Wife of BATH , she said , And fain would come to thee . Thou art a Sinner , ADAM said , And here no Place shall have ; Alas ! for you , good sir , she said , Now trip thou doting Knave . I will come in spite she said , Of all such Churls as thee ; Thou wer't the Cause of all our Woe , Our Pain and Misery . And first broke God's Commandment , In Pleasure with thy Wife , When ADAM herd her tell that Tale , He ran away for Life . Then down came JACOB to the Gate , Who bid her pack to Hell : You false Deceiver , why , said she , You might be there as well : For you deceiv'd your Father dear , And your own Brother too ; So away went JACOB presently , And made no more ado . She knock'd again with Might and Main , And LOT came to the Gate , How now , quoth she , thou doubting Ass , Who bid thee here to wait ? With thy two Daughters thou didst lie , On them two Bastards go And thus most tauntingly she chaste Against poor silly LOT . Who knocketh there ? quoth JUDITH then , With such shrill sounding Notes ? This Noise , fine Minx , thou can'st not bear , Quoth she , for cutting Throats . Good Lord , how JUDITH blush'd for shame When she herd her say so , King DAVID hearing of the same , Unto the Gate did go . Quoth DAVID who knocks there so loud ? And causeth all this strife : You were more kind , good Sir , said she , Unto URIAH'S Wife ; When thou did'st cause thy Servant In Battle to be slave ; Thou causest then more Strife than I ; Who would come here so fain . The Woman's mad , quoth SOLOMON , Thus for to taunt a King : Not half so mad as you , she said , I know in many Things ; You had seven Hundred Wives he said , For whom thou didst provide ; Yet for all this three Hundred Whores Thou didst maintain beside ; And these made thee forsake thy God , And worship Stocks and Stones ; Beside the Charge they put thee to In breeding of young Bones : Hadst thou not been beside thy Wits , Thou wouldst not thus have ventur'd , And therefore I do marvel much How thou this Place hast enter'd . I never herd , quoth Jonas then , So vile a Scold as this : You Whoreson , run away said she , For thou did more amiss I think , quoth THOMAS , Women's Tongues Of Aspen Leaves are made : You misbelieving Wretch , said she , All is not true that's said . When MARY MAGDALEN herd her chafe , She came unto the Gate ; Quoth she , good Woman you must think Upon your former State ; No Sinners enter in this Place , Quoth MARY MAGDALEN : 'Twere ill for you , fair Mistress mild , She answer'd her again . You for you Honesty , said she , Should once been ston'd to Death , Had not our Saviour CHRIST came by , And wrote upon the Earth : It is not thro' your Occupation , You are become divine ; My Soul in Christ's passion , Will be as safe as thine . Then rose the good Apostle PAUL , Unto the Wife he cry'd . Except you shake your Sins away , Thou here must be deny'd . Remember PAUL what thou hast done , All thro' a lewd Desire ; How thou didst persecute God's church With Wrath as hight as Fire . Then up starts PETER at the last , And to the Gate he hies ; Found fool , said he , knock not so fast , Thou weariest CHRIST with Cries . PETER she cries , content thyself , For Mercy may be wone . I never did deny my Lord , As thou thyself hast done . When as our Saviour CHRIST herd this , With heavenly Angels bright . He came unto this sinful Soul , Who trembled at the sighed . Of him for Mercy she did crave , Quoth he thou hast refus'd My proffer'd Grace and Mercy too , And much my Name abus'd . Sure I have sinn'd Oh Lord , said she , And spent my Time in vain , But bring me like a wandering Sheep Into thy Fold again . O Lord my God I will amend , My former wicked Vice ; The Thief at these repentant Words passed into Paradise . My Laws and my Commandments Said Christ were known too thee But not the same in any wise , Not yet a wit did you . I grant the same , My Lord she said , Most lewdly I did live ; But yet the loving Father did , The Prodigal forgive . So I forgive thy soul , he said , Thro' thy repentant cry : Come thou therefore into my rest . I will not thee deny . H : 289724 The Wanton WIFE of BATH . IN BATH a WANTON WIFE did dwell , As CHAUCER he did write , Who did in Pleasure spend her Days In many a found Delight . Upon a Time soar sick she was , And at the length did die ; Her Soul arriv'd at Heaven's Gate , And there knock'd heartily . Then ADAM came unto the Gate , Who knocketh there ? quoth he , I am the Wife of BATH , she said , And fain would come to thee . Thou art a Sinner , ADAM said , And here no Place shall have ; Alas ! for you , good sir , she said , Now trip thou doting Knave . I will come in spite she said , Of all such Churls as thee ; Thou wer't the Cause of all our Woe , Our Pain and Misery . And first broke God's Commandment , In Pleasure with thy Wife , When ADAM herd her tell that Tale , He ran away for Life . Then down came JACOB to the Gate , Who bid her pack to Hell : You false Deceiver , why , said she , You might be there as well : For you deceiv'd your Father dear , And your own Brother too ; So away went JACOB presently , And made no more ado . She knock'd again with Might and Main , And LOT came to the Gate , How now , quoth she , thou doubting Ass , Who bid thee here to wait ? With thy two Daughters thou didst lie , On them two Bastards go And thus most tauntingly she chaste Against poor silly LOT . Who knocketh there ? quoth JUDITH then , With such shrill sounding Notes ? This Noise , fine Minx , thou can'st not bear , Quoth she , for cutting Throats . Good Lord , how JUDITH blush'd for shame When she herd her say so , King DAVID hearing of the same , Unto the Gate did go . Quoth DAVID who knocks there so loud ? And causeth all this strife : You were more kind , good Sir , said she , Unto URIAH'S Wife ; When thou did'st cause thy Servant In Battle to be slave ; Thou causest then more Strife than I ; Who would come here so fain . The Woman's mad , quoth SOLOMON , Thus for to taunt a King : Not half so mad as you , she said , I know in many Things ; You had seven Hundred Wives he said , For whom thou didst provide ; Yet for all this three Hundred Whores Thou didst maintain beside ; And these made thee forsake thy God , And worship Stocks and Stones ; Beside the Charge they put thee to In breeding of young Bones : Hadst thou not been beside thy Wits , Thou wouldst not thus have ventur'd , And therefore I do marvel much How thou this Place hast enter'd . I never herd , quoth Jonas then , So vile a Scold as this : You Whoreson , run away said she , For thou did more amiss I think , quoth THOMAS , Women's Tongues Of Aspen Leaves are made : You misbelieving Wretch , said she , All is not true that's said . When MARY MAGDALEN herd her chafe , She came unto the Gate ; Quoth she , good Woman you must think Upon your former State ; No Sinners enter in this Place , Quoth MARY MAGDALEN : 'Twere ill for you , fair Mistress mild , She answer'd her again . You for you Honesty , said she , Should once been ston'd to Death , Had not our Saviour CHRIST came by , And wrote upon the Earth : It is not thro' your Occupation , You are become divine ; My Soul in Christ's passion , Will be as safe as thine . Then rose the good Apostle PAUL , Unto the Wife he cry'd . Except you shake your Sins away , Thou here must be deny'd . Remember PAUL what thou hast done , All thro' a lewd Desire ; How thou didst persecute God's church With Wrath as hight as Fire . Then up starts PETER at the last , And to the Gate he hies ; Found fool , said he , knock not so fast , Thou weariest CHRIST with Cries . PETER she cries , content thyself , For Mercy may be wone . I never did deny my Lord , As thou thyself hast done . When as our Saviour CHRIST herd this , With heavenly Angels bright . He came unto this sinful Soul , Who trembled at the sighed . Of him for Mercy she did crave , Quoth he thou hast refus'd My proffer'd Grace and Mercy too , And much my Name abus'd . Sure I have sinn'd Oh Lord , said she , And spent my Time in vain , But bring me like a wandering Sheep Into thy Fold again . O Lord my God I will amend , My former wicked Vice ; The Thief at these repentant Words passed into Paradise . My Laws and my Commandments Said Christ were known too thee But not the same in any wise , Not yet a wit did you . I grant the same , My Lord she said , Most lewdly I did live ; But yet the loving Father did , The Prodigal forgive . So I forgive thy soul , he said , Thro' thy repentant cry : Come thou therefore into my rest . I will not thee deny . 