H : 288220 A memorable Song on the unhappy Hunting in Chevy-Chase , between Earl Piercy of England , and Earl Dowglas of Scotland . To the Tune of , Flying Fame GOd prosper long our Noble King , our lives and safeties all , A woeful Hunting once there did in Chevy Chase befall : To drive the Dear with hound and horn Earl Piercy took his way , The Child may rue that is unborn , the Hunting of that day . The stout Earl of Northumberland , a vow to God hid make , His pleasure in the Scottish Woods , three Summer's days to take , The chiefest Hearts in Chevy Chase , to kill and bear away : These tidings to Earl Dowglas came , in Scotland where he lay , Who sent Earl Piercy present word , he would prevent his sport , The English Earl not fearing this , did to the Woods resort , With fifteene hundred Bowmen bold all chosen men of might , Who knew full well in time of war , to aim there shafts aright . The gallant Grayhounds swiftly ran , to chase the Fallow Dear , On Munday they began to hunt , when daylight did appear , And long before high noon they had , and hundred fat Bucks slain , Then having din'd the Drovers went , to rouse them up again . The Bowmen mustered on the hills , well able to endure , Their backsides all with special care that day was guarded sure . The Hounds ran swiftly through the woods the nimble Dear to take , That with their cries the Hills and Dales and Echo shrill did maky . Lord Piercy to the Quarry went , to view the tender Dear , Quoth he , Earl Dowglas promised , this day to meet me here ; But if I thought he would not come , no longer would I stay : With that a brave young Gentleman , thus to the Earl did say , Lo , yonder does Earl Dowglas come , his men in Armour bright , Full fifteene hundred Scottish Spears , all marching in our sighed , All pleasant men of Tevidale , fast by the River Tweed : Then cease your sport Earl Piercy said , and take your Bows with speed . And now with me my Countrymen your courage forth advance ; For never was there Champion yet , in Scotland or in France , That ever did on horseback come , and if my hap it were , I durst encounter man for man , with him to break a Spear , Earl Dowglas on a milk white Steed , most like a Baron bold , Road foremost of the company , whose Armour shone like Gold : Show me said he whose men you be , that hunt so boldly here , That without my consent do chase , and kill my Fallow Dear , The man that first did answer make , was Noble Piercy he , Who said we list not to declare , nor tell whose men we be , Yet we will spend our dearest blood , thy chiefest Hearts to slay : Then Dowglas swore a solemn Oath , and thus enrage did say ; Ere thus I will out braved be , one of us two shall die , I know thee well and Earl thou art , Lord Piercy so am I : But trust me , Piercy , pity it , and great offence to kill : Any of these our harmless men , for they have done no ill : Let thou and I the Battle try , and set our men aside ; Accursed be he Lord Piercy said , by whom it is deny'd . Then stepped a gallant Squire forth , Witherington was his name , Who said , he would not have it told , to Henry our King for shame . That ere my Captain fought one foot , and I stood looking on ; You two be Earls , quoth Witherington , and I a Squire alone , I'll do the best that do I may , while I have power to stand , While I have power to wield my sword , I'll fight with heart and hand , Our English Archers bent there Bows there hearts were good and true , At the first flight of Arrows sent , full fourescore Scots they slew . To drive the Dear with hound and horn Dowglas bade on the bent . A Captain mov'd with much pride the Spears to shivers went . They clos'd full fast on every side , no slackness there was found , And many a gallant Gentleman , lay gasping on the ground : Oh Christ it were a grief to see , and likewise for to hear , The cries of men lying in there gore , and scattered here and there . At last the two stout Earls did meet , like Captains of great might , Like Lyons mov'd they laid on load and made a cruel figh They fought until they both did sweat , with swords of tempered steel , Until the blood like drops of rain , they trickling down did feel . Yield thee Lord Piercy , Dowglas said , in faith I will thee bring , Where thou shalt high advanced be : by James our Scottish King ; Thy ransom will I freely give . and this report of thee , Thou art the most courageous Knight , as ever I did see . No Dowglas , quoth Earl Piercy then , thy proffers I do scorn , I will not yield to any Scot , that ever yet was born . With that there came and arrow keen , out of and English Bow , And struck Earl Dowglas to the heart , a deep and deadly blow : Who never spoke more words than these Fight on my merry men all . For why my life is at and end , Earl Piercy sees me fallen : Then leaving life , Earl Piercy took , the dead man by the hand , And said , Earl Dowglas for thy life , would I had lost my Land. O Christ , my very heart does bleed , with sorrow [ for tO ] hy sake . For sure [ a more redoubted ] Knight mischa [ nce did never take . ] A Knigh [ tO among the Scots there was , ] which sa [ w Earl Dowglas die ] Who strai [ ght in wrath did vow revenge ] upon the E [ arle Piercy ] The Second part , to the same tune . SIr Hugh Montgomery was he cal'd who with a Spear full bright , Well mounted on a gallant Steed , ran fiercely through the figh And passed the English Archers all , without all dread or fear , And through Earl Piercies body then , he thrust his hateful Spear , With such a vehement force and might , his body he did gore , The staff ran through the other side a large Cloth yard or more : Thus did both these stout Nobles die , whose courage none could stain : And English Archer then perceiv'd the Noble Earl was slain . He had a good Bow in his hand , made of a trusty Tree : And Arrow of a Cloth-yard long , unto the head drew he , Against Sir Hugh Montgomery , so right his shaft he set , The Gray-goose wing that was thereon in his heart blood was wet The fight did last from break of day , till setting of the Sun. For when they wrung the evening Bell the Battle scarce was done : With stout Earl Piercy there was slain Sir John of Ogerton , Sir Robert Rateliffe and sir John , Sir James that bold Baron . And with Sir George and good sir James . both Knights of good account , Good sir Ralph Rebby there was slain whose prowess did surmoun For Witherington needs must I wail , as one in doleful dumps , For when his Legs were smitten off he fought upon his stumps . And with Earl Dowglas there was slain Sir Hugh Montgomery , Sir Charles Morrell that from the field , one foot would never fly , Sir Charles Morrell of Ratcliffe too ; his Sisters Son was he , Sir David Lamb so well esteem'd , but sav'd he could not be . And the Lord Markewel in like case , did with Earl Dowglas die , Of twenty hundred Scotish Spears , scarce fifty five did fly : Of fifteene hundred English-men , went home but fiifty three , The rest were slain in Chevy-Chase , under the Greenwood Tree . Next day did many Widows come , there husbands to bewail They washed their wounds in brinish tears but all would not prevail , There bodies bath'd in purple blood , they boar with them away , They kissed them dead a thousand times , when they were clad in clay . This news was brought to Edenburg , where Scotlands King did reign , That brave Earl Dowglas suddenly , was with and Arrow slain : Oh heavy news King James did say , Scotland can witness be , I have not any Captain more , of such account as he . Like tidings to King Henery came , within a short a space , That Piercy of Northumberland , was slain in Chevy-Chase , Now God be with him said our King , sith 'twill not better be , I trust I have within my Realm , fiive hundred as good as he , Yet shall not Scots nor Scotland say , but I will vengeance take , And be revenged one them all , for brave Earl Piercies sake , This vow the King did well perform , after at Humble Down In one day fifty Knights were slain with Lords of high renown . And of the rest of small account , did many hundred die , Thus ended the hunting in Chevy Chase made by the Lord Piercy , God save the King and bless the Land , with plenty Joy and peace , And grant henceforth that fowl debate , 'twixt Noblemen may cease . FINIS . London H : 288220 A memorable Song on the unhappy Hunting in Chevy-Chase , between Earl Piercy of England , and Earl Dowglas of Scotland . To the Tune of , Flying Fame GOd prosper long our Noble King , our lives and safeties all , A woeful Hunting once there did in Chevy Chase befall : To drive the Dear with hound and horn Earl Piercy took his way , The Child may rue that is unborn , the Hunting of that day . The stout Earl of Northumberland , a vow to God hid make , His pleasure in the Scottish Woods , three Summer's days to take , The chiefest Hearts in Chevy Chase , to kill and bear away : These tidings to Earl Dowglas came , in Scotland where he lay , Who sent Earl Piercy present word , he would prevent his sport , The English Earl not fearing this , did to the Woods resort , With fifteene hundred Bowmen bold all chosen men of might , Who knew full well in time of war , to aim there shafts aright . The gallant Grayhounds swiftly ran , to chase the Fallow Dear , On Munday they began to hunt , when daylight did appear , And long before high noon they had , and hundred fat Bucks slain , Then having din'd the Drovers went , to rouse them up again . The Bowmen mustered on the hills , well able to endure , Their backsides all with special care that day was guarded sure . The Hounds ran swiftly through the woods the nimble Dear to take , That with their cries the Hills and Dales and Echo shrill did maky . Lord Piercy to the Quarry went , to view the tender Dear , Quoth he , Earl Dowglas promised , this day to meet me here ; But if I thought he would not come , no longer would I stay : With that a brave young Gentleman , thus to the Earl did say , Lo , yonder does Earl Dowglas come , his men in Armour bright , Full fifteene hundred Scottish Spears , all marching in our sighed , All pleasant men of Tevidale , fast by the River Tweed : Then cease your sport Earl Piercy said , and take your Bows with speed . And now with me my Countrymen your courage forth advance ; For never was there Champion yet , in Scotland or in France , That ever did on horseback come , and if my hap it were , I durst encounter man for man , with him to break a Spear , Earl Dowglas on a milk white Steed , most like a Baron bold , Road foremost of the company , whose Armour shone like Gold : Show me said he whose men you be , that hunt so boldly here , That without my consent do chase , and kill my Fallow Dear , The man that first did answer make , was Noble Piercy he , Who said we list not to declare , nor tell whose men we be , Yet we will spend our dearest blood , thy chiefest Hearts to slay : Then Dowglas swore a solemn Oath , and thus enrage did say ; Ere thus I will out braved be , one of us two shall die , I know thee well and Earl thou art , Lord Piercy so am I : But trust me , Piercy , pity it , and great offence to kill : Any of these our harmless men , for they have done no ill : Let thou and I the Battle try , and set our men aside ; Accursed be he Lord Piercy said , by whom it is deny'd . Then stepped a gallant Squire forth , Witherington was his name , Who said , he would not have it told , to Henry our King for shame . That ere my Captain fought one foot , and I stood looking on ; You two be Earls , quoth Witherington , and I a Squire alone , I'll do the best that do I may , while I have power to stand , While I have power to wield my sword , I'll fight with heart and hand , Our English Archers bent there Bows there hearts were good and true , At the first flight of Arrows sent , full fourescore Scots they slew . To drive the Dear with hound and horn Dowglas bade on the bent . A Captain mov'd with much pride the Spears to shivers went . They clos'd full fast on every side , no slackness there was found , And many a gallant Gentleman , lay gasping on the ground : Oh Christ it were a grief to see , and likewise for to hear , The cries of men lying in there gore , and scattered here and there . At last the two stout Earls did meet , like Captains of great might , Like Lyons mov'd they laid on load and made a cruel figh They fought until they both did sweat , with swords of tempered steel , Until the blood like drops of rain , they trickling down did feel . Yield thee Lord Piercy , Dowglas said , in faith I will thee bring , Where thou shalt high advanced be : by James our Scottish King ; Thy ransom will I freely give . and this report of thee , Thou art the most courageous Knight , as ever I did see . No Dowglas , quoth Earl Piercy then , thy proffers I do scorn , I will not yield to any Scot , that ever yet was born . With that there came and arrow keen , out of and English Bow , And struck Earl Dowglas to the heart , a deep and deadly blow : Who never spoke more words than these Fight on my merry men all . For why my life is at and end , Earl Piercy sees me fallen : Then leaving life , Earl Piercy took , the dead man by the hand , And said , Earl Dowglas for thy life , would I had lost my Land. O Christ , my very heart does bleed , with sorrow [ for tO ] hy sake . For sure [ a more redoubted ] Knight mischa [ nce did never take . ] A Knigh [ tO among the Scots there was , ] which sa [ w Earl Dowglas die ] Who strai [ ght in wrath did vow revenge ] upon the E [ arle Piercy ] The Second part , to the same tune . SIr Hugh Montgomery was he cal'd who with a Spear full bright , Well mounted on a gallant Steed , ran fiercely through the figh And passed the English Archers all , without all dread or fear , And through Earl Piercies body then , he thrust his hateful Spear , With such a vehement force and might , his body he did gore , The staff ran through the other side a large Cloth yard or more : Thus did both these stout Nobles die , whose courage none could stain : And English Archer then perceiv'd the Noble Earl was slain . He had a good Bow in his hand , made of a trusty Tree : And Arrow of a Cloth-yard long , unto the head drew he , Against Sir Hugh Montgomery , so right his shaft he set , The Gray-goose wing that was thereon in his heart blood was wet The fight did last from break of day , till setting of the Sun. For when they wrung the evening Bell the Battle scarce was done : With stout Earl Piercy there was slain Sir John of Ogerton , Sir Robert Rateliffe and sir John , Sir James that bold Baron . And with Sir George and good sir James . both Knights of good account , Good sir Ralph Rebby there was slain whose prowess did surmoun For Witherington needs must I wail , as one in doleful dumps , For when his Legs were smitten off he fought upon his stumps . And with Earl Dowglas there was slain Sir Hugh Montgomery , Sir Charles Morrell that from the field , one foot would never fly , Sir Charles Morrell of Ratcliffe too ; his Sisters Son was he , Sir David Lamb so well esteem'd , but sav'd he could not be . And the Lord Markewel in like case , did with Earl Dowglas die , Of twenty hundred Scotish Spears , scarce fifty five did fly : Of fifteene hundred English-men , went home but fiifty three , The rest were slain in Chevy-Chase , under the Greenwood Tree . Next day did many Widows come , there husbands to bewail They washed their wounds in brinish tears but all would not prevail , There bodies bath'd in purple blood , they boar with them away , They kissed them dead a thousand times , when they were clad in clay . This news was brought to Edenburg , where Scotlands King did reign , That brave Earl Dowglas suddenly , was with and Arrow slain : Oh heavy news King James did say , Scotland can witness be , I have not any Captain more , of such account as he . Like tidings to King Henery came , within a short a space , That Piercy of Northumberland , was slain in Chevy-Chase , Now God be with him said our King , sith 'twill not better be , I trust I have within my Realm , fiive hundred as good as he , Yet shall not Scots nor Scotland say , but I will vengeance take , And be revenged one them all , for brave Earl Piercies sake , This vow the King did well perform , after at Humble Down In one day fifty Knights were slain with Lords of high renown . And of the rest of small account , did many hundred die , Thus ended the hunting in Chevy Chase made by the Lord Piercy , God save the King and bless the Land , with plenty Joy and peace , And grant henceforth that fowl debate , 'twixt Noblemen may cease . FINIS . London Printed for J. Wright in the old-Bayly , Printed for J. Wright in the old-Bayly , 