H : 289723 THE Countryman's GARLAND ; In Two PARTS . To a Merry New TUNE . PART I . Country JOHN's unfortunate Ramble to London ; Or , The Tricks of a Town Jilt . YOU young men that down in the country dwell , Come listen a while to my song , sir , While my sad misfortunes to you I do tell , Pray do not think the time long , sir . I liv'd in the country as sweet as a rose , One day in a hurry I pack'd up my clothes , My best fine doublet , my hat and my hose , And away came trudging to London . When I came to London , that famous fine place , I view'd the steeple so high , sir , Such I ne'er saw before in all my days , Lord how they did hallow and cry , sir Here are fine snuff-boxes fit for your nose , Some crying artichokes , others old clothes , I thought at first they'd been calling their cows , They made such a racket in London . But as I stood staring with the trunk at my back , Being both cold , wet , and weary . One came up to me , and ask'd what I lack'd , She was dressed up as fine as a lady . I turn'd me round , and look'd her in the face , Dear madam , said I , I do want a place , She smil'd upon me with a simpering grace , And bid me right welcome to London . She said , In the country I have a good friend , That wants one to wait at the table , If you'll stay awhile I for him will send , And do for you what I am able . Strait into a tavern away she did pack , I follow'd her close with my trunk at my back , She call'd her maid Betty , likewise her man Jack , They both bid me welcome to London . Miss Betty cry'd Madam , you know I am sickly , Therefore , if John is but willing To carry this basket , he'll come again quickly , For his pains I will give him a shilling . My brains being drowned in brandy and sack , She hoist the basket upon my poor back , And both together thro' the city did pack , I thought it rare living in London . She went by my side as demure as a mouse , Did ever man see such a whore , sir , She carry'd me down to the Constable's house , And bid me knock at the door , sir , I rapt at the door , and the Constable came , And the child in the basket began to mourn , I look'd over my shoulder , but Betty was gone , Then I wish'd myself safe out of London . Said I , Here's a present , he said , Who sent it ! At that I began to look blue , sir ; It's no matter , said I , with my pains I'm content , But he cry'd out , That will not do , sir . He pulled a painted staff out of his pocket , And about my ears he did lustily knock it , Beside he call'd me saucepate and blockhead , And this I god by coming to London . The basket was ty'd up as fast as might be , Which added much to my vexation ; And in it indeed was a pretty young babe , Which put the man into a passion . A pot full of pottage he threw in my Eyes , The People did hollow , the Bastard did cry , And I wish'd myself safe in my own country , I was weary of living in London . I went to the Tavern , the Place where I drank , But Neighbours , if you will believe me , The Lady was gone , and so was my Trunk , Thought I , the Devil go with thee . This put me into a passionate Rage , I lost all my Clothes and seven Years wage , This I god by coming to London . The very next morning , without any dodging , My troubles came thicker and faster , I to Bridewell was sent to beatrice Hemp for my Lodg-ing To maintain Myself and my Bastard . And then for a twelvemonth I daily did beg , 'Till I had neither stocking or shoe to my Leg , With the Brat at my Back I was forced to beg , And this I god by coming to London . PART II The Jilt paid in her own Coin : Or Country JOHN's Revenge for the Trick she had played him . ONE Day as I was begging in Bishopsgate Street , It being sad rainy weather , There with Mrs. Betty I happen'd to meet , And the old Whore both together . Now I'll be revenged on these old Whores , For this was the time to pay off their Scores , So follow'd them Home unto their own Doors , For then I was acquainted with London . Thought I , my Purpose they shall not prevent , If they do , the Devil must be in it ; Without more delay for the Constable I sent , And he came with his staff in a minute . I call'd for Assistance , and seized them strait , And then to the People my tale did relate : They laugh'd at my Frolic and pity'd my Fate , And said , I'd hard Fortune in London . As the Constable he was securing those Punks , Dear Neighbours , as I am a Sinner , I step'd in the Chamber , and there stood my Trunk . It was placed just under the Window ; My Clothes was gone and my Money likewise , But believe me , I met with a much better Prize It was full of good Linen , Pinners , and Coifs , I thought it good Booty in London . A Pair of Silk Breeches lay on the Shelf , With a gold Watch and Rings in the Pocket ; Said I , These are like to fit none but myself , , So put them strait under my jacket . Both Topknots and Laces I pillag'd good store , My Breeches were fill'd , I could cram in no more While the Whores were scolding I slipped out of Door And away I went jogging from London . I scamper'd away as fast as I was able , To be going I was very willing , The Brat I left lying under the Table , Who cry'd like a big that was killing . The Constable served his Warrants on them , And unto New Bridewell he did carry them , And they may beatrice Hemp till the Devil fetches them For I'll never come more to London . You young Men that live in the Country sweet , I'd have you to please your old Master's , And never go up to the City , for fear You meet with such like disasters : For London's as sharp as the Edge of a Knife , The City is fill'd with Faction and Strife , Boys , nothing so sweet as a Country Life . Let those that want Wit go to London . Printed and sold at No. 4 , Aldermary churchyard . H : 289723 THE Countryman's GARLAND ; In Two PARTS . To a Merry New TUNE . PART I . Country JOHN's unfortunate Ramble to London ; Or , The Tricks of a Town Jilt . YOU young men that down in the country dwell , Come listen a while to my song , sir , While my sad misfortunes to you I do tell , Pray do not think the time long , sir . I liv'd in the country as sweet as a rose , One day in a hurry I pack'd up my clothes , My best fine doublet , my hat and my hose , And away came trudging to London . When I came to London , that famous fine place , I view'd the steeple so high , sir , Such I ne'er saw before in all my days , Lord how they did hallow and cry , sir Here are fine snuff-boxes fit for your nose , Some crying artichokes , others old clothes , I thought at first they'd been calling their cows , They made such a racket in London . But as I stood staring with the trunk at my back , Being both cold , wet , and weary . One came up to me , and ask'd what I lack'd , She was dressed up as fine as a lady . I turn'd me round , and look'd her in the face , Dear madam , said I , I do want a place , She smil'd upon me with a simpering grace , And bid me right welcome to London . She said , In the country I have a good friend , That wants one to wait at the table , If you'll stay awhile I for him will send , And do for you what I am able . Strait into a tavern away she did pack , I follow'd her close with my trunk at my back , She call'd her maid Betty , likewise her man Jack , They both bid me welcome to London . Miss Betty cry'd Madam , you know I am sickly , Therefore , if John is but willing To carry this basket , he'll come again quickly , For his pains I will give him a shilling . My brains being drowned in brandy and sack , She hoist the basket upon my poor back , And both together thro' the city did pack , I thought it rare living in London . She went by my side as demure as a mouse , Did ever man see such a whore , sir , She carry'd me down to the Constable's house , And bid me knock at the door , sir , I rapt at the door , and the Constable came , And the child in the basket began to mourn , I look'd over my shoulder , but Betty was gone , Then I wish'd myself safe out of London . Said I , Here's a present , he said , Who sent it ! At that I began to look blue , sir ; It's no matter , said I , with my pains I'm content , But he cry'd out , That will not do , sir . He pulled a painted staff out of his pocket , And about my ears he did lustily knock it , Beside he call'd me saucepate and blockhead , And this I god by coming to London . The basket was ty'd up as fast as might be , Which added much to my vexation ; And in it indeed was a pretty young babe , Which put the man into a passion . A pot full of pottage he threw in my Eyes , The People did hollow , the Bastard did cry , And I wish'd myself safe in my own country , I was weary of living in London . I went to the Tavern , the Place where I drank , But Neighbours , if you will believe me , The Lady was gone , and so was my Trunk , Thought I , the Devil go with thee . This put me into a passionate Rage , I lost all my Clothes and seven Years wage , This I god by coming to London . The very next morning , without any dodging , My troubles came thicker and faster , I to Bridewell was sent to beatrice Hemp for my Lodg-ing To maintain Myself and my Bastard . And then for a twelvemonth I daily did beg , 'Till I had neither stocking or shoe to my Leg , With the Brat at my Back I was forced to beg , And this I god by coming to London . PART II The Jilt paid in her own Coin : Or Country JOHN's Revenge for the Trick she had played him . ONE Day as I was begging in Bishopsgate Street , It being sad rainy weather , There with Mrs. Betty I happen'd to meet , And the old Whore both together . Now I'll be revenged on these old Whores , For this was the time to pay off their Scores , So follow'd them Home unto their own Doors , For then I was acquainted with London . Thought I , my Purpose they shall not prevent , If they do , the Devil must be in it ; Without more delay for the Constable I sent , And he came with his staff in a minute . I call'd for Assistance , and seized them strait , And then to the People my tale did relate : They laugh'd at my Frolic and pity'd my Fate , And said , I'd hard Fortune in London . As the Constable he was securing those Punks , Dear Neighbours , as I am a Sinner , I step'd in the Chamber , and there stood my Trunk . It was placed just under the Window ; My Clothes was gone and my Money likewise , But believe me , I met with a much better Prize It was full of good Linen , Pinners , and Coifs , I thought it good Booty in London . A Pair of Silk Breeches lay on the Shelf , With a gold Watch and Rings in the Pocket ; Said I , These are like to fit none but myself , , So put them strait under my jacket . Both Topknots and Laces I pillag'd good store , My Breeches were fill'd , I could cram in no more While the Whores were scolding I slipped out of Door And away I went jogging from London . I scamper'd away as fast as I was able , To be going I was very willing , The Brat I left lying under the Table , Who cry'd like a big that was killing . The Constable served his Warrants on them , And unto New Bridewell he did carry them , And they may beatrice Hemp till the Devil fetches them For I'll never come more to London . You young Men that live in the Country sweet , I'd have you to please your old Master's , And never go up to the City , for fear You meet with such like disasters : For London's as sharp as the Edge of a Knife , The City is fill'd with Faction and Strife , Boys , nothing so sweet as a Country Life . Let those that want Wit go to London . Printed and sold at No. 4 , Aldermary churchyard . H : 289723 THE Countryman's GARLAND ; In Two PARTS . To a Merry New TUNE . PART I . Country JOHN's unfortunate Ramble to London ; Or , The Tricks of a Town Jilt . YOU young men that down in the country dwell , Come listen a while to my song , sir , While my sad misfortunes to you I do tell , Pray do not think the time long , sir . I liv'd in the country as sweet as a rose , One day in a hurry I pack'd up my clothes , My best fine doublet , my hat and my hose , And away came trudging to London . When I came to London , that famous fine place , I view'd the steeple so high , sir , Such I ne'er saw before in all my days , Lord how they did hallow and cry , sir Here are fine snuff-boxes fit for your nose , Some crying artichokes , others old clothes , I thought at first they'd been calling their cows , They made such a racket in London . But as I stood staring with the trunk at my back , Being both cold , wet , and weary . One came up to me , and ask'd what I lack'd , She was dressed up as fine as a lady . I turn'd me round , and look'd her in the face , Dear madam , said I , I do want a place , She smil'd upon me with a simpering grace , And bid me right welcome to London . She said , In the country I have a good friend , That wants one to wait at the table , If you'll stay awhile I for him will send , And do for you what I am able . Strait into a tavern away she did pack , I follow'd her close with my trunk at my back , She call'd her maid Betty , likewise her man Jack , They both bid me welcome to London . Miss Betty cry'd Madam , you know I am sickly , Therefore , if John is but willing To carry this basket , he'll come again quickly , For his pains I will give him a shilling . My brains being drowned in brandy and sack , She hoist the basket upon my poor back , And both together thro' the city did pack , I thought it rare living in London . She went by my side as demure as a mouse , Did ever man see such a whore , sir , She carry'd me down to the Constable's house , And bid me knock at the door , sir , I rapt at the door , and the Constable came , And the child in the basket began to mourn , I look'd over my shoulder , but Betty was gone , Then I wish'd myself safe out of London . Said I , Here's a present , he said , Who sent it ! At that I began to look blue , sir ; It's no matter , said I , with my pains I'm content , But he cry'd out , That will not do , sir . He pulled a painted staff out of his pocket , And about my ears he did lustily knock it , Beside he call'd me saucepate and blockhead , And this I god by coming to London . The basket was ty'd up as fast as might be , Which added much to my vexation ; And in it indeed was a pretty young babe , Which put the man into a passion . A pot full of pottage he threw in my Eyes , The People did hollow , the Bastard did cry , And I wish'd myself safe in my own country , I was weary of living in London . I went to the Tavern , the Place where I drank , But Neighbours , if you will believe me , The Lady was gone , and so was my Trunk , Thought I , the Devil go with thee . This put me into a passionate Rage , I lost all my Clothes and seven Years wage , This I god by coming to London . The very next morning , without any dodging , My troubles came thicker and faster , I to Bridewell was sent to beatrice Hemp for my Lodg-ing To maintain Myself and my Bastard . And then for a twelvemonth I daily did beg , 'Till I had neither stocking or shoe to my Leg , With the Brat at my Back I was forced to beg , And this I god by coming to London . PART II The Jilt paid in her own Coin : Or Country JOHN's Revenge for the Trick she had played him . ONE Day as I was begging in Bishopsgate Street , It being sad rainy weather , There with Mrs. Betty I happen'd to meet , And the old Whore both together . Now I'll be revenged on these old Whores , For this was the time to pay off their Scores , So follow'd them Home unto their own Doors , For then I was acquainted with London . Thought I , my Purpose they shall not prevent , If they do , the Devil must be in it ; Without more delay for the Constable I sent , And he came with his staff in a minute . I call'd for Assistance , and seized them strait , And then to the People my tale did relate : They laugh'd at my Frolic and pity'd my Fate , And said , I'd hard Fortune in London . As the Constable he was securing those Punks , Dear Neighbours , as I am a Sinner , I step'd in the Chamber , and there stood my Trunk . It was placed just under the Window ; My Clothes was gone and my Money likewise , But believe me , I met with a much better Prize It was full of good Linen , Pinners , and Coifs , I thought it good Booty in London . A Pair of Silk Breeches lay on the Shelf , With a gold Watch and Rings in the Pocket ; Said I , These are like to fit none but myself , , So put them strait under my jacket . Both Topknots and Laces I pillag'd good store , My Breeches were fill'd , I could cram in no more While the Whores were scolding I slipped out of Door And away I went jogging from London . I scamper'd away as fast as I was able , To be going I was very willing , The Brat I left lying under the Table , Who cry'd like a big that was killing . The Constable served his Warrants on them , And unto New Bridewell he did carry them , And they may beatrice Hemp till the Devil fetches them For I'll never come more to London . You young Men that live in the Country sweet , I'd have you to please your old Master's , And never go up to the City , for fear You meet with such like disasters : For London's as sharp as the Edge of a Knife , The City is fill'd with Faction and Strife , Boys , nothing so sweet as a Country Life . Let those that want Wit go to London . Printed and sold at No. 4 , Aldermary churchyard . H : 289723 THE Countryman's GARLAND ; In Two PARTS . To a Merry New TUNE . PART I . Country JOHN's unfortunate Ramble to London ; Or , The Tricks of a Town Jilt . YOU young men that down in the country dwell , Come listen a while to my song , sir , While my sad misfortunes to you I do tell , Pray do not think the time long , sir . I liv'd in the country as sweet as a rose , One day in a hurry I pack'd up my clothes , My best fine doublet , my hat and my hose , And away came trudging to London . When I came to London , that famous fine place , I view'd the steeple so high , sir , Such I ne'er saw before in all my days , Lord how they did hallow and cry , sir Here are fine snuff-boxes fit for your nose , Some crying artichokes , others old clothes , I thought at first they'd been calling their cows , They made such a racket in London . But as I stood staring with the trunk at my back , Being both cold , wet , and weary . One came up to me , and ask'd what I lack'd , She was dressed up as fine as a lady . I turn'd me round , and look'd her in the face , Dear madam , said I , I do want a place , She smil'd upon me with a simpering grace , And bid me right welcome to London . She said , In the country I have a good friend , That wants one to wait at the table , If you'll stay awhile I for him will send , And do for you what I am able . Strait into a tavern away she did pack , I follow'd her close with my trunk at my back , She call'd her maid Betty , likewise her man Jack , They both bid me welcome to London . Miss Betty cry'd Madam , you know I am sickly , Therefore , if John is but willing To carry this basket , he'll come again quickly , For his pains I will give him a shilling . My brains being drowned in brandy and sack , She hoist the basket upon my poor back , And both together thro' the city did pack , I thought it rare living in London . She went by my side as demure as a mouse , Did ever man see such a whore , sir , She carry'd me down to the Constable's house , And bid me knock at the door , sir , I rapt at the door , and the Constable came , And the child in the basket began to mourn , I look'd over my shoulder , but Betty was gone , Then I wish'd myself safe out of London . Said I , Here's a present , he said , Who sent it ! At that I began to look blue , sir ; It's no matter , said I , with my pains I'm content , But he cry'd out , That will not do , sir . He pulled a painted staff out of his pocket , And about my ears he did lustily knock it , Beside he call'd me saucepate and blockhead , And this I god by coming to London . The basket was ty'd up as fast as might be , Which added much to my vexation ; And in it indeed was a pretty young babe , Which put the man into a passion . A pot full of pottage he threw in my Eyes , The People did hollow , the Bastard did cry , And I wish'd myself safe in my own country , I was weary of living in London . I went to the Tavern , the Place where I drank , But Neighbours , if you will believe me , The Lady was gone , and so was my Trunk , Thought I , the Devil go with thee . This put me into a passionate Rage , I lost all my Clothes and seven Years wage , This I god by coming to London . The very next morning , without any dodging , My troubles came thicker and faster , I to Bridewell was sent to beatrice Hemp for my Lodg-ing To maintain Myself and my Bastard . And then for a twelvemonth I daily did beg , 'Till I had neither stocking or shoe to my Leg , With the Brat at my Back I was forced to beg , And this I god by coming to London . PART II The Jilt paid in her own Coin : Or Country JOHN's Revenge for the Trick she had played him . ONE Day as I was begging in Bishopsgate Street , It being sad rainy weather , There with Mrs. Betty I happen'd to meet , And the old Whore both together . Now I'll be revenged on these old Whores , For this was the time to pay off their Scores , So follow'd them Home unto their own Doors , For then I was acquainted with London . Thought I , my Purpose they shall not prevent , If they do , the Devil must be in it ; Without more delay for the Constable I sent , And he came with his staff in a minute . I call'd for Assistance , and seized them strait , And then to the People my tale did relate : They laugh'd at my Frolic and pity'd my Fate , And said , I'd hard Fortune in London . As the Constable he was securing those Punks , Dear Neighbours , as I am a Sinner , I step'd in the Chamber , and there stood my Trunk . It was placed just under the Window ; My Clothes was gone and my Money likewise , But believe me , I met with a much better Prize It was full of good Linen , Pinners , and Coifs , I thought it good Booty in London . A Pair of Silk Breeches lay on the Shelf , With a gold Watch and Rings in the Pocket ; Said I , These are like to fit none but myself , , So put them strait under my jacket . Both Topknots and Laces I pillag'd good store , My Breeches were fill'd , I could cram in no more While the Whores were scolding I slipped out of Door And away I went jogging from London . I scamper'd away as fast as I was able , To be going I was very willing , The Brat I left lying under the Table , Who cry'd like a big that was killing . The Constable served his Warrants on them , And unto New Bridewell he did carry them , And they may beatrice Hemp till the Devil fetches them For I'll never come more to London . You young Men that live in the Country sweet , I'd have you to please your old Master's , And never go up to the City , for fear You meet with such like disasters : For London's as sharp as the Edge of a Knife , The City is fill'd with Faction and Strife , Boys , nothing so sweet as a Country Life . Let those that want Wit go to London . Printed and sold at No. 4 , Aldermary churchyard . 