H : 289720 The TRAGICAL BALLAD : OR THE Lady who fell in Love with her Serving-Man . GOOD people pray attend . Unto these lines I've penn'd , Which to the world I send , Therefore draw near : And hear what I do say . Alack-and-a-well-a-day , Unto love's sad decay , Prov'd most severe . There was a servant-man , Who lived near the Strand , As I do understand , He was so fair : So the young lady bright , Could not rest day nor night , He was her soul's delight , She lov'd him so dear . Now this young lady cry'd , I can't be satisfy'd I wish I was his bride , To cure my smart . Young Cupid bend the bow , And wound my lover so , That in short time he'll know , A lovesick heart . Why should I thus complain , He knoweth not my pain , He being my servant-man , And I so great . Could I unclose my mind , Great comfort shall I find , But fortune proves unkind , Oh! cruel fate . Why was I born so high , To live in misery ? Or Cupid's dart to fly Into my breast ; I wish I was as poor , As the Man whom I adore , Then should I evermore Enjoy my dear . Then the young lady said . Why should I be afraid ? I'll bring my servant-maid To tell my mind . Betty , Betty , said she , Pray come here to me , You must my council be , Then I will prove kind . I love our servant-man , You know our honest John , Let me do what I can , I can't get free . Love has ensnar'd my heart , As I do feel the smart . Cupid with his keen dart Has wounded me . Then said the damsel fair , Madam , since you declare Your mind , I can't forbear But let you know . I am in the same case , I love his charming face , My heart within his breast , Is plac'd also . In sorrow discontent , Away this damsel went , Her heart with mischief's bent , As you shall find . 'Tho she's my lady fair , Her secret I'll declare , Or I shall loose my dear , In a short time . GOOD people lend and ear , I'm sure you'll shed a tear , When you this story hear , A second part How Cupid bent his bow , Wounded three lovers so , Great troubles they did know , By his keen dart . The damsel thus begun , And said I am undone : I shall distracted run , I am afraid . Could I draw back my mind , From love to be inclin'd , Great comfort shall I find , In grief she said . We leave the damsel here , Entangl'd in love's snare , To treat of the young fair Lady so bright . As she set sighing then , Came in the servant-man . As we do understand , That very night . She did unlose her mind , Within short time we find , Saying to him most kind , You have my heart . The young man stood amaz'd , And on his lady gaz'd , Sure these are happy days , The young man said . Young madam , do forbear , Draw me not in a snare , If my master should hear , We are ruin'd . Rather than that should be I'd go along with thee , Either by land or sea , Or where you please . You are my heart's delight , I can travel day and night So they consented strait To cross the seas . Then said the lady bright , To morrow when 'tis light , I'll marry my delight . Then straightway I will go Along with thee , my dear , And man's apparel wear , No one can us ensnare , Nor can us know . OBSERVE this part the third , The servant-maid she stood , And herd them every word . Then strait she run . Master , master , said she , Alas ! you'll ruin'd be , Your daughter does agree To marry John. To morrow is the day , As I do hear them say , That they would go away , And married be . She does him so adore , Of danger thinks no more She quits her native shore To cross the sea . When she did thus declare , He call'd his daughter fair , Madam , what are you there ? Her father cry'd . Pray call John also , The truth I mean to know , And if I find it so , I will provide . A place you need not fear , Both for you and your dear , And I will prove severe Unto you both . Father , your will be done He's like to be your son , Or else I will have none , Upon my troth . Daughter since you say so , He shall to prison go , And I'll confine also You to yourt room . Father , faher , forbear , Do not punish my dear , Let me the burden bear , Or I'm undone . She to her chamber sent And he to prison went , In grief and discontent , There to remain . He sent him over to sea , A soldier there to be , Against the enemy To fight in Spain Now said the servant maid , Alas ! 'Twas I betray'd , Your love and mine , she said , What have I done ? With that she tore her hair , And fell into despair , And as I do declare , To Bedlam's gone . That very self same night , This youthful lady bright , In dark and doleseme night Got clear away . Out of a window high She god her liberty . Traveling she did come nigh Unto the sea . And in short time we hear , She cross'd the ocean fair In man's apparel there She met her dear : A soldier was he also , Yet his love did not know , She being his comforter too , As we do hear , In Spain they were not long , Before they both were drawn Into a party strong , To fight the foe . The first that wounded were , Was this young lady fair , Dying she did declare Her grief and woe . As she was on the ground , He suck'd her bloody wound , Crying , My dear is gone , With her sweet charms : Shall I live longer too , No , no that ne'er will do , Piercing his body thro' Dy'd in her arms . Now came this news , we hear , Unto her father dear : He stamped and tore his hair , Grieving he said , Alas ! my daughter dear , I prov'd to thee severe , Now thou art dead I fear , So I'll end my days . H : 289720 The TRAGICAL BALLAD : OR THE Lady who fell in Love with her Serving-Man . GOOD people pray attend . Unto these lines I've penn'd , Which to the world I send , Therefore draw near : And hear what I do say . Alack-and-a-well-a-day , Unto love's sad decay , Prov'd most severe . There was a servant-man , Who lived near the Strand , As I do understand , He was so fair : So the young lady bright , Could not rest day nor night , He was her soul's delight , She lov'd him so dear . Now this young lady cry'd , I can't be satisfy'd I wish I was his bride , To cure my smart . Young Cupid bend the bow , And wound my lover so , That in short time he'll know , A lovesick heart . Why should I thus complain , He knoweth not my pain , He being my servant-man , And I so great . Could I unclose my mind , Great comfort shall I find , But fortune proves unkind , Oh! cruel fate . Why was I born so high , To live in misery ? Or Cupid's dart to fly Into my breast ; I wish I was as poor , As the Man whom I adore , Then should I evermore Enjoy my dear . Then the young lady said . Why should I be afraid ? I'll bring my servant-maid To tell my mind . Betty , Betty , said she , Pray come here to me , You must my council be , Then I will prove kind . I love our servant-man , You know our honest John , Let me do what I can , I can't get free . Love has ensnar'd my heart , As I do feel the smart . Cupid with his keen dart Has wounded me . Then said the damsel fair , Madam , since you declare Your mind , I can't forbear But let you know . I am in the same case , I love his charming face , My heart within his breast , Is plac'd also . In sorrow discontent , Away this damsel went , Her heart with mischief's bent , As you shall find . 'Tho she's my lady fair , Her secret I'll declare , Or I shall loose my dear , In a short time . GOOD people lend and ear , I'm sure you'll shed a tear , When you this story hear , A second part How Cupid bent his bow , Wounded three lovers so , Great troubles they did know , By his keen dart . The damsel thus begun , And said I am undone : I shall distracted run , I am afraid . Could I draw back my mind , From love to be inclin'd , Great comfort shall I find , In grief she said . We leave the damsel here , Entangl'd in love's snare , To treat of the young fair Lady so bright . As she set sighing then , Came in the servant-man . As we do understand , That very night . She did unlose her mind , Within short time we find , Saying to him most kind , You have my heart . The young man stood amaz'd , And on his lady gaz'd , Sure these are happy days , The young man said . Young madam , do forbear , Draw me not in a snare , If my master should hear , We are ruin'd . Rather than that should be I'd go along with thee , Either by land or sea , Or where you please . You are my heart's delight , I can travel day and night So they consented strait To cross the seas . Then said the lady bright , To morrow when 'tis light , I'll marry my delight . Then straightway I will go Along with thee , my dear , And man's apparel wear , No one can us ensnare , Nor can us know . OBSERVE this part the third , The servant-maid she stood , And herd them every word . Then strait she run . Master , master , said she , Alas ! you'll ruin'd be , Your daughter does agree To marry John. To morrow is the day , As I do hear them say , That they would go away , And married be . She does him so adore , Of danger thinks no more She quits her native shore To cross the sea . When she did thus declare , He call'd his daughter fair , Madam , what are you there ? Her father cry'd . Pray call John also , The truth I mean to know , And if I find it so , I will provide . A place you need not fear , Both for you and your dear , And I will prove severe Unto you both . Father , your will be done He's like to be your son , Or else I will have none , Upon my troth . Daughter since you say so , He shall to prison go , And I'll confine also You to yourt room . Father , faher , forbear , Do not punish my dear , Let me the burden bear , Or I'm undone . She to her chamber sent And he to prison went , In grief and discontent , There to remain . He sent him over to sea , A soldier there to be , Against the enemy To fight in Spain Now said the servant maid , Alas ! 'Twas I betray'd , Your love and mine , she said , What have I done ? With that she tore her hair , And fell into despair , And as I do declare , To Bedlam's gone . That very self same night , This youthful lady bright , In dark and doleseme night Got clear away . Out of a window high She god her liberty . Traveling she did come nigh Unto the sea . And in short time we hear , She cross'd the ocean fair In man's apparel there She met her dear : A soldier was he also , Yet his love did not know , She being his comforter too , As we do hear , In Spain they were not long , Before they both were drawn Into a party strong , To fight the foe . The first that wounded were , Was this young lady fair , Dying she did declare Her grief and woe . As she was on the ground , He suck'd her bloody wound , Crying , My dear is gone , With her sweet charms : Shall I live longer too , No , no that ne'er will do , Piercing his body thro' Dy'd in her arms . Now came this news , we hear , Unto her father dear : He stamped and tore his hair , Grieving he said , Alas ! my daughter dear , I prov'd to thee severe , Now thou art dead I fear , So I'll end my days . 