H : 289726 The Berkshire Trgedy , OR , The WITTAM MILLER , With and Account of his Murdering his Sweetheart , etc YOung men and maidens all give ear , unto what I shall now relate ; Oh mark you well , and you shall hear , of my unhappy fate . Near famous Oxford Town , i first did draw my breath , Oh! that I had been cast away in and untimely birth . My tender parents brought me up , provided for me well . And in the TOWN of WITTAM then , They plac'd me in a Mill. By chance upon and Oxford lass , i cast a wanton eye , And promis'd i would marry her , if she would with me lie . But to the world I do declare , with sorrow , grief and woe : This folly brought us in a snare , and wrought our overthrow . [ For ] the damsel came to me , and said by you i am with child : I hope dear John you'll marry me , for you have me defil'd . Soon after that , her mother came , as you shall understand , And oftentimes did me persuade To wed her out of hand . And thus perplex't on every side , I could no comfort find So to make away this creature , a Thought came in my mind . About a month since Christmas last , o ! cursed be the day , The devil then did me persuade , To take her life away . I call'd her from her sisters door , at eight o'clock at nigh Poor creature she did little dream I ow'd her any spite . I told her , if she'd walk with me aside a little way : We both together would agree about our wedding-day . Thus I deluded her again into a private place : Then took a stick out of the hedge , and struck her in the face . But she fell on her bent knee . and did for mercy cry , For heaven's sake don't murder me , I am not fit to die . But I on her no pity took , but wounded her full soar , Until her life away I took , which I can ne'er restore . With many grievous shrieks and cries , she did resign her breath , And in inhuman and barbarous sort , I put my love to death . And then I took her by the would [ ir ] To cover this foul since : And drag'd her to the river side , then threw her body in . Thus in the blood of innocence , my hands were deeply dy'd , And stained in her purple gore , That should have been my bride . Then home unto my Mill I ran , but sopely was amaz'd , My man he thought I had mischief done , and strangely on me gaz'd . Oh! what's the matter then said he ? you look as pale as death : What makes you shake , and tremble so , as though you had lost your breath . How came you by that blood upon your trembling hands and clothes ? I presently to him reply'd , by bleeding at the nose . I wishfully upon him look'd , but little to him said , But snatch'd the candle from his hand , and went unto my bed . Where I lay trembling all the night , for I could take no rest And perfect flames of Hell did flash within g my guilty face . Next day the damsel being miss'd , and no where to be found , Then I was apprehended soon , and to the Assizes bound . Her sister did against me swear , she reason had no doubt , That I had made away with her , because I call'd her out . [ B ] ut Satan did me still persuade , I stiffly should deny : Quoth he , there is no witness can against thee testify . Now when her mother did her cry , I scoffingly did say , On purpose then to frighten me , she sent her child away . I publish'd in the Postboy then , my wickedness to blind , Five guineas any one should have , that could her body find . But Heaven had a watchful eye , and brought it so abou That though I stiffly did deny , this murder would come out , The very day before , the Assize her body it was found , Floating before her Father's door , at Hindsey Ferry Town , S [ oh ] I the second time was siez'd , to Oxford brought with sp [ ee ] worser , And there examined again about the bloody deed . Now the Coroner and Jury both together did agree , That this damsel was made away , and murdered by me . The Justice too perceiv'd the guilt , nor longer would take bail : But the next morning I was sent away to Reading Goal . When I was brought before the Judge , my Man did testify , THAT blood upon my hands and cloth that night he did espy . The Judge be told the Jury then , the circumstance is plain , Look on the Prisoner at the bar , he hath this creature slave . About the murder at the first the Jury did divide : But when they brought their Verdict in all of them guilty cry'd . The Jailor took and bound me strait , as soon as I was case And then within the Prison strong he there did lay me fast . With fetters strong then I was bound , and shin-bolted was I , Yet I the Murder would not own , but did it still deny . My Father did on me prevail , my kindred all likewise , TO own the Murder , which I did to them with watery eyes . My father then he did me blame , saying , my Son , o ! why Has You thus brought yourself to shame , and all Your Family ? Father , I own the crime i did , I guilty am indeed , Which cruel fact i must confess , does make my heart to bleed . The worst of death's I do deserve , my crime it is so base : For I no mercy shew'd to her , most wretched is my case . Lord grant me grace while I do st [ a ] y that I may now now repen Before i from this wicked world , most shamefully am sent . Young men take warning by my fallen all filthy lustest defy ; By giving way to wickedness alas ! this day i die . Lord , wash my hateful sins away which have been manifold , Have mercy on me thee prey , and Christ receive my soul Printed and Sold at No. 4 , Aldermary Church Ya [ rd ] H : 289726 The Berkshire Trgedy , OR , The WITTAM MILLER , With and Account of his Murdering his Sweetheart , etc YOung men and maidens all give ear , unto what I shall now relate ; Oh mark you well , and you shall hear , of my unhappy fate . Near famous Oxford Town , i first did draw my breath , Oh! that I had been cast away in and untimely birth . My tender parents brought me up , provided for me well . And in the TOWN of WITTAM then , They plac'd me in a Mill. By chance upon and Oxford lass , i cast a wanton eye , And promis'd i would marry her , if she would with me lie . But to the world I do declare , with sorrow , grief and woe : This folly brought us in a snare , and wrought our overthrow . [ For ] the damsel came to me , and said by you i am with child : I hope dear John you'll marry me , for you have me defil'd . Soon after that , her mother came , as you shall understand , And oftentimes did me persuade To wed her out of hand . And thus perplex't on every side , I could no comfort find So to make away this creature , a Thought came in my mind . About a month since Christmas last , o ! cursed be the day , The devil then did me persuade , To take her life away . I call'd her from her sisters door , at eight o'clock at nigh Poor creature she did little dream I ow'd her any spite . I told her , if she'd walk with me aside a little way : We both together would agree about our wedding-day . Thus I deluded her again into a private place : Then took a stick out of the hedge , and struck her in the face . But she fell on her bent knee . and did for mercy cry , For heaven's sake don't murder me , I am not fit to die . But I on her no pity took , but wounded her full soar , Until her life away I took , which I can ne'er restore . With many grievous shrieks and cries , she did resign her breath , And in inhuman and barbarous sort , I put my love to death . And then I took her by the would [ ir ] To cover this foul since : And drag'd her to the river side , then threw her body in . Thus in the blood of innocence , my hands were deeply dy'd , And stained in her purple gore , That should have been my bride . Then home unto my Mill I ran , but sopely was amaz'd , My man he thought I had mischief done , and strangely on me gaz'd . Oh! what's the matter then said he ? you look as pale as death : What makes you shake , and tremble so , as though you had lost your breath . How came you by that blood upon your trembling hands and clothes ? I presently to him reply'd , by bleeding at the nose . I wishfully upon him look'd , but little to him said , But snatch'd the candle from his hand , and went unto my bed . Where I lay trembling all the night , for I could take no rest And perfect flames of Hell did flash within g my guilty face . Next day the damsel being miss'd , and no where to be found , Then I was apprehended soon , and to the Assizes bound . Her sister did against me swear , she reason had no doubt , That I had made away with her , because I call'd her out . [ B ] ut Satan did me still persuade , I stiffly should deny : Quoth he , there is no witness can against thee testify . Now when her mother did her cry , I scoffingly did say , On purpose then to frighten me , she sent her child away . I publish'd in the Postboy then , my wickedness to blind , Five guineas any one should have , that could her body find . But Heaven had a watchful eye , and brought it so abou That though I stiffly did deny , this murder would come out , The very day before , the Assize her body it was found , Floating before her Father's door , at Hindsey Ferry Town , S [ oh ] I the second time was siez'd , to Oxford brought with sp [ ee ] worser , And there examined again about the bloody deed . Now the Coroner and Jury both together did agree , That this damsel was made away , and murdered by me . The Justice too perceiv'd the guilt , nor longer would take bail : But the next morning I was sent away to Reading Goal . When I was brought before the Judge , my Man did testify , THAT blood upon my hands and cloth that night he did espy . The Judge be told the Jury then , the circumstance is plain , Look on the Prisoner at the bar , he hath this creature slave . About the murder at the first the Jury did divide : But when they brought their Verdict in all of them guilty cry'd . The Jailor took and bound me strait , as soon as I was case And then within the Prison strong he there did lay me fast . With fetters strong then I was bound , and shin-bolted was I , Yet I the Murder would not own , but did it still deny . My Father did on me prevail , my kindred all likewise , TO own the Murder , which I did to them with watery eyes . My father then he did me blame , saying , my Son , o ! why Has You thus brought yourself to shame , and all Your Family ? Father , I own the crime i did , I guilty am indeed , Which cruel fact i must confess , does make my heart to bleed . The worst of death's I do deserve , my crime it is so base : For I no mercy shew'd to her , most wretched is my case . Lord grant me grace while I do st [ a ] y that I may now now repen Before i from this wicked world , most shamefully am sent . Young men take warning by my fallen all filthy lustest defy ; By giving way to wickedness alas ! this day i die . Lord , wash my hateful sins away which have been manifold , Have mercy on me thee prey , and Christ receive my soul Printed and Sold at No. 4 , Aldermary Church Ya [ rd ] H : 289726 The Berkshire Trgedy , OR , The WITTAM MILLER , With and Account of his Murdering his Sweetheart , etc YOung men and maidens all give ear , unto what I shall now relate ; Oh mark you well , and you shall hear , of my unhappy fate . Near famous Oxford Town , i first did draw my breath , Oh! that I had been cast away in and untimely birth . My tender parents brought me up , provided for me well . And in the TOWN of WITTAM then , They plac'd me in a Mill. By chance upon and Oxford lass , i cast a wanton eye , And promis'd i would marry her , if she would with me lie . But to the world I do declare , with sorrow , grief and woe : This folly brought us in a snare , and wrought our overthrow . [ For ] the damsel came to me , and said by you i am with child : I hope dear John you'll marry me , for you have me defil'd . Soon after that , her mother came , as you shall understand , And oftentimes did me persuade To wed her out of hand . And thus perplex't on every side , I could no comfort find So to make away this creature , a Thought came in my mind . About a month since Christmas last , o ! cursed be the day , The devil then did me persuade , To take her life away . I call'd her from her sisters door , at eight o'clock at nigh Poor creature she did little dream I ow'd her any spite . I told her , if she'd walk with me aside a little way : We both together would agree about our wedding-day . Thus I deluded her again into a private place : Then took a stick out of the hedge , and struck her in the face . But she fell on her bent knee . and did for mercy cry , For heaven's sake don't murder me , I am not fit to die . But I on her no pity took , but wounded her full soar , Until her life away I took , which I can ne'er restore . With many grievous shrieks and cries , she did resign her breath , And in inhuman and barbarous sort , I put my love to death . And then I took her by the would [ ir ] To cover this foul since : And drag'd her to the river side , then threw her body in . Thus in the blood of innocence , my hands were deeply dy'd , And stained in her purple gore , That should have been my bride . Then home unto my Mill I ran , but sopely was amaz'd , My man he thought I had mischief done , and strangely on me gaz'd . Oh! what's the matter then said he ? you look as pale as death : What makes you shake , and tremble so , as though you had lost your breath . How came you by that blood upon your trembling hands and clothes ? I presently to him reply'd , by bleeding at the nose . I wishfully upon him look'd , but little to him said , But snatch'd the candle from his hand , and went unto my bed . Where I lay trembling all the night , for I could take no rest And perfect flames of Hell did flash within g my guilty face . Next day the damsel being miss'd , and no where to be found , Then I was apprehended soon , and to the Assizes bound . Her sister did against me swear , she reason had no doubt , That I had made away with her , because I call'd her out . [ B ] ut Satan did me still persuade , I stiffly should deny : Quoth he , there is no witness can against thee testify . Now when her mother did her cry , I scoffingly did say , On purpose then to frighten me , she sent her child away . I publish'd in the Postboy then , my wickedness to blind , Five guineas any one should have , that could her body find . But Heaven had a watchful eye , and brought it so abou That though I stiffly did deny , this murder would come out , The very day before , the Assize her body it was found , Floating before her Father's door , at Hindsey Ferry Town , S [ oh ] I the second time was siez'd , to Oxford brought with sp [ ee ] worser , And there examined again about the bloody deed . Now the Coroner and Jury both together did agree , That this damsel was made away , and murdered by me . The Justice too perceiv'd the guilt , nor longer would take bail : But the next morning I was sent away to Reading Goal . When I was brought before the Judge , my Man did testify , THAT blood upon my hands and cloth that night he did espy . The Judge be told the Jury then , the circumstance is plain , Look on the Prisoner at the bar , he hath this creature slave . About the murder at the first the Jury did divide : But when they brought their Verdict in all of them guilty cry'd . The Jailor took and bound me strait , as soon as I was case And then within the Prison strong he there did lay me fast . With fetters strong then I was bound , and shin-bolted was I , Yet I the Murder would not own , but did it still deny . My Father did on me prevail , my kindred all likewise , TO own the Murder , which I did to them with watery eyes . My father then he did me blame , saying , my Son , o ! why Has You thus brought yourself to shame , and all Your Family ? Father , I own the crime i did , I guilty am indeed , Which cruel fact i must confess , does make my heart to bleed . The worst of death's I do deserve , my crime it is so base : For I no mercy shew'd to her , most wretched is my case . Lord grant me grace while I do st [ a ] y that I may now now repen Before i from this wicked world , most shamefully am sent . Young men take warning by my fallen all filthy lustest defy ; By giving way to wickedness alas ! this day i die . Lord , wash my hateful sins away which have been manifold , Have mercy on me thee prey , and Christ receive my soul Printed and Sold at No. 4 , Aldermary Church Ya [ rd ] H : 289726 The Berkshire Trgedy , OR , The WITTAM MILLER , With and Account of his Murdering his Sweetheart , etc YOung men and maidens all give ear , unto what I shall now relate ; Oh mark you well , and you shall hear , of my unhappy fate . Near famous Oxford Town , i first did draw my breath , Oh! that I had been cast away in and untimely birth . My tender parents brought me up , provided for me well . And in the TOWN of WITTAM then , They plac'd me in a Mill. By chance upon and Oxford lass , i cast a wanton eye , And promis'd i would marry her , if she would with me lie . But to the world I do declare , with sorrow , grief and woe : This folly brought us in a snare , and wrought our overthrow . [ For ] the damsel came to me , and said by you i am with child : I hope dear John you'll marry me , for you have me defil'd . Soon after that , her mother came , as you shall understand , And oftentimes did me persuade To wed her out of hand . And thus perplex't on every side , I could no comfort find So to make away this creature , a Thought came in my mind . About a month since Christmas last , o ! cursed be the day , The devil then did me persuade , To take her life away . I call'd her from her sisters door , at eight o'clock at nigh Poor creature she did little dream I ow'd her any spite . I told her , if she'd walk with me aside a little way : We both together would agree about our wedding-day . Thus I deluded her again into a private place : Then took a stick out of the hedge , and struck her in the face . But she fell on her bent knee . and did for mercy cry , For heaven's sake don't murder me , I am not fit to die . But I on her no pity took , but wounded her full soar , Until her life away I took , which I can ne'er restore . With many grievous shrieks and cries , she did resign her breath , And in inhuman and barbarous sort , I put my love to death . And then I took her by the would [ ir ] To cover this foul since : And drag'd her to the river side , then threw her body in . Thus in the blood of innocence , my hands were deeply dy'd , And stained in her purple gore , That should have been my bride . Then home unto my Mill I ran , but sopely was amaz'd , My man he thought I had mischief done , and strangely on me gaz'd . Oh! what's the matter then said he ? you look as pale as death : What makes you shake , and tremble so , as though you had lost your breath . How came you by that blood upon your trembling hands and clothes ? I presently to him reply'd , by bleeding at the nose . I wishfully upon him look'd , but little to him said , But snatch'd the candle from his hand , and went unto my bed . Where I lay trembling all the night , for I could take no rest And perfect flames of Hell did flash within g my guilty face . Next day the damsel being miss'd , and no where to be found , Then I was apprehended soon , and to the Assizes bound . Her sister did against me swear , she reason had no doubt , That I had made away with her , because I call'd her out . [ B ] ut Satan did me still persuade , I stiffly should deny : Quoth he , there is no witness can against thee testify . Now when her mother did her cry , I scoffingly did say , On purpose then to frighten me , she sent her child away . I publish'd in the Postboy then , my wickedness to blind , Five guineas any one should have , that could her body find . But Heaven had a watchful eye , and brought it so abou That though I stiffly did deny , this murder would come out , The very day before , the Assize her body it was found , Floating before her Father's door , at Hindsey Ferry Town , S [ oh ] I the second time was siez'd , to Oxford brought with sp [ ee ] worser , And there examined again about the bloody deed . Now the Coroner and Jury both together did agree , That this damsel was made away , and murdered by me . The Justice too perceiv'd the guilt , nor longer would take bail : But the next morning I was sent away to Reading Goal . When I was brought before the Judge , my Man did testify , THAT blood upon my hands and cloth that night he did espy . The Judge be told the Jury then , the circumstance is plain , Look on the Prisoner at the bar , he hath this creature slave . About the murder at the first the Jury did divide : But when they brought their Verdict in all of them guilty cry'd . The Jailor took and bound me strait , as soon as I was case And then within the Prison strong he there did lay me fast . With fetters strong then I was bound , and shin-bolted was I , Yet I the Murder would not own , but did it still deny . My Father did on me prevail , my kindred all likewise , TO own the Murder , which I did to them with watery eyes . My father then he did me blame , saying , my Son , o ! why Has You thus brought yourself to shame , and all Your Family ? Father , I own the crime i did , I guilty am indeed , Which cruel fact i must confess , does make my heart to bleed . The worst of death's I do deserve , my crime it is so base : For I no mercy shew'd to her , most wretched is my case . Lord grant me grace while I do st [ a ] y that I may now now repen Before i from this wicked world , most shamefully am sent . Young men take warning by my fallen all filthy lustest defy ; By giving way to wickedness alas ! this day i die . Lord , wash my hateful sins away which have been manifold , Have mercy on me thee prey , and Christ receive my soul Printed and Sold at No. 4 , Aldermary Church Ya [ rd ] 