H : 289732 And Evcellent BALLAD of St. GEORGE and the DRAGON . WHY should we boast Of Arthur and his Knights , Knowing how many Men , Have performed Fights ? Or why should we speak Of Sir Lancelot du Lake , Or Sir Tristrum du Leon , That fought for Ladies Sake ? Read but old Stories , And there you shall see , How St. George , St. George . He made the Dragon flee . St. George he was for England , St. Dennis was for France , Sing , Honi soit qui Mally Pense . To speak of Monarchs , It were too long to tell , And likewise to the Roman , How far they did excel : [ Would ] nnibal and Scipio , [ I ] n many a Field did fight ; Orlando Furioso , He was a valiant Knight , Romulus and Rhemus , Were those that Room did built ; But St. George , St. George , The Dagon he hath kill'd , St. George he was for England , etc Jepthah and Gideon , They led their Men to fight , The Gibbionites and Ammonites , They put them all to Fligh Hercules his Labour , Was in the Vale of Bass , And Sampson slew a Thousand , With the Jawbone of and Ass. And when he was blind , Pull'd the Temple ro the Ground ; But St. George , St G [ e ] orge , The Dragon did confound . St. George he was for England , St. Dennis was for France , etc Valentine and Orson , They came of Pepin's Blood ; Alfred and Adricus , They were brave Knights and good : The four Sons of Ammon , That fought with Charlemain , Sir Hugh de Bourdeaux , And Godfrey de Bullogin ; These were all French Knights , The Pagans to convert ; But St. George , St. George , He pull'd out the Dragon's Heart , St. George he was for England , etc King Henry the Fifth , He conquered all France , He quartered their Arms , His Honour to advance : He rais'd their Walls , And pull'd their Cities down , And he garnish'd his Head With a double triple Crown : He thumped the French , And after Home he came ; But St George , St. George , He made the Dragon tame . St. George he was for England , etc St. David you know Loved Leeks and toasted Cheese , And Jason was the Man Brought Home the Golden Fleece ; And Patrick you know , He was St. George's Boy ; Seven Years he kept his Horse , Then stole him away : For which knavish Act A Slave he does remain ; But St. George , St. George . He hath the Dragon slave . St. George he was for England , etc Tamerlane the Emperor , In Iron Cage did Crown , With all his bloody Flags Display'd before the Town : Scanderberg Magnanimous , Mahomet's Bashaws did dread : Whose victorious Bones Were worn when he was dead : His Beglerbegs his Corn like dreads , George Castriot was he call'd ; But St. George , St. George , The Dragon he hath maul'd . St. George he was for England , etc Ottoman the Tarter , He came of Persia's Raze ; The great Mogul with's Chest , So full of Cloves and Mace : The Grecian Youth Bucephalous , He manfully did bestride : But these with their Worthies Nine , St. George did them betide . Gustavus Adolphus , Was Swedeland's Warlike King ; But St. George , St. George , He pull'd forth the Dragon's Sting , St. George he was for England , etc Poldragon and Cadwallader , Of British Blood do boast ; Tho' John of Gaunt his Foes did daunt , St. George shall rule the Roas Agamemnon and Clemedon , And Macedon did Feast , But compared to our Champion , They are but mere Cheats , Brave Malta Knights in Turkish Flights , Their brandish'd Swords out-drew , But St. George met the Dragon , And run him through and through . St. George he was for England , etc Bida the Amazon , Poetus overthrew , As fierce as either Vandal , Goth , Saracen or Jew : The potent Holofernes , As he lay in his Bed , In came his Wife Judith , And subtiley stole his Head : Brave Cyclops stout , with Jove he fough Tho' he shower'd down Thunder ; But St. George kill'd the Dragon , And was not that a Wonder ; St. George he was for England , etc Mark Anthony , I'll warrant you , Play'd Feats with Egypt's Queen ; Sir Elamore , that valiant Knight , The like was never seen . Grim Gorgon's Might was know in Fight , Old Bevis most Men frighted ; The Mermidons and Prester Johns , Why were not these Men knighted ? Brave Spinola took in Breda , Nassau did it recover ; But St. George , St. George , Turn'd the Dragon over and over , St. George he was for England , etc H : 289732 And Evcellent BALLAD of St. GEORGE and the DRAGON . WHY should we boast Of Arthur and his Knights , Knowing how many Men , Have performed Fights ? Or why should we speak Of Sir Lancelot du Lake , Or Sir Tristrum du Leon , That fought for Ladies Sake ? Read but old Stories , And there you shall see , How St. George , St. George . He made the Dragon flee . St. George he was for England , St. Dennis was for France , Sing , Honi soit qui Mally Pense . To speak of Monarchs , It were too long to tell , And likewise to the Roman , How far they did excel : [ Would ] nnibal and Scipio , [ I ] n many a Field did fight ; Orlando Furioso , He was a valiant Knight , Romulus and Rhemus , Were those that Room did built ; But St. George , St. George , The Dagon he hath kill'd , St. George he was for England , etc Jepthah and Gideon , They led their Men to fight , The Gibbionites and Ammonites , They put them all to Fligh Hercules his Labour , Was in the Vale of Bass , And Sampson slew a Thousand , With the Jawbone of and Ass. And when he was blind , Pull'd the Temple ro the Ground ; But St. George , St G [ e ] orge , The Dragon did confound . St. George he was for England , St. Dennis was for France , etc Valentine and Orson , They came of Pepin's Blood ; Alfred and Adricus , They were brave Knights and good : The four Sons of Ammon , That fought with Charlemain , Sir Hugh de Bourdeaux , And Godfrey de Bullogin ; These were all French Knights , The Pagans to convert ; But St. George , St. George , He pull'd out the Dragon's Heart , St. George he was for England , etc King Henry the Fifth , He conquered all France , He quartered their Arms , His Honour to advance : He rais'd their Walls , And pull'd their Cities down , And he garnish'd his Head With a double triple Crown : He thumped the French , And after Home he came ; But St George , St. George , He made the Dragon tame . St. George he was for England , etc St. David you know Loved Leeks and toasted Cheese , And Jason was the Man Brought Home the Golden Fleece ; And Patrick you know , He was St. George's Boy ; Seven Years he kept his Horse , Then stole him away : For which knavish Act A Slave he does remain ; But St. George , St. George . He hath the Dragon slave . St. George he was for England , etc Tamerlane the Emperor , In Iron Cage did Crown , With all his bloody Flags Display'd before the Town : Scanderberg Magnanimous , Mahomet's Bashaws did dread : Whose victorious Bones Were worn when he was dead : His Beglerbegs his Corn like dreads , George Castriot was he call'd ; But St. George , St. George , The Dragon he hath maul'd . St. George he was for England , etc Ottoman the Tarter , He came of Persia's Raze ; The great Mogul with's Chest , So full of Cloves and Mace : The Grecian Youth Bucephalous , He manfully did bestride : But these with their Worthies Nine , St. George did them betide . Gustavus Adolphus , Was Swedeland's Warlike King ; But St. George , St. George , He pull'd forth the Dragon's Sting , St. George he was for England , etc Poldragon and Cadwallader , Of British Blood do boast ; Tho' John of Gaunt his Foes did daunt , St. George shall rule the Roas Agamemnon and Clemedon , And Macedon did Feast , But compared to our Champion , They are but mere Cheats , Brave Malta Knights in Turkish Flights , Their brandish'd Swords out-drew , But St. George met the Dragon , And run him through and through . St. George he was for England , etc Bida the Amazon , Poetus overthrew , As fierce as either Vandal , Goth , Saracen or Jew : The potent Holofernes , As he lay in his Bed , In came his Wife Judith , And subtiley stole his Head : Brave Cyclops stout , with Jove he fough Tho' he shower'd down Thunder ; But St. George kill'd the Dragon , And was not that a Wonder ; St. George he was for England , etc Mark Anthony , I'll warrant you , Play'd Feats with Egypt's Queen ; Sir Elamore , that valiant Knight , The like was never seen . Grim Gorgon's Might was know in Fight , Old Bevis most Men frighted ; The Mermidons and Prester Johns , Why were not these Men knighted ? Brave Spinola took in Breda , Nassau did it recover ; But St. George , St. George , Turn'd the Dragon over and over , St. George he was for England , etc H : 289732 And Evcellent BALLAD of St. GEORGE and the DRAGON . WHY should we boast Of Arthur and his Knights , Knowing how many Men , Have performed Fights ? Or why should we speak Of Sir Lancelot du Lake , Or Sir Tristrum du Leon , That fought for Ladies Sake ? Read but old Stories , And there you shall see , How St. George , St. George . He made the Dragon flee . St. George he was for England , St. Dennis was for France , Sing , Honi soit qui Mally Pense . To speak of Monarchs , It were too long to tell , And likewise to the Roman , How far they did excel : [ Would ] nnibal and Scipio , [ I ] n many a Field did fight ; Orlando Furioso , He was a valiant Knight , Romulus and Rhemus , Were those that Room did built ; But St. George , St. George , The Dagon he hath kill'd , St. George he was for England , etc Jepthah and Gideon , They led their Men to fight , The Gibbionites and Ammonites , They put them all to Fligh Hercules his Labour , Was in the Vale of Bass , And Sampson slew a Thousand , With the Jawbone of and Ass. And when he was blind , Pull'd the Temple ro the Ground ; But St. George , St G [ e ] orge , The Dragon did confound . St. George he was for England , St. Dennis was for France , etc Valentine and Orson , They came of Pepin's Blood ; Alfred and Adricus , They were brave Knights and good : The four Sons of Ammon , That fought with Charlemain , Sir Hugh de Bourdeaux , And Godfrey de Bullogin ; These were all French Knights , The Pagans to convert ; But St. George , St. George , He pull'd out the Dragon's Heart , St. George he was for England , etc King Henry the Fifth , He conquered all France , He quartered their Arms , His Honour to advance : He rais'd their Walls , And pull'd their Cities down , And he garnish'd his Head With a double triple Crown : He thumped the French , And after Home he came ; But St George , St. George , He made the Dragon tame . St. George he was for England , etc St. David you know Loved Leeks and toasted Cheese , And Jason was the Man Brought Home the Golden Fleece ; And Patrick you know , He was St. George's Boy ; Seven Years he kept his Horse , Then stole him away : For which knavish Act A Slave he does remain ; But St. George , St. George . He hath the Dragon slave . St. George he was for England , etc Tamerlane the Emperor , In Iron Cage did Crown , With all his bloody Flags Display'd before the Town : Scanderberg Magnanimous , Mahomet's Bashaws did dread : Whose victorious Bones Were worn when he was dead : His Beglerbegs his Corn like dreads , George Castriot was he call'd ; But St. George , St. George , The Dragon he hath maul'd . St. George he was for England , etc Ottoman the Tarter , He came of Persia's Raze ; The great Mogul with's Chest , So full of Cloves and Mace : The Grecian Youth Bucephalous , He manfully did bestride : But these with their Worthies Nine , St. George did them betide . Gustavus Adolphus , Was Swedeland's Warlike King ; But St. George , St. George , He pull'd forth the Dragon's Sting , St. George he was for England , etc Poldragon and Cadwallader , Of British Blood do boast ; Tho' John of Gaunt his Foes did daunt , St. George shall rule the Roas Agamemnon and Clemedon , And Macedon did Feast , But compared to our Champion , They are but mere Cheats , Brave Malta Knights in Turkish Flights , Their brandish'd Swords out-drew , But St. George met the Dragon , And run him through and through . St. George he was for England , etc Bida the Amazon , Poetus overthrew , As fierce as either Vandal , Goth , Saracen or Jew : The potent Holofernes , As he lay in his Bed , In came his Wife Judith , And subtiley stole his Head : Brave Cyclops stout , with Jove he fough Tho' he shower'd down Thunder ; But St. George kill'd the Dragon , And was not that a Wonder ; St. George he was for England , etc Mark Anthony , I'll warrant you , Play'd Feats with Egypt's Queen ; Sir Elamore , that valiant Knight , The like was never seen . Grim Gorgon's Might was know in Fight , Old Bevis most Men frighted ; The Mermidons and Prester Johns , Why were not these Men knighted ? Brave Spinola took in Breda , Nassau did it recover ; But St. George , St. George , Turn'd the Dragon over and over , St. George he was for England , etc H : 289732 And Evcellent BALLAD of St. GEORGE and the DRAGON . WHY should we boast Of Arthur and his Knights , Knowing how many Men , Have performed Fights ? Or why should we speak Of Sir Lancelot du Lake , Or Sir Tristrum du Leon , That fought for Ladies Sake ? Read but old Stories , And there you shall see , How St. George , St. George . He made the Dragon flee . St. George he was for England , St. Dennis was for France , Sing , Honi soit qui Mally Pense . To speak of Monarchs , It were too long to tell , And likewise to the Roman , How far they did excel : [ Would ] nnibal and Scipio , [ I ] n many a Field did fight ; Orlando Furioso , He was a valiant Knight , Romulus and Rhemus , Were those that Room did built ; But St. George , St. George , The Dagon he hath kill'd , St. George he was for England , etc Jepthah and Gideon , They led their Men to fight , The Gibbionites and Ammonites , They put them all to Fligh Hercules his Labour , Was in the Vale of Bass , And Sampson slew a Thousand , With the Jawbone of and Ass. And when he was blind , Pull'd the Temple ro the Ground ; But St. George , St G [ e ] orge , The Dragon did confound . St. George he was for England , St. Dennis was for France , etc Valentine and Orson , They came of Pepin's Blood ; Alfred and Adricus , They were brave Knights and good : The four Sons of Ammon , That fought with Charlemain , Sir Hugh de Bourdeaux , And Godfrey de Bullogin ; These were all French Knights , The Pagans to convert ; But St. George , St. George , He pull'd out the Dragon's Heart , St. George he was for England , etc King Henry the Fifth , He conquered all France , He quartered their Arms , His Honour to advance : He rais'd their Walls , And pull'd their Cities down , And he garnish'd his Head With a double triple Crown : He thumped the French , And after Home he came ; But St George , St. George , He made the Dragon tame . St. George he was for England , etc St. David you know Loved Leeks and toasted Cheese , And Jason was the Man Brought Home the Golden Fleece ; And Patrick you know , He was St. George's Boy ; Seven Years he kept his Horse , Then stole him away : For which knavish Act A Slave he does remain ; But St. George , St. George . He hath the Dragon slave . St. George he was for England , etc Tamerlane the Emperor , In Iron Cage did Crown , With all his bloody Flags Display'd before the Town : Scanderberg Magnanimous , Mahomet's Bashaws did dread : Whose victorious Bones Were worn when he was dead : His Beglerbegs his Corn like dreads , George Castriot was he call'd ; But St. George , St. George , The Dragon he hath maul'd . St. George he was for England , etc Ottoman the Tarter , He came of Persia's Raze ; The great Mogul with's Chest , So full of Cloves and Mace : The Grecian Youth Bucephalous , He manfully did bestride : But these with their Worthies Nine , St. George did them betide . Gustavus Adolphus , Was Swedeland's Warlike King ; But St. George , St. George , He pull'd forth the Dragon's Sting , St. George he was for England , etc Poldragon and Cadwallader , Of British Blood do boast ; Tho' John of Gaunt his Foes did daunt , St. George shall rule the Roas Agamemnon and Clemedon , And Macedon did Feast , But compared to our Champion , They are but mere Cheats , Brave Malta Knights in Turkish Flights , Their brandish'd Swords out-drew , But St. George met the Dragon , And run him through and through . St. George he was for England , etc Bida the Amazon , Poetus overthrew , As fierce as either Vandal , Goth , Saracen or Jew : The potent Holofernes , As he lay in his Bed , In came his Wife Judith , And subtiley stole his Head : Brave Cyclops stout , with Jove he fough Tho' he shower'd down Thunder ; But St. George kill'd the Dragon , And was not that a Wonder ; St. George he was for England , etc Mark Anthony , I'll warrant you , Play'd Feats with Egypt's Queen ; Sir Elamore , that valiant Knight , The like was never seen . Grim Gorgon's Might was know in Fight , Old Bevis most Men frighted ; The Mermidons and Prester Johns , Why were not these Men knighted ? Brave Spinola took in Breda , Nassau did it recover ; But St. George , St. George , Turn'd the Dragon over and over , St. George he was for England , etc 