H : 289728 THE DURHAM Garland . A worthy Lord of vast estate , Who did in Durham dwell of late ; But I will not declare his name , By reason of his birth and fame . But if you the truth would know , This Lord he did a hunting go , He had indeed a noble train , Of Lords , and Kights , and gentlemen . Unto fam'd Yorkshire he would ride , With all his gallants by his side . In hunting pass'd the time ; But being weary , as they say , His Lordship lost his noble train Of Lords , and Knights , and gentlemen , And hearing not the horns to blow , He could not tell which way to go . But he did wander to and fro' , Being weary likewise full of woe : At last dame fortune was so kind , That he the keeper's house did find . He went and knocked at the gate , And tho' it was so very late , The forester he let him in , And kindly entertained him , But in the middle of the night , When as the stars did shine so bright , The Lord was in a full surprise , Being waked with a dismal noise . [ Then did he rise and call with speed , To know the reason this indeed , Or if that shrieking and that noise Which did so much his soul surprise . I'm sorry , Sir , the keeper said , That you should be so much afraid : But I hope that all will soon be well , ] My wife is into labour fell . This noble Lord was learn'd and wise , And knew the planets of the skies , He saw and evil planet reign , So called the forester again . And gave him then to understand , He'd have the midwife hold her hand . But he was answer'd by the maid , Her mistress was delivered , At one o'clock that very morn , A lovely infant there was born : He was indeed a pretty boy , Which gave his parents much joy . The Lord was generous kind and free , And proffer'd Godfather to be : This good man thank'd him heartily , For his good will and courtesy . A parson was called for with speed , For to christen the child indeed . And after as we did hear say , In joy and mirth they spent the day , This noble Lord did presents give , And all the servants did receive , They beg'd God would increase his store For they had ne'er so much before ; And likewise to the child he gave , A noble present and a brave , It was a charming cabinet , That was with pearls and rubbies set . Within it was a cabinet of gold , Your eyes would dazzle to behold , A richer gift , as I may say , Has not been seen this many a day , He char [ g ] 'd his father faithfully , That he [ h ] imself should keep the key , Until the child could write and read , And then to give it him indeed . Pray do not open it at all , What ever does to you befall , For it may do my godson good . If it be rightly understood . The second part I will unfold , As true as ever a tale was told , Concerning of his lovely child , Who was obedient , sweet , and mild . THIS child did take his learning so , If you the truth of this would know , At eleven years of age indeed , He could both Greek and Latin read . But thinking of his cabinet , Which was with pearls and jewels set , He asked his father for the key , The which he gave him speedily His cabinet he did unlock , But he was in amazement struck , When he the riches did behold , And also saw the chain of gold . But searching farther he did find A paper that disturbed his mind ; Which was within the cabinet , In Greek and Latin it was writ . My son , serve God that is on high And pray to him incessantly , Obey your Parents , serve the King , That nothing may your conscience sting ; For seven years hence your fate will be To be hang'd upon a tree : So pray to God both night and day : To let that hour pass away . When he these [ rueful ] lines did read , He with a sighs did say , Indeed If hanging be my destiny , My parents shall not see me die , For I will wander too and fro' , And go whither I do not know , But first I'll ask my parents leave , In view their blessings to receive . Then locking up the Cabinet , He went unto his chamber strait , And went unto his parents dear , Beseeching them with many a tear , That they would grant what he did crave , Your blessing first I beg to have , And hope you'll let me go my way , 'Twill do me good another day . For I indeed have made a vow , But must not tell the reason now ; But if I live I will return , When seven years are past and gone . Both man and wife did then reply , We fear , dear son that you will die , If we shou'd yield to let you go , Our aged hearts will burst with woe . Yet he entreated eagerly . So that they forc'd were to comply , And gave consent that he should go , But where , alas ! we did not know . In the third part you soon shall find That fortune to him was most kind , And after many dangers past , He came to Durham at the last . HE went by chance as I've herd say , Unto the house that very day , Whereat his godfather did dwell , Now mind what fortune him befell . This youth did crave a service there . And strait came out the godfather , And seeing him a handsome youth , He took him for his page in truth . In this same place he pleas'd so well , That above all he boar the bell , And so well his Lord did please , He made him higher by degrees . He made him butler indeed , And then chief steward was with speed , Which made the other servants spite , And envy him both day and night . He ne'er was false in his trust , But proved ever true and just ; And to the Lord did hourly pray , To guard him still both night and day . In this same place it does appear , He liv'd the space of seven years , And of his parents thought upon , And of his promise to return . Then humbly of his Lord worser [ i ] worser crave , That he his free consent might have , For to go and s [ e ] e h [ is ] parents dear , Whom he had not seen for many years , So having leave , away he went , Not dreaming of the base intent , Which was contriv'd against him then , By wicked , false , and malicious men ; Who had in his portmanteau put Their noble Lord's fine golden cup , And when the Lord at dinner was , He miss'd the cup as it came to pass . Where should it be ? the Lord did say , We had it here but yesterday : The bulter then reply'd with [ tO ] h speed , If you would know the truth indeed , Your faithful steward that is gone , With feather'd nest away is flown ; I do believe he has that and more , Which does belong unto your store . For he that Lord can , not said be , Then I have try'd his honesty No , said the cook , my Lord , I'll die , Upon a tree that's nine feet high . But hearing what this man did say , Did send a messenger that day , To take him with a hue and cry , And bring him back immediately . They search'd his portmanteau in [ ? ] In which they found the cup with speed Then he was struck with sad surprise , And scarcely could believe his eyes , The Lord then said unto him strait , Thou shalt be hanged at my gate , Because in you I put my trust , And I took you for nought but just . THE day was fix'd and being come , Said he , Oh Lord , it was my doom , Tho' innocent I do declare , How my Lord's cup came to be there , What fate decrees none can deny , I was adjudged thus to die Upon a fatal gallows tree , Which my godfather did foresee . In traveling pains my mother was , Into the world I came at last , A gentleman with skill did show Such death I now am coming to ; A chain and a cabinet he gave Unto my father which I have ; The manuscript which was therein , Did show me plain I should be hang'd , So the Lord hearing him say so , It came into his mind then to Keep him from off the gallows high , For I think this man is not guilty , Something I doub , there is in this , Methinks it is with mere malice Of the cook and the butler too ; And if so , I'll make them rue . The cause he tries a second time , And found them guilty of the crime ; They were adjudg'd to be hang'd strai [ tO ] The Lord he took him , and did say , Have you that cabinet , I p ? ay Yes , noble Lord , this is the same Was left me with this very chain . My daughter is a virgin bright , And you shall have her this very night Wherefore now take delight in her , 'Tis I who am your Godfather . Here's twenty thousand pounds in gold And when I'm dead it shall be told . You shall enjoy my whole estate , to For make you oath rich and great . Sold at No. 42 , Long-Lane . H : 289728 THE DURHAM Garland . A worthy Lord of vast estate , Who did in Durham dwell of late ; But I will not declare his name , By reason of his birth and fame . But if you the truth would know , This Lord he did a hunting go , He had indeed a noble train , Of Lords , and Kights , and gentlemen . Unto fam'd Yorkshire he would ride , With all his gallants by his side . In hunting pass'd the time ; But being weary , as they say , His Lordship lost his noble train Of Lords , and Knights , and gentlemen , And hearing not the horns to blow , He could not tell which way to go . But he did wander to and fro' , Being weary likewise full of woe : At last dame fortune was so kind , That he the keeper's house did find . He went and knocked at the gate , And tho' it was so very late , The forester he let him in , And kindly entertained him , But in the middle of the night , When as the stars did shine so bright , The Lord was in a full surprise , Being waked with a dismal noise . [ Then did he rise and call with speed , To know the reason this indeed , Or if that shrieking and that noise Which did so much his soul surprise . I'm sorry , Sir , the keeper said , That you should be so much afraid : But I hope that all will soon be well , ] My wife is into labour fell . This noble Lord was learn'd and wise , And knew the planets of the skies , He saw and evil planet reign , So called the forester again . And gave him then to understand , He'd have the midwife hold her hand . But he was answer'd by the maid , Her mistress was delivered , At one o'clock that very morn , A lovely infant there was born : He was indeed a pretty boy , Which gave his parents much joy . The Lord was generous kind and free , And proffer'd Godfather to be : This good man thank'd him heartily , For his good will and courtesy . A parson was called for with speed , For to christen the child indeed . And after as we did hear say , In joy and mirth they spent the day , This noble Lord did presents give , And all the servants did receive , They beg'd God would increase his store For they had ne'er so much before ; And likewise to the child he gave , A noble present and a brave , It was a charming cabinet , That was with pearls and rubbies set . Within it was a cabinet of gold , Your eyes would dazzle to behold , A richer gift , as I may say , Has not been seen this many a day , He char [ g ] 'd his father faithfully , That he [ h ] imself should keep the key , Until the child could write and read , And then to give it him indeed . Pray do not open it at all , What ever does to you befall , For it may do my godson good . If it be rightly understood . The second part I will unfold , As true as ever a tale was told , Concerning of his lovely child , Who was obedient , sweet , and mild . THIS child did take his learning so , If you the truth of this would know , At eleven years of age indeed , He could both Greek and Latin read . But thinking of his cabinet , Which was with pearls and jewels set , He asked his father for the key , The which he gave him speedily His cabinet he did unlock , But he was in amazement struck , When he the riches did behold , And also saw the chain of gold . But searching farther he did find A paper that disturbed his mind ; Which was within the cabinet , In Greek and Latin it was writ . My son , serve God that is on high And pray to him incessantly , Obey your Parents , serve the King , That nothing may your conscience sting ; For seven years hence your fate will be To be hang'd upon a tree : So pray to God both night and day : To let that hour pass away . When he these [ rueful ] lines did read , He with a sighs did say , Indeed If hanging be my destiny , My parents shall not see me die , For I will wander too and fro' , And go whither I do not know , But first I'll ask my parents leave , In view their blessings to receive . Then locking up the Cabinet , He went unto his chamber strait , And went unto his parents dear , Beseeching them with many a tear , That they would grant what he did crave , Your blessing first I beg to have , And hope you'll let me go my way , 'Twill do me good another day . For I indeed have made a vow , But must not tell the reason now ; But if I live I will return , When seven years are past and gone . Both man and wife did then reply , We fear , dear son that you will die , If we shou'd yield to let you go , Our aged hearts will burst with woe . Yet he entreated eagerly . So that they forc'd were to comply , And gave consent that he should go , But where , alas ! we did not know . In the third part you soon shall find That fortune to him was most kind , And after many dangers past , He came to Durham at the last . HE went by chance as I've herd say , Unto the house that very day , Whereat his godfather did dwell , Now mind what fortune him befell . This youth did crave a service there . And strait came out the godfather , And seeing him a handsome youth , He took him for his page in truth . In this same place he pleas'd so well , That above all he boar the bell , And so well his Lord did please , He made him higher by degrees . He made him butler indeed , And then chief steward was with speed , Which made the other servants spite , And envy him both day and night . He ne'er was false in his trust , But proved ever true and just ; And to the Lord did hourly pray , To guard him still both night and day . In this same place it does appear , He liv'd the space of seven years , And of his parents thought upon , And of his promise to return . Then humbly of his Lord worser [ i ] worser crave , That he his free consent might have , For to go and s [ e ] e h [ is ] parents dear , Whom he had not seen for many years , So having leave , away he went , Not dreaming of the base intent , Which was contriv'd against him then , By wicked , false , and malicious men ; Who had in his portmanteau put Their noble Lord's fine golden cup , And when the Lord at dinner was , He miss'd the cup as it came to pass . Where should it be ? the Lord did say , We had it here but yesterday : The bulter then reply'd with [ tO ] h speed , If you would know the truth indeed , Your faithful steward that is gone , With feather'd nest away is flown ; I do believe he has that and more , Which does belong unto your store . For he that Lord can , not said be , Then I have try'd his honesty No , said the cook , my Lord , I'll die , Upon a tree that's nine feet high . But hearing what this man did say , Did send a messenger that day , To take him with a hue and cry , And bring him back immediately . They search'd his portmanteau in [ ? ] In which they found the cup with speed Then he was struck with sad surprise , And scarcely could believe his eyes , The Lord then said unto him strait , Thou shalt be hanged at my gate , Because in you I put my trust , And I took you for nought but just . THE day was fix'd and being come , Said he , Oh Lord , it was my doom , Tho' innocent I do declare , How my Lord's cup came to be there , What fate decrees none can deny , I was adjudged thus to die Upon a fatal gallows tree , Which my godfather did foresee . In traveling pains my mother was , Into the world I came at last , A gentleman with skill did show Such death I now am coming to ; A chain and a cabinet he gave Unto my father which I have ; The manuscript which was therein , Did show me plain I should be hang'd , So the Lord hearing him say so , It came into his mind then to Keep him from off the gallows high , For I think this man is not guilty , Something I doub , there is in this , Methinks it is with mere malice Of the cook and the butler too ; And if so , I'll make them rue . The cause he tries a second time , And found them guilty of the crime ; They were adjudg'd to be hang'd strai [ tO ] The Lord he took him , and did say , Have you that cabinet , I p ? ay Yes , noble Lord , this is the same Was left me with this very chain . My daughter is a virgin bright , And you shall have her this very night Wherefore now take delight in her , 'Tis I who am your Godfather . Here's twenty thousand pounds in gold And when I'm dead it shall be told . You shall enjoy my whole estate , to For make you oath rich and great . Sold at No. 42 , Long-Lane . H : 289728 THE DURHAM Garland . A worthy Lord of vast estate , Who did in Durham dwell of late ; But I will not declare his name , By reason of his birth and fame . But if you the truth would know , This Lord he did a hunting go , He had indeed a noble train , Of Lords , and Kights , and gentlemen . Unto fam'd Yorkshire he would ride , With all his gallants by his side . In hunting pass'd the time ; But being weary , as they say , His Lordship lost his noble train Of Lords , and Knights , and gentlemen , And hearing not the horns to blow , He could not tell which way to go . But he did wander to and fro' , Being weary likewise full of woe : At last dame fortune was so kind , That he the keeper's house did find . He went and knocked at the gate , And tho' it was so very late , The forester he let him in , And kindly entertained him , But in the middle of the night , When as the stars did shine so bright , The Lord was in a full surprise , Being waked with a dismal noise . [ Then did he rise and call with speed , To know the reason this indeed , Or if that shrieking and that noise Which did so much his soul surprise . I'm sorry , Sir , the keeper said , That you should be so much afraid : But I hope that all will soon be well , ] My wife is into labour fell . This noble Lord was learn'd and wise , And knew the planets of the skies , He saw and evil planet reign , So called the forester again . And gave him then to understand , He'd have the midwife hold her hand . But he was answer'd by the maid , Her mistress was delivered , At one o'clock that very morn , A lovely infant there was born : He was indeed a pretty boy , Which gave his parents much joy . The Lord was generous kind and free , And proffer'd Godfather to be : This good man thank'd him heartily , For his good will and courtesy . A parson was called for with speed , For to christen the child indeed . And after as we did hear say , In joy and mirth they spent the day , This noble Lord did presents give , And all the servants did receive , They beg'd God would increase his store For they had ne'er so much before ; And likewise to the child he gave , A noble present and a brave , It was a charming cabinet , That was with pearls and rubbies set . Within it was a cabinet of gold , Your eyes would dazzle to behold , A richer gift , as I may say , Has not been seen this many a day , He char [ g ] 'd his father faithfully , That he [ h ] imself should keep the key , Until the child could write and read , And then to give it him indeed . Pray do not open it at all , What ever does to you befall , For it may do my godson good . If it be rightly understood . The second part I will unfold , As true as ever a tale was told , Concerning of his lovely child , Who was obedient , sweet , and mild . THIS child did take his learning so , If you the truth of this would know , At eleven years of age indeed , He could both Greek and Latin read . But thinking of his cabinet , Which was with pearls and jewels set , He asked his father for the key , The which he gave him speedily His cabinet he did unlock , But he was in amazement struck , When he the riches did behold , And also saw the chain of gold . But searching farther he did find A paper that disturbed his mind ; Which was within the cabinet , In Greek and Latin it was writ . My son , serve God that is on high And pray to him incessantly , Obey your Parents , serve the King , That nothing may your conscience sting ; For seven years hence your fate will be To be hang'd upon a tree : So pray to God both night and day : To let that hour pass away . When he these [ rueful ] lines did read , He with a sighs did say , Indeed If hanging be my destiny , My parents shall not see me die , For I will wander too and fro' , And go whither I do not know , But first I'll ask my parents leave , In view their blessings to receive . Then locking up the Cabinet , He went unto his chamber strait , And went unto his parents dear , Beseeching them with many a tear , That they would grant what he did crave , Your blessing first I beg to have , And hope you'll let me go my way , 'Twill do me good another day . For I indeed have made a vow , But must not tell the reason now ; But if I live I will return , When seven years are past and gone . Both man and wife did then reply , We fear , dear son that you will die , If we shou'd yield to let you go , Our aged hearts will burst with woe . Yet he entreated eagerly . So that they forc'd were to comply , And gave consent that he should go , But where , alas ! we did not know . In the third part you soon shall find That fortune to him was most kind , And after many dangers past , He came to Durham at the last . HE went by chance as I've herd say , Unto the house that very day , Whereat his godfather did dwell , Now mind what fortune him befell . This youth did crave a service there . And strait came out the godfather , And seeing him a handsome youth , He took him for his page in truth . In this same place he pleas'd so well , That above all he boar the bell , And so well his Lord did please , He made him higher by degrees . He made him butler indeed , And then chief steward was with speed , Which made the other servants spite , And envy him both day and night . He ne'er was false in his trust , But proved ever true and just ; And to the Lord did hourly pray , To guard him still both night and day . In this same place it does appear , He liv'd the space of seven years , And of his parents thought upon , And of his promise to return . Then humbly of his Lord worser [ i ] worser crave , That he his free consent might have , For to go and s [ e ] e h [ is ] parents dear , Whom he had not seen for many years , So having leave , away he went , Not dreaming of the base intent , Which was contriv'd against him then , By wicked , false , and malicious men ; Who had in his portmanteau put Their noble Lord's fine golden cup , And when the Lord at dinner was , He miss'd the cup as it came to pass . Where should it be ? the Lord did say , We had it here but yesterday : The bulter then reply'd with [ tO ] h speed , If you would know the truth indeed , Your faithful steward that is gone , With feather'd nest away is flown ; I do believe he has that and more , Which does belong unto your store . For he that Lord can , not said be , Then I have try'd his honesty No , said the cook , my Lord , I'll die , Upon a tree that's nine feet high . But hearing what this man did say , Did send a messenger that day , To take him with a hue and cry , And bring him back immediately . They search'd his portmanteau in [ ? ] In which they found the cup with speed Then he was struck with sad surprise , And scarcely could believe his eyes , The Lord then said unto him strait , Thou shalt be hanged at my gate , Because in you I put my trust , And I took you for nought but just . THE day was fix'd and being come , Said he , Oh Lord , it was my doom , Tho' innocent I do declare , How my Lord's cup came to be there , What fate decrees none can deny , I was adjudged thus to die Upon a fatal gallows tree , Which my godfather did foresee . In traveling pains my mother was , Into the world I came at last , A gentleman with skill did show Such death I now am coming to ; A chain and a cabinet he gave Unto my father which I have ; The manuscript which was therein , Did show me plain I should be hang'd , So the Lord hearing him say so , It came into his mind then to Keep him from off the gallows high , For I think this man is not guilty , Something I doub , there is in this , Methinks it is with mere malice Of the cook and the butler too ; And if so , I'll make them rue . The cause he tries a second time , And found them guilty of the crime ; They were adjudg'd to be hang'd strai [ tO ] The Lord he took him , and did say , Have you that cabinet , I p ? ay Yes , noble Lord , this is the same Was left me with this very chain . My daughter is a virgin bright , And you shall have her this very night Wherefore now take delight in her , 'Tis I who am your Godfather . Here's twenty thousand pounds in gold And when I'm dead it shall be told . You shall enjoy my whole estate , to For make you oath rich and great . Sold at No. 42 , Long-Lane . H : 289728 THE DURHAM Garland . A worthy Lord of vast estate , Who did in Durham dwell of late ; But I will not declare his name , By reason of his birth and fame . But if you the truth would know , This Lord he did a hunting go , He had indeed a noble train , Of Lords , and Kights , and gentlemen . Unto fam'd Yorkshire he would ride , With all his gallants by his side . In hunting pass'd the time ; But being weary , as they say , His Lordship lost his noble train Of Lords , and Knights , and gentlemen , And hearing not the horns to blow , He could not tell which way to go . But he did wander to and fro' , Being weary likewise full of woe : At last dame fortune was so kind , That he the keeper's house did find . He went and knocked at the gate , And tho' it was so very late , The forester he let him in , And kindly entertained him , But in the middle of the night , When as the stars did shine so bright , The Lord was in a full surprise , Being waked with a dismal noise . [ Then did he rise and call with speed , To know the reason this indeed , Or if that shrieking and that noise Which did so much his soul surprise . I'm sorry , Sir , the keeper said , That you should be so much afraid : But I hope that all will soon be well , ] My wife is into labour fell . This noble Lord was learn'd and wise , And knew the planets of the skies , He saw and evil planet reign , So called the forester again . And gave him then to understand , He'd have the midwife hold her hand . But he was answer'd by the maid , Her mistress was delivered , At one o'clock that very morn , A lovely infant there was born : He was indeed a pretty boy , Which gave his parents much joy . The Lord was generous kind and free , And proffer'd Godfather to be : This good man thank'd him heartily , For his good will and courtesy . A parson was called for with speed , For to christen the child indeed . And after as we did hear say , In joy and mirth they spent the day , This noble Lord did presents give , And all the servants did receive , They beg'd God would increase his store For they had ne'er so much before ; And likewise to the child he gave , A noble present and a brave , It was a charming cabinet , That was with pearls and rubbies set . Within it was a cabinet of gold , Your eyes would dazzle to behold , A richer gift , as I may say , Has not been seen this many a day , He char [ g ] 'd his father faithfully , That he [ h ] imself should keep the key , Until the child could write and read , And then to give it him indeed . Pray do not open it at all , What ever does to you befall , For it may do my godson good . If it be rightly understood . The second part I will unfold , As true as ever a tale was told , Concerning of his lovely child , Who was obedient , sweet , and mild . THIS child did take his learning so , If you the truth of this would know , At eleven years of age indeed , He could both Greek and Latin read . But thinking of his cabinet , Which was with pearls and jewels set , He asked his father for the key , The which he gave him speedily His cabinet he did unlock , But he was in amazement struck , When he the riches did behold , And also saw the chain of gold . But searching farther he did find A paper that disturbed his mind ; Which was within the cabinet , In Greek and Latin it was writ . My son , serve God that is on high And pray to him incessantly , Obey your Parents , serve the King , That nothing may your conscience sting ; For seven years hence your fate will be To be hang'd upon a tree : So pray to God both night and day : To let that hour pass away . When he these [ rueful ] lines did read , He with a sighs did say , Indeed If hanging be my destiny , My parents shall not see me die , For I will wander too and fro' , And go whither I do not know , But first I'll ask my parents leave , In view their blessings to receive . Then locking up the Cabinet , He went unto his chamber strait , And went unto his parents dear , Beseeching them with many a tear , That they would grant what he did crave , Your blessing first I beg to have , And hope you'll let me go my way , 'Twill do me good another day . For I indeed have made a vow , But must not tell the reason now ; But if I live I will return , When seven years are past and gone . Both man and wife did then reply , We fear , dear son that you will die , If we shou'd yield to let you go , Our aged hearts will burst with woe . Yet he entreated eagerly . So that they forc'd were to comply , And gave consent that he should go , But where , alas ! we did not know . In the third part you soon shall find That fortune to him was most kind , And after many dangers past , He came to Durham at the last . HE went by chance as I've herd say , Unto the house that very day , Whereat his godfather did dwell , Now mind what fortune him befell . This youth did crave a service there . And strait came out the godfather , And seeing him a handsome youth , He took him for his page in truth . In this same place he pleas'd so well , That above all he boar the bell , And so well his Lord did please , He made him higher by degrees . He made him butler indeed , And then chief steward was with speed , Which made the other servants spite , And envy him both day and night . He ne'er was false in his trust , But proved ever true and just ; And to the Lord did hourly pray , To guard him still both night and day . In this same place it does appear , He liv'd the space of seven years , And of his parents thought upon , And of his promise to return . Then humbly of his Lord worser [ i ] worser crave , That he his free consent might have , For to go and s [ e ] e h [ is ] parents dear , Whom he had not seen for many years , So having leave , away he went , Not dreaming of the base intent , Which was contriv'd against him then , By wicked , false , and malicious men ; Who had in his portmanteau put Their noble Lord's fine golden cup , And when the Lord at dinner was , He miss'd the cup as it came to pass . Where should it be ? the Lord did say , We had it here but yesterday : The bulter then reply'd with [ tO ] h speed , If you would know the truth indeed , Your faithful steward that is gone , With feather'd nest away is flown ; I do believe he has that and more , Which does belong unto your store . For he that Lord can , not said be , Then I have try'd his honesty No , said the cook , my Lord , I'll die , Upon a tree that's nine feet high . But hearing what this man did say , Did send a messenger that day , To take him with a hue and cry , And bring him back immediately . They search'd his portmanteau in [ ? ] In which they found the cup with speed Then he was struck with sad surprise , And scarcely could believe his eyes , The Lord then said unto him strait , Thou shalt be hanged at my gate , Because in you I put my trust , And I took you for nought but just . THE day was fix'd and being come , Said he , Oh Lord , it was my doom , Tho' innocent I do declare , How my Lord's cup came to be there , What fate decrees none can deny , I was adjudged thus to die Upon a fatal gallows tree , Which my godfather did foresee . In traveling pains my mother was , Into the world I came at last , A gentleman with skill did show Such death I now am coming to ; A chain and a cabinet he gave Unto my father which I have ; The manuscript which was therein , Did show me plain I should be hang'd , So the Lord hearing him say so , It came into his mind then to Keep him from off the gallows high , For I think this man is not guilty , Something I doub , there is in this , Methinks it is with mere malice Of the cook and the butler too ; And if so , I'll make them rue . The cause he tries a second time , And found them guilty of the crime ; They were adjudg'd to be hang'd strai [ tO ] The Lord he took him , and did say , Have you that cabinet , I p ? ay Yes , noble Lord , this is the same Was left me with this very chain . My daughter is a virgin bright , And you shall have her this very night Wherefore now take delight in her , 'Tis I who am your Godfather . Here's twenty thousand pounds in gold And when I'm dead it shall be told . You shall enjoy my whole estate , to For make you oath rich and great . Sold at No. 42 , Long-Lane . 