H : 289752 The last Good Night of the Valiant JOHNNY ARMSTRONG : SHOWING , How Johnny Armstrong , and his Eight-score Men fought a desperate and bloody Battle with the Scottish King at Edinburgh City : And how he and all his Valiant Men were slave . To and Excellent North Country Tune . IS there never a Man in all Scotland , From the highest rank to the lowest degree , That can show himself before the King , Scotland's so full of treachery ? Yes there's a man in Westmorland , And Johnny Armstrong they do him call ; He hath no lands nor rends at all , Yet he keeps eightscore men within his hall . He has horse and harness for them all , And goodly steeds that be milkwhite ; With golden belts about their necks , And hats and feathers all alike . The King he writes a loving letter , And with his own hand so tenderly ; And hath sent it unto John Armstrong , To come and speak with him speedily . When Johnny look'd the letter upon , Good Lord he look'd as blithe as a bird on a tree ; I was never before a King in my life , My Grandfather , Father , nor none of us three . But seeing we must go before The King , Lord ! we will go most gallantly , You shall every one have a velvet coat , Laid down with gold laces three . And you shall ev'ry one have a scarlet cloak , Laid down with silver laces five : With golden belts about your necks , Your hats and feathers all alike . But when Johnny went from Guiltnock-Hall , The wind blew hard , and full fare it did rain ; Now fare thou well thou Guiltnock-hall , I fear I shall ne'er see thee again . Now Johnny is to Edinburgh gone , With his eightscore Men so gallantly : And every one on a milkwhite stead , With sword and buckler by his knee . But when John came the King before , With his eightscore men so gallantly to see : The King moved his bonnet to him , And thought him a King as well as he . O pardon ! O pardon ! my Sov'reign Liege , Oh pardon my eightscore men and me , For my name it is Johnny Armstrong , A Subject of yours , my Liege , said he . Away with thee thou false traitor , No Pardon I will grant thee : But tomorrow morning by eight o'clock , I'll hang up thy eightscore men and thee ; Then John look'd over his left Shoulder , And to his merry men thus said he : I have asked Grace of a graceless face , No pardon there is for you and me . Then John pull'd out his nut brown sword , Which was made of metal so free : Had not the King mov'd his foot as he did , John had taken his head from his body . Come follow me my merry men all , We will scorn one foot for to fly : It shan't be said we were hanged like dogs , We will fight it out most manfully . Then they fought on like champions bold , Their hearts were sturdy stout and free , Till they killed the King's lifeguard , There were none left but two or three : But then arose up all Edinburgh city , And they arose up by thousands three : A cowardly Scot came Johnny behind , And run him through the fair body . Said John , fight on my merry men all , I'm a little wounded but am not slave ; I will lay me down to bleed a while , And rise to fight with you again . Then they fought on like madmen all , Till many a man lay dead on the plain : They were resolv'd before they would yield , That ev'ry man should there be slave So they fought on most courageously , Till most of them lay dead and slave : But little Musgrove , who was his foot-page , With bonny Grizel god away unta'en . And when he came unto Guiltnock-hall , The Lady espy'd him presently : What news what news thou bonny foot-page , What news from thy master and his company . My news is bad , fair Lady , he said , Which I do bring , as you may see , My master Johnny Armstrong he is slave , And all his brave gallant company . Thou art welcome home my bonny Grizel , Full oft thou's been with corn and hay : But now thou'll be fed with bred and wine , Thy sides shall be spurr'd no more , I say . O then spoke out his little pretty son , As he sat on his nurse's knee ; If ever I shall live to be a man , My Father's death shall revenged be . H : 289752 The last Good Night of the Valiant JOHNNY ARMSTRONG : SHOWING , How Johnny Armstrong , and his Eight-score Men fought a desperate and bloody Battle with the Scottish King at Edinburgh City : And how he and all his Valiant Men were slave . To and Excellent North Country Tune . IS there never a Man in all Scotland , From the highest rank to the lowest degree , That can show himself before the King , Scotland's so full of treachery ? Yes there's a man in Westmorland , And Johnny Armstrong they do him call ; He hath no lands nor rends at all , Yet he keeps eightscore men within his hall . He has horse and harness for them all , And goodly steeds that be milkwhite ; With golden belts about their necks , And hats and feathers all alike . The King he writes a loving letter , And with his own hand so tenderly ; And hath sent it unto John Armstrong , To come and speak with him speedily . When Johnny look'd the letter upon , Good Lord he look'd as blithe as a bird on a tree ; I was never before a King in my life , My Grandfather , Father , nor none of us three . But seeing we must go before The King , Lord ! we will go most gallantly , You shall every one have a velvet coat , Laid down with gold laces three . And you shall ev'ry one have a scarlet cloak , Laid down with silver laces five : With golden belts about your necks , Your hats and feathers all alike . But when Johnny went from Guiltnock-Hall , The wind blew hard , and full fare it did rain ; Now fare thou well thou Guiltnock-hall , I fear I shall ne'er see thee again . Now Johnny is to Edinburgh gone , With his eightscore Men so gallantly : And every one on a milkwhite stead , With sword and buckler by his knee . But when John came the King before , With his eightscore men so gallantly to see : The King moved his bonnet to him , And thought him a King as well as he . O pardon ! O pardon ! my Sov'reign Liege , Oh pardon my eightscore men and me , For my name it is Johnny Armstrong , A Subject of yours , my Liege , said he . Away with thee thou false traitor , No Pardon I will grant thee : But tomorrow morning by eight o'clock , I'll hang up thy eightscore men and thee ; Then John look'd over his left Shoulder , And to his merry men thus said he : I have asked Grace of a graceless face , No pardon there is for you and me . Then John pull'd out his nut brown sword , Which was made of metal so free : Had not the King mov'd his foot as he did , John had taken his head from his body . Come follow me my merry men all , We will scorn one foot for to fly : It shan't be said we were hanged like dogs , We will fight it out most manfully . Then they fought on like champions bold , Their hearts were sturdy stout and free , Till they killed the King's lifeguard , There were none left but two or three : But then arose up all Edinburgh city , And they arose up by thousands three : A cowardly Scot came Johnny behind , And run him through the fair body . Said John , fight on my merry men all , I'm a little wounded but am not slave ; I will lay me down to bleed a while , And rise to fight with you again . Then they fought on like madmen all , Till many a man lay dead on the plain : They were resolv'd before they would yield , That ev'ry man should there be slave So they fought on most courageously , Till most of them lay dead and slave : But little Musgrove , who was his foot-page , With bonny Grizel god away unta'en . And when he came unto Guiltnock-hall , The Lady espy'd him presently : What news what news thou bonny foot-page , What news from thy master and his company . My news is bad , fair Lady , he said , Which I do bring , as you may see , My master Johnny Armstrong he is slave , And all his brave gallant company . Thou art welcome home my bonny Grizel , Full oft thou's been with corn and hay : But now thou'll be fed with bred and wine , Thy sides shall be spurr'd no more , I say . O then spoke out his little pretty son , As he sat on his nurse's knee ; If ever I shall live to be a man , My Father's death shall revenged be . H : 289752 The last Good Night of the Valiant JOHNNY ARMSTRONG : SHOWING , How Johnny Armstrong , and his Eight-score Men fought a desperate and bloody Battle with the Scottish King at Edinburgh City : And how he and all his Valiant Men were slave . To and Excellent North Country Tune . IS there never a Man in all Scotland , From the highest rank to the lowest degree , That can show himself before the King , Scotland's so full of treachery ? Yes there's a man in Westmorland , And Johnny Armstrong they do him call ; He hath no lands nor rends at all , Yet he keeps eightscore men within his hall . He has horse and harness for them all , And goodly steeds that be milkwhite ; With golden belts about their necks , And hats and feathers all alike . The King he writes a loving letter , And with his own hand so tenderly ; And hath sent it unto John Armstrong , To come and speak with him speedily . When Johnny look'd the letter upon , Good Lord he look'd as blithe as a bird on a tree ; I was never before a King in my life , My Grandfather , Father , nor none of us three . But seeing we must go before The King , Lord ! we will go most gallantly , You shall every one have a velvet coat , Laid down with gold laces three . And you shall ev'ry one have a scarlet cloak , Laid down with silver laces five : With golden belts about your necks , Your hats and feathers all alike . But when Johnny went from Guiltnock-Hall , The wind blew hard , and full fare it did rain ; Now fare thou well thou Guiltnock-hall , I fear I shall ne'er see thee again . Now Johnny is to Edinburgh gone , With his eightscore Men so gallantly : And every one on a milkwhite stead , With sword and buckler by his knee . But when John came the King before , With his eightscore men so gallantly to see : The King moved his bonnet to him , And thought him a King as well as he . O pardon ! O pardon ! my Sov'reign Liege , Oh pardon my eightscore men and me , For my name it is Johnny Armstrong , A Subject of yours , my Liege , said he . Away with thee thou false traitor , No Pardon I will grant thee : But tomorrow morning by eight o'clock , I'll hang up thy eightscore men and thee ; Then John look'd over his left Shoulder , And to his merry men thus said he : I have asked Grace of a graceless face , No pardon there is for you and me . Then John pull'd out his nut brown sword , Which was made of metal so free : Had not the King mov'd his foot as he did , John had taken his head from his body . Come follow me my merry men all , We will scorn one foot for to fly : It shan't be said we were hanged like dogs , We will fight it out most manfully . Then they fought on like champions bold , Their hearts were sturdy stout and free , Till they killed the King's lifeguard , There were none left but two or three : But then arose up all Edinburgh city , And they arose up by thousands three : A cowardly Scot came Johnny behind , And run him through the fair body . Said John , fight on my merry men all , I'm a little wounded but am not slave ; I will lay me down to bleed a while , And rise to fight with you again . Then they fought on like madmen all , Till many a man lay dead on the plain : They were resolv'd before they would yield , That ev'ry man should there be slave So they fought on most courageously , Till most of them lay dead and slave : But little Musgrove , who was his foot-page , With bonny Grizel god away unta'en . And when he came unto Guiltnock-hall , The Lady espy'd him presently : What news what news thou bonny foot-page , What news from thy master and his company . My news is bad , fair Lady , he said , Which I do bring , as you may see , My master Johnny Armstrong he is slave , And all his brave gallant company . Thou art welcome home my bonny Grizel , Full oft thou's been with corn and hay : But now thou'll be fed with bred and wine , Thy sides shall be spurr'd no more , I say . O then spoke out his little pretty son , As he sat on his nurse's knee ; If ever I shall live to be a man , My Father's death shall revenged be . H : 289752 The last Good Night of the Valiant JOHNNY ARMSTRONG : SHOWING , How Johnny Armstrong , and his Eight-score Men fought a desperate and bloody Battle with the Scottish King at Edinburgh City : And how he and all his Valiant Men were slave . To and Excellent North Country Tune . IS there never a Man in all Scotland , From the highest rank to the lowest degree , That can show himself before the King , Scotland's so full of treachery ? Yes there's a man in Westmorland , And Johnny Armstrong they do him call ; He hath no lands nor rends at all , Yet he keeps eightscore men within his hall . He has horse and harness for them all , And goodly steeds that be milkwhite ; With golden belts about their necks , And hats and feathers all alike . The King he writes a loving letter , And with his own hand so tenderly ; And hath sent it unto John Armstrong , To come and speak with him speedily . When Johnny look'd the letter upon , Good Lord he look'd as blithe as a bird on a tree ; I was never before a King in my life , My Grandfather , Father , nor none of us three . But seeing we must go before The King , Lord ! we will go most gallantly , You shall every one have a velvet coat , Laid down with gold laces three . And you shall ev'ry one have a scarlet cloak , Laid down with silver laces five : With golden belts about your necks , Your hats and feathers all alike . But when Johnny went from Guiltnock-Hall , The wind blew hard , and full fare it did rain ; Now fare thou well thou Guiltnock-hall , I fear I shall ne'er see thee again . Now Johnny is to Edinburgh gone , With his eightscore Men so gallantly : And every one on a milkwhite stead , With sword and buckler by his knee . But when John came the King before , With his eightscore men so gallantly to see : The King moved his bonnet to him , And thought him a King as well as he . O pardon ! O pardon ! my Sov'reign Liege , Oh pardon my eightscore men and me , For my name it is Johnny Armstrong , A Subject of yours , my Liege , said he . Away with thee thou false traitor , No Pardon I will grant thee : But tomorrow morning by eight o'clock , I'll hang up thy eightscore men and thee ; Then John look'd over his left Shoulder , And to his merry men thus said he : I have asked Grace of a graceless face , No pardon there is for you and me . Then John pull'd out his nut brown sword , Which was made of metal so free : Had not the King mov'd his foot as he did , John had taken his head from his body . Come follow me my merry men all , We will scorn one foot for to fly : It shan't be said we were hanged like dogs , We will fight it out most manfully . Then they fought on like champions bold , Their hearts were sturdy stout and free , Till they killed the King's lifeguard , There were none left but two or three : But then arose up all Edinburgh city , And they arose up by thousands three : A cowardly Scot came Johnny behind , And run him through the fair body . Said John , fight on my merry men all , I'm a little wounded but am not slave ; I will lay me down to bleed a while , And rise to fight with you again . Then they fought on like madmen all , Till many a man lay dead on the plain : They were resolv'd before they would yield , That ev'ry man should there be slave So they fought on most courageously , Till most of them lay dead and slave : But little Musgrove , who was his foot-page , With bonny Grizel god away unta'en . And when he came unto Guiltnock-hall , The Lady espy'd him presently : What news what news thou bonny foot-page , What news from thy master and his company . My news is bad , fair Lady , he said , Which I do bring , as you may see , My master Johnny Armstrong he is slave , And all his brave gallant company . Thou art welcome home my bonny Grizel , Full oft thou's been with corn and hay : But now thou'll be fed with bred and wine , Thy sides shall be spurr'd no more , I say . O then spoke out his little pretty son , As he sat on his nurse's knee ; If ever I shall live to be a man , My Father's death shall revenged be . 