H : 289751 A Royal Salute of 21 , from Snob-Hall . POP 1. O , Bless my poor heart , when I think on a king , How far a poor Snob is from such a fine thing ! With wonder I stare , when for certain I hear , The station requires a round million a year . POP 2. How happy am I , that it is not my fate , To be crush'd with the weight and the care of a state ! Nor could I a million require with a grace , Till with the brass pan I had well rubb'd my face . POP 3. I am sure that the King has enough for to do , To take care of himself , and to care for us too ; With wisdom and care how his brains he must rack , Ah , the scull must be thick , or I'm sure it would crack . POP 4. 'Tis and excellent plan --- King , Commons , and Lords ; And many and excellent place it affords ; Should matters the Lords and the Commons o'erwhelm , We've a Solomon then to take hold of the helm . POP 5. Parading abroad , how the multitudes gape , When at home all around him palaver and scrape . We robe him , we feed him ; before him we fallen , And what is it for ? --- I say nothing at all . POP 6. To save a few millions who would be so strange , A Monarchy for a Republic to change . OEconomy shines in Republics , I know , But monarchy makes us a galantee show . POP 7. Supporting of Kings , and their prodigal raze , Republicans say , is a pickpocket case ; In ruling a people they say they don't want 'em , That all their parade is no more than a phantom . POP 8. Come , honest Republican , tell me downright , Are you sure we are wrong , and clear you are right ? When with plenty of gold we've adorn'd the King's station , Do you count him no more than the Doll of the nation ? POP 9. We can do without him , no doubt we can have , And more than a million a year we might save . But what's that among us --- ne'er mind it I say , When he goes to the House we shall have and huzza ! POP 10. If I were a King , and had too the gold , I'd honestly say , my dear boys , you are fool'd , I shall go to my stall , to be useful I choose , And there I can knobble and cobble your shoes . POP 11. Twenty millions a year we draw in , I suppose ; But 'tis not a poor cobbler can tell where it goes . Our long-headed Statesmen can tell where it rolls ; I am here my with my awl to tra [ n ] slate their bad souls . POP 12. The national cash , I will venture to say , By Statesmen and Kings , has been squander'd away . But our King , without doubt , with Pitt and Dundas , As long as they rule , will take care of the BRASS . POP 13. The cowardly Statesmen of Louis the King , Dispersed and left him , for fear they should swing : But if the Republican Boys should come hither , I hope our good Statesmen will all hang together . POP 14. Tho' a Cobbler , I'm not to be fear'd , you shall know , Like a child at a pit , or some great buggaboo , The world upsidedown is not yet come to pass , To be bridled , and whipped up by any Jack Ass. POP 15. I have nothing to give to Reeves' contribution , No firelock or pike to alarm Constitution : But he that would press down the poor till they groa [ n ] I'd beatrice him like leather upon my lapstone . POP 16. Against the Republic of France , many knaves Are combin'd , and the Despots have led out their slaves : Great Belzebub joins them to fight for the Pope , For all are afraid they have had out their scope . POP 17. You see the fine lads are all god in a pet ; The Republican potion it gives them a sweat ; So Puffey at last is come out of the bag , And Monarchy's only a National Hag. POP 18. We ought to believe when the Bishops advance , No honour , no rule , no religion's in France : These FALLALS they tell us , as grave as a parrot , To be sure , Sir , they blush --- but 'tis only with claret . POP 19. The gabies among us most terribly stare At the horrible things the high Statesmen declare , The monstrous relations ( as true as Tom Thumb ) They gobble and swallow as clean as a plumb . POP 20 , Our fam'd Constitution cry out the rare fellows ; What wondered news these philosophers tell us ! The Republic of France too , I wish mighty Fame , Prosperity , Peace , and and Immortal Name . POP 21. Now I leave State Affairs , tho' much might be said , To those mighty deep ones who let out the head , I'll whistle and sing , tho' their wisdom may tax , My last , and my awl , and my ends , and my wax . CRISPIN . ( PRICE TWO PENCE ) . ------ [ Entered at Stationer's-Hall . ] H : 289751 A Royal Salute of 21 , from Snob-Hall . POP 1. O , Bless my poor heart , when I think on a king , How far a poor Snob is from such a fine thing ! With wonder I stare , when for certain I hear , The station requires a round million a year . POP 2. How happy am I , that it is not my fate , To be crush'd with the weight and the care of a state ! Nor could I a million require with a grace , Till with the brass pan I had well rubb'd my face . POP 3. I am sure that the King has enough for to do , To take care of himself , and to care for us too ; With wisdom and care how his brains he must rack , Ah , the scull must be thick , or I'm sure it would crack . POP 4. 'Tis and excellent plan --- King , Commons , and Lords ; And many and excellent place it affords ; Should matters the Lords and the Commons o'erwhelm , We've a Solomon then to take hold of the helm . POP 5. Parading abroad , how the multitudes gape , When at home all around him palaver and scrape . We robe him , we feed him ; before him we fallen , And what is it for ? --- I say nothing at all . POP 6. To save a few millions who would be so strange , A Monarchy for a Republic to change . OEconomy shines in Republics , I know , But monarchy makes us a galantee show . POP 7. Supporting of Kings , and their prodigal raze , Republicans say , is a pickpocket case ; In ruling a people they say they don't want 'em , That all their parade is no more than a phantom . POP 8. Come , honest Republican , tell me downright , Are you sure we are wrong , and clear you are right ? When with plenty of gold we've adorn'd the King's station , Do you count him no more than the Doll of the nation ? POP 9. We can do without him , no doubt we can have , And more than a million a year we might save . But what's that among us --- ne'er mind it I say , When he goes to the House we shall have and huzza ! POP 10. If I were a King , and had too the gold , I'd honestly say , my dear boys , you are fool'd , I shall go to my stall , to be useful I choose , And there I can knobble and cobble your shoes . POP 11. Twenty millions a year we draw in , I suppose ; But 'tis not a poor cobbler can tell where it goes . Our long-headed Statesmen can tell where it rolls ; I am here my with my awl to tra [ n ] slate their bad souls . POP 12. The national cash , I will venture to say , By Statesmen and Kings , has been squander'd away . But our King , without doubt , with Pitt and Dundas , As long as they rule , will take care of the BRASS . POP 13. The cowardly Statesmen of Louis the King , Dispersed and left him , for fear they should swing : But if the Republican Boys should come hither , I hope our good Statesmen will all hang together . POP 14. Tho' a Cobbler , I'm not to be fear'd , you shall know , Like a child at a pit , or some great buggaboo , The world upsidedown is not yet come to pass , To be bridled , and whipped up by any Jack Ass. POP 15. I have nothing to give to Reeves' contribution , No firelock or pike to alarm Constitution : But he that would press down the poor till they groa [ n ] I'd beatrice him like leather upon my lapstone . POP 16. Against the Republic of France , many knaves Are combin'd , and the Despots have led out their slaves : Great Belzebub joins them to fight for the Pope , For all are afraid they have had out their scope . POP 17. You see the fine lads are all god in a pet ; The Republican potion it gives them a sweat ; So Puffey at last is come out of the bag , And Monarchy's only a National Hag. POP 18. We ought to believe when the Bishops advance , No honour , no rule , no religion's in France : These FALLALS they tell us , as grave as a parrot , To be sure , Sir , they blush --- but 'tis only with claret . POP 19. The gabies among us most terribly stare At the horrible things the high Statesmen declare , The monstrous relations ( as true as Tom Thumb ) They gobble and swallow as clean as a plumb . POP 20 , Our fam'd Constitution cry out the rare fellows ; What wondered news these philosophers tell us ! The Republic of France too , I wish mighty Fame , Prosperity , Peace , and and Immortal Name . POP 21. Now I leave State Affairs , tho' much might be said , To those mighty deep ones who let out the head , I'll whistle and sing , tho' their wisdom may tax , My last , and my awl , and my ends , and my wax . CRISPIN . ( PRICE TWO PENCE ) . ------ [ Entered at Stationer's-Hall . ] H : 289751 A Royal Salute of 21 , from Snob-Hall . POP 1. O , Bless my poor heart , when I think on a king , How far a poor Snob is from such a fine thing ! With wonder I stare , when for certain I hear , The station requires a round million a year . POP 2. How happy am I , that it is not my fate , To be crush'd with the weight and the care of a state ! Nor could I a million require with a grace , Till with the brass pan I had well rubb'd my face . POP 3. I am sure that the King has enough for to do , To take care of himself , and to care for us too ; With wisdom and care how his brains he must rack , Ah , the scull must be thick , or I'm sure it would crack . POP 4. 'Tis and excellent plan --- King , Commons , and Lords ; And many and excellent place it affords ; Should matters the Lords and the Commons o'erwhelm , We've a Solomon then to take hold of the helm . POP 5. Parading abroad , how the multitudes gape , When at home all around him palaver and scrape . We robe him , we feed him ; before him we fallen , And what is it for ? --- I say nothing at all . POP 6. To save a few millions who would be so strange , A Monarchy for a Republic to change . OEconomy shines in Republics , I know , But monarchy makes us a galantee show . POP 7. Supporting of Kings , and their prodigal raze , Republicans say , is a pickpocket case ; In ruling a people they say they don't want 'em , That all their parade is no more than a phantom . POP 8. Come , honest Republican , tell me downright , Are you sure we are wrong , and clear you are right ? When with plenty of gold we've adorn'd the King's station , Do you count him no more than the Doll of the nation ? POP 9. We can do without him , no doubt we can have , And more than a million a year we might save . But what's that among us --- ne'er mind it I say , When he goes to the House we shall have and huzza ! POP 10. If I were a King , and had too the gold , I'd honestly say , my dear boys , you are fool'd , I shall go to my stall , to be useful I choose , And there I can knobble and cobble your shoes . POP 11. Twenty millions a year we draw in , I suppose ; But 'tis not a poor cobbler can tell where it goes . Our long-headed Statesmen can tell where it rolls ; I am here my with my awl to tra [ n ] slate their bad souls . POP 12. The national cash , I will venture to say , By Statesmen and Kings , has been squander'd away . But our King , without doubt , with Pitt and Dundas , As long as they rule , will take care of the BRASS . POP 13. The cowardly Statesmen of Louis the King , Dispersed and left him , for fear they should swing : But if the Republican Boys should come hither , I hope our good Statesmen will all hang together . POP 14. Tho' a Cobbler , I'm not to be fear'd , you shall know , Like a child at a pit , or some great buggaboo , The world upsidedown is not yet come to pass , To be bridled , and whipped up by any Jack Ass. POP 15. I have nothing to give to Reeves' contribution , No firelock or pike to alarm Constitution : But he that would press down the poor till they groa [ n ] I'd beatrice him like leather upon my lapstone . POP 16. Against the Republic of France , many knaves Are combin'd , and the Despots have led out their slaves : Great Belzebub joins them to fight for the Pope , For all are afraid they have had out their scope . POP 17. You see the fine lads are all god in a pet ; The Republican potion it gives them a sweat ; So Puffey at last is come out of the bag , And Monarchy's only a National Hag. POP 18. We ought to believe when the Bishops advance , No honour , no rule , no religion's in France : These FALLALS they tell us , as grave as a parrot , To be sure , Sir , they blush --- but 'tis only with claret . POP 19. The gabies among us most terribly stare At the horrible things the high Statesmen declare , The monstrous relations ( as true as Tom Thumb ) They gobble and swallow as clean as a plumb . POP 20 , Our fam'd Constitution cry out the rare fellows ; What wondered news these philosophers tell us ! The Republic of France too , I wish mighty Fame , Prosperity , Peace , and and Immortal Name . POP 21. Now I leave State Affairs , tho' much might be said , To those mighty deep ones who let out the head , I'll whistle and sing , tho' their wisdom may tax , My last , and my awl , and my ends , and my wax . CRISPIN . ( PRICE TWO PENCE ) . ------ [ Entered at Stationer's-Hall . ] H : 289751 A Royal Salute of 21 , from Snob-Hall . POP 1. O , Bless my poor heart , when I think on a king , How far a poor Snob is from such a fine thing ! With wonder I stare , when for certain I hear , The station requires a round million a year . POP 2. How happy am I , that it is not my fate , To be crush'd with the weight and the care of a state ! Nor could I a million require with a grace , Till with the brass pan I had well rubb'd my face . POP 3. I am sure that the King has enough for to do , To take care of himself , and to care for us too ; With wisdom and care how his brains he must rack , Ah , the scull must be thick , or I'm sure it would crack . POP 4. 'Tis and excellent plan --- King , Commons , and Lords ; And many and excellent place it affords ; Should matters the Lords and the Commons o'erwhelm , We've a Solomon then to take hold of the helm . POP 5. Parading abroad , how the multitudes gape , When at home all around him palaver and scrape . We robe him , we feed him ; before him we fallen , And what is it for ? --- I say nothing at all . POP 6. To save a few millions who would be so strange , A Monarchy for a Republic to change . OEconomy shines in Republics , I know , But monarchy makes us a galantee show . POP 7. Supporting of Kings , and their prodigal raze , Republicans say , is a pickpocket case ; In ruling a people they say they don't want 'em , That all their parade is no more than a phantom . POP 8. Come , honest Republican , tell me downright , Are you sure we are wrong , and clear you are right ? When with plenty of gold we've adorn'd the King's station , Do you count him no more than the Doll of the nation ? POP 9. We can do without him , no doubt we can have , And more than a million a year we might save . But what's that among us --- ne'er mind it I say , When he goes to the House we shall have and huzza ! POP 10. If I were a King , and had too the gold , I'd honestly say , my dear boys , you are fool'd , I shall go to my stall , to be useful I choose , And there I can knobble and cobble your shoes . POP 11. Twenty millions a year we draw in , I suppose ; But 'tis not a poor cobbler can tell where it goes . Our long-headed Statesmen can tell where it rolls ; I am here my with my awl to tra [ n ] slate their bad souls . POP 12. The national cash , I will venture to say , By Statesmen and Kings , has been squander'd away . But our King , without doubt , with Pitt and Dundas , As long as they rule , will take care of the BRASS . POP 13. The cowardly Statesmen of Louis the King , Dispersed and left him , for fear they should swing : But if the Republican Boys should come hither , I hope our good Statesmen will all hang together . POP 14. Tho' a Cobbler , I'm not to be fear'd , you shall know , Like a child at a pit , or some great buggaboo , The world upsidedown is not yet come to pass , To be bridled , and whipped up by any Jack Ass. POP 15. I have nothing to give to Reeves' contribution , No firelock or pike to alarm Constitution : But he that would press down the poor till they groa [ n ] I'd beatrice him like leather upon my lapstone . POP 16. Against the Republic of France , many knaves Are combin'd , and the Despots have led out their slaves : Great Belzebub joins them to fight for the Pope , For all are afraid they have had out their scope . POP 17. You see the fine lads are all god in a pet ; The Republican potion it gives them a sweat ; So Puffey at last is come out of the bag , And Monarchy's only a National Hag. POP 18. We ought to believe when the Bishops advance , No honour , no rule , no religion's in France : These FALLALS they tell us , as grave as a parrot , To be sure , Sir , they blush --- but 'tis only with claret . POP 19. The gabies among us most terribly stare At the horrible things the high Statesmen declare , The monstrous relations ( as true as Tom Thumb ) They gobble and swallow as clean as a plumb . POP 20 , Our fam'd Constitution cry out the rare fellows ; What wondered news these philosophers tell us ! The Republic of France too , I wish mighty Fame , Prosperity , Peace , and and Immortal Name . POP 21. Now I leave State Affairs , tho' much might be said , To those mighty deep ones who let out the head , I'll whistle and sing , tho' their wisdom may tax , My last , and my awl , and my ends , and my wax . CRISPIN . ( PRICE TWO PENCE ) . ------ [ Entered at Stationer's-Hall . ] 