H : 289754 Lady ISABELLA's Tragedy ; Or , The Step Mother Cruelty . THERE was a lord of worthy fame , And a hunting he would ride , Attended by a noble train , Of gentry by his side . And while he did in chase remain , To see both sport and play , His lady went , as she did feign , Unto the church to pray . The Lord he had a daughter fair , Whose beauty shone so bright , She was belov'd both far and near , By many a lord and knight . Fair Isabella she was called , A creature fair was she , She was her father's only joy , As after you shall see , But her cruel stepmother Did envy her so much , That day by day she sought her life , Her malice it was such . She bargain'd with the Master Cook To take her life away , And calling of her daughter dear , She thus to her did say : Go home sweet daughter , I thee pray , Go hasten presently , And tell the Master Cook , These words that I tell thee . Go bid him dress for dinner strait , The fair and milk white doe , Which in the park does shine so bright , There's none so fair a show . The lady fearing of no harm , Obey'd the mother's will , And presently she hasten'd home , Her mind for to fulfil . She strait into the kitchen went , Her message for to tell , And there she spy'd the Master Cook , Who did with malice swell . Now Master Cook it must be so , Do that which I thee tell , You needs must dress the milk white doe , And that you know full well . Then strait his bloody cruel hands , He on the lady laid , Who quivering and shaking stands , While thus to her he said : Thou art the doe that I must dress , See here , behold my knife , For it is pointed presently , To rid thee of thy life . O then , cries out the scullion boy , As loud as loud might be , Oh save her life , good Master Cook , And make your pies of me , For heaven's sake do not murder , My mistress with that knife , You know she is her father's joy , For Christ's sake save her life . I will not save her life , said he , Nor make my pies of thee , And if you do this deed betray , Thy butcher I will be . Now when this lord he did come home , 'Fore he sat down to eat , He called for his daughter dear , To come and carve his meat . Into some nunnery she is gone , Your daughter now forgotten ; Then solemnly he made a vow , Before the company , That he would neither drink nor eat , Before he did her see . O then bespoke the scullion boy , With a voice both loud and high , If that you would your daughter see , Good sir , cut up the pie , Wherein her flesh is minced small , And parched with the fire , All caused by her stepmother , Who did her death desire , And by the cursed Master Cook , Oh cursed may he be . I proffer'd him my own heart's blood , From death to set her free . Then all in black this lord did mourn , And for his daughters sake , He judged the cruel stepmother , For to be burned at stake . Likewise he judged the Master Cook In boiling oil to stand , And made the simple scullion boy The heir to all his land . Their LAMENTATION . NOW when the wicked Master Cook , Beheld his death draw near , And that by friends he was forsook , He pour'd forth many a tear . Saying , the lady whom I serv'd , Prompted me to this deed , And as death I have deserv'd , 'Tis coming on with speed , I must confess these hands of mine , Did kill the innocent . When her dear breath she did resign , My heart did not relent . This said , into the boiling oil He then forthwith was cast , And then within a little time , The mother went at last , From prison to the burning stake , And as she passed along , She did sad lamentation make Unto the numerous throng . These were the selfsame words she said , The daughter of my lord I doom'd to death , the laws I broke , And shall have my reward . Then to the burning stake they ty'd , The worst of all stepdames , And then according to the law , She fairly died in flames , Now let their death's a warning be , To all that hear this song , And thus I end my tragedy , The duke he mourned long . Printed and sold at No. 4 , Aldermary Church Yard . H : 289754 Lady ISABELLA's Tragedy ; Or , The Step Mother Cruelty . THERE was a lord of worthy fame , And a hunting he would ride , Attended by a noble train , Of gentry by his side . And while he did in chase remain , To see both sport and play , His lady went , as she did feign , Unto the church to pray . The Lord he had a daughter fair , Whose beauty shone so bright , She was belov'd both far and near , By many a lord and knight . Fair Isabella she was called , A creature fair was she , She was her father's only joy , As after you shall see , But her cruel stepmother Did envy her so much , That day by day she sought her life , Her malice it was such . She bargain'd with the Master Cook To take her life away , And calling of her daughter dear , She thus to her did say : Go home sweet daughter , I thee pray , Go hasten presently , And tell the Master Cook , These words that I tell thee . Go bid him dress for dinner strait , The fair and milk white doe , Which in the park does shine so bright , There's none so fair a show . The lady fearing of no harm , Obey'd the mother's will , And presently she hasten'd home , Her mind for to fulfil . She strait into the kitchen went , Her message for to tell , And there she spy'd the Master Cook , Who did with malice swell . Now Master Cook it must be so , Do that which I thee tell , You needs must dress the milk white doe , And that you know full well . Then strait his bloody cruel hands , He on the lady laid , Who quivering and shaking stands , While thus to her he said : Thou art the doe that I must dress , See here , behold my knife , For it is pointed presently , To rid thee of thy life . O then , cries out the scullion boy , As loud as loud might be , Oh save her life , good Master Cook , And make your pies of me , For heaven's sake do not murder , My mistress with that knife , You know she is her father's joy , For Christ's sake save her life . I will not save her life , said he , Nor make my pies of thee , And if you do this deed betray , Thy butcher I will be . Now when this lord he did come home , 'Fore he sat down to eat , He called for his daughter dear , To come and carve his meat . Into some nunnery she is gone , Your daughter now forgotten ; Then solemnly he made a vow , Before the company , That he would neither drink nor eat , Before he did her see . O then bespoke the scullion boy , With a voice both loud and high , If that you would your daughter see , Good sir , cut up the pie , Wherein her flesh is minced small , And parched with the fire , All caused by her stepmother , Who did her death desire , And by the cursed Master Cook , Oh cursed may he be . I proffer'd him my own heart's blood , From death to set her free . Then all in black this lord did mourn , And for his daughters sake , He judged the cruel stepmother , For to be burned at stake . Likewise he judged the Master Cook In boiling oil to stand , And made the simple scullion boy The heir to all his land . Their LAMENTATION . NOW when the wicked Master Cook , Beheld his death draw near , And that by friends he was forsook , He pour'd forth many a tear . Saying , the lady whom I serv'd , Prompted me to this deed , And as death I have deserv'd , 'Tis coming on with speed , I must confess these hands of mine , Did kill the innocent . When her dear breath she did resign , My heart did not relent . This said , into the boiling oil He then forthwith was cast , And then within a little time , The mother went at last , From prison to the burning stake , And as she passed along , She did sad lamentation make Unto the numerous throng . These were the selfsame words she said , The daughter of my lord I doom'd to death , the laws I broke , And shall have my reward . Then to the burning stake they ty'd , The worst of all stepdames , And then according to the law , She fairly died in flames , Now let their death's a warning be , To all that hear this song , And thus I end my tragedy , The duke he mourned long . Printed and sold at No. 4 , Aldermary Church Yard . H : 289754 Lady ISABELLA's Tragedy ; Or , The Step Mother Cruelty . THERE was a lord of worthy fame , And a hunting he would ride , Attended by a noble train , Of gentry by his side . And while he did in chase remain , To see both sport and play , His lady went , as she did feign , Unto the church to pray . The Lord he had a daughter fair , Whose beauty shone so bright , She was belov'd both far and near , By many a lord and knight . Fair Isabella she was called , A creature fair was she , She was her father's only joy , As after you shall see , But her cruel stepmother Did envy her so much , That day by day she sought her life , Her malice it was such . She bargain'd with the Master Cook To take her life away , And calling of her daughter dear , She thus to her did say : Go home sweet daughter , I thee pray , Go hasten presently , And tell the Master Cook , These words that I tell thee . Go bid him dress for dinner strait , The fair and milk white doe , Which in the park does shine so bright , There's none so fair a show . The lady fearing of no harm , Obey'd the mother's will , And presently she hasten'd home , Her mind for to fulfil . She strait into the kitchen went , Her message for to tell , And there she spy'd the Master Cook , Who did with malice swell . Now Master Cook it must be so , Do that which I thee tell , You needs must dress the milk white doe , And that you know full well . Then strait his bloody cruel hands , He on the lady laid , Who quivering and shaking stands , While thus to her he said : Thou art the doe that I must dress , See here , behold my knife , For it is pointed presently , To rid thee of thy life . O then , cries out the scullion boy , As loud as loud might be , Oh save her life , good Master Cook , And make your pies of me , For heaven's sake do not murder , My mistress with that knife , You know she is her father's joy , For Christ's sake save her life . I will not save her life , said he , Nor make my pies of thee , And if you do this deed betray , Thy butcher I will be . Now when this lord he did come home , 'Fore he sat down to eat , He called for his daughter dear , To come and carve his meat . Into some nunnery she is gone , Your daughter now forgotten ; Then solemnly he made a vow , Before the company , That he would neither drink nor eat , Before he did her see . O then bespoke the scullion boy , With a voice both loud and high , If that you would your daughter see , Good sir , cut up the pie , Wherein her flesh is minced small , And parched with the fire , All caused by her stepmother , Who did her death desire , And by the cursed Master Cook , Oh cursed may he be . I proffer'd him my own heart's blood , From death to set her free . Then all in black this lord did mourn , And for his daughters sake , He judged the cruel stepmother , For to be burned at stake . Likewise he judged the Master Cook In boiling oil to stand , And made the simple scullion boy The heir to all his land . Their LAMENTATION . NOW when the wicked Master Cook , Beheld his death draw near , And that by friends he was forsook , He pour'd forth many a tear . Saying , the lady whom I serv'd , Prompted me to this deed , And as death I have deserv'd , 'Tis coming on with speed , I must confess these hands of mine , Did kill the innocent . When her dear breath she did resign , My heart did not relent . This said , into the boiling oil He then forthwith was cast , And then within a little time , The mother went at last , From prison to the burning stake , And as she passed along , She did sad lamentation make Unto the numerous throng . These were the selfsame words she said , The daughter of my lord I doom'd to death , the laws I broke , And shall have my reward . Then to the burning stake they ty'd , The worst of all stepdames , And then according to the law , She fairly died in flames , Now let their death's a warning be , To all that hear this song , And thus I end my tragedy , The duke he mourned long . Printed and sold at No. 4 , Aldermary Church Yard . H : 289754 Lady ISABELLA's Tragedy ; Or , The Step Mother Cruelty . THERE was a lord of worthy fame , And a hunting he would ride , Attended by a noble train , Of gentry by his side . And while he did in chase remain , To see both sport and play , His lady went , as she did feign , Unto the church to pray . The Lord he had a daughter fair , Whose beauty shone so bright , She was belov'd both far and near , By many a lord and knight . Fair Isabella she was called , A creature fair was she , She was her father's only joy , As after you shall see , But her cruel stepmother Did envy her so much , That day by day she sought her life , Her malice it was such . She bargain'd with the Master Cook To take her life away , And calling of her daughter dear , She thus to her did say : Go home sweet daughter , I thee pray , Go hasten presently , And tell the Master Cook , These words that I tell thee . Go bid him dress for dinner strait , The fair and milk white doe , Which in the park does shine so bright , There's none so fair a show . The lady fearing of no harm , Obey'd the mother's will , And presently she hasten'd home , Her mind for to fulfil . She strait into the kitchen went , Her message for to tell , And there she spy'd the Master Cook , Who did with malice swell . Now Master Cook it must be so , Do that which I thee tell , You needs must dress the milk white doe , And that you know full well . Then strait his bloody cruel hands , He on the lady laid , Who quivering and shaking stands , While thus to her he said : Thou art the doe that I must dress , See here , behold my knife , For it is pointed presently , To rid thee of thy life . O then , cries out the scullion boy , As loud as loud might be , Oh save her life , good Master Cook , And make your pies of me , For heaven's sake do not murder , My mistress with that knife , You know she is her father's joy , For Christ's sake save her life . I will not save her life , said he , Nor make my pies of thee , And if you do this deed betray , Thy butcher I will be . Now when this lord he did come home , 'Fore he sat down to eat , He called for his daughter dear , To come and carve his meat . Into some nunnery she is gone , Your daughter now forgotten ; Then solemnly he made a vow , Before the company , That he would neither drink nor eat , Before he did her see . O then bespoke the scullion boy , With a voice both loud and high , If that you would your daughter see , Good sir , cut up the pie , Wherein her flesh is minced small , And parched with the fire , All caused by her stepmother , Who did her death desire , And by the cursed Master Cook , Oh cursed may he be . I proffer'd him my own heart's blood , From death to set her free . Then all in black this lord did mourn , And for his daughters sake , He judged the cruel stepmother , For to be burned at stake . Likewise he judged the Master Cook In boiling oil to stand , And made the simple scullion boy The heir to all his land . Their LAMENTATION . NOW when the wicked Master Cook , Beheld his death draw near , And that by friends he was forsook , He pour'd forth many a tear . Saying , the lady whom I serv'd , Prompted me to this deed , And as death I have deserv'd , 'Tis coming on with speed , I must confess these hands of mine , Did kill the innocent . When her dear breath she did resign , My heart did not relent . This said , into the boiling oil He then forthwith was cast , And then within a little time , The mother went at last , From prison to the burning stake , And as she passed along , She did sad lamentation make Unto the numerous throng . These were the selfsame words she said , The daughter of my lord I doom'd to death , the laws I broke , And shall have my reward . Then to the burning stake they ty'd , The worst of all stepdames , And then according to the law , She fairly died in flames , Now let their death's a warning be , To all that hear this song , And thus I end my tragedy , The duke he mourned long . Printed and sold at No. 4 , Aldermary Church Yard . 