H : 289756 THE Mournful Lady's Garland . TRUE lovers all , both far and near , B [ e ] hold the lines that I have penn'd , [ I ] 'd have you take a special care To swear no more than you intend . Be rul'd by them that wish you well , Honour your parents both day and night , And pray often when you have time , And place this pattern in your sighed . A noble knight near London liv'd , Who had a daughter very fair , A rich young 'squire courted her , [ Sh ] e loved him exceeding dear . By his false deluding tongue He stole her yielding heart away . Let every youth that hears this Observe these words that I shall say . But sixteen years of age was she , Poor soul ! when she began to love . Let every one her woes condole , For it did soon her ruin prove . He did so far her favour win , That she did yield with him to lie . But now , good people , pray do mind , Y [ ou ] shall hear [ our ] destiny . At last , poor heart ! she prov'd with child [ B ] ut when , alas ! she found it so , He came to her upon a night , Saying , I must to London go . Next morning he his journey took , With protesta [ ti ] ons o'er and o'er ; That in a week he would return , But o ! he ne'er came near her more , No letters she fr [ oh ] m him receiv'd , Which made her oft in tears complain , And oft times to hearse [ l ] f would cry , Where shall I go to hide my shame . At last , poor soul ! her time grew nigh , Therefore upon a certain nigh [ tO ] , Her clothes and linen she took up , And from her father took her night . Long time she wander'd up-and down , And could not find a resting-plade From country to city , and town to [ tO ] own , Until her money it grew scarce , At last upon a lonesome heath , She being by herself alone , Was there deliv'd of a son , Two miles from either house or home . Being so weakened with pains , Poor soul ! she could not stand upright , But with her infant in her arms , Upon the g [ r ] owned she lay all the night . The child being clasped in her again , A shepherd having lost a lamb , That from him by chance did stray , Seeking about to find it out , By providence did come that way . Finding the lady on the ground , He came to her without delay , Poor soul ! she fell into a swoon , As soon as she the shepherd saw . But coming to herself again , To him she made her sorrow known : He being of a tender heart , Did then conduct her to his h [ oh ] me . THere she much kindness did receive And a month did there remain , Then with her child ty'd on her back , Poor soul ! she wander'd forth again . Two years she wander'd up-and-down , At last by chance , as you shall hear , She came to famous Dartmouth-town , Where the 'squire liv'd , we hear . And wandering the streets all o'er , At last , poor soul ! she did espy , The 'squire standing at the door , And by his side his lady gay . Wiping the tears from her eyes , Up to the door she strait did high , And on her bent trembling knees , She begg'd of him his charity . Said he , There's such a dirty crew , That's daily begging in the street , To suchlike lusty sluts as you , I will give neither bred nor meat . For that's some bastard on your back . And you I warrant some common whore . With that he call'd the coachman strait . To whip this creature from the door . With hungry soul and feeble limb , In the street she wandered up-and-down , At last kind fortune did so hit , She god a lodging in the town . A letter she presently writ , And seal'd it with her own hand , These were the words enclos'd in it , Which to the 'squire she did send . O cursed wretch I thy wicked tongue , That was the ruin first of me , You was the first that betray'd me , When I was in my innocency . I slighted all my friends for thee , Cursed be the hour I saw thy face . It was you , and only you , That brought my body [ tO ] oh disgrace When he had read the letter through And ponder'd well within his mind . He straightway made no more ado , But to the lady came , we find . Pretending for to pity her , Forcing a smile to hide a frown , Would said , I'll meet you to-morrow-nig [ ht ] In such a grove hard by the town . Next morning to the grove she hy'd With her sweet little infant dear , There all the day it seems she stay'd But yet no 'squire did appear , All night upon the bore cold ground , This creature and the infant lay , But no comfort could be found , So in the morn before 'twas day . She having never a farthing left , To buy her hungry baby food , She could no longer then make shift , She smote her breast , and thus she said , My tender babe , alas ! said she , I nothing have to succour thee , Kissing the child , My dear , she said , For want of bred we starv'd shall be Five days within that lonesome wood , She and her baby there did lie , Expecting from his dad some food , To help them in extremity . At last pale death approaching nigh , As at her breast the poor child lay , Her life being spent just to a hair , She to her pretty infant thus did say . My pretty pra [ tO ] tling soul , I cannot bear to hear thee cry , Let tender folks my woes condole , See , see , thy mother's death is nigh . Stroking the infant o'er the face , Which was besmear'd with briny tears , She said , Oh Lord ! what would I give That thy cruel father was but here . The pretty prattling innocent , Hearing his mother for to cry , With his little hand did stroack her face , Crying , Mamma , mamma , do not cry , With his little hand about her neck , It raised up , and kiss'd her lips , That very moment her heart did break , She turn'd and to her baby spoke . Lord ! if it be thy blessed will , That my baby should alive remain , Send it some help when I am gone , To ease his hungry piercing pain . But if it be thy blessed will , said she , That we should die for want of bred . Then welcome death , replied she , And strait she dy'd immediately . By no means from her could free , Two nights and days it pining lay , And ended then its misery . Two months within this lonesome wood . Unbury'd these two bodies lay , But now , good people , pray do mind A word or two I have to say . THE 'squire on a certain day , With men and dogs a-hunting wen [ tO ] And having been long time at play , The dogs by fortune lost their scent . Then runing thro' this lonesome wood , These howling hungry dogs of prey , Came to the place , and there they stood Just where the breathless bodies lay . Being mounted on a stately steed , As thro' the wood they galloped The horse the bodies first espy'd , And very much was frightened . At which he gave a sudden stride , And threw the 'squire on the ground . A stump of bush stuck in his side , Whereby he god a fatal wound . His man he strove to help him up , But turning to him , he reply'd , Lend me you hand , I cannot stand . Then lay me by that woman's side . She was my wife before the Lord , And that's my baby that lies dead , God's vengeance now hath follow'd me , And now hath fallen on my head . He kiss'd her lips as cold as clay , Likewise to the child he as many gave , And to his man he thus did say , Lut us be buried in one grave For here I [ can ] ot long remain , My cruel heart is spilled in twain , Dear Christ , forgive my should , he said , So with a groan or two he dy'd . Lord ! when this news was brought to tow [ n ] Of this unhappy accident , His lady she distracted run , But first , poor soul ! she gave consent . A coffin was made large and wide , One grave was dug to hold all three . The lady she lies by his side , And thus I end my tragedy . You tender solds of Christian hearts , Who hear these verses which I sing , Remember that which I impart , To love in vain is a cruel thing . Oh! be dutiful unto your friends , And never do as I have done : Let them that read the same , Think on us that are dead [ and gone ] H : 289756 THE Mournful Lady's Garland . TRUE lovers all , both far and near , B [ e ] hold the lines that I have penn'd , [ I ] 'd have you take a special care To swear no more than you intend . Be rul'd by them that wish you well , Honour your parents both day and night , And pray often when you have time , And place this pattern in your sighed . A noble knight near London liv'd , Who had a daughter very fair , A rich young 'squire courted her , [ Sh ] e loved him exceeding dear . By his false deluding tongue He stole her yielding heart away . Let every youth that hears this Observe these words that I shall say . But sixteen years of age was she , Poor soul ! when she began to love . Let every one her woes condole , For it did soon her ruin prove . He did so far her favour win , That she did yield with him to lie . But now , good people , pray do mind , Y [ ou ] shall hear [ our ] destiny . At last , poor heart ! she prov'd with child [ B ] ut when , alas ! she found it so , He came to her upon a night , Saying , I must to London go . Next morning he his journey took , With protesta [ ti ] ons o'er and o'er ; That in a week he would return , But o ! he ne'er came near her more , No letters she fr [ oh ] m him receiv'd , Which made her oft in tears complain , And oft times to hearse [ l ] f would cry , Where shall I go to hide my shame . At last , poor soul ! her time grew nigh , Therefore upon a certain nigh [ tO ] , Her clothes and linen she took up , And from her father took her night . Long time she wander'd up-and down , And could not find a resting-plade From country to city , and town to [ tO ] own , Until her money it grew scarce , At last upon a lonesome heath , She being by herself alone , Was there deliv'd of a son , Two miles from either house or home . Being so weakened with pains , Poor soul ! she could not stand upright , But with her infant in her arms , Upon the g [ r ] owned she lay all the night . The child being clasped in her again , A shepherd having lost a lamb , That from him by chance did stray , Seeking about to find it out , By providence did come that way . Finding the lady on the ground , He came to her without delay , Poor soul ! she fell into a swoon , As soon as she the shepherd saw . But coming to herself again , To him she made her sorrow known : He being of a tender heart , Did then conduct her to his h [ oh ] me . THere she much kindness did receive And a month did there remain , Then with her child ty'd on her back , Poor soul ! she wander'd forth again . Two years she wander'd up-and-down , At last by chance , as you shall hear , She came to famous Dartmouth-town , Where the 'squire liv'd , we hear . And wandering the streets all o'er , At last , poor soul ! she did espy , The 'squire standing at the door , And by his side his lady gay . Wiping the tears from her eyes , Up to the door she strait did high , And on her bent trembling knees , She begg'd of him his charity . Said he , There's such a dirty crew , That's daily begging in the street , To suchlike lusty sluts as you , I will give neither bred nor meat . For that's some bastard on your back . And you I warrant some common whore . With that he call'd the coachman strait . To whip this creature from the door . With hungry soul and feeble limb , In the street she wandered up-and-down , At last kind fortune did so hit , She god a lodging in the town . A letter she presently writ , And seal'd it with her own hand , These were the words enclos'd in it , Which to the 'squire she did send . O cursed wretch I thy wicked tongue , That was the ruin first of me , You was the first that betray'd me , When I was in my innocency . I slighted all my friends for thee , Cursed be the hour I saw thy face . It was you , and only you , That brought my body [ tO ] oh disgrace When he had read the letter through And ponder'd well within his mind . He straightway made no more ado , But to the lady came , we find . Pretending for to pity her , Forcing a smile to hide a frown , Would said , I'll meet you to-morrow-nig [ ht ] In such a grove hard by the town . Next morning to the grove she hy'd With her sweet little infant dear , There all the day it seems she stay'd But yet no 'squire did appear , All night upon the bore cold ground , This creature and the infant lay , But no comfort could be found , So in the morn before 'twas day . She having never a farthing left , To buy her hungry baby food , She could no longer then make shift , She smote her breast , and thus she said , My tender babe , alas ! said she , I nothing have to succour thee , Kissing the child , My dear , she said , For want of bred we starv'd shall be Five days within that lonesome wood , She and her baby there did lie , Expecting from his dad some food , To help them in extremity . At last pale death approaching nigh , As at her breast the poor child lay , Her life being spent just to a hair , She to her pretty infant thus did say . My pretty pra [ tO ] tling soul , I cannot bear to hear thee cry , Let tender folks my woes condole , See , see , thy mother's death is nigh . Stroking the infant o'er the face , Which was besmear'd with briny tears , She said , Oh Lord ! what would I give That thy cruel father was but here . The pretty prattling innocent , Hearing his mother for to cry , With his little hand did stroack her face , Crying , Mamma , mamma , do not cry , With his little hand about her neck , It raised up , and kiss'd her lips , That very moment her heart did break , She turn'd and to her baby spoke . Lord ! if it be thy blessed will , That my baby should alive remain , Send it some help when I am gone , To ease his hungry piercing pain . But if it be thy blessed will , said she , That we should die for want of bred . Then welcome death , replied she , And strait she dy'd immediately . By no means from her could free , Two nights and days it pining lay , And ended then its misery . Two months within this lonesome wood . Unbury'd these two bodies lay , But now , good people , pray do mind A word or two I have to say . THE 'squire on a certain day , With men and dogs a-hunting wen [ tO ] And having been long time at play , The dogs by fortune lost their scent . Then runing thro' this lonesome wood , These howling hungry dogs of prey , Came to the place , and there they stood Just where the breathless bodies lay . Being mounted on a stately steed , As thro' the wood they galloped The horse the bodies first espy'd , And very much was frightened . At which he gave a sudden stride , And threw the 'squire on the ground . A stump of bush stuck in his side , Whereby he god a fatal wound . His man he strove to help him up , But turning to him , he reply'd , Lend me you hand , I cannot stand . Then lay me by that woman's side . She was my wife before the Lord , And that's my baby that lies dead , God's vengeance now hath follow'd me , And now hath fallen on my head . He kiss'd her lips as cold as clay , Likewise to the child he as many gave , And to his man he thus did say , Lut us be buried in one grave For here I [ can ] ot long remain , My cruel heart is spilled in twain , Dear Christ , forgive my should , he said , So with a groan or two he dy'd . Lord ! when this news was brought to tow [ n ] Of this unhappy accident , His lady she distracted run , But first , poor soul ! she gave consent . A coffin was made large and wide , One grave was dug to hold all three . The lady she lies by his side , And thus I end my tragedy . You tender solds of Christian hearts , Who hear these verses which I sing , Remember that which I impart , To love in vain is a cruel thing . Oh! be dutiful unto your friends , And never do as I have done : Let them that read the same , Think on us that are dead [ and gone ] H : 289756 THE Mournful Lady's Garland . TRUE lovers all , both far and near , Behold the lines that I have penn'd , [ I ] 'd have you take a special care To swear no more than you intend Be rul'd by them that wish you well , Honour your parents both day and night , And pray often when you have time , And place this pattern in your sighed . A noble knight near London liv'd , Who had a daughter very fair , A rich young 'squire courted her , She loved him exceeding dear . By his false deluding tongue He stole her yielding heart away . Let every youth that hears this Observe these words that I shall say . But sixteen years of age was she , Poor soul ! when she began to love . Let every one her woes condole , For it did soon her ruin prove . He did so far her favour win , That she did yield with him to lie . But now , good people , pray do mind , Y [ ou ] shall hear [ her ] destiny . At last , poor heart ! she prov'd with child But when , alas ! she found it so , He came to her upon a night , Saying , I must to London go . Next morning he his journey took , With protestations o'er and o'er ; That in a week he would return , But o ! he ne'er came near her more , No letters she from him receiv'd , Which made her oft in tears complain , And oft times to hearse [ l ] f would cry , Where shall I go to hide my shame . At last , poor soul ! her time grew nigh , Therefore upon a certain night , Her clothes and linen she took up , And from her father took her night . Long time she wander'd up and down , And could not find a resting-plade From country to city , and town to own , Until her money it grew scarce , At last upon a lonesome heath , She being by herself alone , Was there deliv'd of a son , Two miles from either house or home . Being so weakened with pains , Poor soul ! she could not stand upright , But with her infant in her arms , Upon the ground she lay all the night . The child being clasped in her [ ? ] gain , A shepherd having lost a lamb , That from him by chance did stray , Seeking about to find it out , By providence did come that way Finding the lady on the ground , He came to her without delay , Poor soul ! she fell into a swoon , As soon as she the shepherd saw . But coming to herself again , To him she made her sorrow known : He being of a tender heart , Did then conduct her to his home . THere she much kindness did receive And a month did there remain , Then with her child ty'd on her back , Poor soul ! she wander'd forth again . Two years she wander'd up-and-down , At last by chance , as you shall hear , She came to famous Dartmouth-town , Where the 'squire liv'd , we hear . And wandering the streets all o'er , At last , poor soul ! she did espy , The 'squire standing at the door , And by his side his lady gay . Wiping the tears from her eyes , Up to the door she strait did high , And on her bent trembling knees , She begg'd of him his charity . Said he , There's such a dirty crew , That's daily begging in the street , To suchlike lusty sluts as you , I will give neither bred nor meat . For that's some bastard on your back . And you I warrant some common whore . With that he call'd the coachman strait . To whip this creature from the door . With hungry soul and feeble limb , In the street she wandered up-and-down , At last kind fortune did so hit , She god a lodging in the town . A letter she presently writ , And seal'd it with her own hand , These were the words enclos'd in it , Which to the 'squire she did send . O cursed wretch I thy wicked tongue , That was the ruin first of me , You was the first that betray'd me , When I was in my innocency . I slighted all my friends for thee , Cursed be the hour I saw thy face . It was you , and only you , That brought my body [ tO ] oh disgrace When he had read the letter thro' And ponder'd well within his mind . He straightway made no more ado , But to the lady came , we find . Pretending for to pity her , Forcing a smile to hide a frown , Would said , I'll meet you to-morrow-nigh [ tO ] In such a grove hard by the town . Next morning to the grove she hy'd With her sweet little infant dear , There all the day it seems she stay'd But yet no 'squire did appear , All night upon the bore cold ground , This creature and the infant lay , But no comfort could be found , So in the morn before 'twas day . She having never a farthing left , To buy her hungry baby food , She could no longer then make shift , She smote her breast , and thus she said , My tender babe , alas ! said she , I nothing have to succour thee , Kissing the child , My dear , she said , For want of bred we starv'd shall be Five days within that lonesome wood , She and her baby there did lie , Expecting from his dad some food , To help them in extremity . At last pale death approaching nigh , As at her breast the poor child lay , Her life being spent just to a hair , She to her pretty infant thus did say . My pretty pra [ tO ] tling soul , I cannot bear to hear thee cry , Let tender folks my woes condole , See , see , thy mother's death is nigh . Stroking the infant o'er the face , Which was besmear'd with briny tears , She said , Oh Lord ! what would I give That thy cruel father was but here . The pretty prattling innocent , Hearing his mother for to cry , With his little hand did stroack her face , Crying , Mamma , mamma , do not cry , With his little hand about her neck , It raised up , and kiss'd her lips , That very moment her heart did break , She turn'd , and to her baby spoke . Lord ! if it be thy blessed will , That my baby should alive remain , Send it some help when I am gone , To ease his hungry piercing pain . But if it be thy blessed will , said she , That we should die for want of bred . Then welcome death , replied she , And strait she dy'd immediately . By no means from her could get free , Two nights and days it pining lay , And ended then its misery . Two months within this lonesome wood . Unbury'd these two bodies lay , But now , good people , pray do mind A word or two I have to say . THE 'squire on a certain day , With men and dogs a-hunting wen [ tO ] And having been long time at play , The dogs by fortune lost their scent . Then runing thro' this lonesome wood , These howling hungry dogs of prey , Came to the place , and there they stood Just where the breathless bodies lay . Being mounted on a stately steed , As thro' the wood they galloped The horse the bodies first espy'd , And very much was frightened . At which he gave a sudden stride , And threw the 'squire on the ground . A stump of bush stuck in his side . Whereby he god a fatal wound . His man he strove to help him up , But turning to him , he reply'd , Lend me you hand , I cannot stand . Then lay me by that woman's side . She was my wife before the Lord , And that's my baby that lies dead , God's vengeance now hath follow'd me . And now hath fallen on my head . He kiss'd her lips as cold as clay , Likewise to the child he as many gave , And to his man he thus did say , Lut us be buried in one grave For here I cannot long remain , My cruel heart is spilled in twain , Dear Christ , forgive my soul , he said , So with a groan or two he dy'd . Lord ! when this news was brought to tow [ n ] Of this unhappy accident , His lady she distracted run , But first , poor soul ! she gave consent . A coffin was made large and wide , One grave was dug to hold all three . The lady she lies by his side , And thus I end my tragedy . You tender souls of Christian hearts , Who hear these verses which I sing , Remember that which I impart , To love in vain is a cruel thing . Oh! be dutiful unto your friends , And never do as I have done : Let them that read the same , Think on us that are dead and go [ ne . ] H : 289756 THE Mournful Lady's Garland . TRUE lovers all , both far and near , Behold the lines that I have penn'd , [ I ] 'd have you take a special care To swear no more than you intend Be rul'd by them that wish you well , Honour your parents both day and night , And pray often when you have time , And place this pattern in your sighed . A noble knight near London liv'd , Who had a daughter very fair , A rich young 'squire courted her , She loved him exceeding dear . By his false deluding tongue He stole her yielding heart away . Let every youth that hears this Observe these words that I shall say . But sixteen years of age was she , Poor soul ! when she began to love . Let every one her woes condole , For it did soon her ruin prove . He did so far her favour win , That she did yield with him to lie . But now , good people , pray do mind , Y [ ou ] shall hear [ her ] destiny . At last , poor heart ! she prov'd with child But when , alas ! she found it so , He came to her upon a night , Saying , I must to London go . Next morning he his journey took , With protestations o'er and o'er ; That in a week he would return , But o ! he ne'er came near her more , No letters she from him receiv'd , Which made her oft in tears complain , And oft times to hearse [ l ] f would cry , Where shall I go to hide my shame . At last , poor soul ! her time grew nigh , Therefore upon a certain night , Her clothes and linen she took up , And from her father took her night . Long time she wander'd up and down , And could not find a resting-plade From country to city , and town to own , Until her money it grew scarce , At last upon a lonesome heath , She being by herself alone , Was there deliv'd of a son , Two miles from either house or home . Being so weakened with pains , Poor soul ! she could not stand upright , But with her infant in her arms , Upon the ground she lay all the night . The child being clasped in her [ ? ] gain , A shepherd having lost a lamb , That from him by chance did stray , Seeking about to find it out , By providence did come that way Finding the lady on the ground , He came to her without delay , Poor soul ! she fell into a swoon , As soon as she the shepherd saw . But coming to herself again , To him she made her sorrow known : He being of a tender heart , Did then conduct her to his home . THere she much kindness did receive And a month did there remain , Then with her child ty'd on her back , Poor soul ! she wander'd forth again . Two years she wander'd up-and-down , At last by chance , as you shall hear , She came to famous Dartmouth-town , Where the 'squire liv'd , we hear . And wandering the streets all o'er , At last , poor soul ! she did espy , The 'squire standing at the door , And by his side his lady gay . Wiping the tears from her eyes , Up to the door she strait did high , And on her bent trembling knees , She begg'd of him his charity . Said he , There's such a dirty crew , That's daily begging in the street , To suchlike lusty sluts as you , I will give neither bred nor meat . For that's some bastard on your back . And you I warrant some common whore . With that he call'd the coachman strait . To whip this creature from the door . With hungry soul and feeble limb , In the street she wandered up-and-down , At last kind fortune did so hit , She god a lodging in the town . A letter she presently writ , And seal'd it with her own hand , These were the words enclos'd in it , Which to the 'squire she did send . O cursed wretch I thy wicked tongue , That was the ruin first of me , You was the first that betray'd me , When I was in my innocency . I slighted all my friends for thee , Cursed be the hour I saw thy face . It was you , and only you , That brought my body [ tO ] oh disgrace When he had read the letter thro' And ponder'd well within his mind . He straightway made no more ado , But to the lady came , we find . Pretending for to pity her , Forcing a smile to hide a frown , Would said , I'll meet you to-morrow-nigh [ tO ] In such a grove hard by the town . Next morning to the grove she hy'd With her sweet little infant dear , There all the day it seems she stay'd But yet no 'squire did appear , All night upon the bore cold ground , This creature and the infant lay , But no comfort could be found , So in the morn before 'twas day . She having never a farthing left , To buy her hungry baby food , She could no longer then make shift , She smote her breast , and thus she said , My tender babe , alas ! said she , I nothing have to succour thee , Kissing the child , My dear , she said , For want of bred we starv'd shall be Five days within that lonesome wood , She and her baby there did lie , Expecting from his dad some food , To help them in extremity . At last pale death approaching nigh , As at her breast the poor child lay , Her life being spent just to a hair , She to her pretty infant thus did say . My pretty pra [ tO ] tling soul , I cannot bear to hear thee cry , Let tender folks my woes condole , See , see , thy mother's death is nigh . Stroking the infant o'er the face , Which was besmear'd with briny tears , She said , Oh Lord ! what would I give That thy cruel father was but here . The pretty prattling innocent , Hearing his mother for to cry , With his little hand did stroack her face , Crying , Mamma , mamma , do not cry , With his little hand about her neck , It raised up , and kiss'd her lips , That very moment her heart did break , She turn'd , and to her baby spoke . Lord ! if it be thy blessed will , That my baby should alive remain , Send it some help when I am gone , To ease his hungry piercing pain . But if it be thy blessed will , said she , That we should die for want of bred . Then welcome death , replied she , And strait she dy'd immediately . By no means from her could get free , Two nights and days it pining lay , And ended then its misery . Two months within this lonesome wood . Unbury'd these two bodies lay , But now , good people , pray do mind A word or two I have to say . THE 'squire on a certain day , With men and dogs a-hunting wen [ tO ] And having been long time at play , The dogs by fortune lost their scent . Then runing thro' this lonesome wood , These howling hungry dogs of prey , Came to the place , and there they stood Just where the breathless bodies lay . Being mounted on a stately steed , As thro' the wood they galloped The horse the bodies first espy'd , And very much was frightened . At which he gave a sudden stride , And threw the 'squire on the ground . A stump of bush stuck in his side . Whereby he god a fatal wound . His man he strove to help him up , But turning to him , he reply'd , Lend me you hand , I cannot stand . Then lay me by that woman's side . She was my wife before the Lord , And that's my baby that lies dead , God's vengeance now hath follow'd me . And now hath fallen on my head . He kiss'd her lips as cold as clay , Likewise to the child he as many gave , And to his man he thus did say , Lut us be buried in one grave For here I cannot long remain , My cruel heart is spilled in twain , Dear Christ , forgive my soul , he said , So with a groan or two he dy'd . Lord ! when this news was brought to tow [ n ] Of this unhappy accident , His lady she distracted run , But first , poor soul ! she gave consent . A coffin was made large and wide , One grave was dug to hold all three . The lady she lies by his side , And thus I end my tragedy . You tender souls of Christian hearts , Who hear these verses which I sing , Remember that which I impart , To love in vain is a cruel thing . Oh! be dutiful unto your friends , And never do as I have done : Let them that read the same , Think on us that are dead and go [ ne . ] 