H : 18333 A living remembrance of Master Robert Rogers , Merchant adventurer & Leatherseller of London deceased , who declared the fruits of his faith , by his most christian & charitable works . And left this life at his house in Bassings-hall the 22. of September . And was buried in Christchurch on Thursday the 1. of October . 1601. WHen bad men die , the memory remains Of their corruptions , and ungodly ways , As merit to their misapplied pains , Out of ill actions , forming as ill praise . for virtue wounded by their deep disgrace , Leaves shame to their posterity and raze . When good men die , the memory remains , Of their true virtues , and most christian ways : As a due guerdon to their godly pains , Out of good actions , forming as good praise . for virtue cherish'd by their deeds of grace , Leaves fame to their posterity and raze . Among those good ( if goodness may be said , To be among the seed of mortal men : In upright balance of true merit weighed ) This worthy Bachelor esteem we then . In whom , as in a mirror does appear , That faith and works did shine in him most clear . Now let us not , as is our common use , Measure him by a many other more : In death , to cover their life's bad abuse , That then flies out some bounty of their store . No Rogers was none such , as may appear , By these true witnesses annexed here . First , as God blessed him with abundant wealth , Like to a careful Steward he imployde i Squaring his gifts out in his best of health , As glad to leave it , as when he injoyde it . Himself prepared every hour to die : And all in order pointed christianly . In sundry callings and vocations , Where he could hear of them were rightly poor : As men decayed by their occupations , Yet held by shame from begging at the door , Such succoured he , as knowing that their need , Stopped up their mouths , though made their hearts to bleed . What should I say ? to what poor wanting heart , Was he not liberal in the largest kind ? Such as were hopeful , and had any part Of christian zeal , felt freely his good mind . Preachers , poor handicrafts , and parishes : From Rogers purse have liberal Legacies . In Abrahams bosom sleeps he with the blessed , His works do follow him , his worth survives : The Angels guide him to eternal rest , Where is no date of time , for years or lives . You that are rich , do you as he hath done : and so assure the Crown that Christ hath won . Leagacies bequeathed to charitable uses by Master Robert Rogers deceased . IN primis , to the two Counters , Ludgate , Newgate , Bedlam and the Clink . xii . l . Money to be presently distributed to the poor , in the Parish he dwelled in . x.l. To provide two dozen of bred every Sunday for ever , to be given to the poor of the said Parish . C.l. To the Parish of Christchurch , to buy Coals at the best hand for the poor yearly , to continue a stock forever to that use : x.l. And money presently to be distributed to the poor in that Parish . v.l . To the poor of Saint George Parish in Southwarke , the poor without Newgate , the poor without Cripplegate , & the poor without Bishops gate , to each Parish xx . Nobles to be distributed in money . xxvi . l . xiii . s . iiii . worser . To the poor of two Towns in the West Country . xiii . l . vi . s . viii . worser . To the poor of the town of Pool where he was born , to be presently distributed in money : x.l. More , to built alms houses in the said town , CCCxxxiii . 1 . vi . s . viii . worser . With exebition for twelve poor people weekly forever . To relieve poor Prisoners such as may be set free for xx . Nobles a man , or under , so that no Papist nor Athist have any benefit thereof . CL . l . To relieve poor Preachers of the word of God , not exceeding to any one man , above ten pound . C.l. To ten poor decayed Artifficers that have charge of wife and Children ten pound a man . C.l. To the company of Merchant adventurers , for the relief of decayed people by him nominated during their lives , and after their decease , to the use of young men free of the said company . CCCC . l . To the Company of Leathersellers , to give exebition at the Unyversities , to foure Scholars students in De - vinitie forever VIZ . Two in Oxford and Two in Cambridge . CCCC . l . To Saint George Parish in Sowthwarke . xxx . l . To Saint Sepulchers Parish . xxx . l . To Saint Oliffes Parish in Sowthwarke . xxx . l . To Saint Gyles without Cripplegate . xxx . l . To Saint Leonards in Shorditch , xxx . l . To Saint Buttolphes without Allgate . xx . l . To Saint Buttolphes without Bishopsgate . xx . l . Amounting to 190.l . in all , to make stocks to buy seacoal or other fuel in summer at the best hand , for the use of the poor , and to continue for ever in that manner , leaving stocks in those several Parishes . To Christs Hospital ( of which he was a governor ) to purchase land to the relief of that house . CCCCC . l . To erect Alms houses within the City of London , and for exebition weekly for xii poor people to be pla - ced in them . CCCCCC . l . The whole sum given by Master Rogers last Will to charitable uses . 2960.l . 6 . s . 8.d . Imprinted at London for M. Allde , and are to be sold at her shop under Saint Mildreds Church in the Poultry . H : 18333 A living remembrance of Master Robert Rogers , Merchant adventurer & Leatherseller of London deceased , who declared the fruits of his faith , by his most christian & charitable works . And left this life at his house in Bassings-hall the 22. of September . And was buried in Christchurch on Thursday the 1. of October . 1601. WHen bad men die , the memory remains Of their corruptions , and ungodly ways , As merit to their misapplied pains , Out of ill actions , forming as ill praise . for virtue wounded by their deep disgrace , Leaves shame to their posterity and raze . When good men die , the memory remains , Of their true virtues , and most christian ways : As a due guerdon to their godly pains , Out of good actions , forming as good praise . for virtue cherish'd by their deeds of grace , Leaves fame to their posterity and raze . Among those good ( if goodness may be said , To be among the seed of mortal men : In upright balance of true merit weighed ) This worthy Bachelor esteem we then . In whom , as in a mirror does appear , That faith and works did shine in him most clear . Now let us not , as is our common use , Measure him by a many other more : In death , to cover their life's bad abuse , That then flies out some bounty of their store . No Rogers was none such , as may appear , By these true witnesses annexed here . First , as God blessed him with abundant wealth , Like to a careful Steward he imployde i Squaring his gifts out in his best of health , As glad to leave it , as when he injoyde it . Himself prepared every hour to die : And all in order pointed christianly . In sundry callings and vocations , Where he could hear of them were rightly poor : As men decayed by their occupations , Yet held by shame from begging at the door , Such succoured he , as knowing that their need , Stopped up their mouths , though made their hearts to bleed . What should I say ? to what poor wanting heart , Was he not liberal in the largest kind ? Such as were hopeful , and had any part Of christian zeal , felt freely his good mind . Preachers , poor handicrafts , and parishes : From Rogers purse have liberal Legacies . In Abrahams bosom sleeps he with the blessed , His works do follow him , his worth survives : The Angels guide him to eternal rest , Where is no date of time , for years or lives . You that are rich , do you as he hath done : and so assure the Crown that Christ hath won . Leagacies bequeathed to charitable uses by Master Robert Rogers deceased . IN primis , to the two Counters , Ludgate , Newgate , Bedlam and the Clink . xii . l . Money to be presently distributed to the poor , in the Parish he dwelled in . x.l. To provide two dozen of bred every Sunday for ever , to be given to the poor of the said Parish . C.l. To the Parish of Christchurch , to buy Coals at the best hand for the poor yearly , to continue a stock forever to that use : x.l. And money presently to be distributed to the poor in that Parish . v.l . To the poor of Saint George Parish in Southwarke , the poor without Newgate , the poor without Cripplegate , & the poor without Bishops gate , to each Parish xx . Nobles to be distributed in money . xxvi . l . xiii . s . iiii . worser . To the poor of two Towns in the West Country . xiii . l . vi . s . viii . worser . To the poor of the town of Pool where he was born , to be presently distributed in money : x.l. More , to built alms houses in the said town , CCCxxxiii . 1 . vi . s . viii . worser . With exebition for twelve poor people weekly forever . To relieve poor Prisoners such as may be set free for xx . Nobles a man , or under , so that no Papist nor Athist have any benefit thereof . CL . l . To relieve poor Preachers of the word of God , not exceeding to any one man , above ten pound . C.l. To ten poor decayed Artifficers that have charge of wife and Children ten pound a man . C.l. To the company of Merchant adventurers , for the relief of decayed people by him nominated during their lives , and after their decease , to the use of young men free of the said company . CCCC . l . To the Company of Leathersellers , to give exebition at the Unyversities , to foure Scholars students in De - vinitie forever VIZ . Two in Oxford and Two in Cambridge . CCCC . l . To Saint George Parish in Sowthwarke . xxx . l . To Saint Sepulchers Parish . xxx . l . To Saint Oliffes Parish in Sowthwarke . xxx . l . To Saint Gyles without Cripplegate . xxx . l . To Saint Leonards in Shorditch , xxx . l . To Saint Buttolphes without Allgate . xx . l . To Saint Buttolphes without Bishopsgate . xx . l . Amounting to 190.l . in all , to make stocks to buy seacoal or other fuel in summer at the best hand , for the use of the poor , and to continue for ever in that manner , leaving stocks in those several Parishes . To Christs Hospital ( of which he was a governor ) to purchase land to the relief of that house . CCCCC . l . To erect Alms houses within the City of London , and for exebition weekly for xii poor people to be pla - ced in them . CCCCCC . l . The whole sum given by Master Rogers last Will to charitable uses . 2960.l . 6 . s . 8.d . Imprinted at London for M. Allde , and are to be sold at her shop under Saint Mildreds Church in the Poultry . 