H : 18332 A short Discourse of men fatal end with and unfeigned , Commendation of the worthiness of Sir Nicholas Bacon , Knight , Lord Keeper of the great Seal of England : Who diseased the xx . day of February . 1578. All flesh is grass , and all the glory of man is as the flower of grass , the grass wythereth , and the flower falls away , but the word of the Lord endureth for ever . 1. Peter . 1 James . 1. Sira . 14. Christ is to us life , and death to us advantage . Philip . 1. SInce God hath fyxt our days and years , to live and eke to die , And takes his choice of us his sheep , what wight shall him deny ? But that he may without reiagge his creatures take and save , Yea heave them up , yea throw them down , from life unto the grave : Rejoice we then among the rout , which does this thing confess , And pray that God may have his will , he teaches us no less . And thank him to , for all his gifts , and seem not for to mourn , For that which he hath in himself , set down ere we were born . All times with him is not one hour , to age no subject is : All shall decay , yea heaven and earth , such power and glory is his , Born all to die , and die we must , all flesh shall yield to death , The promise made welcome the time , with faith let go this breath . As now of late a worthy man , by God from hence is called , Who does not die , but live for aye , and in the heavens is stalde : Whose life on earth so well was known , to those of thankful mind , That which he did that justice had , that few like him I find . A subject true , in Council grave , in sentence brief and sure , A mind bedect with equity , whose fame shall aye endure . To rich and poor indifferent , respecting justice cause , To mitigate extremities , he sought and had the laws : The patron of persuasions and enemy to all vice , He feared God , he loved his prince , which showed him very wise : No patch of popish mind in him was ever found , But favoured those and helped them to , which did the truth expound . Lo this I think of duty right , of him thus to report , To give that thanks which I do owe , to all such worthy sort : I not deny but greater Clerks , may pen and paint his praise , With lofty verse heroical , as was in Ovids days . But tell the troth , and flatter not , but speak as heart does think A rarer man not in our days , nor less at wrong would wink : Then would this worthy Bacon Knight , and Lord by Princes will , Whose bodye's dead , whose soul does live , and fame continues still : And shall at last rise up again , in shape and perfect bliss , To take reward with the elect , which God does count as his . Unto which hap God bring us all , when hence that we shall weened , For Gods good fear , and honest life , does bring a joyful end . Sira . 17. Ephe. 1. Rom. 8. Mat. 25. Joh. 5. Rom. 8. Sam. 12. Phil. 4. Math. 6. Sam. 12. Eccle. 7 Ephe. 1. 2. Pet. 3. Mat. 24 Jame . 1. Rom. 9. Cor. 15. Pro. 1. Rom. 13 Joh. 3. Colos. 3 Rom. 12 Mat. 25. Rom. 13 Deu. 28. 29.30 FINIS . L. Ramsey . Imprinted at London for Timothy Ryder . H : 18332 A short Discourse of men fatal end with and unfeigned , Commendation of the worthiness of Sir Nicholas Bacon , Knight , Lord Keeper of the great Seal of England : Who diseased the xx . day of February . 1578. All flesh is grass , and all the glory of man is as the flower of grass , the grass wythereth , and the flower falls away , but the word of the Lord endureth for ever . 1. Peter . 1 James . 1. Sira . 14. Christ is to us life , and death to us advantage . Philip . 1. SInce God hath fyxt our days and years , to live and eke to die , And takes his choice of us his sheep , what wight shall him deny ? But that he may without reiagge his creatures take and save , Yea heave them up , yea throw them down , from life unto the grave : Rejoice we then among the rout , which does this thing confess , And pray that God may have his will , he teaches us no less . And thank him to , for all his gifts , and seem not for to mourn , For that which he hath in himself , set down ere we were born . All times with him is not one hour , to age no subject is : All shall decay , yea heaven and earth , such power and glory is his , Born all to die , and die we must , all flesh shall yield to death , The promise made welcome the time , with faith let go this breath . As now of late a worthy man , by God from hence is called , Who does not die , but live for aye , and in the heavens is stalde : Whose life on earth so well was known , to those of thankful mind , That which he did that justice had , that few like him I find . A subject true , in Council grave , in sentence brief and sure , A mind bedect with equity , whose fame shall aye endure . To rich and poor indifferent , respecting justice cause , To mitigate extremities , he sought and had the laws : The patron of persuasions and enemy to all vice , He feared God , he loved his prince , which showed him very wise : No patch of popish mind in him was ever found , But favoured those and helped them to , which did the truth expound . Lo this I think of duty right , of him thus to report , To give that thanks which I do owe , to all such worthy sort : I not deny but greater Clerks , may pen and paint his praise , With lofty verse heroical , as was in Ovids days . But tell the troth , and flatter not , but speak as heart does think A rarer man not in our days , nor less at wrong would wink : Then would this worthy Bacon Knight , and Lord by Princes will , Whose bodye's dead , whose soul does live , and fame continues still : And shall at last rise up again , in shape and perfect bliss , To take reward with the elect , which God does count as his . Unto which hap God bring us all , when hence that we shall weened , For Gods good fear , and honest life , does bring a joyful end . Sira . 17. Ephe. 1. Rom. 8. Mat. 25. Joh. 5. Rom. 8. Sam. 12. Phil. 4. Math. 6. Sam. 12. Eccle. 7 Ephe. 1. 2. Pet. 3. Mat. 24 Jame . 1. Rom. 9. Cor. 15. Pro. 1. Rom. 13 Joh. 3. Colos. 3 Rom. 12 Mat. 25. Rom. 13 Deu. 28. 29.30 FINIS . L. Ramsey . Imprinted at London for Timothy Ryder . 