H : 289759 THE Covetous Old Mother ; Or , The terrible Overthrow of Two Loyal Lovers . You that these woeful Tidings hear , Can you forbear to shed a Tear , Surely your tender Hearts must bleed , When you these moving Lines do read . To the Tune of , Oh! so ungrateful Creature , etc THere was a wealthy young 'Squire , Who a fair Damsel did love ; Nay , and it was so entire , Nothing his Fancy could move : She was of ordinary Parents , Which when his Friends they did know , They strove to set them at Variance , Proving their sad Overthrow . Son , said his indulgent Mother , Pray now listen unto me , I have consider'd another , Suitable to your Degree : That you may rise to Promotion , She is both virtuous and fair , Two thousand Pounds to her Portion , Therefore your Folly forbear . Mother , those Charms do inflame me , Which in my Dear I behold ; Therefore I pray do not blame me , True Love is better than Gold : Might I have Wealth out of Measure , Nothing my Mind can remove , I'll never marry for Treasure , Give me the Creature I love . I can maintain like a Lady She whom I do adore , Have I not Riches already , What need I covet for more . If you give me not One Penny , I have a Hundred a Year , Now if I marry with any , It shall be Nancy my Dear . Son , if your Love be so routed , That from her you cannot part , By me it sha'n't be disputed , Take her then withal my Heart ; But she in this was deceitful , As by this Ditty you'll find , Never was Actium more hateful , Malice remain'd in her Mind . Straight she repair'd to this Creature , Vowing to send her away ; Yet with a Smile she did meet her , Saying , dear Daughter , this Day , We will go to buy your Attire , Every Thing I'll provide ; 'Tis my unfeigned Desire , That you shall be my Son's Bride . Thus was the Matter contrived , Just as his Mother would have ; Then to the Captain in private , She sold her to be a Slave . She from Old England did send her , Fill'd with much Sorrow and Woe , Their was no Soul to defend her , But was compelled to go . When her Invention was over , Then she return'd to her Son , Freely to him did discover , Presently what she had done . When he herd what she had acted , His Rapier straight he pull'd forth , Raving like one quite distracted , Crying , You've ruined us both . Then on the point of his Rapier , He did immediately fallen , His Life did go like a Vapour , This was the Ruin of all . His Mother more than uncivil , Was of a covetous Mind , Money's the Root of all Evil , Caus'd this Confusion we find . Now does his Mother with Weeping , Weary out many a Day , While her dear Son lies a Sleeping , Low in a cold Bed of Clay : This is a dismal Relation , She whom he much did adore , Now is sent far from the Nation , Where she'll never see him more . Newcastle : Printed and sold by JOHN WHITE . H : 289759 THE Covetous Old Mother ; Or , The terrible Overthrow of Two Loyal Lovers . You that these woeful Tidings hear , Can you forbear to shed a Tear , Surely your tender Hearts must bleed , When you these moving Lines do read . To the Tune of , Oh! so ungrateful Creature , etc THere was a wealthy young 'Squire , Who a fair Damsel did love ; Nay , and it was so entire , Nothing his Fancy could move : She was of ordinary Parents , Which when his Friends they did know , They strove to set them at Variance , Proving their sad Overthrow . Son , said his indulgent Mother , Pray now listen unto me , I have consider'd another , Suitable to your Degree : That you may rise to Promotion , She is both virtuous and fair , Two thousand Pounds to her Portion , Therefore your Folly forbear . Mother , those Charms do inflame me , Which in my Dear I behold ; Therefore I pray do not blame me , True Love is better than Gold : Might I have Wealth out of Measure , Nothing my Mind can remove , I'll never marry for Treasure , Give me the Creature I love . I can maintain like a Lady She whom I do adore , Have I not Riches already , What need I covet for more . If you give me not One Penny , I have a Hundred a Year , Now if I marry with any , It shall be Nancy my Dear . Son , if your Love be so routed , That from her you cannot part , By me it sha'n't be disputed , Take her then withal my Heart ; But she in this was deceitful , As by this Ditty you'll find , Never was Actium more hateful , Malice remain'd in her Mind . Straight she repair'd to this Creature , Vowing to send her away ; Yet with a Smile she did meet her , Saying , dear Daughter , this Day , We will go to buy your Attire , Every Thing I'll provide ; 'Tis my unfeigned Desire , That you shall be my Son's Bride . Thus was the Matter contrived , Just as his Mother would have ; Then to the Captain in private , She sold her to be a Slave . She from Old England did send her , Fill'd with much Sorrow and Woe , Their was no Soul to defend her , But was compelled to go . When her Invention was over , Then she return'd to her Son , Freely to him did discover , Presently what she had done . When he herd what she had acted , His Rapier straight he pull'd forth , Raving like one quite distracted , Crying , You've ruined us both . Then on the point of his Rapier , He did immediately fallen , His Life did go like a Vapour , This was the Ruin of all . His Mother more than uncivil , Was of a covetous Mind , Money's the Root of all Evil , Caus'd this Confusion we find . Now does his Mother with Weeping , Weary out many a Day , While her dear Son lies a Sleeping , Low in a cold Bed of Clay : This is a dismal Relation , She whom he much did adore , Now is sent far from the Nation , Where she'll never see him more . Newcastle : Printed and sold by JOHN WHITE . H : 289759 THE Covetous Old Mother ; Or , The terrible Overthrow of Two Loyal Lovers . You that these woeful Tidings hear , Can you forbear to shed a Tear , Surely your tender Hearts must bleed , When you these moving Lines do read . To the Tune of , Oh! so ungrateful Creature , etc THere was a wealthy young 'Squire , Who a fair Damsel did love ; Nay , and it was so entire , Nothing his Fancy could move : She was of ordinary Parents , Which when his Friends they did know , They strove to set them at Variance , Proving their sad Overthrow . Son , said his indulgent Mother , Pray now listen unto me , I have consider'd another , Suitable to your Degree : That you may rise to Promotion , She is both virtuous and fair , Two thousand Pounds to her Portion , Therefore your Folly forbear . Mother , those Charms do inflame me , Which in my Dear I behold ; Therefore I pray do not blame me , True Love is better than Gold : Might I have Wealth out of Measure , Nothing my Mind can remove , I'll never marry for Treasure , Give me the Creature I love . I can maintain like a Lady She whom I do adore , Have I not Riches already , What need I covet for more . If you give me not One Penny , I have a Hundred a Year , Now if I marry with any , It shall be Nancy my Dear . Son , if your Love be so routed , That from her you cannot part , By me it sha'n't be disputed , Take her then withal my Heart ; But she in this was deceitful , As by this Ditty you'll find , Never was Actium more hateful , Malice remain'd in her Mind . Straight she repair'd to this Creature , Vowing to send her away ; Yet with a Smile she did meet her , Saying , dear Daughter , this Day , We will go to buy your Attire , Every Thing I'll provide ; 'Tis my unfeigned Desire , That you shall be my Son's Bride . Thus was the Matter contrived , Just as his Mother would have ; Then to the Captain in private , She sold her to be a Slave . She from Old England did send her , Fill'd with much Sorrow and Woe , Their was no Soul to defend her , But was compelled to go . When her Invention was over , Then she return'd to her Son , Freely to him did discover , Presently what she had done . When he herd what she had acted , His Rapier straight he pull'd forth , Raving like one quite distracted , Crying , You've ruined us both . Then on the point of his Rapier , He did immediately fallen , His Life did go like a Vapour , This was the Ruin of all . His Mother more than uncivil , Was of a covetous Mind , Money's the Root of all Evil , Caus'd this Confusion we find . Now does his Mother with Weeping , Weary out many a Day , While her dear Son lies a Sleeping , Low in a cold Bed of Clay : This is a dismal Relation , She whom he much did adore , Now is sent far from the Nation , Where she'll never see him more . Newcastle : Printed and sold by JOHN WHITE . H : 289759 THE Covetous Old Mother ; Or , The terrible Overthrow of Two Loyal Lovers . You that these woeful Tidings hear , Can you forbear to shed a Tear , Surely your tender Hearts must bleed , When you these moving Lines do read . To the Tune of , Oh! so ungrateful Creature , etc THere was a wealthy young 'Squire , Who a fair Damsel did love ; Nay , and it was so entire , Nothing his Fancy could move : She was of ordinary Parents , Which when his Friends they did know , They strove to set them at Variance , Proving their sad Overthrow . Son , said his indulgent Mother , Pray now listen unto me , I have consider'd another , Suitable to your Degree : That you may rise to Promotion , She is both virtuous and fair , Two thousand Pounds to her Portion , Therefore your Folly forbear . Mother , those Charms do inflame me , Which in my Dear I behold ; Therefore I pray do not blame me , True Love is better than Gold : Might I have Wealth out of Measure , Nothing my Mind can remove , I'll never marry for Treasure , Give me the Creature I love . I can maintain like a Lady She whom I do adore , Have I not Riches already , What need I covet for more . If you give me not One Penny , I have a Hundred a Year , Now if I marry with any , It shall be Nancy my Dear . Son , if your Love be so routed , That from her you cannot part , By me it sha'n't be disputed , Take her then withal my Heart ; But she in this was deceitful , As by this Ditty you'll find , Never was Actium more hateful , Malice remain'd in her Mind . Straight she repair'd to this Creature , Vowing to send her away ; Yet with a Smile she did meet her , Saying , dear Daughter , this Day , We will go to buy your Attire , Every Thing I'll provide ; 'Tis my unfeigned Desire , That you shall be my Son's Bride . Thus was the Matter contrived , Just as his Mother would have ; Then to the Captain in private , She sold her to be a Slave . She from Old England did send her , Fill'd with much Sorrow and Woe , Their was no Soul to defend her , But was compelled to go . When her Invention was over , Then she return'd to her Son , Freely to him did discover , Presently what she had done . When he herd what she had acted , His Rapier straight he pull'd forth , Raving like one quite distracted , Crying , You've ruined us both . Then on the point of his Rapier , He did immediately fallen , His Life did go like a Vapour , This was the Ruin of all . His Mother more than uncivil , Was of a covetous Mind , Money's the Root of all Evil , Caus'd this Confusion we find . Now does his Mother with Weeping , Weary out many a Day , While her dear Son lies a Sleeping , Low in a cold Bed of Clay : This is a dismal Relation , She whom he much did adore , Now is sent far from the Nation , Where she'll never see him more . Newcastle : Printed and sold by JOHN WHITE . 