H : 289758 The Lady's Policy ; or , The Baffled KNIGHT . THere was a Knight god drunk with Wine , a riding along the way sir And there he met with a Lady fine , among the Cocks of hay sir . One Question he did crave of her , and ask'd her to lay her down sir , But he had neither Cloth nor sheet , to keep her from the Ground sir . There is a great due upon the Grass , and if you should lay me down sir , You wound spoil my gay Clothing that cost me many a pound sir . I have a Cloak of scarlet Read , I'll lay it under thee Love , And if you'll go to my Father's Hall , That is moated all round about sir There you shall have your will of me , within sir , and without sir . O yonder stands my milkwhite steed , and among fhe Cocks of Hay sir , If the King's Pinder should chance to come he'll take my steed away , I have a Ring upon my Finger , it's made of the finest Gold Love And it shall serve to fetch your steed , out of the Pinder's fold Love . And if you'll go to my Father's House that is moated all round about sir , There you shall have your Chamber free , and your Chamberlain I'll be sir . He set her on a milk white stead , himself upon another , And so they rid along the Way , Like Sister and like Brother . But when he came to her Father's House , which was moated all round about sir , She slipped herself within the Gate ; and Lock'd the Knight without sir . I thank you kind Knight , for seeing me here and bringing my maiden head home sir , But you shall have two of my Father's Men to set you as far back again sir . He drew his sword out of his scabbard , and wet it upon his sleeve sir , Saying a Curse be to every Man that will a maid believe sir . We have a tree in our Garden some call it a Rosemary , sir , There's crowing Cocks in our Town , We'll make a Capon of you , sir : We have a Flower in our Garden , some call it a Marygold , sir , And he that would not when he might , he shall not when he would , sir . But if you chance to meet a Maid , a little below the town , sir , You must not mind her gay Clothing , nor the rinkling of her gown , sir . And if you chance to meet a Maid , a little below the Hill , sir , You need not fear her squeaking out , For she quickly will lie still sir . Part II THE baffled Knight was by the Lass , ingeniously outwitted , And since that time it came to pass , he was again well fitted . As he was riding across the Plain , in Boots , Spurs , Hat and Feather , He met with that Lady fair again they talk'd awhile together . He said , tho' you did serve me so . and cunningly did decoy me , Yet now before you further go , I must and will enjoy you . 'Twas near a spacious River's side , where Rushes Green were growing , And Neptune's silver streams did glide , four Fathom water flowing . The Lady blushed like scarlet read , and trembling at this stranger , How shall I guide my maidenhead , from this approaching danger . With a lamenting sighs , said she , to die I vow I am ready : Must this dishonour fallen on me , a most unhappy Lady . He from his saddle did , alight In gaudy rich attire , And cried , I am a Noble Knight , who does your Charms admire . Hu took the Lady by the hand , who seemingly Consented , And would no more disputing stand , While she a Plot invented . How she might baffle him again , with much delight and pleasure , And eke unspotted still remain , with her pure Virgin Treasure . Look yonder , Sir , good Knight I pray , methinks I dow discover , Well mounted on a dapple Gray : my true entire Lover . The Knight than standing on the brink , of a deep flowing River Thought she thou now shall swim , or sink , choose which thou fancest rather . Against his back the Lady run , the Waters straight he sounded . He cry'd Love , what have you done , help , help , or I am drowned . Said she , farewell , sir Knight adieu , you see what comes of fooling That is the fittest Place for you , whose Courage wanted cooling . Love help me out , and I'll forgive the fault that you've committed , No , no , said she , sir , as I live , I think you are well fitted . She rid home to her Father's house , for speedy Expedition , While the Knight was soak'd like souse , in a sad wet Condition . When he came mounted to the Plain , he was in rich attire , Yet when he back returned again , he was all muck and mire . A solemn Vow he there did make , Just as he came from swimming , He'd love no Lady for her sake nor any other Woman . PART III . THE knight was fooled once more , you'll find by this pleasant ditty , For she whose Charms he did adore , was wondered sharp and witty . Returning from her Father's Park , just by a Summer Bower , She chanced to meet her angry spark , who gave her a frowning lour . The thoughts of what she twice had done , did cause him to draw his Rapier And at the Lady than be run , and thus he began to Vapour . You chous'd me at your Father's Gate , then tumbled me into the River I seek for Satisfaction straight , or I'll be a fool forever . He came with Resolution bent , that Evening to enjoy her And if she did not give Consent , that minute he'd destroy her . I pray sir knight , and why so hight , against a Young silly Woman , Such Crimes as these must be forgotten , for merry Intrigues are common . What do you count it mirth he cried , to tumble me in and Leave me , What if I drowned there had died , a dangerous Jest believe me . Well if I pardon you this day , these injuries out of measure , It is because without delay , I mean to enjoy the pleasure . Your suit she said is not denied , but think on your boots of Leather , And let me pull them off she cried , before we lie together . He sat him down upon the Grass , and Violets sweet and tender Now by this means it came to pass , she did his Purpose hinder . For having pull'd his boots halfway , she cried I am now your betters , You shall not make of me your Prey fit there like a thief in fetters . Now finding that she had served him so , he rose and began to grumble For he could neither stand nor go , but did like a Cripple tumble . The boots stuck fast and would not stir , his folly she soon did mention And laughing said , I pray , kind sir , how like you my new invention My Laughing , sir , you must excuse you are but a stingless Nettle You'd never have stood for boots nor shoes , had you been a Man of mettle . Farewell sir knight , it's almost dark , I fear neither Wind nor Weather I'll send my Father's Servant Man , to pull off your boots of Leather . She Laughed outright , as well she might with merry conceits of scorning , And left him there to fit all Night until the approaching Morning . PART iv . THE Fourth Part of the baffled knight the Lady has fairly acted , She did his Love and service slight which made him quite distracted . She left him in her Father's Park , where nothing but deer could hear him While he lay rolling in the dark , there's never a soul came near him . Until the Morning break of day , and being warm summer's Weather A Shepherd chanced to come that Way , who pulled on his boots of Leather . Then mounting on his milk white stead , he shaking his ears was ready And whip and spur he rid with speed , to find out this crafty Lady . If once this Lady I come night , she shall be releas'd by no Man , Why should so brave a knight as I , be fooled by a silly Woman Three times she has affronted me , in crimes which I cannot pardon , But if I an't revenged said he , Let me not be worth one Farthing . I valve not her beauty fair , Tho' once I did dote upon her This trusty sword shall now repair my baffled blasted honour . Unto her Father's house he went , which on every side was moated The fair , sweet youthful charming dame , his angry brows she noted . Thought she , I'll have the other bout , and tumble him into the River , And let the devil help him out or he shall lie for ever . He will not leave me at rest , although I have often foil'd him . Therefore once more I do protest With flattery I'll beguile him . The bridge was drawn , the gates lock'd fast , so that he could no way enter She smiled on him , and said at last , sir knight , if you please to venture . A Plank lies over the moat hard by , full seventeen foot in measure There's no body now at home but I , so that you may use your Pleasure . This Word she had no sooner spoke , but straight he was tripping over The Plank was sawn , and snapping broke , he proved and unhappy Lover . Durham : Printed and Sold by I. Lane . H : 289758 The Lady's Policy ; or , The Baffled KNIGHT . THere was a Knight god drunk with Wine , a riding along the way sir And there he met with a Lady fine , among the Cocks of hay sir . One Question he did crave of her , and ask'd her to lay her down sir , But he had neither Cloth nor sheet , to keep her from the Ground sir . There is a great due upon the Grass , and if you should lay me down sir , You wound spoil my gay Clothing that cost me many a pound sir . I have a Cloak of scarlet Read , I'll lay it under thee Love , And if you'll go to my Father's Hall , That is moated all round about sir There you shall have your will of me , within sir , and without sir . O yonder stands my milkwhite steed , and among fhe Cocks of Hay sir , If the King's Pinder should chance to come he'll take my steed away , I have a Ring upon my Finger , it's made of the finest Gold Love And it shall serve to fetch your steed , out of the Pinder's fold Love . And if you'll go to my Father's House that is moated all round about sir , There you shall have your Chamber free , and your Chamberlain I'll be sir . He set her on a milk white stead , himself upon another , And so they rid along the Way , Like Sister and like Brother . But when he came to her Father's House , which was moated all round about sir , She slipped herself within the Gate ; and Lock'd the Knight without sir . I thank you kind Knight , for seeing me here and bringing my maiden head home sir , But you shall have two of my Father's Men to set you as far back again sir . He drew his sword out of his scabbard , and wet it upon his sleeve sir , Saying a Curse be to every Man that will a maid believe sir . We have a tree in our Garden some call it a Rosemary , sir , There's crowing Cocks in our Town , We'll make a Capon of you , sir : We have a Flower in our Garden , some call it a Marygold , sir , And he that would not when he might , he shall not when he would , sir . But if you chance to meet a Maid , a little below the town , sir , You must not mind her gay Clothing , nor the rinkling of her gown , sir . And if you chance to meet a Maid , a little below the Hill , sir , You need not fear her squeaking out , For she quickly will lie still sir . Part II THE baffled Knight was by the Lass , ingeniously outwitted , And since that time it came to pass , he was again well fitted . As he was riding across the Plain , in Boots , Spurs , Hat and Feather , He met with that Lady fair again they talk'd awhile together . He said , tho' you did serve me so . and cunningly did decoy me , Yet now before you further go , I must and will enjoy you . 'Twas near a spacious River's side , where Rushes Green were growing , And Neptune's silver streams did glide , four Fathom water flowing . The Lady blushed like scarlet read , and trembling at this stranger , How shall I guide my maidenhead , from this approaching danger . With a lamenting sighs , said she , to die I vow I am ready : Must this dishonour fallen on me , a most unhappy Lady . He from his saddle did , alight In gaudy rich attire , And cried , I am a Noble Knight , who does your Charms admire . Hu took the Lady by the hand , who seemingly Consented , And would no more disputing stand , While she a Plot invented . How she might baffle him again , with much delight and pleasure , And eke unspotted still remain , with her pure Virgin Treasure . Look yonder , Sir , good Knight I pray , methinks I dow discover , Well mounted on a dapple Gray : my true entire Lover . The Knight than standing on the brink , of a deep flowing River Thought she thou now shall swim , or sink , choose which thou fancest rather . Against his back the Lady run , the Waters straight he sounded . He cry'd Love , what have you done , help , help , or I am drowned . Said she , farewell , sir Knight adieu , you see what comes of fooling That is the fittest Place for you , whose Courage wanted cooling . Love help me out , and I'll forgive the fault that you've committed , No , no , said she , sir , as I live , I think you are well fitted . She rid home to her Father's house , for speedy Expedition , While the Knight was soak'd like souse , in a sad wet Condition . When he came mounted to the Plain , he was in rich attire , Yet when he back returned again , he was all muck and mire . A solemn Vow he there did make , Just as he came from swimming , He'd love no Lady for her sake nor any other Woman . PART III . THE knight was fooled once more , you'll find by this pleasant ditty , For she whose Charms he did adore , was wondered sharp and witty . Returning from her Father's Park , just by a Summer Bower , She chanced to meet her angry spark , who gave her a frowning lour . The thoughts of what she twice had done , did cause him to draw his Rapier And at the Lady than be run , and thus he began to Vapour . You chous'd me at your Father's Gate , then tumbled me into the River I seek for Satisfaction straight , or I'll be a fool forever . He came with Resolution bent , that Evening to enjoy her And if she did not give Consent , that minute he'd destroy her . I pray sir knight , and why so hight , against a Young silly Woman , Such Crimes as these must be forgotten , for merry Intrigues are common . What do you count it mirth he cried , to tumble me in and Leave me , What if I drowned there had died , a dangerous Jest believe me . Well if I pardon you this day , these injuries out of measure , It is because without delay , I mean to enjoy the pleasure . Your suit she said is not denied , but think on your boots of Leather , And let me pull them off she cried , before we lie together . He sat him down upon the Grass , and Violets sweet and tender Now by this means it came to pass , she did his Purpose hinder . For having pull'd his boots halfway , she cried I am now your betters , You shall not make of me your Prey fit there like a thief in fetters . Now finding that she had served him so , he rose and began to grumble For he could neither stand nor go , but did like a Cripple tumble . The boots stuck fast and would not stir , his folly she soon did mention And laughing said , I pray , kind sir , how like you my new invention My Laughing , sir , you must excuse you are but a stingless Nettle You'd never have stood for boots nor shoes , had you been a Man of mettle . Farewell sir knight , it's almost dark , I fear neither Wind nor Weather I'll send my Father's Servant Man , to pull off your boots of Leather . She Laughed outright , as well she might with merry conceits of scorning , And left him there to fit all Night until the approaching Morning . PART iv . THE Fourth Part of the baffled knight the Lady has fairly acted , She did his Love and service slight which made him quite distracted . She left him in her Father's Park , where nothing but deer could hear him While he lay rolling in the dark , there's never a soul came near him . Until the Morning break of day , and being warm summer's Weather A Shepherd chanced to come that Way , who pulled on his boots of Leather . Then mounting on his milk white stead , he shaking his ears was ready And whip and spur he rid with speed , to find out this crafty Lady . If once this Lady I come night , she shall be releas'd by no Man , Why should so brave a knight as I , be fooled by a silly Woman Three times she has affronted me , in crimes which I cannot pardon , But if I an't revenged said he , Let me not be worth one Farthing . I valve not her beauty fair , Tho' once I did dote upon her This trusty sword shall now repair my baffled blasted honour . Unto her Father's house he went , which on every side was moated The fair , sweet youthful charming dame , his angry brows she noted . Thought she , I'll have the other bout , and tumble him into the River , And let the devil help him out or he shall lie for ever . He will not leave me at rest , although I have often foil'd him . Therefore once more I do protest With flattery I'll beguile him . The bridge was drawn , the gates lock'd fast , so that he could no way enter She smiled on him , and said at last , sir knight , if you please to venture . A Plank lies over the moat hard by , full seventeen foot in measure There's no body now at home but I , so that you may use your Pleasure . This Word she had no sooner spoke , but straight he was tripping over The Plank was sawn , and snapping broke , he proved and unhappy Lover . Durham : Printed and Sold by I. Lane . H : 289758 The Lady's Policy ; or , The Baffled KNIGHT . THere was a Knight god drunk with Wine , a riding along the way sir And there he met with a Lady fine , among the Cocks of hay sir . One Question he did crave of her , and ask'd her to lay her down sir , But he had neither Cloth nor sheet , to keep her from the Ground sir . There is a great due upon the Grass , and if you should lay me down sir , You wound spoil my gay Clothing that cost me many a pound sir . I have a Cloak of scarlet Read , I'll lay it under thee Love , And if you'll go to my Father's Hall , That is moated all round about sir There you shall have your will of me , within sir , and without sir . O yonder stands my milkwhite steed , and among fhe Cocks of Hay sir , If the King's Pinder should chance to come he'll take my steed away , I have a Ring upon my Finger , it's made of the finest Gold Love And it shall serve to fetch your steed , out of the Pinder's fold Love . And if you'll go to my Father's House that is moated all round about sir , There you shall have your Chamber free , and your Chamberlain I'll be sir . He set her on a milk white stead , himself upon another , And so they rid along the Way , Like Sister and like Brother . But when he came to her Father's House , which was moated all round about sir , She slipped herself within the Gate ; and Lock'd the Knight without sir . I thank you kind Knight , for seeing me here and bringing my maiden head home sir , But you shall have two of my Father's Men to set you as far back again sir . He drew his sword out of his scabbard , and wet it upon his sleeve sir , Saying a Curse be to every Man that will a maid believe sir . We have a tree in our Garden some call it a Rosemary , sir , There's crowing Cocks in our Town , We'll make a Capon of you , sir : We have a Flower in our Garden , some call it a Marygold , sir , And he that would not when he might , he shall not when he would , sir . But if you chance to meet a Maid , a little below the town , sir , You must not mind her gay Clothing , nor the rinkling of her gown , sir . And if you chance to meet a Maid , a little below the Hill , sir , You need not fear her squeaking out , For she quickly will lie still sir . Part II THE baffled Knight was by the Lass , ingeniously outwitted , And since that time it came to pass , he was again well fitted . As he was riding across the Plain , in Boots , Spurs , Hat and Feather , He met with that Lady fair again they talk'd awhile together . He said , tho' you did serve me so . and cunningly did decoy me , Yet now before you further go , I must and will enjoy you . 'Twas near a spacious River's side , where Rushes Green were growing , And Neptune's silver streams did glide , four Fathom water flowing . The Lady blushed like scarlet read , and trembling at this stranger , How shall I guide my maidenhead , from this approaching danger . With a lamenting sighs , said she , to die I vow I am ready : Must this dishonour fallen on me , a most unhappy Lady . He from his saddle did , alight In gaudy rich attire , And cried , I am a Noble Knight , who does your Charms admire . Hu took the Lady by the hand , who seemingly Consented , And would no more disputing stand , While she a Plot invented . How she might baffle him again , with much delight and pleasure , And eke unspotted still remain , with her pure Virgin Treasure . Look yonder , Sir , good Knight I pray , methinks I dow discover , Well mounted on a dapple Gray : my true entire Lover . The Knight than standing on the brink , of a deep flowing River Thought she thou now shall swim , or sink , choose which thou fancest rather . Against his back the Lady run , the Waters straight he sounded . He cry'd Love , what have you done , help , help , or I am drowned . Said she , farewell , sir Knight adieu , you see what comes of fooling That is the fittest Place for you , whose Courage wanted cooling . Love help me out , and I'll forgive the fault that you've committed , No , no , said she , sir , as I live , I think you are well fitted . She rid home to her Father's house , for speedy Expedition , While the Knight was soak'd like souse , in a sad wet Condition . When he came mounted to the Plain , he was in rich attire , Yet when he back returned again , he was all muck and mire . A solemn Vow he there did make , Just as he came from swimming , He'd love no Lady for her sake nor any other Woman . PART III . THE knight was fooled once more , you'll find by this pleasant ditty , For she whose Charms he did adore , was wondered sharp and witty . Returning from her Father's Park , just by a Summer Bower , She chanced to meet her angry spark , who gave her a frowning lour . The thoughts of what she twice had done , did cause him to draw his Rapier And at the Lady than be run , and thus he began to Vapour . You chous'd me at your Father's Gate , then tumbled me into the River I seek for Satisfaction straight , or I'll be a fool forever . He came with Resolution bent , that Evening to enjoy her And if she did not give Consent , that minute he'd destroy her . I pray sir knight , and why so hight , against a Young silly Woman , Such Crimes as these must be forgotten , for merry Intrigues are common . What do you count it mirth he cried , to tumble me in and Leave me , What if I drowned there had died , a dangerous Jest believe me . Well if I pardon you this day , these injuries out of measure , It is because without delay , I mean to enjoy the pleasure . Your suit she said is not denied , but think on your boots of Leather , And let me pull them off she cried , before we lie together . He sat him down upon the Grass , and Violets sweet and tender Now by this means it came to pass , she did his Purpose hinder . For having pull'd his boots halfway , she cried I am now your betters , You shall not make of me your Prey fit there like a thief in fetters . Now finding that she had served him so , he rose and began to grumble For he could neither stand nor go , but did like a Cripple tumble . The boots stuck fast and would not stir , his folly she soon did mention And laughing said , I pray , kind sir , how like you my new invention My Laughing , sir , you must excuse you are but a stingless Nettle You'd never have stood for boots nor shoes , had you been a Man of mettle . Farewell sir knight , it's almost dark , I fear neither Wind nor Weather I'll send my Father's Servant Man , to pull off your boots of Leather . She Laughed outright , as well she might with merry conceits of scorning , And left him there to fit all Night until the approaching Morning . PART iv . THE Fourth Part of the baffled knight the Lady has fairly acted , She did his Love and service slight which made him quite distracted . She left him in her Father's Park , where nothing but deer could hear him While he lay rolling in the dark , there's never a soul came near him . Until the Morning break of day , and being warm summer's Weather A Shepherd chanced to come that Way , who pulled on his boots of Leather . Then mounting on his milk white stead , he shaking his ears was ready And whip and spur he rid with speed , to find out this crafty Lady . If once this Lady I come night , she shall be releas'd by no Man , Why should so brave a knight as I , be fooled by a silly Woman Three times she has affronted me , in crimes which I cannot pardon , But if I an't revenged said he , Let me not be worth one Farthing . I valve not her beauty fair , Tho' once I did dote upon her This trusty sword shall now repair my baffled blasted honour . Unto her Father's house he went , which on every side was moated The fair , sweet youthful charming dame , his angry brows she noted . Thought she , I'll have the other bout , and tumble him into the River , And let the devil help him out or he shall lie for ever . He will not leave me at rest , although I have often foil'd him . Therefore once more I do protest With flattery I'll beguile him . The bridge was drawn , the gates lock'd fast , so that he could no way enter She smiled on him , and said at last , sir knight , if you please to venture . A Plank lies over the moat hard by , full seventeen foot in measure There's no body now at home but I , so that you may use your Pleasure . This Word she had no sooner spoke , but straight he was tripping over The Plank was sawn , and snapping broke , he proved and unhappy Lover . Durham : Printed and Sold by I. Lane . H : 289758 The Lady's Policy ; or , The Baffled KNIGHT . THere was a Knight god drunk with Wine , a riding along the way sir And there he met with a Lady fine , among the Cocks of hay sir . One Question he did crave of her , and ask'd her to lay her down sir , But he had neither Cloth nor sheet , to keep her from the Ground sir . There is a great due upon the Grass , and if you should lay me down sir , You wound spoil my gay Clothing that cost me many a pound sir . I have a Cloak of scarlet Read , I'll lay it under thee Love , And if you'll go to my Father's Hall , That is moated all round about sir There you shall have your will of me , within sir , and without sir . O yonder stands my milkwhite steed , and among fhe Cocks of Hay sir , If the King's Pinder should chance to come he'll take my steed away , I have a Ring upon my Finger , it's made of the finest Gold Love And it shall serve to fetch your steed , out of the Pinder's fold Love . And if you'll go to my Father's House that is moated all round about sir , There you shall have your Chamber free , and your Chamberlain I'll be sir . He set her on a milk white stead , himself upon another , And so they rid along the Way , Like Sister and like Brother . But when he came to her Father's House , which was moated all round about sir , She slipped herself within the Gate ; and Lock'd the Knight without sir . I thank you kind Knight , for seeing me here and bringing my maiden head home sir , But you shall have two of my Father's Men to set you as far back again sir . He drew his sword out of his scabbard , and wet it upon his sleeve sir , Saying a Curse be to every Man that will a maid believe sir . We have a tree in our Garden some call it a Rosemary , sir , There's crowing Cocks in our Town , We'll make a Capon of you , sir : We have a Flower in our Garden , some call it a Marygold , sir , And he that would not when he might , he shall not when he would , sir . But if you chance to meet a Maid , a little below the town , sir , You must not mind her gay Clothing , nor the rinkling of her gown , sir . And if you chance to meet a Maid , a little below the Hill , sir , You need not fear her squeaking out , For she quickly will lie still sir . Part II THE baffled Knight was by the Lass , ingeniously outwitted , And since that time it came to pass , he was again well fitted . As he was riding across the Plain , in Boots , Spurs , Hat and Feather , He met with that Lady fair again they talk'd awhile together . He said , tho' you did serve me so . and cunningly did decoy me , Yet now before you further go , I must and will enjoy you . 'Twas near a spacious River's side , where Rushes Green were growing , And Neptune's silver streams did glide , four Fathom water flowing . The Lady blushed like scarlet read , and trembling at this stranger , How shall I guide my maidenhead , from this approaching danger . With a lamenting sighs , said she , to die I vow I am ready : Must this dishonour fallen on me , a most unhappy Lady . He from his saddle did , alight In gaudy rich attire , And cried , I am a Noble Knight , who does your Charms admire . Hu took the Lady by the hand , who seemingly Consented , And would no more disputing stand , While she a Plot invented . How she might baffle him again , with much delight and pleasure , And eke unspotted still remain , with her pure Virgin Treasure . Look yonder , Sir , good Knight I pray , methinks I dow discover , Well mounted on a dapple Gray : my true entire Lover . The Knight than standing on the brink , of a deep flowing River Thought she thou now shall swim , or sink , choose which thou fancest rather . Against his back the Lady run , the Waters straight he sounded . He cry'd Love , what have you done , help , help , or I am drowned . Said she , farewell , sir Knight adieu , you see what comes of fooling That is the fittest Place for you , whose Courage wanted cooling . Love help me out , and I'll forgive the fault that you've committed , No , no , said she , sir , as I live , I think you are well fitted . She rid home to her Father's house , for speedy Expedition , While the Knight was soak'd like souse , in a sad wet Condition . When he came mounted to the Plain , he was in rich attire , Yet when he back returned again , he was all muck and mire . A solemn Vow he there did make , Just as he came from swimming , He'd love no Lady for her sake nor any other Woman . PART III . THE knight was fooled once more , you'll find by this pleasant ditty , For she whose Charms he did adore , was wondered sharp and witty . Returning from her Father's Park , just by a Summer Bower , She chanced to meet her angry spark , who gave her a frowning lour . The thoughts of what she twice had done , did cause him to draw his Rapier And at the Lady than be run , and thus he began to Vapour . You chous'd me at your Father's Gate , then tumbled me into the River I seek for Satisfaction straight , or I'll be a fool forever . He came with Resolution bent , that Evening to enjoy her And if she did not give Consent , that minute he'd destroy her . I pray sir knight , and why so hight , against a Young silly Woman , Such Crimes as these must be forgotten , for merry Intrigues are common . What do you count it mirth he cried , to tumble me in and Leave me , What if I drowned there had died , a dangerous Jest believe me . Well if I pardon you this day , these injuries out of measure , It is because without delay , I mean to enjoy the pleasure . Your suit she said is not denied , but think on your boots of Leather , And let me pull them off she cried , before we lie together . He sat him down upon the Grass , and Violets sweet and tender Now by this means it came to pass , she did his Purpose hinder . For having pull'd his boots halfway , she cried I am now your betters , You shall not make of me your Prey fit there like a thief in fetters . Now finding that she had served him so , he rose and began to grumble For he could neither stand nor go , but did like a Cripple tumble . The boots stuck fast and would not stir , his folly she soon did mention And laughing said , I pray , kind sir , how like you my new invention My Laughing , sir , you must excuse you are but a stingless Nettle You'd never have stood for boots nor shoes , had you been a Man of mettle . Farewell sir knight , it's almost dark , I fear neither Wind nor Weather I'll send my Father's Servant Man , to pull off your boots of Leather . She Laughed outright , as well she might with merry conceits of scorning , And left him there to fit all Night until the approaching Morning . PART iv . THE Fourth Part of the baffled knight the Lady has fairly acted , She did his Love and service slight which made him quite distracted . She left him in her Father's Park , where nothing but deer could hear him While he lay rolling in the dark , there's never a soul came near him . Until the Morning break of day , and being warm summer's Weather A Shepherd chanced to come that Way , who pulled on his boots of Leather . Then mounting on his milk white stead , he shaking his ears was ready And whip and spur he rid with speed , to find out this crafty Lady . If once this Lady I come night , she shall be releas'd by no Man , Why should so brave a knight as I , be fooled by a silly Woman Three times she has affronted me , in crimes which I cannot pardon , But if I an't revenged said he , Let me not be worth one Farthing . I valve not her beauty fair , Tho' once I did dote upon her This trusty sword shall now repair my baffled blasted honour . Unto her Father's house he went , which on every side was moated The fair , sweet youthful charming dame , his angry brows she noted . Thought she , I'll have the other bout , and tumble him into the River , And let the devil help him out or he shall lie for ever . He will not leave me at rest , although I have often foil'd him . Therefore once more I do protest With flattery I'll beguile him . The bridge was drawn , the gates lock'd fast , so that he could no way enter She smiled on him , and said at last , sir knight , if you please to venture . A Plank lies over the moat hard by , full seventeen foot in measure There's no body now at home but I , so that you may use your Pleasure . This Word she had no sooner spoke , but straight he was tripping over The Plank was sawn , and snapping broke , he proved and unhappy Lover . Durham : Printed and Sold by I. Lane . 