H : 289765 The Cruel Cooper of Ratcliff . In Three PARTS . PART I . NEAR Ratcliff Cross lived a cooper there , Who had a virtuous wife comely and fair , He by this prudent woman had a son , Beside this youth they children ne'er had none . Tho' wise and prudent , yet this cruel man Did oftimes beatrice her with a cruel hand , As he did one day with grief of heart , The youth with tea , s did take his mother's part , Cries he . Father , I'm afraid you will With kicks and cuffs my tender mother kill . Hearing these words he then his son did beatrice , And that night turn'd him into the street . Saying , if thou comest here any more , I'll break thy bones , he then locked the door , In the wide street this lad did lay all night , And in the morning came when it was light . But when this man looked and saw his son , In a vast passion he to him did run , And with and adz knock'd him on the Crown , Which laid the youth along upon the ground . Being thus serv'd , in tears he did lament , Then up he god , and out of doors he went , Saying , if I should any longer stay , He in his wrath will take my life away . And to prevent what dangers may ensue , Father and mother he bids both adieu , And having knowledge of his father's trade , Went oooper's mate to Turkey it is said , He liked the country so well we do find , The ship came back and left the lad behind ; He placed himself with a native to dwell , Whose family loved him very well , Though young in years he was grown very tall , And of a comely Countenance withal , The native damsels did him much admire , And to enjoy him some had vast desire , His master kept him for his serving man , And in short time by death's destroying hand , His master happened to trip away , Who being dead , the young man boar the sway . His mistress lov'd him as she did her life , And in short time was made his lawful wife , She was prodigious rich we undersland , And he had many slaves at his command . Now will I leave him for a little while , With Providence on him and her to smile , And in the next part some enquiry make , What sort of life his cruel sire does take . PART II Near Ratcliff-cross he lived years 'tis known , And to his wife he was a cruel one , And in process of time death did them part , And 'tis supposed this man broke her heart . After her death he could not thrive at all , Day after day he down at heels did fallen , And by degrees this man was brought so low , For Debt himself he was afraid to show . The Bailiffs waited for him day and night , He knowing of the same kept out of sighed , And to prevent his going unto a Goal , In a merchantman he unto sea did sail . Thus he for debt was forc'd to fly from home , And on the raging seas where billows foam , To their great grief , this man and twenty more Were carried prisoners to the Turkish shore . It happened so as we do understand , They were made slaves unto his son's command , Full half a year in slavery they had been , In all which time his son he had not seen . This cooper he was aged sixty two , Who was the oldest of the whole ship's crew , Being stiff with age , his tbsk could not perform , By which he suffer'd many a heavy storm . The Taskmaster to him was sharp indeed , He often whipped him till he made him bleed , Upon a time he lash'd him so one day , He could no longer stand , but down did lay . Being laid down the task master did go , And gave the head master this to know , Crying , sir , your slave and aged man , Will not perform his task do all I can . He tells me plainly that his work is done , When hearing this , the head master his son , Went out among the slaves , where he found His aged father lying on the ground . Not knowing him with great severity He lash'd his father very grievously , Which made him cry , Sir o my flesh is soar , Do hold thy hand , and strike me no more . The task is hard your servant puts on me , What I can do , to that I am most free , To suffer thus I am not able to live , Kill me outright and I will you forgive . Hearing these words his son did him view , And said , tell me what Countryman are you ? His answer was , I came from Old England , I was a Cooper , sir , from fair London . My name is Robert Stark , 'tis know right well , I was a man in great repute did dwell , But as it prov'd Fortune did frown on me , Now 'tis my Lot your suffering slave to be . Have you no family ? he answer'd no ; I buried a wife seven years ago , And I had a son a hopeful child was he , Three years before her death he went from me , I have not herd from him now all this while , I was both cruel to my wife and child , And I do really think now from my heart , 'Tis for my cruelty I thus do smart . Now hearing this , his son with grief was fill'd , And tears like water that was finely still'd , Run down his cheeks amain , tear after tear , To think that he had lash'd his father dear . Then he aside his taskmaster did call , And said , do not abuse this man at all , He is my Father , but don't let him know I am his Son. Then he home did go . PART III . And to his closet he in private went , Where he with bitter cries did soar lament , At length by chance his wife did him hear , Who said , what makes you to grieve my dear ? His answer was , to grieve great cause I have , For my own Father is become my slave . Not knowing him , I lash'd htm o'er and o'er , To think of this grieveth me very soar . To think the curse of God should light on me , But what I did it was innocently . O wife , what shall I do , my heart does bleed , Do let my father come to me with speed . They sent for him , and when he came there They of his tender flesh did take great care , His bleeding wounds anointed were with oil , And the poor man stood trembling all the while . This being done , choice linen fine and soft , And other costly things to him were brought . And in these when he Garments was array'd , He then with tears lift up his eyes , and said , Lord what am I mere than another slave , That I such favour of my master have , Blessed be his name that thus my friend dotn stand , To pity me thus in a foreign land . Hearing these words , his son could not detain His tears from falling , and to drop amain , He said , the man who for you thus hath done , Behold he is your dear and only son . I'm griev'd to think that I prov'd so severe , To lay hands upon my father dear , But God I hope will pardon me , because I did not know that you my father was . Hearing these words , like one struck in amaze , He winh a blush thon on his son did gaze , Saying , are you my son ? alas , alas ! By this we see what God can bring to pass . My son , my son , I'm glad thy face to see , But what astonishment is here for me , That I who beatrice my child quite out of door , Should thus be forc'd his favour to implore , Father , the Lord he did these things foresee , That you should come your child's slave to be , And God was pleas'd these things to do by you , To show what he can bring proud mortals to . The Lord has plac'd me here to live and reign . To be a friend to ease thee of thy pain , I'll succour thee till death , and for thy sake , I of my native slaves great care will take . He cherish'd him oftimes , but on a day His wife was pleased then these words to say , Husband , because he cruel was to you , I ne'er shall love your father that is true . I do not care that he should here remain , From whence he came let him return again , And unto him we will some riches give , Enough tn cherish him while he does live . For quietness sake he made her this reply . But turn'd him round and wept most bitterly , To think that he must with his father part , Grief like a spear struck him unto the heart . Then in short time his father left the shore , And in a Merchant ship he did come o'er , Again to England , and did bring to town , As much in Riches as five thousand pounds . He owed and hundred pounds , which he paid , When being out of debt , these words he said , First my dear God I give thanks to thee , Next for my Child my prayers shall be . For had it been another , I deserv'd , In slavery till death I must have serv'd , And ne'er had met one in that distant place , Thus to commiserate my wretched case . Now to conclude , young men let these Lines , Be well engraven in your hearts and minds , That is , to serve the Lord and shun the devil , And like rhis young man still do good for evil . Sold at No. 42 , Long-Lane . H : 289765 The Cruel Cooper of Ratcliff . In Three PARTS . PART I . NEAR Ratcliff Cross lived a cooper there , Who had a virtuous wife comely and fair , He by this prudent woman had a son , Beside this youth they children ne'er had none . Tho' wise and prudent , yet this cruel man Did oftimes beatrice her with a cruel hand , As he did one day with grief of heart , The youth with tea , s did take his mother's part , Cries he . Father , I'm afraid you will With kicks and cuffs my tender mother kill . Hearing these words he then his son did beatrice , And that night turn'd him into the street . Saying , if thou comest here any more , I'll break thy bones , he then locked the door , In the wide street this lad did lay all night , And in the morning came when it was light . But when this man looked and saw his son , In a vast passion he to him did run , And with and adz knock'd him on the Crown , Which laid the youth along upon the ground . Being thus serv'd , in tears he did lament , Then up he god , and out of doors he went , Saying , if I should any longer stay , He in his wrath will take my life away . And to prevent what dangers may ensue , Father and mother he bids both adieu , And having knowledge of his father's trade , Went oooper's mate to Turkey it is said , He liked the country so well we do find , The ship came back and left the lad behind ; He placed himself with a native to dwell , Whose family loved him very well , Though young in years he was grown very tall , And of a comely Countenance withal , The native damsels did him much admire , And to enjoy him some had vast desire , His master kept him for his serving man , And in short time by death's destroying hand , His master happened to trip away , Who being dead , the young man boar the sway . His mistress lov'd him as she did her life , And in short time was made his lawful wife , She was prodigious rich we undersland , And he had many slaves at his command . Now will I leave him for a little while , With Providence on him and her to smile , And in the next part some enquiry make , What sort of life his cruel sire does take . PART II Near Ratcliff-cross he lived years 'tis known , And to his wife he was a cruel one , And in process of time death did them part , And 'tis supposed this man broke her heart . After her death he could not thrive at all , Day after day he down at heels did fallen , And by degrees this man was brought so low , For Debt himself he was afraid to show . The Bailiffs waited for him day and night , He knowing of the same kept out of sighed , And to prevent his going unto a Goal , In a merchantman he unto sea did sail . Thus he for debt was forc'd to fly from home , And on the raging seas where billows foam , To their great grief , this man and twenty more Were carried prisoners to the Turkish shore . It happened so as we do understand , They were made slaves unto his son's command , Full half a year in slavery they had been , In all which time his son he had not seen . This cooper he was aged sixty two , Who was the oldest of the whole ship's crew , Being stiff with age , his tbsk could not perform , By which he suffer'd many a heavy storm . The Taskmaster to him was sharp indeed , He often whipped him till he made him bleed , Upon a time he lash'd him so one day , He could no longer stand , but down did lay . Being laid down the task master did go , And gave the head master this to know , Crying , sir , your slave and aged man , Will not perform his task do all I can . He tells me plainly that his work is done , When hearing this , the head master his son , Went out among the slaves , where he found His aged father lying on the ground . Not knowing him with great severity He lash'd his father very grievously , Which made him cry , Sir o my flesh is soar , Do hold thy hand , and strike me no more . The task is hard your servant puts on me , What I can do , to that I am most free , To suffer thus I am not able to live , Kill me outright and I will you forgive . Hearing these words his son did him view , And said , tell me what Countryman are you ? His answer was , I came from Old England , I was a Cooper , sir , from fair London . My name is Robert Stark , 'tis know right well , I was a man in great repute did dwell , But as it prov'd Fortune did frown on me , Now 'tis my Lot your suffering slave to be . Have you no family ? he answer'd no ; I buried a wife seven years ago , And I had a son a hopeful child was he , Three years before her death he went from me , I have not herd from him now all this while , I was both cruel to my wife and child , And I do really think now from my heart , 'Tis for my cruelty I thus do smart . Now hearing this , his son with grief was fill'd , And tears like water that was finely still'd , Run down his cheeks amain , tear after tear , To think that he had lash'd his father dear . Then he aside his taskmaster did call , And said , do not abuse this man at all , He is my Father , but don't let him know I am his Son. Then he home did go . PART III . And to his closet he in private went , Where he with bitter cries did soar lament , At length by chance his wife did him hear , Who said , what makes you to grieve my dear ? His answer was , to grieve great cause I have , For my own Father is become my slave . Not knowing him , I lash'd htm o'er and o'er , To think of this grieveth me very soar . To think the curse of God should light on me , But what I did it was innocently . O wife , what shall I do , my heart does bleed , Do let my father come to me with speed . They sent for him , and when he came there They of his tender flesh did take great care , His bleeding wounds anointed were with oil , And the poor man stood trembling all the while . This being done , choice linen fine and soft , And other costly things to him were brought . And in these when he Garments was array'd , He then with tears lift up his eyes , and said , Lord what am I mere than another slave , That I such favour of my master have , Blessed be his name that thus my friend dotn stand , To pity me thus in a foreign land . Hearing these words , his son could not detain His tears from falling , and to drop amain , He said , the man who for you thus hath done , Behold he is your dear and only son . I'm griev'd to think that I prov'd so severe , To lay hands upon my father dear , But God I hope will pardon me , because I did not know that you my father was . Hearing these words , like one struck in amaze , He winh a blush thon on his son did gaze , Saying , are you my son ? alas , alas ! By this we see what God can bring to pass . My son , my son , I'm glad thy face to see , But what astonishment is here for me , That I who beatrice my child quite out of door , Should thus be forc'd his favour to implore , Father , the Lord he did these things foresee , That you should come your child's slave to be , And God was pleas'd these things to do by you , To show what he can bring proud mortals to . The Lord has plac'd me here to live and reign . To be a friend to ease thee of thy pain , I'll succour thee till death , and for thy sake , I of my native slaves great care will take . He cherish'd him oftimes , but on a day His wife was pleased then these words to say , Husband , because he cruel was to you , I ne'er shall love your father that is true . I do not care that he should here remain , From whence he came let him return again , And unto him we will some riches give , Enough tn cherish him while he does live . For quietness sake he made her this reply . But turn'd him round and wept most bitterly , To think that he must with his father part , Grief like a spear struck him unto the heart . Then in short time his father left the shore , And in a Merchant ship he did come o'er , Again to England , and did bring to town , As much in Riches as five thousand pounds . He owed and hundred pounds , which he paid , When being out of debt , these words he said , First my dear God I give thanks to thee , Next for my Child my prayers shall be . For had it been another , I deserv'd , In slavery till death I must have serv'd , And ne'er had met one in that distant place , Thus to commiserate my wretched case . Now to conclude , young men let these Lines , Be well engraven in your hearts and minds , That is , to serve the Lord and shun the devil , And like rhis young man still do good for evil . Sold at No. 42 , Long-Lane . 