H : 289771 The two Unfortunate LOVERS . Being a true RELATION of The lamentable End of John True and Susan Massy . Their Lives this Ditty does relate , Tho' they dy'd Unfortunate . To the Tune of , The Bride's Burial . ATTEND , you Lovers , and give Ear , Unto my mournful Song , Of two that loved faithfully , Yet did each other Wrong : At Coventry in Warwickshire , This young Man he did dwell , His Name John True , a Shoemaker , Who liv'd in it full well . At Corley did this Maiden dwell , Three Miles from Coventry , Yet for the Love he boar to her , He would her often see . And coming to her on a Day , He told to her his Mind ; Susan , quoth he , I love thee dear , Be not to me unkind . If thou canst love and fancy me , In Heart and eke in Mind ; Susan , quoth he , I love thee dear , Be not to me unkind : Thy cheerful Looks rejoice my Heart , And merry make my Mind , Sweet Susan , then love me again , Be not to me unkind . Good John , I thank you for your Love , And wish you home to tarry . I am too young for you to wed , And have no Mind to marry : Where you do dwell are Maidens store , Of Beauty fair and free , Set not thy Love upon me then For I cannot love thee . This Answer struck him to the Heart , As cold as any Stone , Then homeward straight he did return , With many a Sighs and Groan , Wishing that he ne'er had been born , Or in his Cradle dy'd ; Unhappy Man to love so true , And yet to be deny'd . Quoth he , I will to her again , And hear what she does say ; It may be she will be more kind , Tho' first she said me nay , Then coming to the Town again , He sent for her straightway , Desiring her to speak to him , But still she said him nay , Then did he sighs , lament , and grieve , And knew not what to say ; Then did he take bis Pen in Hand , And wrote these Words straightway , 'My Heart's Delight and only Joy , 'Kill me not with Disdain , 'Vouchsafe that I may speak with thee , 'To rid me of my Pain . 'Resolve me , Sweetest , I thee pray , 'Why is thy Hatred such ; 'I know no Cause , unless it be , 'For loving thee too much : 'As is my Name , so is my Love , 'Sweet Susan , unto thee ; 'True is my Name , true is my Love , 'And evermore shall be . 'My Love is loyal , just , and good , 'Kill me not with Disdain , 'Rather do me the Courtesy , 'To love for Love again . ' When she had read , and understood , His Mind and his Intent , She then began to like and love , And yield him Heart's Content . John , I am thine , if thou be'st mine , For ever and for aye , It was to try thy Constancy , That I did say thee nay : But here's my Hand , my Heart , and Love , I'll ne'er thee more deny , My Love is constant , firm , and true , And shall be till I die . Then they embrac'd each other's Love , And join'd in Heart and Voice , Than [ tO ] she of [ h ] im , and he of her , Had made so sweet a Choice : But Fortune that does often frown , Where she before did smile , The Man's Delight , the Maiden's Joy , Full soon she did beguile . When she was settled in her Love , Then he would change his Mind , And for to try her Constancy , Would be to her unkind : And thus resolved in his Mind , He [ ' ] worser come to her no more , But went and woo'd another Maid , Which griev'd her Heart full soar . Quoth he , she proved unto me Inconstant and unkind , But now her true Love I have wone , I'll bear the selfsame Mind . When she perceiv'd his Love to her , Not as it wont to be , She did lament , sighs , weep , and Grief , And then these Words said she . False hearted Wretch , adieu , quoth she , Disloyal and unkind , And if I die for Love of thee , Thou shalt not know my Mind , Woe to the Time I did believe , That flattering Tongue of thine ; Oh that I ne'er had seen the Tears That from those false Eyes came . Hard Fate had I that set my Love On one that mocked me , Scarce all the Country could yield , A Man so false as he , Thus she was brought to a mean State , All Comfort from her fled , She did desire to speak with him Before that she was dead . Her Friends did seek to cheer her up , And to make glad her Mind , But she was kill'd with loving him , Who prov'd to her unkind . Falsehearted Man , may never Maid Love thee as I have done , But may my Death remember'd be , The Time that is to come . But may all Maids example take By this my mournful Death ; And now , my Guide , receive my Sou To thee I yield my Breath . Thus dy'd the Pattern of true Love , Thus dy'd a harmless Maid , Thus died as good a harmless Lass , As ever Love betray'd . Six Maids in White , as Custom is , Did bear her to the Grave ; Her Parents weep , lament , and mourn , No Child at all they have . When as her Lover understood For Truth that she was dead , He rag'd , and ready was to tear The Hair from off his Head. But when he came unto the Place , Where his true Lover lay , He straightway ran into the Grave , And then these Words did say : Susan , quoth he , I'll kiss thy Grave , Upon my bent Knee , Whereby I'll show to all the World , How dear I loved thee . And as he lay upon the Ground , He herd a Voice to say , John True , if e'er thou lov'd me dear , Make Haste and come away . Then straight he rose up from the Grave , And stood like one struck dumb , And when he had regain'd his Speech , He said , I come , I come . And thus like one out of his Wits , He rag'd in piteous Sort , That all the Neighbours presently , Were griev'd at the Repor And thus with Sorrow , Grief of Heart , He lay a whole Fortnight ; And when he had confess'd his Fault , He yielded up his Spirit . According to his Heart's Desire , And as he did request , They digg'd his Grave , and laid him down By her whom he lov'd best . the young Men all , that have true Love , Be true unto your Friend : And if you love , be sure your Love Be true unto the End. Newcastle , Printed in this present Year . H : 289771 The two Unfortunate LOVERS . Being a true RELATION of The lamentable End of John True and Susan Massy . Their Lives this Ditty does relate , Tho' they dy'd Unfortunate . To the Tune of , The Bride's Burial . ATTEND , you Lovers , and give Ear , Unto my mournful Song , Of two that loved faithfully , Yet did each other Wrong : At Coventry in Warwickshire , This young Man he did dwell , His Name John True , a Shoemaker , Who liv'd in it full well . At Corley did this Maiden dwell , Three Miles from Coventry , Yet for the Love he boar to her , He would her often see . And coming to her on a Day , He told to her his Mind ; Susan , quoth he , I love thee dear , Be not to me unkind . If thou canst love and fancy me , In Heart and eke in Mind ; Susan , quoth he , I love thee dear , Be not to me unkind : Thy cheerful Looks rejoice my Heart , And merry make my Mind , Sweet Susan , then love me again , Be not to me unkind . Good John , I thank you for your Love , And wish you home to tarry . I am too young for you to wed , And have no Mind to marry : Where you do dwell are Maidens store , Of Beauty fair and free , Set not thy Love upon me then For I cannot love thee . This Answer struck him to the Heart , As cold as any Stone , Then homeward straight he did return , With many a Sighs and Groan , Wishing that he ne'er had been born , Or in his Cradle dy'd ; Unhappy Man to love so true , And yet to be deny'd . Quoth he , I will to her again , And hear what she does say ; It may be she will be more kind , Tho' first she said me nay , Then coming to the Town again , He sent for her straightway , Desiring her to speak to him , But still she said him nay , Then did he sighs , lament , and grieve , And knew not what to say ; Then did he take bis Pen in Hand , And wrote these Words straightway , 'My Heart's Delight and only Joy , 'Kill me not with Disdain , 'Vouchsafe that I may speak with thee , 'To rid me of my Pain . 'Resolve me , Sweetest , I thee pray , 'Why is thy Hatred such ; 'I know no Cause , unless it be , 'For loving thee too much : 'As is my Name , so is my Love , 'Sweet Susan , unto thee ; 'True is my Name , true is my Love , 'And evermore shall be . 'My Love is loyal , just , and good , 'Kill me not with Disdain , 'Rather do me the Courtesy , 'To love for Love again . ' When she had read , and understood , His Mind and his Intent , She then began to like and love , And yield him Heart's Content . John , I am thine , if thou be'st mine , For ever and for aye , It was to try thy Constancy , That I did say thee nay : But here's my Hand , my Heart , and Love , I'll ne'er thee more deny , My Love is constant , firm , and true , And shall be till I die . Then they embrac'd each other's Love , And join'd in Heart and Voice , Than [ tO ] she of [ h ] im , and he of her , Had made so sweet a Choice : But Fortune that does often frown , Where she before did smile , The Man's Delight , the Maiden's Joy , Full soon she did beguile . When she was settled in her Love , Then he would change his Mind , And for to try her Constancy , Would be to her unkind : And thus resolved in his Mind , He [ ' ] worser come to her no more , But went and woo'd another Maid , Which griev'd her Heart full soar . Quoth he , she proved unto me Inconstant and unkind , But now her true Love I have wone , I'll bear the selfsame Mind . When she perceiv'd his Love to her , Not as it wont to be , She did lament , sighs , weep , and Grief , And then these Words said she . False hearted Wretch , adieu , quoth she , Disloyal and unkind , And if I die for Love of thee , Thou shalt not know my Mind , Woe to the Time I did believe , That flattering Tongue of thine ; Oh that I ne'er had seen the Tears That from those false Eyes came . Hard Fate had I that set my Love On one that mocked me , Scarce all the Country could yield , A Man so false as he , Thus she was brought to a mean State , All Comfort from her fled , She did desire to speak with him Before that she was dead . Her Friends did seek to cheer her up , And to make glad her Mind , But she was kill'd with loving him , Who prov'd to her unkind . Falsehearted Man , may never Maid Love thee as I have done , But may my Death remember'd be , The Time that is to come . But may all Maids example take By this my mournful Death ; And now , my Guide , receive my Sou To thee I yield my Breath . Thus dy'd the Pattern of true Love , Thus dy'd a harmless Maid , Thus died as good a harmless Lass , As ever Love betray'd . Six Maids in White , as Custom is , Did bear her to the Grave ; Her Parents weep , lament , and mourn , No Child at all they have . When as her Lover understood For Truth that she was dead , He rag'd , and ready was to tear The Hair from off his Head. But when he came unto the Place , Where his true Lover lay , He straightway ran into the Grave , And then these Words did say : Susan , quoth he , I'll kiss thy Grave , Upon my bent Knee , Whereby I'll show to all the World , How dear I loved thee . And as he lay upon the Ground , He herd a Voice to say , John True , if e'er thou lov'd me dear , Make Haste and come away . Then straight he rose up from the Grave , And stood like one struck dumb , And when he had regain'd his Speech , He said , I come , I come . And thus like one out of his Wits , He rag'd in piteous Sort , That all the Neighbours presently , Were griev'd at the Repor And thus with Sorrow , Grief of Heart , He lay a whole Fortnight ; And when he had confess'd his Fault , He yielded up his Spirit . According to his Heart's Desire , And as he did request , They digg'd his Grave , and laid him down By her whom he lov'd best . the young Men all , that have true Love , Be true unto your Friend : And if you love , be sure your Love Be true unto the End. Newcastle , Printed in this present Year . 