H : 289776 THE BRIDE's BURIAL . To the Tune of The Lady's Fallen , etc COME mourn come mourn come mourn with me , You loyal Lovers all ; Lament my Loss in Weeds of Woe whom gripping Death does thrall : Like to the dropping Vine , Cut by the Gard'ner's Knife ; Ev'n so my Heart with sorrow slave , Does bleed for my sweet Wife . By Death , that grisly Ghost , My Turtledove is slave : And I am left unhappy Man ! To spend my Days in vain . Her Beauty laid so bright , Like Roses in their Prime , Is waisted like the Mountains Snow , By Force to Phoebus Shrine . Her fair and rosy Cheeks , How pale and won her Eyes , That late did shine like Crystal Stars , Alas ! their Light now die ; Her pretty Lily Hands With Fingers long and small , In Colou [ r like ] the earthly Clay , Yea , cold and stiff withal . When the Morning Star Her golden Gates had spread , And that the glist'ning Sun arose Forth from fair Thetis Bed ; Then did my Love awake , Most like a Lily Flower , Fair as Diana's Nymphs , So look'd my lovely Bride : And as fair Hellen's Face , And as the lovely Queen of Heav'n , So shone she in her Brower , Attired was she then , Like Flora in her Pride , Gave Grecian Dams the Lurch ; So did my Dear , exceed in Sighed , All Virgins in the Church . When we had knit the Knot Of holy Wedlock's Band , Like Alabaster join'd to Jet , So stood we Hand in Hand : Then lo ! a chilling Cold Struck ev'ry vital Part , And gripping Grief , like Pangs of Death , Seiz'd on my true Love's Heart . Down in a Swoon she fell , As cold as any Stone , Like Venus' Picture wanting Life , So was my Love brought Home : At length a rosy Read , Throughout her comely Face , As Phebus Beams , with wat'ry Clouds , O'er covered for a Space . Then with a grievous Groan , And Voice both hoarse and dry ; Farewell quoth she , my loving Friend , For I this Day must die : The Messenger of Death , With golden Trump I see , With many other Angels more , Which found and call for me . Instead of Music sweet , Go toll my Passing bell ; And with sweet Flowers strew my Grave , That in my Chamber smell : Strip off my Bride's Array , My Cork Shoes from my Feet , And gentle Mother be not slow To bring my winding-sheet . My Wedding Dinner dress'd , Bestow upon the Poor And to the Hungry , Blind , and Maim'd , That craves at the Door : Instead of Virgins young , My Bride Bed for to see , Go cause some curious Carpenter , To make a Chest for me . My Bride Laces of Silk , Bestow on Maidens meet ; May fitly serve when I am dead , To tie my Hands and Fee And thou my Lover true , My Husband and my Friend , Let me entreat thee here to stay , Until my Life does end . Now leave to talk of Love , And humbly on your Knee , Direct your Prayers unto God , And mourn no more for me . In Love as we have liv'd , In Love let us depart ; And in Token of my Love , Kiss thee with all my Heart . Oh! stop these bootless Tears , Thy weeping is in vain ; I am not lost , for we in Heaven , Shall one Day meet again : With that she turn'd aside , As one dispos'd to sleep , Like to a Lamb departed Life , All Friends did sorely weep . Her true Love seeing this , Did fetch a grievous Groan , As though his Heart would burst in two , And thus he made his Moan : 'Oh ! dismal mournful Day , 'A Day of Grief and Care , 'That hath bereft the Sun so high , 'Whose beams refresh the Air . 'Now We unto the World , 'And all that therein dwell : 'Oh ! that I were with her in Heaven 'For here I live in Hell ; And now this Lover lives A discontented Life , Whose Bride was brought unto the Grave , A Maiden and a wife . A Garland fresh and fair Of Lilies there were made , In Sign of her Virginity , And on her Coffin laid : Six Maidens all in white , Did bear her to the Ground ; The Bell did ring in solemn Sort , And made a doleful found . In Earth they laid her then , For hungry Worms a prey ; So will the fairest Face alive , At length be brought to Clay . Thus do you see by this , How frail is Life , and Grace ; Which bids us all prepare , For that bless'd happy Place . Newcastle upon Tyne , Printed in this present YearH : 289776 THE BRIDE's BURIAL . To the Tune of The Lady's Fallen , etc COME mourn come mourn come mourn with me , You loyal Lovers all ; Lament my Loss in Weeds of Woe whom gripping Death does thrall : Like to the dropping Vine , Cut by the Gard'ner's Knife ; Ev'n so my Heart with sorrow slave , Does bleed for my sweet Wife . By Death , that grisly Ghost , My Turtledove is slave : And I am left unhappy Man ! To spend my Days in vain . Her Beauty laid so bright , Like Roses in their Prime , Is waisted like the Mountains Snow , By Force to Phoebus Shrine . Her fair and rosy Cheeks , How pale and won her Eyes , That late did shine like Crystal Stars , Alas ! their Light now die ; Her pretty Lily Hands With Fingers long and small , In Colou [ r like ] the earthly Clay , Yea , cold and stiff withal . When the Morning Star Her golden Gates had spread , And that the glist'ning Sun arose Forth from fair Thetis Bed ; Then did my Love awake , Most like a Lily Flower , Fair as Diana's Nymphs , So look'd my lovely Bride : And as fair Hellen's Face , And as the lovely Queen of Heav'n , So shone she in her Brower , Attired was she then , Like Flora in her Pride , Gave Grecian Dams the Lurch ; So did my Dear , exceed in Sighed , All Virgins in the Church . When we had knit the Knot Of holy Wedlock's Band , Like Alabaster join'd to Jet , So stood we Hand in Hand : Then lo ! a chilling Cold Struck ev'ry vital Part , And gripping Grief , like Pangs of Death , Seiz'd on my true Love's Heart . Down in a Swoon she fell , As cold as any Stone , Like Venus' Picture wanting Life , So was my Love brought Home : At length a rosy Read , Throughout her comely Face , As Phebus Beams , with wat'ry Clouds , O'er covered for a Space . Then with a grievous Groan , And Voice both hoarse and dry ; Farewell quoth she , my loving Friend , For I this Day must die : The Messenger of Death , With golden Trump I see , With many other Angels more , Which found and call for me . Instead of Music sweet , Go toll my Passing bell ; And with sweet Flowers strew my Grave , That in my Chamber smell : Strip off my Bride's Array , My Cork Shoes from my Feet , And gentle Mother be not slow To bring my winding-sheet . My Wedding Dinner dress'd , Bestow upon the Poor And to the Hungry , Blind , and Maim'd , That craves at the Door : Instead of Virgins young , My Bride Bed for to see , Go cause some curious Carpenter , To make a Chest for me . My Bride Laces of Silk , Bestow on Maidens meet ; May fitly serve when I am dead , To tie my Hands and Fee And thou my Lover true , My Husband and my Friend , Let me entreat thee here to stay , Until my Life does end . Now leave to talk of Love , And humbly on your Knee , Direct your Prayers unto God , And mourn no more for me . In Love as we have liv'd , In Love let us depart ; And in Token of my Love , Kiss thee with all my Heart . Oh! stop these bootless Tears , Thy weeping is in vain ; I am not lost , for we in Heaven , Shall one Day meet again : With that she turn'd aside , As one dispos'd to sleep , Like to a Lamb departed Life , All Friends did sorely weep . Her true Love seeing this , Did fetch a grievous Groan , As though his Heart would burst in two , And thus he made his Moan : 'Oh ! dismal mournful Day , 'A Day of Grief and Care , 'That hath bereft the Sun so high , 'Whose beams refresh the Air . 'Now We unto the World , 'And all that therein dwell : 'Oh ! that I were with her in Heaven 'For here I live in Hell ; And now this Lover lives A discontented Life , Whose Bride was brought unto the Grave , A Maiden and a wife . A Garland fresh and fair Of Lilies there were made , In Sign of her Virginity , And on her Coffin laid : Six Maidens all in white , Did bear her to the Ground ; The Bell did ring in solemn Sort , And made a doleful found . In Earth they laid her then , For hungry Worms a prey ; So will the fairest Face alive , At length be brought to Clay . Thus do you see by this , How frail is Life , and Grace ; Which bids us all prepare , For that bless'd happy Place . Newcastle upon Tyne , Printed in this present Year 