H : 289777 The Ballad of the CLOAK : Or , The Cloak's Knavery . Tune of , Packington's Pound . COME buy my new Ballet , I hav't in my Wallet , But 'twill not , I fear , please every Pallet ; Then mark what insu'th , I swear by my Youth , That every Line in my Ballad is Truth , A Ballad of Wit , a brave Ballad of Worth , 'Tis newly printed and newly come forth : 'Twas made of a Cloak that fell out with a Gown , That cramp'd all the Kingdom , and crippl'd the Crown . I'll tell you in Brief , A Story of Grief , Which happen'd when Cloak was Commander in Chief : It tore Common-Prayers ; Imprison'd Lord Mayors . In one Day it voted down Prelates and Players : It made People in Point of Obedience , A Covenant did cut off the Oath of Allegiance . Then let us endeavour to pull the Cloak down , That cramp'd all the Kingdom and crippl'd the Crown . It was a black Cloak , In good Time be it spoke , That kill'd many Thousands , but never struck Stroke : With Hatchet and Rope , The Forlorn-hope , Did join with the Devil to pull down the Pope ; It set all the Sects in the City to work , And rather than fail , 'twould have brought in the Turk . Then let us , etc It seiz'd on the Tower-Guns , Those fierce Demi-gorons ; It brought in the Bagpipes , and pull'd down the Organs ; The Pulpits did smoke , The Churches did choke , And all our Religion was turn'd to a Cloak : It brought in Lay-elders could not write or read , It set public Faith up , and pull'd down the Creed . Then let us , etc This pious Imposter , Such Fury did foster , It left us no Penny , nor no Pater Noster ; It threw to the Ground Ten Commandments down , And set up twice twenty Times ten of it's own : It routed the King ; and Villains elected To plunder all those whom they thought disaffected . Then let us , etc To blind Peoples Eyes This Cloak was so wise , It took off Ship Money , but set up Excise ; Men brought in their Plate , For Reasons of State , And gave it to Trumpeter and his Mate ; In Phamphlets it writes many specious Epistles , To cozen poor Wenches of Bodkins and Whistles . Then let us , etc In Pulpits it moved , And was much approved , For crying out ------ Fight the Battle of the Lord , Belov'd ! It bobtail'd the Gown , Put Prelacy down , It trodden on the Mitre to reach at the Crown ; And into the Field it and Army did bring , To aim at the Council , but shot at the King . Then let us , etc It raised up States , Whose politic Pates , Do now keep their Quarters , on the City-Gates : To Father and Mother , To Sister and Brother , It gave a Commission to kill one another : It took up Men's Horses at very low Rates , And plunder'd our Goods to secure our Estates . Then let us , etc This Cloak did proceed , To a damnable Deed , It made the best Mirror of Majesty bleed : Tho' a Cloak did not do't , He set it on Foot , By rallying and calling his Journey-Men to' For never had come such a bloody Disaster , If Cloak had not first drawn a Sword at his Master . Then let us , etc Let's pray that the King And his Parliament , In sacred and secular Things may consen So religiously firm , And religiously free , That Papists and Atheists suppressed may be : And as there's one Deity does rule over us , One Faith , and one From , and one Church may contain us , Then Peace , Truth and Plenty , our Kingdom shall crown , And all Popish Plots , and there Plotters shall down . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed by JOHN WHITE . H : 289777 The Ballad of the CLOAK : Or , The Cloak's Knavery . Tune of , Packington's Pound . COME buy my new Ballet , I hav't in my Wallet , But 'twill not , I fear , please every Pallet ; Then mark what insu'th , I swear by my Youth , That every Line in my Ballad is Truth , A Ballad of Wit , a brave Ballad of Worth , 'Tis newly printed and newly come forth : 'Twas made of a Cloak that fell out with a Gown , That cramp'd all the Kingdom , and crippl'd the Crown . I'll tell you in Brief , A Story of Grief , Which happen'd when Cloak was Commander in Chief : It tore Common-Prayers ; Imprison'd Lord Mayors . In one Day it voted down Prelates and Players : It made People in Point of Obedience , A Covenant did cut off the Oath of Allegiance . Then let us endeavour to pull the Cloak down , That cramp'd all the Kingdom and crippl'd the Crown . It was a black Cloak , In good Time be it spoke , That kill'd many Thousands , but never struck Stroke : With Hatchet and Rope , The Forlorn-hope , Did join with the Devil to pull down the Pope ; It set all the Sects in the City to work , And rather than fail , 'twould have brought in the Turk . Then let us , etc It seiz'd on the Tower-Guns , Those fierce Demi-gorons ; It brought in the Bagpipes , and pull'd down the Organs ; The Pulpits did smoke , The Churches did choke , And all our Religion was turn'd to a Cloak : It brought in Lay-elders could not write or read , It set public Faith up , and pull'd down the Creed . Then let us , etc This pious Imposter , Such Fury did foster , It left us no Penny , nor no Pater Noster ; It threw to the Ground Ten Commandments down , And set up twice twenty Times ten of it's own : It routed the King ; and Villains elected To plunder all those whom they thought disaffected . Then let us , etc To blind Peoples Eyes This Cloak was so wise , It took off Ship Money , but set up Excise ; Men brought in their Plate , For Reasons of State , And gave it to Trumpeter and his Mate ; In Phamphlets it writes many specious Epistles , To cozen poor Wenches of Bodkins and Whistles . Then let us , etc In Pulpits it moved , And was much approved , For crying out ------ Fight the Battle of the Lord , Belov'd ! It bobtail'd the Gown , Put Prelacy down , It trodden on the Mitre to reach at the Crown ; And into the Field it and Army did bring , To aim at the Council , but shot at the King . Then let us , etc It raised up States , Whose politic Pates , Do now keep their Quarters , on the City-Gates : To Father and Mother , To Sister and Brother , It gave a Commission to kill one another : It took up Men's Horses at very low Rates , And plunder'd our Goods to secure our Estates . Then let us , etc This Cloak did proceed , To a damnable Deed , It made the best Mirror of Majesty bleed : Tho' a Cloak did not do't , He set it on Foot , By rallying and calling his Journey-Men to' For never had come such a bloody Disaster , If Cloak had not first drawn a Sword at his Master . Then let us , etc Let's pray that the King And his Parliament , In sacred and secular Things may consen So religiously firm , And religiously free , That Papists and Atheists suppressed may be : And as there's one Deity does rule over us , One Faith , and one From , and one Church may contain us , Then Peace , Truth and Plenty , our Kingdom shall crown , And all Popish Plots , and there Plotters shall down . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed by JOHN WHITE . 