H : 289780 ENGLAND's New Bellman ; Ringing into all People's Ears GOD's dreadful Judgement on this Land and Kingdom . Tune of , Oh Man in Desperation , etc , Be thou Faithful unto Death , and I will give thee a Crown of Life Rev. ii.10 . AWAKE ! awake ! O England , Sweet England now awake , And to thy Prayers speedily , Do thou thyself betake : The Lord thy God is coming , Within the Sky so clear , Repent therefore , Oh England , The Day it draws near . The dreadful Day of Vengeance , Is shortly now at Hand , When fearful burning Fire , shall waste both Sea and Land ; And all Men's Hearts shall fail them , To see such Things appear , Repent therefore , etc The wordly wise and prudent , Shall fallen beside their Wits , And wish the Hills would fallen on them , In these their frantic Fits , No Succour , Help , nor Comfort . For them shall then appear , Repent therefore , etc The Seas and Rivers running , Shall roar in griev'ous wise : The Beasts in Pastures feeding , Shall strain forth griev'ous Cries : The Skies shall flame with Fire , The Earth shall burn so clear , Repent therefore , Oh England The Day it draws near . The glorious holy Angels , Shall then their Trumpets found , The Dead shall hear their Voices ; As they lie in the Ground ; Then all the Graves shall open , And dead Men shall appear , Repent therefore , Oh England , The Day it draws near . The Devil will be ready then Each Creature to accuse , And show how in their Lifetime , They did themselves abuse : And every Man's own Conscience For Witness shall appear , Repent therefore , etc The Works of every Creature , Their Thoughts , and Deeds , I say , Shall follow them together , In that most dreadful Day : And no Respect of Persons , Shall in that Day appear , Repent therefore , etc But such as have done justly , Shall wear the Crown of Life ; The Wicked shall be damned To Sorrow , Pain , and Grief ; In boiling Pans of Brimstone , With doleful hellish Cheer , Repent therefore , etc But Woe unto that Woman ; Which then with Child shall go ; And to the silly Nurse's , Which do give suck also : When as the Day of Judgement Griev'ous shall appear , Repent therefore , etc And pray with Tears most constant , Unto the Lord of Might , That in the frozen Winter , You do not take your Fligh Nor yet upon the Sabbeth , That Peril do appear , Repent Therefore . etc Let all good Christian People , Repent therefore in Time , And from their Hearts lementing , Each former griev'ous Crime : Prepare themselves with Gladness , To watch when Christ will come , The Trump shall found on sudden , And no Man knows how soon , Repent therefore , For all Things are fulfilled , Which Christ before had told , Small Fa [ i ] th is now remaining , And Charity's grown cold ; Great Signs and Wonders we have seen , Within the Earth and Sky , Repent therefore , etc Why dost thou put thy Confidence , In strong and stately Towers ? Why takes thou such Pleasure , In building sumptuous Bowers ? Rejoicing in thy Pastures And Park of fallow Dear , Repent therefore , etc Why seekest thou deceitfully To purchase Treasure great ? Or why dost thou through Usury The Bred of poor Men eat ? Why does thy Life and Living , So filthily appear ? Repent therefore , etc Wherefore let all good People , Upon their Knees proceed , In making earnest Prayer , For never was more Need That God may spare the Punishment Even for his Mercies mere , And give us Grace to bear in Mind The Judgement that is near . H : 289780 ENGLAND's New Bellman ; Ringing into all People's Ears GOD's dreadful Judgement on this Land and Kingdom . Tune of , Oh Man in Desperation , etc , Be thou Faithful unto Death , and I will give thee a Crown of Life Rev. ii.10 . AWAKE ! awake ! O England , Sweet England now awake , And to thy Prayers speedily , Do thou thyself betake : The Lord thy God is coming , Within the Sky so clear , Repent therefore , Oh England , The Day it draws near . The dreadful Day of Vengeance , Is shortly now at Hand , When fearful burning Fire , shall waste both Sea and Land ; And all Men's Hearts shall fail them , To see such Things appear , Repent therefore , etc The wordly wise and prudent , Shall fallen beside their Wits , And wish the Hills would fallen on them , In these their frantic Fits , No Succour , Help , nor Comfort . For them shall then appear , Repent therefore , etc The Seas and Rivers running , Shall roar in griev'ous wise : The Beasts in Pastures feeding , Shall strain forth griev'ous Cries : The Skies shall flame with Fire , The Earth shall burn so clear , Repent therefore , Oh England The Day it draws near . The glorious holy Angels , Shall then their Trumpets found , The Dead shall hear their Voices ; As they lie in the Ground ; Then all the Graves shall open , And dead Men shall appear , Repent therefore , Oh England , The Day it draws near . The Devil will be ready then Each Creature to accuse , And show how in their Lifetime , They did themselves abuse : And every Man's own Conscience For Witness shall appear , Repent therefore , etc The Works of every Creature , Their Thoughts , and Deeds , I say , Shall follow them together , In that most dreadful Day : And no Respect of Persons , Shall in that Day appear , Repent therefore , etc But such as have done justly , Shall wear the Crown of Life ; The Wicked shall be damned To Sorrow , Pain , and Grief ; In boiling Pans of Brimstone , With doleful hellish Cheer , Repent therefore , etc But Woe unto that Woman ; Which then with Child shall go ; And to the silly Nurse's , Which do give suck also : When as the Day of Judgement Griev'ous shall appear , Repent therefore , etc And pray with Tears most constant , Unto the Lord of Might , That in the frozen Winter , You do not take your Fligh Nor yet upon the Sabbeth , That Peril do appear , Repent Therefore . etc Let all good Christian People , Repent therefore in Time , And from their Hearts lementing , Each former griev'ous Crime : Prepare themselves with Gladness , To watch when Christ will come , The Trump shall found on sudden , And no Man knows how soon , Repent therefore , For all Things are fulfilled , Which Christ before had told , Small Fa [ i ] th is now remaining , And Charity's grown cold ; Great Signs and Wonders we have seen , Within the Earth and Sky , Repent therefore , etc Why dost thou put thy Confidence , In strong and stately Towers ? Why takes thou such Pleasure , In building sumptuous Bowers ? Rejoicing in thy Pastures And Park of fallow Dear , Repent therefore , etc Why seekest thou deceitfully To purchase Treasure great ? Or why dost thou through Usury The Bred of poor Men eat ? Why does thy Life and Living , So filthily appear ? Repent therefore , etc Wherefore let all good People , Upon their Knees proceed , In making earnest Prayer , For never was more Need That God may spare the Punishment Even for his Mercies mere , And give us Grace to bear in Mind The Judgement that is near . 