H : 18338 The Confession and declaration of Robert sharp Clerk , and other of that sect , termed the Family of Love , at Pawles Cross in London the . xii of June . An. 1575. WHereas I Robert Sharp , have heretofore unadvisedly , conceived good opinion of certain books of and author , otherwise unknown , save only , that he notes him - self by the Letters H. N. And was induced thereunto , partly by the strange titles that he gyveth to him self , terming himself , amongst other names , A Prophet raised up from the dead : Specially by God appointed , and stirred up , according to the promises for this time which he calls the last day of grace . Affirming that he hath received his message from the mouth of God himself . And partly being also moved by the novelty of the Doctrine , and great promises made , as though men might thereby attain to be Deified , or made as God : Now upon conference with the Godly learned , ( whereof some are in authority ) being admonished of thee are - rogancie of the said author , in usurping the said tyttles , and of his blasphemous sacrilege , in taking unto him other greater titles , as , That he is the illuminate with the true light of the perfect being : Anointed with gods divine being : One whom God hath hominified himself withal , and who is codeified with God himself : ( For with such monstruous and unused terms , he cloaketh his blasphemies , as though he were made one with God , and God one with him ) Segregating unto him self a private Conventicle of simple deceived men , ( whom he names the Family or Comunaltie of Love ) and detesting all wise and learned men , whom he termeth Scrip - ture learned . And also I being advertised by the said Godly learned , of a great number of detestable Errors contained in the books of the said H.N. And specially in those twoo wicked Books . Whereof the one he names The Evangely or Gospel of the Kingdom : As though he had brought a new Gospel into the world , ) which Saint Pawle forbiddeth , and holds accursed , though it were brought by and Angel from heaven . ) And the other Book he calls , The Declaration of the Mass . In the which twoo Books , and other like wicked Books , of the said author , not only the usurped authority of the Bishop of Rome , and his Cardinals , and the Sacrifice of the Mass , with many other like wicked errors , but also diverse damned heresies of the Arrianes , Pelagians , and Anabaptists , are maintained : To the overthrow , of the true doctrine of our justifi - tation , and faith in Jesus Christ , and of all true Religion . Therefore understanding now my gross errors , I do here before God and you utterly detest , and from my heart abhor , as well the said Author , with all his arrogant , and blasphemous titles , as the instru - meant of Sathan , by him stirred up , to seduce and beguile the simple people : As also all his Damnable errors and Heresies whatsoever . And do confess here before God and you , that I am heartily sorry that ever I dealt with any such Books , or resorted to any secret Conferences , assemblies , or Conventicles , with those that are nam The Family or Comunaltie of Love : And that thereby I have given so great offence unto the Church of God : for the which I most humbly and heartily ask forgiveness both of God and you . And do promise faith - fully never to meddle , with these , or any other such Books , or with that sect hereafter : But utterly do re - nounce and forsake the same , and all other Errors and Heresies whatsoever contrary to the Common , Ni - cene , and Athanasius Creeds , or to the holy Scriptures contained in the Books of the old and new Testa - meant . And do also forsake whatsoever is repugnant to the Doctrine now taught and pupliquely set forth in the Church of England , which Doctrine I acknowledge and confess , to be the true and Catholic Doctrine , agreeable to the Canonical Scriptures , and that the same of all Christians , ought to be professed , without re - specked of any danger to the body , whither it be by death or otherways . In which profession , that I may con - stantly remain to my lives end , I do most heartily beseech you , to commend me in your prayers , to the great goodness and mercy of Almighty God . Robert Sharp . THe same confession and declaration which Robert Sharp hath presently made be - before you I.A.B. Do unfeignedly and willingly make , I detest all the errors and heresies be - before by him detested . I do faithfully promise here before God & you whatsoever he hath promised . And with like petition most humbly and heartily beseech God and you to forgive me . And I do heartily de - sire you to pray unto the Lord for me , that he in his great mercy will pardon me , and so guide me by his holy spirit that detesting all errors , I may ever hereafter embrace the truth of God , and con - stantly continue in the same , to the end of my life . And this I crave at his merciful hands for Jesus Christ his sake mine only Redeemer and Saviour . John Allen . Jhon Lydy . John Sharp . William Burwell . Imprinted by William Seres . H : 18338 The Confession and declaration of Robert sharp Clerk , and other of that sect , termed the Family of Love , at Pawles Cross in London the . xii of June . An. 1575. WHereas I Robert Sharp , have heretofore unadvisedly , conceived good opinion of certain books of and author , otherwise unknown , save only , that he notes him - self by the Letters H. N. And was induced thereunto , partly by the strange titles that he gyveth to him self , terming himself , amongst other names , A Prophet raised up from the dead : Specially by God appointed , and stirred up , according to the promises for this time which he calls the last day of grace . Affirming that he hath received his message from the mouth of God himself . And partly being also moved by the novelty of the Doctrine , and great promises made , as though men might thereby attain to be Deified , or made as God : Now upon conference with the Godly learned , ( whereof some are in authority ) being admonished of thee are - rogancie of the said author , in usurping the said tyttles , and of his blasphemous sacrilege , in taking unto him other greater titles , as , That he is the illuminate with the true light of the perfect being : Anointed with gods divine being : One whom God hath hominified himself withal , and who is codeified with God himself : ( For with such monstruous and unused terms , he cloaketh his blasphemies , as though he were made one with God , and God one with him ) Segregating unto him self a private Conventicle of simple deceived men , ( whom he names the Family or Comunaltie of Love ) and detesting all wise and learned men , whom he termeth Scrip - ture learned . And also I being advertised by the said Godly learned , of a great number of detestable Errors contained in the books of the said H.N. And specially in those twoo wicked Books . Whereof the one he names The Evangely or Gospel of the Kingdom : As though he had brought a new Gospel into the world , ) which Saint Pawle forbiddeth , and holds accursed , though it were brought by and Angel from heaven . ) And the other Book he calls , The Declaration of the Mass . In the which twoo Books , and other like wicked Books , of the said author , not only the usurped authority of the Bishop of Rome , and his Cardinals , and the Sacrifice of the Mass , with many other like wicked errors , but also diverse damned heresies of the Arrianes , Pelagians , and Anabaptists , are maintained : To the overthrow , of the true doctrine of our justifi - tation , and faith in Jesus Christ , and of all true Religion . Therefore understanding now my gross errors , I do here before God and you utterly detest , and from my heart abhor , as well the said Author , with all his arrogant , and blasphemous titles , as the instru - meant of Sathan , by him stirred up , to seduce and beguile the simple people : As also all his Damnable errors and Heresies whatsoever . And do confess here before God and you , that I am heartily sorry that ever I dealt with any such Books , or resorted to any secret Conferences , assemblies , or Conventicles , with those that are nam The Family or Comunaltie of Love : And that thereby I have given so great offence unto the Church of God : for the which I most humbly and heartily ask forgiveness both of God and you . And do promise faith - fully never to meddle , with these , or any other such Books , or with that sect hereafter : But utterly do re - nounce and forsake the same , and all other Errors and Heresies whatsoever contrary to the Common , Ni - cene , and Athanasius Creeds , or to the holy Scriptures contained in the Books of the old and new Testa - meant . And do also forsake whatsoever is repugnant to the Doctrine now taught and pupliquely set forth in the Church of England , which Doctrine I acknowledge and confess , to be the true and Catholic Doctrine , agreeable to the Canonical Scriptures , and that the same of all Christians , ought to be professed , without re - specked of any danger to the body , whither it be by death or otherways . In which profession , that I may con - stantly remain to my lives end , I do most heartily beseech you , to commend me in your prayers , to the great goodness and mercy of Almighty God . Robert Sharp . THe same confession and declaration which Robert Sharp hath presently made be - before you I.A.B. Do unfeignedly and willingly make , I detest all the errors and heresies be - before by him detested . I do faithfully promise here before God & you whatsoever he hath promised . And with like petition most humbly and heartily beseech God and you to forgive me . And I do heartily de - sire you to pray unto the Lord for me , that he in his great mercy will pardon me , and so guide me by his holy spirit that detesting all errors , I may ever hereafter embrace the truth of God , and con - stantly continue in the same , to the end of my life . And this I crave at his merciful hands for Jesus Christ his sake mine only Redeemer and Saviour . John Allen . Jhon Lydy . John Sharp . William Burwell . Imprinted by William Seres . H : 18338 The Confession and declaration of Robert sharp Clerk , and other of that sect , termed the Family of Love , at Pawles Cross in London the . xii of June . An. 1575. WHereas I Robert Sharp , have heretofore unadvisedly , conceived good opinion of certain books of and author , otherwise unknown , save only , that he notes him - self by the Letters H. N. And was induced thereunto , partly by the strange titles that he gyveth to him self , terming himself , amongst other names , A Prophet raised up from the dead : Specially by God appointed , and stirred up , according to the promises for this time which he calls the last day of grace . Affirming that he hath received his message from the mouth of God himself . And partly being also moved by the novelty of the Doctrine , and great promises made , as though men might thereby attain to be Deified , or made as God : Now upon conference with the Godly learned , ( whereof some are in authority ) being admonished of thee are - rogancie of the said author , in usurping the said tyttles , and of his blasphemous sacrilege , in taking unto him other greater titles , as , That he is the illuminate with the true light of the perfect being : Anointed with gods divine being : One whom God hath hominified himself withal , and who is codeified with God himself : ( For with such monstruous and unused terms , he cloaketh his blasphemies , as though he were made one with God , and God one with him ) Segregating unto him self a private Conventicle of simple deceived men , ( whom he names the Family or Comunaltie of Love ) and detesting all wise and learned men , whom he termeth Scrip - ture learned . And also I being advertised by the said Godly learned , of a great number of detestable Errors contained in the books of the said H.N. And specially in those twoo wicked Books . Whereof the one he names The Evangely or Gospel of the Kingdom : As though he had brought a new Gospel into the world , ) which Saint Pawle forbiddeth , and holds accursed , though it were brought by and Angel from heaven . ) And the other Book he calls , The Declaration of the Mass . In the which twoo Books , and other like wicked Books , of the said author , not only the usurped authority of the Bishop of Rome , and his Cardinals , and the Sacrifice of the Mass , with many other like wicked errors , but also diverse damned heresies of the Arrianes , Pelagians , and Anabaptists , are maintained : To the overthrow , of the true doctrine of our justifi - tation , and faith in Jesus Christ , and of all true Religion . Therefore understanding now my gross errors , I do here before God and you utterly detest , and from my heart abhor , as well the said Author , with all his arrogant , and blasphemous titles , as the instru - meant of Sathan , by him stirred up , to seduce and beguile the simple people : As also all his Damnable errors and Heresies whatsoever . And do confess here before God and you , that I am heartily sorry that ever I dealt with any such Books , or resorted to any secret Conferences , assemblies , or Conventicles , with those that are nam The Family or Comunaltie of Love : And that thereby I have given so great offence unto the Church of God : for the which I most humbly and heartily ask forgiveness both of God and you . And do promise faith - fully never to meddle , with these , or any other such Books , or with that sect hereafter : But utterly do re - nounce and forsake the same , and all other Errors and Heresies whatsoever contrary to the Common , Ni - cene , and Athanasius Creeds , or to the holy Scriptures contained in the Books of the old and new Testa - meant . And do also forsake whatsoever is repugnant to the Doctrine now taught and pupliquely set forth in the Church of England , which Doctrine I acknowledge and confess , to be the true and Catholic Doctrine , agreeable to the Canonical Scriptures , and that the same of all Christians , ought to be professed , without re - specked of any danger to the body , whither it be by death or otherways . In which profession , that I may con - stantly remain to my lives end , I do most heartily beseech you , to commend me in your prayers , to the great goodness and mercy of Almighty God . Robert Sharp . THe same confession and declaration which Robert Sharp hath presently made be - before you I.A.B. Do unfeignedly and willingly make , I detest all the errors and heresies be - before by him detested . I do faithfully promise here before God & you whatsoever he hath promised . And with like petition most humbly and heartily beseech God and you to forgive me . And I do heartily de - sire you to pray unto the Lord for me , that he in his great mercy will pardon me , and so guide me by his holy spirit that detesting all errors , I may ever hereafter embrace the truth of God , and con - stantly continue in the same , to the end of my life . And this I crave at his merciful hands for Jesus Christ his sake mine only Redeemer and Saviour . John Allen . Jhon Lydy . John Sharp . William Burwell . Imprinted by William Seres . H : 18338 The Confession and declaration of Robert sharp Clerk , and other of that sect , termed the Family of Love , at Pawles Cross in London the . xii of June . An. 1575. WHereas I Robert Sharp , have heretofore unadvisedly , conceived good opinion of certain books of and author , otherwise unknown , save only , that he notes him - self by the Letters H. N. And was induced thereunto , partly by the strange titles that he gyveth to him self , terming himself , amongst other names , A Prophet raised up from the dead : Specially by God appointed , and stirred up , according to the promises for this time which he calls the last day of grace . Affirming that he hath received his message from the mouth of God himself . And partly being also moved by the novelty of the Doctrine , and great promises made , as though men might thereby attain to be Deified , or made as God : Now upon conference with the Godly learned , ( whereof some are in authority ) being admonished of thee are - rogancie of the said author , in usurping the said tyttles , and of his blasphemous sacrilege , in taking unto him other greater titles , as , That he is the illuminate with the true light of the perfect being : Anointed with gods divine being : One whom God hath hominified himself withal , and who is codeified with God himself : ( For with such monstruous and unused terms , he cloaketh his blasphemies , as though he were made one with God , and God one with him ) Segregating unto him self a private Conventicle of simple deceived men , ( whom he names the Family or Comunaltie of Love ) and detesting all wise and learned men , whom he termeth Scrip - ture learned . And also I being advertised by the said Godly learned , of a great number of detestable Errors contained in the books of the said H.N. And specially in those twoo wicked Books . Whereof the one he names The Evangely or Gospel of the Kingdom : As though he had brought a new Gospel into the world , ) which Saint Pawle forbiddeth , and holds accursed , though it were brought by and Angel from heaven . ) And the other Book he calls , The Declaration of the Mass . In the which twoo Books , and other like wicked Books , of the said author , not only the usurped authority of the Bishop of Rome , and his Cardinals , and the Sacrifice of the Mass , with many other like wicked errors , but also diverse damned heresies of the Arrianes , Pelagians , and Anabaptists , are maintained : To the overthrow , of the true doctrine of our justifi - tation , and faith in Jesus Christ , and of all true Religion . Therefore understanding now my gross errors , I do here before God and you utterly detest , and from my heart abhor , as well the said Author , with all his arrogant , and blasphemous titles , as the instru - meant of Sathan , by him stirred up , to seduce and beguile the simple people : As also all his Damnable errors and Heresies whatsoever . And do confess here before God and you , that I am heartily sorry that ever I dealt with any such Books , or resorted to any secret Conferences , assemblies , or Conventicles , with those that are nam The Family or Comunaltie of Love : And that thereby I have given so great offence unto the Church of God : for the which I most humbly and heartily ask forgiveness both of God and you . And do promise faith - fully never to meddle , with these , or any other such Books , or with that sect hereafter : But utterly do re - nounce and forsake the same , and all other Errors and Heresies whatsoever contrary to the Common , Ni - cene , and Athanasius Creeds , or to the holy Scriptures contained in the Books of the old and new Testa - meant . And do also forsake whatsoever is repugnant to the Doctrine now taught and pupliquely set forth in the Church of England , which Doctrine I acknowledge and confess , to be the true and Catholic Doctrine , agreeable to the Canonical Scriptures , and that the same of all Christians , ought to be professed , without re - specked of any danger to the body , whither it be by death or otherways . In which profession , that I may con - stantly remain to my lives end , I do most heartily beseech you , to commend me in your prayers , to the great goodness and mercy of Almighty God . Robert Sharp . THe same confession and declaration which Robert Sharp hath presently made be - before you I.A.B. Do unfeignedly and willingly make , I detest all the errors and heresies be - before by him detested . I do faithfully promise here before God & you whatsoever he hath promised . And with like petition most humbly and heartily beseech God and you to forgive me . And I do heartily de - sire you to pray unto the Lord for me , that he in his great mercy will pardon me , and so guide me by his holy spirit that detesting all errors , I may ever hereafter embrace the truth of God , and con - stantly continue in the same , to the end of my life . And this I crave at his merciful hands for Jesus Christ his sake mine only Redeemer and Saviour . John Allen . Jhon Lydy . John Sharp . William Burwell . Imprinted by William Seres . 