H : 289787 David and Bathsheba ; or , Innocency Betray'd : SHOWING How King David was wounded with the Charms of fair Bath - sheba , the Wife of Uriah , as she was bathing herself in the Garden . WHEN David in Jerusalem , As Royal King did rule and reign ; Behold what happen'd unto him That afterwards procur'd his Pain : On the Top of all his Palace , A gallant Prospect there had he , From whence he might , as pleas'd his Grace , Many a gallant Prospect see . It chanced so upon a Day , The King went forth to take the Air , All in the pleasant Month of May , Whereas he 'spy'd a Lady fair : Her Beauty was most excellent , And brighter then the Morning Sun , By which the King incontinent , Was to her Favour quickly wone . She stood within a pleasant Bower , All naked for to wash her their , Her Body like a Lily-flower , Was cover'd with her silken Hair : The King was wounded with her Love , And what she was he did require ; He could not his Affections move , He had to her such great Desire . She is Uriah's Wife , quoth they , A Captain of your Princely Train , That in your Wars is now away , And she does all alone remain . Then said the King , Bring her to me , For with her Love my Heart is slave ; The Princess of Beauty sure is she , For whom I do great Grief sustain . The Servants they do soon prepare , To do the Message of the King , And Bathsheba , that Lady fair , Unto the Court did quickly bring : The King rejoiced at her Sighed , And wone her Love , and laid her by , When they in Sport had spent that Night , And that the Sun was rising high . The King his Leave most kindly took , 'Till that three Months were gone and passed And then again he did return , With all his wondrous Speed and Haste : And then in Bathsheba so fair , She found her former Health exil'd , By certain Tokens that she saw , The King had got her with Child . Then to the King she made her Moan , And told him how the Case did stand , The King sent for her Husband home , To cloak the Matter out of Hand . When from the Camp Uriah came , The King receiv'd him courteously , Demanding how all Things did frame , Concerning of the Enemy . Uriah shew'd his Highness all The Accidents of Warlike strife , Then said the King , This Night you shall Keep Company with your own Wife . The Ark of God , Uriah said , With Judah's Host and Israel , Keep in the Field , and not a Man Within the House where they do dwell . Then should I take my Ease , quoth he , In Bed of Down with my fair Wife : Oh King , he said , that may not be , So long as I enjoy my Life . Then did the King a Letter write , To Joab General of the Host , And by Uriah sent the same , But certainly his Life it cost . And when the King for certain knew , Uriah thus had murd'red been , Fair Bathsheba to the Court he drew , And made of her his Royal Queen . Then God that saw this wicked Deed , Was angry at King David's since ; The Prophet Nathan then with Speed , Came thus complaining unto him . O David ponder what I say , A great Abuse I shall thee tell , For thou that rul'st in Equity Should see thy People ruled well . Two Men within the City dwell . The one is Rich the other Poor , The Rich in Cattle does excel , The other nothing hath in Store . Saving one little silly Sheep , When young he did with Money buy With his own Bred he did it feed , among his Children tenderly : The rich Man had a Stranger came Unto his House , that lov'd dear , The poor Man's Sheep therefore he took , And thereof made his Friend good Cheer . Because that he his own would save , He us'd the Man most cruelly . Then by the Lord the King did swear , The rich Man for the Fault should die . Thou art the Man , the Prophet said , The Princely Crown God gave to thee , The Lord's Wife thou thy own haste made , And many more of fair Beauty . Why hast thou so defil'd thy Life , And slave Uriah by the Sword , And taken home is wedded Wife , Regarding not God's holy Word : Therefore behold , thus said the Lord , Great Wars upon thy House shall be , Because thou hast my Laws abhor'd Much Ill be sure I'll cast on thee . I'll take thy Wives before thy Face , And give them to thy Neighbours Use , And thou thereby shall reap Disgrace , For Men shall laugh at thy Abuse . Then David cry'd out piteously , Soar have I sinn'd against the Lord , In Mercy therefore look on me , Let not my Prayers be abhor'd . But as the Prophet told to him , So did it after chance indeed , For God did greatly plague his since , As in the Bible you may read : The Scourge of since thus you may see , For Murder and Adultery , And grant that we may warned be , Such crying Sins to shun and fly . H : 289787 David and Bathsheba ; or , Innocency Betray'd : SHOWING How King David was wounded with the Charms of fair Bath - sheba , the Wife of Uriah , as she was bathing herself in the Garden . WHEN David in Jerusalem , As Royal King did rule and reign ; Behold what happen'd unto him That afterwards procur'd his Pain : On the Top of all his Palace , A gallant Prospect there had he , From whence he might , as pleas'd his Grace , Many a gallant Prospect see . It chanced so upon a Day , The King went forth to take the Air , All in the pleasant Month of May , Whereas he 'spy'd a Lady fair : Her Beauty was most excellent , And brighter then the Morning Sun , By which the King incontinent , Was to her Favour quickly wone . She stood within a pleasant Bower , All naked for to wash her their , Her Body like a Lily-flower , Was cover'd with her silken Hair : The King was wounded with her Love , And what she was he did require ; He could not his Affections move , He had to her such great Desire . She is Uriah's Wife , quoth they , A Captain of your Princely Train , That in your Wars is now away , And she does all alone remain . Then said the King , Bring her to me , For with her Love my Heart is slave ; The Princess of Beauty sure is she , For whom I do great Grief sustain . The Servants they do soon prepare , To do the Message of the King , And Bathsheba , that Lady fair , Unto the Court did quickly bring : The King rejoiced at her Sighed , And wone her Love , and laid her by , When they in Sport had spent that Night , And that the Sun was rising high . The King his Leave most kindly took , 'Till that three Months were gone and passed And then again he did return , With all his wondrous Speed and Haste : And then in Bathsheba so fair , She found her former Health exil'd , By certain Tokens that she saw , The King had got her with Child . Then to the King she made her Moan , And told him how the Case did stand , The King sent for her Husband home , To cloak the Matter out of Hand . When from the Camp Uriah came , The King receiv'd him courteously , Demanding how all Things did frame , Concerning of the Enemy . Uriah shew'd his Highness all The Accidents of Warlike strife , Then said the King , This Night you shall Keep Company with your own Wife . The Ark of God , Uriah said , With Judah's Host and Israel , Keep in the Field , and not a Man Within the House where they do dwell . Then should I take my Ease , quoth he , In Bed of Down with my fair Wife : Oh King , he said , that may not be , So long as I enjoy my Life . Then did the King a Letter write , To Joab General of the Host , And by Uriah sent the same , But certainly his Life it cost . And when the King for certain knew , Uriah thus had murd'red been , Fair Bathsheba to the Court he drew , And made of her his Royal Queen . Then God that saw this wicked Deed , Was angry at King David's since ; The Prophet Nathan then with Speed , Came thus complaining unto him . O David ponder what I say , A great Abuse I shall thee tell , For thou that rul'st in Equity Should see thy People ruled well . Two Men within the City dwell . The one is Rich the other Poor , The Rich in Cattle does excel , The other nothing hath in Store . Saving one little silly Sheep , When young he did with Money buy With his own Bred he did it feed , among his Children tenderly : The rich Man had a Stranger came Unto his House , that lov'd dear , The poor Man's Sheep therefore he took , And thereof made his Friend good Cheer . Because that he his own would save , He us'd the Man most cruelly . Then by the Lord the King did swear , The rich Man for the Fault should die . Thou art the Man , the Prophet said , The Princely Crown God gave to thee , The Lord's Wife thou thy own haste made , And many more of fair Beauty . Why hast thou so defil'd thy Life , And slave Uriah by the Sword , And taken home is wedded Wife , Regarding not God's holy Word : Therefore behold , thus said the Lord , Great Wars upon thy House shall be , Because thou hast my Laws abhor'd Much Ill be sure I'll cast on thee . I'll take thy Wives before thy Face , And give them to thy Neighbours Use , And thou thereby shall reap Disgrace , For Men shall laugh at thy Abuse . Then David cry'd out piteously , Soar have I sinn'd against the Lord , In Mercy therefore look on me , Let not my Prayers be abhor'd . But as the Prophet told to him , So did it after chance indeed , For God did greatly plague his since , As in the Bible you may read : The Scourge of since thus you may see , For Murder and Adultery , And grant that we may warned be , Such crying Sins to shun and fly . 