H : 289786 The False Lover Reward [ worser ] To the Tune of , My Love she does slight me etc YOung Men and Maids I pray give Ear , While you this sad Relation hear ; The like before was [ ne ] ver know , As to the World is clearly shown . Both rich and poor , both old and young , I would have you observe this Song , And never once prove false in Love , Nor at the least disloyal prove . In Bullenlick Town a Man does dwell , Who had a Wife he loved well ; By her he had a Daughter fair , Which was their Joy and only Care . A Farmer's Son that lived by , On this fair Maid did cast and Eye : He courted her both Day and Night , And in her plac'd his whole Delight . And if I the the Truth must tell , This Maiden lov'd the Farmer well , Her Parents likewise did agree , That this young Man their Son should be . This young Man was of honest Fame , And Mr Small it was his name , He had a very good Estate , But Love it was his cruel Fate . For it did chance upon a Day , This young Man to the Maid did say ; He fear'd that she should change her Mind , And to another Man be kind . Which if you do , my Love , said he , Will break my Heart immediately , My Faith is firm , my Love is true , I wish to find the like by you . This Maiden fair she did reply , Unto her Love immediately ! May some just Judgement fallen on me , If ever I prove false to thee . And may this be my fatal Doom , Some hideous Monster from my Womb , I wish soon after I may bring forth , If e'er I break my Faith and Troth . If I another Man do wed , Or break the Vows that I have made , May I a sad Example be , To young and old of each Degree . But o ! At last with Grief , I say , She did this constant Heart betray , For she did soon disloyal prove , And entertain'd another Love . Before two Months were passed away , One Thomas Goodings , as they say , A wealthy Man from Clapthorne came , Who lik'd and lov'd this charming Dame . Her Parents then for worldly Gain , Did this new Lover entertain , And promised she should be his Wife , Which caused all this daily Strife This when her first true Lover did hear . Caus'd him to shed many a Tear ; Then meeting this ungrateful Maid , With mournful Sighs these Words he said . Remember , Oh my Love , said he , What mighty things you promis'd me ; Remember all the Vows , my Dear , If you have any Grace or Fear . This Maid unto her Love did say , My Parents Will I must obey : Beside , 'twill better be for me , For Goodings hath more Wealth than thee . With Sobs and Tears he Home did high , And took his Bed immediately , And there he lay in wretched Case , For her that had so little Grace . Immortal Powers' I beg , said he , That you will be so kind to me , Pour down your Vengeance from above . And punish my ungrateful Love . When he in Tears these Words did speak , Then with a Groan his Heart did break , Great Pity such a Man as he , Should die for such a graceless Soul as she . Goodings enjoy'd his fair young Wife , And likewise priz'd her as his Life ; And all his Hope's they were beguil'd , For a Twelvemonth she wasn't w' Child . At length with Child she then did show , And daily bigger she did grow ; The other Women go but months nine , She went two Months beyond that Time . Sure such a Wonder ne'er was known , As I this Time shall treat upon ; Yet tho' it's strange . it's likewise true , As I shall here declare to you For when Eleven Months were passed , She fell in Travail at the las For full three Weeks , as I hear say , She was pained both Night and Day . She was di [ l ] ivered as they say , On February the seventh Day : It was a strange mishapen Thing , Which she into the World did bring . It was shap'd and bristil'd like a Hog , Did snort and bark like any Dog ; Its Tail down to the Ground it hung And prick'd it's Ears seven Inches long Like a Monkey was the Head and Face Which mov'd the People in the Place , To see the strange and dismal Sighed , As ne'er befoee was brought to Light . The People wondered for to see , Such and amazing Tragedy , And all that saw it was afraid , The Midwife she was soar dismay'd For it did bite her through the Hand , And it upon two Feet did stand It had four Feet and run likewise Which put the Neighbours in Surprise . It in its Mother [ ' ] s Face did fly , But some good People put it by Or it had quickly took her Life , Which caused all this deadly Strife They sent for Mr Brooks indeed . Preacher of Clapthorne Church with Speed , Doctor Watson , and Hickman too , They came this Monster for to view . These Gentlemen did glaring stand , And in Amaze held up their Hands , Asking the Mother for to tell , How she conceiv'd this Monster fell . God's Judgments now are fallen on me Which I deserv'd indeed said she ; For I have broke my Vows indeed , And made a tender Heart to bleed , I Oaths and Vows , and Wishes made , 'Till I and honest Man betray'd ; And now indeed I am rightly serv'd , But not so well as I deserv'd . Dear Husband do not grieve for me , For none can lay the Blame on thee , No one's in Fault but only I , And therefore now for Mercy cry . Good Christian People pray for me And you good Ministers , said she , I beg you for my Soul to pray ; For I do find my Strength decay . Good Lord have Mercy on my Soul , Pardon my since that are so foul ; My Crimes are of a Scarlet Die , Sure never one so bad as I , When she in Tears these Words had spoke , She yielded to Death's fatal Stroke : I hope this will a Warning be , To all that hear this Tragedy . FINISH : 289786 The False Lover Reward [ worser ] To the Tune of , My Love she does slight me etc YOung Men and Maids I pray give Ear , While you this sad Relation hear ; The like before was [ ne ] ver know , As to the World is clearly shown . Both rich and poor , both old and young , I would have you observe this Song , And never once prove false in Love , Nor at the least disloyal prove . In Bullenlick Town a Man does dwell , Who had a Wife he loved well ; By her he had a Daughter fair , Which was their Joy and only Care . A Farmer's Son that lived by , On this fair Maid did cast and Eye : He courted her both Day and Night , And in her plac'd his whole Delight . And if I the the Truth must tell , This Maiden lov'd the Farmer well , Her Parents likewise did agree , That this young Man their Son should be . This young Man was of honest Fame , And Mr Small it was his name , He had a very good Estate , But Love it was his cruel Fate . For it did chance upon a Day , This young Man to the Maid did say ; He fear'd that she should change her Mind , And to another Man be kind . Which if you do , my Love , said he , Will break my Heart immediately , My Faith is firm , my Love is true , I wish to find the like by you . This Maiden fair she did reply , Unto her Love immediately ! May some just Judgement fallen on me , If ever I prove false to thee . And may this be my fatal Doom , Some hideous Monster from my Womb , I wish soon after I may bring forth , If e'er I break my Faith and Troth . If I another Man do wed , Or break the Vows that I have made , May I a sad Example be , To young and old of each Degree . But o ! At last with Grief , I say , She did this constant Heart betray , For she did soon disloyal prove , And entertain'd another Love . Before two Months were passed away , One Thomas Goodings , as they say , A wealthy Man from Clapthorne came , Who lik'd and lov'd this charming Dame . Her Parents then for worldly Gain , Did this new Lover entertain , And promised she should be his Wife , Which caused all this daily Strife This when her first true Lover did hear . Caus'd him to shed many a Tear ; Then meeting this ungrateful Maid , With mournful Sighs these Words he said . Remember , Oh my Love , said he , What mighty things you promis'd me ; Remember all the Vows , my Dear , If you have any Grace or Fear . This Maid unto her Love did say , My Parents Will I must obey : Beside , 'twill better be for me , For Goodings hath more Wealth than thee . With Sobs and Tears he Home did high , And took his Bed immediately , And there he lay in wretched Case , For her that had so little Grace . Immortal Powers' I beg , said he , That you will be so kind to me , Pour down your Vengeance from above . And punish my ungrateful Love . When he in Tears these Words did speak , Then with a Groan his Heart did break , Great Pity such a Man as he , Should die for such a graceless Soul as she . Goodings enjoy'd his fair young Wife , And likewise priz'd her as his Life ; And all his Hope's they were beguil'd , For a Twelvemonth she wasn't w' Child . At length with Child she then did show , And daily bigger she did grow ; The other Women go but months nine , She went two Months beyond that Time . Sure such a Wonder ne'er was known , As I this Time shall treat upon ; Yet tho' it's strange . it's likewise true , As I shall here declare to you For when Eleven Months were passed , She fell in Travail at the las For full three Weeks , as I hear say , She was pained both Night and Day . She was di [ l ] ivered as they say , On February the seventh Day : It was a strange mishapen Thing , Which she into the World did bring . It was shap'd and bristil'd like a Hog , Did snort and bark like any Dog ; Its Tail down to the Ground it hung And prick'd it's Ears seven Inches long Like a Monkey was the Head and Face Which mov'd the People in the Place , To see the strange and dismal Sighed , As ne'er befoee was brought to Light . The People wondered for to see , Such and amazing Tragedy , And all that saw it was afraid , The Midwife she was soar dismay'd For it did bite her through the Hand , And it upon two Feet did stand It had four Feet and run likewise Which put the Neighbours in Surprise . It in its Mother [ ' ] s Face did fly , But some good People put it by Or it had quickly took her Life , Which caused all this deadly Strife They sent for Mr Brooks indeed . Preacher of Clapthorne Church with Speed , Doctor Watson , and Hickman too , They came this Monster for to view . These Gentlemen did glaring stand , And in Amaze held up their Hands , Asking the Mother for to tell , How she conceiv'd this Monster fell . God's Judgments now are fallen on me Which I deserv'd indeed said she ; For I have broke my Vows indeed , And made a tender Heart to bleed , I Oaths and Vows , and Wishes made , 'Till I and honest Man betray'd ; And now indeed I am rightly serv'd , But not so well as I deserv'd . Dear Husband do not grieve for me , For none can lay the Blame on thee , No one's in Fault but only I , And therefore now for Mercy cry . Good Christian People pray for me And you good Ministers , said she , I beg you for my Soul to pray ; For I do find my Strength decay . Good Lord have Mercy on my Soul , Pardon my since that are so foul ; My Crimes are of a Scarlet Die , Sure never one so bad as I , When she in Tears these Words had spoke , She yielded to Death's fatal Stroke : I hope this will a Warning be , To all that hear this Tragedy . FINIS 