H : 18340 The re-edifying of Salomons Temple / and the Laborers thereof . WHen that the Cock began to crow in February last It was never day I knew right well the birds they song so fast For they recorded pleasantly when they did understand That winter's blasts began to suage and Vere was even at hand And when the Parker hard this Cock eftsone he gan to steer And up he start and gate him forth to view and see the dear , And when he came he see the dear where they were on the land At whom the dear were not amazed but still they stood and faunde . For well they wist this Parker came to do his wonted feat , And or he went from them again indeed he gave them meat . Which they had sought & could not find wherefore they looked thyn , As though they had been chaste with dogs that lately had rushed in . As soon as he was gone from them a Scory scourde the cost , To fray the bandogges from the Dear for fear they should be lost . Which long had made such spoil of them as like hath not been seen , At every course a leyshe or two as we full oft have seen . This Scory scoured all the park he sercht it round about . To fortify the walls thereof to keep the bandogs out When he had take the view thereof , and saw the park so scalde . He made his suit unto the Queen to have it all new palde . And after him there did succeed a man of ancient years . Which did renew the former suit unto the noble Peers . Whose judgement is profound & deep as all the learned say . And he affyrmde and proved it both our faith was in decay . Which is the most assured wall that may or can be bylte , Which wall hath been battered at that it was almost spylte , And if this wall be not repayrde but fallen still in decay The bandogs will break in again and drive the deer away . Thus hath this ancient whithed proved with arguments most strong , That if this wall be not repayrde the park cannot stand long . Wherefore the builders of this wall that have take it in hand Have sharpened all their tools right well to have this building stand . A Bill also sharped his edge to cut the brambles down And to destroy the wicked wedes that were in high renown . Thus all these builders work righe well for they have begun the frame , And all that see their workmanship do much commend the same , They work it artificially as men expert and wise . For why they build upon the rock and not upon the ice . Who hath not seen , who hath not hard the doings of these men , What pains they take incessantly to build this wall again , To keep the young fawns from the fox and from the wolves and dogs . Lest that the park be foylde again with swine and filthy hogs . Mark well the grist that grind all ground and you shall understand , That he is able well to build the thing he takes in hand . For he hath newly bete his querns , wherefore it may be thought , That he intends to grind the grist that we full long have sought , But when the mighty Sampson cam that long had been away . He musled up the bandogges mouths that the had nought to say . So that their fury is well cooled throuh Sampsons force and might For though they grin and look awry they have no power to bite , For now the dear go quietly within the pale and park , And are nothing afraid to hear the bandogs how they bark , There keepers now are come again that long have been away , Wherefore the poor and simple Dear , are joyful of this day , For when the Horn was herd of then which sounded like a bell , The Dear that knew the same before did like it weary well . He blew his measures in such sort so truly and so trim That all that hard the found thereof had much delight in him , Beside all these yet are there more , whose diligence and pain , Do crave of us etarnall praise that live and do remain , Lever and Sands , for so they height whose godly hearts and will Are wholly bent unto the truth and to confute the ill , So are these two that yet remain , as it hath well be seen , How learnedly they speak their minds before our noble Queen . Pedder and Wyntrel , these are they whose memory and fame Shall be revived , when they are dead their acts deserve the same , For these and for the rest of them let us give thanks to God , whose mercy towards us is such , that he hath broke the rod , Oh Lord behold thy labourers and now put to thy hand , To build thy holy Temple up that it may ever stand . Drive out the idle men thereof you drive them clean away Which long have sought the spoil of it to bring it to decay . To whom let us left up our hearts at morrow and at even , That it will please him to preserve Elisabeth our queen , Long to endure amongst us here and to possess her place , And afterwards to Joye with him when she hath run her raze . Finis God save the queen , Imprinted at London , for Wyllyam Pickering dwellind at Saint Magnus Corner . H : 18340 The re-edifying of Salomons Temple / and the Laborers thereof . WHen that the Cock began to crow in February last It was never day I knew right well the birds they song so fast For they recorded pleasantly when they did understand That winter's blasts began to suage and Vere was even at hand And when the Parker hard this Cock eftsone he gan to steer And up he start and gate him forth to view and see the dear , And when he came he see the dear where they were on the land At whom the dear were not amazed but still they stood and faunde . For well they wist this Parker came to do his wonted feat , And or he went from them again indeed he gave them meat . Which they had sought & could not find wherefore they looked thyn , As though they had been chaste with dogs that lately had rushed in . As soon as he was gone from them a Scory scourde the cost , To fray the bandogges from the Dear for fear they should be lost . Which long had made such spoil of them as like hath not been seen , At every course a leyshe or two as we full oft have seen . This Scory scoured all the park he sercht it round about . To fortify the walls thereof to keep the bandogs out When he had take the view thereof , and saw the park so scalde . He made his suit unto the Queen to have it all new palde . And after him there did succeed a man of ancient years . Which did renew the former suit unto the noble Peers . Whose judgement is profound & deep as all the learned say . And he affyrmde and proved it both our faith was in decay . Which is the most assured wall that may or can be bylte , Which wall hath been battered at that it was almost spylte , And if this wall be not repayrde but fallen still in decay The bandogs will break in again and drive the deer away . Thus hath this ancient whithed proved with arguments most strong , That if this wall be not repayrde the park cannot stand long . Wherefore the builders of this wall that have take it in hand Have sharpened all their tools right well to have this building stand . A Bill also sharped his edge to cut the brambles down And to destroy the wicked wedes that were in high renown . Thus all these builders work righe well for they have begun the frame , And all that see their workmanship do much commend the same , They work it artificially as men expert and wise . For why they build upon the rock and not upon the ice . Who hath not seen , who hath not hard the doings of these men , What pains they take incessantly to build this wall again , To keep the young fawns from the fox and from the wolves and dogs . Lest that the park be foylde again with swine and filthy hogs . Mark well the grist that grind all ground and you shall understand , That he is able well to build the thing he takes in hand . For he hath newly bete his querns , wherefore it may be thought , That he intends to grind the grist that we full long have sought , But when the mighty Sampson cam that long had been away . He musled up the bandogges mouths that the had nought to say . So that their fury is well cooled throuh Sampsons force and might For though they grin and look awry they have no power to bite , For now the dear go quietly within the pale and park , And are nothing afraid to hear the bandogs how they bark , There keepers now are come again that long have been away , Wherefore the poor and simple Dear , are joyful of this day , For when the Horn was herd of then which sounded like a bell , The Dear that knew the same before did like it weary well . He blew his measures in such sort so truly and so trim That all that hard the found thereof had much delight in him , Beside all these yet are there more , whose diligence and pain , Do crave of us etarnall praise that live and do remain , Lever and Sands , for so they height whose godly hearts and will Are wholly bent unto the truth and to confute the ill , So are these two that yet remain , as it hath well be seen , How learnedly they speak their minds before our noble Queen . Pedder and Wyntrel , these are they whose memory and fame Shall be revived , when they are dead their acts deserve the same , For these and for the rest of them let us give thanks to God , whose mercy towards us is such , that he hath broke the rod , Oh Lord behold thy labourers and now put to thy hand , To build thy holy Temple up that it may ever stand . Drive out the idle men thereof you drive them clean away Which long have sought the spoil of it to bring it to decay . To whom let us left up our hearts at morrow and at even , That it will please him to preserve Elisabeth our queen , Long to endure amongst us here and to possess her place , And afterwards to Joye with him when she hath run her raze . Finis God save the queen , Imprinted at London , for Wyllyam Pickering dwellind at Saint Magnus Corner . 