H : 289785 Love's fierce Desire , and Hope's of Recovery : OR , A true and brief Description of two resolved LOVERS , whose excellent Wits , suitable Minds , and faithful Hearts one to another , shall be fully spoken off in this following Copy of Verses . To the Tune of , Fair Angel of England . NOW the Tyrant hath stolen My Dearest away , And I am confined With Mopsa to stay ; Yet let Caelia remember How faithful I'll be , Neither Distance nor Absence Shall terrify me . In Volumns of Lights , I will send to my Dear , And make my own Heart Correspond to my Tear ; Till the Soul of my Life May be pleased to see , How delightful her safest Return is to me . It cheers my sad Heart To remember her Love , [ TO ] hough Malice hath caused This sudden Remove , My Mind is resolved What ever ensue , Whither Sunshine or Thunder , To be constant and true . If my Bark sail but safely Through this rugged Sea , Though with contrary Wind , Much tossed it be : In the Haven of Rest , And long look'd for Content , I'll chant forth melodious Songs of Merriment . Till then I'll retreat to The Forest and mourn ; Acteon shall echo My Hound and my Horn : No Reynard shall escape me That runs on the Way , But Patience perforce I will make him to stay . My Heart hath inquired Of every Stone , What Convoy the Heavens Bequeath'd to my Moon ; For ought I can find , Most all are agreed , To rival my Hope's , And slacken her Speed . Therefore I'll fit down And bewail my sad Fate , Like the Turtle I'll mourn For the Loss of my Mate ; All the World's greatest Glory Is Vexation to me , Till my Caelia and I , In our Loves may be free . CAELIA's Reply to her Lover . THY Speeches , dear Friend , I have well understood , And how in Exile Thou hast wandered the Wood , But I am resolved Thy Sorrows to free , To make thee amends , I'll soon come unto thee . 'Tis neither the Tiger , The Wolf , nor the Bear , Nor shall Nilus' Crocodile Put me in Fear ; I'll swim through the Ocean Upon my bore Breast , To find out my Darling , Whom I do love best . And when I have found him , With double Delight , I'll comfort him kindly By Day and by Night ; And I'll be more faithful Than the Turtle Dove , Which never at all did Prove false to her Love . The fierce Basilisk that Kills with the Eye , Shall not have the Power , Once thee to come nigh ; I'll clasp thee and hug thee So close in my Arms , I'll venture my Life For to save thee from Harms . My Lap for thy Head , Love , A Pillow shall be , And while thou dost sleep , I'll be careful of thee ; I'll make , and I'll watch , and I'll kiss thee for Joy , And no venomous Creature Shall my Love annoy . The Satyrs shall pipe , And the Sire's shall sing , The Wood-Nymphs with Music Shall make the Groves ring : The Horn it shall found , And the Hounds make a Noise , To recreate my Love With ten thousand Joys . So now I am coming To hasten to Bed , Pray Heavens and Angels May be my good Speed : If Fortune me favour , And Seas quiet prove , I soon will arrive at The Port which I love . Now Caelia is gone To find out her Dear , His Heart that was sad To comfort and cheer ; No doubt but each other They lovingly greet When as they together Do lovingly meet . Newcastle : Printed by John White . H : 289785 Love's fierce Desire , and Hope's of Recovery : OR , A true and brief Description of two resolved LOVERS , whose excellent Wits , suitable Minds , and faithful Hearts one to another , shall be fully spoken off in this following Copy of Verses . To the Tune of , Fair Angel of England . NOW the Tyrant hath stolen My Dearest away , And I am confined With Mopsa to stay ; Yet let Caelia remember How faithful I'll be , Neither Distance nor Absence Shall terrify me . In Volumns of Lights , I will send to my Dear , And make my own Heart Correspond to my Tear ; Till the Soul of my Life May be pleased to see , How delightful her safest Return is to me . It cheers my sad Heart To remember her Love , [ TO ] hough Malice hath caused This sudden Remove , My Mind is resolved What ever ensue , Whither Sunshine or Thunder , To be constant and true . If my Bark sail but safely Through this rugged Sea , Though with contrary Wind , Much tossed it be : In the Haven of Rest , And long look'd for Content , I'll chant forth melodious Songs of Merriment . Till then I'll retreat to The Forest and mourn ; Acteon shall echo My Hound and my Horn : No Reynard shall escape me That runs on the Way , But Patience perforce I will make him to stay . My Heart hath inquired Of every Stone , What Convoy the Heavens Bequeath'd to my Moon ; For ought I can find , Most all are agreed , To rival my Hope's , And slacken her Speed . Therefore I'll fit down And bewail my sad Fate , Like the Turtle I'll mourn For the Loss of my Mate ; All the World's greatest Glory Is Vexation to me , Till my Caelia and I , In our Loves may be free . CAELIA's Reply to her Lover . THY Speeches , dear Friend , I have well understood , And how in Exile Thou hast wandered the Wood , But I am resolved Thy Sorrows to free , To make thee amends , I'll soon come unto thee . 'Tis neither the Tiger , The Wolf , nor the Bear , Nor shall Nilus' Crocodile Put me in Fear ; I'll swim through the Ocean Upon my bore Breast , To find out my Darling , Whom I do love best . And when I have found him , With double Delight , I'll comfort him kindly By Day and by Night ; And I'll be more faithful Than the Turtle Dove , Which never at all did Prove false to her Love . The fierce Basilisk that Kills with the Eye , Shall not have the Power , Once thee to come nigh ; I'll clasp thee and hug thee So close in my Arms , I'll venture my Life For to save thee from Harms . My Lap for thy Head , Love , A Pillow shall be , And while thou dost sleep , I'll be careful of thee ; I'll make , and I'll watch , and I'll kiss thee for Joy , And no venomous Creature Shall my Love annoy . The Satyrs shall pipe , And the Sire's shall sing , The Wood-Nymphs with Music Shall make the Groves ring : The Horn it shall found , And the Hounds make a Noise , To recreate my Love With ten thousand Joys . So now I am coming To hasten to Bed , Pray Heavens and Angels May be my good Speed : If Fortune me favour , And Seas quiet prove , I soon will arrive at The Port which I love . Now Caelia is gone To find out her Dear , His Heart that was sad To comfort and cheer ; No doubt but each other They lovingly greet When as they together Do lovingly meet . Newcastle : Printed by John White . 