H : 80496 Virtue in Danger : Or Arthur Gray's last Farewell to the World . Written by a Gentleman at St , James's ; [ Tune , of Chivy Chase . ] NOw ponder well you Ladies fair , These words that I shall write ; I'll tell a Tale shall make you stare , Of a poor Ladies fright . She laid her down all in her Bed , And soon began to snore It never came into her Head To lock her Chamber-door . A Footman of her Sisters dear , A sturdy Scot was He ; With [ tO ] hout a sense of Godly fear , Bethought him wickedly . Thought he , this Lady lies alone , I like her comely Face ; It would most gallantly be done , Her Body to embrace . In order to this bold Attempt , He ran up-Stairs apace ; While she poor Lady , nothing dreamed , Or , dreamed it was His Grace . The Candle , flaring in her Eyes , Made her full soon awake ; He scorn'd to do it , by Surprise , Or , her a Sleeping take . His Pistol in one Hand he took , And thus began to Woo her ; O , how this tender Creature shook , When he presented to her . Lady quoth he , I must obtain , For I have lov'd You long , Wou'd You know how my Heart You gain'd , You had it for a Song , Resolve to quench my present Flame , Or You shall Murder'd be : It was those pretty Eyes , fair Dame , That first have Murder'd me . The Lady look'd with Fear around , As in her Bed she lay ; And tho' half Dying in a Swoon , Thus to her self did say . Who rashly judge it is a Rule , Do often judge amiss ; I thought this Fellow was a Fool , But there's some Sense in this . She then recover'd Heart o' Grace And did to him reply ; Sure Arthur You've forgotten Your place , Or know not that 'tis I . ------ Do You consider who it is , That You thus rudely treat ; 'Tis not for Scoundrel scrubs to wish To taste , their Master's Meat , Tut , Tut quoth He , I do not care , And so pul'd down the Clothes ; Uncover'd lay this Lady fair , From Bubby to the Toes . Oh! Arthur cover me she said , Or sure I shall get Cold ; Which presently the Rogue obey'd , He could not hear her Scold . He laid his Sword close by Her side , Her Heart went Pit a Pat , You have but one Weapon left she cry'd , Sure I can deal with That . She saw the Looby frighted , straight , Out of the Bed jump'd she ; Catch'd hold of His so furious Hand , A sighed it was to see . His Pistol-Hand , she held fast clos'd ; As she remembers well : But now the other was dispos'd , There's none alive can tell . The Sword full to his Heart she laid , But yet did not Him slay ; For when He saw the shining Blade , God wot , He ran away . When she was sure , the Knave was gone Out of Her Father's Hall ; This virtuous Lady , straight began' Most grievously to bawl . In came Pappa , and Mamma dear , Who wonder'd to behold ; Oot Grisle , what a noise is here , Why stand You in the Cold ? Mamma she said , and then she wept , I have a Battle wone : But if that I , had soundly Slept , My Honour had been gone . A Footman of my Sisters He , A Footman ! cry'd Mamma ; Dear Daughter this must never be , And We not go to Law . This Ladies Fame , shall ever last , And live in British Song ; For she was like Lucretia Chaste , And eke was much more Strong . H : 80496 Virtue in Danger : Or Arthur Gray's last Farewell to the World . Written by a Gentleman at St , James's ; [ Tune , of Chivy Chase . ] NOw ponder well you Ladies fair , These words that I shall write ; I'll tell a Tale shall make you stare , Of a poor Ladies fright . She laid her down all in her Bed , And soon began to snore It never came into her Head To lock her Chamber-door . A Footman of her Sisters dear , A sturdy Scot was He ; With [ tO ] hout a sense of Godly fear , Bethought him wickedly . Thought he , this Lady lies alone , I like her comely Face ; It would most gallantly be done , Her Body to embrace . In order to this bold Attempt , He ran up-Stairs apace ; While she poor Lady , nothing dreamed , Or , dreamed it was His Grace . The Candle , flaring in her Eyes , Made her full soon awake ; He scorn'd to do it , by Surprise , Or , her a Sleeping take . His Pistol in one Hand he took , And thus began to Woo her ; O , how this tender Creature shook , When he presented to her . Lady quoth he , I must obtain , For I have lov'd You long , Wou'd You know how my Heart You gain'd , You had it for a Song , Resolve to quench my present Flame , Or You shall Murder'd be : It was those pretty Eyes , fair Dame , That first have Murder'd me . The Lady look'd with Fear around , As in her Bed she lay ; And tho' half Dying in a Swoon , Thus to her self did say . Who rashly judge it is a Rule , Do often judge amiss ; I thought this Fellow was a Fool , But there's some Sense in this . She then recover'd Heart o' Grace And did to him reply ; Sure Arthur You've forgotten Your place , Or know not that 'tis I . ------ Do You consider who it is , That You thus rudely treat ; 'Tis not for Scoundrel scrubs to wish To taste , their Master's Meat , Tut , Tut quoth He , I do not care , And so pul'd down the Clothes ; Uncover'd lay this Lady fair , From Bubby to the Toes . Oh! Arthur cover me she said , Or sure I shall get Cold ; Which presently the Rogue obey'd , He could not hear her Scold . He laid his Sword close by Her side , Her Heart went Pit a Pat , You have but one Weapon left she cry'd , Sure I can deal with That . She saw the Looby frighted , straight , Out of the Bed jump'd she ; Catch'd hold of His so furious Hand , A sighed it was to see . His Pistol-Hand , she held fast clos'd ; As she remembers well : But now the other was dispos'd , There's none alive can tell . The Sword full to his Heart she laid , But yet did not Him slay ; For when He saw the shining Blade , God wot , He ran away . When she was sure , the Knave was gone Out of Her Father's Hall ; This virtuous Lady , straight began' Most grievously to bawl . In came Pappa , and Mamma dear , Who wonder'd to behold ; Oot Grisle , what a noise is here , Why stand You in the Cold ? Mamma she said , and then she wept , I have a Battle wone : But if that I , had soundly Slept , My Honour had been gone . A Footman of my Sisters He , A Footman ! cry'd Mamma ; Dear Daughter this must never be , And We not go to Law . This Ladies Fame , shall ever last , And live in British Song ; For she was like Lucretia Chaste , And eke was much more Strong . 