H : 314491 A PANEGYRICK TO HIS EXCELLENCY , The Lord General MONCK . By Sir William Davenant . OUr fiery Sects scorn'd your Triumphant night , When only Bonfires lent the City light . More proudly they like Nero did design The City's flame should make the Country shine : And all those Bells' which rung in your applause They would have melted to maintain the Cause . Alas ! How little you in Actium seem , When by their great intent we measure them ? You the Fanatic party would correct ; The rifle all rich Christians as a Sect. To Bonfires , you their ruling Pulpits turn ; But they , instead of Tubs , would Churches burn . How weak are you , who to advance your Cause , Call in the firm support of Church and Laws ? Their Independent strength boldly upbraids The old discretion of such formal Aides . You court the City , and the Nation too , They bravely meant to ravish whom you woo . Their daring Chiefs , a War did undertake , Follow'd by those who still their Chiefs forsake . By such as only would consult and sway , But you chosen those who fight and can obey . By their advantages you gain'd the field , And what they judg'd your weakness made them yield . As in destructive War , so you no less , Transcend them in the growing Arts of Peace . You can converse , and in a dialect Where no strange dress makes us the truth suspect ; Where plainness graceful is , and free from blame , As truths fair Nakedness is free from shame . They write the style of spirits , you of men ; Yet are their Swords less powerful then your Pen . Auspicious Leader ! None shall equal thee , Who mak'st our Nation and our Language free . The first they fetter , not with public Laws , But with their Wills , peculiar as their Cause . Our Language with such Scripture-phrase restrain , As makes the borrow'd holiness profane . And such strange crimes attempt that while they lack All precedents for Plea , they wrest and rack The good old Prophets , till they falsely draw , From ill translated Hebrew English Law . How soon , how boldly , and how safely too , Have you dispatch't what not and age could do ? Yet greater work ensues , such as will try How far three Realms may on your strength rely . Nor can our Hope need Anchors where we find A sudden Courage and delib'rate mind . In doubtful Battles we may trust your Sword , And in suspected Factions take your Word . FINIS . H : 314491 A PANEGYRICK TO HIS EXCELLENCY , The Lord General MONCK . By Sir William Davenant . OUr fiery Sects scorn'd your Triumphant night , When only Bonfires lent the City light . More proudly they like Nero did design The City's flame should make the Country shine : And all those Bells' which rung in your applause They would have melted to maintain the Cause . Alas ! How little you in Actium seem , When by their great intent we measure them ? You the Fanatic party would correct ; The rifle all rich Christians as a Sect. To Bonfires , you their ruling Pulpits turn ; But they , instead of Tubs , would Churches burn . How weak are you , who to advance your Cause , Call in the firm support of Church and Laws ? Their Independent strength boldly upbraids The old discretion of such formal Aides . You court the City , and the Nation too , They bravely meant to ravish whom you woo . Their daring Chiefs , a War did undertake , Follow'd by those who still their Chiefs forsake . By such as only would consult and sway , But you chosen those who fight and can obey . By their advantages you gain'd the field , And what they judg'd your weakness made them yield . As in destructive War , so you no less , Transcend them in the growing Arts of Peace . You can converse , and in a dialect Where no strange dress makes us the truth suspect ; Where plainness graceful is , and free from blame , As truths fair Nakedness is free from shame . They write the style of spirits , you of men ; Yet are their Swords less powerful then your Pen . Auspicious Leader ! None shall equal thee , Who mak'st our Nation and our Language free . The first they fetter , not with public Laws , But with their Wills , peculiar as their Cause . Our Language with such Scripture-phrase restrain , As makes the borrow'd holiness profane . And such strange crimes attempt that while they lack All precedents for Plea , they wrest and rack The good old Prophets , till they falsely draw , From ill translated Hebrew English Law . How soon , how boldly , and how safely too , Have you dispatch't what not and age could do ? Yet greater work ensues , such as will try How far three Realms may on your strength rely . Nor can our Hope need Anchors where we find A sudden Courage and delib'rate mind . In doubtful Battles we may trust your Sword , And in suspected Factions take your Word . FINIS . 