H : 433937 In Memory of his Highness GEORGE Duke of ALBEMARLE GReat Soul , whoever writes Thy Loss , should be As great in Thoughts , if not in Deeds as Thee , To tell Mankind thy true deserts of Praise In purer Numbers then the common phrase . For how can strain'd Imagination find Words of apt Sense to fit so great a Mind ? And Verses in low-seated Fancies bred , Like Streams , do ne'r o'rtop the Fountains head . The common ways of Praise ( ability Of heart and body ) is too coarse for Thee , Since every common Hector of the Rout Acquires the Epithets of Strong and Stout ; Endowments which our Maker did intend As Instruments to serve another End Then vulgar Praise , To give rough nature's Law , And teach assuming minds to stand in awe , And stoop to what Heav'ns Majesty hath sent For humane preservation ( Go [ v ] ernment . ) This was Thy Work ( great Duke ) to save a State In Civil Broils , pressed down wit [ h ] Rebels weight . Its Body by ill humours grown [ ? ] oh sick , It had forgotten the name of Politique ; Destitute both of Rule and Ruler too , Divided into Sects , of one mind few : And to help on its Ruin nearer hand , Each of those Sects sought the Supreme Command . Whatever ill Confusion might bring , Or horrid War , came sailing with spread wing : But being by Thy Watchful Soul descry'd , Receiv'd its mortal wound ( i' th' train ) and dy'd . Thy mighty Merit now the World may know , If they Peace as a Benefit allow . The Roman Senate have decreed to men Crowns , for redeeming of one Citizen . Preservers of their Country , Gods became , And god their Adoration by their fame : But thy Deserts ( beside thy Princes love ) We doubt not but have their Rewards above ; And have prepar'd a Diadem for Thee , Who weigh'd three Kingdoms sunk in Misery . London , Printed in the year MDCLXIX . H : 433937 In Memory of his Highness GEORGE Duke of ALBEMARLE GReat Soul , whoever writes Thy Loss , should be As great in Thoughts , if not in Deeds as Thee , To tell Mankind thy true deserts of Praise In purer Numbers then the common phrase . For how can strain'd Imagination find Words of apt Sense to fit so great a Mind ? And Verses in low-seated Fancies bred , Like Streams , do ne'r o'rtop the Fountains head . The common ways of Praise ( ability Of heart and body ) is too coarse for Thee , Since every common Hector of the Rout Acquires the Epithets of Strong and Stout ; Endowments which our Maker did intend As Instruments to serve another End Then vulgar Praise , To give rough nature's Law , And teach assuming minds to stand in awe , And stoop to what Heav'ns Majesty hath sent For humane preservation ( Go [ v ] ernment . ) This was Thy Work ( great Duke ) to save a State In Civil Broils , pressed down wit [ h ] Rebels weight . Its Body by ill humours grown [ ? ] oh sick , It had forgotten the name of Politique ; Destitute both of Rule and Ruler too , Divided into Sects , of one mind few : And to help on its Ruin nearer hand , Each of those Sects sought the Supreme Command . Whatever ill Confusion might bring , Or horrid War , came sailing with spread wing : But being by Thy Watchful Soul descry'd , Receiv'd its mortal wound ( i' th' train ) and dy'd . Thy mighty Merit now the World may know , If they Peace as a Benefit allow . The Roman Senate have decreed to men Crowns , for redeeming of one Citizen . Preservers of their Country , Gods became , And god their Adoration by their fame : But thy Deserts ( beside thy Princes love ) We doubt not but have their Rewards above ; And have prepar'd a Diadem for Thee , Who weigh'd three Kingdoms sunk in Misery . London , Printed in the year MDCLXIX . 