H : 313743 THE JESUITS Justification , Proving they Died as Innocent as the CHILD UNBORN . THey that can do no hurt are innocent As Child unborn , so the Dead are mean Therefore they said they died , not lived so , Else their last Breath had them oppos'd with no . Which fill'd the Air with Poison in their Word , Able to turn the Edge of Justice Sword . Had it been true , but Truth is not their Guise , Their Sacred Order Lives and Thrives by Lies . Yet they die Martyrs all . Why ? what's the reason ? They die all for Religion ; which is Treason . Idolatries , Lies , Blasphemies and worse , Are their Religion , bound up with a Curse . Poisons , Rapes , Massacres , are Saintlike Ware , And Holy Dictates , of the Roman Chair . Perjuries , Murders , are their Laws ; 'twere sin Not to be still found Dutiful therein : To Kill all Heretics , is no Plot now , But true Devotion , and Religions Vow . Kings are Usurpers , that hold not their Crown Derived from Roman Mitre , and must down . They are more Troublesome than Egypts Frogs , And must be Kill'd as Vermin , or Mad Dogs . Thus they Promote the Scarlet Interest , In Honour to the Whore , and to the Beast . Apollyon , Abaddon , bids them Burn , And Root out Nations that will not Turn . Therefore they merit the three Crowned Horn ; And die as Innocent as Child unborn . FINIS . H : 313743 THE JESUITS Justification , Proving they Died as Innocent as the CHILD UNBORN . THey that can do no hurt are innocent As Child unborn , so the Dead are mean Therefore they said they died , not lived so , Else their last Breath had them oppos'd with no . Which fill'd the Air with Poison in their Word , Able to turn the Edge of Justice Sword . Had it been true , but Truth is not their Guise , Their Sacred Order Lives and Thrives by Lies . Yet they die Martyrs all . Why ? what's the reason ? They die all for Religion ; which is Treason . Idolatries , Lies , Blasphemies and worse , Are their Religion , bound up with a Curse . Poisons , Rapes , Massacres , are Saintlike Ware , And Holy Dictates , of the Roman Chair . Perjuries , Murders , are their Laws ; 'twere sin Not to be still found Dutiful therein : To Kill all Heretics , is no Plot now , But true Devotion , and Religions Vow . Kings are Usurpers , that hold not their Crown Derived from Roman Mitre , and must down . They are more Troublesome than Egypts Frogs , And must be Kill'd as Vermin , or Mad Dogs . Thus they Promote the Scarlet Interest , In Honour to the Whore , and to the Beast . Apollyon , Abaddon , bids them Burn , And Root out Nations that will not Turn . Therefore they merit the three Crowned Horn ; And die as Innocent as Child unborn . FINIS . 