H : 402424 The Second Part to the same Tune ; OR , And Answer to the Lady of Qualities POPISH BALLAD of the POPISH PLOT . Like you my Song , or like it not , I sing the Downfall of the PLOT ; The PLOTTERS Characters I show , The Devil by his Paw you'l know . God bless our KING , our CHURCH Preserve , While TRAYTORS have what they deserve . To the Tune of PACKINGTON'S POUND . 1. SInce Hell is broke lose , and the Press set a work , By Jesuit , by Jew , by Christian , and Turk ; By Fools , and by Fops , by Rascals , and Knaves , By Counterfeit Ladies , and by Scribbling Slaves : Each Mome , and each Sot , Now talks of the Plot , Some cry it is true , and some swear it is no New Fireballs in Pamphlets and Ballads are hurl'd , To cajole the People , and amuse the World . 2. And among all the rest , there starts up for one , A Priest under Petticoats , Jesuit Joan ; Who in a lewd Ballad , does sing a loud Lie , And to o'erthrow the Plot by fooling would try : And though very bold The Plotters she told , The trick is too stale , the design is too old ; For no honest man in whom Reason does dwell , But scents the Popes breath , and the foul stink of Hell . 3. The people deceiv'd by Jesuitical Glasses , No longer now will be ridden like Asses ; They won't be deceiv'd , by their old foolish Lies , But the Plot , and the Plotters , see with their own Eyes : For it is too plain , For all their false Train , The Plot was first hatch'd in a Jesuitical Brain : And you shall without Romish Spectacles see , Who both the Contrivers , and Actors still be . 4. A Politic Statesman that does all confound , Who the Head of all true Religion does wound ; Who was the first Rebel , that e're did rebel , And who still advances all Traitors in Hell : The Father of Evil , And nam DONE Devil , A very Fanatic , though he can seem Civil , Of this wicked Plot first laid the close Train , And the Cockatrice hatch'd in a Jesuits Brain . 5. The Politic Statesman in Council did fit , With Legions , to find out some Instruments fit ; And picking and choosing , he form'd a whole Rabble , Who stink at St. Omers like Goats in a Stable : Their Fortune's were low , The Devil did know , The bore of Preferment he therefore did show : He adopted these Tools , to give the Train fire , For which some receiv'd a Rope for their hire . 6. The next he prepar'd was a proud prating Knave , Who long ply'd the Court , to Great ones a Slave ; He fed with great Hope's , kept up a great Table , For Money from France , did make the Knave able : He went and he ran , Did many Trepan , And for the Popes sake , a whole Nation did ban : He lost his Reward if he gaped for Uburn , For he with and Halter was Sainted at Tyburn . 7. Like Rat in a Chamber another he found , Who had from the Father's god many a pound ; This Picklock of Law , to be the Book drudge , Was made , with great hope's , at last to be Judge : He loved Applause , Perverted the Laws , And filled with Zeal he grew stout for the Cause : Lest Drawing and Hanging should not make him Martyr , He lash'd his own Back like a terrible Carter . 8. The next were five bloody and murderous Fellows , Who tempted by Money , made haste to the Gallows ; By whose cruel hands a brave Hero did fallen , Sufficiently prov'd , though deny'd by them all : Give the Devil his endue , The Treasurer too , He has Sins of his own , and needs none from you : The Knight being slave , fled the Men of the Church , And left the poor Laymen to hang in the lurch . 9. The next a grave Gown-man in terrible from , Who with a strong breath , does blow up this Storm ; He thunders , he tears , he rants , and he roars , To turn all Heretical Kings out of doors : He makes a great rout , And hunt's all about , To turn all Religion and Sanctity out ; Both Bishop and Presbyter he'l turn to Grass , To bring in his Idols , and set up the Mass. 10. Thus both the Contrivers , and Actors you see , They are not mere shadows , but really be ; But 'twas their ill Fortune , and our good Lot , Or rather Gods Mercy confounded their Plo Whate're Ladies sing , They Murther'd one King , And now to Confusion another would bring : God bless our good King , and long may he Reign , And Jesuits be Hanged if they Plot again . FINIS . H : 402424 The Second Part to the same Tune ; OR , And Answer to the Lady of Qualities POPISH BALLAD of the POPISH PLOT . Like you my Song , or like it not , I sing the Downfall of the PLOT ; The PLOTTERS Characters I show , The Devil by his Paw you'l know . God bless our KING , our CHURCH Preserve , While TRAYTORS have what they deserve . To the Tune of PACKINGTON'S POUND . 1. SInce Hell is broke lose , and the Press set a work , By Jesuit , by Jew , by Christian , and Turk ; By Fools , and by Fops , by Rascals , and Knaves , By Counterfeit Ladies , and by Scribbling Slaves : Each Mome , and each Sot , Now talks of the Plot , Some cry it is true , and some swear it is no New Fireballs in Pamphlets and Ballads are hurl'd , To cajole the People , and amuse the World . 2. And among all the rest , there starts up for one , A Priest under Petticoats , Jesuit Joan ; Who in a lewd Ballad , does sing a loud Lie , And to o'erthrow the Plot by fooling would try : And though very bold The Plotters she told , The trick is too stale , the design is too old ; For no honest man in whom Reason does dwell , But scents the Popes breath , and the foul stink of Hell . 3. The people deceiv'd by Jesuitical Glasses , No longer now will be ridden like Asses ; They won't be deceiv'd , by their old foolish Lies , But the Plot , and the Plotters , see with their own Eyes : For it is too plain , For all their false Train , The Plot was first hatch'd in a Jesuitical Brain : And you shall without Romish Spectacles see , Who both the Contrivers , and Actors still be . 4. A Politic Statesman that does all confound , Who the Head of all true Religion does wound ; Who was the first Rebel , that e're did rebel , And who still advances all Traitors in Hell : The Father of Evil , And nam DONE Devil , A very Fanatic , though he can seem Civil , Of this wicked Plot first laid the close Train , And the Cockatrice hatch'd in a Jesuits Brain . 5. The Politic Statesman in Council did fit , With Legions , to find out some Instruments fit ; And picking and choosing , he form'd a whole Rabble , Who stink at St. Omers like Goats in a Stable : Their Fortune's were low , The Devil did know , The bore of Preferment he therefore did show : He adopted these Tools , to give the Train fire , For which some receiv'd a Rope for their hire . 6. The next he prepar'd was a proud prating Knave , Who long ply'd the Court , to Great ones a Slave ; He fed with great Hope's , kept up a great Table , For Money from France , did make the Knave able : He went and he ran , Did many Trepan , And for the Popes sake , a whole Nation did ban : He lost his Reward if he gaped for Uburn , For he with and Halter was Sainted at Tyburn . 7. Like Rat in a Chamber another he found , Who had from the Father's god many a pound ; This Picklock of Law , to be the Book drudge , Was made , with great hope's , at last to be Judge : He loved Applause , Perverted the Laws , And filled with Zeal he grew stout for the Cause : Lest Drawing and Hanging should not make him Martyr , He lash'd his own Back like a terrible Carter . 8. The next were five bloody and murderous Fellows , Who tempted by Money , made haste to the Gallows ; By whose cruel hands a brave Hero did fallen , Sufficiently prov'd , though deny'd by them all : Give the Devil his endue , The Treasurer too , He has Sins of his own , and needs none from you : The Knight being slave , fled the Men of the Church , And left the poor Laymen to hang in the lurch . 9. The next a grave Gown-man in terrible from , Who with a strong breath , does blow up this Storm ; He thunders , he tears , he rants , and he roars , To turn all Heretical Kings out of doors : He makes a great rout , And hunt's all about , To turn all Religion and Sanctity out ; Both Bishop and Presbyter he'l turn to Grass , To bring in his Idols , and set up the Mass. 10. Thus both the Contrivers , and Actors you see , They are not mere shadows , but really be ; But 'twas their ill Fortune , and our good Lot , Or rather Gods Mercy confounded their Plo Whate're Ladies sing , They Murther'd one King , And now to Confusion another would bring : God bless our good King , and long may he Reign , And Jesuits be Hanged if they Plot again . FINIS . 