H : 439406 AND ELEGIE OFFERED UP TO THE MEMORY Oh that late faithful Servant of GOD , Mr. JEREMIAH BURROUGHS , Minister of the Word at Giles Cripplegate and Stepney . TO add more ashes to our mortal Store , Burroughs is follow'd now , those gone before ; Unconquer'd Death , that spares no degree ; But fetters all in his Captivity , Hath seized him , a servant of the Lord . Who preached JESUS , as he's in the Word : Set forth to all , he for them mercy hath , If they upon him will depend their Faith : These things ( this Man of God ) did to us preach , And to us plainly Jesus he did teach ; Declaring to us , he's the only way For to be saved , to him we must pray , If we would ever Heavens Gates enter in , We must leave all , we must forsake our sin , On such good things he thought ; the faithful Preacher Spent all his life for Christ , who was his Teacher , For Christ our Saviour did alone him teach , And none but Christ our Saviour would he Preach . The world he scorn'd , though plenty of it having , But at Gods hands for grace was daily craving ; Too base it was , that he to it should bend , Or to her Riches any credit lend ; For , what are Riches ? But like a Post in's way , Or , like a span , or like the flower in May : So worldly honours unto him seem'd base , To honour Christ that was his only grace : For Christ alone he lov'd , so lov'd to live That he might always praises to him give . The grace of God was always in his thoughts . The love of God , in sparing such foul faults Which he committed daily in his sighed , Yet from the Lord would never take his flight . For Jesus Christ was only his delight , And Christ his Cross was always in his sighed , Christ was his joy , he was his whole desire . What shall I say ? Christ did he love entire . And happy end this godly man did make , The world , her Riches from him he did shake . Elijah like , his mantle left behind For others to possess , that they might find A loving friend of him , and might confess That to his Neighbours all he was no less , Then a Jonathan unto King David , For's love was fixed , fixed where he loved . The truth of this , if you desire to know , Do you unto his Printed Sermons go ; For they do there unto the world declare , What was their master's heart , what was his care To those that loved grace , and loved those That truly loved Christ , and him had chosen . London afflicted in the face I see . That such a man from us by Gods decree , Should thus be snatch'd away , and from us part , The thoughts of which might melt the hardest heart ; For in this City , for him being deceas't , Thousands are mourners , and I not the leas Yet mourn , why should we ? Or , why should we weep , When Burroughs is not dead , but is a sleep : This man of God unto that glorious place , Ascended is , ever to see Gods face . Tendimus hac omnes , metam properamus ad unam , Omnia sub leges mors vocat atra suas . Per me , I.C. LONDON . Printed by B.A. 1646. H : 439406 AND ELEGIE OFFERED UP TO THE MEMORY Oh that late faithful Servant of GOD , Mr. JEREMIAH BURROUGHS , Minister of the Word at Giles Cripplegate and Stepney . TO add more ashes to our mortal Store , Burroughs is follow'd now , those gone before ; Unconquer'd Death , that spares no degree ; But fetters all in his Captivity , Hath seized him , a servant of the Lord . Who preached JESUS , as he's in the Word : Set forth to all , he for them mercy hath , If they upon him will depend their Faith : These things ( this Man of God ) did to us preach , And to us plainly Jesus he did teach ; Declaring to us , he's the only way For to be saved , to him we must pray , If we would ever Heavens Gates enter in , We must leave all , we must forsake our sin , On such good things he thought ; the faithful Preacher Spent all his life for Christ , who was his Teacher , For Christ our Saviour did alone him teach , And none but Christ our Saviour would he Preach . The world he scorn'd , though plenty of it having , But at Gods hands for grace was daily craving ; Too base it was , that he to it should bend , Or to her Riches any credit lend ; For , what are Riches ? But like a Post in's way , Or , like a span , or like the flower in May : So worldly honours unto him seem'd base , To honour Christ that was his only grace : For Christ alone he lov'd , so lov'd to live That he might always praises to him give . The grace of God was always in his thoughts . The love of God , in sparing such foul faults Which he committed daily in his sighed , Yet from the Lord would never take his flight . For Jesus Christ was only his delight , And Christ his Cross was always in his sighed , Christ was his joy , he was his whole desire . What shall I say ? Christ did he love entire . And happy end this godly man did make , The world , her Riches from him he did shake . Elijah like , his mantle left behind For others to possess , that they might find A loving friend of him , and might confess That to his Neighbours all he was no less , Then a Jonathan unto King David , For's love was fixed , fixed where he loved . The truth of this , if you desire to know , Do you unto his Printed Sermons go ; For they do there unto the world declare , What was their master's heart , what was his care To those that loved grace , and loved those That truly loved Christ , and him had chosen . London afflicted in the face I see . That such a man from us by Gods decree , Should thus be snatch'd away , and from us part , The thoughts of which might melt the hardest heart ; For in this City , for him being deceas't , Thousands are mourners , and I not the leas Yet mourn , why should we ? Or , why should we weep , When Burroughs is not dead , but is a sleep : This man of God unto that glorious place , Ascended is , ever to see Gods face . Tendimus hac omnes , metam properamus ad unam , Omnia sub leges mors vocat atra suas . Per me , I.C. LONDON . Printed by B.A. 1646. 