H : 439411 A MODE : THE Cities profound Policy , in delivering themselves , their City , their Works and Ammunition , into the pro - tection of the ARMIE . BRave Citizens , you have done well , To make your slaves your Master's ; Your policy it does excel , Your Grooms will be your Tasters . My Lord Mayor , and the Aldermen , Your Gowns must make them breeches ; And if you do retort again , They'l make you eat your Speeches . O brave Common-Counsell men , Oh brave Trained-Bands ! When do you think to get again The staff in your own hands ? 2 Th' Apprentices did vapour much , They'd bang the Army soundly , And yet their valour proved such , They durst not go to't roundly : Massey was made the General Of all your mighty Forces ; But when he on the Foe should fallen , He wanted men and horses . O brave Common-Counsell men , Oh brave Trained-Bands ! When do you think to get again The staff in your own hands ? 3 Wher's Hollis now and Stapleton , Jack Maynard and Clotworthy ? And where is Prynne and Poyntz now gone , To purge them of the scurvy ? And Glyn and Lewis have left all , Within at six and sevens ; And Waller's gone to Glocester-Hall To visit Mrs. Stevens . O brave Common-Counsell men , etc 4 The Soldiers now , even where they wish , Will in your City quarter , And 'fore you taste of every dish ; And for your wives will barter . Your dainty ducks , whose soles never treads Upon the earth that bears them , They now will towse upon your beds , Your Antlers nothing scares them . O brave Common-Counsell men , etc 5 Sir Thomas now will make his peace , Even as his own self lifts : And means to stew you in your grease , The Army with with him twisteth . New halters many , for to hang Those that meant to oppose him , Tell truth , do not your hearts cry twang , That ere at first you chosen him ? O brave Common-Counsell men , etc 6 And now the Royalists will sing , Aloud Vive le Roy ; The Commons will embrace their King , With and unwonted joy : And where's now all your coin and toil , 'Tis vanish'd into air : You may get more , if that you moil Now at S. Bartholmews Fair . O brave Common-Counsell men , etc 7 If Fairfax now his Sovereign bring To London , to his People , Each Parish bells' for joy shall ring , Till they knock down the steeple : And we Sir Thomas his renown Will like S. Georges hallow , Tom May shall all his acts write down , Or Withers that Apollo . O brave Common-Counsell men , etc 8 The Scots do whine that they have lost Their hope's at once : deer Jockey , Thy fine Presbytery quite is crossed , The English doe but mock ye : The coin that is behind of pay , For selling of the King , You'l have the clean contrary way , Sir Thomas will it bring . O Brave Common-Counsell men etc 9 The Trained Bans alas are tyr'd , Their works they cannot man them , And therefore have , the Army hyr'd , Who like to chaff do fan them : The Tower too great a trouble was , They wanted a Constable ; And therefore they did bring't to pass , Sir Thomas might be able . O Brave Common-Counsell men , etc 10 Case now does doubt , calamity Will seize on the Presbytery , Calamie doubts , the case will be So as to see't were pity : The Synod now does greatly doubt , That Bishops , and the Service , Will now once more be brought about , Before it please Tom Gervice , Oh brave Common-Counsell men etc 11 Overton now may walk abroad , Stone walls are weak to hold him ; As Lilburne that same Demigod , Prophetically hath told him : And you may go , and shake your ears , Who had , and could not hold it , What you had strove for many years , And god ; you now have sold it . O brave Common-Counsell men etc 12 You need not now to Westminster To march with Fife and Drum , The Army so your goods prefer , They will supply your room . The Models now and you may lie , Abed till noon , and please ye ; The Army , will your place supply , All this is done to ease ye . O brave Common-Counsell men etc 13 And now what do you lack found men , Alas you wanted knowledge : Who would have thought , when you had been So long at Gotham College , You should not know to bargain well , But so to maim your Charter : The after-Ages will you tell , You did not wisely barter . O brave Common-Counsell men Oh brave Trained-bands ! When do you think to get again The staff in your own hands ? FINIS . Printed in the Year 1647. H : 439411 A MODE : THE Cities profound Policy , in delivering themselves , their City , their Works and Ammunition , into the pro - tection of the ARMIE . BRave Citizens , you have done well , To make your slaves your Master's ; Your policy it does excel , Your Grooms will be your Tasters . My Lord Mayor , and the Aldermen , Your Gowns must make them breeches ; And if you do retort again , They'l make you eat your Speeches . O brave Common-Counsell men , Oh brave Trained-Bands ! When do you think to get again The staff in your own hands ? 2 Th' Apprentices did vapour much , They'd bang the Army soundly , And yet their valour proved such , They durst not go to't roundly : Massey was made the General Of all your mighty Forces ; But when he on the Foe should fallen , He wanted men and horses . O brave Common-Counsell men , Oh brave Trained-Bands ! When do you think to get again The staff in your own hands ? 3 Wher's Hollis now and Stapleton , Jack Maynard and Clotworthy ? And where is Prynne and Poyntz now gone , To purge them of the scurvy ? And Glyn and Lewis have left all , Within at six and sevens ; And Waller's gone to Glocester-Hall To visit Mrs. Stevens . O brave Common-Counsell men , etc 4 The Soldiers now , even where they wish , Will in your City quarter , And 'fore you taste of every dish ; And for your wives will barter . Your dainty ducks , whose soles never treads Upon the earth that bears them , They now will towse upon your beds , Your Antlers nothing scares them . O brave Common-Counsell men , etc 5 Sir Thomas now will make his peace , Even as his own self lifts : And means to stew you in your grease , The Army with with him twisteth . New halters many , for to hang Those that meant to oppose him , Tell truth , do not your hearts cry twang , That ere at first you chosen him ? O brave Common-Counsell men , etc 6 And now the Royalists will sing , Aloud Vive le Roy ; The Commons will embrace their King , With and unwonted joy : And where's now all your coin and toil , 'Tis vanish'd into air : You may get more , if that you moil Now at S. Bartholmews Fair . O brave Common-Counsell men , etc 7 If Fairfax now his Sovereign bring To London , to his People , Each Parish bells' for joy shall ring , Till they knock down the steeple : And we Sir Thomas his renown Will like S. Georges hallow , Tom May shall all his acts write down , Or Withers that Apollo . O brave Common-Counsell men , etc 8 The Scots do whine that they have lost Their hope's at once : deer Jockey , Thy fine Presbytery quite is crossed , The English doe but mock ye : The coin that is behind of pay , For selling of the King , You'l have the clean contrary way , Sir Thomas will it bring . O Brave Common-Counsell men etc 9 The Trained Bans alas are tyr'd , Their works they cannot man them , And therefore have , the Army hyr'd , Who like to chaff do fan them : The Tower too great a trouble was , They wanted a Constable ; And therefore they did bring't to pass , Sir Thomas might be able . O Brave Common-Counsell men , etc 10 Case now does doubt , calamity Will seize on the Presbytery , Calamie doubts , the case will be So as to see't were pity : The Synod now does greatly doubt , That Bishops , and the Service , Will now once more be brought about , Before it please Tom Gervice , Oh brave Common-Counsell men etc 11 Overton now may walk abroad , Stone walls are weak to hold him ; As Lilburne that same Demigod , Prophetically hath told him : And you may go , and shake your ears , Who had , and could not hold it , What you had strove for many years , And god ; you now have sold it . O brave Common-Counsell men etc 12 You need not now to Westminster To march with Fife and Drum , The Army so your goods prefer , They will supply your room . The Models now and you may lie , Abed till noon , and please ye ; The Army , will your place supply , All this is done to ease ye . O brave Common-Counsell men etc 13 And now what do you lack found men , Alas you wanted knowledge : Who would have thought , when you had been So long at Gotham College , You should not know to bargain well , But so to maim your Charter : The after-Ages will you tell , You did not wisely barter . O brave Common-Counsell men Oh brave Trained-bands ! When do you think to get again The staff in your own hands ? FINIS . Printed in the Year 1647. 