H : 439405 THE ANARCHIE , Or the blessed Reformation since 1640. Being a new Carol wherein the People express their thanks and pray for the Reformers . To be said or sung of all the well affected of the Kingdom of England and Dominion of Wales , before they eat any Plumbroth at Christmasse . To a Rare New Tune . NOw that thanks to the Powers below , We have e'ne done our doe , The Miter is down , And so is the Crown , And with them the Coronet too ; Come Clowns and come boys , Come hober de hoys , Come Females of each degree , Stretch your throats , bring in your Votes , And make good the Anarchy . And thus it shall go sayes Alice , Nay thus it shall go sayes Amy ; Nay thus it shall go sayes Taffie I trow , Nay thus it shall go sayes Jamy . Ah but the Truth good people all , The Truth is such a thing , For it wou'd undo , both Church and State too , And cut the throat of our King , Yet not the Spirit , nor the new light , Can make this point so clear , But thou must bring out , thou Deified rout What thing this truth is and where . Speak Abraham , speak Kester , speak Judith , speak Hester ; Speak tag and rag , short coat and long , Truth's the spell made us rebel , And murder and plunder ding dung . Sure I have the truth says Numph , Nay I ha' the truth says Clemms ; Nay I ha' the truth says reverend Ruth , Nay I ha' the truth says Nem. Well let the truth be where it will , We're sure all else is ours , Yet these divisions in our Religions , May chance abate our powers ; Then let's agree on some one way , It skills not much how true , Take Pryn and his Clubs , or Say and his Tubs , Or any sect old or new ; The Devils ith' Pack , if choice you can lack , We're fourscore Religions strong , Take your choice , the major voice Shall carry it right or wrong : Then weel be of this says Megg , Nay weel be of that says Tibb , Nay weel be of all says pitiful Paul , N [ a ] y weel be of none says Gibb . Neighbours and friends pray one word more , There's something yet behind , And wise though you be , you do not well see In which door sits the wind ; As for Religion to speak right And in the Houses sense , The matter's all one to have any or none , If 'twere not for the pretence : But herein does lurk the key of the work , Even to dispose of the Crown , Dex [ tO ] erously and as may be For your behoof in our own . Then lets ha' King CHARLES says George , Nay lets have his son says Hugh , Nay then lets ha' none says jabbering Jone , Nay lets be all Kings says Prue . O we shall have ( if we go on In plunder , Excise , and blood ) But few folk and poor to domineer over , And that will not be so good : Then lets resolve on some new way , Some new and happy course , The Countries grown sad , the City horn mad , And both Houses are worse . The Synod hath writ , the General hath ------ And both to like purpose too , Religion Laws , the Truth , the Cause Are talk't of , but nothing we do . Come come shal's would peace says Nell , No not but we won't says Madge , But I say we will sayes firy fac'd Phill : We will and we won't says Hodge . Thus from the Rout who can expect Ought but division ; Since unity does with Monarchy , Begin and end in One : If then when all is thought their own , And lies at their behest , These popular pates reap nought but debates From that many Roundheaded beast . Come Royalists then do you play the men , And Cavaliers give the word , Now lets see at what you would be , And whither you can accord A health to King CHARLES says Tom , Up with it says Raphe like a Man , God bless him says Doll , and raise him says Moll , And send him his own says Nan . Now for those prudent Things that fit Without end and to none , And their Committees that Towns and Cities Fill with confusion ; For the bold Troops of Sectaries , The Scots and their partakers ; Our new British States , Col Burges and his mates , The Covenant and its makers , For all these weel pray , and in such a way , As if it might granted be , Jack and Gill and Mat and Will , And all the World would agree . A pox take them all says Besse , And a plague too says Margery , The Devil says Dick , and his Dam too says Neck , Amen and Amen say I . It is desired that the Knights and Burgesses would take especi - all care to send down full numbers hereof , to their respective Counties and Burroughs , for which they have served Apprenticeship , that all the people may rejoice as one man , for their freedom . FINIS . H : 439405 THE ANARCHIE , Or the blessed Reformation since 1640. Being a new Carol wherein the People express their thanks and pray for the Reformers . To be said or sung of all the well affected of the Kingdom of England and Dominion of Wales , before they eat any Plumbroth at Christmasse . To a Rare New Tune . NOw that thanks to the Powers below , We have e'ne done our doe , The Miter is down , And so is the Crown , And with them the Coronet too ; Come Clowns and come boys , Come hober de hoys , Come Females of each degree , Stretch your throats , bring in your Votes , And make good the Anarchy . And thus it shall go sayes Alice , Nay thus it shall go sayes Amy ; Nay thus it shall go sayes Taffie I trow , Nay thus it shall go sayes Jamy . Ah but the Truth good people all , The Truth is such a thing , For it wou'd undo , both Church and State too , And cut the throat of our King , Yet not the Spirit , nor the new light , Can make this point so clear , But thou must bring out , thou Deified rout What thing this truth is and where . Speak Abraham , speak Kester , speak Judith , speak Hester ; Speak tag and rag , short coat and long , Truth's the spell made us rebel , And murder and plunder ding dung . Sure I have the truth says Numph , Nay I ha' the truth says Clemms ; Nay I ha' the truth says reverend Ruth , Nay I ha' the truth says Nem. Well let the truth be where it will , We're sure all else is ours , Yet these divisions in our Religions , May chance abate our powers ; Then let's agree on some one way , It skills not much how true , Take Pryn and his Clubs , or Say and his Tubs , Or any sect old or new ; The Devils ith' Pack , if choice you can lack , We're fourscore Religions strong , Take your choice , the major voice Shall carry it right or wrong : Then weel be of this says Megg , Nay weel be of that says Tibb , Nay weel be of all says pitiful Paul , N [ a ] y weel be of none says Gibb . Neighbours and friends pray one word more , There's something yet behind , And wise though you be , you do not well see In which door sits the wind ; As for Religion to speak right And in the Houses sense , The matter's all one to have any or none , If 'twere not for the pretence : But herein does lurk the key of the work , Even to dispose of the Crown , Dex [ tO ] erously and as may be For your behoof in our own . Then lets ha' King CHARLES says George , Nay lets have his son says Hugh , Nay then lets ha' none says jabbering Jone , Nay lets be all Kings says Prue . O we shall have ( if we go on In plunder , Excise , and blood ) But few folk and poor to domineer over , And that will not be so good : Then lets resolve on some new way , Some new and happy course , The Countries grown sad , the City horn mad , And both Houses are worse . The Synod hath writ , the General hath ------ And both to like purpose too , Religion Laws , the Truth , the Cause Are talk't of , but nothing we do . Come come shal's would peace says Nell , No not but we won't says Madge , But I say we will sayes firy fac'd Phill : We will and we won't says Hodge . Thus from the Rout who can expect Ought but division ; Since unity does with Monarchy , Begin and end in One : If then when all is thought their own , And lies at their behest , These popular pates reap nought but debates From that many Roundheaded beast . Come Royalists then do you play the men , And Cavaliers give the word , Now lets see at what you would be , And whither you can accord A health to King CHARLES says Tom , Up with it says Raphe like a Man , God bless him says Doll , and raise him says Moll , And send him his own says Nan . Now for those prudent Things that fit Without end and to none , And their Committees that Towns and Cities Fill with confusion ; For the bold Troops of Sectaries , The Scots and their partakers ; Our new British States , Col Burges and his mates , The Covenant and its makers , For all these weel pray , and in such a way , As if it might granted be , Jack and Gill and Mat and Will , And all the World would agree . A pox take them all says Besse , And a plague too says Margery , The Devil says Dick , and his Dam too says Neck , Amen and Amen say I . It is desired that the Knights and Burgesses would take especi - all care to send down full numbers hereof , to their respective Counties and Burroughs , for which they have served Apprenticeship , that all the people may rejoice as one man , for their freedom . FINIS . 