H : 439414 To a Virtuous and Judicious Lady , who ( for the exercise of her Devotion ) built a Closet , wherein to secure the most Sacred Book of COMMON-PRAYER , from the view and violence of the Enemies thereof , the Sectaries and Schismatics of this Kingdom . Written by a most Orthodox , Moderate , and Judicious Divine , A banished Minister of this miserable Kingdom . SInce it hath pleas'd our wise and newborn State The Common-Prayer-Book t'excommunicate : To turn it out of all , as if it were Some grand Malignant , or some Cavalier : Since in our Churches 't is by them forbid To say such Prayers , as our Father's did : So that Gods House must now be call'd no more The House of Prayer , so ever call'd before : As if those Christians were resolv'd to use That House , as bad , as ever did the Jews : Since that of Christ , may now of Prayer be said , It wants a place whereon to lay its head . I cannot choose but think , it was your care , To built your Closet for distressed PRAYER ; Which here in mourning clad , presents it self , Begging some little corner on your shelf : For since 't is banish'd from all public view , There be none dare it entertain , but you . How times and men are chang'd ! who would have thought T' have seen the Service-Book thus set at nought ? A Book worth Gold , if rightly understood ; Compos'd by Martyrs , sealed with their blood . Once burned by Papists , merely for this cause , It was repugnant to their Popish Laws . Now by our Zelots 't is condemn'd to die , Because ( forsooth ) 't is full of Popery . And thus we see the Golden mean defy'd , And how ( 'twixt two extremes ) 't is crucify'd . But 't is no matter , we see stranger things , Kings must be Subjects now , and Subject's , Kings . The meaner sort of men have all the power ; The upper end is now beneath the lower : The head below the feet ; they'll wear the Crown : who would not think the world's turn'd upside down ? Learning must now give place to Ignorance , So must a Statute to and Ordinance ; Religion to Profaneness , and vainglory ; The Common-Prayer-Book to the Directory . All things are out of order , and I fear , Are like to be , till we are as we were : Till Bishops do return to end the stir Betwixt th' Independent and the Presbyter . Till Kings be Kings , and till we ( wished ) see The Church enjoy her ancient Liturgy . Till Loyalty be had in more regard : And till Rebellion hath its just reward . And that these things may be , we'll not despair : All this , and more , may be obtain'd by Prayer . FINIS . H : 439414 To a Virtuous and Judicious Lady , who ( for the exercise of her Devotion ) built a Closet , wherein to secure the most Sacred Book of COMMON-PRAYER , from the view and violence of the Enemies thereof , the Sectaries and Schismatics of this Kingdom . Written by a most Orthodox , Moderate , and Judicious Divine , A banished Minister of this miserable Kingdom . SInce it hath pleas'd our wise and newborn State The Common-Prayer-Book t'excommunicate : To turn it out of all , as if it were Some grand Malignant , or some Cavalier : Since in our Churches 't is by them forbid To say such Prayers , as our Father's did : So that Gods House must now be call'd no more The House of Prayer , so ever call'd before : As if those Christians were resolv'd to use That House , as bad , as ever did the Jews : Since that of Christ , may now of Prayer be said , It wants a place whereon to lay its head . I cannot choose but think , it was your care , To built your Closet for distressed PRAYER ; Which here in mourning clad , presents it self , Begging some little corner on your shelf : For since 't is banish'd from all public view , There be none dare it entertain , but you . How times and men are chang'd ! who would have thought T' have seen the Service-Book thus set at nought ? A Book worth Gold , if rightly understood ; Compos'd by Martyrs , sealed with their blood . Once burned by Papists , merely for this cause , It was repugnant to their Popish Laws . Now by our Zelots 't is condemn'd to die , Because ( forsooth ) 't is full of Popery . And thus we see the Golden mean defy'd , And how ( 'twixt two extremes ) 't is crucify'd . But 't is no matter , we see stranger things , Kings must be Subjects now , and Subject's , Kings . The meaner sort of men have all the power ; The upper end is now beneath the lower : The head below the feet ; they'll wear the Crown : who would not think the world's turn'd upside down ? Learning must now give place to Ignorance , So must a Statute to and Ordinance ; Religion to Profaneness , and vainglory ; The Common-Prayer-Book to the Directory . All things are out of order , and I fear , Are like to be , till we are as we were : Till Bishops do return to end the stir Betwixt th' Independent and the Presbyter . Till Kings be Kings , and till we ( wished ) see The Church enjoy her ancient Liturgy . Till Loyalty be had in more regard : And till Rebellion hath its just reward . And that these things may be , we'll not despair : All this , and more , may be obtain'd by Prayer . FINIS . 