H : 471489 A POEM as it was PRESENTED TO HIS SACRED MAJESTY On the Discovery of the PLOTT , Written by a Lady of Quality . HAILE Mighty Prince ! whom Heaven has design'd To be the chief delight of human kind : So many Virtues crowd your Breast that we Do always question your Mortality : Sure all the Planets that o're Virtue raigns , Shed their best Influence in your Royal Veins : You are the Glory of Monarchial Pow'rs , In Bounties free as are descending showr's ; Fierce as a Tempest when ingag'd in War , In Peace more mild than tender Virgins are ; In pitying Mercy , you not imitate The Heavenly Pow'rs , but rather emulate . None but your self , your sufferings could have born With so much Greatness , such Heroic scorn , When Hated Traitors do your Life pursue , And all the World is fill'd with Cares for you ; When every Loyal Heart is sunk with fear , Your self alone does unconcern'd appear ; Your Soul within , still keeps it's lawful state , Contemns and dares the worst effects of Fate , As the bright Majesty shot from your Eye , Aw'd your tame Fate , and rul'd your destiny . Though your Undaunted soul bore you thus high , Your solid Judgement sees ther's danger nigh ; Which with such care and Prudence you prevent As if you fear'd not but t'would cross th'event . Your Care so nobly looks , it does Appear This for your Subject's , not your Self you fear : Heaven ! make this Princes Life your nearest care , That does so many of your Best Virtues share : If Monarchs in their Actions copy you , This is the nearest Piece you ever drew : Blast every hand that dares to be so bold , And Impious Weapon 'gainst his Life to hold : Burst every Heart that dares but Think him ill ; Their Guilty souls with so much Terror fill , That of themselves they may their Plot unfold ; And Live no longer then the Tale is told . Safe in your Care , all else will needless prove Yet keep him safe too in his Subject's Love . Your Subject's View You with such Loyal Eyes They know not how they may their Treasure prize . Were You defenceless , they would round you fallen , And Pile their bodies to built up a wall . Were you distre'st , 'twould prove a gen'rous strife , Who first should loose his Own , to save Your Life . But since kind Heaven these Dangers does remove , Wee'l find out other ways t' express our Love . Wee'l force the Traitors all , their souls resign , To heard with him that taught them their design . FINIS . Printed in the year 1679. H : 471489 A POEM as it was PRESENTED TO HIS SACRED MAJESTY On the Discovery of the PLOTT , Written by a Lady of Quality . HAILE Mighty Prince ! whom Heaven has design'd To be the chief delight of human kind : So many Virtues crowd your Breast that we Do always question your Mortality : Sure all the Planets that o're Virtue raigns , Shed their best Influence in your Royal Veins : You are the Glory of Monarchial Pow'rs , In Bounties free as are descending showr's ; Fierce as a Tempest when ingag'd in War , In Peace more mild than tender Virgins are ; In pitying Mercy , you not imitate The Heavenly Pow'rs , but rather emulate . None but your self , your sufferings could have born With so much Greatness , such Heroic scorn , When Hated Traitors do your Life pursue , And all the World is fill'd with Cares for you ; When every Loyal Heart is sunk with fear , Your self alone does unconcern'd appear ; Your Soul within , still keeps it's lawful state , Contemns and dares the worst effects of Fate , As the bright Majesty shot from your Eye , Aw'd your tame Fate , and rul'd your destiny . Though your Undaunted soul bore you thus high , Your solid Judgement sees ther's danger nigh ; Which with such care and Prudence you prevent As if you fear'd not but t'would cross th'event . Your Care so nobly looks , it does Appear This for your Subject's , not your Self you fear : Heaven ! make this Princes Life your nearest care , That does so many of your Best Virtues share : If Monarchs in their Actions copy you , This is the nearest Piece you ever drew : Blast every hand that dares to be so bold , And Impious Weapon 'gainst his Life to hold : Burst every Heart that dares but Think him ill ; Their Guilty souls with so much Terror fill , That of themselves they may their Plot unfold ; And Live no longer then the Tale is told . Safe in your Care , all else will needless prove Yet keep him safe too in his Subject's Love . Your Subject's View You with such Loyal Eyes They know not how they may their Treasure prize . Were You defenceless , they would round you fallen , And Pile their bodies to built up a wall . Were you distre'st , 'twould prove a gen'rous strife , Who first should loose his Own , to save Your Life . But since kind Heaven these Dangers does remove , Wee'l find out other ways t' express our Love . Wee'l force the Traitors all , their souls resign , To heard with him that taught them their design . FINIS . Printed in the year 1679. 