H : 478338 ENGLAND'S Remembrancer , For the Late Discovery of the Horrid PLO Found in a Meal Tub , by Sir William Waller One of his Majesties Justices of Peace for Middlesex . The Design of the Papists in this PLOT was , to put it off themselves , and lay it upon the Presbyterians : making them the Designers of the Change of Government , and the Murderers of his Majesty , etc EXperience shows while Godfrey lived here , No formidable PLOT durst 'ere appear , But what was quel'd as soon as well begun , And made apparent unto every one , In such clear Demonstration , that 'tis plain He was the Coachman to great Charles his Wain . And safely did secure from Popish Plots All poor distressed threatened Hugonots : Since whose inhumane Murder , Our great God Hath rais'd our Foes , full , as severe a Rod ; A man whose sharp prodig'ous piercing Eye , Can plainly see their utmost Treachery . And knows full well with such great Knaves to deal , Witness the Papers found in Tubs of Meal . That Roman scarlet Whore , he now will maul her , This we expect from good Sir William Waller . A PLOT contriv'd 'gainst Presbyterian Blood , Whose Innocence the World hath understood . A PLOT forg'd by the chief of this great CITY ! And no man Punish'd , it is great Pity ! A PLOT contriv'd and no man knows yet what , This is a Romish Devil of a PLOT . But thanks to GOD , oh KING , and Wallers care , Their hidden Engines now discovered are , For what they on this City would have lay'd , Is by his Circumspection betrayed ; GOD'S Providence , and Wallers studious care Hath laid the Bottom of their Secrets bore : And shows their Plot's of so deformed a hew , As none dare own , but the bold Roman Crew . Who neither fear their GOD , Honour their KING , Their Romish Principles teach no such thing , Slaughter and Murder are the only Books , In which each Romanist devoutly looks , And nothing is by them more understood Than shedding Protestant ( though Princely ) Blood . Though thanks to God their Devilish Romish Sport Hath not as yet prevail'd upon the Cour All Sovereign Princes are e'n Sacred things , This Dang'rous meddling with the Thrones of Kings . And we still hope , while Waller lives we may Find out those Drifts designed to betray Both KING and Kingdom , I , and Nation too , At one Bloodthirsty and revengeful Blow . And not inferior is great LONDON'S Mayor , Who to detect the same took no less Care , When once the 'Curst Discovery began , And his great Wisdom did each Matter scan , Nothing like this e'r reach'd the Heart of Man. It did appear so foul , none present knew How to believe the things , there sworn were true ; Until their Dangerfield declared , He Would make appear what he did Certify . All that remains is only fervent Pray'r For his Majesties prosperous welfare , Sir William Waller , and our good Lord Mayer . We praise our God , though Papists did design On Protestants to cast this Dismal Crime . So good hath our GOD been , to turn the Story To their great Infamy and his great Glory . Let therefore ENGLAND now once more rebound With joyful Eccho's that may tear the Ground , In Memory of his Great Mercy shown , Than which , a greater scarce was ever known . Cease then you bloody minded Papists , cease , Your only way will be to live in Peace : Accept the Mercies of our Gracious KING , Lest you do go to Heaven in a String : Then 'twill be late Repentance , now you may Have Mercy offer'd while it's call'd today . If this fair Proffer you reject , 'tis just Catch should conclude your Lives , and so he must . LONDON , Printed in the Year , 1679. H : 478338 ENGLAND'S Remembrancer , For the Late Discovery of the Horrid PLO Found in a Meal Tub , by Sir William Waller One of his Majesties Justices of Peace for Middlesex . The Design of the Papists in this PLOT was , to put it off themselves , and lay it upon the Presbyterians : making them the Designers of the Change of Government , and the Murderers of his Majesty , etc EXperience shows while Godfrey lived here , No formidable PLOT durst 'ere appear , But what was quel'd as soon as well begun , And made apparent unto every one , In such clear Demonstration , that 'tis plain He was the Coachman to great Charles his Wain . And safely did secure from Popish Plots All poor distressed threatened Hugonots : Since whose inhumane Murder , Our great God Hath rais'd our Foes , full , as severe a Rod ; A man whose sharp prodig'ous piercing Eye , Can plainly see their utmost Treachery . And knows full well with such great Knaves to deal , Witness the Papers found in Tubs of Meal . That Roman scarlet Whore , he now will maul her , This we expect from good Sir William Waller . A PLOT contriv'd 'gainst Presbyterian Blood , Whose Innocence the World hath understood . A PLOT forg'd by the chief of this great CITY ! And no man Punish'd , it is great Pity ! A PLOT contriv'd and no man knows yet what , This is a Romish Devil of a PLOT . But thanks to GOD , oh KING , and Wallers care , Their hidden Engines now discovered are , For what they on this City would have lay'd , Is by his Circumspection betrayed ; GOD'S Providence , and Wallers studious care Hath laid the Bottom of their Secrets bore : And shows their Plot's of so deformed a hew , As none dare own , but the bold Roman Crew . Who neither fear their GOD , Honour their KING , Their Romish Principles teach no such thing , Slaughter and Murder are the only Books , In which each Romanist devoutly looks , And nothing is by them more understood Than shedding Protestant ( though Princely ) Blood . Though thanks to God their Devilish Romish Sport Hath not as yet prevail'd upon the Cour All Sovereign Princes are e'n Sacred things , This Dang'rous meddling with the Thrones of Kings . And we still hope , while Waller lives we may Find out those Drifts designed to betray Both KING and Kingdom , I , and Nation too , At one Bloodthirsty and revengeful Blow . And not inferior is great LONDON'S Mayor , Who to detect the same took no less Care , When once the 'Curst Discovery began , And his great Wisdom did each Matter scan , Nothing like this e'r reach'd the Heart of Man. It did appear so foul , none present knew How to believe the things , there sworn were true ; Until their Dangerfield declared , He Would make appear what he did Certify . All that remains is only fervent Pray'r For his Majesties prosperous welfare , Sir William Waller , and our good Lord Mayer . We praise our God , though Papists did design On Protestants to cast this Dismal Crime . So good hath our GOD been , to turn the Story To their great Infamy and his great Glory . Let therefore ENGLAND now once more rebound With joyful Eccho's that may tear the Ground , In Memory of his Great Mercy shown , Than which , a greater scarce was ever known . Cease then you bloody minded Papists , cease , Your only way will be to live in Peace : Accept the Mercies of our Gracious KING , Lest you do go to Heaven in a String : Then 'twill be late Repentance , now you may Have Mercy offer'd while it's call'd today . If this fair Proffer you reject , 'tis just Catch should conclude your Lives , and so he must . LONDON , Printed in the Year , 1679. 