H : 475080 THE RECOVERY . YEt once more Peace turns back her head , to smile , And take some Pity on our stubborn Isle ; She , and her Sister Truth now Hand in Hand , Return to visit our forsaken Land. I see , I see , Oh Albion ! Bless the Sighed ! Truth long Eclips'd lift up her Sacred Light , And chase away the obscene Birds of Night . Th' ill Boding Screech-Owl we so long did fear , Hov'ring above us in our thick'ned Air ; Whose Fatal Note was never herd , but Death Follow'd th' Infernal Evidencing Breath . Hail Lovely Truth ! Oh! Spread thy Rays Divine , And bid thy Dawning Beams more fully Shine ; Already thy Glad Influence We find , And all now see but They who will be blind : They see while Thou hold'st up thy Guiding Light , The Dangerous Error of their Former Night ; A Night , which all our Heaven did Invade , By the Dire Skill of State Magicians made . In a Dark Cell the Wayward Brother's met , I' th' midst a Chair there was for Satan set ; Which in his Absence --------- A little Wither'd Conjurer Supply'd , And all his Imps drank Venom from his Side : His Word was ( then He out his Tap did pluck , ) Come my young Pugs of Treason , come and Suck : This Hellish Rite perform'd , to work they go To raise up Darkness from the Shades below ; Thick Mists of Popular Fears and Jealousies Did at their Necromantic Call arise , And in Black Clouds hid the British Skies . Here first their unskil'd Spirits their Visions play'd , And learned their Visions to the Hatfield Maid : Here first were rais'd the wond'ring World to scar , The Armies Harris Muster'd in the Air . But now the Charms's Dissolv'd , and England's free From the Enchantment , does it's Madness see ; Sees its vain Fears of that Expected Day , No Royal Blood stain'd the Fifteenth of May : Prevailing Truth has open'd Britains Eyes , And Folly seen , begins to make Her wise . O let us then Unite , make Faction cease , Nor think Confusion is the way to Peace ; That Schism must the Churches Fallen prevent , Or breaking Law , secure the Government . Let Traitors to expected Trial come , And from the Mouth of Justice hear their Doom : 'Tis so , the Traitor comes , now , now maintain Justice thy Seat , nor bear the Sword in vain . Tho Hackney Speakers wou'd o're Law prevail , And Conquer Thee by telling a false Tale ; Though Factious or Guilty Lords appear , To blunt that Sword whose Edge they justly fear ; Though Garter Blue , and Star the Court should awe ; But o ! that Star does now its Beams withdraw , Nor at the Trial will its Light dispense , To cherish Treason with its Influence . What then are they who from thy Hand would snatch The blackest Traitor Hell did ever hatch ? When they but once that Horrid Paper see , Which does almost exceed in Villainy , Satan , or his Viceregent Sh ------ ry ; Who in this Cause so much had never done , But that he knew the ugly Brat his own . Yet all in vain strives Counsellors and Lord , Revenging Goddess , speak the Fatal Word ; Nor let Confession turn aside thy Blow , But once strike Rogues that own that they are so . Had this been early done , t'had sav'd the Gilded Of so much Blood so Prodigally spilled ; While certain Villainy did hurry hence , To Unjust Death Suspected Innocence . But Justice now in this Triumphant Scene , Thy Shame does end , and Triumph does begin . All this to thy Defender CHARLES is due , Who now with Thee His Glory does renew ; Already with fresh Beams the Crown does shine , Power Sacred grows , and Majesty Divine : His Majesty's Scepter's in His Hand held fast , Nor like a Reed is bent with every Blas Hold , hold Great CHARLES , this Resolution hold , And in thy own and Kingdoms Cause be Bold ; What ever of this Mighty Body , Thou The Head Resolv'st , We thy Hands will do ; Dare to be Happy , and to make Us so . How Great is Majesty , and how August ? How Godlike , when 'tis Resolutely Just ? Then 'tis that Willing Subject's gladly meet , To throw their Lives before their Monarchs Feet ; Then 'tis their Fortune's they before him lay , Sue to be Rul'd , and Glory to Obey . Such CHARLES is now thy State , and such the Train Of these that now Petition Thee to Reign ; See , even thy Prodigal Son does now desire , To leave his Husks , and Swine , and Wapping Mire , In which so long He wallow'd up and down , Known to each Dirty Kennel in the Town ; And to his Injur'd Father , and his Lord , Would by his much wrong'd Uncle be restor'd . How well have W ------ s , J ------ s , and W ------ n , B --- h , G ------ worser , TO ------ y , their great Duties done ! How have They taught the People to Repent Their Zeal for their great Idol P --------- tO ! How have They shown the Arbitrary way That Monster took to make Us all its Prey ? They to loose all , claim'd more than was their Right , And stretch'd their Power only to break it quite . These , These are They who have True Service done , Meriting their Sacred Favours from the Crown : These , These have made a Dissolution be , Not Wisdom only , but Necessity . These thus remov'd , our Jealousies and Fears , Were ever so Deserving Pensioners ! Then Charles , since all things now conspire to bless Thy Peaceful Age with Conquest and Success ; Begin , Resolve , and Venture to be Great , Now overthrow these Vast Designs of Fate : Begin at home , Purge thine own House , and free From Villains Tongues the Ears of Majesty ; False P ------ s from the Bedchamber Discard , Let Catchpole Br ------ s thy Court be bar'd , Nor leave one Factious R ------ l in the Guard . FINIS . H : 475080 THE RECOVERY . YEt once more Peace turns back her head , to smile , And take some Pity on our stubborn Isle ; She , and her Sister Truth now Hand in Hand , Return to visit our forsaken Land. I see , I see , Oh Albion ! Bless the Sighed ! Truth long Eclips'd lift up her Sacred Light , And chase away the obscene Birds of Night . Th' ill Boding Screech-Owl we so long did fear , Hov'ring above us in our thick'ned Air ; Whose Fatal Note was never herd , but Death Follow'd th' Infernal Evidencing Breath . Hail Lovely Truth ! Oh! Spread thy Rays Divine , And bid thy Dawning Beams more fully Shine ; Already thy Glad Influence We find , And all now see but They who will be blind : They see while Thou hold'st up thy Guiding Light , The Dangerous Error of their Former Night ; A Night , which all our Heaven did Invade , By the Dire Skill of State Magicians made . In a Dark Cell the Wayward Brother's met , I' th' midst a Chair there was for Satan set ; Which in his Absence --------- A little Wither'd Conjurer Supply'd , And all his Imps drank Venom from his Side : His Word was ( then He out his Tap did pluck , ) Come my young Pugs of Treason , come and Suck : This Hellish Rite perform'd , to work they go To raise up Darkness from the Shades below ; Thick Mists of Popular Fears and Jealousies Did at their Necromantic Call arise , And in Black Clouds hid the British Skies . Here first their unskil'd Spirits their Visions play'd , And learned their Visions to the Hatfield Maid : Here first were rais'd the wond'ring World to scar , The Armies Harris Muster'd in the Air . But now the Charms's Dissolv'd , and England's free From the Enchantment , does it's Madness see ; Sees its vain Fears of that Expected Day , No Royal Blood stain'd the Fifteenth of May : Prevailing Truth has open'd Britains Eyes , And Folly seen , begins to make Her wise . O let us then Unite , make Faction cease , Nor think Confusion is the way to Peace ; That Schism must the Churches Fallen prevent , Or breaking Law , secure the Government . Let Traitors to expected Trial come , And from the Mouth of Justice hear their Doom : 'Tis so , the Traitor comes , now , now maintain Justice thy Seat , nor bear the Sword in vain . Tho Hackney Speakers wou'd o're Law prevail , And Conquer Thee by telling a false Tale ; Though Factious or Guilty Lords appear , To blunt that Sword whose Edge they justly fear ; Though Garter Blue , and Star the Court should awe ; But o ! that Star does now its Beams withdraw , Nor at the Trial will its Light dispense , To cherish Treason with its Influence . What then are they who from thy Hand would snatch The blackest Traitor Hell did ever hatch ? When they but once that Horrid Paper see , Which does almost exceed in Villainy , Satan , or his Viceregent Sh ------ ry ; Who in this Cause so much had never done , But that he knew the ugly Brat his own . Yet all in vain strives Counsellors and Lord , Revenging Goddess , speak the Fatal Word ; Nor let Confession turn aside thy Blow , But once strike Rogues that own that they are so . Had this been early done , t'had sav'd the Gilded Of so much Blood so Prodigally spilled ; While certain Villainy did hurry hence , To Unjust Death Suspected Innocence . But Justice now in this Triumphant Scene , Thy Shame does end , and Triumph does begin . All this to thy Defender CHARLES is due , Who now with Thee His Glory does renew ; Already with fresh Beams the Crown does shine , Power Sacred grows , and Majesty Divine : His Majesty's Scepter's in His Hand held fast , Nor like a Reed is bent with every Blas Hold , hold Great CHARLES , this Resolution hold , And in thy own and Kingdoms Cause be Bold ; What ever of this Mighty Body , Thou The Head Resolv'st , We thy Hands will do ; Dare to be Happy , and to make Us so . How Great is Majesty , and how August ? How Godlike , when 'tis Resolutely Just ? Then 'tis that Willing Subject's gladly meet , To throw their Lives before their Monarchs Feet ; Then 'tis their Fortune's they before him lay , Sue to be Rul'd , and Glory to Obey . Such CHARLES is now thy State , and such the Train Of these that now Petition Thee to Reign ; See , even thy Prodigal Son does now desire , To leave his Husks , and Swine , and Wapping Mire , In which so long He wallow'd up and down , Known to each Dirty Kennel in the Town ; And to his Injur'd Father , and his Lord , Would by his much wrong'd Uncle be restor'd . How well have W ------ s , J ------ s , and W ------ n , B --- h , G ------ worser , TO ------ y , their great Duties done ! How have They taught the People to Repent Their Zeal for their great Idol P --------- tO ! How have They shown the Arbitrary way That Monster took to make Us all its Prey ? They to loose all , claim'd more than was their Right , And stretch'd their Power only to break it quite . These , These are They who have True Service done , Meriting their Sacred Favours from the Crown : These , These have made a Dissolution be , Not Wisdom only , but Necessity . These thus remov'd , our Jealousies and Fears , Were ever so Deserving Pensioners ! Then Charles , since all things now conspire to bless Thy Peaceful Age with Conquest and Success ; Begin , Resolve , and Venture to be Great , Now overthrow these Vast Designs of Fate : Begin at home , Purge thine own House , and free From Villains Tongues the Ears of Majesty ; False P ------ s from the Bedchamber Discard , Let Catchpole Br ------ s thy Court be bar'd , Nor leave one Factious R ------ l in the Guard . FINIS . 