H : 479696 SINNES DISCOVERY BY THE EMBLEM OF A TOAD . POor man , why , with disdain do'st look on Me ? Thy self more vile , by Sin , why do'st not See ? A Toad I am , yet serve God in my kind , Accomplishing those Ends to me Assign'd . My place I keep , where God appointed me , From Earth that Venom , I Suck-up , which Thee And Beasts would hur and yet my poyson's good For Medicines , were it rightly understood , And with this poison though my self , I fill , Its that which can the body only kill , And makes me loathsome unto mortal Eyes But , with me all my shame and sorrow die . But thou rebell'st against Gods majesty , And serv'st the Devil his damn'd Enemy . With filthy Lustest ( worst Poison ) fil'd thou art , Which makes Jehova loath thee with his heart Thy poisons worse , ten thousand times than mine Which only does the body kill ; but thine The soul , likewise ; and if in sin thou die , Death does not end thy shame and misery , It ( then ) begins ; which ( once ) but felt and seen , A loathsome Toad , like me , thou'lt wish , thou'dst been , Then thou wilt find thy state , than mine far worse , Since , ugly-Sinne made Christ become a Curse And that men Sin caus'd all that misery , Which Christ endur'd from Cratch to Crused-Tree . Yea , that each wilful , unrepented Sin , Does horror here , and hell hereafter win . since , therefore , worse than Plagues , death , hell , the devil , Cause of all ill , hate , as the greatest evil , And if thou ( ere ) wilt enter Heavens straight Gate Let Sinnes not Toads , be object of thy hate . FINIS F.P. London , Printed for John Overton , and are to be sold at his Shop at the Sign of the White-Horse without New-Gate , 1673. H : 479696 SINNES DISCOVERY BY THE EMBLEM OF A TOAD . POor man , why , with disdain do'st look on Me ? Thy self more vile , by Sin , why do'st not See ? A Toad I am , yet serve God in my kind , Accomplishing those Ends to me Assign'd . My place I keep , where God appointed me , From Earth that Venom , I Suck-up , which Thee And Beasts would hur and yet my poyson's good For Medicines , were it rightly understood , And with this poison though my self , I fill , Its that which can the body only kill , And makes me loathsome unto mortal Eyes But , with me all my shame and sorrow die . But thou rebell'st against Gods majesty , And serv'st the Devil his damn'd Enemy . With filthy Lustest ( worst Poison ) fil'd thou art , Which makes Jehova loath thee with his heart Thy poisons worse , ten thousand times than mine Which only does the body kill ; but thine The soul , likewise ; and if in sin thou die , Death does not end thy shame and misery , It ( then ) begins ; which ( once ) but felt and seen , A loathsome Toad , like me , thou'lt wish , thou'dst been , Then thou wilt find thy state , than mine far worse , Since , ugly-Sinne made Christ become a Curse And that men Sin caus'd all that misery , Which Christ endur'd from Cratch to Crused-Tree . Yea , that each wilful , unrepented Sin , Does horror here , and hell hereafter win . since , therefore , worse than Plagues , death , hell , the devil , Cause of all ill , hate , as the greatest evil , And if thou ( ere ) wilt enter Heavens straight Gate Let Sinnes not Toads , be object of thy hate . FINIS F.P. London , Printed for John Overton , and are to be sold at his Shop at the Sign of the White-Horse without New-Gate , 1673. 