H : 479690 THE CAR-MAN'S POEM : OR , ADVICE to a Nest of Scribblers . CAR-men turn Poets now , why may not I ? Then Horse , and Cart , and Whip , stand you three by : Nay , but I lack my Whip to lash those Cattle , That by their Scribbling bid the Kingdom Battle . Wou'd I cou'd lash you with such mighty force , As I have us'd to lash my drudging Horse . It's the dull Satyrs of this envious Age , That puts my Fancy in so great a rage ; They swarm in ev'ry Street , in ev'ry Shop , They are the Froth of ev'ry idle Fop. He that has nought to do , takes Pen and Ink , Calls for some Paper , and a Pot of Drink , And then the Maggot works , and Noddle rings , And they'l not spare the best of British Kings : Malice , and Pride , and Drink are all agreed , Then drive on , Carman : but none cries , God speed . Their wicked Wit's on wheels , but why so fast ? I am afraid you'l pay for this at las Your headstrong Fancy must be curb'd e're long , The Judge will make you sing another Song , A King's a puny thing in your conceit ; And all by reason of a shallow Pate : A Duke's a Trifle , and a Queen's a Toy ; It's death to you to sing out Viv' le Roy . And a grave Bishop , or a learned Dean , You do abhor as much as King and Queen : Judges are next to nothing in your eye . So boldly from all Government you fly , That with your dirty , frothy , hair-brain'd Pen , You lash our Kings , even like our Common men . Touch not the Lords Anointed , it is said ; But when with Ale and Beer you're muddy made , When with a little Drink your heads are warm , You touch the King , and do his Prophets harm : You rail , abuse , contemn , despise and jeer , You lash them like your Horses , without fear : It matters not for Sense , be they but Rhimes , Then there is hope's they'l suit with these sad Times . Away they run to Smith , and he corrects them ; That's a mistake , he Prints , and he Protects them : From Friend to Friend they march about the Street , And ev'ry Baptiz'd Brother's glad to see' O how they shrug their Elbows with delight , To see such dang'rous things appear in sighed . He's wise that's bold , the fittest man for th' Times , That dare presume to write the worst of Rhimes : Hang Sense , that's out of fashion , so is Reason ; Come let us see you write Sedition , Treason , Move for a Commonwealth , cry down the King , Another Royal Head to th' Block let's bring ; Rail at the Bishops , and the Common-Prayer , Abuse the Papists , this is past compare : Let us beatrice down all these too Loyal Elves , Then we may hope we shall set up our selves . This is the language of the Baptiz'd Beast , The heart of ev'ry Presbyterian Priest . Did they but fear a God , they'd love a King , They seldom Harp on such a pleasant String : They make long Pray'rs your Houses to devour , They'l pray for half a day , and preach and hour ; They'l Fast in earnest ; turn up th' white o' th' eyes , Ev'n like a Paraketto to the Skies : They'l walk demurely , chatter like a Saint , Their language is so zealous , smooth and quaint , You wou'd not think that they cou'd act ought ill , Much less that they their Sov'reign Lord wou'd kill . Give them but pow'r , you'l find them greater Cheaters , Then old Nol Cromwell , or his Chaplain Peters . What has our Law no limits for our words ? And shall our Pens cut like two-edged Swords , And none regard them ? shall our Libels swarm , And will no Judge take notice of the harm ? Seditious Libels surely have a Charm , There's not one Judge that dare put forth his arm . Then let our Pamphlets swarm about the City , Be deaf and do not show Conformists pity ; Satyr them unto death , the day's our own , Our Judges now we find are weary grown : Spare neither King nor Subject , let all share Alike that love the Mass and Common-Prayer : Come , drive on , Carman , set thy brains to work , And write as if it were against the Turk . Puddle-dock Coachman , hold thy Dung-Cart Pen , Spurn not against such great and pow'rful men ; They do but let you run to your wits end , Now you must pay for what you wrote , my Friend . Thou that didst sin against both Judge and King , And stole the Honey , now must feel the Sting : Thy Libels now are all upon the File , That swarm like Hornets in a pleasing Isle . Imprimis , Answer thy Tom Ticklefoot , I fear that that will put thee hardly to' Item , remember thy late New-years-Gift , Thy Neck thou from this Noose canst no way shift , Unless it from a twisted Halter be , Unto a Wooden Noose call'd Pillory : And thy late Satyr will not be forgotten , When Smith and Anvil are decay'd and rotten . Judgement has Leaden heels , but without doubt At the long run 'twill find the Rabble ou Then woe be to you , better you were choak'd , Then deal with Judges that you have provok'd ; My life for yours they'l stick upon your Skirts , And pay you home for all your Jeers and Flirts : You and your hireling Scribblers will repent , That they their Time , and you your Money spent . One witty Dolben , and a sharp Recorder , Will timely bring you all to better order : A Pillory will tell us you were Rogues , To write against a Judge so just as Scroggs , Whose Worth and Judgement , Wit and Justice flies With far more Fame , thanks to your Scribbling Lies . FINIS . H : 479690 THE CAR-MAN'S POEM : OR , ADVICE to a Nest of Scribblers . CAR-men turn Poets now , why may not I ? Then Horse , and Cart , and Whip , stand you three by : Nay , but I lack my Whip to lash those Cattle , That by their Scribbling bid the Kingdom Battle . Wou'd I cou'd lash you with such mighty force , As I have us'd to lash my drudging Horse . It's the dull Satyrs of this envious Age , That puts my Fancy in so great a rage ; They swarm in ev'ry Street , in ev'ry Shop , They are the Froth of ev'ry idle Fop. He that has nought to do , takes Pen and Ink , Calls for some Paper , and a Pot of Drink , And then the Maggot works , and Noddle rings , And they'l not spare the best of British Kings : Malice , and Pride , and Drink are all agreed , Then drive on , Carman : but none cries , God speed . Their wicked Wit's on wheels , but why so fast ? I am afraid you'l pay for this at las Your headstrong Fancy must be curb'd e're long , The Judge will make you sing another Song , A King's a puny thing in your conceit ; And all by reason of a shallow Pate : A Duke's a Trifle , and a Queen's a Toy ; It's death to you to sing out Viv' le Roy . And a grave Bishop , or a learned Dean , You do abhor as much as King and Queen : Judges are next to nothing in your eye . So boldly from all Government you fly , That with your dirty , frothy , hair-brain'd Pen , You lash our Kings , even like our Common men . Touch not the Lords Anointed , it is said ; But when with Ale and Beer you're muddy made , When with a little Drink your heads are warm , You touch the King , and do his Prophets harm : You rail , abuse , contemn , despise and jeer , You lash them like your Horses , without fear : It matters not for Sense , be they but Rhimes , Then there is hope's they'l suit with these sad Times . Away they run to Smith , and he corrects them ; That's a mistake , he Prints , and he Protects them : From Friend to Friend they march about the Street , And ev'ry Baptiz'd Brother's glad to see' O how they shrug their Elbows with delight , To see such dang'rous things appear in sighed . He's wise that's bold , the fittest man for th' Times , That dare presume to write the worst of Rhimes : Hang Sense , that's out of fashion , so is Reason ; Come let us see you write Sedition , Treason , Move for a Commonwealth , cry down the King , Another Royal Head to th' Block let's bring ; Rail at the Bishops , and the Common-Prayer , Abuse the Papists , this is past compare : Let us beatrice down all these too Loyal Elves , Then we may hope we shall set up our selves . This is the language of the Baptiz'd Beast , The heart of ev'ry Presbyterian Priest . Did they but fear a God , they'd love a King , They seldom Harp on such a pleasant String : They make long Pray'rs your Houses to devour , They'l pray for half a day , and preach and hour ; They'l Fast in earnest ; turn up th' white o' th' eyes , Ev'n like a Paraketto to the Skies : They'l walk demurely , chatter like a Saint , Their language is so zealous , smooth and quaint , You wou'd not think that they cou'd act ought ill , Much less that they their Sov'reign Lord wou'd kill . Give them but pow'r , you'l find them greater Cheaters , Then old Nol Cromwell , or his Chaplain Peters . What has our Law no limits for our words ? And shall our Pens cut like two-edged Swords , And none regard them ? shall our Libels swarm , And will no Judge take notice of the harm ? Seditious Libels surely have a Charm , There's not one Judge that dare put forth his arm . Then let our Pamphlets swarm about the City , Be deaf and do not show Conformists pity ; Satyr them unto death , the day's our own , Our Judges now we find are weary grown : Spare neither King nor Subject , let all share Alike that love the Mass and Common-Prayer : Come , drive on , Carman , set thy brains to work , And write as if it were against the Turk . Puddle-dock Coachman , hold thy Dung-Cart Pen , Spurn not against such great and pow'rful men ; They do but let you run to your wits end , Now you must pay for what you wrote , my Friend . Thou that didst sin against both Judge and King , And stole the Honey , now must feel the Sting : Thy Libels now are all upon the File , That swarm like Hornets in a pleasing Isle . Imprimis , Answer thy Tom Ticklefoot , I fear that that will put thee hardly to' Item , remember thy late New-years-Gift , Thy Neck thou from this Noose canst no way shift , Unless it from a twisted Halter be , Unto a Wooden Noose call'd Pillory : And thy late Satyr will not be forgotten , When Smith and Anvil are decay'd and rotten . Judgement has Leaden heels , but without doubt At the long run 'twill find the Rabble ou Then woe be to you , better you were choak'd , Then deal with Judges that you have provok'd ; My life for yours they'l stick upon your Skirts , And pay you home for all your Jeers and Flirts : You and your hireling Scribblers will repent , That they their Time , and you your Money spent . One witty Dolben , and a sharp Recorder , Will timely bring you all to better order : A Pillory will tell us you were Rogues , To write against a Judge so just as Scroggs , Whose Worth and Judgement , Wit and Justice flies With far more Fame , thanks to your Scribbling Lies . FINIS . 