H : 482030 A POEM ON THE Burning of the Pope . Being SOLEMNLY Performed On Queen Elizabeth's Birth-Day : This Instant November the 17th . 1679. WHat Pageant's this that Marches thus in State ? Three Images ! the World's Triumphirate ; Three Privy-Counsellors , Plotters of Evil , A POPE , a Jesuit-Cardinal , and a Devil . Has Father Time turn'd back his Hour-Glass , To show us present Mortals what once was ? Is the Platonick-Year Roul'd back again , And this our great Eighth Henry's Daughters Reign ? Or is our London turn'd Madrid in Spain ? 'Tis some Procession sure ! 'tis Holiness , Down on your Knees , quickly your Sins confess ; Get and Indulgence , else the Jesuits Knife Will soon Dispatch and Godfery your Life : And when you'r Dead , his Holiness will send Your Soul to Hell a present by some Friend . But if you'v useless Gold to grease the Fist Of some Debauch'd and old Gorbellied Priest , According as you give , you Years shall tarry In the Pope's Prison : I mean Purgatory . Hold Doting Fool , put on your Spectacles , See one of London Boys great Miracles ; Who and whole Hundred Years brings back again , And shows you our Eighth Henry's Daughters Reign ; Mistake me not , 'tis not as you did Guess , Not bloody Maries , but Triumphant BESS ; Her Glorious , Happy , Golden Reign they show , And in her Memory , on her Birth-Day too Do over now again , what she did doe . In Spite of Hell and all it's Cursed Bigots , She still Confounded all these Devilish Plots ; ( By Heaven assisted ) she still overthrew , What ever Hell and all it's Fiends could do . The Wicked Jesuits from her Realm she chas'd , Or if they stay'd , with them she Tyburn grac'd . And for Example to the Age to come , In shining Fires Burned all the Trash of Rome : Then howling Priests made a more hideous Mew , Then all the Squawling Pope-burnt-Cats do now : Their Copes , their Coules , their Beads , their Crucifixes , Their Gods of Wood , and Wafers kept in Pixes . Their Mass-Books , Psalters , Rosaries , and all Their Trash and Trumpery , both great and small ( That Holy Queen whose Memory we adore , And whose so happy Days we yet act o're , ) Sent to the Fire , as a most Sweet Oblation Of her then Glorious Happy Reformation : See there she comes , the Great ELIZABETH , Who the great Romish-Babylon with her Breath Threw to the Ground : Romes Daubers ne'r were able Since her Blessed Reign yet to Rebuild their Babel . Her very Image makes the Jesuit Pale Tho' but of Wax : It hath as much avail To daunt the Jesuited Sons of Rome , And to provoke the Generous Zeal of some , As Zisea's Skin Converted to a Drum : Or Castriot's Bones against the Turks of Fame , Or with the French of old great Talbot's Name : So now ne'r Fourscore Years after her Death , Romes Terror still is Great ELIZABETH : And in Effigies the Hierarchy of Evil Confounds the Pope , the Jesuit , and the Devil . Away with them , and to the Fire in State , Remember now the Flames they did create , When Famous London with their Fires did Burn , Which did its Temples into Ashes turn : 'Tis Punishment , although it be but small , By Fire should Incendiaries fallen . Down from the Lofty Spire of Rebuilt BOW , The Dragon looks , and sees this Pompous Show ; The Great QUEENS Crest , mov'd to the West she Sings , And for mere Joy , claps both her Iron Wings : She Hope's not more to feel Cursed Jesuits Fire , But to Roost Ever , on that Lofty Spire . With a Black-Guard of Links the Pageant comes , Attended by a Troop of Dirty Grooms , With Clubs and Staves to Guard it to the Fire , Where these Three Holy Martyrs must Expire : Bound all together in a Treble Rope , Saint JESUIT , Saint DEVIL , and Saint POPE ; In that Place where the Fire made a Stand , Which was Enkindled by their Flaming Brand : Where all its Rage in Smoky Ashes fell , There in Effigies are They sent to Hell : While Squalls of Burning Cats , their Requiem Sing , And Cracking Squibs , do Powder-Treason Ring . Well fare the Soul of STUBS the glad Boys cry , With Lusty Shouts , while the Images do Fry ; Who this Way gave to's Holy Rage a scope , And First began the Burning of a POPE . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for J.C. in the Year , M . DC.LXXIX.H : 482030 A POEM ON THE Burning of the Pope . Being SOLEMNLY Performed On Queen Elizabeth's Birth-Day : This Instant November the 17th . 1679. WHat Pageant's this that Marches thus in State ? Three Images ! the World's Triumphirate ; Three Privy-Counsellors , Plotters of Evil , A POPE , a Jesuit-Cardinal , and a Devil . Has Father Time turn'd back his Hour-Glass , To show us present Mortals what once was ? Is the Platonick-Year Roul'd back again , And this our great Eighth Henry's Daughters Reign ? Or is our London turn'd Madrid in Spain ? 'Tis some Procession sure ! 'tis Holiness , Down on your Knees , quickly your Sins confess ; Get and Indulgence , else the Jesuits Knife Will soon Dispatch and Godfery your Life : And when you'r Dead , his Holiness will send Your Soul to Hell a present by some Friend . But if you'v useless Gold to grease the Fist Of some Debauch'd and old Gorbellied Priest , According as you give , you Years shall tarry In the Pope's Prison : I mean Purgatory . Hold Doting Fool , put on your Spectacles , See one of London Boys great Miracles ; Who and whole Hundred Years brings back again , And shows you our Eighth Henry's Daughters Reign ; Mistake me not , 'tis not as you did Guess , Not bloody Maries , but Triumphant BESS ; Her Glorious , Happy , Golden Reign they show , And in her Memory , on her Birth-Day too Do over now again , what she did doe . In Spite of Hell and all it's Cursed Bigots , She still Confounded all these Devilish Plots ; ( By Heaven assisted ) she still overthrew , What ever Hell and all it's Fiends could do . The Wicked Jesuits from her Realm she chas'd , Or if they stay'd , with them she Tyburn grac'd . And for Example to the Age to come , In shining Fires Burned all the Trash of Rome : Then howling Priests made a more hideous Mew , Then all the Squawling Pope-burnt-Cats do now : Their Copes , their Coules , their Beads , their Crucifixes , Their Gods of Wood , and Wafers kept in Pixes . Their Mass-Books , Psalters , Rosaries , and all Their Trash and Trumpery , both great and small ( That Holy Queen whose Memory we adore , And whose so happy Days we yet act o're , ) Sent to the Fire , as a most Sweet Oblation Of her then Glorious Happy Reformation : See there she comes , the Great ELIZABETH , Who the great Romish-Babylon with her Breath Threw to the Ground : Romes Daubers ne'r were able Since her Blessed Reign yet to Rebuild their Babel . Her very Image makes the Jesuit Pale Tho' but of Wax : It hath as much avail To daunt the Jesuited Sons of Rome , And to provoke the Generous Zeal of some , As Zisea's Skin Converted to a Drum : Or Castriot's Bones against the Turks of Fame , Or with the French of old great Talbot's Name : So now ne'r Fourscore Years after her Death , Romes Terror still is Great ELIZABETH : And in Effigies the Hierarchy of Evil Confounds the Pope , the Jesuit , and the Devil . Away with them , and to the Fire in State , Remember now the Flames they did create , When Famous London with their Fires did Burn , Which did its Temples into Ashes turn : 'Tis Punishment , although it be but small , By Fire should Incendiaries fallen . Down from the Lofty Spire of Rebuilt BOW , The Dragon looks , and sees this Pompous Show ; The Great QUEENS Crest , mov'd to the West she Sings , And for mere Joy , claps both her Iron Wings : She Hope's not more to feel Cursed Jesuits Fire , But to Roost Ever , on that Lofty Spire . With a Black-Guard of Links the Pageant comes , Attended by a Troop of Dirty Grooms , With Clubs and Staves to Guard it to the Fire , Where these Three Holy Martyrs must Expire : Bound all together in a Treble Rope , Saint JESUIT , Saint DEVIL , and Saint POPE ; In that Place where the Fire made a Stand , Which was Enkindled by their Flaming Brand : Where all its Rage in Smoky Ashes fell , There in Effigies are They sent to Hell : While Squalls of Burning Cats , their Requiem Sing , And Cracking Squibs , do Powder-Treason Ring . Well fare the Soul of STUBS the glad Boys cry , With Lusty Shouts , while the Images do Fry ; Who this Way gave to's Holy Rage a scope , And First began the Burning of a POPE . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for J.C. in the Year , M.DC.LXXIX . 