H : 481882 THE WHIG CABALL . THe sullen night worn threadbare , when I lay , Expecting the approach of early day : Such Loyal thoughts did in my bosom rage , As drew my curses on this factious Age : With tears I mourn'd our sinking Countrey's fate , And shadow'd glory of the royal State . Till slumbering at the last , a glim'ring light , Methought was shown to my mysterious sighed . When I descry'd a Treas'nous damn'd Cabal , Hells mounting Engines that would sink us all , And rise upon our King's and Countries' fallen : Dark were their looks , and knowingly I saw , Villains they were , and such as fled the Law ; Printers , and those who had abus'd the times , Religion was their Cloak to hide their Crimes . Envious as Fiends , like Hells Divan they sat ; What would Hell more ? to ruin Church and State : So vile as these , it never could appear , Had the great Whigland Lucifer been there . When in and abrupt voice I herd one cry , Romes Idol-York shan't gorge our Liberty . Rouse up my Friends , our Ruin's more than fear'd , Their Bulls do roar so loud we can't be herd . With that he paus'd ---- then said with much distress What shall we do ? The Tide of our Success , Now seems to Ebb , nor can we hope for less : For even those , will now believe no more Our Shams , who judg'd them Miracles before . Interest's our Hook , and Freedom is the Bait , Bondage but nam'd , you'l see Rebellion strait . Each weak Pretence deceives the easy crowd ; With them 'tis Law , what is by us allow'd . But shallow are our Plots to searching eyes , They see what mischief at the bottom lies : Our Sheriffs and Jurys for their Ends-applause , With Ignoramus , Riots , prop our Cause ; They doubt of Peace from those that break the Laws ; There our designs are desp'rate , and so crossed , Bold the attempt must be to gain what's los Zealous Rebellion must secure us all ; We cannot fail while we pretend a Call , With that like Fiends they Vanish'd and I woke , While all amaz'd and troubled , thus I spoke : Oh Wretched Land ! how prov'd thy curing Vain ? Sine thy old Wound is breaking out again , The whole's endanger'd by th' infected part , But Heaven instruct our great Physician's art . There's one way left to heal this desp'rate wound ; Cut off the rotten for to save the found . Were there no cause for this now needful blow , Religious Peace then through the Land would flow , So Jehu Sion purg'd , and Faith did grow . But let's Unite with pious joy to sing , Health to the Best ----- to Englands gracious King . Blessed may he be , his Queen and Royal Bed ; And blessed great James , while all their Foes lie dead , So we at last shall bruise the Serpents head . LONDON , Printed for Walter Davis in Amen-Corner , 1682. H : 481882 THE WHIG CABALL . THe sullen night worn threadbare , when I lay , Expecting the approach of early day : Such Loyal thoughts did in my bosom rage , As drew my curses on this factious Age : With tears I mourn'd our sinking Countrey's fate , And shadow'd glory of the royal State . Till slumbering at the last , a glim'ring light , Methought was shown to my mysterious sighed . When I descry'd a Treas'nous damn'd Cabal , Hells mounting Engines that would sink us all , And rise upon our King's and Countries' fallen : Dark were their looks , and knowingly I saw , Villains they were , and such as fled the Law ; Printers , and those who had abus'd the times , Religion was their Cloak to hide their Crimes . Envious as Fiends , like Hells Divan they sat ; What would Hell more ? to ruin Church and State : So vile as these , it never could appear , Had the great Whigland Lucifer been there . When in and abrupt voice I herd one cry , Romes Idol-York shan't gorge our Liberty . Rouse up my Friends , our Ruin's more than fear'd , Their Bulls do roar so loud we can't be herd . With that he paus'd ---- then said with much distress What shall we do ? The Tide of our Success , Now seems to Ebb , nor can we hope for less : For even those , will now believe no more Our Shams , who judg'd them Miracles before . Interest's our Hook , and Freedom is the Bait , Bondage but nam'd , you'l see Rebellion strait . Each weak Pretence deceives the easy crowd ; With them 'tis Law , what is by us allow'd . But shallow are our Plots to searching eyes , They see what mischief at the bottom lies : Our Sheriffs and Jurys for their Ends-applause , With Ignoramus , Riots , prop our Cause ; They doubt of Peace from those that break the Laws ; There our designs are desp'rate , and so crossed , Bold the attempt must be to gain what's los Zealous Rebellion must secure us all ; We cannot fail while we pretend a Call , With that like Fiends they Vanish'd and I woke , While all amaz'd and troubled , thus I spoke : Oh Wretched Land ! how prov'd thy curing Vain ? Sine thy old Wound is breaking out again , The whole's endanger'd by th' infected part , But Heaven instruct our great Physician's art . There's one way left to heal this desp'rate wound ; Cut off the rotten for to save the found . Were there no cause for this now needful blow , Religious Peace then through the Land would flow , So Jehu Sion purg'd , and Faith did grow . But let's Unite with pious joy to sing , Health to the Best ----- to Englands gracious King . Blessed may he be , his Queen and Royal Bed ; And blessed great James , while all their Foes lie dead , So we at last shall bruise the Serpents head . LONDON , Printed for Walter Davis in Amen-Corner , 1682. 