H : 480968 A DIALOGUE Between the Ghosts of the Two last Parliaments , at their late Interview . ------ Fuimus Troes . ------ Nitimur in vetitum . ------ Westminster Ghost's Advice . FRom deepest Dungeons of Eternal Night , The seats of Horror , Sorrow , Pains & spite , I have been sent to tell your tender Youth A seasonable and Important Truth ! I feel , ( but O too late , ) that no Disease Is like a Surfeit of Luxurious Ease , And of all other , the most tempting things , Are too much Wealth , and too Indulgent Kings . None ever was superlatively ill , But by Degrees , with Industry and Skill : And some , whose Meaning hath at first been fair , Grow Knaves by Use , and Rebels by Despair . My time is past , and Yours will soon begin , Keep the first Blossoms from the blast of since ; And by the Fate of my Tumultuous ways , Preserve your self , and bring serener Days . The busy subtle Serpents of the Law , Did first my Mind from true Obedience draw ; While I did Limits to the King prescribe , And took for Oracles that Canting Tribe , I chang'd True Freedom for the Name of Free , And grew Seditious for Variety ; All that oppos'd me were to be accus'd ; And , by the Law I Legally abus'd . The Robe was summon'd , M --------- worser in the head , In Legal Murder none so deeply read : I brought him to the Bar , where once he stood , Stain'd with the ( yet un-expiated ) Blood Of the Brave Strafford , when 3 Kingdoms rung With his accumulative Hackney Tongue ; Prisoners , and Witnesses were waiting by ; These had been taught to Swear , and those to die , And to expect Their Arbitrary Fates , Come for ill Faces , some for good Estates : To fright the People , and Alarm the Town , B ------ and C --- imploy'd the Reverend Gown . But while the Triple Mitre boar the blame , The Kings 3 Crowns were their Rebellious aim : I seem'd , ( and did but seem ) to fear the Guards , And took for mine the B ------ and the W --- Anti-monarchic Heretics of Sat , Immoral Atheists , Rich , and Reprobate : But above all , I god a little Guide , Who every Foard of Villainy had try'd ; None knew so well the old Pernicious way To Ruin Subject's , and make Kings obey ; And my small Jehu at a Furious Rate , Was driving Eighty back to Forty Eight . This the King knew , and was Resolv'd to bear , But I mistook his Patience for his Fear : All that this happy Island could afford , Was Sacrific'd to my Voluptuous Board . In his whole Paradise one only Tree He had excepted by a strict Decree ; A Sacred Tree which Royal Fruit did bear , Yet It in pieces I Conspir'd to tear ; Beware my Child ! Divinity is there . This so outdid all I had done before , I could attempt , and He endure no more . My Un-prepar'd and Unrepenting breath , Was snatch'd away by the swift Hand of Death , And I ( with all my Sins about me ) hurl'd , To th' utter Darkness of the lower World ; A dreadful place which you too soon will see , If You believe Seducers more than Me. Oxford Ghost . HAil g [ r ] eat prophetic Spirit , who could see Thr [ oh ] ugh the dark Glass of rip'ning time , what we Too true would [ v ] e found , and now too late complain , That thou Great Spirit shouldst foretell in vain : Full well and faithfully didst thou advice , Had we been modestly and timely wise : Free may you range , saidst thou , through every Field , And what else more luxurious Gardens yield Is thine ; what e're may please , what e're delight The weakest Stomach , nicest Appetite . Of all the plenty of so vast a Store One thing forbidden is , one , and no more : By late and sad experience of what's passed Probatum est , ipse dixit ; Do not taste ! Swift Ruine's there , and sure Destruction , How great a truth , had it in time been known . Westm. Ghost . Vain empty Nothing , that wertenberg lately All , How just , and how unpitied is thy Fallen : Well worthy of the horrors of this place , That would no warning take by my Disgrace ; Glutted with plenty , surfeited with Peace , Weary of Blessings , sick of too much Ease : Mad restless Troublers of our Israel , Who would not quiet be when things went well ; Of secret base Designs mere manag'd Tools , Rash , unadvised , incorrigible F ------ Brisk Hotspurs , inconsiderately bold , By much too violent , and too hight to hold . Zeal flew as if't had been to run a Raze , Duty and Reason cou'd not keep it pace : Insensible , regardless of my Fate ; Dull Phrygian Sages , wise when 'tis too late ; You liv'd , and then you had and easy way T'have provided 'gainst the Evil Day , Who would not then be timely wise , forbear Your vain unseasonable Sorrows here . Frailty ( for men are frail ) may err one time , But Malice only can repeat the Crime . Unthinking Senate , fed with empty words Of Patriot Lawyers and Protesting Lords : Abus'd by Popular and mistaken Friends ; Serv'd a dull Property for base hidden Ends. Liberty , Property and Religion , Sweet Names , and so is REFORMATION . Rank sign of sickly and distemper'd Times , When fairest Names disguise the foulest Crimes . The cry of Liberty helpeth Ambition , And strait-lac'd Conscience chokes Religion : Of public Int'rest you had no concern ; But damn'd a Proverb , Ne'r too late to learn . By no experience taught , miscarriage tam'd , Nor by sad instance of my Fate reclaim'd , What prejudice and private ends ill us'd , False Zeal and like Religion ill excus'd : Who ( stiff-neck'd ) rather wou'd my Fate repeat , Than by new measures be securely grea No freedom of debate was left for you , When all was mov'd and manag'd by a few . Your leading M --- J --- and W --- As if all Wisdom were in them alone : A House of Commons crumbl'd into Three ; Slaves in effect , and in appearance Free , What ail'd the Pilot , slept he at the head ? Or was your Judgement by your Wills misled ? What evil Spirit's Influence did prevail , That you who might at large securely Sail In a full Sea , and from all Danger free , Would run upon that Shelf that ruin'd me ? These sure and sad effects I well foresaw ; These real ills , which seeming good would draw ; From these sad Consequences to dissuade , I was sent forth , and gladly I obey'd : I told you then what now too true you find , Where Zeal flies out , and Duty leaves behind 'Tis Wisdoms shame , and Policies defect , For still like Causes will have like Effect . I sought by wondrous Truth this Point to gain , Urg'd many reasons , but urg'd all in vain : None were of force against the Good Old Cause Counsel was thrown away , Fool that I was . Where men with Law and Prophets would not live , To think a Message from the dead should thrive . Spite of my foresight and my dear bought skill , Cassandra I ; you faithless Paris still . Your boundless Passion did no measures keep , Well might you break your Neck with such a leap . Men may at distance hover about Kings , And by their influence warm'd , move earthly things ; But when those bounds they would exceed , and fly Too near the Sun , scorched , they drop down , and die . What and occasion lost you to improve The Prince's Favour and the Peoples Love ? This when considering Posterity Shall think upon , they'l hate your Memory ; And as once ancient Room , they in their turn , Wish you had never dy'd , or ne'r been born . Should your Successors tread your steps , they then , Though they were Gods , like us shall die like men Oh! may the next ( for sure a next will be ) Avoid the Rock that ruin'd you and me : Deeply affected with a just concern At our sad Fate , self-preservation learn ; And merit ( by avoiding needless Fears ) By moderate Councils and praiseworthy Cares , A Monarchs Blessing and three Kingdoms Pray'rs . LONDON , Printed for ALL . BANKS , Anno Domini , MDCLXXXI . H : 480968 A DIALOGUE Between the Ghosts of the Two last Parliaments , at their late Interview . ------ Fuimus Troes . ------ Nitimur in vetitum . ------ Westminster Ghost's Advice . FRom deepest Dungeons of Eternal Night , The seats of Horror , Sorrow , Pains & spite , I have been sent to tell your tender Youth A seasonable and Important Truth ! I feel , ( but O too late , ) that no Disease Is like a Surfeit of Luxurious Ease , And of all other , the most tempting things , Are too much Wealth , and too Indulgent Kings . None ever was superlatively ill , But by Degrees , with Industry and Skill : And some , whose Meaning hath at first been fair , Grow Knaves by Use , and Rebels by Despair . My time is past , and Yours will soon begin , Keep the first Blossoms from the blast of since ; And by the Fate of my Tumultuous ways , Preserve your self , and bring serener Days . The busy subtle Serpents of the Law , Did first my Mind from true Obedience draw ; While I did Limits to the King prescribe , And took for Oracles that Canting Tribe , I chang'd True Freedom for the Name of Free , And grew Seditious for Variety ; All that oppos'd me were to be accus'd ; And , by the Law I Legally abus'd . The Robe was summon'd , M --------- worser in the head , In Legal Murder none so deeply read : I brought him to the Bar , where once he stood , Stain'd with the ( yet un-expiated ) Blood Of the Brave Strafford , when 3 Kingdoms rung With his accumulative Hackney Tongue ; Prisoners , and Witnesses were waiting by ; These had been taught to Swear , and those to die , And to expect Their Arbitrary Fates , Come for ill Faces , some for good Estates : To fright the People , and Alarm the Town , B ------ and C --- imploy'd the Reverend Gown . But while the Triple Mitre boar the blame , The Kings 3 Crowns were their Rebellious aim : I seem'd , ( and did but seem ) to fear the Guards , And took for mine the B ------ and the W --- Anti-monarchic Heretics of Sat , Immoral Atheists , Rich , and Reprobate : But above all , I god a little Guide , Who every Foard of Villainy had try'd ; None knew so well the old Pernicious way To Ruin Subject's , and make Kings obey ; And my small Jehu at a Furious Rate , Was driving Eighty back to Forty Eight . This the King knew , and was Resolv'd to bear , But I mistook his Patience for his Fear : All that this happy Island could afford , Was Sacrific'd to my Voluptuous Board . In his whole Paradise one only Tree He had excepted by a strict Decree ; A Sacred Tree which Royal Fruit did bear , Yet It in pieces I Conspir'd to tear ; Beware my Child ! Divinity is there . This so outdid all I had done before , I could attempt , and He endure no more . My Un-prepar'd and Unrepenting breath , Was snatch'd away by the swift Hand of Death , And I ( with all my Sins about me ) hurl'd , To th' utter Darkness of the lower World ; A dreadful place which you too soon will see , If You believe Seducers more than Me. Oxford Ghost . HAil g [ r ] eat prophetic Spirit , who could see Thr [ oh ] ugh the dark Glass of rip'ning time , what we Too true would [ v ] e found , and now too late complain , That thou Great Spirit shouldst foretell in vain : Full well and faithfully didst thou advice , Had we been modestly and timely wise : Free may you range , saidst thou , through every Field , And what else more luxurious Gardens yield Is thine ; what e're may please , what e're delight The weakest Stomach , nicest Appetite . Of all the plenty of so vast a Store One thing forbidden is , one , and no more : By late and sad experience of what's passed Probatum est , ipse dixit ; Do not taste ! Swift Ruine's there , and sure Destruction , How great a truth , had it in time been known . Westm. Ghost . Vain empty Nothing , that wertenberg lately All , How just , and how unpitied is thy Fallen : Well worthy of the horrors of this place , That would no warning take by my Disgrace ; Glutted with plenty , surfeited with Peace , Weary of Blessings , sick of too much Ease : Mad restless Troublers of our Israel , Who would not quiet be when things went well ; Of secret base Designs mere manag'd Tools , Rash , unadvised , incorrigible F ------ Brisk Hotspurs , inconsiderately bold , By much too violent , and too hight to hold . Zeal flew as if't had been to run a Raze , Duty and Reason cou'd not keep it pace : Insensible , regardless of my Fate ; Dull Phrygian Sages , wise when 'tis too late ; You liv'd , and then you had and easy way T'have provided 'gainst the Evil Day , Who would not then be timely wise , forbear Your vain unseasonable Sorrows here . Frailty ( for men are frail ) may err one time , But Malice only can repeat the Crime . Unthinking Senate , fed with empty words Of Patriot Lawyers and Protesting Lords : Abus'd by Popular and mistaken Friends ; Serv'd a dull Property for base hidden Ends. Liberty , Property and Religion , Sweet Names , and so is REFORMATION . Rank sign of sickly and distemper'd Times , When fairest Names disguise the foulest Crimes . The cry of Liberty helpeth Ambition , And strait-lac'd Conscience chokes Religion : Of public Int'rest you had no concern ; But damn'd a Proverb , Ne'r too late to learn . By no experience taught , miscarriage tam'd , Nor by sad instance of my Fate reclaim'd , What prejudice and private ends ill us'd , False Zeal and like Religion ill excus'd : Who ( stiff-neck'd ) rather wou'd my Fate repeat , Than by new measures be securely grea No freedom of debate was left for you , When all was mov'd and manag'd by a few . Your leading M --- J --- and W --- As if all Wisdom were in them alone : A House of Commons crumbl'd into Three ; Slaves in effect , and in appearance Free , What ail'd the Pilot , slept he at the head ? Or was your Judgement by your Wills misled ? What evil Spirit's Influence did prevail , That you who might at large securely Sail In a full Sea , and from all Danger free , Would run upon that Shelf that ruin'd me ? These sure and sad effects I well foresaw ; These real ills , which seeming good would draw ; From these sad Consequences to dissuade , I was sent forth , and gladly I obey'd : I told you then what now too true you find , Where Zeal flies out , and Duty leaves behind 'Tis Wisdoms shame , and Policies defect , For still like Causes will have like Effect . I sought by wondrous Truth this Point to gain , Urg'd many reasons , but urg'd all in vain : None were of force against the Good Old Cause Counsel was thrown away , Fool that I was . Where men with Law and Prophets would not live , To think a Message from the dead should thrive . Spite of my foresight and my dear bought skill , Cassandra I ; you faithless Paris still . Your boundless Passion did no measures keep , Well might you break your Neck with such a leap . Men may at distance hover about Kings , And by their influence warm'd , move earthly things ; But when those bounds they would exceed , and fly Too near the Sun , scorched , they drop down , and die . What and occasion lost you to improve The Prince's Favour and the Peoples Love ? This when considering Posterity Shall think upon , they'l hate your Memory ; And as once ancient Room , they in their turn , Wish you had never dy'd , or ne'r been born . Should your Successors tread your steps , they then , Though they were Gods , like us shall die like men Oh! may the next ( for sure a next will be ) Avoid the Rock that ruin'd you and me : Deeply affected with a just concern At our sad Fate , self-preservation learn ; And merit ( by avoiding needless Fears ) By moderate Councils and praiseworthy Cares , A Monarchs Blessing and three Kingdoms Pray'rs . LONDON , Printed for ALL . BANKS , Anno Domini , MDCLXXXI . 