H : 482029 THE Excellency of MONARCHY . A PANEGYRICK , Written Anno 1658 , by a Learned and truly Loyal Gentleman , for Information of the miserably misled Commonwealths-men ( falsely so called ) of that deceitful Age ; and now reviv'd by a Friend to the Author , and and Honourer of the Establish'd Government of these Nations . 1. IF wanting wings one may ascend the Skies , And Phaebus view , without and Eagles Eyes , Then Rouse up ( Muse ) from thy Lethargic strains , And ( having first invok'd the God of Brains ) Let the grand Subject of thy Measures be , No Rule to England like a Monarchy . 2. It is the Image of that Domination , By which Jehova rules the whole Creation : Angels nor Saints , do in his Kingdom share , God is Sole Monarch , They but Subject's are : Whose Laws are such , as when they did Rebel , Sequester'd not , but sent them strait to Hell . 3. As Old as that Paternal Sovereignty God plac'd in Adam , rul'd his People by ; Disown'd by None , but them whose Minds aspire , And envy ONE should have what ALL desire : For , be't a Few , or Many we live under , Such shall repine , still , while not of the Number . 4. The Ancients did a Monarchy prefer , Made all their Gods submit to Jupiter : And ( when Affairs and Nations first began ) Princes Decrees were th'only Laws of Man ; Experience will avow it , where there's Any , One Honest Man is sooner found , than Many . 5. The Rational Soul performs a Prince's part , She rules the Body by Monarchic Art ; Poor Cranes , and little Bees ( with shiv'ring wings ) Observe their Leaders , and Obey their Kings : Nature her self , disdains a Crowded Throne , The Body's Monstrous , has more Heads than One . 6. A Monarchy's that Politic simple State , Consists in Unity , ( inseparate , Pure and entire ) a Government that stands , When others fallen , touch'd but with Levelling hands : So Natural , and with such Skill endu'd , It makes One Body of a Multitude . 7. In Order ( wherein later things depend , Or former ) that's most perfect does attend On Unity : But this can never be The Pop'lar State , nor Aristocracy ; For where or All , or Many bear the sway , Such Order to Confusion leads the way . 8. A Monarchy more quickly does attain The End propos'd ; For 'tis the single Brain That ripens Council , and concealeth best Princely Designs , 'tis Deeds proclaim 'em Blessed ; While numerous Heads are rarely of one Mind , Slow in their Motion , louder than the Wind. 9. Treason , nor Fear , so suddenly divides Th' United Strength that in a Crown resides ; Sedition prospers not , it seldom here Results the Object of a Prince's Fear : Then when and Empire , Rome was ne're so strong , Nor Triumph'd under other Rule so long . 10. A Monarchy abates those Feverish Fits Of Emulation , a Free-State begets ; A Prince cannot his Reins so quickly slack , Or throw his Burden on Another's Back : But where so many Rulers have Command , The Work's transferr'd , and toss'd from hand to hand . 11. The People , or the Nobles , to debate The deep Concernments of a Troubled State , Set Times and Places have assign'd them , they First meet , and then adjourn from day to day : Whereas a Monarch , who by Nature's One , Delib'rates always , never's off his Throne . 12. But hold ! methinks I see the Three Estates Conven'd ; Thrown open Prison doors and Grates , Extinct our paltry Jealousies and Fears , Grace offered to All , but Cavaliers And Papists ! yet with patience they abound , In hope's of better , Now , the Wheel goes Round . Monarchia a Monos Archon ; The Rule of One Prince or Governor , without a Peer , or the Government of One Man over Many , as in England , etc Britannia ab initio Mundi semper fuit Regia , & Regimen illius simile ille Coelorum . Howell's Praed . Basil. H : 482029 THE Excellency of MONARCHY . A PANEGYRICK , Written Anno 1658 , by a Learned and truly Loyal Gentleman , for Information of the miserably misled Commonwealths-men ( falsely so called ) of that deceitful Age ; and now reviv'd by a Friend to the Author , and and Honourer of the Establish'd Government of these Nations . 1. IF wanting wings one may ascend the Skies , And Phaebus view , without and Eagles Eyes , Then Rouse up ( Muse ) from thy Lethargic strains , And ( having first invok'd the God of Brains ) Let the grand Subject of thy Measures be , No Rule to England like a Monarchy . 2. It is the Image of that Domination , By which Jehova rules the whole Creation : Angels nor Saints , do in his Kingdom share , God is Sole Monarch , They but Subject's are : Whose Laws are such , as when they did Rebel , Sequester'd not , but sent them strait to Hell . 3. As Old as that Paternal Sovereignty God plac'd in Adam , rul'd his People by ; Disown'd by None , but them whose Minds aspire , And envy ONE should have what ALL desire : For , be't a Few , or Many we live under , Such shall repine , still , while not of the Number . 4. The Ancients did a Monarchy prefer , Made all their Gods submit to Jupiter : And ( when Affairs and Nations first began ) Princes Decrees were th'only Laws of Man ; Experience will avow it , where there's Any , One Honest Man is sooner found , than Many . 5. The Rational Soul performs a Prince's part , She rules the Body by Monarchic Art ; Poor Cranes , and little Bees ( with shiv'ring wings ) Observe their Leaders , and Obey their Kings : Nature her self , disdains a Crowded Throne , The Body's Monstrous , has more Heads than One . 6. A Monarchy's that Politic simple State , Consists in Unity , ( inseparate , Pure and entire ) a Government that stands , When others fallen , touch'd but with Levelling hands : So Natural , and with such Skill endu'd , It makes One Body of a Multitude . 7. In Order ( wherein later things depend , Or former ) that's most perfect does attend On Unity : But this can never be The Pop'lar State , nor Aristocracy ; For where or All , or Many bear the sway , Such Order to Confusion leads the way . 8. A Monarchy more quickly does attain The End propos'd ; For 'tis the single Brain That ripens Council , and concealeth best Princely Designs , 'tis Deeds proclaim 'em Blessed ; While numerous Heads are rarely of one Mind , Slow in their Motion , louder than the Wind. 9. Treason , nor Fear , so suddenly divides Th' United Strength that in a Crown resides ; Sedition prospers not , it seldom here Results the Object of a Prince's Fear : Then when and Empire , Rome was ne're so strong , Nor Triumph'd under other Rule so long . 10. A Monarchy abates those Feverish Fits Of Emulation , a Free-State begets ; A Prince cannot his Reins so quickly slack , Or throw his Burden on Another's Back : But where so many Rulers have Command , The Work's transferr'd , and toss'd from hand to hand . 11. The People , or the Nobles , to debate The deep Concernments of a Troubled State , Set Times and Places have assign'd them , they First meet , and then adjourn from day to day : Whereas a Monarch , who by Nature's One , Delib'rates always , never's off his Throne . 12. But hold ! methinks I see the Three Estates Conven'd ; Thrown open Prison doors and Grates , Extinct our paltry Jealousies and Fears , Grace offered to All , but Cavaliers And Papists ! yet with patience they abound , In hope's of better , Now , the Wheel goes Round . Monarchia a Monos Archon ; The Rule of One Prince or Governor , without a Peer , or the Government of One Man over Many , as in England , etc Britannia ab initio Mundi semper fuit Regia , & Regimen illius simile ille Coelorum . Howell's Praed . Basil. 