H : 480408 Justice in Masquerade , A POEM . A Butcher's Son's J ------ Capital , Poor Protestants for to enthral , And England to enslave Sirs . Loose both our Laws and Lives we must , When to do Justice we intrust So known and Errant K ------ Sirs . Some hungry Priests he did once fell , With mighty strokes , and them to Hell Sent presently away Sirs . Would you know why , the reason's plain , They had not English nor French Coin , To make a longer stay Sirs . The Pope to Purgatory sends , Who neither Money have nor Friends , In this he is not alone Sirs . For our J ------ to Mercy's not enclin'd , 'Less Gold change Conscience and his mind ; You are infallibly gone Sirs . His Father once exempted was Out of all Juries , why ? Because He was a Man of Blood Sirs . And why the butcherly Son , forsooth , Should now be Jury and J ------ both , Cannot be understood Sirs . The good Old Man with Knife and Knocks , Made harmless Sheep and stubborn Ox , Stoop to him in his Fury . But the brib'd Son , like greasy Aulf , Kneels down and Worships Golden Calf ; And so does all the Jury . Better thou had'st been at thy Father's Trade , And honest livelihood to have made , In hamp'ring Bulls with Collers : Than to thy Country prove unjust , First fell , and then betray thy trust , For so many hard Rixdollers . Priest and Physician thou didst save , From Gallows , Fire and from the Grave , For which we can't endure thee . The one can ne're absolve thy sins , And th'other , though he now begins , Of Knavery ne're can Cure thee . But lest we all should end his life , And with a keen-whet Chopping knife , In a Thousand pieces cleave him : Let the Parliament first him undertake , They'l make the Rascal stink at stake , And so like a K ------ let's leave him . H : 480408 Justice in Masquerade , A POEM . A Butcher's Son's J ------ Capital , Poor Protestants for to enthral , And England to enslave Sirs . Loose both our Laws and Lives we must , When to do Justice we intrust So known and Errant K ------ Sirs . Some hungry Priests he did once fell , With mighty strokes , and them to Hell Sent presently away Sirs . Would you know why , the reason's plain , They had not English nor French Coin , To make a longer stay Sirs . The Pope to Purgatory sends , Who neither Money have nor Friends , In this he is not alone Sirs . For our J ------ to Mercy's not enclin'd , 'Less Gold change Conscience and his mind ; You are infallibly gone Sirs . His Father once exempted was Out of all Juries , why ? Because He was a Man of Blood Sirs . And why the butcherly Son , forsooth , Should now be Jury and J ------ both , Cannot be understood Sirs . The good Old Man with Knife and Knocks , Made harmless Sheep and stubborn Ox , Stoop to him in his Fury . But the brib'd Son , like greasy Aulf , Kneels down and Worships Golden Calf ; And so does all the Jury . Better thou had'st been at thy Father's Trade , And honest livelihood to have made , In hamp'ring Bulls with Collers : Than to thy Country prove unjust , First fell , and then betray thy trust , For so many hard Rixdollers . Priest and Physician thou didst save , From Gallows , Fire and from the Grave , For which we can't endure thee . The one can ne're absolve thy sins , And th'other , though he now begins , Of Knavery ne're can Cure thee . But lest we all should end his life , And with a keen-whet Chopping knife , In a Thousand pieces cleave him : Let the Parliament first him undertake , They'l make the Rascal stink at stake , And so like a K ------ let's leave him . 