H : 18348 The manner of the world now a days . SO many pointed caps Lased with double flaps And so gay felted hats Saw I never . So many good lessons So many good sermons And so few devotions Saw I never . So many guards worn Jagged and all to torn And so many falsely forsworn Sawe I never . So few good policies In towns and cities For keeping of blind hostries Saw I never . So many good works So few well learned clerks And so few that goodness marks Saw I never . Suche pranked coats & sleves So few young men that proves And such increase of thieves Saw I never . So many guarded hose such cornede shoes And so many envious foes Saw I never . So many questes fit With men of small wit And so many falsely quit saw I never . So many gay swords So many altered words And so few covered boards Saw I never . So many empti purses so few good horses And so many curses Saw I never . such boasters and braggers so new fashyoned daggers And so many beggars Saw I never . So many proper knives So well appareled wives And so ill of their lives Saw I never . So many cockolde makers So many crakers And so many peace breakers Saw I never . So much vain clothing With cutting and jagging And so much bragging Saw I never . So many news and knacks So many naughty packs And so many that money lacks Saw I never . So many maidens with child And wilfully begylde And so many places untilde Saw I never . so many women blamed And rightuously defaimed And so little ashamed saw I never . Widows so soon wed After their husbands be dead Having such haste to bed saw I never so much striving . For goods and for wiving And so little thryvynge saw I never . so many capacities Offices and pluralities And changing of dignities saw I never . so many laws to use The truth to refuse Such falsehood to excuse saw I never . Executers having the ware Taking so little care How the soul does fare saw I never . Among them that are rich No friendship is to keep tuche And such fair glossing speech Saw I never . So many poor In every bordoure And so small soccoure Saw I never . So proud and so gay so rich in array And so sknat of money Saw I never . So many bowyers so many fletchers And so few good arches saw I never . so many chepers so few biers And so many borrowers saw I never . So many all sellers In baudy holes and sellers Of young folks ill counsellers saw I never . so many pinkers so many thinkers And so many good all drinkers saw I never so many wrongs so few merry songs And so many ill tongues . saw I never . so many a vacabounde Through all this land And so many in prison bound I saw never . so many citations . so few oblations And so many new fashions saw I never . so many fleying tales Pickers of purses and males And so many sales saw I never . so much preaching speaking fair and teaching And so ill believing saw I never . so much wrath and envy Covetous and gluttony and so little charity saw I never . so many carders Revelers and dicers and so many ill ticers saw I never . so many lollers so few true tollers so many bawds and pollers saw I never . such treachery simony and usury Poverty and lechery saw I never . so many avails so many geals And so many falls baylies saw I never . By falls and subtle ways All Englande decays For more envy and liars saw I never . so new fashioned jacks With broad flappes in the necks And so gay and new partlettes saw I never . so many slutteshe cooks so few fashioned tucking hooks And so few biers of books saw I never . sometime we song of mirth & play But now our joy is gone away For so many fall in decay saw I never . whither is the wealth of england gone the spiritual says they have none And so many wrongfully undone saw I never . It is great pity that every day so many brybors go by the way And so mani extortioners in eke country saw I never . To the lord I make my moan For you mayest help us everich one Alas the people is so woe begone worse was it never Amendment Were convenient But it may not be We have exiled verity God is neither dead nor sick He may amend all yet And trow you so indeed As you believe you shall have mede After better I hope ever For worse was it never . Finis . H : 18348 The manner of the world now a days . SO many pointed caps Lased with double flaps And so gay felted hats Saw I never . So many good lessons So many good sermons And so few devotions Saw I never . So many guards worn Jagged and all to torn And so many falsely forsworn Sawe I never . So few good policies In towns and cities For keeping of blind hostries Saw I never . So many good works So few well learned clerks And so few that goodness marks Saw I never . Suche pranked coats & sleves So few young men that proves And such increase of thieves Saw I never . So many guarded hose such cornede shoes And so many envious foes Saw I never . So many questes fit With men of small wit And so many falsely quit saw I never . So many gay swords So many altered words And so few covered boards Saw I never . So many empti purses so few good horses And so many curses Saw I never . such boasters and braggers so new fashyoned daggers And so many beggars Saw I never . So many proper knives So well appareled wives And so ill of their lives Saw I never . So many cockolde makers So many crakers And so many peace breakers Saw I never . So much vain clothing With cutting and jagging And so much bragging Saw I never . So many news and knacks So many naughty packs And so many that money lacks Saw I never . So many maidens with child And wilfully begylde And so many places untilde Saw I never . so many women blamed And rightuously defaimed And so little ashamed saw I never . Widows so soon wed After their husbands be dead Having such haste to bed saw I never so much striving . For goods and for wiving And so little thryvynge saw I never . so many capacities Offices and pluralities And changing of dignities saw I never . so many laws to use The truth to refuse Such falsehood to excuse saw I never . Executers having the ware Taking so little care How the soul does fare saw I never . Among them that are rich No friendship is to keep tuche And such fair glossing speech Saw I never . So many poor In every bordoure And so small soccoure Saw I never . So proud and so gay so rich in array And so sknat of money Saw I never . So many bowyers so many fletchers And so few good arches saw I never . so many chepers so few biers And so many borrowers saw I never . So many all sellers In baudy holes and sellers Of young folks ill counsellers saw I never . so many pinkers so many thinkers And so many good all drinkers saw I never so many wrongs so few merry songs And so many ill tongues . saw I never . so many a vacabounde Through all this land And so many in prison bound I saw never . so many citations . so few oblations And so many new fashions saw I never . so many fleying tales Pickers of purses and males And so many sales saw I never . so much preaching speaking fair and teaching And so ill believing saw I never . so much wrath and envy Covetous and gluttony and so little charity saw I never . so many carders Revelers and dicers and so many ill ticers saw I never . so many lollers so few true tollers so many bawds and pollers saw I never . such treachery simony and usury Poverty and lechery saw I never . so many avails so many geals And so many falls baylies saw I never . By falls and subtle ways All Englande decays For more envy and liars saw I never . so new fashioned jacks With broad flappes in the necks And so gay and new partlettes saw I never . so many slutteshe cooks so few fashioned tucking hooks And so few biers of books saw I never . sometime we song of mirth & play But now our joy is gone away For so many fall in decay saw I never . whither is the wealth of england gone the spiritual says they have none And so many wrongfully undone saw I never . It is great pity that every day so many brybors go by the way And so mani extortioners in eke country saw I never . To the lord I make my moan For you mayest help us everich one Alas the people is so woe begone worse was it never Amendment Were convenient But it may not be We have exiled verity God is neither dead nor sick He may amend all yet And trow you so indeed As you believe you shall have mede After better I hope ever For worse was it never . Finis . 