H : 18346 A commendation of Music , And a confutation of them which dispraise it . WHen first within the corpse of man , dame Nature built her bower : She saw what troubles eke & thrall , was bent them to devower . To whom she gave as in reward , a pleasant note or found : Their carks and cares to drive away , whereby much ease was found . Whereof in children proof is had , whom nurse's have in charge : How soon they stop and stay their cry , when she doth found at large . The Plowman eke , and Carter both , with ease doth pass away : In singing of some merry note , their travail all the day . Wherefore to Lady Nature I , do render praise and will : By whom not only man alone , but birds in song hath skill . The Poets fain that Amphion , who builded Thebes town : Did fyrst invent the pleasant note , whereby he god renown . To Dionisius some the name , and some contrary wise : To Zephus , who Eusebius say , the same did first devise . Solinus say that men of Crete , by ring and found of brass : By Thachadianes doth Polibius say , invented first it was . In deed I think soon after that , dame Nature made the found : That Reason did the measure make , the concord and the ground . And then in Mercury first it wrought , as author of the same : The which even he ( as worthy praise ) did publish and proclaim . Then Reason , as one not full suffysde , did seek for to devise : Some instrument to give a found , by whom there did arise A forward wit in Mercury , for to invent the same : Who made a Harp of fishes bone , a Torts called by name . Which he by Nilus river found , the fish was dryde away : And nothing but three sinews left , whereon he sought to play . But when they gave a found again , thus do the Poets fain : He made a Harp much like that bone , by thinvent of his brain . Three strings to it did he apply , a Triple Base and Mean : The which he made for to accord , in Musics pleasant vain . Then he it to Apollo gave , as gift of wondrous weigh And he the same to Orpheus hands , made redelivery straight . Some think Amphion first it found , and some to that say no : And some in Tuball think the like , but that can not be so . Then Pan the Pipe , Apollo eke , the Shawm he did inven Then David Regalles sought to make , by Reasons whole consent . And Orphen first , with Linus nexte , and Arion also by name : Timarias , and Trezenius both , thereby did purchase fame . Nor Cibell yet , with Pises too , their labour ought did cease : But in the same did soar apply , their cunning too increase . Thus have we proved by Poets lore , how ancient Music is : And now I mean by Scripture plain , to prove the like iwis . We read how David danced and soung , before the Ark of God : And how his wife which flouted him , was by the Lord forboden For having children any more , but barren should she be : Whereby I prove that God is pleased , with such like armony . When MirIam with the Israelites , the read sea deep had pass And Pharaos host were drowned all , who did pursue them fast , Then took they Timbrelles in their hands , and to the Lord sang praise For that he was their aid and shyeld , to pass the dangerous seas . The Shepherdess eke , and Angels both , we read how they rejoys When they once herd and understood , the birth of Jesus Christ . We see by this what Music is , we need no better proof : The Scripture is a buckler good , in Musics right behoof . In Fucsius , and in Galen both , who list to look shall find : How much that Music doth appease , the dolours of the mind . You know what taunts Themistocles , in banquet did sustain : When he good music did dispraise , accounting it but vain . They judged his learning much the worse , because he did defy That , which all men did much esteem , regard and eke set buy . I pray you was not Socrates , whom crooked age had caugh With Musics skill and armony , as one with Cupid fraught ? And said that concord was the ground , and eke the sure stay : Without the which nothing is good , this could that wise man say . And measure is a merry mean , and mean who doth embrace : Of every virtue hath the ground , which bringeth man to grace . This have I done in Musics cause , my pen now will I res Sith that I have that worthy science , as famous once professed . And who that seeks the loss of it , needs must I speak my mind : A great dispraise is to his wit , his words are counted wind . FINIS . ( quod ) Nicholas Whight . Imprinted at London in Aldersgate street , by Alexander Lacy : dwellying beside the Well . H : 18346 A commendation of Music , And a confutation of them which dispraise it . WHen first within the corpse of man , dame Nature built her bower : She saw what troubles eke & thrall , was bent them to devower . To whom she gave as in reward , a pleasant note or found : Their carks and cares to drive away , whereby much ease was found . Whereof in children proof is had , whom nurse's have in charge : How soon they stop and stay their cry , when she doth found at large . The Plowman eke , and Carter both , with ease doth pass away : In singing of some merry note , their travail all the day . Wherefore to Lady Nature I , do render praise and will : By whom not only man alone , but birds in song hath skill . The Poets fain that Amphion , who builded Thebes town : Did fyrst invent the pleasant note , whereby he god renown . To Dionisius some the name , and some contrary wise : To Zephus , who Eusebius say , the same did first devise . Solinus say that men of Crete , by ring and found of brass : By Thachadianes doth Polibius say , invented first it was . In deed I think soon after that , dame Nature made the found : That Reason did the measure make , the concord and the ground . And then in Mercury first it wrought , as author of the same : The which even he ( as worthy praise ) did publish and proclaim . Then Reason , as one not full suffysde , did seek for to devise : Some instrument to give a found , by whom there did arise A forward wit in Mercury , for to invent the same : Who made a Harp of fishes bone , a Torts called by name . Which he by Nilus river found , the fish was dryde away : And nothing but three sinews left , whereon he sought to play . But when they gave a found again , thus do the Poets fain : He made a Harp much like that bone , by thinvent of his brain . Three strings to it did he apply , a Triple Base and Mean : The which he made for to accord , in Musics pleasant vain . Then he it to Apollo gave , as gift of wondrous weigh And he the same to Orpheus hands , made redelivery straight . Some think Amphion first it found , and some to that say no : And some in Tuball think the like , but that can not be so . Then Pan the Pipe , Apollo eke , the Shawm he did inven Then David Regalles sought to make , by Reasons whole consent . And Orphen first , with Linus nexte , and Arion also by name : Timarias , and Trezenius both , thereby did purchase fame . Nor Cibell yet , with Pises too , their labour ought did cease : But in the same did soar apply , their cunning too increase . Thus have we proved by Poets lore , how ancient Music is : And now I mean by Scripture plain , to prove the like iwis . We read how David danced and soung , before the Ark of God : And how his wife which flouted him , was by the Lord forboden For having children any more , but barren should she be : Whereby I prove that God is pleased , with such like armony . When MirIam with the Israelites , the read sea deep had pass And Pharaos host were drowned all , who did pursue them fast , Then took they Timbrelles in their hands , and to the Lord sang praise For that he was their aid and shyeld , to pass the dangerous seas . The Shepherdess eke , and Angels both , we read how they rejoys When they once herd and understood , the birth of Jesus Christ . We see by this what Music is , we need no better proof : The Scripture is a buckler good , in Musics right behoof . In Fucsius , and in Galen both , who list to look shall find : How much that Music doth appease , the dolours of the mind . You know what taunts Themistocles , in banquet did sustain : When he good music did dispraise , accounting it but vain . They judged his learning much the worse , because he did defy That , which all men did much esteem , regard and eke set buy . I pray you was not Socrates , whom crooked age had caugh With Musics skill and armony , as one with Cupid fraught ? And said that concord was the ground , and eke the sure stay : Without the which nothing is good , this could that wise man say . And measure is a merry mean , and mean who doth embrace : Of every virtue hath the ground , which bringeth man to grace . This have I done in Musics cause , my pen now will I res Sith that I have that worthy science , as famous once professed . And who that seeks the loss of it , needs must I speak my mind : A great dispraise is to his wit , his words are counted wind . FINIS . ( quod ) Nicholas Whight . Imprinted at London in Aldersgate street , by Alexander Lacy : dwellying beside the Well . 