H : 18344 A very Lamentable and woeful discourse of the fierce floods , which lately flowed in Bedfordshire , in Lincolnshire , and in many other places , with the great losses of sheep and other Cattle . The v. of October . Anno Domini 1570. ALl faithful hearts come wail Com rend your garments gay : Else nothing can prevail , To turn Gods wrath away . Of waters fierce and fell , And floods both huge and high : You may report and tell : Of places far and nigh . Of Monsters very rare , That are unseemly born : Which doth at large declare , We live as men forlorn . We live and linger still , We wander quite astray . We want true Christians skill , To gide us in the way . Full strange unseemly sights , We may behold and see : What misdefourmed wights , Of women born there be . Ouse bridge was lately lost , By force of roaring stream : Which many a crown hath cost , In this our English realm . Why should I make delay , Reciting of such acts ? What need I more to say , Of vice and worldly facts ? As erst I did pretend , So forward will I glide : To tell the total end , What happened at this tide . By rushing rivers late , In Bedford town no nay : Full many a woeful state , May yield to fast and pray . At twelve a clock at night , It flowed with such a head : Yea many a woeful wight , Did swim in naked bed . Among the rest there was , A woeful widow sure : Whom God did bring to pass , The death she did procure . Widow Spencer by name , Asleep she being fast . The flood so rashly came , That she aloft was cast . Which seeing started up , Regarding small her pelf : She leapt beside her bed , And so she drowned herself . The houses very strong , The cattle great and small : Were quickly laid along . And so they perished all . The Geldings tall and brave , In stables rashly rolls , The Church was over flowed . In Bedford nam Poules . The Gardens round about , The sheep in marsh or field : The river was so stout , They knew not where to shield . The Kine and Oxen to , Were all drowned by force , They west not what to do : It had so small remorse . O Lord this flood was strange , And none occasion why : The weather did not change , the wind was nothing high . There was no store of rain , But very little sure : That we should thus sustain , the loss we did endure . The Ark of father Noy , was had in mind as than : When God did clean destroy , Both woman child and man . But that he promise made , When he did her remain : The world should never vade , By waters force again . Else would we then have thought , The dreadful day of doom : Had been both shape and wrought , To drown us all and some . Upon the Saboth day , We were amazed all : In Church we could not pray But in the Judgement hall . We all assembled there , With prayers most devou To God with many a tere , To tame this river stout . No horse nor man could pass , Of business small or pos For issue none there was , No way but to be lost . In Bedford town I know , This many a score of years : Did never rivers flow , To bring us in such fears . By chance I came in place , This great mischance to tell : To end our crooked raze , What fortune late befell . Which tale no sooner done , Twoo men along did walk , Betwixt us we begun , to raise some further talk . What Country men they were , I did request to know : They said of Lincolnshire , the certain truth is so . Quod they your loss is small , But one hath lost her life , He asked what dame she was , I said one Spencers wife . In Lincolnshire ( he said ) , We have sustained great loss , Our stomachs are decaide , That late so frolic was . Our Cattle in like case , Are drowned and cast away , For our offence in every place , the dum beasts truly pay . We have not escaped so , Both widow , man , and wife . Since first this flood did flow , Have gained loss of life . When that the water seast , As I and more do know , There did from skies descend , A great and grievous snow . And so we parted then , Bewailing both together . Like poor and outcast men , This sudden change of weather . In us therefore for shame , Let vice no more be seen : and eke ourselves so frame To serve aright our Queen . Finis . quod Richard . Tarlton . Imprinted at London at the long shop adjoining unto Saint Mildreds Church in the Pultrye , by John Allde . 1570. H : 18344 A very Lamentable and woeful discourse of the fierce floods , which lately flowed in Bedfordshire , in Lincolnshire , and in many other places , with the great losses of sheep and other Cattle . The v. of October . Anno Domini 1570. ALl faithful hearts come wail Com rend your garments gay : Else nothing can prevail , To turn Gods wrath away . Of waters fierce and fell , And floods both huge and high : You may report and tell : Of places far and nigh . Of Monsters very rare , That are unseemly born : Which doth at large declare , We live as men forlorn . We live and linger still , We wander quite astray . We want true Christians skill , To gide us in the way . Full strange unseemly sights , We may behold and see : What misdefourmed wights , Of women born there be . Ouse bridge was lately lost , By force of roaring stream : Which many a crown hath cost , In this our English realm . Why should I make delay , Reciting of such acts ? What need I more to say , Of vice and worldly facts ? As erst I did pretend , So forward will I glide : To tell the total end , What happened at this tide . By rushing rivers late , In Bedford town no nay : Full many a woeful state , May yield to fast and pray . At twelve a clock at night , It flowed with such a head : Yea many a woeful wight , Did swim in naked bed . Among the rest there was , A woeful widow sure : Whom God did bring to pass , The death she did procure . Widow Spencer by name , Asleep she being fast . The flood so rashly came , That she aloft was cast . Which seeing started up , Regarding small her pelf : She leapt beside her bed , And so she drowned herself . The houses very strong , The cattle great and small : Were quickly laid along . And so they perished all . The Geldings tall and brave , In stables rashly rolls , The Church was over flowed . In Bedford nam Poules . The Gardens round about , The sheep in marsh or field : The river was so stout , They knew not where to shield . The Kine and Oxen to , Were all drowned by force , They west not what to do : It had so small remorse . O Lord this flood was strange , And none occasion why : The weather did not change , the wind was nothing high . There was no store of rain , But very little sure : That we should thus sustain , the loss we did endure . The Ark of father Noy , was had in mind as than : When God did clean destroy , Both woman child and man . But that he promise made , When he did her remain : The world should never vade , By waters force again . Else would we then have thought , The dreadful day of doom : Had been both shape and wrought , To drown us all and some . Upon the Saboth day , We were amazed all : In Church we could not pray But in the Judgement hall . We all assembled there , With prayers most devou To God with many a tere , To tame this river stout . No horse nor man could pass , Of business small or pos For issue none there was , No way but to be lost . In Bedford town I know , This many a score of years : Did never rivers flow , To bring us in such fears . By chance I came in place , This great mischance to tell : To end our crooked raze , What fortune late befell . Which tale no sooner done , Twoo men along did walk , Betwixt us we begun , to raise some further talk . What Country men they were , I did request to know : They said of Lincolnshire , the certain truth is so . Quod they your loss is small , But one hath lost her life , He asked what dame she was , I said one Spencers wife . In Lincolnshire ( he said ) , We have sustained great loss , Our stomachs are decaide , That late so frolic was . Our Cattle in like case , Are drowned and cast away , For our offence in every place , the dum beasts truly pay . We have not escaped so , Both widow , man , and wife . Since first this flood did flow , Have gained loss of life . When that the water seast , As I and more do know , There did from skies descend , A great and grievous snow . And so we parted then , Bewailing both together . Like poor and outcast men , This sudden change of weather . In us therefore for shame , Let vice no more be seen : and eke ourselves so frame To serve aright our Queen . Finis . quod Richard . Tarlton . Imprinted at London at the long shop adjoining unto Saint Mildreds Church in the Pultrye , by John Allde . 1570. 