H : 18283 Churchyards Lamentation of Freyndshyp . IN Court some say does freindshyp flow , And some to Court for freindshyp go : But I that walk the world about , Could never yet find freyndshyp out . For fynenesse shows so fair a face , That freyndshyp hath no dwelling place Yea , deep dyssemblynge manners mild , Hath say and freindshyp both exylde : The hollow heart is fowl and fell , Where freyndshyp looketh now to dwell . The humble speech and Syrenes song Hath shrouded freyndshyp over long , The wily words that waves with wind Hath brought true friendship out of mind : And to be short , fair words is all The fruit that from the tree doth fallen . Words weldes the world , & bears the sway , And freindshyp daily doth decay : Yet durst I make of it report , it is among the meaner sort , If any faith or freyndshyp be : But I so little freindshyp see , I fear the virtue of the same Consystes but in the gentle name . The world is waxed now so nice That we have learned the french devyce , At your commandment for a show , and mean no farther for to go : We are as free of promise still as though we mente a great good will , And brave it out for glories sake , and much ado thereof we make , To blaze abroad our bounty grea Tush man the fire hath lost his heat , The flame yields forth but sparkles small , there is no freyndshyp now at all . Geve ear and here a pretty Jes There was a man ( at my request ) That seemed and earnest friend in deed , and swore he would supply my need With all his help he could devise , and oft to blere his Ladies eyes , And make her know his liberal mind : ( for women Largess love of kind . ) He promyst many a goodly gift , but when I put him to his shift , For quick performance of this gear , then backward gan he for to swerve Eke word had passed his mouth before . I pray you now if we had store Of such good friends , when need should cum might not a poor man strike his Drum Before their doors with cheerful sprete , and sound a march in open street A thousand times amidst his grief , or he should find thearby relief ? Fyve hundred of such mates as thease ( whose freyndshyp is not worth a peas , Whose bravery shines beyond the Sun , yet slypper lads when all is done . ) My hap hath be to meet or this : beware I say the Judas kiss , The flyrynge face the Parate gay , the babbling tongue that hath no stay , The fawner fine that croutcheth low , the pliant head that bends like bow , Whose nature likes not freindshyps law : the glorious man , the prating daw . Tut , tut , I warn thee oversoon , full long had need to be the spoon A man should have for every feat that with the devil thinks to eat : For devils in these days are to rife , and thou must needs lead out thy life With deep dissemblers every ways : the devils are much more to praise Then muffled men that myscheife breeds : who are not known but by their deeds ? O friendship thou art much mysused to be with friends thus abused , For freyndshyp should with open face be seen and felt in every place . Of plainness first was freyndshyp wrought , Just as the Gods , and pure of though Full free and frank as Lords hath been , full bent the peoples hearts to win : Full glad to fill the needy hand , full firm of word , and sure to stand As Oak that every storm will bide : not lost with want , nor won with pride And wealthy pomp , the pump of sin , that bringeth every myscheife in : But always clear from falseheddes train . Than tell me now and do not fain : Where do that freindshyp build his bower ? where is such freindshyp had this hour ? Where makes he now his mansyon place ? or where ( good Lord ) hath men such grace To light upon so great a bliss ? men mind and nature altered is : The world in wickedness is drowned , and truly freindshyp is unsound And rotten like corrupted fruit , though glorious men will bear a brutus Of friends , their freyndshyp is so cold that we thereof have little hold : When it should serve our turn ( god knows ) we reap the weed , and plant the Rose : We gape for gold , and gripe but glass : now doth such words of office pass Tween all estates both far and never , that talk is nought but feigned cheer To make fair weather for a while till one the other do beguile . I tell the man who plays the part of wily Fox , must learn this art : They are no small birds ( as I guess ) if I in authors may express The sins that now be kept in store , that puts in practise this and more To compass cloaked freindshyp fine . The Fouler never draws his line So straight upon the selye fowl : nor sure the bias of the bowl Goes not so straight on master block , as daily doth this dallyenge flock Upon the policy of the brain to bring the selye fool to train . Men are so used these days with words , they take them but for jests and boards That Christmas Lords were wont to speak . well , well , I say the world is week , And weker it is like to be , when credit out of the world shall fly , When trust is gone , and troth is dead , and faithful freyndshyp hides his head , And words are help of none effect , and promise faithful is suspect . Farewell , all earthly hope is past , I see our manners change so fast , And such affection leads our will awry , to fickle freindshyp still : That sure true freindshyp sylent syttes , and nought bears rule but wily wits : Unshamefast ways , and mere deceit , for plainness such a pleasant bait , As choketh up both high and low , and poisoneth all the world I trow : Wherefore since freyndshyp takes his leave , and fynenesse doth us all deceive , Let freyndshyppes name be banished quite , for sure it is a great dyspyte To speak of freindshyp any time , to make of freyndshyp prose or rhyme , Or gyve to freyndshyp any praise , that is so fruitless in our days . Finis . quod . Churchyard . Imprinted at london by Thomas Col - well for Nicolas Wyer dwelling in S. Martyus parish never to Charynge Cross , at the sign of Saint John Evangelist . H : 18283 Churchyards Lamentation of Freyndshyp . IN Court some say does freindshyp flow , And some to Court for freindshyp go : But I that walk the world about , Could never yet find freyndshyp out . For fynenesse shows so fair a face , That freyndshyp hath no dwelling place Yea , deep dyssemblynge manners mild , Hath say and freindshyp both exylde : The hollow heart is fowl and fell , Where freyndshyp looketh now to dwell . The humble speech and Syrenes song Hath shrouded freyndshyp over long , The wily words that waves with wind Hath brought true friendship out of mind : And to be short , fair words is all The fruit that from the tree doth fallen . Words weldes the world , & bears the sway , And freindshyp daily doth decay : Yet durst I make of it report , it is among the meaner sort , If any faith or freyndshyp be : But I so little freindshyp see , I fear the virtue of the same Consystes but in the gentle name . The world is waxed now so nice That we have learned the french devyce , At your commandment for a show , and mean no farther for to go : We are as free of promise still as though we mente a great good will , And brave it out for glories sake , and much ado thereof we make , To blaze abroad our bounty grea Tush man the fire hath lost his heat , The flame yields forth but sparkles small , there is no freyndshyp now at all . Geve ear and here a pretty Jes There was a man ( at my request ) That seemed and earnest friend in deed , and swore he would supply my need With all his help he could devise , and oft to blere his Ladies eyes , And make her know his liberal mind : ( for women Largess love of kind . ) He promyst many a goodly gift , but when I put him to his shift , For quick performance of this gear , then backward gan he for to swerve Eke word had passed his mouth before . I pray you now if we had store Of such good friends , when need should cum might not a poor man strike his Drum Before their doors with cheerful sprete , and sound a march in open street A thousand times amidst his grief , or he should find thearby relief ? Fyve hundred of such mates as thease ( whose freyndshyp is not worth a peas , Whose bravery shines beyond the Sun , yet slypper lads when all is done . ) My hap hath be to meet or this : beware I say the Judas kiss , The flyrynge face the Parate gay , the babbling tongue that hath no stay , The fawner fine that croutcheth low , the pliant head that bends like bow , Whose nature likes not freindshyps law : the glorious man , the prating daw . Tut , tut , I warn thee oversoon , full long had need to be the spoon A man should have for every feat that with the devil thinks to eat : For devils in these days are to rife , and thou must needs lead out thy life With deep dissemblers every ways : the devils are much more to praise Then muffled men that myscheife breeds : who are not known but by their deeds ? O friendship thou art much mysused to be with friends thus abused , For freyndshyp should with open face be seen and felt in every place . Of plainness first was freyndshyp wrought , Just as the Gods , and pure of though Full free and frank as Lords hath been , full bent the peoples hearts to win : Full glad to fill the needy hand , full firm of word , and sure to stand As Oak that every storm will bide : not lost with want , nor won with pride And wealthy pomp , the pump of sin , that bringeth every myscheife in : But always clear from falseheddes train . Than tell me now and do not fain : Where do that freindshyp build his bower ? where is such freindshyp had this hour ? Where makes he now his mansyon place ? or where ( good Lord ) hath men such grace To light upon so great a bliss ? men mind and nature altered is : The world in wickedness is drowned , and truly freindshyp is unsound And rotten like corrupted fruit , though glorious men will bear a brutus Of friends , their freyndshyp is so cold that we thereof have little hold : When it should serve our turn ( god knows ) we reap the weed , and plant the Rose : We gape for gold , and gripe but glass : now doth such words of office pass Tween all estates both far and never , that talk is nought but feigned cheer To make fair weather for a while till one the other do beguile . I tell the man who plays the part of wily Fox , must learn this art : They are no small birds ( as I guess ) if I in authors may express The sins that now be kept in store , that puts in practise this and more To compass cloaked freindshyp fine . The Fouler never draws his line So straight upon the selye fowl : nor sure the bias of the bowl Goes not so straight on master block , as daily doth this dallyenge flock Upon the policy of the brain to bring the selye fool to train . Men are so used these days with words , they take them but for jests and boards That Christmas Lords were wont to speak . well , well , I say the world is week , And weker it is like to be , when credit out of the world shall fly , When trust is gone , and troth is dead , and faithful freyndshyp hides his head , And words are help of none effect , and promise faithful is suspect . Farewell , all earthly hope is past , I see our manners change so fast , And such affection leads our will awry , to fickle freindshyp still : That sure true freindshyp sylent syttes , and nought bears rule but wily wits : Unshamefast ways , and mere deceit , for plainness such a pleasant bait , As choketh up both high and low , and poisoneth all the world I trow : Wherefore since freyndshyp takes his leave , and fynenesse doth us all deceive , Let freyndshyppes name be banished quite , for sure it is a great dyspyte To speak of freindshyp any time , to make of freyndshyp prose or rhyme , Or gyve to freyndshyp any praise , that is so fruitless in our days . Finis . quod . Churchyard . Imprinted at london by Thomas Col - well for Nicolas Wyer dwelling in S. Martyus parish never to Charynge Cross , at the sign of Saint John Evangelist . 