H : 43269 Upon the DEATH of that Aged , Pious , Sincere-hearted CHRISTIAN , JOHN ALDEN , Esq ; Late MAGISTRATE of New-Plimouth Colony , who died Sept. 12th , 1687 , being about eighty nine years of age . THE staff of bred , and water eke the stay , From sinning Judah God will take away , The prudent Counselor , the Honourable , Whom Grace and Holiness makes delectable , The Judge , the Prophet and the ancient Saint , The death's of such cause sorrowful complaint , The Earth and its Inhabitants do fallen , The aged Saint bears up its pillars all . The hoary head in way of Righteousness A crown of glory is . Who can express Th' abundant blessings by Disciples old / In very deed they're more than can be told . The guise 'tis of a wanton generation To wish the aged son might quit their station . Tho' truth it be , The Lord our God does frown , When aged Saints by death do tumble down . What tho' there be not such Activity , Yet in their Prayers there's such Fervency As does great mercy for a place obtain , And gracious presence of the Lord maintain . Tho' Nature's strength in old age does decay , Yet th' inward man renew'd is day by day . The very presence of a Saint in years Who lifts his soul to God with pray'rs and tears , Is a rich blessing unto any place Who have that mercy to behold his face : When since is ripe and calls for desolation God will call home old Saints from such a nation . Let sinners then of th' Aged weary be . God give me grace to mourn most heartily For death of this dear servant of the Lord , Whose life God did to us so long afford : God lent his life to greatest length of days ; In which he liv'd to his Redeemer's praise . In youthful time he made Moses his choice , His soul obeying great JEHOVAH's voice , Freely forsook the world for sake of GOD , In His House with His Saints to have abided . He followed GOD into this Wilderness ; Thereby to all the world he did profess , Affliction with the Saints a better part And more delightful to his holy heart Than sinful pleasures , lasting but a season : Thus said his Faith , so says not carnal Reason , He came one of the first into this Land , And here was kept by God's most gracious hand Years sixty-seven , which time he did behold To poor New-England mercies Manifold : All God's great works to this His Israel From first implanting what to them befell : Of them he made a serious Observation , And could of them present a large Narration , His walk was holy , humble , and sincere , His heart was filled with JEHOVAH's Fear . He honour'd GOD with much integrity , God therefore did him truly magnify . The hearts of Saints entirely did him love , His Uprightness so highly did approve , That while to choose they had their liberty Within the Limits of this Colony Their Civil Leaders , him they ever chosen . His Faithfulness made hearts with him to close . With all the Governors he did Assist ; His Name recorded is within the List Of Plimouth's Pillars to his dying day . His Name is precious to eternal Ay. He set his Love on God and knew His Name , God therefore gives him everlasting Fame . So good and heav'nly was his Conversation , God gave long life , and shew'd him His Salvation . His work now finished upon this earth ; ( Seeing the death of what he saw the birth ) His gracious Lord from heaven calls him home , And says , My servant , now to Heaven come : Thou hast done good , been faithful unto Me , Now shalt thou live in bliss ETRNALLY , On dying bed his Ails were very great , Yet verily his heart on GOD was set . He bore his griefs with Faith and Patience , And did maintain his lively confidence : Saying to some , The work which God begun , He would preserve to its perfection . His mouth was full of blessings till his death To Ministers and Christians all : his breath Was very sweet by many a precious word He utter'd from the Spirit of his Lord . He liv'd in Christ , in Jesus now he sleeps : And his blessed soul the Lord in safety keeps . JOHN ALDEN . Anagram End all on him . Death puts and End to all this world enjoys , And frees the Saint from all that here annoys . This blessed Saint hath seen and end of all Worldly perfections . Now his Lord does call Him to ascend from earth to heaven high , Where he is blessed to all Eternity . Who walk with God as he , shall so be blessed , And evermore in Christ His arms shall rest . Lord , Spare thy remnant , do not us forsake , From us do not thy Holy Spirit take . Thy Cause , thy Int'rest in this land still own : Thy gracious presence ay let be our Crown . J . C.H : 43269 Upon the DEATH of that Aged , Pious , Sincere-hearted CHRISTIAN , JOHN ALDEN , Esq ; Late MAGISTRATE of New-Plimouth Colony , who died Sept. 12th , 1687 , being about eighty nine years of age . THE staff of bred , and water eke the stay , From sinning Judah God will take away , The prudent Counselor , the Honourable , Whom Grace and Holiness makes delectable , The Judge , the Prophet and the ancient Saint , The death's of such cause sorrowful complaint , The Earth and its Inhabitants do fallen , The aged Saint bears up its pillars all . The hoary head in way of Righteousness A crown of glory is . Who can express Th' abundant blessings by Disciples old / In very deed they're more than can be told . The guise 'tis of a wanton generation To wish the aged son might quit their station . Tho' truth it be , The Lord our God does frown , When aged Saints by death do tumble down . What tho' there be not such Activity , Yet in their Prayers there's such Fervency As does great mercy for a place obtain , And gracious presence of the Lord maintain . Tho' Nature's strength in old age does decay , Yet th' inward man renew'd is day by day . The very presence of a Saint in years Who lifts his soul to God with pray'rs and tears , Is a rich blessing unto any place Who have that mercy to behold his face : When since is ripe and calls for desolation God will call home old Saints from such a nation . Let sinners then of th' Aged weary be . God give me grace to mourn most heartily For death of this dear servant of the Lord , Whose life God did to us so long afford : God lent his life to greatest length of days ; In which he liv'd to his Redeemer's praise . In youthful time he made Moses his choice , His soul obeying great JEHOVAH's voice , Freely forsook the world for sake of GOD , In His House with His Saints to have abided . He followed GOD into this Wilderness ; Thereby to all the world he did profess , Affliction with the Saints a better part And more delightful to his holy heart Than sinful pleasures , lasting but a season : Thus said his Faith , so says not carnal Reason , He came one of the first into this Land , And here was kept by God's most gracious hand Years sixty-seven , which time he did behold To poor New-England mercies Manifold : All God's great works to this His Israel From first implanting what to them befell : Of them he made a serious Observation , And could of them present a large Narration , His walk was holy , humble , and sincere , His heart was filled with JEHOVAH's Fear . He honour'd GOD with much integrity , God therefore did him truly magnify . The hearts of Saints entirely did him love , His Uprightness so highly did approve , That while to choose they had their liberty Within the Limits of this Colony Their Civil Leaders , him they ever chosen . His Faithfulness made hearts with him to close . With all the Governors he did Assist ; His Name recorded is within the List Of Plimouth's Pillars to his dying day . His Name is precious to eternal Ay. He set his Love on God and knew His Name , God therefore gives him everlasting Fame . So good and heav'nly was his Conversation , God gave long life , and shew'd him His Salvation . His work now finished upon this earth ; ( Seeing the death of what he saw the birth ) His gracious Lord from heaven calls him home , And says , My servant , now to Heaven come : Thou hast done good , been faithful unto Me , Now shalt thou live in bliss ETRNALLY , On dying bed his Ails were very great , Yet verily his heart on GOD was set . He bore his griefs with Faith and Patience , And did maintain his lively confidence : Saying to some , The work which God begun , He would preserve to its perfection . His mouth was full of blessings till his death To Ministers and Christians all : his breath Was very sweet by many a precious word He utter'd from the Spirit of his Lord . He liv'd in Christ , in Jesus now he sleeps : And his blessed soul the Lord in safety keeps . JOHN ALDEN . Anagram End all on him . Death puts and End to all this world enjoys , And frees the Saint from all that here annoys . This blessed Saint hath seen and end of all Worldly perfections . Now his Lord does call Him to ascend from earth to heaven high , Where he is blessed to all Eternity . Who walk with God as he , shall so be blessed , And evermore in Christ His arms shall rest . Lord , Spare thy remnant , do not us forsake , From us do not thy Holy Spirit take . Thy Cause , thy Int'rest in this land still own : Thy gracious presence ay let be our Crown . J.C. 