H : 135849 Room for a Ballad , OR , A Ballad for Room . BEING A Continuation of the Catholic Ballad inviting to Popery Upon the best Grounds and Reasons , that could ever yet be produced . To and Excellent Tune , called , The Powder plot . Wonder not , that the Scarlet Whore appears With her Devices , in Read Characters ; Since through the World 'tis sadly understood , That Popery is always Writ in Blood . FRom Infallible Room , once more I am come , With a budget of Catholic ware , Shall dazzle your Eyes , and your Fancies surprise , To embrace a Religion so rare . Oh! the Love and Goodwill , of his Holiness still , What will he not do for to save you : If such pains and such Art , cannot you Convert , 'Tis pity but Old Neck should have you . Now our Priests are run down , and our Jesuits aground And their Arguments all prove invalid : See here he hath god , and unheard of New Plot , To Proselyte you with a Ballad . Then lay by your Jeers , and Prick up your Ears , While I unto you do display , The advantage and worth , the Truth and so-forth Of the Roman Catholic way . If you did but behold , the Faith and the Gold , Of which Holy Church is possessed ; You would never more stray , in th' Heretical way , But fly to her Lap to be blessed . The Pope is the Head , and does Peter succeed , ( Pray come away faster and faster ) He succeeds him 'tis true , but would you know how 'Tis only in denying his Master . He's Infallible too , what need more ado , And ever had Truth in possession : For though once Mob Joan , Ascended the Throne , The same was no breach of Succession . Our Church and no other , is the Reverend Mother Of Christians throughout the whole Earth ; Though Older they be , perhaps far than she , Yet they must owe unto her their Birth . Our Faith is so great , so found and Complete , It scorneth both Scripture and Reason ; And builds on Tradition , sometime Superstition , And ofttimes Rebellion and Treason . Our strict purity , is plain to each eye , That Catholic Countries' views ; For there to suppress , the sins of the Flesh , Sodomy is in use and the Stews . The second Part , to the same Tune . Our Zeal has been felt , where ever we dwelled , On all that our Doctrine deny : we have a Suspicion , we make Inquisition , And straight the poor Heretics Fry . [ I ] n vain they may Plead , or their Scriptures Read , We valve them all not a pin : The best Argument , that we can invent , Is with Fire and Sword to begin . A most Godly way , whatever they say , Since it their Salvation obtains , Makes them Orthodox , with blows and with knocks And hammers Faith into their brains . [ A ] God we can make , of a thin Wafer Cake , And eat him up when we have done : But a Drop of the Cup Laymen must not sup , For the Priests Guzles that all alone . We have terrible Bulls , and Pardons for Gulls , Holy Water to Scarecrow the Devil ; With Consecrate Swords , take them on our words , They shall make the Great Turk be Civil . We have Saints great store , and Miracles more , With Martyrs a great many from Tyburn ; Pretty Nuns that dwell , mew'd up in a Cell , As Chaste as Night walker's of Holbourn . We have Holy Blood , we have Holy wood , A Ship-load or some such matter : We have Holy Bones , and some Holy Stones , Would make and Old Ladies Chops water . We have Holy men , seen but now and then , Monks , Abbots , and Capuchin Friars , With Merits so great , they can buy one a Seat In Heaven , or else they are Liars . [ ? ] hen all you that would sure Salvation procure , And yet still live as you life [ TO ] oh but mutter and Pray , and say as we say , And your Catholics good as e're P --- . We are brisk and free , and always agree , Allowing our selves to be jolly ; [ And ] worser the Puritan tricks , of dull Heretics , We count but Fanatical Folly . [ ? ] earing and Whoring , Drinking and Roaring , All those are but Venial Transgressions : [ That ] e Murdering of Kings , and such pretty things , Are easily Absolv'd in Confession . [ ? ] ttle short Penance , does wipe away since , And there is and end of all trouble ; Which having dispatched , you may fallen too't again , And safely your wickedness double . Bring a good round Sum , Sins past and to come , Shall presently be forgiven ; But this you must know , before you do go , The Excise runs high upon Heaven . For we have the Price , of every Vice , Assest at a certain Rate ; So near at a word , we do them afford , Not a Penny thereof we can Bore . But if you're content , a while to be penned , And in Purgatory purged ; A smaller Spell shall preserve you from Hell , And keep you from being Scourged . Though you have liv'd a Devil , in all kind of Evil , Bequeathe but a Monastery , And Angels your Soul , without Control , To Abraham's Bosom shall Carry . Nor need you to fear , who have bought Lands dear , That were Holy Churches before ; Wee'l lend them for Life , but for your Souls health At your Death you must them Restore . Thus Popery you see , will kindly agree , If you will it but Embrace , But if you delay , there's so many i'th way , That you will hardly get a good Place . The Critical Time , is now in the Prime , See how Holly Mother does smile , And spreading her Arms , to preserve you from harms , So gladly would you Reconcile . To which purpose behold , do but tell out your Gold And all Things in readiness be ; For the next Year , his Holiness ( we hear ) Does intend a Jubilee . ( ' ) You that Pardons would have , or Indulgence crave , To ROME , to ROME be Trudging , And do not contemn , good Advice from a Friend , Nor take his Ballad in dudgeon . ( ' ) A Time when the POPE uses to grant General Par - dons , etc Formerly kept only every Fiftyth Year : But now that his Holinesses Market might the oftener Return , It is observed every Twenty-fifth Year , which happens to be the approaching Year , 1675. And I wish that all Factious or Designing Priests , and Poplings would be packing thither to observe It , that we might be rid of them , having more oc - casion for their Room then their Company . FINIS . Printed for Benjamin Harris , at the Stationers Arms in Swithins-Alley near the Royal Exchange H : 135849 Room for a Ballad , OR , A Ballad for Room . BEING A Continuation of the Catholic Ballad inviting to Popery Upon the best Grounds and Reasons , that could ever yet be produced . To and Excellent Tune , called , The Powder plot . Wonder not , that the Scarlet Whore appears With her Devices , in Read Characters ; Since through the World 'tis sadly understood , That Popery is always Writ in Blood . FRom Infallible Room , once more I am come , With a budget of Catholic ware , Shall dazzle your Eyes , and your Fancies surprise , To embrace a Religion so rare . Oh! the Love and Goodwill , of his Holiness still , What will he not do for to save you : If such pains and such Art , cannot you Convert , 'Tis pity but Old Neck should have you . Now our Priests are run down , and our Jesuits aground And their Arguments all prove invalid : See here he hath god , and unheard of New Plot , To Proselyte you with a Ballad . Then lay by your Jeers , and Prick up your Ears , While I unto you do display , The advantage and worth , the Truth and so-forth Of the Roman Catholic way . If you did but behold , the Faith and the Gold , Of which Holy Church is possessed ; You would never more stray , in th' Heretical way , But fly to her Lap to be blessed . The Pope is the Head , and does Peter succeed , ( Pray come away faster and faster ) He succeeds him 'tis true , but would you know how 'Tis only in denying his Master . He's Infallible too , what need more ado , And ever had Truth in possession : For though once Mob Joan , Ascended the Throne , The same was no breach of Succession . Our Church and no other , is the Reverend Mother Of Christians throughout the whole Earth ; Though Older they be , perhaps far than she , Yet they must owe unto her their Birth . Our Faith is so great , so found and Complete , It scorneth both Scripture and Reason ; And builds on Tradition , sometime Superstition , And ofttimes Rebellion and Treason . Our strict purity , is plain to each eye , That Catholic Countries' views ; For there to suppress , the sins of the Flesh , Sodomy is in use and the Stews . The second Part , to the same Tune . Our Zeal has been felt , where ever we dwelled , On all that our Doctrine deny : we have a Suspicion , we make Inquisition , And straight the poor Heretics Fry . [ I ] n vain they may Plead , or their Scriptures Read , We valve them all not a pin : The best Argument , that we can invent , Is with Fire and Sword to begin . A most Godly way , whatever they say , Since it their Salvation obtains , Makes them Orthodox , with blows and with knocks And hammers Faith into their brains . [ A ] God we can make , of a thin Wafer Cake , And eat him up when we have done : But a Drop of the Cup Laymen must not sup , For the Priests Guzles that all alone . We have terrible Bulls , and Pardons for Gulls , Holy Water to Scarecrow the Devil ; With Consecrate Swords , take them on our words , They shall make the Great Turk be Civil . We have Saints great store , and Miracles more , With Martyrs a great many from Tyburn ; Pretty Nuns that dwell , mew'd up in a Cell , As Chaste as Night walker's of Holbourn . We have Holy Blood , we have Holy wood , A Ship-load or some such matter : We have Holy Bones , and some Holy Stones , Would make and Old Ladies Chops water . We have Holy men , seen but now and then , Monks , Abbots , and Capuchin Friars , With Merits so great , they can buy one a Seat In Heaven , or else they are Liars . [ ? ] hen all you that would sure Salvation procure , And yet still live as you life [ TO ] oh but mutter and Pray , and say as we say , And your Catholics good as e're P --- . We are brisk and free , and always agree , Allowing our selves to be jolly ; [ And ] worser the Puritan tricks , of dull Heretics , We count but Fanatical Folly . [ ? ] earing and Whoring , Drinking and Roaring , All those are but Venial Transgressions : [ That ] e Murdering of Kings , and such pretty things , Are easily Absolv'd in Confession . [ ? ] ttle short Penance , does wipe away since , And there is and end of all trouble ; Which having dispatched , you may fallen too't again , And safely your wickedness double . Bring a good round Sum , Sins past and to come , Shall presently be forgiven ; But this you must know , before you do go , The Excise runs high upon Heaven . For we have the Price , of every Vice , Assest at a certain Rate ; So near at a word , we do them afford , Not a Penny thereof we can Bore . But if you're content , a while to be penned , And in Purgatory purged ; A smaller Spell shall preserve you from Hell , And keep you from being Scourged . Though you have liv'd a Devil , in all kind of Evil , Bequeathe but a Monastery , And Angels your Soul , without Control , To Abraham's Bosom shall Carry . Nor need you to fear , who have bought Lands dear , That were Holy Churches before ; Wee'l lend them for Life , but for your Souls health At your Death you must them Restore . Thus Popery you see , will kindly agree , If you will it but Embrace , But if you delay , there's so many i'th way , That you will hardly get a good Place . The Critical Time , is now in the Prime , See how Holly Mother does smile , And spreading her Arms , to preserve you from harms , So gladly would you Reconcile . To which purpose behold , do but tell out your Gold And all Things in readiness be ; For the next Year , his Holiness ( we hear ) Does intend a Jubilee . ( ' ) You that Pardons would have , or Indulgence crave , To ROME , to ROME be Trudging , And do not contemn , good Advice from a Friend , Nor take his Ballad in dudgeon . ( ' ) A Time when the POPE uses to grant General Par - dons , etc Formerly kept only every Fiftyth Year : But now that his Holinesses Market might the oftener Return , It is observed every Twenty-fifth Year , which happens to be the approaching Year , 1675. And I wish that all Factious or Designing Priests , and Poplings would be packing thither to observe It , that we might be rid of them , having more oc - casion for their Room then their Company . FINIS . Printed for Benjamin Harris , at the Stationers Arms in Swithins-Alley near the Royal Exchange H : 135849 Room for a Ballad , OR , A Ballad for Room . BEING A Continuation of the Catholic Ballad inviting to Popery Upon the best Grounds and Reasons , that could ever yet be produced . To and Excellent Tune , called , The Powder plot . Wonder not , that the Scarlet Whore appears With her Devices , in Read Characters ; Since through the World 'tis sadly understood , That Popery is always Writ in Blood . FRom Infallible Room , once more I am come , With a budget of Catholic ware , Shall dazzle your Eyes , and your Fancies surprise , To embrace a Religion so rare . Oh! the Love and Goodwill , of his Holiness still , What will he not do for to save you : If such pains and such Art , cannot you Convert , 'Tis pity but Old Neck should have you . Now our Priests are run down , and our Jesuits aground And their Arguments all prove invalid : See here he hath god , and unheard of New Plot , To Proselyte you with a Ballad . Then lay by your Jeers , and Prick up your Ears , While I unto you do display , The advantage and worth , the Truth and so-forth Of the Roman Catholic way . If you did but behold , the Faith and the Gold , Of which Holy Church is possessed ; You would never more stray , in th' Heretical way , But fly to her Lap to be blessed . The Pope is the Head , and does Peter succeed , ( Pray come away faster and faster ) He succeeds him 'tis true , but would you know how 'Tis only in denying his Master . He's Infallible too , what need more ado , And ever had Truth in possession : For though once Mob Joan , Ascended the Throne , The same was no breach of Succession . Our Church and no other , is the Reverend Mother Of Christians throughout the whole Earth ; Though Older they be , perhaps far than she , Yet they must owe unto her their Birth . Our Faith is so great , so found and Complete , It scorneth both Scripture and Reason ; And builds on Tradition , sometime Superstition , And ofttimes Rebellion and Treason . Our strict purity , is plain to each eye , That Catholic Countries' views ; For there to suppress , the sins of the Flesh , Sodomy is in use and the Stews . The second Part , to the same Tune . Our Zeal has been felt , where ever we dwelled , On all that our Doctrine deny : we have a Suspicion , we make Inquisition , And straight the poor Heretics Fry . [ I ] n vain they may Plead , or their Scriptures Read , We valve them all not a pin : The best Argument , that we can invent , Is with Fire and Sword to begin . A most Godly way , whatever they say , Since it their Salvation obtains , Makes them Orthodox , with blows and with knocks And hammers Faith into their brains . [ A ] God we can make , of a thin Wafer Cake , And eat him up when we have done : But a Drop of the Cup Laymen must not sup , For the Priests Guzles that all alone . We have terrible Bulls , and Pardons for Gulls , Holy Water to Scarecrow the Devil ; With Consecrate Swords , take them on our words , They shall make the Great Turk be Civil . We have Saints great store , and Miracles more , With Martyrs a great many from Tyburn ; Pretty Nuns that dwell , mew'd up in a Cell , As Chaste as Night walker's of Holbourn . We have Holy Blood , we have Holy wood , A Ship-load or some such matter : We have Holy Bones , and some Holy Stones , Would make and Old Ladies Chops water . We have Holy men , seen but now and then , Monks , Abbots , and Capuchin Friars , With Merits so great , they can buy one a Seat In Heaven , or else they are Liars . [ ? ] hen all you that would sure Salvation procure , And yet still live as you life [ TO ] oh but mutter and Pray , and say as we say , And your Catholics good as e're P --- . We are brisk and free , and always agree , Allowing our selves to be jolly ; [ And ] worser the Puritan tricks , of dull Heretics , We count but Fanatical Folly . [ ? ] earing and Whoring , Drinking and Roaring , All those are but Venial Transgressions : [ That ] e Murdering of Kings , and such pretty things , Are easily Absolv'd in Confession . [ ? ] ttle short Penance , does wipe away since , And there is and end of all trouble ; Which having dispatched , you may fallen too't again , And safely your wickedness double . Bring a good round Sum , Sins past and to come , Shall presently be forgiven ; But this you must know , before you do go , The Excise runs high upon Heaven . For we have the Price , of every Vice , Assest at a certain Rate ; So near at a word , we do them afford , Not a Penny thereof we can Bore . But if you're content , a while to be penned , And in Purgatory purged ; A smaller Spell shall preserve you from Hell , And keep you from being Scourged . Though you have liv'd a Devil , in all kind of Evil , Bequeathe but a Monastery , And Angels your Soul , without Control , To Abraham's Bosom shall Carry . Nor need you to fear , who have bought Lands dear , That were Holy Churches before ; Wee'l lend them for Life , but for your Souls health At your Death you must them Restore . Thus Popery you see , will kindly agree , If you will it but Embrace , But if you delay , there's so many i'th way , That you will hardly get a good Place . The Critical Time , is now in the Prime , See how Holly Mother does smile , And spreading her Arms , to preserve you from harms , So gladly would you Reconcile . To which purpose behold , do but tell out your Gold And all Things in readiness be ; For the next Year , his Holiness ( we hear ) Does intend a Jubilee . ( ' ) You that Pardons would have , or Indulgence crave , To ROME , to ROME be Trudging , And do not contemn , good Advice from a Friend , Nor take his Ballad in dudgeon . ( ' ) A Time when the POPE uses to grant General Par - dons , etc Formerly kept only every Fiftyth Year : But now that his Holinesses Market might the oftener Return , It is observed every Twenty-fifth Year , which happens to be the approaching Year , 1675. And I wish that all Factious or Designing Priests , and Poplings would be packing thither to observe It , that we might be rid of them , having more oc - casion for their Room then their Company . FINIS . Printed for Benjamin Harris , at the Stationers Arms in Swithins-Alley near the Royal Exchange H : 135849 Room for a Ballad , OR , A Ballad for Room . BEING A Continuation of the Catholic Ballad inviting to Popery Upon the best Grounds and Reasons , that could ever yet be produced . To and Excellent Tune , called , The Powder plot . Wonder not , that the Scarlet Whore appears With her Devices , in Read Characters ; Since through the World 'tis sadly understood , That Popery is always Writ in Blood . FRom Infallible Room , once more I am come , With a budget of Catholic ware , Shall dazzle your Eyes , and your Fancies surprise , To embrace a Religion so rare . Oh! the Love and Goodwill , of his Holiness still , What will he not do for to save you : If such pains and such Art , cannot you Convert , 'Tis pity but Old Neck should have you . Now our Priests are run down , and our Jesuits aground And their Arguments all prove invalid : See here he hath god , and unheard of New Plot , To Proselyte you with a Ballad . Then lay by your Jeers , and Prick up your Ears , While I unto you do display , The advantage and worth , the Truth and so-forth Of the Roman Catholic way . If you did but behold , the Faith and the Gold , Of which Holy Church is possessed ; You would never more stray , in th' Heretical way , But fly to her Lap to be blessed . The Pope is the Head , and does Peter succeed , ( Pray come away faster and faster ) He succeeds him 'tis true , but would you know how 'Tis only in denying his Master . He's Infallible too , what need more ado , And ever had Truth in possession : For though once Mob Joan , Ascended the Throne , The same was no breach of Succession . Our Church and no other , is the Reverend Mother Of Christians throughout the whole Earth ; Though Older they be , perhaps far than she , Yet they must owe unto her their Birth . Our Faith is so great , so found and Complete , It scorneth both Scripture and Reason ; And builds on Tradition , sometime Superstition , And ofttimes Rebellion and Treason . Our strict purity , is plain to each eye , That Catholic Countries' views ; For there to suppress , the sins of the Flesh , Sodomy is in use and the Stews . The second Part , to the same Tune . Our Zeal has been felt , where ever we dwelled , On all that our Doctrine deny : we have a Suspicion , we make Inquisition , And straight the poor Heretics Fry . [ I ] n vain they may Plead , or their Scriptures Read , We valve them all not a pin : The best Argument , that we can invent , Is with Fire and Sword to begin . A most Godly way , whatever they say , Since it their Salvation obtains , Makes them Orthodox , with blows and with knocks And hammers Faith into their brains . [ A ] God we can make , of a thin Wafer Cake , And eat him up when we have done : But a Drop of the Cup Laymen must not sup , For the Priests Guzles that all alone . We have terrible Bulls , and Pardons for Gulls , Holy Water to Scarecrow the Devil ; With Consecrate Swords , take them on our words , They shall make the Great Turk be Civil . We have Saints great store , and Miracles more , With Martyrs a great many from Tyburn ; Pretty Nuns that dwell , mew'd up in a Cell , As Chaste as Night walker's of Holbourn . We have Holy Blood , we have Holy wood , A Ship-load or some such matter : We have Holy Bones , and some Holy Stones , Would make and Old Ladies Chops water . We have Holy men , seen but now and then , Monks , Abbots , and Capuchin Friars , With Merits so great , they can buy one a Seat In Heaven , or else they are Liars . [ ? ] hen all you that would sure Salvation procure , And yet still live as you life [ TO ] oh but mutter and Pray , and say as we say , And your Catholics good as e're P --- . We are brisk and free , and always agree , Allowing our selves to be jolly ; [ And ] worser the Puritan tricks , of dull Heretics , We count but Fanatical Folly . [ ? ] earing and Whoring , Drinking and Roaring , All those are but Venial Transgressions : [ That ] e Murdering of Kings , and such pretty things , Are easily Absolv'd in Confession . [ ? ] ttle short Penance , does wipe away since , And there is and end of all trouble ; Which having dispatched , you may fallen too't again , And safely your wickedness double . Bring a good round Sum , Sins past and to come , Shall presently be forgiven ; But this you must know , before you do go , The Excise runs high upon Heaven . For we have the Price , of every Vice , Assest at a certain Rate ; So near at a word , we do them afford , Not a Penny thereof we can Bore . But if you're content , a while to be penned , And in Purgatory purged ; A smaller Spell shall preserve you from Hell , And keep you from being Scourged . Though you have liv'd a Devil , in all kind of Evil , Bequeathe but a Monastery , And Angels your Soul , without Control , To Abraham's Bosom shall Carry . Nor need you to fear , who have bought Lands dear , That were Holy Churches before ; Wee'l lend them for Life , but for your Souls health At your Death you must them Restore . Thus Popery you see , will kindly agree , If you will it but Embrace , But if you delay , there's so many i'th way , That you will hardly get a good Place . The Critical Time , is now in the Prime , See how Holly Mother does smile , And spreading her Arms , to preserve you from harms , So gladly would you Reconcile . To which purpose behold , do but tell out your Gold And all Things in readiness be ; For the next Year , his Holiness ( we hear ) Does intend a Jubilee . ( ' ) You that Pardons would have , or Indulgence crave , To ROME , to ROME be Trudging , And do not contemn , good Advice from a Friend , Nor take his Ballad in dudgeon . ( ' ) A Time when the POPE uses to grant General Par - dons , etc Formerly kept only every Fiftyth Year : But now that his Holinesses Market might the oftener Return , It is observed every Twenty-fifth Year , which happens to be the approaching Year , 1675. And I wish that all Factious or Designing Priests , and Poplings would be packing thither to observe It , that we might be rid of them , having more oc - casion for their Room then their Company . FINIS . Printed for Benjamin Harris , at the Stationers Arms in Swithins-Alley near the Royal Exchange 