H : 183923'  pt2 A True Narrative of the Horrid Hellish Popish-Plot . To the Tune of PACKINGTON'S POUND , The Second Part. The Contents of the Second PART . Of Arms underground for Horse and for Foot ; The KING almost Kill'd , but Gun wiill not shoot , For which Pick'ring is whipped . All of them swear To be true to the PLOT ; yet Oats , not for Fear Nor Revenge , ( though turn'd away , and well bang'd ) Discovers them all ; The Jesuits are Hang'd . I . THe PLOT being thus subtly contriv'd as you hear , To God knows how many this ( 1 ) Secret th' impart , Some famous for Cheats , yet their Faith they don't fear ; To tie a Knave fast they had found a new Art. They ( 2 ) swore on a Book , And ( 3 ) Sacrament took ; But you'l find , if into their grave Authors you look , Forswearing's no since , ( as ( 4 ) Recorder well notes ) Nor Treason , Rebellion , nor Cutting of Throats . The truth of my Story if any man doubt , W' have Witnesses ready to Swear it all out . II STill blinded with Zeal , and inveigl'd by Hope , Store of Arms they provide for Fight and Defence , Three Lords must command , as Vice-Roys of the Pope , And all over England they raise ( 5 ) Peterpence . Their Letters they send By ( 6 ) Bedlow their Friend , Or else by the ( 7 ) Post , to show what the intend . Some hundreds ( 8 ) Oats saw , which the Jesuits did write , 'Tis a wonder not One of them e're came to light . The Truth of my Story , etc III . POunds Two hundred thousand to ( 9 ) Ireland they sent ; Fifteen thousand to ( 10 ) Wakeman for Potions and Pills ; Forty thousand in Fireworks we guess that they spent ; And , Item , Ten thousand to pay for Black-Bills ; Fifteen hundred more ( 11 ) Grove should have they swore ; Four Gentlemen Ruffians deserved ( 12 ) Fourscore ; Pious Pickering they knew was of Masses more found , And for ( 13 ) Thirty thousand they gave him a Bond. The truth of my Story , etc IV. THese two , to Kill the King by fair promises wone , Had watch'd now some ( 14 ) years in St. James's Park ; And Pick'ring , who never yet ( 15 ) shot off a Gun , Was about to take aim , for he had a fair Mark : Just going to begin't , He ( 16 ) missed his Flint , And looking in Pan , there was ( 17 ) no Powder in't ; For which he their Pardon does humbly beseech , Yet had ( 18 ) thirty good lashes upon his bore Breech . The truth of my Story , etc V. BUt a sadder mischance to their PLOT did befall , For Oats , their main Engine , fail'd when it came to't ; No marvel indeed if he cuzen'd 'em all , Who turn'd him a ( 19 ) begging , and ( 20 ) beatrice him to boo He wheeling about , Th' whole Party did rout , And from lurking holes did so ferret 'em out ; Till running himself blind , he none of them ( 21 ) knew , And fainting at ( 22 ) Council , he cou'd not swear true . The truth of my Story , etc VI . TO comfort our Doctor , brave Bedloe's brought in , A more Credible Witness was not above ground ; He vows and protests , though a Rogue he had been , He wou'd now not swear false for Five hundred p [ oh ] und : And why shou'd we fear They falsely wou'd swear , To damn their own ( 23 ) Souls , and to loose by it here . Poor Oats , who before had no Penny in Purse , Discov'ring the PLOT , was Seven hundred pound ( 24 ) worse The truth of my Story , etc VII . TWo Witnesses more were let lose from the Jail , Though ( 25 ) One 'tis confessed did run back from his word ; ( In danger of Life a good man may be frail ) And th' ( 26 ) Other they slander for Cheating his Lord . T' every one of these men The Jesuits brought ( 27 ) Ten , To disprove 'em in Time and in Place ; but what then ? One Circumstance lately was sworn most clear By a ( 28 ) Man who in hope's has Five hundred a year . The truth of my Story , etc VIII . ANd then we are told , We must always suppose , To murder the King a Great PLOT there has been ; And who to contrive it so likely as those Who Murder and Treason do hold for no Sin. Things being thus plain , To plead was in vain ; The Jury ( instructed again and again ) Did find them all Guilty , and to show 'twas well done , The People gave a Shout for Victory wone . The Truth of my Story if any man doubt , W' have Witnesses ready to Swear it all out . IX : This strange how these Jesuits , so subtle and wise , Shou'd all by the Pope be so basely trepan'd , To Hang with much comfort when he shall advice , And go to the Devil too at his command . He may give them leave , To Lie and Deceive ; But what when the Rope do's of Life them bereave ? Can his Holiness , think you , dispense with that pain , Or by his Indulgences raise them again ? The truth of my Story if any man doubt , W' have Witnesses ready to Swear it all out . X. Yet ( like Madmen ) of Life a Contempt they express , And of their own happiness careless appear . For Life and for Money not one would confess ; Th' had rather be Damn'd , than be Rich and live here . But surely they rav'd , When God they out-brav'd , And thought to renounce him the way to be sav'd ; With Lies in their mouths go to Heaven in a string ; So prosper all Traitors , and GOD save the KING . The truth of my Story if any man doubt , W' have Witnesses ready to Swear it all out . Concordat cum Recordo . Cl. Par. FINIS . See th' Authors I quote ; there's Witnesses plenty , Approv'd by a --- Nemine Contradicente . Yet Juries ( for tender Conscience so famous ) To save a True-Protestant , write Ignoramus . I do imagine some will say there never was such another strange Ballad , with marginal Notes and Quotations . But I answer , there never was such another Plot , and I am afraid , that if I did not cite very good Authors , and bring Witnesses of untainted Reputation , the next Generation might be so far deluded by Popish Shams , as not to believe it . Authors Quoted . ( 1 ) As it appears in the several Trials . ( 2 ) Ireland's Trial , p. 23. ( 3 ) Hill's Trial , p. 32 , ( 4 ) See his Speech in Ireland's Trial , p , 81. ( 5 ) The same Trial , p. 30. ( 6 ) Jesuits Trial , p. 33. ( 7 ) The same , p. 29. ( 8 ) Oats's Narrat . all along . ( 9 ) See Coleman's Try . p. 23. ( 10 ) The same , page 40. ( 11 ) The same again , p. 21. ( 12 ) The same , p. 24. ( 13 ) The same again , p. 21. ( 14 ) Ireland's Trial , p. 24. ( 15 ) The same , p. 25. ( 16 ) The same again , p. 24. ( 17 ) See Jesuits Trial , p. 33. ( 18 ) Ireland's Trial , p. 24. ( 19 ) Wakeman's Trial , p. 73. ( 20 ) Jesuits Trial , p. 91. ( 21 ) Wakeman's Trial , p. 30 , & 55. As also Coleman's Trial , p. 30. ( 22 ) The same again . ( 23 ) Wakeman's Trial , p. 40. ( 24 ) Thus Oats and Bedloe of - firm in Langhorn's Trial . ( 25 ) Mr. Prance . ( 25 ) Mr. Dugdale . ( 26 ) Jesuits Trial all along . ( 27 ) viz. To prove that Ire - land was not in Town Aug. 19. See Wakeman's Trial , p. 22. ( 28 ) Mr. Jenison . Some Notes on the Picture to prevent Popish Cavils . I . Be not scandaliz'd at a word or two of Latin ; 'Tis only to show the folly of the Papists , who pray in and unknown Tongue . K. This is not meant of any Oath against the Papists , but of their wic - ked Oath of Secrecy ; which though the Doctor often took , yet we may charitably believe he never did in - tend to keep it ; since he positively assures us he did but counterfei He only seemed to be a Papist , but was all the while a True-Protestant in his Heart . See L. Staff . Trial p. 123. L. Arms for 5 or 600 Men were hid in his Parlour ; yet by Art Ma - gick were invisible to the Gentlemen of the Country , who often dined with him in the same Room . See his Trial . M. Sir H . T's . Vault was search'd for Arms , and Coffins opened ; but all the Arms they had hidden there were turn'd to Bones . N. Sir R . T's . Sink was searched for Arms and Gunpowder ; yet not so much as one Black-Bill could ever be found there , nor in any other place . O. See Wakeman's Trial , p. 73. P. Grove , that he might be sure to give and Incurable Wound , did traitorously and maliciously champ a Silver Bullet with his poisonous Teeth . See his Trial , p. 24 , & 81. Q. Either another man in such a Coat , or else ( as some believe ) the Devil in his likeness , went often to Court , and occasion'd this unlucky mistake , which was the cause of his being beaten . See the Jesuits Trial p. 16 , 17. Many may perhaps wonder , that the crafty Jesuits would suffer him to be in such a miserable beggarly Condition ; and much more , that they would beatrice and abuse one , whom they had trusted with Secrets of so high a nature . But we can easily and - swer this , and and hundred other seeming Improbabilities , only by say - ing , They were infatuated . H : 183923'  pt2 A True Narrative of the Horrid Hellish Popish-Plot . To the Tune of PACKINGTON'S POUND , The Second Part. The Contents of the Second PART . Of Arms underground for Horse and for Foot ; The KING almost Kill'd , but Gun wiill not shoot , For which Pick'ring is whipped . All of them swear To be true to the PLOT ; yet Oats , not for Fear Nor Revenge , ( though turn'd away , and well bang'd ) Discovers them all ; The Jesuits are Hang'd . I . THe PLOT being thus subtly contriv'd as you hear , To God knows how many this ( 1 ) Secret th' impart , Some famous for Cheats , yet their Faith they don't fear ; To tie a Knave fast they had found a new Art. They ( 2 ) swore on a Book , And ( 3 ) Sacrament took ; But you'l find , if into their grave Authors you look , Forswearing's no since , ( as ( 4 ) Recorder well notes ) Nor Treason , Rebellion , nor Cutting of Throats . The truth of my Story if any man doubt , W' have Witnesses ready to Swear it all out . II STill blinded with Zeal , and inveigl'd by Hope , Store of Arms they provide for Fight and Defence , Three Lords must command , as Vice-Roys of the Pope , And all over England they raise ( 5 ) Peterpence . Their Letters they send By ( 6 ) Bedlow their Friend , Or else by the ( 7 ) Post , to show what the intend . Some hundreds ( 8 ) Oats saw , which the Jesuits did write , 'Tis a wonder not One of them e're came to light . The Truth of my Story , etc III . POunds Two hundred thousand to ( 9 ) Ireland they sent ; Fifteen thousand to ( 10 ) Wakeman for Potions and Pills ; Forty thousand in Fireworks we guess that they spent ; And , Item , Ten thousand to pay for Black-Bills ; Fifteen hundred more ( 11 ) Grove should have they swore ; Four Gentlemen Ruffians deserved ( 12 ) Fourscore ; Pious Pickering they knew was of Masses more found , And for ( 13 ) Thirty thousand they gave him a Bond. The truth of my Story , etc IV. THese two , to Kill the King by fair promises wone , Had watch'd now some ( 14 ) years in St. James's Park ; And Pick'ring , who never yet ( 15 ) shot off a Gun , Was about to take aim , for he had a fair Mark : Just going to begin't , He ( 16 ) missed his Flint , And looking in Pan , there was ( 17 ) no Powder in't ; For which he their Pardon does humbly beseech , Yet had ( 18 ) thirty good lashes upon his bore Breech . The truth of my Story , etc V. BUt a sadder mischance to their PLOT did befall , For Oats , their main Engine , fail'd when it came to't ; No marvel indeed if he cuzen'd 'em all , Who turn'd him a ( 19 ) begging , and ( 20 ) beatrice him to boo He wheeling about , Th' whole Party did rout , And from lurking holes did so ferret 'em out ; Till running himself blind , he none of them ( 21 ) knew , And fainting at ( 22 ) Council , he cou'd not swear true . The truth of my Story , etc VI . TO comfort our Doctor , brave Bedloe's brought in , A more Credible Witness was not above ground ; He vows and protests , though a Rogue he had been , He wou'd now not swear false for Five hundred p [ oh ] und : And why shou'd we fear They falsely wou'd swear , To damn their own ( 23 ) Souls , and to loose by it here . Poor Oats , who before had no Penny in Purse , Discov'ring the PLOT , was Seven hundred pound ( 24 ) worse The truth of my Story , etc VII . TWo Witnesses more were let lose from the Jail , Though ( 25 ) One 'tis confessed did run back from his word ; ( In danger of Life a good man may be frail ) And th' ( 26 ) Other they slander for Cheating his Lord . T' every one of these men The Jesuits brought ( 27 ) Ten , To disprove 'em in Time and in Place ; but what then ? One Circumstance lately was sworn most clear By a ( 28 ) Man who in hope's has Five hundred a year . The truth of my Story , etc VIII . ANd then we are told , We must always suppose , To murder the King a Great PLOT there has been ; And who to contrive it so likely as those Who Murder and Treason do hold for no Sin. Things being thus plain , To plead was in vain ; The Jury ( instructed again and again ) Did find them all Guilty , and to show 'twas well done , The People gave a Shout for Victory wone . The Truth of my Story if any man doubt , W' have Witnesses ready to Swear it all out . IX : This strange how these Jesuits , so subtle and wise , Shou'd all by the Pope be so basely trepan'd , To Hang with much comfort when he shall advice , And go to the Devil too at his command . He may give them leave , To Lie and Deceive ; But what when the Rope do's of Life them bereave ? Can his Holiness , think you , dispense with that pain , Or by his Indulgences raise them again ? The truth of my Story if any man doubt , W' have Witnesses ready to Swear it all out . X. Yet ( like Madmen ) of Life a Contempt they express , And of their own happiness careless appear . For Life and for Money not one would confess ; Th' had rather be Damn'd , than be Rich and live here . But surely they rav'd , When God they out-brav'd , And thought to renounce him the way to be sav'd ; With Lies in their mouths go to Heaven in a string ; So prosper all Traitors , and GOD save the KING . The truth of my Story if any man doubt , W' have Witnesses ready to Swear it all out . Concordat cum Recordo . Cl. Par. FINIS . See th' Authors I quote ; there's Witnesses plenty , Approv'd by a --- Nemine Contradicente . Yet Juries ( for tender Conscience so famous ) To save a True-Protestant , write Ignoramus . I do imagine some will say there never was such another strange Ballad , with marginal Notes and Quotations . But I answer , there never was such another Plot , and I am afraid , that if I did not cite very good Authors , and bring Witnesses of untainted Reputation , the next Generation might be so far deluded by Popish Shams , as not to believe it . Authors Quoted . ( 1 ) As it appears in the several Trials . ( 2 ) Ireland's Trial , p. 23. ( 3 ) Hill's Trial , p. 32 , ( 4 ) See his Speech in Ireland's Trial , p , 81. ( 5 ) The same Trial , p. 30. ( 6 ) Jesuits Trial , p. 33. ( 7 ) The same , p. 29. ( 8 ) Oats's Narrat . all along . ( 9 ) See Coleman's Try . p. 23. ( 10 ) The same , page 40. ( 11 ) The same again , p. 21. ( 12 ) The same , p. 24. ( 13 ) The same again , p. 21. ( 14 ) Ireland's Trial , p. 24. ( 15 ) The same , p. 25. ( 16 ) The same again , p. 24. ( 17 ) See Jesuits Trial , p. 33. ( 18 ) Ireland's Trial , p. 24. ( 19 ) Wakeman's Trial , p. 73. ( 20 ) Jesuits Trial , p. 91. ( 21 ) Wakeman's Trial , p. 30 , & 55. As also Coleman's Trial , p. 30. ( 22 ) The same again . ( 23 ) Wakeman's Trial , p. 40. ( 24 ) Thus Oats and Bedloe of - firm in Langhorn's Trial . ( 25 ) Mr. Prance . ( 25 ) Mr. Dugdale . ( 26 ) Jesuits Trial all along . ( 27 ) viz. To prove that Ire - land was not in Town Aug. 19. See Wakeman's Trial , p. 22. ( 28 ) Mr. Jenison . Some Notes on the Picture to prevent Popish Cavils . I . Be not scandaliz'd at a word or two of Latin ; 'Tis only to show the folly of the Papists , who pray in and unknown Tongue . K. This is not meant of any Oath against the Papists , but of their wic - ked Oath of Secrecy ; which though the Doctor often took , yet we may charitably believe he never did in - tend to keep it ; since he positively assures us he did but counterfei He only seemed to be a Papist , but was all the while a True-Protestant in his Heart . See L. Staff . Trial p. 123. L. Arms for 5 or 600 Men were hid in his Parlour ; yet by Art Ma - gick were invisible to the Gentlemen of the Country , who often dined with him in the same Room . See his Trial . M. Sir H . T's . Vault was search'd for Arms , and Coffins opened ; but all the Arms they had hidden there were turn'd to Bones . N. Sir R . T's . Sink was searched for Arms and Gunpowder ; yet not so much as one Black-Bill could ever be found there , nor in any other place . O. See Wakeman's Trial , p. 73. P. Grove , that he might be sure to give and Incurable Wound , did traitorously and maliciously champ a Silver Bullet with his poisonous Teeth . See his Trial , p. 24 , & 81. Q. Either another man in such a Coat , or else ( as some believe ) the Devil in his likeness , went often to Court , and occasion'd this unlucky mistake , which was the cause of his being beaten . See the Jesuits Trial p. 16 , 17. Many may perhaps wonder , that the crafty Jesuits would suffer him to be in such a miserable beggarly Condition ; and much more , that they would beatrice and abuse one , whom they had trusted with Secrets of so high a nature . But we can easily and - swer this , and and hundred other seeming Improbabilities , only by say - ing , They were infatuated . R. See Coleman's Trial , p 30. S. Wakeman's Try . p. 55 , & 82 , T. Langhorn's Memoirs , p. 6. R. See Coleman's Trial , p 30. S. Wakeman's Try . p. 55 , & 82 , T. Langhorn's Memoirs , p. 6. 