H : 135839 A Song of the New Plot . To the Tune of , Jones Placket is torn , etc 1. HAve you not lately herd of Lords sent to the Tower , Who 'gainst the Popish Plotters , seem'd men of chiefest power : But now they're god , into the Plot , and all their power in vain , For the Plot is rend and torn , and will never be mended again . 'Tis rend and torn , and torn and rend , and rend and torn in twain , For the Plot is rend and torn , and will never be mended again . 2. Fitz Harris they suppos'd a fitting Instrument , The Duke , and Queen , and King himself to circumven But now he's hang'd , and all his Gang will follow the same strain , For the Plot is rend and torn , and will never be mended again , etc 3. The Joiner he is going to Oxford to be Try'd , Where he will find a Jury , who are not Whiggify'd : And for his Joining in the Plot , a Halter he will gain , For the Plot is rend and torn , and will never be mended again , etc 4. They say that Mr. Dugdale , so honest and so true , Is one of the King's Evidence , against this wicked Crew : And now they aim , him to defame , but all will be in vain , For the Plot is rend and torn , and will never be mended again , etc College [ ? ] lar'd in [ ? ] Lord [ Sta ] ffords [ ? ] all 5. The crafty Sh ------ y , is caught in his own Snare , H' has hired many Rogues , themselves for to forswear : And now undone , with Hetherington , and all his hired Train , For the Plot is rend and torn , and will never be mended again , etc 6. Thus Innocence we see begins for to appear , Since Rogues for want of Pardons , the Truth are fain to swear : Had it been so , some years ago , we'd hit on the right vein , For the Plot is rend and torn , and will never be mended again , etc The Duke and Queen falsely accu - sed by Fitz-Haris . H : 135839 A Song of the New Plot . To the Tune of , Jones Placket is torn , etc 1. HAve you not lately herd of Lords sent to the Tower , Who 'gainst the Popish Plotters , seem'd men of chiefest power : But now they're god , into the Plot , and all their power in vain , For the Plot is rend and torn , and will never be mended again . 'Tis rend and torn , and torn and rend , and rend and torn in twain , For the Plot is rend and torn , and will never be mended again . 2. Fitz Harris they suppos'd a fitting Instrument , The Duke , and Queen , and King himself to circumven But now he's hang'd , and all his Gang will follow the same strain , For the Plot is rend and torn , and will never be mended again , etc 3. The Joiner he is going to Oxford to be Try'd , Where he will find a Jury , who are not Whiggify'd : And for his Joining in the Plot , a Halter he will gain , For the Plot is rend and torn , and will never be mended again , etc 4. They say that Mr. Dugdale , so honest and so true , Is one of the King's Evidence , against this wicked Crew : And now they aim , him to defame , but all will be in vain , For the Plot is rend and torn , and will never be mended again , etc College [ ? ] lar'd in [ ? ] Lord [ Sta ] ffords [ ? ] all 5. The crafty Sh ------ y , is caught in his own Snare , H' has hired many Rogues , themselves for to forswear : And now undone , with Hetherington , and all his hired Train , For the Plot is rend and torn , and will never be mended again , etc 6. Thus Innocence we see begins for to appear , Since Rogues for want of Pardons , the Truth are fain to swear : Had it been so , some years ago , we'd hit on the right vein , For the Plot is rend and torn , and will never be mended again , etc The Duke and Queen falsely accu - sed by Fitz-Haris . 