H : 61249 George Monck Duke of ALBEMARLE , Earl of TORRINGTON , Baron of POTHERIDGE , etc Captain-General , and One of His Majesties most Honourable Privy-Counsel ; and , One of the most Noble Order of the GARTER . LAment and Wonder , Reader , here lies one Intomb'd , who did refuse t' ascend a Throne ; Who Died , by the common stroke of Fate , As other Men , but liv'd not at that Rate ; By Nature Great , yet Greater by Success , But above all , was in himself Greatest . He was a Soldier second unto none In Courage , and a General well known In Prudence ; and 'tis equally as true , He was a Loyal , Faithful Subject too ; The Tyrant whom , both Kings and Nations fear'd , He only fear'd him not , but boldly Dar'd . The Tyrant being dead , this Gen'ral came , And saw th' succeeding Rage , then Overcame ; Not by the Noise of Arms , but by the Deep Silence of Counsels , which he knew to keep ; Strange kind of Conq'ring this , and almost New , In one Days space three Kingdoms to subdue , ( Without engaging of his Tongue , or Sword ) And yet of Either would not be the Lord ; Accounting it more Grandeur for to save Three Sceptres , and Restore them , than to have : For being made and Umpire , did decree 'Twas better to Restore , a King , than be : And thus resolv'd , the King he did Restore , Then Him , as Caesar , Humbly did Adore . It was King CHARLES , for whose most worthy Sake ( And not his own ) he did this Conquest make ; That all may know by reading of his Story , Humility was his Aim , not Glory ; Since with more Modesty unto the King He did submit , than those who injur'd him : Most happy man , who didst three Kingdoms gain , That CHARLES th' Second might solely in them Reign . A Prince , whose Virtues are so Great , that He , Deserves more Kingdoms Crowns , as well as three : Forgetting nothing but past Injuries ; Mindful of nothing , but good Offices . Even Him he did restore unto his Throne ; With Him , PEACE , JUSTICE , and RELIGION . That done , Ten years surviv'd , that he might see What was restored , might conserved be ; And so become more famous to maintain The Crowns Support , and Peace , than to obtain . For which , his Cares and Life he valued not To keep that always , which at once he god . All good Men were his Friends , his Foes were they , Who GOD , the KING , and COUNTREY disobey . Titles , Honours , Wealth , he did inherit , ( High as they were ) yet much beneath his Meri Though Fortune Rais'd him above others , he Had in himself the more Humility . At length , this brave Heroic Gen'ral Dy'd , About the time his Son had ta'ne a Bride ; That so the Joys in her might seem to dry Those Tears , which ought to fallen at's Obsequy : And though those Joys were Great , yet could not boast For to compensate what the Public lost In him ; nor is there any Remedy Of Grief , if master'd by Calamity ; Which is so great , that nothing can repair , Although he left a Son , his worthiest Heir : For Virtue hath no Parent , from whose Raze , It may derive to Successors its Grace . HEROES are such by Birth , and such they Die Without Transmission to Posterity ; And such a one as this nor England saw , Nor ever shall the World to keep't in awe . He Vaulted is with Kings , although 'tis known He was no King , because he would be none . What though he lie by Kings , by whose stout Hand And Policy , even Kings themselves do stand ; It is great Honour , but 'tis justly shown To give a Tomb to him , who sav'd the Throne : Yet , though these Marbles do consume , thy Fame Shall even by Age renew , still be the same : For he , who Living , did refuse to have The World's Applause , best claims it in the Grave : And he deserves Heav'ns favours to partake , To whom the Earth could no Requital make ; ------ ------ ------ --- ------ ------ Who can But Mourn for , and Admire this Glorious Man ! In the SAVOY , Printed by Though : Newcomb , for William Nott , and James Collins . M . DC.LXX.H : 61249 George Monck Duke of ALBEMARLE , Earl of TORRINGTON , Baron of POTHERIDGE , etc Captain-General , and One of His Majesties most Honourable Privy-Counsel ; and , One of the most Noble Order of the GARTER . LAment and Wonder , Reader , here lies one Intomb'd , who did refuse t' ascend a Throne ; Who Died , by the common stroke of Fate , As other Men , but liv'd not at that Rate ; By Nature Great , yet Greater by Success , But above all , was in himself Greatest . He was a Soldier second unto none In Courage , and a General well known In Prudence ; and 'tis equally as true , He was a Loyal , Faithful Subject too ; The Tyrant whom , both Kings and Nations fear'd , He only fear'd him not , but boldly Dar'd . The Tyrant being dead , this Gen'ral came , And saw th' succeeding Rage , then Overcame ; Not by the Noise of Arms , but by the Deep Silence of Counsels , which he knew to keep ; Strange kind of Conq'ring this , and almost New , In one Days space three Kingdoms to subdue , ( Without engaging of his Tongue , or Sword ) And yet of Either would not be the Lord ; Accounting it more Grandeur for to save Three Sceptres , and Restore them , than to have : For being made and Umpire , did decree 'Twas better to Restore , a King , than be : And thus resolv'd , the King he did Restore , Then Him , as Caesar , Humbly did Adore . It was King CHARLES , for whose most worthy Sake ( And not his own ) he did this Conquest make ; That all may know by reading of his Story , Humility was his Aim , not Glory ; Since with more Modesty unto the King He did submit , than those who injur'd him : Most happy man , who didst three Kingdoms gain , That CHARLES th' Second might solely in them Reign . A Prince , whose Virtues are so Great , that He , Deserves more Kingdoms Crowns , as well as three : Forgetting nothing but past Injuries ; Mindful of nothing , but good Offices . Even Him he did restore unto his Throne ; With Him , PEACE , JUSTICE , and RELIGION . That done , Ten years surviv'd , that he might see What was restored , might conserved be ; And so become more famous to maintain The Crowns Support , and Peace , than to obtain . For which , his Cares and Life he valued not To keep that always , which at once he god . All good Men were his Friends , his Foes were they , Who GOD , the KING , and COUNTREY disobey . Titles , Honours , Wealth , he did inherit , ( High as they were ) yet much beneath his Meri Though Fortune Rais'd him above others , he Had in himself the more Humility . At length , this brave Heroic Gen'ral Dy'd , About the time his Son had ta'ne a Bride ; That so the Joys in her might seem to dry Those Tears , which ought to fallen at's Obsequy : And though those Joys were Great , yet could not boast For to compensate what the Public lost In him ; nor is there any Remedy Of Grief , if master'd by Calamity ; Which is so great , that nothing can repair , Although he left a Son , his worthiest Heir : For Virtue hath no Parent , from whose Raze , It may derive to Successors its Grace . HEROES are such by Birth , and such they Die Without Transmission to Posterity ; And such a one as this nor England saw , Nor ever shall the World to keep't in awe . He Vaulted is with Kings , although 'tis known He was no King , because he would be none . What though he lie by Kings , by whose stout Hand And Policy , even Kings themselves do stand ; It is great Honour , but 'tis justly shown To give a Tomb to him , who sav'd the Throne : Yet , though these Marbles do consume , thy Fame Shall even by Age renew , still be the same : For he , who Living , did refuse to have The World's Applause , best claims it in the Grave : And he deserves Heav'ns favours to partake , To whom the Earth could no Requital make ; ------ ------ ------ --- ------ ------ Who can But Mourn for , and Admire this Glorious Man ! In the SAVOY , Printed by Though : Newcomb , for William Nott , and James Collins . M.DC.LXX . 