H : 80052 Gadburies Prophetical Sayings : OR , The FOOL Judged out of the KNAVE's Mouth . ALL hail , my Master's ! health and peace to you My Little Master , and my Mistress too ; That Girl , I mean , that sprung from Adam's Loins , With whom full oft I have increased my Crimes , We then were brisk : for they were pious Times . All hail , my Ghostly Father's ! now you see Our wicked Stars , how damn'd morose they be ; They're suff'ring Times : in which I pity you The pious Nuns , and all our holy Crew . All hail , my Brothers ! you the Starry Quacks , Dull , blind and Empty , like our Almanacs ; Arm'd with our Follies , we complete our Fate ; We rul'd the Stars : they us in Eighty Eigh For that I'd hence renounce to live , or be , Had my two Learned Brothers outdone me . Shifting and shuffling with his Canting Strains , His head , poor man's supply'd , but not with brains . All hail , my Neighbours ! I to you Appeal ; You know I kept my Church , you knew my Zeal ; Till a New Faith of a more glorious strain Attack'd my Cranium , and possessed my brain , Which now you see I must renounce again . All hail to Malachy ! Almost forgotten , That us'd to go instead o' th' Powder-Plot . All hail , good Catholics ! [ a sighs for that ] My Cozen Celliers : Father Teague and Nat. All hail , my Friends ! but give me leave to Cant , As God shall save me , I'm a Protestant . Perhaps you know my Face : well , be it so , And yet I know not whither you do , or no : After such Changes I myself have known , Your Face , I may : but I scarce know my own . Nay , should my Ghostly Father come , he'd swear I'm not the man I was the other year . I hug'd my rising Fortune in those times Of being great by a new heap of Crimes . All Faith's alike to me , so I grow fat , I am , I am --- but pardon that , Can't I be what I please without Control , My Roman Face shows and accomplished Soul. They call me Rogue in public , that I'll bear ; The plaguy thing that Nicks : I can't repair . And that's [ Curse on my Stars which still prevails ] Those damn'd Predictions of the Prince of-Wales . In former times when I such rubs did meet , Catlike , I always fell upon my fee I kept my stops , and time , and steps ; but now I dance , 'tis true , but like and ancient Cow : Or like a Courteous Spaniel , when they cry Seek out ; away he runs , and so did I . Or like Dispencing Judges : Rave and tear , Act all that's base : for Fools are void of fear ; But yet when catched , what humble Rogues we are ! Or like a Monkey in and Antic Dress , Who in a Crabtree would his Tricks rehearse ; The more he skips , the more he shows his Arse : even so did I . J . G's VERSES about the Prince of WALES in his Almanac for the Year 1689. Travestyed . In JANUARY . ALL hail , my Master's ! Eighty Eight is gone ; That Year of wonders , which the World so fear'd ; Yet hath produc'd ( for us to Anchor on ) A PRINCE of WALES ! the Subject of each Bard. And that thou now art mine , sweet Babe ! forgive , I'de sing thy praises , and thy Vassal live . In FEBRUARY . Angels and Stars adorn'd this Royal BIRTH , As if the Prince of Peace breath'd peace on Earth . May it to Warlike Britain prove , as he Did to the World ; [ its Saviour to be ! ] Gladding the drooping Souls of Loyal Men ; And Madmen to their wits return again . In MARCH . Who says that EIGHTY EIGHT nought signifies ? Sith such a radiant fixed Star did rise In our Horizon ? Can a PRINCE be born That shall the World with Regal Acts adorn In future times ? and yet that fertile Year Be passive thought , wherein he did appear ? In APRIL . No , No! Sour Critics ! God does dignify The art of numbers with sweet Harmony . How many Learned Pens have deign'd to write Of things stupendious in EIGHTY EIGHT ? And lo ! herein Great WALES , a Prince of bliss , Born for the Ease of tender Consciences . In MAY Thrice happy must that SENATE prove that shall So meet their PRINCE , for to content us all ! Alas ! men's minds and thoughts as different be , As are their faces ; like them disagree : From such a LAW our King will ever shine In future times , and English CONSTANTINE . In JUNE . By whose Example , Britain's after Kings May shun the Cause whence dire Rebellion springs . Nothing so surely keeps a Land in Awe As Ivory Love ; the Christians Golden Law . But Tyrant force makes people try their brains A thousand ways to break their Bonds and Chains . TRAVESTY . All hail , my Master's ! what is here to do ; A Year of Wonders dost thou call it John ? 'Twas such a year , so fatal to your Crew , It hath not left you ground to anchor on . Let Chains then be their Lot , who humbly Crave , And beg to be a Little Bastard's Slave . Angels and Stars ; why , what should they do there ? The man mistook , and meant the Prince o' th' Air . Jack's Prince of Peace was by a fury brought ; Jeff'ries , you know , saw him come reaking hight . We know his coming pleas'd the shaved Crew , And with them [ Jack ] it did rejoice us too . Who says that Eighty Eight nought signifies ? If any do [ though Jack himself ] he lies . It gave a Child , a new way god , and born , Poor Abdicated Creature , all men's scorn . It gave us Ease from our avowed Foe , And gave the Papists too a Cursed Blow . No , No , sour Critics ; we cannot deny That Gadbury hath learned to Cant and Lie ; Witness that Year with all these Lies and Tales About the Glories of his Prince of Wales . Poor harmless Babe , miscall'd a Prince of bliss ; Born for his Mother's Ease , not Consciences . Thrice happy must that Land and Senate be , That is from Popish Tyranny set free : Let Priests led fools ; Let us abhor that thrall That talks of freedom , when they chain 'em all . 'Twas from such Laws [ that King resolv'd to shine ] As Lewis gives ; and not a Constantine . By whose Example must our after Kings , Shun all those Causes whence Rebellion springs ? Your Prince of Wales I know ; while your soft names Of Golden Laws , are join'd to Iron Chains . 'Twas Tyrant-force made People try their Brains To Abdicate the Cause , and break their Chains . In JULY . But who doubts Ease and Quiet ? Since we have Heavens happy Earnest in a Prince so brave . Born on that Day* , we justly Celebrate The holy Feast o' th' blessed Triumvirate . As if the Sacred TRINE design'd thereby , To raise Great BRITAINS Ancient PIETY . * Trinity Sunday . In AUGUST . Let's then contend , who shall best Tribute yield To this Sweet PRINCE ! On whom our Hope's we built POETS pay Verses ! VIRGINS Innocence ! MINERVA Wisdom ! MARS brings strong defence . Each Man brings OFFERINGS proper to his Sphere , And none forget to breathe a HOLY PRAYER . In SEPTEMBER . And let September , [ for the Mother's sake Of this bless'd Babe ] a better Name partake . The seventh Month were dull , but that we see This matchless Princess in it Born to be . Bright MODENA , who hath enrich'd our Land ; May thy great Name in this Month ever stand . In OCTOBER . October ! may'st thou always prove For Godlike JAMES his Birth ; a Prince , whose Love Joyn'd with his Prudence , hath for us done more , Than all the REFORMATION could before . Oh! Let him Live and Reign to see this SON Of Years and Parts fit for his Father's Throne . In NOVEMBER . November brought forth Pious Katherine , Portugal's Princess ! England's Virtuous Queen , To whom , though Heaven Children did deny ; She liv'd a hopeful Prince of WALES to see . And let me speak it to her lasting FAME , Gladly she gave the ROYAL BABE his Name . In DECEMBER . Now MUSE forbear ! This year draws to and end : In th' next , perhaps thou mayest thy Measures mend . Thou gav'st such Hope's long since , of this bless'd Birth , As warm'd each LOYAL HEART with Joy and Mirth . But positive Truth suits not with Human Skill . When that is Writ , and ANGEL guides the Quill . TRAVESTY . None need doubt Ease and Quiet , since we have Heavens Gift and Blessing , in a Prince so brave : Born to Restore our Peace ; 'tis he alone , Shall pull Tyrannic Popish Worship down : This is the Man [ not the Welch Prince ] shall be The true Restorer of our Liberty . Here John tells truth , In this Sweet Prince , [ said he ] Our Hope's are laid of all Felicity . Each pays his Tribute : John alone , you see , Abounds in his own Talon , Flattery ; This is his Offering , proper to his Sphere , A precious Tool to breathe a Holy Prayer . And let September never be forgotten , Nor Modena , not yet the Bawdy-Plot ; Nor yet Dada , who as the Story tells , Lent her his Hand , and with that Aarons BeH : 80052 Gadburies Prophetical Sayings : OR , The FOOL Judged out of the KNAVE's Mouth . ALL hail , my Master's ! health and peace to you My Little Master , and my Mistress too ; That Girl , I mean , that sprung from Adam's Loins , With whom full oft I have increased my Crimes , We then were brisk : for they were pious Times . All hail , my Ghostly Father's ! now you see Our wicked Stars , how damn'd morose they be ; They're suff'ring Times : in which I pity you The pious Nuns , and all our holy Crew . All hail , my Brothers ! you the Starry Quacks , Dull , blind and Empty , like our Almanacs ; Arm'd with our Follies , we complete our Fate ; We rul'd the Stars : they us in Eighty Eigh For that I'd hence renounce to live , or be , Had my two Learned Brothers outdone me . Shifting and shuffling with his Canting Strains , His head , poor man's supply'd , but not with brains . All hail , my Neighbours ! I to you Appeal ; You know I kept my Church , you knew my Zeal ; Till a New Faith of a more glorious strain Attack'd my Cranium , and possessed my brain , Which now you see I must renounce again . All hail to Malachy ! Almost forgotten , That us'd to go instead o' th' Powder-Plot . All hail , good Catholics ! [ a sighs for that ] My Cozen Celliers : Father Teague and Nat. All hail , my Friends ! but give me leave to Cant , As God shall save me , I'm a Protestant . Perhaps you know my Face : well , be it so , And yet I know not whither you do , or no : After such Changes I myself have known , Your Face , I may : but I scarce know my own . Nay , should my Ghostly Father come , he'd swear I'm not the man I was the other year . I hug'd my rising Fortune in those times Of being great by a new heap of Crimes . All Faith's alike to me , so I grow fat , I am , I am --- but pardon that , Can't I be what I please without Control , My Roman Face shows and accomplished Soul. They call me Rogue in public , that I'll bear ; The plaguy thing that Nicks : I can't repair . And that's [ Curse on my Stars which still prevails ] Those damn'd Predictions of the Prince of-Wales . In former times when I such rubs did meet , Catlike , I always fell upon my fee I kept my stops , and time , and steps ; but now I dance , 'tis true , but like and ancient Cow : Or like a Courteous Spaniel , when they cry Seek out ; away he runs , and so did I . Or like Dispencing Judges : Rave and tear , Act all that's base : for Fools are void of fear ; But yet when catched , what humble Rogues we are ! Or like a Monkey in and Antic Dress , Who in a Crabtree would his Tricks rehearse ; The more he skips , the more he shows his Arse : even so did I . J . G's VERSES about the Prince of WALES in his Almanac for the Year 1689. Travestyed . In JANUARY . ALL hail , my Master's ! Eighty Eight is gone ; That Year of wonders , which the World so fear'd ; Yet hath produc'd ( for us to Anchor on ) A PRINCE of WALES ! the Subject of each Bard. And that thou now art mine , sweet Babe ! forgive , I'de sing thy praises , and thy Vassal live . In FEBRUARY . Angels and Stars adorn'd this Royal BIRTH , As if the Prince of Peace breath'd peace on Earth . May it to Warlike Britain prove , as he Did to the World ; [ its Saviour to be ! ] Gladding the drooping Souls of Loyal Men ; And Madmen to their wits return again . In MARCH . Who says that EIGHTY EIGHT nought signifies ? Sith such a radiant fixed Star did rise In our Horizon ? Can a PRINCE be born That shall the World with Regal Acts adorn In future times ? and yet that fertile Year Be passive thought , wherein he did appear ? In APRIL . No , No! Sour Critics ! God does dignify The art of numbers with sweet Harmony . How many Learned Pens have deign'd to write Of things stupendious in EIGHTY EIGHT ? And lo ! herein Great WALES , a Prince of bliss , Born for the Ease of tender Consciences . In MAY Thrice happy must that SENATE prove that shall So meet their PRINCE , for to content us all ! Alas ! men's minds and thoughts as different be , As are their faces ; like them disagree : From such a LAW our King will ever shine In future times , and English CONSTANTINE . In JUNE . By whose Example , Britain's after Kings May shun the Cause whence dire Rebellion springs . Nothing so surely keeps a Land in Awe As Ivory Love ; the Christians Golden Law . But Tyrant force makes people try their brains A thousand ways to break their Bonds and Chains . TRAVESTY . All hail , my Master's ! what is here to do ; A Year of Wonders dost thou call it John ? 'Twas such a year , so fatal to your Crew , It hath not left you ground to anchor on . Let Chains then be their Lot , who humbly Crave , And beg to be a Little Bastard's Slave . Angels and Stars ; why , what should they do there ? The man mistook , and meant the Prince o' th' Air . Jack's Prince of Peace was by a fury brought ; Jeff'ries , you know , saw him come reaking hight . We know his coming pleas'd the shaved Crew , And with them [ Jack ] it did rejoice us too . Who says that Eighty Eight nought signifies ? If any do [ though Jack himself ] he lies . It gave a Child , a new way god , and born , Poor Abdicated Creature , all men's scorn . It gave us Ease from our avowed Foe , And gave the Papists too a Cursed Blow . No , No , sour Critics ; we cannot deny That Gadbury hath learned to Cant and Lie ; Witness that Year with all these Lies and Tales About the Glories of his Prince of Wales . Poor harmless Babe , miscall'd a Prince of bliss ; Born for his Mother's Ease , not Consciences . Thrice happy must that Land and Senate be , That is from Popish Tyranny set free : Let Priests led fools ; Let us abhor that thrall That talks of freedom , when they chain 'em all . 'Twas from such Laws [ that King resolv'd to shine ] As Lewis gives ; and not a Constantine . By whose Example must our after Kings , Shun all those Causes whence Rebellion springs ? Your Prince of Wales I know ; while your soft names Of Golden Laws , are join'd to Iron Chains . 'Twas Tyrant-force made People try their Brains To Abdicate the Cause , and break their Chains . In JULY . But who doubts Ease and Quiet ? Since we have Heavens happy Earnest in a Prince so brave . Born on that Day* , we justly Celebrate The holy Feast o' th' blessed Triumvirate . As if the Sacred TRINE design'd thereby , To raise Great BRITAINS Ancient PIETY . * Trinity Sunday . In AUGUST . Let's then contend , who shall best Tribute yield To this Sweet PRINCE ! On whom our Hope's we built POETS pay Verses ! VIRGINS Innocence ! MINERVA Wisdom ! MARS brings strong defence . Each Man brings OFFERINGS proper to his Sphere , And none forget to breathe a HOLY PRAYER . In SEPTEMBER . And let September , [ for the Mother's sake Of this bless'd Babe ] a better Name partake . The seventh Month were dull , but that we see This matchless Princess in it Born to be . Bright MODENA , who hath enrich'd our Land ; May thy great Name in this Month ever stand . In OCTOBER . October ! may'st thou always prove For Godlike JAMES his Birth ; a Prince , whose Love Joyn'd with his Prudence , hath for us done more , Than all the REFORMATION could before . Oh! Let him Live and Reign to see this SON Of Years and Parts fit for his Father's Throne . In NOVEMBER . November brought forth Pious Katherine , Portugal's Princess ! England's Virtuous Queen , To whom , though Heaven Children did deny ; She liv'd a hopeful Prince of WALES to see . And let me speak it to her lasting FAME , Gladly she gave the ROYAL BABE his Name . In DECEMBER . Now MUSE forbear ! This year draws to and end : In th' next , perhaps thou mayest thy Measures mend . Thou gav'st such Hope's long since , of this bless'd Birth , As warm'd each LOYAL HEART with Joy and Mirth . But positive Truth suits not with Human Skill . When that is Writ , and ANGEL guides the Quill . TRAVESTY . None need doubt Ease and Quiet , since we have Heavens Gift and Blessing , in a Prince so brave : Born to Restore our Peace ; 'tis he alone , Shall pull Tyrannic Popish Worship down : This is the Man [ not the Welch Prince ] shall be The true Restorer of our Liberty . Here John tells truth , In this Sweet Prince , [ said he ] Our Hope's are laid of all Felicity . Each pays his Tribute : John alone , you see , Abounds in his own Talon , Flattery ; This is his Offering , proper to his Sphere , A precious Tool to breathe a Holy Prayer . And let September never be forgotten , Nor Modena , not yet the Bawdy-Plot ; Nor yet Dada , who as the Story tells , Lent her his Hand , and with that Aarons Bells' . When Babes by Miracles are god , as said , Farewell the ancient way of Sheets and Bed : October did this Land a King afford , A Prince , they say , that never broke his Word ; Whose Courage , Wit , and Conduct , hath done more , Than all our Great Reformers could before . His Reign was short and sweet , but ere 'twas done , The consecrated Smock produc'd a Son. November , hang't that plaguy Powder-plot , Which Jack so often wilfully forgotten ; Nay , last year too ; you see how good Men fails ! He thought of nothing then , but Prince of Wales . To show you too , his spreading Christian Fame : He tells you , who did give the B. his Name . Now Muse forbear ! the Year draws to and end , And bid Friend John , his next Years Measures mend . Who , by his Hocuspocus Priests and Tricks , Foretold a Prince of Wales in Eighty six . A likely Story ! for he could not say , When all his Makers were to run away , Passive Obedience Stars will not obey . Read gentle Reader : Read , and think his Crimes ; How base he is , that wrote these fulsome Lines . J . G's SAYINGS , as he hath given them himself in diverse of his Writings ; showing himself a Papist , etc and also that he was sure Popery would stand in ENGLAND . I. MARS bodes likewise great oppositions in Coun - cils , many Serpentine Debates ; and a proba - bility of the loss of sundry Charters and Privi - leges , perhaps long since forfeited , though by the merciful forbearance of good Princes , or Governors , no advantage hath hitherto been taken of them . Moons Eclipse , Alman . 1682. And Impudent Fellow to pretend to predict the taking away Charters by and Eclipse of the Moon . No , Jack , it was not the Stars , but the Popish Cabal told you so . II If Monarchs by their Favours Cities make , And plotting Citizens those Charters break , They justly loose such Power , when dare deny Their Sovereign's Laws , and's Pleasure disobey . 'Tis prov'd a Legal Maxim , Just and Strong , Cities may Err , but Kings can do no Wrong . In Almanac 1684. III . However , Let me humbly presume to affirm , That the Stars this Year ( and several Years yet to come , nay , I hope for ever ) are at and absolute enmity with the Enemies both of Church and State , etc Epist. Almanac 1686 This was a menace to the Protestants , to let them know that Popery would continue . ------ Poor deluded Fool ! IV. And ( might my Muse Prophetic prove ) I'd swear some Royal Prince ( perhaps of Wales ) draws near . In August , 1686. Ay! was the Bawdy Plot began so soon ! V. True Science teaches us obedience to God and the King : and to acquiesce in the Decrees and Determinations of our Holy Mother the Church . In Epist. Alman . 1688. A very good Protestant ! VI . Oh! how we ought to magnify the God of Mercies for so immense a Blessing ! so kind hath he been to us ( Pa - pists ) out of his free and gracious Inclination , and ( as it is reasonable to believe ) to illustrate the Reign of his Royal Servant , our Gracious Sovereign ; a Prince , as God would have it , ( in whose hands are Times and Seasons ) of the Primitive Faith and Piety , by a strange Providence brought thereto , and by as strange a Courage ( which is nothing but Christian daring ) to own it ; And Argument to me demon - strative , that this Religion is not of Man , but of God . ------ VII . Better all Religions be Indulged , than the one And - cient Faith Excluded , Persecuted and Harassed . ------ What Persecution the poor Catholics have endured ever since the time of Henry the VIII . Alman . 1688. in Prog. page . 5. What think you , was Jack a Protestant , or not , in 1688. he says , he is so now . But a Liar ought to have a good Memory . VIII . To Room none need be Slaves ! 'Tis Heresy Ingulfs our Souls , the True Church sets us free . In the Reply , in June . IX . But Prance , unhappy Prance ! hath so much done , As ( not to clear it , yet ) to quit Just Room . The Reply , in October . X. Speaking of Powder Treason , he says ; If this were re - alley a Plot of the Papists hatching ( we do not deny but there were some deluded Catholics in it , and suffered for it ) it was the most ridiculous ( next to Oates's Plot ) that ever was herd . Reply , page . 3. For that reason I judge Jack forgotten the Fifth of November : Here's and Impudent Advo - cate for a Villainous Cause and Party ! XI . This greatly Suffering Prince ( says he ) was Crown - ed at Westminster , Apr. 23. 1685. and there took and Oath , called the Coronation Oath , what then ? was it not of his own free Choice ? he was King of England without it . ------ that is not of irresistible obligation , but Prudence and Humanity that they do so . Reply , page . 8. Ask Jack where that Law is written ; and whither it is not a part of Kings-will's Magna Charta ? XII . And well may we question that man's Loyalty to the King , that shall offer to plead for a Continuance of the Test against His Majesty's Royal Inclination . Reply , p. 11. XIII . Speaking of the Dispencing Judges ; What have they done ( says he ) that looks like the Actions of Tresi - lian ? with whom have they Conspired ? or against whom ? what Countries have they Injur'd ? or what single Persons have they oppressed ? Reply , page . 10. Observe but the Fell - lows Impudence in this thing ; and think whither they were the greater Knaves for acting Villainies , or he for justifying them in it . XIV . On the 11th of August , T. Oats is to stand in the Pillory over against the Temple , and this every year as long as he lives . Alman . 1689. in August . I believe they were Heretical Stars that cheated Honest Jack at this rate . XV . He wished to see the Prince of Orange , and the rest of his Great Ones brought Prisoners to London , to make Speeches at Towerhill , and Tyburn . In the Paper written for the Papists . O villain ! that he should desire the Ruin of that Gentleman , to whom we all stand obliged for our de - liverance from the destroyers . XVI . But to demonstrate I am no Papist ; My Adversary , for his more certain satisfaction , may if he please ; very often see me in the Abby-Church of St. Peter's Westminster , in the time of Divine Service , if that will convince him . Cardines Coeli , page . 36. Quere ? Who hath seen him there in the last two or three years ? I suppose he meant well to the Church ; but his bash - fullness hindered his coming to it . Sure you will not judge him a Papist for that ; will you ? ------ Apostate ! ADVERTISEMENTS . O Yes ! If any Man , Woman , or Child , in City , or Con - try , above ground , or under it ; or in any Abbey , Monaste - ry , Nunnery , or any other of those Houses , can give any cer - tain account where J.G. was married to his last Wife , and by whom ; Let them repair to Brick-Court , and they shall be well rewarded . All Persons that are desirous to be instructed in the Arts of Po - pery , Sedition , Rebellion , Reporting False News ; and to be furnished with Arguments against taking the Oaths of Allegiance to their present Majesties ; Let them repair to the Professor of Sedition , in Brick-court , at his usual Office , and they need not want their desire . LONDON : Printed for Richard Baldwin , in the Old-Bayly . 1690 . lls . When Babes by Miracles are god , as said , Farewell the ancient way of Sheets and Bed : October did this Land a King afford , A Prince , they say , that never broke his Word ; Whose Courage , Wit , and Conduct , hath done more , Than all our Great Reformers could before . His Reign was short and sweet , but ere 'twas done , The consecrated Smock produc'd a Son. November , hang't that plaguy Powder-plot , Which Jack so often wilfully forgotten ; Nay , last year too ; you see how good Men fails ! He thought of nothing then , but Prince of Wales . To show you too , his spreading Christian Fame : He tells you , who did give the B. his Name . Now Muse forbear ! the Year draws to and end , And bid Friend John , his next Years Measures mend . Who , by his Hocuspocus Priests and Tricks , Foretold a Prince of Wales in Eighty six . A likely Story ! for he could not say , When all his Makers were to run away , Passive Obedience Stars will not obey . Read gentle Reader : Read , and think his Crimes ; How base he is , that wrote these fulsome Lines . J . G's SAYINGS , as he hath given them himself in diverse of his Writings ; showing himself a Papist , etc and also that he was sure Popery would stand in ENGLAND . I. MARS bodes likewise great oppositions in Coun - cils , many Serpentine Debates ; and a proba - bility of the loss of sundry Charters and Privi - leges , perhaps long since forfeited , though by the merciful forbearance of good Princes , or Governors , no advantage hath hitherto been taken of them . Moons Eclipse , Alman . 1682. And Impudent Fellow to pretend to predict the taking away Charters by and Eclipse of the Moon . No , Jack , it was not the Stars , but the Popish Cabal told you so . II If Monarchs by their Favours Cities make , And plotting Citizens those Charters break , They justly loose such Power , when dare deny Their Sovereign's Laws , and's Pleasure disobey . 'Tis prov'd a Legal Maxim , Just and Strong , Cities may Err , but Kings can do no Wrong . In Almanac 1684. III . However , Let me humbly presume to affirm , That the Stars this Year ( and several Years yet to come , nay , I hope for ever ) are at and absolute enmity with the Enemies both of Church and State , etc Epist. Almanac 1686 This was a menace to the Protestants , to let them know that Popery would continue . ------ Poor deluded Fool ! IV. And ( might my Muse Prophetic prove ) I'd swear some Royal Prince ( perhaps of Wales ) draws near . In August , 1686. Ay! was the Bawdy Plot began so soon ! V. True Science teaches us obedience to God and the King : and to acquiesce in the Decrees and Determinations of our Holy Mother the Church . In Epist. Alman . 1688. A very good Protestant ! VI . Oh! how we ought to magnify the God of Mercies for so immense a Blessing ! so kind hath he been to us ( Pa - pists ) out of his free and gracious Inclination , and ( as it is reasonable to believe ) to illustrate the Reign of his Royal Servant , our Gracious Sovereign ; a Prince , as God would have it , ( in whose hands are Times and Seasons ) of the Primitive Faith and Piety , by a strange Providence brought thereto , and by as strange a Courage ( which is nothing but Christian daring ) to own it ; And Argument to me demon - strative , that this Religion is not of Man , but of God . ------ VII . Better all Religions be Indulged , than the one And - cient Faith Excluded , Persecuted and Harassed . ------ What Persecution the poor Catholics have endured ever since the time of Henry the VIII . Alman . 1688. in Prog. page . 5. What think you , was Jack a Protestant , or not , in 1688. he says , he is so now . But a Liar ought to have a good Memory . VIII . To Room none need be Slaves ! 'Tis Heresy Ingulfs our Souls , the True Church sets us free . In the Reply , in June . IX . But Prance , unhappy Prance ! hath so much done , As ( not to clear it , yet ) to quit Just Room . The Reply , in October . X. Speaking of Powder Treason , he says ; If this were re - alley a Plot of the Papists hatching ( we do not deny but there were some deluded Catholics in it , and suffered for it ) it was the most ridiculous ( next to Oates's Plot ) that ever was herd . Reply , page . 3. For that reason I judge Jack forgotten the Fifth of November : Here's and Impudent Advo - cate for a Villainous Cause and Party ! XI . This greatly Suffering Prince ( says he ) was Crown - ed at Westminster , Apr. 23. 1685. and there took and Oath , called the Coronation Oath , what then ? was it not of his own free Choice ? he was King of England without it . ------ that is not of irresistible obligation , but Prudence and Humanity that they do so . Reply , page . 8. Ask Jack where that Law is written ; and whither it is not a part of Kings-will's Magna Charta ? XII . And well may we question that man's Loyalty to the King , that shall offer to plead for a Continuance of the Test against His Majesty's Royal Inclination . Reply , p. 11. XIII . Speaking of the Dispencing Judges ; What have they done ( says he ) that looks like the Actions of Tresi - lian ? with whom have they Conspired ? or against whom ? what Countries have they Injur'd ? or what single Persons have they oppressed ? Reply , page . 10. Observe but the Fell - lows Impudence in this thing ; and think whither they were the greater Knaves for acting Villainies , or he for justifying them in it . XIV . On the 11th of August , T. Oats is to stand in the Pillory over against the Temple , and this every year as long as he lives . Alman . 1689. in August . I believe they were Heretical Stars that cheated Honest Jack at this rate . XV . He wished to see the Prince of Orange , and the rest of his Great Ones brought Prisoners to London , to make Speeches at Towerhill , and Tyburn . In the Paper written for the Papists . O villain ! that he should desire the Ruin of that Gentleman , to whom we all stand obliged for our de - liverance from the destroyers . XVI . But to demonstrate I am no Papist ; My Adversary , for his more certain satisfaction , may if he please ; very often see me in the Abby-Church of St. Peter's Westminster , in the time of Divine Service , if that will convince him . Cardines Coeli , page . 36. Quere ? Who hath seen him there in the last two or three years ? I suppose he meant well to the Church ; but his bash - fullness hindered his coming to it . Sure you will not judge him a Papist for that ; will you ? ------ Apostate ! ADVERTISEMENTS . O Yes ! If any Man , Woman , or Child , in City , or Con - try , above ground , or under it ; or in any Abbey , Monaste - ry , Nunnery , or any other of those Houses , can give any cer - tain account where J.G. was married to his last Wife , and by whom ; Let them repair to Brick-Court , and they shall be well rewarded . All Persons that are desirous to be instructed in the Arts of Po - pery , Sedition , Rebellion , Reporting False News ; and to be furnished with Arguments against taking the Oaths of Allegiance to their present Majesties ; Let them repair to the Professor of Sedition , in Brick-court , at his usual Office , and they need not want their desire . LONDON : Printed for Richard Baldwin , in the Old-Bayly . 1690. 