E : 327 The Seamans Song of Captain ward the famous Pyrate of the world , and and Englishman born , The tune is , The Kings going to Bulloign , GAllants you must understand , Captain Ward of England , a Pyrate and a Rover on the Sea , Oh late a simple Fisherman In the merry town of Feversham , grows famous in the world now every day From the Bay of Plimouth Sailed he towards the south , with many more of courage and of might Christian Princes have but few Such Seamen , if that he were true , and would but for his King & Country fight , Lusty Ward adventrously , In the straights of Barbary did make the Turkish Galleys soar to shake Bouncing Canons fiery hight , Spared not the Turks one jot , but of their lives great slaughter he did make The Ilanders of Malta , With Argosies upon the Sea , most proudly braved Ward unto his face But soon their pride was overthrown And their treasures made his own , and all their men brought to a woeful case The wealthy ships of Venice Afforded him great riches both gold & silver wone he with his sword Stately Spain and Portugal Against him dare not bore up sail , but gave him all the title of a Lord . Golden seated Candy Famous France and Italy with all the Countries of the Eastern parts , If once their Ships his pride withstood They surely all were cloth'd in blood , such cruelty was plac'd within their hearts , The riches he hath gained . And by bloodshed obtained may well suffice for to maintain a King His fellows all are valiant Wights Fit to be made Princes Knights , but that their lives do base dishonours bring . This wicked got treasure , Does him but little pleasure , the land consumes what they have god by sea In drunkenness and lechery , Flthy sins of Sodomy . these evil got Goods do wast away , Such as live by thieving , Have seldom times good ending , as by the deeds of Captain Ward is shown Being drunk among his Drabs His nearest friends he sometime stabs , such wickedness within his heart is grown When stormy tempest riseth The causer he despises , still denies to pay unto the Lord He fears neither God nor the Devil , His deeds are bad his thoughts are evil ; his only trust is still upon his sword . Men of his own Country , He still abused vilely , some back to back are cast into the waves Some are hewn in pieces small , Some are shot against a wall , a slender number of their lives he saves Of truth it is reported That he is strongly guarded , by Turks that are not of a good belief , Wit and reason tells them He trusteth not his Countrymen , but shows the right condition of a thief , At Tunis in Barbary Now he builds stately , a gallant Palace and a Royal place , Decked with delights most trim , Fitter for a Prince then him . the which at last will prove to his disgrace . To make the world to wonder , This Captain is Commander of four and twenty ships of sail , To bring in treasure from the sea , Into the Markets every day . the which the Turks do buy up without fail , His name and state so mounts These Country men accounteth him equal to the Nobles of that Land But these his honours we shall find Shortly blown up with the wind , or prove like letters written in the sand . Finis . The Seamans Song of Dansekar the Duchman , his robberies done at Sea. To the same tune , SIng we ( Seamen ) now and than Of Dansekar the Duchman , whose gallant mind hath wone him great renown To live on land he counts it base But seeks to puochase greater grace , by Roving on the Ocean up and down . His heart is so aspiring That now his chief desiring , is for to win himself a worthy name The Land hath far too little ground , The Sea is of a larger bound , and of a greater dignity and same . Now many a worthy Gallant Of courage now most valiant , with him hath put their fortune's to the Sea , All the world about have herd Of Dansekar and English Ward . and of their proud adventures every day There is not a Kingdom In Turkey or in Christendom , but by these Pirates have received loss Merchant men of every Land , Do daily in great danger stand and fear do much the Ocean main to cross . They make Children fatherlesss Woeful widows in distress in shedding blood they took too much delight . Fathers they bereave of sons , Regareing neither cries nor moans , so much they joy to see a bloody fight . They count it gallant hearing To hear the Canons roaring , and Musket-shot to rattle in the sky . Their glories would be at the highest To fight against the foes of Christ and such as do our Christian faith deny , But their cursed Villainies , And their bloody Piracies . are chiefly bent against our Christian friends Some Christians so delight in evils , That they become the sons of Devils and for the same have many shameful ends England suffers danger As well as any stranger , Nations are alike unto his company , Many English Merchant men , And of London now and then , have tasted of their vile extremity , Londons Elizabeth Of late these Rovers taken have , a ship well laden with rich Merchandise The nimble Pearl and Charity All ships of gallant bravery , all these are made a lawful prize , The Trojan of London With other ships many a one , hath stooped sail and yielded out of hand , These Pirates they have shed their bloods , And the Turks have brought their goods , being all too weak their power to withstand , Of Hull and Bonaventer , Which was a great frequenter and passer of the Straits to Barbary . Both Ship and men late taken were , By Pirates Ward and Dansekar , and brought by them into Captivity , English Ward and Dansekar Begin greatly now to jar , about dividing of their got goods Both Ships and Soldiers gather head Dacsekar from Ward is fled , so full of pride and malice are their bloods . Ward does only promise To keep about rich Tunis , and be Commander of those Turkish Seas But valiant Duchland Dansekar , Does hover near unto Argier , and there his threatening colours now displays These Pirates thus divided By God is sure provided , in secret sort to work each others woe , Such wicked courses cannot stand , The Devil thus puts in his hand , and God will soon give them and overthrrw . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and William Gilbertson . E : 327 The Seamans Song of Captain ward the famous Pyrate of the world , and and Englishman born , The tune is , The Kings going to Bulloign , GAllants you must understand , Captain Ward of England , a Pyrate and a Rover on the Sea , Oh late a simple Fisherman In the merry town of Feversham , grows famous in the world now every day From the Bay of Plimouth Sailed he towards the south , with many more of courage and of might Christian Princes have but few Such Seamen , if that he were true , and would but for his King & Country fight , Lusty Ward adventrously , In the straights of Barbary did make the Turkish Galleys soar to shake Bouncing Canons fiery hight , Spared not the Turks one jot , but of their lives great slaughter he did make The Ilanders of Malta , With Argosies upon the Sea , most proudly braved Ward unto his face But soon their pride was overthrown And their treasures made his own , and all their men brought to a woeful case The wealthy ships of Venice Afforded him great riches both gold & silver wone he with his sword Stately Spain and Portugal Against him dare not bore up sail , but gave him all the title of a Lord . Golden seated Candy Famous France and Italy with all the Countries of the Eastern parts , If once their Ships his pride withstood They surely all were cloth'd in blood , such cruelty was plac'd within their hearts , The riches he hath gained . And by bloodshed obtained may well suffice for to maintain a King His fellows all are valiant Wights Fit to be made Princes Knights , but that their lives do base dishonours bring . This wicked got treasure , Does him but little pleasure , the land consumes what they have god by sea In drunkenness and lechery , Flthy sins of Sodomy . these evil got Goods do wast away , Such as live by thieving , Have seldom times good ending , as by the deeds of Captain Ward is shown Being drunk among his Drabs His nearest friends he sometime stabs , such wickedness within his heart is grown When stormy tempest riseth The causer he despises , still denies to pay unto the Lord He fears neither God nor the Devil , His deeds are bad his thoughts are evil ; his only trust is still upon his sword . Men of his own Country , He still abused vilely , some back to back are cast into the waves Some are hewn in pieces small , Some are shot against a wall , a slender number of their lives he saves Of truth it is reported That he is strongly guarded , by Turks that are not of a good belief , Wit and reason tells them He trusteth not his Countrymen , but shows the right condition of a thief , At Tunis in Barbary Now he builds stately , a gallant Palace and a Royal place , Decked with delights most trim , Fitter for a Prince then him . the which at last will prove to his disgrace . To make the world to wonder , This Captain is Commander of four and twenty ships of sail , To bring in treasure from the sea , Into the Markets every day . the which the Turks do buy up without fail , His name and state so mounts These Country men accounteth him equal to the Nobles of that Land But these his honours we shall find Shortly blown up with the wind , or prove like letters written in the sand . Finis . The Seamans Song of Dansekar the Duchman , his robberies done at Sea. To the same tune , SIng we ( Seamen ) now and than Of Dansekar the Duchman , whose gallant mind hath wone him great renown To live on land he counts it base But seeks to puochase greater grace , by Roving on the Ocean up and down . His heart is so aspiring That now his chief desiring , is for to win himself a worthy name The Land hath far too little ground , The Sea is of a larger bound , and of a greater dignity and same . Now many a worthy Gallant Of courage now most valiant , with him hath put their fortune's to the Sea , All the world about have herd Of Dansekar and English Ward . and of their proud adventures every day There is not a Kingdom In Turkey or in Christendom , but by these Pirates have received loss Merchant men of every Land , Do daily in great danger stand and fear do much the Ocean main to cross . They make Children fatherlesss Woeful widows in distress in shedding blood they took too much delight . Fathers they bereave of sons , Regareing neither cries nor moans , so much they joy to see a bloody fight . They count it gallant hearing To hear the Canons roaring , and Musket-shot to rattle in the sky . Their glories would be at the highest To fight against the foes of Christ and such as do our Christian faith deny , But their cursed Villainies , And their bloody Piracies . are chiefly bent against our Christian friends Some Christians so delight in evils , That they become the sons of Devils and for the same have many shameful ends England suffers danger As well as any stranger , Nations are alike unto his company , Many English Merchant men , And of London now and then , have tasted of their vile extremity , Londons Elizabeth Of late these Rovers taken have , a ship well laden with rich Merchandise The nimble Pearl and Charity All ships of gallant bravery , all these are made a lawful prize , The Trojan of London With other ships many a one , hath stooped sail and yielded out of hand , These Pirates they have shed their bloods , And the Turks have brought their goods , being all too weak their power to withstand , Of Hull and Bonaventer , Which was a great frequenter and passer of the Straits to Barbary . Both Ship and men late taken were , By Pirates Ward and Dansekar , and brought by them into Captivity , English Ward and Dansekar Begin greatly now to jar , about dividing of their got goods Both Ships and Soldiers gather head Dacsekar from Ward is fled , so full of pride and malice are their bloods . Ward does only promise To keep about rich Tunis , and be Commander of those Turkish Seas But valiant Duchland Dansekar , Does hover near unto Argier , and there his threatening colours now displays These Pirates thus divided By God is sure provided , in secret sort to work each others woe , Such wicked courses cannot stand , The Devil thus puts in his hand , and God will soon give them and overthrrw . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and William Gilbertson . 