b The Angel Gabriell , his Salutation to the blessed Virgin MARY . To the tune of , The Blazing Torch . WHen righteous Joseph wedded was to Israels Hebrew maid , A glorious Angel came from Heaven , who to the Virgin said : Hail blessed Marry full of grace , the Lord remains in thee : Thou shalt conceive and bear a Son thy Saviour to be . That's wondrous strange quoth Marry then I should conceive and breed , Being never touched by mortal man , but pare in thought and deed . Fear not , quoth Gabriel by and by , it is no work of man : But only God's , ordain'd at first before the world began . Which heavenly message she believes , and did to Jury go , Three months with her friends to stay , Gods blessed will to show : And then return'd with Joseph back , her Husband meek and mild , Who thought it strange his wife should be untouched , thus grown with child . Wherefore ( thought he ) to shun that shame he thought her to forsake : But that Gods Angel in his sleep Gods mind did undertake . Fear not just Joseph this thy wife is still a spotless Maid , And no consent to since ( quoth he ) against her can be laid . For she is purely Maid and Wife , the mother of Gods own Heir , The Babe of Heaven , and blessed Lamb , of Israels stock so fair : To save lost sheep to Satan sold , whom Adam lost by fraud , When first in Edens Paradise the Lord had them bestow'd . Thus Marry with her Husband kind , together did remain , Until the time of Jesus birth as Scripture does make plain . Thus Mother , Wife , and Virgin pure , our Saviour sweet conceiv'd , All three in one to bring us joy , of which we were bereav'd . Sing praises then both old and young , to him which wrought the help of man That thus without the help of man sent us the King of Kings : Which is of such a blessed power , that with his word can quell The World , the Flesh , and by his Death could conquer death and hell . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere and W. Gilbertson . b The Angel Gabriell , his Salutation to the blessed Virgin MARY . To the tune of , The Blazing Torch . WHen righteous Joseph wedded was to Israels Hebrew maid , A glorious Angel came from Heaven , who to the Virgin said : Hail blessed Marry full of grace , the Lord remains in thee : Thou shalt conceive and bear a Son thy Saviour to be . That's wondrous strange quoth Marry then I should conceive and breed , Being never touched by mortal man , but pare in thought and deed . Fear not , quoth Gabriel by and by , it is no work of man : But only God's , ordain'd at first before the world began . Which heavenly message she believes , and did to Jury go , Three months with her friends to stay , Gods blessed will to show : And then return'd with Joseph back , her Husband meek and mild , Who thought it strange his wife should be untouched , thus grown with child . Wherefore ( thought he ) to shun that shame he thought her to forsake : But that Gods Angel in his sleep Gods mind did undertake . Fear not just Joseph this thy wife is still a spotless Maid , And no consent to since ( quoth he ) against her can be laid . For she is purely Maid and Wife , the mother of Gods own Heir , The Babe of Heaven , and blessed Lamb , of Israels stock so fair : To save lost sheep to Satan sold , whom Adam lost by fraud , When first in Edens Paradise the Lord had them bestow'd . Thus Marry with her Husband kind , together did remain , Until the time of Jesus birth as Scripture does make plain . Thus Mother , Wife , and Virgin pure , our Saviour sweet conceiv'd , All three in one to bring us joy , of which we were bereav'd . Sing praises then both old and young , to him which wrought the help of man That thus without the help of man sent us the King of Kings : Which is of such a blessed power , that with his word can quell The World , the Flesh , and by his Death could conquer death and hell . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere and W. Gilbertson . 