ENGLANDS JOY For the Coming in of our Gracious Sovereign King CHARLS the Second To the Tune of , A Joyful Sighed to see . RIng Bells' , and let Bonfires out-blaze the Sun , Let Echoes contribute their voice , For now a happy settlement's begun , To show how we do all rejoice : If we by this Can have the bliss To re-injoy a Unity , We'll do no more As heretofore , But will in mutual love increase , If we can once again have peace . How joyful shall we be . The King shall his Prerogatives enjoy , The State their Privilege shall have , He will not theirs , nor will they his annoy , But both each others strive to save : The people shall Turn loyal all And strive t' obey his Majesty , And Truth and Peace Shall both increase , They'l be obedient to the Laws And hate that subtle name of Cause . Then joyful shall we be . The Parliament will rise no more in arms , To fight against their lawful King , Nor be deluded by their factious charms That all the Realm to treason bring : They'l learn to vote No more by rote Nor pass their Bills ex tempore , But study peace And trades increase , Since now we find it is not good To write the Kingdom peace in blood , But joyful shall we be . The second Part , to the same Tune . THe Cobblers shall not edify their Tubs , Nor in Divinity set stitches , We'l not b' instructed by Mechanic scrubs , Women shan't preach with men for breeches : The prickear'd Tribe That won't subscribe Unto our Churches Hierarchy , Must England leave , And to Geneve , New England , or to Amsterdam , With all whom Church and State can't tame . Then joyful shall we be . We'l toil no more to maintain Patentees That feed upon poor peoples trade , Star Chamber shan't vex guiltless men for fees , Nor Law to Vice for bribes be Bawd : The Bishops each Will learn to preach , Rich Clergy will not silent be , And Judges all Impartial , When Laws alike to all degrees , No sleeping Judges gape for fees . How joyful shall we be . We'l fight ng more for Jealousies , and Fears , Nor spend our blood , we know not why ; The Roundheads shall shake hands with Cavaliers , And both for King and Country die : The Sword shall not Maintain a Plot For fear of Plots which ne're shall be , Nor will we still Each other kill , To fight for those that are as far From Peace , as they will be from War. But joyful shall we be . The broken Cits no more shall lick their Chops , Nor Wealth recruit with Countrey's store , But lay down Arms , and keep within their Shops , And cry what lack you , as before : They'l turn again Blew apron'd men , And leave their titles of degree , Nor will they prate 'Gainst Church and State , But change their Feathers , Flags , and Dr [ ums ] For Items and for total Sums . How joyful shall we be . We will not Garrisons of Lubbers feed , To plunder , drink , and gather pay , While they lie gazing , and are both agreed To fetch our goods add us away ; And though they swear , We will not care , Nor to such Skowndrels servile be ; We will not stand With Cap in hand , Beseeching them to let alone The goods which justly are our own But joyful shall we be . Fanatic Troopers must go home again , And humbly walk a foot to Blow , Nor domineer thus over honest men , But work to get their livings now : Or if their mind Be not inclin'd To leave their former knavery , A halter shall Dispatch them all , And then the Gallows shall be made The high'st preferment of their trade . A joyful sighed to see . Let Roundheads shake their circumcided [ ears , ] We'l ride about as well as they , Nor will we stand in fear of Cavaliers That sleep all night , and drink all day [ ; ] When we can find Both sides enclin'd To change their War for Unity ; Oh t' will be brave , If we can have The Freedom granted by our Charter , And escape from plunder , pay , and quart [ er ; ] How joyful shall we be . London , Printed for John Andrews , at the White Lion near Pie Corner . ENGLANDS JOY For the Coming in of our Gracious Sovereign King CHARLS the Second To the Tune of , A Joyful Sighed to see . RIng Bells' , and let Bonfires out-blaze the Sun , Let Echoes contribute their voice , For now a happy settlement's begun , To show how we do all rejoice : If we by this Can have the bliss To re-injoy a Unity , We'll do no more As heretofore , But will in mutual love increase , If we can once again have peace . How joyful shall we be . The King shall his Prerogatives enjoy , The State their Privilege shall have , He will not theirs , nor will they his annoy , But both each others strive to save : The people shall Turn loyal all And strive t' obey his Majesty , And Truth and Peace Shall both increase , They'l be obedient to the Laws And hate that subtle name of Cause . Then joyful shall we be . The Parliament will rise no more in arms , To fight against their lawful King , Nor be deluded by their factious charms That all the Realm to treason bring : They'l learn to vote No more by rote Nor pass their Bills ex tempore , But study peace And trades increase , Since now we find it is not good To write the Kingdom peace in blood , But joyful shall we be . The second Part , to the same Tune . THe Cobblers shall not edify their Tubs , Nor in Divinity set stitches , We'l not b' instructed by Mechanic scrubs , Women shan't preach with men for breeches : The prickear'd Tribe That won't subscribe Unto our Churches Hierarchy , Must England leave , And to Geneve , New England , or to Amsterdam , With all whom Church and State can't tame . Then joyful shall we be . We'l toil no more to maintain Patentees That feed upon poor peoples trade , Star Chamber shan't vex guiltless men for fees , Nor Law to Vice for bribes be Bawd : The Bishops each Will learn to preach , Rich Clergy will not silent be , And Judges all Impartial , When Laws alike to all degrees , No sleeping Judges gape for fees . How joyful shall we be . We'l fight ng more for Jealousies , and Fears , Nor spend our blood , we know not why ; The Roundheads shall shake hands with Cavaliers , And both for King and Country die : The Sword shall not Maintain a Plot For fear of Plots which ne're shall be , Nor will we still Each other kill , To fight for those that are as far From Peace , as they will be from War. But joyful shall we be . The broken Cits no more shall lick their Chops , Nor Wealth recruit with Countrey's store , But lay down Arms , and keep within their Shops , And cry what lack you , as before : They'l turn again Blew apron'd men , And leave their titles of degree , Nor will they prate 'Gainst Church and State , But change their Feathers , Flags , and Dr [ ums ] For Items and for total Sums . How joyful shall we be . We will not Garrisons of Lubbers feed , To plunder , drink , and gather pay , While they lie gazing , and are both agreed To fetch our goods add us away ; And though they swear , We will not care , Nor to such Skowndrels servile be ; We will not stand With Cap in hand , Beseeching them to let alone The goods which justly are our own But joyful shall we be . Fanatic Troopers must go home again , And humbly walk a foot to Blow , Nor domineer thus over honest men , But work to get their livings now : Or if their mind Be not inclin'd To leave their former knavery , A halter shall Dispatch them all , And then the Gallows shall be made The high'st preferment of their trade . A joyful sighed to see . Let Roundheads shake their circumcided [ ears , ] We'l ride about as well as they , Nor will we stand in fear of Cavaliers That sleep all night , and drink all day [ ; ] When we can find Both sides enclin'd To change their War for Unity ; Oh t' will be brave , If we can have The Freedom granted by our Charter , And escape from plunder , pay , and quart [ er ; ] How joyful shall we be . London , Printed for John Andrews , at the White Lion near Pie Corner . 