And excellent Ballad of the Mercers Son of Midhurst , And the Clothiers Daughter of Guilford . To the Tune of , Dainty come thou to me . THere was a Wealthy Man , in Sussex he did dwell , A Mercer by his Trade , as many yet can tell : He had a Youthful Son , whom fancy did so move , He cried night and day , Alack I die for love . Alack I die for love , beauty disdains me , The Clothiers Daughter dear , works my extremity , She hath my heart in hold , that did most cruel prove , Thus cried he night and day , alack , etc Alack I die for love fortune so soar does frown , The Jewel of my heart , dwells in Guilford town , Their lives the Lamp of life , for whom this pain I prove , Fair Phillis pity me , alack , etc Alack I die for love , and can no comfort find . The Clothiers Daughter dear , bears too high a mind : Sweet beauty's Paragon , fair Venus silver Dove , Fair Phillis pity me , alack , etc Alack , I die for love , while thou dost laugh and smile , Let not thy pleasure be , true love for to beguile , My life lies in your hand , then as it does behove , Slay not the Mercers Son , alack , etc If that my beauty bright , does grieve thy heart ( quod she Then let the Mercers Son , turn still his face from me : I do no man disdain , nor can I cruel prove , My heart must still say nay , where my heart cannot love , Where my heart cannot love , lovers all must I shun , The Clothiers Daughter thus answered the Mercers Son , I bear no lofty mind , yet pity cannot move , My mind to fancy him , where , etc Where my heart cannot love , I must his love deny , Although I laugh and smile , yet falsehood I defy , Thou art too found a man , life danger thus a prove , I'le not wed , good friend John , where , etc What good can there befall , to that new married wife , Where goods & wealth is small want causeth deadly strife , But where is wealth at will , experience of't does prove , Though love at first is small , yet goods , etc Yet goods increases love , and I will never never wed , But where the Key of Gold , opens the door to bed , For she may merry be , what chance soever hap , Where bags of money comes tumbling within her lap , Tumbling within her lap , while she her Gold does tell , With such a husband Sir , I do delight to dwell , Were he young were he old , deform'd or fair in show . My pleasure still should be , where , etc Where pleasure still does flow , is that your mind ( quoth he ) My Father will bestow : as much as comes to thee : Had'st thou five hundred pound , five hundred more beside , My father will bestow , if thou , etc If though wilt be my bride , thus much I understand ; My Father will give me , his house and eke his Land , So while that he does live , with us he may remain . What says my heart delight , ir this , etc This is a bargain plain , ( quoth she ) I am content , So he perform this thing , I give thee my consent , And I will merry be , my mind shall not remove , Thou shalt be my sweetheart , i'le be thy own true love . I'le be thy own true love , then make no more delay , I greatly long to see , our marriage happy day , To Midhurst in all haste , goes the Mercers Son , He told his Father dear , his true love he had wone . The old Man hearing this , conveyed out of hand , Assurance to his Son , of all his house and Land , When he had done this deed , he wept most bitterly , Saying my dearest Son , thou must be good to me , Well worth two hundred pound this morning was I known , But the Clothes of my back , now nothing is my own . And all this I have done , dear Son to pleasure thee , Think on thy Father's love , and deal then well with me . Dear Father quoth the Son , If I do not do so God pour upon my head , hight vengeance grief and woe , The youngman wedded was , to his fair lovely bride , But wondrous grief and care , thereof there did betide , As after you shall hear , in the Old men complaint ; A tale of greater grief , cannot your hearts attaint , A warning by this thing , all men may understand , Lest they do come to live , under their Children's hand . FINIS A Ballad Entitled , The Old Man's Complaint against his Wretched Son , who to advance his Marriage , did undo himself . To the same Tune . ALL you that Father's be , look on my misery , Let not affection found , work your extremity , For to advance my Son , in marriage wealthily , I have my self undone , without all remedy , I that was wont to live uncontroul'd any way , With many checks and taunts , am griev'd every day : Alack and woe is me , I that might late command , Cannot have a bit of bred , but at my Children's hand , While I was wont to fit , chief at the Tables end , Now like a Servant slave , must on them attend , I must not come in place , where their friends merry be Lest I should my Son disgrace with my unreverency , My coughing in the night , offends my daughter inlaw , My deafuess and ill sighed , does much disliking draw , Fie on this doting fool , this crooked Churl ( quod . they ) The Chimney Corner still , must with him troubled be , I must rise from my chair , to give my children place , I must speak Servants fair , this is my woeful case , Unto their friends they tell , ( I must not say they lie ) That they do keep me here , even of mere charity . When I am sick in bed , they will not come me nigh , Each day they wish me dead , yet say i'le never die , Oh Lord an't be thy will , look on my woeful case , No honest man before , ever took such disgrace . This was the old man's plaint every night and day , With woe he waxed faint , but mark what I shall say , This rich and dainty pair , the youngman and his wife , Though clog'd with golden coin yet led a grievous life , Seven years they married were and yet in all that space , God sent them ne'r and heir , their Riches to embrace , Thus did their sorrow breed , joy was from them exiled , Quoth she a hundred pound , would I give for a child , To have a joyful Child , of my own body born , Full of't I am revil'd , of this my barren Womb : Much Physic did she take , to make a fruitful soil , And with acces thereof , her body she did spoil , Full of grief full of pain , full of ach grew she then , That she cries out amain , seek for some cunning men , That I my health may have , I will no money spare , But that which she did crave , never fell to her share . Alack , alack , she said , what torments I live in , How well are they paid , that truly ease can win , So that I had my health , and from this pain was free , I would give all my wealth , that blessed day to see , Oh that I my health had , though I were ne'r so poor , I car'd not tho' I went , begging from door to door . Fie on this muck , quod she , it cannot pleasure me , In this my woeful case , and great extremity , Thus liv'd she long in pain , all comfort from her fled , She strangled at the last , her self within the bed , Her husband full of grief , consumed woefully , His body pin'd away , suddenly he did die : E're thirteen years were passed , dy'd he without a will , And by this means at last , the old man living still ; Injoy'd his Land at last , after much misery . Many years after that liv'd he most happily . Far richer then before , by this means was he known He help the sick and soar , the poor man overthrown , But this was still his Song , let all men understand , Those Parents are accursed , live on their Children's hand . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . And excellent Ballad of the Mercers Son of Midhurst , And the Clothiers Daughter of Guilford . To the Tune of , Dainty come thou to me . THere was a Wealthy Man , in Sussex he did dwell , A Mercer by his Trade , as many yet can tell : He had a Youthful Son , whom fancy did so move , He cried night and day , Alack I die for love . Alack I die for love , beauty disdains me , The Clothiers Daughter dear , works my extremity , She hath my heart in hold , that did most cruel prove , Thus cried he night and day , alack , etc Alack I die for love fortune so soar does frown , The Jewel of my heart , dwells in Guilford town , Their lives the Lamp of life , for whom this pain I prove , Fair Phillis pity me , alack , etc Alack I die for love , and can no comfort find . The Clothiers Daughter dear , bears too high a mind : Sweet beauty's Paragon , fair Venus silver Dove , Fair Phillis pity me , alack , etc Alack , I die for love , while thou dost laugh and smile , Let not thy pleasure be , true love for to beguile , My life lies in your hand , then as it does behove , Slay not the Mercers Son , alack , etc If that my beauty bright , does grieve thy heart ( quod she Then let the Mercers Son , turn still his face from me : I do no man disdain , nor can I cruel prove , My heart must still say nay , where my heart cannot love , Where my heart cannot love , lovers all must I shun , The Clothiers Daughter thus answered the Mercers Son , I bear no lofty mind , yet pity cannot move , My mind to fancy him , where , etc Where my heart cannot love , I must his love deny , Although I laugh and smile , yet falsehood I defy , Thou art too found a man , life danger thus a prove , I'le not wed , good friend John , where , etc What good can there befall , to that new married wife , Where goods & wealth is small want causeth deadly strife , But where is wealth at will , experience of't does prove , Though love at first is small , yet goods , etc Yet goods increases love , and I will never never wed , But where the Key of Gold , opens the door to bed , For she may merry be , what chance soever hap , Where bags of money comes tumbling within her lap , Tumbling within her lap , while she her Gold does tell , With such a husband Sir , I do delight to dwell , Were he young were he old , deform'd or fair in show . My pleasure still should be , where , etc Where pleasure still does flow , is that your mind ( quoth he ) My Father will bestow : as much as comes to thee : Had'st thou five hundred pound , five hundred more beside , My father will bestow , if thou , etc If though wilt be my bride , thus much I understand ; My Father will give me , his house and eke his Land , So while that he does live , with us he may remain . What says my heart delight , ir this , etc This is a bargain plain , ( quoth she ) I am content , So he perform this thing , I give thee my consent , And I will merry be , my mind shall not remove , Thou shalt be my sweetheart , i'le be thy own true love . I'le be thy own true love , then make no more delay , I greatly long to see , our marriage happy day , To Midhurst in all haste , goes the Mercers Son , He told his Father dear , his true love he had wone . The old Man hearing this , conveyed out of hand , Assurance to his Son , of all his house and Land , When he had done this deed , he wept most bitterly , Saying my dearest Son , thou must be good to me , Well worth two hundred pound this morning was I known , But the Clothes of my back , now nothing is my own . And all this I have done , dear Son to pleasure thee , Think on thy Father's love , and deal then well with me . Dear Father quoth the Son , If I do not do so God pour upon my head , hight vengeance grief and woe , The youngman wedded was , to his fair lovely bride , But wondrous grief and care , thereof there did betide , As after you shall hear , in the Old men complaint ; A tale of greater grief , cannot your hearts attaint , A warning by this thing , all men may understand , Lest they do come to live , under their Children's hand . FINIS A Ballad Entitled , The Old Man's Complaint against his Wretched Son , who to advance his Marriage , did undo himself . To the same Tune . ALL you that Father's be , look on my misery , Let not affection found , work your extremity , For to advance my Son , in marriage wealthily , I have my self undone , without all remedy , I that was wont to live uncontroul'd any way , With many checks and taunts , am griev'd every day : Alack and woe is me , I that might late command , Cannot have a bit of bred , but at my Children's hand , While I was wont to fit , chief at the Tables end , Now like a Servant slave , must on them attend , I must not come in place , where their friends merry be Lest I should my Son disgrace with my unreverency , My coughing in the night , offends my daughter inlaw , My deafuess and ill sighed , does much disliking draw , Fie on this doting fool , this crooked Churl ( quod . they ) The Chimney Corner still , must with him troubled be , I must rise from my chair , to give my children place , I must speak Servants fair , this is my woeful case , Unto their friends they tell , ( I must not say they lie ) That they do keep me here , even of mere charity . When I am sick in bed , they will not come me nigh , Each day they wish me dead , yet say i'le never die , Oh Lord an't be thy will , look on my woeful case , No honest man before , ever took such disgrace . This was the old man's plaint every night and day , With woe he waxed faint , but mark what I shall say , This rich and dainty pair , the youngman and his wife , Though clog'd with golden coin yet led a grievous life , Seven years they married were and yet in all that space , God sent them ne'r and heir , their Riches to embrace , Thus did their sorrow breed , joy was from them exiled , Quoth she a hundred pound , would I give for a child , To have a joyful Child , of my own body born , Full of't I am revil'd , of this my barren Womb : Much Physic did she take , to make a fruitful soil , And with acces thereof , her body she did spoil , Full of grief full of pain , full of ach grew she then , That she cries out amain , seek for some cunning men , That I my health may have , I will no money spare , But that which she did crave , never fell to her share . Alack , alack , she said , what torments I live in , How well are they paid , that truly ease can win , So that I had my health , and from this pain was free , I would give all my wealth , that blessed day to see , Oh that I my health had , though I were ne'r so poor , I car'd not tho' I went , begging from door to door . Fie on this muck , quod she , it cannot pleasure me , In this my woeful case , and great extremity , Thus liv'd she long in pain , all comfort from her fled , She strangled at the last , her self within the bed , Her husband full of grief , consumed woefully , His body pin'd away , suddenly he did die : E're thirteen years were passed , dy'd he without a will , And by this means at last , the old man living still ; Injoy'd his Land at last , after much misery . Many years after that liv'd he most happily . Far richer then before , by this means was he known He help the sick and soar , the poor man overthrown , But this was still his Song , let all men understand , Those Parents are accursed , live on their Children's hand . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 