The Gowlin : or , A Pleasant Fancy for the SPRING . Being and Encounter betwixt a Scotch Leard , & a buxom beggar-wench . He captivated was at the first sighed , Not with her gay attire , her Beauty bright ; He Woo'd and wone her for to serve his will , But he's a Leard , and she a Beggar still . To a new Playhouse Tune ; Or , See the Gowlin , etc ABroad as I was walking , upon a Summer's day , There I met a Beggar-wench , clothed all in Grey , Her Clothes they were so torn , you might have seen her skin , She was the first that taught me , to see the Gowlin ; Ah! to see the Gowlin my Jo , to see the Gowlin ; She was the first that taught me to see the Gowlin . You Gallants of delight , pray take it not in scorn , She came of Adams seed , though she was basely born : And though her Cloth were Ragged , she had a Milkwhite skin , She was the first that taught me , to see the Gowlin : Ah! to see , etc She had a pretty little foot , and a moist hand , For which she might compare , with any Lady in the Land , Ruby Lips , Cherry Cheeks , and a Dimpled Chin , She was the first that taught me to see the Gowlin : Ah! to see , etc Her features did so tempt me , I could not be at rest , But I must fallen aboard on her , although she was undres I bid her take it quietly and not make any Din , She was the first that taught me to see the Gowlin , Ah! to see the Gowlin : my Jo , to see the Gowlin ; She was the first that taught me to see the Gowlin . AT first she seemed squeamish , and blushed to see me smile , But I began to sweeten her , and pause a little while : At length I told her plainly , 'twas but a venial since , She was the first that taught me to see the Gowlin : Ah! to see the Gowlin my jo , to see the Gowlin , She was the first that taught me , to see the Gowlin . When that I had wooed her , and wed her to my will , I could not then devise a way , to keep the Baby still : She bid me be at quiet , she valued not a pin , She was the first that taught me , to see the Gowlin : Ah! to see , etc I found her free and frolic , and ready for the sport , My arms I then did handle , with speed to storm thee for Quo I my blithe and bonny Lass , it's time for to begin , She was the first that taught me to see the Gowlin : Ah! to see , etc Then she took the Bearn in , and wrapped it well in clothes , And then she took a Gowlin and stuck between her toes ; And ever as the Lurden cry'd , and made any din , She took her foot and sung too't , see the Gowlin : Ah! to see the Gowlin , etc When as we came for to embrace , I made not many brags , But with all the skill I had , I folded up her Rags , And then no matter what I did , or what she did again , She was the first that taught me to see the Gowlin : Ah! to see the Gowlin . When I had satisfi'd my sense , by doing of the feat , She motions made to me again , my Lesson to repea But I began to have enough , of play at In , and In : She was the first that taught me to see the Gowlin : Ah! to see , etc I bid her to be silent , and gave her a Gold Ring , Because she was a bonny Lass , and fit to do the thing : And so I left the Beggar-wench , that had so white a skin , She was the first that taught me to see the Gowlin : Ah! to see , etc The Gowlin is a yellow flower , that grows upon the Plains , Which oftentimes is gathered by Nymphs and Shepherd Swains , When youngsters walk on the down they think it a fine thing , To give their Sweethearts a green gown , and see the Gowlin : Ah! to see the Gowlin , my jo , to see the Gowlin , To give their Sweethearts a green gown , and see the Gowlin . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Gowlin : or , A Pleasant Fancy for the SPRING . Being and Encounter betwixt a Scotch Leard , & a buxom beggar-wench . He captivated was at the first sighed , Not with her gay attire , her Beauty bright ; He Woo'd and wone her for to serve his will , But he's a Leard , and she a Beggar still . To a new Playhouse Tune ; Or , See the Gowlin , etc ABroad as I was walking , upon a Summer's day , There I met a Beggar-wench , clothed all in Grey , Her Clothes they were so torn , you might have seen her skin , She was the first that taught me , to see the Gowlin ; Ah! to see the Gowlin my Jo , to see the Gowlin ; She was the first that taught me to see the Gowlin . You Gallants of delight , pray take it not in scorn , She came of Adams seed , though she was basely born : And though her Cloth were Ragged , she had a Milkwhite skin , She was the first that taught me , to see the Gowlin : Ah! to see , etc She had a pretty little foot , and a moist hand , For which she might compare , with any Lady in the Land , Ruby Lips , Cherry Cheeks , and a Dimpled Chin , She was the first that taught me to see the Gowlin : Ah! to see , etc Her features did so tempt me , I could not be at rest , But I must fallen aboard on her , although she was undres I bid her take it quietly and not make any Din , She was the first that taught me to see the Gowlin , Ah! to see the Gowlin : my Jo , to see the Gowlin ; She was the first that taught me to see the Gowlin . AT first she seemed squeamish , and blushed to see me smile , But I began to sweeten her , and pause a little while : At length I told her plainly , 'twas but a venial since , She was the first that taught me to see the Gowlin : Ah! to see the Gowlin my jo , to see the Gowlin , She was the first that taught me , to see the Gowlin . When that I had wooed her , and wed her to my will , I could not then devise a way , to keep the Baby still : She bid me be at quiet , she valued not a pin , She was the first that taught me , to see the Gowlin : Ah! to see , etc I found her free and frolic , and ready for the sport , My arms I then did handle , with speed to storm thee for Quo I my blithe and bonny Lass , it's time for to begin , She was the first that taught me to see the Gowlin : Ah! to see , etc Then she took the Bearn in , and wrapped it well in clothes , And then she took a Gowlin and stuck between her toes ; And ever as the Lurden cry'd , and made any din , She took her foot and sung too't , see the Gowlin : Ah! to see the Gowlin , etc When as we came for to embrace , I made not many brags , But with all the skill I had , I folded up her Rags , And then no matter what I did , or what she did again , She was the first that taught me to see the Gowlin : Ah! to see the Gowlin . When I had satisfi'd my sense , by doing of the feat , She motions made to me again , my Lesson to repea But I began to have enough , of play at In , and In : She was the first that taught me to see the Gowlin : Ah! to see , etc I bid her to be silent , and gave her a Gold Ring , Because she was a bonny Lass , and fit to do the thing : And so I left the Beggar-wench , that had so white a skin , She was the first that taught me to see the Gowlin : Ah! to see , etc The Gowlin is a yellow flower , that grows upon the Plains , Which oftentimes is gathered by Nymphs and Shepherd Swains , When youngsters walk on the down they think it a fine thing , To give their Sweethearts a green gown , and see the Gowlin : Ah! to see the Gowlin , my jo , to see the Gowlin , To give their Sweethearts a green gown , and see the Gowlin . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 