A PROPHESY , Which hath been in a Manuscript , IN THE Lord Powis's Family Sixty Years . ABout the time that I shall be Joined unto 2 times 3. And 4 times 10 with 4 times 2 among us shall be great ado . And Eagles Head that time shall fallen , Scattered will be the young ones all . 1647. 1648. Then shall a Cypher swell so great , His Name 100 takes the Seat , And shall do mighty things before He is removed off the Shore . But 10 times 4 with 8 times 6 , Does in another World him fix . Oliver Cromwel . 1658. Then quickly after you shall spy , The Eagle back again to fly , And shall himself bedeck again , With Feathers of his Father's Train . Then heavy Times shall make men say , Ofttimes alas and welladay , And wish that they a Death might find , For something troubles soar their Mind . Then after all a Cloud shall come , And almost darken quite the Sun. And in that time Actions shall be Chiefly carried on by three . The Cross , the Surplise , and the Crown , Strive who shall put each other down . Great Treachery and Bloodshed then Shall sweep away great store of Men . The Lion and blue Flower shall seek Quite to destroy the Heretic Sheep . And England shall be hard besteaded , Before the Miter hence be rid . False Ireland contrives our woe , But zealous Scotland does not so . Begin again at 1 and 6 , And 10 times 7 begins these Tricks . 1677 And for a time shall last full soar , Till you may number 1 and 4. 1681. And for 4 more it shall abate , To return in and happy state . 1685. Then better every day will be , But no more ------ in England see . When 8 times 8 and 3 times 3 , With 6 and 1 shall joined be , Then shall be sacrificed C. In dust shall lie that arrant Whore , Disdain'd of all like to J --- S --- And all her Brats turn'd out of door . J.R. shall into Saddle slide , And furiously to Room shall ride , His Principles no longer hide . The Pope shall have a fatal Fallen , And never trouble more Whitehall , Nor England's People more enthral . And he that chanceth to survive , Until the year of eighty five , Shall see this Land begin to thrive . 1680. O England's wonder , which hath never been , 3 Q ------ in England shortly shall be seen ! 2 WORSER ------ shall highly for the Crown contend , Each shall bring England's Monarchy to end . B --------- shall fallen into contempt and scorn , And Gospel-Angels shall our Church adorn . If any ask , how this shall come to pass , The Fox shall ride the Goose , the Goose the Ass. FINIS . A PROPHESY , Which hath been in a Manuscript , IN THE Lord Powis's Family Sixty Years . ABout the time that I shall be Joined unto 2 times 3. And 4 times 10 with 4 times 2 among us shall be great ado . And Eagles Head that time shall fallen , Scattered will be the young ones all . 1647. 1648. Then shall a Cypher swell so great , His Name 100 takes the Seat , And shall do mighty things before He is removed off the Shore . But 10 times 4 with 8 times 6 , Does in another World him fix . Oliver Cromwel . 1658. Then quickly after you shall spy , The Eagle back again to fly , And shall himself bedeck again , With Feathers of his Father's Train . Then heavy Times shall make men say , Ofttimes alas and welladay , And wish that they a Death might find , For something troubles soar their Mind . Then after all a Cloud shall come , And almost darken quite the Sun. And in that time Actions shall be Chiefly carried on by three . The Cross , the Surplise , and the Crown , Strive who shall put each other down . Great Treachery and Bloodshed then Shall sweep away great store of Men . The Lion and blue Flower shall seek Quite to destroy the Heretic Sheep . And England shall be hard besteaded , Before the Miter hence be rid . False Ireland contrives our woe , But zealous Scotland does not so . Begin again at 1 and 6 , And 10 times 7 begins these Tricks . 1677 And for a time shall last full soar , Till you may number 1 and 4. 1681. And for 4 more it shall abate , To return in and happy state . 1685. Then better every day will be , But no more ------ in England see . When 8 times 8 and 3 times 3 , With 6 and 1 shall joined be , Then shall be sacrificed C. In dust shall lie that arrant Whore , Disdain'd of all like to J --- S --- And all her Brats turn'd out of door . J.R. shall into Saddle slide , And furiously to Room shall ride , His Principles no longer hide . The Pope shall have a fatal Fallen , And never trouble more Whitehall , Nor England's People more enthral . And he that chanceth to survive , Until the year of eighty five , Shall see this Land begin to thrive . 1680. O England's wonder , which hath never been , 3 Q ------ in England shortly shall be seen ! 2 WORSER ------ shall highly for the Crown contend , Each shall bring England's Monarchy to end . B --------- shall fallen into contempt and scorn , And Gospel-Angels shall our Church adorn . If any ask , how this shall come to pass , The Fox shall ride the Goose , the Goose the Ass. FINIS . A PROPHESY , Which hath been in a Manuscript , IN THE Lord Powis's Family Sixty Years . ABout the time that I shall be Joined unto 2 times 3. And 4 times 10 with 4 times 2 among us shall be great ado . And Eagles Head that time shall fallen , Scattered will be the young ones all . 1647. 1648. Then shall a Cypher swell so great , His Name 100 takes the Seat , And shall do mighty things before He is removed off the Shore . But 10 times 4 with 8 times 6 , Does in another World him fix . Oliver Cromwel . 1658. Then quickly after you shall spy , The Eagle back again to fly , And shall himself bedeck again , With Feathers of his Father's Train . Then heavy Times shall make men say , Ofttimes alas and welladay , And wish that they a Death might find , For something troubles soar their Mind . Then after all a Cloud shall come , And almost darken quite the Sun. And in that time Actions shall be Chiefly carried on by three . The Cross , the Surplise , and the Crown , Strive who shall put each other down . Great Treachery and Bloodshed then Shall sweep away great store of Men . The Lion and blue Flower shall seek Quite to destroy the Heretic Sheep . And England shall be hard besteaded , Before the Miter hence be rid . False Ireland contrives our woe , But zealous Scotland does not so . Begin again at 1 and 6 , And 10 times 7 begins these Tricks . 1677 And for a time shall last full soar , Till you may number 1 and 4. 1681. And for 4 more it shall abate , To return in and happy state . 1685. Then better every day will be , But no more ------ in England see . When 8 times 8 and 3 times 3 , With 6 and 1 shall joined be , Then shall be sacrificed C. In dust shall lie that arrant Whore , Disdain'd of all like to J --- S --- And all her Brats turn'd out of door . J.R. shall into Saddle slide , And furiously to Room shall ride , His Principles no longer hide . The Pope shall have a fatal Fallen , And never trouble more Whitehall , Nor England's People more enthral . And he that chanceth to survive , Until the year of eighty five , Shall see this Land begin to thrive . 1680. O England's wonder , which hath never been , 3 Q ------ in England shortly shall be seen ! 2 WORSER ------ shall highly for the Crown contend , Each shall bring England's Monarchy to end . B --------- shall fallen into contempt and scorn , And Gospel-Angels shall our Church adorn . If any ask , how this shall come to pass , The Fox shall ride the Goose , the Goose the Ass. FINIS . A PROPHESY , Which hath been in a Manuscript , IN THE Lord Powis's Family Sixty Years . ABout the time that I shall be Joined unto 2 times 3. And 4 times 10 with 4 times 2 among us shall be great ado . And Eagles Head that time shall fallen , Scattered will be the young ones all . 1647. 1648. Then shall a Cypher swell so great , His Name 100 takes the Seat , And shall do mighty things before He is removed off the Shore . But 10 times 4 with 8 times 6 , Does in another World him fix . Oliver Cromwel . 1658. Then quickly after you shall spy , The Eagle back again to fly , And shall himself bedeck again , With Feathers of his Father's Train . Then heavy Times shall make men say , Ofttimes alas and welladay , And wish that they a Death might find , For something troubles soar their Mind . Then after all a Cloud shall come , And almost darken quite the Sun. And in that time Actions shall be Chiefly carried on by three . The Cross , the Surplise , and the Crown , Strive who shall put each other down . Great Treachery and Bloodshed then Shall sweep away great store of Men . The Lion and blue Flower shall seek Quite to destroy the Heretic Sheep . And England shall be hard besteaded , Before the Miter hence be rid . False Ireland contrives our woe , But zealous Scotland does not so . Begin again at 1 and 6 , And 10 times 7 begins these Tricks . 1677 And for a time shall last full soar , Till you may number 1 and 4. 1681. And for 4 more it shall abate , To return in and happy state . 1685. Then better every day will be , But no more ------ in England see . When 8 times 8 and 3 times 3 , With 6 and 1 shall joined be , Then shall be sacrificed C. In dust shall lie that arrant Whore , Disdain'd of all like to J --- S --- And all her Brats turn'd out of door . J.R. shall into Saddle slide , And furiously to Room shall ride , His Principles no longer hide . The Pope shall have a fatal Fallen , And never trouble more Whitehall , Nor England's People more enthral . And he that chanceth to survive , Until the year of eighty five , Shall see this Land begin to thrive . 1680. O England's wonder , which hath never been , 3 Q ------ in England shortly shall be seen ! 2 WORSER ------ shall highly for the Crown contend , Each shall bring England's Monarchy to end . B --------- shall fallen into contempt and scorn , And Gospel-Angels shall our Church adorn . If any ask , how this shall come to pass , The Fox shall ride the Goose , the Goose the Ass. FINIS . 