THE Deceiver deceived : Or , The Virgins Revenge . Those that in Loves wide Grove delight to range , And please themselves with pretty charming change , Delight to triumph o're the softest spoils Of yielding Beauty , seldom escape the toils , For Love to take them has a thousand wiles . Tune of , Ah cruel bloody fate ! This may be printed , R . LS . Man. AH cruel Maid give over to punish him with scorn Who has for you in store a flame as bright as morn . Come dear be kind the Powr's of Love their Virtues misimploy'd . To make with such care , a Creature so fair if not to be enjoy'd . Maid . Tell me no more ; in vain will all your Courtship prove I smile to hear you feign a false pretended love : What Grave is free from broken vows ; to yielding Virgins made whom you let languish in their anguish when to Love betray'd . Man. It's true some gentle hours I trifl'd in their arms Yet no sweet face but yours cou'd make me own its Charms The feeble Beauty's they displayed each moment seem'd to wast But your's my delight , is so dazzling bright it must for ever last , Maid . So flatter'd your smooth Tongue so were your looks addressed , Such smiles about you hung such liking you expressed ; To those whose senseless hearts you gained those now that mourn their fate In being undone , by trusting too soon though sighs are breath'd too late . Man. Thats their own fault , in haste to entertain a flame , Which in their cheeks cou'd blast Th' Lilies and Rose's stain : Disarm them of those killing beams which in your eyes appear Those eyes which are bright , those eyes by whose light my course , love bids me steer . Maid . In vain you try my heart no Conquest there you'l gain , Too feeble is your art to make me suffer pain , You seek a triumph there in vain no Trophy you shall boast But in what so fain you wou'd now obtain you shall be ever crossed . Man. Such cruelty can't live within so fair a breast A milder sentence give to me with love oppressed , Oh to a flame that burns like mine some speedy Cordial ply Or he that till now , Love never made bow for love of you must die . Maid . No more of love to me though you in earnest were As deaf as Seas I'de be , for love i'de give despair Revenge the wrongs the softer sex sustain by your false wiles Revenge false man , the Nymph that's undone by your deluding smiles . Man. Just is your doom bright maid just the disdain you show With scorn for scorn i'm paid the pow'rs thus let me know What 'tis to sighs and pine for love since I unmoved cou'd see Beauty's with tears & their tender fears kind Virgins sighs for me . FINIS . Printed for J. Clark , W. Thackery and T. Passenger . THE Deceiver deceived : Or , The Virgins Revenge . Those that in Loves wide Grove delight to range , And please themselves with pretty charming change , Delight to triumph o're the softest spoils Of yielding Beauty , seldom escape the toils , For Love to take them has a thousand wiles . Tune of , Ah cruel bloody fate ! This may be printed , R . LS . Man. AH cruel Maid give over to punish him with scorn Who has for you in store a flame as bright as morn . Come dear be kind the Powr's of Love their Virtues misimploy'd . To make with such care , a Creature so fair if not to be enjoy'd . Maid . Tell me no more ; in vain will all your Courtship prove I smile to hear you feign a false pretended love : What Grave is free from broken vows ; to yielding Virgins made whom you let languish in their anguish when to Love betray'd . Man. It's true some gentle hours I trifl'd in their arms Yet no sweet face but yours cou'd make me own its Charms The feeble Beauty's they displayed each moment seem'd to wast But your's my delight , is so dazzling bright it must for ever last , Maid . So flatter'd your smooth Tongue so were your looks addressed , Such smiles about you hung such liking you expressed ; To those whose senseless hearts you gained those now that mourn their fate In being undone , by trusting too soon though sighs are breath'd too late . Man. Thats their own fault , in haste to entertain a flame , Which in their cheeks cou'd blast Th' Lilies and Rose's stain : Disarm them of those killing beams which in your eyes appear Those eyes which are bright , those eyes by whose light my course , love bids me steer . Maid . In vain you try my heart no Conquest there you'l gain , Too feeble is your art to make me suffer pain , You seek a triumph there in vain no Trophy you shall boast But in what so fain you wou'd now obtain you shall be ever crossed . Man. Such cruelty can't live within so fair a breast A milder sentence give to me with love oppressed , Oh to a flame that burns like mine some speedy Cordial ply Or he that till now , Love never made bow for love of you must die . Maid . No more of love to me though you in earnest were As deaf as Seas I'de be , for love i'de give despair Revenge the wrongs the softer sex sustain by your false wiles Revenge false man , the Nymph that's undone by your deluding smiles . Man. Just is your doom bright maid just the disdain you show With scorn for scorn i'm paid the pow'rs thus let me know What 'tis to sighs and pine for love since I unmoved cou'd see Beauty's with tears & their tender fears kind Virgins sighs for me . FINIS . Printed for J. Clark , W. Thackery and T. Passenger . 