The Judgement of God showed upon one John Faustus Doctor in Divinity . Tune Fortune my Foe . ALL Christian men give ear a while to me , How I am plung'd in pain but cannot die , I liv'd a life the like did none before , Forsaking Christ , and I am damn'd therefore . At Wittenburge a Town in Germany , There was I born and bred of good degree , Of honest Stock which afterwards I sham'd , Accursed therefore for Faustus was I nam'd . In learning lo my Uncle brought up me , And made me Doctor in Divinity : And when he dy'd he left me all his wealth , Whose cursed Gold did hinder my Souls health . Then did I shun the holy Bible book , Nor on Gods word would ever after look , But studied accursed Conjuration , Which was the cause of my utter damnation . The Devil in Friars weeds appear'd to me , And straight to my request he did agree , That I might have all things at my desire , I gave him soul and body for his hire . Twice did I make my tender flesh to bleed , Twice with my blood I wrote the Devil [ a ] deed , Twice wretchedly I Soul and Body sold , To live in peace and do what things I would . For four & twenty years this Bound was made , And at the length my soul was truly paid , Time ran away and yet I never thought , How dear my soul our Saviour Christ had bought . Would I had first been made a beast by kind , Then had not I so vainly set my mind ; Or would when reason first began to bloom , Some darksome Den had been my deadly tomb . Woe to the day of my Nativity , Woe to the time that once did Foster me , And woe unto the hand that seal'd the bill , Woe to myself the cause of all my ill . THe time I passed away with much delight 'Mongst princes , peers , & many a worthy Knight I wrought such wonders by my magic skill That all the world may talk of Faustus still . The Devil he carried me up into the Sky , Where I did see how all the world did lie I went about the world in eight days space , And then return'd unto my Native place . What pleasure I did wish to please my mind , He did perform as Bound and Seal did bind : The secrets of the stars and planets told , Of earth and sea , with wonders manifold . When four and twenty years was almost run , I thought of all things that was past and done , How that the Devil would come & claim his right And carry me to everlasting night . Then all too late I cursed my Wicked Deed , The Deed whereof does make my heart to bleed , All days and hours I mourned wondrous soar , Repenting me of all things done before , I then did wish both Sun and Moon to stay All times and sasons , never to decay , Then had my time ne'r come to dated end , Nor soul and body down to Hell descend . At last when I had but one hour to come , I turn'd my glass for my last hour to run , And call'd in learned men to comfort me , But faith was gone and none could comfort me . By twelve a Clock my glass was almost out My grieved conscience then began to doubt , I wished the Students stay in chamber by , But as they stayed they herd a worser [ r ] eadful cry . Then presently they came into the Hall , Whereas my brains was cast against the wall , Both arms and legs in pieces torn they see , My bowels gone this was and end of me . You Conjurors and damned Witches all , Example take by my unhappy fallen : Give not your Souls and Bodies unto Hell , See that the smallest hair you do not fell . But hope that Christ his Kingdom you may gain Where you shall never fear such mortal pain : Forsake the Devil and all his crafty ways , Embrace true Faith that never more decays . Printed for A.M. W.O. and Tho. Thackeray at the Angel in Duck-Lane . The Judgement of God showed upon one John Faustus Doctor in Divinity . Tune Fortune my Foe . ALL Christian men give ear a while to me , How I am plung'd in pain but cannot die , I liv'd a life the like did none before , Forsaking Christ , and I am damn'd therefore . At Wittenburge a Town in Germany , There was I born and bred of good degree , Of honest Stock which afterwards I sham'd , Accursed therefore for Faustus was I nam'd . In learning lo my Uncle brought up me , And made me Doctor in Divinity : And when he dy'd he left me all his wealth , Whose cursed Gold did hinder my Souls health . Then did I shun the holy Bible book , Nor on Gods word would ever after look , But studied accursed Conjuration , Which was the cause of my utter damnation . The Devil in Friars weeds appear'd to me , And straight to my request he did agree , That I might have all things at my desire , I gave him soul and body for his hire . Twice did I make my tender flesh to bleed , Twice with my blood I wrote the Devil [ a ] deed , Twice wretchedly I Soul and Body sold , To live in peace and do what things I would . For four & twenty years this Bound was made , And at the length my soul was truly paid , Time ran away and yet I never thought , How dear my soul our Saviour Christ had bought . Would I had first been made a beast by kind , Then had not I so vainly set my mind ; Or would when reason first began to bloom , Some darksome Den had been my deadly tomb . Woe to the day of my Nativity , Woe to the time that once did Foster me , And woe unto the hand that seal'd the bill , Woe to myself the cause of all my ill . THe time I passed away with much delight 'Mongst princes , peers , & many a worthy Knight I wrought such wonders by my magic skill That all the world may talk of Faustus still . The Devil he carried me up into the Sky , Where I did see how all the world did lie I went about the world in eight days space , And then return'd unto my Native place . What pleasure I did wish to please my mind , He did perform as Bound and Seal did bind : The secrets of the stars and planets told , Of earth and sea , with wonders manifold . When four and twenty years was almost run , I thought of all things that was past and done , How that the Devil would come & claim his right And carry me to everlasting night . Then all too late I cursed my Wicked Deed , The Deed whereof does make my heart to bleed , All days and hours I mourned wondrous soar , Repenting me of all things done before , I then did wish both Sun and Moon to stay All times and sasons , never to decay , Then had my time ne'r come to dated end , Nor soul and body down to Hell descend . At last when I had but one hour to come , I turn'd my glass for my last hour to run , And call'd in learned men to comfort me , But faith was gone and none could comfort me . By twelve a Clock my glass was almost out My grieved conscience then began to doubt , I wished the Students stay in chamber by , But as they stayed they herd a worser [ r ] eadful cry . Then presently they came into the Hall , Whereas my brains was cast against the wall , Both arms and legs in pieces torn they see , My bowels gone this was and end of me . You Conjurors and damned Witches all , Example take by my unhappy fallen : Give not your Souls and Bodies unto Hell , See that the smallest hair you do not fell . But hope that Christ his Kingdom you may gain Where you shall never fear such mortal pain : Forsake the Devil and all his crafty ways , Embrace true Faith that never more decays . Printed for A.M. W.O. and Tho. Thackeray at the Angel in Duck-Lane . 