The STATES-MAN'S Last Will and Testament ; OR , His worthy Legacies left to his beloved Cronies , for whom he had a particular kindness . Tune of , Oh rare Popery . ALas ! I am taken most monstrous ill , Sweet Writer bring hither your Paper and Quill , For here I am ready to make my last Will , And leave my Legacies , delicate Legacies , Chancellors Legacies , O. My wondered portions I here will divide , According as Merit my reason shall guide , Let Lucifer have my invincible Pride , Sing Oh brave Legacy , etc My Covetous heart now as bitter as Gall , I leave to old Misers in hope's that they shall , Like me get in Gold here the Devil and all , Sing Oh rare Legacies , etc My small Guts let honest Musicianers take , That they of the same may Fiddle strings make , And then scrape my Guts till their very hearts ache , Sing Oh brave Legacy , Chancellors Legacy , A delicate Legacy , O. And as for my Nose I will leave that alone , To my dearest Friend that makes pitiful moan , Because he has never a Nose of his own , Sing Oh rare Legacy , etc My unruly Tongue which run at that rate , And bantered men out of their reason of late , I leave it to Fish Women at Billingsgate , Sing Oh rare Legacy , etc My Brains I bequeathe but I know not to who , But hold , I remember the Jesuit Crew , They'll serve them for plotting more mischief to do ; Sing Oh rare Legacy , etc My old empty Skull to the Pope now shall go , In token of Favours which he did bestow , 'Twill make him a lusty large Punch Bowl I know , since Oh rare Legacy , etc My honoured Reverend Father the Pope , He sent his sweet Son here a sanctified Rope , But I have no need of the same now I hope , I'll leave that Legacy , delicate Legacy , to one of the Jesuit Crew . My lusty large Conscience which Bribes did receive , To some Corrupt Lawyer I freely do leave , That honest Men he may of Living bereave , A worthy Legacy , etc My Body I into the West do return , It will make the Wives there a good butter Churm , Thus for my bad deeds I may do one good turn , Sing Oh rare Legacy , etc Now sign it and seal it according to Law , The Major shall ne'er keep the Minor in awe , Nor wrong them so much as the weight of a straw , Of these my Legacies , Chancellors Legacies , delicate Legacies , O. FINIS . Printed in the Year , 1689. The STATES-MAN'S Last Will and Testament ; OR , His worthy Legacies left to his beloved Cronies , for whom he had a particular kindness . Tune of , Oh rare Popery . ALas ! I am taken most monstrous ill , Sweet Writer bring hither your Paper and Quill , For here I am ready to make my last Will , And leave my Legacies , delicate Legacies , Chancellors Legacies , O. My wondered portions I here will divide , According as Merit my reason shall guide , Let Lucifer have my invincible Pride , Sing Oh brave Legacy , etc My Covetous heart now as bitter as Gall , I leave to old Misers in hope's that they shall , Like me get in Gold here the Devil and all , Sing Oh rare Legacies , etc My small Guts let honest Musicianers take , That they of the same may Fiddle strings make , And then scrape my Guts till their very hearts ache , Sing Oh brave Legacy , Chancellors Legacy , A delicate Legacy , O. And as for my Nose I will leave that alone , To my dearest Friend that makes pitiful moan , Because he has never a Nose of his own , Sing Oh rare Legacy , etc My unruly Tongue which run at that rate , And bantered men out of their reason of late , I leave it to Fish Women at Billingsgate , Sing Oh rare Legacy , etc My Brains I bequeathe but I know not to who , But hold , I remember the Jesuit Crew , They'll serve them for plotting more mischief to do ; Sing Oh rare Legacy , etc My old empty Skull to the Pope now shall go , In token of Favours which he did bestow , 'Twill make him a lusty large Punch Bowl I know , since Oh rare Legacy , etc My honoured Reverend Father the Pope , He sent his sweet Son here a sanctified Rope , But I have no need of the same now I hope , I'll leave that Legacy , delicate Legacy , to one of the Jesuit Crew . My lusty large Conscience which Bribes did receive , To some Corrupt Lawyer I freely do leave , That honest Men he may of Living bereave , A worthy Legacy , etc My Body I into the West do return , It will make the Wives there a good butter Churm , Thus for my bad deeds I may do one good turn , Sing Oh rare Legacy , etc Now sign it and seal it according to Law , The Major shall ne'er keep the Minor in awe , Nor wrong them so much as the weight of a straw , Of these my Legacies , Chancellors Legacies , delicate Legacies , O. FINIS . Printed in the Year , 1689. 