Beautiful NANCY : OR , The Witty Lass of London , who by her withstanding the powerful Temptations , was lawfully married , and be - came and Alderman's Lady . To the Tune of The Gentleman's Frolic . Licensed according to Order . AND Alderman liv'd in a City , who kept a brisk beautiful Maid ; And she was so wonderful witty , her Cards she had cunningly played . For she hath advanced her Glory , and a happy Life she does led : If you will attend to the Story , you'll find it most pleasant indeed . Her Master one Morning came to her , and toyingly tickled her Knees , He for his found pleasures did woo her ; Old Rats I must tell you love Cheese . Said he , my sweet pretty fac'd Nancy , o , let me enjoy my delight , I have a desire and fancy to lie by my Jewel all Night . Kind Sir , I do strange and admire , that you who are aged and grey , Should have such and itching desire to tempt the young Lasses astray . Sweet Nancy thy amorous Beauty , has set my whole Heart in a flame ; And tho' I am old thou shalt find me a delicate Cock of the Game . Beside I'll endow thee with Treasure , as good as a Hundred a-year , For being my Lady of Pleasure ; yet no one shall know it my Dear . Nay Master you seek my undoing , who am a young innocent Maid , And were you to bring me to ruin , o , then you'd abuse me , she said . Should I lay a Child to my Master , in scorn and derision you'll cry , If you the young Infant must foster ; I then in a Prison should lie . I solemnly swear my sweet Jewel , her Master he then did reply , I wou'd not be counted so cruel , o , no my sweet Creature not I . Believe me this day my sweet Honey if such a thing happen to be ; I'll furnish thee streightways with Money , and likewise a Lodging for thee . I'll say thou art gone to thy Mother , who lives in Gloucestershire ; Thus we ehe whole matter may smother , and no one shall know it my Dear . Said she , I'll not trust you nor try you , nor never a Man above Ground , One Night in your Bed to lie by you , no not for Five Hundred pound . Your proffers can be no Temptation , to me that am honest and chaste ; There's never a Man in this Nation , shall bring me to shame and disgrace . He found she would not be be dluded , therefore he would tempt her no more ; A Marriage was streightways concluded , her beauty he did so adore . Her sumptuous Apparel made ready , in Glory she straight did appear , The Alderman's Beautiful Lady . endow'd with Three Thousand a-year . She lives now in Triumph and Splendour , nay likewise has pleasure at will , For Honesty , Lasses , commend her ; it is the best Policy still . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . Beautiful NANCY : OR , The Witty Lass of London , who by her withstanding the powerful Temptations , was lawfully married , and be - came and Alderman's Lady . To the Tune of The Gentleman's Frolic . Licensed according to Order . AND Alderman liv'd in a City , who kept a brisk beautiful Maid ; And she was so wonderful witty , her Cards she had cunningly played . For she hath advanced her Glory , and a happy Life she does led : If you will attend to the Story , you'll find it most pleasant indeed . Her Master one Morning came to her , and toyingly tickled her Knees , He for his found pleasures did woo her ; Old Rats I must tell you love Cheese . Said he , my sweet pretty fac'd Nancy , o , let me enjoy my delight , I have a desire and fancy to lie by my Jewel all Night . Kind Sir , I do strange and admire , that you who are aged and grey , Should have such and itching desire to tempt the young Lasses astray . Sweet Nancy thy amorous Beauty , has set my whole Heart in a flame ; And tho' I am old thou shalt find me a delicate Cock of the Game . Beside I'll endow thee with Treasure , as good as a Hundred a-year , For being my Lady of Pleasure ; yet no one shall know it my Dear . Nay Master you seek my undoing , who am a young innocent Maid , And were you to bring me to ruin , o , then you'd abuse me , she said . Should I lay a Child to my Master , in scorn and derision you'll cry , If you the young Infant must foster ; I then in a Prison should lie . I solemnly swear my sweet Jewel , her Master he then did reply , I wou'd not be counted so cruel , o , no my sweet Creature not I . Believe me this day my sweet Honey if such a thing happen to be ; I'll furnish thee streightways with Money , and likewise a Lodging for thee . I'll say thou art gone to thy Mother , who lives in Gloucestershire ; Thus we ehe whole matter may smother , and no one shall know it my Dear . Said she , I'll not trust you nor try you , nor never a Man above Ground , One Night in your Bed to lie by you , no not for Five Hundred pound . Your proffers can be no Temptation , to me that am honest and chaste ; There's never a Man in this Nation , shall bring me to shame and disgrace . He found she would not be be dluded , therefore he would tempt her no more ; A Marriage was streightways concluded , her beauty he did so adore . Her sumptuous Apparel made ready , in Glory she straight did appear , The Alderman's Beautiful Lady . endow'd with Three Thousand a-year . She lives now in Triumph and Splendour , nay likewise has pleasure at will , For Honesty , Lasses , commend her ; it is the best Policy still . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 