FOUR-LEGG'D ELDER , OR , A true RELATION OF A DOG and and ELDER'S Maid . To the Tune of The Lady's Fallen , or Gather your Rosebuds ; and Fourty other Tunes . 1. ALl Christians and Lay-Elders too , For shame amend your Lives ; I'll tell you of a Dogtrick now , Which much concerns your Wives . And Elder's Maid near Temple-bar , ( Oh what a Quean was she ! ) Did take and ugly Mastive Cur Where Christians use to be . Help House of Commons , House of Peers ! O now or never help ! Th' Assembly having sat four years Has now brought forth a Whelp . 2. One evening late she stepp'd aside , Pretending to fetch Eggs ; And there she made herself a Bride To one that had four legs . Her Master herd a Rumblement , And wondered she did tarry , Not dreaming , without his consent , His Dog would ever marry . 3. Her Master peep'd , but was afraid , And hastily did run To fetch a staff , to help his Maid , Not knowing what was done . He took his Ruling-Elder's Cane , And cri'd out , Help , help here ! For Swash our Mastiff and poor Jane Are now Fight Dog fight Bear . 4. But when he came , he was full sorry , For he perceiv'd their strife , That , according to the Directory , They two were Dog and Wife . Ah then , said he , thou cruel Quean , Why hast thou me beguil'd ? I wonder'd Swash was grown so lean ; Poor Dog ! he's almost spoil'd . 5. I thought thou hadst no carnal sense But what's in other Lasses , And couldst have quench'd thy 'cupiscence According to the Classes . But all the Parish sees it plain Since thou art in this pickle , Thou art and Independent Quean , And lov'st a Conventicle . 6. Alas ! now each Malignant Rogue Will all the world persuade That she that's Spouse unto a Dog May be and Elder's Maid : They'll jeer us if abroad we stir , Good Master Elder , stay , Sir , of what Classis is your Cur ? And then what can we say ? 7. They'll many graceless Ballads sing Of a Presbyterian , That a Lay-Elder is a thing Made up half-Dog , half-Man . Out , out , said he , and smote her down ; Was Mankind grown so scant ? There's scarce another Dog i'th' Town Had took the Covenant . 8. Then Swash began to look full grim , And Jane did thus reply , Sir , you thought nought too good for him , You fed your Dog too high : 'Tis true , he took me in the lurch And leap'd into mine Arm , But as I hope to go to Church , I did your Dog no harm . 9. Then she was led to Newgate Jail , Where she was naked stripped ; They whipped her 'till the Cord did fail , As Dogs us'd to be whipped . Poor City-Maids shed many a tear When she was lash'd and bang'd ; But had she been a Cavalier Surely she had been hang'd . 10. Her's was but Fornication found , For which she felt the lash ; But his was Buggery presum'd , Therefore they hanged Swash . What will become of Bishops then Or Independency ? For now we find both Dogs and Men Stand for Presbytery . 11. She might have took a Sowgelder , With Synod-men good store ; But she would have a Lay-Elder With two legs and two more . Go tell th' Assembly of Divines , Tell Adoniram blue , Tell Burgess , Marshal , Case , and Vines , Tell Now-and-anon-too . 12. Some say she was a Scottish Girl , Or else , at least a Witch ; But she was born in Colchester : Was ever such a Bitch ! Take heed , all Christian Virgins now , The Dog-star now prevails ; Ladies , beware your Monkeys too , For Monkeys have long tails . 13. Bless King and Queen , and send us Peace As we had seven years since : For we remember no Dog-days While we enjoy'd our Prince . Bless sweet Prince Charles , two Dukes , three Girls ; Lord save his Majesty ! Grant that his Commons , Bishops , Earls , May led such lives as He. Help House of Commons , House of Peers ! O now or never help ! Th' Assembly having sat four years Has now brought forth a whelp . Printed in the year 1647. And Reprinted 1677. for D. Mallet . FOUR-LEGG'D ELDER , OR , A true RELATION OF A DOG and and ELDER'S Maid . To the Tune of The Lady's Fallen , or Gather your Rosebuds ; and Fourty other Tunes . 1. ALl Christians and Lay-Elders too , For shame amend your Lives ; I'll tell you of a Dogtrick now , Which much concerns your Wives . And Elder's Maid near Temple-bar , ( Oh what a Quean was she ! ) Did take and ugly Mastive Cur Where Christians use to be . Help House of Commons , House of Peers ! O now or never help ! Th' Assembly having sat four years Has now brought forth a Whelp . 2. One evening late she stepp'd aside , Pretending to fetch Eggs ; And there she made herself a Bride To one that had four legs . Her Master herd a Rumblement , And wondered she did tarry , Not dreaming , without his consent , His Dog would ever marry . 3. Her Master peep'd , but was afraid , And hastily did run To fetch a staff , to help his Maid , Not knowing what was done . He took his Ruling-Elder's Cane , And cri'd out , Help , help here ! For Swash our Mastiff and poor Jane Are now Fight Dog fight Bear . 4. But when he came , he was full sorry , For he perceiv'd their strife , That , according to the Directory , They two were Dog and Wife . Ah then , said he , thou cruel Quean , Why hast thou me beguil'd ? I wonder'd Swash was grown so lean ; Poor Dog ! he's almost spoil'd . 5. I thought thou hadst no carnal sense But what's in other Lasses , And couldst have quench'd thy 'cupiscence According to the Classes . But all the Parish sees it plain Since thou art in this pickle , Thou art and Independent Quean , And lov'st a Conventicle . 6. Alas ! now each Malignant Rogue Will all the world persuade That she that's Spouse unto a Dog May be and Elder's Maid : They'll jeer us if abroad we stir , Good Master Elder , stay , Sir , of what Classis is your Cur ? And then what can we say ? 7. They'll many graceless Ballads sing Of a Presbyterian , That a Lay-Elder is a thing Made up half-Dog , half-Man . Out , out , said he , and smote her down ; Was Mankind grown so scant ? There's scarce another Dog i'th' Town Had took the Covenant . 8. Then Swash began to look full grim , And Jane did thus reply , Sir , you thought nought too good for him , You fed your Dog too high : 'Tis true , he took me in the lurch And leap'd into mine Arm , But as I hope to go to Church , I did your Dog no harm . 9. Then she was led to Newgate Jail , Where she was naked stripped ; They whipped her 'till the Cord did fail , As Dogs us'd to be whipped . Poor City-Maids shed many a tear When she was lash'd and bang'd ; But had she been a Cavalier Surely she had been hang'd . 10. Her's was but Fornication found , For which she felt the lash ; But his was Buggery presum'd , Therefore they hanged Swash . What will become of Bishops then Or Independency ? For now we find both Dogs and Men Stand for Presbytery . 11. She might have took a Sowgelder , With Synod-men good store ; But she would have a Lay-Elder With two legs and two more . Go tell th' Assembly of Divines , Tell Adoniram blue , Tell Burgess , Marshal , Case , and Vines , Tell Now-and-anon-too . 12. Some say she was a Scottish Girl , Or else , at least a Witch ; But she was born in Colchester : Was ever such a Bitch ! Take heed , all Christian Virgins now , The Dog-star now prevails ; Ladies , beware your Monkeys too , For Monkeys have long tails . 13. Bless King and Queen , and send us Peace As we had seven years since : For we remember no Dog-days While we enjoy'd our Prince . Bless sweet Prince Charles , two Dukes , three Girls ; Lord save his Majesty ! Grant that his Commons , Bishops , Earls , May led such lives as He. Help House of Commons , House of Peers ! O now or never help ! Th' Assembly having sat four years Has now brought forth a whelp . Printed in the year 1647. And Reprinted 1677. for D. Mallet . 