The Politic youngman , Or , the Nimble-Pated Youngsters Forgeries . He spied a Maiden which well he did like , He sought on her Anvil with's hammer to strike . He tells her fine stories but all's counterfeit , But he cannot catch her fast hold in his Net . With diligent speeches he does her implore , To come to his Chamber and bar up the door . To a pleasant new Tune , Or , come away to my Chamber and bar up the door . ALl hail thou Venus bright or darling to that Queen , for thou art the Goddess which I will adore , I like the God of war , have a stout Champion been , I'le lay down mine Arms and humbly implore . That we in conjunction together may join , While Mars is with Luna and Venus in Trine , Let us two devoutly our middles combine . Come away to my Chamber and bar up the door . Mars which does scorn to yield unto the proudest Foe , resigns to Venus at one comely smile , Casting his Lance away his Armour off did throw , for why this bright Goddess did him soon beguile . They both did encounter not meaning to kill , Be thou such a Goddess and yield to my will , And I in all kindness will show my best skill . Come away , etc I summon for thy Fort , let me possession take , resist not a soldier thou fair Paragon , lest Cupid strike thy heart after I thee forsake . O what will betide you his dart you can't shun . Consider fair Maiden and be not so stout , To keep a brave Soldier so wilfully out , Thy quarters fair Lady let me range about , Come away , etc I am a Trooper come take a melting kiss . the fit is come on me thy corpse to embrace , Fain I would prance about and use true Lovers bliss , Oh be not so bashful to hide thy fair face . Thou hast a fine circuit , come let me ride round , Thou shalt be my Dear , Love , and I'll be thy hound Let's use mirth and pleasure while joy does abound . Come away , etc Thou hast a Fountain pure , Oh let me dive in there , grant me my desire and I'le ask no more , Like to a Frigate I in that road will steer , I'le show you such pastime you ne'r saw before . I'le wash me and dabble until I am cloyed , Such pastimes I tell you I cannot avoid , In Lovers embraces let us be imploy'd , Come away , etc I a Musician am upon thy Cytern fair . I'le use a handsome quill thy heart to cheer . I know 'twill ravish thee the Music is so rare , such a sweet harmony you ne'r did hear . I'le play one fine Lesson but will not delay , Come hither thou fair one , and steal not away . Nor make no excusements from me for to stray . Come away , etc I'le be thy Keeper Love to hunt within thy Park , the dear shall be chased within too and from , I'le take my silver shaft , and hit thy golden mark , I'le sport there and hunt there why dost thou say no ? True courage and valour remains in my breast I'le place my sharp spear Love in thy Iron crest . But will not once hurt thee yet thou must be pressed Come away , etc I'le be your Gardener Love to dig , and flowers set within that pleasant bed which you do keep , I'le plant in all rare slips that I can give or get I'm coming my dearest in thy arms to sleep . Why dost thou start backwards and scoul with thy eyes I'le hug thee and kiss thee if that won't suffice , I like a stout Champion will soon win the prize . Come away to my Chamber and bar up the door . FINIS . London , printed for Charls Tyus at the three Bibles on London-Bridge . The Politic youngman , Or , the Nimble-Pated Youngsters Forgeries . He spied a Maiden which well he did like , He sought on her Anvil with's hammer to strike . He tells her fine stories but all's counterfeit , But he cannot catch her fast hold in his Net . With diligent speeches he does her implore , To come to his Chamber and bar up the door . To a pleasant new Tune , Or , come away to my Chamber and bar up the door . ALl hail thou Venus bright or darling to that Queen , for thou art the Goddess which I will adore , I like the God of war , have a stout Champion been , I'le lay down mine Arms and humbly implore . That we in conjunction together may join , While Mars is with Luna and Venus in Trine , Let us two devoutly our middles combine . Come away to my Chamber and bar up the door . Mars which does scorn to yield unto the proudest Foe , resigns to Venus at one comely smile , Casting his Lance away his Armour off did throw , for why this bright Goddess did him soon beguile . They both did encounter not meaning to kill , Be thou such a Goddess and yield to my will , And I in all kindness will show my best skill . Come away , etc I summon for thy Fort , let me possession take , resist not a soldier thou fair Paragon , lest Cupid strike thy heart after I thee forsake . O what will betide you his dart you can't shun . Consider fair Maiden and be not so stout , To keep a brave Soldier so wilfully out , Thy quarters fair Lady let me range about , Come away , etc I am a Trooper come take a melting kiss . the fit is come on me thy corpse to embrace , Fain I would prance about and use true Lovers bliss , Oh be not so bashful to hide thy fair face . Thou hast a fine circuit , come let me ride round , Thou shalt be my Dear , Love , and I'll be thy hound Let's use mirth and pleasure while joy does abound . Come away , etc Thou hast a Fountain pure , Oh let me dive in there , grant me my desire and I'le ask no more , Like to a Frigate I in that road will steer , I'le show you such pastime you ne'r saw before . I'le wash me and dabble until I am cloyed , Such pastimes I tell you I cannot avoid , In Lovers embraces let us be imploy'd , Come away , etc I a Musician am upon thy Cytern fair . I'le use a handsome quill thy heart to cheer . I know 'twill ravish thee the Music is so rare , such a sweet harmony you ne'r did hear . I'le play one fine Lesson but will not delay , Come hither thou fair one , and steal not away . Nor make no excusements from me for to stray . Come away , etc I'le be thy Keeper Love to hunt within thy Park , the dear shall be chased within too and from , I'le take my silver shaft , and hit thy golden mark , I'le sport there and hunt there why dost thou say no ? True courage and valour remains in my breast I'le place my sharp spear Love in thy Iron crest . But will not once hurt thee yet thou must be pressed Come away , etc I'le be your Gardener Love to dig , and flowers set within that pleasant bed which you do keep , I'le plant in all rare slips that I can give or get I'm coming my dearest in thy arms to sleep . Why dost thou start backwards and scoul with thy eyes I'le hug thee and kiss thee if that won't suffice , I like a stout Champion will soon win the prize . Come away to my Chamber and bar up the door . FINIS . London , printed for Charls Tyus at the three Bibles on London-Bridge . 