Rebellions Antidote : OR A DIALOGUE Between COFFEE and TEA . Tea . ALL hail kind Friend sweet Balsom of our Age , What mean'st thou by such tragic Equipage ? Coff . Welcome dear Sister , Basis of my Life , Better than Goodness , dearer than a Wife ; Forbear inquiring , lest thou force to rise Tears to a Deluge from my doleful Eyes , Such are my Plaints , and such my cruel Fate Tongue can't express their too to Ridged State . Tea . A Curse all Curses else below On those who do produce thy Woe ; Death , Hell and Vengeance on him fallen Who makes thy Fate so Tragical . Coffee . Merit on Merit , lo now I see A Life thou mayest command of me , Command thy Pleasure , I'll not Decline , Thy Goodness has oblieg'd me thine ; And since as Dido thou command'st my Grief , I'll with AEneas sum up all in Brief . Tea . All that I beg is but the Reason What makes thy Visage out of Season . Coffee . The Rage and Madness of the Nation Moves both my Heart and eke Compassion , Unto that height I cannot Force My Horror to a mean Divorce , Since all the World does now rely On Madness and Debauchery , Lewd and Distract to such a Strain As if invoking back again . Grim Chaos of accursed Confusion , The product of our grand Delusion . Tea . Truth without Error needs no Oath , All thou hast said is Naked Truth ; Thus far th' art gone , but prithee tell , What 'tis occasions Death and Hell ? Whence springs our Dolour , what's the source That Operates this Hellish Curse . Coffee . 'Tis Wine and Ale and eke the Grape Has spawn'd this spurious bestial Rape ; What is't but these produce , what horrid Fact But Wine and Ale and Beer will act ; Death Hell and Judgement Hand in Hand With them and theirs do always stand ; Rapes , Murders , Thefts , and thousand Crimes Are gender'd by foul Ale and Wines ; These are but Trifles to the Woe That Wine and Ale , and Beer can do ; From whence unless from these do daily spring Rebellion , Treason , and Sham-ploting since ; These Storm the Fort and let the Devil in . Judge you th' Effect where Satan Rules as Chief , 'Tis then too late to cry stop Thief , stop Thief . Tea . In these Extremes there's but one way I find , My Life for yours and that will Undermine The Devil himself , and give you all a Laughter , T' expel his Vengeance by and holy Water , Allay the Billows of the flowing Rout , One Dish of Twist will force the Devil out . Coffee . Tho' hast hit the Pin , and Twist's the Sovereig [ n ] Por [ cion ] To turn the Tide , reverse the Alewives Ocean , Disgorge , God , Bacchus , and prepare a Stage Once more to entertain a Golden Age . Tea . Thanks noble Sir for this Relation In order to Retaliation , I'll force my Muse to such and height I'll thy deserv'd Acrostic Write . Come frantic Fools leave off your Drunken fits , Obsequiens be and i'll recall your Wits , From perfect Madness to a modest Strain , For Farthings four I'll fetch you back again . Enable all your mean with tricks of State , Enter and Sip and then attend your Fate ; Come Drunk or Sober for a gentle Fee , Come ne'r so Mad i'll your Physician be . J , C , B. A B. This may be Printed , R.L.S. 1 [ 685 ] LONDON , Printed by George Croom , at the Sign of the Blue-B [ all in ] Thames-street , over against Baynard's-Castle 1685 [ . ] Rebellions Antidote : OR A DIALOGUE Between COFFEE and TEA . Tea . ALL hail kind Friend sweet Balsom of our Age , What mean'st thou by such tragic Equipage ? Coff . Welcome dear Sister , Basis of my Life , Better than Goodness , dearer than a Wife ; Forbear inquiring , lest thou force to rise Tears to a Deluge from my doleful Eyes , Such are my Plaints , and such my cruel Fate Tongue can't express their too to Ridged State . Tea . A Curse all Curses else below On those who do produce thy Woe ; Death , Hell and Vengeance on him fallen Who makes thy Fate so Tragical . Coffee . Merit on Merit , lo now I see A Life thou mayest command of me , Command thy Pleasure , I'll not Decline , Thy Goodness has oblieg'd me thine ; And since as Dido thou command'st my Grief , I'll with AEneas sum up all in Brief . Tea . All that I beg is but the Reason What makes thy Visage out of Season . Coffee . The Rage and Madness of the Nation Moves both my Heart and eke Compassion , Unto that height I cannot Force My Horror to a mean Divorce , Since all the World does now rely On Madness and Debauchery , Lewd and Distract to such a Strain As if invoking back again . Grim Chaos of accursed Confusion , The product of our grand Delusion . Tea . Truth without Error needs no Oath , All thou hast said is Naked Truth ; Thus far th' art gone , but prithee tell , What 'tis occasions Death and Hell ? Whence springs our Dolour , what's the source That Operates this Hellish Curse . Coffee . 'Tis Wine and Ale and eke the Grape Has spawn'd this spurious bestial Rape ; What is't but these produce , what horrid Fact But Wine and Ale and Beer will act ; Death Hell and Judgement Hand in Hand With them and theirs do always stand ; Rapes , Murders , Thefts , and thousand Crimes Are gender'd by foul Ale and Wines ; These are but Trifles to the Woe That Wine and Ale , and Beer can do ; From whence unless from these do daily spring Rebellion , Treason , and Sham-ploting since ; These Storm the Fort and let the Devil in . Judge you th' Effect where Satan Rules as Chief , 'Tis then too late to cry stop Thief , stop Thief . Tea . In these Extremes there's but one way I find , My Life for yours and that will Undermine The Devil himself , and give you all a Laughter , T' expel his Vengeance by and holy Water , Allay the Billows of the flowing Rout , One Dish of Twist will force the Devil out . Coffee . Tho' hast hit the Pin , and Twist's the Sovereig [ n ] Por [ cion ] To turn the Tide , reverse the Alewives Ocean , Disgorge , God , Bacchus , and prepare a Stage Once more to entertain a Golden Age . Tea . Thanks noble Sir for this Relation In order to Retaliation , I'll force my Muse to such and height I'll thy deserv'd Acrostic Write . Come frantic Fools leave off your Drunken fits , Obsequiens be and i'll recall your Wits , From perfect Madness to a modest Strain , For Farthings four I'll fetch you back again . Enable all your mean with tricks of State , Enter and Sip and then attend your Fate ; Come Drunk or Sober for a gentle Fee , Come ne'r so Mad i'll your Physician be . J , C , B. A B. This may be Printed , R.L.S. 1 [ 685 ] LONDON , Printed by George Croom , at the Sign of the Blue-B [ all in ] Thames-street , over against Baynard's-Castle 1685 [ . ] 