The FOX-CHACE or the Huntsman's Harmony , by the Noble Duke of Buckingham's Hounds , etc ALL in a Morning fair , As I road to take the Air , I herd some to hollow most clearly s I drew my self a near , To listen who they were . That were going a hunting so early . I saw they were some Gentlemen , Who belong'd to th' Duke of Buckingham , That were going to make their a Trial ; To run the Hounds o'th' North , Being of such Fame and Worth , England has not the like without all Denial . Then in Wreckledale Scogs , We threw off our Dogs In a Place where his lying was likely But the like ne'r was seen Since a Huntsman I have been , For no Hounds found a Fox more quickly . There was Dido and Spanker , And Younker was there , And Ruler that ne'er looks behind him , There was Rose and Bonny Lass Who were always in the Chase ; These were part o'th Hounds that did find him Mr. Tybbals cries away , Hark away hark away , With that our Foot huntsmen did hear him Tom Mossman cries God sounds Uncouple all your Hounds Or else we shall never come near him . Then Caper and Countess , And Comely were thrown off , With Famous Thumper and Crier . And several Hounds beside , Where there Stoutness there was try'd And not one in the Pack did tire . Our Hounds came in apace , And we fell into a Chase And thus we pursu'd the poor Creature , With English and French Horn We encourag'd our Hounds that Morn And our Cry it was greater and greater It could not be expressed , Which Hound run the best , For they run on a Breast altogether ; They run at such a Rate , As you have not herd of late , When they enjoy'd him i'th' Valleys together Then to the Moor he win'd Being clear against the Wind , Thinking he might have cross'd it over , But our Hounds run so hard , They make this Fox afraid , And forc'd him to turn to his Cover Up the Hills he runs along , And his Cover was full strong ; But I think he had no great Ease on't , For they run with such a Cry , That their Echoes made him fly I'll assure you our sport 'twas pleasant . Then homeward he hies And in Wreckledale he lies , Thinking the Wind it might save him , But our Hounds ran him so near , That they posted him with fear , And our Horsemen they did deceive him . For Squire Whitcliff road amain And he whipped it o're the Plain ; Mr. Watson his Horse did not Favour , They road up the highest Hills , And down the steepest Dales , Expecting his Life for their Labour . Mr. Tybbals road his part , Although this Chase was smart ; Default they were at seldom or never But every by and by To the Hounds he would cry Halloo halloo halloo altogether . Tom Messman he road short Yet he helped us in our Sport , For he came in cursing and Swearing Burr when 'twas in his Power , He cry'd out Lily Whore , Hark to Caperman now Slaughtermans near him Then to Skipland Wood he goes , Being pursu'd by his Foes , Th' Company after him did follow , And unterpage there we had , Which made our Huntsmen all glad , For we gave him many a holloo . The Sport being almost done And the Chase being almost run He thought to have cross'd the River But our Hounds being in They after him did swim , And so they destroy'd him for ever . Then Leppin took a Horn , As good as e'er was blown , Tom Mossman bid him Wind his Death then , The Country People all , Came flocking to his Fallen This was Honour enough for a French Man. So Whoo-up we then proclaim'd , God bless th' Duke of Buchingham , For our Hounds then had gain'd much Glory , This being the sixth Fox , That we kill'd above the Rocks ; And there is and End of the Story . The FOX-CHACE or the Huntsman's Harmony , by the Noble Duke of Buckingham's Hounds , etc ALL in a Morning fair , As I road to take the Air , I herd some to hollow most clearly s I drew my self a near , To listen who they were . That were going a hunting so early . I saw they were some Gentlemen , Who belong'd to th' Duke of Buckingham , That were going to make their a Trial ; To run the Hounds o'th' North , Being of such Fame and Worth , England has not the like without all Denial . Then in Wreckledale Scogs , We threw off our Dogs In a Place where his lying was likely But the like ne'r was seen Since a Huntsman I have been , For no Hounds found a Fox more quickly . There was Dido and Spanker , And Younker was there , And Ruler that ne'er looks behind him , There was Rose and Bonny Lass Who were always in the Chase ; These were part o'th Hounds that did find him Mr. Tybbals cries away , Hark away hark away , With that our Foot huntsmen did hear him Tom Mossman cries God sounds Uncouple all your Hounds Or else we shall never come near him . Then Caper and Countess , And Comely were thrown off , With Famous Thumper and Crier . And several Hounds beside , Where there Stoutness there was try'd And not one in the Pack did tire . Our Hounds came in apace , And we fell into a Chase And thus we pursu'd the poor Creature , With English and French Horn We encourag'd our Hounds that Morn And our Cry it was greater and greater It could not be expressed , Which Hound run the best , For they run on a Breast altogether ; They run at such a Rate , As you have not herd of late , When they enjoy'd him i'th' Valleys together Then to the Moor he win'd Being clear against the Wind , Thinking he might have cross'd it over , But our Hounds run so hard , They make this Fox afraid , And forc'd him to turn to his Cover Up the Hills he runs along , And his Cover was full strong ; But I think he had no great Ease on't , For they run with such a Cry , That their Echoes made him fly I'll assure you our sport 'twas pleasant . Then homeward he hies And in Wreckledale he lies , Thinking the Wind it might save him , But our Hounds ran him so near , That they posted him with fear , And our Horsemen they did deceive him . For Squire Whitcliff road amain And he whipped it o're the Plain ; Mr. Watson his Horse did not Favour , They road up the highest Hills , And down the steepest Dales , Expecting his Life for their Labour . Mr. Tybbals road his part , Although this Chase was smart ; Default they were at seldom or never But every by and by To the Hounds he would cry Halloo halloo halloo altogether . Tom Messman he road short Yet he helped us in our Sport , For he came in cursing and Swearing Burr when 'twas in his Power , He cry'd out Lily Whore , Hark to Caperman now Slaughtermans near him Then to Skipland Wood he goes , Being pursu'd by his Foes , Th' Company after him did follow , And unterpage there we had , Which made our Huntsmen all glad , For we gave him many a holloo . The Sport being almost done And the Chase being almost run He thought to have cross'd the River But our Hounds being in They after him did swim , And so they destroy'd him for ever . Then Leppin took a Horn , As good as e'er was blown , Tom Mossman bid him Wind his Death then , The Country People all , Came flocking to his Fallen This was Honour enough for a French Man. So Whoo-up we then proclaim'd , God bless th' Duke of Buchingham , For our Hounds then had gain'd much Glory , This being the sixth Fox , That we kill'd above the Rocks ; And there is and End of the Story . 