THE Young men Counselor , OR , The most deserved praise of those sweet Complexioned Damosels of the Black and Brown . The pleasant Blacks and modest Browns , their loving Husbands please ; Now if I had ten thousand pounds , I'd marry one of these . Tune of All Trades . Licensed according to Order . ALl thoughts of confusion forbear ; there's none but mere Niseys that frets , And cast away Sorrow and Care , which never was known to pay Debts : And if you a Wooing will go , and would with a good Wife be Blessed . Come hither , and here I will show what Colour is counted the best . As for the Black and the Brown , they are the cream of the Town ; For lo , here behold , they never can scold , nor give you so much as a Frown . Beware of a Lass that's too kind , whose Visage is Swarthy and Pale ; For most of that sort you will find are subject to play with their Tale , And count it a very small Crime to dally with every Mate ; Then Youngmen take warning in time , for fear you repent it too late : But as for the Black , etc Now she that is freckl'd and fair , she'll baffle thy money in pride ; Black Patches and powdered Hair , nay , wanton and lazy beside ; She'll plunder and pillage thy Purse ; all this by experience I know , Whoever is plagu'd with this Curse , he needs no more sorrow I trow . But as for the Black and the Brown , they are the cream of the Town ; For lo , here behold , etc Beware of thin Lips , and sharp Nose , whose Hair is the colour of Gold ; If ever you marry with those , you're fitted I faith with a Scold . Whenever she wants of her will then down flows her Crockadiles Tears ; But when her Top Tippit is up , she'll Ring you a Peal in your Ears ; But as for the Black , and the Brown , they are the cream of the Town ; For lo , here behold , they never can scold , nor give you so much as a frown . Now as for the Locks which are Grey , such Women are both old and tuff ; They'll hold a brisk youngster in play , and think they have never enough ; For if with a Damosel you jest , and tho' but in innocent mirth , Straight jealousy Reigns in her Breas now this is a Hell upon Earth . But as for the Black , etc The Flaxen hath not good Report , tho' many may fancy the same ; I know that most of that sort , are notable Girls of the Game : They'll Gossip and Junket about ; nay , tipple Wine , Brandy , and Beer , Spend more in a day without doubt , then ever they earn in a year . But as for the Black , etc The Sandy and Swarthy I'll swear , she has the good name of a Slut ; And you must take very good Care , or else she will poison your Gum Her Beauty will never forsake you ; you may have it always in sighed ; There's no man a Cuckold will make you , except he does doe it for spite ; But as for the Black , etc The Yellow is none of the best , they are for Contention and Strife ; That poor man is happily blessed , that hath such a one to his Wife . At night when he comes to his home , she'll call him both Cuckold and Fool , And proffer his Noddle to comb sometime with a three-legged Stool : But as for the Black , etc The Foggy I'd have you forbear , I'd never choose such for a Bride , If there was no other , I'll swear , in all the whole Nation beside . In Bed she [ ' ] ll near please thee that's flat , for there she lies all of a heap ; And she that is Foggy and Fat , is subject to fart in her sleep . [ B ] ut as for the Black , etc The Carrots I'd like to forgotten , which is the worst colour of all ; If such a one fallen to thy Lot , thy Blessing and comfort is small . All Blessings will bid thee farewell , the very first night you are Wed , Her Carrots will cast such a smell , you'll never endure her in Bed. But as for the Black , etc You Youngmen that hear me this day , and would with a loving Wife speed , Remember this Counsel I pray , and then you're happy indeed : If you mean to marry with any , pray buy this New Song , without doubt , You'll find it to be the best Penny that e'er you was known to lay out . As for the Black and the Brown , they are the cream of the Town ; For lo , here behold , they never can scold , nor give you so much as a frown . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Gilt-spur-street . THE Young men Counselor , OR , The most deserved praise of those sweet Complexioned Damosels of the Black and Brown . The pleasant Blacks and modest Browns , their loving Husbands please ; Now if I had ten thousand pounds , I'd marry one of these . Tune of All Trades . Licensed according to Order . ALl thoughts of confusion forbear ; there's none but mere Niseys that frets , And cast away Sorrow and Care , which never was known to pay Debts : And if you a Wooing will go , and would with a good Wife be Blessed . Come hither , and here I will show what Colour is counted the best . As for the Black and the Brown , they are the cream of the Town ; For lo , here behold , they never can scold , nor give you so much as a Frown . Beware of a Lass that's too kind , whose Visage is Swarthy and Pale ; For most of that sort you will find are subject to play with their Tale , And count it a very small Crime to dally with every Mate ; Then Youngmen take warning in time , for fear you repent it too late : But as for the Black , etc Now she that is freckl'd and fair , she'll baffle thy money in pride ; Black Patches and powdered Hair , nay , wanton and lazy beside ; She'll plunder and pillage thy Purse ; all this by experience I know , Whoever is plagu'd with this Curse , he needs no more sorrow I trow . But as for the Black and the Brown , they are the cream of the Town ; For lo , here behold , etc Beware of thin Lips , and sharp Nose , whose Hair is the colour of Gold ; If ever you marry with those , you're fitted I faith with a Scold . Whenever she wants of her will then down flows her Crockadiles Tears ; But when her Top Tippit is up , she'll Ring you a Peal in your Ears ; But as for the Black , and the Brown , they are the cream of the Town ; For lo , here behold , they never can scold , nor give you so much as a frown . Now as for the Locks which are Grey , such Women are both old and tuff ; They'll hold a brisk youngster in play , and think they have never enough ; For if with a Damosel you jest , and tho' but in innocent mirth , Straight jealousy Reigns in her Breas now this is a Hell upon Earth . But as for the Black , etc The Flaxen hath not good Report , tho' many may fancy the same ; I know that most of that sort , are notable Girls of the Game : They'll Gossip and Junket about ; nay , tipple Wine , Brandy , and Beer , Spend more in a day without doubt , then ever they earn in a year . But as for the Black , etc The Sandy and Swarthy I'll swear , she has the good name of a Slut ; And you must take very good Care , or else she will poison your Gum Her Beauty will never forsake you ; you may have it always in sighed ; There's no man a Cuckold will make you , except he does doe it for spite ; But as for the Black , etc The Yellow is none of the best , they are for Contention and Strife ; That poor man is happily blessed , that hath such a one to his Wife . At night when he comes to his home , she'll call him both Cuckold and Fool , And proffer his Noddle to comb sometime with a three-legged Stool : But as for the Black , etc The Foggy I'd have you forbear , I'd never choose such for a Bride , If there was no other , I'll swear , in all the whole Nation beside . In Bed she [ ' ] ll near please thee that's flat , for there she lies all of a heap ; And she that is Foggy and Fat , is subject to fart in her sleep . [ B ] ut as for the Black , etc The Carrots I'd like to forgotten , which is the worst colour of all ; If such a one fallen to thy Lot , thy Blessing and comfort is small . All Blessings will bid thee farewell , the very first night you are Wed , Her Carrots will cast such a smell , you'll never endure her in Bed. But as for the Black , etc You Youngmen that hear me this day , and would with a loving Wife speed , Remember this Counsel I pray , and then you're happy indeed : If you mean to marry with any , pray buy this New Song , without doubt , You'll find it to be the best Penny that e'er you was known to lay out . As for the Black and the Brown , they are the cream of the Town ; For lo , here behold , they never can scold , nor give you so much as a frown . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Gilt-spur-street . 