The Spanish Virgin ; Or , The Effects of Jealousy . Being a sad and lamentable story of a young and beautiful Gentlewoman , who waited on a cruel Lady , that was jealous that her Lord lay with her ; whereupon she took this revenge upon this Maid , who was innocent of any such actium . Her Lord being gone a journey , she caused her to be put into a dark dungeon , which had not been opened for many years , which was haunt - ed with great Snakes , Adders and Toads ; the Snakes immediately seized on her and kill'd her , at which sighed the Lady run mad and died , being a just reward of her cruel jealousy . To the Tune of , Chievy Chase ; Or , Aim not too high . ALL tender hearts that ache to hear , of those that suffer wrong , All you that never shed a tear , give ear unto my song . O jealousy thou art nursed in hell , Depart from hence and therein dwell . Fair Isabella's Tragedy , of this comes short by far , My Pen to write it does deny , yet I must not forbear . O jealousy , etc A cruel Lady once of Spain , who was of high degree , Did of unkindnesses complain , betwixt her Lord and she . O jealousy , etc She told her Lord he loved her not , such was her jealousy , Whose flames at length did burn so hight they to revenge did flee , O jealousy , etc A Gentlewoman that was fair , did on this Lady wait , with most brave dams she might compare , she was for love a bait . O jealousy , etc This Lady did suspect that she with her beloved Lord , Had too much familiarity , which rise to high discord , O jealousy , etc Her Gentlewoman innocent in wronging of her bed , Desir'd her to give consent she for her self might plead . O jealousy , etc This Lady being with rage possessed , her Lord from home being gone , Her fury quickly she expressed , the like was never known . O jealousy thou art nursed in hell , Depart from hence and therein dwell . SHe calls her servant presently , and bids him open wide , Her Dungeon deep this Maid should lie therein until she dy'd . O jealousy thou art nursed in hell , Depart from hence and therein dwell . And by the story it now appears , the like was never seen , This Dungeon not for many years , had ever opened been , O jealousy , etc Great Adders , Snakes , & Toads therein as afterwards was known , Long in this loathsome place had been , so monstrous they were grown . O jealousy , etc among this ravenous poisonous crew , this fair one innocent , Was cast her murderers to view , who straight did her torment . O jealousy , etc She was no sooner entered in , but there she quickly herd , The Toads to croak , and Snakes hissing then grievously she fear'd ; O jealousy , etc Then from their holes those vipers creep and fiercely her assail , Which made her sorely for to weep , and her sad doom bewail , O jealousy , etc With her fair hands she strives in vain , her body to defend , With shrieks & cries she does complain , but all was to no end : O jealousy , etc A servant harkened at the door , and herd this doleful noise : His Ladies mercy he does implore , but she'l not hear his voice . O jealousy , etc Away with sorrow he goes again , to hear those dreadful groans , He plainly hears within the Den , how she her self bemoans ; O jealousy , etc Again he to his Lady goes , and to her makes his prayers , This cruel Lady slights her woes , and kicks him down the stairs ; O jealousy , etc Then back again he does return to try if he could hear This Virgin innocent to mourn , which put him in great fear . O jealousy , etc He could not hear no noise at all , which did him soar affright , Unto his Lady he did call , at twelve a clock i'th night ; O jealousy , etc O cruel Lady now , quoth he , your ends you sure have had , Make haste for shame , come down and see , I fear the Virgins dead . O jealousy , etc She starts to hear this sudden fate , and does with Torches run . Unto the Dungeon , but o ! too late , for death his worst had done . O jealousy , etc The door was opened , where they found , the Virgin laid along , with four great snakes upon the ground , who her to death had stung . O jealousy , etc One did her legs and thighs embrace , and round her neck another , One round her waste , one on her face , all which her breath did smother ; O jealousy , etc The Snakes being from her body thrust , their bellies were so fill'd , That they with her warm blood did burst so all of them were kill'd . O jealousy , etc The wicked Lady at this sighed , first trembled , then run mad , And so she dy'd , which was her right , 'cause she no pity had ; O jealousy , etc Let me advice good people all , of jealousy to beware , It causes many a one to fallen , it is the devils snare . O jealousy , etc Printed for W. Thackeray , at the sign of the Angel in Duck-lane . The Spanish Virgin ; Or , The Effects of Jealousy . Being a sad and lamentable story of a young and beautiful Gentlewoman , who waited on a cruel Lady , that was jealous that her Lord lay with her ; whereupon she took this revenge upon this Maid , who was innocent of any such actium . Her Lord being gone a journey , she caused her to be put into a dark dungeon , which had not been opened for many years , which was haunt - ed with great Snakes , Adders and Toads ; the Snakes immediately seized on her and kill'd her , at which sighed the Lady run mad and died , being a just reward of her cruel jealousy . To the Tune of , Chievy Chase ; Or , Aim not too high . ALL tender hearts that ache to hear , of those that suffer wrong , All you that never shed a tear , give ear unto my song . O jealousy thou art nursed in hell , Depart from hence and therein dwell . Fair Isabella's Tragedy , of this comes short by far , My Pen to write it does deny , yet I must not forbear . O jealousy , etc A cruel Lady once of Spain , who was of high degree , Did of unkindnesses complain , betwixt her Lord and she . O jealousy , etc She told her Lord he loved her not , such was her jealousy , Whose flames at length did burn so hight they to revenge did flee , O jealousy , etc A Gentlewoman that was fair , did on this Lady wait , with most brave dams she might compare , she was for love a bait . O jealousy , etc This Lady did suspect that she with her beloved Lord , Had too much familiarity , which rise to high discord , O jealousy , etc Her Gentlewoman innocent in wronging of her bed , Desir'd her to give consent she for her self might plead . O jealousy , etc This Lady being with rage possessed , her Lord from home being gone , Her fury quickly she expressed , the like was never known . O jealousy thou art nursed in hell , Depart from hence and therein dwell . SHe calls her servant presently , and bids him open wide , Her Dungeon deep this Maid should lie therein until she dy'd . O jealousy thou art nursed in hell , Depart from hence and therein dwell . And by the story it now appears , the like was never seen , This Dungeon not for many years , had ever opened been , O jealousy , etc Great Adders , Snakes , & Toads therein as afterwards was known , Long in this loathsome place had been , so monstrous they were grown . O jealousy , etc among this ravenous poisonous crew , this fair one innocent , Was cast her murderers to view , who straight did her torment . O jealousy , etc She was no sooner entered in , but there she quickly herd , The Toads to croak , and Snakes hissing then grievously she fear'd ; O jealousy , etc Then from their holes those vipers creep and fiercely her assail , Which made her sorely for to weep , and her sad doom bewail , O jealousy , etc With her fair hands she strives in vain , her body to defend , With shrieks & cries she does complain , but all was to no end : O jealousy , etc A servant harkened at the door , and herd this doleful noise : His Ladies mercy he does implore , but she'l not hear his voice . O jealousy , etc Away with sorrow he goes again , to hear those dreadful groans , He plainly hears within the Den , how she her self bemoans ; O jealousy , etc Again he to his Lady goes , and to her makes his prayers , This cruel Lady slights her woes , and kicks him down the stairs ; O jealousy , etc Then back again he does return to try if he could hear This Virgin innocent to mourn , which put him in great fear . O jealousy , etc He could not hear no noise at all , which did him soar affright , Unto his Lady he did call , at twelve a clock i'th night ; O jealousy , etc O cruel Lady now , quoth he , your ends you sure have had , Make haste for shame , come down and see , I fear the Virgins dead . O jealousy , etc She starts to hear this sudden fate , and does with Torches run . Unto the Dungeon , but o ! too late , for death his worst had done . O jealousy , etc The door was opened , where they found , the Virgin laid along , with four great snakes upon the ground , who her to death had stung . O jealousy , etc One did her legs and thighs embrace , and round her neck another , One round her waste , one on her face , all which her breath did smother ; O jealousy , etc The Snakes being from her body thrust , their bellies were so fill'd , That they with her warm blood did burst so all of them were kill'd . O jealousy , etc The wicked Lady at this sighed , first trembled , then run mad , And so she dy'd , which was her right , 'cause she no pity had ; O jealousy , etc Let me advice good people all , of jealousy to beware , It causes many a one to fallen , it is the devils snare . O jealousy , etc Printed for W. Thackeray , at the sign of the Angel in Duck-lane . 