Poor Robin's Prophesy , or , The merry Conceited Fortuneteller . Although the Poet makes no large Apology Some insight he may have into Ass-trology , Then buy this Song , and give your Judgement of it , And then perhaps you'l say he's a Small Prophet , For he can tell when things will come to pass , That you will say is strange as ever was . Tune of , The Delights of the Bottle , etc With Allowance , Ro. L'Estrange . ALL you that delight for to hear a new song , Or to see the world turn'd topsy , turvy , e're long , Come give good attention unto these my Rhimes , And never complain of the hardness of times , For all will be mended , by this you may find , And Golden days come , when the Devil is blind . And first for the Shopkeeper , this I can tell , That after long trusting , all things will be well , The Gallant will pay him , whatever's his endue , And make him rejoice when he finds it is true : False weights , & false measures , he then will not mind , But honest will prove , when the Devil is blind . The Country Client that comes up to Term , Likewise from this Subject , good news he may learn , A benefit which he shall never more lose , For Lawyers hereafter will plead without Fees : You shall have Law freely , if you be inclin'd , Without any charge , when the Devil is blind . The Usurer , open his Coffers will throw , And break all his Locks , both above and below , He'l burn all his Parchments , and cancel his Bans , And freely return all his Mortgaged Lands ; Young heirs will be glad for to see them so kind , But that will not be , till the Devil is blind . The Learned Physician who valued his wealth , Will now be more chary of all peoples health , And make it his business howe're he does thrive , To pussle his brains for to keep men alive : Nor Mountebank Bills in the Streets you shall find , For they'l keep in their lies , when the Devil is blind . Your Lady of pleasure that us'd for to rant , And Coach it about with her lusty Gallant , Will then become modest , and find a new way To live like a Nun in a Cloister all day , Her Pride , and her painting , she never will mind , But seem like a Saint , when the Devil is blind . Yea the Bullies themselves that did use for to roar , And spent great estates in good wine , and a W ------ Shall leave of their gaming , and fairly take up , And scarcely will taste of the Grape half a Cup , But leave good Canary , and Claret behind , Small Tipple to Drink , when the Devil is blind . The Herks , and the Padders , who used to prey , And venture abroad for no purchase no pay , Shall work for their livings , and find a new trade , And never more travel like Knights of the Blade ; Let Newgate stand empty , and then you will find , All this will prove true , when the Devil is blind . All Tradesmen will strive for to help one another , And friendly will be , like to Brother and Brother , And keep up their prizes that money may flow , Their charge to maintain , and to pay what they owe , Then two of a trade shall agree , if you mind , And all will be well , when the Devil is blind . The Tapsters no more shall their Ticklers froth , Nor Coffee men blind us with their Ninny broth ; Full measures of liquour shall pass through the Land , And men without money the same shall command ; You'l say 'tis a wonder when this you do find , And that you will sure when the Devil is blind . Not only the City shall find this welfare , But throughout the country the same they shall share , No cheating and cozening tricks shall be us'd , For by such deceit we have all been abus'd ; Those men that of late with Duke Humphrey have din'd , With plenty shall flow , when the Devil is blind . Then let us be merry and frolic amain , Since the golden world is returning again , We shall be all Gallants as sure as a Gun , When this work is finish't that's hardly begun : Then Poets in both Pockets Guinneys shall find , And purchase estates when the Devil is blind . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke Poor Robin's Prophesy , or , The merry Conceited Fortuneteller . Although the Poet makes no large Apology Some insight he may have into Ass-trology , Then buy this Song , and give your Judgement of it , And then perhaps you'l say he's a Small Prophet , For he can tell when things will come to pass , That you will say is strange as ever was . Tune of , The Delights of the Bottle , etc With Allowance , Ro. L'Estrange . ALL you that delight for to hear a new song , Or to see the world turn'd topsy , turvy , e're long , Come give good attention unto these my Rhimes , And never complain of the hardness of times , For all will be mended , by this you may find , And Golden days come , when the Devil is blind . And first for the Shopkeeper , this I can tell , That after long trusting , all things will be well , The Gallant will pay him , whatever's his endue , And make him rejoice when he finds it is true : False weights , & false measures , he then will not mind , But honest will prove , when the Devil is blind . The Country Client that comes up to Term , Likewise from this Subject , good news he may learn , A benefit which he shall never more lose , For Lawyers hereafter will plead without Fees : You shall have Law freely , if you be inclin'd , Without any charge , when the Devil is blind . The Usurer , open his Coffers will throw , And break all his Locks , both above and below , He'l burn all his Parchments , and cancel his Bans , And freely return all his Mortgaged Lands ; Young heirs will be glad for to see them so kind , But that will not be , till the Devil is blind . The Learned Physician who valued his wealth , Will now be more chary of all peoples health , And make it his business howe're he does thrive , To pussle his brains for to keep men alive : Nor Mountebank Bills in the Streets you shall find , For they'l keep in their lies , when the Devil is blind . Your Lady of pleasure that us'd for to rant , And Coach it about with her lusty Gallant , Will then become modest , and find a new way To live like a Nun in a Cloister all day , Her Pride , and her painting , she never will mind , But seem like a Saint , when the Devil is blind . Yea the Bullies themselves that did use for to roar , And spent great estates in good wine , and a W ------ Shall leave of their gaming , and fairly take up , And scarcely will taste of the Grape half a Cup , But leave good Canary , and Claret behind , Small Tipple to Drink , when the Devil is blind . The Herks , and the Padders , who used to prey , And venture abroad for no purchase no pay , Shall work for their livings , and find a new trade , And never more travel like Knights of the Blade ; Let Newgate stand empty , and then you will find , All this will prove true , when the Devil is blind . All Tradesmen will strive for to help one another , And friendly will be , like to Brother and Brother , And keep up their prizes that money may flow , Their charge to maintain , and to pay what they owe , Then two of a trade shall agree , if you mind , And all will be well , when the Devil is blind . The Tapsters no more shall their Ticklers froth , Nor Coffee men blind us with their Ninny broth ; Full measures of liquour shall pass through the Land , And men without money the same shall command ; You'l say 'tis a wonder when this you do find , And that you will sure when the Devil is blind . Not only the City shall find this welfare , But throughout the country the same they shall share , No cheating and cozening tricks shall be us'd , For by such deceit we have all been abus'd ; Those men that of late with Duke Humphrey have din'd , With plenty shall flow , when the Devil is blind . Then let us be merry and frolic amain , Since the golden world is returning again , We shall be all Gallants as sure as a Gun , When this work is finish't that's hardly begun : Then Poets in both Pockets Guinneys shall find , And purchase estates when the Devil is blind . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke 