THE True Lovers Knot Untied : Being the right PATH whereby to advice Princely Virgins how to Behave themselves , by the Example of the Renowned Princess , the Lady ARABELLA , and the Second SON of the Lord Seymor , late Earl of Hartfort . To the Tune of , Frog's Galliard , etc Licensed and Entered according to Order . AS I to Ireland did pass , I saw a Ship at Anchor lay , Another Ship likewise there was , which from fair England took her way . This Ship that sail'd from fair England , unknown unto our Gracious King , The Lord Chief Justice did command ; that they to London should her bring . I drew more near and saw more plain , Lady Arabella , in Distress , She wrung her hands and wept amain , b [ e ] wai [ l ] ing of her Heaviness . When near fair London Tower she came , whereas her Landing - [ p ] lace should be . The King and Queen with all their Train . did meet this Lady gallantly : How now , Arabella , said our King , unto this Lady straight did say , Who hath first ty'd you to this thing , that you from England took your way ? None but myself , my Gracious Liege , these ten long years i've been in love With the Lord Seymor's second Son , the Earl of Hartford so we prove : Though he be not the mightiest Man , of Goods and Livings in the Land , Yet I have Lands us to maintain , so much your Grace does understand : My Lands and Livings are well known unto your Books of Majesty , Amounts to twelvescore pound a week , beside what I do give , quoth she . In gallant Derbyshire likewise , I ninescore Beadsmen maintain there , With Hats and Gowns , and House-rent free , and every Man fice Marks a Year . I never raised Rend , said she , nor yet oppressed the Tenant poor , I never took no Bribes for Fines , for why , I had enough before . Whom of your Nobles will do so , for to maintain the Commonalty ? Such Multitudes would never grow , nor be such store of Pove [ r ] ty . I would I had a Milkmaid been , or born of some more low Degree , Then I might have loved where I like , and no Man could have hindered me . Or would I were some Yeoman's Child , for to receive my Portion now , According unto my Degree , as other Virgins as I know . The highest Branch that soars aloft , needs must beshade the Myrtle-tree , Needs must the shadow of them both , shadow the third in his Degree . But when the Tree is cut and gone , and from the Ground is boar away , The lowest Tree that there is does stand , in time may grow as high as they . Once when I thought to have been Queen , but yet that still I do deny , I knew your Grace had right to th' Crown , before Elizabeth did die . You of the eldest Sister came , I of the second in Degree , The Earl of Hartford of the third , a Man of Royal Blood was he . And so Goodnight , my Sovereign Liege , since in the Tower I must lie , I hope your Grace will condescend , that I may have my Liberty . Lady Arabella , said our King , I to your Freedom would consent , If you would turn and go to Church , there to receive the Sacrament . And so Goodnight , Arabella fair , our King reply'd to her again , I will take Counsel of my Nobility , that you your Freedom may obtain . Once more to Prison must I go , Lady Arabella then did say , To leave my Love breeds all my Woe , the which will be lives decay , Love is a Knot none can unknit , Fancy a liking of the Heart , Him whom I love I cannot forget , though from his presence I must part . The meanest People enjoy their Mates , but I was born unhappily , For being crossed by cruel Fates , I want both Love and Liberty . But Death I hope will end the Strife , Farewell , farewell , my Love , quoth she , Once I had thought to have been thy Wife , but now am forc'd to part with thee . At this sad Meeting she had cause , in heart and mind to grieve full soar , After that time Arabella fair , did never see Lord Seymor more . London : Printed by and for W.O. and A.M. and are to be sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner and London-bridge . THE True Lovers Knot Untied : Being the right PATH whereby to advice Princely Virgins how to Behave themselves , by the Example of the Renowned Princess , the Lady ARABELLA , and the Second SON of the Lord Seymor , late Earl of Hartfort . To the Tune of , Frog's Galliard , etc Licensed and Entered according to Order . AS I to Ireland did pass , I saw a Ship at Anchor lay , Another Ship likewise there was , which from fair England took her way . This Ship that sail'd from fair England , unknown unto our Gracious King , The Lord Chief Justice did command ; that they to London should her bring . I drew more near and saw more plain , Lady Arabella , in Distress , She wrung her hands and wept amain , b [ e ] wai [ l ] ing of her Heaviness . When near fair London Tower she came , whereas her Landing - [ p ] lace should be . The King and Queen with all their Train . did meet this Lady gallantly : How now , Arabella , said our King , unto this Lady straight did say , Who hath first ty'd you to this thing , that you from England took your way ? None but myself , my Gracious Liege , these ten long years i've been in love With the Lord Seymor's second Son , the Earl of Hartford so we prove : Though he be not the mightiest Man , of Goods and Livings in the Land , Yet I have Lands us to maintain , so much your Grace does understand : My Lands and Livings are well known unto your Books of Majesty , Amounts to twelvescore pound a week , beside what I do give , quoth she . In gallant Derbyshire likewise , I ninescore Beadsmen maintain there , With Hats and Gowns , and House-rent free , and every Man fice Marks a Year . I never raised Rend , said she , nor yet oppressed the Tenant poor , I never took no Bribes for Fines , for why , I had enough before . Whom of your Nobles will do so , for to maintain the Commonalty ? Such Multitudes would never grow , nor be such store of Pove [ r ] ty . I would I had a Milkmaid been , or born of some more low Degree , Then I might have loved where I like , and no Man could have hindered me . Or would I were some Yeoman's Child , for to receive my Portion now , According unto my Degree , as other Virgins as I know . The highest Branch that soars aloft , needs must beshade the Myrtle-tree , Needs must the shadow of them both , shadow the third in his Degree . But when the Tree is cut and gone , and from the Ground is boar away , The lowest Tree that there is does stand , in time may grow as high as they . Once when I thought to have been Queen , but yet that still I do deny , I knew your Grace had right to th' Crown , before Elizabeth did die . You of the eldest Sister came , I of the second in Degree , The Earl of Hartford of the third , a Man of Royal Blood was he . And so Goodnight , my Sovereign Liege , since in the Tower I must lie , I hope your Grace will condescend , that I may have my Liberty . Lady Arabella , said our King , I to your Freedom would consent , If you would turn and go to Church , there to receive the Sacrament . And so Goodnight , Arabella fair , our King reply'd to her again , I will take Counsel of my Nobility , that you your Freedom may obtain . Once more to Prison must I go , Lady Arabella then did say , To leave my Love breeds all my Woe , the which will be lives decay , Love is a Knot none can unknit , Fancy a liking of the Heart , Him whom I love I cannot forget , though from his presence I must part . The meanest People enjoy their Mates , but I was born unhappily , For being crossed by cruel Fates , I want both Love and Liberty . But Death I hope will end the Strife , Farewell , farewell , my Love , quoth she , Once I had thought to have been thy Wife , but now am forc'd to part with thee . At this sad Meeting she had cause , in heart and mind to grieve full soar , After that time Arabella fair , did never see Lord Seymor more . London : Printed by and for W.O. and A.M. and are to be sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner and London-bridge . THE True Lovers Knot Untied : Being the right PATH whereby to advice Princely Virgins how to Behave themselves , by the Example of the Renowned Princess , the Lady ARABELLA , and the Second SON of the Lord Seymor , late Earl of Hartfort . To the Tune of , Frog's Galliard , etc Licensed and Entered according to Order . AS I to Ireland did pass , I saw a Ship at Anchor lay , Another Ship likewise there was , which from fair England took her way . This Ship that sail'd from fair England , unknown unto our Gracious King , The Lord Chief Justice did command ; that they to London should her bring . I drew more near and saw more plain , Lady Arabella , in Distress , She wrung her hands and wept amain , b [ e ] wai [ l ] ing of her Heaviness . When near fair London Tower she came , whereas her Landing - [ p ] lace should be . The King and Queen with all their Train . did meet this Lady gallantly : How now , Arabella , said our King , unto this Lady straight did say , Who hath first ty'd you to this thing , that you from England took your way ? None but myself , my Gracious Liege , these ten long years i've been in love With the Lord Seymor's second Son , the Earl of Hartford so we prove : Though he be not the mightiest Man , of Goods and Livings in the Land , Yet I have Lands us to maintain , so much your Grace does understand : My Lands and Livings are well known unto your Books of Majesty , Amounts to twelvescore pound a week , beside what I do give , quoth she . In gallant Derbyshire likewise , I ninescore Beadsmen maintain there , With Hats and Gowns , and House-rent free , and every Man fice Marks a Year . I never raised Rend , said she , nor yet oppressed the Tenant poor , I never took no Bribes for Fines , for why , I had enough before . Whom of your Nobles will do so , for to maintain the Commonalty ? Such Multitudes would never grow , nor be such store of Pove [ r ] ty . I would I had a Milkmaid been , or born of some more low Degree , Then I might have loved where I like , and no Man could have hindered me . Or would I were some Yeoman's Child , for to receive my Portion now , According unto my Degree , as other Virgins as I know . The highest Branch that soars aloft , needs must beshade the Myrtle-tree , Needs must the shadow of them both , shadow the third in his Degree . But when the Tree is cut and gone , and from the Ground is boar away , The lowest Tree that there is does stand , in time may grow as high as they . Once when I thought to have been Queen , but yet that still I do deny , I knew your Grace had right to th' Crown , before Elizabeth did die . You of the eldest Sister came , I of the second in Degree , The Earl of Hartford of the third , a Man of Royal Blood was he . And so Goodnight , my Sovereign Liege , since in the Tower I must lie , I hope your Grace will condescend , that I may have my Liberty . Lady Arabella , said our King , I to your Freedom would consent , If you would turn and go to Church , there to receive the Sacrament . And so Goodnight , Arabella fair , our King reply'd to her again , I will take Counsel of my Nobility , that you your Freedom may obtain . Once more to Prison must I go , Lady Arabella then did say , To leave my Love breeds all my Woe , the which will be lives decay , Love is a Knot none can unknit , Fancy a liking of the Heart , Him whom I love I cannot forget , though from his presence I must part . The meanest People enjoy their Mates , but I was born unhappily , For being crossed by cruel Fates , I want both Love and Liberty . But Death I hope will end the Strife , Farewell , farewell , my Love , quoth she , Once I had thought to have been thy Wife , but now am forc'd to part with thee . At this sad Meeting she had cause , in heart and mind to grieve full soar , After that time Arabella fair , did never see Lord Seymor more . London : Printed by and for W.O. and A.M. and are to be sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner and London-bridge . THE True Lovers Knot Untied : Being the right PATH whereby to advice Princely Virgins how to Behave themselves , by the Example of the Renowned Princess , the Lady ARABELLA , and the Second SON of the Lord Seymor , late Earl of Hartfort . To the Tune of , Frog's Galliard , etc Licensed and Entered according to Order . AS I to Ireland did pass , I saw a Ship at Anchor lay , Another Ship likewise there was , which from fair England took her way . This Ship that sail'd from fair England , unknown unto our Gracious King , The Lord Chief Justice did command ; that they to London should her bring . I drew more near and saw more plain , Lady Arabella , in Distress , She wrung her hands and wept amain , b [ e ] wai [ l ] ing of her Heaviness . When near fair London Tower she came , whereas her Landing - [ p ] lace should be . The King and Queen with all their Train . did meet this Lady gallantly : How now , Arabella , said our King , unto this Lady straight did say , Who hath first ty'd you to this thing , that you from England took your way ? None but myself , my Gracious Liege , these ten long years i've been in love With the Lord Seymor's second Son , the Earl of Hartford so we prove : Though he be not the mightiest Man , of Goods and Livings in the Land , Yet I have Lands us to maintain , so much your Grace does understand : My Lands and Livings are well known unto your Books of Majesty , Amounts to twelvescore pound a week , beside what I do give , quoth she . In gallant Derbyshire likewise , I ninescore Beadsmen maintain there , With Hats and Gowns , and House-rent free , and every Man fice Marks a Year . I never raised Rend , said she , nor yet oppressed the Tenant poor , I never took no Bribes for Fines , for why , I had enough before . Whom of your Nobles will do so , for to maintain the Commonalty ? Such Multitudes would never grow , nor be such store of Pove [ r ] ty . I would I had a Milkmaid been , or born of some more low Degree , Then I might have loved where I like , and no Man could have hindered me . Or would I were some Yeoman's Child , for to receive my Portion now , According unto my Degree , as other Virgins as I know . The highest Branch that soars aloft , needs must beshade the Myrtle-tree , Needs must the shadow of them both , shadow the third in his Degree . But when the Tree is cut and gone , and from the Ground is boar away , The lowest Tree that there is does stand , in time may grow as high as they . Once when I thought to have been Queen , but yet that still I do deny , I knew your Grace had right to th' Crown , before Elizabeth did die . You of the eldest Sister came , I of the second in Degree , The Earl of Hartford of the third , a Man of Royal Blood was he . And so Goodnight , my Sovereign Liege , since in the Tower I must lie , I hope your Grace will condescend , that I may have my Liberty . Lady Arabella , said our King , I to your Freedom would consent , If you would turn and go to Church , there to receive the Sacrament . And so Goodnight , Arabella fair , our King reply'd to her again , I will take Counsel of my Nobility , that you your Freedom may obtain . Once more to Prison must I go , Lady Arabella then did say , To leave my Love breeds all my Woe , the which will be lives decay , Love is a Knot none can unknit , Fancy a liking of the Heart , Him whom I love I cannot forget , though from his presence I must part . The meanest People enjoy their Mates , but I was born unhappily , For being crossed by cruel Fates , I want both Love and Liberty . But Death I hope will end the Strife , Farewell , farewell , my Love , quoth she , Once I had thought to have been thy Wife , but now am forc'd to part with thee . At this sad Meeting she had cause , in heart and mind to grieve full soar , After that time Arabella fair , did never see Lord Seymor more . London : Printed by and for W.O. and A.M. and are to be sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner and London-bridge . 