The true Loves Knot untied . Being the right path , whereby to advice Princely Virgins how to behave themselves , by the example of the renowned Princess , the Lady Arabella , and the second Son to the Lord Seymore , late Earl of Hertford . To the Tune of , Frogs Galiards . AS I from Ireland did pass , I saw a ship at Anchor lay , Another Ship likewise there was which from fair England took her way . The Ship that sailed from fair England , unknown unto our gracious King , The Lord chief Justice did command , that they should us to London bring . I drew more near , and saw mere plain , Lady Arabella in distress , She wrung her hands and wept amain , bewailing of her heaviness . When near fair London Tower she came whereas her landing place should be , The King and Queen with all their train , did meet this Lady gallantly . How now Arabella , then our King , unto this Lady straight did say , Who hath first ty'd you to these things , that you from England took your way ? None but myself , my gracious Liege , this ten long years I've been in love , With the Lord Seymors second Son , the Earl of Hertford so we prove . Though he be not the mightiest man , of goods and Livings in the Land , Yet I have Lands us to maintain , so much your grace does understand : My lands and livings are well known unto your Books of Majesty , Amounting to twelve score pound a week , beside what I do give , quoth she . In gallant Derbyshire likewise , I ninescore Beadsmen maintain there With hats and gowns , and house-rent free and every man five marks the year . I never raised rend said she , nor yet oppressed the Tenant poor , I never took no bribes nor fines , for why , I had enough before . The true Loves Knot untied . Being the right path , whereby to advice Princely Virgins how to behave themselves , by the example of the renowned Princess , the Lady Arabella , and the second Son to the Lord Seymore , late Earl of Hertford . To the Tune of , Frogs Galiards . AS I from Ireland did pass , I saw a ship at Anchor lay , Another Ship likewise there was which from fair England took her way . The Ship that sailed from fair England , unknown unto our gracious King , The Lord chief Justice did command , that they should us to London bring . I drew more near , and saw mere plain , Lady Arabella in distress , She wrung her hands and wept amain , bewailing of her heaviness . When near fair London Tower she came whereas her landing place should be , The King and Queen with all their train , did meet this Lady gallantly . How now Arabella , then our King , unto this Lady straight did say , Who hath first ty'd you to these things , that you from England took your way ? None but myself , my gracious Liege , this ten long years I've been in love , With the Lord Seymors second Son , the Earl of Hertford so we prove . Though he be not the mightiest man , of goods and Livings in the Land , Yet I have Lands us to maintain , so much your grace does understand : My lands and livings are well known unto your Books of Majesty , Amounting to twelve score pound a week , beside what I do give , quoth she . In gallant Derbyshire likewise , I ninescore Beadsmen maintain there With hats and gowns , and house-rent free and every man five marks the year . I never raised rend said she , nor yet oppressed the Tenant poor , I never took no bribes nor fines , for why , I had enough before . The true Loves Knot untied . Being the right path , whereby to advice Princely Virgins how to behave themselves , by the example of the renowned Princess , the Lady Arabella , and the second Son to the Lord Seymore , late Earl of Hertford . To the Tune of , Frogs Galiards . AS I from Ireland did pass , I saw a ship at Anchor lay , Another Ship likewise there was which from fair England took her way . The Ship that sailed from fair England , unknown unto our gracious King , The Lord chief Justice did command , that they should us to London bring . I drew more near , and saw mere plain , Lady Arabella in distress , She wrung her hands and wept amain , bewailing of her heaviness . When near fair London Tower she came whereas her landing place should be , The King and Queen with all their train , did meet this Lady gallantly . How now Arabella , then our King , unto this Lady straight did say , Who hath first ty'd you to these things , that you from England took your way ? None but myself , my gracious Liege , this ten long years I've been in love , With the Lord Seymors second Son , the Earl of Hertford so we prove . Though he be not the mightiest man , of goods and Livings in the Land , Yet I have Lands us to maintain , so much your grace does understand : My lands and livings are well known unto your Books of Majesty , Amounting to twelve score pound a week , beside what I do give , quoth she . In gallant Derbyshire likewise , I ninescore Beadsmen maintain there With hats and gowns , and house-rent free and every man five marks the year . I never raised rend said she , nor yet oppressed the Tenant poor , I never took no bribes nor fines , for why , I had enough before . The true Loves Knot untied . Being the right path , whereby to advice Princely Virgins how to behave themselves , by the example of the renowned Princess , the Lady Arabella , and the second Son to the Lord Seymore , late Earl of Hertford . To the Tune of , Frogs Galiards . AS I from Ireland did pass , I saw a ship at Anchor lay , Another Ship likewise there was which from fair England took her way . The Ship that sailed from fair England , unknown unto our gracious King , The Lord chief Justice did command , that they should us to London bring . I drew more near , and saw mere plain , Lady Arabella in distress , She wrung her hands and wept amain , bewailing of her heaviness . When near fair London Tower she came whereas her landing place should be , The King and Queen with all their train , did meet this Lady gallantly . How now Arabella , then our King , unto this Lady straight did say , Who hath first ty'd you to these things , that you from England took your way ? None but myself , my gracious Liege , this ten long years I've been in love , With the Lord Seymors second Son , the Earl of Hertford so we prove . Though he be not the mightiest man , of goods and Livings in the Land , Yet I have Lands us to maintain , so much your grace does understand : My lands and livings are well known unto your Books of Majesty , Amounting to twelve score pound a week , beside what I do give , quoth she . In gallant Derbyshire likewise , I ninescore Beadsmen maintain there With hats and gowns , and house-rent free and every man five marks the year . I never raised rend said she , nor yet oppressed the Tenant poor , I never took no bribes nor fines , for why , I had enough before . 