LONDONS Drollery : OR , The Love and Kindness between The POPE and the DEVIL . Manifested by some True Protestants , who utterly Defy the Pope and his Romish Faction ; as it was to be seen in London , November the 17th . 1680. With Nine Pageants Delightful to behold . The Tune is , All you that do desire to Play , At Cards to pass the time away . ALL you that do desire to know The Mock Procession , how't did go ; Here unto you I will Relate , His Holiness did Ride in State , The People Laugh'd as they did go , To see the Devil Kiss his Toe . But as they did in Order go , The Captain should be first you know ; Who did command the Guard , and then The Pioneers in number Ten : Did follow him to Clear the Way , That the Body might by no means stay A Bellman follow'd , and did Ring , His Bell , and oft did sadly Sing ; Remember Justice Godfry's Death , You were the Men that stopped his Breath ; He made so Sad and strange a Noise , He mov'd poor , young , Regardless Boys . A Figure that did Represent His Bloody Corpse , next after went ; No better way then could they find , But a Jesuit they set him behind ; A Bloody Dagger he did hold , And looked like a Ruffian bold . After this Sad Preludium , A Great large Banner there did come ; Betwixt two carry'd , and was meant , Their Meetings for to Represent ; And Madam Celliers there she stood , With a Bladder which was fill'd with Blood . On the first Pageant there did stand , Dame Celliers with a Note in Hand ; And on the Meal-Tub she did lean , Behind this Bloody wicked Quean A Fiddler stood , and near his Back , Four Protestants in White and Black . After this Pageant there did come , One with his Face to'th Horses Bum , And on his Back as it was fit , There was this Inscription Writ ; This is and ABHORRER , thus they went , Which gave the People much Content . And upon the Second Pageant , Four Franciscans I imagine ; Two whereof were Cloath'd in Grey , With Cords about them , as they say : Down from their heads a Tail there hung , A Sighed here strange to Old and Young . The other two it did appear , Cinnamon-colour Clothes did wear , Who think St. Francis now does more , Then ever Christ did doe before : With many more Blasphemous things , Which Popish Ignorance still brings . O'th Third were plac'd Augustine Friars , To Represent Notorious Lyors ; Augustine did himself Confine , But these with Sisters do Combine : Other strange Order they do frame , Not worthy of a Christians Name . Augustine-Fryars being passed , Dominicans came at the last ; Who Clothed were in Black and White , Methought it was a Pretty Sighs From Dominick they took their Name , Who did the first Pope-haters blame . Four Jesuits were on the Fourth , Strutting like Churchmen , nothing worth ; With Collars like a Pasty Crust , Follow this Fashion others mus And these are Instruments in France , The Devils Cause for to Advance . The Bishops that were on the Fifth , To Protestants would give a lift ; Of Dukes and Princes they take place , And say they'r of St. Peter's Raze : Of Arch-Bishops Scriptures never speak , They'r Proud , but Bishops should be meek . The sixth two Patriarchs did bear , And Cardinals that Scarlet wear ; This is the Popes Appointment plain , For Papists that are Dy'd in Grain : Methinks the Garments that they wore , Might prove them Kin to'th Scarlet Whore . The next did bear a Triple Cross , And Bulls about the Street did Toss ; And as he passed aloud did Cry , For Money you may Heaven Buy : But those that have no Money god , Hell is their Portion and their Lot . The seventh Pageant that did bear , The Pope himself in Garments Rare ; Cover'd with Gold and Silver Lace , A Triple Crown on him they place : To fill the Papists full of Hope , The Loving Devil Kissed the Pope . Upon the eighth Olimpia came , With Former Popes she had great Fame ; She was their Mistress by her Lust , But long since she is turn'd to Dus Four Nuns about her they did place , Who count that Whoring's no Disgrace . Upon the ninth a Bishop sat , Like and Inquisitor in State ; And Monks about him you might see , Who his Assistants were to be : And a Condemned Martyr Lies , With burning Flames before his Eyes . And in this Fatal Pump they go , From Algate , Temple-Bar unto ; Where they their Sentence there receive , In Scorching Flames the World they leave : And post to him who Loves them well , Tormented for to be in Hell . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , F. Wright , F. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenge [ r ] LONDONS Drollery : OR , The Love and Kindness between The POPE and the DEVIL . Manifested by some True Protestants , who utterly Defy the Pope and his Romish Faction ; as it was to be seen in London , November the 17th . 1680. With Nine Pageants Delightful to behold . The Tune is , All you that do desire to Play , At Cards to pass the time away . ALL you that do desire to know The Mock Procession , how't did go ; Here unto you I will Relate , His Holiness did Ride in State , The People Laugh'd as they did go , To see the Devil Kiss his Toe . But as they did in Order go , The Captain should be first you know ; Who did command the Guard , and then The Pioneers in number Ten : Did follow him to Clear the Way , That the Body might by no means stay A Bellman follow'd , and did Ring , His Bell , and oft did sadly Sing ; Remember Justice Godfry's Death , You were the Men that stopped his Breath ; He made so Sad and strange a Noise , He mov'd poor , young , Regardless Boys . A Figure that did Represent His Bloody Corpse , next after went ; No better way then could they find , But a Jesuit they set him behind ; A Bloody Dagger he did hold , And looked like a Ruffian bold . After this Sad Preludium , A Great large Banner there did come ; Betwixt two carry'd , and was meant , Their Meetings for to Represent ; And Madam Celliers there she stood , With a Bladder which was fill'd with Blood . On the first Pageant there did stand , Dame Celliers with a Note in Hand ; And on the Meal-Tub she did lean , Behind this Bloody wicked Quean A Fiddler stood , and near his Back , Four Protestants in White and Black . After this Pageant there did come , One with his Face to'th Horses Bum , And on his Back as it was fit , There was this Inscription Writ ; This is and ABHORRER , thus they went , Which gave the People much Content . And upon the Second Pageant , Four Franciscans I imagine ; Two whereof were Cloath'd in Grey , With Cords about them , as they say : Down from their heads a Tail there hung , A Sighed here strange to Old and Young . The other two it did appear , Cinnamon-colour Clothes did wear , Who think St. Francis now does more , Then ever Christ did doe before : With many more Blasphemous things , Which Popish Ignorance still brings . O'th Third were plac'd Augustine Friars , To Represent Notorious Lyors ; Augustine did himself Confine , But these with Sisters do Combine : Other strange Order they do frame , Not worthy of a Christians Name . Augustine-Fryars being passed , Dominicans came at the last ; Who Clothed were in Black and White , Methought it was a Pretty Sighs From Dominick they took their Name , Who did the first Pope-haters blame . Four Jesuits were on the Fourth , Strutting like Churchmen , nothing worth ; With Collars like a Pasty Crust , Follow this Fashion others mus And these are Instruments in France , The Devils Cause for to Advance . The Bishops that were on the Fifth , To Protestants would give a lift ; Of Dukes and Princes they take place , And say they'r of St. Peter's Raze : Of Arch-Bishops Scriptures never speak , They'r Proud , but Bishops should be meek . The sixth two Patriarchs did bear , And Cardinals that Scarlet wear ; This is the Popes Appointment plain , For Papists that are Dy'd in Grain : Methinks the Garments that they wore , Might prove them Kin to'th Scarlet Whore . The next did bear a Triple Cross , And Bulls about the Street did Toss ; And as he passed aloud did Cry , For Money you may Heaven Buy : But those that have no Money god , Hell is their Portion and their Lot . The seventh Pageant that did bear , The Pope himself in Garments Rare ; Cover'd with Gold and Silver Lace , A Triple Crown on him they place : To fill the Papists full of Hope , The Loving Devil Kissed the Pope . Upon the eighth Olimpia came , With Former Popes she had great Fame ; She was their Mistress by her Lust , But long since she is turn'd to Dus Four Nuns about her they did place , Who count that Whoring's no Disgrace . Upon the ninth a Bishop sat , Like and Inquisitor in State ; And Monks about him you might see , Who his Assistants were to be : And a Condemned Martyr Lies , With burning Flames before his Eyes . And in this Fatal Pump they go , From Algate , Temple-Bar unto ; Where they their Sentence there receive , In Scorching Flames the World they leave : And post to him who Loves them well , Tormented for to be in Hell . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , F. Wright , F. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenge [ r ] 