The faithful wooings of two Country Lovers . The Youngman he with carriage bold , did oft salute the Maiden , And unto her these words he told , his heart with love was laden ; And if to him her love she'd grant he'd do his best endeavour . To maintain her she should not want , and he'd forsake her never . Because he was poor the maid was coy , and would not have him entertain'd But at last he became her love and joy , and much wealth with her he gain'd . AS I was walking forth of late in the prime of the weather , I spied a young man and a maid both walking close together . The man begun , and thus he sung , sweet heart do not forgo me , Love me little and love me long , for I do come to woo thee . Maid . Woo me good sir for what inten you surely do but jear me ; I ne're knew yet what Love meant , how then should I love you dearly ? I am too young to be a wife and no love I can afford you , I hold still best a single life my Maiden head will not load me . Man. You do but jest sweet heart , quoth he , my honour so to stain love . My heart is Royal unto thee and so it shall remain love . My love is set on none but thee sweet heart meaning no harm to do thee Then let all sorrows from thee part , for I do come to woo thee . Maid . It is but in vain young man , quoth she to talk of such a matter , Then speak no more of Love to me , I know you do but flatter ; For young men they will cog and lie and make much to abided ye , But I am resolved a maid to die , my Maiden head will not load me . Man. 'Tis true my dear , I must confess , that is but a light carriage , Yet I wish I had the happiness to join with you in marriage Though I cant court and compliment with fine speeches to thee , My heart is good and fully bent at this time for to woo thee . Maid . ALas ! good sir your time you waste it so seems by your talking If that you be in such haste , I pray you now be walking ; The door is wide you may be gone no love I can afford you : I had rather still to lie alone my Maidenhead will not load me . Man. What is the cause , my Dear , of this you should be so offended , If I have spoke any thing amiss it shall be straight way amended : But what I speak is from my heart meaning no harm to do thee , Then let all sorrows from thee part , for my mind is still to woo thee . Maid . I see sorrow with you is rife , and joy does much refrain you But if I should become your wife , pray , how would you maintain me : That is a thing to consider on , If love I should afford ye ; Yet rather still to lie alone my Maiden head will not load me . Man. To maintain thee , my hearts delight , I'le do my best endeavour ; I'le work for thee both night and day , and I'le forsake thee never . In wealth and woe on thee I'le tend so thou'lt set no man above me ; My person thy life it shall defend , for dearly I do love thee . Maid . Well if you do but say and hold , what you do want I have it , I have seven hundred pound in gold thou shalt quickly crave it ; All this to thee I'le freely give and never more forgo thee , But ever after while I live , I'le prove a good wife to thee . Man. He straight way took her by the hand , and a loving kiss then gave her , Quoth he , I am at your command to do my best endeavour . Now I am thine and thou art mine in spite of stormy weather , So they both took hand in hand , and both went home together . Man. Let all Lovers think on this , and be no more offended , And those that have done amiss strive in love to mend it . For my own part I gain'd a love the truth I will not smother , Though I was poor , yet she was rich . t'on will help out with t'other . FINIS . J.W. London , Printed by E.C. for F. Coals , in Vine Street near Hatton-Garden . The faithful wooings of two Country Lovers . The Youngman he with carriage bold , did oft salute the Maiden , And unto her these words he told , his heart with love was laden ; And if to him her love she'd grant he'd do his best endeavour . To maintain her she should not want , and he'd forsake her never . Because he was poor the maid was coy , and would not have him entertain'd But at last he became her love and joy , and much wealth with her he gain'd . AS I was walking forth of late in the prime of the weather , I spied a young man and a maid both walking close together . The man begun , and thus he sung , sweet heart do not forgo me , Love me little and love me long , for I do come to woo thee . Maid . Woo me good sir for what inten you surely do but jear me ; I ne're knew yet what Love meant , how then should I love you dearly ? I am too young to be a wife and no love I can afford you , I hold still best a single life my Maiden head will not load me . Man. You do but jest sweet heart , quoth he , my honour so to stain love . My heart is Royal unto thee and so it shall remain love . My love is set on none but thee sweet heart meaning no harm to do thee Then let all sorrows from thee part , for I do come to woo thee . Maid . It is but in vain young man , quoth she to talk of such a matter , Then speak no more of Love to me , I know you do but flatter ; For young men they will cog and lie and make much to abided ye , But I am resolved a maid to die , my Maiden head will not load me . Man. 'Tis true my dear , I must confess , that is but a light carriage , Yet I wish I had the happiness to join with you in marriage Though I cant court and compliment with fine speeches to thee , My heart is good and fully bent at this time for to woo thee . Maid . ALas ! good sir your time you waste it so seems by your talking If that you be in such haste , I pray you now be walking ; The door is wide you may be gone no love I can afford you : I had rather still to lie alone my Maidenhead will not load me . Man. What is the cause , my Dear , of this you should be so offended , If I have spoke any thing amiss it shall be straight way amended : But what I speak is from my heart meaning no harm to do thee , Then let all sorrows from thee part , for my mind is still to woo thee . Maid . I see sorrow with you is rife , and joy does much refrain you But if I should become your wife , pray , how would you maintain me : That is a thing to consider on , If love I should afford ye ; Yet rather still to lie alone my Maiden head will not load me . Man. To maintain thee , my hearts delight , I'le do my best endeavour ; I'le work for thee both night and day , and I'le forsake thee never . In wealth and woe on thee I'le tend so thou'lt set no man above me ; My person thy life it shall defend , for dearly I do love thee . Maid . Well if you do but say and hold , what you do want I have it , I have seven hundred pound in gold thou shalt quickly crave it ; All this to thee I'le freely give and never more forgo thee , But ever after while I live , I'le prove a good wife to thee . Man. He straight way took her by the hand , and a loving kiss then gave her , Quoth he , I am at your command to do my best endeavour . Now I am thine and thou art mine in spite of stormy weather , So they both took hand in hand , and both went home together . Man. Let all Lovers think on this , and be no more offended , And those that have done amiss strive in love to mend it . For my own part I gain'd a love the truth I will not smother , Though I was poor , yet she was rich . t'on will help out with t'other . FINIS . J.W. London , Printed by E.C. for F. Coals , in Vine Street near Hatton-Garden . 