The Blink-Ey'd Cobbler . ALL you that delight in merriment , Come listen to my song , It is very new and certain true , You need not tarry long , Before you laugh your belly full , Therefore be pleas'd to stay , I hope that you will be pleased , Before you go away . It's of a knight in Derbyshire , Who had a handsome son , He kept a handsome chambermaid , Who had his favour wone ; They dearly lov'd each other , Being full of sport and play , Until he god her belly up , As I have herd them say . In tears she told the story , My dearest dear , quoth she , I am no less than twenty weeks , Now gone with child by thee . He cries love be contented , ( This is what must be said , ) And do not let my father know , For on Sunday we will wed . But mind how cruel fortune , Their fate did seem to force , The old man stood in the corner , And herd the whole discourse . Next morn he call'd the maid , Likewise the youth his son , [ ? ] with a smiling sneering look , [ ? ] story thus begun . He said I wish you both much joy , You are to wed on Sunday , But I'd have you be rul'd by me , And put it off till Monday . 'Twill be but one day longer , With that he laugh'd outright , But I'm resolv'd to part you both , For fear it should be tonight . He paid the girl her wages , And home he then her sent , And confin'd him to his chamber , In tears for to lament , Next morning unto London , Along with a sturdy guide , To his uncle's house on Cornhill , He sent him to abide , But as they road along the way , He said unto the guide , I'll give thee twenty guineas , To let me step aside . Because this very morning , One word my father said , The same I do remember , And keep it in my head . The guide straightway gave consent , And he went to his sweetheart Sue , Then told to her the story , And what he design'd to do . Disguis'd like a poor cobbler , With a long rusty beard , With a leather coat not worth a groat , To his father's house he steer'd . He knocked boldly at the door , And when his father came , He said , sir , be you such a one ? He answer'd , yes , the same , He cry'd , I understand your son , Wanton tricks has play'd , Unknown to your worship , Along with your chambermaid . I understand some money With her you are free to give , To help to keep the child and she , So long as they do live . Now I am and honest cobbler , Who do live here just by , For fifty pounds I'll marry her , If that will but satisfy . The old man answer'd , before The money I do pay , I'll see her fairly marry'd , And give her myself away , With all my heart , the cobbler Unto the old man did say , With that he fetch'd the fifty pounds , And the bargain he made straightway And when they came unto the church , As we do understand , The old man strutted boldly , Then took her by the hand . Crying , heavens bless you from above , And send you long to live , And as a token of my love , This fifty pounds I give . They parted very friendly , The old man home he went , The bride and bridegroom road away , To London by consent . Where she was fairly brought to bed , With joy and much content , A letter into the country , To his father then he sent , Sir , I think it is my duty , And am bound to acquaint thee , That there is a lady in this city , Who has fallen in love with me . Five thousand pounds a year she , All in good house and land , That if you're willing for the match , Come to London out of hand . The old man god his coach ready , And up to London came , For to view this charming lady , Who was of birth and fame . Then coming to his brother's house , This beauty for to view , He little thought this beauty bright , Was his old servant Sue , With gold and silver spangle's , She was bedeck'd all round , The noise of her portion being told , For so many thousand pounds , The old man took his son aside , And thus to him did say , Take my advice and marry her , My dearest child this day . That morning they were marry'd , And dinner being done , The old man being mellow , The story thus begun . He said dear son I'll tell you , And nothing but what is true , A poor blinking one ey'd cobbler , Has wedded thy sweetheart Sue , The young man went a little aside , As I to you confess , And then within a short time , He put on his cobler's dress . Then taking Susan by the hand , They fell on their bent knees , Saying , pardon , honoured father , Pardon if you please . For I am John the cobbler , And this is my sweetheart Sue , Oh pardon us , dear father , Because we tell you true . If you are the cobbler , said the old man , Who had the blinking eye , Thou'st cobl'd me of a thousand pounds And a pox on thy policy . The uncle he persuaded him , So did all the guests , The old man fell a laughing , Saying , ''tis but a merry jest , ' That I cannot be angry , Then strait these words did say , I pray fetch me the fiddlers , And so let's dance away . Now we may see the old and rich , Are bit by policy , For beauty , wit , and good manners , Beyond all riches be . So here's a good health to the cobbler , With another to handsome Sue , Let every one drink off his glass , Without any more ado . The Blink-Ey'd Cobbler . ALL you that delight in merriment , Come listen to my song , It is very new and certain true , You need not tarry long , Before you laugh your belly full , Therefore be pleas'd to stay , I hope that you will be pleased , Before you go away . It's of a knight in Derbyshire , Who had a handsome son , He kept a handsome chambermaid , Who had his favour wone ; They dearly lov'd each other , Being full of sport and play , Until he god her belly up , As I have herd them say . In tears she told the story , My dearest dear , quoth she , I am no less than twenty weeks , Now gone with child by thee . He cries love be contented , ( This is what must be said , ) And do not let my father know , For on Sunday we will wed . But mind how cruel fortune , Their fate did seem to force , The old man stood in the corner , And herd the whole discourse . Next morn he call'd the maid , Likewise the youth his son , [ ? ] with a smiling sneering look , [ ? ] story thus begun . He said I wish you both much joy , You are to wed on Sunday , But I'd have you be rul'd by me , And put it off till Monday . 'Twill be but one day longer , With that he laugh'd outright , But I'm resolv'd to part you both , For fear it should be tonight . He paid the girl her wages , And home he then her sent , And confin'd him to his chamber , In tears for to lament , Next morning unto London , Along with a sturdy guide , To his uncle's house on Cornhill , He sent him to abide , But as they road along the way , He said unto the guide , I'll give thee twenty guineas , To let me step aside . Because this very morning , One word my father said , The same I do remember , And keep it in my head . The guide straightway gave consent , And he went to his sweetheart Sue , Then told to her the story , And what he design'd to do . Disguis'd like a poor cobbler , With a long rusty beard , With a leather coat not worth a groat , To his father's house he steer'd . He knocked boldly at the door , And when his father came , He said , sir , be you such a one ? He answer'd , yes , the same , He cry'd , I understand your son , Wanton tricks has play'd , Unknown to your worship , Along with your chambermaid . I understand some money With her you are free to give , To help to keep the child and she , So long as they do live . Now I am and honest cobbler , Who do live here just by , For fifty pounds I'll marry her , If that will but satisfy . The old man answer'd , before The money I do pay , I'll see her fairly marry'd , And give her myself away , With all my heart , the cobbler Unto the old man did say , With that he fetch'd the fifty pounds , And the bargain he made straightway And when they came unto the church , As we do understand , The old man strutted boldly , Then took her by the hand . Crying , heavens bless you from above , And send you long to live , And as a token of my love , This fifty pounds I give . They parted very friendly , The old man home he went , The bride and bridegroom road away , To London by consent . Where she was fairly brought to bed , With joy and much content , A letter into the country , To his father then he sent , Sir , I think it is my duty , And am bound to acquaint thee , That there is a lady in this city , Who has fallen in love with me . Five thousand pounds a year she , All in good house and land , That if you're willing for the match , Come to London out of hand . The old man god his coach ready , And up to London came , For to view this charming lady , Who was of birth and fame . Then coming to his brother's house , This beauty for to view , He little thought this beauty bright , Was his old servant Sue , With gold and silver spangle's , She was bedeck'd all round , The noise of her portion being told , For so many thousand pounds , The old man took his son aside , And thus to him did say , Take my advice and marry her , My dearest child this day . That morning they were marry'd , And dinner being done , The old man being mellow , The story thus begun . He said dear son I'll tell you , And nothing but what is true , A poor blinking one ey'd cobbler , Has wedded thy sweetheart Sue , The young man went a little aside , As I to you confess , And then within a short time , He put on his cobler's dress . Then taking Susan by the hand , They fell on their bent knees , Saying , pardon , honoured father , Pardon if you please . For I am John the cobbler , And this is my sweetheart Sue , Oh pardon us , dear father , Because we tell you true . If you are the cobbler , said the old man , Who had the blinking eye , Thou'st cobl'd me of a thousand pounds And a pox on thy policy . The uncle he persuaded him , So did all the guests , The old man fell a laughing , Saying , ''tis but a merry jest , ' That I cannot be angry , Then strait these words did say , I pray fetch me the fiddlers , And so let's dance away . Now we may see the old and rich , Are bit by policy , For beauty , wit , and good manners , Beyond all riches be . So here's a good health to the cobbler , With another to handsome Sue , Let every one drink off his glass , Without any more ado . 