The DORSETSHIRE GARLAND , Or , The BEGGAR's WEDDING . PnRT I . ALL you that delight in a jest that is true , Give ear to these lines I unfold unto you ; I'm sure you will smile when the same you hear , This frolic was acted in fair Dorsetshire . Now a nuble knight of renown lived there , Who had a daughter of beauty most clear ; Hard by liv'd a merchant who had riches store , Who had but one son , whom he did much adore . This knight and merchant being neighbours near , In friendship they liv'd , and lov'd each other dear . Now they had agreed , these infants so dear , Should ba man and wife when come to riper year . The merchant fell sick , and the lady likewise , They sent for the knight with tears in their eyes , Saying , From the world we soon must part , And leave our baby the joy of our heart . I hope if we leave our dear child to your care , With all our estate and worldly affair , You'll take care of him when we're laid in the grave , Nay furthermore grant us the thing that we crave . Thet you do not break your promise to me , But give your fair daughter his bride to be . But if he should die 'ere he to age does come , Then all that I leave him is to be your own . To the church of England I'd have him brought , And to serve his maker let him be taught ; That we may meet together in heaven above , Dear sir , said the knight , for the friendship and love That has pass'd betwixt us . I'll take special care , How I do bring up your young son and heir , Now if that the Lord so long gives me life , My daughter shall be your son's sweet wife . So then for the babies they sent for with speed , And the merchant said , Now my heart does bleed , For to leave them behind , but it must be done , Death calls me hence , and my glass is run . His will being made , I'm content , he did say , And kissed the babes with lips cold as clay . So both in one minuet did yield up their breath , The happiest couple that lived on earth . The merchant and his wife both laid in one grave , He takes home the child , and kept it most brave ; So the knight's daughter and the merchant's son , Became the public talk around the town . These children loved each other so dear , As this covetous knight began to fear . His promise he now accounts but a jest , How he must perform , which disturbed his rest . My daughter , said he , is a beauty must bright , She will be fit for a lord or a knight . But ten thousand pounds is left to the boy , I must find means his life to destroy . PART II HE hired a beggar the child to kill , So the innocent babe thinking no ill , As they both at sport were busy at play , The treacherous knight with a false laugh did say , Come , Jemmy , will you go and take the air ? And I ! worthy sir , said the daughter so fair , For to gather daiz [ i ] es with Jemmy will go . But her father answere'd , It must not be so . You must stay at home till he comes back again . So this innocent child like a lamb to be slave , Did go with the beggar many a long mile , Who at length to him did speak with a smile : Pray where are you going , sir , tell unto me , Must I go no more pretty Susan to see ? So his innocent talk made the beggar relent , So home to his wife with the changed [ i ] ld away went , And told her the story , the woman then said , Lo ! he's a fine creature and a well-favour'd babe . So a-begging with us I pray let him go , We'll call him our son , let us order it so . But five years of age was this merchant's son , Yet he for the loss of his Susan did mourn . So the beggarman's wife to her husband did say , Come , let us contrive to steal Susan away . It is but justice to cheat the cruel man , That wants this innocent for to trepan ; So the beggar to Dorset then instantly went , For to steal young Susan was resolute bent . He brought her ten miles , 'till they came to a town , And stripped off her clothes as she mightn't be known . Ank over a hedge he threw them indeed , And homeward at night did hasten with speed . In two or three hours he arriv'd at his cell , Where a noble legion of beggrrs did dwell , Where now I must leave those beggars so young , And return to the knight who did bitterly mourn . And hue and cry he scnds to every town , For finding his daughter there's five hundred pound . They brought him the clothes as found in the field , Which made him believe his daughter was kill'd . Now , heavens ! he said , I see in is just , This innocent babe whom I had in trust , His blood cries for vengeance , I have my desert , I have lost my daughter , the joy of my heart . So now let us leave this base traitor to mourn , Who wander'd about like one that's forlorn ; And turn to young Jemmy and Susan also , Who along with the rest now a-mumping did go . Now the beggar them for his children did own , And most dutiful children that ever was known , Which pleas'd him so well , to Doll he did say , The money that was gave me this babe to slay , He shall have for his portion , and twice as much more . And since that each other they do so adore , If they do live to the age of eighteen , We'll have the best wedding that ever was seen . For Jemmy and Susan in marriage shall join , Do not me control for this frolic of mine , A score of bold suitors I swear shall be there , We will keep this wedding in fair Dorsetshire . We will give it out upon such a day , A brave beggar's wedding there is to be . The gentry will be eager to see such a sighed , And if he is living , that base perjur'd knlght . When that this wedding is done and all o'er , I'll take this young couple unto their own door , And make him a present of his daughter fair , And take to him Jemmy his son and heir . Old Doll she was pleased to hear him say so , So merrily out they a-cruisidg did go . For thirteen long years they at this rate did run , At length the fix'd time for the wedding was come . PART III . THE richest attire that ever was bought , With silver and gold it was richly wrought , For the bridegroom and bride they then did prepare And so took their journey into Dorsetshire . A score of the best that belong'd to the tribe , They took along with them to credit the bride , The lame with their crutches , the halt and the blind Were plac'd in great order to follow behind . And having been two or three days in the town , The fame of this wedding it spread up and down . The rich and the poor were all curious to see , And many resolv'd the bride's guest to be . They hired the noblest hall in that town , That rich and the poor might get room to fit down . But Jemmy and Susan we [ r ] e both kept secure , 'Till they in their splendour appear'd at the door . Some hundreds of people stood by for to gaze , At the sighed of the couple were struck in amaze ; For she did appear like and angel divine , And he did the rest of his sex far outshine . Old Doll and her husband did follow the bride , With a budget of good bred and cheese by her side . And after came hoping the blind and the lame , Such a wedding in England was ne'er before seen . This couple were not asham'd of their guest , Because they nothing did know of their birth , But joined in marriage , they back did return , And now for the pastime they had , sir , at home . They furnish'd the table with good wedding cheer They mump'd on the road to fair Dorchester . Good rhine of fat bacon , and old musty cheese , And noggins of ale as much as you please . Dinner being over , starts up one of the gbest , And pull'd out his bagpipes , add play'd up the best , The lame and the blind went to dancing the hay , And the gentry flock'd as they would to a play . among the rest came this treacherous knight , Fixing his eyes on his daughter so bright . His heart did flutter and throb in his breast , His spirits were seiz'd , and his mind oppressed . Old Doll cry'd , We must have a jig of the bride , Come , play up a merry hornpipe she cry'd , Which Susan performed with so much grace , That she wone the praise of every one in the place . Nay come , said the old man , 'tis a child of my own Come , jovial piper , strike up t'other tune : A health to the bridegroom let pass round the room , Though a beggar brought up he's a merchant's son born . The knight hearing this stepped up to the bride , Let me speak to you , fair creature , he cry'd ; If you have the mark of a rose on your breast , Then you are my daughter I vow and protest . She shew'd him the mark : he immediately cry'd , Take home the bride The DORSETSHIRE GARLAND , Or , The BEGGAR's WEDDING . PnRT I . ALL you that delight in a jest that is true , Give ear to these lines I unfold unto you ; I'm sure you will smile when the same you hear , This frolic was acted in fair Dorsetshire . Now a nuble knight of renown lived there , Who had a daughter of beauty most clear ; Hard by liv'd a merchant who had riches store , Who had but one son , whom he did much adore . This knight and merchant being neighbours near , In friendship they liv'd , and lov'd each other dear . Now they had agreed , these infants so dear , Should ba man and wife when come to riper year . The merchant fell sick , and the lady likewise , They sent for the knight with tears in their eyes , Saying , From the world we soon must part , And leave our baby the joy of our heart . I hope if we leave our dear child to your care , With all our estate and worldly affair , You'll take care of him when we're laid in the grave , Nay furthermore grant us the thing that we crave . Thet you do not break your promise to me , But give your fair daughter his bride to be . But if he should die 'ere he to age does come , Then all that I leave him is to be your own . To the church of England I'd have him brought , And to serve his maker let him be taught ; That we may meet together in heaven above , Dear sir , said the knight , for the friendship and love That has pass'd betwixt us . I'll take special care , How I do bring up your young son and heir , Now if that the Lord so long gives me life , My daughter shall be your son's sweet wife . So then for the babies they sent for with speed , And the merchant said , Now my heart does bleed , For to leave them behind , but it must be done , Death calls me hence , and my glass is run . His will being made , I'm content , he did say , And kissed the babes with lips cold as clay . So both in one minuet did yield up their breath , The happiest couple that lived on earth . The merchant and his wife both laid in one grave , He takes home the child , and kept it most brave ; So the knight's daughter and the merchant's son , Became the public talk around the town . These children loved each other so dear , As this covetous knight began to fear . His promise he now accounts but a jest , How he must perform , which disturbed his rest . My daughter , said he , is a beauty must bright , She will be fit for a lord or a knight . But ten thousand pounds is left to the boy , I must find means his life to destroy . PART II HE hired a beggar the child to kill , So the innocent babe thinking no ill , As they both at sport were busy at play , The treacherous knight with a false laugh did say , Come , Jemmy , will you go and take the air ? And I ! worthy sir , said the daughter so fair , For to gather daiz [ i ] es with Jemmy will go . But her father answere'd , It must not be so . You must stay at home till he comes back again . So this innocent child like a lamb to be slave , Did go with the beggar many a long mile , Who at length to him did speak with a smile : Pray where are you going , sir , tell unto me , Must I go no more pretty Susan to see ? So his innocent talk made the beggar relent , So home to his wife with the changed [ i ] ld away went , And told her the story , the woman then said , Lo ! he's a fine creature and a well-favour'd babe . So a-begging with us I pray let him go , We'll call him our son , let us order it so . But five years of age was this merchant's son , Yet he for the loss of his Susan did mourn . So the beggarman's wife to her husband did say , Come , let us contrive to steal Susan away . It is but justice to cheat the cruel man , That wants this innocent for to trepan ; So the beggar to Dorset then instantly went , For to steal young Susan was resolute bent . He brought her ten miles , 'till they came to a town , And stripped off her clothes as she mightn't be known . Ank over a hedge he threw them indeed , And homeward at night did hasten with speed . In two or three hours he arriv'd at his cell , Where a noble legion of beggrrs did dwell , Where now I must leave those beggars so young , And return to the knight who did bitterly mourn . And hue and cry he scnds to every town , For finding his daughter there's five hundred pound . They brought him the clothes as found in the field , Which made him believe his daughter was kill'd . Now , heavens ! he said , I see in is just , This innocent babe whom I had in trust , His blood cries for vengeance , I have my desert , I have lost my daughter , the joy of my heart . So now let us leave this base traitor to mourn , Who wander'd about like one that's forlorn ; And turn to young Jemmy and Susan also , Who along with the rest now a-mumping did go . Now the beggar them for his children did own , And most dutiful children that ever was known , Which pleas'd him so well , to Doll he did say , The money that was gave me this babe to slay , He shall have for his portion , and twice as much more . And since that each other they do so adore , If they do live to the age of eighteen , We'll have the best wedding that ever was seen . For Jemmy and Susan in marriage shall join , Do not me control for this frolic of mine , A score of bold suitors I swear shall be there , We will keep this wedding in fair Dorsetshire . We will give it out upon such a day , A brave beggar's wedding there is to be . The gentry will be eager to see such a sighed , And if he is living , that base perjur'd knlght . When that this wedding is done and all o'er , I'll take this young couple unto their own door , And make him a present of his daughter fair , And take to him Jemmy his son and heir . Old Doll she was pleased to hear him say so , So merrily out they a-cruisidg did go . For thirteen long years they at this rate did run , At length the fix'd time for the wedding was come . PART III . THE richest attire that ever was bought , With silver and gold it was richly wrought , For the bridegroom and bride they then did prepare And so took their journey into Dorsetshire . A score of the best that belong'd to the tribe , They took along with them to credit the bride , The lame with their crutches , the halt and the blind Were plac'd in great order to follow behind . And having been two or three days in the town , The fame of this wedding it spread up and down . The rich and the poor were all curious to see , And many resolv'd the bride's guest to be . They hired the noblest hall in that town , That rich and the poor might get room to fit down . But Jemmy and Susan we [ r ] e both kept secure , 'Till they in their splendour appear'd at the door . Some hundreds of people stood by for to gaze , At the sighed of the couple were struck in amaze ; For she did appear like and angel divine , And he did the rest of his sex far outshine . Old Doll and her husband did follow the bride , With a budget of good bred and cheese by her side . And after came hoping the blind and the lame , Such a wedding in England was ne'er before seen . This couple were not asham'd of their guest , Because they nothing did know of their birth , But joined in marriage , they back did return , And now for the pastime they had , sir , at home . They furnish'd the table with good wedding cheer They mump'd on the road to fair Dorchester . Good rhine of fat bacon , and old musty cheese , And noggins of ale as much as you please . Dinner being over , starts up one of the gbest , And pull'd out his bagpipes , add play'd up the best , The lame and the blind went to dancing the hay , And the gentry flock'd as they would to a play . among the rest came this treacherous knight , Fixing his eyes on his daughter so bright . His heart did flutter and throb in his breast , His spirits were seiz'd , and his mind oppressed . Old Doll cry'd , We must have a jig of the bride , Come , play up a merry hornpipe she cry'd , Which Susan performed with so much grace , That she wone the praise of every one in the place . Nay come , said the old man , 'tis a child of my own Come , jovial piper , strike up t'other tune : A health to the bridegroom let pass round the room , Though a beggar brought up he's a merchant's son born . The knight hearing this stepped up to the bride , Let me speak to you , fair creature , he cry'd ; If you have the mark of a rose on your breast , Then you are my daughter I vow and protest . She shew'd him the mark : he immediately cry'd , Take home the bridegroom and the sweet bride , For this is my joy that's been missing so long , And her dear joy the merchant's young son . Bring the guests with you unto my home , I'll kindly receive you , and when I have done , I'll inform the world of my treacherous deed . Who can deny what the heavens decreed ? The cripples snatch'd up their crutches and run , To see what great miracles there had been done , Her father confess'd the whole matter that night , All praised the beggar that sav'd the babe's life . All people upbraided him for his base crime , With grief he dy'd within a short time , And left this young couple six thousand a year , Who are styled the beggars of fair Dorsetshire . Old Doll and her husband in splendour did dwell , This couple they loved them very well , You misers that are of a covetous mind , Strive not to prevent what the powers design'd Printed and Sold in Bow-Church-Yard , Londongroom and the sweet bride , For this is my joy that's been missing so long , And her dear joy the merchant's young son . Bring the guests with you unto my home , I'll kindly receive you , and when I have done , I'll inform the world of my treacherous deed . Who can deny what the heavens decreed ? The cripples snatch'd up their crutches and run , To see what great miracles there had been done , Her father confess'd the whole matter that night , All praised the beggar that sav'd the babe's life . All people upbraided him for his base crime , With grief he dy'd within a short time , And left this young couple six thousand a year , Who are styled the beggars of fair Dorsetshire . Old Doll and her husband in splendour did dwell , This couple they loved them very well , You misers that are of a covetous mind , Strive not to prevent what the powers design'd Printed and Sold in Bow-Church-Yard , London 