Loves Overthrow ; OR , A full and true account of a young Maid that lived in Exeter-Exchange-Court , in the Strand , who being deeply in Love with a young Sir - ving-man , whose care was so great , that he would not marry till he was in a good Con - dition to maintain a Wife ; which resolution of his bred jealousy in her , whereup - on in reality of his Love , he presented her with a Ring , but she afterwards despairing of his Constancy , disdainfully returned him the Ring again , and within a short time of - ter poisoned herself ; And now she lies buried near the M [ a ] y-Pole in the Strand , with a Stake drove through her body ; Being there Bruied the Thirteenth day of May last . To the Tune of , Bateman . ALL you that know what 'tis to love , come mourn a while with me , For unto you I will declare , a mournful Tragedy : A fair and comely Damsel did live lately in the Strand , Whose fancy taught her to obey , loves power and strict command . So that she deeply fell in Love with a young Servingman , Who Loyal unto her did prove , yet here her woe began : Each others Love they did embrace , and jointly did agree , [ TO ] hat in a very little space , they both should Marry'd be . The Youngman he was full of care , and fearful to engage Himself in Wedlock , which did put this Maid into a rage : She loved him exceeding well , and so he loved too , But 'cause he made a small demur , she knew not what to do . He did intend all should do well , e're he would Marry'd be , And never take a Wife to bring her into misery : So for this cause he did delay , and Marriage did prolong , Till she from reason went astray , now mind my mournful Song . She did mistake his good intent , poor silly harmless Maid , And cry'd , she knew not what he meant , of him she was afraid : Quoth she , if he should prove unkind , what would become of me ? He fickle is I now do find , and deals deceitfully . If Fortune will not be my friend , and teach him to be kind , My life will quickly have and end , my death draws near I find : Thus discontented did she live , and could not quiet be , For nothing could her pains remove , hatch'd up by Jealousy . Her fears did every day increase , lest he should faithless be , Her panting heart could find no ease , a mournful Soul was she : At last she fell into despair , and Satan prompt her on , To draw her Soul into a snare , and thus her woe begun . In hourly Torments still was she , and could not be content , But for to set her troubles free , this way to work she wen To Holbourn she one day did go , and passion was her guide ; Which did procure her overthrow , and made her go aside . Then with a Cup of Poison strong , she ends her mournful Life , 'Cause she before her time did long , to be a married Wife : After this Poison she had took , a week she lay in pain , Thinking her Love had her forsook , which made her to complain . And now she Buried is likewise , near the Maypole in the Strand , A Stake is through her body drove , as we do understand : Then Maidens all be sure take heed , in Love you ne'r despair , Since Jealousy caus'd this cruel deed , true Lovers all beware . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball , in West-smithfield . Loves Overthrow ; OR , A full and true account of a young Maid that lived in Exeter-Exchange-Court , in the Strand , who being deeply in Love with a young Sir - ving-man , whose care was so great , that he would not marry till he was in a good Con - dition to maintain a Wife ; which resolution of his bred jealousy in her , whereup - on in reality of his Love , he presented her with a Ring , but she afterwards despairing of his Constancy , disdainfully returned him the Ring again , and within a short time of - ter poisoned herself ; And now she lies buried near the M [ a ] y-Pole in the Strand , with a Stake drove through her body ; Being there Bruied the Thirteenth day of May last . To the Tune of , Bateman . ALL you that know what 'tis to love , come mourn a while with me , For unto you I will declare , a mournful Tragedy : A fair and comely Damsel did live lately in the Strand , Whose fancy taught her to obey , loves power and strict command . So that she deeply fell in Love with a young Servingman , Who Loyal unto her did prove , yet here her woe began : Each others Love they did embrace , and jointly did agree , [ TO ] hat in a very little space , they both should Marry'd be . The Youngman he was full of care , and fearful to engage Himself in Wedlock , which did put this Maid into a rage : She loved him exceeding well , and so he loved too , But 'cause he made a small demur , she knew not what to do . He did intend all should do well , e're he would Marry'd be , And never take a Wife to bring her into misery : So for this cause he did delay , and Marriage did prolong , Till she from reason went astray , now mind my mournful Song . She did mistake his good intent , poor silly harmless Maid , And cry'd , she knew not what he meant , of him she was afraid : Quoth she , if he should prove unkind , what would become of me ? He fickle is I now do find , and deals deceitfully . If Fortune will not be my friend , and teach him to be kind , My life will quickly have and end , my death draws near I find : Thus discontented did she live , and could not quiet be , For nothing could her pains remove , hatch'd up by Jealousy . Her fears did every day increase , lest he should faithless be , Her panting heart could find no ease , a mournful Soul was she : At last she fell into despair , and Satan prompt her on , To draw her Soul into a snare , and thus her woe begun . In hourly Torments still was she , and could not be content , But for to set her troubles free , this way to work she wen To Holbourn she one day did go , and passion was her guide ; Which did procure her overthrow , and made her go aside . Then with a Cup of Poison strong , she ends her mournful Life , 'Cause she before her time did long , to be a married Wife : After this Poison she had took , a week she lay in pain , Thinking her Love had her forsook , which made her to complain . And now she Buried is likewise , near the Maypole in the Strand , A Stake is through her body drove , as we do understand : Then Maidens all be sure take heed , in Love you ne'r despair , Since Jealousy caus'd this cruel deed , true Lovers all beware . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball , in West-smithfield . 