M. Manlius Capitolinus . Nescia mens hominum Fati , sortisq ; futurae Et servare modum , rebus sublata secundis ! Turno tempus erit , magno cum optaverit emptum Intactum Pallanta , & cum spolia ista , diemq ; Oderit ------ Virg. AEn . 10. AMBITION is a Plant , that's always found To root the deepest in the richest Ground ; Fair to the Sighed the op'ning Blossoms rise ; The Fruit's forbidden , and who tastes it , dies . This , Manlius , was thy Gilded , this urg'd thy Doom , Once styl'd Retriever of invaded Room . When thy successful Arms oppos'd the Gaul , Jove to thy Care consign'd his Capitol . But black Designs obscur'd thy rising Fame , And quickly left thee nothing but the Name : Else mightest thou still in Camps have loll'd at Ease , Fat with the Spoils of plunder'd Provinces ; Still the brib'd Senate , and the frantic Crowd , With Votes and Ballads , had thy Deeds avow'd : But 'twas too fierce and Ardor for Renown , T'aspire to Regal Purple , and a Crown -------- That Rock which gave thee Glory , prov'd thy Doom , And was at once thy Trophy , and thy Tomb. Sold by John Morphew , near Stationer's Hall , 1712. M. Manlius Capitolinus . Nescia mens hominum Fati , sortisq ; futurae Et servare modum , rebus sublata secundis ! Turno tempus erit , magno cum optaverit emptum Intactum Pallanta , & cum spolia ista , diemq ; Oderit ------ Virg. AEn . 10. AMBITION is a Plant , that's always found To root the deepest in the richest Ground ; Fair to the Sighed the op'ning Blossoms rise ; The Fruit's forbidden , and who tastes it , dies . This , Manlius , was thy Gilded , this urg'd thy Doom , Once styl'd Retriever of invaded Room . When thy successful Arms oppos'd the Gaul , Jove to thy Care consign'd his Capitol . But black Designs obscur'd thy rising Fame , And quickly left thee nothing but the Name : Else mightest thou still in Camps have loll'd at Ease , Fat with the Spoils of plunder'd Provinces ; Still the brib'd Senate , and the frantic Crowd , With Votes and Ballads , had thy Deeds avow'd : But 'twas too fierce and Ardor for Renown , T'aspire to Regal Purple , and a Crown -------- That Rock which gave thee Glory , prov'd thy Doom , And was at once thy Trophy , and thy Tomb. Sold by John Morphew , near Stationer's Hall , 1712. 