THE Shepherd's Ingenuity : OR , The Praise of the Green Gown . To the Tune of , The Two Entire Lovers . Licensed according to Order . among the pleasant shady Bowers , as I was passing on , I saw the springing Grass and , Flowers , was gently press'd down ; Then straight I thought unto myself , whoever here has been , I'm sure some gentle Shepherdess hath got a Gown of Green . Long may that Shepherdess enjoy , that pleasant Robe of Love , And eke the Swain that gave it her , that he may constant prove : For all the Robes that Ladies wear , whichever I have seen , Not one of them can now compare , to the sweet Gown of Green . Some for to gain their Ladies Love , will give them Chains and Rings , Some gives them Fans and Fancies too , but these are foolish things ; If you wou'd fain her Love obtain , let this be your endeavour , To give her a fair Gown of Green , and then she's your forever . When as my Celia fair and I , did meet upon the Down , Our study only was to try , to fit her in a Gown : She found the finest fashion then , as ever yet was seen ; She did become it passing well , 'twas a fine Gown of Green . The Gown which I gave her of late , was almost out of hue , Therefore I resolved straight , to make another new ; The Stuff lay ready then to cut , the Board was tied and clean , So to the work my hands I put , to shape this Gown of Green . My Arms K clasped round my Love , to take the measure true , She fearing I would wanton prove , then streightways backwards drew : With her small Waste I closed fast , as we two Twins had been , She struggling catch'd a fallen at last , to shape this Gown of Green . She asked me , is this the way in shaping of a Gown ? Yes , if you'd have it neat and gay , 'tis done by lying down , And take your measure handsomely , to make it strait and e'en , A lively posture of a Maid , to shape a Gown of Green . I rais'd her from the tender Grass , to view her noble Dress , She thought herself a handsome Lass , in troth I thought no less ; Her Beauty in this Robe did shine , more bright than Flora's Queen ; Now Lasses if you would be fine , put on the Gown of Green . Now all you little pretty Maids , that covets to go brave , Frequent the Meadows , Groves , and Shades , where you those Garbs may have ; When Flora's Coverlid she spreads , then Bridget , Kate and Jane , May change their silly Maidenheads , for curious Gowns of Green . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . THE Shepherd's Ingenuity : OR , The Praise of the Green Gown . To the Tune of , The Two Entire Lovers . Licensed according to Order . among the pleasant shady Bowers , as I was passing on , I saw the springing Grass and , Flowers , was gently press'd down ; Then straight I thought unto myself , whoever here has been , I'm sure some gentle Shepherdess hath got a Gown of Green . Long may that Shepherdess enjoy , that pleasant Robe of Love , And eke the Swain that gave it her , that he may constant prove : For all the Robes that Ladies wear , whichever I have seen , Not one of them can now compare , to the sweet Gown of Green . Some for to gain their Ladies Love , will give them Chains and Rings , Some gives them Fans and Fancies too , but these are foolish things ; If you wou'd fain her Love obtain , let this be your endeavour , To give her a fair Gown of Green , and then she's your forever . When as my Celia fair and I , did meet upon the Down , Our study only was to try , to fit her in a Gown : She found the finest fashion then , as ever yet was seen ; She did become it passing well , 'twas a fine Gown of Green . The Gown which I gave her of late , was almost out of hue , Therefore I resolved straight , to make another new ; The Stuff lay ready then to cut , the Board was tied and clean , So to the work my hands I put , to shape this Gown of Green . My Arms K clasped round my Love , to take the measure true , She fearing I would wanton prove , then streightways backwards drew : With her small Waste I closed fast , as we two Twins had been , She struggling catch'd a fallen at last , to shape this Gown of Green . She asked me , is this the way in shaping of a Gown ? Yes , if you'd have it neat and gay , 'tis done by lying down , And take your measure handsomely , to make it strait and e'en , A lively posture of a Maid , to shape a Gown of Green . I rais'd her from the tender Grass , to view her noble Dress , She thought herself a handsome Lass , in troth I thought no less ; Her Beauty in this Robe did shine , more bright than Flora's Queen ; Now Lasses if you would be fine , put on the Gown of Green . Now all you little pretty Maids , that covets to go brave , Frequent the Meadows , Groves , and Shades , where you those Garbs may have ; When Flora's Coverlid she spreads , then Bridget , Kate and Jane , May change their silly Maidenheads , for curious Gowns of Green . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 