A VISION In the TOWER , To the L. H ---- worser In his CONTEMPLATION . ANd is it so ? Or am I in a Dream ? Can I be Catched in the Snare , my self did Frame ? And am I Catched ? if so , who is the Cause ? Can it be those in whom I did Repose ? If so , must I rail at their Treachery ? No , they must Die by my Industry . I to promote the Factious Interest , Strove to out-strain great Chitophel's old Crest . And now my Mercenary men and I , Must by Laws Regal Institution Die . This Smiling Plot Auspicious did appear , To us Creators of its moving Sphere . It from our Genius drew its right of Birth , Which to preserve must we submit to Death . No Infant of the Royal Raze could be , More Cherished , than Sweet Plot we have done thee . And fearing thou , shouldst Falter , Starve or Die , States great Physicians with their Chemistry . Compounded Antidotes did daily try , That thou might Live Monarchy to Destroy . And must I now , the Brother of thy Father , Both he , and thee , and I , Die altogether . ? Yet , my dear Nephew , do not die for fear , While we are Alive , thou needest not to despair . If those that have this three years boar the weight , Begin to Kick , and do their Rider slight . Upon the backs of others we'l three pack , Where thou shalt ride 'm , till their Heart strings crack . As men ride Post when every Jadd does tire , Leaves them half Dead , and Belly deep in Mire , Thou still shalt have fresh Pads to Ride or Drive , Deer Plot ther's none shall live , thee to Survive . If I this Dubious point of Fortune Weather , We'le make the Eminent , as thy own Father . Ghost , Vain Mortal Caitiff , Scum of Infamy , Is this thy Penance in Extremity . Canst thou no more relent in this Foresight , But to run Headlong to Eternal Night . Do'st thou not see Grimm Death before thee stand , With daring Resolution , thee demand ? For thy Sad Soul can no Compassion take , But let it Perish with thy own sought Fate . What Black Ambition can Rebellion bring , 'Gainst so Great a God , so Just , so Kind a King : Ans - Answer , Why what art thou that Interrupts my Muse , And does Griefs Contemplation thus abuse . May not I ? within these damp and dismal Walls , Consult what Rising , still produceth Falls . And how Tradition , proves upon Records , We had still Ambitious , and Conspiring Lords . But I must be Confronted by such Spies , As from the Shades of Darkness does arise . And haunts these Nautious , Fulsome , Stinking Cells , Where Antic Spirits , meet to Charm their Spells . Ghost , No , no , Inhumane Infidel , not so , I am not raised from the Shades below . Nor is't my Office Dungeons to disturb , I am descended from a Higher Orb ; Come to convince thy weak Atheistic Faith , To make thee know , there is Life after Death . I am the Ghost of Stafford , which you Murdered , Which thy own Vote , and all thy Interest furthered . Tho' I a Howard am , as well as thou , So near Allied , my Innocence thou knew , On thy Honour Guilty ; where's thy Honour now ? Why Startled thus , to hear Truth open laid , Behold here's Staffords-Ghost without a Head. Thou in my Guiltless Blood thy Hands Imbrued , Which thou in thy Cabals so long pursued . And to prove , 'tis no Delusions Influence , Thy Looks ( by Sympathy ) draws Blood from hence . Thou canst not on me so Profanely gaze , But my Guiltless Blood , flies in thy Guilty Face . Packed , Perjur'd Emissaries was your Law , Which your black Conscience brib'd to make them so ; You at their Summons gave the Fatal Blow . And thus poor Stafford's Life was Bought and Sold , By double valve , Souls as well as Gold . To which thou hast such Contribution paid ; Beware , the forfeit signifies thy Head. Cousin remember , when I was Condemn'd , To which thy Leading Vote did condescend . When Sentence on my Innocence was passed , The Tears of Crocodiles , thou Weeptst as fast ; As if too late Compassion thou hadst took , Then in the Crowd thou quickly me forsook . Then with the City Cabals , thou straight return'd , And of your conquest Boasted , though Suborn'd . Let this thy Conscience move , with Guilty Fears , And go submit unto thy Fellow Peers , Which have been Captives here almost three Years . Own all thy Treachery to Truth , and Them ; Think what it is to bear a Traitors Name , To thee that's Guilty ; but much more to Them. Since thou art Fast , speak Truth and set them Free , No way else left thee to Eternity . If this great Work of Consequence thou do , 'T will save thy Soul , if not thy Body too . And thus Farewell , these Minnuts I did Borrow , Old Sh ------ he'le Condole with thee to Morrow . LONDON , Printed by N.T. 1681. A VISION In the TOWER , To the L. H ---- worser In his CONTEMPLATION . ANd is it so ? Or am I in a Dream ? Can I be Catched in the Snare , my self did Frame ? And am I Catched ? if so , who is the Cause ? Can it be those in whom I did Repose ? If so , must I rail at their Treachery ? No , they must Die by my Industry . I to promote the Factious Interest , Strove to out-strain great Chitophel's old Crest . And now my Mercenary men and I , Must by Laws Regal Institution Die . This Smiling Plot Auspicious did appear , To us Creators of its moving Sphere . It from our Genius drew its right of Birth , Which to preserve must we submit to Death . No Infant of the Royal Raze could be , More Cherished , than Sweet Plot we have done thee . And fearing thou , shouldst Falter , Starve or Die , States great Physicians with their Chemistry . Compounded Antidotes did daily try , That thou might Live Monarchy to Destroy . And must I now , the Brother of thy Father , Both he , and thee , and I , Die altogether . ? Yet , my dear Nephew , do not die for fear , While we are Alive , thou needest not to despair . If those that have this three years boar the weight , Begin to Kick , and do their Rider slight . Upon the backs of others we'l three pack , Where thou shalt ride 'm , till their Heart strings crack . As men ride Post when every Jadd does tire , Leaves them half Dead , and Belly deep in Mire , Thou still shalt have fresh Pads to Ride or Drive , Deer Plot ther's none shall live , thee to Survive . If I this Dubious point of Fortune Weather , We'le make the Eminent , as thy own Father . Ghost , Vain Mortal Caitiff , Scum of Infamy , Is this thy Penance in Extremity . Canst thou no more relent in this Foresight , But to run Headlong to Eternal Night . Do'st thou not see Grimm Death before thee stand , With daring Resolution , thee demand ? For thy Sad Soul can no Compassion take , But let it Perish with thy own sought Fate . What Black Ambition can Rebellion bring , 'Gainst so Great a God , so Just , so Kind a King : Ans - Answer , Why what art thou that Interrupts my Muse , And does Griefs Contemplation thus abuse . May not I ? within these damp and dismal Walls , Consult what Rising , still produceth Falls . And how Tradition , proves upon Records , We had still Ambitious , and Conspiring Lords . But I must be Confronted by such Spies , As from the Shades of Darkness does arise . And haunts these Nautious , Fulsome , Stinking Cells , Where Antic Spirits , meet to Charm their Spells . Ghost , No , no , Inhumane Infidel , not so , I am not raised from the Shades below . Nor is't my Office Dungeons to disturb , I am descended from a Higher Orb ; Come to convince thy weak Atheistic Faith , To make thee know , there is Life after Death . I am the Ghost of Stafford , which you Murdered , Which thy own Vote , and all thy Interest furthered . Tho' I a Howard am , as well as thou , So near Allied , my Innocence thou knew , On thy Honour Guilty ; where's thy Honour now ? Why Startled thus , to hear Truth open laid , Behold here's Staffords-Ghost without a Head. Thou in my Guiltless Blood thy Hands Imbrued , Which thou in thy Cabals so long pursued . And to prove , 'tis no Delusions Influence , Thy Looks ( by Sympathy ) draws Blood from hence . Thou canst not on me so Profanely gaze , But my Guiltless Blood , flies in thy Guilty Face . Packed , Perjur'd Emissaries was your Law , Which your black Conscience brib'd to make them so ; You at their Summons gave the Fatal Blow . And thus poor Stafford's Life was Bought and Sold , By double valve , Souls as well as Gold . To which thou hast such Contribution paid ; Beware , the forfeit signifies thy Head. Cousin remember , when I was Condemn'd , To which thy Leading Vote did condescend . When Sentence on my Innocence was passed , The Tears of Crocodiles , thou Weeptst as fast ; As if too late Compassion thou hadst took , Then in the Crowd thou quickly me forsook . Then with the City Cabals , thou straight return'd , And of your conquest Boasted , though Suborn'd . Let this thy Conscience move , with Guilty Fears , And go submit unto thy Fellow Peers , Which have been Captives here almost three Years . Own all thy Treachery to Truth , and Them ; Think what it is to bear a Traitors Name , To thee that's Guilty ; but much more to Them. Since thou art Fast , speak Truth and set them Free , No way else left thee to Eternity . If this great Work of Consequence thou do , 'T will save thy Soul , if not thy Body too . And thus Farewell , these Minnuts I did Borrow , Old Sh ------ he'le Condole with thee to Morrow . LONDON , Printed by N.T. 1681. 