[ 1 ] THE YOUNG CLUB . A Congratulatory POEM , To His Excellency JOHN Lord Bishop of Bristol , Lord Privy-Seal , upon the Peace Signed at his Lordship's House April 11 , 1713. Humbly presented by G. Hastings , S. Brewster and T. Dibben , His Lordship's Pages . O! mihi tam longae maneat pars ultima vitae Spiritus & quantum sat erit tua dicere facta . Amid the Crowds , that join in Verse and Prose To bless thy Labours and the World's Repose , The Muses hear , that try their Infant Wing , And first , in Concert , Bristol's Praises sing . We Pages have a Privilege to be herd , Our Trifles oft have pleas'd our thoughtful Lord ; Have smooth'd his Brow , when Care sat deep impressed , And Europe's Fate yet struggled in His Breast . These busy Times , we too have born our Share , Our sep'rate Counsels held of Peace and War : Deep in the Secret , warm in the Debate , Who visits who , cou'd learnedly repeat , And tell how long they stayed , as well as the Gazette : And o ! if Heav'n , propitious to our Prayer , ( For Life is now a Blessing worth our Care ) Grants us but length of Days , the usual date Our Youth and Vigour has to hope from Fate , These lasting Triumphs we shall longest know , And latest tell the Hand from whence they flow . Some sixty Winter's hence , methinks I see ( The pleasing Image dances in my Eye ) The little Fam'ly , round the cheerful Board , Asking the Wonders of their Father's Lord ; How look'd ? how spoke the Prelate ? what his Arts To charm the angry World , and join contending Hearts ? Again [ 2 ] Again I mark the Day , describe this Place : 'Hence , Children , date the Good We now possess . 'By Kneller drawn , high on the Sacred Wall , ( 'Pilgrims in Shoals still haunt the solemn Hall ) 'Anna was seen : You'd think the Canvas spoke , 'And Majesty and Peace had form'd Her Look . 'At distance rang'd , the Chiefs of Nations wait , 'And seem from Her t' attend their Country's Fate . 'Beneath Her Feet , I see him as He stood , 'My cheerful Lord ------ Your Father boar his Robe : ( 'Oh ! Children , I am rais'd , my Blood runs warm , 'As first when Youth and Pleasure knew to charm ; 'Still in my Soul engrav'd his Virtues live ; 'Yours be they now ; best Portion I've to give . ) Close by his Side , in decent Honours dressed , 'Strafford came Graceful ; on the Patriot's Breast 'Bright shone the Star , confess'd the Share of Fame , 'Ensign , no Stranger to the Wentworth's Name . 'Nor undistinguish'd there the second St. John stayed ; ''Twas the first glorious Step his Fortune made , 'Then young ; I mark'd the sprightly , gracious Look ; 'And Thou , I said , shalt rise a Bolingbroke . 'They sat : I saw th' Important Paper borough 'They Sign'd ; and Kingdoms follow'd as they wrote . 'The Scene removes , shows Albion's crowded Shore ; 'Her Subject Seas their precious Trust-restore : 'The Church her favour'd Prelate leaves to mourn : 'And fifty Temples rise at his Return . 'His Gracious Queen ------ 'Ten thousand op'ning Scenes their Joys unfold 'And Life shall pass , ere all the Tale be told . FINIS . LONDON : Printed for Bernard Lintott at the Cross-Keys between the two Temple-Gates in Fleet-street . 1713. ( Price Two Pence ) [ 1 ] THE YOUNG CLUB . A Congratulatory POEM , To His Excellency JOHN Lord Bishop of Bristol , Lord Privy-Seal , upon the Peace Signed at his Lordship's House April 11 , 1713. Humbly presented by G. Hastings , S. Brewster and T. Dibben , His Lordship's Pages . O! mihi tam longae maneat pars ultima vitae Spiritus & quantum sat erit tua dicere facta . Amid the Crowds , that join in Verse and Prose To bless thy Labours and the World's Repose , The Muses hear , that try their Infant Wing , And first , in Concert , Bristol's Praises sing . We Pages have a Privilege to be herd , Our Trifles oft have pleas'd our thoughtful Lord ; Have smooth'd his Brow , when Care sat deep impressed , And Europe's Fate yet struggled in His Breast . These busy Times , we too have born our Share , Our sep'rate Counsels held of Peace and War : Deep in the Secret , warm in the Debate , Who visits who , cou'd learnedly repeat , And tell how long they stayed , as well as the Gazette : And o ! if Heav'n , propitious to our Prayer , ( For Life is now a Blessing worth our Care ) Grants us but length of Days , the usual date Our Youth and Vigour has to hope from Fate , These lasting Triumphs we shall longest know , And latest tell the Hand from whence they flow . Some sixty Winter's hence , methinks I see ( The pleasing Image dances in my Eye ) The little Fam'ly , round the cheerful Board , Asking the Wonders of their Father's Lord ; How look'd ? how spoke the Prelate ? what his Arts To charm the angry World , and join contending Hearts ? Again [ 2 ] Again I mark the Day , describe this Place : 'Hence , Children , date the Good We now possess . 'By Kneller drawn , high on the Sacred Wall , ( 'Pilgrims in Shoals still haunt the solemn Hall ) 'Anna was seen : You'd think the Canvas spoke , 'And Majesty and Peace had form'd Her Look . 'At distance rang'd , the Chiefs of Nations wait , 'And seem from Her t' attend their Country's Fate . 'Beneath Her Feet , I see him as He stood , 'My cheerful Lord ------ Your Father boar his Robe : ( 'Oh ! Children , I am rais'd , my Blood runs warm , 'As first when Youth and Pleasure knew to charm ; 'Still in my Soul engrav'd his Virtues live ; 'Yours be they now ; best Portion I've to give . ) Close by his Side , in decent Honours dressed , 'Strafford came Graceful ; on the Patriot's Breast 'Bright shone the Star , confess'd the Share of Fame , 'Ensign , no Stranger to the Wentworth's Name . 'Nor undistinguish'd there the second St. John stayed ; ''Twas the first glorious Step his Fortune made , 'Then young ; I mark'd the sprightly , gracious Look ; 'And Thou , I said , shalt rise a Bolingbroke . 'They sat : I saw th' Important Paper borough 'They Sign'd ; and Kingdoms follow'd as they wrote . 'The Scene removes , shows Albion's crowded Shore ; 'Her Subject Seas their precious Trust-restore : 'The Church her favour'd Prelate leaves to mourn : 'And fifty Temples rise at his Return . 'His Gracious Queen ------ 'Ten thousand op'ning Scenes their Joys unfold 'And Life shall pass , ere all the Tale be told . FINIS . LONDON : Printed for Bernard Lintott at the Cross-Keys between the two Temple-Gates in Fleet-street . 1713. ( Price Two Pence ) 