THE LITANY . OF The D. of B. FRom a Sensual , Proud , Atheistical Life , From Arming our Lackeys with Pistol and Knife , From Murdering the Husband and Whoring the Wife : Libera nos . From going Ambassadors only as Panders , From Re-killing dead Kings with Monstrous Slanders , From Betraying the Living in Scotland and Flanders : Libera nos . From a Wild Rambling nowhere Abided , Without Day or Night , nor at Home nor Abroad , From a Prince to Unhorse us on Dover Road : Libera nos . From Crowning the Hearse of our Babe of Adultery , Interred among Kings by a Lord of the Prelacy , Whom we god Cashier'd for Carnal Arsery : Libera nos . From Selling Land twice , ten thousand a year All Spent , no Mortal can tell how , or where , And then Reform Kingdoms as a Sanctifi'd Peer : Libera nos . From Monstrous Sucking , till both Tongues have Blisters , From making our Boasts of giving three Glisters , By giving our Claps to three cheated Sisters : Libera nos . From Transposing Nature upon our Bon --- Gers , On Keniston Acting both Venus and Mars , From owning twenty other men's Farce : Libera nos . From Wretched Pasquills against Shadwel and Dryden , From Casting Nativities with Learned Heyden , And Casting of Dollars at Antwerp and Leyden : Libera nos . From Trembling at Sea , when not a Gun Roar'd , And then Steal Ashore by Breaking our Word . With Dam me if e're you Catch me Aboard : Libera nos . From being still Cheated by the same Undertakers , By Levellers , Bawds , Saints , Chemists and Quakers , Who make us Gold-Finders , and themselves Gold Makers : Libera nos . From Dam me , whatever we don't Understand , From Purchasing at Dowgate , and Selling i'th Strand , Calling Streets by our Name , when we have Sold the Land. Libera nos . From Borrowing our own House to Treat Scholars Ill , And then be Unchancellor'd against our Will , Nought left of a College but our own Collegehill : Libera nos . From Judging the Judges in a Senseless Speech , From Following S --------- , that Riggling Leech , Because by Twins both Sucked the same Bitch : Libera nos . From Mortally Hating all those that Love us , From Mimical Acting all those Above us , Till our Master at last is forc'd to Remove us : Libera nos . From Cringing to those we Scorn to Condemn , In hope's to be made the Citizens Gem , Who now Scorn us more than e're we did them : Libera nos . From Sneaking 'twixt Castle-yard and Vandeput , From Telling Tales when we have been at Rut , And Ramming three Candles into one Ladies Scum Libera nos . From beginning and Execrable Traitarous Health , To Destroy this Parliament , King and Himself , To be made Ducal Peer of a New Commonwealth : Libera nos . From Changing Old Friends for Rascally New ones , From taking Wildman and Marvil for True Ones , From Wearing Green Ribbons 'gainst him gave Blue ones : Libera nos . From Lodging at Court before we are Sent for , From Selling six Palaces for less than they Rent-for , And Buying three Hillocks for the three Kings of Branford : Libera nos . Sion-hill . Collegehill Cliptdon-hill From Learning new Morals from Bedlam , Sir Peyton , Or Truth and Modesty from Ellis Leyton , From making our Heirs to be Morris and Clayton : Libera nos . THE LITANY . OF The D. of B. FRom a Sensual , Proud , Atheistical Life , From Arming our Lackeys with Pistol and Knife , From Murdering the Husband and Whoring the Wife : Libera nos . From going Ambassadors only as Panders , From Re-killing dead Kings with Monstrous Slanders , From Betraying the Living in Scotland and Flanders : Libera nos . From a Wild Rambling nowhere Abided , Without Day or Night , nor at Home nor Abroad , From a Prince to Unhorse us on Dover Road : Libera nos . From Crowning the Hearse of our Babe of Adultery , Interred among Kings by a Lord of the Prelacy , Whom we god Cashier'd for Carnal Arsery : Libera nos . From Selling Land twice , ten thousand a year All Spent , no Mortal can tell how , or where , And then Reform Kingdoms as a Sanctifi'd Peer : Libera nos . From Monstrous Sucking , till both Tongues have Blisters , From making our Boasts of giving three Glisters , By giving our Claps to three cheated Sisters : Libera nos . From Transposing Nature upon our Bon --- Gers , On Keniston Acting both Venus and Mars , From owning twenty other men's Farce : Libera nos . From Wretched Pasquills against Shadwel and Dryden , From Casting Nativities with Learned Heyden , And Casting of Dollars at Antwerp and Leyden : Libera nos . From Trembling at Sea , when not a Gun Roar'd , And then Steal Ashore by Breaking our Word . With Dam me if e're you Catch me Aboard : Libera nos . From being still Cheated by the same Undertakers , By Levellers , Bawds , Saints , Chemists and Quakers , Who make us Gold-Finders , and themselves Gold Makers : Libera nos . From Dam me , whatever we don't Understand , From Purchasing at Dowgate , and Selling i'th Strand , Calling Streets by our Name , when we have Sold the Land. Libera nos . From Borrowing our own House to Treat Scholars Ill , And then be Unchancellor'd against our Will , Nought left of a College but our own Collegehill : Libera nos . From Judging the Judges in a Senseless Speech , From Following S --------- , that Riggling Leech , Because by Twins both Sucked the same Bitch : Libera nos . From Mortally Hating all those that Love us , From Mimical Acting all those Above us , Till our Master at last is forc'd to Remove us : Libera nos . From Cringing to those we Scorn to Condemn , In hope's to be made the Citizens Gem , Who now Scorn us more than e're we did them : Libera nos . From Sneaking 'twixt Castle-yard and Vandeput , From Telling Tales when we have been at Rut , And Ramming three Candles into one Ladies Scum Libera nos . From beginning and Execrable Traitarous Health , To Destroy this Parliament , King and Himself , To be made Ducal Peer of a New Commonwealth : Libera nos . From Changing Old Friends for Rascally New ones , From taking Wildman and Marvil for True Ones , From Wearing Green Ribbons 'gainst him gave Blue ones : Libera nos . From Lodging at Court before we are Sent for , From Selling six Palaces for less than they Rent-for , And Buying three Hillocks for the three Kings of Branford : Libera nos . Sion-hill . Collegehill Cliptdon-hill From Learning new Morals from Bedlam , Sir Peyton , Or Truth and Modesty from Ellis Leyton , From making our Heirs to be Morris and Clayton : Libera nos . 