Loyal Man's Letany : Or a Prayer against FACTION , This present time of LENT . FRom a Presbyters Zeal , and the Faith of a Scot , Who both by like Merit the Blessing have god To Pray as devoutly as 'tother do's Plot . Libera nos Domine . From defending the Rights of Monarchial Power , And then to Betray it the very same Hour , To those whom they knew would have cropped it before Libera , etc From taking up Arms for Religions Defence , Which is always the cause , and a Traitors pretence , Though the cursed design was to Ruin their Prince , Libera , etc From Pawning of Plate to maintain the Old Cause , From venturing our Necks to Infringe the known Laws On purpose to gain a Fanatical Applause . Libera , etc From shedding the Blood of a Million and more , From plundering the Loyal to increase their own Store Then laying the fault at their Soveraign's Door . Libera , etc From Enacting of Laws without Law or Reason , And then by a Trick Vote a Writ of Disseizin To turn him from Office , and Behead him for Treason . Libera , etc From a long Thirteen Years of running astray , T' and Arbitrary Rule and a Popular Sway , Worse than that of a Nero or Caligula . Libera , etc From those who the Oath of Allegiance disclaim , Pretending their Conscience wont suffer the same , And therefore a new they begin their Old Game . Libera , etc From him who would sham us with Plots in the Air , And to make us believe him , devoutly does Swear That Invisible Armies of Pilgrim's appear . Libera , etc From conferring of Titles on this Man and that , And Swearing them in and out of the Plot , Then Hang them because ----- he knew not for what . Libera , etc From the rest that did damn themselves to Avow , Whatever their Prodromos said to be True , Though nor him , nor his Evidence ever they knew . Libera , etc From the Gaol and the Pox , and what ever Disease Do justly attend such Wretches as these , Who Rebellion promote , the Rabble to Please . Libera , etc From a Patriot-Captain that once dar'd to say He'd show his briskBoys and Excellent way , Not how they might Conquer , but how run away . Libera , etc From not following Advice , though never so Evil , But tarrying behind , to be foolishly Civil ; So be Hang'd by Jack Catch , and sent to the Devil . Libera , etc From a Mimical Doctor who Wrote their last Speeches As far from their Sense as the Doctrine he Preaches ; But Gain is his Godliness , 'tis that that he Teaches . Libera , etc From all those who deserve the same or worse Fate , Who pretend to be Witty in showing their Hate Against Royal James , the Church or the State . Libera nos Domine . LONDON , Printed by George Croom , at the Sign of the Blue-Ball in Thames-street , over against Baynard's-Castle . 1685. Loyal Man's Letany : Or a Prayer against FACTION , This present time of LENT . FRom a Presbyters Zeal , and the Faith of a Scot , Who both by like Merit the Blessing have god To Pray as devoutly as 'tother do's Plot . Libera nos Domine . From defending the Rights of Monarchial Power , And then to Betray it the very same Hour , To those whom they knew would have cropped it before Libera , etc From taking up Arms for Religions Defence , Which is always the cause , and a Traitors pretence , Though the cursed design was to Ruin their Prince , Libera , etc From Pawning of Plate to maintain the Old Cause , From venturing our Necks to Infringe the known Laws On purpose to gain a Fanatical Applause . Libera , etc From shedding the Blood of a Million and more , From plundering the Loyal to increase their own Store Then laying the fault at their Soveraign's Door . Libera , etc From Enacting of Laws without Law or Reason , And then by a Trick Vote a Writ of Disseizin To turn him from Office , and Behead him for Treason . Libera , etc From a long Thirteen Years of running astray , T' and Arbitrary Rule and a Popular Sway , Worse than that of a Nero or Caligula . Libera , etc From those who the Oath of Allegiance disclaim , Pretending their Conscience wont suffer the same , And therefore a new they begin their Old Game . Libera , etc From him who would sham us with Plots in the Air , And to make us believe him , devoutly does Swear That Invisible Armies of Pilgrim's appear . Libera , etc From conferring of Titles on this Man and that , And Swearing them in and out of the Plot , Then Hang them because ----- he knew not for what . Libera , etc From the rest that did damn themselves to Avow , Whatever their Prodromos said to be True , Though nor him , nor his Evidence ever they knew . Libera , etc From the Gaol and the Pox , and what ever Disease Do justly attend such Wretches as these , Who Rebellion promote , the Rabble to Please . Libera , etc From a Patriot-Captain that once dar'd to say He'd show his briskBoys and Excellent way , Not how they might Conquer , but how run away . Libera , etc From not following Advice , though never so Evil , But tarrying behind , to be foolishly Civil ; So be Hang'd by Jack Catch , and sent to the Devil . Libera , etc From a Mimical Doctor who Wrote their last Speeches As far from their Sense as the Doctrine he Preaches ; But Gain is his Godliness , 'tis that that he Teaches . Libera , etc From all those who deserve the same or worse Fate , Who pretend to be Witty in showing their Hate Against Royal James , the Church or the State . Libera nos Domine . LONDON , Printed by George Croom , at the Sign of the Blue-Ball in Thames-street , over against Baynard's-Castle . 1685. 