A DIALOGUE between the D. of C. and the D. of P. at their meeting in PARIS , With the Ghost of Jane Shore . C. ARt thou return'd my sister Concubine , For all those subtle Cunning Arts of thine . With which thou didst subdue our Monarchs heart And would'st not let me with thee share a part . Tho my great beauty did that heart subdue , Long ere it could so meanly stoop to you ? P. I am return'd to see my native France , The place where first I saw the world by Chance . Tho mean by Birth , yet Fortune this can do , Help by the charms of Wit and Beauty too , Me thinks my Port and my illustrious Train , Should rather move your envy than Disdain , C. My envy ! no thy meanness I despise . Thou art a Beggar still though in disguise . The noble Ladys of the Gallick Cou [ rt ] Will mock at your fine gaudy Train and Port. Thy Convers and thy Company they'l scorn , Since thou of Genteel Blood was't never born . P. The King's Example Duchess you will find , Shall make the Ladys of this Court more kind , For many services for him I'ave done , Which he I'm sure with Kindness now will own . I'ave serv'd him with my person and my Wit , But how , to tell you Madam , 'tis not fit . C. If you have ought for this great Monarch done , He'l make you then some Abbless or a Nun. For I do find 'tis not the guise of France Their Whores to noble Titles to advance But Usually the Royal Miss is sent , To some Religious Cloister to repent . P [ 2 ] P. It is not yet that time of Day with me , Nor am I fallen to so low degree ; More joyful days I yet do hope to see . Tho I have here of English Guinies store , I thither will return , and get me more . England will me a plenteous Harvest Yield , Here to buy Lands and Palaces to Built . C. Methinks you talk at and immodest rate , Thou French She-Horse-lecch of the English state : Rome us'd to draw its richest Treasures thence The English Gold was chang'd to Peters pence : But now that Room can draw from thence no more It is Enhanced by a Gallick ------ P. If I'm immodest me thinks you are Vain Thus Idly of my riches to Complain : England did once to you and Harvest Yield , Alas ! I'ave but the gleanings of the field . Gold fell into your Lap with a spring tide , But you have spent it on your Lust and Pride ; Your time is passed the Lust has made you old , And to be serv'd you now must give your gold . Or fumble with some weak old Clergy man To get a spill your royet to maintain . C. Oh Madam you must needs be very chaste If as they say the prior you embrac'd I Laugh to hear of Chastity from you As if a Whore was E're to one man true . I own my nature it is brave and high , With Messalina I my self could Vie . Let a dull Husband lie with her that's chaste I by a Prince am fit to be embrac'd . P. Brag not , your decay'd beauty is grown stale , And all your Arts no longer can prevail . I yet retain my glorious Conquering Charms . While you are banish'd from a Monarchs Arms Alas your Beauty now is in the wain No Art Can e're renew that Face again , Madam the shining glories are all set Which makes you thus at the successor fret . C. Dull tool , my eyes yet sparkle and are good , I feel a vigorous May yet in my blood , I'm found and free from any foul disease , Can warm a Lover and know how to please . While thou Corrupted scents the very room In spite of Essences and strange perfume . I can't but wonder by what Magic Art Thou e're could'st Conquer a great Monarchs heart , That babys Face of thine ? and those black eyes , Me thinks should ne'r and Heroes Love surprise . None that are had eyes e're saw in that French face O're much of Beauty from or Comely grace . [ 3 ] P. You are my Rival and may me despise But Lovers see not with your envious eyes . If you in beauty have the greatest share , And if that mine cannot with yours Compare My wit exceeds and yours have prov'd but ill , Since you'r Cast off and I am Courted still . C. When I did reign I like a Queen did show , I sat above and saw Crown'd heads below , Of Jewels and of Gold I had such store , I knew not how to seek or wish for more . To me the Idols of the Court all bow'd , I was adored by the numerous Crowd . Till thou wertenberg seen who with some Magic spell , Some charm or philtre that was made in Hell ; Didst my great Heroes heart then steal away , And took by hell bred Arts my Beauty's Prey . This be my comfort I did first subdue , They were my Leavings that were shar'd to you . P. It shows my Wit and Beauty had most power , When I subdu'd your mighty Conqueror ; And that I broke into your Beauty's Charms , And ravished your Hero from your Arms. I'ave rul'd as well as you and my French pate , Have div'd into the great intrigues of State : In Balls and Masques you revel'd out your nights , But Madam I did relish state delights , My politics and Arts were deeper Bred , Than ever came into your shallow Head , Vain Pride and pleasure were the things you sought , While that four Kingdoms did employ my thought . States men did know that you were but a fool , But they from me took Measures how to Rule . C. And yet I see you are turned off at last , And all your cunning policies Misplac'd . P. You are deceiv'd , and I shall make you mourn , When you shall see me Madam back return Mind you your pleasures game your time away , My business will not let me lo [ n ] her stay . To our great Monarch I have much to say . C. If back to England thou should'st e're return , May thou become the common Peoples scorn . May against thee the London Pre [ ? ] rise , And may they pull out thy bewitching eyes . Against that time I will go learn to Curse , That Pox or Plague I'le wish thee something worse . What spector's this ! P. Oh Heav'ns what have we here ! My Joints do tremble and my soul does fear . The Ghost of Jane Shore to them Ghost . Perhaps you know me not , yet take a view , See what I am , I was once such as you I was a whore a Royal Mistress too . ( 4 ) I was a woman of Egregious fame And like you two I gloried in my shame Edward my Lord was , and Jane Shore my name . I liv'd in splendour and enjoy'd delights , Feasted all day and in Loves luscious rights , Between a Monarchs Arms wore out the Nights . But when at last my happy Monarch dy'd , I lost my Riches Pleasures and my Pride , And all that ere was sweet or good beside . Alas , remember what of me became , My honour stain'd and black was all my fame , Scorn of the People to my self a shame . A wretch I grew wish'd I were never born , Poor and Contemn'd and every Rascals scorn , Unpitied dy'd most wretched and forlorn . But happy had I been had this been all , Or if that I had had no farther fallen , But Hell on my misdeeds aloud did call . Tormented in the flames of Hell below , No ease from Torment pain and endless woe For pleasures passed my scorched soul does know . Short were my pleasures while I lived here , And those were also mixed with grief and fear But pain Eternal's in the lower sphere - You two great Women great in lust and since Repent , repent , and to reform begin , For your reward you Hell at last will win . Rivals look on me and Contend no more , What you are now I once was long before , Yet I am damn'd altho' a Royal Whore . LONDON Printed for J. Smith . A DIALOGUE between the D. of C. and the D. of P. at their meeting in PARIS , With the Ghost of Jane Shore . C. ARt thou return'd my sister Concubine , For all those subtle Cunning Arts of thine . With which thou didst subdue our Monarchs heart And would'st not let me with thee share a part . Tho my great beauty did that heart subdue , Long ere it could so meanly stoop to you ? P. I am return'd to see my native France , The place where first I saw the world by Chance . Tho mean by Birth , yet Fortune this can do , Help by the charms of Wit and Beauty too , Me thinks my Port and my illustrious Train , Should rather move your envy than Disdain , C. My envy ! no thy meanness I despise . Thou art a Beggar still though in disguise . The noble Ladys of the Gallick Cou [ rt ] Will mock at your fine gaudy Train and Port. Thy Convers and thy Company they'l scorn , Since thou of Genteel Blood was't never born . P. The King's Example Duchess you will find , Shall make the Ladys of this Court more kind , For many services for him I'ave done , Which he I'm sure with Kindness now will own . I'ave serv'd him with my person and my Wit , But how , to tell you Madam , 'tis not fit . C. If you have ought for this great Monarch done , He'l make you then some Abbless or a Nun. For I do find 'tis not the guise of France Their Whores to noble Titles to advance But Usually the Royal Miss is sent , To some Religious Cloister to repent . P [ 2 ] P. It is not yet that time of Day with me , Nor am I fallen to so low degree ; More joyful days I yet do hope to see . Tho I have here of English Guinies store , I thither will return , and get me more . England will me a plenteous Harvest Yield , Here to buy Lands and Palaces to Built . C. Methinks you talk at and immodest rate , Thou French She-Horse-lecch of the English state : Rome us'd to draw its richest Treasures thence The English Gold was chang'd to Peters pence : But now that Room can draw from thence no more It is Enhanced by a Gallick ------ P. If I'm immodest me thinks you are Vain Thus Idly of my riches to Complain : England did once to you and Harvest Yield , Alas ! I'ave but the gleanings of the field . Gold fell into your Lap with a spring tide , But you have spent it on your Lust and Pride ; Your time is passed the Lust has made you old , And to be serv'd you now must give your gold . Or fumble with some weak old Clergy man To get a spill your royet to maintain . C. Oh Madam you must needs be very chaste If as they say the prior you embrac'd I Laugh to hear of Chastity from you As if a Whore was E're to one man true . I own my nature it is brave and high , With Messalina I my self could Vie . Let a dull Husband lie with her that's chaste I by a Prince am fit to be embrac'd . P. Brag not , your decay'd beauty is grown stale , And all your Arts no longer can prevail . I yet retain my glorious Conquering Charms . While you are banish'd from a Monarchs Arms Alas your Beauty now is in the wain No Art Can e're renew that Face again , Madam the shining glories are all set Which makes you thus at the successor fret . C. Dull tool , my eyes yet sparkle and are good , I feel a vigorous May yet in my blood , I'm found and free from any foul disease , Can warm a Lover and know how to please . While thou Corrupted scents the very room In spite of Essences and strange perfume . I can't but wonder by what Magic Art Thou e're could'st Conquer a great Monarchs heart , That babys Face of thine ? and those black eyes , Me thinks should ne'r and Heroes Love surprise . None that are had eyes e're saw in that French face O're much of Beauty from or Comely grace . [ 3 ] P. You are my Rival and may me despise But Lovers see not with your envious eyes . If you in beauty have the greatest share , And if that mine cannot with yours Compare My wit exceeds and yours have prov'd but ill , Since you'r Cast off and I am Courted still . C. When I did reign I like a Queen did show , I sat above and saw Crown'd heads below , Of Jewels and of Gold I had such store , I knew not how to seek or wish for more . To me the Idols of the Court all bow'd , I was adored by the numerous Crowd . Till thou wertenberg seen who with some Magic spell , Some charm or philtre that was made in Hell ; Didst my great Heroes heart then steal away , And took by hell bred Arts my Beauty's Prey . This be my comfort I did first subdue , They were my Leavings that were shar'd to you . P. It shows my Wit and Beauty had most power , When I subdu'd your mighty Conqueror ; And that I broke into your Beauty's Charms , And ravished your Hero from your Arms. I'ave rul'd as well as you and my French pate , Have div'd into the great intrigues of State : In Balls and Masques you revel'd out your nights , But Madam I did relish state delights , My politics and Arts were deeper Bred , Than ever came into your shallow Head , Vain Pride and pleasure were the things you sought , While that four Kingdoms did employ my thought . States men did know that you were but a fool , But they from me took Measures how to Rule . C. And yet I see you are turned off at last , And all your cunning policies Misplac'd . P. You are deceiv'd , and I shall make you mourn , When you shall see me Madam back return Mind you your pleasures game your time away , My business will not let me lo [ n ] her stay . To our great Monarch I have much to say . C. If back to England thou should'st e're return , May thou become the common Peoples scorn . May against thee the London Pre [ ? ] rise , And may they pull out thy bewitching eyes . Against that time I will go learn to Curse , That Pox or Plague I'le wish thee something worse . What spector's this ! P. Oh Heav'ns what have we here ! My Joints do tremble and my soul does fear . The Ghost of Jane Shore to them Ghost . Perhaps you know me not , yet take a view , See what I am , I was once such as you I was a whore a Royal Mistress too . ( 4 ) I was a woman of Egregious fame And like you two I gloried in my shame Edward my Lord was , and Jane Shore my name . I liv'd in splendour and enjoy'd delights , Feasted all day and in Loves luscious rights , Between a Monarchs Arms wore out the Nights . But when at last my happy Monarch dy'd , I lost my Riches Pleasures and my Pride , And all that ere was sweet or good beside . Alas , remember what of me became , My honour stain'd and black was all my fame , Scorn of the People to my self a shame . A wretch I grew wish'd I were never born , Poor and Contemn'd and every Rascals scorn , Unpitied dy'd most wretched and forlorn . But happy had I been had this been all , Or if that I had had no farther fallen , But Hell on my misdeeds aloud did call . Tormented in the flames of Hell below , No ease from Torment pain and endless woe For pleasures passed my scorched soul does know . Short were my pleasures while I lived here , And those were also mixed with grief and fear But pain Eternal's in the lower sphere - You two great Women great in lust and since Repent , repent , and to reform begin , For your reward you Hell at last will win . Rivals look on me and Contend no more , What you are now I once was long before , Yet I am damn'd altho' a Royal Whore . LONDON Printed for J. Smith . 