The Gallant SEAMAN's Resolution ; Whose full Intent was , To try his Fortune at SEA , and at his Return marry his Landlady If Heaven be pleas'd to bless him with his life , None but his Landlady shall be his Wife : She being a Widow , as this understood , Of Carriage and Behaviour very good . To the Tune , Think on thy Loving Landlady , etc A Gallant Youth at Gravesend liv'd , a Seaman neither rich nor poor ; But when his means was almost spent , he bravely went to Sea for more : Turn to thy Love and take a kiss , this Gold about thy wrist i'll tie ; And always when thou look'st on this , think on thy loving Landlady . His Father being dead and gone , he lov'd his Mother as his life , And did maintain her gallantly ; it was well known he had no Wife : Turn to thy Love , etc He was belov'd of Rich and Poor , and still kept company with the best , A gallant Widow in the Town , her love unto him thus express TO [ urn to tO ] h [ y ] Love , etc Young Man could I thy favour win , or might thy company but crave , To come and live at home with me , i'll make thee Lord of all I have : Turn to thy Love , etc Fair Mistress , I am for the Seas , here's Gold and Silver in my hand , And when the Drums & Trumpets found I'll bid adieu to fair England : And if thou wilt with patience stay , till I from Sea return again ; For every kiss thou lendest me , I will repay thee ten times ten . Do but resolve to stay at home , I'll put another in thy place , No , that will be a shame , quoth he , and to my name a foul disgrace : Turn to thy Love , etc I have five hundred pound at least , of Silver which I never told , Beside I have in store for thee , five hundred pound in good read Gold : Turn to thy love , etc If you could give me all the wealth , that ever Europe did afford : A faithful promise I have made , and I will not be worse than my word . And if thou wilt , etc If neither strength nor policy , can further me in my design , Remain a constant friend to me , and I forever will be thine : Turn to thy love , etc And while that breath and life does last , to me this thing i'le verify ; Though you at Sea , and I on shore , I'le prey for thy prosperity : Turn to thy love , etc Heaven bless the Ship thou sailest in , whither it swim with wind or tide , And all that with thee comes or goes , I hope that Neptune will them guide : Turn to thy love , etc From Pirates knocks , and bloody blows , great Mars protect thee still , Nor may Quicksands or stony Rocks , have power to do thee any ill . Turn to thy love , etc And while that thou art far away , in Holland , Flanders , France , or Spain , As thou in safety didst launch forth , heaven bring thee safely home again . Turn to thy love , etc If I may speak without offence , my heart will never quiet be , Till thou give me full recompense , and say'st that I thy Wife shall be ; Turn to thy love , etc Yet one thing here I beg of thee , before from me thou dost depart , That thou wilt let now om know the thoughts and secrets of thy heart Turn to thy love , etc When thou art gone out of my sighed , and com'st where pretty Lasses are , Thou wilt fallen in love [ w ] ith some of them , that is the thing I most do fear . Turn to thy love , etc If I should hear in any case , that to some other thou shouldst married be , Then would I weep , lament and grieve , and break my heart for love of thee . Turn to thy love , etc The Seamans Reply . HArk , hark , I hear the Trumpet found , and calls me to come away , Therefore in haste I must be gone , I can nor will no longer stay . And if thou wilt , etc Therefore sweet Lady now farewell , more than a thousand times adieu , Wherever I pass by Land or Sea , I'le still be faithful unto you . And if , etc This Golden Ribbon which you ty'd about my hand wrist in pure love , Shall be a token while I live , that I to you will constant prove . And if , etc And when that I return again , if heavens afford me breath and life , You that are now my Landlady , shall then be made my wedded Wife . And if , etc The Bells' shall ring melodiously , the Music shall most sweetly play , And all our Friends will then rejoice , to see our happy Wedding day : And if thou wilt with patience stay , till I from Sea return again ; For every kiss thou lendest me , I will repay thee ten times ten . Printed by and for A. Milbourn , and sold by the Booksellers of Pye-Corner , and London-Bridge . The Gallant SEAMAN's Resolution ; Whose full Intent was , To try his Fortune at SEA , and at his Return marry his Landlady If Heaven be pleas'd to bless him with his life , None but his Landlady shall be his Wife : She being a Widow , as this understood , Of Carriage and Behaviour very good . To the Tune , Think on thy Loving Landlady , etc A Gallant Youth at Gravesend liv'd , a Seaman neither rich nor poor ; But when his means was almost spent , he bravely went to Sea for more : Turn to thy Love and take a kiss , this Gold about thy wrist i'll tie ; And always when thou look'st on this , think on thy loving Landlady . His Father being dead and gone , he lov'd his Mother as his life , And did maintain her gallantly ; it was well known he had no Wife : Turn to thy Love , etc He was belov'd of Rich and Poor , and still kept company with the best , A gallant Widow in the Town , her love unto him thus express TO [ urn to tO ] h [ y ] Love , etc Young Man could I thy favour win , or might thy company but crave , To come and live at home with me , i'll make thee Lord of all I have : Turn to thy Love , etc Fair Mistress , I am for the Seas , here's Gold and Silver in my hand , And when the Drums & Trumpets found I'll bid adieu to fair England : And if thou wilt with patience stay , till I from Sea return again ; For every kiss thou lendest me , I will repay thee ten times ten . Do but resolve to stay at home , I'll put another in thy place , No , that will be a shame , quoth he , and to my name a foul disgrace : Turn to thy Love , etc I have five hundred pound at least , of Silver which I never told , Beside I have in store for thee , five hundred pound in good read Gold : Turn to thy love , etc If you could give me all the wealth , that ever Europe did afford : A faithful promise I have made , and I will not be worse than my word . And if thou wilt , etc If neither strength nor policy , can further me in my design , Remain a constant friend to me , and I forever will be thine : Turn to thy love , etc And while that breath and life does last , to me this thing i'le verify ; Though you at Sea , and I on shore , I'le prey for thy prosperity : Turn to thy love , etc Heaven bless the Ship thou sailest in , whither it swim with wind or tide , And all that with thee comes or goes , I hope that Neptune will them guide : Turn to thy love , etc From Pirates knocks , and bloody blows , great Mars protect thee still , Nor may Quicksands or stony Rocks , have power to do thee any ill . Turn to thy love , etc And while that thou art far away , in Holland , Flanders , France , or Spain , As thou in safety didst launch forth , heaven bring thee safely home again . Turn to thy love , etc If I may speak without offence , my heart will never quiet be , Till thou give me full recompense , and say'st that I thy Wife shall be ; Turn to thy love , etc Yet one thing here I beg of thee , before from me thou dost depart , That thou wilt let now om know the thoughts and secrets of thy heart Turn to thy love , etc When thou art gone out of my sighed , and com'st where pretty Lasses are , Thou wilt fallen in love [ w ] ith some of them , that is the thing I most do fear . Turn to thy love , etc If I should hear in any case , that to some other thou shouldst married be , Then would I weep , lament and grieve , and break my heart for love of thee . Turn to thy love , etc The Seamans Reply . HArk , hark , I hear the Trumpet found , and calls me to come away , Therefore in haste I must be gone , I can nor will no longer stay . And if thou wilt , etc Therefore sweet Lady now farewell , more than a thousand times adieu , Wherever I pass by Land or Sea , I'le still be faithful unto you . And if , etc This Golden Ribbon which you ty'd about my hand wrist in pure love , Shall be a token while I live , that I to you will constant prove . And if , etc And when that I return again , if heavens afford me breath and life , You that are now my Landlady , shall then be made my wedded Wife . And if , etc The Bells' shall ring melodiously , the Music shall most sweetly play , And all our Friends will then rejoice , to see our happy Wedding day : And if thou wilt with patience stay , till I from Sea return again ; For every kiss thou lendest me , I will repay thee ten times ten . Printed by and for A. Milbourn , and sold by the Booksellers of Pye-Corner , and London-Bridge . 