THE Loyal Subjects LITTANY . FRom sawing the Crown 'twixt Fanatics and Friars , From Whitehall Scaffolds and Smithfield Fires , From the Jesuits Morals outdone by the Tryers , Libera nos Domine . From every Religion which Treason allows , From the Geneva stiffness and the Roman bows , From affronting of God , or adoring of Shows , Libera nos Domine . From slicing the Pope into Presbyter John , More saucy in Consort than he is alone , From a Legion of Devils to extirpate one , Libera nos Domine . From fermenting the Rout with Chimerical fears , From buying with Blood and enjoying with Tears , A Liberty copied by that of Argiers , Libera nos Domine . From being twice chous'd with the same sort of Cant , From defending the King by Scotch Covenant , From reforming the Church till we leave nothing on't , Libera nos Domine . From a Bifronted Conscience like the Sign of and Alehouse , That faces the Church , and out faces the Gallows , With one side stark raw , and the other side Callous , Libera nos Domine . From a Supreme Vicar to shackle the King , From a long round Senate which means the same thing , From a Monk without , and a Devil within , Libera nos Domine . From advancing Gods Church by such sins as wo'd fright you , From listing of Rebels to aid the Almighty , From taking of Ratsbane for Elixir Vitae , Libera nos Domine . From the Popish rage and the Popular fret , Which with brotherly Malice their Sov'raign beset , From rescinding Bull , and reforming Bullet , Libera nos Domine . From the Lords in the Tower , and the Lords that are out , From assaulting the King by Dagger or Vote , From our Ruin point blank , or Nine Mile about , Libera nos Domine . From the Dark Lanthorn-Plot , and the Green Ribbon Club , From brewing Sedition in a Sanctified Tub , From reforming a Prince by the Model of Job , Libera nos Domine . From the National Wealth by a Junto possessed , By cajoling of one half , and plundering the rest . From the Commonwealths Arms with his Holiness's Crest . Libera nos Domine . LONDON , Printed in the Year 1680. THE Loyal Subjects LITTANY . FRom sawing the Crown 'twixt Fanatics and Friars , From Whitehall Scaffolds and Smithfield Fires , From the Jesuits Morals outdone by the Tryers , Libera nos Domine . From every Religion which Treason allows , From the Geneva stiffness and the Roman bows , From affronting of God , or adoring of Shows , Libera nos Domine . From slicing the Pope into Presbyter John , More saucy in Consort than he is alone , From a Legion of Devils to extirpate one , Libera nos Domine . From fermenting the Rout with Chimerical fears , From buying with Blood and enjoying with Tears , A Liberty copied by that of Argiers , Libera nos Domine . From being twice chous'd with the same sort of Cant , From defending the King by Scotch Covenant , From reforming the Church till we leave nothing on't , Libera nos Domine . From a Bifronted Conscience like the Sign of and Alehouse , That faces the Church , and out faces the Gallows , With one side stark raw , and the other side Callous , Libera nos Domine . From a Supreme Vicar to shackle the King , From a long round Senate which means the same thing , From a Monk without , and a Devil within , Libera nos Domine . From advancing Gods Church by such sins as wo'd fright you , From listing of Rebels to aid the Almighty , From taking of Ratsbane for Elixir Vitae , Libera nos Domine . From the Popish rage and the Popular fret , Which with brotherly Malice their Sov'raign beset , From rescinding Bull , and reforming Bullet , Libera nos Domine . From the Lords in the Tower , and the Lords that are out , From assaulting the King by Dagger or Vote , From our Ruin point blank , or Nine Mile about , Libera nos Domine . From the Dark Lanthorn-Plot , and the Green Ribbon Club , From brewing Sedition in a Sanctified Tub , From reforming a Prince by the Model of Job , Libera nos Domine . From the National Wealth by a Junto possessed , By cajoling of one half , and plundering the rest . From the Commonwealths Arms with his Holiness's Crest . Libera nos Domine . LONDON , Printed in the Year 1680. 