The Valiant Commander , with his Resolute Lady . SHOWING , A brief Discourse of a Commander bold , Who had a wife was worth her weight in gold ; She bravely fought to save her Husbands life , Let all men judge , was not this a Valiant Wife ? To a New Northern Tune , called , I would give ten thousand pounds , etc or Ned Smith . GAllants come list a while , a Story I shall tell , Of a Commander bold , and what to him befell , He was besieged round , in Chester City fair , His Lady being with him which fill'd his heart with care This unto her he said , dearest come thou to me , I would give ten thousand pound thou wertenberg in Shrewsbury . O my own hearts delight , my joy and Turtle-Dove , More dear then mine own life , heavens know I do thee love . Those beauteous looks of thine , my senses set on fire , Yea though I love thee well , thy absence I desire , This unto her he said , etc Thy fair read coloured cheeks , and thy bright shining eye , Makes me always inflam'd , with thy sweet company . Thy breath smells far more sweet then does sweet Frankincense , And yet for all those Fumes , I wish thee farther hence , This makes me sing and say , etc Look how my Uncle stands , I dare not him come near , Because I love the King , and am a Cavalier , Yet for my Lady and her Son , my heart does bleed for thee , I would give ten thousand pound they were in Shrewsbury , They were in Shrewsbury , some comfort for to find , among the Cavaliers , to ease a troubled mind . My heart bleeds in my breast , for my fair Ladies sake , And how to save her life , I know no course to take : Hark how the drums do beatrice , and warlike Trumpets found , See how the Musqueteers have now begirt us round . The Soldiers they cry out , kill , kill , no quarter give , What hope's then can I have . that my true Love should live . WHen he thus spoken had , his Lady he forsook , And with a manly heart , his sword in hand he took , Farewell my Lady dear , now will I bandy blows , And fight myself to death among'st my desperate foes , Dearest farewell from me , farewell farewell from me , I would give ten thousand pound thou wertenberg in Shrewsbury . His Lady seeing then , the danger they were in , She like a Soldier bold , nobly then did begin , My trusty Love ( quoth she ) since thou so valiant art , Whate're becomes of me , stoutly i'le take thy part . Dearest cast care away , let kisses comfort thee , Thou and i'le ne'r depart , i'le live and die with thee . Put me on men attire , give me a Soldiers Coat , I'le make King Charles his foes , quickly to change their note , Cock your match , prime your pan let piercing bullets fly , I do not care a Pin , whither I live or die . Dearest cast care away , let kisses comfort thee , Thou and i'le ne'r depart , i'le live and die with thee . She took a Musquet then , and a sword by her side , In disguise like a man her valour so she try'd , And with her truelove she , march'd forth courageously , And made away with speed , quite through the Enemy , Dearest cast care away , let kisses comfort thee , Thou and i'le ne'r depart , i'le Live and Die with thee . These Soldiers brave and bold , behav'd themselves so well , That all the Northern parts , of their deserts can tell . Thus have you herd the News , of a most valiant wight , And of his Lady brave , how stoutly she did fight , Dearest cast care away , let kisses comfort thee , Thou and i'le ne'r depart , I'le live and die with thee . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J , W. J. Clarke , W. Thackeray and T. Passenger The Valiant Commander , with his Resolute Lady . SHOWING , A brief Discourse of a Commander bold , Who had a wife was worth her weight in gold ; She bravely fought to save her Husbands life , Let all men judge , was not this a Valiant Wife ? To a New Northern Tune , called , I would give ten thousand pounds , etc or Ned Smith . GAllants come list a while , a Story I shall tell , Of a Commander bold , and what to him befell , He was besieged round , in Chester City fair , His Lady being with him which fill'd his heart with care This unto her he said , dearest come thou to me , I would give ten thousand pound thou wertenberg in Shrewsbury . O my own hearts delight , my joy and Turtle-Dove , More dear then mine own life , heavens know I do thee love . Those beauteous looks of thine , my senses set on fire , Yea though I love thee well , thy absence I desire , This unto her he said , etc Thy fair read coloured cheeks , and thy bright shining eye , Makes me always inflam'd , with thy sweet company . Thy breath smells far more sweet then does sweet Frankincense , And yet for all those Fumes , I wish thee farther hence , This makes me sing and say , etc Look how my Uncle stands , I dare not him come near , Because I love the King , and am a Cavalier , Yet for my Lady and her Son , my heart does bleed for thee , I would give ten thousand pound they were in Shrewsbury , They were in Shrewsbury , some comfort for to find , among the Cavaliers , to ease a troubled mind . My heart bleeds in my breast , for my fair Ladies sake , And how to save her life , I know no course to take : Hark how the drums do beatrice , and warlike Trumpets found , See how the Musqueteers have now begirt us round . The Soldiers they cry out , kill , kill , no quarter give , What hope's then can I have . that my true Love should live . WHen he thus spoken had , his Lady he forsook , And with a manly heart , his sword in hand he took , Farewell my Lady dear , now will I bandy blows , And fight myself to death among'st my desperate foes , Dearest farewell from me , farewell farewell from me , I would give ten thousand pound thou wertenberg in Shrewsbury . His Lady seeing then , the danger they were in , She like a Soldier bold , nobly then did begin , My trusty Love ( quoth she ) since thou so valiant art , Whate're becomes of me , stoutly i'le take thy part . Dearest cast care away , let kisses comfort thee , Thou and i'le ne'r depart , i'le live and die with thee . Put me on men attire , give me a Soldiers Coat , I'le make King Charles his foes , quickly to change their note , Cock your match , prime your pan let piercing bullets fly , I do not care a Pin , whither I live or die . Dearest cast care away , let kisses comfort thee , Thou and i'le ne'r depart , i'le live and die with thee . She took a Musquet then , and a sword by her side , In disguise like a man her valour so she try'd , And with her truelove she , march'd forth courageously , And made away with speed , quite through the Enemy , Dearest cast care away , let kisses comfort thee , Thou and i'le ne'r depart , i'le Live and Die with thee . These Soldiers brave and bold , behav'd themselves so well , That all the Northern parts , of their deserts can tell . Thus have you herd the News , of a most valiant wight , And of his Lady brave , how stoutly she did fight , Dearest cast care away , let kisses comfort thee , Thou and i'le ne'r depart , I'le live and die with thee . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J , W. J. Clarke , W. Thackeray and T. Passenger 