The SECOND PART of The Loyal Subject's LITANY . FRom measuring Devotion with Beads or with Sand , In a Language or Phrase that we don't understand ; From a Preacher with Relics or Spoons in his hand , Libera nos Domine . From stripping Religion to avoid the Excesses Of a cumbersome Ruff , and a Collar of SS ; From His Holiness , and Their Holinesses , Libera nos Domine . From Plot upon Plot , which no Herald admits , Nor any Man else that is well in his Wits ; From Conscience that comes like and Ague , by Fits , Libera nos Domine . From the Pope in One Stick , or the Pope in a Faggot ; From the Catholic Worm , and Schismatical Maggot ; From such as swear round to keep what they ha' god , Libera nos Domine . From Penance reformed to a Stool of Repentance ; From a new Inquisition to aid the Tridentines , And the Savager Courts where the Godly give Sentence , Libera nos Domine . From setting Christ's Vicar to tease his Vicegerent ; From the Saints in whom the same since is inherent , The best Friends he has , though they seldom appear in't , Libera nos Domine . From St. Omers Consult , and a Leyden Cabal , Inveterate Foes both to Pauls and Whitehall ; From a Plot pro and con , like a Tennis-ball , Libera nos Domine . From the Roman Disease , and Geneva Physician ; From admitting Profaneness to purge Superstition ; From Raviliack's or Bradshaw's Commission , Libera nos Domine . From taking the Covenant , or balking the Test ; From both the Renouncers when th' are but in jest ; From the Pope's hatching Eggs in a Presbyter's Nest , Libera nos Domine . From the Godly Disguises of Cropping and Shaving , The different Ear-marks of Fooling and Knaving , Though both can do both for the sake of Soulsaving , Libera nos Domine . From a Jesuit transformed to a Sanctified Elder , And cursing Romes Church [ to ] her dear Hans-en-Kelder ; From hugging her Brats , and yet hope w' have expell'd her , Libera nos Domine . From the Mass and the Directory bound in one Volumn ; From the Trent Conventicle , and the Dort What d'e call 'um ; From the Votaries of Saints , & those that Peter 'um Paul 'um , Libera nos Domine . From transforming a Cowl to and alamode Jump ; From the Jusuit's Bucket in the Minister's Pump ; From a Representative Monster , that's all over Rump , Libera nos Domine . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for B. Took . 1680. The SECOND PART of The Loyal Subject's LITANY . FRom measuring Devotion with Beads or with Sand , In a Language or Phrase that we don't understand ; From a Preacher with Relics or Spoons in his hand , Libera nos Domine . From stripping Religion to avoid the Excesses Of a cumbersome Ruff , and a Collar of SS ; From His Holiness , and Their Holinesses , Libera nos Domine . From Plot upon Plot , which no Herald admits , Nor any Man else that is well in his Wits ; From Conscience that comes like and Ague , by Fits , Libera nos Domine . From the Pope in One Stick , or the Pope in a Faggot ; From the Catholic Worm , and Schismatical Maggot ; From such as swear round to keep what they ha' god , Libera nos Domine . From Penance reformed to a Stool of Repentance ; From a new Inquisition to aid the Tridentines , And the Savager Courts where the Godly give Sentence , Libera nos Domine . From setting Christ's Vicar to tease his Vicegerent ; From the Saints in whom the same since is inherent , The best Friends he has , though they seldom appear in't , Libera nos Domine . From St. Omers Consult , and a Leyden Cabal , Inveterate Foes both to Pauls and Whitehall ; From a Plot pro and con , like a Tennis-ball , Libera nos Domine . From the Roman Disease , and Geneva Physician ; From admitting Profaneness to purge Superstition ; From Raviliack's or Bradshaw's Commission , Libera nos Domine . From taking the Covenant , or balking the Test ; From both the Renouncers when th' are but in jest ; From the Pope's hatching Eggs in a Presbyter's Nest , Libera nos Domine . From the Godly Disguises of Cropping and Shaving , The different Ear-marks of Fooling and Knaving , Though both can do both for the sake of Soulsaving , Libera nos Domine . From a Jesuit transformed to a Sanctified Elder , And cursing Romes Church [ to ] her dear Hans-en-Kelder ; From hugging her Brats , and yet hope w' have expell'd her , Libera nos Domine . From the Mass and the Directory bound in one Volumn ; From the Trent Conventicle , and the Dort What d'e call 'um ; From the Votaries of Saints , & those that Peter 'um Paul 'um , Libera nos Domine . From transforming a Cowl to and alamode Jump ; From the Jusuit's Bucket in the Minister's Pump ; From a Representative Monster , that's all over Rump , Libera nos Domine . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for B. Took . 1680. 