Libertatis Amator : A LITANY . FROM the lawless Dominion of Mitre and Crown , Whose Tyrannies are Absolute grown ; That Men become Slaves to Altar and Throne , And can call neither Bodies , nor Souls their own . Libera Nos Domine . From a Reverend bawling Theological Professor , From a Protestant Zealous for a Popish Successor : Who for a great Benefice still leaves a lesser , And ne'er will die Martyr , nor make good Confessor , Libera Nos , etc From Deans , and from Chapters , who live at their Eases , Whose Lechery lies in renewing Church Leases ; Who live in Cathedrals , like Maggots in Cheeses , And lie like Abbey Lubbers stew'd in their own Greases , Libera Nos , etc From Oxford and Cambridge , Scholastical Fry , Whose Leachery's with their Landress to lie ; Of Church and State their Wants to supply , That Religion and Learning may never die , Libera Nos , etc From a Holbourn-Hill Parson , whose Pulpit rings , With Jure Divino of Bishops and Kings : And from the true Scripture false Evidence brings , That Kingship and Priesthood are two sacred Things , Libera Nos , etc From a Minister of the English Church Breed , Mother Church's own Son by Episcopal Seed ; Who with Tale-Tub , can burlesque Lord's Prayer and Creed , And can the whole Bible Ridicule for a need . Libera Nos , etc From a Scandalous , Limping , Litigious Vicar , Of whom his Parish grows sicker and sicker ; Who taught his dull Maid to grow quicker and quicker , And who stole the Tankard when he drunk out the Liquour , Libera Nos , etc From and Altar-Piece Monger , who rails at Dissenters , And Damns Nonconformists in the Pulpit he enters : Yet all the Week long his own Soul he ventures , By being so Drunk that he cutteth Indentures . Libera Nos , etc From young Boys Ordain'd , whose Beards are not grown ; From a Journey-Man Preacher , to some dignify'd Drone : Who , whatever Text he Preaches upon , Still talks of Rebellion and Forty One , Libera Nos , etc From a Protestant Church , where a Papist must reign ; From a High Tory Parliament , to England a Stain : Who because some honest Members the Plot wou'd make plain , Their Elections made void , and they sent Home again , Libera Nos , etc From Fools , Knaves and Villains , Prerogative Tories , From Church that for the Babylon Whore is ; From a Pretended Prince , like Pear rotten at Core is , From a Court that has Millions , yet as Job poor is . Libera Nos , etc From all that would the Hanover Succession bambouzle , And those Villains that honest Men's Mouths wou'd up Muzzle , From those that love nothing but French Wine to guzzle , And with their Knavish Quirks , and Tricks us would puzzle . Libera Nos , etc From a W ------ r at St. J ------ s's , and another at Paris , From the Harliquin Plot well known to Bob. Farriss , Deliver us , Lord , from this very Thing , From the Sham Prince of Wales , and the French King . Libertatis Amator : A LITANY . FROM the lawless Dominion of Mitre and Crown , Whose Tyrannies are Absolute grown ; That Men become Slaves to Altar and Throne , And can call neither Bodies , nor Souls their own . Libera Nos Domine . From a Reverend bawling Theological Professor , From a Protestant Zealous for a Popish Successor : Who for a great Benefice still leaves a lesser , And ne'er will die Martyr , nor make good Confessor , Libera Nos , etc From Deans , and from Chapters , who live at their Eases , Whose Lechery lies in renewing Church Leases ; Who live in Cathedrals , like Maggots in Cheeses , And lie like Abbey Lubbers stew'd in their own Greases , Libera Nos , etc From Oxford and Cambridge , Scholastical Fry , Whose Leachery's with their Landress to lie ; Of Church and State their Wants to supply , That Religion and Learning may never die , Libera Nos , etc From a Holbourn-Hill Parson , whose Pulpit rings , With Jure Divino of Bishops and Kings : And from the true Scripture false Evidence brings , That Kingship and Priesthood are two sacred Things , Libera Nos , etc From a Minister of the English Church Breed , Mother Church's own Son by Episcopal Seed ; Who with Tale-Tub , can burlesque Lord's Prayer and Creed , And can the whole Bible Ridicule for a need . Libera Nos , etc From a Scandalous , Limping , Litigious Vicar , Of whom his Parish grows sicker and sicker ; Who taught his dull Maid to grow quicker and quicker , And who stole the Tankard when he drunk out the Liquour , Libera Nos , etc From and Altar-Piece Monger , who rails at Dissenters , And Damns Nonconformists in the Pulpit he enters : Yet all the Week long his own Soul he ventures , By being so Drunk that he cutteth Indentures . Libera Nos , etc From young Boys Ordain'd , whose Beards are not grown ; From a Journey-Man Preacher , to some dignify'd Drone : Who , whatever Text he Preaches upon , Still talks of Rebellion and Forty One , Libera Nos , etc From a Protestant Church , where a Papist must reign ; From a High Tory Parliament , to England a Stain : Who because some honest Members the Plot wou'd make plain , Their Elections made void , and they sent Home again , Libera Nos , etc From Fools , Knaves and Villains , Prerogative Tories , From Church that for the Babylon Whore is ; From a Pretended Prince , like Pear rotten at Core is , From a Court that has Millions , yet as Job poor is . Libera Nos , etc From all that would the Hanover Succession bambouzle , And those Villains that honest Men's Mouths wou'd up Muzzle , From those that love nothing but French Wine to guzzle , And with their Knavish Quirks , and Tricks us would puzzle . Libera Nos , etc From a W ------ r at St. J ------ s's , and another at Paris , From the Harliquin Plot well known to Bob. Farriss , Deliver us , Lord , from this very Thing , From the Sham Prince of Wales , and the French King . 