A Pattern of true Love to you I will recite , Between a Fair young Lady , and a Courteous Knight . The Tune is , Dainty come thou to me . DEar Love regard my grief , do not my suit disdain , Oh yield me some relief , that am with sorrow slave : These long seven years & more have I still loved thee ; Do thou my joys restore fair Lady pity me . Pity my grievous pain , long suffered for thy sake , Do not my suit disdain that no time rest can take : These seven long years & more , have I still loved thee : Do thou my joys restore fair Lady pity me . How should I pity thee ? this Lady then reply'd , Thou art no match for me , thy suit must be deny'd : I am of Noble blood , you but of mean degree , It stands not for my good fondly to match with thee . This answer had he most , which cut his heart so deep , That on his bed full oft would he lie down and weep , With tears he did lament his forward destiny ; With sighs yet would he say , fair Lady pity me . While I live , I must Love so fancy urges me , My mind cannot remove , such is my constancy : My mind is nobly bent though I of low degree Sweet Lady give consent to love and pity me . The Lady hearing now the moan that he did make , Did of his suit allow and thus to him she spoke : Sir Knight mourn thou no more my faith I plighted to thee , May this thy joys restore , thou hast thy wish of me . But first sweet Love ( quoth she ) what shift then wilt thou make With speed to Marry me , and thy delight to take : I were a bargain bade to get a wanton wife , And loose with sorrow great thy sweet desired life . If that my Father knew the love I bear to thee , We both the same should rue , therefore be rul'd by me : When my Father is in bed , and all his waiting men , Through the window will I get see that you meet me then . Content Lady ( he said ) he's but a Coward Knight Whom ought shall make afraid to win a Lady bri [ g ] h Thus then they went away , but by the Master Cook Coming through the window wide was this fair Lady took . O gentle Cook ( quoth she ) do not my deed bewray Some favour to me show and let me pass away : Love that does conquer Kings forc'd me to do this deed , While others sits and sings make not my heart to bleed Not so ( then said the Cook ) fair Lady pardon me , Who can this trespass brook committed thus by thee ? My Lord your Father shall the matter understand , For false I will not be , neither for House nor Land. Then from the Ladies face , fell down the tears amain , She was in woeful case , and thus she made her moan : Was my own dear Love , little know'st thou my grief , Great sorrows must we prove , hope yielding no relief . HEr Father in a spleen , lock'd up his daughter brite And sent forth Armed men to take this worthy Knight . Who then was judg'd to be quite banish'd from the Land , Never his Love to see , so strict was the command . And at the Sessions next after the Knight was gone To his daughter full of woe they brought a hanged man : Whose head was smitten off , the Maidens truth to prove , Quoth her father ) wanton dame now take thee here thy Love . Her tears fell down amain , when this sighed she did see , And sorely did complain of Father's cruelty ; His body she did wash with tears that she did shed , And hundred times she kissed his body being dead . Alas my Love ( she said ) dear hast thou paid for me , Would God in Heavens bliss , my soul were now with thee . But while that I do live , a vow I here do make Seven years to live unwed for my true Lovers sake . Her Father hearing this , was grieved inwardly , He pardon'd her amiss and prais'd her constancy . And to this courteous Knight her Father did her wed ; God grant the like success where perfect love is bred . Printed for W. Thackeray at the Angel in Duck-Lane ; and for J.M. and A.M. A Pattern of true Love to you I will recite , Between a Fair young Lady , and a Courteous Knight . The Tune is , Dainty come thou to me . DEar Love regard my grief , do not my suit disdain , Oh yield me some relief , that am with sorrow slave : These long seven years & more have I still loved thee ; Do thou my joys restore fair Lady pity me . Pity my grievous pain , long suffered for thy sake , Do not my suit disdain that no time rest can take : These seven long years & more , have I still loved thee : Do thou my joys restore fair Lady pity me . How should I pity thee ? this Lady then reply'd , Thou art no match for me , thy suit must be deny'd : I am of Noble blood , you but of mean degree , It stands not for my good fondly to match with thee . This answer had he most , which cut his heart so deep , That on his bed full oft would he lie down and weep , With tears he did lament his forward destiny ; With sighs yet would he say , fair Lady pity me . While I live , I must Love so fancy urges me , My mind cannot remove , such is my constancy : My mind is nobly bent though I of low degree Sweet Lady give consent to love and pity me . The Lady hearing now the moan that he did make , Did of his suit allow and thus to him she spoke : Sir Knight mourn thou no more my faith I plighted to thee , May this thy joys restore , thou hast thy wish of me . But first sweet Love ( quoth she ) what shift then wilt thou make With speed to Marry me , and thy delight to take : I were a bargain bade to get a wanton wife , And loose with sorrow great thy sweet desired life . If that my Father knew the love I bear to thee , We both the same should rue , therefore be rul'd by me : When my Father is in bed , and all his waiting men , Through the window will I get see that you meet me then . Content Lady ( he said ) he's but a Coward Knight Whom ought shall make afraid to win a Lady bri [ g ] h Thus then they went away , but by the Master Cook Coming through the window wide was this fair Lady took . O gentle Cook ( quoth she ) do not my deed bewray Some favour to me show and let me pass away : Love that does conquer Kings forc'd me to do this deed , While others sits and sings make not my heart to bleed Not so ( then said the Cook ) fair Lady pardon me , Who can this trespass brook committed thus by thee ? My Lord your Father shall the matter understand , For false I will not be , neither for House nor Land. Then from the Ladies face , fell down the tears amain , She was in woeful case , and thus she made her moan : Was my own dear Love , little know'st thou my grief , Great sorrows must we prove , hope yielding no relief . HEr Father in a spleen , lock'd up his daughter brite And sent forth Armed men to take this worthy Knight . Who then was judg'd to be quite banish'd from the Land , Never his Love to see , so strict was the command . And at the Sessions next after the Knight was gone To his daughter full of woe they brought a hanged man : Whose head was smitten off , the Maidens truth to prove , Quoth her father ) wanton dame now take thee here thy Love . Her tears fell down amain , when this sighed she did see , And sorely did complain of Father's cruelty ; His body she did wash with tears that she did shed , And hundred times she kissed his body being dead . Alas my Love ( she said ) dear hast thou paid for me , Would God in Heavens bliss , my soul were now with thee . But while that I do live , a vow I here do make Seven years to live unwed for my true Lovers sake . Her Father hearing this , was grieved inwardly , He pardon'd her amiss and prais'd her constancy . And to this courteous Knight her Father did her wed ; God grant the like success where perfect love is bred . Printed for W. Thackeray at the Angel in Duck-Lane ; and for J.M. and A.M. 