( 1 ) The Trial of True love to you I will Recite , Between a fair young lady and a courteous knight The tune is , Dainty come thou to me , DEar Love regard my grief , do not my suit disdain . O yield me some relief that am with sorrow slave . These long seven years and more still have I loved thee , Do thou my joys restore , fair Lady pity me , Pity my grievous groan , long suffered for thy sake , Do not his suit disdain , that no time rest can take . These long seven years and more . still have I loved thee , Do thou my joys restore , fair Lady pity me , How should I pity thee , this Lady then reply'd . Thou art no match for me , thy suit must be deny'd . I am of Noble blood , thou but of mean degree , It stands not for my good , fondly to match with thee . This answer had he most , which cut his heart full deep , That on his bed full oft , would he lie down and weep . With tears he did lament , his froward destiny , With sighs , yet would he say , fair Lady pity me , While I live I must love , so fancy urges me , My mind cannot remove , such is my constancy . My mind is noble bent , though I of mean degree , Sweet Lady give consent , to love and pity me . The Lady hearing now , the moan that he did make , Did of his suit allow , and thus to him she speak . Sir Knight mourn thou no more , my faith I plighted to thee , May this thy joys restore , thou hast thy wish of me . But first sweet love quoth she , what shift then wilt thou make , With speed to marry me , and thy delight to take . It were a bargain bad , to get a wanton wife , And lose with sorrow great , thy sweet desired life . If that my Father knew . the love I bear to thee We both the same should rue , therefore be rul'd by me ; When my Father is in bed , and all his merry men . Through the window will I get see that you meet me then , COntent Lady he said , hee's but a Coward Knight , Whom ought shall make afraid , to win a Lady bright . Thus then they went away , but by the Master Cook , Coming through the window wide , was this fair Lady took . O gentle Cook quoth she , do not my deed bewray . Some favour to me show and let me pass away . Love that does conquer Kings , forc'd me to do this deed , While others sits and sings , make not my heart to bleed , Not so then said the Cook , fair Lady pardon me Who can this trespass brook , committed now by thee , My Lord your Father shall the matter understand , For falls I will not be , neither for house nor Land. Then from the Ladies face , fell down the tears amain , She was in woeful case , and thus she did complain . Alas my own dear Love , little knowest thou my grief , Great sorrows must we prove , hope yielding no relief . Her Fatger in a spleen , locked up his daughter bright , And sent forth armed men to take this worthy Knight . Who then was judg'd to be quite banished from the Land , Never his Love to see so strict was the command , And at the Sessions next , after the knight was gone , To his daughter full of woe , they brought a hanged man . Whose head was smitten off , the maidens truth to prove , Quoth her Father wanton Dame now take thee here thy love . Her tears fell down amain , when this sighed she did see , And soar she did complain of Father's cruelty His body she did wash , with tears that she did shed And hundred times she kissed , his body being dead . Alas my love she said , dear hast thou paid for me Would God in heavens bliss my soul were now with thee . But while that I do live a vow I here do make Seven years to live unwed for my True Lovers sake . Her Father hearing this was grieved inwardly He pardon'd her amiss and prais'd her constancy And to this courteous Knight her Father did her wed God grant the like success where perfect love is bred ; Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , W. Gilbertson . ( 1 ) The Trial of True love to you I will Recite , Between a fair young lady and a courteous knight The tune is , Dainty come thou to me , DEar Love regard my grief , do not my suit disdain . O yield me some relief that am with sorrow slave . These long seven years and more still have I loved thee , Do thou my joys restore , fair Lady pity me , Pity my grievous groan , long suffered for thy sake , Do not his suit disdain , that no time rest can take . These long seven years and more . still have I loved thee , Do thou my joys restore , fair Lady pity me , How should I pity thee , this Lady then reply'd . Thou art no match for me , thy suit must be deny'd . I am of Noble blood , thou but of mean degree , It stands not for my good , fondly to match with thee . This answer had he most , which cut his heart full deep , That on his bed full oft , would he lie down and weep . With tears he did lament , his froward destiny , With sighs , yet would he say , fair Lady pity me , While I live I must love , so fancy urges me , My mind cannot remove , such is my constancy . My mind is noble bent , though I of mean degree , Sweet Lady give consent , to love and pity me . The Lady hearing now , the moan that he did make , Did of his suit allow , and thus to him she speak . Sir Knight mourn thou no more , my faith I plighted to thee , May this thy joys restore , thou hast thy wish of me . But first sweet love quoth she , what shift then wilt thou make , With speed to marry me , and thy delight to take . It were a bargain bad , to get a wanton wife , And lose with sorrow great , thy sweet desired life . If that my Father knew . the love I bear to thee We both the same should rue , therefore be rul'd by me ; When my Father is in bed , and all his merry men . Through the window will I get see that you meet me then , COntent Lady he said , hee's but a Coward Knight , Whom ought shall make afraid , to win a Lady bright . Thus then they went away , but by the Master Cook , Coming through the window wide , was this fair Lady took . O gentle Cook quoth she , do not my deed bewray . Some favour to me show and let me pass away . Love that does conquer Kings , forc'd me to do this deed , While others sits and sings , make not my heart to bleed , Not so then said the Cook , fair Lady pardon me Who can this trespass brook , committed now by thee , My Lord your Father shall the matter understand , For falls I will not be , neither for house nor Land. Then from the Ladies face , fell down the tears amain , She was in woeful case , and thus she did complain . Alas my own dear Love , little knowest thou my grief , Great sorrows must we prove , hope yielding no relief . Her Fatger in a spleen , locked up his daughter bright , And sent forth armed men to take this worthy Knight . Who then was judg'd to be quite banished from the Land , Never his Love to see so strict was the command , And at the Sessions next , after the knight was gone , To his daughter full of woe , they brought a hanged man . Whose head was smitten off , the maidens truth to prove , Quoth her Father wanton Dame now take thee here thy love . Her tears fell down amain , when this sighed she did see , And soar she did complain of Father's cruelty His body she did wash , with tears that she did shed And hundred times she kissed , his body being dead . Alas my love she said , dear hast thou paid for me Would God in heavens bliss my soul were now with thee . But while that I do live a vow I here do make Seven years to live unwed for my True Lovers sake . Her Father hearing this was grieved inwardly He pardon'd her amiss and prais'd her constancy And to this courteous Knight her Father did her wed God grant the like success where perfect love is bred ; Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , W. Gilbertson . 