The Subtle Damosels Advice . This Damsel she had try'd all sorts , But could not find one true , And other Maidens she exhorts , To be careful what they do . Tune of , Jenny Gin , Or , The fair one let me in , Or , Young Pheon , Or , Busy Fame . GIve ear a while unto my Song , you Damsels bright and fair ; I think it does to me belong , to bid you have a care . For I by sad experience find , what I do tell to you , That Youngmen often prove unkind , though we prove ne'r so true . There Tom and Will two Shepherd Swains , whom once I did admire , Two finer Youths ne'r walk'd the Plains , they set my heart on fire . Then mind the words which I shall say , and here relate to you ; For Youngmen they the Knaves will play , though you prove ne'r so true . False Robert and the perjur'd Sam , their Oaths have quite forgo Oh how they us'd to swear and damn , they ne'r design'd a Plot . But yet these Villains both agreed mine honour to undo ; They would have wronged me indeed , that was so chaste and true . But Humphrey was a fine young Lad , and made a tearing show , Brave Clothes upon his back he had , though for them he did owe . He with a Tallyman did deal in little time I knew ; He thought my heart away to steal , though I was ever true . THen Henry with his lac'd Cravat , his Hatband all of Gold , A cunning trade he'd needs be at , but I thought him too bold ; Five hundred pound a year he had , bequeath'd him as his due ; But alas the Fool was not so mad , as to think that this was true . But Tony came to me most brave and gallant as the rest , But prov'd himself a very Knave , though love he did protes He would be grabling where indeed Youngmen had nought to do , I think by nature 'twas decreed , Youngmen should prove untrue . Sweet William he came smiling in , whose eyes did wound me soar , But when he did his tricks begin , I vow'd to love no more . So at the last he left me quite , which caus'd my heart to rue , For in his sighed was my delight , although he prov'd untrue . Poor Peter he came in at last , and vow'd he lov'd me dear , He thought my chastity to taste , but he was ne'r the near . I sent him into Whetstones Park , as I may tell to you , Where he might find a buxom spark , and like himself untrue . But George came in , in woeful case , so drunk he could not stand , He boldly star'd me in the face , with something in his hand . You drunken Puppy , out I cry'd , you know not what you do ; And all these youngmen I have try'd ; not one that I found true . Then Maidens all be rul'd by me , and look before you leap , lest youngmen do most cunningly into your favour creep . If they can but obtain their wills , I know what they will do , It is not words that Bushels fills , for Youngmen are untrue . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , in West-smithfield . The Subtle Damosels Advice . This Damsel she had try'd all sorts , But could not find one true , And other Maidens she exhorts , To be careful what they do . Tune of , Jenny Gin , Or , The fair one let me in , Or , Young Pheon , Or , Busy Fame . GIve ear a while unto my Song , you Damsels bright and fair ; I think it does to me belong , to bid you have a care . For I by sad experience find , what I do tell to you , That Youngmen often prove unkind , though we prove ne'r so true . There Tom and Will two Shepherd Swains , whom once I did admire , Two finer Youths ne'r walk'd the Plains , they set my heart on fire . Then mind the words which I shall say , and here relate to you ; For Youngmen they the Knaves will play , though you prove ne'r so true . False Robert and the perjur'd Sam , their Oaths have quite forgo Oh how they us'd to swear and damn , they ne'r design'd a Plot . But yet these Villains both agreed mine honour to undo ; They would have wronged me indeed , that was so chaste and true . But Humphrey was a fine young Lad , and made a tearing show , Brave Clothes upon his back he had , though for them he did owe . He with a Tallyman did deal in little time I knew ; He thought my heart away to steal , though I was ever true . THen Henry with his lac'd Cravat , his Hatband all of Gold , A cunning trade he'd needs be at , but I thought him too bold ; Five hundred pound a year he had , bequeath'd him as his due ; But alas the Fool was not so mad , as to think that this was true . But Tony came to me most brave and gallant as the rest , But prov'd himself a very Knave , though love he did protes He would be grabling where indeed Youngmen had nought to do , I think by nature 'twas decreed , Youngmen should prove untrue . Sweet William he came smiling in , whose eyes did wound me soar , But when he did his tricks begin , I vow'd to love no more . So at the last he left me quite , which caus'd my heart to rue , For in his sighed was my delight , although he prov'd untrue . Poor Peter he came in at last , and vow'd he lov'd me dear , He thought my chastity to taste , but he was ne'r the near . I sent him into Whetstones Park , as I may tell to you , Where he might find a buxom spark , and like himself untrue . But George came in , in woeful case , so drunk he could not stand , He boldly star'd me in the face , with something in his hand . You drunken Puppy , out I cry'd , you know not what you do ; And all these youngmen I have try'd ; not one that I found true . Then Maidens all be rul'd by me , and look before you leap , lest youngmen do most cunningly into your favour creep . If they can but obtain their wills , I know what they will do , It is not words that Bushels fills , for Youngmen are untrue . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , in West-smithfield . 