Horace Lib. I. Epistle the Ninth . Septimius , Claudi , nimirum , intelligit unus , Quanti me facias . etc To the RIGHT HONOURABLE R --- H --- , Esq ; DEAR Dick , howe'er it comes into his Head , Believes , as firmly as he does his Creed , That You and I , SIR , are extremely great ; Tho' I plain Matt , You Minister of State , One Word from me , without all doubt , he says Wou'd fix his Fortune in some little Place : Thus better than myself , it seems , he knows How far my Interest with my Patron goes , And answering all Objections I can make Still plunges deeper in his dear Mistake . From this wild Fancy , SIR , there may proceed One wilder yet , which I foresee and dread , That That I , in Fact , a real Interest have , Which to my own Advantage I wou'd save , And with the usual Courtier's Trick intend To serve myself , forgetful of my Friend . To shun this Censure I all Shame lay by , And make my Reason with his Will comply , Hoping for my Excuse 'twill be confessed , That of two Evils I have chosen the least . So , SIR , with this Epistolary Scroll , Receive the Partner of my inmost Soul , Him you will find in Letters and in Laws Not unexpert ; firm to his Countries Cause ; Warm in the Glorious Interest you pursue ; And , in one Word , a good Man and a true . FINIS . Printed for BERNARD LINTOTT , at the Cross-Keys , between the two Temple-Gates in Fleet-street . ( Price one Penny . ) Horace Lib. I. Epistle the Ninth . Septimius , Claudi , nimirum , intelligit unus , Quanti me facias . etc To the RIGHT HONOURABLE R --- H --- , Esq ; DEAR Dick , howe'er it comes into his Head , Believes , as firmly as he does his Creed , That You and I , SIR , are extremely great ; Tho' I plain Matt , You Minister of State , One Word from me , without all doubt , he says Wou'd fix his Fortune in some little Place : Thus better than myself , it seems , he knows How far my Interest with my Patron goes , And answering all Objections I can make Still plunges deeper in his dear Mistake . From this wild Fancy , SIR , there may proceed One wilder yet , which I foresee and dread , That That I , in Fact , a real Interest have , Which to my own Advantage I wou'd save , And with the usual Courtier's Trick intend To serve myself , forgetful of my Friend . To shun this Censure I all Shame lay by , And make my Reason with his Will comply , Hoping for my Excuse 'twill be confessed , That of two Evils I have chosen the least . So , SIR , with this Epistolary Scroll , Receive the Partner of my inmost Soul , Him you will find in Letters and in Laws Not unexpert ; firm to his Countries Cause ; Warm in the Glorious Interest you pursue ; And , in one Word , a good Man and a true . FINIS . Printed for BERNARD LINTOTT , at the Cross-Keys , between the two Temple-Gates in Fleet-street . ( Price one Penny . ) 