Sir TO . J's SPEECH TO HIS Wife and Children . I. DEar Wife , let me have a good Fire made , I'll tell you such News will make you all glad , The like for another is scarce to be had . This it is to be Learned and Witty . II First , ( Butler , do you a Glass of Wine bring , ) I'll tell you all the great Love of my King , Which is a dainty , curious , fine thing . This it is , etc III . A Wise Learned Sergeant at Law I was made , And a dainty fine Coif was put on my Head , Which is heavier far than a Hundred of Led . This it is , etc IV. But soon after this I was made the Recorder , To keep the Worshipful Rabble in order , And wore a read Gown with long Sleeves and Border . This it is , etc V. What Justice I did , my dear Wife , you can tell ; Right or wrong , I spar'd none , like the Devil in Hell ; But , Guilty or not , I sent all to Bridewell . This it is , etc VI . Unless it were those who greased my Fist , To them I gave license to cheat whom they list , ( For 'twas only those my Mittimus miss'd . ) This it is , etc VII . But then the King dy'd , which caused a pother ; So I went to condole with the new King , his Brother , With Sorrow in one hand , and Grief in the other . This it is , etc VIII . For and Ignorant Judge I was call'd by the King To the Chequer-Court , 'tis a wondered thing , Of which in short time the whole Nation did ring . This it is to be Learned and Witty . IX . By Great James I was rais'd to the Common-Pleas Bench , 'Cause he saw I had exquisite Politic Sense , Which his Wisdom perceiv'd in the Future Tense . This it is , etc X. At Sarum Five Hundred Pounds I have got , To save Malefactors from swinging in Cotten , For which they we hang'd , and now almost rotten . This it is , etc XI . But now , my dear Love , comes the Cream of the Jest , For the King would take off the Oaths and the Test ; Which I told all his People would be for the best . This it is , etc XII . He had my Opinion , That 'twas in his Power To destroy all the Laws in less time than and hour , For which I may chancc to be sent to the Tower . This it is , etc XIII . And now to Magdalen-Colledge I come , Where we turn'd out most , but kept in some , That so a New College of Priests might have room This it is , etc XIV . And so by that means we left the door open , To turn out the Bishops , and let in the Pope , For which we have justly deserved a Rope . This it is to be Learned and Witty . FINIS . Sir TO . J's SPEECH TO HIS Wife and Children . I. DEar Wife , let me have a good Fire made , I'll tell you such News will make you all glad , The like for another is scarce to be had . This it is to be Learned and Witty . II First , ( Butler , do you a Glass of Wine bring , ) I'll tell you all the great Love of my King , Which is a dainty , curious , fine thing . This it is , etc III . A Wise Learned Sergeant at Law I was made , And a dainty fine Coif was put on my Head , Which is heavier far than a Hundred of Led . This it is , etc IV. But soon after this I was made the Recorder , To keep the Worshipful Rabble in order , And wore a read Gown with long Sleeves and Border . This it is , etc V. What Justice I did , my dear Wife , you can tell ; Right or wrong , I spar'd none , like the Devil in Hell ; But , Guilty or not , I sent all to Bridewell . This it is , etc VI . Unless it were those who greased my Fist , To them I gave license to cheat whom they list , ( For 'twas only those my Mittimus miss'd . ) This it is , etc VII . But then the King dy'd , which caused a pother ; So I went to condole with the new King , his Brother , With Sorrow in one hand , and Grief in the other . This it is , etc VIII . For and Ignorant Judge I was call'd by the King To the Chequer-Court , 'tis a wondered thing , Of which in short time the whole Nation did ring . This it is to be Learned and Witty . IX . By Great James I was rais'd to the Common-Pleas Bench , 'Cause he saw I had exquisite Politic Sense , Which his Wisdom perceiv'd in the Future Tense . This it is , etc X. At Sarum Five Hundred Pounds I have got , To save Malefactors from swinging in Cotten , For which they we hang'd , and now almost rotten . This it is , etc XI . But now , my dear Love , comes the Cream of the Jest , For the King would take off the Oaths and the Test ; Which I told all his People would be for the best . This it is , etc XII . He had my Opinion , That 'twas in his Power To destroy all the Laws in less time than and hour , For which I may chancc to be sent to the Tower . This it is , etc XIII . And now to Magdalen-Colledge I come , Where we turn'd out most , but kept in some , That so a New College of Priests might have room This it is , etc XIV . And so by that means we left the door open , To turn out the Bishops , and let in the Pope , For which we have justly deserved a Rope . This it is to be Learned and Witty . FINIS . 