a A Justification of our Brothers of Scotland . Under the Willow Tree . 1. DEarest Jockey , we unto thee Are beholden every way , And yet some strive to undo thee , But I now the truth will say . Thou unto our aid cam'st running , Leaving thine own pleasant soil , And thy Ale , that was a tunning , In our most barren land to moil . Wherefore we will ever love thee , Over the shoulder , as they say , But if thou com'st again , wee'l shove thee Home , the clean contrary way . We thee pray no more to aid us In that kind thou didst before : For , we find thou hadst betrayed us , Had we hearkened to thy lore . 2. Yet in thee there's no more cunning , Then in a devil of two years old : Prithee come no more a mumming , For we shall not our fingers hold . We know well thou camest hither , Only our welfare to advance ; And therefore in the North didst gather All their plate and coin perchance . We know well , our most deer brother , Thou never meantest to fell the King ; But that thy love thou couldst not smother , When we gold to thee did bring . We thee pray no more to aid us , etc 3. Friendly neighbour , that hast ever Been a sure carded at our need ; Though it hath been our luck , never To find thee false in word and deed . Thou great good will dost bear unto us , Loving the ground whereon we tread : But we pray thee truly show us , Is't not for our English bred ? Alas deer soul , thou hast we know well , Been contented with all pain : As thy deeds did lately show well , To loose thy own land ours to gain . But we pray thee no more aid us , etc Counter Tener . WE will love thee , Oh dear brother , And will never while we live Thy good turns within us smother , But will full requital give . For thy aiding , And persuading , Thy assenting , And thy entering . We will give thee yet more money , And will pay thee home , we swear , With a Cornish hug , thou blew-cap Bonney , Wee'l embrace thee , never fear . Thou shalt be incorporated One with us , and we with thee , When thy Presbytery is instated , And Lay Elders ruling be . For selling , And rebelling , For thy aiding , And upbraiding : We will make a rare exchanging , And will give thee wheat for oats : If in mean time there be no ranging , And we do not cut your throats . Anno 1647 . a A Justification of our Brothers of Scotland . Under the Willow Tree . 1. DEarest Jockey , we unto thee Are beholden every way , And yet some strive to undo thee , But I now the truth will say . Thou unto our aid cam'st running , Leaving thine own pleasant soil , And thy Ale , that was a tunning , In our most barren land to moil . Wherefore we will ever love thee , Over the shoulder , as they say , But if thou com'st again , wee'l shove thee Home , the clean contrary way . We thee pray no more to aid us In that kind thou didst before : For , we find thou hadst betrayed us , Had we hearkened to thy lore . 2. Yet in thee there's no more cunning , Then in a devil of two years old : Prithee come no more a mumming , For we shall not our fingers hold . We know well thou camest hither , Only our welfare to advance ; And therefore in the North didst gather All their plate and coin perchance . We know well , our most deer brother , Thou never meantest to fell the King ; But that thy love thou couldst not smother , When we gold to thee did bring . We thee pray no more to aid us , etc 3. Friendly neighbour , that hast ever Been a sure carded at our need ; Though it hath been our luck , never To find thee false in word and deed . Thou great good will dost bear unto us , Loving the ground whereon we tread : But we pray thee truly show us , Is't not for our English bred ? Alas deer soul , thou hast we know well , Been contented with all pain : As thy deeds did lately show well , To loose thy own land ours to gain . But we pray thee no more aid us , etc Counter Tener . WE will love thee , Oh dear brother , And will never while we live Thy good turns within us smother , But will full requital give . For thy aiding , And persuading , Thy assenting , And thy entering . We will give thee yet more money , And will pay thee home , we swear , With a Cornish hug , thou blew-cap Bonney , Wee'l embrace thee , never fear . Thou shalt be incorporated One with us , and we with thee , When thy Presbytery is instated , And Lay Elders ruling be . For selling , And rebelling , For thy aiding , And upbraiding : We will make a rare exchanging , And will give thee wheat for oats : If in mean time there be no ranging , And we do not cut your throats . Anno 1647. 