Doubtful ROBIN ; Or , Constant NANNY . A New BALLAD . Tune of , Wou'd you be a man of Fashion , or , Doubting Virgin . DEarest Nanny prithee tell me , be so just as tell me true What hard fate was that befell me to be slighted so by you : I that thought your vows so lasting did imagine no deceit , But I find all your protesting to be nothing but a cheat . But I find etc Tell me then thou faithless woman why thou dost so ill with me , Thou that did protest that no man ever was so dear to thee : Tho' in vain I should persuade thee once thy promise to renew , Yet I pity to upbraid thee that thou art so much untrue . Yet etc Her Answer . Dearest Robin pray believe me ; from my heart I freely speak , I did never yet deceive thee , nor my vows will never break ; I did always love you dearly , and no other man but you , My poor heart does show it clearly , that I never was untrue . My poor heart etc Tell me pray why you are frighted that I should unconstant prove , Or to think that you are slighted , or the least suspect my love ; Tell me pray that I may mend it , if that any cause be due ; I am sure I can defend it , for I never was untrue . I am sure etc Take this kiss and take my heart too if that will confirm my dear , if you think I do not smart too , will you then believe this tear : Jealousy indeed may wrong us , and our sorrows may renew , if your fears bring that among us , 'tis in vain for to be true . If your fears etc Yet my dearest ne'r shall find it that I e're will prove unkind , For I never yet design [ ' ] worser it ever for to change my mind ; Since you once believ'd I lov'd you , know I still shall do so too , Let no jealous fancy move you for to think I am untrue . Let no jealous etc Dearest Nanny i'le believe thee , And reserve thee to my heart , For my jealous thoughts forgive me and we never more will par All the day I will embrace thee , to my fears i'le bid adieu , When at night I shall unlace thee , thou shalt say that I am true . When at night etc But I hope that we are friends too , now thy patience I have try'd : This i'le do for thy amends too whensoe're you are my Bride , There's my heart & there's my hand too , to all sorrows bid adieu , All I have you shall command too , since I find that you are true . All I have etc So they seal'd up their indentures with a loving kiss or two , Married straight at all adventures , never Couple lov'd so true ; So I wish they may persevere in this happy way of life , Then true cause she will have never to repent she was a wife . Then true cause etc Printed for P. Brooksby at the golden ball in Py-Corner . Doubtful ROBIN ; Or , Constant NANNY . A New BALLAD . Tune of , Wou'd you be a man of Fashion , or , Doubting Virgin . DEarest Nanny prithee tell me , be so just as tell me true What hard fate was that befell me to be slighted so by you : I that thought your vows so lasting did imagine no deceit , But I find all your protesting to be nothing but a cheat . But I find etc Tell me then thou faithless woman why thou dost so ill with me , Thou that did protest that no man ever was so dear to thee : Tho' in vain I should persuade thee once thy promise to renew , Yet I pity to upbraid thee that thou art so much untrue . Yet etc Her Answer . Dearest Robin pray believe me ; from my heart I freely speak , I did never yet deceive thee , nor my vows will never break ; I did always love you dearly , and no other man but you , My poor heart does show it clearly , that I never was untrue . My poor heart etc Tell me pray why you are frighted that I should unconstant prove , Or to think that you are slighted , or the least suspect my love ; Tell me pray that I may mend it , if that any cause be due ; I am sure I can defend it , for I never was untrue . I am sure etc Take this kiss and take my heart too if that will confirm my dear , if you think I do not smart too , will you then believe this tear : Jealousy indeed may wrong us , and our sorrows may renew , if your fears bring that among us , 'tis in vain for to be true . If your fears etc Yet my dearest ne'r shall find it that I e're will prove unkind , For I never yet design [ ' ] worser it ever for to change my mind ; Since you once believ'd I lov'd you , know I still shall do so too , Let no jealous fancy move you for to think I am untrue . Let no jealous etc Dearest Nanny i'le believe thee , And reserve thee to my heart , For my jealous thoughts forgive me and we never more will par All the day I will embrace thee , to my fears i'le bid adieu , When at night I shall unlace thee , thou shalt say that I am true . When at night etc But I hope that we are friends too , now thy patience I have try'd : This i'le do for thy amends too whensoe're you are my Bride , There's my heart & there's my hand too , to all sorrows bid adieu , All I have you shall command too , since I find that you are true . All I have etc So they seal'd up their indentures with a loving kiss or two , Married straight at all adventures , never Couple lov'd so true ; So I wish they may persevere in this happy way of life , Then true cause she will have never to repent she was a wife . Then true cause etc Printed for P. Brooksby at the golden ball in Py-Corner . Doubtful ROBIN ; Or , Constant NANNY . A New BALLAD . Tune of , Wou'd you be a man of Fashion , or , Doubting Virgin . DEarest Nanny prithee tell me , be so just as tell me true What hard fate was that befell me to be slighted so by you : I that thought your vows so lasting did imagine no deceit , But I find all your protesting to be nothing but a cheat . But I find etc Tell me then thou faithless woman why thou dost so ill with me , Thou that did protest that no man ever was so dear to thee : Tho' in vain I should persuade thee once thy promise to renew , Yet I pity to upbraid thee that thou art so much untrue . Yet etc Her Answer . Dearest Robin pray believe me ; from my heart I freely speak , I did never yet deceive thee , nor my vows will never break ; I did always love you dearly , and no other man but you , My poor heart does show it clearly , that I never was untrue . My poor heart etc Tell me pray why you are frighted that I should unconstant prove , Or to think that you are slighted , or the least suspect my love ; Tell me pray that I may mend it , if that any cause be due ; I am sure I can defend it , for I never was untrue . I am sure etc Take this kiss and take my heart too if that will confirm my dear , if you think I do not smart too , will you then believe this tear : Jealousy indeed may wrong us , and our sorrows may renew , if your fears bring that among us , 'tis in vain for to be true . If your fears etc Yet my dearest ne'r shall find it that I e're will prove unkind , For I never yet design [ ' ] worser it ever for to change my mind ; Since you once believ'd I lov'd you , know I still shall do so too , Let no jealous fancy move you for to think I am untrue . Let no jealous etc Dearest Nanny i'le believe thee , And reserve thee to my heart , For my jealous thoughts forgive me and we never more will par All the day I will embrace thee , to my fears i'le bid adieu , When at night I shall unlace thee , thou shalt say that I am true . When at night etc But I hope that we are friends too , now thy patience I have try'd : This i'le do for thy amends too whensoe're you are my Bride , There's my heart & there's my hand too , to all sorrows bid adieu , All I have you shall command too , since I find that you are true . All I have etc So they seal'd up their indentures with a loving kiss or two , Married straight at all adventures , never Couple lov'd so true ; So I wish they may persevere in this happy way of life , Then true cause she will have never to repent she was a wife . Then true cause etc Printed for P. Brooksby at the golden ball in Py-Corner . Doubtful ROBIN ; Or , Constant NANNY . A New BALLAD . Tune of , Wou'd you be a man of Fashion , or , Doubting Virgin . DEarest Nanny prithee tell me , be so just as tell me true What hard fate was that befell me to be slighted so by you : I that thought your vows so lasting did imagine no deceit , But I find all your protesting to be nothing but a cheat . But I find etc Tell me then thou faithless woman why thou dost so ill with me , Thou that did protest that no man ever was so dear to thee : Tho' in vain I should persuade thee once thy promise to renew , Yet I pity to upbraid thee that thou art so much untrue . Yet etc Her Answer . Dearest Robin pray believe me ; from my heart I freely speak , I did never yet deceive thee , nor my vows will never break ; I did always love you dearly , and no other man but you , My poor heart does show it clearly , that I never was untrue . My poor heart etc Tell me pray why you are frighted that I should unconstant prove , Or to think that you are slighted , or the least suspect my love ; Tell me pray that I may mend it , if that any cause be due ; I am sure I can defend it , for I never was untrue . I am sure etc Take this kiss and take my heart too if that will confirm my dear , if you think I do not smart too , will you then believe this tear : Jealousy indeed may wrong us , and our sorrows may renew , if your fears bring that among us , 'tis in vain for to be true . If your fears etc Yet my dearest ne'r shall find it that I e're will prove unkind , For I never yet design [ ' ] worser it ever for to change my mind ; Since you once believ'd I lov'd you , know I still shall do so too , Let no jealous fancy move you for to think I am untrue . Let no jealous etc Dearest Nanny i'le believe thee , And reserve thee to my heart , For my jealous thoughts forgive me and we never more will par All the day I will embrace thee , to my fears i'le bid adieu , When at night I shall unlace thee , thou shalt say that I am true . When at night etc But I hope that we are friends too , now thy patience I have try'd : This i'le do for thy amends too whensoe're you are my Bride , There's my heart & there's my hand too , to all sorrows bid adieu , All I have you shall command too , since I find that you are true . All I have etc So they seal'd up their indentures with a loving kiss or two , Married straight at all adventures , never Couple lov'd so true ; So I wish they may persevere in this happy way of life , Then true cause she will have never to repent she was a wife . Then true cause etc Printed for P. Brooksby at the golden ball in Py-Corner . 