The Fox too Cunning for the Lion . OR , The Foxes feast , wherein is expressed Many a witty but most true jest , Both old and young of it take a view , And by experience you'l say it's true . To the Tune of , the Three Cheators . A Den of Foxes on a day Met together as men say , Where they used to frequent , Into a hold then straight they went ; Thus one unto the other said , the Foxes wills shall be obey'd . Where a Counsel they did hold Scorning for to be controul'd ; One more cunning then the rest In a Robe himself then dressed ; Then give ear and understand there's many Foxes in this Land. One Robed like a Fryer some say , Did imitate to Preach and Pray Unto the Geece like Nuns attired , For his heart by them was fired , Beloved sister then he said , draw near to me be not afraid . And although I am not tall I have longing bowels for you all . If they were Nuns he lov'd them dear But they were Geece it does appear : He did seduce them by a wild , and every one of them beguil'd . A mighty feast they then did hold , Of hollow fouls as I was told ; And then went to the Lyons Cave Dearly longing that to have A cunning plot by them was laid , which made the Lion soar afraid . And by their subtlety ( as then ) They forc't the Lion from his den . Then by their subtlety and strength , The Lion then entrapped at length : Then cruelly they did him flay to have his den therein to play . The young Lyons then did fly , ( Not daring for to stay thereby ) To seek more Lyons in a Land The Foxes strength for to withstand ; And intending to pursue , are returning with their crew . One Fox more subtle then the rest , Stood strutting up and did protest , That he and his young ones then Would have the dreadful Lyons den , With one consent perforce ( they said ) this Foxes will must be obey'd , The Second Part to the same Tune . And while within that he did stay He frighted all the rest away , The greedy Fox with price of gore , Did feed on plate and silver over : But having fed beyond his strength He fell sick and dy'd at length . The frighted Foxes then return'd But for the other never mourn'd , They drove the young whelp out of his den And possessed themselves again Of their former playing place , To the dead Foxes much disgrace . There was another Fox beside That in his tail did take such pride , So cruelly was he bent then , He fed upon poor wounded men ; And now he's gone as I hear tell To fright the Devil out of Hell . Another he had gain'd such power That he held a mighty Tower , That no one durst him withstand , Of such power was his command , But the rest would not obey , But forc't him for to run away . The was a fair kept in the West , And in a Booth they kept a feast , The Foxes hearing of such cheer Put the feasters in such fear , That for fear they ran away , And the Foxes had a gallant prey . From the North came such a wind The Foxes fear'd their tails behind , They sent one then with all speed To beatrice them back if there be need : Afterwards they set him free , For of their Rump he must not be . Another Fox had but one eye , After him went a Hue and cry . 'Cause out of sighed and under shade , He did use the Cobbling trade : For killing many I have herd , He was hang'd up in Pauls Churchyard Of Foxes we no number know , Because that they are Lambs in show . You that hunt Foxes have a care , lest that it do your health impare , And of late to mind I call , I caught a Fox that made me fallen . London , Printed for Charles Tyus on London Bridge . The Fox too Cunning for the Lion . OR , The Foxes feast , wherein is expressed Many a witty but most true jest , Both old and young of it take a view , And by experience you'l say it's true . To the Tune of , the Three Cheators . A Den of Foxes on a day Met together as men say , Where they used to frequent , Into a hold then straight they went ; Thus one unto the other said , the Foxes wills shall be obey'd . Where a Counsel they did hold Scorning for to be controul'd ; One more cunning then the rest In a Robe himself then dressed ; Then give ear and understand there's many Foxes in this Land. One Robed like a Fryer some say , Did imitate to Preach and Pray Unto the Geece like Nuns attired , For his heart by them was fired , Beloved sister then he said , draw near to me be not afraid . And although I am not tall I have longing bowels for you all . If they were Nuns he lov'd them dear But they were Geece it does appear : He did seduce them by a wild , and every one of them beguil'd . A mighty feast they then did hold , Of hollow fouls as I was told ; And then went to the Lyons Cave Dearly longing that to have A cunning plot by them was laid , which made the Lion soar afraid . And by their subtlety ( as then ) They forc't the Lion from his den . Then by their subtlety and strength , The Lion then entrapped at length : Then cruelly they did him flay to have his den therein to play . The young Lyons then did fly , ( Not daring for to stay thereby ) To seek more Lyons in a Land The Foxes strength for to withstand ; And intending to pursue , are returning with their crew . One Fox more subtle then the rest , Stood strutting up and did protest , That he and his young ones then Would have the dreadful Lyons den , With one consent perforce ( they said ) this Foxes will must be obey'd , The Second Part to the same Tune . And while within that he did stay He frighted all the rest away , The greedy Fox with price of gore , Did feed on plate and silver over : But having fed beyond his strength He fell sick and dy'd at length . The frighted Foxes then return'd But for the other never mourn'd , They drove the young whelp out of his den And possessed themselves again Of their former playing place , To the dead Foxes much disgrace . There was another Fox beside That in his tail did take such pride , So cruelly was he bent then , He fed upon poor wounded men ; And now he's gone as I hear tell To fright the Devil out of Hell . Another he had gain'd such power That he held a mighty Tower , That no one durst him withstand , Of such power was his command , But the rest would not obey , But forc't him for to run away . The was a fair kept in the West , And in a Booth they kept a feast , The Foxes hearing of such cheer Put the feasters in such fear , That for fear they ran away , And the Foxes had a gallant prey . From the North came such a wind The Foxes fear'd their tails behind , They sent one then with all speed To beatrice them back if there be need : Afterwards they set him free , For of their Rump he must not be . Another Fox had but one eye , After him went a Hue and cry . 'Cause out of sighed and under shade , He did use the Cobbling trade : For killing many I have herd , He was hang'd up in Pauls Churchyard Of Foxes we no number know , Because that they are Lambs in show . You that hunt Foxes have a care , lest that it do your health impare , And of late to mind I call , I caught a Fox that made me fallen . London , Printed for Charles Tyus on London Bridge . 