The Unhappy Memorable Song of The HUNTING of CHEVY-CHASE GOD prosper long our noble King , or Lives and Safeties all : A woeful Hunting once there did in Chevy-Chase befall . To drive the Deer with Hound and Horn , Earl Piercy took his Way . The Child may rue that is unborn the Hunting of that Day . The stout Earl of Northumberland a Vow to God did make , His Pleasures in the Scottish Woods hree Summer's Days to take ; The chiefest Hearts in Chevy-Chace to kill and bear away . The Tidings to Earl Douglas came in Scotland , where he lay ; Who sent Earl Piercy present Word , the would prevent his Sport . The English Earl , not fearing this , did to the Woods resort , With Fifteen Hundred Bowmen bold , all chosen Men of Might , Who knew full well , in Time of Need , to aim their Shafts aright . The gallant Greyhound swiftly run to chase the Fallow Deer , On Monday they began to hun when Day light did appear And long before high noon they had and hundred fat Bucks slave , Then having din'd the Drovers went to rouse them up again . The Bowmen muster'd on the Hills , well able to endure . Their Back sides all with special Care , that Day were guarded sure . The hounds ran swiftly thro' the woods the nimble Deer to take , And with their Cries the Hills and Dales and Echo shrill did make . Lord Piercy to the Quarry went , to view the tender Deer . Quoth he , Earl Douglas promised this Day to meet me here : If that I thought he would not come ; no longer would I stay . Then stepped a brave young Gentleman , thus to the Earl did say : Lo ! yonder does Earl Douglas come ; his Men in Armour bright ; Full twenty hundred Scottish Spears , all marching in our Sighed ; All Men of pleasant Tiviotdale , fast by he River Tweed . Then ceaset your Sport , Early Piercy said , and take your Bows with Speed : And now with me , my Countrymen , your Courage forth advance ; For never was there Champion yet in Scotland or in France , That ever did on Horseback come , But if my Hap it were , I durst encounter Man for Man With him to break a Spear , Douglas on a milkwhite steed , Much like a Baron bold , Rodo fremost of his Company , wheoe Armour shone like Gold . Show me , said he , whose Men you be , that hunt so boldly here ; That without my Consent dare chase and kill my Fallow Deer . The first that did the Answer make was noble Piercy he , Who said , we list not to declare , or show whose Men we be ; Yet we will spend our dearest Blood , the chiefest Hearts to slay . Then Douglas swore a solemn Oath , and thus in Rage did say : Before I will out braved be , one of us two shall die : I know thee well , and Earl thou art , Lord Piercy , so am I . But trust me , Piercy , I think it were a great Offence to kill Any of these our harmless Men , for they have done no Ill ; Let thou and I the Battle try , and set our Men aside . Accursed be he , Lord Piercy said , by whom this is deny'd . Then stepped a gallant Squire forth , Witherington was his Name , Who said , I would not have it told to Henry our King for Shame , That e'er my Captain fought on Foot , and I stood looking on : You are two Earls , said Witherington , and I a Squire alone ; I'll do the best , that do I may , while I have Power to stand ; While I have Power to wield my Sword I'll fight with Heart and Hand . Our English Archers bent their Bow their Hearts were good and true ; At the first Flight of Arrows sent , full threescore Scots they slew To drive the Deer with Hound and Horn Earl Douglas had the Bent . The Captains , mov'd with muckle Pride , their Spears to Shivers sent . They clos'd full fast on every Side , no Slackness there was found ; While many a gallant Gentleman lay gasping on the Ground . O , Christ ! it was a Grief to see , and likewise for to hear , The Groans of Men lying in their Gore , and scatter'd here and there . At last these two great Earls did meet , like Captains of great Might , Like Lions mov'd , they laid on Loads , and made a bloody Fight ; They fought until they both did sweat , with Swords of temper'd Steel , Until the Blood , like Drops of Rain , they trickling down did feel . Yield thee , Earl Piercy , Douglas , in faith I will thee bring , Where thou shalt high advanced be by James our Scottish King : Thy Ransom I will freely give , and thus report of thee , Thou art the most courageous Knight that ever I did see . To the Earl Douglas , Piercy said , thy Proffers I do scorn ; I will not yield to any Scot , that ever yet was born . With that there came and Arrow keen , out of and English Bow , Which struck Earl Douglas to the Hear , a deep and deadly Blow ; Who never spoke more Words than these , Fight on , my merry Men all ; For why , my Life is at and End , Lord Piercy sees my Fallen ! Then , leaving Life , Earl Piercy took the dead Man by the Hand , And said , Earl Douglas , for thy Sake would I had lost my Land : Oh Christ I my very Heart does bleed with Sorrow for thy Sake ; For sure a more renowned Knight Mischance did never take . A Knight among the Scots there was , who saw Earl Douglas die , Who strait in Wrath did vow Revenge upon the Lord Piercy ; Sir Hugh Montgomery was he call'd , who with a Spear most bright , Well mounted on a gallant Steed , road fiercely thro' the Fight , And pass'd our English Archers all , without all Dread and Fear ; And through Earl Piercy's Body then he thrust his hateful Spear ; With such a vehement Force and Might he did his Body gore , That the Spear went thro' the other Side a full Cloth-Yard and more : So thus did both these Nobles die , whose Courage none could stain . And English Archer then perceiv'd the noble Earl was slave ; He had a Bow bent in his Hand , made of a trusty Tree ; And Arrow of a Cloth-Yard long unto the Head drew he ; Against Sir Hugh Montgomery aright his Shaft he see The gray Goose Wing that was thereon in his Heart's Blood was wet . This Fight did last from Break of Day , ill Setting of the Sun ; For when they rung the Evening Bell , the Battle scarce was done . Witth the Earl Piercy there were slave , Sir John of Ogerton , Sir Robert Ratcliff , and Sir John , Sir James that bold baron ; With good Sir John and good Sir James , both Knights of good Account , Good Sir Ralph Rabbin there was slave whose Prowess did surmount For Witherington needs must I wail , as one in doleful Dumps ; For when his Legs were smitten off , he fought upon his Stumps . And with Earl Douglas there were slave Sir Hugh Montgomery , Sir Charles Currel , that from the Field one Foot would never flee ; Sir Charles Murrel of Ratcliff too , his Sister's Son was he ; Sir David Lamb , so esteem'd , they saved could not be . And the Lord Maxwell in likewise did with Earl Douglas die . Of Twenty Hundred Scotish Spears , scarce Fiftyfive did fly . Of Fifteen Hundred Englishmen went home but Fifty-three : The rest were slave in Chevy Chase , under the Green wood Tree . Next Day did many Widows come , their Husbands to bewail : They wash'd their Wounds in briny Tears yet all would not prevail . Their Bodies , bath'd in purple Gore , with them they boar away , And kiss'd them dead a thousand Time when they were clad in Clay . The News was brought to Edinburgh , where Scotland's King did reign , That the Earl Douglas suddenly was with and Arrow slave . O , heavy News ! King James did say , Scotland can Witness be , I have not any Captain more of such Account as he . Like Tidings to King Henry came , within as little Space , That Piercy of Northumberland was slave in Chevy-Chace . Then God be with him , said our King , sith 'twill no better be ; I trust I have , within my Realm , Five hundred good as he Yet shall not Scot nor Scotland say , but I will Veneeance take , And be revenged on them all , for my Lord Piercy's Sake . This Vow the King full well perfo after at at Humble-Down , Where fifty Seotish Earls were slave , with Men of great Renown ; And of the rest , of small ccount , did many Thousands die , Thus ended the Hunting of Chevy Chase , made by the Lord Piercy . God save the King , and bless the Land , in Plenty , Joy , and Peace : And grant henceforth , that foul Debate , 'twixt Noblemen may cease . The Unhappy Memorable Song of The HUNTING of CHEVY-CHASE GOD prosper long our noble King , or Lives and Safeties all : A woeful Hunting once there did in Chevy-Chase befall . To drive the Deer with Hound and Horn , Earl Piercy took his Way . The Child may rue that is unborn the Hunting of that Day . The stout Earl of Northumberland a Vow to God did make , His Pleasures in the Scottish Woods hree Summer's Days to take ; The chiefest Hearts in Chevy-Chace to kill and bear away . The Tidings to Earl Douglas came in Scotland , where he lay ; Who sent Earl Piercy present Word , the would prevent his Sport . The English Earl , not fearing this , did to the Woods resort , With Fifteen Hundred Bowmen bold , all chosen Men of Might , Who knew full well , in Time of Need , to aim their Shafts aright . The gallant Greyhound swiftly run to chase the Fallow Deer , On Monday they began to hun when Day light did appear And long before high noon they had and hundred fat Bucks slave , Then having din'd the Drovers went to rouse them up again . The Bowmen muster'd on the Hills , well able to endure . Their Back sides all with special Care , that Day were guarded sure . The hounds ran swiftly thro' the woods the nimble Deer to take , And with their Cries the Hills and Dales and Echo shrill did make . Lord Piercy to the Quarry went , to view the tender Deer . Quoth he , Earl Douglas promised this Day to meet me here : If that I thought he would not come ; no longer would I stay . Then stepped a brave young Gentleman , thus to the Earl did say : Lo ! yonder does Earl Douglas come ; his Men in Armour bright ; Full twenty hundred Scottish Spears , all marching in our Sighed ; All Men of pleasant Tiviotdale , fast by he River Tweed . Then ceaset your Sport , Early Piercy said , and take your Bows with Speed : And now with me , my Countrymen , your Courage forth advance ; For never was there Champion yet in Scotland or in France , That ever did on Horseback come , But if my Hap it were , I durst encounter Man for Man With him to break a Spear , Douglas on a milkwhite steed , Much like a Baron bold , Rodo fremost of his Company , wheoe Armour shone like Gold . Show me , said he , whose Men you be , that hunt so boldly here ; That without my Consent dare chase and kill my Fallow Deer . The first that did the Answer make was noble Piercy he , Who said , we list not to declare , or show whose Men we be ; Yet we will spend our dearest Blood , the chiefest Hearts to slay . Then Douglas swore a solemn Oath , and thus in Rage did say : Before I will out braved be , one of us two shall die : I know thee well , and Earl thou art , Lord Piercy , so am I . But trust me , Piercy , I think it were a great Offence to kill Any of these our harmless Men , for they have done no Ill ; Let thou and I the Battle try , and set our Men aside . Accursed be he , Lord Piercy said , by whom this is deny'd . Then stepped a gallant Squire forth , Witherington was his Name , Who said , I would not have it told to Henry our King for Shame , That e'er my Captain fought on Foot , and I stood looking on : You are two Earls , said Witherington , and I a Squire alone ; I'll do the best , that do I may , while I have Power to stand ; While I have Power to wield my Sword I'll fight with Heart and Hand . Our English Archers bent their Bow their Hearts were good and true ; At the first Flight of Arrows sent , full threescore Scots they slew To drive the Deer with Hound and Horn Earl Douglas had the Bent . The Captains , mov'd with muckle Pride , their Spears to Shivers sent . They clos'd full fast on every Side , no Slackness there was found ; While many a gallant Gentleman lay gasping on the Ground . O , Christ ! it was a Grief to see , and likewise for to hear , The Groans of Men lying in their Gore , and scatter'd here and there . At last these two great Earls did meet , like Captains of great Might , Like Lions mov'd , they laid on Loads , and made a bloody Fight ; They fought until they both did sweat , with Swords of temper'd Steel , Until the Blood , like Drops of Rain , they trickling down did feel . Yield thee , Earl Piercy , Douglas , in faith I will thee bring , Where thou shalt high advanced be by James our Scottish King : Thy Ransom I will freely give , and thus report of thee , Thou art the most courageous Knight that ever I did see . To the Earl Douglas , Piercy said , thy Proffers I do scorn ; I will not yield to any Scot , that ever yet was born . With that there came and Arrow keen , out of and English Bow , Which struck Earl Douglas to the Hear , a deep and deadly Blow ; Who never spoke more Words than these , Fight on , my merry Men all ; For why , my Life is at and End , Lord Piercy sees my Fallen ! Then , leaving Life , Earl Piercy took the dead Man by the Hand , And said , Earl Douglas , for thy Sake would I had lost my Land : Oh Christ I my very Heart does bleed with Sorrow for thy Sake ; For sure a more renowned Knight Mischance did never take . A Knight among the Scots there was , who saw Earl Douglas die , Who strait in Wrath did vow Revenge upon the Lord Piercy ; Sir Hugh Montgomery was he call'd , who with a Spear most bright , Well mounted on a gallant Steed , road fiercely thro' the Fight , And pass'd our English Archers all , without all Dread and Fear ; And through Earl Piercy's Body then he thrust his hateful Spear ; With such a vehement Force and Might he did his Body gore , That the Spear went thro' the other Side a full Cloth-Yard and more : So thus did both these Nobles die , whose Courage none could stain . And English Archer then perceiv'd the noble Earl was slave ; He had a Bow bent in his Hand , made of a trusty Tree ; And Arrow of a Cloth-Yard long unto the Head drew he ; Against Sir Hugh Montgomery aright his Shaft he see The gray Goose Wing that was thereon in his Heart's Blood was wet . This Fight did last from Break of Day , ill Setting of the Sun ; For when they rung the Evening Bell , the Battle scarce was done . Witth the Earl Piercy there were slave , Sir John of Ogerton , Sir Robert Ratcliff , and Sir John , Sir James that bold baron ; With good Sir John and good Sir James , both Knights of good Account , Good Sir Ralph Rabbin there was slave whose Prowess did surmount For Witherington needs must I wail , as one in doleful Dumps ; For when his Legs were smitten off , he fought upon his Stumps . And with Earl Douglas there were slave Sir Hugh Montgomery , Sir Charles Currel , that from the Field one Foot would never flee ; Sir Charles Murrel of Ratcliff too , his Sister's Son was he ; Sir David Lamb , so esteem'd , they saved could not be . And the Lord Maxwell in likewise did with Earl Douglas die . Of Twenty Hundred Scotish Spears , scarce Fiftyfive did fly . Of Fifteen Hundred Englishmen went home but Fifty-three : The rest were slave in Chevy Chase , under the Green wood Tree . Next Day did many Widows come , their Husbands to bewail : They wash'd their Wounds in briny Tears yet all would not prevail . Their Bodies , bath'd in purple Gore , with them they boar away , And kiss'd them dead a thousand Time when they were clad in Clay . The News was brought to Edinburgh , where Scotland's King did reign , That the Earl Douglas suddenly was with and Arrow slave . O , heavy News ! King James did say , Scotland can Witness be , I have not any Captain more of such Account as he . Like Tidings to King Henry came , within as little Space , That Piercy of Northumberland was slave in Chevy-Chace . Then God be with him , said our King , sith 'twill no better be ; I trust I have , within my Realm , Five hundred good as he Yet shall not Scot nor Scotland say , but I will Veneeance take , And be revenged on them all , for my Lord Piercy's Sake . This Vow the King full well perfo after at at Humble-Down , Where fifty Seotish Earls were slave , with Men of great Renown ; And of the rest , of small ccount , did many Thousands die , Thus ended the Hunting of Chevy Chase , made by the Lord Piercy . God save the King , and bless the Land , in Plenty , Joy , and Peace : And grant henceforth , that foul Debate , 'twixt Noblemen may cease . 