Bloody News from CHELMSFORD : OR , A Proper New BALLAD , CONTAINING A true and perfect Relation of a most barbarous Murder committed upon the Body of a Country Parson who died of a great Wound given him in the Bottom of his Belly , by a most Cruel Country-Butcher for being too familiar with his Wife : For which Fact he is to be Tried for his Life at this next Assizes . To the Tune of Chevy-Chase . GIve o'er , you rhyming ranting Lads , that jeer'd at every turn ; And sung how Jane towards Elders Cur in flames of love did burn . You too , that writ how Peters Hugh was Butchers Cuckold-maker : Or penn'd the Courtship passed between She-filly and the Quaker . But come Droll-rampant Hudibras , Laureate of Garden-Paris , Bring me the great Bruino's spoils , ( that Champion that so rare is . ) For I would do as Nero fell with primitive Christians did : I'd make't a Cassock for my Priest , and bait him in Bears hide . In Essex ( which like Affrick still some Monster is a yielding , Where once was bred a Roundheaded colt , and now a Rampant Gelding ) Near Chelmsford Town a certain grave conforming-Parson dwelled , Chaste from the Navil to the Teeth : Yet this goodman was gelded . Dull Laymen have small reverence for any man of worth ; A churlish Whoreson did the fea Sad Hint for Holder-forth ! He dreaded not his Ghostly face , nor circle of his Girdle : But slashed him like to Traitor , new cut down , and laid on hurdle , Now you that would the story know , that nothing may escape us , Hark how poor Levite came to die a Martyr to Priapus . There liv'd a crafty Butcher wight near Palace Sacerdotal , Whose Spouse most amiable was , the sum of Beauty total . Lovelier then she for whom Jove turn'd himself to milkwhite Bull a : Fair Rosamond was not so bright , nor half so comely Trulla . Sweeter then smiles of Infant-day , ( as Servant cants to Mistress ) Ah! 'twas the Sorcery of that face led Teacher into distress . He spy'd her first from Pulpit high , in p [ au ] se , the first Pray'r after , When zeal had turn'd up white of eye To stare on Churches rafter . ( Quoth he to self ) why stand I here ( giving the Glass a jolt ) To utter Sermon by retail , which might be done by dolt ? Is not yond Woman purer Text to handle then and Homily ? Sure 'twould be fruitful truth to teach her , duties of a Family . Thus having thought , in haste he read to people printed lurri : Yet , that he could not say't by heart , for her sake he was sorry . For now at spawling intervals his eye did only taste her : But raze was run with greater speed then Nun says Peter Nostee . The Swain her Husband all this while watch'd whilst the Parson pray'd ; He mark'd his leers when finger was at end of Sentence laid . Observ'd those arrows shot from sighed at his fair Butt were levell'd : But swore the Priest had better been In mother's womb be-divell'd . Psalm sung , As from Cornelius Tub , the Parson came came down , reeking : And till he found that Hobnails house , vow'd never to lin seeking . At last he came to humble Cot Shrine , where his Goddess was Doublet of Straw , Breeches of Clay , and Fundament of Grass . In age of Gold , as Poets tell , ( who seldom see such day ) This was the place where Virtue slept upon a lock of Hay . The Dame , right busy at her work , sweet-Butter was a churning ; When at the motion of the stick Priest's bowels fell a yearning . Fair Nymph ( said he ) incontinent , lay by thy Typical Churn : ( And then the Varlet turn'd aside to steal a lecherous giern . ) Fie ( Angel blessed ) why should that hand a wooden Instrument hold , Design'd to hold a better thing then Sceptre made with Gold ? Excellent Creature ! be as kind as fair . 'An heart obdurate 'Is Satan's Anvil , where he knocks ? Shall he knock , and not Curate ? O woman , put the Devil behind , But put the Priest before : Full many a She for Cloak-divine , Hath done as much , or more . When I commenced Batchelor , All Cambridge did adore me : Why should a thing of feeble Sex Think much to fallen before me ? 'This said ; Nay , Pish , the good Wife cry'd : 'Nay , stand away for shame : 'Are you a Minister , and care no more for a good Name ? Good Name ( quoth he ) with that She smil'd and so they snugg'd together : But he had better slept i'th' street , then in her Bed of Feather : For just about that fatal hour when Dev'l came for Doctor Faustus ; as Key of Led had him , and in a dead sleep locked her . The jealous Butcher blunders in : unseasonable Guest ! Welcome as stones in Oats to Horse , or Skull at Egypt-Feast . O Caitiff vile , said Butcher then ; and catched him by the throa I'll wreck my malice on thy blood , thou cursed lecherous Goat . 'Make me a Cuckold , Reading Rogue ? 'no Pulpit serve but Susan's ? 'Must Susan's Smock your Surplice be ? 'I'll take away that Nuisance . 'Good Husband , quoth the panting wife ) 'proceed in wrath no further , 'Lest you be turn'd out Churches pale , 'for one committing murder . Sir , gentle Sir , the Priest reply'd , as well as he could speak ; For Butcher held his Gouty fist hard on his Enemies Neck . As Tunes , when Finger taken off , from Flajolets do come ; So issu'd words from Curate's mouth , when Lout remov'd his Thumb . 'Sir ! I confess that I have wrong'd 'you , and your loving Wife . Confess and hang , cry'd surely Boor ; ( and strait he drew his Knife . ) The glitt'ring Blade , as keen as that which Felton bought near Tow'r , Made Susan's heart go Pit-a-pat , and Lovers face look sow'r . 'Hold honest Friend , Sir Roger cry'd ; 'what ? wilt thou take my life ? No : but i'l seize those arms wherewith thou hast subdu'd my Wife . Though Theologu' wept , & Wife did beg , Churl slighted words and tears , And at one gash from Curate took Musquet and Bandeliers . Thus RUMP in Forest not content to fell down Timber tall , Fanatiqu' Slaves stub'd root and branch nay , Underwoods , and all . Now , Sir , ( said Swain ) if ere you chance 'hereafter to be Pope , 'There will not need a sacred Chair 'your Holiness to grope . 'Go , go , live chaste , as Clergy should , ' ( course taken by your betters ) 'But come not near to London-town , 'for there live Capon-eaters . But lo ! while Scundrel thus did taunt the man of holy function , Wife well perceiv'd that body spent had need of extreme Unction . Then did she wring her sweating Palms , and loudly did complain : But sighs and groans , and bellows-snout , to dying Bums are vain . The flood continually ran from place as bore as Common ; Yet , even then , good Curate cast a dying glance at Woman . 'Farewel , said he : bid Parsons all 'beware of Bever's fate : 'For when they shall be serv'd like me , 'their dumps will be too late . This said , --- the Curates mortal Cask , with Ribbon hopt about , Rol'd down the Hill , and slipp'ry life for want of Tap ran out . The EPITAPH . COurteous Reader ! underneath These Spires of fading Grass Lies Curate , who ( if Wives may and able preacher was . We hope his Soul in Heav'n is safe , ( though some scarce think so can : ) For though he sometime liv'd upright He di'd no perfect Man. FINIS . OXFORD , Printed in the Year , MDCLXIII . Bloody News from CHELMSFORD : OR , A Proper New BALLAD , CONTAINING A true and perfect Relation of a most barbarous Murder committed upon the Body of a Country Parson who died of a great Wound given him in the Bottom of his Belly , by a most Cruel Country-Butcher for being too familiar with his Wife : For which Fact he is to be Tried for his Life at this next Assizes . To the Tune of Chevy-Chase . GIve o'er , you rhyming ranting Lads , that jeer'd at every turn ; And sung how Jane towards Elders Cur in flames of love did burn . You too , that writ how Peters Hugh was Butchers Cuckold-maker : Or penn'd the Courtship passed between She-filly and the Quaker . But come Droll-rampant Hudibras , Laureate of Garden-Paris , Bring me the great Bruino's spoils , ( that Champion that so rare is . ) For I would do as Nero fell with primitive Christians did : I'd make't a Cassock for my Priest , and bait him in Bears hide . In Essex ( which like Affrick still some Monster is a yielding , Where once was bred a Roundheaded colt , and now a Rampant Gelding ) Near Chelmsford Town a certain grave conforming-Parson dwelled , Chaste from the Navil to the Teeth : Yet this goodman was gelded . Dull Laymen have small reverence for any man of worth ; A churlish Whoreson did the fea Sad Hint for Holder-forth ! He dreaded not his Ghostly face , nor circle of his Girdle : But slashed him like to Traitor , new cut down , and laid on hurdle , Now you that would the story know , that nothing may escape us , Hark how poor Levite came to die a Martyr to Priapus . There liv'd a crafty Butcher wight near Palace Sacerdotal , Whose Spouse most amiable was , the sum of Beauty total . Lovelier then she for whom Jove turn'd himself to milkwhite Bull a : Fair Rosamond was not so bright , nor half so comely Trulla . Sweeter then smiles of Infant-day , ( as Servant cants to Mistress ) Ah! 'twas the Sorcery of that face led Teacher into distress . He spy'd her first from Pulpit high , in p [ au ] se , the first Pray'r after , When zeal had turn'd up white of eye To stare on Churches rafter . ( Quoth he to self ) why stand I here ( giving the Glass a jolt ) To utter Sermon by retail , which might be done by dolt ? Is not yond Woman purer Text to handle then and Homily ? Sure 'twould be fruitful truth to teach her , duties of a Family . Thus having thought , in haste he read to people printed lurri : Yet , that he could not say't by heart , for her sake he was sorry . For now at spawling intervals his eye did only taste her : But raze was run with greater speed then Nun says Peter Nostee . The Swain her Husband all this while watch'd whilst the Parson pray'd ; He mark'd his leers when finger was at end of Sentence laid . Observ'd those arrows shot from sighed at his fair Butt were levell'd : But swore the Priest had better been In mother's womb be-divell'd . Psalm sung , As from Cornelius Tub , the Parson came came down , reeking : And till he found that Hobnails house , vow'd never to lin seeking . At last he came to humble Cot Shrine , where his Goddess was Doublet of Straw , Breeches of Clay , and Fundament of Grass . In age of Gold , as Poets tell , ( who seldom see such day ) This was the place where Virtue slept upon a lock of Hay . The Dame , right busy at her work , sweet-Butter was a churning ; When at the motion of the stick Priest's bowels fell a yearning . Fair Nymph ( said he ) incontinent , lay by thy Typical Churn : ( And then the Varlet turn'd aside to steal a lecherous giern . ) Fie ( Angel blessed ) why should that hand a wooden Instrument hold , Design'd to hold a better thing then Sceptre made with Gold ? Excellent Creature ! be as kind as fair . 'An heart obdurate 'Is Satan's Anvil , where he knocks ? Shall he knock , and not Curate ? O woman , put the Devil behind , But put the Priest before : Full many a She for Cloak-divine , Hath done as much , or more . When I commenced Batchelor , All Cambridge did adore me : Why should a thing of feeble Sex Think much to fallen before me ? 'This said ; Nay , Pish , the good Wife cry'd : 'Nay , stand away for shame : 'Are you a Minister , and care no more for a good Name ? Good Name ( quoth he ) with that She smil'd and so they snugg'd together : But he had better slept i'th' street , then in her Bed of Feather : For just about that fatal hour when Dev'l came for Doctor Faustus ; as Key of Led had him , and in a dead sleep locked her . The jealous Butcher blunders in : unseasonable Guest ! Welcome as stones in Oats to Horse , or Skull at Egypt-Feast . O Caitiff vile , said Butcher then ; and catched him by the throa I'll wreck my malice on thy blood , thou cursed lecherous Goat . 'Make me a Cuckold , Reading Rogue ? 'no Pulpit serve but Susan's ? 'Must Susan's Smock your Surplice be ? 'I'll take away that Nuisance . 'Good Husband , quoth the panting wife ) 'proceed in wrath no further , 'Lest you be turn'd out Churches pale , 'for one committing murder . Sir , gentle Sir , the Priest reply'd , as well as he could speak ; For Butcher held his Gouty fist hard on his Enemies Neck . As Tunes , when Finger taken off , from Flajolets do come ; So issu'd words from Curate's mouth , when Lout remov'd his Thumb . 'Sir ! I confess that I have wrong'd 'you , and your loving Wife . Confess and hang , cry'd surely Boor ; ( and strait he drew his Knife . ) The glitt'ring Blade , as keen as that which Felton bought near Tow'r , Made Susan's heart go Pit-a-pat , and Lovers face look sow'r . 'Hold honest Friend , Sir Roger cry'd ; 'what ? wilt thou take my life ? No : but i'l seize those arms wherewith thou hast subdu'd my Wife . Though Theologu' wept , & Wife did beg , Churl slighted words and tears , And at one gash from Curate took Musquet and Bandeliers . Thus RUMP in Forest not content to fell down Timber tall , Fanatiqu' Slaves stub'd root and branch nay , Underwoods , and all . Now , Sir , ( said Swain ) if ere you chance 'hereafter to be Pope , 'There will not need a sacred Chair 'your Holiness to grope . 'Go , go , live chaste , as Clergy should , ' ( course taken by your betters ) 'But come not near to London-town , 'for there live Capon-eaters . But lo ! while Scundrel thus did taunt the man of holy function , Wife well perceiv'd that body spent had need of extreme Unction . Then did she wring her sweating Palms , and loudly did complain : But sighs and groans , and bellows-snout , to dying Bums are vain . The flood continually ran from place as bore as Common ; Yet , even then , good Curate cast a dying glance at Woman . 'Farewel , said he : bid Parsons all 'beware of Bever's fate : 'For when they shall be serv'd like me , 'their dumps will be too late . This said , --- the Curates mortal Cask , with Ribbon hopt about , Rol'd down the Hill , and slipp'ry life for want of Tap ran out . The EPITAPH . COurteous Reader ! underneath These Spires of fading Grass Lies Curate , who ( if Wives may and able preacher was . We hope his Soul in Heav'n is safe , ( though some scarce think so can : ) For though he sometime liv'd upright He di'd no perfect Man. FINIS . OXFORD , Printed in the Year , MDCLXIII . 