BELGICK-BOAR , To the TUNE of Chivy-Chase . I. GOd prosper long our Noble King , Our Hope's and Wishes all . A fatal Landing late there did In Devonshire befall . II To drive our Sovereign from his Throne , Prince Nassaw took his way , The Babe may rue that's lately born , His Landing at Torbay . III . The stubborn Tarquin , void of Grace , Vows to Hell did make , To force his Father Abdicate , And then his Crown to take . IV. And eke the Royal Infant Prince To seize , or drive away . These Tidings to our Monarch came In White-hall , where he lay . V. Who unconcern'd at the Report , At first would not believe , That any of his Royal Raze , Such Mischief should conceive . VI . Till time which ripens all things did , The villainy disclose . And of a Nephew , and a Son , Forg'd out the worst of Foes . VII . Who by Infernal instinct led , A Mighty Fleet prepares , His Father's Kingdom to invade , And fill his Heart with Cares . VIII . Our Gracious King desires to know , What his Pretensions were . And how without his Leave he durst , Presume on Landing here ; IX . Declaring what was deem'd amiss , Should soon amended be . And whatsoever should be desir'd , He wou'd thereto Agree . X. And for a speedy Parliament , He does forthwith Declare : The Surly Bruit not minding this , Does to our Coasts repair . XI . With several thousand Belgic Boors , All chosen Rogues of Spite , Join'd with Rebels , who from hence And Justice , had ta'n Flight . XII . Who Arm'd with Malice , and with Hope , Soon threw themselves a Shore , C [ r ] ying our Religion , and our Laws , They came for to Restore . XIII . Then Declarations flew about , As thick as any Hail , Which on the Rude and Senseless Rout , Did Mightily prevail . XIV . We must be Papists , or be Slaves , Is now the General Cry ; But wee'l do any thing to save Our Darling Liberty . XV . Wee'l join with a Foreign Prince , Against our Lawful King : For he from all Fancy [ ' ] worser Fears , Deliverance does bring . XVI . And if what he Declares prove true ( As who knows but it may ) Were he the Devil of a Prince , Wee'l rather him obey . XVII . Then our Allegiance let's cast off , James shall no longer guide us , And tho' the French would Bridle us , None but the Dutch shall Ride us . XVIII And whoso will not join with us In this Design so brave , Their Houses wee'l pull down , or Burn , And Seize on what they have . These [ XIX . These growing Evils to prevent , ] Our King his F [ orce does bend ; ] But among those he most did trust , He scarce did find one Friend . XX . Those riggling vermin , who so late His Royal Rays did shroud , And Bask'd and wanton'd in his Beams , Now leave him in a Cloud . XXI . O how my very heart does bleed To think , how basely they , Who long had Eaten Royal Bred , Their Master now betray . XXII . And those whom he had most oblig'd , And greatest Favour shown , Appear'd to be the very first Who sought him to Dethrone . XXIII . O Compton , Langston , and the rest , Who basely from him ran , Your Names forever be Accursed , By every Englishman . XXIV . Proud Tarquin he pursues his Game , And quickly makes it plain , He came not to Redress our Wrongs , But Englands Crown to gain . XXV . And over his Father's mangled Fame , His Chariot proudly drives , While he Good man , altho' in vain , To pacify him strives . XXVI . He bids him make his own Demands . And say for what he came , And anything except the Crown , He should have Leave to Claim . XXVII . But he ungrateful would not hear This Message , tho' so kind , But caus'd the Royal Messenger , Forthwith to be Confin'd . XXVIII . He brings his Nasty Croaking Crew , Unto his Father's Gate , Dismissed his own , makes them his Guards , Oh dismal turn of Fate . XXIX . Also at Midnight drives him thence , Oh horrid impious thing ; Where such Affronts are offered to A Father and a King . XXX . A King so good , so just , so kind , So merciful to all ; His virtues were his only Fault , And that which caus'd his Fallen . XXXI . Who now his Royal Life to save , Is forc't to fly the Land , [ And leave his Sceptre to be grasp'd By and ungracious Hand . ] XXXII . Hells Journeymen are strait Convein'd , To rob God of his Power , Set up themselves a Stork-like King The Nation to devour . XXXIII . And to secure his Lawless Throne . Now give him all we have , And make each Freeborn English heart Become a Belgic Slave . XXXIV . The Bar , the Pulpit , and the Press , Infatuously combine , To cry up and Usurping Power , And Stamp it for Divine . XXXV . Our Loyalty we must melt down , And have it Coin'd anew , For what was currant heretofore , Will now no longer do . XXXVI . Our Fetters we ourselves put on , Our selves , our selves did Bubble ; Our Conscience a mere Packhorse make , Which now must carry double . XXXVII . O England , when to future times , This Story shall be known , How will they Blush , to think what Crimes , There Ancestors have done . XXXVIII . But after all , what have we god By this our Dear-bought King ; Why , that our Scandal and Reproach , Throughout the World may Ring . XXXIX . That our Religion , Liberty , And Law , we held so dear , Are more invaded in this Change , Than ever yet they were . XXXX . Our Coffers drain'd , our Coin impair'd , That Little which remains ; Our Persons seiz'd , our Thoughts arraign'd , Our Freedom now in Chains . XXXXI . Our Traffic ruin'd , Shipping lost , Our Traders most undone , Our Bravest Heroes Sacrific'd , Our Ancient Glory gone . XXXXII . A fatal , Costly War entangl'd , On this Unhappy Isle , Unless above what we deserve , Kind Heaven at last do smile . XXXXIII . And bring our injur'd Monarch home , And place Him on His Throne , And to Confusion bring his Foes , Which God grant may be done . Printed in the Year One Thousand Six hundred Ninety five . BELGICK-BOAR , To the TUNE of Chivy-Chase . I. GOd prosper long our Noble King , Our Hope's and Wishes all . A fatal Landing late there did In Devonshire befall . II To drive our Sovereign from his Throne , Prince Nassaw took his way , The Babe may rue that's lately born , His Landing at Torbay . III . The stubborn Tarquin , void of Grace , Vows to Hell did make , To force his Father Abdicate , And then his Crown to take . IV. And eke the Royal Infant Prince To seize , or drive away . These Tidings to our Monarch came In White-hall , where he lay . V. Who unconcern'd at the Report , At first would not believe , That any of his Royal Raze , Such Mischief should conceive . VI . Till time which ripens all things did , The villainy disclose . And of a Nephew , and a Son , Forg'd out the worst of Foes . VII . Who by Infernal instinct led , A Mighty Fleet prepares , His Father's Kingdom to invade , And fill his Heart with Cares . VIII . Our Gracious King desires to know , What his Pretensions were . And how without his Leave he durst , Presume on Landing here ; IX . Declaring what was deem'd amiss , Should soon amended be . And whatsoever should be desir'd , He wou'd thereto Agree . X. And for a speedy Parliament , He does forthwith Declare : The Surly Bruit not minding this , Does to our Coasts repair . XI . With several thousand Belgic Boors , All chosen Rogues of Spite , Join'd with Rebels , who from hence And Justice , had ta'n Flight . XII . Who Arm'd with Malice , and with Hope , Soon threw themselves a Shore , C [ r ] ying our Religion , and our Laws , They came for to Restore . XIII . Then Declarations flew about , As thick as any Hail , Which on the Rude and Senseless Rout , Did Mightily prevail . XIV . We must be Papists , or be Slaves , Is now the General Cry ; But wee'l do any thing to save Our Darling Liberty . XV . Wee'l join with a Foreign Prince , Against our Lawful King : For he from all Fancy [ ' ] worser Fears , Deliverance does bring . XVI . And if what he Declares prove true ( As who knows but it may ) Were he the Devil of a Prince , Wee'l rather him obey . XVII . Then our Allegiance let's cast off , James shall no longer guide us , And tho' the French would Bridle us , None but the Dutch shall Ride us . XVIII And whoso will not join with us In this Design so brave , Their Houses wee'l pull down , or Burn , And Seize on what they have . These [ XIX . These growing Evils to prevent , ] Our King his F [ orce does bend ; ] But among those he most did trust , He scarce did find one Friend . XX . Those riggling vermin , who so late His Royal Rays did shroud , And Bask'd and wanton'd in his Beams , Now leave him in a Cloud . XXI . O how my very heart does bleed To think , how basely they , Who long had Eaten Royal Bred , Their Master now betray . XXII . And those whom he had most oblig'd , And greatest Favour shown , Appear'd to be the very first Who sought him to Dethrone . XXIII . O Compton , Langston , and the rest , Who basely from him ran , Your Names forever be Accursed , By every Englishman . XXIV . Proud Tarquin he pursues his Game , And quickly makes it plain , He came not to Redress our Wrongs , But Englands Crown to gain . XXV . And over his Father's mangled Fame , His Chariot proudly drives , While he Good man , altho' in vain , To pacify him strives . XXVI . He bids him make his own Demands . And say for what he came , And anything except the Crown , He should have Leave to Claim . XXVII . But he ungrateful would not hear This Message , tho' so kind , But caus'd the Royal Messenger , Forthwith to be Confin'd . XXVIII . He brings his Nasty Croaking Crew , Unto his Father's Gate , Dismissed his own , makes them his Guards , Oh dismal turn of Fate . XXIX . Also at Midnight drives him thence , Oh horrid impious thing ; Where such Affronts are offered to A Father and a King . XXX . A King so good , so just , so kind , So merciful to all ; His virtues were his only Fault , And that which caus'd his Fallen . XXXI . Who now his Royal Life to save , Is forc't to fly the Land , [ And leave his Sceptre to be grasp'd By and ungracious Hand . ] XXXII . Hells Journeymen are strait Convein'd , To rob God of his Power , Set up themselves a Stork-like King The Nation to devour . XXXIII . And to secure his Lawless Throne . Now give him all we have , And make each Freeborn English heart Become a Belgic Slave . XXXIV . The Bar , the Pulpit , and the Press , Infatuously combine , To cry up and Usurping Power , And Stamp it for Divine . XXXV . Our Loyalty we must melt down , And have it Coin'd anew , For what was currant heretofore , Will now no longer do . XXXVI . Our Fetters we ourselves put on , Our selves , our selves did Bubble ; Our Conscience a mere Packhorse make , Which now must carry double . XXXVII . O England , when to future times , This Story shall be known , How will they Blush , to think what Crimes , There Ancestors have done . XXXVIII . But after all , what have we god By this our Dear-bought King ; Why , that our Scandal and Reproach , Throughout the World may Ring . XXXIX . That our Religion , Liberty , And Law , we held so dear , Are more invaded in this Change , Than ever yet they were . XXXX . Our Coffers drain'd , our Coin impair'd , That Little which remains ; Our Persons seiz'd , our Thoughts arraign'd , Our Freedom now in Chains . XXXXI . Our Traffic ruin'd , Shipping lost , Our Traders most undone , Our Bravest Heroes Sacrific'd , Our Ancient Glory gone . XXXXII . A fatal , Costly War entangl'd , On this Unhappy Isle , Unless above what we deserve , Kind Heaven at last do smile . XXXXIII . And bring our injur'd Monarch home , And place Him on His Throne , And to Confusion bring his Foes , Which God grant may be done . Printed in the Year One Thousand Six hundred Ninety five . 