A New BALLAD , Call'd the Greenwich Hunting-Match . To the Tune of Chevy-Chace . GOD prosper long our noble KING , And send him quickly o'er ; And also keep young Chevalier , Still on the other Shore . And thou Apollo , God of Wit , Inspire me in this Case , Teach thou my Muse for to describe A matchless hunting Chase . Lurcher had singled out the Doe , In Drury Hundreds bred ; From thence to Greenwich Town remov'd , And for the sport there fed . Meanwhile at Court Lord Gambol stay'd Serving the Church contrary ; Where he new Schemes with Wildfire laid , To bring in Have Mare . In three short Weeks or thereabouts , They wou'd have done it surely : All honest Men had been ture'd out , And James brought in most purely . But Pleasure that bewitching Ill , Oft makes great Things miscarry : So did it here with Wildfire Will , And eke with wise Lord Harry . To drive the Doe in Wreenwich Park . These Statesmen took their way : O Perkin thou hast cause to rue The Hunting of that Day . For Fate , that boded thee no Good , To Brumswick did incline ; And gave a Staff when they were gone , Which spoil'd their close Design . This Hunting Match , as some do say , Was in the Month of July , These Heroes doffed their Garments gay , Out of Good Manners truly : Because the Doe stark naked ran , Naked as she was born , To take the Advantage of their Clothes , They held it muckle Scorn . Thus ran these fierce twoo Footed Hounds , Than those of Four more fell , And with full Cry pursu'd the Do , As Fame does loudly tell . Brisk Gambol was the prettiest Dog , For speed , and eke for Hollow , And many Mile upon the Scent , He eagerly did follow . But when the panting Doe lay down , Yielding herself to prey ; Unable he the Chase to Crown , Another took the Say . O Gambol Change this Course of Life , No more be lew'd , and tease : Go Home , drink Tea with thy own Wife , Thou'st lost the Power to please . A New BALLAD , Call'd the Greenwich Hunting-Match . To the Tune of Chevy-Chace . GOD prosper long our noble KING , And send him quickly o'er ; And also keep young Chevalier , Still on the other Shore . And thou Apollo , God of Wit , Inspire me in this Case , Teach thou my Muse for to describe A matchless hunting Chase . Lurcher had singled out the Doe , In Drury Hundreds bred ; From thence to Greenwich Town remov'd , And for the sport there fed . Meanwhile at Court Lord Gambol stay'd Serving the Church contrary ; Where he new Schemes with Wildfire laid , To bring in Have Mare . In three short Weeks or thereabouts , They wou'd have done it surely : All honest Men had been ture'd out , And James brought in most purely . But Pleasure that bewitching Ill , Oft makes great Things miscarry : So did it here with Wildfire Will , And eke with wise Lord Harry . To drive the Doe in Wreenwich Park . These Statesmen took their way : O Perkin thou hast cause to rue The Hunting of that Day . For Fate , that boded thee no Good , To Brumswick did incline ; And gave a Staff when they were gone , Which spoil'd their close Design . This Hunting Match , as some do say , Was in the Month of July , These Heroes doffed their Garments gay , Out of Good Manners truly : Because the Doe stark naked ran , Naked as she was born , To take the Advantage of their Clothes , They held it muckle Scorn . Thus ran these fierce twoo Footed Hounds , Than those of Four more fell , And with full Cry pursu'd the Do , As Fame does loudly tell . Brisk Gambol was the prettiest Dog , For speed , and eke for Hollow , And many Mile upon the Scent , He eagerly did follow . But when the panting Doe lay down , Yielding herself to prey ; Unable he the Chase to Crown , Another took the Say . O Gambol Change this Course of Life , No more be lew'd , and tease : Go Home , drink Tea with thy own Wife , Thou'st lost the Power to please . 