Cupid's Master-Piece : OR , Long Wished for Comes at Las Or , The happy Meeting of William and Mary . A pretty Damsel of Sixteen 'tis said , Was Courted ; but of Love she was afrai [ ' ] worser : She slights sweet William ( so she call'd his Name ) He took her first Repulse ; then she with shame , Laments her scornful Folly : Now she Loves , And languishes with grief , till Cupid moves Her William once again for to be kind ; Which soon he did perform : Now both are joyn'd In Love's strict Mutual Bans , and Married , Let none , though once deny'd , in Love despair . Tune of , Caelia's my Foe . GOd Cupid's unkind Since my Soul he confin'd For to Love one does prove So unconstant in Mind : He has wounded my heart With and amorous Dar But my Dear will not hear , Though I tell him my smart . Once 'twas he did smile , Which my Heart did beguile ; But then all young Men I did scorn for a while : But my Mind's alter'd now , And by Cupid I vow , I do wish him to Kiss , If I could but tell how . What a madness it is To refuse proffer'd Bliss : 'Tis a grace to Embrace , When kind Love bids us Kiss , My Desires are too late And I curse my hard Fate , Who first did me forbid , For to make him my Mate SWeet William was he Who at first tempted me : His Name I can't blame , Though so cruel he be : But now I do fear , My Complaints he won't hear , Though I'm crying , and dying , Each Hour i' th' Year . But if yet I could guess Any Hope's of Redress , I would pray Night and Day , For a better Success . If my Love I make known , And he should it disown , Then with Grief passed Relief , I were ever undone . So sweet is his Voice , That it makes me rejoice For to hear ; him I fear , Will not make me his Choice . He's so proper and tall , And so handsome withal , That his sighed does delight , And my Senses enthral . When my Billy does sing , He does make the Groves ring ; 'Twould invite to delight , Each sensible thing : Though my words are in vain , Yet till Death I'le remain His own , though ne'r known To be wed by my Swain . Thus with Sighs she did End : But kind Love was her Friend . Now at last , he made haste , And his Bow he did bend : He peirc'd William's Breast , That he could take no rest ; And Love did him move , Which he quickly expressed . To the Damsel he goes , Who did languish in woes , And with Arms full of Charms He Embraces his Spouse . He bid her take Hear For God Cupid by Art , Did enjoin me , and confine me , Never from you to part . This made her Heart glad , Which before was so sad : They were Marry'd , and ne'r tarry'd , Such Desires they had . Let none then despair , Though tormented they are : For be sure , Love that's pure , Love's Pleasures shall share . FINIS . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . Cupid's Master-Piece : OR , Long Wished for Comes at Las Or , The happy Meeting of William and Mary . A pretty Damsel of Sixteen 'tis said , Was Courted ; but of Love she was afrai [ ' ] worser : She slights sweet William ( so she call'd his Name ) He took her first Repulse ; then she with shame , Laments her scornful Folly : Now she Loves , And languishes with grief , till Cupid moves Her William once again for to be kind ; Which soon he did perform : Now both are joyn'd In Love's strict Mutual Bans , and Married , Let none , though once deny'd , in Love despair . Tune of , Caelia's my Foe . GOd Cupid's unkind Since my Soul he confin'd For to Love one does prove So unconstant in Mind : He has wounded my heart With and amorous Dar But my Dear will not hear , Though I tell him my smart . Once 'twas he did smile , Which my Heart did beguile ; But then all young Men I did scorn for a while : But my Mind's alter'd now , And by Cupid I vow , I do wish him to Kiss , If I could but tell how . What a madness it is To refuse proffer'd Bliss : 'Tis a grace to Embrace , When kind Love bids us Kiss , My Desires are too late And I curse my hard Fate , Who first did me forbid , For to make him my Mate SWeet William was he Who at first tempted me : His Name I can't blame , Though so cruel he be : But now I do fear , My Complaints he won't hear , Though I'm crying , and dying , Each Hour i' th' Year . But if yet I could guess Any Hope's of Redress , I would pray Night and Day , For a better Success . If my Love I make known , And he should it disown , Then with Grief passed Relief , I were ever undone . So sweet is his Voice , That it makes me rejoice For to hear ; him I fear , Will not make me his Choice . He's so proper and tall , And so handsome withal , That his sighed does delight , And my Senses enthral . When my Billy does sing , He does make the Groves ring ; 'Twould invite to delight , Each sensible thing : Though my words are in vain , Yet till Death I'le remain His own , though ne'r known To be wed by my Swain . Thus with Sighs she did End : But kind Love was her Friend . Now at last , he made haste , And his Bow he did bend : He peirc'd William's Breast , That he could take no rest ; And Love did him move , Which he quickly expressed . To the Damsel he goes , Who did languish in woes , And with Arms full of Charms He Embraces his Spouse . He bid her take Hear For God Cupid by Art , Did enjoin me , and confine me , Never from you to part . This made her Heart glad , Which before was so sad : They were Marry'd , and ne'r tarry'd , Such Desires they had . Let none then despair , Though tormented they are : For be sure , Love that's pure , Love's Pleasures shall share . FINIS . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . 