A proper new Ballad on the Old Parliament . Or , the second part of Knave out of Doors . To the Tune of Hei ho my honey , my heart shall never rue , Four and twenty now for your money , and yet a hard pennyworth too . GOod morrow my Neighbours all , What news is this I herd tell ? As I passed through Westminster-hall , by the house that's near to Hell : They told me John Lambert was there , with his Bears , and deeply did swear : ( As Cromwell had done before ) those Vermin should fit there no more . Sing him ho Wil. Lenthall , who shall our General be ? For the House to the Devil is sent all , and follow gid faith must you . Sing him ho , etc Then Muse strike up a Sonnet , come Piper and play us a spring . For now I think upon it , these Rs turn'd out their King . But now it is come about , that once again they must turn ou And not without justice and reason , that every one home to his prison . Sing him ho Harry Martin , a Burgess of the Bench. There's nothing here is certain , you must back and leave your wench . Sing him ho , etc He there with the buffle head , is called Lord , and of the same house , Who ( as I have herd it said ) was chastised by his Lady's spouse . Because he ran at sheep , she and her maid gave him the whip ; And beatrice his head so addle , you'd think he had a knock in the cradle . Sing him ho Lord Munson , you ha' god a Park of the Kings , One day you'l hang like a hounson , for this and other things . Sing him ho , etc It was by their Master's order at first together they met . Whom piously they did murder , and since by their own they did set . The cause of this disaster , is 'cause they were false to their Master . Nor can their Gensd'armes blame , for serving them the same . Sing him ho Sir Arthur , no more in the house you shall prate ; For all you kept such a quarter , you are out of the Council of State . Sing him ho , etc Old Noll once gave them a purge ( forgetting Occidisti , ) ( The furies be his scourge ) so of the cure missed he . And yet the Drug he well knew it , for he gave it to Dr. Huit . Had he given it them he had done it , and they had not turn'd out his son yet . Sing him ho brave Dick , L. Hall , and Lady Joane , Who did against loyalty kick , is now for a New-yeers-gift gone . Sing him ho etc For had old Noll been alive , he had pulled them out by the ears . Or else had fired their Hive , and kicked them down the stairs ; Because they were so bold , to vex his righteous soul , When he so deeply had swore , that there they should never fit more . But him ho Nol's dead , and stunk long since above ground , Though leapt in spices and led , that cost us many a pound . Sing him ho , etc Indeed brother Burgeois your Ling did never stink half so bad ; Nor did your Habberdin , when it no peas-straw had . the both were chosen together , cause you wore stuff-cloaks in hard weather . And Cambridge needs would have a Burgeois fool and knave . Sing him ho J. Lowry , concerning Abberdine , No Member spoke before you , yet you never spoke again . Sing him ho my honey , my heart shall never rue , Here's all picked ware for the money , and yet a hard pennyworth too . Ned Prideaux he went post , to tell the Protector the news . That Fletwood ruled the rost , having taken off Dicks shoes . And that he did believe , Lambert would him deceive ; As he his brother had gulled , and Cromwell Fairfax bul'd . Sing him ho the Attorney was still at your command , In flames together burn you , still dancing hand in hand . Who's that that would hide his face , and his neck from the collar pull ? He must appear in this place , if his cap be made of Wool . Who is it with a vengeance ? it is the good Lord Saint Johns ! Who made Gods house to fallen , to built his own withal . Sing him ho who comes there ? who this I must not say ; But by his dark-lanthorn I sware he's as good in the night as day . Sing him ho , etc Edge brothers , room for one , that looks as big as the best ; This pity to leave him alone , for he is as good as the rest . No picklock of the laws , he builds among the Daws . If you ha' any more Kings to murder for a President look no further . Sing him ho J. Bradshaw , in blood none further engages ; The Devil from whom he had's law will shortly pay him his wages . Sing him ho etc Next Peagoose Wild come in , to show your weesle face . And tell us Burleys since , whose blood bought you your place . When loyalty was a crime , he lived in a dangerous time . Was forc'd to pay his neck , to make you Baron of the Cheque . Sing him ho Jack Straw we'l put it in the margin , It not for justice or law that you were made a Sergeant . Sing him ho etc Noll served not Satan faster , nor with him did better accord ; For he was my good master , and the devil was his good Lord . Both Slingsby , Gerrard , and Hewit , were sure enough to go to it , According to his intent , that chosen me President . Sing him ho L. Lisle , sure law bad god a wrench , And where was justice the while , when you sat on the bench ? Sing him ho etc Next comes the good Lord Keble , of the triumvirate , Of the seal , in law but feeble , though on the bench he sat . For when one puts him a case , I wish him out of the place , And if it were not a since , and abler lawyer in . Sing give the seal about , Idem have it so the rather , Because we might get out , the Knave , my Lord my Father . Sing him ho , etc , Pull out the other there , it is Nathaniel Fines . ( Who Bristol lost for fear ) we'l not leave him behind's ; This a chip of that good old block , who to loyalty gave the first knock . Then stole away to Lundey , whence the foul fiend fetches him one day . Sing him ho Canting Fines , you and the rest to mend 'um , Would you were served in your kinds , with and ense rescidendum . Sing him ho , etc He that comes now down stairs , is Lord chief justice Glin. If no man for him cares , he cares as little again . The reason too I know't , he helped cut Straffords throat , And take away his life , though with a cleaner knife . Sing him ho Britain bold , straight to the bar you get , Where it is not so cold as where your justice set . Sing him ho , etc He that shall next come in , was long of the Council of State ; Though hardly a hair on his chin , when first in the Council he sat : He was sometime in Italy , and learned their fashions prettily . Then came back to's own Nation to help up Reformation . Sing him ho Harry Nevil , I prithee be not too rash , With Atheism to Court the Devil , you'r too bold to be his Bardash . Sing him ho , etc He there with ingratitude blacked is one Cornelius Holland : Who but for the Kings house lacked , wherewith to appease his colon . The case is well amended , since that time , as I think , When at Court gate he tended , with a little stick and a short link . Sing him ho Cornelius , your zeal cannot delude us , The reason pray now tell us , why thus you played the Judas ? Sing him ho , etc At first he was a Grocer , who now we Major call : Although you would think no Sir , if you saw him in White-hall . Where he has great Command , and looks for cap in hand , And if our eggs be not addle , shall be of the next new Moddle . Sing him ho Mr. Salloway the Lord in Heaven does know When that from hence you shall away where to the Devil you'l go : Sing him ho , etc Little Hill since set in the House , is to a Mountain grown : Not that which brought forth the Mouse , but thousands the year of his own . The purchase that I mean , where else but at Taunton Dean ? Five thousand pounds per annum , a sum not known to his Granam . Sing him the Good old Cause this old although not true You god more by that then the laws , so a Good old Cause to you . Sing him ho , etc Master Cecil pray come behind , because on your own accord , The other House you declin'd , you shall be no longer a lord . The reason as I guess , you silently did confess , Such lords deserved ill , the other House to fill . Sing him ho Mr. Cecil , your honour now is gone , Such lords are not worth a whistle , we have made better lords of our own . Sing him ho , etc Luke Robinson shall go before you , that snarling Northern tike , Be sure hee'l not adore you , for honour he does not like . He cannot honour inherit , and he knows he can never meri And therefore he cannot bear it that anyone else should wear i Sing him ho envious lown , you'r of the Beagles kind , Who always barked at the Moon , because in the Dark it shin'd . Sing him ho , etc 'Tis this that vengeance rouses that A proper new Ballad on the Old Parliament . Or , the second part of Knave out of Doors . To the Tune of Hei ho my honey , my heart shall never rue , Four and twenty now for your money , and yet a hard pennyworth too . GOod morrow my Neighbours all , What news is this I herd tell ? As I passed through Westminster-hall , by the house that's near to Hell : They told me John Lambert was there , with his Bears , and deeply did swear : ( As Cromwell had done before ) those Vermin should fit there no more . Sing him ho Wil. Lenthall , who shall our General be ? For the House to the Devil is sent all , and follow gid faith must you . Sing him ho , etc Then Muse strike up a Sonnet , come Piper and play us a spring . For now I think upon it , these Rs turn'd out their King . But now it is come about , that once again they must turn ou And not without justice and reason , that every one home to his prison . Sing him ho Harry Martin , a Burgess of the Bench. There's nothing here is certain , you must back and leave your wench . Sing him ho , etc He there with the buffle head , is called Lord , and of the same house , Who ( as I have herd it said ) was chastised by his Lady's spouse . Because he ran at sheep , she and her maid gave him the whip ; And beatrice his head so addle , you'd think he had a knock in the cradle . Sing him ho Lord Munson , you ha' god a Park of the Kings , One day you'l hang like a hounson , for this and other things . Sing him ho , etc It was by their Master's order at first together they met . Whom piously they did murder , and since by their own they did set . The cause of this disaster , is 'cause they were false to their Master . Nor can their Gensd'armes blame , for serving them the same . Sing him ho Sir Arthur , no more in the house you shall prate ; For all you kept such a quarter , you are out of the Council of State . Sing him ho , etc Old Noll once gave them a purge ( forgetting Occidisti , ) ( The furies be his scourge ) so of the cure missed he . And yet the Drug he well knew it , for he gave it to Dr. Huit . Had he given it them he had done it , and they had not turn'd out his son yet . Sing him ho brave Dick , L. Hall , and Lady Joane , Who did against loyalty kick , is now for a New-yeers-gift gone . Sing him ho etc For had old Noll been alive , he had pulled them out by the ears . Or else had fired their Hive , and kicked them down the stairs ; Because they were so bold , to vex his righteous soul , When he so deeply had swore , that there they should never fit more . But him ho Nol's dead , and stunk long since above ground , Though leapt in spices and led , that cost us many a pound . Sing him ho , etc Indeed brother Burgeois your Ling did never stink half so bad ; Nor did your Habberdin , when it no peas-straw had . the both were chosen together , cause you wore stuff-cloaks in hard weather . And Cambridge needs would have a Burgeois fool and knave . Sing him ho J. Lowry , concerning Abberdine , No Member spoke before you , yet you never spoke again . Sing him ho my honey , my heart shall never rue , Here's all picked ware for the money , and yet a hard pennyworth too . Ned Prideaux he went post , to tell the Protector the news . That Fletwood ruled the rost , having taken off Dicks shoes . And that he did believe , Lambert would him deceive ; As he his brother had gulled , and Cromwell Fairfax bul'd . Sing him ho the Attorney was still at your command , In flames together burn you , still dancing hand in hand . Who's that that would hide his face , and his neck from the collar pull ? He must appear in this place , if his cap be made of Wool . Who is it with a vengeance ? it is the good Lord Saint Johns ! Who made Gods house to fallen , to built his own withal . Sing him ho who comes there ? who this I must not say ; But by his dark-lanthorn I sware he's as good in the night as day . Sing him ho , etc Edge brothers , room for one , that looks as big as the best ; This pity to leave him alone , for he is as good as the rest . No picklock of the laws , he builds among the Daws . If you ha' any more Kings to murder for a President look no further . Sing him ho J. Bradshaw , in blood none further engages ; The Devil from whom he had's law will shortly pay him his wages . Sing him ho etc Next Peagoose Wild come in , to show your weesle face . And tell us Burleys since , whose blood bought you your place . When loyalty was a crime , he lived in a dangerous time . Was forc'd to pay his neck , to make you Baron of the Cheque . Sing him ho Jack Straw we'l put it in the margin , It not for justice or law that you were made a Sergeant . Sing him ho etc Noll served not Satan faster , nor with him did better accord ; For he was my good master , and the devil was his good Lord . Both Slingsby , Gerrard , and Hewit , were sure enough to go to it , According to his intent , that chosen me President . Sing him ho L. Lisle , sure law bad god a wrench , And where was justice the while , when you sat on the bench ? Sing him ho etc Next comes the good Lord Keble , of the triumvirate , Of the seal , in law but feeble , though on the bench he sat . For when one puts him a case , I wish him out of the place , And if it were not a since , and abler lawyer in . Sing give the seal about , Idem have it so the rather , Because we might get out , the Knave , my Lord my Father . Sing him ho , etc , Pull out the other there , it is Nathaniel Fines . ( Who Bristol lost for fear ) we'l not leave him behind's ; This a chip of that good old block , who to loyalty gave the first knock . Then stole away to Lundey , whence the foul fiend fetches him one day . Sing him ho Canting Fines , you and the rest to mend 'um , Would you were served in your kinds , with and ense rescidendum . Sing him ho , etc He that comes now down stairs , is Lord chief justice Glin. If no man for him cares , he cares as little again . The reason too I know't , he helped cut Straffords throat , And take away his life , though with a cleaner knife . Sing him ho Britain bold , straight to the bar you get , Where it is not so cold as where your justice set . Sing him ho , etc He that shall next come in , was long of the Council of State ; Though hardly a hair on his chin , when first in the Council he sat : He was sometime in Italy , and learned their fashions prettily . Then came back to's own Nation to help up Reformation . Sing him ho Harry Nevil , I prithee be not too rash , With Atheism to Court the Devil , you'r too bold to be his Bardash . Sing him ho , etc He there with ingratitude blacked is one Cornelius Holland : Who but for the Kings house lacked , wherewith to appease his colon . The case is well amended , since that time , as I think , When at Court gate he tended , with a little stick and a short link . Sing him ho Cornelius , your zeal cannot delude us , The reason pray now tell us , why thus you played the Judas ? Sing him ho , etc At first he was a Grocer , who now we Major call : Although you would think no Sir , if you saw him in White-hall . Where he has great Command , and looks for cap in hand , And if our eggs be not addle , shall be of the next new Moddle . Sing him ho Mr. Salloway the Lord in Heaven does know When that from hence you shall away where to the Devil you'l go : Sing him ho , etc Little Hill since set in the House , is to a Mountain grown : Not that which brought forth the Mouse , but thousands the year of his own . The purchase that I mean , where else but at Taunton Dean ? Five thousand pounds per annum , a sum not known to his Granam . Sing him the Good old Cause this old although not true You god more by that then the laws , so a Good old Cause to you . Sing him ho , etc Master Cecil pray come behind , because on your own accord , The other House you declin'd , you shall be no longer a lord . The reason as I guess , you silently did confess , Such lords deserved ill , the other House to fill . Sing him ho Mr. Cecil , your honour now is gone , Such lords are not worth a whistle , we have made better lords of our own . Sing him ho , etc Luke Robinson shall go before you , that snarling Northern tike , Be sure hee'l not adore you , for honour he does not like . He cannot honour inherit , and he knows he can never meri And therefore he cannot bear it that anyone else should wear i Sing him ho envious lown , you'r of the Beagles kind , Who always barked at the Moon , because in the Dark it shin'd . Sing him ho , etc 'Tis this that vengeance rouses that while you make long prayers , You eat up widows houses and drank the Orphans tears . Long time you kept a great noise , of God and the Good old Cause ; But if God to you be so kind , then I'me of the Indians mind . Sing him ho Sir Harry , we see by your demeanour , If longer here you tarry , you'l be Sir Harry Vane Senior . Sing him ho , etc Now , if your zeal do warm you , pray loud for fairer weather , Swear to live and die with the Army , for these Birds are flown together . The House is turned out a door , ( and I think it was no since too ) If we take them there any more , wee'l throw the House out of the window . Sing him ho Tom Scot , you lent the Devil your hand : I wonder he helped you not , but suffered you t' be trapand . Sing him ho , etc They'r once again conduced , and we freed from the evil To which we long were used , God bless us next from the Devil ! If they had not been outed , the Army had been routed , And then this Rotten Rump , had sat until the last trump . But him ho Lambert's here , the Protectors Instrument boar : And many there be that swear , his Lady had done it before . Sing him ho , etc Come here then honest Peters , say Grace for the second course : So long as these your betters , must patience have upon force . Long time you kept a great noise , with God and the Good old Cause , But if God own such as these , then where's the Devils Fees . Sing him ho Hugo , I hear thou art not dead , Where now to the Devil will you go your Patrons being fled . Sing him ho my honey , my heart shall never rue : Four and twenty now for a penny , and into the bargain HUGH His rumps and his kidneys . while you make long prayers , You eat up widows houses and drank the Orphans tears . Long time you kept a great noise , of God and the Good old Cause ; But if God to you be so kind , then I'me of the Indians mind . Sing him ho Sir Harry , we see by your demeanour , If longer here you tarry , you'l be Sir Harry Vane Senior . Sing him ho , etc Now , if your zeal do warm you , pray loud for fairer weather , Swear to live and die with the Army , for these Birds are flown together . The House is turned out a door , ( and I think it was no since too ) If we take them there any more , wee'l throw the House out of the window . Sing him ho Tom Scot , you lent the Devil your hand : I wonder he helped you not , but suffered you t' be trapand . Sing him ho , etc They'r once again conduced , and we freed from the evil To which we long were used , God bless us next from the Devil ! If they had not been outed , the Army had been routed , And then this Rotten Rump , had sat until the last trump . But him ho Lambert's here , the Protectors Instrument boar : And many there be that swear , his Lady had done it before . Sing him ho , etc Come here then honest Peters , say Grace for the second course : So long as these your betters , must patience have upon force . Long time you kept a great noise , with God and the Good old Cause , But if God own such as these , then where's the Devils Fees . Sing him ho Hugo , I hear thou art not dead , Where now to the Devil will you go your Patrons being fled . Sing him ho my honey , my heart shall never rue : Four and twenty now for a penny , and into the bargain HUGH His rumps and his kidneys . 