The Godly men Instructions : OR , The Dying men last Words to his Children . We Sinners all , do see here what is Pen'd , Let's leave our Sins , and strive our lives to mend ; And call of God in time to give us Grace , The Judgement Day is coming on apace : That Man is happy then as I do say , That hath his Sins forgiven him at that day . To the Tune of , Aim not too High . GOod People all , I pray hear what I read Unto that same I prey you give Good heed ; It is no Fable that I do declare , Which I will sing to you now I am here . It is concerning of our wicked lives , God give us Grace that we may always strive And call to God because we do offend , That we may strive our wicked lives to mend Our sins and wickedness they so abound , It is for that God he cursed the Ground : herefore good People let us weep and pray , To mend our lives before the Judgement day We do not know how soon it may appear , Let us serve God , and thou we need not fear ; And tread our path and make our way so even That we may have a resting place in Heaven But yet that grievous since of Pride , Offends the Lord it cannot be deny'd , Which is a grievous thing for me to tell , For want of Grace that we should so rebel . In many places of this Land I say , They drink and swill in a most beastly way , Which makes the Lord to be offended soar , God give us Grace we may be so no more , WHordom I say is a most beastly since ; God give all grace a new life to begin And leave it off and strive our lives to mend , That we may all come to a blessed end . But yet we have no love to one another , We care not if we could destroy our Brother To make us rich for to maintain our pride , We danger Soul and Body too beside . Ant yet consider what I say to you , I'll say no more but what I know is true : We take Gods name in vain so every day , We danger our poor Souls this wicked way . And Children they are now so wicked grown , There Parents now adais they scarcely own When they'r grown up they are so proud I say As that their Parents they will not obey . But still our God he is the same he was , And sees all things which does come to pass : We cannot think thought , nor say nor do , But yet our heavenly God , he them can know . Therefore good People let us have a care , And never bring our Souls to such a snare , And Children all be sure to use your skill , First honour God , and to obey his Will . But if you neglect what I do say , You Souls are in a very evil way ; But yet good People call in time for grace , The Judgement day is coming on apace . Then while that we are in this World alive , Let us fear God ; and daily let us strive , To leave our sins that are so wicked grown , That Christ may take us all to be his own . But yet there's many people I do say , Do never think upon their dying day , But still goes on in Wickedness , And fellows whoredom , pride , & drunkenness . Which is a grievous thing for to behold , That Man and Woman dare to be so bold , For little pleasure of this worldly Wealth , That we should danger so our own souls health Once more I say now call to God for grace , That all poor sinners may Gods love embrace For Earthly things will vanish and decay , when death does come & we are clad with clay . So all good People now I end my Song , 'Tis good for to repent and go along , In serving God and calling on him still , If we gain Heaven we shall do well . Printed for Philip Brooksby , in West-smith-field . The Godly men Instructions : OR , The Dying men last Words to his Children . We Sinners all , do see here what is Pen'd , Let's leave our Sins , and strive our lives to mend ; And call of God in time to give us Grace , The Judgement Day is coming on apace : That Man is happy then as I do say , That hath his Sins forgiven him at that day . To the Tune of , Aim not too High . GOod People all , I pray hear what I read Unto that same I prey you give Good heed ; It is no Fable that I do declare , Which I will sing to you now I am here . It is concerning of our wicked lives , God give us Grace that we may always strive And call to God because we do offend , That we may strive our wicked lives to mend Our sins and wickedness they so abound , It is for that God he cursed the Ground : herefore good People let us weep and pray , To mend our lives before the Judgement day We do not know how soon it may appear , Let us serve God , and thou we need not fear ; And tread our path and make our way so even That we may have a resting place in Heaven But yet that grievous since of Pride , Offends the Lord it cannot be deny'd , Which is a grievous thing for me to tell , For want of Grace that we should so rebel . In many places of this Land I say , They drink and swill in a most beastly way , Which makes the Lord to be offended soar , God give us Grace we may be so no more , WHordom I say is a most beastly since ; God give all grace a new life to begin And leave it off and strive our lives to mend , That we may all come to a blessed end . But yet we have no love to one another , We care not if we could destroy our Brother To make us rich for to maintain our pride , We danger Soul and Body too beside . Ant yet consider what I say to you , I'll say no more but what I know is true : We take Gods name in vain so every day , We danger our poor Souls this wicked way . And Children they are now so wicked grown , There Parents now adais they scarcely own When they'r grown up they are so proud I say As that their Parents they will not obey . But still our God he is the same he was , And sees all things which does come to pass : We cannot think thought , nor say nor do , But yet our heavenly God , he them can know . Therefore good People let us have a care , And never bring our Souls to such a snare , And Children all be sure to use your skill , First honour God , and to obey his Will . But if you neglect what I do say , You Souls are in a very evil way ; But yet good People call in time for grace , The Judgement day is coming on apace . Then while that we are in this World alive , Let us fear God ; and daily let us strive , To leave our sins that are so wicked grown , That Christ may take us all to be his own . But yet there's many people I do say , Do never think upon their dying day , But still goes on in Wickedness , And fellows whoredom , pride , & drunkenness . Which is a grievous thing for to behold , That Man and Woman dare to be so bold , For little pleasure of this worldly Wealth , That we should danger so our own souls health Once more I say now call to God for grace , That all poor sinners may Gods love embrace For Earthly things will vanish and decay , when death does come & we are clad with clay . So all good People now I end my Song , 'Tis good for to repent and go along , In serving God and calling on him still , If we gain Heaven we shall do well . Printed for Philip Brooksby , in West-smith-field . 