A New DIALOGUE between ALICE & BETRICE , As they met at the Market one Morning Early . To the Tune of Mopsaphil . This may be Printed , R.P. I Alice . COod Neighbour why d'ye look awry ? you're grown a wondrous Stranger You walk about , you Huff and Pout , as tho' you'd burst with Anger ; If its for that your Fortune's great ; or you so Wealthy are , Or else so High , there's none so nigh , that with you can compare : But t' other day I herd one say , your Husband durst not show his Ears , But like a Lout he walks about , so full of Sighs and and Fears . Betrice , Good Mistress Tart , I care not a Fa --- tO for you nor all your Jeers . II My Husband's known for to be one that is most Chaste and Pure , And would be , continually , but for such Jades as you are : You smack , you smick , you wash you lick , you smirk , you swear , you grin , You nod , you wink , and in your Drink , you strive for to draw him in . Alice , You Lie you Punk , you're almost Drunk , and now you Scold and make a Strife , With running in the Score , and playing the Wh ---- you led him a weary Life . Bet . Tell me so once again , you Dirty Quean , and I'll pull you by the Coif . III . Go dress your Rats , those nasty Brats , that are always Sleep and Drowsy , With Vermin spread , they're almost dead , they're kept so wondrous Lousy . Al. Pray hold you there , and do not Swear , yours are not half so sweet , You feed them up with bit and sup , then give 'em a dirty Teat . Bet . My Girls and Boys , my only Joys , they're better taught and fed than yours . Al. Tell me so once more , you dirty Wh ---- , and I'll kick you out of doors . Bet . 'Tis a very good Jest , pray do your best , and I' faith I'll quit the Scores . IV. Go , go , you are a silly Bear , your Husband can't away with't , A stinking Quean as e'er was seen , your Neighbours all will say i A fulsome Trot , and good for nought , unless it be for that You stole a Spoon out of the Room , the last Christening you were at . Al. You lie you With --- , you have god the Itch , the Parish knows you are not found : See how she claws with ugly Paws , and I'll fell you to the Ground : You have tore my Hood , and shall make is good , if it cost me Forty Pound , Betrice , Take your Course . Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass on London-bridge . A New DIALOGUE between ALICE & BETRICE , As they met at the Market one Morning Early . To the Tune of Mopsaphil . This may be Printed , R.P. I Alice . COod Neighbour why d'ye look awry ? you're grown a wondrous Stranger You walk about , you Huff and Pout , as tho' you'd burst with Anger ; If its for that your Fortune's great ; or you so Wealthy are , Or else so High , there's none so nigh , that with you can compare : But t' other day I herd one say , your Husband durst not show his Ears , But like a Lout he walks about , so full of Sighs and and Fears . Betrice , Good Mistress Tart , I care not a Fa --- tO for you nor all your Jeers . II My Husband's known for to be one that is most Chaste and Pure , And would be , continually , but for such Jades as you are : You smack , you smick , you wash you lick , you smirk , you swear , you grin , You nod , you wink , and in your Drink , you strive for to draw him in . Alice , You Lie you Punk , you're almost Drunk , and now you Scold and make a Strife , With running in the Score , and playing the Wh ---- you led him a weary Life . Bet . Tell me so once again , you Dirty Quean , and I'll pull you by the Coif . III . Go dress your Rats , those nasty Brats , that are always Sleep and Drowsy , With Vermin spread , they're almost dead , they're kept so wondrous Lousy . Al. Pray hold you there , and do not Swear , yours are not half so sweet , You feed them up with bit and sup , then give 'em a dirty Teat . Bet . My Girls and Boys , my only Joys , they're better taught and fed than yours . Al. Tell me so once more , you dirty Wh ---- , and I'll kick you out of doors . Bet . 'Tis a very good Jest , pray do your best , and I' faith I'll quit the Scores . IV. Go , go , you are a silly Bear , your Husband can't away with't , A stinking Quean as e'er was seen , your Neighbours all will say i A fulsome Trot , and good for nought , unless it be for that You stole a Spoon out of the Room , the last Christening you were at . Al. You lie you With --- , you have god the Itch , the Parish knows you are not found : See how she claws with ugly Paws , and I'll fell you to the Ground : You have tore my Hood , and shall make is good , if it cost me Forty Pound , Betrice , Take your Course . Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass on London-bridge . 