ALL FOR LOVE , Or , The Happy Match Betwixt Jockey and Jenny . Jockey and Jenny have struck up a bargain , And Jockey took Jenny without e're a Farthing , Jenny had nothing , and Jockey enough , But Jockey he lov'd her , and this is the proof . Tune of , Sawny and Jockey . AS Jockey and Jenny one evening were walking , A viewing their sheep and pleasantly talking , Jockey told Jenny how dearly he lov'd her , But little he thought how much it would move her ; She shew'd most clearly Both late and early Jockey's the man whom she lov'd most dearly : Little thought Jockey That he was so happy ; But Jenny she lov'd him , and that I'le relate t' you . Jockey told Jenny that she was his Jewel , And begg'd and entreated her not to be cruel ; Jenny she told him she fear'd his new passion Had little of love , but more of the fashion , If I believe you , And you deceive me , Nothing but Death I'm sure can reprieve me ; Therefore excuse me , If I do refuse you ; But if you do love me you will not abuse me . JOckey protested and swore by his Maker , For better or worse he resolv'd for to take her , For rich or for poor , still thou art the Creature In sickneis or health , then try my good nature ; Thou art the fairest , Ay , and the rarest She of the world , that I love the dearest , Then do not deny me , But fit thee down by me , For if you prove coy then you will destroy me . For Oxen and Sheep ( quoth Jockey ) i've plenty , And Jenny she wished where he'd one he had twenty ; Corn and old Hay , and choice of good Bedding , A warm Country house , and all fit for a Wedding , Then let's not tarry , But go and marry , And of my Wealth the Keys thou shalt carry ; Nothing is wanting , Then never be scanting Of what is our own , nor spend it in ranting . Jenny she told him she had little treasure , But all that was hers should be at his pleasure , Tho' I am but young ( quoth she ) I am wary , And all my life long have been bred in a Dairy : And if Jockey love me He shall approve me To be a Mate in all that behoves me , No one shall never More show her endeavour To make Jockey love her for ever and ever . So they shook hands and struck up a bargain , And Jockey took Jenny without e're a farthing ; Jockey was pleas'd and so was his Jenny , To buy her a Ring he gave her a Guinney , And bid her wear it , And never spare it , For he had Gold enough for to bear i Jockey was kissing , And Jenny was wishing : The joys of their Hearts was beyond all expressing . The next Holiday this couple must marry , But neither was pleased so long for to tarry : Many a kiss and such pretty doing Betwixt them did pass , but no more of wooing ; Jenny was willing To be a billing , But nothing else for Fourty good shilling : When they were marry'd , As matters were carry'd , Poor Jockey was first that own'd he was weary'd . Printed for P. Brooksby in West Smithfield . ALL FOR LOVE , Or , The Happy Match Betwixt Jockey and Jenny . Jockey and Jenny have struck up a bargain , And Jockey took Jenny without e're a Farthing , Jenny had nothing , and Jockey enough , But Jockey he lov'd her , and this is the proof . Tune of , Sawny and Jockey . AS Jockey and Jenny one evening were walking , A viewing their sheep and pleasantly talking , Jockey told Jenny how dearly he lov'd her , But little he thought how much it would move her ; She shew'd most clearly Both late and early Jockey's the man whom she lov'd most dearly : Little thought Jockey That he was so happy ; But Jenny she lov'd him , and that I'le relate t' you . Jockey told Jenny that she was his Jewel , And begg'd and entreated her not to be cruel ; Jenny she told him she fear'd his new passion Had little of love , but more of the fashion , If I believe you , And you deceive me , Nothing but Death I'm sure can reprieve me ; Therefore excuse me , If I do refuse you ; But if you do love me you will not abuse me . JOckey protested and swore by his Maker , For better or worse he resolv'd for to take her , For rich or for poor , still thou art the Creature In sickneis or health , then try my good nature ; Thou art the fairest , Ay , and the rarest She of the world , that I love the dearest , Then do not deny me , But fit thee down by me , For if you prove coy then you will destroy me . For Oxen and Sheep ( quoth Jockey ) i've plenty , And Jenny she wished where he'd one he had twenty ; Corn and old Hay , and choice of good Bedding , A warm Country house , and all fit for a Wedding , Then let's not tarry , But go and marry , And of my Wealth the Keys thou shalt carry ; Nothing is wanting , Then never be scanting Of what is our own , nor spend it in ranting . Jenny she told him she had little treasure , But all that was hers should be at his pleasure , Tho' I am but young ( quoth she ) I am wary , And all my life long have been bred in a Dairy : And if Jockey love me He shall approve me To be a Mate in all that behoves me , No one shall never More show her endeavour To make Jockey love her for ever and ever . So they shook hands and struck up a bargain , And Jockey took Jenny without e're a farthing ; Jockey was pleas'd and so was his Jenny , To buy her a Ring he gave her a Guinney , And bid her wear it , And never spare it , For he had Gold enough for to bear i Jockey was kissing , And Jenny was wishing : The joys of their Hearts was beyond all expressing . The next Holiday this couple must marry , But neither was pleased so long for to tarry : Many a kiss and such pretty doing Betwixt them did pass , but no more of wooing ; Jenny was willing To be a billing , But nothing else for Fourty good shilling : When they were marry'd , As matters were carry'd , Poor Jockey was first that own'd he was weary'd . Printed for P. Brooksby in West Smithfield . 