A pleasant new Ballad to look upon , How MALT Deals with every Man. MR. Malt is a Gentleman , And hath been since the world began , I never in my life knew any man , could match with Master Malt , Sir . I never knew any match Malt but once , The Miller with his grinding-stones , He pull'd his flesh from off his bones , you never saw the like , Sir . Malt , Malt , thou art a flower , Beloved right well in every bower , Thou can'st not be missing one half hour , you never , etc For laying of the stones so close , Malt gave the Miller a copper-nose , Saying , Thou and I will never be foes , but unto thee i'll stick , Sir . Malt gave the Miller such a blow , That from his horse he fell full low , He taught him his Master Malt no know , you never , etc Our Hostis's maid was much to blame , To steal Malt away from her Dame , And in her belly hide the same , you never , etc That when the Malt did work in her head , Twice in a day she would be sped , At night she could not get to bed , nor scarce stand on her feet , Sir . Then came in Master Smith , And said , That Malt he was a thief ; But Malt gave him such a dash i'th' teeth , you never , etc For when his iron was hight and read , He had such and ach all in his head , His boon Comrades god him to bed , for he was very sick , Sir . The Carpenter came a piece to square , And bid Malt come if he dare , He'd thwack his sides and belly bore , and him full soundly beatrice , Sir . To the fire he went well warm'd with chips , Malt hit him right betwixt the lips , And made him lame on both his hips , you never , etc The Shoemaker sitting on his seat , At Master Malt began to fret , He said he would the Knave so beatrice , with his sharp Spanish knife , Sir . But Malt came peeping through the hall , And did his brains so fiercely maul , He turned round and caught a fallen , you never , etc The Weaver sitting in the loom , He threatened Malt a cruel doom , And make him to repulse the room , or throw him in a dike , Sir . Whereat a court some Weavers kept , And to their Hostis boldly stepped , Till charg'd with double pats they slept , you never , etc The Tinker took the Weavers part , Such furious rage possessed his heart , He took the pot and drank a quart , his wits was very ripe , Sir . For Malt the upper-hand so god , He knew not how to pay the shot , But part without the reckoning-pot , and found his stomach sick , Sir . The Taylor came to grind his sheers , And shows to Malt what spleen he bears , But soon they fell together by the ears , and soar each other struck , Sir . And when his pressing-iron was hight , He pressed the board instead of a coat , And sailed home in a feather-bed-boat , you never , etc The Tinker walking round the pan , But Malt much fear'd his deer mouth'd can , Though he had conquer'd many a man , and laid him in the dike , Sir . Yet was the Tinker gladly fain , With Malt to have about or twain , Till he again was shot i'th' brain , you never , etc Then bespoke the Tinker anon , And said he'd prove himself a man , And laid at Malt till his legs were gone , you never , etc The Sailor he did curse and ban , He bid the boy go tap the can , I'll have about with Malt anon , you never , etc Aboard they went to try the match , And long they play'd at hope and catch , Till Malt bestow'd him under a hatch , you never , etc Then came a Chapman traveling by , With cheapening long his throat was dry , And at Master Malt did fly , and furiously him struck , Sir . Till having laid at Malt apace , Great store of blood was in his face , And he was found in such a case , you never , etc The Mason came and oven to make , The Bicklayer he his part did take , They bound him to the good alestake , you never , etc Then Malt began to tell his mind , And ply'd them with beer , ale , and wine , They left the brick-axe , trowel behind , they could not lay a brick , Sir . Then came the Labourer in his hood , And saw his two Master's how they stood , He took his Master Malt by the hood , and swore he would him strike , Sir . Malt he ran , and for fear did weep , The Labourer he did skip and leap , But Malt made him into the mortar to leap , and there he fell asleep , Sir . The Glover came to buy a skin , Malt hit him right above the chin ; Then Pewter-John came tumbling in , you never , etc And laid on heads , and arms , and joints , Took away gloves , and a gross of points , And swore they'd pay him in quarts & pints , you never , etc Thus of my Song i'll make and end , And pray my Host to be my friend , To give me some drink or money to spend , for Malt and I am quiet , Sir . A pleasant new Ballad to look upon , How MALT Deals with every Man. MR. Malt is a Gentleman , And hath been since the world began , I never in my life knew any man , could match with Master Malt , Sir . I never knew any match Malt but once , The Miller with his grinding-stones , He pull'd his flesh from off his bones , you never saw the like , Sir . Malt , Malt , thou art a flower , Beloved right well in every bower , Thou can'st not be missing one half hour , you never , etc For laying of the stones so close , Malt gave the Miller a copper-nose , Saying , Thou and I will never be foes , but unto thee i'll stick , Sir . Malt gave the Miller such a blow , That from his horse he fell full low , He taught him his Master Malt no know , you never , etc Our Hostis's maid was much to blame , To steal Malt away from her Dame , And in her belly hide the same , you never , etc That when the Malt did work in her head , Twice in a day she would be sped , At night she could not get to bed , nor scarce stand on her feet , Sir . Then came in Master Smith , And said , That Malt he was a thief ; But Malt gave him such a dash i'th' teeth , you never , etc For when his iron was hight and read , He had such and ach all in his head , His boon Comrades god him to bed , for he was very sick , Sir . The Carpenter came a piece to square , And bid Malt come if he dare , He'd thwack his sides and belly bore , and him full soundly beatrice , Sir . To the fire he went well warm'd with chips , Malt hit him right betwixt the lips , And made him lame on both his hips , you never , etc The Shoemaker sitting on his seat , At Master Malt began to fret , He said he would the Knave so beatrice , with his sharp Spanish knife , Sir . But Malt came peeping through the hall , And did his brains so fiercely maul , He turned round and caught a fallen , you never , etc The Weaver sitting in the loom , He threatened Malt a cruel doom , And make him to repulse the room , or throw him in a dike , Sir . Whereat a court some Weavers kept , And to their Hostis boldly stepped , Till charg'd with double pats they slept , you never , etc The Tinker took the Weavers part , Such furious rage possessed his heart , He took the pot and drank a quart , his wits was very ripe , Sir . For Malt the upper-hand so god , He knew not how to pay the shot , But part without the reckoning-pot , and found his stomach sick , Sir . The Taylor came to grind his sheers , And shows to Malt what spleen he bears , But soon they fell together by the ears , and soar each other struck , Sir . And when his pressing-iron was hight , He pressed the board instead of a coat , And sailed home in a feather-bed-boat , you never , etc The Tinker walking round the pan , But Malt much fear'd his deer mouth'd can , Though he had conquer'd many a man , and laid him in the dike , Sir . Yet was the Tinker gladly fain , With Malt to have about or twain , Till he again was shot i'th' brain , you never , etc Then bespoke the Tinker anon , And said he'd prove himself a man , And laid at Malt till his legs were gone , you never , etc The Sailor he did curse and ban , He bid the boy go tap the can , I'll have about with Malt anon , you never , etc Aboard they went to try the match , And long they play'd at hope and catch , Till Malt bestow'd him under a hatch , you never , etc Then came a Chapman traveling by , With cheapening long his throat was dry , And at Master Malt did fly , and furiously him struck , Sir . Till having laid at Malt apace , Great store of blood was in his face , And he was found in such a case , you never , etc The Mason came and oven to make , The Bicklayer he his part did take , They bound him to the good alestake , you never , etc Then Malt began to tell his mind , And ply'd them with beer , ale , and wine , They left the brick-axe , trowel behind , they could not lay a brick , Sir . Then came the Labourer in his hood , And saw his two Master's how they stood , He took his Master Malt by the hood , and swore he would him strike , Sir . Malt he ran , and for fear did weep , The Labourer he did skip and leap , But Malt made him into the mortar to leap , and there he fell asleep , Sir . The Glover came to buy a skin , Malt hit him right above the chin ; Then Pewter-John came tumbling in , you never , etc And laid on heads , and arms , and joints , Took away gloves , and a gross of points , And swore they'd pay him in quarts & pints , you never , etc Thus of my Song i'll make and end , And pray my Host to be my friend , To give me some drink or money to spend , for Malt and I am quiet , Sir . 