The Seaman's Compass : OR A dainty new Ditty composed and pend , The deeds of brave Seamen to praise and commend It made by a Maid that to Gravesend did pass , Now mark and you quickly shall hear how it was . To the Tune of The Tyrant hath stolen . AS lately I traveled towards Gravesend , I herd a fair Damosel a Seamman commend And as in a Tilt-boat we passed along , In praise of brave Seamen she sung this new Song : Come Tradesmen or Merchant , whoever he be Theres none but a Seaman shall marry with me . A Seaman in promise is faithful and just , Honest in carriage and true to his trus Kind in behaviour and constant in love , Is firm in affection as the Turtle Dove , Valiant in actium in every degree There's none , etc The Seaman adventures their lives at the Seas While Land-men on shore takes pleasure and ease , The Seaman at all times their business must ply In Winter and Summer in wet and in dry . From toil and painstaking they seldom are free , There's aone etc Moreover i'de have you for to understand That Seamen brings treasure and profit to Land Above and beneath ground for wealth they have sought And when they have found it to England 'tis brought With hazard of lives by experience we see There's none but a Seaman shall marry with me . SEa-men from beyond Seas bring Silver & Gold With Pearls and rich jewals , most rare to behold With Silks and rich Velvets their credits to save , Or else you gay Ladies could not go so brave This makes my heart merry as merry may be There's none but a Seaman shall marry with me . The Seamen bring Spices , and sugar so fine Which serve the brave gallants , to drink with their wine With Lemmons & Oranges all of the best , To relish their palates when ehey make a Feast , Sweet Figs , Prunes & Raisins by them brought home be There's none , etc To comfort poor people The Seamen do strive And brings in maintenance to keep them alive As row silk and Cotton wool to Carded and to spin And so by their labours their livings comes in : Most men are beholding to Seamen we see With none but a Seaman I married will be . The Mercer's beholding we know well enough For Holland , Lawn , Cambrick , and other gay stuff That's brought from beyond-seas by Seamen so bold The rarest that ever men's eyes did behold , God prosper the Seamen where ever they be There's none etc The Merchant's themselves are beholding also To honest Seamen that on purpose do go To bring them home profit from other strange Lands Or else their fine daughters must work with their hands , The Nobles and Gentry in every degree Are also beholding etc Thus for Rich and poor men the Seamen does good And sometime comes off with loss of much blood : If they were not a guard and a defence for our Land Our Enemies soon will get the upper hand . And then in a woeful case straight should we be There's none etc To draw to Conclusion and so make and end I hope that great Neptune my Love will befriend And send him home safely with health and with life , Then shall I with joyfulness soon be his wife You Maids , Wives & Widow's that Seamen's Loves be With hearts and with voices join prayers with me . God bless all brave Seamen from Quicksands & Rocks From loss of their blood and from Enemies Knocks From Lightning & Thunder and tempests so strong From Shipwreck and drowning and all other wrong And they that to these words will not say Amen This pity that they should ever speak word again . L.P. Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere J. Wright , and J. Clark . The Seaman's Compass : OR A dainty new Ditty composed and pend , The deeds of brave Seamen to praise and commend It made by a Maid that to Gravesend did pass , Now mark and you quickly shall hear how it was . To the Tune of The Tyrant hath stolen . AS lately I traveled towards Gravesend , I herd a fair Damosel a Seamman commend And as in a Tilt-boat we passed along , In praise of brave Seamen she sung this new Song : Come Tradesmen or Merchant , whoever he be Theres none but a Seaman shall marry with me . A Seaman in promise is faithful and just , Honest in carriage and true to his trus Kind in behaviour and constant in love , Is firm in affection as the Turtle Dove , Valiant in actium in every degree There's none , etc The Seaman adventures their lives at the Seas While Land-men on shore takes pleasure and ease , The Seaman at all times their business must ply In Winter and Summer in wet and in dry . From toil and painstaking they seldom are free , There's aone etc Moreover i'de have you for to understand That Seamen brings treasure and profit to Land Above and beneath ground for wealth they have sought And when they have found it to England 'tis brought With hazard of lives by experience we see There's none but a Seaman shall marry with me . SEa-men from beyond Seas bring Silver & Gold With Pearls and rich jewals , most rare to behold With Silks and rich Velvets their credits to save , Or else you gay Ladies could not go so brave This makes my heart merry as merry may be There's none but a Seaman shall marry with me . The Seamen bring Spices , and sugar so fine Which serve the brave gallants , to drink with their wine With Lemmons & Oranges all of the best , To relish their palates when ehey make a Feast , Sweet Figs , Prunes & Raisins by them brought home be There's none , etc To comfort poor people The Seamen do strive And brings in maintenance to keep them alive As row silk and Cotton wool to Carded and to spin And so by their labours their livings comes in : Most men are beholding to Seamen we see With none but a Seaman I married will be . The Mercer's beholding we know well enough For Holland , Lawn , Cambrick , and other gay stuff That's brought from beyond-seas by Seamen so bold The rarest that ever men's eyes did behold , God prosper the Seamen where ever they be There's none etc The Merchant's themselves are beholding also To honest Seamen that on purpose do go To bring them home profit from other strange Lands Or else their fine daughters must work with their hands , The Nobles and Gentry in every degree Are also beholding etc Thus for Rich and poor men the Seamen does good And sometime comes off with loss of much blood : If they were not a guard and a defence for our Land Our Enemies soon will get the upper hand . And then in a woeful case straight should we be There's none etc To draw to Conclusion and so make and end I hope that great Neptune my Love will befriend And send him home safely with health and with life , Then shall I with joyfulness soon be his wife You Maids , Wives & Widow's that Seamen's Loves be With hearts and with voices join prayers with me . God bless all brave Seamen from Quicksands & Rocks From loss of their blood and from Enemies Knocks From Lightning & Thunder and tempests so strong From Shipwreck and drowning and all other wrong And they that to these words will not say Amen This pity that they should ever speak word again . L.P. Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere J. Wright , and J. Clark . 