Numb . 1. ( 1 ) THE Weekly Lampoon : OR , SATYRICAL REFLECTIONS On the last Weeks Public News LETTERS and OBSERVATOR . Introduction . AS late I was reading the Common News Letter , And after had Ogled the New Observator , By th' ones merry lying , and t' others grave fooling , I found they were very well worth ridiculing . Thought I , if their aim be to make People laugh , To do't in Verse Dogril is better by half ; And therefore these Joking remarks did devise , To show Good from Bad , and the Truths from the Lies . News from Brussels . The French , as their Justice did always inspire , Salute the Towns passing with Sword and with Fire : Nor can the Confederates the Country uphold , 'Tis thought , without speedy recruiting with Gold ; By which those may see , whom our Taxes have aw'd , Nought's done without Money , at home nor abroad . Want of Money , and no ways to get it , is but ill News . News from Edinbrough . The Scotch ( ever Pious ) have made a Wise motion , To Usher the Senate by a Day of Devotion ; Where honest Kirk Discipline may be shown plain , And Presbyter Jack in his Kingdom shall Reign . Nor in State Affairs did they Politics want , But in the great Council did late make a Grant , That as when a Tegue knocks a Wolf on the Pate , The Valorous Actium is fee'd by the State . So here 'twas propos'd , by a Noble Commander , To give him Ten Groats that brought in a Highlander . Indifferent good News if they catch them often . News from Falmouth . And Actium uncommon has here blessed our Eyes , A Dutchman has lately brought in a French Prize ; But to bore the Joy which the Victory bears , The Lading , it seems , only Ballast appears : But that's as Fate order , no shame to the Dutch , The Brave fight as stoutly for nothing , as much . Great News for Holland and true . News from Cork . As soon as the New English Forces came down , The General order'd to Summon the Town , Secure in his Valour , and Fated to win , Dispatch [ ' ] worser a bold Message that he must come in . The ( 2 ) The Governor , that in remembrance had plain His Noble Employments all through the last Reign , By this bold demand was so daunted and scar'd , And by the dry frown in his Visage appear'd , That he shut up his Gates , and declar'd to his Men , That he sooner would perish than see him again : This Refusal was reckon'd , no doubt , and Affront , And now , the Lord knows , what may chance to come on't . Whither this be good or bad , true or false , no one could tell then to my knowledge . News from London . The Sages of London , as Prudent as Stout , About their Elections are lately fall'n out ; To choose Common Councils they argue each hour , While some doubt their Judgement , as others their Power . Some fear that the Party grows weaker , not stronger , To fix the Chair handsomely for three years longer , And many that to the Church Interest are steady , Have boldness to say 't has been too long already , That others as honest , should duly Inherit , And Moderate Gains , serve for Moderate Merit . This breeds a Disunion , and plainly denotes , That different Opinions cause different Votes , To heal which , they now do intend to resort To th' Senate , and humbly prefer their Repor Where fluster'd with Law , they'll be reckon'd shrewd Men , And with some good Counsel be sent home again . This News is so true , that 'twill be confirm'd at Garra - way's every hour o'th' day . News from the Observator . By th' Gravity that in his Writing appears , I fancy this must be and Author in years , That Crams us with News of the late Duke of Lorrain , And makes a Hodge Podge of Domestic and Foreign . The Turks before Nissa not yet being risen , Has made him declare that the Duke dy'd by Poison ; Which he , perhaps , cunningly thence does Infer , Because they Invenom their Weapons in War. Else , whither he Dy'd by a Drug , or the Stone , Or the Gout , or Catarrh , in our Case is all one ; And the same thing as if I should fill up a Treatise , How John of Gaunt Dy'd of a strong Diaboetis . But the Death of that General he wisely has found , Has been the chief reason the Turks have god ground ; That's more than he knows , and if no better matter , Can make up the Jest in a long Observator , You'll find when the Wit on't is scan'd to the full , The Old one too Timish , the New one too Dull . This is true , but no very great News to them that haunt Coffee-Houses . From the Court of Requests . That the King does want Money no News e're can be , But that he and the Commons are like to agree , Is such News , that we always may hope to be free , And the English be Masters once more of the Sea. This I affirm for true News . LONDON : Printed and are to be sold by Randal Taylor , near Stationers-Hall . 1690. Numb . 1. ( 1 ) THE Weekly Lampoon : OR , SATYRICAL REFLECTIONS On the last Weeks Public News LETTERS and OBSERVATOR . Introduction . AS late I was reading the Common News Letter , And after had Ogled the New Observator , By th' ones merry lying , and t' others grave fooling , I found they were very well worth ridiculing . Thought I , if their aim be to make People laugh , To do't in Verse Dogril is better by half ; And therefore these Joking remarks did devise , To show Good from Bad , and the Truths from the Lies . News from Brussels . The French , as their Justice did always inspire , Salute the Towns passing with Sword and with Fire : Nor can the Confederates the Country uphold , 'Tis thought , without speedy recruiting with Gold ; By which those may see , whom our Taxes have aw'd , Nought's done without Money , at home nor abroad . Want of Money , and no ways to get it , is but ill News . News from Edinbrough . The Scotch ( ever Pious ) have made a Wise motion , To Usher the Senate by a Day of Devotion ; Where honest Kirk Discipline may be shown plain , And Presbyter Jack in his Kingdom shall Reign . Nor in State Affairs did they Politics want , But in the great Council did late make a Grant , That as when a Tegue knocks a Wolf on the Pate , The Valorous Actium is fee'd by the State . So here 'twas propos'd , by a Noble Commander , To give him Ten Groats that brought in a Highlander . Indifferent good News if they catch them often . News from Falmouth . And Actium uncommon has here blessed our Eyes , A Dutchman has lately brought in a French Prize ; But to bore the Joy which the Victory bears , The Lading , it seems , only Ballast appears : But that's as Fate order , no shame to the Dutch , The Brave fight as stoutly for nothing , as much . Great News for Holland and true . News from Cork . As soon as the New English Forces came down , The General order'd to Summon the Town , Secure in his Valour , and Fated to win , Dispatch [ ' ] worser a bold Message that he must come in . The ( 2 ) The Governor , that in remembrance had plain His Noble Employments all through the last Reign , By this bold demand was so daunted and scar'd , And by the dry frown in his Visage appear'd , That he shut up his Gates , and declar'd to his Men , That he sooner would perish than see him again : This Refusal was reckon'd , no doubt , and Affront , And now , the Lord knows , what may chance to come on't . Whither this be good or bad , true or false , no one could tell then to my knowledge . News from London . The Sages of London , as Prudent as Stout , About their Elections are lately fall'n out ; To choose Common Councils they argue each hour , While some doubt their Judgement , as others their Power . Some fear that the Party grows weaker , not stronger , To fix the Chair handsomely for three years longer , And many that to the Church Interest are steady , Have boldness to say 't has been too long already , That others as honest , should duly Inherit , And Moderate Gains , serve for Moderate Merit . This breeds a Disunion , and plainly denotes , That different Opinions cause different Votes , To heal which , they now do intend to resort To th' Senate , and humbly prefer their Repor Where fluster'd with Law , they'll be reckon'd shrewd Men , And with some good Counsel be sent home again . This News is so true , that 'twill be confirm'd at Garra - way's every hour o'th' day . News from the Observator . By th' Gravity that in his Writing appears , I fancy this must be and Author in years , That Crams us with News of the late Duke of Lorrain , And makes a Hodge Podge of Domestic and Foreign . The Turks before Nissa not yet being risen , Has made him declare that the Duke dy'd by Poison ; Which he , perhaps , cunningly thence does Infer , Because they Invenom their Weapons in War. Else , whither he Dy'd by a Drug , or the Stone , Or the Gout , or Catarrh , in our Case is all one ; And the same thing as if I should fill up a Treatise , How John of Gaunt Dy'd of a strong Diaboetis . But the Death of that General he wisely has found , Has been the chief reason the Turks have god ground ; That's more than he knows , and if no better matter , Can make up the Jest in a long Observator , You'll find when the Wit on't is scan'd to the full , The Old one too Timish , the New one too Dull . This is true , but no very great News to them that haunt Coffee-Houses . From the Court of Requests . That the King does want Money no News e're can be , But that he and the Commons are like to agree , Is such News , that we always may hope to be free , And the English be Masters once more of the Sea. This I affirm for true News . LONDON : Printed and are to be sold by Randal Taylor , near Stationers-Hall . 1690. 