A New SONG , called , Parthenia's Complaint On the Ingrati''tude of STREPHON . To a delicate new Tune . This may be Printed , R.P. AS on the dearest Strephon's Breast , Parthenia lean'd her mournful Head , Expecting there she should have rest , by loving sighs , and thus she said : Oh Phoebus God of tuneful Strings , And Venus Queen of softest Fire , Thou God of all harmonious Things , inspire our Hearts with like desire . II But when she found the Gods above , to ease her Pain no Cure apply'd , And Strephon backward of his love , then to herself Parthenia cry'd : among Woods and Hills I'll mourn my Fate , to them of all my Wrongs complain ; They'll pity this my wretched State , and echo back my Woes again . III . Or to a pleasant myrtle shade , to ease my present Cares I'll go , A place which Nature only made , for Lovers to declare their Woe . There I'll ingrateful Strephon name , and tell the feather'd Choir my Care : And in harmonious Notes proclaim , the endless cause of my Despair . IV. Each day within a silent Bow'r , with Arms across , I'll sighing Muse ; In private spend each restless hour , and busy Nature's Works peruse : But when the God of Sleep shall call , and all my pleasant Cares destroy , Upon the tender Grass I'll fallen , and Dream of all my former joy . V. But when the glitt'ring God of day expands his warm and cheerful Beams , And guilds with his delightful Ray the flow'ry Meads and purling Streams ; Then Birds their lazy slumber scorn , delighted with approaching day , And welcome in the glorious Morn , with notes will melt my cares away . VI . My dearest Strephon , Ah , Return ! you Gods with Love his Heart inspire , Ah , hear the wrong'd Parthenia mourn , and quench the Heart you've set on fire ! If you continue thus unkind , Parthenia must unhappy be , And to her last hour be confin'd within the bounds of misery . VII . Ingreateful Strephon , how could you the kind Pathenia's Love implore , Now causeless bid the Nymph adieu , whom you so highly lov'd before ? But when my tender Soul shall fly to th' lofty Regions of the Just , No thought of Love shall you enjoy when I lie stifled in the Dust. Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pie-corner . A New SONG , called , Parthenia's Complaint On the Ingrati''tude of STREPHON . To a delicate new Tune . This may be Printed , R.P. AS on the dearest Strephon's Breast , Parthenia lean'd her mournful Head , Expecting there she should have rest , by loving sighs , and thus she said : Oh Phoebus God of tuneful Strings , And Venus Queen of softest Fire , Thou God of all harmonious Things , inspire our Hearts with like desire . II But when she found the Gods above , to ease her Pain no Cure apply'd , And Strephon backward of his love , then to herself Parthenia cry'd : among Woods and Hills I'll mourn my Fate , to them of all my Wrongs complain ; They'll pity this my wretched State , and echo back my Woes again . III . Or to a pleasant myrtle shade , to ease my present Cares I'll go , A place which Nature only made , for Lovers to declare their Woe . There I'll ingrateful Strephon name , and tell the feather'd Choir my Care : And in harmonious Notes proclaim , the endless cause of my Despair . IV. Each day within a silent Bow'r , with Arms across , I'll sighing Muse ; In private spend each restless hour , and busy Nature's Works peruse : But when the God of Sleep shall call , and all my pleasant Cares destroy , Upon the tender Grass I'll fallen , and Dream of all my former joy . V. But when the glitt'ring God of day expands his warm and cheerful Beams , And guilds with his delightful Ray the flow'ry Meads and purling Streams ; Then Birds their lazy slumber scorn , delighted with approaching day , And welcome in the glorious Morn , with notes will melt my cares away . VI . My dearest Strephon , Ah , Return ! you Gods with Love his Heart inspire , Ah , hear the wrong'd Parthenia mourn , and quench the Heart you've set on fire ! If you continue thus unkind , Parthenia must unhappy be , And to her last hour be confin'd within the bounds of misery . VII . Ingreateful Strephon , how could you the kind Pathenia's Love implore , Now causeless bid the Nymph adieu , whom you so highly lov'd before ? But when my tender Soul shall fly to th' lofty Regions of the Just , No thought of Love shall you enjoy when I lie stifled in the Dust. Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pie-corner . A New SONG , called , Parthenia's Complaint On the Ingrati''tude of STREPHON . To a delicate new Tune . This may be Printed , R.P. AS on the dearest Strephon's Breast , Parthenia lean'd her mournful Head , Expecting there she should have rest , by loving sighs , and thus she said : Oh Phoebus God of tuneful Strings , And Venus Queen of softest Fire , Thou God of all harmonious Things , inspire our Hearts with like desire . II But when she found the Gods above , to ease her Pain no Cure apply'd , And Strephon backward of his love , then to herself Parthenia cry'd : among Woods and Hills I'll mourn my Fate , to them of all my Wrongs complain ; They'll pity this my wretched State , and echo back my Woes again . III . Or to a pleasant myrtle shade , to ease my present Cares I'll go , A place which Nature only made , for Lovers to declare their Woe . There I'll ingrateful Strephon name , and tell the feather'd Choir my Care : And in harmonious Notes proclaim , the endless cause of my Despair . IV. Each day within a silent Bow'r , with Arms across , I'll sighing Muse ; In private spend each restless hour , and busy Nature's Works peruse : But when the God of Sleep shall call , and all my pleasant Cares destroy , Upon the tender Grass I'll fallen , and Dream of all my former joy . V. But when the glitt'ring God of day expands his warm and cheerful Beams , And guilds with his delightful Ray the flow'ry Meads and purling Streams ; Then Birds their lazy slumber scorn , delighted with approaching day , And welcome in the glorious Morn , with notes will melt my cares away . VI . My dearest Strephon , Ah , Return ! you Gods with Love his Heart inspire , Ah , hear the wrong'd Parthenia mourn , and quench the Heart you've set on fire ! If you continue thus unkind , Parthenia must unhappy be , And to her last hour be confin'd within the bounds of misery . VII . Ingreateful Strephon , how could you the kind Pathenia's Love implore , Now causeless bid the Nymph adieu , whom you so highly lov'd before ? But when my tender Soul shall fly to th' lofty Regions of the Just , No thought of Love shall you enjoy when I lie stifled in the Dust. Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pie-corner . A New SONG , called , Parthenia's Complaint On the Ingrati''tude of STREPHON . To a delicate new Tune . This may be Printed , R.P. AS on the dearest Strephon's Breast , Parthenia lean'd her mournful Head , Expecting there she should have rest , by loving sighs , and thus she said : Oh Phoebus God of tuneful Strings , And Venus Queen of softest Fire , Thou God of all harmonious Things , inspire our Hearts with like desire . II But when she found the Gods above , to ease her Pain no Cure apply'd , And Strephon backward of his love , then to herself Parthenia cry'd : among Woods and Hills I'll mourn my Fate , to them of all my Wrongs complain ; They'll pity this my wretched State , and echo back my Woes again . III . Or to a pleasant myrtle shade , to ease my present Cares I'll go , A place which Nature only made , for Lovers to declare their Woe . There I'll ingrateful Strephon name , and tell the feather'd Choir my Care : And in harmonious Notes proclaim , the endless cause of my Despair . IV. Each day within a silent Bow'r , with Arms across , I'll sighing Muse ; In private spend each restless hour , and busy Nature's Works peruse : But when the God of Sleep shall call , and all my pleasant Cares destroy , Upon the tender Grass I'll fallen , and Dream of all my former joy . V. But when the glitt'ring God of day expands his warm and cheerful Beams , And guilds with his delightful Ray the flow'ry Meads and purling Streams ; Then Birds their lazy slumber scorn , delighted with approaching day , And welcome in the glorious Morn , with notes will melt my cares away . VI . My dearest Strephon , Ah , Return ! you Gods with Love his Heart inspire , Ah , hear the wrong'd Parthenia mourn , and quench the Heart you've set on fire ! If you continue thus unkind , Parthenia must unhappy be , And to her last hour be confin'd within the bounds of misery . VII . Ingreateful Strephon , how could you the kind Pathenia's Love implore , Now causeless bid the Nymph adieu , whom you so highly lov'd before ? But when my tender Soul shall fly to th' lofty Regions of the Just , No thought of Love shall you enjoy when I lie stifled in the Dust. Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pie-corner . 