THE LATE Bloody Fight in Flanders : With and Account of the Numbers slave on both sides ; ours scarce being ten Thousand , and the French twenty five Thousand . As also the taking seve - ral Prisoners of note , among which was the Duke de Main , the French King's Son , the Duke of Barwick , and likewise the Son of Luxemburgh the French General . Together with a second Encounter by fresh Forces , who falling on the French routed them , seizing on their Baggage and Sixty Pieces of Cannon ; to the great Satisfaction of our Royal Army . To the Tune of , Let Marry live long . A Captain of fame , A valiant brave soldier , True honour's upholder , F [ r ] om Flanders he came with news to the Queen , That she plainly might know How causes did go . We have it at length , The French have been slaughter'd , The French have been slaughter'd , though double our strength . Old Luxemburgh knew Our army divided , By policy guided , His forces he drew together with speed ; Straight he march'd them away , To the camp where we lay , to ruin us all ; But them we saluted , But them we saluted , with powder and ball . The cannon did play , Which roaring like thunder , Did tear them in sunder , A long summer's day this battle did last ; It was bloody and hight , While thundering shot on both sides did fly ; Where noble commanders , Where noble commanders , did valiantly die . Through bodies of smoke We charg'd and gave fire , And made them retire ; A desperate stroke did fallen on both sides : At length we gave ground , Which seemed to wound our honour almost ; Yet France has no reason , Yet France has no reason , to vapour or boast . We ply'd them so warm , In heat of the battle Our guns they did rattle , It flew like a storm upon them all day ; They cannot proclaim Their triumph and fame ; we slaughter'd their men , Five and twenty thousand , Five and twenty thousand , we hardly lost ten . Now this being done , A further relation Brings joy to the nation : Bold Luxemburgh's son was prisoner made , And the French Duke de Main We did likewise obtain , to our share they fallen , And likewise bold Barwick , And likewise bold Barwick , are prisoners all . Then after the fight , A brave Alexander , A valiant commander , He happen'd to light of Monsieur again , He had a fresh armed band Under his command , he fell on a main , Where he on their forces , Where he on their forces , did victory gain . Now thus by surprise He seiz'd on their baggage , Their cannon and luggage , Nay , wagons likewise , and put them to fligh The actium was fine , A glorious design , the conquering game , Which does double honour , Which does double honour , and triumph proclaim . King WILLIAM e're long Will follow such courses , With valiant fresh forces , Stout hardy and strong , brave thundering boys That shall make them to yield , Or fly from the field , and then he'll pursue ; If France is for fighting , If France is for fighting , he'll give them their due . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . THE LATE Bloody Fight in Flanders : With and Account of the Numbers slave on both sides ; ours scarce being ten Thousand , and the French twenty five Thousand . As also the taking seve - ral Prisoners of note , among which was the Duke de Main , the French King's Son , the Duke of Barwick , and likewise the Son of Luxemburgh the French General . Together with a second Encounter by fresh Forces , who falling on the French routed them , seizing on their Baggage and Sixty Pieces of Cannon ; to the great Satisfaction of our Royal Army . To the Tune of , Let Marry live long . A Captain of fame , A valiant brave soldier , True honour's upholder , F [ r ] om Flanders he came with news to the Queen , That she plainly might know How causes did go . We have it at length , The French have been slaughter'd , The French have been slaughter'd , though double our strength . Old Luxemburgh knew Our army divided , By policy guided , His forces he drew together with speed ; Straight he march'd them away , To the camp where we lay , to ruin us all ; But them we saluted , But them we saluted , with powder and ball . The cannon did play , Which roaring like thunder , Did tear them in sunder , A long summer's day this battle did last ; It was bloody and hight , While thundering shot on both sides did fly ; Where noble commanders , Where noble commanders , did valiantly die . Through bodies of smoke We charg'd and gave fire , And made them retire ; A desperate stroke did fallen on both sides : At length we gave ground , Which seemed to wound our honour almost ; Yet France has no reason , Yet France has no reason , to vapour or boast . We ply'd them so warm , In heat of the battle Our guns they did rattle , It flew like a storm upon them all day ; They cannot proclaim Their triumph and fame ; we slaughter'd their men , Five and twenty thousand , Five and twenty thousand , we hardly lost ten . Now this being done , A further relation Brings joy to the nation : Bold Luxemburgh's son was prisoner made , And the French Duke de Main We did likewise obtain , to our share they fallen , And likewise bold Barwick , And likewise bold Barwick , are prisoners all . Then after the fight , A brave Alexander , A valiant commander , He happen'd to light of Monsieur again , He had a fresh armed band Under his command , he fell on a main , Where he on their forces , Where he on their forces , did victory gain . Now thus by surprise He seiz'd on their baggage , Their cannon and luggage , Nay , wagons likewise , and put them to fligh The actium was fine , A glorious design , the conquering game , Which does double honour , Which does double honour , and triumph proclaim . King WILLIAM e're long Will follow such courses , With valiant fresh forces , Stout hardy and strong , brave thundering boys That shall make them to yield , Or fly from the field , and then he'll pursue ; If France is for fighting , If France is for fighting , he'll give them their due . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . 