King HENRY III . his Conquest of FRANCE , In Revenge for the Affront Offered by the French King , In Sending him ( instead of the Tribute due ) a Tun of TENNIS-BALLS . AS our King lay musing on his Bed , He bethought himself upon a Time , Of a Tribute that was due from France , Had not been paid for so long a Time . Fal , lal , etc He called for his lovely Page , His lovely Page then called he ; Saying , You must go to the King of France , To the King of France , Sir , ride speedily . O then away went this lovely Page , This lovely Page then away went he ; And when he came to the King of France , Low he fell down on his bent Knee . My Master greets you , worthy Sir , Ten Tun of Gold that is due to he , That you will send him his Tribute home , Or , in French Land you'll soon him see . Fal , lal , etc Your Master's young , and of tender Years , Not fit to come into my Degree ; And I will send him three Tennis-Balls , That with them he may learn to play . O then returned this lovely Page , This lovely Page then returned he ; And when he came to our gracious King , Low he fell down on his bent Knee . What News ? what News ? my trusty Page , What is the News you have brought to me ? I have brought such News from the King of France That you and he never will agree . He says , You're young and of tender Years , Not fit to come into his Degree ; And he will send you three Tennis-Balls , That with them you may learn to play . Recruit me Cheshire and Lancashire , And Darby-hills , that were so free ; No marry'd Man , nor Widow's Son , For no Widow's Curse shall go with me . They recruited Cheshire and Lancashire , And Darby-hills , that were so free ; No marry'd Man , nor no Widow's Son , Yet there was a jovial bold Company . O then we marched into the French Land , With Drums and Trumpets so merrily ; And then bespoke the King of France , Lo ! yonder comes proud King Henry . The first Shot that the French then gave , They kill'd our Englishmen so free . We kill'd ten thousand of the French , And the Rest of them they run away . And then we marched to Paris Gate , With Drums and Trumpets so merrily . O then bespoke the King of France , The Lord have Mercy on my Men and me . O I will send him his Tribute home , Ten Tun of Gold that is due to he ; And the finest Flowers that's in all France , To the Rose of England I will give free . Printed and Sold in Bow Church-Yard , London . King HENRY III . his Conquest of FRANCE , In Revenge for the Affront Offered by the French King , In Sending him ( instead of the Tribute due ) a Tun of TENNIS-BALLS . AS our King lay musing on his Bed , He bethought himself upon a Time , Of a Tribute that was due from France , Had not been paid for so long a Time . Fal , lal , etc He called for his lovely Page , His lovely Page then called he ; Saying , You must go to the King of France , To the King of France , Sir , ride speedily . O then away went this lovely Page , This lovely Page then away went he ; And when he came to the King of France , Low he fell down on his bent Knee . My Master greets you , worthy Sir , Ten Tun of Gold that is due to he , That you will send him his Tribute home , Or , in French Land you'll soon him see . Fal , lal , etc Your Master's young , and of tender Years , Not fit to come into my Degree ; And I will send him three Tennis-Balls , That with them he may learn to play . O then returned this lovely Page , This lovely Page then returned he ; And when he came to our gracious King , Low he fell down on his bent Knee . What News ? what News ? my trusty Page , What is the News you have brought to me ? I have brought such News from the King of France That you and he never will agree . He says , You're young and of tender Years , Not fit to come into his Degree ; And he will send you three Tennis-Balls , That with them you may learn to play . Recruit me Cheshire and Lancashire , And Darby-hills , that were so free ; No marry'd Man , nor Widow's Son , For no Widow's Curse shall go with me . They recruited Cheshire and Lancashire , And Darby-hills , that were so free ; No marry'd Man , nor no Widow's Son , Yet there was a jovial bold Company . O then we marched into the French Land , With Drums and Trumpets so merrily ; And then bespoke the King of France , Lo ! yonder comes proud King Henry . The first Shot that the French then gave , They kill'd our Englishmen so free . We kill'd ten thousand of the French , And the Rest of them they run away . And then we marched to Paris Gate , With Drums and Trumpets so merrily . O then bespoke the King of France , The Lord have Mercy on my Men and me . O I will send him his Tribute home , Ten Tun of Gold that is due to he ; And the finest Flowers that's in all France , To the Rose of England I will give free . Printed and Sold in Bow Church-Yard , London . King HENRY III . his Conquest of FRANCE , In Revenge for the Affront Offered by the French King , In Sending him ( instead of the Tribute due ) a Tun of TENNIS-BALLS . AS our King lay musing on his Bed , He bethought himself upon a Time , Of a Tribute that was due from France , Had not been paid for so long a Time . Fal , lal , etc He called for his lovely Page , His lovely Page then called he ; Saying , You must go to the King of France , To the King of France , Sir , ride speedily . O then away went this lovely Page , This lovely Page then away went he ; And when he came to the King of France , Low he fell down on his bent Knee . My Master greets you , worthy Sir , Ten Tun of Gold that is due to he , That you will send him his Tribute home , Or , in French Land you'll soon him see . Fal , lal , etc Your Master's young , and of tender Years , Not fit to come into my Degree ; And I will send him three Tennis-Balls , That with them he may learn to play . O then returned this lovely Page , This lovely Page then returned he ; And when he came to our gracious King , Low he fell down on his bent Knee . What News ? what News ? my trusty Page , What is the News you have brought to me ? I have brought such News from the King of France That you and he never will agree . He says , You're young and of tender Years , Not fit to come into his Degree ; And he will send you three Tennis-Balls , That with them you may learn to play . Recruit me Cheshire and Lancashire , And Darby-hills , that were so free ; No marry'd Man , nor Widow's Son , For no Widow's Curse shall go with me . They recruited Cheshire and Lancashire , And Darby-hills , that were so free ; No marry'd Man , nor no Widow's Son , Yet there was a jovial bold Company . O then we marched into the French Land , With Drums and Trumpets so merrily ; And then bespoke the King of France , Lo ! yonder comes proud King Henry . The first Shot that the French then gave , They kill'd our Englishmen so free . We kill'd ten thousand of the French , And the Rest of them they run away . And then we marched to Paris Gate , With Drums and Trumpets so merrily . O then bespoke the King of France , The Lord have Mercy on my Men and me . O I will send him his Tribute home , Ten Tun of Gold that is due to he ; And the finest Flowers that's in all France , To the Rose of England I will give free . Printed and Sold in Bow Church-Yard , London . King HENRY III . his Conquest of FRANCE , In Revenge for the Affront Offered by the French King , In Sending him ( instead of the Tribute due ) a Tun of TENNIS-BALLS . AS our King lay musing on his Bed , He bethought himself upon a Time , Of a Tribute that was due from France , Had not been paid for so long a Time . Fal , lal , etc He called for his lovely Page , His lovely Page then called he ; Saying , You must go to the King of France , To the King of France , Sir , ride speedily . O then away went this lovely Page , This lovely Page then away went he ; And when he came to the King of France , Low he fell down on his bent Knee . My Master greets you , worthy Sir , Ten Tun of Gold that is due to he , That you will send him his Tribute home , Or , in French Land you'll soon him see . Fal , lal , etc Your Master's young , and of tender Years , Not fit to come into my Degree ; And I will send him three Tennis-Balls , That with them he may learn to play . O then returned this lovely Page , This lovely Page then returned he ; And when he came to our gracious King , Low he fell down on his bent Knee . What News ? what News ? my trusty Page , What is the News you have brought to me ? I have brought such News from the King of France That you and he never will agree . He says , You're young and of tender Years , Not fit to come into his Degree ; And he will send you three Tennis-Balls , That with them you may learn to play . Recruit me Cheshire and Lancashire , And Darby-hills , that were so free ; No marry'd Man , nor Widow's Son , For no Widow's Curse shall go with me . They recruited Cheshire and Lancashire , And Darby-hills , that were so free ; No marry'd Man , nor no Widow's Son , Yet there was a jovial bold Company . O then we marched into the French Land , With Drums and Trumpets so merrily ; And then bespoke the King of France , Lo ! yonder comes proud King Henry . The first Shot that the French then gave , They kill'd our Englishmen so free . We kill'd ten thousand of the French , And the Rest of them they run away . And then we marched to Paris Gate , With Drums and Trumpets so merrily . O then bespoke the King of France , The Lord have Mercy on my Men and me . O I will send him his Tribute home , Ten Tun of Gold that is due to he ; And the finest Flowers that's in all France , To the Rose of England I will give free . Printed and Sold in Bow Church-Yard , London . 