A Pleasant JIGG Betwixt Jack and his Mistress : Or , The young Carman's Courage cool'd by the sudden approach , of his Master , who found him too kind to his Mistress . Tune of Mary Live Long . Licensed according to Order . A Carman of late , Who liv'd in the City , A sorrowful Dity , His wife was too great with their Prentice Boy , But a swinging young Spark At a wench in the dark ; Now this his Dame knew , And therefore stout Johnny , And therefore stout Johnny , Must tickle her to . It happen'd one day , His Mistress came to him , No question she knew him , To be e'ry way , a Lad for her turn ; Where's your Master , she cry'd ? With a friend ; he reply'd ; She then void of shame , Said Johnny come kiss me , Sweet Johnny come kiss me , Make much of thy Dame . Sweet Mistress I fear , A woeful disaster , The wrath of me Master , If once he should hear , I play'd with your Lute , He would liquour my hide , You're a fool , she reply'd , Take courage for shame , Oh fear not your Master , Boy fear not your Master , But pleasure your Dame . I count it no crime , To dally in pleasure , We'll Toy out of measure , This not the first time , Nor sha'nt be the last , Therefore come on my Boy , Let us Pleasure enjoy , Take Courage for shame , 'Tis sweet Recreation , 'Tis sweet Recreation , To pleasure thy Dame . Thy Master , I'll swear , If once he should Cavel , We'll send to dig Gravel , With Friends to Horn-Fair , He dare not say no , But at home we will stay , Then in order to play , The Frolicsome Game , Boy do not deny me , John do not deny me , But pleasure thy Dame , Thy Corral and Bells' , And Whistle I know it , If thou wilt bestow it For pleasures excels , The lest in the Town , Thou art Lusty and strong And can lay me along , Take Courage for shame , Thou here in the Stable , Thou here in the Stable , Shall pleasure thy Dame . His master by chance , Then being near them , Did soon overhear them , And strait did advance , With fury and Rage , Like a Fellow Horn-mad , He fell on the Lad , His shoulders he paid , 'Cause John in his Pasture , 'Cause John in his Pasture , a Tresspass had made . Ah! what hast thou done , So sad a beration , Was ne'r in the nation , Horn-mad I shall run , Without all dispute , O you villain said he , I will not make you Free , But bring you to shame , Because you have wrong'd me , Because you have wrong'd me , and play'd with your Dame . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street without New-Gate . A Pleasant JIGG Betwixt Jack and his Mistress : Or , The young Carman's Courage cool'd by the sudden approach , of his Master , who found him too kind to his Mistress . Tune of Mary Live Long . Licensed according to Order . A Carman of late , Who liv'd in the City , A sorrowful Dity , His wife was too great with their Prentice Boy , But a swinging young Spark At a wench in the dark ; Now this his Dame knew , And therefore stout Johnny , And therefore stout Johnny , Must tickle her to . It happen'd one day , His Mistress came to him , No question she knew him , To be e'ry way , a Lad for her turn ; Where's your Master , she cry'd ? With a friend ; he reply'd ; She then void of shame , Said Johnny come kiss me , Sweet Johnny come kiss me , Make much of thy Dame . Sweet Mistress I fear , A woeful disaster , The wrath of me Master , If once he should hear , I play'd with your Lute , He would liquour my hide , You're a fool , she reply'd , Take courage for shame , Oh fear not your Master , Boy fear not your Master , But pleasure your Dame . I count it no crime , To dally in pleasure , We'll Toy out of measure , This not the first time , Nor sha'nt be the last , Therefore come on my Boy , Let us Pleasure enjoy , Take Courage for shame , 'Tis sweet Recreation , 'Tis sweet Recreation , To pleasure thy Dame . Thy Master , I'll swear , If once he should Cavel , We'll send to dig Gravel , With Friends to Horn-Fair , He dare not say no , But at home we will stay , Then in order to play , The Frolicsome Game , Boy do not deny me , John do not deny me , But pleasure thy Dame , Thy Corral and Bells' , And Whistle I know it , If thou wilt bestow it For pleasures excels , The lest in the Town , Thou art Lusty and strong And can lay me along , Take Courage for shame , Thou here in the Stable , Thou here in the Stable , Shall pleasure thy Dame . His master by chance , Then being near them , Did soon overhear them , And strait did advance , With fury and Rage , Like a Fellow Horn-mad , He fell on the Lad , His shoulders he paid , 'Cause John in his Pasture , 'Cause John in his Pasture , a Tresspass had made . Ah! what hast thou done , So sad a beration , Was ne'r in the nation , Horn-mad I shall run , Without all dispute , O you villain said he , I will not make you Free , But bring you to shame , Because you have wrong'd me , Because you have wrong'd me , and play'd with your Dame . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street without New-Gate . 