A New BALLAD , To the Tune of King John , and the Abbot of Canterbury . 1. AS soon as the Wind it came kindly about , That kept the KING in , and his Enemies out , He determin'd no longer his Confinement to bear , And thus to the Duchess his Mind did declare . Derry down , etc 2. You know , my Dear Kenny , I've been tir'd a long while , With living obscurely in this poor LITTLE ISLE , And now Spain and Pretender have no more Mines to spring , I'm resolved to go home , and to live like A KING . Derry down . etc 3. Quoth Kenny , Great Sir , I approve your Design , You could never have chosen a Season so fine , The Nation's united , and your Ministers too , And your Foes may be drown'd for ought that we know . Derry down , etc 4. But however for fear of what happen'd before , When you went and entrusted your Son with your Pow'r ; I'd advice you for this time , that he may not rebel , To leave him Restrictions not to govern too well , Derry down , etc 5. For that , quoth the KING , it is very well known There is so great a difference 'twiet me and my Son , That he can't represent me , but to hinder all strife , I've pitch'd on Thirteen that can do't to the life , Derry down , etc 6. Then Kenny reply'd , 'tis most prudently done , I'm glad you've Thirteen better Men than your Son ; Let me look o'er their Names we shall easily see , How much fitter they are to be trusted than He. Derry down , etc 7. It matters not much for his Archbishop's Grace , Ev'n let him be One because of his place : But for Parker , no doubt , there's very good Reason , He'll sign the Commission , and laugh at High Treason . Derry down , etc 8. Take Stanhope abroad , he has show'd you of late H'es and eminent Quack for Diseases of State , You may trust what his Quadruple Bill does set forth , It has done in the South , it will do in the North . Derry down , etc 9. His Medicines will suit Germane , Christian , or Turk , And make Peace or War as they happen to Work ; He performs all his Cures without Trouble or Pain , As can well be attested by the Regent and Spain . Derry down , etc 10. For Sunderland , sure , his Pretentions are just , He comes of a Raze for a Monarch to trust ; And gave you abroad strong proof of his Skill , When he sav'd you from Those that meant you no ill . Derry down , etc 11. And I doubt not he'd serve you again the same way , If he had e'er a Friend still left to betray : Can't you take him abroad to serve under your Quack , For 'tis hardly safe trusting him behind your Back . Derry dewn . etc 12. Argile he deserves more than what you have done , He try'd all he could to betray your dear Son ; He serv'd you sincerely , and employ'd all his Skill , To find you a Reason for using him ill . Derry down , etc 13. And had not your Stars been equally Strong , To keep Him in the Right and you in the Wrong , It might have induc'd him such Schemes to pursue , As had made him belov'd full as little as you . Derry down , etc 14. Your Admiral better deserves this Commission , Than e'er he did that for his Sea-Expedition ; Tho' he left his Command e'er the danger was known , He'll not quietly part with his share of a Crown . Derry down , etc 15. For my Lord Privy Seal , and my Lord President , The one Duke of Kingston , the other of Kent , Bolton , Roxborough , Newcastle , they sure are such Things , That Pinky would starve if he show'd 'em for Kings . Derry down , etc 16. As for old Cragg's Son I think 'twill be best To leave him at home for the use of the rest ; I fear they may want him , whene'er they Indite , I'm sure he can Read , and perhaps he can Write . Derry down , etc 17. Howe'er I'll not question the force of your Rules , To turn one Man of Sense into Thirteen such Fools : But I hope I may say without any Offence , You'll ne'er turn Thirteen Fools into one Man of Sense . Derry down , etc 18. I must own this Choice frees you from one Imputation , That you turn'd off your Son for Pleasing the Nation , For these you have chosen will please more by half , If they are to be pleas'd , by making them Laugh . Derry down , etc 19. On the whole I'll be hang'd if all over the Realm , There are Thirteen such Fools to put at the Helm ; So for this time be easy , nor have one jealous Thought , They han't Sense to Fell you , nor are worth being Bought . Derry down , etc 20. 'Tis for that , quoth the KING , in very plain French , I chosen them for my Regents , and you for my Wench ; And neither I'm sure can their Trust e'er betray , For the Devil won't take you , if I turn you away . Derry down . etc A New BALLAD , To the Tune of King John , and the Abbot of Canterbury . 1. AS soon as the Wind it came kindly about , That kept the KING in , and his Enemies out , He determin'd no longer his Confinement to bear , And thus to the Duchess his Mind did declare . Derry down , etc 2. You know , my Dear Kenny , I've been tir'd a long while , With living obscurely in this poor LITTLE ISLE , And now Spain and Pretender have no more Mines to spring , I'm resolved to go home , and to live like A KING . Derry down . etc 3. Quoth Kenny , Great Sir , I approve your Design , You could never have chosen a Season so fine , The Nation's united , and your Ministers too , And your Foes may be drown'd for ought that we know . Derry down , etc 4. But however for fear of what happen'd before , When you went and entrusted your Son with your Pow'r ; I'd advice you for this time , that he may not rebel , To leave him Restrictions not to govern too well , Derry down , etc 5. For that , quoth the KING , it is very well known There is so great a difference 'twiet me and my Son , That he can't represent me , but to hinder all strife , I've pitch'd on Thirteen that can do't to the life , Derry down , etc 6. Then Kenny reply'd , 'tis most prudently done , I'm glad you've Thirteen better Men than your Son ; Let me look o'er their Names we shall easily see , How much fitter they are to be trusted than He. Derry down , etc 7. It matters not much for his Archbishop's Grace , Ev'n let him be One because of his place : But for Parker , no doubt , there's very good Reason , He'll sign the Commission , and laugh at High Treason . Derry down , etc 8. Take Stanhope abroad , he has show'd you of late H'es and eminent Quack for Diseases of State , You may trust what his Quadruple Bill does set forth , It has done in the South , it will do in the North . Derry down , etc 9. His Medicines will suit Germane , Christian , or Turk , And make Peace or War as they happen to Work ; He performs all his Cures without Trouble or Pain , As can well be attested by the Regent and Spain . Derry down , etc 10. For Sunderland , sure , his Pretentions are just , He comes of a Raze for a Monarch to trust ; And gave you abroad strong proof of his Skill , When he sav'd you from Those that meant you no ill . Derry down , etc 11. And I doubt not he'd serve you again the same way , If he had e'er a Friend still left to betray : Can't you take him abroad to serve under your Quack , For 'tis hardly safe trusting him behind your Back . Derry dewn . etc 12. Argile he deserves more than what you have done , He try'd all he could to betray your dear Son ; He serv'd you sincerely , and employ'd all his Skill , To find you a Reason for using him ill . Derry down , etc 13. And had not your Stars been equally Strong , To keep Him in the Right and you in the Wrong , It might have induc'd him such Schemes to pursue , As had made him belov'd full as little as you . Derry down , etc 14. Your Admiral better deserves this Commission , Than e'er he did that for his Sea-Expedition ; Tho' he left his Command e'er the danger was known , He'll not quietly part with his share of a Crown . Derry down , etc 15. For my Lord Privy Seal , and my Lord President , The one Duke of Kingston , the other of Kent , Bolton , Roxborough , Newcastle , they sure are such Things , That Pinky would starve if he show'd 'em for Kings . Derry down , etc 16. As for old Cragg's Son I think 'twill be best To leave him at home for the use of the rest ; I fear they may want him , whene'er they Indite , I'm sure he can Read , and perhaps he can Write . Derry down , etc 17. Howe'er I'll not question the force of your Rules , To turn one Man of Sense into Thirteen such Fools : But I hope I may say without any Offence , You'll ne'er turn Thirteen Fools into one Man of Sense . Derry down , etc 18. I must own this Choice frees you from one Imputation , That you turn'd off your Son for Pleasing the Nation , For these you have chosen will please more by half , If they are to be pleas'd , by making them Laugh . Derry down , etc 19. On the whole I'll be hang'd if all over the Realm , There are Thirteen such Fools to put at the Helm ; So for this time be easy , nor have one jealous Thought , They han't Sense to Fell you , nor are worth being Bought . Derry down , etc 20. 'Tis for that , quoth the KING , in very plain French , I chosen them for my Regents , and you for my Wench ; And neither I'm sure can their Trust e'er betray , For the Devil won't take you , if I turn you away . Derry down . etc 