ROGER and MARY : Or , the loving Couple in a great Engagement , Rogers true love to his Mary Did not in the least miscarry ; He Soldierlike besieg'd and enter'd , And had the prize for which he ventur'd . Tune of Moggies Jealousy . AS Roger and Mary were toiling The length of a hight Summer's day A Raking and swetting and broiling , And shaking and turning the Hay , Quoth Roger , I prithee dear Mary Lets lay us down under this Cock For I do begin to be weary And there let us take a sweet nog But first they examin'd the bottle Before they begin to repose And Marry was scrathing his noddle And he was god under her clothes : Good faith quoth he Marry i'le tell thee This woundy full hight in this place For thou art ene all of a jelly As plain as the nose on my Face . Quoth Mary to help out the matter The weather is hight you know that Beside I am plumper and fatter Then Sarah that little starv'd Rat In all the hard Frost I can tell thee The very same slippery place Was never without a great jelly As plain as the nose on your face . I thought the low Countries , quoth he then Was all the time frozen i'le swear : But you were mistoken , , quoth she then , The devil a Frost e're came there , when all elsewheee was frozen from rowing And in a most pitiful case That always was open and flowing As plain as the nose on your face . I'm sure yet ( quoth Hodge its all Boggy , A Quagmire like shivering ground , And still it is fulsome and foggy , And forever the place may be drown'd . Quoth she , if a Sot have comandidg The country-may come to disgrace And drown'd for a time notwithstanding , As plain as the Nose in your Face . As all this time Mary was groping And fumbling about Rogers Head The slures began for to open . The gates of themselves they did spread : Gods bobs then quoth Robin il'e tell it And swear to it in any place , The low Countries drown'd , I do smell it As plain as the Nose on my Face . Then Roger his courage did rally , And manfully fell to his work , And at the main breach made a sally And ply'd on his thrust like a Turk ; But Roger Alas was confounded . The breach was so deep at that place , That poor Roger quickly was drowned , As plain as the Nose on his Face . When Mary had found the disaster , That Roger could do no more work , For Hodge decay'd faster and faster And sneaking away he did lurk : For which she was wondrous civil , She would not the Lobcock disgrace , But bid him go pack to the Devil , As plain as the Nose on his Face . LONDON . Printed for P. Brooksby at the golden - ball in Pye-Corner . ROGER and MARY : Or , the loving Couple in a great Engagement , Rogers true love to his Mary Did not in the least miscarry ; He Soldierlike besieg'd and enter'd , And had the prize for which he ventur'd . Tune of Moggies Jealousy . AS Roger and Mary were toiling The length of a hight Summer's day A Raking and swetting and broiling , And shaking and turning the Hay , Quoth Roger , I prithee dear Mary Lets lay us down under this Cock For I do begin to be weary And there let us take a sweet nog But first they examin'd the bottle Before they begin to repose And Marry was scrathing his noddle And he was god under her clothes : Good faith quoth he Marry i'le tell thee This woundy full hight in this place For thou art ene all of a jelly As plain as the nose on my Face . Quoth Mary to help out the matter The weather is hight you know that Beside I am plumper and fatter Then Sarah that little starv'd Rat In all the hard Frost I can tell thee The very same slippery place Was never without a great jelly As plain as the nose on your face . I thought the low Countries , quoth he then Was all the time frozen i'le swear : But you were mistoken , , quoth she then , The devil a Frost e're came there , when all elsewheee was frozen from rowing And in a most pitiful case That always was open and flowing As plain as the nose on your face . I'm sure yet ( quoth Hodge its all Boggy , A Quagmire like shivering ground , And still it is fulsome and foggy , And forever the place may be drown'd . Quoth she , if a Sot have comandidg The country-may come to disgrace And drown'd for a time notwithstanding , As plain as the Nose in your Face . As all this time Mary was groping And fumbling about Rogers Head The slures began for to open . The gates of themselves they did spread : Gods bobs then quoth Robin il'e tell it And swear to it in any place , The low Countries drown'd , I do smell it As plain as the Nose on my Face . Then Roger his courage did rally , And manfully fell to his work , And at the main breach made a sally And ply'd on his thrust like a Turk ; But Roger Alas was confounded . The breach was so deep at that place , That poor Roger quickly was drowned , As plain as the Nose on his Face . When Mary had found the disaster , That Roger could do no more work , For Hodge decay'd faster and faster And sneaking away he did lurk : For which she was wondrous civil , She would not the Lobcock disgrace , But bid him go pack to the Devil , As plain as the Nose on his Face . LONDON . Printed for P. Brooksby at the golden - ball in Pye-Corner . 