ROGER and MARY : Or , the loving Couple in a great Engagement . Rogers true love to his Mary Did not in the least miscarry ; He Soldierlike besieg'd and enter'd , And had the prize for which he ventur'd . Tune of , Moggies Jealousy . AS Roger and Mary were toiling The length of a hight Summer's day A Raking and swetting and broiling , And shaking and turning the Hay , Quoth Roger , I prithee dear Mary Lets lay us down under this Coek For I do begin to be weary And there let us take a sweet nog But first they examin'd the bottle Before they began to repose And Marry was scratching his noddle And he was god under her clothes : Good faith quoth he Marry isle tell thee This woundy full hight in this place For thou art ene all of a jelly As plain as the nose on my face . Quoth Mary to help out the matter The weather is hight you know that Beside I am plumper and fatter Then Sarah that little starv'd Rat In all the hard Frost I can tell thee The very same slippery place Was never without a great jelly As plain as the nose on your face . I thought the low Countries , quoth he then Was all the time frozen i'le swear : But you were mistaken , quoth she then , The devil a Frost e're came there , when all elsewhere was frozen from rowing And in a most pitiful case , That always was open and flowing , As plain as the nose on your face . I'm sure yet ( quoth Hodge its all Boggy , A Quagmire like shivering ground , And still it is fulsome and foggy , And forever the place may be drown'd . Quoth she , if a Sot have commanding The Country may come to disgrace , And drown'd for a time notwithstanding . As plain as the Nose on your face . As all this time Mary was groping And fumbling about Rogers Head , The sluices began for to open , The gates of themselves they did spread : Gods bobs then quoth Robin i'le tell it And swear to it in any place , The low Countries drown'd , I do smell it As plain as the Nose on my face . Then Roger his courage did rally , And manfully fell to his work , And at the main breach made a sally , And ply'd on his thrust like a Turk ; But Roger alas was confounded , The breach was so deep at that place , That poor Roger quickly was drowned , As plain as the Nose on his face . When Mary had found the disaster , That Roger could do no more work , For Hodge decay'd faster and faster , And sneaking away he did lurk : For which she was wondrous civil , She would not the Lobcock disgrace , But bid him go pack to the Devil As plain as the Nose on his face . LONDON : Printed for P. Brooksby at the golden ball in Py-corner . ROGER and MARY : Or , the loving Couple in a great Engagement . Rogers true love to his Mary Did not in the least miscarry ; He Soldierlike besieg'd and enter'd , And had the prize for which he ventur'd . Tune of , Moggies Jealousy . AS Roger and Mary were toiling The length of a hight Summer's day A Raking and swetting and broiling , And shaking and turning the Hay , Quoth Roger , I prithee dear Mary Lets lay us down under this Coek For I do begin to be weary And there let us take a sweet nog But first they examin'd the bottle Before they began to repose And Marry was scratching his noddle And he was god under her clothes : Good faith quoth he Marry isle tell thee This woundy full hight in this place For thou art ene all of a jelly As plain as the nose on my face . Quoth Mary to help out the matter The weather is hight you know that Beside I am plumper and fatter Then Sarah that little starv'd Rat In all the hard Frost I can tell thee The very same slippery place Was never without a great jelly As plain as the nose on your face . I thought the low Countries , quoth he then Was all the time frozen i'le swear : But you were mistaken , quoth she then , The devil a Frost e're came there , when all elsewhere was frozen from rowing And in a most pitiful case , That always was open and flowing , As plain as the nose on your face . I'm sure yet ( quoth Hodge its all Boggy , A Quagmire like shivering ground , And still it is fulsome and foggy , And forever the place may be drown'd . Quoth she , if a Sot have commanding The Country may come to disgrace , And drown'd for a time notwithstanding . As plain as the Nose on your face . As all this time Mary was groping And fumbling about Rogers Head , The sluices began for to open , The gates of themselves they did spread : Gods bobs then quoth Robin i'le tell it And swear to it in any place , The low Countries drown'd , I do smell it As plain as the Nose on my face . Then Roger his courage did rally , And manfully fell to his work , And at the main breach made a sally , And ply'd on his thrust like a Turk ; But Roger alas was confounded , The breach was so deep at that place , That poor Roger quickly was drowned , As plain as the Nose on his face . When Mary had found the disaster , That Roger could do no more work , For Hodge decay'd faster and faster , And sneaking away he did lurk : For which she was wondrous civil , She would not the Lobcock disgrace , But bid him go pack to the Devil As plain as the Nose on his face . LONDON : Printed for P. Brooksby at the golden ball in Py-corner . 