The two Constant LOVERS : OR , A PATTERN of true LOVE , EXPRESSED In this Dialogue between Samuel and Sarah , etc To a pleasant new Tune , etc Licensed and Enter'd according to Order . AS I by chance was walking , on a Summer's day , I herd two Lovers talking , and thus they did say , With a mournful ditty , she began her tale , Which mov'd my heart with pity her for to bewail : Sarah . ] My Love I have desired for to speak with you , My heart within was fired until that I knew Whither you were living in good health or no , My heart it was grieved until I did know . Samuel . ] Why , Sweet heart , what ails thee thus for to complain ? Let not ill befall thee , thou shalt me obtain : Though I were absented from thee for a space , I'll not be prevented of thy comely face . Sar. ] Samuel my own Sweating , I to thee must tell , In a heavy greeting , what hath us befell : My friends do grudge & murmur , and to me did say , That we must part asunder , or else they'll thee destroy . Sam. ] My Love be not grieved , though thy friends do frown , Thou shalt be relieved , none shall put thee down : I for thy sweet favour will adventure much , Though thy friends and brother , do against me grutch . Sar. ] O my own dear Sweating , I am griev'd in heart , That I give thee such greeting , for to breed thy smart ; Barnwel my own brother , Captain being he , Swears that of all other , killed thou shalt be . Sam. ] Sarah be not fearful , though thy brother swear , Of thy life be careful , I no man do fear : What care I for Barnwel , though he a Captain be , He shall find that Samuel is as good as he . Sar. ] O my loving Samuel , look where he does go , 'Tis my brother Barnwel , now begins our woe : Would that we together had not met this day , Oh my Judas brother will thy life betray . Now comes Captain Barnwel to these Lovers twain , And made account that Samuel he should soon have slave ; But it prov'd contrary to his bloody mind , In the sighed of Sarah , conquest he resign'd . Then said he to Samuel , What do you do here ? I'm with my Sweetheart Sarah , put her not in fear : Barnwel in a fury , swore he would prevent His own sister Sarah of her heart's content . Sar. ] O my brother Barnwel , let me you entreat , Not to wrong my Samuel in your bloody hea He hath ne'r offended you at any time , Let him not be condemned , save his life take mine . Ay , says Captain Barnwel , Sarah thou shalt see ; Then he call'd to Samuel , Come and answer me ? I thy death have vowed e'er I further go . Then sweet Sarah bowed , saying , Do not so . Samuel being heedful of his tyranny , Says , Sarah be not fearful , thou anon shalt see , Though thy brother Barnwel , vow my life to spill , Thou shalt see that Samuel , hath both strength and skill Now these words being spoke they to weapons go , Samuel gave him a token with a dreadful blow ; And withal enclosed with his enemy ; Then Barnwel he supposed , that himself should die : Then says loving Samuel , Are you now content ? Ay , says Captain Barnwel , and withal consent , That my sister Sarah shall be made thy wife , So thou wilt but spare me , and not take my life . Thus in peace they ceased for the present time , Sarah much was eased of her troubled mind ; And injoy'd her Samuel to her heart's content ; And her brother Barnwel gave his free consent . Now these Lovers twain , live in joy and peace , Pray Heaven upon them rain plenty and increase : And all true Lovers , wheresoe'er they be , Aid them with thy favour , that have such constancy . London : Printed by and for W . O [ . ] and sold by the Booksellers The two Constant LOVERS : OR , A PATTERN of true LOVE , EXPRESSED In this Dialogue between Samuel and Sarah , etc To a pleasant new Tune , etc Licensed and Enter'd according to Order . AS I by chance was walking , on a Summer's day , I herd two Lovers talking , and thus they did say , With a mournful ditty , she began her tale , Which mov'd my heart with pity her for to bewail : Sarah . ] My Love I have desired for to speak with you , My heart within was fired until that I knew Whither you were living in good health or no , My heart it was grieved until I did know . Samuel . ] Why , Sweet heart , what ails thee thus for to complain ? Let not ill befall thee , thou shalt me obtain : Though I were absented from thee for a space , I'll not be prevented of thy comely face . Sar. ] Samuel my own Sweating , I to thee must tell , In a heavy greeting , what hath us befell : My friends do grudge & murmur , and to me did say , That we must part asunder , or else they'll thee destroy . Sam. ] My Love be not grieved , though thy friends do frown , Thou shalt be relieved , none shall put thee down : I for thy sweet favour will adventure much , Though thy friends and brother , do against me grutch . Sar. ] O my own dear Sweating , I am griev'd in heart , That I give thee such greeting , for to breed thy smart ; Barnwel my own brother , Captain being he , Swears that of all other , killed thou shalt be . Sam. ] Sarah be not fearful , though thy brother swear , Of thy life be careful , I no man do fear : What care I for Barnwel , though he a Captain be , He shall find that Samuel is as good as he . Sar. ] O my loving Samuel , look where he does go , 'Tis my brother Barnwel , now begins our woe : Would that we together had not met this day , Oh my Judas brother will thy life betray . Now comes Captain Barnwel to these Lovers twain , And made account that Samuel he should soon have slave ; But it prov'd contrary to his bloody mind , In the sighed of Sarah , conquest he resign'd . Then said he to Samuel , What do you do here ? I'm with my Sweetheart Sarah , put her not in fear : Barnwel in a fury , swore he would prevent His own sister Sarah of her heart's content . Sar. ] O my brother Barnwel , let me you entreat , Not to wrong my Samuel in your bloody hea He hath ne'r offended you at any time , Let him not be condemned , save his life take mine . Ay , says Captain Barnwel , Sarah thou shalt see ; Then he call'd to Samuel , Come and answer me ? I thy death have vowed e'er I further go . Then sweet Sarah bowed , saying , Do not so . Samuel being heedful of his tyranny , Says , Sarah be not fearful , thou anon shalt see , Though thy brother Barnwel , vow my life to spill , Thou shalt see that Samuel , hath both strength and skill Now these words being spoke they to weapons go , Samuel gave him a token with a dreadful blow ; And withal enclosed with his enemy ; Then Barnwel he supposed , that himself should die : Then says loving Samuel , Are you now content ? Ay , says Captain Barnwel , and withal consent , That my sister Sarah shall be made thy wife , So thou wilt but spare me , and not take my life . Thus in peace they ceased for the present time , Sarah much was eased of her troubled mind ; And injoy'd her Samuel to her heart's content ; And her brother Barnwel gave his free consent . Now these Lovers twain , live in joy and peace , Pray Heaven upon them rain plenty and increase : And all true Lovers , wheresoe'er they be , Aid them with thy favour , that have such constancy . London : Printed by and for W . O [ . ] and sold by the Booksellers 