The two Constant Lovers ; OR , A Pattern of true Love , expressed in this Dialogue between Samuel and Sarah . To a pleasant New Tune . AS I by chance was walking , on a Summer's day , I herd two Lovers talking , and thus they did say : With a mournful ditty , she began her tale , Which mov'd my heart with pity , her for to bewail . Sarah . My Love I have desired , for to speak with you , My heart within was fired , until that I knew Whither you were living , in good health or no , My heart it was grieved , until that I did know . Samuel . Why , sweet heart , what ails thee thus for to complain ? Let not ill befall thee , thou shalt me obtain : Though I were absented , from thee for a space , I'll not be prevented of thy comely face . Sarah . Samuel my own sweating , I to the must tell , In a heavy greeting , what hath us befell : My friends do grudge and murmer , and to me they say , That we must part asunder , or else they'l thee destroy . Samuel . My love be not grieved , though thy friends do frown , Thou shalt be relieved , none shall put thee down : I for thy sweet favour , will adventure much , Though thy friends and Brother , do against me grutch . Sarah . O my own dear sweating , I am griev'd in heart , That I give thee such greeting , for to breed thy smar Barnwel my own Brother , Captain being be , Swears that of all other , killed thou shalt be . Samuel . SArah be not fearful , though thy brother swear ; Of thy life be careful , I no man do fear : What care I for Barnwel , though he a Captain be , He shall find that Samuel is as good as he . Sarah . O my loving Samuel , look where he does go , 'Tis my Brother Barnwel , now begins our woe ; Would that we together , had not met this day , Oh my Judas Brother , will thy life betray . Now comes Captain Barnwel , to these Lovers twain , And made count that Samuel , soon he should have slave : But it prov'd contrary unto his bloody mind , In the sighed of Sarah , conquest he resign'd . Then said he to Samuel pray what make you here , I'm with my sweetheart Sarah , put her not in fear , Barnwel in a fury swore he would prevent , His own Sister Sarah of her hearts content . Sarah . O my Brother Barnwel , let me you entreat Not to wrong my Samuel , in your bloody hea He hath ne'r offended you at any time , Let him not be condemned , save his life take mine . I , says Captain Barnwel , Sarah thou shalt see ; Then he call'd to Samuel , come and answer me : I thy Death have vowed , e're I further go , Then sweet Sarah vowed , saying do not so . Samuel . Samuel being cheerful of his tyranny , Says , Sarah be not fearful , thou anon shalt see ; Though thy Brother Barnwel , vow my life to spill , Thou shalt see that Samuel , hath both strength and skill . Now these words being spoken , they to Weopons go , Samuel gave him a token , with a dreadful blow : And withal enclosed with his enemy , Then Barnwel he supposed , that he himself should die . Then says loving Samuel , are you now content , I , says Captain Barnwel , and withal consent , That my Sister Sarah , shall be made thy Wife , So thou wilt but spare me , and not take my life . Thus in peas they ceased , for the present time , Sarah much was eased of her troubled mind : And enjoy'd her Samuel , to her hearts content , And her Brother Barnwel , gave his free Consent . Now these Lovers twain , live in joy and peace , Pray Heaven upon them rain , plenty and increase : And all true Lovers , wheresoe'er they be , Aid them with thy favour , that have such constancy . Printed by and for A.M. and s [ oh ] ld by the Booksellers of London . The two Constant Lovers ; OR , A Pattern of true Love , expressed in this Dialogue between Samuel and Sarah . To a pleasant New Tune . AS I by chance was walking , on a Summer's day , I herd two Lovers talking , and thus they did say : With a mournful ditty , she began her tale , Which mov'd my heart with pity , her for to bewail . Sarah . My Love I have desired , for to speak with you , My heart within was fired , until that I knew Whither you were living , in good health or no , My heart it was grieved , until that I did know . Samuel . Why , sweet heart , what ails thee thus for to complain ? Let not ill befall thee , thou shalt me obtain : Though I were absented , from thee for a space , I'll not be prevented of thy comely face . Sarah . Samuel my own sweating , I to the must tell , In a heavy greeting , what hath us befell : My friends do grudge and murmer , and to me they say , That we must part asunder , or else they'l thee destroy . Samuel . My love be not grieved , though thy friends do frown , Thou shalt be relieved , none shall put thee down : I for thy sweet favour , will adventure much , Though thy friends and Brother , do against me grutch . Sarah . O my own dear sweating , I am griev'd in heart , That I give thee such greeting , for to breed thy smar Barnwel my own Brother , Captain being be , Swears that of all other , killed thou shalt be . Samuel . SArah be not fearful , though thy brother swear ; Of thy life be careful , I no man do fear : What care I for Barnwel , though he a Captain be , He shall find that Samuel is as good as he . Sarah . O my loving Samuel , look where he does go , 'Tis my Brother Barnwel , now begins our woe ; Would that we together , had not met this day , Oh my Judas Brother , will thy life betray . Now comes Captain Barnwel , to these Lovers twain , And made count that Samuel , soon he should have slave : But it prov'd contrary unto his bloody mind , In the sighed of Sarah , conquest he resign'd . Then said he to Samuel pray what make you here , I'm with my sweetheart Sarah , put her not in fear , Barnwel in a fury swore he would prevent , His own Sister Sarah of her hearts content . Sarah . O my Brother Barnwel , let me you entreat Not to wrong my Samuel , in your bloody hea He hath ne'r offended you at any time , Let him not be condemned , save his life take mine . I , says Captain Barnwel , Sarah thou shalt see ; Then he call'd to Samuel , come and answer me : I thy Death have vowed , e're I further go , Then sweet Sarah vowed , saying do not so . Samuel . Samuel being cheerful of his tyranny , Says , Sarah be not fearful , thou anon shalt see ; Though thy Brother Barnwel , vow my life to spill , Thou shalt see that Samuel , hath both strength and skill . Now these words being spoken , they to Weopons go , Samuel gave him a token , with a dreadful blow : And withal enclosed with his enemy , Then Barnwel he supposed , that he himself should die . Then says loving Samuel , are you now content , I , says Captain Barnwel , and withal consent , That my Sister Sarah , shall be made thy Wife , So thou wilt but spare me , and not take my life . Thus in peas they ceased , for the present time , Sarah much was eased of her troubled mind : And enjoy'd her Samuel , to her hearts content , And her Brother Barnwel , gave his free Consent . Now these Lovers twain , live in joy and peace , Pray Heaven upon them rain , plenty and increase : And all true Lovers , wheresoe'er they be , Aid them with thy favour , that have such constancy . Printed by and for A.M. and s [ oh ] ld by the Booksellers of London . 