WATTEN Towns-end ; Or , A Nosegay of Pleasure , Which grew in the Garden of VENUS . Tune is , Watten Towns end ; Or , Lame Leg next the Wall . AS I came up by Arpendeen and straight to Watten Town , And there I met a pretty wench , that look'd like Lay me down ; At Watten Towns end , at Watten Towns end At every Door , there stands a Whore , at Watten Towns end . The Frigat's Name was Thunder-Bolt , her Sails were all of Silk ; Her Tacklen was of Silver twist , her Colour like the Milk . At Watten Towns end , etc Her Planks were all of Ivory , her Bottom beaten-Gold : Her Deck was Alabaster pure , she looked brisk and bold . At Watten Towns end , at Watten towns end , At every Door , there stands a Whore , at Watten Towns end . HEr Head was guilded o're and o're , her Wanton Flag did fly : And I was mad to be on Board , so much a Fool was I . At Watten towns end , at Watten towns end , At every Door , there stands a Whore , at Watten towns end . She seem'd a stately Pleasure-Boat , with tempting good attire : But little knew that ( under Deck ) her Gun-Room was in Fire . At Watten towns end . I lodg'd with her , I laid her down , I slept with her all nigh I supp'd upon a Coney-Fatt , whose Gravy was delight . At Watten towns end , etc She gave to me a Syrup sweet , was in her Placket-Box ; But e're three Minutes went about , it proved the French-POX . At Watten towns end , etc This Fire-Ship she did blow me up , as my Effigies shows , And all may read upon my Face The loss of Teeth and Nose , At Watten towns end , etc Now as I walk along the streets , they gaze upon my face , And every one that looks at me , salutes me with disgrace . At Watten towns end , etc By me beware then Gentlemen , From King to Country Clown , And when you see a pretty Wench , Remember Lay me down . At Watten towns end , at Watten towns end , At every door , there stands a Whore , at Watten towns end , FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball in Pye-Corner . WATTEN Towns-end ; Or , A Nosegay of Pleasure , Which grew in the Garden of VENUS . Tune is , Watten Towns end ; Or , Lame Leg next the Wall . AS I came up by Arpendeen and straight to Watten Town , And there I met a pretty wench , that look'd like Lay me down ; At Watten Towns end , at Watten Towns end At every Door , there stands a Whore , at Watten Towns end . The Frigat's Name was Thunder-Bolt , her Sails were all of Silk ; Her Tacklen was of Silver twist , her Colour like the Milk . At Watten Towns end , etc Her Planks were all of Ivory , her Bottom beaten-Gold : Her Deck was Alabaster pure , she looked brisk and bold . At Watten Towns end , at Watten towns end , At every Door , there stands a Whore , at Watten Towns end . HEr Head was guilded o're and o're , her Wanton Flag did fly : And I was mad to be on Board , so much a Fool was I . At Watten towns end , at Watten towns end , At every Door , there stands a Whore , at Watten towns end . She seem'd a stately Pleasure-Boat , with tempting good attire : But little knew that ( under Deck ) her Gun-Room was in Fire . At Watten towns end . I lodg'd with her , I laid her down , I slept with her all nigh I supp'd upon a Coney-Fatt , whose Gravy was delight . At Watten towns end , etc She gave to me a Syrup sweet , was in her Placket-Box ; But e're three Minutes went about , it proved the French-POX . At Watten towns end , etc This Fire-Ship she did blow me up , as my Effigies shows , And all may read upon my Face The loss of Teeth and Nose , At Watten towns end , etc Now as I walk along the streets , they gaze upon my face , And every one that looks at me , salutes me with disgrace . At Watten towns end , etc By me beware then Gentlemen , From King to Country Clown , And when you see a pretty Wench , Remember Lay me down . At Watten towns end , at Watten towns end , At every door , there stands a Whore , at Watten towns end , FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball in Pye-Corner . 