The Poets Dream : OR , The Great Outcry and Lamentable Complaint of the LAND against BAYLIFFS and their DOGS . Wherein is Expressed their Villainous Outrages to poor Men . With a True De - scription of their Knavery and their Debauc'h Actions ; Prescribed and Presented to the view of all People . To the tune of , Sawny , etc AS I lay Slumbering in a Dream , methought the world most strangely went ; The Bailiffs on High Seats was seen , which caused the Poor's great Discontent . They plucked true Justice from the Throne , Erecting Laws was made of their own , And burthen'd the Poor till they made them groan , And that's the cause that the Land Complains . Their Meeting House was and Alewives Bench , fix'd in a Street that is termed Old ; Their Speaker was and a Play-house-Wench , both Whore and Thief , and a Devilish Scold . She'd Guzzel Brandy , Wine , or Ale , And then she'd at her Neighbours Rail , And send for the Bailiffs to have them to Jail , And that's the cause that the Land Complains . Methought a mighty Hunting-match , was made by Bailiffs and their Currs : Poor men was the Deer they strove to catch , the Houses plac'd in the Room of Furs : The Suburbs-Round it was their Park : The Bailiffs Yell , the Dogs did Bark , The Poor kept as close as Noah in the Ark ; A [ n ] worser that's the cause that the Land Complains , Then Shepherd and his Dog wheel'd up toth' right , and thunder'd by a Cursed Lane , And there the Villains wrought their Spite , for by them once was a Poor Man slave : They Swear before they'l ever lack , They'l go to Hell a Pick-a-Pack , And thus poor Debtors they go to rack , And that's the cause that the Land complains . There's Cursing Will and Damme-Jack , and Robbin Turner's alive again ; And Paunchgut-Tom , ( a Hellish Pack , ) with perjur'd-Dick and Bawdy Ben : Which formerly on Earth did Dwell , And now they are return'd from Hell , And does against our Laws Rebel , And that's the cause that the Land complains . When I awaked from my Dream , Methought the World turn'd upside down , And in great haste . I Writ this Theam , for the Bailiffs Dogs of our Town : Who for their prey each hour do wait , Like death at every poor Man's Gate , And brings the Realm to a Dismal fate , And that's the cause that the Land complains . When Poor men are out of Employ , and have not a Farthing in the World ; The while there Wives and Children Cry , there's many are in a Prison hurl'd . Men are Enticed by the Bumms , Who swear they ne'r will pay their Sums , Thus Poor in Flocks to the Jailor comes ; And that's the cause that the Land complains . The Tallyman , Curmudgeon keeps a Bailiff and his Dog to Bite ; If in their Books men ever Creeps , they quickly swear they'l have their Right ; So soon as e're they do Backslide , The Torturing Jale they must abide , Then Toby and Dog's Employ'd ; And that's the cause that the Land complains . When Rogues are at the Old-Bayly Burn'd , and that their Pilfering Trades do fail ; From Thieves to Bayliffs-Dogs have turn'd , to plague and hurry the Poor to Jail : How like Kid-Nappers all the Day , In every Corner they Survey , And quaff whole Bowls when they get their Pr [ ey ] And that's the cause that the Land complains . Ten Groat's the Fees , and a Crown the Arrest and three Round 000's for a Writ beside ; Thus Laws are broken , and poor men Oppressed , such Racking Torments they must abide : And while the Prisoner sends for Bail , They Tope the Brandy , Beer , and Ale , And makes him pay , or they have him to Jail : And that's the cause that the Land complains . For Twenty Shillings , Ten , or Five , they'l put a man to a Cursed Charge ; Or run him to Jail they'l soon contrive , where other Bills are expressed at Large : The Jayl-Fees many are bound to Rue , The Garnish , Bed and Turn-Key too , Expects and unexpected Endue ; And that's the cause that the Land complains Your More-field Mobbs , and Whetstone-Whore has Bailiffs and their Dogs for Friends ; When Lustful Youth pays Venus Scores , those Sponging Pimps the House attends : If Cullies fight in a Drunken fit , Away goes Toby's Dog for a Writ , Thus many falls in the Bailiffs pit ; And that's the cause that the Land complains 'Tis seldom a Bailiff or his Dog , is ever known for to go to Church ; As soon as they here the Word of god , they leave the Parson in the lurch : They swear they'l come to church no more , They lay their Sins to Adams Store , And jaunts to Moorfields to a Whore : And that's the cause that the Land complain [ s ] Thus I conclude and end my Song , desiring that you wou'd be conten There's Christian-Peers that may right our wr [ ong ] when Heaven yields up a Parliament ; I hope true Reason will plead our cause , While they'r erecting wholesome Laws , They'l keep us from the Crocodiles paws ; And cease the Poor of the Lands complaints FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball near the Bear Tavern in Pie Corner . The Poets Dream : OR , The Great Outcry and Lamentable Complaint of the LAND against BAYLIFFS and their DOGS . Wherein is Expressed their Villainous Outrages to poor Men . With a True De - scription of their Knavery and their Debauc'h Actions ; Prescribed and Presented to the view of all People . To the tune of , Sawny , etc AS I lay Slumbering in a Dream , methought the world most strangely went ; The Bailiffs on High Seats was seen , which caused the Poor's great Discontent . They plucked true Justice from the Throne , Erecting Laws was made of their own , And burthen'd the Poor till they made them groan , And that's the cause that the Land Complains . Their Meeting House was and Alewives Bench , fix'd in a Street that is termed Old ; Their Speaker was and a Play-house-Wench , both Whore and Thief , and a Devilish Scold . She'd Guzzel Brandy , Wine , or Ale , And then she'd at her Neighbours Rail , And send for the Bailiffs to have them to Jail , And that's the cause that the Land Complains . Methought a mighty Hunting-match , was made by Bailiffs and their Currs : Poor men was the Deer they strove to catch , the Houses plac'd in the Room of Furs : The Suburbs-Round it was their Park : The Bailiffs Yell , the Dogs did Bark , The Poor kept as close as Noah in the Ark ; A [ n ] worser that's the cause that the Land Complains , Then Shepherd and his Dog wheel'd up toth' right , and thunder'd by a Cursed Lane , And there the Villains wrought their Spite , for by them once was a Poor Man slave : They Swear before they'l ever lack , They'l go to Hell a Pick-a-Pack , And thus poor Debtors they go to rack , And that's the cause that the Land complains . There's Cursing Will and Damme-Jack , and Robbin Turner's alive again ; And Paunchgut-Tom , ( a Hellish Pack , ) with perjur'd-Dick and Bawdy Ben : Which formerly on Earth did Dwell , And now they are return'd from Hell , And does against our Laws Rebel , And that's the cause that the Land complains . When I awaked from my Dream , Methought the World turn'd upside down , And in great haste . I Writ this Theam , for the Bailiffs Dogs of our Town : Who for their prey each hour do wait , Like death at every poor Man's Gate , And brings the Realm to a Dismal fate , And that's the cause that the Land complains . When Poor men are out of Employ , and have not a Farthing in the World ; The while there Wives and Children Cry , there's many are in a Prison hurl'd . Men are Enticed by the Bumms , Who swear they ne'r will pay their Sums , Thus Poor in Flocks to the Jailor comes ; And that's the cause that the Land complains . The Tallyman , Curmudgeon keeps a Bailiff and his Dog to Bite ; If in their Books men ever Creeps , they quickly swear they'l have their Right ; So soon as e're they do Backslide , The Torturing Jale they must abide , Then Toby and Dog's Employ'd ; And that's the cause that the Land complains . When Rogues are at the Old-Bayly Burn'd , and that their Pilfering Trades do fail ; From Thieves to Bayliffs-Dogs have turn'd , to plague and hurry the Poor to Jail : How like Kid-Nappers all the Day , In every Corner they Survey , And quaff whole Bowls when they get their Pr [ ey ] And that's the cause that the Land complains . Ten Groat's the Fees , and a Crown the Arrest and three Round 000's for a Writ beside ; Thus Laws are broken , and poor men Oppressed , such Racking Torments they must abide : And while the Prisoner sends for Bail , They Tope the Brandy , Beer , and Ale , And makes him pay , or they have him to Jail : And that's the cause that the Land complains . For Twenty Shillings , Ten , or Five , they'l put a man to a Cursed Charge ; Or run him to Jail they'l soon contrive , where other Bills are expressed at Large : The Jayl-Fees many are bound to Rue , The Garnish , Bed and Turn-Key too , Expects and unexpected Endue ; And that's the cause that the Land complains Your More-field Mobbs , and Whetstone-Whore has Bailiffs and their Dogs for Friends ; When Lustful Youth pays Venus Scores , those Sponging Pimps the House attends : If Cullies fight in a Drunken fit , Away goes Toby's Dog for a Writ , Thus many falls in the Bailiffs pit ; And that's the cause that the Land complains 'Tis seldom a Bailiff or his Dog , is ever known for to go to Church ; As soon as they here the Word of god , they leave the Parson in the lurch : They swear they'l come to church no more , They lay their Sins to Adams Store , And jaunts to Moorfields to a Whore : And that's the cause that the Land complain [ s ] Thus I conclude and end my Song , desiring that you wou'd be conten There's Christian-Peers that may right our wr [ ong ] when Heaven yields up a Parliament ; I hope true Reason will plead our cause , While they'r erecting wholesome Laws , They'l keep us from the Crocodiles paws ; And cease the Poor of the Lands complaints FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball near the Bear Tavern in Pie Corner . 