The ROYAL DREAM : OR , The FORESTER's Garland . AS I in my closet was reading alone , I reach'd down a volume which treated of one ; A great emperor formerly reigning at Rome , Who had but one daughter , so hard was his doom . Now if you have patience are willing to wait , A wondered story of him I'll relate ; How he a young infant endeavour'd to kill . And how he was hinder'd by providence still . The emperor hunting a long summer's day , At length the dark night chas'd bright Phebus away , When losing his nobles of honour and fame , He strait to the house of his forester came . And craving a lodging , declaring that he , A gentlemen was of a squire's degree ; Who had all the rest of his company lost , As over the midst of the forest he cross'd . I'll grant thee a lodging the forester cry'd . And likewise a supper he strait did provide , Of the very best the house could afford , Yet knew not that this was his sovereign lord . When supper was ended he shew'd his new guest A wholesome plain lodging for taking his rest ; While there he was sleeping the forester's wife , She brought forth and infant the joy of her life . Atut here is a wonder : This monarch indeed , That night was afflicted with troublesome dreams . The error of which I in brief shall declare , It was the forester's young son and heir . He dreamed that under the roof there was born , A child whom the fates had agreed to adorn His throne in full power after his decease . The thoughts of his dream much disturbed his peace . At length he arose from his royal repose , And so the lodge of his forester goes , And said , Honest fellow , come tell me aright , Has any young infant been born here this night . Yes , yes , worthy master , the forester said , My own loving wife of a son has been laid ; And this very night The emperor smil'd , And cry'd , I am willing to see thy sweet child . He had his request , and he view'd every part , With love in his visage , but spleen in his hear For on the child's forehead a coronet there grew . Which made him imagine his dream would be true . If policy did not prevent his decree , As he consider'd which way it might be , The bloodthirsty emperor thought of a way , The life of the innocent child to betray . The emperor cry'd , Dost thou know , honest friend , With whom thou art talking , from whom it descends ? No , no , worthy master , the forester cries , I never beheld you before with my eyes . Why I am your emperor that you did feast . The forester trembled , and fear'd at the least That he should be punish'd for what he had said . Therefore on his knees for a pardon he pray'd . Thou hast not offended , but pleasured me , And as a reward for thy kindness , said he , A place in my palace I mean to provide , For thy little son , and I will be his guide . The poor man reply'd , My dear sovereign lord , Methinks you have proffer'd too great a reward , In taking such care of a forester's son , Yet nevertheless , your will shall be done . Then taking his leave he declar'd he would send To them for the child by the hands of a friend . The father and mother were both reconcil'd , In hope's it might be for the good of the child . About a month after three whom he could trust , He call'd to his chamber , and told them they must , Obey his command , or they surely should die . They answer'd , My lord , we will surely comply . He told them the tragical story at large , And on his authority gave them this charge . To fetch the young infant , and bring him away To some silent grove , where the same they might slay . Said he , Pray be careful in acting your part . Dispose of the carcase , and bring me the heart . They promis'd obedience in every case , Then posted away to the forester's place . Now when they the emperor's message had told , Two sorrowful parents you there might behold , The father he wept , and the mother likewise , Both bathed the infant with watery eyes . The messengers cry'd , 'Tis a folly to stand , We came from the court by a special command . Which you thro' obedience are bound to obey , Then give us the child without longer delay . The sorrowful mother she trembling stands , Which as she deliver'd it into his hands , Take care of my infant she often did say , And see that it come to no harm by the way . They promis'd her fair , and departed with speed , She little imagin'd her babe was to bleed To death by the emperor's cruel express , So therefore her sorrow was so much the less . They traveled on to the heat of the day , And came to the forest where they were to slay The infant , but strait there arose a dispute , For two of the three were unwilling to do't . The man that was cruel did make this reply , If it be not done we shall certainly die , The emperor strictly enjoined he death , Therefore I'm resolved to finish his breath . Remember the tears of the mother , said one , Remember her sighs , and her sorrowful moan ; Remember the promise that to her was made , And let not our hands on the infant be laid . The third he reply'd , If his life you'll not take , What proper excuse I pray shall we make . Some heart we must bear to our soverign lord , Or death without mercy will be our reward . The rest reply'd , We have found out a way , A fawn of the forest we'll presently slay . Whose heart we'll convey to the emperor's hand , Declaring that we have obey'd his command . The child here we'll leave in the forest the while , Kind fortune perhaps may afford it one smile . By saving his life by some means unknown , 'Tis said in a bower they left it alone . They manag'd their matters in everything , And unto the emperor strait they did bring A heart , which he flung in the fire it seems , And laughed to think of the folly of dreams . Not far from that place there lived a knight , Whose lady was beautiful , charming , and bright . Yet nevertheless they no issue could raise , As being not bless'd with a child in their days . By chance in the forest he hunted that day , And found the sweet infant where smiling it lay . He kiss'd it and bless'd it a thousand times o'er , Then home to his lady this infant he boar . Said he , In the forest this blessing I found , With bushes and briers encompass'd around : It pitied me , lady , to find it alone , We'll keep it , and love it , and call it our own . He order'd his beautiful lady to feign Herself in strong labour , in sorrow and pain . That so to the world they might freely declare This darling to be their own son and heir . She freely consented to all his request , And kept close her chamber , inviting no guest ; At length thro' the region those glad tidings rung , That such a brave knight was blessed with a son . He grew , and was beautiful , proper , and tall , And gained the love and favour of all , That ever beheld him , both courtier and stranger , Yet fifteen years after his life was in danger . For then did the emperor make a decree , That lords , knights , and gentlemen feasted should be , In his royal palace , and at his own board , With all sorts of dainties the realm could afford . To this royal banquet repaired the knight , And brought the young squire his joy and delight . Who had at the time the emperor him see , The mark in his forehead as plain as might be . O then to the knight the great emperor cry'd , That is not thy son , I am well satisfy'd , So on thy allegiance now tell me the truth , That mark I have seen in the first of his youth . Then finding there was no excuse to be made , Unto his great emperor mildly he said , I found him one day in the forest alone , And kept it , because I had none of my own . The emperor called his servants likewise , Who came to his presence with watery eyes . Declaring what has been rehearsed before , And then on his knees did for mercy implore . He pardon'd his servants , the fault they did own , Then said to the knight , you must leave me your son . For I will maintain him both gallant and gay . It was but a folly to answer him nay . He left him , altho' with a sorrowful heart , The feast being ended , they all did depart . But still in the emperor's breast did remain , A firm resolution that he should be slave . The empress and her dear daughuer of state , They kept a rich palace both glorious and great . Some hundred miles from the city of Room , Where he was to meet his sad tragical doom . A letter soon after the emperor writ , And to the young squire the same did counterfeit The ROYAL DREAM : OR , The FORESTER's Garland . AS I in my closet was reading alone , I reach'd down a volume which treated of one ; A great emperor formerly reigning at Rome , Who had but one daughter , so hard was his doom . Now if you have patience are willing to wait , A wondered story of him I'll relate ; How he a young infant endeavour'd to kill . And how he was hinder'd by providence still . The emperor hunting a long summer's day , At length the dark night chas'd bright Phebus away , When losing his nobles of honour and fame , He strait to the house of his forester came . And craving a lodging , declaring that he , A gentlemen was of a squire's degree ; Who had all the rest of his company lost , As over the midst of the forest he cross'd . I'll grant thee a lodging the forester cry'd . And likewise a supper he strait did provide , Of the very best the house could afford , Yet knew not that this was his sovereign lord . When supper was ended he shew'd his new guest A wholesome plain lodging for taking his rest ; While there he was sleeping the forester's wife , She brought forth and infant the joy of her life . Atut here is a wonder : This monarch indeed , That night was afflicted with troublesome dreams . The error of which I in brief shall declare , It was the forester's young son and heir . He dreamed that under the roof there was born , A child whom the fates had agreed to adorn His throne in full power after his decease . The thoughts of his dream much disturbed his peace . At length he arose from his royal repose , And so the lodge of his forester goes , And said , Honest fellow , come tell me aright , Has any young infant been born here this night . Yes , yes , worthy master , the forester said , My own loving wife of a son has been laid ; And this very night The emperor smil'd , And cry'd , I am willing to see thy sweet child . He had his request , and he view'd every part , With love in his visage , but spleen in his hear For on the child's forehead a coronet there grew . Which made him imagine his dream would be true . If policy did not prevent his decree , As he consider'd which way it might be , The bloodthirsty emperor thought of a way , The life of the innocent child to betray . The emperor cry'd , Dost thou know , honest friend , With whom thou art talking , from whom it descends ? No , no , worthy master , the forester cries , I never beheld you before with my eyes . Why I am your emperor that you did feast . The forester trembled , and fear'd at the least That he should be punish'd for what he had said . Therefore on his knees for a pardon he pray'd . Thou hast not offended , but pleasured me , And as a reward for thy kindness , said he , A place in my palace I mean to provide , For thy little son , and I will be his guide . The poor man reply'd , My dear sovereign lord , Methinks you have proffer'd too great a reward , In taking such care of a forester's son , Yet nevertheless , your will shall be done . Then taking his leave he declar'd he would send To them for the child by the hands of a friend . The father and mother were both reconcil'd , In hope's it might be for the good of the child . About a month after three whom he could trust , He call'd to his chamber , and told them they must , Obey his command , or they surely should die . They answer'd , My lord , we will surely comply . He told them the tragical story at large , And on his authority gave them this charge . To fetch the young infant , and bring him away To some silent grove , where the same they might slay . Said he , Pray be careful in acting your part . Dispose of the carcase , and bring me the heart . They promis'd obedience in every case , Then posted away to the forester's place . Now when they the emperor's message had told , Two sorrowful parents you there might behold , The father he wept , and the mother likewise , Both bathed the infant with watery eyes . The messengers cry'd , 'Tis a folly to stand , We came from the court by a special command . Which you thro' obedience are bound to obey , Then give us the child without longer delay . The sorrowful mother she trembling stands , Which as she deliver'd it into his hands , Take care of my infant she often did say , And see that it come to no harm by the way . They promis'd her fair , and departed with speed , She little imagin'd her babe was to bleed To death by the emperor's cruel express , So therefore her sorrow was so much the less . They traveled on to the heat of the day , And came to the forest where they were to slay The infant , but strait there arose a dispute , For two of the three were unwilling to do't . The man that was cruel did make this reply , If it be not done we shall certainly die , The emperor strictly enjoined he death , Therefore I'm resolved to finish his breath . Remember the tears of the mother , said one , Remember her sighs , and her sorrowful moan ; Remember the promise that to her was made , And let not our hands on the infant be laid . The third he reply'd , If his life you'll not take , What proper excuse I pray shall we make . Some heart we must bear to our soverign lord , Or death without mercy will be our reward . The rest reply'd , We have found out a way , A fawn of the forest we'll presently slay . Whose heart we'll convey to the emperor's hand , Declaring that we have obey'd his command . The child here we'll leave in the forest the while , Kind fortune perhaps may afford it one smile . By saving his life by some means unknown , 'Tis said in a bower they left it alone . They manag'd their matters in everything , And unto the emperor strait they did bring A heart , which he flung in the fire it seems , And laughed to think of the folly of dreams . Not far from that place there lived a knight , Whose lady was beautiful , charming , and bright . Yet nevertheless they no issue could raise , As being not bless'd with a child in their days . By chance in the forest he hunted that day , And found the sweet infant where smiling it lay . He kiss'd it and bless'd it a thousand times o'er , Then home to his lady this infant he boar . Said he , In the forest this blessing I found , With bushes and briers encompass'd around : It pitied me , lady , to find it alone , We'll keep it , and love it , and call it our own . He order'd his beautiful lady to feign Herself in strong labour , in sorrow and pain . That so to the world they might freely declare This darling to be their own son and heir . She freely consented to all his request , And kept close her chamber , inviting no guest ; At length thro' the region those glad tidings rung , That such a brave knight was blessed with a son . He grew , and was beautiful , proper , and tall , And gained the love and favour of all , That ever beheld him , both courtier and stranger , Yet fifteen years after his life was in danger . For then did the emperor make a decree , That lords , knights , and gentlemen feasted should be , In his royal palace , and at his own board , With all sorts of dainties the realm could afford . To this royal banquet repaired the knight , And brought the young squire his joy and delight . Who had at the time the emperor him see , The mark in his forehead as plain as might be . O then to the knight the great emperor cry'd , That is not thy son , I am well satisfy'd , So on thy allegiance now tell me the truth , That mark I have seen in the first of his youth . Then finding there was no excuse to be made , Unto his great emperor mildly he said , I found him one day in the forest alone , And kept it , because I had none of my own . The emperor called his servants likewise , Who came to his presence with watery eyes . Declaring what has been rehearsed before , And then on his knees did for mercy implore . He pardon'd his servants , the fault they did own , Then said to the knight , you must leave me your son . For I will maintain him both gallant and gay . It was but a folly to answer him nay . He left him , altho' with a sorrowful heart , The feast being ended , they all did depart . But still in the emperor's breast did remain , A firm resolution that he should be slave . The empress and her dear daughuer of state , They kept a rich palace both glorious and great . Some hundred miles from the city of Room , Where he was to meet his sad tragical doom . A letter soon after the emperor writ , And to the young squire the same did commit . To carry with speed , without any delay . Said he , My great lord , I am free to obey . The innocent squire he rid day and night , At length being weary he chanc'd to alight And rest in the castle of a noble peer , Who bid him right welcome , and made good cheer . The letter by chance he let drop in the room , So while he was sleeping the early did presume To open the seals with abundance of care , Which reading , he found a sad tragedy there . The words they were these : Take the bearer , I say , And put him to death without any delay . It is my command , therefore let it be done . The blood from his heart like a fountain did run . Thus having read it , he bitterly did weep , And said , Noble squire , thou liest in a sleep : What I am reading is thy tragical woe . But still I'll endeavour it may not be so . These words he ras'd out , and writ in the place , The bearer I'd have you respect and embrace . With all the affection of honour and state , And give him our daughter to be his sweet mate . With all expedition pray make her his wife , And love him as dear as you would your own life . Or else you the force of my fury shall feel , So having wrote this he close the seal . Next morning the squire road up to the court , And came to the empress , as they do report . And gave her the letter which when she had read , She made preparations her daughter to wed . Soon after the emperor he did prepare With royal attendance to visit her there , And as he his letters before him had sent , To meet him in triumph the empress went . With her royal daughter and new-married son , The nobles they rid , and the commons they run . All filled with transports of joy and delight , But o ! when the son appeared in sighed . The emperor flew in a passion and said , Oh! what is the reason I am not obey'd ? My letter declared that he should be slave , And yet to my grief he alive does remain . Sure you are mistaken , the empress cry'd , You said that our daughter was to be his bride . Look here is my letter writ with your own hand , He having receiv'd it , was much at a stand . At last he broke silence , and said , I bless God , Tho' twice I have strove to shed innocent blood Yet I by thy providence still am debarr'd , I am disappointed , and he is preserv'd . 'Twas Heaven's decree that it should not be done , So welcome my daughter , and welcome my son . And welcome my honoured empress too , My dream in the forest I find to be true . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow-Church-Yard , London . mmit . To carry with speed , without any delay . Said he , My great lord , I am free to obey . The innocent squire he rid day and night , At length being weary he chanc'd to alight And rest in the castle of a noble peer , Who bid him right welcome , and made good cheer . The letter by chance he let drop in the room , So while he was sleeping the early did presume To open the seals with abundance of care , Which reading , he found a sad tragedy there . The words they were these : Take the bearer , I say , And put him to death without any delay . It is my command , therefore let it be done . The blood from his heart like a fountain did run . Thus having read it , he bitterly did weep , And said , Noble squire , thou liest in a sleep : What I am reading is thy tragical woe . But still I'll endeavour it may not be so . These words he ras'd out , and writ in the place , The bearer I'd have you respect and embrace . With all the affection of honour and state , And give him our daughter to be his sweet mate . With all expedition pray make her his wife , And love him as dear as you would your own life . Or else you the force of my fury shall feel , So having wrote this he close the seal . Next morning the squire road up to the court , And came to the empress , as they do report . And gave her the letter which when she had read , She made preparations her daughter to wed . Soon after the emperor he did prepare With royal attendance to visit her there , And as he his letters before him had sent , To meet him in triumph the empress went . With her royal daughter and new-married son , The nobles they rid , and the commons they run . All filled with transports of joy and delight , But o ! when the son appeared in sighed . The emperor flew in a passion and said , Oh! what is the reason I am not obey'd ? My letter declared that he should be slave , And yet to my grief he alive does remain . Sure you are mistaken , the empress cry'd , You said that our daughter was to be his bride . Look here is my letter writ with your own hand , He having receiv'd it , was much at a stand . At last he broke silence , and said , I bless God , Tho' twice I have strove to shed innocent blood Yet I by thy providence still am debarr'd , I am disappointed , and he is preserv'd . 'Twas Heaven's decree that it should not be done , So welcome my daughter , and welcome my son . And welcome my honoured empress too , My dream in the forest I find to be true . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow-Church-Yard , London . 