The Low-Country Soldier turn'd Burgomaster . HERE you may see the turns of fate , From woe to joy , from poor to great ; A mark of fortune's special love , Who did a soldier's grief remove One who in former days , 'tis told , Had trudg'd thro' weather hight and cold . 'Till he was poor and pennyless , You would have laugh'd to've seen his dress . His shoes with trudging up and down No soles they had ; a hat no crown . His coat no sleeves ; his shirt the same ; But by his side a sword of fame . Without a scaboard good or bad , Nor was there any to be had . His coat and breeches would not come In depth to cover half his bum . Now being weary of his trade , One day he to his captain said , Pray now give me a full discharge , That I my fortune's may enlarge . I am persuaded I shall be A burgo master , sir , said he . To Venice if you'll let me go . The captain smiling answer'd , No. With you , said he , I will not part . Then , thought the soldier , I'll desert My colours , let what will befall , And soon he went for good and all . Now as he march'd with all his might A coachman and his noble knight Upon the road by chance he found , And ask'd to borrow full five pound . At this the knight laughed out amain , And said , When will pay it again ? He answer'd , sir , you shall be paid When I am burgomaster made Of Venice , which will be my lot . The noble knight away he god . And laugh'd to see him in that trim . But yet the coachman lent it him . This being done away he went To Venice , where some time he spent To view the palace rich and gay , And then to Burgo's took his way . Who kept a house to entertain All kind of guests . He call'd amain For wine and other liquours free , Tho' in a wretched garb was he . PART II THIS soldier was a gallant blade , And while in pleasure there he stay'd , Behold a 'squire living near Courted the burgo's daughter dear . Now as he kept her company , One day the soldier sitting by , Feigning asleep , he overheard Their private talk as it appear'd . Part of the private talk was this , My dear sweet love , the charming bliss Let me enjoy this self same night . The damsel told him that he might , If he would to her chamber creep When all the house was fast asleep . About the hour of twelve o'clock , She would the door for him unlock . The soldier herd the whole design , Thought he the pleasure shall be mine , And thereupon he went before , To the young lady's chamber-door . He knock'd , and soon she let him in . A pleasant game did then begin . And ere and hour's time was pa [ s ] tO Her love the 'squire came at last . He knock'd ; Who's there , the lady cry'd ? The soldier lying by her side Said , It is the ragged fellow sure Who seem'd as if he slept secure . He herd us , and is coma to have That pleasure which our love did crave . But it's in vain , I will arise , And dash the pisspot in his eyes . Accordingly in woeful case He dash'd the pisspot in his face . Away he goes and nothing said , Supposing it to be the maid . She laughed at the pleasant jest , And gave him then among the rest A diamond-ring with kisses sweet . But did not understand the cheat . Then he arose , and went his way . Behold on the succeeding day , Upon his right hand the ring she spy'd . prey where had you the same , she cry'd ? He answer'd then , and thus he said , Pray be not in the least dismay'd ; For you was loving , kind , and free , Last night , and gave the same to me . O bless me ! did I lie with you ? Since it is so I pray be true ; And do not let the same be told , So thou shalt never want for gold . He vow'd he would conceal the same . Soon after this the 'squire came . Saying , Why was you so unkind ? The pisspot made me almost blind . The youthful damsel answer'd thus , 'Tis good enough if it were worse . Because you thought to have ruin'd me , My honour and my chastity . PART III . IN part the third we must return Unto a mighty great concern ; Consisting of some thousand pounds , Which the poor soldier's fortune crowns . Behold her wealthy father he Did send four mighty ships to sea . Laden with glorious merchandise , Rich silks and other wares likewise . They had been gone full seven year , No tale or tidings could they hear Of them ; at length he gave them o'er . And never thought to see them more . At [ l ] ength there was a letter brought , The ships were safe with riches fraught ; Near to the borders of the land , Which news came to his daughter's hand . Then having view'd and read the same , She to the ragged soldier came : Crying , My dear , be true to me , You shall a burgomaster be . My father thinks his ships are lost , Which now are on the Venice coast . And ere he does the tidings hear , Go buy his right in them , my dear . And when thou hast the bargain bought , Of four large ships richly fraught , Be what it will of me you shall Have money to pay for it all . Then on her father he did wait , And struck a bargain with him strait , For the four ships four hundred pound . Whither the same be lost or found . No sooner was the bargain made , And that small sum of money paid ; But he herd the ships were come , Their burden was a mighty sum . Then did the burgomaster fret , 'Cause he with such a loss had met . But since it could no better be , He with the soldier did agree To take the daughter for his bride , With all my heart , he then reply'd . Then out of hand they marry'd were , The soldier and the lady fair . No sooner were they man and wife , But strait her father left this life . And when he in his grave was laid , The son was burgomaster made . He that had travell'd many miles , Was now by fortune's special smiles Made mighty , powerful , and great . And knew no end to his estate . PART IV. NOW mind the latter part I pray , I make no question but you'll say , Still as you read the story out , The things were strangely brought about . While he was burgomaster there His former captain did repair Unto his house by chance to dine , With other brave commanders fine . The burgomaster seeing that He strait put on his no-crown'd hat ; With all his ragged clothes , And so into the room he goes . The captain then began to swear , Lieutenant , pray see who is there : My ragged burgomaster , who In private from his colours flew . St [ r ] ait from the presence of his guest , He step'd away ; himself he dressed In sumptuous robes he dressed amain , And then return'd' to them again . The captain said , Right worthy sir , Here is a foolish ragged cur , Endu'd with neither wit nor sense , I'll hang him ere I go from hence . He from his colours did desert . The burgo said , Be not so tart . In presence of these gentlemen , Write his discharge here's guineas ten . He wrote the same , and took the gold . The burgomaster said , Behold , I am the man , and now at last What once I said is come to pass . The captain then began to fume , And told his gallants in the room , If he had known as much before , It should have cost him ten times more . And then within a month or less , The knight who once he did address , To lend him five pound on the road , Came there to take up his abided . The burgo master as before , Put on his robes both rend and tore . So that the knight might know him strait , As he did on his worship wait . He to his coachman turn'd him round , And said , There's one owes you five pound ; When do you think the same to get ? He is not burgomaster yet . The coachman said , As I do live , I freely do the same forgive ; Because I to my sorrow see , He still remains in poverty . For some short time he went away , And dressed himself in rich array . In feather's fine , and rich perfume , And so return'd into the room . Having discours'd with them awhile , He told the coachman with a smile , As help'd him in the time of need , He would return it now indeed . He gave him then five thousand pound , Likewise a match for him he found . A sweet young lady fair and clear Daughter to a renowned peer . The knight was vexed to the heart , That he must with his coachman part . But let him grieve it must be so , Whither his lordship will or no . Then he who once was mean and poor , At length enjoys a happy store ; Which fortune unto him did send , And he prov'd grateful to his friend . Printed and Sold in Bow-Church-Yard , London The Low-Country Soldier turn'd Burgomaster . HERE you may see the turns of fate , From woe to joy , from poor to great ; A mark of fortune's special love , Who did a soldier's grief remove One who in former days , 'tis told , Had trudg'd thro' weather hight and cold . 'Till he was poor and pennyless , You would have laugh'd to've seen his dress . His shoes with trudging up and down No soles they had ; a hat no crown . His coat no sleeves ; his shirt the same ; But by his side a sword of fame . Without a scaboard good or bad , Nor was there any to be had . His coat and breeches would not come In depth to cover half his bum . Now being weary of his trade , One day he to his captain said , Pray now give me a full discharge , That I my fortune's may enlarge . I am persuaded I shall be A burgo master , sir , said he . To Venice if you'll let me go . The captain smiling answer'd , No. With you , said he , I will not part . Then , thought the soldier , I'll desert My colours , let what will befall , And soon he went for good and all . Now as he march'd with all his might A coachman and his noble knight Upon the road by chance he found , And ask'd to borrow full five pound . At this the knight laughed out amain , And said , When will pay it again ? He answer'd , sir , you shall be paid When I am burgomaster made Of Venice , which will be my lot . The noble knight away he god . And laugh'd to see him in that trim . But yet the coachman lent it him . This being done away he went To Venice , where some time he spent To view the palace rich and gay , And then to Burgo's took his way . Who kept a house to entertain All kind of guests . He call'd amain For wine and other liquours free , Tho' in a wretched garb was he . PART II THIS soldier was a gallant blade , And while in pleasure there he stay'd , Behold a 'squire living near Courted the burgo's daughter dear . Now as he kept her company , One day the soldier sitting by , Feigning asleep , he overheard Their private talk as it appear'd . Part of the private talk was this , My dear sweet love , the charming bliss Let me enjoy this self same night . The damsel told him that he might , If he would to her chamber creep When all the house was fast asleep . About the hour of twelve o'clock , She would the door for him unlock . The soldier herd the whole design , Thought he the pleasure shall be mine , And thereupon he went before , To the young lady's chamber-door . He knock'd , and soon she let him in . A pleasant game did then begin . And ere and hour's time was pa [ s ] tO Her love the 'squire came at last . He knock'd ; Who's there , the lady cry'd ? The soldier lying by her side Said , It is the ragged fellow sure Who seem'd as if he slept secure . He herd us , and is coma to have That pleasure which our love did crave . But it's in vain , I will arise , And dash the pisspot in his eyes . Accordingly in woeful case He dash'd the pisspot in his face . Away he goes and nothing said , Supposing it to be the maid . She laughed at the pleasant jest , And gave him then among the rest A diamond-ring with kisses sweet . But did not understand the cheat . Then he arose , and went his way . Behold on the succeeding day , Upon his right hand the ring she spy'd . prey where had you the same , she cry'd ? He answer'd then , and thus he said , Pray be not in the least dismay'd ; For you was loving , kind , and free , Last night , and gave the same to me . O bless me ! did I lie with you ? Since it is so I pray be true ; And do not let the same be told , So thou shalt never want for gold . He vow'd he would conceal the same . Soon after this the 'squire came . Saying , Why was you so unkind ? The pisspot made me almost blind . The youthful damsel answer'd thus , 'Tis good enough if it were worse . Because you thought to have ruin'd me , My honour and my chastity . PART III . IN part the third we must return Unto a mighty great concern ; Consisting of some thousand pounds , Which the poor soldier's fortune crowns . Behold her wealthy father he Did send four mighty ships to sea . Laden with glorious merchandise , Rich silks and other wares likewise . They had been gone full seven year , No tale or tidings could they hear Of them ; at length he gave them o'er . And never thought to see them more . At [ l ] ength there was a letter brought , The ships were safe with riches fraught ; Near to the borders of the land , Which news came to his daughter's hand . Then having view'd and read the same , She to the ragged soldier came : Crying , My dear , be true to me , You shall a burgomaster be . My father thinks his ships are lost , Which now are on the Venice coast . And ere he does the tidings hear , Go buy his right in them , my dear . And when thou hast the bargain bought , Of four large ships richly fraught , Be what it will of me you shall Have money to pay for it all . Then on her father he did wait , And struck a bargain with him strait , For the four ships four hundred pound . Whither the same be lost or found . No sooner was the bargain made , And that small sum of money paid ; But he herd the ships were come , Their burden was a mighty sum . Then did the burgomaster fret , 'Cause he with such a loss had met . But since it could no better be , He with the soldier did agree To take the daughter for his bride , With all my heart , he then reply'd . Then out of hand they marry'd were , The soldier and the lady fair . No sooner were they man and wife , But strait her father left this life . And when he in his grave was laid , The son was burgomaster made . He that had travell'd many miles , Was now by fortune's special smiles Made mighty , powerful , and great . And knew no end to his estate . PART IV. NOW mind the latter part I pray , I make no question but you'll say , Still as you read the story out , The things were strangely brought about . While he was burgomaster there His former captain did repair Unto his house by chance to dine , With other brave commanders fine . The burgomaster seeing that He strait put on his no-crown'd hat ; With all his ragged clothes , And so into the room he goes . The captain then began to swear , Lieutenant , pray see who is there : My ragged burgomaster , who In private from his colours flew . St [ r ] ait from the presence of his guest , He step'd away ; himself he dressed In sumptuous robes he dressed amain , And then return'd' to them again . The captain said , Right worthy sir , Here is a foolish ragged cur , Endu'd with neither wit nor sense , I'll hang him ere I go from hence . He from his colours did desert . The burgo said , Be not so tart . In presence of these gentlemen , Write his discharge here's guineas ten . He wrote the same , and took the gold . The burgomaster said , Behold , I am the man , and now at last What once I said is come to pass . The captain then began to fume , And told his gallants in the room , If he had known as much before , It should have cost him ten times more . And then within a month or less , The knight who once he did address , To lend him five pound on the road , Came there to take up his abided . The burgo master as before , Put on his robes both rend and tore . So that the knight might know him strait , As he did on his worship wait . He to his coachman turn'd him round , And said , There's one owes you five pound ; When do you think the same to get ? He is not burgomaster yet . The coachman said , As I do live , I freely do the same forgive ; Because I to my sorrow see , He still remains in poverty . For some short time he went away , And dressed himself in rich array . In feather's fine , and rich perfume , And so return'd into the room . Having discours'd with them awhile , He told the coachman with a smile , As help'd him in the time of need , He would return it now indeed . He gave him then five thousand pound , Likewise a match for him he found . A sweet young lady fair and clear Daughter to a renowned peer . The knight was vexed to the heart , That he must with his coachman part . But let him grieve it must be so , Whither his lordship will or no . Then he who once was mean and poor , At length enjoys a happy store ; Which fortune unto him did send , And he prov'd grateful to his friend . Printed and Sold in Bow-Church-Yard , London 