( 1 ) The Sinners Redemption : Wherein is described the Nativity of our Lord Jesus Christ . Together with his Life on the Earth , and precious Death on the Cross for Mankind . To the Tune of My Bleeding Heart . ALL you that are to Mirth inclin'd , Consider well and bear in mind , What our good God for us hath done , In sending his beloved Son. Let all our Songs and Praises be Unto his Heavenly Majesty ; And evermore among our mirth , Remember Christ our Saviours Birth . The five and twentieth of December , Good cause have we for to remember , In Bethelem upon this morn , There was our blessed Messias born . The night before that happy Tide , The spotless Virgin and her Guide , Were long time seeking up and down , To find them Lodging in the Town . And mark how all things came to pass , The Inns and Lodgings so filled was , That they could have no Room at all , But in a silly Oxe's Stall . This night the Virgin Marry mild , Was safe delivered of a Child , According unto Heavens decree , men sweet Salvation for to be . Near Bethelem did Shepherd's keep Their herds and flocks of feeding Sheep , To whom Gods Angel did appear , Which put the Shepherd's in great fear . Prepare and go , the Angel said , To Bethelem , be not afraid , There shall you see this blessed morn , The Princely Babe , sweet Jesus born , [ WIth thankful hearts and ] worser joyful mind , [ The shepherd's went tO ] his Babe to find ; [ And as the Heavenly ] Angel told , TO [ heigh did our Savi ] our Christ behold . Within a Manger was he laid , The Virgin Marry by him stayed , Attending on the Lord of Life , Being both Mother , Maid , and Wife . Three Eastern Wise men from afar , Directed by a glorious Star , Come boldly on and made no stay , Until they came where Jesus lay . And being come unto the place Whereas the blessed Messias was , They humbly laid before his feet , Their gifts of Gold and Odour sweet . See how the Lord of Heaven and Earth , Shew'd himself lowly in his Birth : A sweet Example for Mankind , To learn to bear and humble mind . No costly Robes nor rich Attire , Did Jesus Christ our Lord desire ; No Music , nor sweet Harmony , Till glorious Angels from on high Did in melodious manner Sing Praises unto our Heavenly King , All Honour , Glory , Might and Power , Be unto Christ our Saviour . If Quires of Angels did rejoice , Well may Mankind with heart and voice , Sing Praises to the God of Heaven , That unto us his Son hath given . Moreover let us every one Call unto mind , and think upon His righteous life , and how he dy'd , To have poor Sinners justify'd . Suppose , Oh Man , that thou should'st lie In Prison strong , condemn'd to die , And that no Friend upon the Earth , Could Ransom thee from cruel Death , Except you can some party find , That for your sake will be so kind , His own hearts blood for to dispense , And loose his life in thy defence . Such was the love of Christ when we Were lost to Hell perpetually , To save us from the Gulf of woe , Himself much pain did undergo . While in this world he did remain , He never spent one hour in vain , In Fasting and in Prayer Divine , He daily spent away the time . He in the Temple daily taught , And many wonders strange he wrought , He gave the Blind their perfect sighed , And made the Lame to walk upright . He Cur'd the Leper of their Evils , And by his power he cast out Devils ; He raised Lazarus from the Grave , And to the sick their Health he gave . But yet for all these wonders wrought , The Jews his dire destruction sough The Traitor Judas was the Man , That with a Kiss betray'd him then . Then was he led to Justice-Hall , Like one despis'd among them all ; And had the Sentence , given that he Should suffer Death upon a Tree . Unto the Execution-place , They brought him on with much disgrace : With vile reproachful taunts and scorns , They crown'd him with a Wreathe of Thorns . Then to the Cross through hands and feet They Nail'd our blessed Redeemer sweet ; And further to augment his smart , With bloody Spear they pierc'd his Heart . Thus have you seen and herd aright , The Love of Christ the Lord of might ; And how he shed his precious Blood , Only to do us Sinners good . Printed for G. Conyers at the Golden Ring in Little-Britain . ( 1 ) The Sinners Redemption : Wherein is described the Nativity of our Lord Jesus Christ . Together with his Life on the Earth , and precious Death on the Cross for Mankind . To the Tune of My Bleeding Heart . ALL you that are to Mirth inclin'd , Consider well and bear in mind , What our good God for us hath done , In sending his beloved Son. Let all our Songs and Praises be Unto his Heavenly Majesty ; And evermore among our mirth , Remember Christ our Saviours Birth . The five and twentieth of December , Good cause have we for to remember , In Bethelem upon this morn , There was our blessed Messias born . The night before that happy Tide , The spotless Virgin and her Guide , Were long time seeking up and down , To find them Lodging in the Town . And mark how all things came to pass , The Inns and Lodgings so filled was , That they could have no Room at all , But in a silly Oxe's Stall . This night the Virgin Marry mild , Was safe delivered of a Child , According unto Heavens decree , men sweet Salvation for to be . Near Bethelem did Shepherd's keep Their herds and flocks of feeding Sheep , To whom Gods Angel did appear , Which put the Shepherd's in great fear . Prepare and go , the Angel said , To Bethelem , be not afraid , There shall you see this blessed morn , The Princely Babe , sweet Jesus born , [ WIth thankful hearts and ] worser joyful mind , [ The shepherd's went tO ] his Babe to find ; [ And as the Heavenly ] Angel told , TO [ heigh did our Savi ] our Christ behold . Within a Manger was he laid , The Virgin Marry by him stayed , Attending on the Lord of Life , Being both Mother , Maid , and Wife . Three Eastern Wise men from afar , Directed by a glorious Star , Come boldly on and made no stay , Until they came where Jesus lay . And being come unto the place Whereas the blessed Messias was , They humbly laid before his feet , Their gifts of Gold and Odour sweet . See how the Lord of Heaven and Earth , Shew'd himself lowly in his Birth : A sweet Example for Mankind , To learn to bear and humble mind . No costly Robes nor rich Attire , Did Jesus Christ our Lord desire ; No Music , nor sweet Harmony , Till glorious Angels from on high Did in melodious manner Sing Praises unto our Heavenly King , All Honour , Glory , Might and Power , Be unto Christ our Saviour . If Quires of Angels did rejoice , Well may Mankind with heart and voice , Sing Praises to the God of Heaven , That unto us his Son hath given . Moreover let us every one Call unto mind , and think upon His righteous life , and how he dy'd , To have poor Sinners justify'd . Suppose , Oh Man , that thou should'st lie In Prison strong , condemn'd to die , And that no Friend upon the Earth , Could Ransom thee from cruel Death , Except you can some party find , That for your sake will be so kind , His own hearts blood for to dispense , And loose his life in thy defence . Such was the love of Christ when we Were lost to Hell perpetually , To save us from the Gulf of woe , Himself much pain did undergo . While in this world he did remain , He never spent one hour in vain , In Fasting and in Prayer Divine , He daily spent away the time . He in the Temple daily taught , And many wonders strange he wrought , He gave the Blind their perfect sighed , And made the Lame to walk upright . He Cur'd the Leper of their Evils , And by his power he cast out Devils ; He raised Lazarus from the Grave , And to the sick their Health he gave . But yet for all these wonders wrought , The Jews his dire destruction sough The Traitor Judas was the Man , That with a Kiss betray'd him then . Then was he led to Justice-Hall , Like one despis'd among them all ; And had the Sentence , given that he Should suffer Death upon a Tree . Unto the Execution-place , They brought him on with much disgrace : With vile reproachful taunts and scorns , They crown'd him with a Wreathe of Thorns . Then to the Cross through hands and feet They Nail'd our blessed Redeemer sweet ; And further to augment his smart , With bloody Spear they pierc'd his Heart . Thus have you seen and herd aright , The Love of Christ the Lord of might ; And how he shed his precious Blood , Only to do us Sinners good . Printed for G. Conyers at the Golden Ring in Little-Britain . 