The POET's DREAM : CONTAINING His amazing and frightful Vision of Pride , WHEREIN Lucifer seem'd to be Deck'd with a higher Topping then was e - for yet Worn , not doubting but Proud Women would endeavour to imitate him . To the Tune of , Oh Folly , etc AS I of late was in a Dream , it frighted me to the heart , My thought old Lucifer did seem to act a proud Woman's par He enter'd my Chamber with three or four more , Who brought in black Patches & Toppings great store , To Deck their old Devil whom they did adore . Now Women , insolent Women , What do you think of Pride ? He never hid his Cloven-Foot , but sat in a chair of State , While on his Head a Dress they put , and every one did wait ; Their Box of Perfume then like Sulphur did swell ; I wished them a thousand times over in Hell ; But they was as busy as Bridget and Nell : Now Women , insolent Women , What do you think of Pride ? The Devil call'd for his Commode , dressed up with rich gaudy Lace ; When it was on , methought it show'd to be of a London-Grace ; He looked in the Glass , when the hight he did see , I'll have it full seven times higher , said he , That Ladies of London may imitate me . Now Women , delicate Women , What do you think of Pride ? Then like the Maypole in the Strand , or Pudding-lane Monument , They brought a Topping out of hand , which gave the old Spark conten Since such a high Tower for him they did make , They danc'd , while I thought my whole lodging did shake , I being affrighted , I strait did awake : Now Women , insolent Women , What do you think of Pride ? I on my Pillow sighing lay , with sorrow and grief of Mind , And to myself did often say , Young Women are wilful Blind ; Thought I , if the truth of this Dream I should write , And tell them that Pride is the Devil's delight , They'd follow the Mode if it were but for spigh Now Women , insolent Women , Why will you be so Proud ? Of this great since you have been told , a million of times at least , Beside , strange Monsters you behold in many a brutish Beast ; Tho' Heaven and Earth does your Folly degrade , Yet in the defiance of what can be said , Like Bruits and strange Antics you will be array'd : Ah! Women , insolent Women , How can you be so Proud ? The very Cook and Scullion-maid , or Country homebred Girl , When they in London are arrayed , dressed up in a fine Fallal ; I mean a rich Topping , high , proper and tall , Altho' her mean Station be never so small , She is Madam , forsooth , with the best of them all : Oh Lasses , insolent Lasses , How can you be so Proud ? Those topping Towers they are grown most monstrous high of late ; Both Nancy , Bridget , Doll , and Jone , with Margery , Prue , and Kate , Tho' each of them han't a good Smock to their back , Before a high Tower and Topping they'll lack , They'll leave a good Service , forsooth , and turn Crack : Oh! Lasses , delicate Lasses , Well may you blush for shame . Let but a Lass come from the North , and tarry a while in Town , She will despise her Ruset-cloath , and covet a Silken Gown ; Likewise ahigh Topping she'll dearly adore ; Tho' she had not seen it passed two Months before ; For these are as proud as the Devil all o'er ; Now Lasses , delicate Lasses , Why will you be so Proud ? We have not seen brave happy Days , in Country , Court , or Town ; Since Women did their Topping raise , like Monuments on each Crown : Young Women , Why should you so Obstinate stand ? Let a Reformation be made out of hand ; Down , down , with your Toppings the Pride of the Land , Young Women , excellent Women , Then will you be indeed . Printed for C. Bates , at the White-Hart in West-Smithfield . The POET's DREAM : CONTAINING His amazing and frightful Vision of Pride , WHEREIN Lucifer seem'd to be Deck'd with a higher Topping then was e - for yet Worn , not doubting but Proud Women would endeavour to imitate him . To the Tune of , Oh Folly , etc AS I of late was in a Dream , it frighted me to the heart , My thought old Lucifer did seem to act a proud Woman's par He enter'd my Chamber with three or four more , Who brought in black Patches & Toppings great store , To Deck their old Devil whom they did adore . Now Women , insolent Women , What do you think of Pride ? He never hid his Cloven-Foot , but sat in a chair of State , While on his Head a Dress they put , and every one did wait ; Their Box of Perfume then like Sulphur did swell ; I wished them a thousand times over in Hell ; But they was as busy as Bridget and Nell : Now Women , insolent Women , What do you think of Pride ? The Devil call'd for his Commode , dressed up with rich gaudy Lace ; When it was on , methought it show'd to be of a London-Grace ; He looked in the Glass , when the hight he did see , I'll have it full seven times higher , said he , That Ladies of London may imitate me . Now Women , delicate Women , What do you think of Pride ? Then like the Maypole in the Strand , or Pudding-lane Monument , They brought a Topping out of hand , which gave the old Spark conten Since such a high Tower for him they did make , They danc'd , while I thought my whole lodging did shake , I being affrighted , I strait did awake : Now Women , insolent Women , What do you think of Pride ? I on my Pillow sighing lay , with sorrow and grief of Mind , And to myself did often say , Young Women are wilful Blind ; Thought I , if the truth of this Dream I should write , And tell them that Pride is the Devil's delight , They'd follow the Mode if it were but for spigh Now Women , insolent Women , Why will you be so Proud ? Of this great since you have been told , a million of times at least , Beside , strange Monsters you behold in many a brutish Beast ; Tho' Heaven and Earth does your Folly degrade , Yet in the defiance of what can be said , Like Bruits and strange Antics you will be array'd : Ah! Women , insolent Women , How can you be so Proud ? The very Cook and Scullion-maid , or Country homebred Girl , When they in London are arrayed , dressed up in a fine Fallal ; I mean a rich Topping , high , proper and tall , Altho' her mean Station be never so small , She is Madam , forsooth , with the best of them all : Oh Lasses , insolent Lasses , How can you be so Proud ? Those topping Towers they are grown most monstrous high of late ; Both Nancy , Bridget , Doll , and Jone , with Margery , Prue , and Kate , Tho' each of them han't a good Smock to their back , Before a high Tower and Topping they'll lack , They'll leave a good Service , forsooth , and turn Crack : Oh! Lasses , delicate Lasses , Well may you blush for shame . Let but a Lass come from the North , and tarry a while in Town , She will despise her Ruset-cloath , and covet a Silken Gown ; Likewise ahigh Topping she'll dearly adore ; Tho' she had not seen it passed two Months before ; For these are as proud as the Devil all o'er ; Now Lasses , delicate Lasses , Why will you be so Proud ? We have not seen brave happy Days , in Country , Court , or Town ; Since Women did their Topping raise , like Monuments on each Crown : Young Women , Why should you so Obstinate stand ? Let a Reformation be made out of hand ; Down , down , with your Toppings the Pride of the Land , Young Women , excellent Women , Then will you be indeed . Printed for C. Bates , at the White-Hart in West-Smithfield . 