The Penny worth of WIT . In Three Parts : HEre is a Penny Worth of Wit , For those that ever went astray , If Warning they will take by it , 'Twill do them good another Day . It is the Touchstone of true Love , Betw [ i ] xt a Harlot and a Wife , The former does destructive prove , The latter yields the Joy of Life . As in this Book you may behold , Set forth by Mr. William Lane , A wealthy Merchant brave and bold , Who did a Harlot long maintain . Although a virtuous Wife he had , Likewise a youthful Daughter dear . Which might made his Heart full glad , Yet them he seldom would come near . The Treasure which he traded for , On the tempestuous Ocean wide , His Harlot had , he brought it her But nothing to his virtuous Bride . The finest Silks that could be bought , Nay Jewels , Rubies , Diamonds , Rings , He to his wanton Harlot bought , With many other costly things . She'd still receive him with a Smile , When he came from the roaring Seas , And said with Words as smooth as Oil , My Dearest come and take thy Ease . To my soft Bed and Linen fine , Thou art right welcome Love said she , Both I and all that e'er is mine , Shall still at thy Devotion be . He brought two hundred Pounds in Gold , And after that and hundred more , With Chains and Jewels manifold , And bid her lay them up in Store . Ay that I will , thou needest not fear , And so embrac'd him with a Kiss , Then took the Wealth , and said my Dear , I'll have a special care of this . Then did they banquet many a Day , Feasting on rich delicious Fare , Thus by her false deluding Ways , She drew him to a fatal Snare . When he had liv'd sometime on Shore , He must to the Seas again , With Traffic to increase his Store , The wanton Harlot to maintain : To whom he said , My Joy , my Dear , With me what Venture wilt thou send , A good Return thou needest nor fear , I'll be thy Factor and thy Friend . In Goods my dear Jewel I'll send above Ten Pounds which thou shalt take on Board , I know that unto me my Love , A triple Gain thou wilt afford . This said , next to his Wife he goes , And asked her in scornful wise , What Venture she would now propose To send by him for Merchandise . I'll send a Penny Love by thee ; Be sure you take great care of i When you're in foreign Parts , said she , Pray buy a Penny worth of Wit . She laid the Penny in his Hand , And said , I pray now don't forget , When you are in another Land , To buy a Penny Worth of Wit . He put the Penny up secure , And said I'll take a special Care , To lay it out you may be sure , So to his Miss he did repair , And told her what he was to buy , At which she laugh'd his Wife to scorn , On Board he went immediately , And set to Sea the very Morn . PART II NOw were they gone with merry Hearts , The Merchant and his Jovial Crew , From Port to Port in foreign Parts , To trade as they were wont to do . At length when he had well bestow'd The Cargo which was outward bound , He did his treading Vessel load With richer Treasure which he found . As he his Merchandise did vent , They turn'd to Gems and golden Oar , Which crown'd his Labours with Content , He never was so rich before . The wanton Harlot's Venture then Did run to great account likewise . For every Pound she would have Ten Such was their lucky Merchandise . For Joy of which the Merchant cry'd , One merry Bout my Lads shall have , A splendid Supper I'll provide , Of all the Dainties you can crave , Before we set to Sea again . This said , they to a Tavern went , Where they did feast and drank amain , Till money Caowns and Pounds were spent . The Merchant then with Laughter mov'd , Said he for Wit had never sought . My Harlot's Venture is improv'd , But of my Wife's I never thought . One single Penny and no more , She as a Venture sent with me ; I was to lay it out therefore , In what you'll think a Rarity . She bid me use my utmost Skill , To buy a Penny Worth of Wit ; But I have kept the Penny still , And ne'er so much as thought of it ; Where shall I go and lay it out , True Wit is scarce and hard to find , But come my Lads let's drink about . My Wife's small Venture we'll not mind . There is a Proverb often us'd , Wit's never good till bought too dear ; Wherefore I may well be excus'd , There's little for a Penny here . And age'd Father sitting by , Whose venerable Looks was grey , Straight made the Merchant this Reply , Hear me a word or two I pray . Thy Harlot in Prosperity , She will embrace thee for thy Gold , But if in Want and Misery , You'll nought but Frowns from her behold , And ready to betray thy Life , When wretched , naked , poor and low , But thy true hearted faithful Wife , Will stand by thee in Well or Woe , If thou wilt prove the Truth of this , Strip off thy gaudy rich Array , And so return to thy loud Miss , Declare that thou was cast away , Thy Riches buried in the Main , Beside as you pass'd thro' a Wood , One of your Servants you had slave , For which your Life in Danger stood , Beseech her for to shelter thee , Declare on her you do depend , And then alas ! full soon you'll see , How far she'll prove a faithful Friend . Then if she frowns , go to thy Wife , Tell her this melancholy Theme : Who labours most to save thy Life , Let her be most in thy Esteem . Father , the Merchant then reply'd , You must this single Penny take , And when I've passed the Ocean wide , A Proof of this I mean to take . And loving Friends for ought I know , I may this single Penny prize , It may be the best I did bestow , In all my wealthy Merchandise . Taking his Leave away he came , Both he and his brave Hearts of Gold , To whom he said , I'll prove the same , When I my native Land behold . PART III . WITH full spread Sails to Sea he went , Neptune the golden Cargo boar , Thro' roaring Waves to their Content , At length they reached the British Shore . The Merchant put on poor Array , The very worst of ragged Clothes , And then without the least Delay , He to his wanton Harlot goes . When she beheld him in Distress , She cry'd , What is the Matter now ? Said he , I'm poor and pennyless ; With that he made a courteous Bow. Crying No Man was e're so crossed , As I have been sweet Heart's Delight , My Ship and all I have is lost , Without thy Help I'm ruin'd quite . My Loss is great , yet that's not all , One of my Servants I have slave ; As we did both at Variance fallen . Some Shelter let me here obtain . I dare not now go near my Wife , Whom I have wronged for many Years , Into thy Hands I'll put my Life , Take Pity on my melting Tears . the bloody Villain , she reply'd , Don't in the least on me depend , Be gone , or as I live , she cry'd , I for and Officer will send . I'll give you neither Bred nor Drink , Nor any Shelter shall you have , Of nesty lousy Rags you stink , Begone you base perfidious Slave . Don't think that I'll your Counsel keep , Or harbour any such as you , He turn'd away and seem'd to weep , And bid the wanton jilt Adieu . Then to his loving Wife he came , Both poor and naked in Distress , He told her all the very same , Yet she receiv'd him ne'ertheless . My Dear , she cry'd , since it is so , Take Comfort in thy loving Wife , All that I have shall freely go , To gain a Pardon for thy Life . I'll lodge thee in a Place secure , Where I will daily nourish thee : Believe me Love thou may be sure , To find a faithful Friend in me . When he this perfect Proof had made , Which of them two did love him best , Unto his virtuous Wife he said , My Jewel set thy Heart at Rest , Behold I have no Servant slave , Nor have I suffered any Loss , Enough I have for to maintain , The Ocean Seas no more I'll cross . My loaded Ship lies near the Shore , With Gold and Jewels richly fraught , So much I never had before , Thy Penny worth of Wit I've bought . Once more he to his Harlot goes , With Fourteen Sailors brave and bold , All cloath'd in new and costly Clothes , Of Silk and rich embroider'd Gold . The Miss when she his Pomp beheld , Did offer him a kind Embrace , But he with Wrath and Anger fill'd , Did straight upbraid her to her Face . But she with Smiles these Words expressed , I have a faithful Love for thee , What e'er I said was but a jest , Why didst thou go so soon from me . 'Twas Time to go , for as I'm told , You have another Love in Store , Whom you have furnished with my Gold , And Jewels which I brought on Shore . 'Tis false , she cry'd , I have them all : With that the Merchant straight reply'd , Lay them before me The Penny worth of WIT . In Three Parts : HEre is a Penny Worth of Wit , For those that ever went astray , If Warning they will take by it , 'Twill do them good another Day . It is the Touchstone of true Love , Betw [ i ] xt a Harlot and a Wife , The former does destructive prove , The latter yields the Joy of Life . As in this Book you may behold , Set forth by Mr. William Lane , A wealthy Merchant brave and bold , Who did a Harlot long maintain . Although a virtuous Wife he had , Likewise a youthful Daughter dear . Which might made his Heart full glad , Yet them he seldom would come near . The Treasure which he traded for , On the tempestuous Ocean wide , His Harlot had , he brought it her But nothing to his virtuous Bride . The finest Silks that could be bought , Nay Jewels , Rubies , Diamonds , Rings , He to his wanton Harlot bought , With many other costly things . She'd still receive him with a Smile , When he came from the roaring Seas , And said with Words as smooth as Oil , My Dearest come and take thy Ease . To my soft Bed and Linen fine , Thou art right welcome Love said she , Both I and all that e'er is mine , Shall still at thy Devotion be . He brought two hundred Pounds in Gold , And after that and hundred more , With Chains and Jewels manifold , And bid her lay them up in Store . Ay that I will , thou needest not fear , And so embrac'd him with a Kiss , Then took the Wealth , and said my Dear , I'll have a special care of this . Then did they banquet many a Day , Feasting on rich delicious Fare , Thus by her false deluding Ways , She drew him to a fatal Snare . When he had liv'd sometime on Shore , He must to the Seas again , With Traffic to increase his Store , The wanton Harlot to maintain : To whom he said , My Joy , my Dear , With me what Venture wilt thou send , A good Return thou needest nor fear , I'll be thy Factor and thy Friend . In Goods my dear Jewel I'll send above Ten Pounds which thou shalt take on Board , I know that unto me my Love , A triple Gain thou wilt afford . This said , next to his Wife he goes , And asked her in scornful wise , What Venture she would now propose To send by him for Merchandise . I'll send a Penny Love by thee ; Be sure you take great care of i When you're in foreign Parts , said she , Pray buy a Penny worth of Wit . She laid the Penny in his Hand , And said , I pray now don't forget , When you are in another Land , To buy a Penny Worth of Wit . He put the Penny up secure , And said I'll take a special Care , To lay it out you may be sure , So to his Miss he did repair , And told her what he was to buy , At which she laugh'd his Wife to scorn , On Board he went immediately , And set to Sea the very Morn . PART II NOw were they gone with merry Hearts , The Merchant and his Jovial Crew , From Port to Port in foreign Parts , To trade as they were wont to do . At length when he had well bestow'd The Cargo which was outward bound , He did his treading Vessel load With richer Treasure which he found . As he his Merchandise did vent , They turn'd to Gems and golden Oar , Which crown'd his Labours with Content , He never was so rich before . The wanton Harlot's Venture then Did run to great account likewise . For every Pound she would have Ten Such was their lucky Merchandise . For Joy of which the Merchant cry'd , One merry Bout my Lads shall have , A splendid Supper I'll provide , Of all the Dainties you can crave , Before we set to Sea again . This said , they to a Tavern went , Where they did feast and drank amain , Till money Caowns and Pounds were spent . The Merchant then with Laughter mov'd , Said he for Wit had never sought . My Harlot's Venture is improv'd , But of my Wife's I never thought . One single Penny and no more , She as a Venture sent with me ; I was to lay it out therefore , In what you'll think a Rarity . She bid me use my utmost Skill , To buy a Penny Worth of Wit ; But I have kept the Penny still , And ne'er so much as thought of it ; Where shall I go and lay it out , True Wit is scarce and hard to find , But come my Lads let's drink about . My Wife's small Venture we'll not mind . There is a Proverb often us'd , Wit's never good till bought too dear ; Wherefore I may well be excus'd , There's little for a Penny here . And age'd Father sitting by , Whose venerable Looks was grey , Straight made the Merchant this Reply , Hear me a word or two I pray . Thy Harlot in Prosperity , She will embrace thee for thy Gold , But if in Want and Misery , You'll nought but Frowns from her behold , And ready to betray thy Life , When wretched , naked , poor and low , But thy true hearted faithful Wife , Will stand by thee in Well or Woe , If thou wilt prove the Truth of this , Strip off thy gaudy rich Array , And so return to thy loud Miss , Declare that thou was cast away , Thy Riches buried in the Main , Beside as you pass'd thro' a Wood , One of your Servants you had slave , For which your Life in Danger stood , Beseech her for to shelter thee , Declare on her you do depend , And then alas ! full soon you'll see , How far she'll prove a faithful Friend . Then if she frowns , go to thy Wife , Tell her this melancholy Theme : Who labours most to save thy Life , Let her be most in thy Esteem . Father , the Merchant then reply'd , You must this single Penny take , And when I've passed the Ocean wide , A Proof of this I mean to take . And loving Friends for ought I know , I may this single Penny prize , It may be the best I did bestow , In all my wealthy Merchandise . Taking his Leave away he came , Both he and his brave Hearts of Gold , To whom he said , I'll prove the same , When I my native Land behold . PART III . WITH full spread Sails to Sea he went , Neptune the golden Cargo boar , Thro' roaring Waves to their Content , At length they reached the British Shore . The Merchant put on poor Array , The very worst of ragged Clothes , And then without the least Delay , He to his wanton Harlot goes . When she beheld him in Distress , She cry'd , What is the Matter now ? Said he , I'm poor and pennyless ; With that he made a courteous Bow. Crying No Man was e're so crossed , As I have been sweet Heart's Delight , My Ship and all I have is lost , Without thy Help I'm ruin'd quite . My Loss is great , yet that's not all , One of my Servants I have slave ; As we did both at Variance fallen . Some Shelter let me here obtain . I dare not now go near my Wife , Whom I have wronged for many Years , Into thy Hands I'll put my Life , Take Pity on my melting Tears . the bloody Villain , she reply'd , Don't in the least on me depend , Be gone , or as I live , she cry'd , I for and Officer will send . I'll give you neither Bred nor Drink , Nor any Shelter shall you have , Of nesty lousy Rags you stink , Begone you base perfidious Slave . Don't think that I'll your Counsel keep , Or harbour any such as you , He turn'd away and seem'd to weep , And bid the wanton jilt Adieu . Then to his loving Wife he came , Both poor and naked in Distress , He told her all the very same , Yet she receiv'd him ne'ertheless . My Dear , she cry'd , since it is so , Take Comfort in thy loving Wife , All that I have shall freely go , To gain a Pardon for thy Life . I'll lodge thee in a Place secure , Where I will daily nourish thee : Believe me Love thou may be sure , To find a faithful Friend in me . When he this perfect Proof had made , Which of them two did love him best , Unto his virtuous Wife he said , My Jewel set thy Heart at Rest , Behold I have no Servant slave , Nor have I suffered any Loss , Enough I have for to maintain , The Ocean Seas no more I'll cross . My loaded Ship lies near the Shore , With Gold and Jewels richly fraught , So much I never had before , Thy Penny worth of Wit I've bought . Once more he to his Harlot goes , With Fourteen Sailors brave and bold , All cloath'd in new and costly Clothes , Of Silk and rich embroider'd Gold . The Miss when she his Pomp beheld , Did offer him a kind Embrace , But he with Wrath and Anger fill'd , Did straight upbraid her to her Face . But she with Smiles these Words expressed , I have a faithful Love for thee , What e'er I said was but a jest , Why didst thou go so soon from me . 'Twas Time to go , for as I'm told , You have another Love in Store , Whom you have furnished with my Gold , And Jewels which I brought on Shore . 'Tis false , she cry'd , I have them all : With that the Merchant straight reply'd , Lay them before me , then I shall Be soon convinc'd and satisfy'd . Then up she ran and fetch'd them down , His Jewels , Gold and Rubies bright , He seiz'd them all , then with a Frown He bid the wanton Jilt good Night . When he had took the golden Purse , And sweept up every precious Stone , She cry'd , what will you rob me thus , Yes that I will of what's my own . You wanted to betray my Life : But Thanks to GOD there's no such Fear , These Jewels shall adorn my Wife , Henceforth your House I'll ne'er come near . Home he return'd to his sweet Wife , And told her all that he had done , E'er since they led a happy Life , And he'll no more to Harlots run : Thus he the wanton Harlot bit , Who long had his Destruction sought . This was a Penny worth of Wit , The best that ever Merchant bought . FINIS . , then I shall Be soon convinc'd and satisfy'd . Then up she ran and fetch'd them down , His Jewels , Gold and Rubies bright , He seiz'd them all , then with a Frown He bid the wanton Jilt good Night . When he had took the golden Purse , And sweept up every precious Stone , She cry'd , what will you rob me thus , Yes that I will of what's my own . You wanted to betray my Life : But Thanks to GOD there's no such Fear , These Jewels shall adorn my Wife , Henceforth your House I'll ne'er come near . Home he return'd to his sweet Wife , And told her all that he had done , E'er since they led a happy Life , And he'll no more to Harlots run : Thus he the wanton Harlot bit , Who long had his Destruction sought . This was a Penny worth of Wit , The best that ever Merchant bought . FINIS . 