THE Merry MILK-MAID : Being , Her Longing-Desire after Matrimony : That she might be one of the Honourable Society of Gossips . To the Tune of , Tan Tivee . Licensed according to Order . AS I through a Meadow one morning did pass , when Flowers and Blossoms were springing ; I happened to hear a young Beautiful Lass , as she this new Ditty sat singing : Here's Beauty without any manner of Pride , I'd give forty shillings I might be a Bride , To have a kind Husband to lie by my side , It is a fine thing to be Marry'd . Alas , I have used all manner of means , for tempting young Bachelors to me , For two or three Year I have been in the Teens , yet there is no Gallant will Woo me : My passion with Cupid is daily at strife , So that I am weary of a single Life , I wish that young Robin would make me his Wife : it is a fine thing to be Marry'd . I now am a Servant and Drudge like a slave , expos'd to all manner of Weather ; But had I a Husband it then would be brave , then we might both Cuddle together : The Charms of my Beauty would surely invite My Husband , to taste of the pleasant delight , In pleasure we'l spin out the long Winter's nigh it is a fine thing to be Marry'd . The Lass that is Marry'd , her Husband and she , enjoys pleasant Charms out of measure , Yet I am not certain what sport it might be , but sure it is some sort of Pleasure : But e're it be long I'm resolved to know , If any Good-Fellow some kindness will show , What causes this Itching , above and below : it is I dare swear to be Marry'd . The good Man he dotes on the Charms of her Eyes and daily endeavours to please her , Nay , every Morning before he does rise , he'l hug her , nay , kiss her , and squeeze her : Now when she does find him thus frolic and free , In Love and Affection they both do agree , It makes her as blithe as a Bird in a Tree : it is a fine thing to be Marry'd . Nay , when a young Woman is Breeding , you know the Husband with Dainties will feed her : And as it to higher perfection does grow , abroad he will carefully led her : And then whatsoever she'll covet or crave , The honest good Man he endeavors to have , Whereby he her timorous Longing may save , it is a fine thing to be Marry'd . And when the young Women do chance to Cry out , they straightways are call'd to their Labours , And then after this comes a Gossiping buot , to do as the rest of their Neighbours : They in their Apparel are Deck'd neat and fine , To prattle and likewise to tipple in Wine , Until all their Noses with Claret does shine : Oh 'tis a fine thing to be Marry'd . I hope in good time it will come to my turn , to be at that sweet Recreation ; All Persons must own it a weighty concern , it being for Multiplication : And therefore if now I could light of a Friend , On whom I might here for a Husband depend , I would not delay it a Week to and end : it is a fine thing to be Marry'd . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . THE Merry MILK-MAID : Being , Her Longing-Desire after Matrimony : That she might be one of the Honourable Society of Gossips . To the Tune of , Tan Tivee . Licensed according to Order . AS I through a Meadow one morning did pass , when Flowers and Blossoms were springing ; I happened to hear a young Beautiful Lass , as she this new Ditty sat singing : Here's Beauty without any manner of Pride , I'd give forty shillings I might be a Bride , To have a kind Husband to lie by my side , It is a fine thing to be Marry'd . Alas , I have used all manner of means , for tempting young Bachelors to me , For two or three Year I have been in the Teens , yet there is no Gallant will Woo me : My passion with Cupid is daily at strife , So that I am weary of a single Life , I wish that young Robin would make me his Wife : it is a fine thing to be Marry'd . I now am a Servant and Drudge like a slave , expos'd to all manner of Weather ; But had I a Husband it then would be brave , then we might both Cuddle together : The Charms of my Beauty would surely invite My Husband , to taste of the pleasant delight , In pleasure we'l spin out the long Winter's nigh it is a fine thing to be Marry'd . The Lass that is Marry'd , her Husband and she , enjoys pleasant Charms out of measure , Yet I am not certain what sport it might be , but sure it is some sort of Pleasure : But e're it be long I'm resolved to know , If any Good-Fellow some kindness will show , What causes this Itching , above and below : it is I dare swear to be Marry'd . The good Man he dotes on the Charms of her Eyes and daily endeavours to please her , Nay , every Morning before he does rise , he'l hug her , nay , kiss her , and squeeze her : Now when she does find him thus frolic and free , In Love and Affection they both do agree , It makes her as blithe as a Bird in a Tree : it is a fine thing to be Marry'd . Nay , when a young Woman is Breeding , you know the Husband with Dainties will feed her : And as it to higher perfection does grow , abroad he will carefully led her : And then whatsoever she'll covet or crave , The honest good Man he endeavors to have , Whereby he her timorous Longing may save , it is a fine thing to be Marry'd . And when the young Women do chance to Cry out , they straightways are call'd to their Labours , And then after this comes a Gossiping buot , to do as the rest of their Neighbours : They in their Apparel are Deck'd neat and fine , To prattle and likewise to tipple in Wine , Until all their Noses with Claret does shine : Oh 'tis a fine thing to be Marry'd . I hope in good time it will come to my turn , to be at that sweet Recreation ; All Persons must own it a weighty concern , it being for Multiplication : And therefore if now I could light of a Friend , On whom I might here for a Husband depend , I would not delay it a Week to and end : it is a fine thing to be Marry'd . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . THE Merry MILK-MAID : Being , Her Longing-Desire after Matrimony : That she might be one of the Honourable Society of Gossips . To the Tune of , Tan Tivee . Licensed according to Order . AS I through a Meadow one morning did pass , when Flowers and Blossoms were springing ; I happened to hear a young Beautiful Lass , as she this new Ditty sat singing : Here's Beauty without any manner of Pride , I'd give forty shillings I might be a Bride , To have a kind Husband to lie by my side , It is a fine thing to be Marry'd . Alas , I have used all manner of means , for tempting young Bachelors to me , For two or three Year I have been in the Teens , yet there is no Gallant will Woo me : My passion with Cupid is daily at strife , So that I am weary of a single Life , I wish that young Robin would make me his Wife : it is a fine thing to be Marry'd . I now am a Servant and Drudge like a slave , expos'd to all manner of Weather ; But had I a Husband it then would be brave , then we might both Cuddle together : The Charms of my Beauty would surely invite My Husband , to taste of the pleasant delight , In pleasure we'l spin out the long Winter's nigh it is a fine thing to be Marry'd . The Lass that is Marry'd , her Husband and she , enjoys pleasant Charms out of measure , Yet I am not certain what sport it might be , but sure it is some sort of Pleasure : But e're it be long I'm resolved to know , If any Good-Fellow some kindness will show , What causes this Itching , above and below : it is I dare swear to be Marry'd . The good Man he dotes on the Charms of her Eyes and daily endeavours to please her , Nay , every Morning before he does rise , he'l hug her , nay , kiss her , and squeeze her : Now when she does find him thus frolic and free , In Love and Affection they both do agree , It makes her as blithe as a Bird in a Tree : it is a fine thing to be Marry'd . Nay , when a young Woman is Breeding , you know the Husband with Dainties will feed her : And as it to higher perfection does grow , abroad he will carefully led her : And then whatsoever she'll covet or crave , The honest good Man he endeavors to have , Whereby he her timorous Longing may save , it is a fine thing to be Marry'd . And when the young Women do chance to Cry out , they straightways are call'd to their Labours , And then after this comes a Gossiping buot , to do as the rest of their Neighbours : They in their Apparel are Deck'd neat and fine , To prattle and likewise to tipple in Wine , Until all their Noses with Claret does shine : Oh 'tis a fine thing to be Marry'd . I hope in good time it will come to my turn , to be at that sweet Recreation ; All Persons must own it a weighty concern , it being for Multiplication : And therefore if now I could light of a Friend , On whom I might here for a Husband depend , I would not delay it a Week to and end : it is a fine thing to be Marry'd . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . THE Merry MILK-MAID : Being , Her Longing-Desire after Matrimony : That she might be one of the Honourable Society of Gossips . To the Tune of , Tan Tivee . Licensed according to Order . AS I through a Meadow one morning did pass , when Flowers and Blossoms were springing ; I happened to hear a young Beautiful Lass , as she this new Ditty sat singing : Here's Beauty without any manner of Pride , I'd give forty shillings I might be a Bride , To have a kind Husband to lie by my side , It is a fine thing to be Marry'd . Alas , I have used all manner of means , for tempting young Bachelors to me , For two or three Year I have been in the Teens , yet there is no Gallant will Woo me : My passion with Cupid is daily at strife , So that I am weary of a single Life , I wish that young Robin would make me his Wife : it is a fine thing to be Marry'd . I now am a Servant and Drudge like a slave , expos'd to all manner of Weather ; But had I a Husband it then would be brave , then we might both Cuddle together : The Charms of my Beauty would surely invite My Husband , to taste of the pleasant delight , In pleasure we'l spin out the long Winter's nigh it is a fine thing to be Marry'd . The Lass that is Marry'd , her Husband and she , enjoys pleasant Charms out of measure , Yet I am not certain what sport it might be , but sure it is some sort of Pleasure : But e're it be long I'm resolved to know , If any Good-Fellow some kindness will show , What causes this Itching , above and below : it is I dare swear to be Marry'd . The good Man he dotes on the Charms of her Eyes and daily endeavours to please her , Nay , every Morning before he does rise , he'l hug her , nay , kiss her , and squeeze her : Now when she does find him thus frolic and free , In Love and Affection they both do agree , It makes her as blithe as a Bird in a Tree : it is a fine thing to be Marry'd . Nay , when a young Woman is Breeding , you know the Husband with Dainties will feed her : And as it to higher perfection does grow , abroad he will carefully led her : And then whatsoever she'll covet or crave , The honest good Man he endeavors to have , Whereby he her timorous Longing may save , it is a fine thing to be Marry'd . And when the young Women do chance to Cry out , they straightways are call'd to their Labours , And then after this comes a Gossiping buot , to do as the rest of their Neighbours : They in their Apparel are Deck'd neat and fine , To prattle and likewise to tipple in Wine , Until all their Noses with Claret does shine : Oh 'tis a fine thing to be Marry'd . I hope in good time it will come to my turn , to be at that sweet Recreation ; All Persons must own it a weighty concern , it being for Multiplication : And therefore if now I could light of a Friend , On whom I might here for a Husband depend , I would not delay it a Week to and end : it is a fine thing to be Marry'd . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 