A New IRISH Song ; OF Lil-li burr Lero . To and Excellent New Tune . HO brother Teague dost hear the decree , Lil-li burr Lero bullen a la That we shall have a new Deputte , Lil-li burr Lero , bullen a la . Lero , Lero , Lil-li burr Lero , Lero , Lero bullen a la , Lero , Lero , Lero , Lero , Lero , Lero bullen a la . Ho by my shoul it is a Talbut , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la , And will cut the English men's Throat Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la . Lero , Lero , etc Though by my shoul de English de prat , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la , De Laws on dare side , and they knows what , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la . Lero , etc But if dispense to come from de Pope , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la , Weel hand Magne Carto and demselves in a rope Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la . Lero , etc And the good Talbut is made a Lord , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la . And he with brave Lads is coming a Board , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la . Lero , etc Who all in France have taken a Swear , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la . That day , we'll have no Protestant here , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la . Lero , etc O! but why does he stay thus behind , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la , Oh , by my shoul , it was a Protestant wind , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la . Lero , etc Now Tirconnel is come to the shore , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la , And we shall have Commissions Go-lore ; Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la . Lero , etc And he that will not go to Mass , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la , Shall be turn'd out and look like and Ass , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a lay . Lero , etc Now , now the Heretics go down , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la , And now by St. Patrick the Nation's our own , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a lay . Lero , Lero , Lil-li burr lero , Lero , Lero , bullen a la . Lero , Lero , Lero , Lero , Lero , Lero , bullen a la . FINIS . A New IRISH Song ; OF Lil-li burr Lero . To and Excellent New Tune . HO brother Teague dost hear the decree , Lil-li burr Lero bullen a la That we shall have a new Deputte , Lil-li burr Lero , bullen a la . Lero , Lero , Lil-li burr Lero , Lero , Lero bullen a la , Lero , Lero , Lero , Lero , Lero , Lero bullen a la . Ho by my shoul it is a Talbut , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la , And will cut the English men's Throat Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la . Lero , Lero , etc Though by my shoul de English de prat , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la , De Laws on dare side , and they knows what , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la . Lero , etc But if dispense to come from de Pope , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la , Weel hand Magne Carto and demselves in a rope Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la . Lero , etc And the good Talbut is made a Lord , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la . And he with brave Lads is coming a Board , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la . Lero , etc Who all in France have taken a Swear , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la . That day , we'll have no Protestant here , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la . Lero , etc O! but why does he stay thus behind , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la , Oh , by my shoul , it was a Protestant wind , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la . Lero , etc Now Tirconnel is come to the shore , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la , And we shall have Commissions Go-lore ; Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la . Lero , etc And he that will not go to Mass , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la , Shall be turn'd out and look like and Ass , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a lay . Lero , etc Now , now the Heretics go down , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a la , And now by St. Patrick the Nation's our own , Lil-li burr lero , bullen a lay . Lero , Lero , Lil-li burr lero , Lero , Lero , bullen a la . Lero , Lero , Lero , Lero , Lero , Lero , bullen a la . FINIS . 