[ Mirth ] for Citizens : Or , A Comedy for the Country . Showing A young Farmer his unfortunate marriage , His wife is so churlish & currish in carriage He married her for beauty , for's own delight Now he repents it both day and night . By physiognomy adviseth youngmen that at Wenches skip , To be sure to look before that they leap , To leap at a venture , & catch a fallen , Raising the forehead break horns and all . Tune of , Ragged , torn , and true . HEy boys my Father's dead , and what need I to fear , With gold and silver I am sped , and have fifty pound a year : Then why should I be single , I will not led the life ; My gold and silver does jingle , a wooing i'le go for a wife . Sure thrice happy am I if I obtain this Bride , There's none can her come nigh in all the whole world beside . A dainty fine Lass I know as ever England bred ; Her skin is as white as Snow and her hair of a Crimson read : She lives but in our Town , she is virtuous , chaste , and wise , If I win her my joys are crown'd beside a matchless prize . Sure thrice happy etc I'll get her Father's good will , and Mother's too beside ; Then next i'le try my skill to win this lovely Bride : I'le hug her and buss her and kiss her , in her lies all my pride : As Conventicle Dick served his sister , and tother thing too beside . Sure thrice happy etc She hath two hundred pound to her portion and I a great deal of Land : Thus shall I come quick to promotion , for love I take her by the hand : But when I went to be married , I was in the height of my pride ; Brave gallants on horseback was carried , to accompany me and my Bride . Sure thrice happy am I that I have obtained this Bride , There's none can to her come nigh in all the whole world beside . O we had a gallant brave wedding indeed , and delicate dishes store , Those were welcome which were of our biding , but little we minded the poor : Oh we had both Sack and Canary , and the Music bravely did play , Oh then I drank Sack and Sherry , I thought it would never be day : Sure thrice happy etc When I and my Bride was in bed on my wedding-day at night , My fancies with pleasures she fed , for I had my full deligh She showed me Venus School and with me she did daddle , But I a young puny fool , did quickly fallen out of the saddle . Sure thrice happy etc But then on the morrow morn , Oh she laughed me to scorn : Oh she drank sack and canary in Silver , and made me drink out of a horn , But when our wedding did cease and our brave banquets were done , My joys did quickly decrease , and my sorrows soon after begun , sure thrice happy etc She told me she would be Master , and all the whole household guide , I told her it gave disaster , she said it should quickly be try'd : Then against her I took stick , thinking she durst not come nigh , With a cudgel my bones she did lick , that for pardon I quickly did cry : sure thrice happy etc She's grown so devilish cursed , and in it she takes a pride , Makes nothing my head to burst and bang my bones beside : She makes me go to Plough , ditch , hedge , and thrash beside , And Jack come serve the Jow , to this slavery i'm ty'd . sure thrice happy etc I do get up in a morn , and for her make a fire , i'm a Cuckold and laughed to scorn , a holly-Crab pays my hire : Then her clothes she gets on her , Sugar-sops must ready be , And I forsooth wait on her , with bowing on my Knee : Sure thrice happy etc At dinner she is stout , that by her I must now stand , To wait with a Napkin on my arm , and a Trencher in my hand : Some desire I may them pledge , and she is full of hate , If I kiss not my hand and make a leg , she lays me over the pate : Another thing troubles my head and grieves me worse than this , When her Comrade is with her in bed I must reach her the pot to piss : I must draw her a cup of long tipple if it be a cold Frosty night , Or she beats me as lame as a Cripple , Oh the Bulls pizel does me fright . Sure thrice happy etc She kicks me about the house and puts me in bodily fears , I dare not say don is the Mouse , she pinches me through the ears . She makes horns at me & does slight me , and makes me a Jackanokes , She kicks me , she pricks me , and bites me Oh I feel her devilish strokes . Sure thrice happy etc I wish youngmen hereafter be not too quick in wooing their wives , And beware of red-hair disaster , or repent it all days of their lives : Choose a wench of a dark brown hair , and one of a middle size , Coal black will fill thee with care , and lodge others betwixt her thighs . Sure thrice happy am I if I obtain this Bride , There's none can her come nigh in all the whole World beside . By Abraham Miles . The pretty bynames this young woman hath for her Husband . A simple Simon , a Tom Nichols , Jack Adams , a Muddy-brain'd Cuckold , a Hopping Dick , a Nicknindigo the Devils Turnspit . Here follows his potion of Diet for several days of the week , of a Monday , if he riseth not betimes in the morning , instead of posset she comes up with a Holly Crab , and pays him about in his Shirt ; on Tuesdays she bangs his back with a good Cudgel ; on Wednesdays she kicks his breech , and lug's his Ears , instead of feeding him with Beef and Souse ; on Thursdays , Fridays , and Saturdays , she pays his back with a Bulls pizle , till he cries , Oh good Wife , I will never do so no more . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Py-corner . [ Mirth ] for Citizens : Or , A Comedy for the Country . Showing A young Farmer his unfortunate marriage , His wife is so churlish & currish in carriage He married her for beauty , for's own delight Now he repents it both day and night . By physiognomy adviseth youngmen that at Wenches skip , To be sure to look before that they leap , To leap at a venture , & catch a fallen , Raising the forehead break horns and all . Tune of , Ragged , torn , and true . HEy boys my Father's dead , and what need I to fear , With gold and silver I am sped , and have fifty pound a year : Then why should I be single , I will not led the life ; My gold and silver does jingle , a wooing i'le go for a wife . Sure thrice happy am I if I obtain this Bride , There's none can her come nigh in all the whole world beside . A dainty fine Lass I know as ever England bred ; Her skin is as white as Snow and her hair of a Crimson read : She lives but in our Town , she is virtuous , chaste , and wise , If I win her my joys are crown'd beside a matchless prize . Sure thrice happy etc I'll get her Father's good will , and Mother's too beside ; Then next i'le try my skill to win this lovely Bride : I'le hug her and buss her and kiss her , in her lies all my pride : As Conventicle Dick served his sister , and tother thing too beside . Sure thrice happy etc She hath two hundred pound to her portion and I a great deal of Land : Thus shall I come quick to promotion , for love I take her by the hand : But when I went to be married , I was in the height of my pride ; Brave gallants on horseback was carried , to accompany me and my Bride . Sure thrice happy am I that I have obtained this Bride , There's none can to her come nigh in all the whole world beside . O we had a gallant brave wedding indeed , and delicate dishes store , Those were welcome which were of our biding , but little we minded the poor : Oh we had both Sack and Canary , and the Music bravely did play , Oh then I drank Sack and Sherry , I thought it would never be day : Sure thrice happy etc When I and my Bride was in bed on my wedding-day at night , My fancies with pleasures she fed , for I had my full deligh She showed me Venus School and with me she did daddle , But I a young puny fool , did quickly fallen out of the saddle . Sure thrice happy etc But then on the morrow morn , Oh she laughed me to scorn : Oh she drank sack and canary in Silver , and made me drink out of a horn , But when our wedding did cease and our brave banquets were done , My joys did quickly decrease , and my sorrows soon after begun , sure thrice happy etc She told me she would be Master , and all the whole household guide , I told her it gave disaster , she said it should quickly be try'd : Then against her I took stick , thinking she durst not come nigh , With a cudgel my bones she did lick , that for pardon I quickly did cry : sure thrice happy etc She's grown so devilish cursed , and in it she takes a pride , Makes nothing my head to burst and bang my bones beside : She makes me go to Plough , ditch , hedge , and thrash beside , And Jack come serve the Jow , to this slavery i'm ty'd . sure thrice happy etc I do get up in a morn , and for her make a fire , i'm a Cuckold and laughed to scorn , a holly-Crab pays my hire : Then her clothes she gets on her , Sugar-sops must ready be , And I forsooth wait on her , with bowing on my Knee : Sure thrice happy etc At dinner she is stout , that by her I must now stand , To wait with a Napkin on my arm , and a Trencher in my hand : Some desire I may them pledge , and she is full of hate , If I kiss not my hand and make a leg , she lays me over the pate : Another thing troubles my head and grieves me worse than this , When her Comrade is with her in bed I must reach her the pot to piss : I must draw her a cup of long tipple if it be a cold Frosty night , Or she beats me as lame as a Cripple , Oh the Bulls pizel does me fright . Sure thrice happy etc She kicks me about the house and puts me in bodily fears , I dare not say don is the Mouse , she pinches me through the ears . She makes horns at me & does slight me , and makes me a Jackanokes , She kicks me , she pricks me , and bites me Oh I feel her devilish strokes . Sure thrice happy etc I wish youngmen hereafter be not too quick in wooing their wives , And beware of red-hair disaster , or repent it all days of their lives : Choose a wench of a dark brown hair , and one of a middle size , Coal black will fill thee with care , and lodge others betwixt her thighs . Sure thrice happy am I if I obtain this Bride , There's none can her come nigh in all the whole World beside . By Abraham Miles . The pretty bynames this young woman hath for her Husband . A simple Simon , a Tom Nichols , Jack Adams , a Muddy-brain'd Cuckold , a Hopping Dick , a Nicknindigo the Devils Turnspit . Here follows his potion of Diet for several days of the week , of a Monday , if he riseth not betimes in the morning , instead of posset she comes up with a Holly Crab , and pays him about in his Shirt ; on Tuesdays she bangs his back with a good Cudgel ; on Wednesdays she kicks his breech , and lug's his Ears , instead of feeding him with Beef and Souse ; on Thursdays , Fridays , and Saturdays , she pays his back with a Bulls pizle , till he cries , Oh good Wife , I will never do so no more . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Py-corner . 