( 1 ) [ 1 ] THE King of Poland's Ghos OR ; A DIALOGUE betwixt PLUTO and CHARON , upon his Reception . Pluto . HOld Stygian Sculler , what hast brought me here ? Charon . The Soul Sir of your long-wish'd noble Peer . Pl. What ? not the King of Poland's ? Ch. Yes , 'tis it . Pl. You old Tarpawlin , will you ne're learn Wit ? Who bid you touch at Dantzick , and be hang'd , D' you think my Furies long to be harangu'd ? Ch. Stop the mistake , and let your Passion cease , He ne're came there , for Poland's still in peace ; But I suppos'd you waited for your Prey , And therefore Amsterdam'd him in his way . Pl. Pox on your Zeal , you did it for your Fare , Could'st think I want Incendiaries here ? Ch. No , no , Sir ; I have Passengers enough That spoke their Places , and gave Earnest too ; And though y' had Boute-feu's enough before , Yet such as this ne're touch'd th' Infernal Shore : Scilla , Sejanus , Catiline , and Noll , Must give our Politician the wall . They , cruel wretches , sought Imperial sway By Fire and Slaughter , ours a milder way . They fought e'ne like your Furies for a Crown , He by Petitions softly bowls it down . Kings may be fell'd , and never hurt a Limb , And Pluto's self fallen gently under him . But Sir , you're safe , for ere he came at Styx , He drew and rack'd off all his Politics . See the Noble Peer's Speech Pl. I [ 2 ] Pl. I can't tell that , Coopers are cunning blades , We Devils scarce can dive into their Trades ; The Lees of one rich Pipe may ferment more , And I am plaguy loath to loose my Power . Ch. Fie Pluto ! y'are too jealous of your Peer , He that hath been your Drudge this 50 year ; If you begin to slight old Servants thus , 'Twill be a great discouragement to us . Pl. Why did'st not take Elizium in thy way ? Ch. Why Sir , the Keeper feign'd he'd lost his Key , And would not slip the Lock for all my Pray'rs ; I touch'd beside at Purgatory Stairs , ( The Trimmer's Office , as some term it well , Because it squints both towards Heav'n and Hell ) But 'twould not do . Pl. No ? what could they object ? He seems the very Founder of the Sect. Ch. 'Tis true ; but they urg'd , 'twas like and Inn Where Folks a while were baited for their since , Then like cur'd Lunatics turn'd out again . And they alledg'd , my Charge was passed all cure , And nothing in the World was e're said truer ; For 'tis not all the Saints in Heav'n and Earth , Were he once in , could ever pray him forth . Pl. Well Charon , I forgive thee , for I see Thou speak'st both for thy Client and thy Fee : But how stand Causes on the British Shore , Since they have lost the Bauble they adore . Cha. Why they resent it in a various way , And some there are who do not stick to say , 'That the Elm-board foregroan'd this fatal Day . That th' Albion Rocks relent , and change their hue , And ev'n Tyburn puts on Mourning too . Your dear Friend Titus clothes himself in Crape , ( Masculine Titus ) your outdoing Ape , Who's god above the Dispensation of a feeble Rape . Others there are who are not troubled much , But rather seem beholding to the Dutch ; For this one kindness they to Britain do , Commutes for Chatham and Amboina too . LONDON , Printed for Jos. Hindmarsh at the Black-Bull in Cornhill , 1683. ( 1 ) [ 1 ] THE King of Poland's Ghos OR ; A DIALOGUE betwixt PLUTO and CHARON , upon his Reception . Pluto . HOld Stygian Sculler , what hast brought me here ? Charon . The Soul Sir of your long-wish'd noble Peer . Pl. What ? not the King of Poland's ? Ch. Yes , 'tis it . Pl. You old Tarpawlin , will you ne're learn Wit ? Who bid you touch at Dantzick , and be hang'd , D' you think my Furies long to be harangu'd ? Ch. Stop the mistake , and let your Passion cease , He ne're came there , for Poland's still in peace ; But I suppos'd you waited for your Prey , And therefore Amsterdam'd him in his way . Pl. Pox on your Zeal , you did it for your Fare , Could'st think I want Incendiaries here ? Ch. No , no , Sir ; I have Passengers enough That spoke their Places , and gave Earnest too ; And though y' had Boute-feu's enough before , Yet such as this ne're touch'd th' Infernal Shore : Scilla , Sejanus , Catiline , and Noll , Must give our Politician the wall . They , cruel wretches , sought Imperial sway By Fire and Slaughter , ours a milder way . They fought e'ne like your Furies for a Crown , He by Petitions softly bowls it down . Kings may be fell'd , and never hurt a Limb , And Pluto's self fallen gently under him . But Sir , you're safe , for ere he came at Styx , He drew and rack'd off all his Politics . See the Noble Peer's Speech Pl. I [ 2 ] Pl. I can't tell that , Coopers are cunning blades , We Devils scarce can dive into their Trades ; The Lees of one rich Pipe may ferment more , And I am plaguy loath to loose my Power . Ch. Fie Pluto ! y'are too jealous of your Peer , He that hath been your Drudge this 50 year ; If you begin to slight old Servants thus , 'Twill be a great discouragement to us . Pl. Why did'st not take Elizium in thy way ? Ch. Why Sir , the Keeper feign'd he'd lost his Key , And would not slip the Lock for all my Pray'rs ; I touch'd beside at Purgatory Stairs , ( The Trimmer's Office , as some term it well , Because it squints both towards Heav'n and Hell ) But 'twould not do . Pl. No ? what could they object ? He seems the very Founder of the Sect. Ch. 'Tis true ; but they urg'd , 'twas like and Inn Where Folks a while were baited for their since , Then like cur'd Lunatics turn'd out again . And they alledg'd , my Charge was passed all cure , And nothing in the World was e're said truer ; For 'tis not all the Saints in Heav'n and Earth , Were he once in , could ever pray him forth . Pl. Well Charon , I forgive thee , for I see Thou speak'st both for thy Client and thy Fee : But how stand Causes on the British Shore , Since they have lost the Bauble they adore . Cha. Why they resent it in a various way , And some there are who do not stick to say , 'That the Elm-board foregroan'd this fatal Day . That th' Albion Rocks relent , and change their hue , And ev'n Tyburn puts on Mourning too . Your dear Friend Titus clothes himself in Crape , ( Masculine Titus ) your outdoing Ape , Who's god above the Dispensation of a feeble Rape . Others there are who are not troubled much , But rather seem beholding to the Dutch ; For this one kindness they to Britain do , Commutes for Chatham and Amboina too . LONDON , Printed for Jos. Hindmarsh at the Black-Bull in Cornhill , 1683. 