R The Happy Shepherd : OR ; The Young Gallants Courtship to his Coy Lady : To a pleasant New Tune , Sung in the last New OPERA . Licensed according to Order . HOw blessed are Shepherd's , how happy their Lasses , while Drums and Trumpets are sounding Alarms ; Over our lowly sheds all the storm passes , and when we die , 'tis in each others Arms : All the Day on our Herds and Flocks employing , All the Night on our Flutes , and in enjoying . ( 2 ) Bright Nymphs of Brittain , with graces attended , let not your Days without pleasure expire ; Honour's but empty , when your youth is ended , all Men will praise you , but none will desire : Let not Youth fly away without contenting , Age will come time enough for your repenting . ( 3 ) In shady Bowers and tender Embraces , fairest Aurelia her Swain does enjoy ; Although with Beauty the Valleys she graces , yet she disdains to be froward and coy : Thus they the height of all Joys are possessing , Neither denying each other the blessing . ( 4 ) This is no more than a true Lovers duty , to quench those passionate flames when they burn , Both Kings and Princes are Conquer'd by Beauty , no private Armour Love's Arrows can turn : Since Charms has such irresistible power , Ladies , Oh do not your true Loves devour . ( 5 ) Tho' Youth and Beauty like Blossoms are blooming , and Goddess-like you appear on the Stage ; Like fading-Flowers those Charms are consuming , which hastens on the cold Winter of Age : In time admire Loves innocent pleasure , Lest at the length you repent it at leisure . ( 6 ) Are not young Ladies for Men to admire , and that they freely are to be enjoy'd ? Then be not cruel , but grant my desire , let not thy languishing Love be destroy'd : Like a true Lover I dearly adore thee , And for one smile could here fallen down before thee . ( 7 ) oath State and Triumph , sweet Saint , shall attend thee , like a Court-Lady of Fame and Renown ; And while rich Presents , as Tokens , I send thee , thy head young Cupid with Garlands shall Crown : No kind of sorrow or grief shall annoy thee , Both Crowns and Sceptres I'd leave to enjoy thee . Printed for C. Bates , at the White-Hart in West-Smitfield . R The Happy Shepherd : OR ; The Young Gallants Courtship to his Coy Lady : To a pleasant New Tune , Sung in the last New OPERA . Licensed according to Order . HOw blessed are Shepherd's , how happy their Lasses , while Drums and Trumpets are sounding Alarms ; Over our lowly sheds all the storm passes , and when we die , 'tis in each others Arms : All the Day on our Herds and Flocks employing , All the Night on our Flutes , and in enjoying . ( 2 ) Bright Nymphs of Brittain , with graces attended , let not your Days without pleasure expire ; Honour's but empty , when your youth is ended , all Men will praise you , but none will desire : Let not Youth fly away without contenting , Age will come time enough for your repenting . ( 3 ) In shady Bowers and tender Embraces , fairest Aurelia her Swain does enjoy ; Although with Beauty the Valleys she graces , yet she disdains to be froward and coy : Thus they the height of all Joys are possessing , Neither denying each other the blessing . ( 4 ) This is no more than a true Lovers duty , to quench those passionate flames when they burn , Both Kings and Princes are Conquer'd by Beauty , no private Armour Love's Arrows can turn : Since Charms has such irresistible power , Ladies , Oh do not your true Loves devour . ( 5 ) Tho' Youth and Beauty like Blossoms are blooming , and Goddess-like you appear on the Stage ; Like fading-Flowers those Charms are consuming , which hastens on the cold Winter of Age : In time admire Loves innocent pleasure , Lest at the length you repent it at leisure . ( 6 ) Are not young Ladies for Men to admire , and that they freely are to be enjoy'd ? Then be not cruel , but grant my desire , let not thy languishing Love be destroy'd : Like a true Lover I dearly adore thee , And for one smile could here fallen down before thee . ( 7 ) oath State and Triumph , sweet Saint , shall attend thee , like a Court-Lady of Fame and Renown ; And while rich Presents , as Tokens , I send thee , thy head young Cupid with Garlands shall Crown : No kind of sorrow or grief shall annoy thee , Both Crowns and Sceptres I'd leave to enjoy thee . Printed for C. Bates , at the White-Hart in West-Smitfield . 