The Amorous Gallant . Who had a Mistress lovely , fair and kind , She gave him all things to content his mind ; But he unkind , when he had done his pleasure , Would have forsaken this beloved treasure : But by her charms , to Wife she made him take her , And now he swears he never will forsake her . To a pleasant new Tune called , Jenny's delight . HOw bonny and brisk , how pleasant and sweet , were Jenny and I when my passion was strong So eagerly each others flames we did meet , that a Minutes delay did appear to be long , The vows that I made her , she seal'd with a kiss , Till my soul I had lost in a rapture of bliss . I vow'd and I thought I should ever have lov'd , where beauty and kindness together I found , So sweetly she look'd , and so sweetly she mov'd , that I fancied new strength with my joys to abound For the pleasures I gave she did doubly requite , By finding out ever new ways to delight . But when that enjoyment had put out my fire , my strength was decay'd and my passion was done , So pall'd was my fancy , and so tame my desire , that I from the Nymph very fain would have gone . O Jenny said I you have lov'd me in vain , For beauty enjoyed turns love to disdain . But when she perceiv'd that my flames were expir'd , and I for a while was quite dead with delight , She never left kissing till my heart she had fir'd , while I had not the power to depart from her sighed My Dearest quoth she you quickly are cloi'd , So soon for to leave what you sweetly enjoy'd . Such pretty kind words and her languishing eyes , did tempt me again to encourage my flame , Those charming embraces my thoughts did surprise , they caus'd me with panting to Die in the same . But the Death was so sweet , and so easy my pain , Sweet Jenny said I let me Die once again . As thus we sat dallying on the Bankside , our loves overwhelm'd with a passionate joy , Unfortunate we by a friend were espi'd , his presence with fear did our blessings destroy : O Jenny said I we are undone by this Man , Let's fly from this danger out of sighed if we can . The pretty sweet Nymph with fear all amaz'd , stood affrighted , yet her senses she soon did regain , But smitten with love on sweet Jenny he gaz'd , and beg'd on his knees that she there would remain , O let not my presence disturb you for I , If that you forsake me with love I shall Die . O let me but kiss that white hand and I'le swear , by the powers above that i'le never discover , Let not your best friend your presence forbear , for I like himself am a desperate Lover : But give him your hand and let's frolic all three , My humour with his and with yours does agree . His vow being made then Jenny reply [ ' ] worser ; if that you our shame and my blushes conceal ; For I have been faulty it can't be deny'd , but pray don't our secret folly reveal : Then let us be merry since the danger is past , I am not the first nor I shall not be the last . Then merrily , merrily , let's take our way , where Hymen shall tie us in Marriage secure , And that we be fruitly he'l heartily pray , my constancy to thee shall ever endure . And though I have transgress'd before I was thy wife ; Yet i'le be thy sweet Jenny all days of my life . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . The Amorous Gallant . Who had a Mistress lovely , fair and kind , She gave him all things to content his mind ; But he unkind , when he had done his pleasure , Would have forsaken this beloved treasure : But by her charms , to Wife she made him take her , And now he swears he never will forsake her . To a pleasant new Tune called , Jenny's delight . HOw bonny and brisk , how pleasant and sweet , were Jenny and I when my passion was strong So eagerly each others flames we did meet , that a Minutes delay did appear to be long , The vows that I made her , she seal'd with a kiss , Till my soul I had lost in a rapture of bliss . I vow'd and I thought I should ever have lov'd , where beauty and kindness together I found , So sweetly she look'd , and so sweetly she mov'd , that I fancied new strength with my joys to abound For the pleasures I gave she did doubly requite , By finding out ever new ways to delight . But when that enjoyment had put out my fire , my strength was decay'd and my passion was done , So pall'd was my fancy , and so tame my desire , that I from the Nymph very fain would have gone . O Jenny said I you have lov'd me in vain , For beauty enjoyed turns love to disdain . But when she perceiv'd that my flames were expir'd , and I for a while was quite dead with delight , She never left kissing till my heart she had fir'd , while I had not the power to depart from her sighed My Dearest quoth she you quickly are cloi'd , So soon for to leave what you sweetly enjoy'd . Such pretty kind words and her languishing eyes , did tempt me again to encourage my flame , Those charming embraces my thoughts did surprise , they caus'd me with panting to Die in the same . But the Death was so sweet , and so easy my pain , Sweet Jenny said I let me Die once again . As thus we sat dallying on the Bankside , our loves overwhelm'd with a passionate joy , Unfortunate we by a friend were espi'd , his presence with fear did our blessings destroy : O Jenny said I we are undone by this Man , Let's fly from this danger out of sighed if we can . The pretty sweet Nymph with fear all amaz'd , stood affrighted , yet her senses she soon did regain , But smitten with love on sweet Jenny he gaz'd , and beg'd on his knees that she there would remain , O let not my presence disturb you for I , If that you forsake me with love I shall Die . O let me but kiss that white hand and I'le swear , by the powers above that i'le never discover , Let not your best friend your presence forbear , for I like himself am a desperate Lover : But give him your hand and let's frolic all three , My humour with his and with yours does agree . His vow being made then Jenny reply [ ' ] worser ; if that you our shame and my blushes conceal ; For I have been faulty it can't be deny'd , but pray don't our secret folly reveal : Then let us be merry since the danger is past , I am not the first nor I shall not be the last . Then merrily , merrily , let's take our way , where Hymen shall tie us in Marriage secure , And that we be fruitly he'l heartily pray , my constancy to thee shall ever endure . And though I have transgress'd before I was thy wife ; Yet i'le be thy sweet Jenny all days of my life . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 