The Bunter's Wedding . GOOD people attend , I'll discover , A wedding that happen'd of late , I cannot tell why we should smother , The weddings of poor more than great ; 'Twixt Ben of the Borough , so pretty , Who carries a basket , 'tis said , And dainty plump Kent-street fair Kitty , A coney wool-cutter by trade . The guests were all quickly invited , Ben order'd the dinner by noon , And Kitty was highly delighted , They obey'd the glad summons so soon ; And ox cheek was order'd for dinner , With plenty of porter and gin , Ben swore on the oath of a sinner , Nothing should be wanting in him . Joe the sandman , and Bessy the bunter , We hear from St. Giles's did prance , Dick the fiddler , and Sally the mumper , Brought Levi the Jew for to dance . Tom the chanter he quickly was present , And squinting black Molly likewise , With Billy the dustman quite pleasant , And Nell with no nose and soar eyes . Ned the drover was also invited , Unto this gay wedding to come , From Smithfield he came quite delighted , Before that the market was done ; And Fanny the pretty matchmaker , A sister to young bunting Bess , She wished the devil might take her , If she was not one of the guests . Dolly the rag woman's daughter , From Tyburn road she did stride , And Jenny the quilter came after , Whose nose it stood all of one side ; There was the Roger the chimney-sweeper , No soot he would gather that day , But because he would look the completer , His soot bag and brush threw away . There was bandy-leg'd sheep's head Susan We hear from Field-lane she did high , And draggle-tail'd Pat with no shoes on , Who pins and laces does cry ; Ralph the grinder he set by his barrow , As soon as he herd of the news , And swore he would be there tomorrow , Altho' he'd no heels to his shoes . Sam the grubber he having had warning , His wallet and broom down did lay , And early attended next morning , The bride for to give away ; And Peggy the mop-yarn spinner , Her cards and her wheel set aside , And swore as she was a sinner , She'd go and attire the bride . Nan the tub woman out of Whitechapel , Was also invited to go , And as she was 'kin to the couple , She swore she the stocking would throw ; So having all gather'd together , As they appointed to meet , And being all birds of a feather , They presently flock'd to the Fleet. But when at Fleet-bridge they arrived , The bridegroom was handing his bride , The sailors they all to them drived , Do you want a parson ? they cry'd , But as they down Fleet-ditch did prance , What house shall we go to says Ben , Then Kitty in raptures made answer , Lets go to the Hand and the Pen . Then into the house they did bundle , The landlady shew'd them a room , The landlord he roar'd out like thunder , The parson shall wait on you soon : Then so eager he came for to fasten , He stayed not to fasten his hose , A fat-bellied ruddy fac'd parson , That brandy had painted his nose . But before the couple did fasten , He look'd all around on the men , My fee's half-a-crown , says the parson , --- I freely will give it , says Ben ; Then Hymen he presently follow'd , And the happy knot being ty'd , The guests they whooped and hollow'd , All joys to the bridegroom and bride , Like malt horses home they all pranced , The bride she look'd not like the same , And thus thro' the city they danced , But when to the borough they came ; The bride to look buxom endeavour'd , The bridegroom as brisk as and eel ; With the marrowbones and cleavers , The butchers they rang them a peal . And as they was homeward advancing , A dancing and singing of songs , The rough music met them all prancing , With frying pans , shovels and tongue's ; Tin cannisters , salt boxes plenty , With trotter-bones beatrice by the boys , And they being hollow and empty , They made a most racketing noise . Bowls , gridirons , platters , and ladles , And pokers tin kettles did bruise , The noise , none to bear it was able , The warming pans beatrice with old shoes ; Such a rattling racketing uproar , Had you but have herd it , no doubt , All hell was broke lose you'd have swore , And the devils were running about . The mob they all hollow'd and shouted , In the streets as they passed along , The people to see how they scouted , Together in clusters did throng ; They made all the noise they was able , And thus they were usher'd in , But e'er they all sat down to table , They each had a glass of old gin . Dinner being decently ended . The table was cleared with speed , And they to be merry intended , So strait did to dancing proceed ; But Harry the nightman so jolly , With madness he almost cry'd , And all the night sat melancholy , For he had a mind for the bride . Bob the bricklayer now being merry , Though to foot it at first he was loath , He told them he'd tip them Bob Perry , But they swore they'd have Newgate broth . Tom the chanter he tipped them a trilly , That never before was in print , While the dustman they call Same Smutty , Gnaw'd the head of black Moll that did squint . Jack the coal-heaver thought himself slighted , They carried the rig on so quiet , And swore as he was not invited , He'd go there and kick up a riot ; Then hectoring , bouncing , and swearing , So boldly he enter'd the house , But when he saw Joey the sandman , The cull was as still as a mouse . Bess the bunter sung Murdoch O'Blaney The chorus it made the house ring , Nell with no nose cry'd you'll shame me , If such bawdy songs you do sing ; Drunken Levi the Jew was abusive , And would have god trim'd as 'tis said , Had not his pomatum been useful , As Kitty the bride was a maid . Joe the sandman he talk'd of the nailor , Away the coal-heaver did slink , Quite fainted hearted , worse than a tailor , Lest Joey should give him a clink ; But being all god drunk together , Ben prayed them all night for to stay , So coupl'd them in his long feathers , And parted good friends the next day . Turner , Printer , Coventry . The Bunter's Wedding . GOOD people attend , I'll discover , A wedding that happen'd of late , I cannot tell why we should smother , The weddings of poor more than great ; 'Twixt Ben of the Borough , so pretty , Who carries a basket , 'tis said , And dainty plump Kent-street fair Kitty , A coney wool-cutter by trade . The guests were all quickly invited , Ben order'd the dinner by noon , And Kitty was highly delighted , They obey'd the glad summons so soon ; And ox cheek was order'd for dinner , With plenty of porter and gin , Ben swore on the oath of a sinner , Nothing should be wanting in him . Joe the sandman , and Bessy the bunter , We hear from St. Giles's did prance , Dick the fiddler , and Sally the mumper , Brought Levi the Jew for to dance . Tom the chanter he quickly was present , And squinting black Molly likewise , With Billy the dustman quite pleasant , And Nell with no nose and soar eyes . Ned the drover was also invited , Unto this gay wedding to come , From Smithfield he came quite delighted , Before that the market was done ; And Fanny the pretty matchmaker , A sister to young bunting Bess , She wished the devil might take her , If she was not one of the guests . Dolly the rag woman's daughter , From Tyburn road she did stride , And Jenny the quilter came after , Whose nose it stood all of one side ; There was the Roger the chimney-sweeper , No soot he would gather that day , But because he would look the completer , His soot bag and brush threw away . There was bandy-leg'd sheep's head Susan We hear from Field-lane she did high , And draggle-tail'd Pat with no shoes on , Who pins and laces does cry ; Ralph the grinder he set by his barrow , As soon as he herd of the news , And swore he would be there tomorrow , Altho' he'd no heels to his shoes . Sam the grubber he having had warning , His wallet and broom down did lay , And early attended next morning , The bride for to give away ; And Peggy the mop-yarn spinner , Her cards and her wheel set aside , And swore as she was a sinner , She'd go and attire the bride . Nan the tub woman out of Whitechapel , Was also invited to go , And as she was 'kin to the couple , She swore she the stocking would throw ; So having all gather'd together , As they appointed to meet , And being all birds of a feather , They presently flock'd to the Fleet. But when at Fleet-bridge they arrived , The bridegroom was handing his bride , The sailors they all to them drived , Do you want a parson ? they cry'd , But as they down Fleet-ditch did prance , What house shall we go to says Ben , Then Kitty in raptures made answer , Lets go to the Hand and the Pen . Then into the house they did bundle , The landlady shew'd them a room , The landlord he roar'd out like thunder , The parson shall wait on you soon : Then so eager he came for to fasten , He stayed not to fasten his hose , A fat-bellied ruddy fac'd parson , That brandy had painted his nose . But before the couple did fasten , He look'd all around on the men , My fee's half-a-crown , says the parson , --- I freely will give it , says Ben ; Then Hymen he presently follow'd , And the happy knot being ty'd , The guests they whooped and hollow'd , All joys to the bridegroom and bride , Like malt horses home they all pranced , The bride she look'd not like the same , And thus thro' the city they danced , But when to the borough they came ; The bride to look buxom endeavour'd , The bridegroom as brisk as and eel ; With the marrowbones and cleavers , The butchers they rang them a peal . And as they was homeward advancing , A dancing and singing of songs , The rough music met them all prancing , With frying pans , shovels and tongue's ; Tin cannisters , salt boxes plenty , With trotter-bones beatrice by the boys , And they being hollow and empty , They made a most racketing noise . Bowls , gridirons , platters , and ladles , And pokers tin kettles did bruise , The noise , none to bear it was able , The warming pans beatrice with old shoes ; Such a rattling racketing uproar , Had you but have herd it , no doubt , All hell was broke lose you'd have swore , And the devils were running about . The mob they all hollow'd and shouted , In the streets as they passed along , The people to see how they scouted , Together in clusters did throng ; They made all the noise they was able , And thus they were usher'd in , But e'er they all sat down to table , They each had a glass of old gin . Dinner being decently ended . The table was cleared with speed , And they to be merry intended , So strait did to dancing proceed ; But Harry the nightman so jolly , With madness he almost cry'd , And all the night sat melancholy , For he had a mind for the bride . Bob the bricklayer now being merry , Though to foot it at first he was loath , He told them he'd tip them Bob Perry , But they swore they'd have Newgate broth . Tom the chanter he tipped them a trilly , That never before was in print , While the dustman they call Same Smutty , Gnaw'd the head of black Moll that did squint . Jack the coal-heaver thought himself slighted , They carried the rig on so quiet , And swore as he was not invited , He'd go there and kick up a riot ; Then hectoring , bouncing , and swearing , So boldly he enter'd the house , But when he saw Joey the sandman , The cull was as still as a mouse . Bess the bunter sung Murdoch O'Blaney The chorus it made the house ring , Nell with no nose cry'd you'll shame me , If such bawdy songs you do sing ; Drunken Levi the Jew was abusive , And would have god trim'd as 'tis said , Had not his pomatum been useful , As Kitty the bride was a maid . Joe the sandman he talk'd of the nailor , Away the coal-heaver did slink , Quite fainted hearted , worse than a tailor , Lest Joey should give him a clink ; But being all god drunk together , Ben prayed them all night for to stay , So coupl'd them in his long feathers , And parted good friends the next day . Turner , Printer , Coventry . 