The KENTISH Garland . GOOD People now I pray give Ear , and also true Attention . Unto these Lines which you shall hear , and Words which I shall mention . Within this Book as I shall write , as true it is reported , How a young Squire ruin'd quite a Damsel whom he courted . She was his Father's Servant-Maid , and Daughter to a Brazier , He often would her Heart invade , at every turn and leisure . With all the Arguments of Love , which Passion might discover , Protesting to the Powers above , how dearly he did love her . With modest Blushes she reply'd , sir , pray stop your Proceeding , For I am no ways qualify'd , neither for Birth nor Breeding . You can have Choice of Ladies gay , from noble Loins descended , Therefore let me alone I pray , your Friends will be offended . Well met , the Jewel of my Heart , fear not my Friends Displeasure , Let who will frown I'll take thy Part , I love thee out of Measure . No one that's born of noble Blood does stand within my Favour . I honour thee , with what is good , for you I love forever . With modest Blushes she reply'd , sir , stop those found Pretences , For if your Friends should it know , then they would be offended . Discourse to me of Love no more , but strive to please your Parents , I'd rather wed with one that's poor , then wed to live at Variance . Farewell the Jewel of my Heart , fear not my Friends Displeasure ; Let who will frown , I'll take thy Part , I'll love thee out of Measure . Therefore cheer up , my lovely Dear , if Parents they should slight me , Till I my Breath and Life resign , dear Jewel I will right thee . Kind Sir , you promise more to me , than can be now expected ; While you possess such Riches store , then Love may be perfected ; Eut if your Parents should now stand against you with Denial , To disinherit you of all , then there will come the Trial. That is the worst which they can do , let them use their Pleasure : I must be loyal , just and true , and love thee out of Measure . If they would wrong their darling Son , for such a poor Transgression , Then les them go , when that is done I have a large Possession . The which was left to me of late , 'twas by a near Relation . Let Father frown , and Mother hate , I'm in a happy Station : Therefore cheer up my dearest Dear , if Parents should disdain us : I hope two thousand Pounds a Year , will modestly maintain us . These Arguments and many more he used to obtain her . She gave Consent to wed , wherefore there's none alive can blame her . For she was made his lawful Wife , by their protested Marriage , But soon she lost her precious Life , by his ungrateful Carriage . Unknown to Friends and Parents dear , this Couple they were wedded , And in the space of half a Year after they both were bedded . It seems she proved young with Child , her looks began to show it , Until his Friends were reconcil'd , be would not let them know it . But up to famous London Town , immediately he brought her , And to behave with modesty and Decency he taught her . Much like a youthful Lady gay , she seem'd , all in her Beauty ; And while he with her there did stay , he shew'd a Husband's Duty . As they were charm'd with mutual Love , which for a Season lasted ; At length they herd a dismal Noise , which all their Pleasure blasted . His Parents came to understand , by private Information , That he had Lodgings in the Strand , and fill'd with Recreation . They sent a Letter full of Wrath , and threatn'd her with Ruin , Which he receiv'd , while she stood by , and at the same stood viewing . Tears from his Eyes did flow amain , she asked him the Reason : Said he , my Friends do me disdain . They both wept for a Season . She read these Lines as well as he , and found them harsh and cruel : Said she , my Dear be kind to me , be kind my dearest Jewel , Let me not suffer for thy sake , consider my Condition . For if you don't , my Heart will break , it was not my Ambition To be a Lady , well you know , 'twas long e'er I consented . Why do they seem to threaten so ? I strove for to prevent i But now I am your lawful Wife , which you was pleas'd to make me , Your smiles perhaps may save my Life , I die if you forsake me . He took her by the Hand , and said , my dear , my Joy and Sweating , Within our Lodgings pray abide , till our next happy Meeting . With Kisses sweet and solemn Vows , they from each other parted , But Grief appeared on her Brows , for she was brokenhearted . He promised to take her Part , and certainly excuse her , To Father , nay , and Mother too , that they might not abuse her : To make the Matter fair and clear , and in all Cases clear her . He went , but ne'er return'd again , and never more came near her . But when she came unto the Town , they told her he was marry'd , To a young Lady of Renown , with Grief she then miscarried . But when his Parents came to find , that she was with their Neighbour , To whom she did her Conscience clear , within the Time of Labour . They threatened her with Banishment , for tricking of the Squire , But fatal Death did them prevent , for she did soon expire . But some Minutes before she died , in Friends and Neighbours hearing . She wrung her Hands , and weeping said , what is there not appearing ? Will you not come near me then ? o ! Husband most falsehearted , With just Revenge I'll haunt you when my wronged Soul's departed ; Accordingly as she had said , within three Nights after , Came to the Room where he laid the wronged Brazier's Daughter . When in the midst of their Joy , to their amazing Wonder , The Room was fill'd with dreadful Noise like roaring Claps of Thunder . To crown the stately marriage Bed , they saw a Flash of Fire , And herd a dismal Voice that said , o ! most ungrateful Squire . The lady that lies by your Side , she shall not long enjoy you , It was I that was your lawful Bride , just Vengeance must destroy you : Within her Arms like Ice or Clay , the Spirit did enfold him : By Force she took him quite away , his Lady could not hold him . She shriek'd and cry'd , but all in vain , for then the Spirit gave him That very Night his fatal Bane , there's none alive could save him . The Lady then rose up with speed , at this sad Consternation , Where on his Breast they plain did read These Words of Lamentation . In perfect Roman Letters blue , This Wretch was my Undoing , He being false , has brought me to my Death and utter Ruin . For making me his lawful Wife , the Deed he then to smother : And for the cursed golden Prize , he married with another . His faithless Tongue seduc'd my Soul , and easily deceiv'd me , His perjur'd Words pierced my Heart , and of my Life bereav'd me . Leaving his Wife and Child to fallen , a sacrifice together . He makes a third that caused ill , so now farewell together . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow-Church-Yard , London . The KENTISH Garland . GOOD People now I pray give Ear , and also true Attention . Unto these Lines which you shall hear , and Words which I shall mention . Within this Book as I shall write , as true it is reported , How a young Squire ruin'd quite a Damsel whom he courted . She was his Father's Servant-Maid , and Daughter to a Brazier , He often would her Heart invade , at every turn and leisure . With all the Arguments of Love , which Passion might discover , Protesting to the Powers above , how dearly he did love her . With modest Blushes she reply'd , sir , pray stop your Proceeding , For I am no ways qualify'd , neither for Birth nor Breeding . You can have Choice of Ladies gay , from noble Loins descended , Therefore let me alone I pray , your Friends will be offended . Well met , the Jewel of my Heart , fear not my Friends Displeasure , Let who will frown I'll take thy Part , I love thee out of Measure . No one that's born of noble Blood does stand within my Favour . I honour thee , with what is good , for you I love forever . With modest Blushes she reply'd , sir , stop those found Pretences , For if your Friends should it know , then they would be offended . Discourse to me of Love no more , but strive to please your Parents , I'd rather wed with one that's poor , then wed to live at Variance . Farewell the Jewel of my Heart , fear not my Friends Displeasure ; Let who will frown , I'll take thy Part , I'll love thee out of Measure . Therefore cheer up , my lovely Dear , if Parents they should slight me , Till I my Breath and Life resign , dear Jewel I will right thee . Kind Sir , you promise more to me , than can be now expected ; While you possess such Riches store , then Love may be perfected ; Eut if your Parents should now stand against you with Denial , To disinherit you of all , then there will come the Trial. That is the worst which they can do , let them use their Pleasure : I must be loyal , just and true , and love thee out of Measure . If they would wrong their darling Son , for such a poor Transgression , Then les them go , when that is done I have a large Possession . The which was left to me of late , 'twas by a near Relation . Let Father frown , and Mother hate , I'm in a happy Station : Therefore cheer up my dearest Dear , if Parents should disdain us : I hope two thousand Pounds a Year , will modestly maintain us . These Arguments and many more he used to obtain her . She gave Consent to wed , wherefore there's none alive can blame her . For she was made his lawful Wife , by their protested Marriage , But soon she lost her precious Life , by his ungrateful Carriage . Unknown to Friends and Parents dear , this Couple they were wedded , And in the space of half a Year after they both were bedded . It seems she proved young with Child , her looks began to show it , Until his Friends were reconcil'd , be would not let them know it . But up to famous London Town , immediately he brought her , And to behave with modesty and Decency he taught her . Much like a youthful Lady gay , she seem'd , all in her Beauty ; And while he with her there did stay , he shew'd a Husband's Duty . As they were charm'd with mutual Love , which for a Season lasted ; At length they herd a dismal Noise , which all their Pleasure blasted . His Parents came to understand , by private Information , That he had Lodgings in the Strand , and fill'd with Recreation . They sent a Letter full of Wrath , and threatn'd her with Ruin , Which he receiv'd , while she stood by , and at the same stood viewing . Tears from his Eyes did flow amain , she asked him the Reason : Said he , my Friends do me disdain . They both wept for a Season . She read these Lines as well as he , and found them harsh and cruel : Said she , my Dear be kind to me , be kind my dearest Jewel , Let me not suffer for thy sake , consider my Condition . For if you don't , my Heart will break , it was not my Ambition To be a Lady , well you know , 'twas long e'er I consented . Why do they seem to threaten so ? I strove for to prevent i But now I am your lawful Wife , which you was pleas'd to make me , Your smiles perhaps may save my Life , I die if you forsake me . He took her by the Hand , and said , my dear , my Joy and Sweating , Within our Lodgings pray abide , till our next happy Meeting . With Kisses sweet and solemn Vows , they from each other parted , But Grief appeared on her Brows , for she was brokenhearted . He promised to take her Part , and certainly excuse her , To Father , nay , and Mother too , that they might not abuse her : To make the Matter fair and clear , and in all Cases clear her . He went , but ne'er return'd again , and never more came near her . But when she came unto the Town , they told her he was marry'd , To a young Lady of Renown , with Grief she then miscarried . But when his Parents came to find , that she was with their Neighbour , To whom she did her Conscience clear , within the Time of Labour . They threatened her with Banishment , for tricking of the Squire , But fatal Death did them prevent , for she did soon expire . But some Minutes before she died , in Friends and Neighbours hearing . She wrung her Hands , and weeping said , what is there not appearing ? Will you not come near me then ? o ! Husband most falsehearted , With just Revenge I'll haunt you when my wronged Soul's departed ; Accordingly as she had said , within three Nights after , Came to the Room where he laid the wronged Brazier's Daughter . When in the midst of their Joy , to their amazing Wonder , The Room was fill'd with dreadful Noise like roaring Claps of Thunder . To crown the stately marriage Bed , they saw a Flash of Fire , And herd a dismal Voice that said , o ! most ungrateful Squire . The lady that lies by your Side , she shall not long enjoy you , It was I that was your lawful Bride , just Vengeance must destroy you : Within her Arms like Ice or Clay , the Spirit did enfold him : By Force she took him quite away , his Lady could not hold him . She shriek'd and cry'd , but all in vain , for then the Spirit gave him That very Night his fatal Bane , there's none alive could save him . The Lady then rose up with speed , at this sad Consternation , Where on his Breast they plain did read These Words of Lamentation . In perfect Roman Letters blue , This Wretch was my Undoing , He being false , has brought me to my Death and utter Ruin . For making me his lawful Wife , the Deed he then to smother : And for the cursed golden Prize , he married with another . His faithless Tongue seduc'd my Soul , and easily deceiv'd me , His perjur'd Words pierced my Heart , and of my Life bereav'd me . Leaving his Wife and Child to fallen , a sacrifice together . He makes a third that caused ill , so now farewell together . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow-Church-Yard , London . 