True Love Unvail'd , Or , The Coy Lady Overcome at last . This lively Gallant having time and leisure , Did Court the Lady to Enjoy his pleasure ; But she seemed coy , and would not moved be , Unto his loving suit for to agree : Till at the length , Love pleading without fee , She did resign up all immediately . To a Rare New Tune , Or , The French Minnim . With Allowance . DOwn in a Valley where Nymphs are a playing , and the Young Shepherd's are tending their Sheep , Carefully keeping their Flocks without Straying , after a Dream in a slumbering sleep : I spy'd two Lovers just at their first meeting , who seemed fearful lest they should be seen , Kindly Embracing , and lovely greeting , as hand , in hand , they passed over the green . A proper young Stripling the Youth he was truly , clad in Rich Clothing most seemly to see , Though he was troubled with passion unruly , Ruddy Complexion'd , and Comely was he : Of a fine Carriage , and loving Behaviour , scarce such another there was to be found ; One that in Love was not subject to waver , though the blind Archer had given him a Wound . The Maid she was bonny , of beauty most bright , and like to Diana was clothed in green ; He needs must be frozen that could not delight , in such a Girls Company for to be seen : With Amorous Glances she looked on her Lover , yet she did modestly blush the same time , Which made him more willing his mind to discover , fearing his silence was counted a crime . Now my own Dearest , since 'tis our good fortune , here for to meet at this time , in this place , Let me no longer thy Favour importune , but let us freely and kindly embrace : Cupid will smile , and Dame Venus look cheerful , for to behold us in love to agree , Therefore my Honey thou need'st not be fearful , but on this Hillock come fit down by me . Oh! quoth the Maiden , and blushed at the motion , there may be danger in coming too nigh , Love though 'tis sweet , may be termed a potion , bitter inth' end , though it's fair to the eye ; Therefore excuse me I fear to be taken , lest at the last I be left in the lurch , For many a Girl hath been basely forsaken , being just ready to go to the Church . The second Part , To the same Tune . Be not so fearful my dear but fit by me , for why unto thee I vow and protest , I cannot live if thou seem to deny me , since of all others I fancy thee bes Make no delay , for in Love it is adious , at thy command I will ever remain , Seeing the time , and the place are commodious , who from such pleasant delight can refrain ? Thy pretty body so neat and so slender , hath Captivated my heart and my eye , That love , for love , you are bound for to render , take pity on me or else I shall die : Do not delight to be cruel and froward , for by this kiss I will ever be thine ; He that fair Lady wins , must be no Coward , make no demur but agree to be mine . O ( quoth the Virgin ) how I am divided , being o'recome by your person and charms ; Honour must yield , when by love it is guided , now could I freely fly into thy arms : For to be real , my love and affection , hath made me only at thy own command : Cupid hath brought my heart into subjection , I can no longer your Batteries withstand . Then ( quoth her Lover ) since we are concluded , let us resolve to make use of our time , We will no longer by fears be deluded but take delight , while our love is in prime : For when old age does come , feeble and crazy , then to our pleasures we must bid adieu ; Therefore in youth let us never be Lazy , for the time passed we can never renew . Into a pleasant Grove then they retired , where none could see them their loves to molest , She being free to do what he desired , under a Myrtle they sat down to res Where they did pass away time at their pleasure , yielding each other , true joy and content ; And afterwards they walk home at their leisure , having no cause of their time to repent . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , near the Hos - pital-gate , in West-smith-field . True Love Unvail'd , Or , The Coy Lady Overcome at last . This lively Gallant having time and leisure , Did Court the Lady to Enjoy his pleasure ; But she seemed coy , and would not moved be , Unto his loving suit for to agree : Till at the length , Love pleading without fee , She did resign up all immediately . To a Rare New Tune , Or , The French Minnim . With Allowance . DOwn in a Valley where Nymphs are a playing , and the Young Shepherd's are tending their Sheep , Carefully keeping their Flocks without Straying , after a Dream in a slumbering sleep : I spy'd two Lovers just at their first meeting , who seemed fearful lest they should be seen , Kindly Embracing , and lovely greeting , as hand , in hand , they passed over the green . A proper young Stripling the Youth he was truly , clad in Rich Clothing most seemly to see , Though he was troubled with passion unruly , Ruddy Complexion'd , and Comely was he : Of a fine Carriage , and loving Behaviour , scarce such another there was to be found ; One that in Love was not subject to waver , though the blind Archer had given him a Wound . The Maid she was bonny , of beauty most bright , and like to Diana was clothed in green ; He needs must be frozen that could not delight , in such a Girls Company for to be seen : With Amorous Glances she looked on her Lover , yet she did modestly blush the same time , Which made him more willing his mind to discover , fearing his silence was counted a crime . Now my own Dearest , since 'tis our good fortune , here for to meet at this time , in this place , Let me no longer thy Favour importune , but let us freely and kindly embrace : Cupid will smile , and Dame Venus look cheerful , for to behold us in love to agree , Therefore my Honey thou need'st not be fearful , but on this Hillock come fit down by me . Oh! quoth the Maiden , and blushed at the motion , there may be danger in coming too nigh , Love though 'tis sweet , may be termed a potion , bitter inth' end , though it's fair to the eye ; Therefore excuse me I fear to be taken , lest at the last I be left in the lurch , For many a Girl hath been basely forsaken , being just ready to go to the Church . The second Part , To the same Tune . Be not so fearful my dear but fit by me , for why unto thee I vow and protest , I cannot live if thou seem to deny me , since of all others I fancy thee bes Make no delay , for in Love it is adious , at thy command I will ever remain , Seeing the time , and the place are commodious , who from such pleasant delight can refrain ? Thy pretty body so neat and so slender , hath Captivated my heart and my eye , That love , for love , you are bound for to render , take pity on me or else I shall die : Do not delight to be cruel and froward , for by this kiss I will ever be thine ; He that fair Lady wins , must be no Coward , make no demur but agree to be mine . O ( quoth the Virgin ) how I am divided , being o'recome by your person and charms ; Honour must yield , when by love it is guided , now could I freely fly into thy arms : For to be real , my love and affection , hath made me only at thy own command : Cupid hath brought my heart into subjection , I can no longer your Batteries withstand . Then ( quoth her Lover ) since we are concluded , let us resolve to make use of our time , We will no longer by fears be deluded but take delight , while our love is in prime : For when old age does come , feeble and crazy , then to our pleasures we must bid adieu ; Therefore in youth let us never be Lazy , for the time passed we can never renew . Into a pleasant Grove then they retired , where none could see them their loves to molest , She being free to do what he desired , under a Myrtle they sat down to res Where they did pass away time at their pleasure , yielding each other , true joy and content ; And afterwards they walk home at their leisure , having no cause of their time to repent . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , near the Hos - pital-gate , in West-smith-field . 