The DOWNFAL OF THE WHIGGS : Or , Their Lamentation for Fear of A Loyal Parliament . To the Tune of , Patrick Flemmen he was a Valiant Soldier . I . DId'st ever see the like , dear Brother , Our Saints they are falling all together ? The Presbyter , 'Pendant , and Quaker , We've neither Hope's in the House , nor Speaker ! II The 'Torys Drink to the Confusion Of our Damn'd Members for the Exclusion ; And Curses our Assosiation , Z ----- s , let us run quite out of the Nation . III . How durst they make L'Estrange a Member ! Our Mortal Foe , and bold Offender ? Whom our late Parli'ment Attempted , They'd Hang'd him if he had not prevented . IV. At Westminster under our Noses , Our numerous Whiggs o're Powers Opposes , And by two Thousand Votes Out-pol'd Us , The Devil I am sure , hath forsook or sold Us ! V. Shall the Saints who used to have the Glories , To Vote and Spew out all the Torys , The King no Money must have , they agreed on't Unless he'l pawn his Crown and Head on't ! VI . This Parli'ment will give us Caution As formerly , to mind ev'ry Motion ; But if th' Old Cause should be Overruled , They must expect by the Rout for to be Schooled . VII . York and Durham , Oxford , Cambridge , Glocester , Winchester , with Advantage ; Nay , every County and Corporation , And the Devil a Word of Arbitration . VIII . Dangerfield in the Name of Monmouth , Used to Knight Men , now's in the Dungeon : Him we sav'd to save Oats our Father , But now we fear they'l Hang both together . IX . Now to save our Saints from Disasters , We'l Snugg in the Bosoms of our Sisters : If the Parli'ment send for to Gail us , Their Smocks our Surplis , none shall Unveil us . FINIS . Printed for J. Dean , in Cranborn-Street , over-a - gainst Newport-House in Leicester-Fields . The DOWNFAL OF THE WHIGGS : Or , Their Lamentation for Fear of A Loyal Parliament . To the Tune of , Patrick Flemmen he was a Valiant Soldier . I . DId'st ever see the like , dear Brother , Our Saints they are falling all together ? The Presbyter , 'Pendant , and Quaker , We've neither Hope's in the House , nor Speaker ! II The 'Torys Drink to the Confusion Of our Damn'd Members for the Exclusion ; And Curses our Assosiation , Z ----- s , let us run quite out of the Nation . III . How durst they make L'Estrange a Member ! Our Mortal Foe , and bold Offender ? Whom our late Parli'ment Attempted , They'd Hang'd him if he had not prevented . IV. At Westminster under our Noses , Our numerous Whiggs o're Powers Opposes , And by two Thousand Votes Out-pol'd Us , The Devil I am sure , hath forsook or sold Us ! V. Shall the Saints who used to have the Glories , To Vote and Spew out all the Torys , The King no Money must have , they agreed on't Unless he'l pawn his Crown and Head on't ! VI . This Parli'ment will give us Caution As formerly , to mind ev'ry Motion ; But if th' Old Cause should be Overruled , They must expect by the Rout for to be Schooled . VII . York and Durham , Oxford , Cambridge , Glocester , Winchester , with Advantage ; Nay , every County and Corporation , And the Devil a Word of Arbitration . VIII . Dangerfield in the Name of Monmouth , Used to Knight Men , now's in the Dungeon : Him we sav'd to save Oats our Father , But now we fear they'l Hang both together . IX . Now to save our Saints from Disasters , We'l Snugg in the Bosoms of our Sisters : If the Parli'ment send for to Gail us , Their Smocks our Surplis , none shall Unveil us . FINIS . Printed for J. Dean , in Cranborn-Street , over-a - gainst Newport-House in Leicester-Fields . 