Dolly and Molly : OR , The Two Country Damosels Fortune's at London . Dolly and Molly came up to the Town To try their fortune , wandering up and down : At length both marched together to a Ball , There Moll a Gallant god Doll none at all : But Doll at last in town was richly marry'd , Moll god a Clap and shamefully miscarry'd . To and Excellent New Play-House Tune , Or , Bacon and Beans . With Allowance , Dolly and Molly are new come to Town Doll hath god nothing , but Moll a silk Gown : Dolly was handsome though pev [ i ] sh and coy But Molly was buxom and free to enjoy . Dolly and Molly they went to White-hall , Dolly god nothing but Molly god all : Dolly she scorned to have a Gallant , But Molly had all things that Dolly did want . As Dolly and Molly were walking near th' Court , A youngster did Dolly began for to sport ; But she put him of with a pish and a fie , Saying , Lord Sir be civil , else from you i'le fly . When Dolly refused him , to Molly he went , For one of the two to enjoy he was ben He asked her a question which made her to smile , Then a kiss and a Guiny did Molly beguile . He took her aside and he pleas'd her so well , That Molly consented with him for to dwell , There's nothing on earth that's to Molly deny'd , Her humour to please , and to pomper her pride . He gave her fine clothes and all things of the best , Because that her delicate body he pressed , Her Country speech did so heighten his charms , That Molly could seldom rest out of his arms . Now Mally is rich and Dolly is poor , But Dolly is honest though Mally a Whore : Doll said 'twas a pleasure to be modest and coy But Moll swore 'twas pleasanter to enjoy , Quoth Mally to Dolly i'de have the be wise , You'l never get any thing if you are nice : Observe but what state I do l [ i ] we in , and then You'l surely learn to be kinder to men . O Dolly the pleasures of love art so sweet , When with equal desires together we me that nothing on earth can compare with that bliss , Beside 'tis and honour to be call'd a fine Miss . Thus Molly tempts Dolly to go to the sport , And about her brave Gallants begin to resor For Dolly was handsome in Country grey , And was far more tempting then those that were gay Says Dolly to Molly 'twixt anger and scorn , O Molly you'l wish you had never been born : Those immodest pleasures which you so commend , Will bring you to sorrow and shame in the end Thus Molly and Dolly could never agree , Mally had Gallants more then two or three , She traded with all that had silver and gold Till at leangth like a town Miss she grew bawdy & bold 'Twas Dolly's good luck a place for to get , To wait on a Lady whose fortune was great Accounting it better a servant to be , Then a Lady of pleasure of the highest degree , This Dolly was pretty and cleanly and neat Her body well shaped not to small nor too great Her Mistress she pleas'd and behav'd herself well , That Dolly most happily with her did dwell . Now Dolly is god into all peoples favour , & many young Shopkeepers strive for to have her : But Doll put him of with a modest reply : Saying Sirs I am resolved a Maiden to die . But at last the coy Virgin was struck with loves dart Little Cupid hath w [ oh ] undead poor Dolly to 'th heart For one of these youngsters so closely did ply , That Dolly no longer knew how to deny . Then marri'd they were having all friends consent And happilly love to each others conten She proves a kind Wife , and a good Husband he , Then what greater blessing on earth can there be : But Molly dispis'd her and call'd her young slut Saying , Dolly there's more ways then one to go to 't I [ ' ] le take my delight with the blades of the times : Such pleasures as those without doubt are no crimes But a little while after such was her mishap , Poor Molly had god a most desperate Clap , Her gallants forsook her and left her forlorn , Crying out , you foul Whore we your company scorn . Now Molly's distressed , and the pain must endure , She flies to a Quack her distemper to cure : But Dolly lives bravely , and her I commend , For honesty always will thrive in The End. Printed for P. Brook [ s ] by , at the Golden-ball , in West-Smithfield . Dolly and Molly : OR , The Two Country Damosels Fortune's at London . Dolly and Molly came up to the Town To try their fortune , wandering up and down : At length both marched together to a Ball , There Moll a Gallant god Doll none at all : But Doll at last in town was richly marry'd , Moll god a Clap and shamefully miscarry'd . To and Excellent New Play-House Tune , Or , Bacon and Beans . With Allowance , Dolly and Molly are new come to Town Doll hath god nothing , but Moll a silk Gown : Dolly was handsome though pev [ i ] sh and coy But Molly was buxom and free to enjoy . Dolly and Molly they went to White-hall , Dolly god nothing but Molly god all : Dolly she scorned to have a Gallant , But Molly had all things that Dolly did want . As Dolly and Molly were walking near th' Court , A youngster did Dolly began for to sport ; But she put him of with a pish and a fie , Saying , Lord Sir be civil , else from you i'le fly . When Dolly refused him , to Molly he went , For one of the two to enjoy he was ben He asked her a question which made her to smile , Then a kiss and a Guiny did Molly beguile . He took her aside and he pleas'd her so well , That Molly consented with him for to dwell , There's nothing on earth that's to Molly deny'd , Her humour to please , and to pomper her pride . He gave her fine clothes and all things of the best , Because that her delicate body he pressed , Her Country speech did so heighten his charms , That Molly could seldom rest out of his arms . Now Mally is rich and Dolly is poor , But Dolly is honest though Mally a Whore : Doll said 'twas a pleasure to be modest and coy But Moll swore 'twas pleasanter to enjoy , Quoth Mally to Dolly i'de have the be wise , You'l never get any thing if you are nice : Observe but what state I do l [ i ] we in , and then You'l surely learn to be kinder to men . O Dolly the pleasures of love art so sweet , When with equal desires together we me that nothing on earth can compare with that bliss , Beside 'tis and honour to be call'd a fine Miss . Thus Molly tempts Dolly to go to the sport , And about her brave Gallants begin to resor For Dolly was handsome in Country grey , And was far more tempting then those that were gay Says Dolly to Molly 'twixt anger and scorn , O Molly you'l wish you had never been born : Those immodest pleasures which you so commend , Will bring you to sorrow and shame in the end Thus Molly and Dolly could never agree , Mally had Gallants more then two or three , She traded with all that had silver and gold Till at leangth like a town Miss she grew bawdy & bold 'Twas Dolly's good luck a place for to get , To wait on a Lady whose fortune was great Accounting it better a servant to be , Then a Lady of pleasure of the highest degree , This Dolly was pretty and cleanly and neat Her body well shaped not to small nor too great Her Mistress she pleas'd and behav'd herself well , That Dolly most happily with her did dwell . Now Dolly is god into all peoples favour , & many young Shopkeepers strive for to have her : But Doll put him of with a modest reply : Saying Sirs I am resolved a Maiden to die . But at last the coy Virgin was struck with loves dart Little Cupid hath w [ oh ] undead poor Dolly to 'th heart For one of these youngsters so closely did ply , That Dolly no longer knew how to deny . Then marri'd they were having all friends consent And happilly love to each others conten She proves a kind Wife , and a good Husband he , Then what greater blessing on earth can there be : But Molly dispis'd her and call'd her young slut Saying , Dolly there's more ways then one to go to 't I [ ' ] le take my delight with the blades of the times : Such pleasures as those without doubt are no crimes But a little while after such was her mishap , Poor Molly had god a most desperate Clap , Her gallants forsook her and left her forlorn , Crying out , you foul Whore we your company scorn . Now Molly's distressed , and the pain must endure , She flies to a Quack her distemper to cure : But Dolly lives bravely , and her I commend , For honesty always will thrive in The End. Printed for P. Brook [ s ] by , at the Golden-ball , in West-Smithfield . 