Unconstant Phillis . OR , The Unfortunate Shepherd's Lamentation . A Shepherd Swain in Love with Phillis fair , By her disdain is brought to such despair ; That doubtless he will die without relief , Such is his sorrow , and so great his grief , His Phillis lov'd him once , but he neglected The present time and now he is rejected . to and excellent new Playhouse Tune ; Or , Tell me no more you love . HOw cruel is fortune grown , to turn all my hops to despair ? From bliss I am headlong thrown , and banished the sighed of my dear : Grant me some pity kind heaven , to my sorrows afford some relief , Or let my poor soul be given , a Martyr unto my grief . All night I can take no rest , but Phillis is still in my mind , In dreams I with her am blessed , but waking I find her unkind : Which pierces my heart full soar , and wounds me in every vein , So much that I cry and roar , while she triumphs in disdain . Ah Phillis remember yet , what pleasing delights I gave , I am sure you can't forget , you said I was brisk and brave : 'Twas under the Sycamore tree , then , then , Oh then that same time , You vow'd that you did love me , and counted not love a crime . Those kisses you gave me then , will witness against your hate , Come kiss me so once again , and i'le never complain of my fate : Those delights you would equally share , which were you consenting you'd find ; Come hang't never sighs nor fear , but do't with a willing mind . If that I for love should die , you'd want such a faithful friend , You know it as well as I , I need not myself commend : Your kindness i'le reward , and doubly your love i'le requite , Then Phillis my suit regard , and rob me not of my right . Ah! was it not better far , when lovingly we did meet ; Then cruel thus as you are , with hatred your Lover to gree That life which does yet remain , to love I forever resign , And though I do suffer pain , the fault shall be none of mine . I am plung'd in a desperate Pool of folly , as well as Love , For he is a negligent Fool , that will not his time improve : My Phillis once gave me her heart , and lov'd me more dearer then life , She vow'd she would never part , but live with me as a wife . I trusted too much on her vow , and was not so found as she , Which makes me repent it now , because she is cruel to me : This makes me distracted and mad , and shall never be quiet in mind , To think of those joys I have had , and find pretty Phillis unkind . the powers of Love can tell , my passion is true and just , My Phillis I love so well , that without her I perish mus So passionate is my desire , and so eagerly burns the flame , That gladly I could expire , repeating her very name . I'le to her , and once again my desperate sorrows relate , One smile would relieve my pain , and banish my threatening fate : If now I do fancy aright , & the God of love stand but my friend , Then I shall have such delight , that never can have And End. Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden - Ball in West-Smithfield . Unconstant Phillis . OR , The Unfortunate Shepherd's Lamentation . A Shepherd Swain in Love with Phillis fair , By her disdain is brought to such despair ; That doubtless he will die without relief , Such is his sorrow , and so great his grief , His Phillis lov'd him once , but he neglected The present time and now he is rejected . to and excellent new Playhouse Tune ; Or , Tell me no more you love . HOw cruel is fortune grown , to turn all my hops to despair ? From bliss I am headlong thrown , and banished the sighed of my dear : Grant me some pity kind heaven , to my sorrows afford some relief , Or let my poor soul be given , a Martyr unto my grief . All night I can take no rest , but Phillis is still in my mind , In dreams I with her am blessed , but waking I find her unkind : Which pierces my heart full soar , and wounds me in every vein , So much that I cry and roar , while she triumphs in disdain . Ah Phillis remember yet , what pleasing delights I gave , I am sure you can't forget , you said I was brisk and brave : 'Twas under the Sycamore tree , then , then , Oh then that same time , You vow'd that you did love me , and counted not love a crime . Those kisses you gave me then , will witness against your hate , Come kiss me so once again , and i'le never complain of my fate : Those delights you would equally share , which were you consenting you'd find ; Come hang't never sighs nor fear , but do't with a willing mind . If that I for love should die , you'd want such a faithful friend , You know it as well as I , I need not myself commend : Your kindness i'le reward , and doubly your love i'le requite , Then Phillis my suit regard , and rob me not of my right . Ah! was it not better far , when lovingly we did meet ; Then cruel thus as you are , with hatred your Lover to gree That life which does yet remain , to love I forever resign , And though I do suffer pain , the fault shall be none of mine . I am plung'd in a desperate Pool of folly , as well as Love , For he is a negligent Fool , that will not his time improve : My Phillis once gave me her heart , and lov'd me more dearer then life , She vow'd she would never part , but live with me as a wife . I trusted too much on her vow , and was not so found as she , Which makes me repent it now , because she is cruel to me : This makes me distracted and mad , and shall never be quiet in mind , To think of those joys I have had , and find pretty Phillis unkind . the powers of Love can tell , my passion is true and just , My Phillis I love so well , that without her I perish mus So passionate is my desire , and so eagerly burns the flame , That gladly I could expire , repeating her very name . I'le to her , and once again my desperate sorrows relate , One smile would relieve my pain , and banish my threatening fate : If now I do fancy aright , & the God of love stand but my friend , Then I shall have such delight , that never can have And End. Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden - Ball in West-Smithfield . 