JOCKEY'S DOWNFALL : A POEM On the late Total Defeat given to the Scotish Covenanters , near Hamilton Park , June 22 , 1679. by His MAJESTIES Forces , under the Command of His Highness the DUKE of MONMOUTH , etc Written by the Author of The Satyr against Hypocrites . HOw now Jockey , what again ? Does the Covenant ride thee still ? Or is Calvin reconcil'd To the Jesuit and the Deel ? Silly Owls , shame saw their Noses , Not to smell a damn'd old Cheat ! But where Satan owes a Shame , He'le be sure to pay his Debt . Then Mess John and Aundrew eke , Warmly ply'd their Pulpit thunder , And the easy Rabble wone , Part for Zeal and part for Plunder . Oh! they cry , so we may rise , And retrieve ourselves from need , 'Tis good Physic for a Kingdom Once in twenty year to bleed . This same parcel all of Saints Rebels both to King and Kirk , Headed thus by Baal's Priests , Were to do the Loard's great Work . Like to be well done i'faith Where the Dee'l was Overseer : But let Satan now look to't , This same blow may cost him dear . For if once Jack Presbyter Find the Devil play fowl play , Better had it been for him Ne're to have been born that day . For if once they 'gin to baul Not a word shall he be herd ; And he knows full well already How his credit is impair'd . Both Design and Motive too May be guess'd of these Bigots ; But their Hope's were greater far ; Else they were most cursed Sots . For , but that presumptuous Sins Are with them familiar grown , Strangely 'twas presum'd to think Handfuls could a King dethrone . But the poor mistaken throng , Hydra'd by so many a Priest , Took it for a Holy War , 'Gainst the Bishops and the Beast . Rams-horns were so fatal once To the Walls by them confounded , That they thought that all would totter , When their Bulls of Basan sounded . So the Bulls of Basan roar'd ; Pawd , and threw their Horns on high ; Groveling straight upon the Ground Brave Arch-Bishop low did lie . Up was Levite mounted then , And his Horns exalted high On the Shoulders of poor Men Zealously prepar'd to die . Weavers from their Shuttles flew ; Taylor skip'd from his Shopboard ; Countrymen their Ploughs forsook , Every one to serve the Loard . Then the Melted Calf was shew'd , Or the Covenant in a Clou Aaron Walch could do no less For to please rebellious Rout. Thus , their fury once inflam'd , Neighbours blood began to quaff , While the Priests that set them on In their Sleeves began to laugh . Now shall Crown and Bishop both Tumble to the Dirt , they cry'd , All a Cockhorse we shall ride ; But , like Sons a Whores , they ly'd . For eftsoons the valiant Graham Stopped their Fury , and of some Made Scotch Collops for the Crows , While the rest away did run . But not thus to be suppressed They retreat to reinforce . And the Dee'l to help his Servants Strait way brought them Foot & Horse . Tumult now Rebellion grown , There came Lords and Lairds to fight , Earlston Gourdon , Laird Blairquan , And some more of much might . Young Men two of Noble Raze ; O , the little wit of Zeal , All these , Curse you Meroz brought Blows upon their pates to feel . But their Number did but serve To advance great Monmouth's Glory , To chastise a lesser Force Would not have become his Story . For their Numbers being swell'd Worth the Terror of his Arms , He but came and cut the knot Of all Walches canting charms . Jockey had no time to speire At the fallen of this mishap , Loard , where wertenberg thou when our Foes Gave us this same cruel rap ? O , he was asleep , you Fools , When the Priests of Baal pray'd : Nor would Covenant be at leisure ; So fell Jockey 'twixt two Stools . Thus you see what Avarice And Rebellion does befall , Kirk and Covenant ye have lost , And the lives of Men withal . Now by my consent ye should Loose a little way bit more ; And to punish such Stone Priests Be made * Origen's before . [ * Who was Gelded . ] CHORUS . Now to altar Hopkins Prayer , From both Pope and Scot defend us : For the Turks we do not find Half the mischief do intend us . But for Simeon and for Levi , Viz. the Pope and Prester Scot , Heaven confound all their devices , And preserve us from the Plot . LONDON , Printed in the Year 1679. JOCKEY'S DOWNFALL : A POEM On the late Total Defeat given to the Scotish Covenanters , near Hamilton Park , June 22 , 1679. by His MAJESTIES Forces , under the Command of His Highness the DUKE of MONMOUTH , etc Written by the Author of The Satyr against Hypocrites . HOw now Jockey , what again ? Does the Covenant ride thee still ? Or is Calvin reconcil'd To the Jesuit and the Deel ? Silly Owls , shame saw their Noses , Not to smell a damn'd old Cheat ! But where Satan owes a Shame , He'le be sure to pay his Debt . Then Mess John and Aundrew eke , Warmly ply'd their Pulpit thunder , And the easy Rabble wone , Part for Zeal and part for Plunder . Oh! they cry , so we may rise , And retrieve ourselves from need , 'Tis good Physic for a Kingdom Once in twenty year to bleed . This same parcel all of Saints Rebels both to King and Kirk , Headed thus by Baal's Priests , Were to do the Loard's great Work . Like to be well done i'faith Where the Dee'l was Overseer : But let Satan now look to't , This same blow may cost him dear . For if once Jack Presbyter Find the Devil play fowl play , Better had it been for him Ne're to have been born that day . For if once they 'gin to baul Not a word shall he be herd ; And he knows full well already How his credit is impair'd . Both Design and Motive too May be guess'd of these Bigots ; But their Hope's were greater far ; Else they were most cursed Sots . For , but that presumptuous Sins Are with them familiar grown , Strangely 'twas presum'd to think Handfuls could a King dethrone . But the poor mistaken throng , Hydra'd by so many a Priest , Took it for a Holy War , 'Gainst the Bishops and the Beast . Rams-horns were so fatal once To the Walls by them confounded , That they thought that all would totter , When their Bulls of Basan sounded . So the Bulls of Basan roar'd ; Pawd , and threw their Horns on high ; Groveling straight upon the Ground Brave Arch-Bishop low did lie . Up was Levite mounted then , And his Horns exalted high On the Shoulders of poor Men Zealously prepar'd to die . Weavers from their Shuttles flew ; Taylor skip'd from his Shopboard ; Countrymen their Ploughs forsook , Every one to serve the Loard . Then the Melted Calf was shew'd , Or the Covenant in a Clou Aaron Walch could do no less For to please rebellious Rout. Thus , their fury once inflam'd , Neighbours blood began to quaff , While the Priests that set them on In their Sleeves began to laugh . Now shall Crown and Bishop both Tumble to the Dirt , they cry'd , All a Cockhorse we shall ride ; But , like Sons a Whores , they ly'd . For eftsoons the valiant Graham Stopped their Fury , and of some Made Scotch Collops for the Crows , While the rest away did run . But not thus to be suppressed They retreat to reinforce . And the Dee'l to help his Servants Strait way brought them Foot & Horse . Tumult now Rebellion grown , There came Lords and Lairds to fight , Earlston Gourdon , Laird Blairquan , And some more of much might . Young Men two of Noble Raze ; O , the little wit of Zeal , All these , Curse you Meroz brought Blows upon their pates to feel . But their Number did but serve To advance great Monmouth's Glory , To chastise a lesser Force Would not have become his Story . For their Numbers being swell'd Worth the Terror of his Arms , He but came and cut the knot Of all Walches canting charms . Jockey had no time to speire At the fallen of this mishap , Loard , where wertenberg thou when our Foes Gave us this same cruel rap ? O , he was asleep , you Fools , When the Priests of Baal pray'd : Nor would Covenant be at leisure ; So fell Jockey 'twixt two Stools . Thus you see what Avarice And Rebellion does befall , Kirk and Covenant ye have lost , And the lives of Men withal . Now by my consent ye should Loose a little way bit more ; And to punish such Stone Priests Be made * Origen's before . [ * Who was Gelded . ] CHORUS . Now to altar Hopkins Prayer , From both Pope and Scot defend us : For the Turks we do not find Half the mischief do intend us . But for Simeon and for Levi , Viz. the Pope and Prester Scot , Heaven confound all their devices , And preserve us from the Plot . LONDON , Printed in the Year 1679. 