Good Luck at las OR , The Art of Scorning discovered . Tune of , Ah Jenny Gin , etc Alexis . HOw long Elisa shall I mourn and sighs to you my pain ? How long do you design to scorn , and thus severe remain ? Shall sighs no power have to free me from this wound I bear ? Nor tears to drown my misery ? you gods must I despair ? Elisa . In vain Alexis you pretend to win Elisa's heart , You foolishly your time do spend , for you augment your smar Then Cordial Admonition take , in time your suit give o're ; Draw in those rains which are too slack , resolve to love no more , Alexis . Command the torrent of the Sea , its headlong course to stay . Or make fierce Tempests calm to be , when those you do obey : Then I'le resolve to court no more , for i'le preposterous prove , I'le leave the goddess I adore , and quite relinquish love . Elisa . Amintas now my heart does own , he now enjoys that jem , To him it does belong alone , nothing can it redeem : Hence therefore bold Usurper fly , if good words can't prevail , I this experiment will try ; severer usage shall . Alexis . All will not do ; for I will love to my last sigh'd-out breath ; Nought my hight passion can remove but the cold hand of death : Death , who'l immediately appear , when e're Alexis please ; This fatal Sword shall fetch him here ; my second wished-for ease . To thee ( Oh Cupid ) I must make myself a sacrifice ; A purer sure you ne'r did take into eternal bliss : Sword , now thy dreadful point appear , to strike Alexis dead , And send his soul exempt from care to its celestial bed . Elisa . Hold , hold my dear that impious hand , this bloody Scene remove ; Let Death avaunt at the command of my all conquering love : Long since you did obtain my heart , though always I seem'd coy , Though I to scorn you had the art , you only was my joy , Alexis , Charm me Elisa with that voice tell this to th' gods above , Tell them that mortals here have joys as great as they ; in love Come dear Elisa , come apace , fly to my longing arms , Let us enjoy while time and place invites each others charms . FINIS LONDON , Printed for P. Brooksby at the golden Ball near the Hospital gate in West Smithfield . Good Luck at las OR , The Art of Scorning discovered . Tune of , Ah Jenny Gin , etc Alexis . HOw long Elisa shall I mourn and sighs to you my pain ? How long do you design to scorn , and thus severe remain ? Shall sighs no power have to free me from this wound I bear ? Nor tears to drown my misery ? you gods must I despair ? Elisa . In vain Alexis you pretend to win Elisa's heart , You foolishly your time do spend , for you augment your smar Then Cordial Admonition take , in time your suit give o're ; Draw in those rains which are too slack , resolve to love no more , Alexis . Command the torrent of the Sea , its headlong course to stay . Or make fierce Tempests calm to be , when those you do obey : Then I'le resolve to court no more , for i'le preposterous prove , I'le leave the goddess I adore , and quite relinquish love . Elisa . Amintas now my heart does own , he now enjoys that jem , To him it does belong alone , nothing can it redeem : Hence therefore bold Usurper fly , if good words can't prevail , I this experiment will try ; severer usage shall . Alexis . All will not do ; for I will love to my last sigh'd-out breath ; Nought my hight passion can remove but the cold hand of death : Death , who'l immediately appear , when e're Alexis please ; This fatal Sword shall fetch him here ; my second wished-for ease . To thee ( Oh Cupid ) I must make myself a sacrifice ; A purer sure you ne'r did take into eternal bliss : Sword , now thy dreadful point appear , to strike Alexis dead , And send his soul exempt from care to its celestial bed . Elisa . Hold , hold my dear that impious hand , this bloody Scene remove ; Let Death avaunt at the command of my all conquering love : Long since you did obtain my heart , though always I seem'd coy , Though I to scorn you had the art , you only was my joy , Alexis , Charm me Elisa with that voice tell this to th' gods above , Tell them that mortals here have joys as great as they ; in love Come dear Elisa , come apace , fly to my longing arms , Let us enjoy while time and place invites each others charms . FINIS LONDON , Printed for P. Brooksby at the golden Ball near the Hospital gate in West Smithfield . 