The Countrymans care in choosing a Wife : OR , A young Bachelor hard to be pleased . A Wife he'l have , yet will be sure to choose One that he loves , the rest he does refuse ; And many sorts of Maids , he by hath passed , Being all unfit for him ; until at last Upon a Farmers Daughter he does pitch , That's a good Huswife , virtuous , neat , and rich . Tune of , I'le have one I love , etc Or , The Yellow-hair'd Laddy . I Am a brisk Youngster , and fain would be Wed ; And have a good Wife for to please me in Bed ; But I fear that in choosing , they should me beguile : Then i'le have one I love , though I live the less while . I'le not have a Girl that is bred at the Court ; For fear she be given to wanton and sport ; On every Gallant she's apt for to smile ; Then i'le have , etc A Citizens Daughter I dare not to take : The steps of her Mother she'l never forsake : She'l make me look out , you may see them a mile : Then i'le have , etc No maker of Buttons , nor yet of Bonelace ; Shall e're be my love , though I die on the place ; Although they do mince it , and simper and smile ; Yet i'le have one I love , though I live the less while . MY Hostesses Daughter , she must be deny'd ; Because that I fear she hath often been try'd ; Be sure she would fit me at Hedge , or at Style , But i'le have one I love , though I live the less while . She that hath much Suitors , and's loath to be wone ; And many a Youngman she perhaps hath undone . It is not her cunning that shall me beguile : For i'le have , etc A Wench that's imperious , and strives for to rule ; If that I should take her , you'd count me a Fool : She wou'd make my Noddle as soar as a Boil ; But i'le have , etc And she that is proud , and hath nought to begin ; I would not for such a one give a Sleeves Pin ; As soon as a better , my Bed she'l defile ; Then i'le have , etc I'le not have a Cook-Maid , for she is too black ; And when she does sweat , her Smock sticks to her Back : She'l scold , and she'l brawl , you may hear her a mile : But i'le have , etc The Lass that is fair , to be sure she is proud ; And she that is little , you know she is loud ; Against a good Husband , they'r apt to revile ; Then i'le have , etc But now for to tell you the depth of my mind ; A Rich Farmers Daughter , I have in the Wind ; For her I will Ride , if it be forty mile ; And i'le have , etc 'Tis she is my Betty , my Dear and delight ; Who hath my affection , by day and by nigh To her I will go , and i'le make her to smile ; For i'le have my own Love , though I live the less while . FINIS . The Countrymans care in choosing a Wife : OR , A young Bachelor hard to be pleased . A Wife he'l have , yet will be sure to choose One that he loves , the rest he does refuse ; And many sorts of Maids , he by hath passed , Being all unfit for him ; until at last Upon a Farmers Daughter he does pitch , That's a good Huswife , virtuous , neat , and rich . Tune of , I'le have one I love , etc Or , The Yellow-hair'd Laddy . I Am a brisk Youngster , and fain would be Wed ; And have a good Wife for to please me in Bed ; But I fear that in choosing , they should me beguile : Then i'le have one I love , though I live the less while . I'le not have a Girl that is bred at the Court ; For fear she be given to wanton and sport ; On every Gallant she's apt for to smile ; Then i'le have , etc A Citizens Daughter I dare not to take : The steps of her Mother she'l never forsake : She'l make me look out , you may see them a mile : Then i'le have , etc No maker of Buttons , nor yet of Bonelace ; Shall e're be my love , though I die on the place ; Although they do mince it , and simper and smile ; Yet i'le have one I love , though I live the less while . MY Hostesses Daughter , she must be deny'd ; Because that I fear she hath often been try'd ; Be sure she would fit me at Hedge , or at Style , But i'le have one I love , though I live the less while . She that hath much Suitors , and's loath to be wone ; And many a Youngman she perhaps hath undone . It is not her cunning that shall me beguile : For i'le have , etc A Wench that's imperious , and strives for to rule ; If that I should take her , you'd count me a Fool : She wou'd make my Noddle as soar as a Boil ; But i'le have , etc And she that is proud , and hath nought to begin ; I would not for such a one give a Sleeves Pin ; As soon as a better , my Bed she'l defile ; Then i'le have , etc I'le not have a Cook-Maid , for she is too black ; And when she does sweat , her Smock sticks to her Back : She'l scold , and she'l brawl , you may hear her a mile : But i'le have , etc The Lass that is fair , to be sure she is proud ; And she that is little , you know she is loud ; Against a good Husband , they'r apt to revile ; Then i'le have , etc But now for to tell you the depth of my mind ; A Rich Farmers Daughter , I have in the Wind ; For her I will Ride , if it be forty mile ; And i'le have , etc 'Tis she is my Betty , my Dear and delight ; Who hath my affection , by day and by nigh To her I will go , and i'le make her to smile ; For i'le have my own Love , though I live the less while . FINIS . 