And ANSWER to Unconstant WILLIAM , OR , The Young-man's Resolution to pay the young Lasses in their own Coin. Tune is , Here I love , there I love , etc Licensed according to Order . I Am a brisk Bachelor airy and young , who courts the young Maids with a flatt'ring tongue , I kiss and I squeeze them again and again , And vow I will Marry , but I know not when . There's Bridget , nay Susan , young Nancy and Nell , To each of these Lasses fine Stories I tell ; Soft Kisses I give them , a hundred and ten , And vow I will Marry , but I know not when . Sometime to the Tavern with Betty I go , And like a true Lover much kindness I show ; I Kiss , nay I hug and I cuddle her then , And vow I will Marry , but I know not when . Sometime a young Widow I happen to meet , I tell her with smiles that her joys i'le complete ; [ If she has ] much Treasure i'le honour her then , And vow i'll be Marry'd , but I know not when . So long as she lines me with Silver and Gold , A thousand sweet Charms in her Eyes I behold ; I Kiss , and I hug , and make much of her then , And vow I will Marry , but I know not when . So soon as her Treasure begins to decay , I think it high time to be packing away , Now if she calls after me , I answer then , That we will be Marry'd , but I know not when . Last Week I did walk to the Royal Exchange , And there among Ladies my fancy did range , I singl'd out one , and I promis'd her then , That we should be Marry'd , but I know not when . Lac'd Cravats and Ruffles as Presents she gave , To deck her young Lover both gallant and brave , With large protestations I promis'd her then , That we would be marry'd , but I know not when . She came to my Chamber one night , and no more , I taught her a Dance which she ne'r knew before ; Now this being ended , I promis'd her then , That we would be marry'd , but I know not when . I scorn the lewd Harlots that Trade up and down , To pick up a Living all over the Town ; I have pretty Lasses full threescore and ten , To whom I vow'd marriage , but I know not when . To sixteen young Chambermaids love I express , Who goes in their Towers , that delicate dress ; Love-Letters and Sonnets to them I do Pen , And swear I will marry , but I know not when . There's twenty young Nursery Maids in the Strand , Who every minute are at my command ; But here I live merrily , telling 'um then , That I will be marry'd , but I know not when . Each pretty fac'd Creature , it's very well known , Will think herself blessed to have one of her own ; At which I salutingly answer'd 'um then , That we will be marry'd , but I know not when . Sometime from the City of London I ride , Through many fair Counties to seek me a Bride ; The Country pretty Girls I cuddle then , And swear I will marry , but I know not when . If any one has a desire to know What may be the reason I baffle them so , Young Women are seven times falser than Men , Therefore I will marry , but I know not when . I once lov'd a Damsel as dear as my life , I Woo'd her and thought to have made her my Wife ; But she prov'd a Wanton to all sorts of Men , Therefore I will marry , but I know not when . FINIS . Printed for C. Bates , next door to the Crown-Tavern in West-Smithfield . And ANSWER to Unconstant WILLIAM , OR , The Young-man's Resolution to pay the young Lasses in their own Coin. Tune is , Here I love , there I love , etc Licensed according to Order . I Am a brisk Bachelor airy and young , who courts the young Maids with a flatt'ring tongue , I kiss and I squeeze them again and again , And vow I will Marry , but I know not when . There's Bridget , nay Susan , young Nancy and Nell , To each of these Lasses fine Stories I tell ; Soft Kisses I give them , a hundred and ten , And vow I will Marry , but I know not when . Sometime to the Tavern with Betty I go , And like a true Lover much kindness I show ; I Kiss , nay I hug and I cuddle her then , And vow I will Marry , but I know not when . Sometime a young Widow I happen to meet , I tell her with smiles that her joys i'le complete ; [ If she has ] much Treasure i'le honour her then , And vow i'll be Marry'd , but I know not when . So long as she lines me with Silver and Gold , A thousand sweet Charms in her Eyes I behold ; I Kiss , and I hug , and make much of her then , And vow I will Marry , but I know not when . So soon as her Treasure begins to decay , I think it high time to be packing away , Now if she calls after me , I answer then , That we will be Marry'd , but I know not when . Last Week I did walk to the Royal Exchange , And there among Ladies my fancy did range , I singl'd out one , and I promis'd her then , That we should be Marry'd , but I know not when . Lac'd Cravats and Ruffles as Presents she gave , To deck her young Lover both gallant and brave , With large protestations I promis'd her then , That we would be marry'd , but I know not when . She came to my Chamber one night , and no more , I taught her a Dance which she ne'r knew before ; Now this being ended , I promis'd her then , That we would be marry'd , but I know not when . I scorn the lewd Harlots that Trade up and down , To pick up a Living all over the Town ; I have pretty Lasses full threescore and ten , To whom I vow'd marriage , but I know not when . To sixteen young Chambermaids love I express , Who goes in their Towers , that delicate dress ; Love-Letters and Sonnets to them I do Pen , And swear I will marry , but I know not when . There's twenty young Nursery Maids in the Strand , Who every minute are at my command ; But here I live merrily , telling 'um then , That I will be marry'd , but I know not when . Each pretty fac'd Creature , it's very well known , Will think herself blessed to have one of her own ; At which I salutingly answer'd 'um then , That we will be marry'd , but I know not when . Sometime from the City of London I ride , Through many fair Counties to seek me a Bride ; The Country pretty Girls I cuddle then , And swear I will marry , but I know not when . If any one has a desire to know What may be the reason I baffle them so , Young Women are seven times falser than Men , Therefore I will marry , but I know not when . I once lov'd a Damsel as dear as my life , I Woo'd her and thought to have made her my Wife ; But she prov'd a Wanton to all sorts of Men , Therefore I will marry , but I know not when . FINIS . Printed for C. Bates , next door to the Crown-Tavern in West-Smithfield . 