A POEM AGAINST MARRIAGE ; Directed to that Inconsiderable Animal , call'd Husband . HUsband ! thou Dull unpitied Miscreant , Wedded to Noise , to Misery , and Want ; Sold and Eternal Vassal for thy Life , Oblieg'd to Cherish , and to Heat a Wife : Drudge on till Fifty ; at thy Own Expense Breath out thy Life in one Impertinence ; Repeat thy loath'd Embraces every Night , Prompted to Act , by Duty ( not Deligh ) christian thy froward Bantling every Year , And carefully thy Spurious Issue Rear : Go once a Week to see the Brat at Nurse , And let the Young Imposter drein thy Purse : Hedge-Sparrow-like , what Cuckoo's have begotten Do thou maintain , Incorrigible Sot . O! I could curse the Pimp that could do less , He's beneath Pity , and beyond Redress : Pox on him ! let him go ; what can I say ? Anethemas on him are Thrown away ; The wretch is marry'd , & has known the worst , And now his Blessing is , he can't be Cursed . Marry'd ! O Hell and Furies ! name it not , Hence , hence you Holy Cheats ; a Plot , a Plot . Marriage is but a Licens'd way to since , A Nooze to catch Religious Woodcocks in : Or the Nickname of some Malicious Friend , Begotten in Hell to Prosecute Mankind . 'Tis the Destroyer of our Peace and Health , Misspender of our precious Time and Wealth ; The Enemy to Wit , Valour , Mirth , all That we can Virtuous , Good , or Pleasant call . By Day 'tis nothing but and endless Noise ; By Night the Echo of Forgotten Joys : Abroad the Sport and Wonder of the Crowd , At Home the hourly breach of what we vow'd : In it's Opium to our Lustful Rage , Which sleeps a while , and wakes again in Age . It heaps on all Men much ( but useless ) Care , Forthwith more Trouble , they less Happy are ; It checks Youth , shortens life , & taints the mind , Our Senses pales , and strikes our Reason blind . the Gods ! that Man by his own Slavish Law , Should on himself such Inconvenience draw : If we would Wiser Nature's Laws Obey , Those chalk him out a far more pleasant way , She bids freely Look , Like , and Enjoy . Therefore when lusty Youth & Wine conspire To Flame the Blood unto a Generous Fire ; We must not think the Gallant will Endure The Durient Raging of his Calenture : Nor always in his single Pleasures Burn , Tho' Nature's Handmaid some time serves the turn : No , he must have a sprightly youthful Wench , In equal floods of Love , his flame to quench ; One that will hold him in her Clasping Arm , And in that Circle all his Spirits Charm : That with New Motion , and unpractis'd Art , Can raise his Soul , & then vein-snare his Heart . Hence springs the Noble , Fortunate , and Great , Always Begotten in Passion , and in Hea But the Dull Offspring of the Marriage-Bed , What is it ? but a Humane shape in Led : A Slothful Lump Ingender'd of all Ills , Begotten like WORSER --- against the Parents Wills . If it be Cuckoldiz'd , it's Doubly Spoil'd , The Mother's Fear's Intail'd upon the Child . Thus whither Illegitimate , or Not , Cowards and Fools in Wedlock are Bego Let no Ennobled Soul himself Debase , By Lawful Ways to Dasterdize his Raze ; But if he must Pay Nature's Debt in Kind , To check the growing Danger , let him find Some willing Female out ; What tho' she be The very Scum and Dregs of Infamy : Tho' she be Linsey-Woolsey , Baud & Whore , Closestool to Venus , Nature's Common-shore , Impudence , Folly , Brandy , and Disease , The Sundays Crack for Suburb Prentices ; What then ? she's better then a Wife by half , And if thou'rt still Unmarry'd , thou art safe . with whores thou can'st but venture , what is lost May be Redeem'd again with Care and Cost ; But a Damn'd Wife , Inevitable Fate , Destroys , Soul , Body , Credit , and Estate . FINIS . A POEM AGAINST MARRIAGE ; Directed to that Inconsiderable Animal , call'd Husband . HUsband ! thou Dull unpitied Miscreant , Wedded to Noise , to Misery , and Want ; Sold and Eternal Vassal for thy Life , Oblieg'd to Cherish , and to Heat a Wife : Drudge on till Fifty ; at thy Own Expense Breath out thy Life in one Impertinence ; Repeat thy loath'd Embraces every Night , Prompted to Act , by Duty ( not Deligh ) christian thy froward Bantling every Year , And carefully thy Spurious Issue Rear : Go once a Week to see the Brat at Nurse , And let the Young Imposter drein thy Purse : Hedge-Sparrow-like , what Cuckoo's have begotten Do thou maintain , Incorrigible Sot . O! I could curse the Pimp that could do less , He's beneath Pity , and beyond Redress : Pox on him ! let him go ; what can I say ? Anethemas on him are Thrown away ; The wretch is marry'd , & has known the worst , And now his Blessing is , he can't be Cursed . Marry'd ! O Hell and Furies ! name it not , Hence , hence you Holy Cheats ; a Plot , a Plot . Marriage is but a Licens'd way to since , A Nooze to catch Religious Woodcocks in : Or the Nickname of some Malicious Friend , Begotten in Hell to Prosecute Mankind . 'Tis the Destroyer of our Peace and Health , Misspender of our precious Time and Wealth ; The Enemy to Wit , Valour , Mirth , all That we can Virtuous , Good , or Pleasant call . By Day 'tis nothing but and endless Noise ; By Night the Echo of Forgotten Joys : Abroad the Sport and Wonder of the Crowd , At Home the hourly breach of what we vow'd : In it's Opium to our Lustful Rage , Which sleeps a while , and wakes again in Age . It heaps on all Men much ( but useless ) Care , Forthwith more Trouble , they less Happy are ; It checks Youth , shortens life , & taints the mind , Our Senses pales , and strikes our Reason blind . the Gods ! that Man by his own Slavish Law , Should on himself such Inconvenience draw : If we would Wiser Nature's Laws Obey , Those chalk him out a far more pleasant way , She bids freely Look , Like , and Enjoy . Therefore when lusty Youth & Wine conspire To Flame the Blood unto a Generous Fire ; We must not think the Gallant will Endure The Durient Raging of his Calenture : Nor always in his single Pleasures Burn , Tho' Nature's Handmaid some time serves the turn : No , he must have a sprightly youthful Wench , In equal floods of Love , his flame to quench ; One that will hold him in her Clasping Arm , And in that Circle all his Spirits Charm : That with New Motion , and unpractis'd Art , Can raise his Soul , & then vein-snare his Heart . Hence springs the Noble , Fortunate , and Great , Always Begotten in Passion , and in Hea But the Dull Offspring of the Marriage-Bed , What is it ? but a Humane shape in Led : A Slothful Lump Ingender'd of all Ills , Begotten like WORSER --- against the Parents Wills . If it be Cuckoldiz'd , it's Doubly Spoil'd , The Mother's Fear's Intail'd upon the Child . Thus whither Illegitimate , or Not , Cowards and Fools in Wedlock are Bego Let no Ennobled Soul himself Debase , By Lawful Ways to Dasterdize his Raze ; But if he must Pay Nature's Debt in Kind , To check the growing Danger , let him find Some willing Female out ; What tho' she be The very Scum and Dregs of Infamy : Tho' she be Linsey-Woolsey , Baud & Whore , Closestool to Venus , Nature's Common-shore , Impudence , Folly , Brandy , and Disease , The Sundays Crack for Suburb Prentices ; What then ? she's better then a Wife by half , And if thou'rt still Unmarry'd , thou art safe . with whores thou can'st but venture , what is lost May be Redeem'd again with Care and Cost ; But a Damn'd Wife , Inevitable Fate , Destroys , Soul , Body , Credit , and Estate . FINIS . 