Two proper nue Balletes . A Thousand times I me recomende To you that is my lover deer And here a letter , have I send To speak with you yet had I lever Your lusty look and smerkyng cheer My heart does move both night and day In all this world you have no peer Therefore to my heart I do you lay . O lusty smyrker to me be true You have my heart forever and aye I pray you change me for no new This same to you do I say . I have loved truly I dare make boast And does yet still so god me save Alas let not my love be lost But yours again that I may have . The time passed I do repent If ever you thought I was unkind To you this letter have I sent Because in love I am so blind . The lines of love do me embrace And bitterly beyte my body with in All is for your lovely face And gentle heart if I might it win . Your countenance and your comely cheer As oft as I look it upon My heart in pieces it does tear When that I am my self alone . The pains of love do me so pine And pierce my heart on every side That wheresoever I sup or dine My heart with you shall ever abide . Alas now be a lover true And take never from me your heart For if you do I must it rew And ever live in pain and smart . Now steadfast to be I do you pray My heart is closed your body within The same to me now do you say It is true love that I am in . A thousande times now fare you well You have my heart both now and aye The sorrow I bide no tongue can tell Gentle lover do not cast me away . My heart is locked within your breast And closely closed your body within There would I feignest take my rest In pure wedlock with outten sin . Now you know my hold intent It does me good when I you se If I get no grace I shall repent For looking above my poor degree Be true to me in this distress And leave me not here comfortless . FINIS Two proper nue Balletes . A Thousand times I me recomende To you that is my lover deer And here a letter , have I send To speak with you yet had I lever Your lusty look and smerkyng cheer My heart does move both night and day In all this world you have no peer Therefore to my heart I do you lay . O lusty smyrker to me be true You have my heart forever and aye I pray you change me for no new This same to you do I say . I have loved truly I dare make boast And does yet still so god me save Alas let not my love be lost But yours again that I may have . The time passed I do repent If ever you thought I was unkind To you this letter have I sent Because in love I am so blind . The lines of love do me embrace And bitterly beyte my body with in All is for your lovely face And gentle heart if I might it win . Your countenance and your comely cheer As oft as I look it upon My heart in pieces it does tear When that I am my self alone . The pains of love do me so pine And pierce my heart on every side That wheresoever I sup or dine My heart with you shall ever abide . Alas now be a lover true And take never from me your heart For if you do I must it rew And ever live in pain and smart . Now steadfast to be I do you pray My heart is closed your body within The same to me now do you say It is true love that I am in . A thousande times now fare you well You have my heart both now and aye The sorrow I bide no tongue can tell Gentle lover do not cast me away . My heart is locked within your breast And closely closed your body within There would I feignest take my rest In pure wedlock with outten sin . Now you know my hold intent It does me good when I you se If I get no grace I shall repent For looking above my poor degree Be true to me in this distress And leave me not here comfortless . FINIS 