A FUNERAL ELEGY On the much Lamented Death of the Honourable Countess of Antrim . who departed this Life , at her late dwelling House in Dawson-Street on Friday March the 18th . 1736-7 . COme hither You who the fair Sex reproach , And basely rail at what you can't debauch , That in lose Satyr tell us of their Crimes , And say they are the grievance of the Times ; Come hither all , while , in sad Funeral Verse , The Countess's Immortal Virtues I rehearse , That you may see how very much you err , Repent , and learn how to be good in her . Ev'n in her Youth her early worth did show , To what a vast proportion it wou'd grow , When Faith had taught her all she was to know ; On whose strong Wings she oft to Heav'n wou'd flee , And by it find what can , what cannot be , Better than all their vain Philosophy . Charming her From , and matchless was her Mind , At least 'twas something above Woman kind . Trace her through all the Series of her Life , You'l find her free from Envy , Hate and Strife ; A Duteous Child , and then a Virtuous Wife , Oh! could my Muse describe the glorious Saint ! Her pure Devotion in the Temple Paint ! Tell me , you holy Men that waited there , Was it not Heav'n to see your Countess at Pray'r ! Did not officious Angels from on high , Descend , and waft each Accent to the Sky ? And when she took the Eucharistick Feast , Did not Seraphic Beams Her radiant Head invest ? Oh! Antrim's Countess , could not these Virtues save , From cruel Death and the destructive Grave ? Could not out Pray'rs the fatal Stroke prevent , And force the barb'rous Tyrant to relent ? In vain were Pray'rs , in vain all human Aid , In vain was Virtue , Virtue's Self fell dead , And in our Glorious Countess the bright Astrea fled . EPITAPH . you beauteous Virgins that in moving Strains , Were used to Sing her Virtues on the Plains , You Shepherd's too , who out of pious Care , Taught ev'ry Tree ANTRIM's Name to wear ; Your rual Sports and Garlands lay aside , This is no time for ornamental Pride But bring , o ! bring the Treasure of your Fields That short-liv'd Wealth which unbid Nature yields The Morning Hyacinth inscrib'd with Woe , The beauteous Lilies that in Valleys grow , And all the Flowers that scatter'd up and down , Or humble Mead or lofty Mountains crown ; Then gently throw them all upon her Hearse ; To these join lasting Bays and living Verse , Mourn , drooping Ireland mourn from Shore to Shore , Thy best beloved Countess is no more . A FUNERAL ELEGY On the much Lamented Death of the Honourable Countess of Antrim . who departed this Life , at her late dwelling House in Dawson-Street on Friday March the 18th . 1736-7 . COme hither You who the fair Sex reproach , And basely rail at what you can't debauch , That in lose Satyr tell us of their Crimes , And say they are the grievance of the Times ; Come hither all , while , in sad Funeral Verse , The Countess's Immortal Virtues I rehearse , That you may see how very much you err , Repent , and learn how to be good in her . Ev'n in her Youth her early worth did show , To what a vast proportion it wou'd grow , When Faith had taught her all she was to know ; On whose strong Wings she oft to Heav'n wou'd flee , And by it find what can , what cannot be , Better than all their vain Philosophy . Charming her From , and matchless was her Mind , At least 'twas something above Woman kind . Trace her through all the Series of her Life , You'l find her free from Envy , Hate and Strife ; A Duteous Child , and then a Virtuous Wife , Oh! could my Muse describe the glorious Saint ! Her pure Devotion in the Temple Paint ! Tell me , you holy Men that waited there , Was it not Heav'n to see your Countess at Pray'r ! Did not officious Angels from on high , Descend , and waft each Accent to the Sky ? And when she took the Eucharistick Feast , Did not Seraphic Beams Her radiant Head invest ? Oh! Antrim's Countess , could not these Virtues save , From cruel Death and the destructive Grave ? Could not out Pray'rs the fatal Stroke prevent , And force the barb'rous Tyrant to relent ? In vain were Pray'rs , in vain all human Aid , In vain was Virtue , Virtue's Self fell dead , And in our Glorious Countess the bright Astrea fled . EPITAPH . you beauteous Virgins that in moving Strains , Were used to Sing her Virtues on the Plains , You Shepherd's too , who out of pious Care , Taught ev'ry Tree ANTRIM's Name to wear ; Your rual Sports and Garlands lay aside , This is no time for ornamental Pride But bring , o ! bring the Treasure of your Fields That short-liv'd Wealth which unbid Nature yields The Morning Hyacinth inscrib'd with Woe , The beauteous Lilies that in Valleys grow , And all the Flowers that scatter'd up and down , Or humble Mead or lofty Mountains crown ; Then gently throw them all upon her Hearse ; To these join lasting Bays and living Verse , Mourn , drooping Ireland mourn from Shore to Shore , Thy best beloved Countess is no more . 