The Lovesick SERVING-MAN : SHOWING How he was Wounded with the Charms of a young Lady , and did not dare to reveal his Mind . To the Tune of I'm often for my Jenny strove . E'Er since I saw Clorinda's Eyes , My Heart has felt a strange surprise , No Pen is able to reveal The killing Torment which I feel ; Yet I dare not let her know it , 'Cause she's Rich and I am Poor ; No Charms above her , o ! I love her , and will do for evermore . Oh! that I might but let her know My Sighs , my Tears , my Care and Woe , And how I'm tortured for her sake , She might some kind of pity take : But I fear I should offend her Whom I dearly do adore ; No Charms above her , o ! I love her , And will do for evermore . Both Sense and Reason tells me plain , That I bestowed my heart in vain , Where no acceptance will be found , No Balsom for this bleeding Wound : She's a fair and youthful Lady , I a Servant mean and poor ; No Charms above her , etc I valve not her Gold , her Pearl , For was I either Lord or Earl , My very Heart would be the same , I raise her everlasting Fame ; Yet in vain are all my Wishes , They will not my Joys restore : No Charms above her , etc Young Cupid bend thy Golden Bow , And let thy silver Arrows fly , That my fair charming Saint may know , The pains of Love as well as I ; Tell her too , that I lie wounded , She may then my Joys restore , No Charms above her , etc Tho' now mine Eyes like Rivers run , As here in Sorrows I condole ; Her Beauty like the Rising Sun , Can soon revive my drooping Soul : But if I may ne'er enjoy her , Let me with a Dart be slave , 'Tis better kill me , then to fill me With this Love tormenting pain . The Young Lady's Answer . Now in a Vision , or a Dream , Her Father's Servingman did seem Before her Presence there to stand , While Cupid held him by the Hand , Saying , Lady you must love him , Therefore now some pity show ; Then don't deny him , nor defy him , For it must and shall be so . A Thousand thoughts ran in her head , As many Cupids round her Bed , Which did like armed Angels stand , With Golden Bows and Shafts in hand , E'ery one was pleading for him , And their Silver Shafts did show , Saying , Receive him , do not grieve him , For it must and shall be so . The youthful Lady did reply , What must I love , or must I die ? Tell me , is there no other way But this , to cast myself away , On my Father's meanest Servant ? Well , I find it must be so , I well approve him , needs must love him , Though it proves my Overthrow . I know my Father he will Frown , And Ladies too of high Renown , But yet I needs must love him still , Let all the World say what they will : My soft Heart is now inflamed , Love in e'ery Vein does flow , I'll freely take him , ne'er forsake him , For it must and shall be so . What tho' my noble Father dear Disowns his Daughter utterly , I have Five Thousand Pounds a year , Of which no one can hinder me ; 'Tis sufficient to Maintain us , Should my Father prove our Foe , My Love I [ ' ] ll Marry , long not tarry , For it must and shall be so . What tho' a Servingman he be , Whose Substance is but mean and small ; His proper Person pleases me , True Love will make amends for all : 'Tis beyond all Gold or Treasure , Him alone my Heart does crave , I will not tarry , but will Marry , And make him Lord of all I have . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare . J. Back . The Lovesick SERVING-MAN : SHOWING How he was Wounded with the Charms of a young Lady , and did not dare to reveal his Mind . To the Tune of I'm often for my Jenny strove . E'Er since I saw Clorinda's Eyes , My Heart has felt a strange surprise , No Pen is able to reveal The killing Torment which I feel ; Yet I dare not let her know it , 'Cause she's Rich and I am Poor ; No Charms above her , o ! I love her , and will do for evermore . Oh! that I might but let her know My Sighs , my Tears , my Care and Woe , And how I'm tortured for her sake , She might some kind of pity take : But I fear I should offend her Whom I dearly do adore ; No Charms above her , o ! I love her , And will do for evermore . Both Sense and Reason tells me plain , That I bestowed my heart in vain , Where no acceptance will be found , No Balsom for this bleeding Wound : She's a fair and youthful Lady , I a Servant mean and poor ; No Charms above her , etc I valve not her Gold , her Pearl , For was I either Lord or Earl , My very Heart would be the same , I raise her everlasting Fame ; Yet in vain are all my Wishes , They will not my Joys restore : No Charms above her , etc Young Cupid bend thy Golden Bow , And let thy silver Arrows fly , That my fair charming Saint may know , The pains of Love as well as I ; Tell her too , that I lie wounded , She may then my Joys restore , No Charms above her , etc Tho' now mine Eyes like Rivers run , As here in Sorrows I condole ; Her Beauty like the Rising Sun , Can soon revive my drooping Soul : But if I may ne'er enjoy her , Let me with a Dart be slave , 'Tis better kill me , then to fill me With this Love tormenting pain . The Young Lady's Answer . Now in a Vision , or a Dream , Her Father's Servingman did seem Before her Presence there to stand , While Cupid held him by the Hand , Saying , Lady you must love him , Therefore now some pity show ; Then don't deny him , nor defy him , For it must and shall be so . A Thousand thoughts ran in her head , As many Cupids round her Bed , Which did like armed Angels stand , With Golden Bows and Shafts in hand , E'ery one was pleading for him , And their Silver Shafts did show , Saying , Receive him , do not grieve him , For it must and shall be so . The youthful Lady did reply , What must I love , or must I die ? Tell me , is there no other way But this , to cast myself away , On my Father's meanest Servant ? Well , I find it must be so , I well approve him , needs must love him , Though it proves my Overthrow . I know my Father he will Frown , And Ladies too of high Renown , But yet I needs must love him still , Let all the World say what they will : My soft Heart is now inflamed , Love in e'ery Vein does flow , I'll freely take him , ne'er forsake him , For it must and shall be so . What tho' my noble Father dear Disowns his Daughter utterly , I have Five Thousand Pounds a year , Of which no one can hinder me ; 'Tis sufficient to Maintain us , Should my Father prove our Foe , My Love I [ ' ] ll Marry , long not tarry , For it must and shall be so . What tho' a Servingman he be , Whose Substance is but mean and small ; His proper Person pleases me , True Love will make amends for all : 'Tis beyond all Gold or Treasure , Him alone my Heart does crave , I will not tarry , but will Marry , And make him Lord of all I have . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare . J. Back . 