/ 1 THE Winchester Wedding : OR , RALPH of Reading and Black BESS of the Green . To a new Country Dance : or , The King's Jig . AT Winchester was a Wedding , the like was never seen , 'Twixt lusty Ralph of Reading , and bonny black Bess of the Green ; The Fiddlers were crowding before , each Lass was as fine as a Queen , There was and hundred and more , for all the whole Country came in ; Brisk Robin led Rose so fair , she look'd like a Lily o'th' Vale ; And ruddy fac'd Harry led Mary , and Roger led bouncing Nell . With Tommy came smiling Katy ; he help her over the style , And swore there was none so pretty , in forty and forty long mile ; Kit gave a green gown to Betty , and lent her his hand to rise ; But Jenny was jeer'd by Watty , for looking blue under the eyes : Thus merrily chatting all day , they passed to the Bride-house along , With Johnny and p [ r ] ity-fac'd Nanny , the fairest of all the Throng . The Bridegroom came out to meet ' [ e ] m , afraid the dinner was spoil'd , And usher [ ' ] worser 'em into to treat 'em , with bak'd , and roast , and boyl'd : The Lads were frolic and jolly , for each had a Lass by his side ; But Willy was melancholy , for he had a mind to the Bride : Then Phillip began her health , and turn'd a beer-glass on his thumb ; But Jenkin was reckon'd for drinking , the best in Christendom . And now they had din'd , advancing into the midst of the Hall , The Fiddlers struck up for dancing , and Jeremy led up the Brawl ; But Margery kept a quarter , a Lass that is proud of her pelf , 'Cause Arthur had stolen her garter , and swore he would tie it himself ; She struggled , she blush'd , and frown'd , and ready with anger to cry , 'Cause Arthur with tying her garter , had slipped up his hands too high . And now for throwing the Stocking , the Bride away was led , The Bridegroom god drunk , was knocking , for candles to light him to bed ; But Robin that found him silly , most kindly took him aside , While that his Wife with Willy was playing a Whooper's Hide : And now the warm Game begins , the critical minute was come , And chatting , and billing , and kissing went merrily round the room . Pert Stephen was kind to Betty , as blithe as a b [ i ] rde in the spring ; And Tommy was so to Katy , and wedded her with a rush-ring ; Sukey that danc'd with the Cushion , and hour from the room had been gone , And Barn [ a ] by knew by her blushing , that some other dance had been done : And thus of fifty fair Maids , that went to the Wedding with Men , Scarce five oh [ f ] the fifty was left you , that so did return again . Brisk Dolly and prity-fac'd Kate , th [ i ] s Merriment they did adore ; Each Lass had been pleasant [ ' ] worser with her Ma [ tO ] e , as they never had been before : Nay , Susan was pleased at heart , she sa [ i ] worser it , and said it again ; The young Men have play'd their part , and no one had cause to complain . The day was in merriment spent , the Pipers and the Fiddlers they play , Before all the Throng , as they went ; thus they made and end of the day . London : Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate . / 1 THE Winchester Wedding : OR , RALPH of Reading and Black BESS of the Green . To a new Country Dance : or , The King's Jig . AT Winchester was a Wedding , the like was never seen , 'Twixt lusty Ralph of Reading , and bonny black Bess of the Green ; The Fiddlers were crowding before , each Lass was as fine as a Queen , There was and hundred and more , for all the whole Country came in ; Brisk Robin led Rose so fair , she look'd like a Lily o'th' Vale ; And ruddy fac'd Harry led Mary , and Roger led bouncing Nell . With Tommy came smiling Katy ; he help her over the style , And swore there was none so pretty , in forty and forty long mile ; Kit gave a green gown to Betty , and lent her his hand to rise ; But Jenny was jeer'd by Watty , for looking blue under the eyes : Thus merrily chatting all day , they passed to the Bride-house along , With Johnny and p [ r ] ity-fac'd Nanny , the fairest of all the Throng . The Bridegroom came out to meet ' [ e ] m , afraid the dinner was spoil'd , And usher [ ' ] worser 'em into to treat 'em , with bak'd , and roast , and boyl'd : The Lads were frolic and jolly , for each had a Lass by his side ; But Willy was melancholy , for he had a mind to the Bride : Then Phillip began her health , and turn'd a beer-glass on his thumb ; But Jenkin was reckon'd for drinking , the best in Christendom . And now they had din'd , advancing into the midst of the Hall , The Fiddlers struck up for dancing , and Jeremy led up the Brawl ; But Margery kept a quarter , a Lass that is proud of her pelf , 'Cause Arthur had stolen her garter , and swore he would tie it himself ; She struggled , she blush'd , and frown'd , and ready with anger to cry , 'Cause Arthur with tying her garter , had slipped up his hands too high . And now for throwing the Stocking , the Bride away was led , The Bridegroom god drunk , was knocking , for candles to light him to bed ; But Robin that found him silly , most kindly took him aside , While that his Wife with Willy was playing a Whooper's Hide : And now the warm Game begins , the critical minute was come , And chatting , and billing , and kissing went merrily round the room . Pert Stephen was kind to Betty , as blithe as a b [ i ] rde in the spring ; And Tommy was so to Katy , and wedded her with a rush-ring ; Sukey that danc'd with the Cushion , and hour from the room had been gone , And Barn [ a ] by knew by her blushing , that some other dance had been done : And thus of fifty fair Maids , that went to the Wedding with Men , Scarce five oh [ f ] the fifty was left you , that so did return again . Brisk Dolly and prity-fac'd Kate , th [ i ] s Merriment they did adore ; Each Lass had been pleasant [ ' ] worser with her Ma [ tO ] e , as they never had been before : Nay , Susan was pleased at heart , she sa [ i ] worser it , and said it again ; The young Men have play'd their part , and no one had cause to complain . The day was in merriment spent , the Pipers and the Fiddlers they play , Before all the Throng , as they went ; thus they made and end of the day . London : Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate . / 1 THE Winchester Wedding : OR , RALPH of Reading and Black BESS of the Green . To a new Country Dance : or , The King's Jig . AT Winchester was a Wedding , the like was never seen , 'Twixt lusty Ralph of Reading , and bonny black Bess of the Green ; The Fiddlers were crowding before , each Lass was as fine as a Queen , There was and hundred and more , for all the whole Country came in ; Brisk Robin led Rose so fair , she look'd like a Lily o'th' Vale ; And ruddy fac'd Harry led Mary , and Roger led bouncing Nell . With Tommy came smiling Katy ; he help her over the style , And swore there was none so pretty , in forty and forty long mile ; Kit gave a green gown to Betty , and lent her his hand to rise ; But Jenny was jeer'd by Watty , for looking blue under the eyes : Thus merrily chatting all day , they passed to the Bride-house along , With Johnny and p [ r ] ity-fac'd Nanny , the fairest of all the Throng . The Bridegroom came out to meet ' [ e ] m , afraid the dinner was spoil'd , And usher [ ' ] worser 'em into to treat 'em , with bak'd , and roast , and boyl'd : The Lads were frolic and jolly , for each had a Lass by his side ; But Willy was melancholy , for he had a mind to the Bride : Then Phillip began her health , and turn'd a beer-glass on his thumb ; But Jenkin was reckon'd for drinking , the best in Christendom . And now they had din'd , advancing into the midst of the Hall , The Fiddlers struck up for dancing , and Jeremy led up the Brawl ; But Margery kept a quarter , a Lass that is proud of her pelf , 'Cause Arthur had stolen her garter , and swore he would tie it himself ; She struggled , she blush'd , and frown'd , and ready with anger to cry , 'Cause Arthur with tying her garter , had slipped up his hands too high . And now for throwing the Stocking , the Bride away was led , The Bridegroom god drunk , was knocking , for candles to light him to bed ; But Robin that found him silly , most kindly took him aside , While that his Wife with Willy was playing a Whooper's Hide : And now the warm Game begins , the critical minute was come , And chatting , and billing , and kissing went merrily round the room . Pert Stephen was kind to Betty , as blithe as a b [ i ] rde in the spring ; And Tommy was so to Katy , and wedded her with a rush-ring ; Sukey that danc'd with the Cushion , and hour from the room had been gone , And Barn [ a ] by knew by her blushing , that some other dance had been done : And thus of fifty fair Maids , that went to the Wedding with Men , Scarce five oh [ f ] the fifty was left you , that so did return again . Brisk Dolly and prity-fac'd Kate , th [ i ] s Merriment they did adore ; Each Lass had been pleasant [ ' ] worser with her Ma [ tO ] e , as they never had been before : Nay , Susan was pleased at heart , she sa [ i ] worser it , and said it again ; The young Men have play'd their part , and no one had cause to complain . The day was in merriment spent , the Pipers and the Fiddlers they play , Before all the Throng , as they went ; thus they made and end of the day . London : Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate . / 1 THE Winchester Wedding : OR , RALPH of Reading and Black BESS of the Green . To a new Country Dance : or , The King's Jig . AT Winchester was a Wedding , the like was never seen , 'Twixt lusty Ralph of Reading , and bonny black Bess of the Green ; The Fiddlers were crowding before , each Lass was as fine as a Queen , There was and hundred and more , for all the whole Country came in ; Brisk Robin led Rose so fair , she look'd like a Lily o'th' Vale ; And ruddy fac'd Harry led Mary , and Roger led bouncing Nell . With Tommy came smiling Katy ; he help her over the style , And swore there was none so pretty , in forty and forty long mile ; Kit gave a green gown to Betty , and lent her his hand to rise ; But Jenny was jeer'd by Watty , for looking blue under the eyes : Thus merrily chatting all day , they passed to the Bride-house along , With Johnny and p [ r ] ity-fac'd Nanny , the fairest of all the Throng . The Bridegroom came out to meet ' [ e ] m , afraid the dinner was spoil'd , And usher [ ' ] worser 'em into to treat 'em , with bak'd , and roast , and boyl'd : The Lads were frolic and jolly , for each had a Lass by his side ; But Willy was melancholy , for he had a mind to the Bride : Then Phillip began her health , and turn'd a beer-glass on his thumb ; But Jenkin was reckon'd for drinking , the best in Christendom . And now they had din'd , advancing into the midst of the Hall , The Fiddlers struck up for dancing , and Jeremy led up the Brawl ; But Margery kept a quarter , a Lass that is proud of her pelf , 'Cause Arthur had stolen her garter , and swore he would tie it himself ; She struggled , she blush'd , and frown'd , and ready with anger to cry , 'Cause Arthur with tying her garter , had slipped up his hands too high . And now for throwing the Stocking , the Bride away was led , The Bridegroom god drunk , was knocking , for candles to light him to bed ; But Robin that found him silly , most kindly took him aside , While that his Wife with Willy was playing a Whooper's Hide : And now the warm Game begins , the critical minute was come , And chatting , and billing , and kissing went merrily round the room . Pert Stephen was kind to Betty , as blithe as a b [ i ] rde in the spring ; And Tommy was so to Katy , and wedded her with a rush-ring ; Sukey that danc'd with the Cushion , and hour from the room had been gone , And Barn [ a ] by knew by her blushing , that some other dance had been done : And thus of fifty fair Maids , that went to the Wedding with Men , Scarce five oh [ f ] the fifty was left you , that so did return again . Brisk Dolly and prity-fac'd Kate , th [ i ] s Merriment they did adore ; Each Lass had been pleasant [ ' ] worser with her Ma [ tO ] e , as they never had been before : Nay , Susan was pleased at heart , she sa [ i ] worser it , and said it again ; The young Men have play'd their part , and no one had cause to complain . The day was in merriment spent , the Pipers and the Fiddlers they play , Before all the Throng , as they went ; thus they made and end of the day . London : Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate . 