The Lovesick Serving-Man . SHOWING How he was wounded with the Charms of a Young LADY , But did not care to reveal his Mind . E'ER since I saw Clarinda's eyes , My heart has felt a strange surprise ; No pen is able to reveal The killing torments I feel . Yet I dare not let her know it , Cause she's rich and I am poor ; No charms above her , Oh I love her , And will do so for evermore . O that I might but let her know , My sighs , my tears , my care and woe , And how I'm tortur'd for her sake , She might some kind of pity take : But I fear I should offend her Whom I dearly do adore . No charms above her , Oh I love her ; And will do so for evermore . Both sense and reason tell me plain , That I bestow'd my heart in vain , Where no acceptance will be found , No balsam for this bleeding wound . She's a fair and youthful Lady , I a servant mean and poor , No charms above her , Oh I love her , And will do so for evermore . I valve not her gold or pearl , For was I either Lord or Earl , My very heart would be the same , I'd raise her everlasting fame : Yet in vain are all my wishes , They will not my Joys restore : No charms above her , Oh I love her , And will do so for evermore . Young Cupid , bend thy golden bow , And let thy silver arrows fly ; That my fair charming saint may know The pains of love as well as I : Tell her too that I lie wounded , She may then my Joys restore , No charms above her , Oh I love her , And will do so for evermore . Tho' now mine eyes like rivers run , As here in sorrows I condole ; Her beauty like the rising sun , Can soon revive my drooping soul ; But if I may ne'er enjoy her , Let me with a dart be slave , 'Tis better kill me , than to fill me , With this love tormenting pain . PART II NOW in a vision or a dream , Her father's servingman did seem Before her presence there to stand , While Cupid held him by the hand . Saying , Lady , you must love him , Therefore now some pity show ; Then don't deny him , nor defy him , For it must and shall be so . A thousand thoughts ran in her head , Many Cupids round her bed ; Which did like armed angels stand , With golden bows and shafts in hand : Ev'ry one was pleading for him , And their silver shafts did show , Saying , receive him , do not grieve him , For it must and shall be so . The youthful Lady did reply , What must I love , or must I die , Tell me is there no other way , But thus to cast myself away On my father's meanest servant , Well , I find it must be so : I will approve him , needs must love him Though it may prove my Overthrow I know my father he will [ Frown ] And ladies too of high re [ noun ] But yet I needs must love h [ im still ] Let all the world say what [ they will ] My soft heart is now inflam [ ed ] Love in every vein does flow I'll freely take him , ne'er fo [ rsake him ] For it must and shall be so . What tho' my noble father dear , Disowns his daughter utterly ; I have five thousand pounds a year , Of which no one can hinder me : 'Tis sufficient to maintain us , Should my father prove a foe : My love I'll marry , nor no longer tarry For it must and shall be so . What tho' a Serving-Man he be , Whose substance is but mean and small , His proper person pleases me , True love will make amends for all : 'Tis far beyond all gold or tceasure , Him alone my heart does crave : I will not tarry , but will marry , And make him Lord of all I have . Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church Yard Bow Lane , London The Lovesick Serving-Man . SHOWING How he was wounded with the Charms of a Young LADY , But did not care to reveal his Mind . E'ER since I saw Clarinda's eyes , My heart has felt a strange surprise ; No pen is able to reveal The killing torments I feel . Yet I dare not let her know it , Cause she's rich and I am poor ; No charms above her , Oh I love her , And will do so for evermore . O that I might but let her know , My sighs , my tears , my care and woe , And how I'm tortur'd for her sake , She might some kind of pity take : But I fear I should offend her Whom I dearly do adore . No charms above her , Oh I love her ; And will do so for evermore . Both sense and reason tell me plain , That I bestow'd my heart in vain , Where no acceptance will be found , No balsam for this bleeding wound . She's a fair and youthful Lady , I a servant mean and poor , No charms above her , Oh I love her , And will do so for evermore . I valve not her gold or pearl , For was I either Lord or Earl , My very heart would be the same , I'd raise her everlasting fame : Yet in vain are all my wishes , They will not my Joys restore : No charms above her , Oh I love her , And will do so for evermore . Young Cupid , bend thy golden bow , And let thy silver arrows fly ; That my fair charming saint may know The pains of love as well as I : Tell her too that I lie wounded , She may then my Joys restore , No charms above her , Oh I love her , And will do so for evermore . Tho' now mine eyes like rivers run , As here in sorrows I condole ; Her beauty like the rising sun , Can soon revive my drooping soul ; But if I may ne'er enjoy her , Let me with a dart be slave , 'Tis better kill me , than to fill me , With this love tormenting pain . PART II NOW in a vision or a dream , Her father's servingman did seem Before her presence there to stand , While Cupid held him by the hand . Saying , Lady , you must love him , Therefore now some pity show ; Then don't deny him , nor defy him , For it must and shall be so . A thousand thoughts ran in her head , Many Cupids round her bed ; Which did like armed angels stand , With golden bows and shafts in hand : Ev'ry one was pleading for him , And their silver shafts did show , Saying , receive him , do not grieve him , For it must and shall be so . The youthful Lady did reply , What must I love , or must I die , Tell me is there no other way , But thus to cast myself away On my father's meanest servant , Well , I find it must be so : I will approve him , needs must love him Though it may prove my Overthrow I know my father he will [ Frown ] And ladies too of high re [ noun ] But yet I needs must love h [ im still ] Let all the world say what [ they will ] My soft heart is now inflam [ ed ] Love in every vein does flow I'll freely take him , ne'er fo [ rsake him ] For it must and shall be so . What tho' my noble father dear , Disowns his daughter utterly ; I have five thousand pounds a year , Of which no one can hinder me : 'Tis sufficient to maintain us , Should my father prove a foe : My love I'll marry , nor no longer tarry For it must and shall be so . What tho' a Serving-Man he be , Whose substance is but mean and small , His proper person pleases me , True love will make amends for all : 'Tis far beyond all gold or tceasure , Him alone my heart does crave : I will not tarry , but will marry , And make him Lord of all I have . Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church Yard Bow Lane , London 