AND ELEGIE UPON THE DEATH OF THE MIRROUR Of Magnanimity , the right Honourable Robert Lord Brook ; Lord General of the Forces of the Counties of Warwick , and Stafford , who was slave by A Musket shot at the siege of Liechfield , the second day of March , 1642. BAck blushing morn , to thine Eternal bed , Ruffle for ever the tresses of thine head In some thick Cloud , and thou whose rays do burn The Centre of the Universe , return : For if thy head beyond its Porch appears , Thyself , thy self must needs melt into tears . Bright Saint thy pardon , if my doleful Verse Do seem in sighing over thy glorious Hearse To envy death ; for fame itself now wears Griefs Livery , and only speaks in tears . Brave Brook is dead , like Lightning , which no part O'th body touches , but first strikes the heart , This word hath murdered all ; it can a shower Enforce from every eye , it hath a power To altar nature's course , how else should all Run wild with mourning , and distracted fallen . Is't not a gross unttuth to say , thy breath Expir'd too soon ? or that impartial Death Thy Corpse too soon surpriz'd ? No , if thy years Be numbered by thy Virtues , or our tears , Thou didst the old Methusalem outlive ; Though Time not forty years account can give Of thine abided on earth , yet every hour Of thine unpattern'd life , by Virtues power A year in length surpassed , each well-spent day , The body makes young , the soul makes grey . Ah cruel Death ! who with one cursed Ball , Didst make the Atlas of our State to fallen , In one thou all hast slain , whose death alone , A death will be unto a Million . Could none but his sweet Nectard blood appease The fire-sprung Bullets heat ? Must it needs seize His sacred face , it self there to enshrine , Not in and earthly , but a Tomb divine . See luckless Liechfield that thou do not hide The precious blood , which from the wound did slide At this Lords death , it may not Cloister'd be In thy frail earth , always impurity It did abhor , therefore in Sacrifice , Send it unto its head above the skies , And for and Altar whereon it to lay , A thousand thousand souls through grief this day Themselves to death have wept , whom thou mayest take , And them conjoin thine Altar for to make . But lift not up thine head , lest that the skies In weeping showers of blood put out thine eyes . And is this blessed Brook ( whose Crystal streams Swelled with such store of Grace , whose blissful beams Enlightened all ) is it so soon drawn dry , Leaving its ancient current , to fill each eye With mournful tears , surely in Paradise Itself it now dischannels , where no vice Or shade of it appears , a place most pure , Where all such Saints forever must endure . I might relate thine actions here on earth , Thy mystery of life , thy noblest birth , Outshin'd by nobler virtue , but how far Th' hast taken thy journey 'bove the highest star I cannot speak , nor whither thou art in Commission with a Throne , or Cherubin . I might unto the world , great Lord repeat , Thine own brave story , and tell it how great Thou wertenberg in thy minds Empire , and how all Who out live thee , see but the Funeral Of glory : and if yet some virtuous be , They but weak apparitions are of thee . Thine actions were most just , thy words mature , And every scean of life from since so pure , That scarce in its whole history we can Find Vice enough to say thou wertenberg but man . 'Tis passed all mortals power , then much more mine , To tell what virtues dwelled within this shrine , Yet if illiterate persons walk this way , And ask what jewel glorifies this clay , Say , good Brooks ashes this Tomb hath in keeping , Then led them forth , lest they grow blind with weeping . Tell but his name , no more , that shall suffice , To draw down floods of tears from driest eyes , Our griefs are infinite , therefore my Muse , Cast Anchor here , mine eyes cannot effuse Any more tears , this for thy comfort know , Fate cannot give us such another blow . Ex opere ( praesertim ) Henrici Haringtoni , London printed for H.O. Anno Dom. 1642. AND ELEGIE UPON THE DEATH OF THE MIRROUR Of Magnanimity , the right Honourable Robert Lord Brook ; Lord General of the Forces of the Counties of Warwick , and Stafford , who was slave by A Musket shot at the siege of Liechfield , the second day of March , 1642. BAck blushing morn , to thine Eternal bed , Ruffle for ever the tresses of thine head In some thick Cloud , and thou whose rays do burn The Centre of the Universe , return : For if thy head beyond its Porch appears , Thyself , thy self must needs melt into tears . Bright Saint thy pardon , if my doleful Verse Do seem in sighing over thy glorious Hearse To envy death ; for fame itself now wears Griefs Livery , and only speaks in tears . Brave Brook is dead , like Lightning , which no part O'th body touches , but first strikes the heart , This word hath murdered all ; it can a shower Enforce from every eye , it hath a power To altar nature's course , how else should all Run wild with mourning , and distracted fallen . Is't not a gross unttuth to say , thy breath Expir'd too soon ? or that impartial Death Thy Corpse too soon surpriz'd ? No , if thy years Be numbered by thy Virtues , or our tears , Thou didst the old Methusalem outlive ; Though Time not forty years account can give Of thine abided on earth , yet every hour Of thine unpattern'd life , by Virtues power A year in length surpassed , each well-spent day , The body makes young , the soul makes grey . Ah cruel Death ! who with one cursed Ball , Didst make the Atlas of our State to fallen , In one thou all hast slain , whose death alone , A death will be unto a Million . Could none but his sweet Nectard blood appease The fire-sprung Bullets heat ? Must it needs seize His sacred face , it self there to enshrine , Not in and earthly , but a Tomb divine . See luckless Liechfield that thou do not hide The precious blood , which from the wound did slide At this Lords death , it may not Cloister'd be In thy frail earth , always impurity It did abhor , therefore in Sacrifice , Send it unto its head above the skies , And for and Altar whereon it to lay , A thousand thousand souls through grief this day Themselves to death have wept , whom thou mayest take , And them conjoin thine Altar for to make . But lift not up thine head , lest that the skies In weeping showers of blood put out thine eyes . And is this blessed Brook ( whose Crystal streams Swelled with such store of Grace , whose blissful beams Enlightened all ) is it so soon drawn dry , Leaving its ancient current , to fill each eye With mournful tears , surely in Paradise Itself it now dischannels , where no vice Or shade of it appears , a place most pure , Where all such Saints forever must endure . I might relate thine actions here on earth , Thy mystery of life , thy noblest birth , Outshin'd by nobler virtue , but how far Th' hast taken thy journey 'bove the highest star I cannot speak , nor whither thou art in Commission with a Throne , or Cherubin . I might unto the world , great Lord repeat , Thine own brave story , and tell it how great Thou wertenberg in thy minds Empire , and how all Who out live thee , see but the Funeral Of glory : and if yet some virtuous be , They but weak apparitions are of thee . Thine actions were most just , thy words mature , And every scean of life from since so pure , That scarce in its whole history we can Find Vice enough to say thou wertenberg but man . 'Tis passed all mortals power , then much more mine , To tell what virtues dwelled within this shrine , Yet if illiterate persons walk this way , And ask what jewel glorifies this clay , Say , good Brooks ashes this Tomb hath in keeping , Then led them forth , lest they grow blind with weeping . Tell but his name , no more , that shall suffice , To draw down floods of tears from driest eyes , Our griefs are infinite , therefore my Muse , Cast Anchor here , mine eyes cannot effuse Any more tears , this for thy comfort know , Fate cannot give us such another blow . Ex opere ( praesertim ) Henrici Haringtoni , London printed for H.O. Anno Dom. 1642. 