Tears , Tears , Tears : OR , ROME in ASHES . BEING The Extempore Lamentation of a PARISIAN FRYAR , upon no - tice of the Death of Captain Bedlow . GREAT Saint , believe it , though I come A Later Elegy than some , Whose Numbers have adorn'd thy Tomb : And equal Zeal inspires my Verse , To say thus to thy Loyal Hearse . O happy Hearse ! that didst contain One whose Ingenious Active Brain Unriddl'd all the Plots of State , Without a Pro or Con Debate . One , who the Nation came to save , But was prevented by the Grave . Some inauspicious Star did dart His Influences at his Heart , And snatch'd away his better Part. Now since our Captain quits the Field , And does to th' Greater Hero yield ; What will befall Church Militant , When such a Soldier it does want ? What will the Learned Levi's Tribe Think , But that Death sure took a Bribe , And by some Seminary Priest In a Physician's Habit dressed , Has sent him to Eternal Rest ? And say , Ah! little did we think A Pillar of the Church should sink , Now when the Antichristian Fox May worry us and all our Flocks ; That Babylonish , Scarlet Whore , Who makes her bus'ness to devour . Next to the Reverend Church , the State Condoles its most unhappy Fate , Mourning that surreptitious Death Should take away that precious Breath , Which , if it had surviv'd the Time Of Wish'd-for Parliament , this Rhyme Had silent been , and He alone Had blown a Trumpet of his own . Great Patriot ! tho' obscure by Name , Thy Deeds have fill'd the Mouth of Fame , Thy Works shall live , and ever be A Lasting Monument of thee : And Future Ages shall in Story Record thy never-dying Glory . But since the Grave has made thee mute , And Rob'd of thy great Attribute , Pardon , if from a duteous sense Of thy too early flitting hence , I leave on thy Religious Dust This Epitaph ------ --- --- ------ --------- Here lies the Just , The Valiant Captain Bedlow lies , Whom treacherous Death took by Surprise . Here lies Great Britain's Quondam Hope , Scourge to the French , Fear to the Pope : The State-Physitian , one who could Make Jesuits-Powder of their Blood , For the Sick Nation's Common Good . His Art was exquisite and new , Like that of Virtuosos , knew No Stop , but furiously spur'd on , Till Envious Death did throw him down . If any would the reason know Why the Old Madam us'd him so ; It was because she was afraid He should her Privilege invade , And consequently spoil her Trade . Wondering to see whole Shoals appear , And no one Mortal slave by her ; She thought , when once he'd god the Skill At such and easy Rate to Kill , His Tongue would take away a Life Sooner and better than her Knife . This Apprehension did so grieve her , She smote her Rival with a Fever ; And with great difficulty she Obtain'd the doubtful Victory : Ord'ring his Body here to be Interr'd with his Discovery , Which , like himself , from Nothing sprang , ( And Emblem of the State of Man ) To Nothing does return again . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for the Edification of Sturdy Roman Catholics , Defiers of Proclamations , and Abhorrers of Parliaments , November the 5th . 1680. Tears , Tears , Tears : OR , ROME in ASHES . BEING The Extempore Lamentation of a PARISIAN FRYAR , upon no - tice of the Death of Captain Bedlow . GREAT Saint , believe it , though I come A Later Elegy than some , Whose Numbers have adorn'd thy Tomb : And equal Zeal inspires my Verse , To say thus to thy Loyal Hearse . O happy Hearse ! that didst contain One whose Ingenious Active Brain Unriddl'd all the Plots of State , Without a Pro or Con Debate . One , who the Nation came to save , But was prevented by the Grave . Some inauspicious Star did dart His Influences at his Heart , And snatch'd away his better Part. Now since our Captain quits the Field , And does to th' Greater Hero yield ; What will befall Church Militant , When such a Soldier it does want ? What will the Learned Levi's Tribe Think , But that Death sure took a Bribe , And by some Seminary Priest In a Physician's Habit dressed , Has sent him to Eternal Rest ? And say , Ah! little did we think A Pillar of the Church should sink , Now when the Antichristian Fox May worry us and all our Flocks ; That Babylonish , Scarlet Whore , Who makes her bus'ness to devour . Next to the Reverend Church , the State Condoles its most unhappy Fate , Mourning that surreptitious Death Should take away that precious Breath , Which , if it had surviv'd the Time Of Wish'd-for Parliament , this Rhyme Had silent been , and He alone Had blown a Trumpet of his own . Great Patriot ! tho' obscure by Name , Thy Deeds have fill'd the Mouth of Fame , Thy Works shall live , and ever be A Lasting Monument of thee : And Future Ages shall in Story Record thy never-dying Glory . But since the Grave has made thee mute , And Rob'd of thy great Attribute , Pardon , if from a duteous sense Of thy too early flitting hence , I leave on thy Religious Dust This Epitaph ------ --- --- ------ --------- Here lies the Just , The Valiant Captain Bedlow lies , Whom treacherous Death took by Surprise . Here lies Great Britain's Quondam Hope , Scourge to the French , Fear to the Pope : The State-Physitian , one who could Make Jesuits-Powder of their Blood , For the Sick Nation's Common Good . His Art was exquisite and new , Like that of Virtuosos , knew No Stop , but furiously spur'd on , Till Envious Death did throw him down . If any would the reason know Why the Old Madam us'd him so ; It was because she was afraid He should her Privilege invade , And consequently spoil her Trade . Wondering to see whole Shoals appear , And no one Mortal slave by her ; She thought , when once he'd god the Skill At such and easy Rate to Kill , His Tongue would take away a Life Sooner and better than her Knife . This Apprehension did so grieve her , She smote her Rival with a Fever ; And with great difficulty she Obtain'd the doubtful Victory : Ord'ring his Body here to be Interr'd with his Discovery , Which , like himself , from Nothing sprang , ( And Emblem of the State of Man ) To Nothing does return again . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for the Edification of Sturdy Roman Catholics , Defiers of Proclamations , and Abhorrers of Parliaments , November the 5th . 1680. 