The COOPER of NORFOLK : OR , A Pretty Jest of a Brewer and a Cooper's Wife ; and how the Cooper served the Brewer in his kind . To the Tune of , The Wiving Age . ATtend my Master's , and listen well , Unto this Ditty , which briefly does tell , Of a fine merry Jest in Norfolk befell , A brave lusty Cooper in that Country did dwell ; And there he cry'd , Work for a Cooper ; Maids , ha'ye any Work for a Cooper ? This Cooper he had a fair Creature to's Wife , Which a Brewer i'th' Town lov'd as dear as his life , But she had a trick , which in some Wives are rife , She still kept a Sheath to another Man's Knife ; And often cornuted the Cooper , While he cry'd , etc It happen'd one morning the Cooper out went , To work for his living it was his intent , He trusted at home to his Wive's Government , And left her a bed to her own heart's content ; While he cry'd , Work for a Cooper , Maids , ha'ye , etc And as the Cooper was passing along , Still crying and calling his old wonted Song , The Brewer , his Rival , both lusty and young , Did think now or never to do him some Wrong ; And lie with the Wife of the Cooper , Who better lov'd him , etc He called the Cooper , and to him did say , Go home to my House , and make no delay , I have as much Work as thou canst do today , Whatsoever thou earnest I'll bountifully pay ; These tidings well pleased the Cooper , Oh this was brave news for the Cooper . Away went the Cooper to the House of the Brewer , Who seeing him hard at his labour to endure , Thought he , now for this day the Cooper is sure , I'll go to his Wife the Greensickness to Cure ; Take heed of thy Forehead good Cooper , For now I must work for the Cooper . Then straightways he went to the Cooper's Dwelling , The good Wife to give entertainment was willing ; The Brewer and she like two Pigeons was billing , And what they did else they bound me from telling ; He pleased the Wife of the Cooper , Who better lov'd , etc But mark how it happened at the last , Their Sunshine of pleasure was soon overcast , The Cooper did lack one of's Tools , in haste He ran home to fetch it , and found the door fast ; Wife , open the door ( quoth the Cooper ) And let in thy Husband , etc Now when the good Wife and the Brewer did hear The Cooper at door , affrighted they were , The Brewer was in such a bodily fear , That for to hide him he knew not where , To shun the fierce Rage of the Cooper , He thought he should die by the Cooper . The good Wife perceiving his woeful Estate , She having a subtle and politic Pate , She suddenly whelmed a great Brewing-fat , And closely covered the Brewer with that ; Then a [ f ] ter she let in the Cooper , What's under this Tub ? ( quoth the Cooper . She hearing her Husband that question demand , She thought it was time to her Tackling to stand ; Take heed how you move it , quoth she , with your hand , For there's a live big was left by a Friend ; Oh let it alone , John Cooper : Thus she thought to cousin the Cooper . Is it a Sow-pig , the Cooper did say , Let me hav't to my Supper ; the good Wife said , Nay ; It is a Boar-pig , quoth she , by my faith , 'Tis for my own diet , 'twas given me to day ; It is not for you , John Cooper , Then let it alone , John Cooper . I would it were in thy body , quoth John , Indeed ( quoth the good Wife ) so it shall be anon , Whate're become of it , faith thou shalt have none , Why stand'st thou here prating ? I prithee be gone ; Make haste to thy Work , good Cooper , Worse Meat's good enough for a Cooper . Cannot a good Wife have a bit now and than , But there must be notice taken by the good Man ? I'll hav't to my dinner , Sir , do what you can , It may be I long to have all or none ; Then prithee content take , good Cooper , Oh go to thy Work , etc The Cooper mistrusted some Knavery to be Hid under the Brewing-fat , and therefore he Was fully resolved for his mind-sake to see ; Alas ! said the Brewer , then woe be to me ; Oh what shall I say to the Cooper ? O would I were gone , etc You Whore , quoth the Cooper , is this your Boar-pig , He has been well fed , for he's grown very big ; I'll either have of him and Arm or a Leg , I'll make him unable his Tail for to wag , Before he gets hence from John Cooper , I'll make him remember , etc O pardon me , Neighbour , the Brewer did say , And for the Offence I have done thee today , I am well contented they wrath to allay , And make Restitution for this my foul play ; Oh prithee forgive me , John Cooper , And I'll be a Friend , etc If for this Offence thou wilt set me clear , My bounty and love to thee shall appear , I'll freely allow thee and thine all the year , As much as ye'll drink , either strong Ale or Beer , Oh prithee forgive me , John Cooper , And I'll be a Friend to the Cooper . O , no , ( quoth the Cooper ) I'll have you to think , That I with my labour can buy myself drink ; I'll geld thee or lame thee e're from me thon shrink : These words made the Brewer with fear for to stink , He feared the Rage of the Cooper , Yet still he entreated the Cooper . This Cooper by no means would let go his hold , The Brewer cry'd out to the Cooper , and told Him , there was the Key of his Silver and Gold , And gave him free leave to take what he would ; Oh then he contented thee Cooper , These tidings well pleased , etc If thou , quoth the Cooper , wilt swear by and Oath , To do all thou tellest me , though I am loath , I will be content to pardon you both ; Content , quoth the Brewer , I will by my Troah ; Here take thou my Keys , John Cooper , Yea , with a good will , quoth the Cooper . On this condition they both went away , Both John and the Brewer they both went , I say , Which opened the Coffer where more Money lay , Than John the Cooper had seen many a day ; This is a brave sighed , thought the Cooper , I'll furnish myself , etc John was so far in affection with that , That he took up handfuls and filled his Hat , I will have my bargain , quoth John , that is flat ; The Brewer shall pay well for using my Fat ; I'll cry no more , Work for a Cooper , Farewell to the Trade , etc Thus Money can pacify the greatest Strife , For John never after found fault with his Wife ; He left of his Adz , his Saw , and his Knife , And after liv'd richly all days of his life : He cry'd no more , Work for a Cooper , Oh what a good Wife , etc And in this merry mood ofttimes he would say , If I had hooped twenty Tubs in one day , I should not have had so much Wealth by my Faith : Gramercy , kind Wife , for thy Wit found the way To make a rich Man of John Cooper , Oh what a good Wife , etc Let no married Couple that hear this Tale told , Be of this Opinion this Couple did hold , To fell Reputation for Silver or Gold , For Credit and Honesty should not be sold : Thus endeth the Song of the Cooper , That cry'd , Ha'ye any work for a Cooper . Printed by and for W.O. and so [ l ] worser by J. Deacon , in Gilded [ - ] spur-street , and C. Bates , in Pie [ - ] corner . The COOPER of NORFOLK : OR , A Pretty Jest of a Brewer and a Cooper's Wife ; and how the Cooper served the Brewer in his kind . To the Tune of , The Wiving Age . ATtend my Master's , and listen well , Unto this Ditty , which briefly does tell , Of a fine merry Jest in Norfolk befell , A brave lusty Cooper in that Country did dwell ; And there he cry'd , Work for a Cooper ; Maids , ha'ye any Work for a Cooper ? This Cooper he had a fair Creature to's Wife , Which a Brewer i'th' Town lov'd as dear as his life , But she had a trick , which in some Wives are rife , She still kept a Sheath to another Man's Knife ; And often cornuted the Cooper , While he cry'd , etc It happen'd one morning the Cooper out went , To work for his living it was his intent , He trusted at home to his Wive's Government , And left her a bed to her own heart's content ; While he cry'd , Work for a Cooper , Maids , ha'ye , etc And as the Cooper was passing along , Still crying and calling his old wonted Song , The Brewer , his Rival , both lusty and young , Did think now or never to do him some Wrong ; And lie with the Wife of the Cooper , Who better lov'd him , etc He called the Cooper , and to him did say , Go home to my House , and make no delay , I have as much Work as thou canst do today , Whatsoever thou earnest I'll bountifully pay ; These tidings well pleased the Cooper , Oh this was brave news for the Cooper . Away went the Cooper to the House of the Brewer , Who seeing him hard at his labour to endure , Thought he , now for this day the Cooper is sure , I'll go to his Wife the Greensickness to Cure ; Take heed of thy Forehead good Cooper , For now I must work for the Cooper . Then straightways he went to the Cooper's Dwelling , The good Wife to give entertainment was willing ; The Brewer and she like two Pigeons was billing , And what they did else they bound me from telling ; He pleased the Wife of the Cooper , Who better lov'd , etc But mark how it happened at the last , Their Sunshine of pleasure was soon overcast , The Cooper did lack one of's Tools , in haste He ran home to fetch it , and found the door fast ; Wife , open the door ( quoth the Cooper ) And let in thy Husband , etc Now when the good Wife and the Brewer did hear The Cooper at door , affrighted they were , The Brewer was in such a bodily fear , That for to hide him he knew not where , To shun the fierce Rage of the Cooper , He thought he should die by the Cooper . The good Wife perceiving his woeful Estate , She having a subtle and politic Pate , She suddenly whelmed a great Brewing-fat , And closely covered the Brewer with that ; Then a [ f ] ter she let in the Cooper , What's under this Tub ? ( quoth the Cooper . She hearing her Husband that question demand , She thought it was time to her Tackling to stand ; Take heed how you move it , quoth she , with your hand , For there's a live big was left by a Friend ; Oh let it alone , John Cooper : Thus she thought to cousin the Cooper . Is it a Sow-pig , the Cooper did say , Let me hav't to my Supper ; the good Wife said , Nay ; It is a Boar-pig , quoth she , by my faith , 'Tis for my own diet , 'twas given me to day ; It is not for you , John Cooper , Then let it alone , John Cooper . I would it were in thy body , quoth John , Indeed ( quoth the good Wife ) so it shall be anon , Whate're become of it , faith thou shalt have none , Why stand'st thou here prating ? I prithee be gone ; Make haste to thy Work , good Cooper , Worse Meat's good enough for a Cooper . Cannot a good Wife have a bit now and than , But there must be notice taken by the good Man ? I'll hav't to my dinner , Sir , do what you can , It may be I long to have all or none ; Then prithee content take , good Cooper , Oh go to thy Work , etc The Cooper mistrusted some Knavery to be Hid under the Brewing-fat , and therefore he Was fully resolved for his mind-sake to see ; Alas ! said the Brewer , then woe be to me ; Oh what shall I say to the Cooper ? O would I were gone , etc You Whore , quoth the Cooper , is this your Boar-pig , He has been well fed , for he's grown very big ; I'll either have of him and Arm or a Leg , I'll make him unable his Tail for to wag , Before he gets hence from John Cooper , I'll make him remember , etc O pardon me , Neighbour , the Brewer did say , And for the Offence I have done thee today , I am well contented they wrath to allay , And make Restitution for this my foul play ; Oh prithee forgive me , John Cooper , And I'll be a Friend , etc If for this Offence thou wilt set me clear , My bounty and love to thee shall appear , I'll freely allow thee and thine all the year , As much as ye'll drink , either strong Ale or Beer , Oh prithee forgive me , John Cooper , And I'll be a Friend to the Cooper . O , no , ( quoth the Cooper ) I'll have you to think , That I with my labour can buy myself drink ; I'll geld thee or lame thee e're from me thon shrink : These words made the Brewer with fear for to stink , He feared the Rage of the Cooper , Yet still he entreated the Cooper . This Cooper by no means would let go his hold , The Brewer cry'd out to the Cooper , and told Him , there was the Key of his Silver and Gold , And gave him free leave to take what he would ; Oh then he contented thee Cooper , These tidings well pleased , etc If thou , quoth the Cooper , wilt swear by and Oath , To do all thou tellest me , though I am loath , I will be content to pardon you both ; Content , quoth the Brewer , I will by my Troah ; Here take thou my Keys , John Cooper , Yea , with a good will , quoth the Cooper . On this condition they both went away , Both John and the Brewer they both went , I say , Which opened the Coffer where more Money lay , Than John the Cooper had seen many a day ; This is a brave sighed , thought the Cooper , I'll furnish myself , etc John was so far in affection with that , That he took up handfuls and filled his Hat , I will have my bargain , quoth John , that is flat ; The Brewer shall pay well for using my Fat ; I'll cry no more , Work for a Cooper , Farewell to the Trade , etc Thus Money can pacify the greatest Strife , For John never after found fault with his Wife ; He left of his Adz , his Saw , and his Knife , And after liv'd richly all days of his life : He cry'd no more , Work for a Cooper , Oh what a good Wife , etc And in this merry mood ofttimes he would say , If I had hooped twenty Tubs in one day , I should not have had so much Wealth by my Faith : Gramercy , kind Wife , for thy Wit found the way To make a rich Man of John Cooper , Oh what a good Wife , etc Let no married Couple that hear this Tale told , Be of this Opinion this Couple did hold , To fell Reputation for Silver or Gold , For Credit and Honesty should not be sold : Thus endeth the Song of the Cooper , That cry'd , Ha'ye any work for a Cooper . Printed by and for W.O. and so [ l ] worser by J. Deacon , in Gilded [ - ] spur-street , and C. Bates , in Pie [ - ] corner . 