Celinda's last Gasp : OR , Her Farewell to False Coridon . Since Coridon prov'd false in heart , Celinda Mourned soar , But feeling too too great a smart , she vow'd to Love no more : But at the last all-Conquering Death did ease her troubled mind , And as she parted with her Breath , he stayed not long behind . To the Tune of , Young Phoeon , Busy Fame : Or , Cloris full of Harmless thoughts . ATtend true Lovers and give ear , unto my Dying Song ; For unto you I will declare , how Cupid did me wrong : For with his powerful cruel Dart , he sought my grief and woe , And pierc'd my tender Lovesick heart , which proves my overthrow . And Coridon who I did love , beyond all other men , To his Celinda false did prove , which cut my heart again : So now I to the Grave am brought , for loving too too well , Love would have brought , a heaven I thought , but now it proves a Hell . Ah! fate to me so cruel still , now let me know the cause , That you thus seek my Blood to spill , for keeping Cupids Laws : Them in my mind I thought I was obliged to obey , But now too late I find alas , my comforts all decay . WHen poor Celinda's dead and gone , and laid within her Grave , Write some Love Verses on my Tomb , 'tis all I now do crave : But yet I fear no Shepherdess , e're felt so deep a Wound , My griefs and sorrows to express , there's none that can be found . Who can relate my riged fate , and not be drown'd in Tears ? Or who can pity my sad state , that have for Months and years Been Languishing in this Abyss , and can no bottom find ; Rob'd of all joy and true Loves Bliss , and troubled in my mind . And Coridon for thy hard heart , thou shalt tormented be , For causing all this grief and smart , which happened unto me : For in the dead time of the night , while others take their rest , With Visions strange i'le thee affright , and prove a dreadful Guest . O then too late thou shalt repent , that thou wertenberg so unkind , 'Twill be in vain for to lament , that thou shalt surely find : Where ever thou shalt be alone , i'le still be in thy sighed , I'le make thee sighs , and grieve , and mourn , and rob thee of Delight . That thou mayest be a warning to such as like thee would prove , And seek more Maidens to undo , wrapped up in bonds of Love : Who cannot find one hours content , but burn with endless fire , And do both night and day lament , wanting their hearts desire . So farewell cruel Coridon , i'le never love thee more , Thou once wertenberg he I doted on , and did too much adore : One minute I out of my mind , could not my Shepherd keep , But he was Cruel and unkind , and laughed to see me weep . My sorrows now will have and end , that I continued in , And losing his ( once ) faithful friend , his Torments will begin : True lovers all observe his fallen , of falsehood still beware , For punishment is due to all , that lay for Maids a snare . And thus the poor Celinda Dy'd , with a sad troubled breast , And Coridon was terrified , as is before express But let no lovers after this , be faithless and unkind , For when the Shepherd did see this , he stayed not long behind . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Rainbow , near Davids-Inn in Holborn . Celinda's last Gasp : OR , Her Farewell to False Coridon . Since Coridon prov'd false in heart , Celinda Mourned soar , But feeling too too great a smart , she vow'd to Love no more : But at the last all-Conquering Death did ease her troubled mind , And as she parted with her Breath , he stayed not long behind . To the Tune of , Young Phoeon , Busy Fame : Or , Cloris full of Harmless thoughts . ATtend true Lovers and give ear , unto my Dying Song ; For unto you I will declare , how Cupid did me wrong : For with his powerful cruel Dart , he sought my grief and woe , And pierc'd my tender Lovesick heart , which proves my overthrow . And Coridon who I did love , beyond all other men , To his Celinda false did prove , which cut my heart again : So now I to the Grave am brought , for loving too too well , Love would have brought , a heaven I thought , but now it proves a Hell . Ah! fate to me so cruel still , now let me know the cause , That you thus seek my Blood to spill , for keeping Cupids Laws : Them in my mind I thought I was obliged to obey , But now too late I find alas , my comforts all decay . WHen poor Celinda's dead and gone , and laid within her Grave , Write some Love Verses on my Tomb , 'tis all I now do crave : But yet I fear no Shepherdess , e're felt so deep a Wound , My griefs and sorrows to express , there's none that can be found . Who can relate my riged fate , and not be drown'd in Tears ? Or who can pity my sad state , that have for Months and years Been Languishing in this Abyss , and can no bottom find ; Rob'd of all joy and true Loves Bliss , and troubled in my mind . And Coridon for thy hard heart , thou shalt tormented be , For causing all this grief and smart , which happened unto me : For in the dead time of the night , while others take their rest , With Visions strange i'le thee affright , and prove a dreadful Guest . O then too late thou shalt repent , that thou wertenberg so unkind , 'Twill be in vain for to lament , that thou shalt surely find : Where ever thou shalt be alone , i'le still be in thy sighed , I'le make thee sighs , and grieve , and mourn , and rob thee of Delight . That thou mayest be a warning to such as like thee would prove , And seek more Maidens to undo , wrapped up in bonds of Love : Who cannot find one hours content , but burn with endless fire , And do both night and day lament , wanting their hearts desire . So farewell cruel Coridon , i'le never love thee more , Thou once wertenberg he I doted on , and did too much adore : One minute I out of my mind , could not my Shepherd keep , But he was Cruel and unkind , and laughed to see me weep . My sorrows now will have and end , that I continued in , And losing his ( once ) faithful friend , his Torments will begin : True lovers all observe his fallen , of falsehood still beware , For punishment is due to all , that lay for Maids a snare . And thus the poor Celinda Dy'd , with a sad troubled breast , And Coridon was terrified , as is before express But let no lovers after this , be faithless and unkind , For when the Shepherd did see this , he stayed not long behind . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Rainbow , near Davids-Inn in Holborn . 