The two Joyful Lovers , OR , A true pattern of Love . The Maid at first was most unkind , Yet boar at last a faithful mind : For Cupid with his Bow and Shield . At last did force her for to yield . The Tune is , Fancies Phoenix . AWake , awake from slumbering sleep , Oh heart why art thou fix'd so sure ? Why does thou thus for fancy weep , for those that cannot thee endure , Or why should I myself disgrace With doting on a Maidens face ; Oh no , Oh no , I will break that strife , And live and die a single life . If she had prov'd as true to me , as I in heart did vow to be , No cause she would have had to rue my heart so steadfast is and true : And still I scorn to change my mind , What though she prove to me unkind ; 'Tis only she must be my Wife , Or else I'le live a single life . O Cupid now , come let me know , Why I should thus abused be , The truth unto me now come show , I am sure the fault is all in thee , And cause of this my mournful cry , Therefore come ease my misery ; And rid me of this homebred strife , Or I vow to live a single life . Go tell my Mistress it is I , she must and cannot choose but love , I pray thee let thy arrows fly ; that she may true and constant prove , For I no cause at all can see I should go bound , and she go free , Persuade her for to end the strife , Or I vow to live a single life . No man can tell except he try the grief , and care , and misery : A man in love may soon obtain and be rewarded with disdain : So hard in heart some Maidens are , Young men I pray you have a care : For fear your heart be fill'd with strife , No , rather choose a single life . But stay , methinks , I hear a voice , and harmony within mine ear , I think it is my only joys , the voice of her I love most dear , Forbear a while and you shall see , My love and I in unity . I hope that she will end the strife , And yield now for to be my Wife . The second part , Being the Maidens answer to herself , being alone as she sup - posed , having a Cittern in her hand , she began to sing as follows : To the same Tune . COme , come away , my dearest Dear , make haste methinks thou stays too long , I am in fault I greatly fear , blind Cupid he hath done this wrong , But now I fear with grief and pain , A love-sick-heart with sorrow slave : Would God I were his Married wife , Or else for love I loose my life . I several sorts of Suitors have , that does desire my company , And all of them my love does crave , yet I to them make this reply , Forbear your suit trouble not me , A single life from care is free : But yet to end up all the strife , Would God I were my Trueloves Wife . 'Tis he I vow and only he , that best deserves the fruits of Love , I vow to him constant to be , while life does last , I true will prove , Would God that he were standing by , To hear my doleful harmony , He would have then his heatts desire , What civilly he could require . Therefore content thyself dear friend , my heart is fired now forever , And shall be while my life does end , thy only joy thou mayest recover , Therefore I once again reply , Would God my Dear were standing by , For I am resolved to end the strife , Would God I were his married Wife . I hearing of this kind reply , with music sweet from my dearest Dear , With courage bold I then drew near , forgetting all my former care ; And with a salutation sweet We did each other kindly greet . Shee yielded what I did require , And granted me my hearts desire , So to conclude , we married were , according unto Gods Decree , In love we live void of all care in joy , in peace . and unity : You Maidens all which hear this song , Pray have a care you do no wrong : But if your Loves be true and kind , Be sure to bear a faithful mind . FINIS . T.R. London , Printed for Sarah Tyus on London-Bridge . The two Joyful Lovers , OR , A true pattern of Love . The Maid at first was most unkind , Yet boar at last a faithful mind : For Cupid with his Bow and Shield . At last did force her for to yield . The Tune is , Fancies Phoenix . AWake , awake from slumbering sleep , Oh heart why art thou fix'd so sure ? Why does thou thus for fancy weep , for those that cannot thee endure , Or why should I myself disgrace With doting on a Maidens face ; Oh no , Oh no , I will break that strife , And live and die a single life . If she had prov'd as true to me , as I in heart did vow to be , No cause she would have had to rue my heart so steadfast is and true : And still I scorn to change my mind , What though she prove to me unkind ; 'Tis only she must be my Wife , Or else I'le live a single life . O Cupid now , come let me know , Why I should thus abused be , The truth unto me now come show , I am sure the fault is all in thee , And cause of this my mournful cry , Therefore come ease my misery ; And rid me of this homebred strife , Or I vow to live a single life . Go tell my Mistress it is I , she must and cannot choose but love , I pray thee let thy arrows fly ; that she may true and constant prove , For I no cause at all can see I should go bound , and she go free , Persuade her for to end the strife , Or I vow to live a single life . No man can tell except he try the grief , and care , and misery : A man in love may soon obtain and be rewarded with disdain : So hard in heart some Maidens are , Young men I pray you have a care : For fear your heart be fill'd with strife , No , rather choose a single life . But stay , methinks , I hear a voice , and harmony within mine ear , I think it is my only joys , the voice of her I love most dear , Forbear a while and you shall see , My love and I in unity . I hope that she will end the strife , And yield now for to be my Wife . The second part , Being the Maidens answer to herself , being alone as she sup - posed , having a Cittern in her hand , she began to sing as follows : To the same Tune . COme , come away , my dearest Dear , make haste methinks thou stays too long , I am in fault I greatly fear , blind Cupid he hath done this wrong , But now I fear with grief and pain , A love-sick-heart with sorrow slave : Would God I were his Married wife , Or else for love I loose my life . I several sorts of Suitors have , that does desire my company , And all of them my love does crave , yet I to them make this reply , Forbear your suit trouble not me , A single life from care is free : But yet to end up all the strife , Would God I were my Trueloves Wife . 'Tis he I vow and only he , that best deserves the fruits of Love , I vow to him constant to be , while life does last , I true will prove , Would God that he were standing by , To hear my doleful harmony , He would have then his heatts desire , What civilly he could require . Therefore content thyself dear friend , my heart is fired now forever , And shall be while my life does end , thy only joy thou mayest recover , Therefore I once again reply , Would God my Dear were standing by , For I am resolved to end the strife , Would God I were his married Wife . I hearing of this kind reply , with music sweet from my dearest Dear , With courage bold I then drew near , forgetting all my former care ; And with a salutation sweet We did each other kindly greet . Shee yielded what I did require , And granted me my hearts desire , So to conclude , we married were , according unto Gods Decree , In love we live void of all care in joy , in peace . and unity : You Maidens all which hear this song , Pray have a care you do no wrong : But if your Loves be true and kind , Be sure to bear a faithful mind . FINIS . T.R. London , Printed for Sarah Tyus on London-Bridge . 