/ 1 The Man in the MOON Drinks Clarret , As it was lately Sung at the Curtain Holy-Well . To the same Tune . BAcchus the Father of drunken Nowls , Full Mazers , Beakers , Glasses , Bowls . Greasy Flapdragons , Flemish Upsie freeze , With health stab'd in arms upon naked knees Of all his Wines he makes you tasters , So you tipple like Bumbasters . Drink till you reel a welcome he does give , Oh how the boon Claret makes you live , Not a Painter purer colour shows , then what's laid on by Claret , Pearl and Ruby does set out the Nose , when thin small Beer does mar it , Rich Wine is good , It heats the blood , It makes and old Man lusty , The young to brawl , And the Drawars up call , Before being too much musty . Whither you drink all or little , Pot it so your selves to wittle , Then though twelve A Clock it be , Yet all the way go roaring , If the Band , Of Bills cry stand , Swear that you must a Who ------ Such Gambols , such tricks such Fegaries , We fetch though we touch no Canaries : Drink wine till the Welkin roars , And cry out a pox of your Scores , In Wine we call for Bawdy Jigs , Catzoes , Rumbillows , Whirligigs , Cambo god in Huff Cap vain , The Devil in the places yor wot were reign , Brave Wine it thus tickles our Heels , Mull'd well in wine none sorrow feels , Our Moon-man & his powder-beef mad crew , Thus caper through the liquour sweet Turnip drew Roundabout over tables & joyn'd stools let's dance with naked Rapiers , Cut the Fiddlestrings and then like fools , kick out the fum fum scrapers , There is no found , That cares can wound , As lids of Wine pots clinking , There's no such sport When all amort , Men cry let's fallen a drinking ; Oh 'tis nappy Geer , Would each belly was filled here , Herrings pickel'd , Must be tickel'd , Down to draw the Liquour : The salt Sammon , And fat Gammon , Makes our Wine drink quicker . Our Man in the Moon drinks Clarret , If he does so , why should not you , Drink until the Sky looks blue . Hey for a turn thus above ground , Oh my Noddle too heavy does weigh , Metheglin , Perry , Syder , nor strong Ale , Are half so heady be they ne'r so stale : Wine in our Guts can never rumble , Down now & then though it makes us tumble Yet scrambling up a drunkard feels no pain , But cries Sirrah Boy , t'other Pottle again . We can drink no more unless we have , full pipes of Trinnidado , Give us the best it keeps our brains , more warm then does freezado . It makes us sing , And cry heigh ding , And laugh when Pipes lie broken , For which to pay , At going away , We scorn a Mustard token ; Never curse the saucy score , Outswear the Bar you'l pay no more : In these days , He is no gallant , That cannot puff and swagger , Though he dare Not kill a sheep , Yet out must fly his dagger : If then you do love my Hoast's Clarret , Fat powder beef , Turnip and Carret , Come again , and again , And still welcome Gentlemen . Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . / 1 The Man in the MOON Drinks Clarret , As it was lately Sung at the Curtain Holy-Well . To the same Tune . BAcchus the Father of drunken Nowls , Full Mazers , Beakers , Glasses , Bowls . Greasy Flapdragons , Flemish Upsie freeze , With health stab'd in arms upon naked knees Of all his Wines he makes you tasters , So you tipple like Bumbasters . Drink till you reel a welcome he does give , Oh how the boon Claret makes you live , Not a Painter purer colour shows , then what's laid on by Claret , Pearl and Ruby does set out the Nose , when thin small Beer does mar it , Rich Wine is good , It heats the blood , It makes and old Man lusty , The young to brawl , And the Drawars up call , Before being too much musty . Whither you drink all or little , Pot it so your selves to wittle , Then though twelve A Clock it be , Yet all the way go roaring , If the Band , Of Bills cry stand , Swear that you must a Who ------ Such Gambols , such tricks such Fegaries , We fetch though we touch no Canaries : Drink wine till the Welkin roars , And cry out a pox of your Scores , In Wine we call for Bawdy Jigs , Catzoes , Rumbillows , Whirligigs , Cambo god in Huff Cap vain , The Devil in the places yor wot were reign , Brave Wine it thus tickles our Heels , Mull'd well in wine none sorrow feels , Our Moon-man & his powder-beef mad crew , Thus caper through the liquour sweet Turnip drew Roundabout over tables & joyn'd stools let's dance with naked Rapiers , Cut the Fiddlestrings and then like fools , kick out the fum fum scrapers , There is no found , That cares can wound , As lids of Wine pots clinking , There's no such sport When all amort , Men cry let's fallen a drinking ; Oh 'tis nappy Geer , Would each belly was filled here , Herrings pickel'd , Must be tickel'd , Down to draw the Liquour : The salt Sammon , And fat Gammon , Makes our Wine drink quicker . Our Man in the Moon drinks Clarret , If he does so , why should not you , Drink until the Sky looks blue . Hey for a turn thus above ground , Oh my Noddle too heavy does weigh , Metheglin , Perry , Syder , nor strong Ale , Are half so heady be they ne'r so stale : Wine in our Guts can never rumble , Down now & then though it makes us tumble Yet scrambling up a drunkard feels no pain , But cries Sirrah Boy , t'other Pottle again . We can drink no more unless we have , full pipes of Trinnidado , Give us the best it keeps our brains , more warm then does freezado . It makes us sing , And cry heigh ding , And laugh when Pipes lie broken , For which to pay , At going away , We scorn a Mustard token ; Never curse the saucy score , Outswear the Bar you'l pay no more : In these days , He is no gallant , That cannot puff and swagger , Though he dare Not kill a sheep , Yet out must fly his dagger : If then you do love my Hoast's Clarret , Fat powder beef , Turnip and Carret , Come again , and again , And still welcome Gentlemen . Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 