A THE Country Parson's Honest Advice TO THAT Judicious LAWYER , AND Worthy Minister of State , My Lord Keeper . BE Wise as Somerset , as Somer's Brave , As Pembroke Airy , and as Richmond Grave ; Humble as Orford be ; and Wharton's Zeal , For Church and Loyalty , wou'd fit thee well ; Like Sarum , I wou'd have thee love the Church , He scorns to leave his Mother in the Lurch . For the well governing your Family , Let pious Haversham thy Pattern be : And if it be thy Fate again to Marry , And S --- y --- r's Daughter will thy Year out tarry , May'st thou use her as Mohun his tender Wife , And may she led his virtuous Lady's Life . To sum up all ; Devonshire's Chastity , Bolton's Merit , Godolphin's Probity , Halifax his Modesty , Essex's Sense , Mountague's Management , Culpepper's Pence , Tenison's Learning , and Southampton's Wit , Will make thee for and able Statesman fit . FINIS . A THE Country Parson's Honest Advice TO THAT Judicious LAWYER , AND Worthy Minister of State , My Lord Keeper . BE Wise as Somerset , as Somer's Brave , As Pembroke Airy , and as Richmond Grave ; Humble as Orford be ; and Wharton's Zeal , For Church and Loyalty , wou'd fit thee well ; Like Sarum , I wou'd have thee love the Church , He scorns to leave his Mother in the Lurch . For the well governing your Family , Let pious Haversham thy Pattern be : And if it be thy Fate again to Marry , And S --- y --- r's Daughter will thy Year out tarry , May'st thou use her as Mohun his tender Wife , And may she led his virtuous Lady's Life . To sum up all ; Devonshire's Chastity , Bolton's Merit , Godolphin's Probity , Halifax his Modesty , Essex's Sense , Mountague's Management , Culpepper's Pence , Tenison's Learning , and Southampton's Wit , Will make thee for and able Statesman fit . FINIS . A THE Country Parson's Honest Advice TO THAT Judicious LAWYER , AND Worthy Minister of State , My Lord Keeper . BE Wise as Somerset , as Somer's Brave , As Pembroke Airy , and as Richmond Grave ; Humble as Orford be ; and Wharton's Zeal , For Church and Loyalty , wou'd fit thee well ; Like Sarum , I wou'd have thee love the Church , He scorns to leave his Mother in the Lurch . For the well governing your Family , Let pious Haversham thy Pattern be : And if it be thy Fate again to Marry , And S --- y --- r's Daughter will thy Year out tarry , May'st thou use her as Mohun his tender Wife , And may she led his virtuous Lady's Life . To sum up all ; Devonshire's Chastity , Bolton's Merit , Godolphin's Probity , Halifax his Modesty , Essex's Sense , Mountague's Management , Culpepper's Pence , Tenison's Learning , and Southampton's Wit , Will make thee for and able Statesman fit . FINIS . A THE Country Parson's Honest Advice TO THAT Judicious LAWYER , AND Worthy Minister of State , My Lord Keeper . BE Wise as Somerset , as Somer's Brave , As Pembroke Airy , and as Richmond Grave ; Humble as Orford be ; and Wharton's Zeal , For Church and Loyalty , wou'd fit thee well ; Like Sarum , I wou'd have thee love the Church , He scorns to leave his Mother in the Lurch . For the well governing your Family , Let pious Haversham thy Pattern be : And if it be thy Fate again to Marry , And S --- y --- r's Daughter will thy Year out tarry , May'st thou use her as Mohun his tender Wife , And may she led his virtuous Lady's Life . To sum up all ; Devonshire's Chastity , Bolton's Merit , Godolphin's Probity , Halifax his Modesty , Essex's Sense , Mountague's Management , Culpepper's Pence , Tenison's Learning , and Southampton's Wit , Will make thee for and able Statesman fit . FINIS . 