/ 2 The Man in the MOON Drinks Clarret , As it was lately Sung at the Curtain Holy-Well . To the same Tune . BAcchus the Father of drunken Nowls , Full Mazers , Beakers , Glasses , Bowls . Greasy Flaporagons , Flemish upsie freeze , With health stap'd in arms upon naked knees Of all his Wines he makes you tasters , So you tipple like Bumbasters . Drink till you real a welcome he does give , Oh how the boon Claret makes you live , Not a Painter purer colour shows , then what's laid on by Claret , Pearl and Ruby does set out the Nose , when thin small Beer does mar it , Rich Wine is good , It heats the blood , It makes and old Man lusty , The young to mawl , And the Drawars up call , Before being too much musty . Whither you drink all or little , Pot it so your selves to whittle , Then though twelve A Clock it be , Yet all the way go roaring , If the Band , Of Bills cry stand , Swear that you must a Who ------ Such Gambols , such tricks , such Fegaries , We fetch though we touch no Canaries : Drink wine till the Welkin roars , And cry out a por of your Scores , In Wine we call for Bawdy Jigs , Catzoes , Rumbillows , Whirligigs , Campo god in Huff Cap vain , The Devil in the places you wet were reign , Brave Win [ e ] it thus tick [ le ] s [ oh ] ur Heels , Mull'd well in wine none sorrow feels , Our Moon-man & his powder-beef mad crew Thus caper through the liquour sweet Turnip drew . Round about over tables & join'd stools let's dance with naked Rapiers , Cut the Fiddlestrings and then like fools , kick ont the fum fum scrapers , There is no found , That cares can wound , As lids of Wine pots clinking , There's no such sport When all amort , Men cry l [ e ] t's fallen to drinking ; Oh 'tis happy Geer , Would each belly was filled here , Herrings pickl'd , Must be tickel'd , Down to draw the Liquour : The salt Sammon , And fat Gammon , Makes our Wine drink quicker . Our Man in the Moon drinks Clarret , If he does so , why should not you , Drink until the Sky looks blue . Hey for a turn thus above ground , Oh my Noddle too heavy does weigh , Metheglin , Perry , Syder , nor strong Ale , Are half so heady , be they ne'r so stale : Wine in our Guts can never rumble , Down now and then tho' it make us tumbl [ e ] Yet scrambling up a Drunkard feels no pa [ in ] But cries Sirrah Boy , t' other Pottle agam [ in ] We can drink no more unless we have , full pipes of Trinnidado , Give us the best it keeps our brains , more warm then does freezado . It makes us sing , And cry heigh ding , And laugh when Pipes lie broken , For which to pay , At going away , We scorn a mustard token ; Never curse the saucy score , Outswear the Bar you'l pay no more : In these days , He is no gallant , That cannot puff and swagger , Though he dare Not kill a sheep , Yet out must fly his dagger : If then you do love my Hoast's Clarret , Fat powder beef , Turnip and Carret , Come again , and again , And still welcome Gentlemen . / 2 The Man in the MOON Drinks Clarret , As it was lately Sung at the Curtain Holy-Well . To the same Tune . BAcchus the Father of drunken Nowls , Full Mazers , Beakers , Glasses , Bowls . Greasy Flaporagons , Flemish upsie freeze , With health stap'd in arms upon naked knees Of all his Wines he makes you tasters , So you tipple like Bumbasters . Drink till you real a welcome he does give , Oh how the boon Claret makes you live , Not a Painter purer colour shows , then what's laid on by Claret , Pearl and Ruby does set out the Nose , when thin small Beer does mar it , Rich Wine is good , It heats the blood , It makes and old Man lusty , The young to mawl , And the Drawars up call , Before being too much musty . Whither you drink all or little , Pot it so your selves to whittle , Then though twelve A Clock it be , Yet all the way go roaring , If the Band , Of Bills cry stand , Swear that you must a Who ------ Such Gambols , such tricks , such Fegaries , We fetch though we touch no Canaries : Drink wine till the Welkin roars , And cry out a por of your Scores , In Wine we call for Bawdy Jigs , Catzoes , Rumbillows , Whirligigs , Campo god in Huff Cap vain , The Devil in the places you wet were reign , Brave Win [ e ] it thus tick [ le ] s [ oh ] ur Heels , Mull'd well in wine none sorrow feels , Our Moon-man & his powder-beef mad crew Thus caper through the liquour sweet Turnip drew . Round about over tables & join'd stools let's dance with naked Rapiers , Cut the Fiddlestrings and then like fools , kick ont the fum fum scrapers , There is no found , That cares can wound , As lids of Wine pots clinking , There's no such sport When all amort , Men cry l [ e ] t's fallen to drinking ; Oh 'tis happy Geer , Would each belly was filled here , Herrings pickl'd , Must be tickel'd , Down to draw the Liquour : The salt Sammon , And fat Gammon , Makes our Wine drink quicker . Our Man in the Moon drinks Clarret , If he does so , why should not you , Drink until the Sky looks blue . Hey for a turn thus above ground , Oh my Noddle too heavy does weigh , Metheglin , Perry , Syder , nor strong Ale , Are half so heady , be they ne'r so stale : Wine in our Guts can never rumble , Down now and then tho' it make us tumbl [ e ] Yet scrambling up a Drunkard feels no pa [ in ] But cries Sirrah Boy , t' other Pottle agam [ in ] We can drink no more unless we have , full pipes of Trinnidado , Give us the best it keeps our brains , more warm then does freezado . It makes us sing , And cry heigh ding , And laugh when Pipes lie broken , For which to pay , At going away , We scorn a mustard token ; Never curse the saucy score , Outswear the Bar you'l pay no more : In these days , He is no gallant , That cannot puff and swagger , Though he dare Not kill a sheep , Yet out must fly his dagger : If then you do love my Hoast's Clarret , Fat powder beef , Turnip and Carret , Come again , and again , And still welcome Gentlemen . 