And easy way to Tame a SHREW . OR THE Young Plow-man's Frolic , He that a Shrew would gladly Tame , Example take here by the same ; As in this Ditty you may find , Fair words does please a Woman's mind : And all good Wives where e're you be , Pray listen well to this Ditty ; To please you all I know not how , But yet I say , God speed the Blow . To a Delightful New Tune ; Or , The Collier of Croydon had Coals to fell . BE merry all you that be here , here present in this place , And with a Song I will you please , as God shall give me Grace ; Then give ear a little space . A Youngman lived in our Country , which of late did set up Blow , He wanted strength to Till his ground , he had but Horses two : Alack what could he do ? He god up early in the morning , because he fain would thrive , He went but fairly with his Draught , and he hir'd a Boy to drive ; You shall hear more believe . Then and aged man came riding by , of him he did not dream , He did commend his Plowing well , with such a slender Team ; For he wanted but a Beam . I have a Horse , the old man said , so furious and void of fear , No work nor beating can him tame , for he breaks all our Gears , Attend all you that hear . I can him tame , the young man said , if you will fell him me , The old man reply'd , the grief is small , then soon they did agree ; His proof I fain would see . He tied this Horse up two or three days , to tame his sturdy fit , He gave him gentle words enough , but meat never a bit ; Thus he did try his wit . And then he brings him forth to work , and in the midst he goes , He takes a bottle of his best Hay , and he hangs it before his Nose ; He drew then you may suppose . And as he drew he gave him some , so brought him to good frame , The aged man within few days , did come to see the same ; What said he when he came ? Thou sure haste done a mighty feat , for I could never bring Him to Saddle nor to draw , thou hast conquer'd like a King ; I but hunger did the thing . The second part , to the same Tune . SHOWING , How the Old Man married his Daughter to this Youngman . And how the Youngman dealt with his Cross-grain'd Wife , Yet after liv'd a sweet Contented Life . I have a daughter , the old man said , my Heir and only child , But in condition she is a Shrew , both sturdy , stout , and wild ; Her nature is not mild . If thou'lt but please to marry her , her Portion is not small , Five hundred pound I thee will gi [ we ] , and when I die she shall have all ; What ever does befall . I'll see your daughter , the youngman said , if I can but favour find , I make no doubt to bring it about , to win her to my mind ; And i'le to her prove kind . But when he to this Damosel came , as plainly does appear , She liked him , and lov'd him so , they quickly married were ; What followed you shall hear . Next morning early he god up , and for to go to the Blow , Then with speeches fair , he did prepare , to tell her what to do ; Then he came his Wife unto . Then he brought unto her Chamber door a Wheel , and Flax to Spin , And said , good Wife , with our own hands our living we must win ; O in time he did begin . I will not work at all , quoth she , my portion is so great , Nay , you must work good wife , he said , or nothing you must eat ; This was his subtle feat . No meat at all she had that day , for out she could not get , He lock'd the door and went to Blow , and left her there to fret ; But she did not die o'th Pet. At night when he came home from Blow , he proffered her a Kiss , Nay Churl said she , away be gone , I will tell my Parents this ; Then he thought all was amiss . Next morning her Wheel she took in hand and spun up eight good Lease , And said , kind Husband , by all means , I will seek your mind to please ; O then she found better ease . But when her Parents they did come , to see how they did agree , They found her busy at her work , and singing merrily ; They wondered that to see . My Husband loves me well , said she , I have any thing I crave , But I must work as well as he , or nothing I must have ; I must either gain or save . We be hungry daughter , they said , will you give us some meat ? Nay you must work before , said she , or nothing you must eat ; She had learn'd the subtle feat . But when her husband he came home , and found her Parents there , He made them welcome heartily , he laugh'd and made good Cheer ; O then they merry were . thus you have herd the taming of a shrew by gentle means , and how Then all good wives , while you have lives help to maintain the Blow ; And it will you means allow . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball near the Hospital-gate , in West-Smithfield . And easy way to Tame a SHREW . OR THE Young Plow-man's Frolic , He that a Shrew would gladly Tame , Example take here by the same ; As in this Ditty you may find , Fair words does please a Woman's mind : And all good Wives where e're you be , Pray listen well to this Ditty ; To please you all I know not how , But yet I say , God speed the Blow . To a Delightful New Tune ; Or , The Collier of Croydon had Coals to fell . BE merry all you that be here , here present in this place , And with a Song I will you please , as God shall give me Grace ; Then give ear a little space . A Youngman lived in our Country , which of late did set up Blow , He wanted strength to Till his ground , he had but Horses two : Alack what could he do ? He god up early in the morning , because he fain would thrive , He went but fairly with his Draught , and he hir'd a Boy to drive ; You shall hear more believe . Then and aged man came riding by , of him he did not dream , He did commend his Plowing well , with such a slender Team ; For he wanted but a Beam . I have a Horse , the old man said , so furious and void of fear , No work nor beating can him tame , for he breaks all our Gears , Attend all you that hear . I can him tame , the young man said , if you will fell him me , The old man reply'd , the grief is small , then soon they did agree ; His proof I fain would see . He tied this Horse up two or three days , to tame his sturdy fit , He gave him gentle words enough , but meat never a bit ; Thus he did try his wit . And then he brings him forth to work , and in the midst he goes , He takes a bottle of his best Hay , and he hangs it before his Nose ; He drew then you may suppose . And as he drew he gave him some , so brought him to good frame , The aged man within few days , did come to see the same ; What said he when he came ? Thou sure haste done a mighty feat , for I could never bring Him to Saddle nor to draw , thou hast conquer'd like a King ; I but hunger did the thing . The second part , to the same Tune . SHOWING , How the Old Man married his Daughter to this Youngman . And how the Youngman dealt with his Cross-grain'd Wife , Yet after liv'd a sweet Contented Life . I have a daughter , the old man said , my Heir and only child , But in condition she is a Shrew , both sturdy , stout , and wild ; Her nature is not mild . If thou'lt but please to marry her , her Portion is not small , Five hundred pound I thee will gi [ we ] , and when I die she shall have all ; What ever does befall . I'll see your daughter , the youngman said , if I can but favour find , I make no doubt to bring it about , to win her to my mind ; And i'le to her prove kind . But when he to this Damosel came , as plainly does appear , She liked him , and lov'd him so , they quickly married were ; What followed you shall hear . Next morning early he god up , and for to go to the Blow , Then with speeches fair , he did prepare , to tell her what to do ; Then he came his Wife unto . Then he brought unto her Chamber door a Wheel , and Flax to Spin , And said , good Wife , with our own hands our living we must win ; O in time he did begin . I will not work at all , quoth she , my portion is so great , Nay , you must work good wife , he said , or nothing you must eat ; This was his subtle feat . No meat at all she had that day , for out she could not get , He lock'd the door and went to Blow , and left her there to fret ; But she did not die o'th Pet. At night when he came home from Blow , he proffered her a Kiss , Nay Churl said she , away be gone , I will tell my Parents this ; Then he thought all was amiss . Next morning her Wheel she took in hand and spun up eight good Lease , And said , kind Husband , by all means , I will seek your mind to please ; O then she found better ease . But when her Parents they did come , to see how they did agree , They found her busy at her work , and singing merrily ; They wondered that to see . My Husband loves me well , said she , I have any thing I crave , But I must work as well as he , or nothing I must have ; I must either gain or save . We be hungry daughter , they said , will you give us some meat ? Nay you must work before , said she , or nothing you must eat ; She had learn'd the subtle feat . But when her husband he came home , and found her Parents there , He made them welcome heartily , he laugh'd and made good Cheer ; O then they merry were . thus you have herd the taming of a shrew by gentle means , and how Then all good wives , while you have lives help to maintain the Blow ; And it will you means allow . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball near the Hospital-gate , in West-Smithfield . And easy way to Tame a SHREW . OR THE Young Plow-man's Frolic , He that a Shrew would gladly Tame , Example take here by the same ; As in this Ditty you may find , Fair words does please a Woman's mind : And all good Wives where e're you be , Pray listen well to this Ditty ; To please you all I know not how , But yet I say , God speed the Blow . To a Delightful New Tune ; Or , The Collier of Croydon had Coals to fell . BE merry all you that be here , here present in this place , And with a Song I will you please , as God shall give me Grace ; Then give ear a little space . A Youngman lived in our Country , which of late did set up Blow , He wanted strength to Till his ground , he had but Horses two : Alack what could he do ? He god up early in the morning , because he fain would thrive , He went but fairly with his Draught , and he hir'd a Boy to drive ; You shall hear more believe . Then and aged man came riding by , of him he did not dream , He did commend his Plowing well , with such a slender Team ; For he wanted but a Beam . I have a Horse , the old man said , so furious and void of fear , No work nor beating can him tame , for he breaks all our Gears , Attend all you that hear . I can him tame , the young man said , if you will fell him me , The old man reply'd , the grief is small , then soon they did agree ; His proof I fain would see . He tied this Horse up two or three days , to tame his sturdy fit , He gave him gentle words enough , but meat never a bit ; Thus he did try his wit . And then he brings him forth to work , and in the midst he goes , He takes a bottle of his best Hay , and he hangs it before his Nose ; He drew then you may suppose . And as he drew he gave him some , so brought him to good frame , The aged man within few days , did come to see the same ; What said he when he came ? Thou sure haste done a mighty feat , for I could never bring Him to Saddle nor to draw , thou hast conquer'd like a King ; I but hunger did the thing . The second part , to the same Tune . SHOWING , How the Old Man married his Daughter to this Youngman . And how the Youngman dealt with his Cross-grain'd Wife , Yet after liv'd a sweet Contented Life . I have a daughter , the old man said , my Heir and only child , But in condition she is a Shrew , both sturdy , stout , and wild ; Her nature is not mild . If thou'lt but please to marry her , her Portion is not small , Five hundred pound I thee will gi [ we ] , and when I die she shall have all ; What ever does befall . I'll see your daughter , the youngman said , if I can but favour find , I make no doubt to bring it about , to win her to my mind ; And i'le to her prove kind . But when he to this Damosel came , as plainly does appear , She liked him , and lov'd him so , they quickly married were ; What followed you shall hear . Next morning early he god up , and for to go to the Blow , Then with speeches fair , he did prepare , to tell her what to do ; Then he came his Wife unto . Then he brought unto her Chamber door a Wheel , and Flax to Spin , And said , good Wife , with our own hands our living we must win ; O in time he did begin . I will not work at all , quoth she , my portion is so great , Nay , you must work good wife , he said , or nothing you must eat ; This was his subtle feat . No meat at all she had that day , for out she could not get , He lock'd the door and went to Blow , and left her there to fret ; But she did not die o'th Pet. At night when he came home from Blow , he proffered her a Kiss , Nay Churl said she , away be gone , I will tell my Parents this ; Then he thought all was amiss . Next morning her Wheel she took in hand and spun up eight good Lease , And said , kind Husband , by all means , I will seek your mind to please ; O then she found better ease . But when her Parents they did come , to see how they did agree , They found her busy at her work , and singing merrily ; They wondered that to see . My Husband loves me well , said she , I have any thing I crave , But I must work as well as he , or nothing I must have ; I must either gain or save . We be hungry daughter , they said , will you give us some meat ? Nay you must work before , said she , or nothing you must eat ; She had learn'd the subtle feat . But when her husband he came home , and found her Parents there , He made them welcome heartily , he laugh'd and made good Cheer ; O then they merry were . thus you have herd the taming of a shrew by gentle means , and how Then all good wives , while you have lives help to maintain the Blow ; And it will you means allow . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball near the Hospital-gate , in West-Smithfield . And easy way to Tame a SHREW . OR THE Young Plow-man's Frolic , He that a Shrew would gladly Tame , Example take here by the same ; As in this Ditty you may find , Fair words does please a Woman's mind : And all good Wives where e're you be , Pray listen well to this Ditty ; To please you all I know not how , But yet I say , God speed the Blow . To a Delightful New Tune ; Or , The Collier of Croydon had Coals to fell . BE merry all you that be here , here present in this place , And with a Song I will you please , as God shall give me Grace ; Then give ear a little space . A Youngman lived in our Country , which of late did set up Blow , He wanted strength to Till his ground , he had but Horses two : Alack what could he do ? He god up early in the morning , because he fain would thrive , He went but fairly with his Draught , and he hir'd a Boy to drive ; You shall hear more believe . Then and aged man came riding by , of him he did not dream , He did commend his Plowing well , with such a slender Team ; For he wanted but a Beam . I have a Horse , the old man said , so furious and void of fear , No work nor beating can him tame , for he breaks all our Gears , Attend all you that hear . I can him tame , the young man said , if you will fell him me , The old man reply'd , the grief is small , then soon they did agree ; His proof I fain would see . He tied this Horse up two or three days , to tame his sturdy fit , He gave him gentle words enough , but meat never a bit ; Thus he did try his wit . And then he brings him forth to work , and in the midst he goes , He takes a bottle of his best Hay , and he hangs it before his Nose ; He drew then you may suppose . And as he drew he gave him some , so brought him to good frame , The aged man within few days , did come to see the same ; What said he when he came ? Thou sure haste done a mighty feat , for I could never bring Him to Saddle nor to draw , thou hast conquer'd like a King ; I but hunger did the thing . The second part , to the same Tune . SHOWING , How the Old Man married his Daughter to this Youngman . And how the Youngman dealt with his Cross-grain'd Wife , Yet after liv'd a sweet Contented Life . I have a daughter , the old man said , my Heir and only child , But in condition she is a Shrew , both sturdy , stout , and wild ; Her nature is not mild . If thou'lt but please to marry her , her Portion is not small , Five hundred pound I thee will gi [ we ] , and when I die she shall have all ; What ever does befall . I'll see your daughter , the youngman said , if I can but favour find , I make no doubt to bring it about , to win her to my mind ; And i'le to her prove kind . But when he to this Damosel came , as plainly does appear , She liked him , and lov'd him so , they quickly married were ; What followed you shall hear . Next morning early he god up , and for to go to the Blow , Then with speeches fair , he did prepare , to tell her what to do ; Then he came his Wife unto . Then he brought unto her Chamber door a Wheel , and Flax to Spin , And said , good Wife , with our own hands our living we must win ; O in time he did begin . I will not work at all , quoth she , my portion is so great , Nay , you must work good wife , he said , or nothing you must eat ; This was his subtle feat . No meat at all she had that day , for out she could not get , He lock'd the door and went to Blow , and left her there to fret ; But she did not die o'th Pet. At night when he came home from Blow , he proffered her a Kiss , Nay Churl said she , away be gone , I will tell my Parents this ; Then he thought all was amiss . Next morning her Wheel she took in hand and spun up eight good Lease , And said , kind Husband , by all means , I will seek your mind to please ; O then she found better ease . But when her Parents they did come , to see how they did agree , They found her busy at her work , and singing merrily ; They wondered that to see . My Husband loves me well , said she , I have any thing I crave , But I must work as well as he , or nothing I must have ; I must either gain or save . We be hungry daughter , they said , will you give us some meat ? Nay you must work before , said she , or nothing you must eat ; She had learn'd the subtle feat . But when her husband he came home , and found her Parents there , He made them welcome heartily , he laugh'd and made good Cheer ; O then they merry were . thus you have herd the taming of a shrew by gentle means , and how Then all good wives , while you have lives help to maintain the Blow ; And it will you means allow . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball near the Hospital-gate , in West-Smithfield . 