West-Country TOM Tormented , OR , Vexed to the Heart by the News-Mongers of the Town . He vow'd he'd neither talk nor prate , or any News would give , Concerning the Affairs of State , but would at quiet live . To the Tune of , Lilli borlero . I Am a Lad that's come to the Town , who from the West did travel of late ; And they do call me Country Clown , because I will not prattle and prate : I no sooner came to London , but by the hand a Friend did me take , And News did require , but 'twas my desire , I told him neither to meddle nor make . As I came by a Cobblers Sta [ l ] l , where he was set a sowing his Shoes , After me then he straightways did call , saying , my Friend , I prithee what news ? This did straightways raise my anger , knitting my brows , my head I did shake ; Do not stand bawling , but m [ i ] and your own Calling , for I will neither meddle nor make . I having herd Men talk of rich Wine , some of that drink methought I did lack , Then I resolv'd a Tavern to find , where I wou'd buy two pennoth of Sack : Being in my Leather Jacket , Gallants unto poor Tommy did speak , Concerning the Army , but they cou'd not charm me , I swore I would neither meddle nor make . Some said the Prince to London wou'd come , then we shou'd be more happy than e're ; Others declare we all were undone , if to the City he did repair : Thus they talk'd like men distracted , but not a word to them did I spoke , But as I sat drinking , I paid it with thinking , but vow'd I wou'd neither meddle nor make . Some they did worser [ r ] ink a Health to the Prince , with a fair Orange p [ l ] ac'd in a Glass , And without any seeming offence , flowing full brimmers freely d [ i ] worser pass : Then they call'd to Leather Breeches , saying to me this Health I should take , I'de not be at leisure , they might do their pleasure , for I would neither meddle nor make . Then I went to the Royal Exchange , where they discours'd of matters of State , Z bobs , thought I , 'tis wondrous strange , that they do talk at such a rude rate : Some were seemingly Disloyal , the which did cause my heart for to ache , But the I stood neuter , and was no disputer , vowing I'de neither meddle nor make . Then a young Spark all in a vine Coat , in a great rage his Rapier he drew , Swearing he'd make me altar my Note , a [ n ] worser tell him more than ever I knew : But as he was coming to me , I with my Club his Noddle did break , And said , honest Neighbour , take this for your labour for I will neither meddle nor make . Then to a Barbers Shop I did go where being plac'd and set in the Chair , Straightways he did desire to know what kind of News abroad I did hear ? This did make me near Distracted , unto my heels I straightways did take , I ran and I Raved with half my Beard shaved , crying , I'de neither meddle nor ma [ k ] e . Printed for J Wolrah . West-Country TOM Tormented , OR , Vexed to the Heart by the News-Mongers of the Town . He vow'd he'd neither talk nor prate , or any News would give , Concerning the Affairs of State , but would at quiet live . To the Tune of , Lilli borlero . I Am a Lad that's come to the Town , who from the West did travel of late ; And they do call me Country Clown , because I will not prattle and prate : I no sooner came to London , but by the hand a Friend did me take , And News did require , but 'twas my desire , I told him neither to meddle nor make . As I came by a Cobblers Sta [ l ] l , where he was set a sowing his Shoes , After me then he straightways did call , saying , my Friend , I prithee what news ? This did straightways raise my anger , knitting my brows , my head I did shake ; Do not stand bawling , but m [ i ] and your own Calling , for I will neither meddle nor make . I having herd Men talk of rich Wine , some of that drink methought I did lack , Then I resolv'd a Tavern to find , where I wou'd buy two pennoth of Sack : Being in my Leather Jacket , Gallants unto poor Tommy did speak , Concerning the Army , but they cou'd not charm me , I swore I would neither meddle nor make . Some said the Prince to London wou'd come , then we shou'd be more happy than e're ; Others declare we all were undone , if to the City he did repair : Thus they talk'd like men distracted , but not a word to them did I spoke , But as I sat drinking , I paid it with thinking , but vow'd I wou'd neither meddle nor make . Some they did worser [ r ] ink a Health to the Prince , with a fair Orange p [ l ] ac'd in a Glass , And without any seeming offence , flowing full brimmers freely d [ i ] worser pass : Then they call'd to Leather Breeches , saying to me this Health I should take , I'de not be at leisure , they might do their pleasure , for I would neither meddle nor make . Then I went to the Royal Exchange , where they discours'd of matters of State , Z bobs , thought I , 'tis wondrous strange , that they do talk at such a rude rate : Some were seemingly Disloyal , the which did cause my heart for to ache , But the I stood neuter , and was no disputer , vowing I'de neither meddle nor make . Then a young Spark all in a vine Coat , in a great rage his Rapier he drew , Swearing he'd make me altar my Note , a [ n ] worser tell him more than ever I knew : But as he was coming to me , I with my Club his Noddle did break , And said , honest Neighbour , take this for your labour for I will neither meddle nor make . Then to a Barbers Shop I did go where being plac'd and set in the Chair , Straightways he did desire to know what kind of News abroad I did hear ? This did make me near Distracted , unto my heels I straightways did take , I ran and I Raved with half my Beard shaved , crying , I'de neither meddle nor ma [ k ] e . Printed for J Wolrah . 