The Jovial Mariner ; OR , The Seamans Renown . Sail forth bold Seamen , plough the Liquid Main , Fear neither storms nor Pirates , strive for gain . While others sleep at home in a whole skin , Your brave adventures shall great honour win . To the Tune of , I am a Jovial Bachelor , etc J.P. I am a Jovial Marriner our calling is well known , We trade with many a Foreigner to purchase high renown , We serve our Country faithfully and bring home store of Gold ; We do our business manfully , for we are free and bold : A Seaman hath a valiant heart and bears a noble mind : He scorneth once to shrink or start , for any stormy wind . 'Tis known what hardship we endure abroad upon the Seas : While others sleep at home secure , and spend their time in ease , We seldom dare lie down to rest lest danger should ensue : Our heads with care is soar oppressed , believe me this is true , A Seaman hath a valiant heart , etc A Cowardly spirit must not think to prove a Seaman bold ; For to be sure he may not shrink in dangers manifold : When Sea-fights happen on the Main , and dreadful Canons roar , Then all men fight or else be slave , [ for we have no ] back door , [ A Seaman hath , etc ] 'Tis Seamen stout that does deserve both honour and renown , In perils great we may not swerve though Neptune seem to frown : If once his curled front we spy drenched in the foamy brine ; Then each man does his business ply there's none that does repine . A Seaman hath , etc When angry Billows brush the Sky , most hideous to behold , Then up our Ships are tossed on high , and with the waves are roull'd ; When tempests fierce our sails does tear and rends the Masts a sunder . O! then we have great cause to fear or else it were a wonder . A Seaman hath , etc Great Rocks which lie among the waves does threaten us with death . And many Seamen find their Graves in Sands which are beneath ; To see the Masts of Ships appear , which hath been cast away , Would make a Landman die for fear , 'tis best at home to stay . A Seaman hath a valiant heart and bears a noble mind : He scorneth once to shrink or start , for any stormy wind . The Second Part , To the same Tune . BRave England hath been much enriched by Art of Navigation : Great store of wealth we home have fetched for to adorn our Nation : Our Merchant's still we do supply with Traffic that is rare , Then Seamen cast your caps on high we are without compare , A Seaman hath a valiant heart , and bears a noble mind : He scorneth once to flinch or start for any stormy wind . Who should the Ladies palates please with Spices of the best ? If Seamen all should take their ease and stay at home to res Our Gallants they would find a want of silks to make them fine , And tearing boys no more would rant if once they wanted wine . A Seaman hath , etc Our Land it would invaded be if Seamen were not stout ; We let our friends come in you see and keep our foes without ; Our privilege upon the Seas we bravely do maintain , And can enlarge it when we please in Royal Charles his Reign . A Seaman hath , etc Such Countries as do lie remote does tremble at our fame : For we have taught them all to note 'tis England bears the Name : In foreign parts where ere we come our valour is well known , What ere they be they dare not mumm if we say all's our own . A Seaman hath , etc When as our Ships with Merchandise are safely come to shore , No men like us under the Skies to drink , to sing , and roar : Good wine and beer we freely tope , until the ground look blue : We valve neither Turk nor Pope , we are a jovial crew . A Seaman hath , etc We kiss our wives when we return , who long for us did wait ; And he that's single needs not mourn , he cannot want a mate . Young women still are wondrous kind to Seamen in their need ; And sure it shows a courteous mind , to do a friendly deed . A Seaman hath etc With pretty curious dainty knacks , we please the females well : We know what longing women lacks , most surely we can tell , A Seaman is a Cock oth' Game , Young Maidens find it true : We never are so much to blame , to let them want their endue . A Seaman hath , etc Thus Gallant Seamen I have spread abroad your high renown : Which shall survive when you are dead , and gain a lasting Crown ; Your praise to future ages shall most gloriously appear , Then courage Noble Seamen all 'tis you I love most dear . A Seaman hath a valiant heart and bears a noble mind : He scorneth once to shrink or start , for any stormy wind . Finis . With privilege . London , Printed for T. Passenger , on London-Bridge . The Jovial Mariner ; OR , The Seamans Renown . Sail forth bold Seamen , plough the Liquid Main , Fear neither storms nor Pirates , strive for gain . While others sleep at home in a whole skin , Your brave adventures shall great honour win . To the Tune of , I am a Jovial Bachelor , etc J.P. I am a Jovial Marriner our calling is well known , We trade with many a Foreigner to purchase high renown , We serve our Country faithfully and bring home store of Gold ; We do our business manfully , for we are free and bold : A Seaman hath a valiant heart and bears a noble mind : He scorneth once to shrink or start , for any stormy wind . 'Tis known what hardship we endure abroad upon the Seas : While others sleep at home secure , and spend their time in ease , We seldom dare lie down to rest lest danger should ensue : Our heads with care is soar oppressed , believe me this is true , A Seaman hath a valiant heart , etc A Cowardly spirit must not think to prove a Seaman bold ; For to be sure he may not shrink in dangers manifold : When Sea-fights happen on the Main , and dreadful Canons roar , Then all men fight or else be slave , [ for we have no ] back door , [ A Seaman hath , etc ] 'Tis Seamen stout that does deserve both honour and renown , In perils great we may not swerve though Neptune seem to frown : If once his curled front we spy drenched in the foamy brine ; Then each man does his business ply there's none that does repine . A Seaman hath , etc When angry Billows brush the Sky , most hideous to behold , Then up our Ships are tossed on high , and with the waves are roull'd ; When tempests fierce our sails does tear and rends the Masts a sunder . O! then we have great cause to fear or else it were a wonder . A Seaman hath , etc Great Rocks which lie among the waves does threaten us with death . And many Seamen find their Graves in Sands which are beneath ; To see the Masts of Ships appear , which hath been cast away , Would make a Landman die for fear , 'tis best at home to stay . A Seaman hath a valiant heart and bears a noble mind : He scorneth once to shrink or start , for any stormy wind . The Second Part , To the same Tune . BRave England hath been much enriched by Art of Navigation : Great store of wealth we home have fetched for to adorn our Nation : Our Merchant's still we do supply with Traffic that is rare , Then Seamen cast your caps on high we are without compare , A Seaman hath a valiant heart , and bears a noble mind : He scorneth once to flinch or start for any stormy wind . Who should the Ladies palates please with Spices of the best ? If Seamen all should take their ease and stay at home to res Our Gallants they would find a want of silks to make them fine , And tearing boys no more would rant if once they wanted wine . A Seaman hath , etc Our Land it would invaded be if Seamen were not stout ; We let our friends come in you see and keep our foes without ; Our privilege upon the Seas we bravely do maintain , And can enlarge it when we please in Royal Charles his Reign . A Seaman hath , etc Such Countries as do lie remote does tremble at our fame : For we have taught them all to note 'tis England bears the Name : In foreign parts where ere we come our valour is well known , What ere they be they dare not mumm if we say all's our own . A Seaman hath , etc When as our Ships with Merchandise are safely come to shore , No men like us under the Skies to drink , to sing , and roar : Good wine and beer we freely tope , until the ground look blue : We valve neither Turk nor Pope , we are a jovial crew . A Seaman hath , etc We kiss our wives when we return , who long for us did wait ; And he that's single needs not mourn , he cannot want a mate . Young women still are wondrous kind to Seamen in their need ; And sure it shows a courteous mind , to do a friendly deed . A Seaman hath etc With pretty curious dainty knacks , we please the females well : We know what longing women lacks , most surely we can tell , A Seaman is a Cock oth' Game , Young Maidens find it true : We never are so much to blame , to let them want their endue . A Seaman hath , etc Thus Gallant Seamen I have spread abroad your high renown : Which shall survive when you are dead , and gain a lasting Crown ; Your praise to future ages shall most gloriously appear , Then courage Noble Seamen all 'tis you I love most dear . A Seaman hath a valiant heart and bears a noble mind : He scorneth once to shrink or start , for any stormy wind . Finis . With privilege . London , Printed for T. Passenger , on London-Bridge . 