The fair Lady of the Wes AND The fortunate Farmers Son. Relating , how a Gallant young Lady in the West-Country , Being courted by many Persons of Quality , refused them all , and cast her Affections upon a Farmer's-Son ; to whom she discovered her love ; And , having neither Father nor Mother living to Contradict her , they were privately Married to both their Hearts desire ; And now , live in joy and hap - py Content . This may a pattern be to young and old ; True Love is to be valued more than Gold . Tune of , A gallant Damosel in Bristol-City , etc or , William the Weaver . A Beauteous Lady of comely carriage , whom many a gallant sought in Marriage ; But she , with Modesty refusing would have a Lover of her own choosing . Both noble Knights , and worthy Squirects , to gain her love it was their desires . But she consented not to any , although she courted was by many . With patience she the time prolonged , while many Suitors about her thronged : Which gave her little Satisfaction , but in her mind did breed distraction . For oftentimes she would confess it , And to her friends she did express i He is not come yet , that I shall marry ; and therefore , longer I yet must tarry . At length , one day she did discover the party that should be her lover : A Farmers Son , of brisk behaviour ; He is the man must win her favour . He wore no Robes off rich attire , for to Inflame her hearts desire : But yet his person did so please her , that Cupid with his Dart did Seize her . STrange fancies in her mind did waver , that one of low descent should have her : Yet , by no means , she could withstand it , since destiny did so command it . Being thus tossed in Cogitation , she asked no ones Approbation : But sending for her dearest Lover , to him she did her mind discover . Quoth she , your pardon , Sir , I crave it , and by your Looks , I hope to have i Call not my modesty in question , for making of this bold transgression : My heart is prisoner at your pleasure : the God of Love hath made a Seizure : Then let my Love be kindly taken , that I may never be forsaken , I want no honour , nor no riches ; 'tis only Love my heart bewitches : For , many a Gallant I disdained , who my affections never obtained . Then since it is my happy fortune , your Love at this time to Importune : 'Tis your kind Answer I desire , which for my Love I do require . The young man being much amazed , upon her Beauty long he gazed : Admiring at her great perfection which brought his heart into Subjection . At length , being with Love Surprised , this loving Answer he devised : And breaking Silence , to her Honour , he thus replied in Humble Manner : Fair Lady , if your love be real , I should be loath to make denial : But bless my fates for such a fortune , If of your Love I may be certain . And Madam , since it is your pleasure , for to possess me of a Treasure : Of which , I am so far unworthy , with heart and Soul , I'le ever love thee . Although I lowly am descended with kindness all shall be amended : And what I want in wealth and Beauty , I'le make it up in Love and Duty . Quoth she , for this your loving Answer , my hand and heart you shall Command Sir : And , I will be thy own for ever : and so they kissed and went together . And to redeem the time they tarried : in private they were shortly married : For why , she had no parents living , for to oppose her marriage giving . And now they live with hearts contented , on neither side it is repented : I wish all Lovers be so served , that for their constancy deserve it . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . The fair Lady of the Wes AND The fortunate Farmers Son. Relating , how a Gallant young Lady in the West-Country , Being courted by many Persons of Quality , refused them all , and cast her Affections upon a Farmer's-Son ; to whom she discovered her love ; And , having neither Father nor Mother living to Contradict her , they were privately Married to both their Hearts desire ; And now , live in joy and hap - py Content . This may a pattern be to young and old ; True Love is to be valued more than Gold . Tune of , A gallant Damosel in Bristol-City , etc or , William the Weaver . A Beauteous Lady of comely carriage , whom many a gallant sought in Marriage ; But she , with Modesty refusing would have a Lover of her own choosing . Both noble Knights , and worthy Squirects , to gain her love it was their desires . But she consented not to any , although she courted was by many . With patience she the time prolonged , while many Suitors about her thronged : Which gave her little Satisfaction , but in her mind did breed distraction . For oftentimes she would confess it , And to her friends she did express i He is not come yet , that I shall marry ; and therefore , longer I yet must tarry . At length , one day she did discover the party that should be her lover : A Farmers Son , of brisk behaviour ; He is the man must win her favour . He wore no Robes off rich attire , for to Inflame her hearts desire : But yet his person did so please her , that Cupid with his Dart did Seize her . STrange fancies in her mind did waver , that one of low descent should have her : Yet , by no means , she could withstand it , since destiny did so command it . Being thus tossed in Cogitation , she asked no ones Approbation : But sending for her dearest Lover , to him she did her mind discover . Quoth she , your pardon , Sir , I crave it , and by your Looks , I hope to have i Call not my modesty in question , for making of this bold transgression : My heart is prisoner at your pleasure : the God of Love hath made a Seizure : Then let my Love be kindly taken , that I may never be forsaken , I want no honour , nor no riches ; 'tis only Love my heart bewitches : For , many a Gallant I disdained , who my affections never obtained . Then since it is my happy fortune , your Love at this time to Importune : 'Tis your kind Answer I desire , which for my Love I do require . The young man being much amazed , upon her Beauty long he gazed : Admiring at her great perfection which brought his heart into Subjection . At length , being with Love Surprised , this loving Answer he devised : And breaking Silence , to her Honour , he thus replied in Humble Manner : Fair Lady , if your love be real , I should be loath to make denial : But bless my fates for such a fortune , If of your Love I may be certain . And Madam , since it is your pleasure , for to possess me of a Treasure : Of which , I am so far unworthy , with heart and Soul , I'le ever love thee . Although I lowly am descended with kindness all shall be amended : And what I want in wealth and Beauty , I'le make it up in Love and Duty . Quoth she , for this your loving Answer , my hand and heart you shall Command Sir : And , I will be thy own for ever : and so they kissed and went together . And to redeem the time they tarried : in private they were shortly married : For why , she had no parents living , for to oppose her marriage giving . And now they live with hearts contented , on neither side it is repented : I wish all Lovers be so served , that for their constancy deserve it . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . 