The Distressed Pilgrim , Who being in much Misery , He serves the Lord most faitfully : And repenteth for the things are past , And prays for a Heavenly place at last . The Tune is , Who can blame my Woe ; Or , I am a Jovial Bachelor . I Am a Pilgrim poor and bore , in trouble I am crossed , And many a hard hap falls my share ; my Substance all is los My misery ther's no man knows , so numberless they be ; Yet in the midst of all my Woes , Let Patience work for me . Pray understand , I once had Land , with Corn and Cattle store , But now 'tis gone out of my hand , i'm grown exceeding poor ; So poor indeed , ther's few that will relieve my misery : But as I said before , so I say still , let , etc My flattering Friends and Kinsfolks all , whom I did daily feed , Will not so much as turn aside , to help my extreme need , They'd rather seek to scoff and scorn , and jeer my Poverty ; Although I am as one forlorn , let , etc Patience is and Herb of Grace , if a Man does use it well , 'Twill lay a Stomach in short space that does with Poison swell ; 'Twill cure a Madman of his Evil , 'Twill cause the Blind to see , It will expel and vanquish th' Devil ; let , etc NOw in the midst of all my Woes , what shall I do or say ? Shall I despair in any case , or make myself away ? No , no , not while this Vital Breath , which the Lord God lended me ; Come Woe or Wealth , come Life or Death ; For a patient man I'le be . As I do wander up and down in sorrow , I am crossed ; From Place to Place , from Town to Town , my Substance is all los But yet I think within myself , as I shall tell to you , Though God hath taken all my Wealth , yet patience works for me . Give not your Friends and Kinsfolks ne'r your means while you do live ; For that hath brought me to this care : which makes my heart to grieve : I gave them Goods and Cattle too , as all my Neighbours see ; But now they don't regard my woe , yet , etc The Devil he is busy still , to bring me to his Bow ; But it is Gods blessed Will , patience does with me go , And keeps me in the Fear of God , for a second Job to be ; Although I taste of's Holy Rod , yet , etc For to despair , it's a Foolishness , 'tis God that is my stay , Who gave me Life , and when he please can take again away . The Lord he suffer'd for my sins , as th' Scripture shows me ; God give me Grace to think on it , and patience , etc Though i'm in want and misery , I hope God will be pleas'd For to release this slavery , in Heaven for to be eas'd : 'Tis the bravest thing i'th World to suffer then I see ; And though i'm poor and in distress , yet , etc I hope my steadfast Faith is so , i'le not forsake my God ; Though Poverty hath brought me low , i'le not forsake his Word . It's for sins I do confess , he suffered on the Tree , To Release poor Sinners from redress , and eke from misery . And now adieu unto the World , with all my sorrows that are past , And give every one Grace in the end to enjoy a Heavenly Res Because all things do fade away , and vanish we do see , God give us all his Grace I say , to be Patient in misery . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . The Distressed Pilgrim , Who being in much Misery , He serves the Lord most faitfully : And repenteth for the things are past , And prays for a Heavenly place at last . The Tune is , Who can blame my Woe ; Or , I am a Jovial Bachelor . I Am a Pilgrim poor and bore , in trouble I am crossed , And many a hard hap falls my share ; my Substance all is los My misery ther's no man knows , so numberless they be ; Yet in the midst of all my Woes , Let Patience work for me . Pray understand , I once had Land , with Corn and Cattle store , But now 'tis gone out of my hand , i'm grown exceeding poor ; So poor indeed , ther's few that will relieve my misery : But as I said before , so I say still , let , etc My flattering Friends and Kinsfolks all , whom I did daily feed , Will not so much as turn aside , to help my extreme need , They'd rather seek to scoff and scorn , and jeer my Poverty ; Although I am as one forlorn , let , etc Patience is and Herb of Grace , if a Man does use it well , 'Twill lay a Stomach in short space that does with Poison swell ; 'Twill cure a Madman of his Evil , 'Twill cause the Blind to see , It will expel and vanquish th' Devil ; let , etc NOw in the midst of all my Woes , what shall I do or say ? Shall I despair in any case , or make myself away ? No , no , not while this Vital Breath , which the Lord God lended me ; Come Woe or Wealth , come Life or Death ; For a patient man I'le be . As I do wander up and down in sorrow , I am crossed ; From Place to Place , from Town to Town , my Substance is all los But yet I think within myself , as I shall tell to you , Though God hath taken all my Wealth , yet patience works for me . Give not your Friends and Kinsfolks ne'r your means while you do live ; For that hath brought me to this care : which makes my heart to grieve : I gave them Goods and Cattle too , as all my Neighbours see ; But now they don't regard my woe , yet , etc The Devil he is busy still , to bring me to his Bow ; But it is Gods blessed Will , patience does with me go , And keeps me in the Fear of God , for a second Job to be ; Although I taste of's Holy Rod , yet , etc For to despair , it's a Foolishness , 'tis God that is my stay , Who gave me Life , and when he please can take again away . The Lord he suffer'd for my sins , as th' Scripture shows me ; God give me Grace to think on it , and patience , etc Though i'm in want and misery , I hope God will be pleas'd For to release this slavery , in Heaven for to be eas'd : 'Tis the bravest thing i'th World to suffer then I see ; And though i'm poor and in distress , yet , etc I hope my steadfast Faith is so , i'le not forsake my God ; Though Poverty hath brought me low , i'le not forsake his Word . It's for sins I do confess , he suffered on the Tree , To Release poor Sinners from redress , and eke from misery . And now adieu unto the World , with all my sorrows that are past , And give every one Grace in the end to enjoy a Heavenly Res Because all things do fade away , and vanish we do see , God give us all his Grace I say , to be Patient in misery . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . 