The VIRGIN's COMPLAINT AGAINST Young MENS Unkindness . Of young Men's falsehood she does much complain , Resolving never to love Man again : Experience tells her Men love but for fashion , That makes her rail against them in such passion . To the Tune of , Cupid's Courtesy , etc I Am so deep in love , I cannot hide it , It breaks me of my rest , and of my quiet ; For when I see his face , it so inflames me , That I must love him still , though the world blame me . O fie upon this love , it will undo me , I'll ne'er love man ag [ a ] in , should the Gods woo me ; For if once I can shake off this passion , I'll ne'er love man again , but only for fashion . There's no believe in man , though they seem civil , For when they fit like saints , they think most evil ; Therefore be rul'd by me , never trust no man , But if you needs must love , pray love a woman . I wish blind Cupid had been soundly sleeping . When like a crafty lad he came so creeping , To wound my tender heart , and pierce my marrow , I felt his fatal dart , to my great sorrow . Never poor virgin was in such a taking , I oft looked in my glass , pleasure forsaking ; My cheeks were pale and wan , my lips did trimble , Because I lov'd a man that did dissemble . O what a simple girl I was for certain , For to love Lord or Earl , I will not harken ; Not one in twenty score but is deceitful , Therefore I'll love no more , men are deceitful . It is their constant trade to cog and flatter , Or to delude a maid , her fort to batter ; But if they prate and lie , I'll not believe them , Such love I'll never try , altho' it grieve them . They'll profess and pretend much of affection , Until they make you bend to love's subjection : Of your hearts craftily they will bereave you , Till a new face they spy , then they will leave you . Their words are all but wind , like winter-weather , Unconstant and unkind , light as a feather : I tell you flat and plain I'll not abide it , To love a man again , once having try'd it . Blame me not though I be something in passion , For now I plainly see it is the fashion ; For such falsehearted men are grown so common , That when I love again , I'll love a woman . Why should a woman dote on such a bubble , That's good for nothing but to procure trouble ? Every day I will pray for to live single , That my affection may with no man's mingle . Ladies take my advice , you have rare features , Always be coy and nice to such false creatures ; No man will constant prove , no not my brother ; Then if you needs must love , love one another . Printed for A.M.W.O. and T. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck lane . The VIRGIN's COMPLAINT AGAINST Young MENS Unkindness . Of young Men's falsehood she does much complain , Resolving never to love Man again : Experience tells her Men love but for fashion , That makes her rail against them in such passion . To the Tune of , Cupid's Courtesy , etc I Am so deep in love , I cannot hide it , It breaks me of my rest , and of my quiet ; For when I see his face , it so inflames me , That I must love him still , though the world blame me . O fie upon this love , it will undo me , I'll ne'er love man ag [ a ] in , should the Gods woo me ; For if once I can shake off this passion , I'll ne'er love man again , but only for fashion . There's no believe in man , though they seem civil , For when they fit like saints , they think most evil ; Therefore be rul'd by me , never trust no man , But if you needs must love , pray love a woman . I wish blind Cupid had been soundly sleeping . When like a crafty lad he came so creeping , To wound my tender heart , and pierce my marrow , I felt his fatal dart , to my great sorrow . Never poor virgin was in such a taking , I oft looked in my glass , pleasure forsaking ; My cheeks were pale and wan , my lips did trimble , Because I lov'd a man that did dissemble . O what a simple girl I was for certain , For to love Lord or Earl , I will not harken ; Not one in twenty score but is deceitful , Therefore I'll love no more , men are deceitful . It is their constant trade to cog and flatter , Or to delude a maid , her fort to batter ; But if they prate and lie , I'll not believe them , Such love I'll never try , altho' it grieve them . They'll profess and pretend much of affection , Until they make you bend to love's subjection : Of your hearts craftily they will bereave you , Till a new face they spy , then they will leave you . Their words are all but wind , like winter-weather , Unconstant and unkind , light as a feather : I tell you flat and plain I'll not abide it , To love a man again , once having try'd it . Blame me not though I be something in passion , For now I plainly see it is the fashion ; For such falsehearted men are grown so common , That when I love again , I'll love a woman . Why should a woman dote on such a bubble , That's good for nothing but to procure trouble ? Every day I will pray for to live single , That my affection may with no man's mingle . Ladies take my advice , you have rare features , Always be coy and nice to such false creatures ; No man will constant prove , no not my brother ; Then if you needs must love , love one another . Printed for A.M.W.O. and T. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck lane . 