A rare Example of a Virtuous Maid in Paris , Who was by our own Mother procured to be put in Prison , thinking thereby to compel her to Popery ; but she continued to the end , and finished her Life in the Fire . The Tune is , Oh Man in Desperation , etc IT was a Lady's Daughter of Paris properly , Her Mother her commanded to Mass that she should high : Oh pardon me , dear Mother , her Daughter dear did say , Unto that filthy Idol I never can obey . With weeping and wailing , her Mother then did go , To assemble her Kinsfolks , that they the truth may know ; Who being then assembled , they did this Maiden call , And put her into Prison , to fear her there withal . But where they thought to fear her , she did most strong endure , Although her Years was tender , her Faith was firm and sure ; She weigh'd not their allurements , she fear'd not fiery flame , She hop'd through Christ her Saviour , to have immortal Fame . Before the Judge they brought her , thinking that she would turn , And there she was condemned , in Fire for to burn ; Instead of Golden Bracelets , with Cords they bound her fast ; My God grant me with patience ( quoth ) she to die at last . And on the morrow after , which was her Dying-day , They stripped this silly Damsel , out of her rich Array , Her Chain of Gold so costly , away from her they take , And she again most joyfully did all the World forsake . Unto the place of Torment , they brought her speedily , With heart and mind most constant she willing was to die ; But seeing many Ladies , assembled in that place , These words she then pronounced , lamenting of their case : You Ladies of this City , mark well my words ( quoth she ) Although I shall be burned , yet do not pity me ; Yourselves I rather pity , I weep for your Decay , Amend your time , fair Ladies , and do no time delay . Then came her Mother weeping , her Daughter to behold , And in her hand she brought her , a Book covered with Gold : Throw hence , quoth she , that Idol , convey it from my sighed ; And bring me hither my Bible , wherein I take delight . But my distressed Mother , why weep you ? be content , You have to death delivered me , most like and Innocent ; Tormenter do thine Office on me when thou think'st best , But God my Heavenly Father , will bring my Soul to Rest. But O! my aged Father , wherever thou dost lie , Thou know'st not thy poor Daughter is ready for to die ; But yet among the Angels , in Heaven I hope to dwell ; Therefore my loving Father , I bid the now farewell . Farewell likewise my Mother , adieu my Friends also , God grant that you by others , may never feel such woe ; Forsake your Superstition , the cause of mortal strife , Embrace God's Religion , for which I loose my Life . When all these words were ended , then came the Man of Death , Who kindled soon a Fire which stopped this Virgin's breath To Christ her only Saviour she did her Soul commend , Farewell ( quoth she ) good People and thus she made and end . LONDON : Printed by and for W.O. and are to be sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner and London-bridge . A rare Example of a Virtuous Maid in Paris , Who was by our own Mother procured to be put in Prison , thinking thereby to compel her to Popery ; but she continued to the end , and finished her Life in the Fire . The Tune is , Oh Man in Desperation , etc IT was a Lady's Daughter of Paris properly , Her Mother her commanded to Mass that she should high : Oh pardon me , dear Mother , her Daughter dear did say , Unto that filthy Idol I never can obey . With weeping and wailing , her Mother then did go , To assemble her Kinsfolks , that they the truth may know ; Who being then assembled , they did this Maiden call , And put her into Prison , to fear her there withal . But where they thought to fear her , she did most strong endure , Although her Years was tender , her Faith was firm and sure ; She weigh'd not their allurements , she fear'd not fiery flame , She hop'd through Christ her Saviour , to have immortal Fame . Before the Judge they brought her , thinking that she would turn , And there she was condemned , in Fire for to burn ; Instead of Golden Bracelets , with Cords they bound her fast ; My God grant me with patience ( quoth ) she to die at last . And on the morrow after , which was her Dying-day , They stripped this silly Damsel , out of her rich Array , Her Chain of Gold so costly , away from her they take , And she again most joyfully did all the World forsake . Unto the place of Torment , they brought her speedily , With heart and mind most constant she willing was to die ; But seeing many Ladies , assembled in that place , These words she then pronounced , lamenting of their case : You Ladies of this City , mark well my words ( quoth she ) Although I shall be burned , yet do not pity me ; Yourselves I rather pity , I weep for your Decay , Amend your time , fair Ladies , and do no time delay . Then came her Mother weeping , her Daughter to behold , And in her hand she brought her , a Book covered with Gold : Throw hence , quoth she , that Idol , convey it from my sighed ; And bring me hither my Bible , wherein I take delight . But my distressed Mother , why weep you ? be content , You have to death delivered me , most like and Innocent ; Tormenter do thine Office on me when thou think'st best , But God my Heavenly Father , will bring my Soul to Rest. But O! my aged Father , wherever thou dost lie , Thou know'st not thy poor Daughter is ready for to die ; But yet among the Angels , in Heaven I hope to dwell ; Therefore my loving Father , I bid the now farewell . Farewell likewise my Mother , adieu my Friends also , God grant that you by others , may never feel such woe ; Forsake your Superstition , the cause of mortal strife , Embrace God's Religion , for which I loose my Life . When all these words were ended , then came the Man of Death , Who kindled soon a Fire which stopped this Virgin's breath To Christ her only Saviour she did her Soul commend , Farewell ( quoth she ) good People and thus she made and end . LONDON : Printed by and for W.O. and are to be sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner and London-bridge . 