The London-Libertine : OR , The Lusty GALLANT's New Ingenious Way of Living . To the Tune of , The Ginny wins her . I Am as bold a Hector , As most is in the Nation , Inflam'd with smiling Nectar , Then , then , to Admiration , I Court the Ladies fair and gay , 'Tis in vain for them to say me nay ; I first ador'd their Charms , Then clasp them in my Arms , And tho' perchance they cry , Be Civil , Sir , Oh fie ! Yet still they'll panting lie , For they , they , do love a little wanton play . There is not one in twenty , Has power to deny me , I give them Kisses plenty , Then strait they fit down by me ; Let her be Widow , Maid or Wife , For a time I love as dear as life ; If she be young and fair , There's no degree I spare , From Ladies of Renown , In City , Court and Town , To Nancy's Russet-gown , I go , go , this seven Years it has been so . There never was a Squire , That could the least outvie me ; Long Wigg and rich Attire , I can afford to buy me : For while the Merchant walks the Change , I can in his little Warren range , And freely play the Game , Which I forbear to name ; And when the Sport is o'er , There's a reward in store , Bright Giunneys half a score , Thus I , I , have evermore a full supply . There's five or six and thirty , Young Dams that do adore me , And Faith , I can't be dirty , when they in Tears implore me , For something which I have to give , If I am , then never let me live ; Like to the tender Dove , I'll grant them Love for Love , Tho' Beauty wanting be , If there be Ginneys free , 'Tis all a case to me , I'll mow , mow , 'Tis Money makes the Mare to go . A Tailor's Wife , poor Woman , One Morning chance to meet me , Her Husband he was no Man , Therefore she did entreat me To stand her friend in time of need , Saying , It was a charitable Deed , Beside , she laid me down , Two Ginneys and a Crown : Here's all I have , she cry'd , I hant a Groat beside , Let me not be deny'd , Kind Sir , Sir , my Husband is a poor Tailor . The Gold I did admire , 'Twas brighter than her Beauty , I could not well deny her , But straight I did my Duty ; And in three quarters of a Year , She had a young Son and Daughter dear ; Which makes her Heart full glad , The Tailor he's a Dad , As well he may suppose ; He little thinks sweet Rose , Is one of my dear Does , But sweet Soul , she is the leventh in my Role . LONDON : Printed for J. Science , in the Great-Old-baily . The London-Libertine : OR , The Lusty GALLANT's New Ingenious Way of Living . To the Tune of , The Ginny wins her . I Am as bold a Hector , As most is in the Nation , Inflam'd with smiling Nectar , Then , then , to Admiration , I Court the Ladies fair and gay , 'Tis in vain for them to say me nay ; I first ador'd their Charms , Then clasp them in my Arms , And tho' perchance they cry , Be Civil , Sir , Oh fie ! Yet still they'll panting lie , For they , they , do love a little wanton play . There is not one in twenty , Has power to deny me , I give them Kisses plenty , Then strait they fit down by me ; Let her be Widow , Maid or Wife , For a time I love as dear as life ; If she be young and fair , There's no degree I spare , From Ladies of Renown , In City , Court and Town , To Nancy's Russet-gown , I go , go , this seven Years it has been so . There never was a Squire , That could the least outvie me ; Long Wigg and rich Attire , I can afford to buy me : For while the Merchant walks the Change , I can in his little Warren range , And freely play the Game , Which I forbear to name ; And when the Sport is o'er , There's a reward in store , Bright Giunneys half a score , Thus I , I , have evermore a full supply . There's five or six and thirty , Young Dams that do adore me , And Faith , I can't be dirty , when they in Tears implore me , For something which I have to give , If I am , then never let me live ; Like to the tender Dove , I'll grant them Love for Love , Tho' Beauty wanting be , If there be Ginneys free , 'Tis all a case to me , I'll mow , mow , 'Tis Money makes the Mare to go . A Tailor's Wife , poor Woman , One Morning chance to meet me , Her Husband he was no Man , Therefore she did entreat me To stand her friend in time of need , Saying , It was a charitable Deed , Beside , she laid me down , Two Ginneys and a Crown : Here's all I have , she cry'd , I hant a Groat beside , Let me not be deny'd , Kind Sir , Sir , my Husband is a poor Tailor . The Gold I did admire , 'Twas brighter than her Beauty , I could not well deny her , But straight I did my Duty ; And in three quarters of a Year , She had a young Son and Daughter dear ; Which makes her Heart full glad , The Tailor he's a Dad , As well he may suppose ; He little thinks sweet Rose , Is one of my dear Does , But sweet Soul , she is the leventh in my Role . LONDON : Printed for J. Science , in the Great-Old-baily . 