A Description of Plain-dealing , Time , and Death , Which all Men ought to mind while they do live on earth . Abuse not Plain-dealing , but keep your Conscience clear , Spend well your Time also , then Death you need not fear . Plain-dealing is grown out of Date Because he is poor , many him hate : Conscience likewise is laid aside , 'Cause he base Actions can't abide . To the Tune of , A Letter for a Christian Family . Written by Thomas Lanfire . Plain-dealing loves Honesty , Conscience hates Knavery . Plain-Dealing . I Am Plain-dealing which all men ought to use , But many now a days does me abuse : Dissemulation is esteemed best , Poor Plain-dealing is grown out of request . In City , Town , and likewise in Country , They say plain-dealing will a Beggar Die : Gallants they at me do both mock and flout , Because that I go in a Threadbare Coat . The reason that so many does me slight , Is because I am Honest and Down-righ I use no Deceit , Fraud , nor Flattery , But does to all men as I'de be done by . I am not Covetous nor Worldly wise , I crave no more then what will me suffice : I hate vain Pride which now too much does reign , Therefore plain-dealing they'l not entertain . In Days of Old I was a welcome Guest , And had good entertainment with the bes I was esteemed among Rich and Poor , But now plain-dealing is turn'd out of Door . For now Dissemulation hath god the Day , And in this Nation bears a mighty sway : plain-dealing is held in scorn and disgrace , Alack , when shall I find a restingplace . Conscience . My Name is Conscience , poor plain-dealing's mate Although like him , i'm Old and out of date : Many with their whole hearts does me defy , 'Cause Conscience can't agree with Knavery . But if I within their Bosoms once do creep , With their base actions I prick their hearts deep : I mind them of their Covetousness and Pride , Therefore poor Conscience they cannot abide . The Lawyer and Usurer hath forgotten me , They Gripe poor Men Unconscionably : They study only how to keep up Gold , Conscience and plain-dealing they quite have fold . And many others in these times there are , That of their Conscience do not take no care : They pawn their Conscience for Lucre of gain , Which Conscience will to them at last make plain . So many are inclin'd to Cruelty , And does Conscience and plain-dealing defy : Tell them of Conscience they'l count you their foe , Quoth they Conscience was Hanged long time ago . But I wish such men they folly would refuse , Lest Conscience at the last should them accuse : In a good Conscience a man may put trust , Then see you keep your Conscience right and just . Time it does pass away full fast , Yet many does spend Time in waste : When Time is gone then comes Death , And puts a stop to Mortal Breath . Time does stay for none . Death Cuts down every one . TIME . I Am the ancient standard of great fame , Which all men ought to prize , Time is my name : But this vain world does now so many blind , So that I am almost grown out of mind . For why , I am slighted by many a one , Who ne'r thinks on me till i'm past and gone : And then too late they do mourn and complain , Wishing they could recall back Time again . Some spendeth their whole Time most wickedly , In Drunkenness , Whoredom , and Blasphemy : And some again sets their delight in Pride , Not thinking how their precious Time does slide . Time is a stately jewel of great gain , If it be well priz'd and not spent in vain : Those that their time bestows in doing well , In happiness no doubt but they shall dwell . And those that spends their time in Idleness , Shall one day want it in their great distress : The whole world can't lost time restore , Yesterday's gone and will ne'r return more . Time's last Speech to the World . Like to and Arrow shot out of a Bow , Like to the Tide the which does Ebb and Flow : Like to a Bird full swift I fly away , For Rich nor Poor i'le not make any stay . DEATH . I am the chief Commander Captain Death , I Fight against all Mortals upon Earth : When I among them chance to have a care , I Conquer all , none dare with me hold War. I fear not the bravest Champions that be , Though they are stout , yet they can't Conquer me : 'Tis not Manhood nor Valour can them save , I make them stoop and yield unto the Grave . The chiefest Prince that in the world does Live , When I him strike , he up the Ghost must give : His whole Kingdom can't him from me retain , From Dust he came , and shall to Dust again , Of Rich men's Power I do not stand in fear , Nor for their loftiness I do not care : Their Pride and Honour in the Earth I lay , When their Glass is out , with me they must away . Thus Rich and Poor , with Old and Young also , Both Wise and Simple to the Grave must go : There's no respect of Persons , worst or best , All must at last by me lie Mortuus est . When I on Mortals lay my fatal stroke , They can't in no wise slip out of my Yoke : I come suddenly and unawares to all , Then see you are prepar'd when Death does call . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . A Description of Plain-dealing , Time , and Death , Which all Men ought to mind while they do live on earth . Abuse not Plain-dealing , but keep your Conscience clear , Spend well your Time also , then Death you need not fear . Plain-dealing is grown out of Date Because he is poor , many him hate : Conscience likewise is laid aside , 'Cause he base Actions can't abide . To the Tune of , A Letter for a Christian Family . Written by Thomas Lanfire . Plain-dealing loves Honesty , Conscience hates Knavery . Plain-Dealing . I Am Plain-dealing which all men ought to use , But many now a days does me abuse : Dissemulation is esteemed best , Poor Plain-dealing is grown out of request . In City , Town , and likewise in Country , They say plain-dealing will a Beggar Die : Gallants they at me do both mock and flout , Because that I go in a Threadbare Coat . The reason that so many does me slight , Is because I am Honest and Down-righ I use no Deceit , Fraud , nor Flattery , But does to all men as I'de be done by . I am not Covetous nor Worldly wise , I crave no more then what will me suffice : I hate vain Pride which now too much does reign , Therefore plain-dealing they'l not entertain . In Days of Old I was a welcome Guest , And had good entertainment with the bes I was esteemed among Rich and Poor , But now plain-dealing is turn'd out of Door . For now Dissemulation hath god the Day , And in this Nation bears a mighty sway : plain-dealing is held in scorn and disgrace , Alack , when shall I find a restingplace . Conscience . My Name is Conscience , poor plain-dealing's mate Although like him , i'm Old and out of date : Many with their whole hearts does me defy , 'Cause Conscience can't agree with Knavery . But if I within their Bosoms once do creep , With their base actions I prick their hearts deep : I mind them of their Covetousness and Pride , Therefore poor Conscience they cannot abide . The Lawyer and Usurer hath forgotten me , They Gripe poor Men Unconscionably : They study only how to keep up Gold , Conscience and plain-dealing they quite have fold . And many others in these times there are , That of their Conscience do not take no care : They pawn their Conscience for Lucre of gain , Which Conscience will to them at last make plain . So many are inclin'd to Cruelty , And does Conscience and plain-dealing defy : Tell them of Conscience they'l count you their foe , Quoth they Conscience was Hanged long time ago . But I wish such men they folly would refuse , Lest Conscience at the last should them accuse : In a good Conscience a man may put trust , Then see you keep your Conscience right and just . Time it does pass away full fast , Yet many does spend Time in waste : When Time is gone then comes Death , And puts a stop to Mortal Breath . Time does stay for none . Death Cuts down every one . TIME . I Am the ancient standard of great fame , Which all men ought to prize , Time is my name : But this vain world does now so many blind , So that I am almost grown out of mind . For why , I am slighted by many a one , Who ne'r thinks on me till i'm past and gone : And then too late they do mourn and complain , Wishing they could recall back Time again . Some spendeth their whole Time most wickedly , In Drunkenness , Whoredom , and Blasphemy : And some again sets their delight in Pride , Not thinking how their precious Time does slide . Time is a stately jewel of great gain , If it be well priz'd and not spent in vain : Those that their time bestows in doing well , In happiness no doubt but they shall dwell . And those that spends their time in Idleness , Shall one day want it in their great distress : The whole world can't lost time restore , Yesterday's gone and will ne'r return more . Time's last Speech to the World . Like to and Arrow shot out of a Bow , Like to the Tide the which does Ebb and Flow : Like to a Bird full swift I fly away , For Rich nor Poor i'le not make any stay . DEATH . I am the chief Commander Captain Death , I Fight against all Mortals upon Earth : When I among them chance to have a care , I Conquer all , none dare with me hold War. I fear not the bravest Champions that be , Though they are stout , yet they can't Conquer me : 'Tis not Manhood nor Valour can them save , I make them stoop and yield unto the Grave . The chiefest Prince that in the world does Live , When I him strike , he up the Ghost must give : His whole Kingdom can't him from me retain , From Dust he came , and shall to Dust again , Of Rich men's Power I do not stand in fear , Nor for their loftiness I do not care : Their Pride and Honour in the Earth I lay , When their Glass is out , with me they must away . Thus Rich and Poor , with Old and Young also , Both Wise and Simple to the Grave must go : There's no respect of Persons , worst or best , All must at last by me lie Mortuus est . When I on Mortals lay my fatal stroke , They can't in no wise slip out of my Yoke : I come suddenly and unawares to all , Then see you are prepar'd when Death does call . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 