The Unfortunate Lady ; OR , The Young Lover's fatal Tragedy : Who lately Hang'd herself for the Love of a Young Gentleman , whom her Pa - rends would not suffer her to have ; but sent her a false Letter , that he was Mar - ryed , which was the Cause of her Untimely Death . To the Tune of The Languishing Swain . Licensed according to Order . I Do not sing of Triumph , no Nor of the Blessings here below ; But of a Loyal Lover's Fallen , Which is lamented by us all . Let loving Parents now attend Unto this Lesson which I send ; Cross not your Children dear in Love , For fear it should their Ruin prove . Too many in this Age we find , They are to Riches so enclin'd , That they can nothing less behold , Tho' Love be better worth than Gold . When True Love cannot be enjoy'd , How many Damsels are destroy'd ? As we by true Experience know , It having prov'd their Overthrow . Some has by burning Fevers fell , And some their Sorrows to expel , Have sent a fatal bloody Dart , Into their fainting Lovesick Heart . Others by Poison end their days ; And thus the Lover many ways Can find to ease their Lovesick Pain , When they their Wishes can't obtain . Among the rest of one I write , Her Parents Joy , and Heart Delight , Who by them being crossed in Love , It did a sad Destruction prove . Her Heart was linked to her Dear : Now when her Friends the same did hear , She was with speed to London sent , Where she in sorrow did lament . She often wrang her Hands , and cry'd , I am of all my Joys deny'd ; No glance of Comfort do's appear , While I am banish'd from my Dear . Tho' we may for a Season pact , I do declare he has my Heart ; To none but him the same I'll give , While I have here a day to live . Said she , The storm may be blown o'er , And Fortune may our Joys restore , Therefore I will with Patience wai But now behold her dismal Fate . Her Friends they did a Letter frame , That he was Marry'd : When it came , She with a Sighs , said , Is it so ? Then Love will prove my Overthrow . She dress'd herself in rich Array , And to her Chamber took her way , And then her Life she ended there ; The Grief was more than she cou'd bear : Let her Mishap a Warning be To Friends of high and low Degree : Cross not your Children here in Love , Lest you their utter Ruin prove . Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking glass on London-bridge . The Unfortunate Lady ; OR , The Young Lover's fatal Tragedy : Who lately Hang'd herself for the Love of a Young Gentleman , whom her Pa - rends would not suffer her to have ; but sent her a false Letter , that he was Mar - ryed , which was the Cause of her Untimely Death . To the Tune of The Languishing Swain . Licensed according to Order . I Do not sing of Triumph , no Nor of the Blessings here below ; But of a Loyal Lover's Fallen , Which is lamented by us all . Let loving Parents now attend Unto this Lesson which I send ; Cross not your Children dear in Love , For fear it should their Ruin prove . Too many in this Age we find , They are to Riches so enclin'd , That they can nothing less behold , Tho' Love be better worth than Gold . When True Love cannot be enjoy'd , How many Damsels are destroy'd ? As we by true Experience know , It having prov'd their Overthrow . Some has by burning Fevers fell , And some their Sorrows to expel , Have sent a fatal bloody Dart , Into their fainting Lovesick Heart . Others by Poison end their days ; And thus the Lover many ways Can find to ease their Lovesick Pain , When they their Wishes can't obtain . Among the rest of one I write , Her Parents Joy , and Heart Delight , Who by them being crossed in Love , It did a sad Destruction prove . Her Heart was linked to her Dear : Now when her Friends the same did hear , She was with speed to London sent , Where she in sorrow did lament . She often wrang her Hands , and cry'd , I am of all my Joys deny'd ; No glance of Comfort do's appear , While I am banish'd from my Dear . Tho' we may for a Season pact , I do declare he has my Heart ; To none but him the same I'll give , While I have here a day to live . Said she , The storm may be blown o'er , And Fortune may our Joys restore , Therefore I will with Patience wai But now behold her dismal Fate . Her Friends they did a Letter frame , That he was Marry'd : When it came , She with a Sighs , said , Is it so ? Then Love will prove my Overthrow . She dress'd herself in rich Array , And to her Chamber took her way , And then her Life she ended there ; The Grief was more than she cou'd bear : Let her Mishap a Warning be To Friends of high and low Degree : Cross not your Children here in Love , Lest you their utter Ruin prove . Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking glass on London-bridge . 