The Converts . I Did intend in Rhimes Heroic To write of Converts Apostolic , Describe their persons and their shames , And leave the World to guess their Names : But soon I thought the scoundrel Theme Was for Heroic Song too mean ; Their Characters we'll then rehearse In Burlesque , or in Doggerel Verse ; Of Earls , of Lords , of Knights I'll sing , That chang'd their Faith to please their King . The first and Antiquated Lord , A walking Mummy in a word , Moves cloath'd in Plasters Aromatic , And Flannel , by the help of a Stick , And like a grave and noble Peer , Outlives his Sense by Sixty year ; And what and honest Man would anger , Outlives the Fort he built at Tanger ; By Pox , and Whores long since undone , Yet loves it still , and fumbles on : Why he's a Favourite few can guess , Some say it's for his Ugliness ; For often Monsters ( being rare ) Are valued equal to the Fair : For in his Mistress's , kind James Loves Ugliness in its extremes ; But others say 'tis plainly seen , 'Tis for the Choice he made o'th' Queen ; When he the King and Nation blessed With Offspring of the House of Est ; A Dame whose Affability Equals her Generosity : Oh! Well match'd Pair , who frugally are bent To live without the aids of Parliament . All this and more the Peer perform'd , Then to complete his Virtues , turn'd ; But 'twas not Conscience , or Devotion , The hope's of Riches or Promotion That made his Lordship first to vary , But 'twas to please his Daughter Marry ; And she to make retaliation , Is full as lewd in her Vocation . The next a Caravannish Thief , A lazy Mass of damn'd Rump Beef ; Prodigious Guts , no Brains at all , But very Rhynocerical , Was Married ere the Cub was licked , And now not worthy to be kicked , By Jockeys bubbled , forc'd to fly , To save his Coat , to Italy . Where Haynes and he , that Virtuous Youth , Equal in Honour , Sense , and Truth ; By Reason and pure Conscience urged , Past Sins by Abjuration Purged : But 'tis believed both Rogue and Peer , More worldly Motives had to veer ; The Scoundrel Plebeians swerving Was to secure himself from starving ; And that which made the Peer a Starter , Was hope of a long wish'd for Garter . Next comes a Peer who sits at Helm , And long has steer'd the giddy Realm With Tailors motion , mein , and grace , But a right Statesman in Grimace ; The Sneer , the Cringe , and then by turns , The dully grave , the Frowns and Scorns , Promises all , but nought performs : But how e'er great he's in Promotion , He's very humble in Devotion ; With Taper light , and Feet all bore , He to the Temple did repair , And knocking softly at the Portal , Cry'd , Pity ( Father's ) a poor Mortal , And for a Sinner make some room , A Prodigal returned home . Some say that in that very hour , Convert Mall Megs arriv'd at door ; So both with Penitent Grimace , Statesman and Bawd with humble pace Entered , and were received to grace . The next a Knight of high Command 'Twixt London-Bridge and Dover-Sand ; A Man of strict and holy Life , Taking example from his Wife ; He to a Nunnery sent her packing , Lest they should take each other napping . Some say L'Estrange did him beget , But that he wants his Chin and Wit ; Good natur'd , as you may observe , Letting his Titular Father starve ; A Man of Sense and Parts we know it , But dares as well be damn'd as show it ; Brib'd by himself , his trusty Servant At Kings-Bench-Bar appear'd most servient Against his Honour for the Test , To him 'twas Gain , to all Mankind a Jest . Blue-Bonnet Lords a numerous store , Whose best Example is they're Poor ; Merely drawn in in hope's of Gains , And reap the Scandal for their pains ; Half starv'd at Court with expectation , Forc'd to return to their Scotch Station , Despis'd and scorn'd by every Nation . A paltry Knight not worth a mention , Renounc'd his Faith for piteous Pension ; After upon True Protestant Whore , H' had spent a large Estate before . A thick short Colonel next does come , With straddling Legs and massy Bum : With many more of shameful Note , Whose Honour ne'er was worth a Groat . If these be Pillars of the Church , 'Tis fear'd they'll leave her in the lurch ; If abler Men do not support her Weight , All quickly will return to Fourty Eight . FINIS . The Converts . I Did intend in Rhimes Heroic To write of Converts Apostolic , Describe their persons and their shames , And leave the World to guess their Names : But soon I thought the scoundrel Theme Was for Heroic Song too mean ; Their Characters we'll then rehearse In Burlesque , or in Doggerel Verse ; Of Earls , of Lords , of Knights I'll sing , That chang'd their Faith to please their King . The first and Antiquated Lord , A walking Mummy in a word , Moves cloath'd in Plasters Aromatic , And Flannel , by the help of a Stick , And like a grave and noble Peer , Outlives his Sense by Sixty year ; And what and honest Man would anger , Outlives the Fort he built at Tanger ; By Pox , and Whores long since undone , Yet loves it still , and fumbles on : Why he's a Favourite few can guess , Some say it's for his Ugliness ; For often Monsters ( being rare ) Are valued equal to the Fair : For in his Mistress's , kind James Loves Ugliness in its extremes ; But others say 'tis plainly seen , 'Tis for the Choice he made o'th' Queen ; When he the King and Nation blessed With Offspring of the House of Est ; A Dame whose Affability Equals her Generosity : Oh! Well match'd Pair , who frugally are bent To live without the aids of Parliament . All this and more the Peer perform'd , Then to complete his Virtues , turn'd ; But 'twas not Conscience , or Devotion , The hope's of Riches or Promotion That made his Lordship first to vary , But 'twas to please his Daughter Marry ; And she to make retaliation , Is full as lewd in her Vocation . The next a Caravannish Thief , A lazy Mass of damn'd Rump Beef ; Prodigious Guts , no Brains at all , But very Rhynocerical , Was Married ere the Cub was licked , And now not worthy to be kicked , By Jockeys bubbled , forc'd to fly , To save his Coat , to Italy . Where Haynes and he , that Virtuous Youth , Equal in Honour , Sense , and Truth ; By Reason and pure Conscience urged , Past Sins by Abjuration Purged : But 'tis believed both Rogue and Peer , More worldly Motives had to veer ; The Scoundrel Plebeians swerving Was to secure himself from starving ; And that which made the Peer a Starter , Was hope of a long wish'd for Garter . Next comes a Peer who sits at Helm , And long has steer'd the giddy Realm With Tailors motion , mein , and grace , But a right Statesman in Grimace ; The Sneer , the Cringe , and then by turns , The dully grave , the Frowns and Scorns , Promises all , but nought performs : But how e'er great he's in Promotion , He's very humble in Devotion ; With Taper light , and Feet all bore , He to the Temple did repair , And knocking softly at the Portal , Cry'd , Pity ( Father's ) a poor Mortal , And for a Sinner make some room , A Prodigal returned home . Some say that in that very hour , Convert Mall Megs arriv'd at door ; So both with Penitent Grimace , Statesman and Bawd with humble pace Entered , and were received to grace . The next a Knight of high Command 'Twixt London-Bridge and Dover-Sand ; A Man of strict and holy Life , Taking example from his Wife ; He to a Nunnery sent her packing , Lest they should take each other napping . Some say L'Estrange did him beget , But that he wants his Chin and Wit ; Good natur'd , as you may observe , Letting his Titular Father starve ; A Man of Sense and Parts we know it , But dares as well be damn'd as show it ; Brib'd by himself , his trusty Servant At Kings-Bench-Bar appear'd most servient Against his Honour for the Test , To him 'twas Gain , to all Mankind a Jest . Blue-Bonnet Lords a numerous store , Whose best Example is they're Poor ; Merely drawn in in hope's of Gains , And reap the Scandal for their pains ; Half starv'd at Court with expectation , Forc'd to return to their Scotch Station , Despis'd and scorn'd by every Nation . A paltry Knight not worth a mention , Renounc'd his Faith for piteous Pension ; After upon True Protestant Whore , H' had spent a large Estate before . A thick short Colonel next does come , With straddling Legs and massy Bum : With many more of shameful Note , Whose Honour ne'er was worth a Groat . If these be Pillars of the Church , 'Tis fear'd they'll leave her in the lurch ; If abler Men do not support her Weight , All quickly will return to Fourty Eight . FINIS . 