The Shepherd's SON : OR , The Faithless Nurse . Containing a Royal Frolic between King Edward the Fourth , and his Nobles , at Westminster ; as you shall find in this following Ditty , taken from ancient Writings , for the Satis - faction of the World . To the Tune of , The Royal Forester . Licens'd according to Order . I Come not to sing you a sonnet of lies , Which every fanciful Man can divise , Nor any strange rodemantadoes in tune , Concerning the wondered world in the moon . No , no , I will tell you a story of truth , King Edward the fourth in his flourishing youth , He many a fancy was pleased to try ; Here's one you shall hear , if you please to draw nigh : Behold , he was one of the frolicsome Kings , Who often discours'd of the causes of things ; among his true Nobles of honour and worth , Said he , should we take a young Boy from the birth , And keep him in silence for twice seven years , Where never no language may found in his ears , To teach him to speak any words more or less ; I wonder how then he himself wou'd express ? Said one of the Nobles , He'll blate like a sheep ; Another reply'd , that true silence he'd keep : With that , said King Edward we'll bring up one mute , And so by that means we shall end the dispute . And if I shall live while the time's at and end , To him I will prove and infallible Friend ; For then to a Tutor or school he shall go , Good learning upon him I'll freely bestow . The Son of a Shepherd they soon did procure , And likewise a Nurse , who was free to endure The silence of living , to pleasure the King ; And vow'd to be faithful in everything . King Edward near Windsor a place did provide , A cradle , and all things convenient beside , To cherish the Infant out of his own purse , And none was to enter but Madam the Nurse . She was not confin'd , but had freedom to go Abroad in the Town , for and hour or so ; But ever when back to the Child she did come , She must be more silent , than none that was dumb . No manner of words in the least must she spoke , When out of the cradle the Child she did take ; Or when at the breast it was sucking it's fill , Because of the absolute trial of skill . The King he enjoyn'd her the same to observe , Said he , If the least from your duty you swerve , Then during my reign , I will keep you confin'd , And therefore your business consider and mind . But if you are faithful , and true to your trust , Here's forty broad pieces I'll give you at first ; Beside I will settle one hundred a year Upon you , and therefore go on without fear . She vow'd to the King she wou'd never neglect , Performing her duty in ev'ry respect ; Therefore with the Infant she strait did repair , To keep it according to promise with care . This silence the Nurse did observe for a while , But as the Child grew , it was subject to smile , And cooe in her lap , as the same she undrest ; Oh then with sad sorrow she'd beatrice on her breast . The trickling tears from her eyes they wou'd fallen , To think that she must not say nothing at all To please the young Infant , yet nevertheless , Sometime in sad sorrow , these words she express : King Edward has many a foolish thing done , And this , I declare , among others is one : This did she repeat as it sat on her knee , At length the Child god it as perfect as she . Now , now when the time was expir'd , we find The Child it came into his Majesty's mind ; Who sent for him then on a Festival-day , among all his Nobles , both gallant and gay . When into their presence the Youth he was brought , All knowing right well he was not to be taught ; With longing desires they waited awhile , At length he did make the whole company smile . He nev'r see so many before in his days , Quoth he , when his voice he began for to raise , King Edward has many a foolish thing done , And this , I declare , among others is one . The Nobles they laughed , and the King with the rest , He cou'd not forbear , but must smile at the jest ; But o , the poor Nurse , with a trembling fear , She cry'd out , My ruin , my ruin is near . The King he look'd then with a terrible frown , And said , By my honoured Sceptre and Crown , You ought to be punished according to law , Because that my word did not keep you in awe . The Nobles then present her pardon obtain'd , And so for the time that his Majesty reign'd , She lived in plenty near Westminster-hall , Not far from the sign of the Lion and Ball . The King of the Youth took particular care , To bless him with learning , no cost he did spare ; And when all was done , as in writings we hear , He settled upon him three hundred a year . LONDON : Printed for C. Bates , at the Sun and Bible , in Pie-corner . The Shepherd's SON : OR , The Faithless Nurse . Containing a Royal Frolic between King Edward the Fourth , and his Nobles , at Westminster ; as you shall find in this following Ditty , taken from ancient Writings , for the Satis - faction of the World . To the Tune of , The Royal Forester . Licens'd according to Order . I Come not to sing you a sonnet of lies , Which every fanciful Man can divise , Nor any strange rodemantadoes in tune , Concerning the wondered world in the moon . No , no , I will tell you a story of truth , King Edward the fourth in his flourishing youth , He many a fancy was pleased to try ; Here's one you shall hear , if you please to draw nigh : Behold , he was one of the frolicsome Kings , Who often discours'd of the causes of things ; among his true Nobles of honour and worth , Said he , should we take a young Boy from the birth , And keep him in silence for twice seven years , Where never no language may found in his ears , To teach him to speak any words more or less ; I wonder how then he himself wou'd express ? Said one of the Nobles , He'll blate like a sheep ; Another reply'd , that true silence he'd keep : With that , said King Edward we'll bring up one mute , And so by that means we shall end the dispute . And if I shall live while the time's at and end , To him I will prove and infallible Friend ; For then to a Tutor or school he shall go , Good learning upon him I'll freely bestow . The Son of a Shepherd they soon did procure , And likewise a Nurse , who was free to endure The silence of living , to pleasure the King ; And vow'd to be faithful in everything . King Edward near Windsor a place did provide , A cradle , and all things convenient beside , To cherish the Infant out of his own purse , And none was to enter but Madam the Nurse . She was not confin'd , but had freedom to go Abroad in the Town , for and hour or so ; But ever when back to the Child she did come , She must be more silent , than none that was dumb . No manner of words in the least must she spoke , When out of the cradle the Child she did take ; Or when at the breast it was sucking it's fill , Because of the absolute trial of skill . The King he enjoyn'd her the same to observe , Said he , If the least from your duty you swerve , Then during my reign , I will keep you confin'd , And therefore your business consider and mind . But if you are faithful , and true to your trust , Here's forty broad pieces I'll give you at first ; Beside I will settle one hundred a year Upon you , and therefore go on without fear . She vow'd to the King she wou'd never neglect , Performing her duty in ev'ry respect ; Therefore with the Infant she strait did repair , To keep it according to promise with care . This silence the Nurse did observe for a while , But as the Child grew , it was subject to smile , And cooe in her lap , as the same she undrest ; Oh then with sad sorrow she'd beatrice on her breast . The trickling tears from her eyes they wou'd fallen , To think that she must not say nothing at all To please the young Infant , yet nevertheless , Sometime in sad sorrow , these words she express : King Edward has many a foolish thing done , And this , I declare , among others is one : This did she repeat as it sat on her knee , At length the Child god it as perfect as she . Now , now when the time was expir'd , we find The Child it came into his Majesty's mind ; Who sent for him then on a Festival-day , among all his Nobles , both gallant and gay . When into their presence the Youth he was brought , All knowing right well he was not to be taught ; With longing desires they waited awhile , At length he did make the whole company smile . He nev'r see so many before in his days , Quoth he , when his voice he began for to raise , King Edward has many a foolish thing done , And this , I declare , among others is one . The Nobles they laughed , and the King with the rest , He cou'd not forbear , but must smile at the jest ; But o , the poor Nurse , with a trembling fear , She cry'd out , My ruin , my ruin is near . The King he look'd then with a terrible frown , And said , By my honoured Sceptre and Crown , You ought to be punished according to law , Because that my word did not keep you in awe . The Nobles then present her pardon obtain'd , And so for the time that his Majesty reign'd , She lived in plenty near Westminster-hall , Not far from the sign of the Lion and Ball . The King of the Youth took particular care , To bless him with learning , no cost he did spare ; And when all was done , as in writings we hear , He settled upon him three hundred a year . LONDON : Printed for C. Bates , at the Sun and Bible , in Pie-corner . 