Virginity grown Troublesome : OR , The Younger Sisters Lamentation for want of a Husband . Being a most pleasant and Delightful New Song much in use , etc Each Age grows Riper , love does still prevail , And Maidenheads at Sixteen now are stale ; Young Girls to Mother's will be turn'd e're they Know what it means , sly Cupid does betray , Fires them with love , and then there's nothing can Cure their distemper , unless Oil of Man. to a pleasant New West-Country Tune . I Have a good old Mother at home , which keeps me from Wedlock still , What shall I do , shall I die for love , and never have my will . As I walked forth within the fields , to see the Bushes spring ; The little Birds they chang'd their notes , and I herd the Cuckoo sing . My Sister is married to her content , and is made a wedded Wife ; And with her Husband she does live , a sweet contented life . But I poor soul must lie alone , who am more fair than she ; What shall I do , shall I die for love , and never , etc There is ne'r a one in all the Town , that can compare with me : What shall I do , shall I die for love , and never Married be . NOw I must into some far Country , or into some foreign Land ; For to find out a bonny Lad , to be at my command . Love pleasures all things do surpass , as I do plainly see ; What shall I do , shall I die for love , and never married be . Come some brisk Lad , Oh come with speed , and me from care set free ; Oh what shall I do , shall I die for love ; and never , etc Alas , for what was beauty made , was't only for to see : What shall I do , I am afraid I ne'r shall , etc To languish thus is worse then death , some sweet youth come wed me ; What shall I lose my Virgin breath , and never Married be . Kind Heaven my Sister did befriend , while none's more lov'd then she : What shall I do , shall I die for love , and never Married be . Good Cupid at some gentle heart let thy swift Arrow flee ; Will no kind Youngman take my part , that I may Married be . O cruel young men , what d'ye mean , from joy to hinder me ; What shall I do , shall I die for love , and never married be . Is it my Portions smallness then , that make you not agree ; What shall I do , shall I die for Love , and never married be . If it be that i'le make it more , to labour i'le be free ; What shall I do , shall I die for love , and never married be . O how I sighs to lie alone , and wish for Company ; What shall I do , shall I make moan , and never married be . To tear my Hair I scarce refrain , when Weddings I do see ; What shall I always feel this pain , and never married be . How bless'd are they who in each Grove , receive embraces free , What shall I do , shall I die for love , and never married be . Then some kind youth come pluck the fruit from blooming beauty's Tree : What shall I die , in this dispute , and never married be . These twenty years now have I liv'd , and none e're asked me : Let me not die , kind youths for love , and never married be . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , in West-smithfield . Virginity grown Troublesome : OR , The Younger Sisters Lamentation for want of a Husband . Being a most pleasant and Delightful New Song much in use , etc Each Age grows Riper , love does still prevail , And Maidenheads at Sixteen now are stale ; Young Girls to Mother's will be turn'd e're they Know what it means , sly Cupid does betray , Fires them with love , and then there's nothing can Cure their distemper , unless Oil of Man. to a pleasant New West-Country Tune . I Have a good old Mother at home , which keeps me from Wedlock still , What shall I do , shall I die for love , and never have my will . As I walked forth within the fields , to see the Bushes spring ; The little Birds they chang'd their notes , and I herd the Cuckoo sing . My Sister is married to her content , and is made a wedded Wife ; And with her Husband she does live , a sweet contented life . But I poor soul must lie alone , who am more fair than she ; What shall I do , shall I die for love , and never , etc There is ne'r a one in all the Town , that can compare with me : What shall I do , shall I die for love , and never Married be . NOw I must into some far Country , or into some foreign Land ; For to find out a bonny Lad , to be at my command . Love pleasures all things do surpass , as I do plainly see ; What shall I do , shall I die for love , and never married be . Come some brisk Lad , Oh come with speed , and me from care set free ; Oh what shall I do , shall I die for love ; and never , etc Alas , for what was beauty made , was't only for to see : What shall I do , I am afraid I ne'r shall , etc To languish thus is worse then death , some sweet youth come wed me ; What shall I lose my Virgin breath , and never Married be . Kind Heaven my Sister did befriend , while none's more lov'd then she : What shall I do , shall I die for love , and never Married be . Good Cupid at some gentle heart let thy swift Arrow flee ; Will no kind Youngman take my part , that I may Married be . O cruel young men , what d'ye mean , from joy to hinder me ; What shall I do , shall I die for love , and never married be . Is it my Portions smallness then , that make you not agree ; What shall I do , shall I die for Love , and never married be . If it be that i'le make it more , to labour i'le be free ; What shall I do , shall I die for love , and never married be . O how I sighs to lie alone , and wish for Company ; What shall I do , shall I make moan , and never married be . To tear my Hair I scarce refrain , when Weddings I do see ; What shall I always feel this pain , and never married be . How bless'd are they who in each Grove , receive embraces free , What shall I do , shall I die for love , and never married be . Then some kind youth come pluck the fruit from blooming beauty's Tree : What shall I die , in this dispute , and never married be . These twenty years now have I liv'd , and none e're asked me : Let me not die , kind youths for love , and never married be . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , in West-smithfield . 