The Farmers Reformation : OR , a Pattern for all Bad Husbands to Amend their Lives . When all is spent , there's no content , but Sorrow will attend : Before too late , renew thy State , and learn thy Life to mend . Tune of , the Ladies of London . This may be printed , R.P. I Have been such a bad Husband of late , that trouble and sorrow's ensuing Having consumed a worthy Estate , which almost has proved my Ruin . Now I resolve to altar my Life , that Comforts I may be possessing , And will be loving and kind to my Wife ; there can be no greater a blessing . How like a sorrowful Man do I look ; I troubled am out of measure ; When I consider'd the courses I took , while I was consuming my treasure : Every Day I wasted my store , and call'd a good Husband a Miser ; But I resolve I will do so no more , but leave off , and learn to be wiser . When to the Market I went with my Corn , as soon as I sold it , to Gaming : I spent more free than a Gentleman born ; yet thought I wan't worthy of blaming . Some I would lend , to others I'de give , and they'd be as commonly craving : But I will do so no more while I live , I'll learn to be Thrifty and saving . I from the Alehouse to the Tavern wou'd room , with those that wou'd call me their honey : All the long night I would seldom come home , as long as I had any Money , While my poor Wife shed many a Tear , to see how I daily did use her : But I will now be more kind to my Dear , and never no more will abuse her . By this my Gaming I soon made a hand of what my old Father did leave me , As being forced to Mortgage my Land ; this did of all Comfort bereave me : So that I then was near to despair , and gave myself to melancholy : But at length I resolv'd to take care , now , now , I have seen my own folly . While to that ruinous rate I did run , I seldom or never repented , Till I perceived that I was undone , and then I was griev [ ' ] worser and lamented ; Yet I resolve [ ' ] worser this course I would take , for the future time that's ensuing , All my bay Company I would forsake ; I found they had proved my Ruin . My Goods and Comforts does daily increase [ e ] by Labour I this have obtained , And my kind Wife has the blessing of pea [ ce ] since Company I have refrained : Yet my old Cronys flout me each day , and count me no more than a Miser ; Yet I'll not valve whatever they say , I mean to grow older and wiser , E'ry bad Husband take warning by this , and count it not as a dead Letter : Though by your Folly you have done amiss , 'tis never too late to grow better : If thou hast god a loving kind wife , then , then , thou hast reason to prize her Ay and to Love her as dear as thy Life , and always grow older and wiser . London , Printed for R. Kell , at the Blue Anchor near Pye-Corner . The Farmers Reformation : OR , a Pattern for all Bad Husbands to Amend their Lives . When all is spent , there's no content , but Sorrow will attend : Before too late , renew thy State , and learn thy Life to mend . Tune of , the Ladies of London . This may be printed , R.P. I Have been such a bad Husband of late , that trouble and sorrow's ensuing Having consumed a worthy Estate , which almost has proved my Ruin . Now I resolve to altar my Life , that Comforts I may be possessing , And will be loving and kind to my Wife ; there can be no greater a blessing . How like a sorrowful Man do I look ; I troubled am out of measure ; When I consider'd the courses I took , while I was consuming my treasure : Every Day I wasted my store , and call'd a good Husband a Miser ; But I resolve I will do so no more , but leave off , and learn to be wiser . When to the Market I went with my Corn , as soon as I sold it , to Gaming : I spent more free than a Gentleman born ; yet thought I wan't worthy of blaming . Some I would lend , to others I'de give , and they'd be as commonly craving : But I will do so no more while I live , I'll learn to be Thrifty and saving . I from the Alehouse to the Tavern wou'd room , with those that wou'd call me their honey : All the long night I would seldom come home , as long as I had any Money , While my poor Wife shed many a Tear , to see how I daily did use her : But I will now be more kind to my Dear , and never no more will abuse her . By this my Gaming I soon made a hand of what my old Father did leave me , As being forced to Mortgage my Land ; this did of all Comfort bereave me : So that I then was near to despair , and gave myself to melancholy : But at length I resolv'd to take care , now , now , I have seen my own folly . While to that ruinous rate I did run , I seldom or never repented , Till I perceived that I was undone , and then I was griev [ ' ] worser and lamented ; Yet I resolve [ ' ] worser this course I would take , for the future time that's ensuing , All my bay Company I would forsake ; I found they had proved my Ruin . My Goods and Comforts does daily increase [ e ] by Labour I this have obtained , And my kind Wife has the blessing of pea [ ce ] since Company I have refrained : Yet my old Cronys flout me each day , and count me no more than a Miser ; Yet I'll not valve whatever they say , I mean to grow older and wiser , E'ry bad Husband take warning by this , and count it not as a dead Letter : Though by your Folly you have done amiss , 'tis never too late to grow better : If thou hast god a loving kind wife , then , then , thou hast reason to prize her Ay and to Love her as dear as thy Life , and always grow older and wiser . London , Printed for R. Kell , at the Blue Anchor near Pye-Corner . 