RALPH and NELL's Ramble to OXFORD . I Herd much talk of Oxford town . And fain I would go thither , When plowing and sowing time was done , It being gallant weather . Vather did to it agree , That Nell and I should go ; But mother cry'd , That we should ride , So we had Dobbin too . So I goes unto zister Nell , And bids her to make ready , And put on her Zunday close , As vine as any lady ; 'Tis a gallant day , the morning's gray , And likely to be fair ; Therefore make haste , and soon be lac'd , And I'll go bait the mare . So up upon the mare we god , And away we rid together ; And everybody that we met , We ask'd how far 'twas thither . 'Till at the last , when on the top Of Chisledon we did rise , I somewhat 'spy'd like steeples and cry'd , Zooks , Nell , look yonder it is . But when as nearer to't we came , We zee volks infant thick ; I herd a little bastard zay , Look here comes country Dick . Another bastard call'd me Ralph , And how is't honest Joan ? Nay Roger too , and little Sue , And all the folks at home . So we road on and nothing said , But looked for and alehouse ; At last we zee a hugeous sign , As big as any gallows . It was Two Dogs , so in we road , And called for the hostler ; Out came a lusty fellow then , I wa'nt he was a wrestler . Here take my horse , and set'en up , And gi'en a lock of hay ; For we are come to zee the town . And tarry here all day . Yes , Sir , said he , and call'd the maid , That stood within the entry ; She had us into a room as clean , As tho' we had been gentry . So we zet down , and bid them fetch A flagon of their beer ; But when it come , Nell shook her head , And z , 'Twas plaguy dear . Zays she to me , if we stay here long , 'Twill soon make us go a begging , For I am zure it cannot be So much as old Martin's flagon . So we god up , and away we went , To zee the gallant town , And at the gate we met a man With a pitiful ragged gown : As for his sleeves , I do believe , That they were both torn off , And instead of a hat he wore a cap , 'Twas a trencher cover'd with cloth . And as we were going along the town , I thought I had found a knife , I stooped down to pick it up , But was ne'er so sham'd in my life ; For the underside was all beshit , With and arrant Christian's turd ; The boys fell a hollowing and , April Fool ! But I z ne'er a word . As we went thro' a narrow lane , One catch'd vast hold of zister , He'd parson's close , and he did'nt know us , But fain he would have kissed her ; He was so plaguy vine , but to my mind , He look'd much like a wencher ; I up wi' my stick , and gi'en a lick , I believe it split his trencher . Then we went into a very vine place , And there we went to church ; I kneeled down to say my prayers , And did not think any hur In the middle of the prayers , just upstairs , Was bagpipes to my thinking ; And the folks below fell a singing too , As tho' they had been drinking . I did not like the doings there , And so I took my hat ; I did'nt think they so had done , In such a place as that . But Nell was for staying till they had done playing , Because she lik'd the tunes , For she was zure she ne'er did hear Old Crundall play such at home . Then we went into a vine garden , All upon a hill ; And just below a dial did go , Much like a wagon wheel ; But bigger by half , which made me laugh , 'Twas like a garden knot ; When the zun shine bright , it went as right As our parson's clock . Then we went out of this vine place , And went unto another ; Which was vorty times as vine As any of the other : Bless me ! our John quite all along There's books pil'd up like mows : Vaith Nell , I wish that my mother was here , If it was not for the cows . And in the middle stood two things , As round as any ball ; They told us 'twas the p [ i ] cture of The world , the zee , and all . And those who knew how to turn them right And how to turn them round , Could tell us what o'clock it was In the world underground . And many more things they could tell That was as most as strange ; And when the zun should set and rise , And when the moon should change , I did not care to stand so near , When all those things I herd , For I thought in my heart it was the black art And I was a little afraid . The zun being low then we begun To think of going home ; But one thing more we saw before We god quite out of town . We went apace , for being in haste , For fear of being benighted ; Two hugeous men stood strutting within , And Nell and I was frighted . Nell had a colour as read as a rose , And durst not go any further , They had bloody weapons in their hands , And stood ready there for murder . So we went back and god the mare , And away came trotting home , With stories enough to tell vather and mother , And little zister Joan. Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church Yard , Bow-Lane , London . RALPH and NELL's Ramble to OXFORD . I Herd much talk of Oxford town . And fain I would go thither , When plowing and sowing time was done , It being gallant weather . Vather did to it agree , That Nell and I should go ; But mother cry'd , That we should ride , So we had Dobbin too . So I goes unto zister Nell , And bids her to make ready , And put on her Zunday close , As vine as any lady ; 'Tis a gallant day , the morning's gray , And likely to be fair ; Therefore make haste , and soon be lac'd , And I'll go bait the mare . So up upon the mare we god , And away we rid together ; And everybody that we met , We ask'd how far 'twas thither . 'Till at the last , when on the top Of Chisledon we did rise , I somewhat 'spy'd like steeples and cry'd , Zooks , Nell , look yonder it is . But when as nearer to't we came , We zee volks infant thick ; I herd a little bastard zay , Look here comes country Dick . Another bastard call'd me Ralph , And how is't honest Joan ? Nay Roger too , and little Sue , And all the folks at home . So we road on and nothing said , But looked for and alehouse ; At last we zee a hugeous sign , As big as any gallows . It was Two Dogs , so in we road , And called for the hostler ; Out came a lusty fellow then , I wa'nt he was a wrestler . Here take my horse , and set'en up , And gi'en a lock of hay ; For we are come to zee the town . And tarry here all day . Yes , Sir , said he , and call'd the maid , That stood within the entry ; She had us into a room as clean , As tho' we had been gentry . So we zet down , and bid them fetch A flagon of their beer ; But when it come , Nell shook her head , And z , 'Twas plaguy dear . Zays she to me , if we stay here long , 'Twill soon make us go a begging , For I am zure it cannot be So much as old Martin's flagon . So we god up , and away we went , To zee the gallant town , And at the gate we met a man With a pitiful ragged gown : As for his sleeves , I do believe , That they were both torn off , And instead of a hat he wore a cap , 'Twas a trencher cover'd with cloth . And as we were going along the town , I thought I had found a knife , I stooped down to pick it up , But was ne'er so sham'd in my life ; For the underside was all beshit , With and arrant Christian's turd ; The boys fell a hollowing and , April Fool ! But I z ne'er a word . As we went thro' a narrow lane , One catch'd vast hold of zister , He'd parson's close , and he did'nt know us , But fain he would have kissed her ; He was so plaguy vine , but to my mind , He look'd much like a wencher ; I up wi' my stick , and gi'en a lick , I believe it split his trencher . Then we went into a very vine place , And there we went to church ; I kneeled down to say my prayers , And did not think any hur In the middle of the prayers , just upstairs , Was bagpipes to my thinking ; And the folks below fell a singing too , As tho' they had been drinking . I did not like the doings there , And so I took my hat ; I did'nt think they so had done , In such a place as that . But Nell was for staying till they had done playing , Because she lik'd the tunes , For she was zure she ne'er did hear Old Crundall play such at home . Then we went into a vine garden , All upon a hill ; And just below a dial did go , Much like a wagon wheel ; But bigger by half , which made me laugh , 'Twas like a garden knot ; When the zun shine bright , it went as right As our parson's clock . Then we went out of this vine place , And went unto another ; Which was vorty times as vine As any of the other : Bless me ! our John quite all along There's books pil'd up like mows : Vaith Nell , I wish that my mother was here , If it was not for the cows . And in the middle stood two things , As round as any ball ; They told us 'twas the p [ i ] cture of The world , the zee , and all . And those who knew how to turn them right And how to turn them round , Could tell us what o'clock it was In the world underground . And many more things they could tell That was as most as strange ; And when the zun should set and rise , And when the moon should change , I did not care to stand so near , When all those things I herd , For I thought in my heart it was the black art And I was a little afraid . The zun being low then we begun To think of going home ; But one thing more we saw before We god quite out of town . We went apace , for being in haste , For fear of being benighted ; Two hugeous men stood strutting within , And Nell and I was frighted . Nell had a colour as read as a rose , And durst not go any further , They had bloody weapons in their hands , And stood ready there for murder . So we went back and god the mare , And away came trotting home , With stories enough to tell vather and mother , And little zister Joan. Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church Yard , Bow-Lane , London . 