( 1 ) The UNIVERSITY Ballad , OR , The CHURCH'S ADVICE to Her Two DAUGHTERS , OXFORD and CAMBRIDGE . First Part. 1. I Have herd my dear Daughters , a Story of late , Fa la la , la la la , la la la la ; Told for Truth to the Commons , by a Minister of State , Fa la la , la la la , la la la la ; Told for , etc That the Scotch Act was Extorted ; Oh England's hard fate ! Fa la la , la la la , la la la la . 2. If Whiggs at this distance so Terrible are ; Fa la , etc Such Men in our Bosom may make us all stare , Fa la Such Men , etc And Extort what they please , if we do not take care . Fa la , etc 3. And when we consider what Measures are taken , Fa la , And how our best Friend is grossly mistaken , Fa la , How all , etc Some things are Extorted , or else we're forsaken . Fa 4. If this be the Case , pray what can you think ? Fa la , etc But that Church and State are now at the brink , Fa la , But that , etc Of Ruin , Destruction , and ready to sink . Fa la , etc 5. But we have yet a time to save this poor Nation , Fa la , From Fire and Sword , and all Desolation , Fa la , etc From Fire , etc By choosing such Members as hate DECOLLATION . fa 6. And hence I take leave both my Daughters to press , Fa To give good Examples , you can do no less , Fa la , etc To give , etc When the Church and the State are in so great distress . Fa la , etc 7. The Eyes of the Nation are fix'd upon you , Fa la la , etc Every City and Borough will observe what you do , Fa la , etc Every City , etc And if you'll choose good Members , the'll do so too . Fa la , etc 8. Each Member that's chosen , serves for the whole Na - cion , Fa la , etc For that end you're Entrusted to Vote in your Station , Fa la , etc For that , etc Without any respect to Friend or Relation . Fa la , etc 9. The Question before you is both plain and short , fa la Who is the best Man , Church and State to support , fa Who is , etc From Designs of the Whiggs , and Schemes of the C --- rt . fa la , etc 10. And in your next choice lay your hand on your Heart , Fa As if upon Oath , for if you do start , Fa la la , etc As if , etc From the Rule above-mention'd , your Conscience will smart . Fa la , etc 11. A good Man is Steady , and with safety may , fa la , Be trusted with our Rights ; he not Tricks will Play , Fa Be trusted , etc He loves the Church and the Queen , and's the same every Day . Fa la , etc 12. But if a Man be bred up a notorious Whig ; Fa , etc Who because he was neglected begins to look big , Fa la , Who because , etc And Swears for old Friends he cares not a Fig. Fa la , 13. O trust not to such in time of great Danger ; Fa , etc Who to Mother Church is yet but a Stranger , Fa , etc Nor take , etc If Dissenter prevail he may Vote for to change her . Fa la , etc 14. And as to the Tackers that have tack'd the right way , Fa la , etc For the Church and the Laws ; to such I do say , Fa la , etc For thee , etc I will give them my Blessing , and for them I'll Pray . Fa la , etc 15. But if for Resentment , and want of a Place , Fa la , etc And old Whi --- g Tacks about as it were in a maze , Fa And old , etc And talks for the Church like Apothecary Changed ---- se . Fa , la , etc 16. Let great Marlow take these into Consideration ; Fa la , etc No Tacker of that kind will save Church or Nation , Fa , la , etc No Tacker , etc For in the next Angry mood he'll quit his new Station . Fa 17. And here Daughter Oxf --- worser , to you I apply , Fa la , etc This Advice from a Mother that can't tell a Lie , Fa la , etc This Advice , etc That you choose not a b --- Son that comes in by the by . Fa la , etc 18. You may once be excus'd that on Deliberation , Fa , etc You took Hobson's choice , or Recommendation , Fa la , You took , etc But such a choice at this time will show to the Nation , Fa la , etc 19. That your Judgement is weak , or you're guided by those , Fa la , etc Who have neither Virtue , nor care who is chosen , Fa , etc Who have , etc So you Patronise Vice , and yourselves do expose . Fa , etc 20. We will not inform on Occasional Bill , Fa la , etc Who hung down his Head , sat silent and still , Fa la , etc Who hung , etc Since his silence do's better that [ a ] n his speaking will : Fa la , etc 21. But when Debate it was Over , and the Bill was brought in , Fa la , etc And to say nothing for it was thought a great since . Fa la , etc And to , etc He resolv'd to speak next time , tho' not worth a Pin. Fa la , etc 22. He watch'd my Son Br --- y , and from him a Notion Fa la , etc He god in his Head , which rais'd a Commotion , Fa , etc He god , etc Then Cry'd out Mr. Sp --- r , I second the Motion , Fa , etc 23. The Wags so Admire him , and love to make Sport Fa la , etc With University Member , that they oft make effort Fa la , etc With University , etc To call him to Chair ; do's this your Honour support ? Fa la , etc 24. If Oxf --- worser Jests be Reprinted , with Additions most rare , Fa la , etc Her's a Jest for the House , and a Jest for the Bar , Fa la , etc Here's a , etc That you be not a Jest too , is worthy your care . Fa , etc 25. O give not just Cause to the Scandalous Clubs , Fa , etc To Tutchin , D'Foe , and such yelping Cubs , Fa la , etc To Tutchin , etc To Abuse my Dear Daughter , as they have my Son St ------ bs . Fa la , etc 26. Will you tell me hereafter you knew not the Man , Fa Or knew him no better than the Sp ------ r Japan , Fa la , Or knew , etc There's none will believe , say you what you can . Fa la , 27. Oh! how will our Enemies Triumph and Clap , Fa la , If dear Daughter Oxf --- worser shou'd have this mishap , Fa If dear , etc To be caught with her Heads in a Harlican Trap. Fa la 28. Preferments may be kept , fair Promises made , Fa la , etc Till Elections are over , which is the old Trade , Fa Till Elections , etc And this is the way Mother Church is Betray'd , Fa la , 29. A Courtier's set up , but if that will not do , Fa la , etc Then a Convert that's useless , or at best so and so , Fa Then a , etc And's only fit for a Chamber , to walk to and from . Fa. 30. Thus the Scheme it is laid , the Plot it is deep , Fa la , And all at are work to lull you asleep , Fa la , etc And all , etc That out of the House they Ma ------ th may keep . Fa , 31. By thy Labours , Oh Ma ------ th , advantage we gain , Fa Yet with some they raise Envy , with others Disdain , Fa Yet with , etc And for thy Success I am in great Pain . Fa la , etc 32. No doubt my dear Daughter , it is your Intent , Fa la To choose such a person as shall Represent Fa la , etc To choose , etc Your Learning , your Virtue , and eke your Judgement . Fa 33. But Oh! shou'd you choose , and a Man to me bring , Fa That's entirely depriv'd of any such thing , Fa la , etc That's entirely , etc No Judgement , no Virtue , nor any Learning . Fa la , etc 34. How can you expect I should ever Consent , Fa la , etc That he my dear Daughter should Misrepresent , Fa la That he , etc And on her behalf to parlour --- la --- meant . Fa la , etc 35. If yet you will choose him , pray fix who shall Pay Fa la , For the Numerous Oaths he shall Swear every Day , Fa For thee , etc That the Poor have their Endue when he go's away . Fa 36. Or else , Oh my Daughter , you must see and take care , Fa To provide a good Fund , for to tell you I dare , Fa la , To provide , etc At last you will Pay for each Oath he shall Swear . Fa la 37. But I trust at this time , Dissenters shall see , Fa la , etc That to my great Comfort you'll Dutiful be , Fa la , etc That to , etc ( Notwithstanding Temptations ) to keep yourself free . Fa 38. It is Mack ------ th hath open'd the Eyes of the Nation , Fa la , etc And help'd to preserve us from Infatuation , Fa la , etc And help'd , etc While in Church and State some would make Altera - ration , Fa la , etc 39. O! how were we blinded with what some do write , Fa Concerning the Story of A ------ by and Wh ------ te , Fa Concerning thee , etc Till Sir H. laid before us the Fallacy , in sighed . Fa la , 40. And will you disown and disgrace your dear Child , Fa , Who is your own Picture , whose Temper's so mild , Fa , Who is , etc That for fear you should choose him Moderation grows wild , Fala , etc 41. If Br ------ lie and Mack ------ th together are chosen , Fa You'l ne'er more be divided by any of those , fa la You'l ne'er , etc Who your Peace and your Union do so much Oppose . Fa la , etc 42. And of my dear Daughter there's none shall dare say , fa To the Ruin of the Church she ever gave way , fa la , To thee , et ( 1 ) The UNIVERSITY Ballad , OR , The CHURCH'S ADVICE to Her Two DAUGHTERS , OXFORD and CAMBRIDGE . First Part. 1. I Have herd my dear Daughters , a Story of late , Fa la la , la la la , la la la la ; Told for Truth to the Commons , by a Minister of State , Fa la la , la la la , la la la la ; Told for , etc That the Scotch Act was Extorted ; Oh England's hard fate ! Fa la la , la la la , la la la la . 2. If Whiggs at this distance so Terrible are ; Fa la , etc Such Men in our Bosom may make us all stare , Fa la Such Men , etc And Extort what they please , if we do not take care . Fa la , etc 3. And when we consider what Measures are taken , Fa la , And how our best Friend is grossly mistaken , Fa la , How all , etc Some things are Extorted , or else we're forsaken . Fa 4. If this be the Case , pray what can you think ? Fa la , etc But that Church and State are now at the brink , Fa la , But that , etc Of Ruin , Destruction , and ready to sink . Fa la , etc 5. But we have yet a time to save this poor Nation , Fa la , From Fire and Sword , and all Desolation , Fa la , etc From Fire , etc By choosing such Members as hate DECOLLATION . fa 6. And hence I take leave both my Daughters to press , Fa To give good Examples , you can do no less , Fa la , etc To give , etc When the Church and the State are in so great distress . Fa la , etc 7. The Eyes of the Nation are fix'd upon you , Fa la la , etc Every City and Borough will observe what you do , Fa la , etc Every City , etc And if you'll choose good Members , the'll do so too . Fa la , etc 8. Each Member that's chosen , serves for the whole Na - cion , Fa la , etc For that end you're Entrusted to Vote in your Station , Fa la , etc For that , etc Without any respect to Friend or Relation . Fa la , etc 9. The Question before you is both plain and short , fa la Who is the best Man , Church and State to support , fa Who is , etc From Designs of the Whiggs , and Schemes of the C --- rt . fa la , etc 10. And in your next choice lay your hand on your Heart , Fa As if upon Oath , for if you do start , Fa la la , etc As if , etc From the Rule above-mention'd , your Conscience will smart . Fa la , etc 11. A good Man is Steady , and with safety may , fa la , Be trusted with our Rights ; he not Tricks will Play , Fa Be trusted , etc He loves the Church and the Queen , and's the same every Day . Fa la , etc 12. But if a Man be bred up a notorious Whig ; Fa , etc Who because he was neglected begins to look big , Fa la , Who because , etc And Swears for old Friends he cares not a Fig. Fa la , 13. O trust not to such in time of great Danger ; Fa , etc Who to Mother Church is yet but a Stranger , Fa , etc Nor take , etc If Dissenter prevail he may Vote for to change her . Fa la , etc 14. And as to the Tackers that have tack'd the right way , Fa la , etc For the Church and the Laws ; to such I do say , Fa la , etc For thee , etc I will give them my Blessing , and for them I'll Pray . Fa la , etc 15. But if for Resentment , and want of a Place , Fa la , etc And old Whi --- g Tacks about as it were in a maze , Fa And old , etc And talks for the Church like Apothecary Changed ---- se . Fa , la , etc 16. Let great Marlow take these into Consideration ; Fa la , etc No Tacker of that kind will save Church or Nation , Fa , la , etc No Tacker , etc For in the next Angry mood he'll quit his new Station . Fa 17. And here Daughter Oxf --- worser , to you I apply , Fa la , etc This Advice from a Mother that can't tell a Lie , Fa la , etc This Advice , etc That you choose not a b --- Son that comes in by the by . Fa la , etc 18. You may once be excus'd that on Deliberation , Fa , etc You took Hobson's choice , or Recommendation , Fa la , You took , etc But such a choice at this time will show to the Nation , Fa la , etc 19. That your Judgement is weak , or you're guided by those , Fa la , etc Who have neither Virtue , nor care who is chosen , Fa , etc Who have , etc So you Patronise Vice , and yourselves do expose . Fa , etc 20. We will not inform on Occasional Bill , Fa la , etc Who hung down his Head , sat silent and still , Fa la , etc Who hung , etc Since his silence do's better that [ a ] n his speaking will : Fa la , etc 21. But when Debate it was Over , and the Bill was brought in , Fa la , etc And to say nothing for it was thought a great since . Fa la , etc And to , etc He resolv'd to speak next time , tho' not worth a Pin. Fa la , etc 22. He watch'd my Son Br --- y , and from him a Notion Fa la , etc He god in his Head , which rais'd a Commotion , Fa , etc He god , etc Then Cry'd out Mr. Sp --- r , I second the Motion , Fa , etc 23. The Wags so Admire him , and love to make Sport Fa la , etc With University Member , that they oft make effort Fa la , etc With University , etc To call him to Chair ; do's this your Honour support ? Fa la , etc 24. If Oxf --- worser Jests be Reprinted , with Additions most rare , Fa la , etc Her's a Jest for the House , and a Jest for the Bar , Fa la , etc Here's a , etc That you be not a Jest too , is worthy your care . Fa , etc 25. O give not just Cause to the Scandalous Clubs , Fa , etc To Tutchin , D'Foe , and such yelping Cubs , Fa la , etc To Tutchin , etc To Abuse my Dear Daughter , as they have my Son St ------ bs . Fa la , etc 26. Will you tell me hereafter you knew not the Man , Fa Or knew him no better than the Sp ------ r Japan , Fa la , Or knew , etc There's none will believe , say you what you can . Fa la , 27. Oh! how will our Enemies Triumph and Clap , Fa la , If dear Daughter Oxf --- worser shou'd have this mishap , Fa If dear , etc To be caught with her Heads in a Harlican Trap. Fa la 28. Preferments may be kept , fair Promises made , Fa la , etc Till Elections are over , which is the old Trade , Fa Till Elections , etc And this is the way Mother Church is Betray'd , Fa la , 29. A Courtier's set up , but if that will not do , Fa la , etc Then a Convert that's useless , or at best so and so , Fa Then a , etc And's only fit for a Chamber , to walk to and from . Fa. 30. Thus the Scheme it is laid , the Plot it is deep , Fa la , And all at are work to lull you asleep , Fa la , etc And all , etc That out of the House they Ma ------ th may keep . Fa , 31. By thy Labours , Oh Ma ------ th , advantage we gain , Fa Yet with some they raise Envy , with others Disdain , Fa Yet with , etc And for thy Success I am in great Pain . Fa la , etc 32. No doubt my dear Daughter , it is your Intent , Fa la To choose such a person as shall Represent Fa la , etc To choose , etc Your Learning , your Virtue , and eke your Judgement . Fa 33. But Oh! shou'd you choose , and a Man to me bring , Fa That's entirely depriv'd of any such thing , Fa la , etc That's entirely , etc No Judgement , no Virtue , nor any Learning . Fa la , etc 34. How can you expect I should ever Consent , Fa la , etc That he my dear Daughter should Misrepresent , Fa la That he , etc And on her behalf to parlour --- la --- meant . Fa la , etc 35. If yet you will choose him , pray fix who shall Pay Fa la , For the Numerous Oaths he shall Swear every Day , Fa For thee , etc That the Poor have their Endue when he go's away . Fa 36. Or else , Oh my Daughter , you must see and take care , Fa To provide a good Fund , for to tell you I dare , Fa la , To provide , etc At last you will Pay for each Oath he shall Swear . Fa la 37. But I trust at this time , Dissenters shall see , Fa la , etc That to my great Comfort you'll Dutiful be , Fa la , etc That to , etc ( Notwithstanding Temptations ) to keep yourself free . Fa 38. It is Mack ------ th hath open'd the Eyes of the Nation , Fa la , etc And help'd to preserve us from Infatuation , Fa la , etc And help'd , etc While in Church and State some would make Altera - ration , Fa la , etc 39. O! how were we blinded with what some do write , Fa Concerning the Story of A ------ by and Wh ------ te , Fa Concerning thee , etc Till Sir H. laid before us the Fallacy , in sighed . Fa la , 40. And will you disown and disgrace your dear Child , Fa , Who is your own Picture , whose Temper's so mild , Fa , Who is , etc That for fear you should choose him Moderation grows wild , Fala , etc 41. If Br ------ lie and Mack ------ th together are chosen , Fa You'l ne'er more be divided by any of those , fa la You'l ne'er , etc Who your Peace and your Union do so much Oppose . Fa la , etc 42. And of my dear Daughter there's none shall dare say , fa To the Ruin of the Church she ever gave way , fa la , To thee , etc But Learning and Virtue did always bear sway . fa la , 43. And Now Daughter Ca ------ dge I hope you do hear Fa la , My Advice to your Sister : To both I do bear Fa la , My Advice , etc And equal affection ; you two are my Care . Fa la , etc 44. And to you my Request is , that you'l be so kind , fa la As for my Son And ----- y a second to find , fa la As for , etc Who may Match him in Courage and be of his Mind , fa 45. For both , my dear Daughters , must Act in this Station , With as much exactness , as and Algebraick Equation , fa With as , etc And Vote for such Men as can best serve the Nation . 46. But if one make a good choice , and the other a bad , When good Men for both may be easily had , fa la , When good , etc How will Whiggs and Dissenters rejoice and be glad . fa 47. You are two great Props of the Church , and the Crown , Then be not like Buckets , one up , t'other down , fa Then be , etc To expose your dear Mother all over the Town . fa 48. O! no! Pray consider , this is the last Squeak , Fa la , Then choose me such Men , as can both Write and Speak , Then choose , etc Since all that we have , now lies at the Stake . Fa la , etc 49. And when by my Daughters such Patriots are chosen , fa I may venture to say , that under the Rose fa la , etc I may , etc You will spoil the new Scheme , and wipe the Whiggs Nose . Fa la , etc FINIS . c . But Learning and Virtue did always bear sway . fa la , 43. And Now Daughter Ca ------ dge I hope you do hear Fa la , My Advice to your Sister : To both I do bear Fa la , My Advice , etc And equal affection ; you two are my Care . Fa la , etc 44. And to you my Request is , that you'l be so kind , fa la As for my Son And ----- y a second to find , fa la As for , etc Who may Match him in Courage and be of his Mind , fa 45. For both , my dear Daughters , must Act in this Station , With as much exactness , as and Algebraick Equation , fa With as , etc And Vote for such Men as can best serve the Nation . 46. But if one make a good choice , and the other a bad , When good Men for both may be easily had , fa la , When good , etc How will Whiggs and Dissenters rejoice and be glad . fa 47. You are two great Props of the Church , and the Crown , Then be not like Buckets , one up , t'other down , fa Then be , etc To expose your dear Mother all over the Town . fa 48. O! no! Pray consider , this is the last Squeak , Fa la , Then choose me such Men , as can both Write and Speak , Then choose , etc Since all that we have , now lies at the Stake . Fa la , etc 49. And when by my Daughters such Patriots are chosen , fa I may venture to say , that under the Rose fa la , etc I may , etc You will spoil the new Scheme , and wipe the Whiggs Nose . Fa la , etc FINIS . 