THE DUTCH GAZETTE : OR , The Sheet of Wild-Fire , that Fired the DUTCH FLEET . I'Le tell you not of Etna's Flames , nor Troy's , That long ago has fill'd the World with noise : Nor of Romances , nor of Histories , Done Ages long before , whose Obsequies Were sung by Laureate Pens ; that which I tell , The Stories of the World can't parallel . Rupert I sing , Duke Albermarle , and Homes , And of the rest , that sent those to their homes , Whose Pride and Envy , Hell itself ( 'twas such ) Can't match , would you know who I mean , the Dutch . Who had a Hundred sixty Ships , and more , Of Merchantmen , lay sleeping on their Shore , And never dreamed of danger , till we came , And took them napping ; Ask but Amsterdam , Who stood Spectators there , and saw their Sails Tranform'd to Sheets of Wildfire , and those Gales That use to swell and spread abroad their 'tire , Serve now as Bellows to set all on fire . For Guinnae some , others for Russia bound , Scarce one worth less than Fifteen thousand Pound . Did you ne'r see the Winged Troop , that flies From Flower to Flower , until their laden thighs Force a retreat ? Did you ne'r see them strive , Which should go richest laden to his Hive ? Just so each Soldier , in a plenteous measure , Has made his Cabb'n , a Cabinet of Treasure . Silks , Hollands , Silver-spoons , Plate , Cloth of Gold , All had their choice to take what e're they would . These are the Dutch , that did but th' other day Make Bonfires o're their Land for Victory , ---- But never thought of seeing This by Sea. -------- Where Helm and Rudder , Top , Topsail , and all , Within few hours to Dust and Ashes fallen . Had but Will . Lilly seen this Blazing Comet , I'le lay my life it had portended Somewhat Of strange event , as he'd have made appear In his Prognostication for next Year . They'l block the Seas up , why then so they shall , No fitter Heads than theirs to do't withal ; Where they may lay 'um together , and counsel take , How many Bonfires they had best to make . Now will I lose the Pinion of my Quill , And dictate to my Muse a Word at will ; That Fame itself , that Herald ( and not I ) Shall show the Blazon of our Victory . At which the World distracted stands with fear , And won't believe but that the Gods were there . Great MONK so thundered , that 'twas hard to say Whither 'twas He , or Fate , that god the Day . Smith sent such Thunderbolts as ne'r were made By Vulcan , since he first wrought of his Trade ; Who gaz'd , but durst not come within a Shot , For fear his other Leg had gone to Pott . 'Twas Smith , whose Sword so often quench'd in Blood , Return'd so hard , as not to be withstood . : Steel to the Hilt ; this Proverb has he god , He ne'r strikes stroke until the Iron's hight . Had Goffe , Ben. Johnson , or had Shakespear been - Spectators there , such Acts they should have seen , -- As they ne'r acted in and English Scean : ----------- These fought with Blows , they only clash'd in Words ; They fought with Foils , but these with naked Swords . Here should they've seen and angry Sea their Stage , Cover'd with rolling Billows , Foam and Rage ; Now sunk to Hell , anon with Pride so high , As if it gave defiance to the Sky . There should they've seen retiring Rooms of War , Such Rooms as far excels Romes Theater : A Ghastful Scean , not Thebes , but Thetis Womb , Wherein the Actors did themselves entomb . Here dives a Corpse , there struggles one half dead : Here sinks a Trunk cut shorter by the Head ; Here one 'twixt hope and fear thinks 'tis a dream ; And there another strives against the stream ; Here dive a hundred Dutch into their Graves ; There die as many 'mbracing of the Waves ; Here one turmoils , and there another strives , Yet scarce two in a hundred save their lives . Such Music as they had , had but Troy known , 'Twould quickly've made the Grecians fled their Town . Had poor Ulysses herd but one broadside , 'T had made him quake , and been afraid to ride The Grecian Horse , his wood'n Bucephalus Had been transform'd into a Pegasus . Had Monk but Thunder'd at proud Babels Wall , Babels proud Battlements had god a fallen : Had th' Great Collossus stood where he discharges , He'd veyl'd his Bonnet to our Boanarges . Th' Egyptian Pyramid ( whose massy Tower , The Jaws of Time could never yet devour ) When he discharges , its proud Marbles must Lay down their palsy Heads within the Dust. Great Conquerors , could I your Worth indite , The World unworthy were of what I'de wtite . Your steely Soldiers too , I dare but name , For fear I overcharge the Trump of Fame , That caus'd the World proverbially to say , THEY fought like Englishmen , and won the Day . Return , Great Conquerors , live Men of Mirror , Englands chief Glory , but the Duchess Terror . Who have a Tromp too , but the World's to blame , If e're they take Him for the Trump of Fame . Finis . Licensed Aug. 20. Roger L'Estrange LONDON Printed by TO [ homas Leach , in Shooe-Lane , 1666. ] THE DUTCH GAZETTE : OR , The Sheet of Wild-Fire , that Fired the DUTCH FLEET . I'Le tell you not of Etna's Flames , nor Troy's , That long ago has fill'd the World with noise : Nor of Romances , nor of Histories , Done Ages long before , whose Obsequies Were sung by Laureate Pens ; that which I tell , The Stories of the World can't parallel . Rupert I sing , Duke Albermarle , and Homes , And of the rest , that sent those to their homes , Whose Pride and Envy , Hell itself ( 'twas such ) Can't match , would you know who I mean , the Dutch . Who had a Hundred sixty Ships , and more , Of Merchantmen , lay sleeping on their Shore , And never dreamed of danger , till we came , And took them napping ; Ask but Amsterdam , Who stood Spectators there , and saw their Sails Tranform'd to Sheets of Wildfire , and those Gales That use to swell and spread abroad their 'tire , Serve now as Bellows to set all on fire . For Guinnae some , others for Russia bound , Scarce one worth less than Fifteen thousand Pound . Did you ne'r see the Winged Troop , that flies From Flower to Flower , until their laden thighs Force a retreat ? Did you ne'r see them strive , Which should go richest laden to his Hive ? Just so each Soldier , in a plenteous measure , Has made his Cabb'n , a Cabinet of Treasure . Silks , Hollands , Silver-spoons , Plate , Cloth of Gold , All had their choice to take what e're they would . These are the Dutch , that did but th' other day Make Bonfires o're their Land for Victory , ---- But never thought of seeing This by Sea. -------- Where Helm and Rudder , Top , Topsail , and all , Within few hours to Dust and Ashes fallen . Had but Will . Lilly seen this Blazing Comet , I'le lay my life it had portended Somewhat Of strange event , as he'd have made appear In his Prognostication for next Year . They'l block the Seas up , why then so they shall , No fitter Heads than theirs to do't withal ; Where they may lay 'um together , and counsel take , How many Bonfires they had best to make . Now will I lose the Pinion of my Quill , And dictate to my Muse a Word at will ; That Fame itself , that Herald ( and not I ) Shall show the Blazon of our Victory . At which the World distracted stands with fear , And won't believe but that the Gods were there . Great MONK so thundered , that 'twas hard to say Whither 'twas He , or Fate , that god the Day . Smith sent such Thunderbolts as ne'r were made By Vulcan , since he first wrought of his Trade ; Who gaz'd , but durst not come within a Shot , For fear his other Leg had gone to Pott . 'Twas Smith , whose Sword so often quench'd in Blood , Return'd so hard , as not to be withstood . : Steel to the Hilt ; this Proverb has he god , He ne'r strikes stroke until the Iron's hight . Had Goffe , Ben. Johnson , or had Shakespear been - Spectators there , such Acts they should have seen , -- As they ne'r acted in and English Scean : ----------- These fought with Blows , they only clash'd in Words ; They fought with Foils , but these with naked Swords . Here should they've seen and angry Sea their Stage , Cover'd with rolling Billows , Foam and Rage ; Now sunk to Hell , anon with Pride so high , As if it gave defiance to the Sky . There should they've seen retiring Rooms of War , Such Rooms as far excels Romes Theater : A Ghastful Scean , not Thebes , but Thetis Womb , Wherein the Actors did themselves entomb . Here dives a Corpse , there struggles one half dead : Here sinks a Trunk cut shorter by the Head ; Here one 'twixt hope and fear thinks 'tis a dream ; And there another strives against the stream ; Here dive a hundred Dutch into their Graves ; There die as many 'mbracing of the Waves ; Here one turmoils , and there another strives , Yet scarce two in a hundred save their lives . Such Music as they had , had but Troy known , 'Twould quickly've made the Grecians fled their Town . Had poor Ulysses herd but one broadside , 'T had made him quake , and been afraid to ride The Grecian Horse , his wood'n Bucephalus Had been transform'd into a Pegasus . Had Monk but Thunder'd at proud Babels Wall , Babels proud Battlements had god a fallen : Had th' Great Collossus stood where he discharges , He'd veyl'd his Bonnet to our Boanarges . Th' Egyptian Pyramid ( whose massy Tower , The Jaws of Time could never yet devour ) When he discharges , its proud Marbles must Lay down their palsy Heads within the Dust. Great Conquerors , could I your Worth indite , The World unworthy were of what I'de wtite . Your steely Soldiers too , I dare but name , For fear I overcharge the Trump of Fame , That caus'd the World proverbially to say , THEY fought like Englishmen , and won the Day . Return , Great Conquerors , live Men of Mirror , Englands chief Glory , but the Duchess Terror . Who have a Tromp too , but the World's to blame , If e're they take Him for the Trump of Fame . Finis . Licensed Aug. 20. Roger L'Estrange LONDON Printed by TO [ homas Leach , in Shooe-Lane , 1666. ] 