THE LAMENTATION . GReat Charles , we do lament thy Fate , For thou the Object art of late Of Popish and of factious Hate . These Winds from distant Quarters come , From North and South , Scotland and Rome ; Yet both Concentre in thy Doom . They seem each other to Engage , And bluster high upon the Stage ; But against thee both bend their Rage . Both of them Aim at thy dear Life , But whither Rebellion , or a Knife Shall do't , is now the only Strife . Each of them Plots to have the Sway , And struggle only , that it may Be brought about in their own way . 'Tis neither Love nor Loyalty , That make Fanatics talk so high 'Gainst Popish Plots and Treachery . For they'l rejoice at Charles's Fallen , And hope , once more , to have at all ; If Common-Wealth they could Recall . The Papists hope will ne're be gone , While they can set the Factions on , And by them get their business done . The Plotters thus are left Untry'd , And weightiest Business laid aside , Till private Rage be satisfy'd . Our Princes Friends we first pursue , Whom we count False and he counts True , E're his own Foes can have their endue . The Tawny Turncoat does suggest , The Bishops too , among the rest , Are Plotters , though they take the Test. Yea , He assures us there are Fears , That all the old great Cavaliers Are in it , over Head and Ears . And some there are that gravely say , The King did help this Plot to lay , For taking his own life away . And thus , under pretence to Sift The Plot to the bottom ; their main drift Is at the Government to lift . Nor will the Plot serve their base Ends , Unless it to the Ruin bends Of Monarchy and all its Friends . LONDON , Printed in the Year , 1679. THE LAMENTATION . GReat Charles , we do lament thy Fate , For thou the Object art of late Of Popish and of factious Hate . These Winds from distant Quarters come , From North and South , Scotland and Rome ; Yet both Concentre in thy Doom . They seem each other to Engage , And bluster high upon the Stage ; But against thee both bend their Rage . Both of them Aim at thy dear Life , But whither Rebellion , or a Knife Shall do't , is now the only Strife . Each of them Plots to have the Sway , And struggle only , that it may Be brought about in their own way . 'Tis neither Love nor Loyalty , That make Fanatics talk so high 'Gainst Popish Plots and Treachery . For they'l rejoice at Charles's Fallen , And hope , once more , to have at all ; If Common-Wealth they could Recall . The Papists hope will ne're be gone , While they can set the Factions on , And by them get their business done . The Plotters thus are left Untry'd , And weightiest Business laid aside , Till private Rage be satisfy'd . Our Princes Friends we first pursue , Whom we count False and he counts True , E're his own Foes can have their endue . The Tawny Turncoat does suggest , The Bishops too , among the rest , Are Plotters , though they take the Test. Yea , He assures us there are Fears , That all the old great Cavaliers Are in it , over Head and Ears . And some there are that gravely say , The King did help this Plot to lay , For taking his own life away . And thus , under pretence to Sift The Plot to the bottom ; their main drift Is at the Government to lift . Nor will the Plot serve their base Ends , Unless it to the Ruin bends Of Monarchy and all its Friends . LONDON , Printed in the Year , 1679. 