Shaftsbury's Farewell : OR , The New Association . GReatest of Men , yet men least Friend , farewell ; Wits Mightiest , but most Useless , Miracle ; Where Nature all her Richest Treasures stor'd , To make one vast unprofitable Hoard : So High as Thine no Orb of Fire cou'd roll , The Brightest , yet the most Eccentric Soul ; Whom 'midst Wealth , Honours , Fame , yet want of ease , No Pow'r could e'r oblige , no State could please ; Be in thy Grave with peaceful Slumbers blessed , And find Thy whole Life's only Stranger , REST . O , Sh ------ y ! had thy prodigious Mind Been to Thyself , and Thy Great Master kind , Glory had wanted Lungs Thy Trump to blow , And Pyramids had been a Tomb too low . O that the World ( Great Statesman ) e'r should see Nebuchadnezzar's Dream fulfill'd in Thee ! Whil [ ' ] st such low Paths led Thy Great Soul astray , Thy Head of Gold mov'd but on Feet of Clay . Yes , from Rebellions late Inhumane Rage , The Crimes and Chaos of that Monstrous Age , As the Old Patriarch from Sodom flew , So to Great CHARLES His Sacred Bosom Thou ; But , Oh! with more than Lots Wives fatal Fault , For which she stood in Monumental Salt . Though the Black Scene Thy hasting Footstep flies , Thy Soul turns back , and looks with longing Eyes . Ah , Noble Peer , that the Records of Fame Should give Erostratus and Thee One Name ; Great was his bold Achievement , Greater Thine , Greater , as Kings than Shrines are more Divine ; Greater , as vaster Toils it did require T' inflame Three Kingdoms , than One Temple fire , But where are all those blust'ring Storms retir'd , That roar'd so loud when Oliver expir'd ? Storms that rend Oaks , and Rocks asunder broke , And at his Exequies in Thunder spoke . Was Was there less cause , when Thy last Doom was giv'n , To waken all the Revellers of Heaven ? Or did there want in Belgia's humble Soil A Cedar fit to fallen Thy Funeral-pile ? No ; Die , and Heav'n th' Expense of Thunder save , Hush'd as Thy own Designs , down to Thy Grave . So hush'd , may all the Portents of the Sky With Thee , our last great Comets Influence die : May this One Stroke our low'ring Tempests clear , And all the Firy Trigon finish here . With Thee expire the Democratick Gall ; Thy Sepulchre and Lethe swallow all : Here end the Poison of that Vip'rous Brood , And make Thy Urn like Moses wond'rous Rod ; So may Our Breaches close in Thy One Grave , Till Sh ----- y's last Breath Three Nations save ; And dying thus , t' avert His Countries' Doom , Go with more Fame than Curtius to His Tomb. But is He dead ! How ! Cruel Belgia , say ! Lodg'd in thy Arms , yet make so short a Stay ! Ungrateful Country ! Barbarous Holland Shore ! Cou'd the Batavian Climate do no more ! Her S ------- 's dear Life no longer save ! What ? a Republic Air , and yet so quick a Grave ! Oh! all you scatter'd Sons of Titan weep , This dismal day with solemn Mournings keep ; Like Israels Molten-Calf your MEDALS burn , And into Tears your Great LAETEMUR turn ; Oh! wail in Dust , to think how Fates dire Frown Has thrown your dear Herculean Column down . O , Charon ! waft thy Load of Honour o'r , And land Him safely on the Stygian Shore : At His Approach , Fame's loudest Trumpet call Cromwell , Cook , Ireton , Bradshaw , Hewson , all , From all the Courts below , each well-pleas'd Ghost , All the Republic Legions numerous Host , Swarm thick , to see your Mighty Hero land , Crowd up the Shore , and blacken all the Strand ; And , whate'r Chance on Earth , or Pow'rs accursed , Broke all your Bonds , your Holy Leagues all burrs This Union of the SAINTS no Storm shall sever , This Last ASSOCIATION holds forever . London , Printed , and are to be sold by Walter Davis , 1683. Shaftsbury's Farewell : OR , The New Association . GReatest of Men , yet men least Friend , farewell ; Wits Mightiest , but most Useless , Miracle ; Where Nature all her Richest Treasures stor'd , To make one vast unprofitable Hoard : So High as Thine no Orb of Fire cou'd roll , The Brightest , yet the most Eccentric Soul ; Whom 'midst Wealth , Honours , Fame , yet want of ease , No Pow'r could e'r oblige , no State could please ; Be in thy Grave with peaceful Slumbers blessed , And find Thy whole Life's only Stranger , REST . O , Sh ------ y ! had thy prodigious Mind Been to Thyself , and Thy Great Master kind , Glory had wanted Lungs Thy Trump to blow , And Pyramids had been a Tomb too low . O that the World ( Great Statesman ) e'r should see Nebuchadnezzar's Dream fulfill'd in Thee ! Whil [ ' ] st such low Paths led Thy Great Soul astray , Thy Head of Gold mov'd but on Feet of Clay . Yes , from Rebellions late Inhumane Rage , The Crimes and Chaos of that Monstrous Age , As the Old Patriarch from Sodom flew , So to Great CHARLES His Sacred Bosom Thou ; But , Oh! with more than Lots Wives fatal Fault , For which she stood in Monumental Salt . Though the Black Scene Thy hasting Footstep flies , Thy Soul turns back , and looks with longing Eyes . Ah , Noble Peer , that the Records of Fame Should give Erostratus and Thee One Name ; Great was his bold Achievement , Greater Thine , Greater , as Kings than Shrines are more Divine ; Greater , as vaster Toils it did require T' inflame Three Kingdoms , than One Temple fire , But where are all those blust'ring Storms retir'd , That roar'd so loud when Oliver expir'd ? Storms that rend Oaks , and Rocks asunder broke , And at his Exequies in Thunder spoke . Was Was there less cause , when Thy last Doom was giv'n , To waken all the Revellers of Heaven ? Or did there want in Belgia's humble Soil A Cedar fit to fallen Thy Funeral-pile ? No ; Die , and Heav'n th' Expense of Thunder save , Hush'd as Thy own Designs , down to Thy Grave . So hush'd , may all the Portents of the Sky With Thee , our last great Comets Influence die : May this One Stroke our low'ring Tempests clear , And all the Firy Trigon finish here . With Thee expire the Democratick Gall ; Thy Sepulchre and Lethe swallow all : Here end the Poison of that Vip'rous Brood , And make Thy Urn like Moses wond'rous Rod ; So may Our Breaches close in Thy One Grave , Till Sh ----- y's last Breath Three Nations save ; And dying thus , t' avert His Countries' Doom , Go with more Fame than Curtius to His Tomb. But is He dead ! How ! Cruel Belgia , say ! Lodg'd in thy Arms , yet make so short a Stay ! Ungrateful Country ! Barbarous Holland Shore ! Cou'd the Batavian Climate do no more ! Her S ------- 's dear Life no longer save ! What ? a Republic Air , and yet so quick a Grave ! Oh! all you scatter'd Sons of Titan weep , This dismal day with solemn Mournings keep ; Like Israels Molten-Calf your MEDALS burn , And into Tears your Great LAETEMUR turn ; Oh! wail in Dust , to think how Fates dire Frown Has thrown your dear Herculean Column down . O , Charon ! waft thy Load of Honour o'r , And land Him safely on the Stygian Shore : At His Approach , Fame's loudest Trumpet call Cromwell , Cook , Ireton , Bradshaw , Hewson , all , From all the Courts below , each well-pleas'd Ghost , All the Republic Legions numerous Host , Swarm thick , to see your Mighty Hero land , Crowd up the Shore , and blacken all the Strand ; And , whate'r Chance on Earth , or Pow'rs accursed , Broke all your Bonds , your Holy Leagues all burrs This Union of the SAINTS no Storm shall sever , This Last ASSOCIATION holds forever . London , Printed , and are to be sold by Walter Davis , 1683. 