THE High-Church Bully : OR , The Praises of Mr. HIGGINS . HAD I but , Sir , Ability and Skill , To speak thy Praises , equal to my Will , My forward Pen wou'd lift thy Memory Beyond the wrathful Silence of Envy . Shall Ravillac his then first Fame Commence , From basely murd'ring a Brave Christian Prince ? And don't our Presses owe thee far much more , Who wou'dst thy Exil'd K ------ g , kindly restore ? Shall Herostratus still Survive in Story , Who wone , by Burning the Heathen Fane , such Glory ? And dost not thou Deserve a Kinder Turn , Who wou'dst both Whiggs and Whiggish Temples Burn ? Thy Brother Harry's Opportune Essays , Exalt his Name , and spread his Swelling Praise : Equal Encomiums sure thou canst not miss , Thy Flaming Tongue has said as much as his . Hail mighty Priest ! Heroic Son of Aaron , What Daring Feats hast thou perform'd thy Share on ? With Hostile Brav'ry , Damn'd the Revolution , And brought the Gasping Whiggs almost to Dissolution . True to thy Cause , Irresolute to flinch , Witness thy Awful Conquest of the Bench ; Where with uplifted Hand thou foil'd the Board , Confusion to Dissenters was the Word : Oh! how they shrunk , and Trembling took Alarm , At Brandishing thy Thunder-bearing Arm ! Untaught , to yield , brave Standfast , ever strong , Great ne plus ultra of the Whiggish Throng ! They dread thy Weighty Arm and Fulminating Tongue . Mirror of Courage mixed with Manly Pride , Thou bravely layst Unmanly Grace aside , As quite unfit to Stem th' Unpassive Tide , Of Whiggish Factions , that must needs o'erwhelm thee , Hadst thou but bore Unfighting Grace , wherewith to helm thee . But stung with Daring Rage thou wilt prevail , By Volleys of Gigantic roaring Zeal : Thy Warlike Boldness does all Foes subdue , Where Peaceful Grace , alas ! cou'd little do . Thus Rome , whose Footsteps you so closely Tread , Great Room ! thy Mother-Church , and Darling Head ; When all her Arguments are wanting Force , To more Convincing Fire and Faggot , hath recourse ; And that thou'rt Ally'd to the Triple Crown , Thy Brother Laughton can Inform the Town : Back'd by the Pope thou never canst be Poor , While thou stands Bully for the Scarlet Whore ; What tho' the stiff-neck'd Whiggs sometime retard thee , Her Whoreship ( certainly ) will well reward thee , For Preaching Non-Resistance to her Son , Who's by Resisting Whiggs almost undone ; If If thy Bold Truths 'gainst A --- ne cost thee a Prison , What's Loyalty to him , to her is Treason . Thou boldly prov'd before the City Praetor That Liberty and Right , have a pernicious Nature ; That they're made use of as a stalking Stallion , For Trooping Whiggs to Ride on to Rebellion ; These bloody Watchwords lost old J ------ s his Throne , And the same Whiggish Cant , destroys the Son. The Gown and Smock are thy equal Admirers ; The Convocation proves the Jury Liars ; The Friendly Junto's satisfy'd , and knows , Thou art a Sober Priest , as ever pluck'd Man's Nose ; And tho' thy Sermon happen'd to be Burn'd , 'Twas in Resisting Days before the Times were Turn'd . Now for the Nymphs ; thy Doctrine there prevails , They tamely turn to thee their Nonresisting Tails ; Whene'er thy Rising Cod-Piece falls a working , They lift their Smocks , and Passively take Jerking ; There's no Resisting there , they must comply , The Hero Conquers sure , who mounts so high . A Universal Name thou merits fully , At once a Priest , a Champion , and a Bully . If such there be as bid thee a Defiance , Thy frightful Paws soon scare 'em to Compliance . Thou hast a Conq'ring Arm , and Conq'ring Tool , How dare then Whiggs call thee and Hair-brain'd Fool ? Thou art the Gayest Fellow e'er was whelped , When in thy State thou Climbs the Passive Pulpit ; Puff'd with some furious Pow'r , thy Lungs do Roar , Vengeance and Death to all that will not Soar , As high as thee , Scotus , or Doctor Suazez , Against whose Gainsayers thy constant War is . Thy Fist , when't makes the Suffering Pulpit crack , Methinks , I see a Peal of Light'ning break ; Thy fiery Words with cutting Kenness fly , Like painted Rockets darting to the Sky ; Now Damn'st our Dutch Redeemer and his Cause , Then cursest Anti-Arbitrary Laws ; Now loudly Raves against Soft Moderation , Then leaps upon the Hanover-Succession ; Now mightily extols all High-Church Ranters , Now lashes all False Brothers and Dissenters . A Pulpit Comit , thou , a Blazing Star , With Pestilential Breath , denouncing Civil War. No matter what the Text says , thou'll apply't , No matter how , so as thy Cause gains by't . Thou know'st thy Stickling for Proud Tyranny , Will , with thy hop'd for Change , bring thee a Bishop's See . Fear not Oblivion when thou'rt dead and gone , Thy Speaking Dust will assail ANNA's Throne , And Room and France will their Dead Agent own . And if thy Soul should fly as high as Heaven , By Peter's Keys thy Entrance will be given ; Of if it rather fly to Shades Below , Thy Friendship's made with Pluto e'er thou Go. FINIS . THE High-Church Bully : OR , The Praises of Mr. HIGGINS . HAD I but , Sir , Ability and Skill , To speak thy Praises , equal to my Will , My forward Pen wou'd lift thy Memory Beyond the wrathful Silence of Envy . Shall Ravillac his then first Fame Commence , From basely murd'ring a Brave Christian Prince ? And don't our Presses owe thee far much more , Who wou'dst thy Exil'd K ------ g , kindly restore ? Shall Herostratus still Survive in Story , Who wone , by Burning the Heathen Fane , such Glory ? And dost not thou Deserve a Kinder Turn , Who wou'dst both Whiggs and Whiggish Temples Burn ? Thy Brother Harry's Opportune Essays , Exalt his Name , and spread his Swelling Praise : Equal Encomiums sure thou canst not miss , Thy Flaming Tongue has said as much as his . Hail mighty Priest ! Heroic Son of Aaron , What Daring Feats hast thou perform'd thy Share on ? With Hostile Brav'ry , Damn'd the Revolution , And brought the Gasping Whiggs almost to Dissolution . True to thy Cause , Irresolute to flinch , Witness thy Awful Conquest of the Bench ; Where with uplifted Hand thou foil'd the Board , Confusion to Dissenters was the Word : Oh! how they shrunk , and Trembling took Alarm , At Brandishing thy Thunder-bearing Arm ! Untaught , to yield , brave Standfast , ever strong , Great ne plus ultra of the Whiggish Throng ! They dread thy Weighty Arm and Fulminating Tongue . Mirror of Courage mixed with Manly Pride , Thou bravely layst Unmanly Grace aside , As quite unfit to Stem th' Unpassive Tide , Of Whiggish Factions , that must needs o'erwhelm thee , Hadst thou but bore Unfighting Grace , wherewith to helm thee . But stung with Daring Rage thou wilt prevail , By Volleys of Gigantic roaring Zeal : Thy Warlike Boldness does all Foes subdue , Where Peaceful Grace , alas ! cou'd little do . Thus Rome , whose Footsteps you so closely Tread , Great Room ! thy Mother-Church , and Darling Head ; When all her Arguments are wanting Force , To more Convincing Fire and Faggot , hath recourse ; And that thou'rt Ally'd to the Triple Crown , Thy Brother Laughton can Inform the Town : Back'd by the Pope thou never canst be Poor , While thou stands Bully for the Scarlet Whore ; What tho' the stiff-neck'd Whiggs sometime retard thee , Her Whoreship ( certainly ) will well reward thee , For Preaching Non-Resistance to her Son , Who's by Resisting Whiggs almost undone ; If If thy Bold Truths 'gainst A --- ne cost thee a Prison , What's Loyalty to him , to her is Treason . Thou boldly prov'd before the City Praetor That Liberty and Right , have a pernicious Nature ; That they're made use of as a stalking Stallion , For Trooping Whiggs to Ride on to Rebellion ; These bloody Watchwords lost old J ------ s his Throne , And the same Whiggish Cant , destroys the Son. The Gown and Smock are thy equal Admirers ; The Convocation proves the Jury Liars ; The Friendly Junto's satisfy'd , and knows , Thou art a Sober Priest , as ever pluck'd Man's Nose ; And tho' thy Sermon happen'd to be Burn'd , 'Twas in Resisting Days before the Times were Turn'd . Now for the Nymphs ; thy Doctrine there prevails , They tamely turn to thee their Nonresisting Tails ; Whene'er thy Rising Cod-Piece falls a working , They lift their Smocks , and Passively take Jerking ; There's no Resisting there , they must comply , The Hero Conquers sure , who mounts so high . A Universal Name thou merits fully , At once a Priest , a Champion , and a Bully . If such there be as bid thee a Defiance , Thy frightful Paws soon scare 'em to Compliance . Thou hast a Conq'ring Arm , and Conq'ring Tool , How dare then Whiggs call thee and Hair-brain'd Fool ? Thou art the Gayest Fellow e'er was whelped , When in thy State thou Climbs the Passive Pulpit ; Puff'd with some furious Pow'r , thy Lungs do Roar , Vengeance and Death to all that will not Soar , As high as thee , Scotus , or Doctor Suazez , Against whose Gainsayers thy constant War is . Thy Fist , when't makes the Suffering Pulpit crack , Methinks , I see a Peal of Light'ning break ; Thy fiery Words with cutting Kenness fly , Like painted Rockets darting to the Sky ; Now Damn'st our Dutch Redeemer and his Cause , Then cursest Anti-Arbitrary Laws ; Now loudly Raves against Soft Moderation , Then leaps upon the Hanover-Succession ; Now mightily extols all High-Church Ranters , Now lashes all False Brothers and Dissenters . A Pulpit Comit , thou , a Blazing Star , With Pestilential Breath , denouncing Civil War. No matter what the Text says , thou'll apply't , No matter how , so as thy Cause gains by't . Thou know'st thy Stickling for Proud Tyranny , Will , with thy hop'd for Change , bring thee a Bishop's See . Fear not Oblivion when thou'rt dead and gone , Thy Speaking Dust will assail ANNA's Throne , And Room and France will their Dead Agent own . And if thy Soul should fly as high as Heaven , By Peter's Keys thy Entrance will be given ; Of if it rather fly to Shades Below , Thy Friendship's made with Pluto e'er thou Go. FINIS . 