A CARROUSE TO THE Emperor , the Royal Pole , And the much-wong'd DUKE of LORRAIN . To a new Tune , at the PLAY-HOUSE . HArk ! I hear the Cannons roar , Echoing from the Germane shore , And the joyful news comes o're , that the Turks are all confounded ; Lorrain comes , they run , they run , Charge with the Horse through the grand Half-Moon , And give quarter unto none , since Starenberg is wounded . Close your Ranks , and each brave soul , Fill a lusty flowing Bowl , A grand carouse to the Royal Pole , the Empires brave defender ; Let no man leave his post by stealth , Plunder the barbarous Viziers wealth , We'l drink a Helmet full , the health of second Alexander . Fill the Helmet once again , To the Emperor's happy reign , And the much-wrong'd-Duke Lorrain , but when they've beatrice the Turks home , Not a Soul the field would leave , Till they do again retrieve , What the Monsieur does detrieve ; and fix him in his Dukedom , Then will be the Scheme of War , When such drinking Crowns prepare , Those that love the Monsieurs fear , their courage will be shrinking , Loyal hearts inspir'd with hock , Who can from a better Rock , The French will never stand the shock , for all their Clarret drinking . Mahomet was a sencless Dog , A Coffe-drinking drowsy rogue , The use of the Grape so much in vogue , to deny to those adore him : Had he allow'd the Fruits of the Vine , And gave them leave to carouse in Wine They had freely passed the Rhine , and conquer'd all before them . Coffee Rallys no retreat , Wine can only do the feat , Had their force been twice as great , A and all of Janazaries ; Tho' he drank the Danube dry , And all their profit could supply , By his interest from the Sky , brisk Langoon ne'r miscarry'd . Infidels are now o'recome , The Most Christian Turk at home , Watch'd the fate of Christendom , but all his hope's are hollow , Since the Poles have led the dance , If Englands Monarch will advance , And if he'l send a Fleet to Fra --- he's a Whig that will not follow . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby in Pye-Corner . A CARROUSE TO THE Emperor , the Royal Pole , And the much-wong'd DUKE of LORRAIN . To a new Tune , at the PLAY-HOUSE . HArk ! I hear the Cannons roar , Echoing from the Germane shore , And the joyful news comes o're , that the Turks are all confounded ; Lorrain comes , they run , they run , Charge with the Horse through the grand Half-Moon , And give quarter unto none , since Starenberg is wounded . Close your Ranks , and each brave soul , Fill a lusty flowing Bowl , A grand carouse to the Royal Pole , the Empires brave defender ; Let no man leave his post by stealth , Plunder the barbarous Viziers wealth , We'l drink a Helmet full , the health of second Alexander . Fill the Helmet once again , To the Emperor's happy reign , And the much-wrong'd-Duke Lorrain , but when they've beatrice the Turks home , Not a Soul the field would leave , Till they do again retrieve , What the Monsieur does detrieve ; and fix him in his Dukedom , Then will be the Scheme of War , When such drinking Crowns prepare , Those that love the Monsieurs fear , their courage will be shrinking , Loyal hearts inspir'd with hock , Who can from a better Rock , The French will never stand the shock , for all their Clarret drinking . Mahomet was a sencless Dog , A Coffe-drinking drowsy rogue , The use of the Grape so much in vogue , to deny to those adore him : Had he allow'd the Fruits of the Vine , And gave them leave to carouse in Wine They had freely passed the Rhine , and conquer'd all before them . Coffee Rallys no retreat , Wine can only do the feat , Had their force been twice as great , A and all of Janazaries ; Tho' he drank the Danube dry , And all their profit could supply , By his interest from the Sky , brisk Langoon ne'r miscarry'd . Infidels are now o'recome , The Most Christian Turk at home , Watch'd the fate of Christendom , but all his hope's are hollow , Since the Poles have led the dance , If Englands Monarch will advance , And if he'l send a Fleet to Fra --- he's a Whig that will not follow . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby in Pye-Corner . 