The Mad Man's Morris ; or , A Warning for youngmen to have a care , How they in love entangled are : Wherein by experience you shall find , His trouble and grief with discontent of mind . To a pleasant new tune . HEard you not lately of a Man , that went beside his wits , And naked through the streets he ran , wrapped in his frantic fits ? My honest neighbours it is I , hark hew the people flout me , See where the mad man comes , they cry , with all the boys about me . Into a pond stark naked I ran , and cast away my Clothes Sir , Without the help of any man , made shift to get away Sir : How I god out I have forgotten , I do not well remember , Or whither it was cold or hight , in June or in December . Tom Bedlam's but a stage to me , I speak in sober sadness . For more strange visions do I see , then he in all his madness , When first to me this chance befell , about the Market walked I , With Capons feathers in my cap , and to myself thus talked I : Did you not see my love of late , like Titan in her glory ? Did you not know she was my mate , and I must write her story ? With Pen of Gold on Silver Leaf , I will so much befriend her , For why , I am of that belief , done can so well commend her . Saw you not Angels in her eyes , while that she was a speaking ? Smelled you not smells like Paradise , between two rubies breaking : Is not her hair more pure then gold , of finest spiders spinning ? Methinks in her I do behold , my joys and woes beginning . Is not a dimple in her Cheek each eye a star that's starring Is not all graces instal [ ' ] worser in her , each step all joys imparting : Methinks I see her in a cloud , with graces round about her ; To them I call and cry aloud , I connote live without her . Then raging towards the sky I rove , thinking to catch her hand , Oh then to Jove I call and cry , to let her by me stand : I look [ ' ] tO behind and there I saw my shadow , me beguile , I wish she were as near to me , which makes my worship smile . There is no creature can compare , with my beloved Nancy ; Thus I built Castles in the Air , this is the fruit of fancy : My thoughts mount high above the sky of none I stand in awe , Although my body here does lie upon a Pad of Straw . I was as good a harmless youth , before base Cupid caught me : Or his own mother with her charms into this case hath brought me : Stripped and whipped now must I be , in Bedlam bound in chains Good People now you all may see what love hath for his pains , When I was young as others are , with Gallants did I flourish , Oh then I was the properest Lad that was in all the Parish : The Bracelet which I us'd to wear , about my arms so tender , Are turned into Iron plataeae about my body slender , My silken suits do now decay , my cups of Gold are vanished , And all my friends do wear away , as I from them were banished : My silver cups are turn'd to earth , 'm jeer'd of every Clown ; I was a better man by birth , till fortune cast me down . I am out of frame and temper too , though I am somewhat cheerful , Oh this can love and fancy do , if that you be not careful : Oh set a watch before your eyes , lest they betray your hear And make your slaves to vanities , to act a mad men part . Declare this to each Mother's Son , unto each honest Lad : Let them not do as I have done , lest they like me grow mad : If Cupid strike , be sure of this , let reason rule affection , So shalt thou never do amiss , by reasons good direction . I have no more to say to you , my keepers now does chide me , Now must I bid you all adieu , God knows what will betide me : To picking straws now must I go : my time in Bedlam spending , Good folks you your beginning know , but do not know your ending . Printed by and for A.M. and sold by the Booksellers of London The Mad Man's Morris ; or , A Warning for youngmen to have a care , How they in love entangled are : Wherein by experience you shall find , His trouble and grief with discontent of mind . To a pleasant new tune . HEard you not lately of a Man , that went beside his wits , And naked through the streets he ran , wrapped in his frantic fits ? My honest neighbours it is I , hark hew the people flout me , See where the mad man comes , they cry , with all the boys about me . Into a pond stark naked I ran , and cast away my Clothes Sir , Without the help of any man , made shift to get away Sir : How I god out I have forgotten , I do not well remember , Or whither it was cold or hight , in June or in December . Tom Bedlam's but a stage to me , I speak in sober sadness . For more strange visions do I see , then he in all his madness , When first to me this chance befell , about the Market walked I , With Capons feathers in my cap , and to myself thus talked I : Did you not see my love of late , like Titan in her glory ? Did you not know she was my mate , and I must write her story ? With Pen of Gold on Silver Leaf , I will so much befriend her , For why , I am of that belief , done can so well commend her . Saw you not Angels in her eyes , while that she was a speaking ? Smelled you not smells like Paradise , between two rubies breaking : Is not her hair more pure then gold , of finest spiders spinning ? Methinks in her I do behold , my joys and woes beginning . Is not a dimple in her Cheek each eye a star that's starring Is not all graces instal [ ' ] worser in her , each step all joys imparting : Methinks I see her in a cloud , with graces round about her ; To them I call and cry aloud , I connote live without her . Then raging towards the sky I rove , thinking to catch her hand , Oh then to Jove I call and cry , to let her by me stand : I look [ ' ] tO behind and there I saw my shadow , me beguile , I wish she were as near to me , which makes my worship smile . There is no creature can compare , with my beloved Nancy ; Thus I built Castles in the Air , this is the fruit of fancy : My thoughts mount high above the sky of none I stand in awe , Although my body here does lie upon a Pad of Straw . I was as good a harmless youth , before base Cupid caught me : Or his own mother with her charms into this case hath brought me : Stripped and whipped now must I be , in Bedlam bound in chains Good People now you all may see what love hath for his pains , When I was young as others are , with Gallants did I flourish , Oh then I was the properest Lad that was in all the Parish : The Bracelet which I us'd to wear , about my arms so tender , Are turned into Iron plataeae about my body slender , My silken suits do now decay , my cups of Gold are vanished , And all my friends do wear away , as I from them were banished : My silver cups are turn'd to earth , 'm jeer'd of every Clown ; I was a better man by birth , till fortune cast me down . I am out of frame and temper too , though I am somewhat cheerful , Oh this can love and fancy do , if that you be not careful : Oh set a watch before your eyes , lest they betray your hear And make your slaves to vanities , to act a mad men part . Declare this to each Mother's Son , unto each honest Lad : Let them not do as I have done , lest they like me grow mad : If Cupid strike , be sure of this , let reason rule affection , So shalt thou never do amiss , by reasons good direction . I have no more to say to you , my keepers now does chide me , Now must I bid you all adieu , God knows what will betide me : To picking straws now must I go : my time in Bedlam spending , Good folks you your beginning know , but do not know your ending . Printed by and for A.M. and sold by the Booksellers of London 