AND ELEGY On the much lamented Death of , THOMAS JEKYLL , D.D. Chaplain in Ordinary to His Majesty : And Preacher at the New Chapel in Westminster , who departed this Life on Sunday the 2d . of this Instant October . HIS Prayr's at last are hear'd , and Heav'n has gain'd The Prize we wish . worser might late have been obtain . worser And tho' so many Vows were daily paid , That what we Fear'd might be at least Delay'd , Till some kind moment should another give Whence we might draw instructions how to live , Yet Since we pray'd for what He least desir'd , Fate did the work He'd have , and He expir'd . And now you weeping Crouds which us'd to wait Assur'd of help , since at this Preacher's Gate Lament your joys and comforts which are Read And mourn His Death in whom you all are Dead . Tell me , Ah! tell me , whom He's left behind So just , so good , so hospitably kind , So rich in merit and so poor in Mind ? Who shall His Counsels with His bounty give , And Life preserving Teach you how to Live ? But see , not only these have cause to wear Sad Sable , and in mournful weeds appear , The Rich should also Tears in Sorrow shed . Since they best knew the worth of Him that's Dead Wherefore you Men of Wealth , and Men of Power , Who now with us bewail the Fickle Hour , And weep for Him whose only Death should have Fountains of Tears to stream a round His Grave , Aloud your Sorrows and your Sighs bestow , And for Him who taught union Tears united show . When now Departed Saint behold and see What we have lost in Singly losing Thee , How Sighing Crouds attend Thee to Thy Tomb , And in thy Death all fear a Gen'ral Doom . Which Heav'n prevent , tho' its destructive laws Have for such sad surmises given cause And as such Sins as ours , good Teachers need , Give us a good one that may Him succeed , And tho' the best of those who live , can ne'r Entreat of God so well as Him , to spare , Yet still the Best may lessen those high Crimes , Which he , if living , had extinguish'd to succeeding times . EPITAPH . Within this marble Stone does rest , Of Men , and humane Raze , the Best , And Excellent and Painful Preacher , A Pious and and Humble Teacher , Whose Doctrine tho' it could not save Himself , from the remorseless Grave , Has Taught us all the Way to be Alive as to Eternity . FINIS . AND ELEGY On the much lamented Death of , THOMAS JEKYLL , D.D. Chaplain in Ordinary to His Majesty : And Preacher at the New Chapel in Westminster , who departed this Life on Sunday the 2d . of this Instant October . HIS Prayr's at last are hear'd , and Heav'n has gain'd The Prize we wish . worser might late have been obtain . worser And tho' so many Vows were daily paid , That what we Fear'd might be at least Delay'd , Till some kind moment should another give Whence we might draw instructions how to live , Yet Since we pray'd for what He least desir'd , Fate did the work He'd have , and He expir'd . And now you weeping Crouds which us'd to wait Assur'd of help , since at this Preacher's Gate Lament your joys and comforts which are Read And mourn His Death in whom you all are Dead . Tell me , Ah! tell me , whom He's left behind So just , so good , so hospitably kind , So rich in merit and so poor in Mind ? Who shall His Counsels with His bounty give , And Life preserving Teach you how to Live ? But see , not only these have cause to wear Sad Sable , and in mournful weeds appear , The Rich should also Tears in Sorrow shed . Since they best knew the worth of Him that's Dead Wherefore you Men of Wealth , and Men of Power , Who now with us bewail the Fickle Hour , And weep for Him whose only Death should have Fountains of Tears to stream a round His Grave , Aloud your Sorrows and your Sighs bestow , And for Him who taught union Tears united show . When now Departed Saint behold and see What we have lost in Singly losing Thee , How Sighing Crouds attend Thee to Thy Tomb , And in thy Death all fear a Gen'ral Doom . Which Heav'n prevent , tho' its destructive laws Have for such sad surmises given cause And as such Sins as ours , good Teachers need , Give us a good one that may Him succeed , And tho' the best of those who live , can ne'r Entreat of God so well as Him , to spare , Yet still the Best may lessen those high Crimes , Which he , if living , had extinguish'd to succeeding times . EPITAPH . Within this marble Stone does rest , Of Men , and humane Raze , the Best , And Excellent and Painful Preacher , A Pious and and Humble Teacher , Whose Doctrine tho' it could not save Himself , from the remorseless Grave , Has Taught us all the Way to be Alive as to Eternity . FINIS . 