AND ELEGY ON Mrs. ALICIA LISLE . Which for High-Treason was Beheaded at Winchester September the 2d . 1685. LEt Rebels both and Loyalists draw nigh , And view this Object of Disloyalty , A Lady which by a Rebellious Crew , Was forc'd in haste to bid the World adieu : And pay her Head to Justice for her Crime , Committed now when she had passed her Prime . Not Zeal blindfolded , nor the Cause the Cause , Can over turn Religion , and the Laws ; Not Mighty May-bees of a shallow brain Can cut the Church , and rend the State in twain . There is a Power above all humane things , That rules below , and guides the Fa [ tO ] e of KINGS . Men may design , and Mortals may intend , But GOD alone brings to and happy end The Revolutions of this bypast time That have of late o'respread our Kingdoms Climb ; And all the tempests that o're cast our Sky , ( Threatening true Subject's , and his MAJESTY ) Did but confuse our state , and only send Ensnared Subjects to a Fatal End. Then Plotters , and Conspirators in Treason , That Soar aloft , above the Sphere of Reason , Throw by your Vizards , and wash off your Paint , Which makes a Devil sometime appear a Saint . Submit to Fate , turn Loyal now ( for shame ) And strive no more to swim against the stream . Incensed Vapours ( though they be but air ) Leap from Earth's bowels to a higher Sphere ; And turn to Comets , where they do remain , Threatening a while , and vanish quite again ; Even so these Spirits that would still aspire , Transgress their Bounds , and perish in desire , That ship that hath not ballence to her sail , Is always tossed , and never 'bides the Gale ; Then moderate the motions of your mind With Wisdom , not with Hurricanes of wind ; Survey your ground first , lest your great Design End in a Quagmire , or a hollow Mine ; Shrubs by the wind are not so quickly broke , As is the proud , the high , and Lofty Oak ; That Bottle bursts and breaks first that is fil'd With Spirits , which the Alchemists have Still'd . EPITAPH . HERE Lies Madam Lisle Dead , Which for Treason lost her Head , She Patronizd the Cause , the Cause , Against the Church , and stablish'd Laws , Let all her sex both Great and small , Take here Example by her Fallen , And henceforth ever shun to be Entangled by Presbi [ tO ] ery , Which Changes into several shapes , And hath brought forth Gomorrah's Grapes ; Which have set Englands teeth on Edge , But now she is gone off the Stage , Then here she is , and let her lie , A Beacon unto LOYALTY . FINIS . This may be Printed , R.L.S. LONDON , Printed for J.M. and are to be Sold by Randal Taylor . AND ELEGY ON Mrs. ALICIA LISLE . Which for High-Treason was Beheaded at Winchester September the 2d . 1685. LEt Rebels both and Loyalists draw nigh , And view this Object of Disloyalty , A Lady which by a Rebellious Crew , Was forc'd in haste to bid the World adieu : And pay her Head to Justice for her Crime , Committed now when she had passed her Prime . Not Zeal blindfolded , nor the Cause the Cause , Can over turn Religion , and the Laws ; Not Mighty May-bees of a shallow brain Can cut the Church , and rend the State in twain . There is a Power above all humane things , That rules below , and guides the Fa [ tO ] e of KINGS . Men may design , and Mortals may intend , But GOD alone brings to and happy end The Revolutions of this bypast time That have of late o'respread our Kingdoms Climb ; And all the tempests that o're cast our Sky , ( Threatening true Subject's , and his MAJESTY ) Did but confuse our state , and only send Ensnared Subjects to a Fatal End. Then Plotters , and Conspirators in Treason , That Soar aloft , above the Sphere of Reason , Throw by your Vizards , and wash off your Paint , Which makes a Devil sometime appear a Saint . Submit to Fate , turn Loyal now ( for shame ) And strive no more to swim against the stream . Incensed Vapours ( though they be but air ) Leap from Earth's bowels to a higher Sphere ; And turn to Comets , where they do remain , Threatening a while , and vanish quite again ; Even so these Spirits that would still aspire , Transgress their Bounds , and perish in desire , That ship that hath not ballence to her sail , Is always tossed , and never 'bides the Gale ; Then moderate the motions of your mind With Wisdom , not with Hurricanes of wind ; Survey your ground first , lest your great Design End in a Quagmire , or a hollow Mine ; Shrubs by the wind are not so quickly broke , As is the proud , the high , and Lofty Oak ; That Bottle bursts and breaks first that is fil'd With Spirits , which the Alchemists have Still'd . EPITAPH . HERE Lies Madam Lisle Dead , Which for Treason lost her Head , She Patronizd the Cause , the Cause , Against the Church , and stablish'd Laws , Let all her sex both Great and small , Take here Example by her Fallen , And henceforth ever shun to be Entangled by Presbi [ tO ] ery , Which Changes into several shapes , And hath brought forth Gomorrah's Grapes ; Which have set Englands teeth on Edge , But now she is gone off the Stage , Then here she is , and let her lie , A Beacon unto LOYALTY . FINIS . This may be Printed , R.L.S. LONDON , Printed for J.M. and are to be Sold by Randal Taylor . 