And ELEGY On that Worthy Patriot of his Country , Sir Roger L'Estrange . De mortuis nil nisi Verum . D'Ye hear the News ! Sir Roger he's retir'd , Ungrateful Nature with the Fates conspir'd , Grave Time at a full Age convey'd him hence , Disarm'd of Teeth , of Honesty and Sense . He serv'd , that wicked Court whose Slave he was , And through his Noddle did their Echo pass ; What cursed Projects Rome's Priests set on foot , Though ne'er so base , industrious Hodge would do't . All that he did by order of that State , Was to inflame the Parts , ' Feuds create ; Good Men abus'd by him , expos'd in Print , The proper Product of that Government . Riots contriv'd for Ruin ( said to be ) By those base Men , Jen --- s , Mea --- n , and he : His mighty Conduct was to steer the Cause At the Expense and Ruin of our Laws . By Knaves encourag'd to't without Control , As he was bid , he'd bite , and snap and groul . Some Dogs when they grow mad , do range the Street , And bite , and tear and snap at all they meet , Without respect , and no Command obey , Unless from suchlike Dogs as mad as they . 'Tis wisely thought , when Mankind thus are vexed , To beatrice their Teeth out first , their Brains out nex But this State Bloodhound , made a Currish Knight , Worry'd us all two Churches to unite . He steer'd the Kingdom , and did prop the State , Destroy'd the Plot , and did Rome's Foes defeat ; Set Mankind by the Ears , sad Truths to tell , His Pow'r from Court , his Pen and Ink from Hell . Touzer the Great , and at his Tail a Broom , A true and busy Slave to Court and Room . The City could not choose their Shrieves and Mayor , But to assist the Cause he must be there ; To overawe those that the Court detest , And choose base Men that might enslave the rest ; Destroy'd our Order , and gave Laws the Lie , And all that would not serve their Turn , laid by ; Like Sodom's Sins , did Nature's Laws deface , And set up unknown Monsters in their place , Traitors and Papists , Torys and Fools , then said To be the Genteel Fellows fit to led . What Blood was spilled , what Men by Jails undone , What base Designs , and not by him helped on ! Thus did the Knave , whom Fools did all obey , The Laws , the Nation , State and Church betray . But is he gone , and left the Jacks forlorn ? Their Irish Understandings ought to mourn : Summon the Tribe , call in the sev'ral Clans , From their Abided at Symons's and Sams , Non-Jurors , Papists , all the trayt'rous Crew , Torys , French Pensioners , and God knows who . Tell his Associate too how things go on , Bid him grow honest , bring the Bound and come . Dear Brother Bob , top of the Northern Clan , That Villain Priest , ne'er true to God nor Man. Let Cleveland change his Curse , and God his Doom , And let him wander all his days to come ! Let him a Curse to the whole World become , Till Mankind all agree to whip him home ! Let all his Plots and trayt'rous Projects fail , If not at Tyburn , let 'em end in Jail ! And since the State will not correct the Elf , Let him go home , despair and hang himself ! And is he gone ! that Moloch Man of War , Without and Earthquake , Whale , or Blazing Star ; Let us with pickl'd Tears his Hearse adorn , And not in Black , but deep dy'd-Claret mourn : And still to show the Blockheads are his own , Let's have a loud Huzza with each Godown . And as at Sams the Parsons did appear , Let those Non-Jurors do a little here ; Give this State-Firebrand their Service free , ( That unknown Virtue ) the Priests Charity . Passive and Loyal , that black canting Crowd Laid by their Books , and to this Idol bow'd ; Baptiz'd in Claret , bid their Skill adieu , At this Gamaliel's Feet did learn anew ; And from the Pulpit by the Brazenhead , Was his Sedition and his Notions spread Among th' unthinking Heard , who gazing stand To hear old Roger at the second hand : From this State-Tool we must our Faith receive , Who tells long Tales of what he don't believe . To think he's call'd of God , is all a Jest , The Bishop's Tongue and Fingers make the Priest ; He learns his Trade , arm'd with a golden Hope , And when he has his Warrant , wants a Shop . Thus Mankind's Passion's grown to a Disease , For all their Cant of Grace and Consciences ; Lewd to the last degree , but yet obey , And don't you see their Priests as lewd as they ? And when they've gone to Church for many a year , They're far more wicked than at first they were : Their kind of Zeal , join'd with their holy Fits , Make cunning Christians , but rank Hypocrites . So our dear Brother , as he liv'd he dy'd , And on his Master's saving Faith rely'd ; To justify his Crimes more can't be said , But that the Knight was poor and writ for Bred . His EPITAPH . HERE's honest Hodge by Death is laid aside , The Nations Curse , and the young Parsons Guide ; The Devil a word he says , he's now grown dumb , But when he riseth have at Forty One . No more Sham-plots from him , nor Popish Shams , Nor Crape-gown Worshippers adore at Sams . Nor can his Conduct now the Cause restore , Nor ever reconcile the Churches more ; And if thou art of his cursed Crimes a Hater , Fit down and Sh ------ upon his Observator ; And on this comprehensive Stone let's write , Here lies a Fiddler , Justice , Knave and Knight . LONDON ; Printed in the Year , M.DCC.V . And ELEGY On that Worthy Patriot of his Country , Sir Roger L'Estrange . De mortuis nil nisi Verum . D'Ye hear the News ! Sir Roger he's retir'd , Ungrateful Nature with the Fates conspir'd , Grave Time at a full Age convey'd him hence , Disarm'd of Teeth , of Honesty and Sense . He serv'd , that wicked Court whose Slave he was , And through his Noddle did their Echo pass ; What cursed Projects Rome's Priests set on foot , Though ne'er so base , industrious Hodge would do't . All that he did by order of that State , Was to inflame the Parts , ' Feuds create ; Good Men abus'd by him , expos'd in Print , The proper Product of that Government . Riots contriv'd for Ruin ( said to be ) By those base Men , Jen --- s , Mea --- n , and he : His mighty Conduct was to steer the Cause At the Expense and Ruin of our Laws . By Knaves encourag'd to't without Control , As he was bid , he'd bite , and snap and groul . Some Dogs when they grow mad , do range the Street , And bite , and tear and snap at all they meet , Without respect , and no Command obey , Unless from suchlike Dogs as mad as they . 'Tis wisely thought , when Mankind thus are vexed , To beatrice their Teeth out first , their Brains out nex But this State Bloodhound , made a Currish Knight , Worry'd us all two Churches to unite . He steer'd the Kingdom , and did prop the State , Destroy'd the Plot , and did Rome's Foes defeat ; Set Mankind by the Ears , sad Truths to tell , His Pow'r from Court , his Pen and Ink from Hell . Touzer the Great , and at his Tail a Broom , A true and busy Slave to Court and Room . The City could not choose their Shrieves and Mayor , But to assist the Cause he must be there ; To overawe those that the Court detest , And choose base Men that might enslave the rest ; Destroy'd our Order , and gave Laws the Lie , And all that would not serve their Turn , laid by ; Like Sodom's Sins , did Nature's Laws deface , And set up unknown Monsters in their place , Traitors and Papists , Torys and Fools , then said To be the Genteel Fellows fit to led . What Blood was spilled , what Men by Jails undone , What base Designs , and not by him helped on ! Thus did the Knave , whom Fools did all obey , The Laws , the Nation , State and Church betray . But is he gone , and left the Jacks forlorn ? Their Irish Understandings ought to mourn : Summon the Tribe , call in the sev'ral Clans , From their Abided at Symons's and Sams , Non-Jurors , Papists , all the trayt'rous Crew , Torys , French Pensioners , and God knows who . Tell his Associate too how things go on , Bid him grow honest , bring the Bound and come . Dear Brother Bob , top of the Northern Clan , That Villain Priest , ne'er true to God nor Man. Let Cleveland change his Curse , and God his Doom , And let him wander all his days to come ! Let him a Curse to the whole World become , Till Mankind all agree to whip him home ! Let all his Plots and trayt'rous Projects fail , If not at Tyburn , let 'em end in Jail ! And since the State will not correct the Elf , Let him go home , despair and hang himself ! And is he gone ! that Moloch Man of War , Without and Earthquake , Whale , or Blazing Star ; Let us with pickl'd Tears his Hearse adorn , And not in Black , but deep dy'd-Claret mourn : And still to show the Blockheads are his own , Let's have a loud Huzza with each Godown . And as at Sams the Parsons did appear , Let those Non-Jurors do a little here ; Give this State-Firebrand their Service free , ( That unknown Virtue ) the Priests Charity . Passive and Loyal , that black canting Crowd Laid by their Books , and to this Idol bow'd ; Baptiz'd in Claret , bid their Skill adieu , At this Gamaliel's Feet did learn anew ; And from the Pulpit by the Brazenhead , Was his Sedition and his Notions spread Among th' unthinking Heard , who gazing stand To hear old Roger at the second hand : From this State-Tool we must our Faith receive , Who tells long Tales of what he don't believe . To think he's call'd of God , is all a Jest , The Bishop's Tongue and Fingers make the Priest ; He learns his Trade , arm'd with a golden Hope , And when he has his Warrant , wants a Shop . Thus Mankind's Passion's grown to a Disease , For all their Cant of Grace and Consciences ; Lewd to the last degree , but yet obey , And don't you see their Priests as lewd as they ? And when they've gone to Church for many a year , They're far more wicked than at first they were : Their kind of Zeal , join'd with their holy Fits , Make cunning Christians , but rank Hypocrites . So our dear Brother , as he liv'd he dy'd , And on his Master's saving Faith rely'd ; To justify his Crimes more can't be said , But that the Knight was poor and writ for Bred . His EPITAPH . HERE's honest Hodge by Death is laid aside , The Nations Curse , and the young Parsons Guide ; The Devil a word he says , he's now grown dumb , But when he riseth have at Forty One . No more Sham-plots from him , nor Popish Shams , Nor Crape-gown Worshippers adore at Sams . Nor can his Conduct now the Cause restore , Nor ever reconcile the Churches more ; And if thou art of his cursed Crimes a Hater , Fit down and Sh ------ upon his Observator ; And on this comprehensive Stone let's write , Here lies a Fiddler , Justice , Knave and Knight . LONDON ; Printed in the Year , M.DCC.V . 