The Mad Man's MORICE : Or , His Sorrowful Lamentation : Together with his Advice to all Young PEOPLE . HEARD you not lately of a Man , That went beside his Wits : And naked thro' the Streets he ran , wrapped in his frantic Fits. My honest Neighbours , it is I , hark ! how the People flout me , See where the Madman comes they cry , with all the Boys about me . Into a Pond I naked ran , and cast away my Clothes , Sir . Without the Help of any Man , made shift to get away , Sir . How I god out I have forgotten , I do not well remember : Or whither it was cold or hight , in June , or in December . Tom Bedlam's but a Sage to me , I speak in sober Sadness . For more strange Visions I do see than he in all his Madness . When first to me this Chance befell , about the Market walk'd I . With Capon Feather in my Cap , and to myself thus talk'd I . Did you not see my Love of late ? like Yiian , in her Glory ? Did not you know she was my Mate ? and I must write her Story , With Pen of Gold , or Silver Leaf , I will so much befriend her , For why I am of that Belief , none can so much commend her . Saw you not Angels in her Eyes ? while that she was a speaking ? Smelled you not Smells like Paradise ? between two Rubies breaking . Is not her Hair more pure than Gold , of finest Spiders spinning ? Methinks in her I do behold My Joys and Woes beginning . Is not a Dimple in her Cheek ? each one a Star that's startling ? Is not all Grace install'd in her , each Step all Joys imparting . Methinks I see her in a Cloud , with Graces round about her ; To them I call and cry aloud , I cannot live without her . Then raging towards the Sky I rove , thinking to catch her Hand : O! then to Jove I call and cry , to let her by me stand . I look'd behind , and there I saw , my Shadow me beguile : I wish she was as near to me , which makes my Worship smile . There is no Creature can compare with my beloved Nancy : Thus I built Castles in the Air ; this is the Fruit of Fancy . My Thoughts mount high above the Sky . of none I stand in Awe : Altho' my Body here does lie , upon a Pad of Straw . I was as good a harmless Youth , before base Cupid caught me , Or his own Mother with her Chains , into this Case had brought me . Stripped and whipped must I be , in Bedlam bound in Chains : Good People , now you all may see what Love hath for its Pains . When I was young , as others are , with Gallants did I flourish . O then I was the properest Youth , that was in all the Parish . The Bracelet which I us'd to wear , about my Arms so tender : Are turned into Iron-Plates , about my Body slender . My silken Suits do now decay , and Cups of Gold are vanish'd . And all my Friends do wear away , as I from them am banish'd . My Silver Cups are turn'd to Earth , I'm jeer'd of ev'ay Clown . I was a better Man by Birth , 'till Fortune cast me down . I am out of Frame and Temper too , tho' I am somewhat cheerful : O! this can Love and Fancy do , if that you be not careful . O! fetched a Watch before your Eyes , lest they betray your Hearts . And make you Slaves to Vanities , to act a Mad-Man's Part. Declare this to each Mother' [ s ] Son , unto each honest Lad. Let them not do as I have done , lest they , like me , grow mad . If Cupid strikes , be sure of this , let Reason rule Affection , Thus shalt thou never do amiss , by Reason and Direction . I have no more to say to you , my Keepers now do chide me . Now must I bid you all adieu : God knows whar will betide me . To picking Straws now must I go , my Time in Bedlam spending . Good Folks , you your Beginning know but do not know your Ending . Printed and Sold in Bow-Church-Yard , London . The Mad Man's MORICE : Or , His Sorrowful Lamentation : Together with his Advice to all Young PEOPLE . HEARD you not lately of a Man , That went beside his Wits : And naked thro' the Streets he ran , wrapped in his frantic Fits. My honest Neighbours , it is I , hark ! how the People flout me , See where the Madman comes they cry , with all the Boys about me . Into a Pond I naked ran , and cast away my Clothes , Sir . Without the Help of any Man , made shift to get away , Sir . How I god out I have forgotten , I do not well remember : Or whither it was cold or hight , in June , or in December . Tom Bedlam's but a Sage to me , I speak in sober Sadness . For more strange Visions I do see than he in all his Madness . When first to me this Chance befell , about the Market walk'd I . With Capon Feather in my Cap , and to myself thus talk'd I . Did you not see my Love of late ? like Yiian , in her Glory ? Did not you know she was my Mate ? and I must write her Story , With Pen of Gold , or Silver Leaf , I will so much befriend her , For why I am of that Belief , none can so much commend her . Saw you not Angels in her Eyes ? while that she was a speaking ? Smelled you not Smells like Paradise ? between two Rubies breaking . Is not her Hair more pure than Gold , of finest Spiders spinning ? Methinks in her I do behold My Joys and Woes beginning . Is not a Dimple in her Cheek ? each one a Star that's startling ? Is not all Grace install'd in her , each Step all Joys imparting . Methinks I see her in a Cloud , with Graces round about her ; To them I call and cry aloud , I cannot live without her . Then raging towards the Sky I rove , thinking to catch her Hand : O! then to Jove I call and cry , to let her by me stand . I look'd behind , and there I saw , my Shadow me beguile : I wish she was as near to me , which makes my Worship smile . There is no Creature can compare with my beloved Nancy : Thus I built Castles in the Air ; this is the Fruit of Fancy . My Thoughts mount high above the Sky . of none I stand in Awe : Altho' my Body here does lie , upon a Pad of Straw . I was as good a harmless Youth , before base Cupid caught me , Or his own Mother with her Chains , into this Case had brought me . Stripped and whipped must I be , in Bedlam bound in Chains : Good People , now you all may see what Love hath for its Pains . When I was young , as others are , with Gallants did I flourish . O then I was the properest Youth , that was in all the Parish . The Bracelet which I us'd to wear , about my Arms so tender : Are turned into Iron-Plates , about my Body slender . My silken Suits do now decay , and Cups of Gold are vanish'd . And all my Friends do wear away , as I from them am banish'd . My Silver Cups are turn'd to Earth , I'm jeer'd of ev'ay Clown . I was a better Man by Birth , 'till Fortune cast me down . I am out of Frame and Temper too , tho' I am somewhat cheerful : O! this can Love and Fancy do , if that you be not careful . O! fetched a Watch before your Eyes , lest they betray your Hearts . And make you Slaves to Vanities , to act a Mad-Man's Part. Declare this to each Mother' [ s ] Son , unto each honest Lad. Let them not do as I have done , lest they , like me , grow mad . If Cupid strikes , be sure of this , let Reason rule Affection , Thus shalt thou never do amiss , by Reason and Direction . I have no more to say to you , my Keepers now do chide me . Now must I bid you all adieu : God knows whar will betide me . To picking Straws now must I go , my Time in Bedlam spending . Good Folks , you your Beginning know but do not know your Ending . Printed and Sold in Bow-Church-Yard , London . 