AND ELEGY ON Sir GEORGE JEFFEREYS , Late Lord Chancellor of England ; who died Prisoner in the Tower of London , April the 18th . 1689. THe World grows old , and Nature does begin To faint , and be defatigate in Sin. She brings forth ( as wearied of Mankind ) Men to the Eye , but Monsters in the mind ; Whose hearts do sacrifice for vain delight , Their Souls , and Conscience to their Appetite : Sin-servers , as they never were to die , Not minding endless long Eternity . This wicked Wretch , the Church of England's stain , The Nations Ruin , and the Kingdoms bane , Great Brittain's Blush , and Bloody Butcher too , By Demonstration , proves this to be true : Whose Heart was brutish , more than Face or Eyes , In whom the shape of Man was in disguise : A Judge whose Parallel you seldom saw , Which murder'd Justice , and outliv'd the Law . The reeking Steem of his fresh Villainies , Would spot the Stars , and tann the very Skies ; But that the Good Jehova does begin To hide our faults , and dissipate our Sin. He from his Birth Ambitious was , and proud ; Without respect to Justice , bad , or good : Aspiring still Promotion's Tower ( from whence ) Ambition breaks the Neck of Conscience . ) And when his Pride had sprung unto its height , ( Like Jonah's Gourd ) it wither'd in a Night . Within a Sconce of Loyalty perverted , He Government to Anarchy Converted . Both Church and State , he boldly did presume , To Holocaust unto the Rage of Rome . And in one Word , he England Butcher'd up ; To fill the Whore's Abominable Cup , The West of England is a Page too small , For his great Crimes , to write them one and all : It will not bear their blackness , till there be A Penetration of Impiety . And yet Historians cry them out aloud , And write them down , in Characters of Blood : That , like a Beacon , they may blaze , and be A Caveat , to our Posterity ; And Weather-Cocks , with Mountibanks of State , May know their doom , and read their Future Fate . Sum all the Vices of this wicked Age , Which have been acted on this World's Stage ; To his they're Ciphers ; and I am struck dumb , When I think on his Epicedium . Poor Widows Tears , and begging Orphans Cries , Found forth his Life , and sing his Obsequies . Then neither Praise , nor Stigmatize his Name ; His Life's Indented on the Wings of Fame : That Fame which will his cruel deeds recall , And make them fresh to Generations all . But since Death's Issues do belong to God , ( Who makes such Judges oft , a Nations Rod . ) Judge not his Soul ; for God ( and only he ) In Christ , can set the greatest Sinner free . EPITAPH . HEre England's Great Lord Chancellor is laid , Who King , and Kingdom , Church and State , betray'd . His Life was Bloody , byass'd , and did tend To open Crimes , and Villainies , in end , Had not and Orange choak'd the Lyon's rage , He'd Butcher'd Britain on a Babel-Stage . He Murder'd Justice , in Pretence of Law Cheated the Hangman , and Tyburnia . But may his Crimes and Bloodshed silent lie , And ne'er against the English Nation cry . By N.H. At the Request of the Widows of the West , whose Husbands were Hang'd without Trial , by this Lord Chancellor . FINIS . LONDON , Printed in the Year , 1689. AND ELEGY ON Sir GEORGE JEFFEREYS , Late Lord Chancellor of England ; who died Prisoner in the Tower of London , April the 18th . 1689. THe World grows old , and Nature does begin To faint , and be defatigate in Sin. She brings forth ( as wearied of Mankind ) Men to the Eye , but Monsters in the mind ; Whose hearts do sacrifice for vain delight , Their Souls , and Conscience to their Appetite : Sin-servers , as they never were to die , Not minding endless long Eternity . This wicked Wretch , the Church of England's stain , The Nations Ruin , and the Kingdoms bane , Great Brittain's Blush , and Bloody Butcher too , By Demonstration , proves this to be true : Whose Heart was brutish , more than Face or Eyes , In whom the shape of Man was in disguise : A Judge whose Parallel you seldom saw , Which murder'd Justice , and outliv'd the Law . The reeking Steem of his fresh Villainies , Would spot the Stars , and tann the very Skies ; But that the Good Jehova does begin To hide our faults , and dissipate our Sin. He from his Birth Ambitious was , and proud ; Without respect to Justice , bad , or good : Aspiring still Promotion's Tower ( from whence ) Ambition breaks the Neck of Conscience . ) And when his Pride had sprung unto its height , ( Like Jonah's Gourd ) it wither'd in a Night . Within a Sconce of Loyalty perverted , He Government to Anarchy Converted . Both Church and State , he boldly did presume , To Holocaust unto the Rage of Rome . And in one Word , he England Butcher'd up ; To fill the Whore's Abominable Cup , The West of England is a Page too small , For his great Crimes , to write them one and all : It will not bear their blackness , till there be A Penetration of Impiety . And yet Historians cry them out aloud , And write them down , in Characters of Blood : That , like a Beacon , they may blaze , and be A Caveat , to our Posterity ; And Weather-Cocks , with Mountibanks of State , May know their doom , and read their Future Fate . Sum all the Vices of this wicked Age , Which have been acted on this World's Stage ; To his they're Ciphers ; and I am struck dumb , When I think on his Epicedium . Poor Widows Tears , and begging Orphans Cries , Found forth his Life , and sing his Obsequies . Then neither Praise , nor Stigmatize his Name ; His Life's Indented on the Wings of Fame : That Fame which will his cruel deeds recall , And make them fresh to Generations all . But since Death's Issues do belong to God , ( Who makes such Judges oft , a Nations Rod . ) Judge not his Soul ; for God ( and only he ) In Christ , can set the greatest Sinner free . EPITAPH . HEre England's Great Lord Chancellor is laid , Who King , and Kingdom , Church and State , betray'd . His Life was Bloody , byass'd , and did tend To open Crimes , and Villainies , in end , Had not and Orange choak'd the Lyon's rage , He'd Butcher'd Britain on a Babel-Stage . He Murder'd Justice , in Pretence of Law Cheated the Hangman , and Tyburnia . But may his Crimes and Bloodshed silent lie , And ne'er against the English Nation cry . By N.H. At the Request of the Widows of the West , whose Husbands were Hang'd without Trial , by this Lord Chancellor . FINIS . LONDON , Printed in the Year , 1689. 