ON THE DEATH OF HIS GRACE The Duke of ALBEMARLE . WHO wou'd on Greatness , or on Worth rely , When Hero's thus like common men must die ? Cou'd Virtue , Merit , or cou'd Valour save Deserving Men , from the Impartial Grave ; None surely cou'd with so much Justice be Secur'd from Fate , Great Albemarle , as Thee ; Whose mighty Actions to the World has shown , 'Tis more to merit , than usurp a Crown ; When gen'rously You did refuse and scorn That usurp'd Titles shou'd Your Name adorn , Esteeming it a far more glorious thing For to Restore , than be Your Self a King . Those Baits of Pow'r which Empire did impart , Prov'd far too weak to tempt Your Loyal Heart . When Civil Broils ( for our Offences hurl'd By Angry Heaven on our Sep'rate World , ) Whose Rage almost Three Kingdoms had destroy'd , And wrought a Ruin none cou'd scarce avoid , Relenting Fate through pity then ordain'd You shou'd those Ills redress , our State sustain'd ; And by and Act , as gen'rous as unknown , Restore Our Sovereign to his Native Throne : Nothing cou'd too , Your Prudence more declare Than the Wise Conduct of this great Affair . Through Tracts of Blood you did not Conquest trace ; A Haleyon calm did all Your Triumphs grace . Those Pow'rs which oft had Royal Arms withstood , You soon dispers'd without one drop of Blood . Secure You wrought what Rebels scarcely fear'd ; As Lightning kills before the Thunder's herd . Thus , through Your Noble Conduct we were blessed From all the Toils of horrid War , with Rest. When not Content with what we did Enjoy , Unless Batavia's Traffic we destroy ; A War's begun , which nothing did advance To either Nation , but make Potent France . Whil'st on the Sea , others for Empire fight , In Court-Enjoyments You took small delight ; Nor yet Content with former Glories gain'd , Unless You now , Your Countries Cause maintain'd . Victorious York did First the Dutch subdue , Their Second Conquest Fate reserv'd for You ; Who so improv'd , what was before begun , As Belgic Fleets did from our Canon run ; And while You Gen'ral on the Ocean Ride , No Hostile Fleet did on our Seas abide . These Glorious Actions prov'd that You cou'd be , Great Albion's Patron both at Land and Sea ; And with more Justice may that Title Claim , Than he who England does for Patron Name . He only help'd a poor distressed Maid , You vanquish'd those , who did our Rights Invade . Rights , our * great Antiquary prov'd to be As Ancient Ours , as is the British-Sea . Foreknowing Fate only ordain'd that He , Shou'd prove and Emblem , and a Type of Thee . His Fab'lous Stories scarcely known , but You A Monster worse than that great Hero slew : A Monster us'd to Act such horrid things , As it durst shed the Sacred Blood of Kings . For which brave deed , Thy Name shall ever be Ador'd and Reverenc'd by Posterity . And may Auspicious Fate still grant that You , May as their Wonder , prove their Pattern too . * Selden . But now at length Death claims , Great Sir , from You A Debt , as Mortal , was to Nature due . Nor can those Laurels Conquering bows adorn , Protect those Hero's that are Mortal born . Too well , alas , Th' Imperious Tyrant knew , He only You , cou'd through Your Self subdue . In other Parts he vainly strove to wound Your too much Heart he only Mortal found . Thus to some Grove the aged Phoenix flies , Builds its own Nest , and through its own means die . In Bloody Fields his Malice You defi'd , And like a Gen'ral in Your Chair You di'd . And Exit Your great Courage did befit , Which seem'd to Conquer , when it did submit . Nature's great Debt You willing were to pay , Yet scorn'd to do it and ignoble way . And though Y' are Dead , to future Ages fame With such Advantage shall transmit Your Name , As no Oblivion shall thy Deeds obscure , As long as Time , or History endure . Thy Sacred Relics too shall be convey'd , And be among our English Monarchs laid , With all the pomp a grateful Prince can give , While in his Thoughts You shall for ever live . No Mausolaeum can secure Thy rest , Like such a Lodging in His Royal breast . Protected thus within that Sacred Place , Envy , nor Time , Your Merits shall Deface . Who wou'd not then prove that Great Monarch's Friend , Who does His Kindness beyond Life extend ; And to Your Mem'ry nobly strives to pay Past Obligations in a gen'rous way . Yet who like You , when Fate seem'd most to frown , Sav'd and Usurp'd , Secur'd and Envied Crown , And Three Great Kingdoms did from Ruin free , Deserves those Honours which are pay'd to Thee . LONDON , Printed in the Year M.DC.LXX . ON THE DEATH OF HIS GRACE The Duke of ALBEMARLE . WHO wou'd on Greatness , or on Worth rely , When Hero's thus like common men must die ? Cou'd Virtue , Merit , or cou'd Valour save Deserving Men , from the Impartial Grave ; None surely cou'd with so much Justice be Secur'd from Fate , Great Albemarle , as Thee ; Whose mighty Actions to the World has shown , 'Tis more to merit , than usurp a Crown ; When gen'rously You did refuse and scorn That usurp'd Titles shou'd Your Name adorn , Esteeming it a far more glorious thing For to Restore , than be Your Self a King . Those Baits of Pow'r which Empire did impart , Prov'd far too weak to tempt Your Loyal Heart . When Civil Broils ( for our Offences hurl'd By Angry Heaven on our Sep'rate World , ) Whose Rage almost Three Kingdoms had destroy'd , And wrought a Ruin none cou'd scarce avoid , Relenting Fate through pity then ordain'd You shou'd those Ills redress , our State sustain'd ; And by and Act , as gen'rous as unknown , Restore Our Sovereign to his Native Throne : Nothing cou'd too , Your Prudence more declare Than the Wise Conduct of this great Affair . Through Tracts of Blood you did not Conquest trace ; A Haleyon calm did all Your Triumphs grace . Those Pow'rs which oft had Royal Arms withstood , You soon dispers'd without one drop of Blood . Secure You wrought what Rebels scarcely fear'd ; As Lightning kills before the Thunder's herd . Thus , through Your Noble Conduct we were blessed From all the Toils of horrid War , with Rest. When not Content with what we did Enjoy , Unless Batavia's Traffic we destroy ; A War's begun , which nothing did advance To either Nation , but make Potent France . Whil'st on the Sea , others for Empire fight , In Court-Enjoyments You took small delight ; Nor yet Content with former Glories gain'd , Unless You now , Your Countries Cause maintain'd . Victorious York did First the Dutch subdue , Their Second Conquest Fate reserv'd for You ; Who so improv'd , what was before begun , As Belgic Fleets did from our Canon run ; And while You Gen'ral on the Ocean Ride , No Hostile Fleet did on our Seas abide . These Glorious Actions prov'd that You cou'd be , Great Albion's Patron both at Land and Sea ; And with more Justice may that Title Claim , Than he who England does for Patron Name . He only help'd a poor distressed Maid , You vanquish'd those , who did our Rights Invade . Rights , our * great Antiquary prov'd to be As Ancient Ours , as is the British-Sea . Foreknowing Fate only ordain'd that He , Shou'd prove and Emblem , and a Type of Thee . His Fab'lous Stories scarcely known , but You A Monster worse than that great Hero slew : A Monster us'd to Act such horrid things , As it durst shed the Sacred Blood of Kings . For which brave deed , Thy Name shall ever be Ador'd and Reverenc'd by Posterity . And may Auspicious Fate still grant that You , May as their Wonder , prove their Pattern too . * Selden . But now at length Death claims , Great Sir , from You A Debt , as Mortal , was to Nature due . Nor can those Laurels Conquering bows adorn , Protect those Hero's that are Mortal born . Too well , alas , Th' Imperious Tyrant knew , He only You , cou'd through Your Self subdue . In other Parts he vainly strove to wound Your too much Heart he only Mortal found . Thus to some Grove the aged Phoenix flies , Builds its own Nest , and through its own means die . In Bloody Fields his Malice You defi'd , And like a Gen'ral in Your Chair You di'd . And Exit Your great Courage did befit , Which seem'd to Conquer , when it did submit . Nature's great Debt You willing were to pay , Yet scorn'd to do it and ignoble way . And though Y' are Dead , to future Ages fame With such Advantage shall transmit Your Name , As no Oblivion shall thy Deeds obscure , As long as Time , or History endure . Thy Sacred Relics too shall be convey'd , And be among our English Monarchs laid , With all the pomp a grateful Prince can give , While in his Thoughts You shall for ever live . No Mausolaeum can secure Thy rest , Like such a Lodging in His Royal breast . Protected thus within that Sacred Place , Envy , nor Time , Your Merits shall Deface . Who wou'd not then prove that Great Monarch's Friend , Who does His Kindness beyond Life extend ; And to Your Mem'ry nobly strives to pay Past Obligations in a gen'rous way . Yet who like You , when Fate seem'd most to frown , Sav'd and Usurp'd , Secur'd and Envied Crown , And Three Great Kingdoms did from Ruin free , Deserves those Honours which are pay'd to Thee . LONDON , Printed in the Year M.DC.LXX . 