AND ELEGY On the much Lamented Death of Sr. BARTHOLOMEW SHOWER Knight , Late famous Councelor at Law , and one of the late Members of Parliament ; who departed this Life at his House in the Inner - Temple-Lane , on Thursday the 4th of December 1701 , in the 40th Year of his Age . IF ever England Mourn'd for Man of Sense , The self same Cause does now again Commence : If drops of Tears were ever Mortals endue , Great SHOWER , whole streams , ought to be shed for you : Old Albion is of such a Man bereft , As scarce behind him such a One is left . Bewail'd thou art , by all that understood , True English Safety , and their Country's Good . By all who stand up for a righteous Cause , By all that Love , our English Church and Laws : Some Men there are , but wicked Men they be , Who now rejoice , this fatal Loss to see , Those who fresh Faction and new Strife contrive And could not do it while he was Alive ; Perhaps again , their env'ous hope's renew , And base designs of Mischief fresh pursue ; Now HE is gone , who like a solid Rock , Their furious Tides , and raving Billows broke , Those Men who never from reproach refrain , Will try in vain , this Great Man's Fame to stain ; In spite of those my Muse her Voice shall raise , And tho' in Tears , will Sing his juster Praise : While black Mouth'd Legions strive to blast his Fame , Truth shall repeat his never Dying Name . When few durst , secret Knaves and Fools oppose , He boldly then Impeach'd the Nations Foes : To ill designing Men , a Check he gave , And scorn'd to fear , those who wou'd us Enslave ; When in the noble Senate of our Land , He did a Pillar of his Country stand ; None could his Zeal or Courage there abate , Against the underminers of our State ; But bravely did our Church and Land defend , True Peace and Justice was his only end : Oppos'd the Votes of all the Factious brood , And stoutly all their dark Intrigues withstood True to his Client , spar'd no Pains nor Care , Exceeding Wise , and Famous at the Bar , And would not Vote , for rash and hasty War. He could from Fees , in and ill Cause abstain , And ne're was greedy of unlawful Gain ; He boldly Spoke and always with Applause In true defence of Englands Peace and Laws : From his clear Fame dissolved Clouds shall throw , And leave the Earthly Vapours , all below Endow'd with best of Gifts kind Stars dispense , The greatest Lawyer , both for Wit and Sense . Not only Good but Beautiful and Fair , He liv'd belov'd , but Dy'd without and Heir , Grim Death first seiz'd him in the House of Prayer . His virtuous Lady , tho' with modest Grace , Bedews with brinish Tears her beauteous Face : And well she may , at this great cause of Grief , Such fatal Loss , admits of no relief : Her pious Soul , does her true Sorrow show , For her half self , she's forced to forgo . But cheer up Madam , for his better part , Now shines above , Bright as his great Desert In Heaven he Triumphs , while on Earth his Name Is Echo'd forth by the strong blast of Fame , The Gown's Chief Boast to after times he'l be , Ages to come shall read his History ; And strive to Copy his deserved Praise For he is Worthy of Immortal Bays . The EPITAPH . MOST famous Shower , here in the Dust is laid , Who when Alive , of none was er'e afraid : His Soul's enlarg'd , 'tis boundless , unconfin'd , He's left the jarring , factious World behind . Approach his Grave , you Loyal , Good and Just ; But let no Whigish Fop disturb his Dust. Rich , Good , Belov'd , he Dy'd ; and what is more , A Lawer , and gave Largely to the Poor : Thus is the World Exstinguish'd of a Light , The brightest Day , must look to have a Night . LONDON , Printed by J. Wilkins , near Fleet-street , 1701. AND ELEGY On the much Lamented Death of Sr. BARTHOLOMEW SHOWER Knight , Late famous Councelor at Law , and one of the late Members of Parliament ; who departed this Life at his House in the Inner - Temple-Lane , on Thursday the 4th of December 1701 , in the 40th Year of his Age . IF ever England Mourn'd for Man of Sense , The self same Cause does now again Commence : If drops of Tears were ever Mortals endue , Great SHOWER , whole streams , ought to be shed for you : Old Albion is of such a Man bereft , As scarce behind him such a One is left . Bewail'd thou art , by all that understood , True English Safety , and their Country's Good . By all who stand up for a righteous Cause , By all that Love , our English Church and Laws : Some Men there are , but wicked Men they be , Who now rejoice , this fatal Loss to see , Those who fresh Faction and new Strife contrive And could not do it while he was Alive ; Perhaps again , their env'ous hope's renew , And base designs of Mischief fresh pursue ; Now HE is gone , who like a solid Rock , Their furious Tides , and raving Billows broke , Those Men who never from reproach refrain , Will try in vain , this Great Man's Fame to stain ; In spite of those my Muse her Voice shall raise , And tho' in Tears , will Sing his juster Praise : While black Mouth'd Legions strive to blast his Fame , Truth shall repeat his never Dying Name . When few durst , secret Knaves and Fools oppose , He boldly then Impeach'd the Nations Foes : To ill designing Men , a Check he gave , And scorn'd to fear , those who wou'd us Enslave ; When in the noble Senate of our Land , He did a Pillar of his Country stand ; None could his Zeal or Courage there abate , Against the underminers of our State ; But bravely did our Church and Land defend , True Peace and Justice was his only end : Oppos'd the Votes of all the Factious brood , And stoutly all their dark Intrigues withstood True to his Client , spar'd no Pains nor Care , Exceeding Wise , and Famous at the Bar , And would not Vote , for rash and hasty War. He could from Fees , in and ill Cause abstain , And ne're was greedy of unlawful Gain ; He boldly Spoke and always with Applause In true defence of Englands Peace and Laws : From his clear Fame dissolved Clouds shall throw , And leave the Earthly Vapours , all below Endow'd with best of Gifts kind Stars dispense , The greatest Lawyer , both for Wit and Sense . Not only Good but Beautiful and Fair , He liv'd belov'd , but Dy'd without and Heir , Grim Death first seiz'd him in the House of Prayer . His virtuous Lady , tho' with modest Grace , Bedews with brinish Tears her beauteous Face : And well she may , at this great cause of Grief , Such fatal Loss , admits of no relief : Her pious Soul , does her true Sorrow show , For her half self , she's forced to forgo . But cheer up Madam , for his better part , Now shines above , Bright as his great Desert In Heaven he Triumphs , while on Earth his Name Is Echo'd forth by the strong blast of Fame , The Gown's Chief Boast to after times he'l be , Ages to come shall read his History ; And strive to Copy his deserved Praise For he is Worthy of Immortal Bays . The EPITAPH . MOST famous Shower , here in the Dust is laid , Who when Alive , of none was er'e afraid : His Soul's enlarg'd , 'tis boundless , unconfin'd , He's left the jarring , factious World behind . Approach his Grave , you Loyal , Good and Just ; But let no Whigish Fop disturb his Dust. Rich , Good , Belov'd , he Dy'd ; and what is more , A Lawer , and gave Largely to the Poor : Thus is the World Exstinguish'd of a Light , The brightest Day , must look to have a Night . LONDON , Printed by J. Wilkins , near Fleet-street , 1701. 