AND ELEGY On the late Duke of Monmouth . AS Saylors Split on Rocks , so restless man , By found Ambition is too oft undone ; Swell'd with aspiring thought , he courts his Fate , Nor sees the Danger till it is too Great ; But blinded by the Missed of Hope he strays , Through paths of Rashness , into Ruins ways : So the late Monmouth , giving way to Pride , A mighty Ruin pull'd upon his Head ; Debauch'd by Factious , Those that sought our Woe , And Studied Brittains Empires overthrow ; Then list'ning to the foolish noisy Crowd , Whose Clamours at the best , are but a Cloud ; ( Empty of Rain ) inconstant as the Wind , Cou'd vain contentment in that Vapour find : It Fatal Flattery the Foundation lay'd , ( Of his Ambition too , too long display'd ) On coz'ning Quicksands that his hope's betray'd ; Who giving Ear to Factious Breath durst be , Th' inglorious Pattern of Disloyalty ; And after many Favours , eager still , To feed the Flame of and insatiate Will : To tempt his Fate , as if her Wings were slow , And rush regardless on his overthrow . How has the Royal Goodness oft been found , In mildest Mercy , strongly to abound ? In hope's his hight and feverish Breast wou'd cool , And leave a calmer Temper in his Soul : But all in vain , those dear endearments move , No Loyalty , Obedience , no , nor Love . In his Ingrateful Mind , Oh what can be Worse than Ingratitude to that degree , Ingratitude , from which , mankind should flee ; For what Returns are found , but Impious War , And fierce Invasion , but not carry'd far , E'r Fate begins the Progress , and just Heaven , A Check to bold ambitious Reins had given ; Justice took place , just Arms obtain'd the Day , And quell'd by force , what favours could not sway ; While Death to Gloomy Caves does tumble down , The bold Aspirer to a Sacred Crown , And with a lasting slumber , seals his Eyes , Who strangely strove by lawless ways to rise : So let him stand a Seamark on our Coast , To warn those Spirits that are Tempest tossed , With feverish Faction , lest there be lost ; That Loyalty , may more , and more increase , And we be bless'd with plenty and with peace . EPITAPH . SOaring upon Icarian Wings he fell , Who durst against the best of Kings Rebel . Now silent is , he whose late restless Mind , Ambition swell'd , till he a Grave did find . FINIS . This may be Printed , RL . S . July the 16th . 1685. LONDON , Printed by E. Mallet , in Black-Horse-Alley in Fleet-street . AND ELEGY On the late Duke of Monmouth . AS Saylors Split on Rocks , so restless man , By found Ambition is too oft undone ; Swell'd with aspiring thought , he courts his Fate , Nor sees the Danger till it is too Great ; But blinded by the Missed of Hope he strays , Through paths of Rashness , into Ruins ways : So the late Monmouth , giving way to Pride , A mighty Ruin pull'd upon his Head ; Debauch'd by Factious , Those that sought our Woe , And Studied Brittains Empires overthrow ; Then list'ning to the foolish noisy Crowd , Whose Clamours at the best , are but a Cloud ; ( Empty of Rain ) inconstant as the Wind , Cou'd vain contentment in that Vapour find : It Fatal Flattery the Foundation lay'd , ( Of his Ambition too , too long display'd ) On coz'ning Quicksands that his hope's betray'd ; Who giving Ear to Factious Breath durst be , Th' inglorious Pattern of Disloyalty ; And after many Favours , eager still , To feed the Flame of and insatiate Will : To tempt his Fate , as if her Wings were slow , And rush regardless on his overthrow . How has the Royal Goodness oft been found , In mildest Mercy , strongly to abound ? In hope's his hight and feverish Breast wou'd cool , And leave a calmer Temper in his Soul : But all in vain , those dear endearments move , No Loyalty , Obedience , no , nor Love . In his Ingrateful Mind , Oh what can be Worse than Ingratitude to that degree , Ingratitude , from which , mankind should flee ; For what Returns are found , but Impious War , And fierce Invasion , but not carry'd far , E'r Fate begins the Progress , and just Heaven , A Check to bold ambitious Reins had given ; Justice took place , just Arms obtain'd the Day , And quell'd by force , what favours could not sway ; While Death to Gloomy Caves does tumble down , The bold Aspirer to a Sacred Crown , And with a lasting slumber , seals his Eyes , Who strangely strove by lawless ways to rise : So let him stand a Seamark on our Coast , To warn those Spirits that are Tempest tossed , With feverish Faction , lest there be lost ; That Loyalty , may more , and more increase , And we be bless'd with plenty and with peace . EPITAPH . SOaring upon Icarian Wings he fell , Who durst against the best of Kings Rebel . Now silent is , he whose late restless Mind , Ambition swell'd , till he a Grave did find . FINIS . This may be Printed , RL . S . July the 16th . 1685. LONDON , Printed by E. Mallet , in Black-Horse-Alley in Fleet-street . 