AND ELEGY ON JAMES SCOT , Late Duke of MONMOUTH . THOU Plague , and Bane of Mortals , Flattery , Of Humankind , half are undone by Thee . How is th' Unfortunate Wrack't Merchant lost ? From thy false Hope of some Rich Indian Coast , Betray'd by Thee , to perish in a Wave ; Thine the hid Rock , and Thine his watery Grave . Why does the Traitor Plot , or Rebel Storm , And Canting Zealots Church and State Reform ? Led only by Thy Visionary Dreams ; Till in pursuit of Crowns and Diadems , With many a Restless Night and tugging Groan , They mount a Scaffold while they seek a Throne . Nor by Thee only loaded Gibbets bow , And yawning Graves attend Thy Fatal Blow ; For even by Thee Aspiring Angels fell : False Hope's of Heaven made the first step to Hell . Such , Monmouth , was Thy Fallen ; this Tempter stood , Poisoning thy Ear , and cank'ring all thy Blood ; To thy Found Eye with Artful Phantoms fill'd The Treacherous Magnifying Mirror held ; Show'd a poor Shrub a Royal Cedar-Plant , And beautifi'd thy Glass to Adamant . Here , poor lost Monmouth , lay the Fatal Snare , Thy Life , thy Fame , thy All , were Shipwrecked here . Once the Bright Leader of a Shining Train , The Constellations in Great CHARLES his Wain ; Till from thy Forfeit glittering Orb of Light , By Black Ingratitude , t' Eternal Night , Too Justly doom'd , and down all headlong driven , A Falling-Star from thy once Native Heaven . On what Foundation does Ambition rise ? In all its Luster , Crown'd with Victories , Yet cemented with Blood , By Treason built , And Airy Glory rais'd on Solid Guil But Crush'd and Damn'd by Heav'ns revenging Hand , To Public Shame , and and Eternal Brand : What a dull Page in the Black-Book of Fame Will Monmouth fill with a poor Blasted Name ? Where's all th' Hosannah's of the Shouting Crowd ? Will their kind Sorrows speak but half so loud ? No! wretched Thing , that Popular Wind's blown o'er : HEAVEN and Great JAMES do their lost Sense restore , And the old Prince o' th' Air now reigns no more . Unmourn'd farewell , thy Hearse even unbedew'd By thy own once Adoring Multitude . And if a Tear falls from a pitying Eye , The Mournful Cause does that sad Drop supply , Is not thou dyed'st , but didst deserve to Die . Deserv'd indeed : for never Man possessed Of such vast Royal Smiles , so rais'd , so blessed , Apostatiz'd like Thee . -------- Nay , even thy Tears had learn'd to forge so well , That when at CHARLES and JAMES's Feet they fell , Thy very Penitence play'd the Infidel . So fal'n from Faith , thou turn'dst Perfidious too , Even to thy own assisting Rebel Crew ; While thy Argyle and Rumbold's latest Breath Damn'd thy false Vows and Cursed Thee even in Death . But let thy Buried Faults forgotten lie , And Monmouth's Crimes with bleeding Monmouth die . And to allow Thee still thy Just Applause , We'll praise thy Valour , though we loath thy Cause . Nay , and to make thy Fame yet larger Room , And strew some Sweets even on a Rebel's Tomb ; Thy Storm but rose to drive our Clouds away , And thy Black Morn began our Halcyon Day . While Thy Rebellion does Our Bliss complete , A Kingdom Happy made , and Monarch Great ; For Treason's to Eternal Silence doom'd , And grinning Faction in thy Urn entomb'd ; While Angels to Great JAMES his Guard move down , And Jacob's Ladder waits on Caesar's Crown . Some Honour then is even to Treason due ; So Judas's Crime some Glory challeng'd too . While even that Gilded , where the perfidious Slave Betray'd his GOD and Master to a Grave , Was Instrumental a whole World to save . This may be Printed , July 16. 1685. R . LS . LONDON : Printed for C.W. and are to be sold by Walter Davis in Amen-Corner . 1685. AND ELEGY ON JAMES SCOT , Late Duke of MONMOUTH . THOU Plague , and Bane of Mortals , Flattery , Of Humankind , half are undone by Thee . How is th' Unfortunate Wrack't Merchant lost ? From thy false Hope of some Rich Indian Coast , Betray'd by Thee , to perish in a Wave ; Thine the hid Rock , and Thine his watery Grave . Why does the Traitor Plot , or Rebel Storm , And Canting Zealots Church and State Reform ? Led only by Thy Visionary Dreams ; Till in pursuit of Crowns and Diadems , With many a Restless Night and tugging Groan , They mount a Scaffold while they seek a Throne . Nor by Thee only loaded Gibbets bow , And yawning Graves attend Thy Fatal Blow ; For even by Thee Aspiring Angels fell : False Hope's of Heaven made the first step to Hell . Such , Monmouth , was Thy Fallen ; this Tempter stood , Poisoning thy Ear , and cank'ring all thy Blood ; To thy Found Eye with Artful Phantoms fill'd The Treacherous Magnifying Mirror held ; Show'd a poor Shrub a Royal Cedar-Plant , And beautifi'd thy Glass to Adamant . Here , poor lost Monmouth , lay the Fatal Snare , Thy Life , thy Fame , thy All , were Shipwrecked here . Once the Bright Leader of a Shining Train , The Constellations in Great CHARLES his Wain ; Till from thy Forfeit glittering Orb of Light , By Black Ingratitude , t' Eternal Night , Too Justly doom'd , and down all headlong driven , A Falling-Star from thy once Native Heaven . On what Foundation does Ambition rise ? In all its Luster , Crown'd with Victories , Yet cemented with Blood , By Treason built , And Airy Glory rais'd on Solid Guil But Crush'd and Damn'd by Heav'ns revenging Hand , To Public Shame , and and Eternal Brand : What a dull Page in the Black-Book of Fame Will Monmouth fill with a poor Blasted Name ? Where's all th' Hosannah's of the Shouting Crowd ? Will their kind Sorrows speak but half so loud ? No! wretched Thing , that Popular Wind's blown o'er : HEAVEN and Great JAMES do their lost Sense restore , And the old Prince o' th' Air now reigns no more . Unmourn'd farewell , thy Hearse even unbedew'd By thy own once Adoring Multitude . And if a Tear falls from a pitying Eye , The Mournful Cause does that sad Drop supply , Is not thou dyed'st , but didst deserve to Die . Deserv'd indeed : for never Man possessed Of such vast Royal Smiles , so rais'd , so blessed , Apostatiz'd like Thee . -------- Nay , even thy Tears had learn'd to forge so well , That when at CHARLES and JAMES's Feet they fell , Thy very Penitence play'd the Infidel . So fal'n from Faith , thou turn'dst Perfidious too , Even to thy own assisting Rebel Crew ; While thy Argyle and Rumbold's latest Breath Damn'd thy false Vows and Cursed Thee even in Death . But let thy Buried Faults forgotten lie , And Monmouth's Crimes with bleeding Monmouth die . And to allow Thee still thy Just Applause , We'll praise thy Valour , though we loath thy Cause . Nay , and to make thy Fame yet larger Room , And strew some Sweets even on a Rebel's Tomb ; Thy Storm but rose to drive our Clouds away , And thy Black Morn began our Halcyon Day . While Thy Rebellion does Our Bliss complete , A Kingdom Happy made , and Monarch Great ; For Treason's to Eternal Silence doom'd , And grinning Faction in thy Urn entomb'd ; While Angels to Great JAMES his Guard move down , And Jacob's Ladder waits on Caesar's Crown . Some Honour then is even to Treason due ; So Judas's Crime some Glory challeng'd too . While even that Gilded , where the perfidious Slave Betray'd his GOD and Master to a Grave , Was Instrumental a whole World to save . This may be Printed , July 16. 1685. R . LS . LONDON : Printed for C.W. and are to be sold by Walter Davis in Amen-Corner . 1685. 