AND ELEGY UPON THE Lamented Death OF Edward Millington , The Famous Auctioner . MOurn ! --- Mourn ! you Booksellers , --- for cruel Death Has rob'd the Famous Auctioner of Breath : He's gone , --- he's gone , --- ah ! the great Loss deplore ; Great Millington , --- alas ! --- he is no more : No more will he now at your Service stand Behind the Desk , with Mallet in his Hand : No more the Valve of your Books set forth , And fell 'em by his Art for twice the Worth . Methinks I see him still , with smiling Look , Amid the Crowd , and in his Hand a Book : Then in a fine factious pleasing way , The Author's Genius , and his Wit display . O all you scribbling Tribe , come mourn his Death , Whose Wit hath giv'n your dying Fame new Birth : When your neglected Works did mouldering lie Upon the Shelves , and none your Books would buy ; How oft' has he , with strained Eloquence , Affirm'd the Leaves contain'd a World of Sense , When all's insipid , dull Impertinence ? Come , Gentlemen , --- come bid me what you please ; Upon my Word , it is a curious Piece , Done by a Learned Hand , --- and neatly bound : What say you ? --- come , --- I'le put it up , --- One Pound ; One Pound , --- once , twice ; fifteen : Who bids ; --- a Crown : Then shakes his Head , with and affected Frown , And says , for Shame , consider , Gentlemen , The Book is sold in Shops for more than ten . Good lack a day ! --- 'tis strange , then strikes the Blow , And in a feigned Passion bids it go . Then in his Hand another Piece he takes , And in its Praise a long Harrangue he makes ; And tells 'em that this writ in lofty Verse , One that is out of Print , and very scarce : Then Then with high Language , and a stately Look , He sets a lofty Price upon the Book ; Five Pound , Four Pound , Three Pound , he cries aloud , And holds it up t'expose it to the Crowd , With Arm erect , --- the Bidders to provoke To raise the Price before th' impending Stroke : This in the Throng does Emulation breed , And makes 'em strive each other to outbid ; While he descants upon their Learned Heats , And his Factious Dialect repeats : For none like him , for certain , knew so well , ( By way of Auction ) any Goods to fell . 'Tis endless to express the ways he had To fell their good , and to put off their bad . But , ah ! in vain I strive his Fame to spread ; The Great , the Wise , the Knowing Man is dead . Mourn ! --- Mourn ! --- you Booksellers , for Cruel Death Has rob'd the Famous Auctioner of Breath . And you in Painting skill'd his Loss bewail ; He's dead ! --- that did expose your Works to Sale : See how he lies , all dismal , wan , and pale . No more by him your Praise will be expressed , For , ah ! he's gone to his Eternal Rest. Can you forget how he for you did baw'l , Come put it in ? ------ A Fine Original , Done by a Curious Hand : ------ What strokes are here , Drawn to the Life ? --- How fine it does appear : Oh Lovely Piece ! --- Ten Pound , --- Five Pound ; --- for shame , You do not bid thee Valve of the Frame . How many pretty Stories would he tell , To inhance the Price , and make the Picture fell : But now he's gone ! --- ah ! --- the sad Loss deplore ; Great Millington ! --- alas ! he is no more . And you , the Muses Darlings too , rehearse Your Sorrows for the Loss of him in Verse : Mourn ! --- Mourn ! together , for that Tyrant Death Has rob'd the Famous Auctioner of Breath . FINIS . His EPITAPH . UNderneath this Marble Stone Lies the Famous Millington ; A Man who through the World did steer I' th' Station of and Auctioner : A Man with Wondrous Sense and Wisdom blessed , Whose Qualities are not to be expressed . Published by John Nutt near Stationers-Hall . 1703. AND ELEGY UPON THE Lamented Death OF Edward Millington , The Famous Auctioner . MOurn ! --- Mourn ! you Booksellers , --- for cruel Death Has rob'd the Famous Auctioner of Breath : He's gone , --- he's gone , --- ah ! the great Loss deplore ; Great Millington , --- alas ! --- he is no more : No more will he now at your Service stand Behind the Desk , with Mallet in his Hand : No more the Valve of your Books set forth , And fell 'em by his Art for twice the Worth . Methinks I see him still , with smiling Look , Amid the Crowd , and in his Hand a Book : Then in a fine factious pleasing way , The Author's Genius , and his Wit display . O all you scribbling Tribe , come mourn his Death , Whose Wit hath giv'n your dying Fame new Birth : When your neglected Works did mouldering lie Upon the Shelves , and none your Books would buy ; How oft' has he , with strained Eloquence , Affirm'd the Leaves contain'd a World of Sense , When all's insipid , dull Impertinence ? Come , Gentlemen , --- come bid me what you please ; Upon my Word , it is a curious Piece , Done by a Learned Hand , --- and neatly bound : What say you ? --- come , --- I'le put it up , --- One Pound ; One Pound , --- once , twice ; fifteen : Who bids ; --- a Crown : Then shakes his Head , with and affected Frown , And says , for Shame , consider , Gentlemen , The Book is sold in Shops for more than ten . Good lack a day ! --- 'tis strange , then strikes the Blow , And in a feigned Passion bids it go . Then in his Hand another Piece he takes , And in its Praise a long Harrangue he makes ; And tells 'em that this writ in lofty Verse , One that is out of Print , and very scarce : Then Then with high Language , and a stately Look , He sets a lofty Price upon the Book ; Five Pound , Four Pound , Three Pound , he cries aloud , And holds it up t'expose it to the Crowd , With Arm erect , --- the Bidders to provoke To raise the Price before th' impending Stroke : This in the Throng does Emulation breed , And makes 'em strive each other to outbid ; While he descants upon their Learned Heats , And his Factious Dialect repeats : For none like him , for certain , knew so well , ( By way of Auction ) any Goods to fell . 'Tis endless to express the ways he had To fell their good , and to put off their bad . But , ah ! in vain I strive his Fame to spread ; The Great , the Wise , the Knowing Man is dead . Mourn ! --- Mourn ! --- you Booksellers , for Cruel Death Has rob'd the Famous Auctioner of Breath . And you in Painting skill'd his Loss bewail ; He's dead ! --- that did expose your Works to Sale : See how he lies , all dismal , wan , and pale . No more by him your Praise will be expressed , For , ah ! he's gone to his Eternal Rest. Can you forget how he for you did baw'l , Come put it in ? ------ A Fine Original , Done by a Curious Hand : ------ What strokes are here , Drawn to the Life ? --- How fine it does appear : Oh Lovely Piece ! --- Ten Pound , --- Five Pound ; --- for shame , You do not bid thee Valve of the Frame . How many pretty Stories would he tell , To inhance the Price , and make the Picture fell : But now he's gone ! --- ah ! --- the sad Loss deplore ; Great Millington ! --- alas ! he is no more . And you , the Muses Darlings too , rehearse Your Sorrows for the Loss of him in Verse : Mourn ! --- Mourn ! together , for that Tyrant Death Has rob'd the Famous Auctioner of Breath . FINIS . His EPITAPH . UNderneath this Marble Stone Lies the Famous Millington ; A Man who through the World did steer I' th' Station of and Auctioner : A Man with Wondrous Sense and Wisdom blessed , Whose Qualities are not to be expressed . Published by John Nutt near Stationers-Hall . 1703. 