THE Two Entire Lovers : OR , THE Young-Man and Maids Care and Grief Crown'd with Joy and Comfort To and Excellent New Air . 1. I Lov'd you dearly once 'tis true , but now thanks Heaven I am free ; So as my Love was scorn'd by you , so yours is now by me : In vain do you expose your Charms , my Heart for to surprise , Which was the cause of all my Harms , but now I can withstand your Eyes . 2. My Heart was ready for to break , and you'd no Comfort yield , And so faint , and dare not speak , since you had wone the Field : You once so fickle was , I am now the same to thee ; Therefore thou art out of Mind , and now I am set free . 3. When first I did behold your Face , it did my Heart invite ; I so found and foolish was , but now am alter'd quite : How can I thee adore , that proved so untrue ? No , no , I ne'er can love thee more , therefore farewell to you . 4. Did I not oftentimes entreat , thy Favour to obtain , And often bow'd low to your Feet , yet this was all in vain ; You delight to torture me , who was your Captive Slave , But thanks to Jove , I now am free , and can your Frowns outbrave . The Maids Reply . 5. Forbear I pray , your Cruelty , and do not me revile ; For what I said then unto thee , 'twas but to try a while Whither you was false or true , I kept off for a time ; Unconstant I'll ne'er be to you , pray pardon me this Crime . 6. My Love , let not thy Anger burn , salute thy Nymph I pray , And I a thousand will return , that Kindness to repay ; In my Arms I'll thee receive , my true and loyal Swain , Thou never shalt have cause to grieve , nor in the least complain . 7. 'Tis thou alone that hath my Heart , and my Affection too , And why should Loyal Lovers part , our Sorrows to renew ? Thy Smiles my Grief will destroy , and I shall happy be . But if I can't my Love enjoy O let me die ! said she . 8. The young Man's Heart did soon relent , to hear the Moan she made , He like a Loyal Lover went , unto the Nymph , and said , By the mighty Powers above , I'll pardon what is past , And vow likewise to live in Love , as long as Life should last . Printed for P. Brooksby . J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . THE Two Entire Lovers : OR , THE Young-Man and Maids Care and Grief Crown'd with Joy and Comfort To and Excellent New Air . 1. I Lov'd you dearly once 'tis true , but now thanks Heaven I am free ; So as my Love was scorn'd by you , so yours is now by me : In vain do you expose your Charms , my Heart for to surprise , Which was the cause of all my Harms , but now I can withstand your Eyes . 2. My Heart was ready for to break , and you'd no Comfort yield , And so faint , and dare not speak , since you had wone the Field : You once so fickle was , I am now the same to thee ; Therefore thou art out of Mind , and now I am set free . 3. When first I did behold your Face , it did my Heart invite ; I so found and foolish was , but now am alter'd quite : How can I thee adore , that proved so untrue ? No , no , I ne'er can love thee more , therefore farewell to you . 4. Did I not oftentimes entreat , thy Favour to obtain , And often bow'd low to your Feet , yet this was all in vain ; You delight to torture me , who was your Captive Slave , But thanks to Jove , I now am free , and can your Frowns outbrave . The Maids Reply . 5. Forbear I pray , your Cruelty , and do not me revile ; For what I said then unto thee , 'twas but to try a while Whither you was false or true , I kept off for a time ; Unconstant I'll ne'er be to you , pray pardon me this Crime . 6. My Love , let not thy Anger burn , salute thy Nymph I pray , And I a thousand will return , that Kindness to repay ; In my Arms I'll thee receive , my true and loyal Swain , Thou never shalt have cause to grieve , nor in the least complain . 7. 'Tis thou alone that hath my Heart , and my Affection too , And why should Loyal Lovers part , our Sorrows to renew ? Thy Smiles my Grief will destroy , and I shall happy be . But if I can't my Love enjoy O let me die ! said she . 8. The young Man's Heart did soon relent , to hear the Moan she made , He like a Loyal Lover went , unto the Nymph , and said , By the mighty Powers above , I'll pardon what is past , And vow likewise to live in Love , as long as Life should last . Printed for P. Brooksby . J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 