A A New Ballad of [ K ] ing John and the Abbot of Canterbury . To the Tune of The King and Lord Abbot . With Allowance . [ I'll tell ] you a Story , a Story anon , [ Of a ] noble Prince , & his name was King John , [ For he w ] as a Prince , and a Prince of great might , [ He held ] up great wrongs , & he put down great right [ Derr ] y down , down , heigh derry down . [ I'll tell ] you a Story , a Story so merry , [ Concerning the Abbot of Cant ] erbury , [ And of his Housekeeping and Hig ] h Renown . [ Which made him repair to fair Londo ] n Town : [ Derry down , etc [ How now Brother Abbot ! 'tis told unto me , That thou keepest a far better house than I , And for thy Housekeeping and high Renown , I fear thou hast Treason against my Crown : Derry down , etc ] I hope my Liege that you owe me no grudge , For spending of my true got Goods , If thou dost not answer me Questions Three , Thy head shall be taken from thy body : Derry down , etc When I am set on my steed so high , With my Crown of Gold upon my head , among all my Nobility with joy & much mirth , Thou must tell me to one penny what I am worth . Derry down , etc [ And ] the next Question you must not flout , [ How long ] I shall be riding the World about ; [ And the third ] Question then [ thrum must not shrink , [ But tell to m ] e truly what [ I do think : Derry down , etc ] O These are hard Questions for my shallow wit , For I cannot answer your Grace as yet , But if you will give me but three days space , I'll do my endeavour to answer your Grace ; Derry down , etc O three days space I will the give , For that is the longest day thou hast to live , And if thou dost not answer these Questions right , Thy head shall be taken from thy body quite : Derry down , etc And as the Shepherd was going to his fold , He spy'd the old Abbot came riding along , How now Master Abbot ! you'r welcome home : What News have you brought from good King John ? Derry down , etc Sad news , sad news , I have thee to give , For I have but three days space for to live If I do not answer him Questions three , My head will be taken from my body : Derry down , etc When he is sat on his steed so high , With his Crown of Gold upon his head , among all his Nobility with joy and much mirth I must tell him to one penny what he is worth : Derry down , etc And the next Question I must not flout , How long he shall be riding the World about , And the third Question thou must not shrink , But tell to him truly what he does think : Derry down , etc O Master did you never hear it yet , That a Fool may learn a Wise man wit ; Lend me but your horse and your apparel , I'll ride to fair London and answer the Quarrel : Derry down , etc Now I am set on my steed so high , With my Crown of Gold upon my head , among all my Nobility with joy & much mirth Now tell me to one penny what I am worth . Derry down , etc For thirty pence our Saviour was sold , among the false Jews as you have been told , And nine and twenty's the worth of thee , For I think thou art one penny worse then he : Derry down , etc And the next Question thou mayest not flout , How long I shall be riding the World about . You must rise with the Sun , & ride with the same Until the next Morning he rises again : And then I am sure you will make no doubt , But in twenty four hours you'll ride it abou Derry down , etc And the third Question thou must not shrink , But tell to me truly what I do think ; All that I can do , & 'twill make your heart merry For you think I'm the Abbot of Canterbury : But I'm his poor Shepherd as you may see , And am come to beg pardon for he and for me . Derry down , etc The King he turn'd him about and did smile , Saying , thou shalt be Abbot the other while ; Oh no my Grace , there is no such need , For I can neither Write nor Read , Derry down , etc Then four pounds a week will I give unto thee , For this merry true jest thou hast told unto me ; And tell the old Abbot when thou comest home , Thou hast brought him a pardon from good King John Derry down , etc FINIS . Printed for E. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pie-corner . A A New Ballad of [ K ] ing John and the Abbot of Canterbury . To the Tune of The King and Lord Abbot . With Allowance . [ I'll tell ] you a Story , a Story anon , [ Of a ] noble Prince , & his name was King John , [ For he w ] as a Prince , and a Prince of great might , [ He held ] up great wrongs , & he put down great right [ Derr ] y down , down , heigh derry down . [ I'll tell ] you a Story , a Story so merry , [ Concerning the Abbot of Cant ] erbury , [ And of his Housekeeping and Hig ] h Renown . [ Which made him repair to fair Londo ] n Town : [ Derry down , etc [ How now Brother Abbot ! 'tis told unto me , That thou keepest a far better house than I , And for thy Housekeeping and high Renown , I fear thou hast Treason against my Crown : Derry down , etc ] I hope my Liege that you owe me no grudge , For spending of my true got Goods , If thou dost not answer me Questions Three , Thy head shall be taken from thy body : Derry down , etc When I am set on my steed so high , With my Crown of Gold upon my head , among all my Nobility with joy & much mirth , Thou must tell me to one penny what I am worth . Derry down , etc [ And ] the next Question you must not flout , [ How long ] I shall be riding the World about ; [ And the third ] Question then [ thrum must not shrink , [ But tell to m ] e truly what [ I do think : Derry down , etc ] O These are hard Questions for my shallow wit , For I cannot answer your Grace as yet , But if you will give me but three days space , I'll do my endeavour to answer your Grace ; Derry down , etc O three days space I will the give , For that is the longest day thou hast to live , And if thou dost not answer these Questions right , Thy head shall be taken from thy body quite : Derry down , etc And as the Shepherd was going to his fold , He spy'd the old Abbot came riding along , How now Master Abbot ! you'r welcome home : What News have you brought from good King John ? Derry down , etc Sad news , sad news , I have thee to give , For I have but three days space for to live If I do not answer him Questions three , My head will be taken from my body : Derry down , etc When he is sat on his steed so high , With his Crown of Gold upon his head , among all his Nobility with joy and much mirth I must tell him to one penny what he is worth : Derry down , etc And the next Question I must not flout , How long he shall be riding the World about , And the third Question thou must not shrink , But tell to him truly what he does think : Derry down , etc O Master did you never hear it yet , That a Fool may learn a Wise man wit ; Lend me but your horse and your apparel , I'll ride to fair London and answer the Quarrel : Derry down , etc Now I am set on my steed so high , With my Crown of Gold upon my head , among all my Nobility with joy & much mirth Now tell me to one penny what I am worth . Derry down , etc For thirty pence our Saviour was sold , among the false Jews as you have been told , And nine and twenty's the worth of thee , For I think thou art one penny worse then he : Derry down , etc And the next Question thou mayest not flout , How long I shall be riding the World about . You must rise with the Sun , & ride with the same Until the next Morning he rises again : And then I am sure you will make no doubt , But in twenty four hours you'll ride it abou Derry down , etc And the third Question thou must not shrink , But tell to me truly what I do think ; All that I can do , & 'twill make your heart merry For you think I'm the Abbot of Canterbury : But I'm his poor Shepherd as you may see , And am come to beg pardon for he and for me . Derry down , etc The King he turn'd him about and did smile , Saying , thou shalt be Abbot the other while ; Oh no my Grace , there is no such need , For I can neither Write nor Read , Derry down , etc Then four pounds a week will I give unto thee , For this merry true jest thou hast told unto me ; And tell the old Abbot when thou comest home , Thou hast brought him a pardon from good King John Derry down , etc FINIS . Printed for E. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pie-corner . A New Ballad of King John and the Abbot of Canterbury . To the Tune of , The King and the Lord Abbot . With Allowance . I'LL tell you a Story , a Story anon , Of a noble Prince , & his name was King John : For he was a Prince , & a Prince of great might , He held up great wrongs , he put down great right . Derry down , down heigh derry down . I'll tell you a Story , a Story so merry , Concerning the Abbot of Canterbury , And of his housekeeping and high renown , Which made him resort to fair London Town : Derry down etc How now Brother Abbot ? 'tis told unto me , That thou keepest a far better house [ th ] and I , And for thy housekeeping and high renown , I fear thou hast treason against my crown . Derry worser [ own , etc ] I hope my Liege that you owe me no grudge , For spending of my true got goods . If thou dost not answer me questions three , Thy head shall be taken from thy body . Derry down , etc When I am set on my steed so high , With my crown of gold upon my head , among all my nobility with joy & much mirth Thou must tell me to one penny what I am worth . Derry down , etc And the next question you must not flout , How long I shall be riding the World about ; And the third question thou must not shrink , But tell to me truly what I do think . Derry down , etc O These are hard questions for my shallow wit , For I cannot answer your Grace as yet , But if you will give me but three days space I'll do my endeavour to answer your Grace . Derry down , down heigh derry down . O three days space I will thee give , For that is the longest day thou hast to live , And if thou dost not answer these questions right , Thy head shall be taken from thy body quite : Derry down , etc And as the Shepherd was going to his fold , He 'spy'd the old Abbot come riding along , How now Master Abbot ? you're welcome home ; What News have you brought from good King John ? Derry down , etc Sad news , sad news , I have thee to give , For I have but Three days space for to live ; If I do not answer him Questions three , My head will be taken from my body : Derry down , etc When he is set on his Steed so high , With his Crown of Gold upon his head , among all his Nobility , with joy & much mirth , I must tell him to one penny what he is worth : Derry down , etc And the next Question I must not flout , How long he shall be riding the World about , And the third Question I must not shrink , But tell to him truly what he does think : Derry down , etc O Master , did you never hear it yet , That a Fool may learn a Wise man wit ? Lend me but your Horse and your Apparel , I'll ride to fair London , and answer the Quarrel : Derry down , etc Now I am set on my Steed so high , With my Crown of Gold upon my head , among all my Nobility with joy & much mirth , Now tell me to one penny what I am worth : Derry down , etc For Thirty pence our Saviour was sold , among the false Jews , as you have been told ; And Nine and twenty's the worth of thee ; For I think thou art one penny worse than he : Derry down , etc And the next Question thou mayest not flout , How long I shall be riding the World abou You must rise with the Sun , & ride with the same , Until the next morning it rises again , And then I am sure you will make no doubt , But in Twenty-four hours you'll ride it abou Derry down , etc And the third Question you must not shrink , But tell to me truly what I do think : All that I can do , and 'twill make you merry , For you think I'm the Abbot of Canterbury ; But I'm his poor Shepherd , as you may see , And am come to beg pardon for he and for me : Derry down , etc The King he turn'd him about , and did smile , Saying , Thou shalt be the Abbot the other while : O no my Grace , there is no such need , For I can neither Write nor Read : Derry down , etc Then Four pounds a week will I give unto thee , For this merry true Jest thou hast told unto me ; And tell the old Abbot when thou comest home , Thou hast brought him a Pardon from good King John. Derry down , etc FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . A New Ballad of King John and the Abbot of Canterbury . To the Tune of , The King and the Lord Abbot . With Allowance . I'LL tell you a Story , a Story anon , Of a noble Prince , & his name was King John : For he was a Prince , & a Prince of great might , He held up great wrongs , he put down great right . Derry down , down heigh derry down . I'll tell you a Story , a Story so merry , Concerning the Abbot of Canterbury , And of his housekeeping and high renown , Which made him resort to fair London Town : Derry down etc How now Brother Abbot ? 'tis told unto me , That thou keepest a far better house [ th ] and I , And for thy housekeeping and high renown , I fear thou hast treason against my crown . Derry worser [ own , etc ] I hope my Liege that you owe me no grudge , For spending of my true got goods . If thou dost not answer me questions three , Thy head shall be taken from thy body . Derry down , etc When I am set on my steed so high , With my crown of gold upon my head , among all my nobility with joy & much mirth Thou must tell me to one penny what I am worth . Derry down , etc And the next question you must not flout , How long I shall be riding the World about ; And the third question thou must not shrink , But tell to me truly what I do think . Derry down , etc O These are hard questions for my shallow wit , For I cannot answer your Grace as yet , But if you will give me but three days space I'll do my endeavour to answer your Grace . Derry down , down heigh derry down . O three days space I will thee give , For that is the longest day thou hast to live , And if thou dost not answer these questions right , Thy head shall be taken from thy body quite : Derry down , etc And as the Shepherd was going to his fold , He 'spy'd the old Abbot come riding along , How now Master Abbot ? you're welcome home ; What News have you brought from good King John ? Derry down , etc Sad news , sad news , I have thee to give , For I have but Three days space for to live ; If I do not answer him Questions three , My head will be taken from my body : Derry down , etc When he is set on his Steed so high , With his Crown of Gold upon his head , among all his Nobility , with joy & much mirth , I must tell him to one penny what he is worth : Derry down , etc And the next Question I must not flout , How long he shall be riding the World about , And the third Question I must not shrink , But tell to him truly what he does think : Derry down , etc O Master , did you never hear it yet , That a Fool may learn a Wise man wit ? Lend me but your Horse and your Apparel , I'll ride to fair London , and answer the Quarrel : Derry down , etc Now I am set on my Steed so high , With my Crown of Gold upon my head , among all my Nobility with joy & much mirth , Now tell me to one penny what I am worth : Derry down , etc For Thirty pence our Saviour was sold , among the false Jews , as you have been told ; And Nine and twenty's the worth of thee ; For I think thou art one penny worse than he : Derry down , etc And the next Question thou mayest not flout , How long I shall be riding the World abou You must rise with the Sun , & ride with the same , Until the next morning it rises again , And then I am sure you will make no doubt , But in Twenty-four hours you'll ride it abou Derry down , etc And the third Question you must not shrink , But tell to me truly what I do think : All that I can do , and 'twill make you merry , For you think I'm the Abbot of Canterbury ; But I'm his poor Shepherd , as you may see , And am come to beg pardon for he and for me : Derry down , etc The King he turn'd him about , and did smile , Saying , Thou shalt be the Abbot the other while : O no my Grace , there is no such need , For I can neither Write nor Read : Derry down , etc Then Four pounds a week will I give unto thee , For this merry true Jest thou hast told unto me ; And tell the old Abbot when thou comest home , Thou hast brought him a Pardon from good King John. Derry down , etc FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . 