The Religious Turncoat , Or , a Late Jacobite Divine turned Williamite . Licensed according to Order . Tune of , London is a Fine Town . ( 1 ) I Lov'd no King in Forty One , When Prelacy went down ; A Cloak and Band , I then put on , And Preach'd against the Crown . Chorus . A Turncoat is a Cunning Man , That Cants to Admiration ; And Prays for any King , to gain The Peoples Approbation . ( 2 ) I shew'd them Paths to Heaven untrod , From Pop'ry to refine 'em ; And taught the People to serve God , As if the Devil were in 'em . Chor. A Turncoat , etc ( 3 ) When Charles return'd into our Land , The English Church Supporter , I shifted off my Cloak and Band , And so became a Courtier . Chor. A Turncoat , etc ( 4 ) The King's Religion I professed , And found there was no harm in't ; I Cog'd and Flatter'd like the rest , Till I had god Preferment . Chor. A Turncoat , etc ( 5 ) I taught my Conscience how to Cope With Honesty or Evil ; And when I railed against the Pope , I sided with the Devil . Chor. A Turncoat , etc ( 6 ) When Royal James began his Reign , And Mass was used in Common , I shifted off my Faith again , And then became a Roman . Chor. A Turncoat , etc ( 7 ) I Order took i' th' Church of Rome , And Read the Declarations , And prov'd that all the World must come To Transubstantiation . Chor. A Turncoat , etc ( 8 ) His Holiness the Pope to please , By the Lord's Assistance , To bring in Pop'ry with more ease , I preached up Non-Resistance . Chor. A Turncoat , etc [ 9 ] Our Prince of Wales was soon betray'd , And then the headstrong Rabble Grew angry with the Child , and made The Devil rock the Cradle . Chor. A Turncoat , etc ( 10 ) When Cause grew Sick , & King grew Tame , I fell from Priest to Pagan ; Just as the Belgic Lion came , To quell the Romish Dragon . Chor. A Turncoat , etc ( 11 ) When William had possessed the Throne , And Cur'd the Nations Grievance , New Principles I then put on , And swore to him Allegiance . Chor. A Turncoat , etc ( 12 ) And now Preach up King William's Right , Pray for his Foes Confusion ; And shall remain a Williamite , Till another Revolution . Chorus . A Turncoat is a Cunning Man , That Cants to Admiration ; And Prays for any King to gain The Peoples Approbation . London , Printed for Rich. Kell , in West-Smithfield . 1693. The Religious Turncoat , Or , a Late Jacobite Divine turned Williamite . Licensed according to Order . Tune of , London is a Fine Town . ( 1 ) I Lov'd no King in Forty One , When Prelacy went down ; A Cloak and Band , I then put on , And Preach'd against the Crown . Chorus . A Turncoat is a Cunning Man , That Cants to Admiration ; And Prays for any King , to gain The Peoples Approbation . ( 2 ) I shew'd them Paths to Heaven untrod , From Pop'ry to refine 'em ; And taught the People to serve God , As if the Devil were in 'em . Chor. A Turncoat , etc ( 3 ) When Charles return'd into our Land , The English Church Supporter , I shifted off my Cloak and Band , And so became a Courtier . Chor. A Turncoat , etc ( 4 ) The King's Religion I professed , And found there was no harm in't ; I Cog'd and Flatter'd like the rest , Till I had god Preferment . Chor. A Turncoat , etc ( 5 ) I taught my Conscience how to Cope With Honesty or Evil ; And when I railed against the Pope , I sided with the Devil . Chor. A Turncoat , etc ( 6 ) When Royal James began his Reign , And Mass was used in Common , I shifted off my Faith again , And then became a Roman . Chor. A Turncoat , etc ( 7 ) I Order took i' th' Church of Rome , And Read the Declarations , And prov'd that all the World must come To Transubstantiation . Chor. A Turncoat , etc ( 8 ) His Holiness the Pope to please , By the Lord's Assistance , To bring in Pop'ry with more ease , I preached up Non-Resistance . Chor. A Turncoat , etc [ 9 ] Our Prince of Wales was soon betray'd , And then the headstrong Rabble Grew angry with the Child , and made The Devil rock the Cradle . Chor. A Turncoat , etc ( 10 ) When Cause grew Sick , & King grew Tame , I fell from Priest to Pagan ; Just as the Belgic Lion came , To quell the Romish Dragon . Chor. A Turncoat , etc ( 11 ) When William had possessed the Throne , And Cur'd the Nations Grievance , New Principles I then put on , And swore to him Allegiance . Chor. A Turncoat , etc ( 12 ) And now Preach up King William's Right , Pray for his Foes Confusion ; And shall remain a Williamite , Till another Revolution . Chorus . A Turncoat is a Cunning Man , That Cants to Admiration ; And Prays for any King to gain The Peoples Approbation . London , Printed for Rich. Kell , in West-Smithfield . 1693. 