The KNIGHT and the BEGGER-WENCH . Which does a wanton Prank unfold , In as merry a Story as ever was told . To the Tune of , The King's Deligh or , Turn-Coat , etc I Met with a jovial Beggar , And into the fields I led her , and I laid her upon the ground ; Her face did not invite me , Nor her smock did much delight me , but I think the young Whore was found ; With Ladies both fresh and gay I often did sport and play , Yet a Beggar I'll take For varieties sake , She'll please me as well as they . I have a good Wife , as fair As ever drew English air , her pleasure is past compare , Her cherry lips , cheeks , and eyes , Her belly , her breast , and thighs , might any but I suffice ; With her I so often play , And weary my time away , That a fouler to me , Would be fairer than she , Variety wins the day . This Beggar I should describe , Without any hope of bribe , was one of the Maundring tribe ; She had a fine foot and leg , As nimble as doe or stag , and then she began to beg , So soon as my horse she sees , She fell down upon her knees , The Whore had a sack , That hung at her back Well furnish'd with bred and cheese . She struck me into a dump , the Jade was both young and plump , with a round and ranting rump ; Her feature had so much force , It raised in me remorse , and drew me quite off my horse ; But when I began to woo , She told me she would not do : Quoth I , Pretty Mort , Let me show you some sport ; She kissed me , and answered no . My horse to a twig I ty'd , The Beggar-wench then reply'd , Good Master get up and ride ; Yes , so I will straight ( thought I , ) With that I drew something nigh , she struggled and cry'd , Fie , fie , I am but a Beggar by breed ; Quoth I , Let me do this deed , For he that will scorn , A Beggar-wench born , May want a good turn at need . Then into her arms I claps , Quoth she , Now I'm in your traps , what shall I do with my scraps ? Throw them in the bush , said I . No , no , she did straight reply , there's pig , and pudding , and pie , We beg for better or worse , My b [ l ] essings I will not curse . Why then , quoth I , Go run presently And throw it 'thwart my horse . She then ( in a merry vein ) Did trip to me back again , to put me out of my pain . She dazzled so my sighed , That neither by day or night , I ever had such delight , So close to me now she clings , And flutters abroad her wings . But my bashful jade , Asham'd of the trade , Brake lose and away she flings . I rise and away ran I , The Beggar-wench then did cry , My pig and my pudding-pie ; I ran and I cursed and swore , Until I came to my door , but the horse was god home before : I bade the Wench stay behind , And told her I would be kind ; But when I came home , I look'd like a Mome , I wish'd that I had been blind . My Wife and my Neighbours all Did laugh , you might hear 'em bawl from Temple-bar to White-hall , My Sweet-heart's p [ r ] ovant was found , Which lay in the wallet bound , and scatter'd about the ground ; The sighed of my Wife did daunt , And make my heart prick and pant , Sir Thomas , quoth she , And spoke merrily , Where god you this good provant ? Thought I , it is best to bear up , Although of this venomous cup I take but a sorrowful sup , In the twinkling of one's eyes , I thought of a thousand lies , but ne'r a one would suffice ; I many things had in doubt , Yet could not well bring 'em about , As I went to begin , The Wench came in , And so came the story out . My Lady did laugh outright , As if she had much delight , but I found it not so at night ; I gave the poor Wench a piece , But wished she had been in Greece , to tell such a tale as this ; My Madam does make it slight , But I have god nothing by't , For when she wants her wish , It is thrown in my dish , I'd better been hang'd outright . FINIS . London : Printed by and for W.O. for A.M. and sold by C. Bates in Pie-corner . The KNIGHT and the BEGGER-WENCH . Which does a wanton Prank unfold , In as merry a Story as ever was told . To the Tune of , The King's Deligh or , Turn-Coat , etc I Met with a jovial Beggar , And into the fields I led her , and I laid her upon the ground ; Her face did not invite me , Nor her smock did much delight me , but I think the young Whore was found ; With Ladies both fresh and gay I often did sport and play , Yet a Beggar I'll take For varieties sake , She'll please me as well as they . I have a good Wife , as fair As ever drew English air , her pleasure is past compare , Her cherry lips , cheeks , and eyes , Her belly , her breast , and thighs , might any but I suffice ; With her I so often play , And weary my time away , That a fouler to me , Would be fairer than she , Variety wins the day . This Beggar I should describe , Without any hope of bribe , was one of the Maundring tribe ; She had a fine foot and leg , As nimble as doe or stag , and then she began to beg , So soon as my horse she sees , She fell down upon her knees , The Whore had a sack , That hung at her back Well furnish'd with bred and cheese . She struck me into a dump , the Jade was both young and plump , with a round and ranting rump ; Her feature had so much force , It raised in me remorse , and drew me quite off my horse ; But when I began to woo , She told me she would not do : Quoth I , Pretty Mort , Let me show you some sport ; She kissed me , and answered no . My horse to a twig I ty'd , The Beggar-wench then reply'd , Good Master get up and ride ; Yes , so I will straight ( thought I , ) With that I drew something nigh , she struggled and cry'd , Fie , fie , I am but a Beggar by breed ; Quoth I , Let me do this deed , For he that will scorn , A Beggar-wench born , May want a good turn at need . Then into her arms I claps , Quoth she , Now I'm in your traps , what shall I do with my scraps ? Throw them in the bush , said I . No , no , she did straight reply , there's pig , and pudding , and pie , We beg for better or worse , My b [ l ] essings I will not curse . Why then , quoth I , Go run presently And throw it 'thwart my horse . She then ( in a merry vein ) Did trip to me back again , to put me out of my pain . She dazzled so my sighed , That neither by day or night , I ever had such delight , So close to me now she clings , And flutters abroad her wings . But my bashful jade , Asham'd of the trade , Brake lose and away she flings . I rise and away ran I , The Beggar-wench then did cry , My pig and my pudding-pie ; I ran and I cursed and swore , Until I came to my door , but the horse was god home before : I bade the Wench stay behind , And told her I would be kind ; But when I came home , I look'd like a Mome , I wish'd that I had been blind . My Wife and my Neighbours all Did laugh , you might hear 'em bawl from Temple-bar to White-hall , My Sweet-heart's p [ r ] ovant was found , Which lay in the wallet bound , and scatter'd about the ground ; The sighed of my Wife did daunt , And make my heart prick and pant , Sir Thomas , quoth she , And spoke merrily , Where god you this good provant ? Thought I , it is best to bear up , Although of this venomous cup I take but a sorrowful sup , In the twinkling of one's eyes , I thought of a thousand lies , but ne'r a one would suffice ; I many things had in doubt , Yet could not well bring 'em about , As I went to begin , The Wench came in , And so came the story out . My Lady did laugh outright , As if she had much delight , but I found it not so at night ; I gave the poor Wench a piece , But wished she had been in Greece , to tell such a tale as this ; My Madam does make it slight , But I have god nothing by't , For when she wants her wish , It is thrown in my dish , I'd better been hang'd outright . FINIS . London : Printed by and for W.O. for A.M. and sold by C. Bates in Pie-corner . 