THE PROTESTANT QUEEN : OR THE , Glorious Proclaiming her Royal Highness Princess Ann of Denmark , Queen of England , Scotland , France , and Ireland , on the 8th of March , 1702. To the joy and Satisfaction of all Loyal and Loving Sub - jects To the Tune of Gallant Sailor . Licensed according to Order . I Must confess that we all Lamented , the sudden Death of our Gracious King , Both Lords & Commons were discontented who then in sorrow their hands did wring But here is a blessing we are possessing , the which may Comfort our hearts again , And glad the Nation by Proclamation , Queen Ann has farely begun her Reign . Through London City in various places , this happy sighed was in Triumph seen , Both Nobles , Heralds , and Golden Maces , was at proclaiming our Royal Queen , With pomp attended 'twas great and splended , our sorrows now are to Comforts grown , Because a Blessing we are possessing , Queen Ann the Glory of Englands Throne . Here might you see a straying alteration , those that did weep in the Morning soon , Was pleas'd and Smil'd at the proclamation , which was near five in the afternoon , No soul seem'd fearful , all glad and cheerful , their sorrows now was to Comforts grown , Our Royal Princess her Reign commences , Queen Ann the Glory of Englands Throne . Now let her Subject's be true and loyal , with her sweet presence new Joys she brings , A Princess born of the true Blood Royal descended down from a Raze of Kings Which are Deceased from Cares Released , now she is come to enjoy her own , This happy blessing we're now possessing , Queen Ann the Glory of Englands Throne . We may observe by her declaration , that she'l endeavour to imitate , Elizabeth in this Royal Station , who was both powerful good and great , All hearts surrender to our Defender , of all that e'er we can call our own , Our Laws to Nourish , long may she flourish , with Brightness on the imperial Throne . She told her Counsel at the first meeting , what sense she had of our present state , Who was well pleas'd at her Royal greeting , while weighty matters they did debate , Thro' God's direction such saitisfaction , she gave them then as it is well known , That they were pleased their hearts were eased long may she Reign on the Royal Throne . She is a Protestant true Professor , which Church she chdarfully will maintain , May Heavens prosper , preserve and bless her , with a long flourishing happy Reign , As also pleasure , Joy , Honour , Treasure , now she is come to possess her own , A cheerful blessing we are possessing , Queen Ann the Glory of Englands Throne . She has declar'd that she will be guided , by her grave Counsel and Parliament , From them she never will be divided , this is her Royal true intent , Thus all agreeging a happy being , will cause our foes to make sad moan , As we the blessing are still possessing , Queen Ann the Glory of Englands Throne . O that kind Heaven once more would favour Her Majesty with a Royal Son , That so the Line may endure forever , and shine as bright as it e'er has done That so from dangers of Popish strangers , true Subject's here may enjoy their own , And he postessing as choice a blessing , as now is on the imperial Throne . The Jacks began for to laughed and flear , and seem'd to prick up their lousy Ears , But let them know there is Life and Vigor , in our blessed Queen and her Noble Peers : Enough to quail them nay scourge & jail them if still they dare to affrount the Throne , Then Jacks be quiet and make no Riot , for fear the Devil should claim his own . THE PROTESTANT QUEEN : OR THE , Glorious Proclaiming her Royal Highness Princess Ann of Denmark , Queen of England , Scotland , France , and Ireland , on the 8th of March , 1702. To the joy and Satisfaction of all Loyal and Loving Sub - jects To the Tune of Gallant Sailor . Licensed according to Order . I Must confess that we all Lamented , the sudden Death of our Gracious King , Both Lords & Commons were discontented who then in sorrow their hands did wring But here is a blessing we are possessing , the which may Comfort our hearts again , And glad the Nation by Proclamation , Queen Ann has farely begun her Reign . Through London City in various places , this happy sighed was in Triumph seen , Both Nobles , Heralds , and Golden Maces , was at proclaiming our Royal Queen , With pomp attended 'twas great and splended , our sorrows now are to Comforts grown , Because a Blessing we are possessing , Queen Ann the Glory of Englands Throne . Here might you see a straying alteration , those that did weep in the Morning soon , Was pleas'd and Smil'd at the proclamation , which was near five in the afternoon , No soul seem'd fearful , all glad and cheerful , their sorrows now was to Comforts grown , Our Royal Princess her Reign commences , Queen Ann the Glory of Englands Throne . Now let her Subject's be true and loyal , with her sweet presence new Joys she brings , A Princess born of the true Blood Royal descended down from a Raze of Kings Which are Deceased from Cares Released , now she is come to enjoy her own , This happy blessing we're now possessing , Queen Ann the Glory of Englands Throne . We may observe by her declaration , that she'l endeavour to imitate , Elizabeth in this Royal Station , who was both powerful good and great , All hearts surrender to our Defender , of all that e'er we can call our own , Our Laws to Nourish , long may she flourish , with Brightness on the imperial Throne . She told her Counsel at the first meeting , what sense she had of our present state , Who was well pleas'd at her Royal greeting , while weighty matters they did debate , Thro' God's direction such saitisfaction , she gave them then as it is well known , That they were pleased their hearts were eased long may she Reign on the Royal Throne . She is a Protestant true Professor , which Church she chdarfully will maintain , May Heavens prosper , preserve and bless her , with a long flourishing happy Reign , As also pleasure , Joy , Honour , Treasure , now she is come to possess her own , A cheerful blessing we are possessing , Queen Ann the Glory of Englands Throne . She has declar'd that she will be guided , by her grave Counsel and Parliament , From them she never will be divided , this is her Royal true intent , Thus all agreeging a happy being , will cause our foes to make sad moan , As we the blessing are still possessing , Queen Ann the Glory of Englands Throne . O that kind Heaven once more would favour Her Majesty with a Royal Son , That so the Line may endure forever , and shine as bright as it e'er has done That so from dangers of Popish strangers , true Subject's here may enjoy their own , And he postessing as choice a blessing , as now is on the imperial Throne . The Jacks began for to laughed and flear , and seem'd to prick up their lousy Ears , But let them know there is Life and Vigor , in our blessed Queen and her Noble Peers : Enough to quail them nay scourge & jail them if still they dare to affrount the Throne , Then Jacks be quiet and make no Riot , for fear the Devil should claim his own . 