The Jovial Crew : OR , Beggars-Bush , In which a mad Maunder does vapour and swagger , With praising the Trade of a bonney bold Beggar . To the tune of , From hunger , and cold , etc A Beggar , a Beggar , A Beggar I'le be . There's none leads a Life so jocund as he ; A Beggar I was And a Beggar I am , a Beggar I'll be , from a Beggar I came : If ( as it begins ) our Trading do fallen , I fear ( at the last ) we shall be Beggars all Our Tradesmen miscarry in all their Affairs , And few men grow wealthy , but Courtiers and Players A Craver my Father , A Maunder my Mother , A Filer my Sister , a Filcher my Brother , A Cauter my Uncle That car'd not for Pelf ; a Lifter my Aunt , a Beggar my self ; in white wheaten-straw , when their bellies were full , Then I was begotten , between Tinker & Trul And therefore a Beggar , a Beggar I'le be , For none hath a spirit so jocund as he . When Boys do come to us , And that their intent is to follow our Calling , we never bind them Prentice Soon as they come too't , We teach them to doo't and give them a staff , & a Wallet to boo't , We teach them their Lingua , to crave and to Cant , The devil is in them , if then they can want . If any are here , that Beggars will be , We without Indentures will make them free . We beg for our bred , But sometime it happens , we feast it with Pigg , Pullet , Conny and Capons , For Churches Affairs , We are no Men-slayers ; we have no Religion , yet live by our Pra-yers , But if when we beg , Men will not draw their purses , We charge & give fire , with a valley of curses The Devil confound your good worship we cry And such a bold brazen-fac'd Beggar am I . The second Part , To the same Tune , WE do Things in season , And have so much Reason , we raise no Rebellion , nor never talk Treason . We Billet our mates At very low Rates , while some keep their Quarters as high as the Gates With Shinkin ap Morgan , with Blew-cap , or Tege , We enter into no Covenant , nor League : And therefore a bonney bold Beggar I'le be ; For none lives a life so happy as he . We never do prate , In matters of State , For fear we should come to Hugh Peters his Fate While Scripture unfolders , And Treason upholders , Have lost their heads , we keep ours on our shoulders Our Plots & our Projects , are never so tall To reach to the Topmast of Westminster-hall And therefore a merry brave Beggar I'le be , For none wears his Nodle so safely as he . For such petty Pledges , As Shirts from the Hedges , we are not in fear to be drawn upon Sledges But sometime the Whip , Does make us to skip , And then we from Tithing to Tithing do trip , For when in a poor housing-ken we do bib it We stand more in awe of the Stocks then the Gibbet And therefore a merry mad Beggar I'le be , For when it is night , to the Barn goes he . We throw down no Altar , Nor ever do falter So much , as to change a Gold-Chain , for a Halter : Though some men do flout us ; And others do doubt us , we never go without forty pieces about us ; But many brave fellows are fine & look fiercer That owe for their Clothes to the Taylor and Mercer : And if from the Stocks I can keep out my feet , I fear not the Compter , Kings-bench nor the Fleet. Sometime I do frame , Myself to be lame ; and when a coach comes , I do hop to my game : We seldom miscarry , Yet never do Marry , By the Gowns-Common-Prayer , nor the Cloack-Directory , But Harry & Mary ( like birds of a feather ) do nothing but kiss , laugh , & lie down together Like Piggs in the peas-straw , entangled they lie Till there they beget such a bold Rogue as I . To sum all in brief , We live by relief , And pray for King Charles , our Commander in chief : God bless all the Peers , The wise Overseers , that they may consider the poor Cavaliers , For if they let them but lower to fallen , The'l take our profession & beggar us all : And then it will be but a folly for me , A merry soul'd , bonny bold Beggar to be . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . The Jovial Crew : OR , Beggars-Bush , In which a mad Maunder does vapour and swagger , With praising the Trade of a bonney bold Beggar . To the tune of , From hunger , and cold , etc A Beggar , a Beggar , A Beggar I'le be . There's none leads a Life so jocund as he ; A Beggar I was And a Beggar I am , a Beggar I'll be , from a Beggar I came : If ( as it begins ) our Trading do fallen , I fear ( at the last ) we shall be Beggars all Our Tradesmen miscarry in all their Affairs , And few men grow wealthy , but Courtiers and Players A Craver my Father , A Maunder my Mother , A Filer my Sister , a Filcher my Brother , A Cauter my Uncle That car'd not for Pelf ; a Lifter my Aunt , a Beggar my self ; in white wheaten-straw , when their bellies were full , Then I was begotten , between Tinker & Trul And therefore a Beggar , a Beggar I'le be , For none hath a spirit so jocund as he . When Boys do come to us , And that their intent is to follow our Calling , we never bind them Prentice Soon as they come too't , We teach them to doo't and give them a staff , & a Wallet to boo't , We teach them their Lingua , to crave and to Cant , The devil is in them , if then they can want . If any are here , that Beggars will be , We without Indentures will make them free . We beg for our bred , But sometime it happens , we feast it with Pigg , Pullet , Conny and Capons , For Churches Affairs , We are no Men-slayers ; we have no Religion , yet live by our Pra-yers , But if when we beg , Men will not draw their purses , We charge & give fire , with a valley of curses The Devil confound your good worship we cry And such a bold brazen-fac'd Beggar am I . The second Part , To the same Tune , WE do Things in season , And have so much Reason , we raise no Rebellion , nor never talk Treason . We Billet our mates At very low Rates , while some keep their Quarters as high as the Gates With Shinkin ap Morgan , with Blew-cap , or Tege , We enter into no Covenant , nor League : And therefore a bonney bold Beggar I'le be ; For none lives a life so happy as he . We never do prate , In matters of State , For fear we should come to Hugh Peters his Fate While Scripture unfolders , And Treason upholders , Have lost their heads , we keep ours on our shoulders Our Plots & our Projects , are never so tall To reach to the Topmast of Westminster-hall And therefore a merry brave Beggar I'le be , For none wears his Nodle so safely as he . For such petty Pledges , As Shirts from the Hedges , we are not in fear to be drawn upon Sledges But sometime the Whip , Does make us to skip , And then we from Tithing to Tithing do trip , For when in a poor housing-ken we do bib it We stand more in awe of the Stocks then the Gibbet And therefore a merry mad Beggar I'le be , For when it is night , to the Barn goes he . We throw down no Altar , Nor ever do falter So much , as to change a Gold-Chain , for a Halter : Though some men do flout us ; And others do doubt us , we never go without forty pieces about us ; But many brave fellows are fine & look fiercer That owe for their Clothes to the Taylor and Mercer : And if from the Stocks I can keep out my feet , I fear not the Compter , Kings-bench nor the Fleet. Sometime I do frame , Myself to be lame ; and when a coach comes , I do hop to my game : We seldom miscarry , Yet never do Marry , By the Gowns-Common-Prayer , nor the Cloack-Directory , But Harry & Mary ( like birds of a feather ) do nothing but kiss , laugh , & lie down together Like Piggs in the peas-straw , entangled they lie Till there they beget such a bold Rogue as I . To sum all in brief , We live by relief , And pray for King Charles , our Commander in chief : God bless all the Peers , The wise Overseers , that they may consider the poor Cavaliers , For if they let them but lower to fallen , The'l take our profession & beggar us all : And then it will be but a folly for me , A merry soul'd , bonny bold Beggar to be . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . The Jovial Crew : OR , Beggars-Bush , In which a mad Maunder does vapour and swagger , With praising the Trade of a bonney bold Beggar . To the tune of , From hunger , and cold , etc A Beggar , a Beggar , A Beggar I'le be . There's none leads a Life so jocund as he ; A Beggar I was And a Beggar I am , a Beggar I'll be , from a Beggar I came : If ( as it begins ) our Trading do fallen , I fear ( at the last ) we shall be Beggars all Our Tradesmen miscarry in all their Affairs , And few men grow wealthy , but Courtiers and Players A Craver my Father , A Maunder my Mother , A Filer my Sister , a Filcher my Brother , A Cauter my Uncle That car'd not for Pelf ; a Lifter my Aunt , a Beggar my self ; in white wheaten-straw , when their bellies were full , Then I was begotten , between Tinker & Trul And therefore a Beggar , a Beggar I'le be , For none hath a spirit so jocund as he . When Boys do come to us , And that their intent is to follow our Calling , we never bind them Prentice Soon as they come too't , We teach them to doo't and give them a staff , & a Wallet to boo't , We teach them their Lingua , to crave and to Cant , The devil is in them , if then they can want . If any are here , that Beggars will be , We without Indentures will make them free . We beg for our bred , But sometime it happens , we feast it with Pigg , Pullet , Conny and Capons , For Churches Affairs , We are no Men-slayers ; we have no Religion , yet live by our Pra-yers , But if when we beg , Men will not draw their purses , We charge & give fire , with a valley of curses The Devil confound your good worship we cry And such a bold brazen-fac'd Beggar am I . The second Part , To the same Tune , WE do Things in season , And have so much Reason , we raise no Rebellion , nor never talk Treason . We Billet our mates At very low Rates , while some keep their Quarters as high as the Gates With Shinkin ap Morgan , with Blew-cap , or Tege , We enter into no Covenant , nor League : And therefore a bonney bold Beggar I'le be ; For none lives a life so happy as he . We never do prate , In matters of State , For fear we should come to Hugh Peters his Fate While Scripture unfolders , And Treason upholders , Have lost their heads , we keep ours on our shoulders Our Plots & our Projects , are never so tall To reach to the Topmast of Westminster-hall And therefore a merry brave Beggar I'le be , For none wears his Nodle so safely as he . For such petty Pledges , As Shirts from the Hedges , we are not in fear to be drawn upon Sledges But sometime the Whip , Does make us to skip , And then we from Tithing to Tithing do trip , For when in a poor housing-ken we do bib it We stand more in awe of the Stocks then the Gibbet And therefore a merry mad Beggar I'le be , For when it is night , to the Barn goes he . We throw down no Altar , Nor ever do falter So much , as to change a Gold-Chain , for a Halter : Though some men do flout us ; And others do doubt us , we never go without forty pieces about us ; But many brave fellows are fine & look fiercer That owe for their Clothes to the Taylor and Mercer : And if from the Stocks I can keep out my feet , I fear not the Compter , Kings-bench nor the Fleet. Sometime I do frame , Myself to be lame ; and when a coach comes , I do hop to my game : We seldom miscarry , Yet never do Marry , By the Gowns-Common-Prayer , nor the Cloack-Directory , But Harry & Mary ( like birds of a feather ) do nothing but kiss , laugh , & lie down together Like Piggs in the peas-straw , entangled they lie Till there they beget such a bold Rogue as I . To sum all in brief , We live by relief , And pray for King Charles , our Commander in chief : God bless all the Peers , The wise Overseers , that they may consider the poor Cavaliers , For if they let them but lower to fallen , The'l take our profession & beggar us all : And then it will be but a folly for me , A merry soul'd , bonny bold Beggar to be . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . The Jovial Crew : OR , Beggars-Bush , In which a mad Maunder does vapour and swagger , With praising the Trade of a bonney bold Beggar . To the tune of , From hunger , and cold , etc A Beggar , a Beggar , A Beggar I'le be . There's none leads a Life so jocund as he ; A Beggar I was And a Beggar I am , a Beggar I'll be , from a Beggar I came : If ( as it begins ) our Trading do fallen , I fear ( at the last ) we shall be Beggars all Our Tradesmen miscarry in all their Affairs , And few men grow wealthy , but Courtiers and Players A Craver my Father , A Maunder my Mother , A Filer my Sister , a Filcher my Brother , A Cauter my Uncle That car'd not for Pelf ; a Lifter my Aunt , a Beggar my self ; in white wheaten-straw , when their bellies were full , Then I was begotten , between Tinker & Trul And therefore a Beggar , a Beggar I'le be , For none hath a spirit so jocund as he . When Boys do come to us , And that their intent is to follow our Calling , we never bind them Prentice Soon as they come too't , We teach them to doo't and give them a staff , & a Wallet to boo't , We teach them their Lingua , to crave and to Cant , The devil is in them , if then they can want . If any are here , that Beggars will be , We without Indentures will make them free . We beg for our bred , But sometime it happens , we feast it with Pigg , Pullet , Conny and Capons , For Churches Affairs , We are no Men-slayers ; we have no Religion , yet live by our Pra-yers , But if when we beg , Men will not draw their purses , We charge & give fire , with a valley of curses The Devil confound your good worship we cry And such a bold brazen-fac'd Beggar am I . The second Part , To the same Tune , WE do Things in season , And have so much Reason , we raise no Rebellion , nor never talk Treason . We Billet our mates At very low Rates , while some keep their Quarters as high as the Gates With Shinkin ap Morgan , with Blew-cap , or Tege , We enter into no Covenant , nor League : And therefore a bonney bold Beggar I'le be ; For none lives a life so happy as he . We never do prate , In matters of State , For fear we should come to Hugh Peters his Fate While Scripture unfolders , And Treason upholders , Have lost their heads , we keep ours on our shoulders Our Plots & our Projects , are never so tall To reach to the Topmast of Westminster-hall And therefore a merry brave Beggar I'le be , For none wears his Nodle so safely as he . For such petty Pledges , As Shirts from the Hedges , we are not in fear to be drawn upon Sledges But sometime the Whip , Does make us to skip , And then we from Tithing to Tithing do trip , For when in a poor housing-ken we do bib it We stand more in awe of the Stocks then the Gibbet And therefore a merry mad Beggar I'le be , For when it is night , to the Barn goes he . We throw down no Altar , Nor ever do falter So much , as to change a Gold-Chain , for a Halter : Though some men do flout us ; And others do doubt us , we never go without forty pieces about us ; But many brave fellows are fine & look fiercer That owe for their Clothes to the Taylor and Mercer : And if from the Stocks I can keep out my feet , I fear not the Compter , Kings-bench nor the Fleet. Sometime I do frame , Myself to be lame ; and when a coach comes , I do hop to my game : We seldom miscarry , Yet never do Marry , By the Gowns-Common-Prayer , nor the Cloack-Directory , But Harry & Mary ( like birds of a feather ) do nothing but kiss , laugh , & lie down together Like Piggs in the peas-straw , entangled they lie Till there they beget such a bold Rogue as I . To sum all in brief , We live by relief , And pray for King Charles , our Commander in chief : God bless all the Peers , The wise Overseers , that they may consider the poor Cavaliers , For if they let them but lower to fallen , The'l take our profession & beggar us all : And then it will be but a folly for me , A merry soul'd , bonny bold Beggar to be . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . 