VIRTUE and BEAUTY in Danger ; Or , King Edward's Courting the London Virgin . FAir angel of England , thy beauty most bright , Is all my hearts pleasure , my Joy and delight ; Then grant me , fair Lady , thy true Love to be , That I may say welcome good fortune to mes The turtle so chaste and so true in her love , By gentle persuasions her fancy will move Then be not entreated fair Lady in vain , For Nature requires what I should obtain . The Phoenix so famous that lives alone , Is vowed to chastity , being but one : But be not my darling so chaste in desire , Lest thou , like the Phoenix dost penance in fire . But , alas ! Gentle Lady , I pity your fate , In being resolved to live without mate ; For if of our courting the pleasure you knew , You would have a liking the same to ensue . Long time have I sued the same to obtain , Yet I am requited with scorn and disdain : But if you will grant your good will unto me , You shall be advanced to princely degree . Promotions and Honour may often entice The chasteth that lives , tho' never so nice : What woman so worthy but could be content , To live in a palace where princes frequent . Two brides young and princely to church I have led Two ladies now lately have decked my bed : Yet hath thy love taken more root in my heart , Than all their contentment's , whereof I had part . Your gentle heart cannot men's hearts much abide , And women least angry , when mostly they chide ; Then yield to me kindly , and say that at length , Men they want mercy , and women want strength . I grant that fair ladies may poor men resist , And princes may conquer and woe when they list ; A King may command her to lie by his side , Whose features deserveth to be a King's bride . In granting your love , you shall purchase renown , Your head shall be crowned with England's crown ; Thy garments most gallant with gold shall be wrought If true love with treasure of thee may be bought . Great ladies of honour shall tend on thy train , Most richly attir'd with scarlet in grain ; My chamber most princely thy person shall keep , Where virgins with music shall rock thee to sleep . If there's any pleasure thy hear can invent , Command them , sweet lady , thy mind to content ; For kings gallant courts where princes do dwell , Affords such sweet pastime as ladies love well . Then be not resolved to die a true maid , But print in thy bosom these words I have said , And grant a King favour , your true love to be , That I may say Welcome sweet virgin to me . The VIRGIN's Answer . Oh Wanton King Edward , thy labour is vain , To follow the pleasure thou can'st not attain , With getting thou losest , and having do make it , The which if thou purchase , is spoil'd if thou hast it . But if thou obtainest it , thou hast nothing wone ; And I loose nothing , yet am quite undone ; But if of my Jewel , the king does deceive me , No king can restore , tho' a kingdom he give me . My colour is chang's since you see me last , My favour is vanish'd , my beauty is past ; The rosy read blushes that sat in my cheeck , To paleness is turn'd , which all men dislikes . I pass not for princes to love , do protest , The name of a virgin contents me best ; I have not deserved to lie by thy side , Nor yet to be counted for King Edward's Bride . The name of a princess I never did crave , No such type of honour thy handmaid will have ; My breast shall not harbour so lofty a thought , Nor be with rich proffers to wantonness brought . If wild wanton Rosamond , one of our sort , Had never frequented King Henry's fair cour Such heaps of deep sorrow she never had seen , Nor tasted the rage of so jealous a Queen . All men have their freedom to show their intent , They win not a woman except she consen Who then can impute them unto any fault , Who still does go upright , until Men make them halt . This counted a kindness in men for to try , And virtue in women the same to deny ; For women unconstant can never be prov'd , Until by their betters therein may be mov'd . If women and modesty once do him sever , Then farewell good name and credit forever . And royal king Edward , let me be exil'd , E'er any man knows my body's defil'd . No , no , my father's reverend tears Too deep and impression within my heart bears , Nor shall his bright honour that blot from me have , To bring his gray hairs with grief to the grave . The heavens forbid that when I shall die , That any such thing should upon me lie ; As I have kept myself from this since , My heart shall not yield with a prince to begin . Come rather with pity , and weep on my tomb , Then for my birth , curse my dear mother's womb , That brought forth a blossom that stained the tree With wanton desires to shame her and me . Leave off , noble King you tempt but in vain , These milkwhite affections with lewdness to stain Tho' England will give me no comforts at all , Yet England will give me a sad-burial . VIRTUE and BEAUTY in Danger ; Or , King Edward's Courting the London Virgin . FAir angel of England , thy beauty most bright , Is all my hearts pleasure , my Joy and delight ; Then grant me , fair Lady , thy true Love to be , That I may say welcome good fortune to mes The turtle so chaste and so true in her love , By gentle persuasions her fancy will move Then be not entreated fair Lady in vain , For Nature requires what I should obtain . The Phoenix so famous that lives alone , Is vowed to chastity , being but one : But be not my darling so chaste in desire , Lest thou , like the Phoenix dost penance in fire . But , alas ! Gentle Lady , I pity your fate , In being resolved to live without mate ; For if of our courting the pleasure you knew , You would have a liking the same to ensue . Long time have I sued the same to obtain , Yet I am requited with scorn and disdain : But if you will grant your good will unto me , You shall be advanced to princely degree . Promotions and Honour may often entice The chasteth that lives , tho' never so nice : What woman so worthy but could be content , To live in a palace where princes frequent . Two brides young and princely to church I have led Two ladies now lately have decked my bed : Yet hath thy love taken more root in my heart , Than all their contentment's , whereof I had part . Your gentle heart cannot men's hearts much abide , And women least angry , when mostly they chide ; Then yield to me kindly , and say that at length , Men they want mercy , and women want strength . I grant that fair ladies may poor men resist , And princes may conquer and woe when they list ; A King may command her to lie by his side , Whose features deserveth to be a King's bride . In granting your love , you shall purchase renown , Your head shall be crowned with England's crown ; Thy garments most gallant with gold shall be wrought If true love with treasure of thee may be bought . Great ladies of honour shall tend on thy train , Most richly attir'd with scarlet in grain ; My chamber most princely thy person shall keep , Where virgins with music shall rock thee to sleep . If there's any pleasure thy hear can invent , Command them , sweet lady , thy mind to content ; For kings gallant courts where princes do dwell , Affords such sweet pastime as ladies love well . Then be not resolved to die a true maid , But print in thy bosom these words I have said , And grant a King favour , your true love to be , That I may say Welcome sweet virgin to me . The VIRGIN's Answer . Oh Wanton King Edward , thy labour is vain , To follow the pleasure thou can'st not attain , With getting thou losest , and having do make it , The which if thou purchase , is spoil'd if thou hast it . But if thou obtainest it , thou hast nothing wone ; And I loose nothing , yet am quite undone ; But if of my Jewel , the king does deceive me , No king can restore , tho' a kingdom he give me . My colour is chang's since you see me last , My favour is vanish'd , my beauty is past ; The rosy read blushes that sat in my cheeck , To paleness is turn'd , which all men dislikes . I pass not for princes to love , do protest , The name of a virgin contents me best ; I have not deserved to lie by thy side , Nor yet to be counted for King Edward's Bride . The name of a princess I never did crave , No such type of honour thy handmaid will have ; My breast shall not harbour so lofty a thought , Nor be with rich proffers to wantonness brought . If wild wanton Rosamond , one of our sort , Had never frequented King Henry's fair cour Such heaps of deep sorrow she never had seen , Nor tasted the rage of so jealous a Queen . All men have their freedom to show their intent , They win not a woman except she consen Who then can impute them unto any fault , Who still does go upright , until Men make them halt . This counted a kindness in men for to try , And virtue in women the same to deny ; For women unconstant can never be prov'd , Until by their betters therein may be mov'd . If women and modesty once do him sever , Then farewell good name and credit forever . And royal king Edward , let me be exil'd , E'er any man knows my body's defil'd . No , no , my father's reverend tears Too deep and impression within my heart bears , Nor shall his bright honour that blot from me have , To bring his gray hairs with grief to the grave . The heavens forbid that when I shall die , That any such thing should upon me lie ; As I have kept myself from this since , My heart shall not yield with a prince to begin . Come rather with pity , and weep on my tomb , Then for my birth , curse my dear mother's womb , That brought forth a blossom that stained the tree With wanton desires to shame her and me . Leave off , noble King you tempt but in vain , These milkwhite affections with lewdness to stain Tho' England will give me no comforts at all , Yet England will give me a sad-burial . 