a And ELEGY On the Right Honourable Anthony Earl of Shaftsbury , Who died on the 21st . of January , 1683. THe Busy Statesmen who by Toils unblest , Torment themselves to give their Country Rest , Those public Great First movers of the State , Who almost turn the Mighty Wheels of Fate , Roul the vast Stone like Sysyphus in vain ; While Death's last Call ends a whole Ages Pain . The Graves long Rubicon must all pass o're , Whence launching Caesars can return no more . Farewell , Great Shaftsbury ! Times Sith can stretch Where Malice , Sword , and Axes ne'er could reach . Thy Life , great Statesman , stood in Fate so high , That thou by nought but Heav'ns own Hand couldst die . Yes , Heaven alone compiles thy Funeral-Urn : Less than the Sun the Phoenix shall not burn . What did wise Solon , or Lycurgus do ? Lycurgus dy'd , like Thee , and Exile too . And while proud Belgia thy Bones Entombs , And triumphs at the Glory it assumes , Belgia , who in thy Fate has now done more Than all her Trumps or Opdams could before . Belgia has vanquished more in thy one Grave , Than all the Wounds her Thunder ever gave . Sleep then thou Activ'st of Mankind : O make Thy last low Bed , and Death's long Requiem take ; Thou who while living kept'st the World awake . O may thy Funeral-Rites walk that large round , Till to thy Western-shore thy loss resound ; Till Carolina shall in Mourning stand , With all the Cypress of a Widow'd Land. Let Fools and Knaves through their false Optics find Thy Spots , and be to all thy Brightness blind . Let Envy all her monstrous Forms suggest , And lodge the Raven in the Eagles Nest. Let 'em rail on , and vent their hurtless Gall , While Shaftsbury's Renown surmounts 'em all . From his clear Fame the dissolv'd Clouds shall throw , And leave the Earthly Vapours all below . Yes , Mighty Man , lay thy great Relics down , Thou Idol of the Crowd , Dread of the Crown ; Shaftsbury in popular Arts and Hearts so learn'd As with his Weight the Scale of Nations turn'd : To him the Kingdoms Genius bent low ; The Thrones best Friend , or formidablest Foe . If the best Gifts which the kind Stars dispense , The highest Prodigies of Wit and Sense , For Immortality Foundations lay ; No Greater Soul e're lodg'd in Walls of Clay . Swiftly his restless Orb of Fire went round , And light and warmth we from his Influence found . His kindest Rays and temperater Heat The Protestants still-favour'd Climates me There his best Aspect smil'd ; while Rome alone Felt all the Fury of his Torrid Zone . This was the Cause did such great Foes engage With such keen Malice , and such Mortal Rage . For this so high the Roman Vengeance boils With Fires more hight that their old Smithfield-piles . But Heavens kind Call has all their Engines crossed , Heav'n that has lodg'd thee on that safer Coast , Whence thou look'st down and seest thy Mighty Hunter's lost . EPITAPH . UNder this Stone does Sleeping lie All that was Earth of Shaftsbury . But Funeral-Tears and Weeping Eyes Infallibility denies . While his wish'd Death's enough to be The Subject of a Jubilee . A more sworn Foe to Roman Pride Not Hannibal himself e're dy'd . For which his Deathless Fame below , His Soul above --- His Soul --- Ah , no! From Heav'n's lock'd out too sure , if they Who succeed Peter keep the Key . Doom'd to Hells hottest burning Seat , If the Popes Curse can do the Feat . If Papal Rage and Roman Spite For any but themselves Hell-fire can light . LONDON , Printed Anno Domini , MDCLXXXIII . a And ELEGY On the Right Honourable Anthony Earl of Shaftsbury , Who died on the 21st . of January , 1683. THe Busy Statesmen who by Toils unblest , Torment themselves to give their Country Rest , Those public Great First movers of the State , Who almost turn the Mighty Wheels of Fate , Roul the vast Stone like Sysyphus in vain ; While Death's last Call ends a whole Ages Pain . The Graves long Rubicon must all pass o're , Whence launching Caesars can return no more . Farewell , Great Shaftsbury ! Times Sith can stretch Where Malice , Sword , and Axes ne'er could reach . Thy Life , great Statesman , stood in Fate so high , That thou by nought but Heav'ns own Hand couldst die . Yes , Heaven alone compiles thy Funeral-Urn : Less than the Sun the Phoenix shall not burn . What did wise Solon , or Lycurgus do ? Lycurgus dy'd , like Thee , and Exile too . And while proud Belgia thy Bones Entombs , And triumphs at the Glory it assumes , Belgia , who in thy Fate has now done more Than all her Trumps or Opdams could before . Belgia has vanquished more in thy one Grave , Than all the Wounds her Thunder ever gave . Sleep then thou Activ'st of Mankind : O make Thy last low Bed , and Death's long Requiem take ; Thou who while living kept'st the World awake . O may thy Funeral-Rites walk that large round , Till to thy Western-shore thy loss resound ; Till Carolina shall in Mourning stand , With all the Cypress of a Widow'd Land. Let Fools and Knaves through their false Optics find Thy Spots , and be to all thy Brightness blind . Let Envy all her monstrous Forms suggest , And lodge the Raven in the Eagles Nest. Let 'em rail on , and vent their hurtless Gall , While Shaftsbury's Renown surmounts 'em all . From his clear Fame the dissolv'd Clouds shall throw , And leave the Earthly Vapours all below . Yes , Mighty Man , lay thy great Relics down , Thou Idol of the Crowd , Dread of the Crown ; Shaftsbury in popular Arts and Hearts so learn'd As with his Weight the Scale of Nations turn'd : To him the Kingdoms Genius bent low ; The Thrones best Friend , or formidablest Foe . If the best Gifts which the kind Stars dispense , The highest Prodigies of Wit and Sense , For Immortality Foundations lay ; No Greater Soul e're lodg'd in Walls of Clay . Swiftly his restless Orb of Fire went round , And light and warmth we from his Influence found . His kindest Rays and temperater Heat The Protestants still-favour'd Climates me There his best Aspect smil'd ; while Rome alone Felt all the Fury of his Torrid Zone . This was the Cause did such great Foes engage With such keen Malice , and such Mortal Rage . For this so high the Roman Vengeance boils With Fires more hight that their old Smithfield-piles . But Heavens kind Call has all their Engines crossed , Heav'n that has lodg'd thee on that safer Coast , Whence thou look'st down and seest thy Mighty Hunter's lost . EPITAPH . UNder this Stone does Sleeping lie All that was Earth of Shaftsbury . But Funeral-Tears and Weeping Eyes Infallibility denies . While his wish'd Death's enough to be The Subject of a Jubilee . A more sworn Foe to Roman Pride Not Hannibal himself e're dy'd . For which his Deathless Fame below , His Soul above --- His Soul --- Ah , no! From Heav'n's lock'd out too sure , if they Who succeed Peter keep the Key . Doom'd to Hells hottest burning Seat , If the Popes Curse can do the Feat . If Papal Rage and Roman Spite For any but themselves Hell-fire can light . LONDON , Printed Anno Domini , MDCLXXXIII . 