The Westminster Lovers . Loves passion is so violent , Beyond all opposition , It makes poor Lovers of Lament , Their sad distress'd condition . To the Tune of Russels farewell . FAir Isabella mind me well for now I do declare , That all the world you do excel , methinks you are so fair : Then prithee grant to me my suit , in thee I do delight , If you deny , without dispute , Death seizes me outright . Ah Thomas these are tricks of youth that I cannot approve , To tell you now the very truth , I fear you do not love : A passion only you pretend , to rob me of my Bliss , If Love no further do extend , O what a shame is this . My dearest doe not doubtful be , that I should be unkind , I swear to be most true to thee , and thou shalt surely find ; That if you walk the flowery plain , this long seven years and more , You ne'r will find a kinder Swain , your virtues to adore . Well Thomas , since you do protest , your Love is so entire , And that you do not speak in jest , you set my heart on fire : Methinks I feel such tickling pain , I never knew before , And if you love me not again , sure I shall die therefore . Talk not of death my nearest Love , I love thee as my life , And if thou wilt but constant prove , then thou shalt be my wife : Betwixt my arms I'le thee embrace , and teach thee such a trick , Will make thy joys increase a pace , and blisses tumble thick . What kind of blisses do you mean , methinks my heart does burn , And if you should now change the scene I should for ever mourn : I feel such panting in my breast , 'till now I ne'r did know , With pains of Love I am oppressed , sad pains I undergo . Well Isabella , now believe , my love is so entire , For me thou shalt no longer grieve , I'le cool thy burning fire : Thou shalt be free from care and fear , and like a Princess Reign , Yea , thou shalt be my only dear , the glory of the plain . Her colour then did come and go , her lips look'd wan and pale , Loves passion she did plainly show , which did so much prevail : She with and amorous sighs did part , which Thomas minded well , Oh love quoth he , this breaks my heart now love , my love farewell . When Isabella saw him faint , down to the ground she fell , And thus she made a short complaint , did Thomas say farewell ? 'Tis time for me now to depart , and to Elizium fly , Thus Isabella broke her heart , for love did Thomas die . You lovers all , both great and small , be rul'd by my advice , Into such passion do not fallen , which proves fools Paradise : With moderation set your love , your lovers to obtain , And if your lovers constant prove , 'twill quit you of all pain . But cruel Fortune that will change , did both their lives destroy , She smil'd at first , at last grew strange and did their loves annoy : Both in a grave these two were laid , that made the world admire , Alive , or dead , the people said , the Shepherd would lie by her . Their Parents mourned night & day , for their exceeding loss , I wish that other lovers may take warning by the cross : And not in seeming rage to go , or from their lovers part , This loving Shepherd he did so , which broke his lovers heart . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , in Pye-Corner . 1685 The Westminster Lovers . Loves passion is so violent , Beyond all opposition , It makes poor Lovers of Lament , Their sad distress'd condition . To the Tune of Russels farewell . FAir Isabella mind me well for now I do declare , That all the world you do excel , methinks you are so fair : Then prithee grant to me my suit , in thee I do delight , If you deny , without dispute , Death seizes me outright . Ah Thomas these are tricks of youth that I cannot approve , To tell you now the very truth , I fear you do not love : A passion only you pretend , to rob me of my Bliss , If Love no further do extend , O what a shame is this . My dearest doe not doubtful be , that I should be unkind , I swear to be most true to thee , and thou shalt surely find ; That if you walk the flowery plain , this long seven years and more , You ne'r will find a kinder Swain , your virtues to adore . Well Thomas , since you do protest , your Love is so entire , And that you do not speak in jest , you set my heart on fire : Methinks I feel such tickling pain , I never knew before , And if you love me not again , sure I shall die therefore . Talk not of death my nearest Love , I love thee as my life , And if thou wilt but constant prove , then thou shalt be my wife : Betwixt my arms I'le thee embrace , and teach thee such a trick , Will make thy joys increase a pace , and blisses tumble thick . What kind of blisses do you mean , methinks my heart does burn , And if you should now change the scene I should for ever mourn : I feel such panting in my breast , 'till now I ne'r did know , With pains of Love I am oppressed , sad pains I undergo . Well Isabella , now believe , my love is so entire , For me thou shalt no longer grieve , I'le cool thy burning fire : Thou shalt be free from care and fear , and like a Princess Reign , Yea , thou shalt be my only dear , the glory of the plain . Her colour then did come and go , her lips look'd wan and pale , Loves passion she did plainly show , which did so much prevail : She with and amorous sighs did part , which Thomas minded well , Oh love quoth he , this breaks my heart now love , my love farewell . When Isabella saw him faint , down to the ground she fell , And thus she made a short complaint , did Thomas say farewell ? 'Tis time for me now to depart , and to Elizium fly , Thus Isabella broke her heart , for love did Thomas die . You lovers all , both great and small , be rul'd by my advice , Into such passion do not fallen , which proves fools Paradise : With moderation set your love , your lovers to obtain , And if your lovers constant prove , 'twill quit you of all pain . But cruel Fortune that will change , did both their lives destroy , She smil'd at first , at last grew strange and did their loves annoy : Both in a grave these two were laid , that made the world admire , Alive , or dead , the people said , the Shepherd would lie by her . Their Parents mourned night & day , for their exceeding loss , I wish that other lovers may take warning by the cross : And not in seeming rage to go , or from their lovers part , This loving Shepherd he did so , which broke his lovers heart . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , in Pye-Corner . 1685 