THE Dissatisfied SUBJECT . OR , Covetousness , the Destruction of Religion , and Loyalty . To the Tune of , Let Marry live long . Licensed according to Order . I . BEhold in this Age the lose and perfidious are seeming Religious : They swear to engage The Truth to defend : while they thrive and groich , they will go thoroughstitch , Like right honest Men : yet touch but their Mammon , yet touch but their Mammon , And where are they then ? II If the Army this day , the noble Commanders , and Hero's of Flanders , Wou'd fight without Pay , And venture their Lives : if the King cou'd do all without Taxes at all , 'Tis like they would own , he was the best Monarch , he was the best Monarch , As ever was known . III . The King they love well , and likewise the Nation , without disputation , Our Foes they'd expel At home and abroad ; nay the Troops they'd enlarge , cou'd it be without Charge , For a Cause so divine : but tell them of Taxes , but tell them , etc And then they repine . IV. Nay Presbyter Jack , that zealous Professor , and loyal Addressor , He'll stand to his Tack , As tite as a Drum : but at length he grows cold , when he parts with his Gold , From him and his Heirs , the which he admires thee which he admires Much more than his Prayers . V. Religion's the Cry , yet there are not many that ever had any I tell you ; for why There's little they mind , but to rant , roar and sing , and cry , God save the King . Then off with their Drink , is this true Religion ? is this true Religion ? Sirs , What do you think ? VI . One swears by his Soul , that he's no Philistine , but 'Zounds a good Christian ; Then takes off his Bowl , And swears like a Lord , that he loves the old way , for to read as they pray : 'Tis ease for the Brain , and when it is ended , and when , etc To drinking again . VII . Now therefore between the huffing young Hector , and Jack the Projector , In this present Scene , Religion is tossed like a Football about , there's not many devout , We find to our Cost ; which makes us imagine , which makes , etc That Honesty's lost . VIII . Lets pray for the King , let Blessings attend him , and Heaven defend him , That under his Wing We see happy days ; when the Storm is blown o'er , we shall flourish once more , In spite of our Foes , let Angels still guard him , let Angels still guard him , Wherever he goes . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . THE Dissatisfied SUBJECT . OR , Covetousness , the Destruction of Religion , and Loyalty . To the Tune of , Let Marry live long . Licensed according to Order . I . BEhold in this Age the lose and perfidious are seeming Religious : They swear to engage The Truth to defend : while they thrive and groich , they will go thoroughstitch , Like right honest Men : yet touch but their Mammon , yet touch but their Mammon , And where are they then ? II If the Army this day , the noble Commanders , and Hero's of Flanders , Wou'd fight without Pay , And venture their Lives : if the King cou'd do all without Taxes at all , 'Tis like they would own , he was the best Monarch , he was the best Monarch , As ever was known . III . The King they love well , and likewise the Nation , without disputation , Our Foes they'd expel At home and abroad ; nay the Troops they'd enlarge , cou'd it be without Charge , For a Cause so divine : but tell them of Taxes , but tell them , etc And then they repine . IV. Nay Presbyter Jack , that zealous Professor , and loyal Addressor , He'll stand to his Tack , As tite as a Drum : but at length he grows cold , when he parts with his Gold , From him and his Heirs , the which he admires thee which he admires Much more than his Prayers . V. Religion's the Cry , yet there are not many that ever had any I tell you ; for why There's little they mind , but to rant , roar and sing , and cry , God save the King . Then off with their Drink , is this true Religion ? is this true Religion ? Sirs , What do you think ? VI . One swears by his Soul , that he's no Philistine , but 'Zounds a good Christian ; Then takes off his Bowl , And swears like a Lord , that he loves the old way , for to read as they pray : 'Tis ease for the Brain , and when it is ended , and when , etc To drinking again . VII . Now therefore between the huffing young Hector , and Jack the Projector , In this present Scene , Religion is tossed like a Football about , there's not many devout , We find to our Cost ; which makes us imagine , which makes , etc That Honesty's lost . VIII . Lets pray for the King , let Blessings attend him , and Heaven defend him , That under his Wing We see happy days ; when the Storm is blown o'er , we shall flourish once more , In spite of our Foes , let Angels still guard him , let Angels still guard him , Wherever he goes . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 