And ANSWER to the Bonny SCOT ; The Sorrowful Complaint of the Yielding LASS . In Care and Grief , without Relief , this yielding Lass was left , In this Distress and Heaviness she was of hope's bereft . To the Tune of The Spinning-wheel . This may be Printed , R.P. BEhold , I pray , what's come to pass , when twenty Weeks was come and gone , This bonny youthful yielding Lass did sighs and bitterly take on , Saying , my Grief I may reveal , Too soon I left my Spinning-wheel . With Honey words , both soft and sweet , alas ! he has deluded me . My Heart within my Breast does beatrice to see my woeful Destiny : My Virgin-Treasure he did steal , Too soon I left my Spinning-Wheel . Each Compliment I did believe , so Serpentlike he did betray , That had there been a second Eve she hardly could have said him nay : The sad effects of this I feel , Too soon I left my Spinning-wheel . He utter'd not one word of Truth , but with delusions led me on , And cropped the Rose-bud of my Youth , so that my splendid Glory's gone : My wounded Heart not one can heal , Too soon I left my Spinning-wheel . I Am a Damsel now defil'd , and am expos'd to open shame , For here I find my self with Child , and have no Father for the same : My very Tears do's Grief reveal , Too soon I left my Spinning-wheel . For my young Scot sad moan I make , whose Beauty did my favour win ; I find him like a painted Snake , that's fair without and false within : His cruel sting I yet do feel , Too soon I left my Spinning-wheel . He came with a most noble Grace , so sweet , so charming , fair and trim , That I no sooner see his Face , but straight I did consent to him : Such flames of Love I then did feel , Which made me leave my Spinning-Wheel . My Love no Favour will allow , he's gone and yields me no relief ; For that small dram of Pleasure , now I feel a hundred weight of Grief : My Sorrows I cannot reveal , Too soon I left my Spinning-wheel . Some Gallants most deceitful are , as by Experience I may say , They'll call a Damsel charming Fair , until their Hearts they do betray : In grief I may this truth reveal , Too soon I left my Spinning-wheel . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . And ANSWER to the Bonny SCOT ; The Sorrowful Complaint of the Yielding LASS . In Care and Grief , without Relief , this yielding Lass was left , In this Distress and Heaviness she was of hope's bereft . To the Tune of The Spinning-wheel . This may be Printed , R.P. BEhold , I pray , what's come to pass , when twenty Weeks was come and gone , This bonny youthful yielding Lass did sighs and bitterly take on , Saying , my Grief I may reveal , Too soon I left my Spinning-wheel . With Honey words , both soft and sweet , alas ! he has deluded me . My Heart within my Breast does beatrice to see my woeful Destiny : My Virgin-Treasure he did steal , Too soon I left my Spinning-Wheel . Each Compliment I did believe , so Serpentlike he did betray , That had there been a second Eve she hardly could have said him nay : The sad effects of this I feel , Too soon I left my Spinning-wheel . He utter'd not one word of Truth , but with delusions led me on , And cropped the Rose-bud of my Youth , so that my splendid Glory's gone : My wounded Heart not one can heal , Too soon I left my Spinning-wheel . I Am a Damsel now defil'd , and am expos'd to open shame , For here I find my self with Child , and have no Father for the same : My very Tears do's Grief reveal , Too soon I left my Spinning-wheel . For my young Scot sad moan I make , whose Beauty did my favour win ; I find him like a painted Snake , that's fair without and false within : His cruel sting I yet do feel , Too soon I left my Spinning-wheel . He came with a most noble Grace , so sweet , so charming , fair and trim , That I no sooner see his Face , but straight I did consent to him : Such flames of Love I then did feel , Which made me leave my Spinning-Wheel . My Love no Favour will allow , he's gone and yields me no relief ; For that small dram of Pleasure , now I feel a hundred weight of Grief : My Sorrows I cannot reveal , Too soon I left my Spinning-wheel . Some Gallants most deceitful are , as by Experience I may say , They'll call a Damsel charming Fair , until their Hearts they do betray : In grief I may this truth reveal , Too soon I left my Spinning-wheel . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . 