And Excellent new Scotch Song Calll'd The bonny Grey-Ey'd Morn . OR , Jockey Rous'd with LOVE . THE bonny gray Ey'd Morn be -- gan to peep , when Jockey rous'd with Love came blithely on , and I who wishing lay , depriv'd of sleep , abhor'd the lazey hours that slow did run . but muckle were my Joy when in my view , I from the Window sppy'd my only dear , I took the wings of Love and to him flew , for I had fancy'd all my Heav'n was there . Upon my Bosom Jockey laid his Head , And sighing told me pretty Tales of Love , My yielding Heart at ev'ry word he said , Did flutter up and down and strangely move : He sighing kiss'd my Hand , and vow'd & swore , That I had over his Heart a Conquest gain'd , then blushing beg'd that I would grant him more Which he alas too soon , too soon obtain'd . Not that I do repent I did comply , But this I needs must own , my yielding Heart Was quickly overcome by Jockey's Eye , Which gives a deeper wound then Cupid's dart ; His Cheeks were Cherry read , his Lips the same His Tongue so many Charms could still express That e'ry word he said did raise new Flame , And kindled , kindled Fire in my Breast . My Jockey does a thousand ways beside Express himself in tender Love to me , With arms about my waist he sighing cry'd , O give me thy consent , or I'm must dee : Then with a gentle Kiss does beg again , That his poor wounded Heart I would but cure , Not thinking that I felt his Lovesick Pain , For I alas , was his , was his before . And now I could no longer hide my Pain , But let my dearest Jockey know my Heart ; Oh! how he hug'd me in his Arms again , And e'ry Kiss he gave did ease my Smart , Then vowing over and over between each Kiss , He constant would remain while life did last , Now tell me Lovers , where's the hurt of this , For to enjoy when that the Knot's ty'd fast . Printed by and for A.M. And Excellent new Scotch Song Calll'd The bonny Grey-Ey'd Morn . OR , Jockey Rous'd with LOVE . THE bonny gray Ey'd Morn be -- gan to peep , when Jockey rous'd with Love came blithely on , and I who wishing lay , depriv'd of sleep , abhor'd the lazey hours that slow did run . but muckle were my Joy when in my view , I from the Window sppy'd my only dear , I took the wings of Love and to him flew , for I had fancy'd all my Heav'n was there . Upon my Bosom Jockey laid his Head , And sighing told me pretty Tales of Love , My yielding Heart at ev'ry word he said , Did flutter up and down and strangely move : He sighing kiss'd my Hand , and vow'd & swore , That I had over his Heart a Conquest gain'd , then blushing beg'd that I would grant him more Which he alas too soon , too soon obtain'd . Not that I do repent I did comply , But this I needs must own , my yielding Heart Was quickly overcome by Jockey's Eye , Which gives a deeper wound then Cupid's dart ; His Cheeks were Cherry read , his Lips the same His Tongue so many Charms could still express That e'ry word he said did raise new Flame , And kindled , kindled Fire in my Breast . My Jockey does a thousand ways beside Express himself in tender Love to me , With arms about my waist he sighing cry'd , O give me thy consent , or I'm must dee : Then with a gentle Kiss does beg again , That his poor wounded Heart I would but cure , Not thinking that I felt his Lovesick Pain , For I alas , was his , was his before . And now I could no longer hide my Pain , But let my dearest Jockey know my Heart ; Oh! how he hug'd me in his Arms again , And e'ry Kiss he gave did ease my Smart , Then vowing over and over between each Kiss , He constant would remain while life did last , Now tell me Lovers , where's the hurt of this , For to enjoy when that the Knot's ty'd fast . Printed by and for A.M. 