The Wanton Wife of Castle-Gate : Or , The Boat-mans Delight . To its own proper New Tune . FArewel both Hauk and Hound , farewell both Shaft and Bow : Farewell all merry pastimes and pleasures on a row : Farewell my best Beloved in whom I put my trust , For it's neither grief nor sorrow shall harbour in my breast . When I was in my prime and in my youthful days , Much mirth and merry pastime and pleasure had always . But now my mind is changed , and alter'd very soar , Because my best beloved will fancy me no more . I lov'd her , and I prov'd her , and I call'd her my dear ; But alas my beloved would not let me come near : I often would have kissed her , but she always said me nay . More as ten times have I blessed her since that she went away . Tinkers they are Drunkards , and Masons they are blind , And Boatmen they make Cuckolds , because they'r used kind . But if you meet a bonny Lass with black and rolling eyes , You must kiss her and embrace her , you may know the reason why . You must hug her and kiss her and strive to make her yield , For a fainthearted Soldier did never gain the Field . So strive to lay her down there and give the thing you know , And when that she receives it , she'l be loath to let you go . There lives a Wife in Castle Gate . but I'le not declare her name ; She is both brisk and buxom , and fitted for the Game ; She can knip it , she can trip it , as she treads along the Plain ; Till she meet some jolly Boatman that will turn her back again . Her Husband is a quiet man , and and honest man is he ; And for to wear the Horns sir contented he must be : He may wind them at his leisure and do the best he can , For his Wife will have her pleasure with a jolly Boatman . At Pomfret Clock and Tower there's Gold and Silver store ; I hope therefore to find her , and then brave boys we'l roar . We'l drink Sherry and be merry , we'l have beer and ale good store , And drink to my Lass and thy Lass , and all good Lasses more . My love she is a fair one , and a bonny one is she : Most dearly doe I love her , her name is Mally . Her Cheeks are like the Roses , that blossoms fresh in June ; Oh she's like some new-strung Instru-ment that's newly put in tune . O my Mally , my honey , Oh can thou fancy me ? Then let us to bed haste , where we will merry be . For good Gold and Silver for thee I'le take care , And for a large pair of Horns for thy Husband to wear . You young men and Bachelors that hears this pretty Jest , Be not of the Opinion this couple did profess ; But be kind to your wives , and your sweethearts always : And God will protect you by night and by day . Printed for Alex. Milbourn , W. Only , T. Thackeray at the Angel in Duck-lane . The Wanton Wife of Castle-Gate : Or , The Boat-mans Delight . To its own proper New Tune . FArewel both Hauk and Hound , farewell both Shaft and Bow : Farewell all merry pastimes and pleasures on a row : Farewell my best Beloved in whom I put my trust , For it's neither grief nor sorrow shall harbour in my breast . When I was in my prime and in my youthful days , Much mirth and merry pastime and pleasure had always . But now my mind is changed , and alter'd very soar , Because my best beloved will fancy me no more . I lov'd her , and I prov'd her , and I call'd her my dear ; But alas my beloved would not let me come near : I often would have kissed her , but she always said me nay . More as ten times have I blessed her since that she went away . Tinkers they are Drunkards , and Masons they are blind , And Boatmen they make Cuckolds , because they'r used kind . But if you meet a bonny Lass with black and rolling eyes , You must kiss her and embrace her , you may know the reason why . You must hug her and kiss her and strive to make her yield , For a fainthearted Soldier did never gain the Field . So strive to lay her down there and give the thing you know , And when that she receives it , she'l be loath to let you go . There lives a Wife in Castle Gate . but I'le not declare her name ; She is both brisk and buxom , and fitted for the Game ; She can knip it , she can trip it , as she treads along the Plain ; Till she meet some jolly Boatman that will turn her back again . Her Husband is a quiet man , and and honest man is he ; And for to wear the Horns sir contented he must be : He may wind them at his leisure and do the best he can , For his Wife will have her pleasure with a jolly Boatman . At Pomfret Clock and Tower there's Gold and Silver store ; I hope therefore to find her , and then brave boys we'l roar . We'l drink Sherry and be merry , we'l have beer and ale good store , And drink to my Lass and thy Lass , and all good Lasses more . My love she is a fair one , and a bonny one is she : Most dearly doe I love her , her name is Mally . Her Cheeks are like the Roses , that blossoms fresh in June ; Oh she's like some new-strung Instru-ment that's newly put in tune . O my Mally , my honey , Oh can thou fancy me ? Then let us to bed haste , where we will merry be . For good Gold and Silver for thee I'le take care , And for a large pair of Horns for thy Husband to wear . You young men and Bachelors that hears this pretty Jest , Be not of the Opinion this couple did profess ; But be kind to your wives , and your sweethearts always : And God will protect you by night and by day . Printed for Alex. Milbourn , W. Only , T. Thackeray at the Angel in Duck-lane . The Wanton Wife of Castle-Gate : Or , The Boat-mans Delight . To its own proper New Tune . FArewel both Hauk and Hound , farewell both Shaft and Bow : Farewell all merry pastimes and pleasures on a row : Farewell my best Beloved in whom I put my trust , For it's neither grief nor sorrow shall harbour in my breast . When I was in my prime and in my youthful days , Much mirth and merry pastime and pleasure had always . But now my mind is changed , and alter'd very soar , Because my best beloved will fancy me no more . I lov'd her , and I prov'd her , and I call'd her my dear ; But alas my beloved would not let me come near : I often would have kissed her , but she always said me nay . More as ten times have I blessed her since that she went away . Tinkers they are Drunkards , and Masons they are blind , And Boatmen they make Cuckolds , because they'r used kind . But if you meet a bonny Lass with black and rolling eyes , You must kiss her and embrace her , you may know the reason why . You must hug her and kiss her and strive to make her yield , For a fainthearted Soldier did never gain the Field . So strive to lay her down there and give the thing you know , And when that she receives it , she'l be loath to let you go . There lives a Wife in Castle Gate . but I'le not declare her name ; She is both brisk and buxom , and fitted for the Game ; She can knip it , she can trip it , as she treads along the Plain ; Till she meet some jolly Boatman that will turn her back again . Her Husband is a quiet man , and and honest man is he ; And for to wear the Horns sir contented he must be : He may wind them at his leisure and do the best he can , For his Wife will have her pleasure with a jolly Boatman . At Pomfret Clock and Tower there's Gold and Silver store ; I hope therefore to find her , and then brave boys we'l roar . We'l drink Sherry and be merry , we'l have beer and ale good store , And drink to my Lass and thy Lass , and all good Lasses more . My love she is a fair one , and a bonny one is she : Most dearly doe I love her , her name is Mally . Her Cheeks are like the Roses , that blossoms fresh in June ; Oh she's like some new-strung Instru-ment that's newly put in tune . O my Mally , my honey , Oh can thou fancy me ? Then let us to bed haste , where we will merry be . For good Gold and Silver for thee I'le take care , And for a large pair of Horns for thy Husband to wear . You young men and Bachelors that hears this pretty Jest , Be not of the Opinion this couple did profess ; But be kind to your wives , and your sweethearts always : And God will protect you by night and by day . Printed for Alex. Milbourn , W. Only , T. Thackeray at the Angel in Duck-lane . The Wanton Wife of Castle-Gate : Or , The Boat-mans Delight . To its own proper New Tune . FArewel both Hauk and Hound , farewell both Shaft and Bow : Farewell all merry pastimes and pleasures on a row : Farewell my best Beloved in whom I put my trust , For it's neither grief nor sorrow shall harbour in my breast . When I was in my prime and in my youthful days , Much mirth and merry pastime and pleasure had always . But now my mind is changed , and alter'd very soar , Because my best beloved will fancy me no more . I lov'd her , and I prov'd her , and I call'd her my dear ; But alas my beloved would not let me come near : I often would have kissed her , but she always said me nay . More as ten times have I blessed her since that she went away . Tinkers they are Drunkards , and Masons they are blind , And Boatmen they make Cuckolds , because they'r used kind . But if you meet a bonny Lass with black and rolling eyes , You must kiss her and embrace her , you may know the reason why . You must hug her and kiss her and strive to make her yield , For a fainthearted Soldier did never gain the Field . So strive to lay her down there and give the thing you know , And when that she receives it , she'l be loath to let you go . There lives a Wife in Castle Gate . but I'le not declare her name ; She is both brisk and buxom , and fitted for the Game ; She can knip it , she can trip it , as she treads along the Plain ; Till she meet some jolly Boatman that will turn her back again . Her Husband is a quiet man , and and honest man is he ; And for to wear the Horns sir contented he must be : He may wind them at his leisure and do the best he can , For his Wife will have her pleasure with a jolly Boatman . At Pomfret Clock and Tower there's Gold and Silver store ; I hope therefore to find her , and then brave boys we'l roar . We'l drink Sherry and be merry , we'l have beer and ale good store , And drink to my Lass and thy Lass , and all good Lasses more . My love she is a fair one , and a bonny one is she : Most dearly doe I love her , her name is Mally . Her Cheeks are like the Roses , that blossoms fresh in June ; Oh she's like some new-strung Instru-ment that's newly put in tune . O my Mally , my honey , Oh can thou fancy me ? Then let us to bed haste , where we will merry be . For good Gold and Silver for thee I'le take care , And for a large pair of Horns for thy Husband to wear . You young men and Bachelors that hears this pretty Jest , Be not of the Opinion this couple did profess ; But be kind to your wives , and your sweethearts always : And God will protect you by night and by day . Printed for Alex. Milbourn , W. Only , T. Thackeray at the Angel in Duck-lane . 