THE Bonny Scottish Lad , AND THE Yielding Lass. To and excellent new Tune much in Request , called The Liggan Waters . BOnny Lass I love thee well , bonny Lad I love thee better , Wilt thou pull off thy Hose and Shoes , and weened with me to Liggan Water ? Liggan Water is so deep , and I am loath to wet my feet . But if you'll promise to marry me , I'll put off my Shoes and follow thee . I have House , and I have Land , I have all things at command , I have a thing that you ne'er see , Bonny Lass wilt thou Mow with me ? I good store of Cattle keep , Cows , Bulls and Oxen , Hogs and Sheep , And all I have I'll give to thee , bonny Lass wilt thou mow with me ? Bonny Lad it is all in vain , before you shall your will obtain , I'll make you promise to marry me , and then thou'st freely Mow with me . For your Goods and Lands I do not care , then bonny Jockey pray forbore , For I will never yield to thee , without you'll promise to Marry me . As I went forth one Morning fair , I met with a bonny Lass , fresh and gay , A bonnier Lass , I ne'er did see until I chanc'd to meet with thee . This bonny Lass did ogle me , and I could hardly pass her by , She began for to be so free , and sighing said , she'd die for me . From her white hand a Ring she took , and said , My Lad this is for thee , She gave me a smiling look , and soon did yield to lig with me . Then bonny Jenny yity take , I'm left that bonny Lass for your sake : Soon I began to fancy thee , then bonny Jenny lie with me . All night in softest Wool we'll lie , and kiss as close as Cockles do ; Then we the Bliss of Love will try , in Summer and in Winter too . How can you so fickle be to dote on all that you do see ? If I should yield to lig with thee , thou soon wou'd prove as false to me . I'd have all Lasses wiser grow , and not found Love to young Men show For before that I do yield to thee , I'll make you promise to marry me . But yet alas ! for all her Art little Cupid shot a Dart , That she could not resist Love's Charms but strait did yield to Jocky's Arms. Printed for J. Conyers at the Black Raven in Holborn . THE Bonny Scottish Lad , AND THE Yielding Lass. To and excellent new Tune much in Request , called The Liggan Waters . BOnny Lass I love thee well , bonny Lad I love thee better , Wilt thou pull off thy Hose and Shoes , and weened with me to Liggan Water ? Liggan Water is so deep , and I am loath to wet my feet . But if you'll promise to marry me , I'll put off my Shoes and follow thee . I have House , and I have Land , I have all things at command , I have a thing that you ne'er see , Bonny Lass wilt thou Mow with me ? I good store of Cattle keep , Cows , Bulls and Oxen , Hogs and Sheep , And all I have I'll give to thee , bonny Lass wilt thou mow with me ? Bonny Lad it is all in vain , before you shall your will obtain , I'll make you promise to marry me , and then thou'st freely Mow with me . For your Goods and Lands I do not care , then bonny Jockey pray forbore , For I will never yield to thee , without you'll promise to Marry me . As I went forth one Morning fair , I met with a bonny Lass , fresh and gay , A bonnier Lass , I ne'er did see until I chanc'd to meet with thee . This bonny Lass did ogle me , and I could hardly pass her by , She began for to be so free , and sighing said , she'd die for me . From her white hand a Ring she took , and said , My Lad this is for thee , She gave me a smiling look , and soon did yield to lig with me . Then bonny Jenny yity take , I'm left that bonny Lass for your sake : Soon I began to fancy thee , then bonny Jenny lie with me . All night in softest Wool we'll lie , and kiss as close as Cockles do ; Then we the Bliss of Love will try , in Summer and in Winter too . How can you so fickle be to dote on all that you do see ? If I should yield to lig with thee , thou soon wou'd prove as false to me . I'd have all Lasses wiser grow , and not found Love to young Men show For before that I do yield to thee , I'll make you promise to marry me . But yet alas ! for all her Art little Cupid shot a Dart , That she could not resist Love's Charms but strait did yield to Jocky's Arms. Printed for J. Conyers at the Black Raven in Holborn . 