A SATYR AGAINST BRANDY . Written by Jo. Hains , as he says himself . FArewell Damn'd Stygian Juice , who dost bewitch From the Court Baud , down to the Country Bitch : Thou liquid Flame , by whom each fiery Face Lives without Meat , and blushes without Grace : Sink to your native Hell , and mend the fire , Or , if you rather choose to settle nigher , Return to the dull Climb from whence you came , Where Wit and Courage may require your flame , Where they Carouze in your Vesuvian Bowls , To crust the Quagmire of their Spongy Souls . Had Dives for thy scorching moisture cry'd , Abr'am in mercy had his suit deny'd : Or Bonner known thy force , the Martyrs blood Had Siss'd in thee and sav'd the Nations wood . Essence of Embers , Scum of melting Flint , With all the Native sparkles floating in't . Sure the black Chemist with the cloven Foot All AEtna's Simples in his 'Limbeck put , And double still'd , nay Quintessenc'd thy Juice , To charcoal Mortals for his future use . Fireship to Nature , who do'st doubly wound , For those that grapple thee , are burned and drown'd . As when Heav'n press'd th' Auxil'arys of Hell , A flaming storm on cursed Sodom fell . And when it's single Plagues could not prevail , Egypt was scal't with kindled Rain and Hail : So Nature's feuds are reconcil'd in thee , Thou two great Judgments in Epitome : God's past and future anger breathes in you A Deluge and a Conflagration too . View yonder Sot ( I do not mean Sheriff S ------ ) Grilly'd all o're by thee from Head to Foe His drowsy Eyelids shoard above their pitch , His Cheeks with Carbuncles and Rubies rich ; His Scull instead of Brains supply'd with Cinder , His Nose turns all his Handkerchifs to Tinder : He He breathes like a Smiths Forge , and wets the fire , Not to allay the flame , but raise it higher : His trembling hands scarce heave the liquour in , His Nerves all crackle in his Parchment skin ; His Stomach don't concoct , but bake his food ; His Liver even Vitrifies his Blood ; His Guts from Nature's drudgery are freed , And in his Bowels Salamanders breed . He's grown too hight to think , too dull to laugh , And steps as if he walk'd with Pindar's Staff . The moving Glass-house lightens with his Eyes , Sings his Clothes and all his marrow fries ; Glows for a while , and then in Ashes die . Thus like a sham Prometheus , we find Thou stealest a fire from Hell to kill Mankind . But hold ------ lest we the Saints dire anger merit , By stinting their Auxiliary Spiri We hear of late , whate're the wicked think , Thou art reform'd and turn'd a Godly drink : And doubtless thou'rt connatural to them , For both thy Spirit and theirs abound in Phlegm ; 'Ere since the Public Faith for Plate did wimble , And sanctifi'd thy Gill with Hannah's Thimble : Thou left'st thy old bad Company of Vermin , The Drunken Porters , and the swearing Carr-men ; And the lewd Drivers of the Hackney Coaches , And now tak'st up with sage discreet Debauches ; Thou freely drop'st upon Gold Chains and Fur , And Sots of Quality thy Minions are . No more shalt thou foment and Alehouse brawl , But the more sober Riots at Guild-hall , Where , by thy Spirits fallible direction , The Reprobates stood Poling for Election . If this trade holds , what will the wicked doe ? The Saints sequester e'vn their Vices too , For since the Art of Whoring's grown precise , And Perjury hath god demurer Eyes ; 'Tis time , high time to circumcise the Gill , And not let drinking be Philistian still . Go then thou Emblem of their torrid Zeal , Add flame to flame and their stiff tempers Neal , 'Till they grow ductile to the Public Weal . And since the Godly have espous'd thy Cause , Don't fill their heads with Libertys and Laws , Religion , Privilege , and lawless Charters , Mind them of Falstaffs Heir apparent Garters , And keep their outward Man from Ketches Quarters . One Caution more ( now we are out of hearing ) Many have died of drinking , some of swearing ; If these two Pests should in Conjunction meet , The grass wou'd quickly grow in every stree Save thou the Nation from that double blow , And keep thy fire from Salamanca TO O. Printed for Jos. Hindmarsh at the Black-Bull in Cornhill , 1683. A SATYR AGAINST BRANDY . Written by Jo. Hains , as he says himself . FArewell Damn'd Stygian Juice , who dost bewitch From the Court Baud , down to the Country Bitch : Thou liquid Flame , by whom each fiery Face Lives without Meat , and blushes without Grace : Sink to your native Hell , and mend the fire , Or , if you rather choose to settle nigher , Return to the dull Climb from whence you came , Where Wit and Courage may require your flame , Where they Carouze in your Vesuvian Bowls , To crust the Quagmire of their Spongy Souls . Had Dives for thy scorching moisture cry'd , Abr'am in mercy had his suit deny'd : Or Bonner known thy force , the Martyrs blood Had Siss'd in thee and sav'd the Nations wood . Essence of Embers , Scum of melting Flint , With all the Native sparkles floating in't . Sure the black Chemist with the cloven Foot All AEtna's Simples in his 'Limbeck put , And double still'd , nay Quintessenc'd thy Juice , To charcoal Mortals for his future use . Fireship to Nature , who do'st doubly wound , For those that grapple thee , are burned and drown'd . As when Heav'n press'd th' Auxil'arys of Hell , A flaming storm on cursed Sodom fell . And when it's single Plagues could not prevail , Egypt was scal't with kindled Rain and Hail : So Nature's feuds are reconcil'd in thee , Thou two great Judgments in Epitome : God's past and future anger breathes in you A Deluge and a Conflagration too . View yonder Sot ( I do not mean Sheriff S ------ ) Grilly'd all o're by thee from Head to Foe His drowsy Eyelids shoard above their pitch , His Cheeks with Carbuncles and Rubies rich ; His Scull instead of Brains supply'd with Cinder , His Nose turns all his Handkerchifs to Tinder : He He breathes like a Smiths Forge , and wets the fire , Not to allay the flame , but raise it higher : His trembling hands scarce heave the liquour in , His Nerves all crackle in his Parchment skin ; His Stomach don't concoct , but bake his food ; His Liver even Vitrifies his Blood ; His Guts from Nature's drudgery are freed , And in his Bowels Salamanders breed . He's grown too hight to think , too dull to laugh , And steps as if he walk'd with Pindar's Staff . The moving Glass-house lightens with his Eyes , Sings his Clothes and all his marrow fries ; Glows for a while , and then in Ashes die . Thus like a sham Prometheus , we find Thou stealest a fire from Hell to kill Mankind . But hold ------ lest we the Saints dire anger merit , By stinting their Auxiliary Spiri We hear of late , whate're the wicked think , Thou art reform'd and turn'd a Godly drink : And doubtless thou'rt connatural to them , For both thy Spirit and theirs abound in Phlegm ; 'Ere since the Public Faith for Plate did wimble , And sanctifi'd thy Gill with Hannah's Thimble : Thou left'st thy old bad Company of Vermin , The Drunken Porters , and the swearing Carr-men ; And the lewd Drivers of the Hackney Coaches , And now tak'st up with sage discreet Debauches ; Thou freely drop'st upon Gold Chains and Fur , And Sots of Quality thy Minions are . No more shalt thou foment and Alehouse brawl , But the more sober Riots at Guild-hall , Where , by thy Spirits fallible direction , The Reprobates stood Poling for Election . If this trade holds , what will the wicked doe ? The Saints sequester e'vn their Vices too , For since the Art of Whoring's grown precise , And Perjury hath god demurer Eyes ; 'Tis time , high time to circumcise the Gill , And not let drinking be Philistian still . Go then thou Emblem of their torrid Zeal , Add flame to flame and their stiff tempers Neal , 'Till they grow ductile to the Public Weal . And since the Godly have espous'd thy Cause , Don't fill their heads with Libertys and Laws , Religion , Privilege , and lawless Charters , Mind them of Falstaffs Heir apparent Garters , And keep their outward Man from Ketches Quarters . One Caution more ( now we are out of hearing ) Many have died of drinking , some of swearing ; If these two Pests should in Conjunction meet , The grass wou'd quickly grow in every stree Save thou the Nation from that double blow , And keep thy fire from Salamanca TO O. Printed for Jos. Hindmarsh at the Black-Bull in Cornhill , 1683. 