The Subtle Damosel : Or , Good Counsel for Maids . Wherein she shows to every Maiden fair , To take heed of false young men wherever they are : For Frummety Dick does love well the Kettle , And porrige pot Will is a man of great mettle . To the Tune of , the new made Gentlewoman , I Once had a Servant , as other Maids have That pretended to love me but he proved a knave : He thought by his tricks to overcome me , But I was as cunning and crafty as he . His tongue was so tipped with temptations that I Out of his presence or sighed could not lie ; He call'd me his honey , his duck and his dear : But now his words to me he does them forswear . But now I am free from him , I'm glad in my hear Its never be said , I will mourn when we par But unto all Maids now the truth I will show , To take heed of false young men wherever they go . I' th' first place take heed , and beware what I say ? For when you are bound , they'l force you to obey : Near trust a man that hath a read Nose , Before he'l want his liquour he'l pawn your best clothes : There's Dick came and Harry , both Robin and Will Have showed themselves clowns , and so they'l be still : For Peter at dancing he put them all down But John kissed the best of all men in the Town . But though I did promise him and count him the best Yet he can dissemble as well as the res From eighteen to thirty these young men I mind Loves a wench in a corner , if they can them find For this I'm resolved , and so I say still , There's not one among twenty but he does prove ill : Search every City and Town you shan't see A man that proves constant and faithful to be Though John of good mettle , and counted so civil , At a Frummety Kettle he'l fight with the Devil : Or at long spoon and custard he's a right honest man : But I have forsook him then love him who can . There's Bob a good fellow to give him his due : Such a young man again I think there is but few : Yet with one disease he is troubled I smell , If he meet with a wench , he can't kiss her but tell . Also came the Taylor and the Weaver I discern , The one is for Shreds , the others for Yarn : These two boon Companion work hard I do see , And they'r striving which of them the best thief will be , Last Valentines day I met with my Dear , He took me by the hand , and led me to the Fair : He gave me fine fairings , to kiss me was bold : But at last I do give him the dog for to hold , His eloquent speeches could do him no good , I can give him fair words , and then leave i' th' mud : He talked of deep learning , but I did him tell That he went to school in some bottomless well . The world now adais it is come to that pass , That every Boy now does look for a Lass : Theres Bacon-fac'd Harry as short as rny thumb , All arse and no body . Sing come pudding come . These young men & more of them which I could name , To wrong pretty Maidens they think it no shame . But what shou'd we speak on't ? it oft has been tri'd , That honest young men they cannot abide , Thus Maids have I told you some part of my mind , How 'tis very herd a good Husband to find . Though my Love hath left me , to grieve I ne [ ' ] er shall : If the rest prove no better , old Neck take them all Finis . By J. Wade . London , Printed for Richard Hardy at the Horshoe in West Smithfield . The Subtle Damosel : Or , Good Counsel for Maids . Wherein she shows to every Maiden fair , To take heed of false young men wherever they are : For Frummety Dick does love well the Kettle , And porrige pot Will is a man of great mettle . To the Tune of , the new made Gentlewoman , I Once had a Servant , as other Maids have That pretended to love me but he proved a knave : He thought by his tricks to overcome me , But I was as cunning and crafty as he . His tongue was so tipped with temptations that I Out of his presence or sighed could not lie ; He call'd me his honey , his duck and his dear : But now his words to me he does them forswear . But now I am free from him , I'm glad in my hear Its never be said , I will mourn when we par But unto all Maids now the truth I will show , To take heed of false young men wherever they go . I' th' first place take heed , and beware what I say ? For when you are bound , they'l force you to obey : Near trust a man that hath a read Nose , Before he'l want his liquour he'l pawn your best clothes : There's Dick came and Harry , both Robin and Will Have showed themselves clowns , and so they'l be still : For Peter at dancing he put them all down But John kissed the best of all men in the Town . But though I did promise him and count him the best Yet he can dissemble as well as the res From eighteen to thirty these young men I mind Loves a wench in a corner , if they can them find For this I'm resolved , and so I say still , There's not one among twenty but he does prove ill : Search every City and Town you shan't see A man that proves constant and faithful to be Though John of good mettle , and counted so civil , At a Frummety Kettle he'l fight with the Devil : Or at long spoon and custard he's a right honest man : But I have forsook him then love him who can . There's Bob a good fellow to give him his due : Such a young man again I think there is but few : Yet with one disease he is troubled I smell , If he meet with a wench , he can't kiss her but tell . Also came the Taylor and the Weaver I discern , The one is for Shreds , the others for Yarn : These two boon Companion work hard I do see , And they'r striving which of them the best thief will be , Last Valentines day I met with my Dear , He took me by the hand , and led me to the Fair : He gave me fine fairings , to kiss me was bold : But at last I do give him the dog for to hold , His eloquent speeches could do him no good , I can give him fair words , and then leave i' th' mud : He talked of deep learning , but I did him tell That he went to school in some bottomless well . The world now adais it is come to that pass , That every Boy now does look for a Lass : Theres Bacon-fac'd Harry as short as rny thumb , All arse and no body . Sing come pudding come . These young men & more of them which I could name , To wrong pretty Maidens they think it no shame . But what shou'd we speak on't ? it oft has been tri'd , That honest young men they cannot abide , Thus Maids have I told you some part of my mind , How 'tis very herd a good Husband to find . Though my Love hath left me , to grieve I ne [ ' ] er shall : If the rest prove no better , old Neck take them all Finis . By J. Wade . London , Printed for Richard Hardy at the Horshoe in West Smithfield . 