AND ESSAY Towards a CHARACTER of His Sacred Majesty , King JAMES the Second . I Paint the Prince , the World would surely crave , Could they the Sum of all their Wishes have ; Pattern of Goodness , Him on Earth we see , Who knows , He bears the Stamp of Diety ; Is made by Nature fit for Sword , or Gown , And with undoubted Right enjoys his Crown ; As Gold , by Fire , He's try'd by suffering , Preserv'd by Miracles to be a King ; Troubles were Foils , to make his Glories shine , Through all conducted by a Hand Divine ; Malice long strove his Fortune's to Defeat , Now Earth , and Heav'n conspire to make him Great ; He of all Temp'ral Blessings stands Possessed , But in a Royal Consort doubly Blessed . His mind , as Head , with Princely Virtues Crown'd , True Courage , Wisdom , Justice there are found ; His ev'ry Actium has peculiar Grace , And Majesty appears , in Meen , and Face ; In Subject's Hearts , as on his Throne he Raigns ; Himself , the Weight of all his Realms sustains ; Of ablest Statesmen ever seeks Advice , And of best Counsels knows to make his Choice ? Is taught by long Obedience to Command , His own best Gen'ral He , for Sea and Land ; Loves Peace , while thus for War and Actium fit , And Arms , and Hate lays down , when Foes submit ; Not of too Lib'ral , nor too Frugal mind : In all things to the Golden Mean inclin'd ; Seems for Himself not born , but People rather , And shows by's Care , that He's their Common Father . Lewdness expels , both from his Camp , and Court ; No Flatterers please , nor Fools can make him Sport ; Grave in Discoursing , in his Habit plain , And all Excess Endeavours to restrain ; As Fates Decree , so stands his Royal Word , O're all his Passion , Governs as their Lord ; Nicely does He inspect each Fair Pretence , Justice alike to Friend , and Foe dispense ; He's the Retreat to which Oppressed do fly , Extending Help to those in Misery ; Gracious to Good , to Wicked men Severe , Supports the Humble , makes the Haughty fear ; To true Deserts , in Mercy unconfin'd ; His Laws do more Himself , then others bind ; At Sea , his Naval Power He stretches far , In Europe , holds the Scales of Peace and War ; His Actions lasting Monuments shall Frame , None leave to future Age so sweet a Name . Add ten times more , the Royal Image must Fallen short of JAMES the Great , the Good , the Just . P.A. R . L.S AND ESSAY Towards a CHARACTER of His Sacred Majesty , King JAMES the Second . I Paint the Prince , the World would surely crave , Could they the Sum of all their Wishes have ; Pattern of Goodness , Him on Earth we see , Who knows , He bears the Stamp of Diety ; Is made by Nature fit for Sword , or Gown , And with undoubted Right enjoys his Crown ; As Gold , by Fire , He's try'd by suffering , Preserv'd by Miracles to be a King ; Troubles were Foils , to make his Glories shine , Through all conducted by a Hand Divine ; Malice long strove his Fortune's to Defeat , Now Earth , and Heav'n conspire to make him Great ; He of all Temp'ral Blessings stands Possessed , But in a Royal Consort doubly Blessed . His mind , as Head , with Princely Virtues Crown'd , True Courage , Wisdom , Justice there are found ; His ev'ry Actium has peculiar Grace , And Majesty appears , in Meen , and Face ; In Subject's Hearts , as on his Throne he Raigns ; Himself , the Weight of all his Realms sustains ; Of ablest Statesmen ever seeks Advice , And of best Counsels knows to make his Choice ? Is taught by long Obedience to Command , His own best Gen'ral He , for Sea and Land ; Loves Peace , while thus for War and Actium fit , And Arms , and Hate lays down , when Foes submit ; Not of too Lib'ral , nor too Frugal mind : In all things to the Golden Mean inclin'd ; Seems for Himself not born , but People rather , And shows by's Care , that He's their Common Father . Lewdness expels , both from his Camp , and Court ; No Flatterers please , nor Fools can make him Sport ; Grave in Discoursing , in his Habit plain , And all Excess Endeavours to restrain ; As Fates Decree , so stands his Royal Word , O're all his Passion , Governs as their Lord ; Nicely does He inspect each Fair Pretence , Justice alike to Friend , and Foe dispense ; He's the Retreat to which Oppressed do fly , Extending Help to those in Misery ; Gracious to Good , to Wicked men Severe , Supports the Humble , makes the Haughty fear ; To true Deserts , in Mercy unconfin'd ; His Laws do more Himself , then others bind ; At Sea , his Naval Power He stretches far , In Europe , holds the Scales of Peace and War ; His Actions lasting Monuments shall Frame , None leave to future Age so sweet a Name . Add ten times more , the Royal Image must Fallen short of JAMES the Great , the Good , the Just . P.A. R . L.S 