And Excellent New Song , CALL'D , The Full Trial and Condemnation of JOHN Duke of MARLBOROUGH . I Now have and Ambition , In this great Time of News , To tell you the Deposition , Of the Christians , not the Jews , Against John Duke of Marlborough . Give Ear then , Sons of Britain , Of greater Crimes I sing , Than ever before were writ on , Since the time of a Queen or a King ; All done by John Duke , etc This Man by Constitution , Was made for Liberty ; He help'd the late Revolution , On purpose to hurt Popery , Did this John Duke , etc The next great Crime of many , His troublesome Pride to show , Was marching to High Germany ; And who gave 'em that damnable Blow , But this John Duke ? etc And more to mend the Matter , To his Shame and Reproach , And Army he made take Water , And their General sent by Coach : All prov'd on John Duke , etc To show his Whig-Devotion , On keeping the Sabbath-Day , He the Murder at hateful Ramelly began Upon a Whitsunday . Oh Heathen John Duke , etc Though busy in his Slaughtering , His Avarice ran so high , That rather than spare the most Christian King , He Ten Thousand Pounds gave to a Spy. Oh covetous John Duke , etc ! At Audenard so ill to treat Foes , And make poor Widows of Wives ; He took a Delight to beatrice those , That never beatrice him in their Lives . O cowardly John Duke , etc Boufflers , a civil good Man , Safe in his Trenches close , From Mons he made run like a Footman , Though bulwark as high as his Nose . Uncivil John Duke , etc To every tender Christian Ear , When Crimes like these shall come , I know not how they may Abroad appear , I'm sure they found oddly at Home : These Deeds of John Duke , etc Some Facts to make the French undone , I've prov'd upon him well ; And truly what 'tis he has not done , Impossible 'tis to tell , Of this John Duke , etc To prove that all these Things are so , And not what Folks devise , Was he ever the Man that once spar'd the Foe , Or ever affronted th' Allies , This same John Duke , etc Ghent , Bruges and Tournay too , And late the strong Bouchain , Of his own Head he forc'd to obey too , Though wanting his Brother Eugene ; Hotheaded John Duke , etc Of these immoral Things he brags , 'Cause we take no notice at all ; You see with his pitiful French bloody Rags , How he litter'd poor Westminster-Hall . O slovenly John , etc Nay more he still would fly at , And all to mend the Peace ; Lord ! how can we ever be quiet , If we pardon such Crimes as these In any but John Duke , etc Twelve Years it sadly true is , By taking Towns and Lines , And baffling the poor King Lewis , He has spoil'd the Pretender's Designs . O meddlesome John Duke , etc Success still made him bolder , And by the Monsieur's Fallen , He has pass'd on this Isle for a Soldier , But it seems he knows nothing at all . Earl P ----- tO says so of Marlbro . This Year for War he voted , But we resolved on none ; For Monsieur was sure to be routed , And then High-Church had been undone By English John Duke , etc You see the Troops don't need him , He's out , and in France they laugh ; And send any other to head 'em , And I'll warrant old Bourbon is safe : Keep back but John Duke , etc For he , as Fame confesses , That Kingdom meant to devour ; For which , and his heinous Successes , He's broke , and our Fears are all o'er , Thus fell John Duke of Marlbro' . FINIS . And Excellent New Song , CALL'D , The Full Trial and Condemnation of JOHN Duke of MARLBOROUGH . I Now have and Ambition , In this great Time of News , To tell you the Deposition , Of the Christians , not the Jews , Against John Duke of Marlborough . Give Ear then , Sons of Britain , Of greater Crimes I sing , Than ever before were writ on , Since the time of a Queen or a King ; All done by John Duke , etc This Man by Constitution , Was made for Liberty ; He help'd the late Revolution , On purpose to hurt Popery , Did this John Duke , etc The next great Crime of many , His troublesome Pride to show , Was marching to High Germany ; And who gave 'em that damnable Blow , But this John Duke ? etc And more to mend the Matter , To his Shame and Reproach , And Army he made take Water , And their General sent by Coach : All prov'd on John Duke , etc To show his Whig-Devotion , On keeping the Sabbath-Day , He the Murder at hateful Ramelly began Upon a Whitsunday . Oh Heathen John Duke , etc Though busy in his Slaughtering , His Avarice ran so high , That rather than spare the most Christian King , He Ten Thousand Pounds gave to a Spy. Oh covetous John Duke , etc ! At Audenard so ill to treat Foes , And make poor Widows of Wives ; He took a Delight to beatrice those , That never beatrice him in their Lives . O cowardly John Duke , etc Boufflers , a civil good Man , Safe in his Trenches close , From Mons he made run like a Footman , Though bulwark as high as his Nose . Uncivil John Duke , etc To every tender Christian Ear , When Crimes like these shall come , I know not how they may Abroad appear , I'm sure they found oddly at Home : These Deeds of John Duke , etc Some Facts to make the French undone , I've prov'd upon him well ; And truly what 'tis he has not done , Impossible 'tis to tell , Of this John Duke , etc To prove that all these Things are so , And not what Folks devise , Was he ever the Man that once spar'd the Foe , Or ever affronted th' Allies , This same John Duke , etc Ghent , Bruges and Tournay too , And late the strong Bouchain , Of his own Head he forc'd to obey too , Though wanting his Brother Eugene ; Hotheaded John Duke , etc Of these immoral Things he brags , 'Cause we take no notice at all ; You see with his pitiful French bloody Rags , How he litter'd poor Westminster-Hall . O slovenly John , etc Nay more he still would fly at , And all to mend the Peace ; Lord ! how can we ever be quiet , If we pardon such Crimes as these In any but John Duke , etc Twelve Years it sadly true is , By taking Towns and Lines , And baffling the poor King Lewis , He has spoil'd the Pretender's Designs . O meddlesome John Duke , etc Success still made him bolder , And by the Monsieur's Fallen , He has pass'd on this Isle for a Soldier , But it seems he knows nothing at all . Earl P ----- tO says so of Marlbro . This Year for War he voted , But we resolved on none ; For Monsieur was sure to be routed , And then High-Church had been undone By English John Duke , etc You see the Troops don't need him , He's out , and in France they laugh ; And send any other to head 'em , And I'll warrant old Bourbon is safe : Keep back but John Duke , etc For he , as Fame confesses , That Kingdom meant to devour ; For which , and his heinous Successes , He's broke , and our Fears are all o'er , Thus fell John Duke of Marlbro' . FINIS . 