The Maltster caught in a Trap Or , The Witty Ale-Wife . This Alewife she was run upon the Maltster's score Full Twenty pounds for Malt , I think , and more : But he desir'd a bit of Venus Game , And I think he paid full dearly for the same : He made a Discharge I say for once , And glad he was that he could save his Stones : He was lamfateed till his bones were soar ; He has made a vow he'l ne'r come there no more ; The Alewifes Husband did so belabour him , That made him stink and piss for very shame . Tune is , What should a young woman do with and old man : Or , Digbys Farewell . I Pray you draw near and attend now a while , Here's a pretty new Ditty will make you to smile ; The truth of the business you need not to fear Of a notable Jest was done in Harford-shire : A lusty brave Maltman in that Country did dwell That lov'd a fair woman , many people can tell ; But if you'l be pleas'd to attend here and mind , He was fitted very finely and serv'd in his kind . A dainty brave Alewife that lived him near , That bought her Malt of him to brew her strong Beer , For he was kind hearted ; and loving , and free , But she paid him in's ear , as you plainly shall see : She was run Twenty pounds for Malt on the score , But he aimed a Barrel of Baer for to boar ; But he was deceived , he was caught in a snare , She was too cunning for him now I do swear . One day he did chance to look for some money , But for fear he should fail he desir'd some Coney ; The Alewife was beautyful and very fair , And the Maltman his senses was all on a fire With seeing sweet Babies in the Ale-wife's eyes , That Cupid had struck him with a lustful surprise ; He put forth a question , and did her salute ; She answer'd him honestly with a civil dispute : For all you'r my Maltman your sute's all in vain , I'le ne'r wrong my Conscience my Credit to stain , That I should defile my own Husbands Bed , To be such a Whore to set Horns on his Head. Thou needs not to fear , that will be no disgrace , There will be no body near us in this place . She hearing him eager , and so earnestly bent , Thought she , I will fit him , isle his purpose prevent . And now she contrives and invention I swear , To pay him the money , and trap him in a snare And tells him if he will but stay till next day He should have his desire to sport and to play : My Husband tomorrow he will be from home , And then Sir again ( if you please ) you may come ; And rest yourself satisfied , and be content , Keep everything close , and all dangers prevent . Then the Maltster was pleas'd in the story we find , He was sweetly contented , it pleased his mind : He said , isle be a good friend if thou be to me true ; But she was and honest woman I tell unto you : Then she to her Husband did tell all her mind , Be ruled by me , and we'l fit him in's kind : And so then the Alewife laid for him a snare , To make her husband acquainted it was all her care . Then this Plot was contriv'd with her husbands consent To pay off the Maltster & give him conten Next day then this Maltster did come to this Dame , But he was well-rewarded I think for the same : Her Husband was in ambush , and she on the bed , And the Maltster fell to embracing & nothing did dread But before he could his work then begin , Her husband immediately fell upon him . What sirrah , do you mean to make a whore of my wife ? Must I be a Cuckold all the days of my life ? And with a good Cudgel he hanged his bones , And made him believe he would cut out his stones ; So by head and by ears he pull'd him o' th' Floor , That the Maltster bepissed him ; he loudly did roar , All the money you owe me i'le freely forgive , If you'l save my Life and let me now live . No sirrah , i'le Geld you and put you to sorrow , You had enough of your own , you need not to borrow : Oh then he did beg on his knees very soar , If you'l forgive me i'le do so no more . O now says the Ale-man i'le do it for once , Your pitiful begging hath saved your stones ; You say you will quit me all scores very large , Then take Pen and Paper and write a discharge . The thing it was done and they quit the score , And he turned the Maltster out of the door , And gave him a charge he should come no more there , And take for a warning or he shall pay for it dear . He went sneaking away , and was sorely decoyed , And paid for the thing that he never enjoyed : And now I intend to let my Pen rest , E [ ' ] ry man with 's own wife , I think that the best . Printed for P. Brooksby at the ball in Py-Corner . The Maltster caught in a Trap Or , The Witty Ale-Wife . This Alewife she was run upon the Maltster's score Full Twenty pounds for Malt , I think , and more : But he desir'd a bit of Venus Game , And I think he paid full dearly for the same : He made a Discharge I say for once , And glad he was that he could save his Stones : He was lamfateed till his bones were soar ; He has made a vow he'l ne'r come there no more ; The Alewifes Husband did so belabour him , That made him stink and piss for very shame . Tune is , What should a young woman do with and old man : Or , Digbys Farewell . I Pray you draw near and attend now a while , Here's a pretty new Ditty will make you to smile ; The truth of the business you need not to fear Of a notable Jest was done in Harford-shire : A lusty brave Maltman in that Country did dwell That lov'd a fair woman , many people can tell ; But if you'l be pleas'd to attend here and mind , He was fitted very finely and serv'd in his kind . A dainty brave Alewife that lived him near , That bought her Malt of him to brew her strong Beer , For he was kind hearted ; and loving , and free , But she paid him in's ear , as you plainly shall see : She was run Twenty pounds for Malt on the score , But he aimed a Barrel of Baer for to boar ; But he was deceived , he was caught in a snare , She was too cunning for him now I do swear . One day he did chance to look for some money , But for fear he should fail he desir'd some Coney ; The Alewife was beautyful and very fair , And the Maltman his senses was all on a fire With seeing sweet Babies in the Ale-wife's eyes , That Cupid had struck him with a lustful surprise ; He put forth a question , and did her salute ; She answer'd him honestly with a civil dispute : For all you'r my Maltman your sute's all in vain , I'le ne'r wrong my Conscience my Credit to stain , That I should defile my own Husbands Bed , To be such a Whore to set Horns on his Head. Thou needs not to fear , that will be no disgrace , There will be no body near us in this place . She hearing him eager , and so earnestly bent , Thought she , I will fit him , isle his purpose prevent . And now she contrives and invention I swear , To pay him the money , and trap him in a snare And tells him if he will but stay till next day He should have his desire to sport and to play : My Husband tomorrow he will be from home , And then Sir again ( if you please ) you may come ; And rest yourself satisfied , and be content , Keep everything close , and all dangers prevent . Then the Maltster was pleas'd in the story we find , He was sweetly contented , it pleased his mind : He said , isle be a good friend if thou be to me true ; But she was and honest woman I tell unto you : Then she to her Husband did tell all her mind , Be ruled by me , and we'l fit him in's kind : And so then the Alewife laid for him a snare , To make her husband acquainted it was all her care . Then this Plot was contriv'd with her husbands consent To pay off the Maltster & give him conten Next day then this Maltster did come to this Dame , But he was well-rewarded I think for the same : Her Husband was in ambush , and she on the bed , And the Maltster fell to embracing & nothing did dread But before he could his work then begin , Her husband immediately fell upon him . What sirrah , do you mean to make a whore of my wife ? Must I be a Cuckold all the days of my life ? And with a good Cudgel he hanged his bones , And made him believe he would cut out his stones ; So by head and by ears he pull'd him o' th' Floor , That the Maltster bepissed him ; he loudly did roar , All the money you owe me i'le freely forgive , If you'l save my Life and let me now live . No sirrah , i'le Geld you and put you to sorrow , You had enough of your own , you need not to borrow : Oh then he did beg on his knees very soar , If you'l forgive me i'le do so no more . O now says the Ale-man i'le do it for once , Your pitiful begging hath saved your stones ; You say you will quit me all scores very large , Then take Pen and Paper and write a discharge . The thing it was done and they quit the score , And he turned the Maltster out of the door , And gave him a charge he should come no more there , And take for a warning or he shall pay for it dear . He went sneaking away , and was sorely decoyed , And paid for the thing that he never enjoyed : And now I intend to let my Pen rest , E [ ' ] ry man with 's own wife , I think that the best . Printed for P. Brooksby at the ball in Py-Corner . 