The Shooe-maker's Triumph : BEING A Song in Praise of the Gentle-Craft , showing how Royal Princes , Sons of Kings , Lords , and great Commanders , have been Shoemakers of old , to the Honour of this ancient Trade ; as it was sung at a General Assembly of Shoemakers , on the 25th of Octob. 1695 , being St. Crispin To the Tune of , The Evening Ramble , etc Written by RICHARD RIGBEY , a Brother of the Craft . I Sing in the Praise of Shoemakers , whose Honour no Person can stain , In every Age they dare to Engage , and Victory still they did gain ; No Craft in the World can compare with Shoe-making , for I declare , Who reads but the Story , will set forth their Glory , commending them everywhere , As Persons of honoured Fame and Renown ; Then let not their Glory be trampled down . Sir Hugh was a Prince and a Lover , yet learned the Shoe-making Trade , Which yielded Relief , when Sorrow and Grief , in Travel , had made him dismayed ; When he of his Love was deny'd , he crossed the Ocean so wide , Returning soon after , then with a King's Daughter a Glorify'd Martyr he dy'd . Thus Shoemakers have been true Men of Renown , Then let not their Glory forever go down . There's Crispine , and brave Crispianus , both Brother's , and Sons to a King , In Sorrow and Woe , from Court they did go , when under a Shooe-maker's Wing Protection and Safety they found , for 'Prentices straight they were bound ; Disguised like Strangers , from perilous Dangers , this Harbour of Safety they found : Thus Princes of honoured Fame and Renown , Hath Shoemakers been , that was Heirs to a Crown . Young Crispine he wone the fair Daughter of Great Maximinus , for who Admitted could be , but verily he , to draw on fair Ursula's Shoe , That honoured Lady of Fame , for when to the Palace he came , He soon was admitted , the Shoes being fitted , this Royal Young Beautiful Dame Besought him for Marriage , though Heir to the Cro [ wn ] Thus Shoemakers have been brave Lords of Renow [ n ] His Brother went forth as a Soldier , well arm'd , to the Gallican Shore , Where thousands he kill'd ; they never beheld such conquering Courage before , The Work being speedily done , and the Enemy forced to run ; Their General Gallant , Courageous and Valia [ nt ] was likewise a Shooe-maker's Son : Thus loaded with honoured Fame and Renown , Then let not brave Shoemakers Glory go down . Sir Simon , Lord-Mayor of fair London , he was a Shoemaker by Trade , Who , while he was Mayor , the Truth to declare , a Dinner of Fritters he made , Inviting the 'Prentices all , who readily came at his Call ; That Day they were merry , with Bowls of Canary , for he from his Word would not fallen : Thus good Simon Eyre , of Fame and Renown , He was a Shoemaker , and Lord of the Town . Thus Valiant and Noble Shoemakers the City and Court did Adorn ; For Deeds they have done , a Shooe-maker's Son , I tell you , he is a Prince born ; There's no other Trade in the Land , had ever such Royal Command , For Honour and Glory ; then read but the Story , then , then you will soon understand , That Shoemakers they have been fam'd for Renown , Then let not their Triumph and Honour go down . Printed for C. Bates , at the Sun and Bible in Pye-corn [ er . ] There is likewise newly Writ and Printed a Book intitul'd , The Shooe-maker's Glory : or , The Princely History of the Gentle-Cr [ aft ] Showing what Renowned Princes , Hero's and Worthies have been of the Shooe-maker's Trade , both in this and other Kinged [ oms ] likewise why it is call'd , The Gentle-Craft ; and that they say , A Shooe-maker's Son is a Prince born . To which this Song is added Price Twopence . The Shooe-maker's Triumph : BEING A Song in Praise of the Gentle-Craft , showing how Royal Princes , Sons of Kings , Lords , and great Commanders , have been Shoemakers of old , to the Honour of this ancient Trade ; as it was sung at a General Assembly of Shoemakers , on the 25th of Octob. 1695 , being St. Crispin To the Tune of , The Evening Ramble , etc Written by RICHARD RIGBEY , a Brother of the Craft . I Sing in the Praise of Shoemakers , whose Honour no Person can stain , In every Age they dare to Engage , and Victory still they did gain ; No Craft in the World can compare with Shoe-making , for I declare , Who reads but the Story , will set forth their Glory , commending them everywhere , As Persons of honoured Fame and Renown ; Then let not their Glory be trampled down . Sir Hugh was a Prince and a Lover , yet learned the Shoe-making Trade , Which yielded Relief , when Sorrow and Grief , in Travel , had made him dismayed ; When he of his Love was deny'd , he crossed the Ocean so wide , Returning soon after , then with a King's Daughter a Glorify'd Martyr he dy'd . Thus Shoemakers have been true Men of Renown , Then let not their Glory forever go down . There's Crispine , and brave Crispianus , both Brother's , and Sons to a King , In Sorrow and Woe , from Court they did go , when under a Shooe-maker's Wing Protection and Safety they found , for 'Prentices straight they were bound ; Disguised like Strangers , from perilous Dangers , this Harbour of Safety they found : Thus Princes of honoured Fame and Renown , Hath Shoemakers been , that was Heirs to a Crown . Young Crispine he wone the fair Daughter of Great Maximinus , for who Admitted could be , but verily he , to draw on fair Ursula's Shoe , That honoured Lady of Fame , for when to the Palace he came , He soon was admitted , the Shoes being fitted , this Royal Young Beautiful Dame Besought him for Marriage , though Heir to the Cro [ wn ] Thus Shoemakers have been brave Lords of Renow [ n ] His Brother went forth as a Soldier , well arm'd , to the Gallican Shore , Where thousands he kill'd ; they never beheld such conquering Courage before , The Work being speedily done , and the Enemy forced to run ; Their General Gallant , Courageous and Valia [ nt ] was likewise a Shooe-maker's Son : Thus loaded with honoured Fame and Renown , Then let not brave Shoemakers Glory go down . Sir Simon , Lord-Mayor of fair London , he was a Shoemaker by Trade , Who , while he was Mayor , the Truth to declare , a Dinner of Fritters he made , Inviting the 'Prentices all , who readily came at his Call ; That Day they were merry , with Bowls of Canary , for he from his Word would not fallen : Thus good Simon Eyre , of Fame and Renown , He was a Shoemaker , and Lord of the Town . Thus Valiant and Noble Shoemakers the City and Court did Adorn ; For Deeds they have done , a Shooe-maker's Son , I tell you , he is a Prince born ; There's no other Trade in the Land , had ever such Royal Command , For Honour and Glory ; then read but the Story , then , then you will soon understand , That Shoemakers they have been fam'd for Renown , Then let not their Triumph and Honour go down . Printed for C. Bates , at the Sun and Bible in Pye-corn [ er . ] There is likewise newly Writ and Printed a Book intitul'd , The Shooe-maker's Glory : or , The Princely History of the Gentle-Cr [ aft ] Showing what Renowned Princes , Hero's and Worthies have been of the Shooe-maker's Trade , both in this and other Kinged [ oms ] likewise why it is call'd , The Gentle-Craft ; and that they say , A Shooe-maker's Son is a Prince born . To which this Song is added Price Twopence . 