Advice to Bachelors , OR , A Caution to be careful in their Choice . As also , the deserved praise of a Careful Industrious Wife . If thou wilt change a single Life , to live free from annoy , Choose then a kind and careful Wife , she'll Crown thy days with Joy . To the Tune of , A Touch of the Times . Or , The Country Farmer . This may be Printed . R.P. BOth Robert and Richard , nay , William and Ned , If any of you have a fancy to wed , Come hither and take this good Counsel I give , So may you be happy as long as you live ; For both good and bad among Women there be , And therefore I pray you be ruled by me , Choose one that is modest , discreet in her ways , And then the whole world cannot speak her due praise . Such wives they will always their Husbands obey , And never be given to wander or stray Among lazy Gossips her money to spend ; She knows that it will her kind Husband offend , And therefore her study and care will be still , To love him and always submit to his will ; For she that is modest , discreet in her ways , The world is not able to speak her due praise . Some Men choose a Wife by the weight of her purse , Which may be her money does prove but a Curse . Proud Wives they will flourish at such a lose rate , Till they have clearly consum'd and Estate . But as for the woman that strives to take care , If she has but decent apparel to wear , She seeks for no more , but her Husband obeys , And then , etc Some Women are subject to thunder and brawl , And others with Wantons will waste and spend all . And which is the worst of these two I don't know , The wife that is Wanton , or she that's a Shrow , The one makes him clearly a weary of life , The other is still for contention and strife . But she that is modest , discreet in her ways , The world is not able to speak her due praise . A good Wife that marries a man that is poor , She'l make it her care to replenish his store , And like to the painful industrious Bee , She'll do her endeavour to labour with thee : If thou art in Anger she will not revile , But instead of frowns will afford thee a smile ; And thus being modest , discreet in her ways , The world , etc Ne'r strive for to marry a finikin Lass , We see they are often as brittle as Glass , They'l crack their Credit , consuming thy store , While she that is careful will labour for more : In troubles or crosses , or what e're may fallen , A good wife will stand the brunt of it all , And do her endeavour her Husband to raise , The world , etc A good wife will always be taking of care , And yet will not murmur , repine , or despair , But still is contented with what she enjoys , And is not for railing , and making a noise : Such women that never knows how for to scold , Adore them more dearer then Jewels or Gold , For she is most virtuous , discreet in her ways , The world , etc For that is the Woman that still will contrive , To help her kind Husband in order to thrive , And seeks for to please him , and never offend , Oh such a good wife we may truly commend : Nay , what though her portion , alas ! be but small , Her virtues will make thee amends for it all , A wife that is wife and discreet in her ways , The world , etc If it be thy fortune to find such a wife , Adore her and love her as dear as thy life , Ne'r grieve her , but labour always to provide Both Food and Apparel , and all things beside , So may you be ever united in Love , And blessed in this life by the powers above , The wife that is virtuous , discreet in her ways , The world is not able to speak her due praise . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . Advice to Bachelors , OR , A Caution to be careful in their Choice . As also , the deserved praise of a Careful Industrious Wife . If thou wilt change a single Life , to live free from annoy , Choose then a kind and careful Wife , she'll Crown thy days with Joy . To the Tune of , A Touch of the Times . Or , The Country Farmer . This may be Printed . R.P. BOth Robert and Richard , nay , William and Ned , If any of you have a fancy to wed , Come hither and take this good Counsel I give , So may you be happy as long as you live ; For both good and bad among Women there be , And therefore I pray you be ruled by me , Choose one that is modest , discreet in her ways , And then the whole world cannot speak her due praise . Such wives they will always their Husbands obey , And never be given to wander or stray Among lazy Gossips her money to spend ; She knows that it will her kind Husband offend , And therefore her study and care will be still , To love him and always submit to his will ; For she that is modest , discreet in her ways , The world is not able to speak her due praise . Some Men choose a Wife by the weight of her purse , Which may be her money does prove but a Curse . Proud Wives they will flourish at such a lose rate , Till they have clearly consum'd and Estate . But as for the woman that strives to take care , If she has but decent apparel to wear , She seeks for no more , but her Husband obeys , And then , etc Some Women are subject to thunder and brawl , And others with Wantons will waste and spend all . And which is the worst of these two I don't know , The wife that is Wanton , or she that's a Shrow , The one makes him clearly a weary of life , The other is still for contention and strife . But she that is modest , discreet in her ways , The world is not able to speak her due praise . A good Wife that marries a man that is poor , She'l make it her care to replenish his store , And like to the painful industrious Bee , She'll do her endeavour to labour with thee : If thou art in Anger she will not revile , But instead of frowns will afford thee a smile ; And thus being modest , discreet in her ways , The world , etc Ne'r strive for to marry a finikin Lass , We see they are often as brittle as Glass , They'l crack their Credit , consuming thy store , While she that is careful will labour for more : In troubles or crosses , or what e're may fallen , A good wife will stand the brunt of it all , And do her endeavour her Husband to raise , The world , etc A good wife will always be taking of care , And yet will not murmur , repine , or despair , But still is contented with what she enjoys , And is not for railing , and making a noise : Such women that never knows how for to scold , Adore them more dearer then Jewels or Gold , For she is most virtuous , discreet in her ways , The world , etc For that is the Woman that still will contrive , To help her kind Husband in order to thrive , And seeks for to please him , and never offend , Oh such a good wife we may truly commend : Nay , what though her portion , alas ! be but small , Her virtues will make thee amends for it all , A wife that is wife and discreet in her ways , The world , etc If it be thy fortune to find such a wife , Adore her and love her as dear as thy life , Ne'r grieve her , but labour always to provide Both Food and Apparel , and all things beside , So may you be ever united in Love , And blessed in this life by the powers above , The wife that is virtuous , discreet in her ways , The world is not able to speak her due praise . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . 