Amintas and Claudia : Or , The Merry Shepherdess , Shewig whatever he from Virtue did not draw , She circumvented with a would , would , would , To the Tune , called , Calm was the Evening , and Clear was the Sky . CAlm was the Evening and clear was the Sky when the new budding flowers do spring , When all alone went Amintas and I , to hear the sweet Nightingales sing ; I sat and he laid him down by me , and scarcely his breath he could draw , But when with a fear , He begun to draw near , He was dashed with a would , would , would , would , would , would , would , would , would , would , would , would , would . He blushed to himself , and lay still for a while and his modesty curb'd his desire , But strait I convinc'd all his fears with a smile and added new flames to his fire : Ah Silvia said he [ , ] thou art cruel , to keep thy poor lover in awe , And once more he pressed , His hands to my breast , But was dashed with a [ , ] etc I know 'twas his passion which caused all his fear and therefore I pitied his case , I whispered him softly , there was no body near , and I laid my cheek close to his face : But as he grew bolder and bolder , a Shepherd came by us and saw , And just as our bliss . Began with a kiss . He burst out , etc Come my own dear , lets retire a while , and hasten us down to the Grove , Wherein some shade : That nature hath made , We'l make a rehearsal of love , And when with love tales we are tired , and occasion does bid us withdraw , We then from our seat , Will make a retreat , And laugh out , etc I Having consented , away we did go , and found out the thick of the Wood ; But when we came there , I began for to fear , His meaning portended no good : My beauty likewise he would oftentimes praise for the rarest that ever he saw , And there he would skip , From my hand to my lip . but was dashed with a would , would , would , would , would , would , would , would , would , would , would , would , would , Sometime he wou'd sighs , and sometimes he wou'd weep and pray me to pity his case ; But I found out by that What he would be at , His meaning I read in his face ; I bid him desist and give over his suit , For I told him my Will was a law , And if he were pleas'd To have his pain eas'd . He must laugh . etc You know said Amintas how long I have lov'd , and ever restrain my desire , And now with your scorn , Which cannot be born , You seek to extinguish my fire ; My verture will justify all that I do , to keep you at distance and awe : And your lose desire , Will sooner expire , Then mirth , etc He sat like a Mute , and was still for a while , consulting what answer to make , When all in haste , He embraced my Wast , And no more my denials would take . He vow'd though my heart it were frozen , his endeavour he'd use , it to thaw ; If the heat of your blood , Cou'd do any good . Which made , etc I found that his passion began to Rebel , and Reason no more could prevail , Thought I to myself , I am now on a shelf . And know not which way for to sail ; But if by my Policy I can get off , and my honour preserve without flaw , I'll engage me no more , On such dangerous shore , But at home , etc I used some persuasions that Evening was ni [ g ] h , for the Sun it began to decline , And fearing some Swain , Of the Neighbouring plain , Might come for to water his Kine ; I pray's him return and walk softly along , when 'twas dark i'd submit to his law , Where in my own Bower , For the space of and hour He shou'd kiss , etc His thoughts being transported with joy , he conceiv'd , ne're fear'd , but my promise i'd keep But instead of a Wench , He found such a Trench . As charm'd all his senses a sleep : The virtue whereof through his vitals dispersed and his faculties purer did draw ; And when I had done , Away I did run , And laughed out with a would , would , would , would , would , would , would , would , would , would , would , would , would . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . Amintas and Claudia : Or , The Merry Shepherdess , Shewig whatever he from Virtue did not draw , She circumvented with a would , would , would , To the Tune , called , Calm was the Evening , and Clear was the Sky . CAlm was the Evening and clear was the Sky when the new budding flowers do spring , When all alone went Amintas and I , to hear the sweet Nightingales sing ; I sat and he laid him down by me , and scarcely his breath he could draw , But when with a fear , He begun to draw near , He was dashed with a would , would , would , would , would , would , would , would , would , would , would , would , would . He blushed to himself , and lay still for a while and his modesty curb'd his desire , But strait I convinc'd all his fears with a smile and added new flames to his fire : Ah Silvia said he [ , ] thou art cruel , to keep thy poor lover in awe , And once more he pressed , His hands to my breast , But was dashed with a [ , ] etc I know 'twas his passion which caused all his fear and therefore I pitied his case , I whispered him softly , there was no body near , and I laid my cheek close to his face : But as he grew bolder and bolder , a Shepherd came by us and saw , And just as our bliss . Began with a kiss . He burst out , etc Come my own dear , lets retire a while , and hasten us down to the Grove , Wherein some shade : That nature hath made , We'l make a rehearsal of love , And when with love tales we are tired , and occasion does bid us withdraw , We then from our seat , Will make a retreat , And laugh out , etc I Having consented , away we did go , and found out the thick of the Wood ; But when we came there , I began for to fear , His meaning portended no good : My beauty likewise he would oftentimes praise for the rarest that ever he saw , And there he would skip , From my hand to my lip . but was dashed with a would , would , would , would , would , would , would , would , would , would , would , would , would , Sometime he wou'd sighs , and sometimes he wou'd weep and pray me to pity his case ; But I found out by that What he would be at , His meaning I read in his face ; I bid him desist and give over his suit , For I told him my Will was a law , And if he were pleas'd To have his pain eas'd . He must laugh . etc You know said Amintas how long I have lov'd , and ever restrain my desire , And now with your scorn , Which cannot be born , You seek to extinguish my fire ; My verture will justify all that I do , to keep you at distance and awe : And your lose desire , Will sooner expire , Then mirth , etc He sat like a Mute , and was still for a while , consulting what answer to make , When all in haste , He embraced my Wast , And no more my denials would take . He vow'd though my heart it were frozen , his endeavour he'd use , it to thaw ; If the heat of your blood , Cou'd do any good . Which made , etc I found that his passion began to Rebel , and Reason no more could prevail , Thought I to myself , I am now on a shelf . And know not which way for to sail ; But if by my Policy I can get off , and my honour preserve without flaw , I'll engage me no more , On such dangerous shore , But at home , etc I used some persuasions that Evening was ni [ g ] h , for the Sun it began to decline , And fearing some Swain , Of the Neighbouring plain , Might come for to water his Kine ; I pray's him return and walk softly along , when 'twas dark i'd submit to his law , Where in my own Bower , For the space of and hour He shou'd kiss , etc His thoughts being transported with joy , he conceiv'd , ne're fear'd , but my promise i'd keep But instead of a Wench , He found such a Trench . As charm'd all his senses a sleep : The virtue whereof through his vitals dispersed and his faculties purer did draw ; And when I had done , Away I did run , And laughed out with a would , would , would , would , would , would , would , would , would , would , would , would , would . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . 