[ 1 ] A SATYR AGAINST IN-JUSTICE : OR , Sc -- gs upon Sc -- gs . 1. A Butchers Son ( Judge ) Capital , Poor Protestants for to enthral , And England to enslave , Sirs . 2. Loose both our Laws and Lives ( we must ) When to do Justice , we intrust So known and errand Knaves , Sirs . 3. Some hungry Priests he once did fell With mighty Strokes , and them to Hell Sent furiously away , Sirs . 4. Would you know why ? The reason's plain ; They had no English nor French Coin To purchase longer Stay , Sirs . 5. The Pope , to Purgatory sends Who neither Money have ( nor Friends ; ) In this he's not alone , Sirs . 6. Our Judge to Mercy's not inclin'd , Unless Gold change Conscience and Mind , You are infallibly gone , Sirs . A His [ 2 ] 7. His Father , once exempted was Out of all Juries ; Why ? Because He was a man of Blood , Sirs . 8. And why the Butcherly Son , forsooth , Should now be Judge and Jury both . Can't well be understood , Sirs . 9. The good old man , with Knife and Knocks , Made harmless Sheep and stubborn Ox Stoop to him in his fury . 10. But the Brib'd Son , like greedy Auff , Kneels down and worships Golden Caff ; And so did all the Jury . 11. Better hadst been at Father's Trade , And honest Livelihood t'have made , In hampering Bulls with Collers , 12. Than to thy Country prove unjust , First fell , and then betray thy Trust For so many hard Rixdollers . 13. Priests and Physician , thou didst save From Gallows , Fire , and the Grave ; For which we can't endure thee . 14. The one can ne'er absolve thy Sins , And th' other , though he now begins , Of Knavery ne're can cure thee . 15. But lest we all should end thy Life , And with a keen-whet Chopping knife , In a thousand pieces cleave thee , 16. Let th' Parliament first him undertake , They'll make the Rascal stink at Stake ; And so like a Knave let's leave thee . FINIS . [ 1 ] A SATYR AGAINST IN-JUSTICE : OR , Sc -- gs upon Sc -- gs . 1. A Butchers Son ( Judge ) Capital , Poor Protestants for to enthral , And England to enslave , Sirs . 2. Loose both our Laws and Lives ( we must ) When to do Justice , we intrust So known and errand Knaves , Sirs . 3. Some hungry Priests he once did fell With mighty Strokes , and them to Hell Sent furiously away , Sirs . 4. Would you know why ? The reason's plain ; They had no English nor French Coin To purchase longer Stay , Sirs . 5. The Pope , to Purgatory sends Who neither Money have ( nor Friends ; ) In this he's not alone , Sirs . 6. Our Judge to Mercy's not inclin'd , Unless Gold change Conscience and Mind , You are infallibly gone , Sirs . A His [ 2 ] 7. His Father , once exempted was Out of all Juries ; Why ? Because He was a man of Blood , Sirs . 8. And why the Butcherly Son , forsooth , Should now be Judge and Jury both . Can't well be understood , Sirs . 9. The good old man , with Knife and Knocks , Made harmless Sheep and stubborn Ox Stoop to him in his fury . 10. But the Brib'd Son , like greedy Auff , Kneels down and worships Golden Caff ; And so did all the Jury . 11. Better hadst been at Father's Trade , And honest Livelihood t'have made , In hampering Bulls with Collers , 12. Than to thy Country prove unjust , First fell , and then betray thy Trust For so many hard Rixdollers . 13. Priests and Physician , thou didst save From Gallows , Fire , and the Grave ; For which we can't endure thee . 14. The one can ne'er absolve thy Sins , And th' other , though he now begins , Of Knavery ne're can cure thee . 15. But lest we all should end thy Life , And with a keen-whet Chopping knife , In a thousand pieces cleave thee , 16. Let th' Parliament first him undertake , They'll make the Rascal stink at Stake ; And so like a Knave let's leave thee . FINIS . 