The Loyal Lovers Farewell , Or , The True Lovers Mournful Ditty , For the absence of her Dearest Love , who upon some Importunate occasion was forc'd to cross the Seas . The youngman he in sorrow here bewails The absence of his Love , while that she sails On surging waves , he is oppressed with fear , lest in a storm they should shipwrak his dear . But then with hope's to mitigate his pain , He prays kind Neptune guard her o're the main And that no danger e're may her annoy , But in safety return to Crown his Joy . To the Tune of , Bright was the Morning . BRight was the morning , cool the air , serene was all the Sky , When on the Waves I left my fair , the centre of my joy : Heaven and Nature smiling were , and nothing sad but I . Each Rosy Field its odours spread , all fragrant was the shore , Each River God rose from his Bed , and sigh'd and own'd his power : Curling their waves , they decked their head as proud of what they boar . Boreas his blustering Winds had lay'd , but blew a pleasant Gale , Fanning the Streamers sweetly play'd and fill'd each swelling Sail ; Then leaving me , farewell , she said , her absence to bewail . And from my eyes dropping a tear , I forced was to part With her whom I do love so dear , and does enjoy my heart ; In a sad Labyrinth of fear , which causes all my smart . lest that Dame Fortune fickle prove , e're she the Seas have crossed , And by a Storm the Waves do move , and she on them be tossed ; Then in distress will be my love , in danger to be lost . When stormy winds do blustering blow and Billows they do rise , The raging waves no pity show , when mounting to the Skies ; All these sad fears create my woe , while tears flow from my eyes . Then to that silent Grove straight I , in discontent repair , Where I have oft most lovingly , with joy embrac'd my fair ; For it was her sweet Company , that banish'd all my care . O cruel Fate , to me unkind , to rob me of my dear , Leaving me here in grief behind , till she again appear ; For to my grief , alas , I find , each minute seems a year . Nor can I e're my grief unfold , her absence is my pain , Nor can my joy be ever told , when she returns again , Prizing her more than all the Gold , the Indies does contain . And may all happiness attend on her whom I adore , While I in tears my time do spend , oft walking on the shore : Viewing the waves with sighs , do send a thousand wishes o're . Glide on you waters , bear these lines , and tell her I'm distressed , Bear all my sighs you gentle winds , waft them to her fair breast ; Tell her if e're she prove unkind , I never shall have rest . Guard her kind Neptune then , that she may bless me with her Charms , Guide her from Rocks and dangers free or any other harms ; Bring her with speed o're the wide Sea in safety to my Arms. FINIS . Licensed according to Order . Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass on London-Bridge . The Loyal Lovers Farewell , Or , The True Lovers Mournful Ditty , For the absence of her Dearest Love , who upon some Importunate occasion was forc'd to cross the Seas . The youngman he in sorrow here bewails The absence of his Love , while that she sails On surging waves , he is oppressed with fear , lest in a storm they should shipwrak his dear . But then with hope's to mitigate his pain , He prays kind Neptune guard her o're the main And that no danger e're may her annoy , But in safety return to Crown his Joy . To the Tune of , Bright was the Morning . BRight was the morning , cool the air , serene was all the Sky , When on the Waves I left my fair , the centre of my joy : Heaven and Nature smiling were , and nothing sad but I . Each Rosy Field its odours spread , all fragrant was the shore , Each River God rose from his Bed , and sigh'd and own'd his power : Curling their waves , they decked their head as proud of what they boar . Boreas his blustering Winds had lay'd , but blew a pleasant Gale , Fanning the Streamers sweetly play'd and fill'd each swelling Sail ; Then leaving me , farewell , she said , her absence to bewail . And from my eyes dropping a tear , I forced was to part With her whom I do love so dear , and does enjoy my heart ; In a sad Labyrinth of fear , which causes all my smart . lest that Dame Fortune fickle prove , e're she the Seas have crossed , And by a Storm the Waves do move , and she on them be tossed ; Then in distress will be my love , in danger to be lost . When stormy winds do blustering blow and Billows they do rise , The raging waves no pity show , when mounting to the Skies ; All these sad fears create my woe , while tears flow from my eyes . Then to that silent Grove straight I , in discontent repair , Where I have oft most lovingly , with joy embrac'd my fair ; For it was her sweet Company , that banish'd all my care . O cruel Fate , to me unkind , to rob me of my dear , Leaving me here in grief behind , till she again appear ; For to my grief , alas , I find , each minute seems a year . Nor can I e're my grief unfold , her absence is my pain , Nor can my joy be ever told , when she returns again , Prizing her more than all the Gold , the Indies does contain . And may all happiness attend on her whom I adore , While I in tears my time do spend , oft walking on the shore : Viewing the waves with sighs , do send a thousand wishes o're . Glide on you waters , bear these lines , and tell her I'm distressed , Bear all my sighs you gentle winds , waft them to her fair breast ; Tell her if e're she prove unkind , I never shall have rest . Guard her kind Neptune then , that she may bless me with her Charms , Guide her from Rocks and dangers free or any other harms ; Bring her with speed o're the wide Sea in safety to my Arms. FINIS . Licensed according to Order . Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass on London-Bridge . 