THE RESTAURATION ; OR , A Change for the Better . BEING A Paper of VERSES in Memory of the Citizens of London's Gratitude , in Choosing Sir William Pritchard , Sir John Fleet , Sir Francis Child , and Gilbert Heathcot , Esq ; For their Members to Serve in Parliament . CAlvin lament , thy Conquer'd Champions Mourn , And weep thy Sons Successless and Forlorn , Oppress'd with Grief to see the Church's Reign , After a Thirteen Years Attempt in Vain , After so many Trials to Restore Eusebia to the Strength Possess'd before . Behold with Envy , and with Sorrow see What must be always view'd with Joy by Me , Faction dethron'd , and Schismatics subdued , And Anarchy with its Republic Brood ; As Stuart's Injur'd Raze Ascends the Throne , And shows a Queen by Nature's Laws our own , Whose Right's unquestion'd , and whose Sacred Veins Swell with no Blood but their's or'e whom She Reigns ; Sure of our Choice , if we again could Choose , Or Royalty once more the Claims of Birthright loose . A Queen like this , and of the Stuart's Name , Our Hearts does call for , and our Voices claim , And Albion's Sons by late Elections show How much they Pay , tho' not how much they Owe ; As Real Merit is to ''Feign'd Prefer'd , And change of Members proves that Towns have Err'd , Have falsely been Misled by seeming Grace , And Chosen a Sinner for a Saintlike Face . Perverse in Chief Augusta's City stood , And enviously flung out the Wise and Good , A Foe to Justice , as a Foe to Shame , And lost to ev'ry Glory but her Name : While Hypocrites for Patriots current pass'd , And Men were Chosen that long could Cant and Fast ; Their Abstinence , design'd at City Polls , To save their Victuals , not to save their Souls . But lo ! The wish'd for Time at last appears , And Hope's prevent the growth of former Fears , Lo ! She Repents for what her Sons have done , And makes Amends for Thirteen Years , in One ; Fam'd for the Generous Choice she since has made , And Zealous for the Cause she once Betray'd ; As Cl ------ n's Expectations fade and die , And he drives sighing home to Belchingly ; As Baffled A ------ tO in a wondrous Hear , Deserts the City for his Country Seat Puff'd up with Pride , as if a Colonel still , And mixes Spleen with Air of Highgate-Hill , As Say-Grace A ------ mourns his Party's Fallen , And Mortifies himself at Salters-Hall , While the prevailing Candidates bestow Their Thoughts on those to whom their Thoughts they owe , And meditate Augusta's Fame to Raise , And bring her to the Height of former Days , Resolv'd t' Encourage War to Purchase Peace , And Charles's Reign Restore by Charles [ ' ] s Niece . Oh! Could my Pen but equal their Deserts , And speak their Triumphs in the Peoples Hearts , Describe the Transports , and the Joys Reveal , That honest Breasts in honest Patriots feel , Not Room herself should boast a Nobler Song , For nobler Sons to Rome did ne're belong ; Not Homer's Strains should more Exalted be , Or Maro touch a sweeter Pipe than Me. PRITCHARD should to the highest Glory rise , And Verse should bear his Merits to the Skies , As every Tongue should hold his Worth confessed , And Praise what none could ever have Express'd . FLEET should a Monumental Pattern stand Amid a Treach'rous Raze and Thankless Land , Steadfast , and Bold , as Gen'rous and Sincere , Deep in his Thought , yet in his Judgement clear , Fit for the Trust which in him we Repose , And Active to subdue Brittania's Foes . Nor shouldst thou CHILD , the Muses Favourite , raise The Peoples Hope's without the Muses Praise , Doubly thou'rt Lov'd , and hast been doubly Chosen , And doubly should the Muse her Joys disclose , As in Consent the Town and Country join , And show no Love like theirs , or Zeal like thine . HEATHCOT should shine Immortal in my Song , And Fam'd for Justice , should not suffer wrong ; A Patriot Wise as Affable and Meek ; Not Rash to Judge , as he's not Rash to Speak , Lov'd by all PARTIES for his Goodness sake , And every where Esteem'd , tho' He'll no Parties make . But it's a Task too great for Human Lays , And would exhaust the Stock of Human Praise , Tho' ev'ry barred the Glorious Theme should Choose , And claim the Noblest Strains of ev'ry Muse . the Patriots whom Apollo's self might sing , Pardon th' unhallow'd Offering which I bring ; Verse I have try'd , but what can Numbers do From such a worthless Hand , to such as You ? Oh! Grant me leave , since fruitless my Design , And I in Vain Invoke the Sacred Nine , Ask 'em in Vain the Guidance of their Skill , Or wait their Inspiration on my Quill , That I my gain Acceptance for my Heart , And Wonder may supply the Place of Art , As I for want of Words , not Zeal , Retire , And what I cannot duly Praise , Admire . LONDON , Printed for B.D. in Fleet-street , 1702. THE RESTAURATION ; OR , A Change for the Better . BEING A Paper of VERSES in Memory of the Citizens of London's Gratitude , in Choosing Sir William Pritchard , Sir John Fleet , Sir Francis Child , and Gilbert Heathcot , Esq ; For their Members to Serve in Parliament . CAlvin lament , thy Conquer'd Champions Mourn , And weep thy Sons Successless and Forlorn , Oppress'd with Grief to see the Church's Reign , After a Thirteen Years Attempt in Vain , After so many Trials to Restore Eusebia to the Strength Possess'd before . Behold with Envy , and with Sorrow see What must be always view'd with Joy by Me , Faction dethron'd , and Schismatics subdued , And Anarchy with its Republic Brood ; As Stuart's Injur'd Raze Ascends the Throne , And shows a Queen by Nature's Laws our own , Whose Right's unquestion'd , and whose Sacred Veins Swell with no Blood but their's or'e whom She Reigns ; Sure of our Choice , if we again could Choose , Or Royalty once more the Claims of Birthright loose . A Queen like this , and of the Stuart's Name , Our Hearts does call for , and our Voices claim , And Albion's Sons by late Elections show How much they Pay , tho' not how much they Owe ; As Real Merit is to ''Feign'd Prefer'd , And change of Members proves that Towns have Err'd , Have falsely been Misled by seeming Grace , And Chosen a Sinner for a Saintlike Face . Perverse in Chief Augusta's City stood , And enviously flung out the Wise and Good , A Foe to Justice , as a Foe to Shame , And lost to ev'ry Glory but her Name : While Hypocrites for Patriots current pass'd , And Men were Chosen that long could Cant and Fast ; Their Abstinence , design'd at City Polls , To save their Victuals , not to save their Souls . But lo ! The wish'd for Time at last appears , And Hope's prevent the growth of former Fears , Lo ! She Repents for what her Sons have done , And makes Amends for Thirteen Years , in One ; Fam'd for the Generous Choice she since has made , And Zealous for the Cause she once Betray'd ; As Cl ------ n's Expectations fade and die , And he drives sighing home to Belchingly ; As Baffled A ------ tO in a wondrous Hear , Deserts the City for his Country Seat Puff'd up with Pride , as if a Colonel still , And mixes Spleen with Air of Highgate-Hill , As Say-Grace A ------ mourns his Party's Fallen , And Mortifies himself at Salters-Hall , While the prevailing Candidates bestow Their Thoughts on those to whom their Thoughts they owe , And meditate Augusta's Fame to Raise , And bring her to the Height of former Days , Resolv'd t' Encourage War to Purchase Peace , And Charles's Reign Restore by Charles [ ' ] s Niece . Oh! Could my Pen but equal their Deserts , And speak their Triumphs in the Peoples Hearts , Describe the Transports , and the Joys Reveal , That honest Breasts in honest Patriots feel , Not Room herself should boast a Nobler Song , For nobler Sons to Rome did ne're belong ; Not Homer's Strains should more Exalted be , Or Maro touch a sweeter Pipe than Me. PRITCHARD should to the highest Glory rise , And Verse should bear his Merits to the Skies , As every Tongue should hold his Worth confessed , And Praise what none could ever have Express'd . FLEET should a Monumental Pattern stand Amid a Treach'rous Raze and Thankless Land , Steadfast , and Bold , as Gen'rous and Sincere , Deep in his Thought , yet in his Judgement clear , Fit for the Trust which in him we Repose , And Active to subdue Brittania's Foes . Nor shouldst thou CHILD , the Muses Favourite , raise The Peoples Hope's without the Muses Praise , Doubly thou'rt Lov'd , and hast been doubly Chosen , And doubly should the Muse her Joys disclose , As in Consent the Town and Country join , And show no Love like theirs , or Zeal like thine . HEATHCOT should shine Immortal in my Song , And Fam'd for Justice , should not suffer wrong ; A Patriot Wise as Affable and Meek ; Not Rash to Judge , as he's not Rash to Speak , Lov'd by all PARTIES for his Goodness sake , And every where Esteem'd , tho' He'll no Parties make . But it's a Task too great for Human Lays , And would exhaust the Stock of Human Praise , Tho' ev'ry barred the Glorious Theme should Choose , And claim the Noblest Strains of ev'ry Muse . the Patriots whom Apollo's self might sing , Pardon th' unhallow'd Offering which I bring ; Verse I have try'd , but what can Numbers do From such a worthless Hand , to such as You ? Oh! Grant me leave , since fruitless my Design , And I in Vain Invoke the Sacred Nine , Ask 'em in Vain the Guidance of their Skill , Or wait their Inspiration on my Quill , That I my gain Acceptance for my Heart , And Wonder may supply the Place of Art , As I for want of Words , not Zeal , Retire , And what I cannot duly Praise , Admire . LONDON , Printed for B.D. in Fleet-street , 1702. 