The PROCLAMATION For a General FAST in the Nation . To the Tune of , Packington's Pound . I . BY Brittains true Monarchs , Great William and Mary , who have the like Title to Ireland and France , Proclamation is Issu'd , whereby to prepare you , by Fasting and Prayer , their Just Cause to Advance . By which you may see , That all Kingdoms be The Gift of God only , and no Prince's Foe : And learn , by true Fasting , Devoutly to Pray Usurpers and Rebels may ne'r get the Day . II About a Year past , not much less , or more , When first they did Reign , and a little before , A Wicked Rebellion , in Ireland , has been Carry'd on , and maintain'd , against our King and Queen , By Irish , too Wild , But Parent , more Vil'd , That would keep that Kingdom , even from his own Child But learn , by true Fasting , Devoutly to Pray , That God the Occasion would soon take away . III . You're told this Rebellion's Contriv'd and Supported by Lewis of Bourbon , Usurper of France ; And by him Encourag'd , as some have Reported , by tempting the late King to Abdicate hence : But what is a Story , Will shake his Vain-Glory , He Banish'd him thither to Act the mere Tory. Then learn , by true Fasting , Devoutly to Pray , Usurpers , etc IV. But would you have thought it , this French King design'd to make little Ireland a Province of France , Nay , more to Destroy it , its King he Confin'd in Person , by Arms , to make its Defence ; And call it his Own , Tho' thereby 'tis known , What Wrong to King William and Mary is done : Then in all true Fasting , be sure you do Pray , Such Impious Usurpers may ne'r get the Day . V. The War made for this , and some other Causes as Honest , but what , you are left for to guess ; One ( perhaps ) is , because the Old Gentleman Pauses , and won't go to God , his Children to Bless , With quiet Enjoyment , Of their great Employment , But makes a Complaint , has no Reason or Rhyme in' So while it continues , in Fasting then Pray , Usurpers and Rebels , etc VI . This War very Just , beside Necessary , the King does resolve , with vigour to make ; God assisting the Pious , how can it Miscarry , at whose Command , both Sea and Land quake : On which he will Fight , To recover his Right , And to due Obedience , Reduce Ireland quite : That so it may happen , be sure you all Pray , Usurpers and Rebels , etc VII . To Rescue good Subject's from Force and Oppression , and give them Prosperity , Safety , and Peace , As well as secure them from future Agression : King William resolves to quit his own Ease , And in ( Person ) so Stout , Ne'r yet put to Rout , To loose Soul and Body , or bring it abou That soon it may be so , Devoutly all Pray , Usurpers and Rebels , etc VIII . Putting Trust in th' Almighty , by whose sole permission , in a marvellous manner , King William succeeds ; And not to be guilty of any Omission , may stop the least Blessing to his Righteous Deeds ; The Kingdoms ill Fate , So to Consummate , They may once again Settle , be it early or late : Their Majesties seriously , bids you to Pray Devoutly , that Rebels may ne'r get the Day . IX . Their Majesties too , to avoid Innovation , were Advis'd by their Wise Privy-Council in this , Sway'd by the same Persons so Govern'd the Nation in both the last Reigns , that nought went amiss : And so never fear , But just as those were , These Princes will little less Happy appear . God Pardon all Sinners , Repenting , and Pray Usurpers and Rebels , etc X. Those Devils of Discord , who tempt to Rebellion , were all most subject to Fasting and Prayer ; Then no Man can wonder , you must not rely on one Wednesdays Devotion , when Legions appear : The Twelfth of March past , While this War shall last , The Third Wednesday Monthly , will be a strict Fast ; With Solemn Devotion , wherein you must Pray Usurpers and Rebels , etc XI . For decent Solemnizing , this no Mock-Devotion , the Right Reverend Bishops , so Loyal and True , Must frame Prayers & Collects , with such proper Portions of Scripture , as fit and Occasion so new : The Commandments then , Will be Two less than Ten , And Old Non-Resistance ne'r mention'd again ; But sent to the Irish , the better to Pray , Usurpers and Rebels may ne'r get the Day . FINIS . The PROCLAMATION For a General FAST in the Nation . To the Tune of , Packington's Pound . I . BY Brittains true Monarchs , Great William and Mary , who have the like Title to Ireland and France , Proclamation is Issu'd , whereby to prepare you , by Fasting and Prayer , their Just Cause to Advance . By which you may see , That all Kingdoms be The Gift of God only , and no Prince's Foe : And learn , by true Fasting , Devoutly to Pray Usurpers and Rebels may ne'r get the Day . II About a Year past , not much less , or more , When first they did Reign , and a little before , A Wicked Rebellion , in Ireland , has been Carry'd on , and maintain'd , against our King and Queen , By Irish , too Wild , But Parent , more Vil'd , That would keep that Kingdom , even from his own Child But learn , by true Fasting , Devoutly to Pray , That God the Occasion would soon take away . III . You're told this Rebellion's Contriv'd and Supported by Lewis of Bourbon , Usurper of France ; And by him Encourag'd , as some have Reported , by tempting the late King to Abdicate hence : But what is a Story , Will shake his Vain-Glory , He Banish'd him thither to Act the mere Tory. Then learn , by true Fasting , Devoutly to Pray , Usurpers , etc IV. But would you have thought it , this French King design'd to make little Ireland a Province of France , Nay , more to Destroy it , its King he Confin'd in Person , by Arms , to make its Defence ; And call it his Own , Tho' thereby 'tis known , What Wrong to King William and Mary is done : Then in all true Fasting , be sure you do Pray , Such Impious Usurpers may ne'r get the Day . V. The War made for this , and some other Causes as Honest , but what , you are left for to guess ; One ( perhaps ) is , because the Old Gentleman Pauses , and won't go to God , his Children to Bless , With quiet Enjoyment , Of their great Employment , But makes a Complaint , has no Reason or Rhyme in' So while it continues , in Fasting then Pray , Usurpers and Rebels , etc VI . This War very Just , beside Necessary , the King does resolve , with vigour to make ; God assisting the Pious , how can it Miscarry , at whose Command , both Sea and Land quake : On which he will Fight , To recover his Right , And to due Obedience , Reduce Ireland quite : That so it may happen , be sure you all Pray , Usurpers and Rebels , etc VII . To Rescue good Subject's from Force and Oppression , and give them Prosperity , Safety , and Peace , As well as secure them from future Agression : King William resolves to quit his own Ease , And in ( Person ) so Stout , Ne'r yet put to Rout , To loose Soul and Body , or bring it abou That soon it may be so , Devoutly all Pray , Usurpers and Rebels , etc VIII . Putting Trust in th' Almighty , by whose sole permission , in a marvellous manner , King William succeeds ; And not to be guilty of any Omission , may stop the least Blessing to his Righteous Deeds ; The Kingdoms ill Fate , So to Consummate , They may once again Settle , be it early or late : Their Majesties seriously , bids you to Pray Devoutly , that Rebels may ne'r get the Day . IX . Their Majesties too , to avoid Innovation , were Advis'd by their Wise Privy-Council in this , Sway'd by the same Persons so Govern'd the Nation in both the last Reigns , that nought went amiss : And so never fear , But just as those were , These Princes will little less Happy appear . God Pardon all Sinners , Repenting , and Pray Usurpers and Rebels , etc X. Those Devils of Discord , who tempt to Rebellion , were all most subject to Fasting and Prayer ; Then no Man can wonder , you must not rely on one Wednesdays Devotion , when Legions appear : The Twelfth of March past , While this War shall last , The Third Wednesday Monthly , will be a strict Fast ; With Solemn Devotion , wherein you must Pray Usurpers and Rebels , etc XI . For decent Solemnizing , this no Mock-Devotion , the Right Reverend Bishops , so Loyal and True , Must frame Prayers & Collects , with such proper Portions of Scripture , as fit and Occasion so new : The Commandments then , Will be Two less than Ten , And Old Non-Resistance ne'r mention'd again ; But sent to the Irish , the better to Pray , Usurpers and Rebels may ne'r get the Day . FINIS . 