( 1 ) THE CHARACTER OF AND English-Man . BY the first Principles , of Mother Earth And English man is noble , by his Birth Hath a fine body , and and Aspect Rare Shines like the Stars in Northern Hemesphere , He being of the purest matter made As by the wise Philosopher is said Crowns him , in the Figure of his Manhood high , As the Sun is the Candle of the Sky : Nature and Reason make him Rich and great , And plant him in their Golden Chair of State ; So highly born , that from his Blood we hope That he may rule , in Princedoms Horoscope : He fears God , and Honours high his King Acting , and doing well in every thing ; His Ethics are so high , and learning Rare , Though he treads on the Earth , yet flies in Air , And as Divinity does Law excel , So in him , does true Perfection dwell ; Religious Reason is his sole delight , And loves to see both Church and State go righ To all he's Allamode , Jantee , and Neat , Brisk , Complaisant , Endearing , and Complete ; Having both Wisdom and good wit at will , And can do all things , unless that of ill : And for his Innocence and Conscience high , He'l duel with the Devils in the Sky ? Following the Dictates of his real Nature , Showing that the reasonable Creature Is not for to be forc'd , but gently led By Governors , and by his dearest Head ; He takes his Princes part against the Devil , And will not have him come to any evil ; And yet Resolves that he will be no slave , Unless unto the Mighty , Good , and Brave ; He pays all just Devoires , where truly due , And where it is Fictitious and not true , Grows careless of the Justice of his breast , And so leaves all to take his pleasant res Showing 'gainst Reason and Religion , Nothing in humane interests is done ; Since 'tis a thing that mounts him to the Grove Of Joy , and Peace , and Universal Love . Where when the Feast is o're , and Banquet done , Like th' Eagle he shall fly beyond the Sun : Where he shall see such Prospects of delight , As does transcend all humane words and sighed ; And there be rendered happy in loves Arms With all Celestial and eternal Charms . From Heaven we pass , and down to Earth again To behold him in his curious Train ? His Air , and Voice , proclaim the Angelick nature , Making him the Metropolis of the Creature : And all his virtues do denote him high To be the next a kin to the Divinity ? Their Speech is mean like to the Birds of th' Field , Therefore a pleasant Conversation yield : Showing the variety of the World , As differing Lights from the same Sun are hurl'd ; But in him the Indies of his love's laid out , Which makes him turn the Giddy world about ? 'Mong Beasts , the Lion , Birds , the Eagle high , So among men the English signify , Among Flowers the Rose exceeds the other , Of the Pink , Tulip , and the Gillyflower ; Heaven showing it self most unto its own , Like a kind Parent to his belov'd Son ; In short he's the Flower of the Creation , Still acting as best becomes his Station ? The Favourite both of Heaven and of Earth , And blessed from his very Infant-birth , He lives here for a while to take his pleasure , And when he comes into the Starry Treasure The Powers above do treat him as a friend , In glorious Mansions where there is no end . The Picture . See and behold the English , and draw nigh Unto their noble Prince in Majesty , So great he is that Greatness can't him raise Cloath'd with Majesty and Celestial Rays ; In every degree a happy Creature , From the perfections of his mind and Feature ; So mighty witty , and so rarely wise , The joy of Hearts , and wonder of our eyes ? At whom we still draw near to , and look on Like Marygolds , when opening to the Sun ; And as Jove's happy with his Joys above , So England's King is in his Subject's love ; And when Nature fails that he must die He shall be Crown'd to all Eternity . I have perused these Verses , and find them composed according to the Rules of Poetry , and therefore think them fitting to be Printed . Nath. Lee. ( 1 ) THE CHARACTER OF AND English-Man . BY the first Principles , of Mother Earth And English man is noble , by his Birth Hath a fine body , and and Aspect Rare Shines like the Stars in Northern Hemesphere , He being of the purest matter made As by the wise Philosopher is said Crowns him , in the Figure of his Manhood high , As the Sun is the Candle of the Sky : Nature and Reason make him Rich and great , And plant him in their Golden Chair of State ; So highly born , that from his Blood we hope That he may rule , in Princedoms Horoscope : He fears God , and Honours high his King Acting , and doing well in every thing ; His Ethics are so high , and learning Rare , Though he treads on the Earth , yet flies in Air , And as Divinity does Law excel , So in him , does true Perfection dwell ; Religious Reason is his sole delight , And loves to see both Church and State go righ To all he's Allamode , Jantee , and Neat , Brisk , Complaisant , Endearing , and Complete ; Having both Wisdom and good wit at will , And can do all things , unless that of ill : And for his Innocence and Conscience high , He'l duel with the Devils in the Sky ? Following the Dictates of his real Nature , Showing that the reasonable Creature Is not for to be forc'd , but gently led By Governors , and by his dearest Head ; He takes his Princes part against the Devil , And will not have him come to any evil ; And yet Resolves that he will be no slave , Unless unto the Mighty , Good , and Brave ; He pays all just Devoires , where truly due , And where it is Fictitious and not true , Grows careless of the Justice of his breast , And so leaves all to take his pleasant res Showing 'gainst Reason and Religion , Nothing in humane interests is done ; Since 'tis a thing that mounts him to the Grove Of Joy , and Peace , and Universal Love . Where when the Feast is o're , and Banquet done , Like th' Eagle he shall fly beyond the Sun : Where he shall see such Prospects of delight , As does transcend all humane words and sighed ; And there be rendered happy in loves Arms With all Celestial and eternal Charms . From Heaven we pass , and down to Earth again To behold him in his curious Train ? His Air , and Voice , proclaim the Angelick nature , Making him the Metropolis of the Creature : And all his virtues do denote him high To be the next a kin to the Divinity ? Their Speech is mean like to the Birds of th' Field , Therefore a pleasant Conversation yield : Showing the variety of the World , As differing Lights from the same Sun are hurl'd ; But in him the Indies of his love's laid out , Which makes him turn the Giddy world about ? 'Mong Beasts , the Lion , Birds , the Eagle high , So among men the English signify , Among Flowers the Rose exceeds the other , Of the Pink , Tulip , and the Gillyflower ; Heaven showing it self most unto its own , Like a kind Parent to his belov'd Son ; In short he's the Flower of the Creation , Still acting as best becomes his Station ? The Favourite both of Heaven and of Earth , And blessed from his very Infant-birth , He lives here for a while to take his pleasure , And when he comes into the Starry Treasure The Powers above do treat him as a friend , In glorious Mansions where there is no end . The Picture . See and behold the English , and draw nigh Unto their noble Prince in Majesty , So great he is that Greatness can't him raise Cloath'd with Majesty and Celestial Rays ; In every degree a happy Creature , From the perfections of his mind and Feature ; So mighty witty , and so rarely wise , The joy of Hearts , and wonder of our eyes ? At whom we still draw near to , and look on Like Marygolds , when opening to the Sun ; And as Jove's happy with his Joys above , So England's King is in his Subject's love ; And when Nature fails that he must die He shall be Crown'd to all Eternity . I have perused these Verses , and find them composed according to the Rules of Poetry , and therefore think them fitting to be Printed . Nath. Lee. 