The Maidens Nay , Or , I love not you . To a pleasant new Tune . I Spied a Nymph trip over the plain , I lur'd to her , she turned again , I woo'd her as a young man should do , but her answer was , Sir , I love not you . I thought she seemed in every part So lovely fram'd by Nature's Art , Her beauty soon allured me to woo , but her answer was , sir , I love not you . I told her all the sweet of love , And whatsoever her mind might move , To entertain a Lover true , but her answer was , sir , I love not you . I told her how I would her deck , Her head with gold , with pearls her neck She gave a frown , and away she flew , but her answer was , sir , I love not you . Not me ( sweetheart ) Oh tell me why ? Thou should'st my proffered love deny : To whom my heart I have vowed so true , but her answer was , sir , I love not you . My sweet and dearest love , quoth I , Art thou resolv'd a Maid to die ? Of such a mind I know but few , but her answer was , sir , I love not you . This is the pleasant Maying time , This is the pleasant golden prime , But age will come and make you to rue , that e're you said , sir , I love not you . O do not thou my suit disdain , Nor make me spend my time in vain , But kindly grant a Lovers due : yet still she said , sir , I love not you . Fair Nymph , quoth I , but grant me this , To enrich my lips with one poor kiss , I grant you that which I grant but few , yet still she said , sir , I love not you . The young man proffering then to depart It griev'd this Maiden then to the hear For having kissed , Oh then did she rue , that e're she said , Sir , I love not you . Wherefore with speed she thought it best , To stay him by her kind reques Whose coyness thus hath caus'd her to rue that e're she said , Sir , I love not you . But now at last she did begin With gentle words to lure him in : The second part shall plainly show , she chang'd her note of , I love not you . The second part to the same Tune . KInd sir , quoth she , what needs this haste , With that a smile on him she cast , Shame curb'd her long , but affection drew these words , I love no man but you . I feel the force of Cupids dart So deep hath pierc'd my tender hear Believe me then for my words are true , you will I love , sir , and none but you . Do not deny my proffered love , Nor think that I the wanton prove : Though women seldom use to woo , yet I will love , Sir , and none but you . When women love they will it hide , Until their Lover they have try'd : Though I say nay , as maidens do , you will I love , Sir , and none but you . Here is , quoth she , my heart and hand , My constant love thou shalt command : And I do vow to be ever true , you will I love , sir , and none but you . While golden Titan does display His beams unto the cheerful day , While Spring the Winter does ensue , you will I love , Sir , and none but you . On thee my love is fixed fast , On thee my love is firmly plac'd , For thee I'le bid the world adieu , you will I love , Sir , and none but you . If Hero should Leander leave , Fair Lucrece Collatine deceive , Or Syrinx prove to Pan untrue , yet I love you , Sir , and none but you . Object no former coy reply , Suspect no future constancy : Accept my love as a tribute due only to you , Sir , and to none but you . The young man noting well her words , This courteous answer then affords : Give me thy hand , take mine in lieu : my love I grant here , and so do you . To Church with speed then let us high , In marriage bans ourselves to tie : Where interchanging hands and hearts I'le love thee dearly till death us parts . Mark well my Song you Maidens coy , That count true love a foolish toy : Do not disdain when young men woo , but love them freely as they love you . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . The Maidens Nay , Or , I love not you . To a pleasant new Tune . I Spied a Nymph trip over the plain , I lur'd to her , she turned again , I woo'd her as a young man should do , but her answer was , Sir , I love not you . I thought she seemed in every part So lovely fram'd by Nature's Art , Her beauty soon allured me to woo , but her answer was , sir , I love not you . I told her all the sweet of love , And whatsoever her mind might move , To entertain a Lover true , but her answer was , sir , I love not you . I told her how I would her deck , Her head with gold , with pearls her neck She gave a frown , and away she flew , but her answer was , sir , I love not you . Not me ( sweetheart ) Oh tell me why ? Thou should'st my proffered love deny : To whom my heart I have vowed so true , but her answer was , sir , I love not you . My sweet and dearest love , quoth I , Art thou resolv'd a Maid to die ? Of such a mind I know but few , but her answer was , sir , I love not you . This is the pleasant Maying time , This is the pleasant golden prime , But age will come and make you to rue , that e're you said , sir , I love not you . O do not thou my suit disdain , Nor make me spend my time in vain , But kindly grant a Lovers due : yet still she said , sir , I love not you . Fair Nymph , quoth I , but grant me this , To enrich my lips with one poor kiss , I grant you that which I grant but few , yet still she said , sir , I love not you . The young man proffering then to depart It griev'd this Maiden then to the hear For having kissed , Oh then did she rue , that e're she said , Sir , I love not you . Wherefore with speed she thought it best , To stay him by her kind reques Whose coyness thus hath caus'd her to rue that e're she said , Sir , I love not you . But now at last she did begin With gentle words to lure him in : The second part shall plainly show , she chang'd her note of , I love not you . The second part to the same Tune . KInd sir , quoth she , what needs this haste , With that a smile on him she cast , Shame curb'd her long , but affection drew these words , I love no man but you . I feel the force of Cupids dart So deep hath pierc'd my tender hear Believe me then for my words are true , you will I love , sir , and none but you . Do not deny my proffered love , Nor think that I the wanton prove : Though women seldom use to woo , yet I will love , Sir , and none but you . When women love they will it hide , Until their Lover they have try'd : Though I say nay , as maidens do , you will I love , Sir , and none but you . Here is , quoth she , my heart and hand , My constant love thou shalt command : And I do vow to be ever true , you will I love , sir , and none but you . While golden Titan does display His beams unto the cheerful day , While Spring the Winter does ensue , you will I love , Sir , and none but you . On thee my love is fixed fast , On thee my love is firmly plac'd , For thee I'le bid the world adieu , you will I love , Sir , and none but you . If Hero should Leander leave , Fair Lucrece Collatine deceive , Or Syrinx prove to Pan untrue , yet I love you , Sir , and none but you . Object no former coy reply , Suspect no future constancy : Accept my love as a tribute due only to you , Sir , and to none but you . The young man noting well her words , This courteous answer then affords : Give me thy hand , take mine in lieu : my love I grant here , and so do you . To Church with speed then let us high , In marriage bans ourselves to tie : Where interchanging hands and hearts I'le love thee dearly till death us parts . Mark well my Song you Maidens coy , That count true love a foolish toy : Do not disdain when young men woo , but love them freely as they love you . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 