And Unhappy Memorable SONG , of the Hunting in CHEVY-CHASE , between Earl Piercy of England , and Earl Douglas of Scotland . GOD prosper long our noble King , our Lives and Safeties all , A woeful hunting once there did In Chevychase befall ; To drive the deer with hound & horn Earl Piercy took his way , The Child may rue that is unborn , The hunting of that day . The stout Earl of Northumberland , a vow to God did make , His pleasure in the Scotish woods , Three Summer days to take . The chiefest Hearts in Chevychase , To kill and bear away . The Tidings to Earl Douglas came , in Scotland where he lay , Who sent Earl Piercy present word , he would prevent his sport . The English Earl not fearing this , did to the woods resort , With fifteen hundred Bowmen bold , all chosen men of might , who knew full well in Time of need To aim their chasts aright , The gallant grayhounds swiftly ran , To chase the Fellow Deer , On Monday they began to hunt when daylight did appear , And long before high noon they had a hundred fat Bucks slave , Then having din'd the Drovers went , To rouse them up again . The Bowmen muster'd on the hills , well able to endure , Their back sides all with special care , That day were guarded sure , The hounds ran swiftly thro' the woods the nimble deer to take , And with their cries the hills and dales , and echo shrill did make , Lord Piercy to the Quarry went , to view the tender Deer , Quoth he Earl Douglas promised , this day to meet me here , If that I thought he would not come , no longer would I stay , With that stepped forth a brave young man unto the Earl did say , Lo yonder does Earl Douglas come , his men in armour bright , Full twenty hundred Scotish Peers , all marching in our sighed . All men of pleasant Tividale , fast by the river Tweed , Then cease your sport Earl Douglas said and take your Bows with speed , And now with me my Country men , your courage forth advance , For never was a Champion yet in England nor in France , That ever did on horseback come , but since my hap it were I durst encounter man for man , with him to break a spear . Earl Douglas on a milkwhite steed , most like a Baron bold , Road foremost of the Company , whose armour shone like gold , Show me , he said , whose men you be that hunt so boldly here , That without my consent do chase , and kill my Fellow Deer . That man that first did answer make , was noble Piercy , he , Who said , we list not to declare , nor show whose men we be , Yet we will spend our dearest blood , thy chiefest Heart to slay , Then Douglas swore a solemn Oath , and thus in rage did say , E're that I will out braved be , One of us two shall die . I know thee well , and Earl thou art , Lord Piercy so am I . But trust me , Piercy , pity it were , and great offence to kill Any of these our harmless men , for they have done no ill , Let thou and I the battle try , and set our men aside , Accursed be he Lord Piercy said , by whom this is deny'd . Then stepped a gallant squire forth , Witherington was his Name , Who said , I would not have it told to Henry our King for shame , That my dear Captain fought on foot , and I stood looking on , You be two Earls , said Witherington , and I a squire alone , I'll do the best that do I may , while I have power to stand , While I have power to yield my sword , I'll fight with heart and hand . Our English Archers bent their bows , Their hearts were good and true , At the first flight of arrows sent , full threescore Scots they slew , To drive the Deer with hound and horn Earl Douglas had the bent , A Captain mov'd with much pride , the spears to shivers sent . They cross'd full fast on every side , No slackness there was feund , And many a gallant gentleman Lay gasping on the ground . O Christ ! it was a grief to see , and likewise for to bear , The cries of men lying in their gore , and scatter'd here and there . At last these two stout Earls did meet , Like Captains of great might , Like Lyons mov'd they laid on , and made a cruel fight , They fought till they both did sweat , with swords of temper'd steel . Until the blood like drops of Rain , they trickling down did fallen . Yield thee , Earl Piercy , Douglas said , in faith I will thee bring , Where thou shall high advanced be by James our Scotish King . Thy ransom I will freely give , and this report of thee , Thou art the most courageous Knight that ever I did see , To Douglas quoth Earl Piercy then , Thy proffer I do scorn , I will not yield to any Scot that ever yet was born . With that there came and arrow keen out of and English bow , Which struck Earl Douglas to the heart a deep and deadly blow , Who never spoke more words than these , fight on my merry men all , For why my Life is at and end , Lord Piercy sees me fallen . Then leaving Life Earl Piercy took , the dead man by the hand , And said , Earl Douglas for thy Life , would I had lost my Land. Oh Christ ! my very heart does bleed , with sorrow for thy sake , For sure a more renowned Knight , mischance did ever take . A Knight among the Scots there was , which saw Earl Douglas die , Who strait in wrath did vow revenge , upon the Earl Piercy . Sir Hugh Montgomery was he call'd , who with a spear most bright well mounted on a gallant steed , ran fiercely thro' the fight , And passed the English Archers all , without all dread or fear , And thro' Earl Piercy's body then he thrust his hateful spear , With such a vehement force and might , he did his body gore The spear went thro' the other side , a full Cloth yard and more . So thus did these two Nobles die , whose courage none could stain , And English Archer then perceiv'd the noble Earl was slave , He had a Bow bent in his hand , made of a trusty tree , And Arrow of a Cloth-yard long , Unto the head drew he . Against Sir Hugh Montgomery , so right his shaft he set , The Grey goosewing that was thereon with his heart's blood was wet . This fight did last from break of day Till setting of the sun , For when they rung the evening bell The battle scarce was done . With the Earl Piercy there was slave Sir John of Overton . Sir Robert Ratcliff , and Sir John , Sir James that bold Baron ; And with Sir George and good Sir James both Knights of good account , Good Sir Ralph Raby there was slave , whose prowess did surmount , For Witherington needs must I wail as one in doleful dumps , For when his Legs were smitten off he fought upon his stumps , And with Earl Douglas there was slave Sir Hugh Montgomery , Sir Charles Curry , that from the field , one foot would never flee , Sir Charles Murray of Ratcliff to , his sister's Son was he , Sir David Lamb so well esteem'd , They said could not be . And the Lord Maxwell likewise , did with Earl Douglas die . Of Twenty hundred English Peers scarce fifty five did flee , Of fifteen hundred Scots men , went home but fifty three , The rest were slave in Chevychase , under the Green wood Tree Next day did many widows come , their husbands to bewail , they wash'd their wounds in brinish tears , but all would not prevail , Their bodies bated in purple blood , they boar with them away . They kiss'd them dead a thousand times , when they were clad in clay . This News was brought to Edinburgh , where Scotland's King did reign , That brave Earl Douglas suddenly was with and arrow slave . O heavy news , King James did say , Scotland can witness be , I have not any Captain more , of such account as he . Like Tidings to King Henry came , within as short a space , That Piercy of Northumberland , was slave in Chevychase : Now God be with him said our King , Since 'twill no better be , I trust I have within my Realm , Five hundred as good as he . Yet shall not Scot nor Scotland say , but I will vengeance take , And be revenged on them all , for brave Lord Piercy's sake , This vow full well the King perform'd after and humble down , In one day fifty Knights were slave , with Lords of great Renown , And of the rest of small account , did many Thousands die , Thus ends the hunting of Chevy chase , made by the Earl Piercy , God save the King , and bless the Land , in plenty , joy and peace , And grant hence forth that foul debate , 'twixt Noblemen may cease . And Unhappy Memorable SONG , of the Hunting in CHEVY-CHASE , between Earl Piercy of England , and Earl Douglas of Scotland . GOD prosper long our noble King , our Lives and Safeties all , A woeful hunting once there did In Chevychase befall ; To drive the deer with hound & horn Earl Piercy took his way , The Child may rue that is unborn , The hunting of that day . The stout Earl of Northumberland , a vow to God did make , His pleasure in the Scotish woods , Three Summer days to take . The chiefest Hearts in Chevychase , To kill and bear away . The Tidings to Earl Douglas came , in Scotland where he lay , Who sent Earl Piercy present word , he would prevent his sport . The English Earl not fearing this , did to the woods resort , With fifteen hundred Bowmen bold , all chosen men of might , who knew full well in Time of need To aim their chasts aright , The gallant grayhounds swiftly ran , To chase the Fellow Deer , On Monday they began to hunt when daylight did appear , And long before high noon they had a hundred fat Bucks slave , Then having din'd the Drovers went , To rouse them up again . The Bowmen muster'd on the hills , well able to endure , Their back sides all with special care , That day were guarded sure , The hounds ran swiftly thro' the woods the nimble deer to take , And with their cries the hills and dales , and echo shrill did make , Lord Piercy to the Quarry went , to view the tender Deer , Quoth he Earl Douglas promised , this day to meet me here , If that I thought he would not come , no longer would I stay , With that stepped forth a brave young man unto the Earl did say , Lo yonder does Earl Douglas come , his men in armour bright , Full twenty hundred Scotish Peers , all marching in our sighed . All men of pleasant Tividale , fast by the river Tweed , Then cease your sport Earl Douglas said and take your Bows with speed , And now with me my Country men , your courage forth advance , For never was a Champion yet in England nor in France , That ever did on horseback come , but since my hap it were I durst encounter man for man , with him to break a spear . Earl Douglas on a milkwhite steed , most like a Baron bold , Road foremost of the Company , whose armour shone like gold , Show me , he said , whose men you be that hunt so boldly here , That without my consent do chase , and kill my Fellow Deer . That man that first did answer make , was noble Piercy , he , Who said , we list not to declare , nor show whose men we be , Yet we will spend our dearest blood , thy chiefest Heart to slay , Then Douglas swore a solemn Oath , and thus in rage did say , E're that I will out braved be , One of us two shall die . I know thee well , and Earl thou art , Lord Piercy so am I . But trust me , Piercy , pity it were , and great offence to kill Any of these our harmless men , for they have done no ill , Let thou and I the battle try , and set our men aside , Accursed be he Lord Piercy said , by whom this is deny'd . Then stepped a gallant squire forth , Witherington was his Name , Who said , I would not have it told to Henry our King for shame , That my dear Captain fought on foot , and I stood looking on , You be two Earls , said Witherington , and I a squire alone , I'll do the best that do I may , while I have power to stand , While I have power to yield my sword , I'll fight with heart and hand . Our English Archers bent their bows , Their hearts were good and true , At the first flight of arrows sent , full threescore Scots they slew , To drive the Deer with hound and horn Earl Douglas had the bent , A Captain mov'd with much pride , the spears to shivers sent . They cross'd full fast on every side , No slackness there was feund , And many a gallant gentleman Lay gasping on the ground . O Christ ! it was a grief to see , and likewise for to bear , The cries of men lying in their gore , and scatter'd here and there . At last these two stout Earls did meet , Like Captains of great might , Like Lyons mov'd they laid on , and made a cruel fight , They fought till they both did sweat , with swords of temper'd steel . Until the blood like drops of Rain , they trickling down did fallen . Yield thee , Earl Piercy , Douglas said , in faith I will thee bring , Where thou shall high advanced be by James our Scotish King . Thy ransom I will freely give , and this report of thee , Thou art the most courageous Knight that ever I did see , To Douglas quoth Earl Piercy then , Thy proffer I do scorn , I will not yield to any Scot that ever yet was born . With that there came and arrow keen out of and English bow , Which struck Earl Douglas to the heart a deep and deadly blow , Who never spoke more words than these , fight on my merry men all , For why my Life is at and end , Lord Piercy sees me fallen . Then leaving Life Earl Piercy took , the dead man by the hand , And said , Earl Douglas for thy Life , would I had lost my Land. Oh Christ ! my very heart does bleed , with sorrow for thy sake , For sure a more renowned Knight , mischance did ever take . A Knight among the Scots there was , which saw Earl Douglas die , Who strait in wrath did vow revenge , upon the Earl Piercy . Sir Hugh Montgomery was he call'd , who with a spear most bright well mounted on a gallant steed , ran fiercely thro' the fight , And passed the English Archers all , without all dread or fear , And thro' Earl Piercy's body then he thrust his hateful spear , With such a vehement force and might , he did his body gore The spear went thro' the other side , a full Cloth yard and more . So thus did these two Nobles die , whose courage none could stain , And English Archer then perceiv'd the noble Earl was slave , He had a Bow bent in his hand , made of a trusty tree , And Arrow of a Cloth-yard long , Unto the head drew he . Against Sir Hugh Montgomery , so right his shaft he set , The Grey goosewing that was thereon with his heart's blood was wet . This fight did last from break of day Till setting of the sun , For when they rung the evening bell The battle scarce was done . With the Earl Piercy there was slave Sir John of Overton . Sir Robert Ratcliff , and Sir John , Sir James that bold Baron ; And with Sir George and good Sir James both Knights of good account , Good Sir Ralph Raby there was slave , whose prowess did surmount , For Witherington needs must I wail as one in doleful dumps , For when his Legs were smitten off he fought upon his stumps , And with Earl Douglas there was slave Sir Hugh Montgomery , Sir Charles Curry , that from the field , one foot would never flee , Sir Charles Murray of Ratcliff to , his sister's Son was he , Sir David Lamb so well esteem'd , They said could not be . And the Lord Maxwell likewise , did with Earl Douglas die . Of Twenty hundred English Peers scarce fifty five did flee , Of fifteen hundred Scots men , went home but fifty three , The rest were slave in Chevychase , under the Green wood Tree Next day did many widows come , their husbands to bewail , they wash'd their wounds in brinish tears , but all would not prevail , Their bodies bated in purple blood , they boar with them away . They kiss'd them dead a thousand times , when they were clad in clay . This News was brought to Edinburgh , where Scotland's King did reign , That brave Earl Douglas suddenly was with and arrow slave . O heavy news , King James did say , Scotland can witness be , I have not any Captain more , of such account as he . Like Tidings to King Henry came , within as short a space , That Piercy of Northumberland , was slave in Chevychase : Now God be with him said our King , Since 'twill no better be , I trust I have within my Realm , Five hundred as good as he . Yet shall not Scot nor Scotland say , but I will vengeance take , And be revenged on them all , for brave Lord Piercy's sake , This vow full well the King perform'd after and humble down , In one day fifty Knights were slave , with Lords of great Renown , And of the rest of small account , did many Thousands die , Thus ends the hunting of Chevy chase , made by the Earl Piercy , God save the King , and bless the Land , in plenty , joy and peace , And grant hence forth that foul debate , 'twixt Noblemen may cease . 