( 1 ) ( 1 ) A HYMN TO THE PILLORY . HAIL Hi'roglyphick State Machin , Contriv'd to Punish Fancy in : Men that are Men , in thee can feel no Pain , And all thy Insignificants Disdain . Contempt , that false New Word for shame , Is without Crime and empty Name . A Shadow to amuse Mankind , But never frights the Wise or Well-fix'd Mind : [ ? ] , despise Humane Scorn , And Scandals Innocence adorn . Exalted on thy Stool of State , What Prospect do I see of Sov'reign Fate ; How th' Inscrutables of Providence , Differ from our contracted Sense ; Here by the Errors of the Town , The Fools look out and Knaves look on . Persons or Crimes find here the same respect , And Vice does Virtue oft Correct , The undistinguish'd Fury of the Street , Which Mob and Malice Mankind Gree No Bias can the Rabble draw , But Dirt throws Dirt without respect to Merit , or to Law . Sometime the Air of Scannal to maintain , Villains look from thy Lofty Loops in Vain : But who can judge of Crimes by Punishment , Where Parties Rule , and L ------ s Subservient . Justice with Change of Int'rest Learns to bow , And what was Merit once , is Murder now : Actions receive their Tincture from the Times , And as they change are Virtues made or Crimes . Thou art the State-Trap of the Law , But neither can keep Knaves nor Honest Men in Awe : These are too harden'd in Offence , And those upheld by Innocence . How have thy opening Vacancys receiv'd , In every Age the Criminals of State ? And how has Mankind been deceiv'd , When they distinguish Crimes by Fate ? Tell us Great Engine how to understand . Or reconcile the Justice of the Land ; How Bastwick , Pryn , Hunt , Hollingsby and Pye , Men of unspotted Honesty ; Men that had Learning , Wit and Sense , And more than most Men have had since , Could equal Title to thee claim , With Oats and Fuller , Men of later Fame : Even the Learned Selden saw , A Prospect of the [ m ] thro' the Law : He had thy Lofty Pinnacles in view , But so much Honour never was thy due : Had the Great Selden Triumph'd on thy Stage , Selden the Honour of his Age ; No Man wou'd ever shun thee more , Or grudge to stand where Selden stood before . Thou art no Shame to Truth and Honesty , Nor is the Character of such defac'd by thee , Who suffer by Oppressive Injury . Shame , like the Exhalations of the Sun , Falls back where first the motion was begun : And they who for no Crime shall on thy Brows appear Bear less Reproach than they who plac'd 'em there But if Contempt is on thy Face entail'd , Disgrace itself shall be asham'd ; Scandal shall blush that it has not prevail'd , To blast the Man it has defam'd . Let all that Merit equal Pnishment , Stand there with him , and we are all Content . There would the Fam'd S --------- ll stand , With Trumpet of Sedition in his Hand , Sounding the first Crusado in the Land. He from a Church of England Pulpit first , All his Dissenting Brothers Cursed ; Doom'd then to Satan for a Prey , And first found out The Shortest Way ; With him the Wise Vice-Chancellor o' th' Press , Who , tho' our Printers Licenses defy , Willing to show his forwardness , Bless'd it with his Authority ; ( 2 ) He gave the Churche's Sanction to the Work , As Popes bless Colours for Troops which fight the Turk . Doctors in scandal these are grown , For Redhot Zeal and Furious Learning known : Professors in Reproach and highly fit , For Juno's Academy , Billingsgate . Thou like a Trueborn English Tool , Hast from their Composition stole , And now art like to smart for being a Fool : And as of English Men , 'twas always meant , They'r better to Improve than to Invent ; Upon their Model thou hast made , A Monster makes the World afraid . With them let all the Statesmen stand , Who Guide us with unsteady Hand : Who Armies , Fleet , and Men betray ; And Ruin all the Shortest Way . Let all those Soulders stand in sighed , Who're willing to be paid and not to fight . Agents , and Colonels , who false Musters bring , To Cheat your Country first , and then your King : Bring all your Coward Captains of the Fleet ; Lord ! What a Crowd will there be when they meet ? They who let Ponti 'scape to Breast , With all the Gods of Carthagena Blessed . Those who betray'd our Turky Fleet ; Or Injur'd Talmash Sold at Camaret . Who miss'd the Squadron from Thouloon , And always came to late or else to soon ; All these are Heroes whose g [ r ] eat F [ a ] ctions Claim , Immortal Honour to their Dying Fame ; And ought not to have been Denied , On thy great Counterscarp , to have their Valour try'd . Why have not these upon thy swelling Stage , Tasted the keener Justice of the Age ; If 'tis because their Crimes are to remote , Whom leaden-footed Justice has forgotten ? Let's view the modern Scenes of Fame , If Men and Management are not the same ; When Fleets go out with Money , and with Men , Just time enough to venture home again ? Navies prepar'd to guard th' insult [ e ] worser Coast , And Convoys settl'd when Our Ships are lost . Some Heroes lately come from Sea , If they were paid their Due , should stand with thee ; Papers too should their Deeds relate , To prove the Justice of their Fate : Their Deeds of War at Port Saint Mary's done , And see the Trophy's by them , which they wone ; Let Or --------- d's Declaration there appear , He'd certainly be pleas'd to see 'em there . Let some good Limner represent , the ravish'd Nuns , the plunder'd Town , The English Honour how mispent ; The shameful coming back , and little done . The Vigo Men should next appear , To Triumph on thy Theater ; They , who on board the Great Galloons had been , Who rob'd the Spaniards first , and then the Queen Set up their praises to their Valour due , How Eighty Sail , had beaten Twenty two . Two Troopers so , and one Dragoon , Conquered a Spanish Boy , a Pampalone - Yet let them Or ---- d's Conduct own , Who beatrice them first on Shore , or little had been done What unknown spoils from thence are come , How much was brought away , How little home . If all the Thieves should on thy Scaffold stand Who rob'd their Master's in Command : The Multitude would soon out do , The City Crouds of Lord Mayors show , Upon thy Penitential stools , Some People should be plac'd for Fools : As some for Instance who while they look on ; See others plunder all , and they god none . Next the Lieutenant General , To get the Devil , lost the De'll and all ; And he some little badge should bear , Who ought in justice to have have hang'd 'em there : This had his Honour more maintain'd , That all the Spoils at Vigo gain'd . Then Clap thy wooden Wings for joy , And greet the Men of Great Employ ; The Authors of the Nations distontent , And Scandal of a Christian Government . Jobbers , and Brokers of the City Stocks , With forty Thousand Tallies at their backs ; Who make our Banks and Companies obey Or sink 'em all the shortest way . Th' Intrinsink Valve of our Stocks , Is stated in our Caculating Books ; Th' Imaginary Prizes rise and fallen , As they Command who toss the Ball ; Let 'em upon thy lofty Turrets stand , With Bearskins on the back , Debentures in the hand , And write in Capital upon the Post , That here they should remain , Till this AEnigma they explain , How stocks should Fallen , when Sales sermount the Cost And rise again when Ships are lost . Great Monster of the Law , Exalt thy Head ; Appear no more in Masquerade , In Homely Phrase Express thy Discontent , And move it in th' Approaching Parliament Tell 'em how Papers were instead of Coin , With Int'rest eight per Cent. and Discount Nine . Of Irish Transport Debt unpaid , Bills false Endors'd , and long Accounts unmade . And tell them all the Nation hope's to see , They'll send the Guilty down to thee ; Rather then those who write their History . Then bring those Justices upon thy Bench , Who vilely break the Laws they should defend ; And upon Equity Entrench , By Punishing the Crimes they will not Mend : Let every vicious Majestrate , Upon thy sumptuous Chariot of the State ; There ( 3 ) The [ r ] e let 'em all in Triumph ride , Their Purple and their Scarlet laid aside . Let no such Bride-well Justices Protect , As first debauch the Whores which they Correc Such who with Oaths and Drunk'ness fit , And Punish far less Crimes than they Commi These certainly deserve to stand , With Trophies of Authority in Each Hand . Upon thy Pulpit , see the Drunken Priest , Who turns the Gospel to a daily Jest ; Let the Fraternity Degrade him there , lest they like him appear : There let him , his Memento Mori Preach , And by Example , not by Doctrine , Teach . Next bring the Lewder Clergy there , Who Preach those Sins down , which they can't forbear ; Those Sons of God who every day Go in , Both to the Daughters and the Wives of Men ; There Let 'em stand to be the Nation Jest , And save the Reputation of the rest . A --- --- --- ll who for the Gospel left the Law , And deep within the Cleft of Darkness saw ; Let him be and Example made , Who durst the Parsons Province so Invade ; To his new Ecclesiastic Rules , We owe the knowledge that we are all Fools ; Old Charon shall no more dark Souls convey , A --------- ll has found the shortest way ; Vain is your fun [ ? P ] omp and Bells' , Your Gravestones , Monuments and Knells , Vain are the Trophies of the Grave , A --------- ll shall all tha [ tO ] Foppery save ; And to the Clergy's great Reproach , Shall change the Hearse into a Fiery Coach ; What Man the Learned Riddle can receive , Which none can Answer , and yet none Believe , Let him Recorded , on the List remain , Till he shall Heav'n by his own Rules obtain . If a Poor Author has Embrac'd thy Wood , Only because he has not understood , They Punish Mankind but by halves , Till they stand there , Who 'gainst their own Principles appear ; And cannot understand themselves . Those Nimshites , who with furious Zeal drive on , And built up Room to pull down Babylon , The real Author of the shortest way , Who for Destruction , not Conversion pray , There let those Sons of Strife remain , Till this Church Riddle they Explain , How a Dissenters they can raise a Storm , But would not have them ail Conform , For there their certain Ruin would come in , And Moderation , which they hate , begin . Next bring some Lawyers to thy Bar , By Inuendo they might all stand there , There let them Expiate that Gilded , And Pay for all that Blood their Tongues ha' spilled , These are the Mountebanks of State , Who by the slight of Tongues can Crimes create , And dress up Trifles in the Robes of Fate . The Mastiffs of a Government , To worry and run down the Innocen , There Sat a Man of Mighty Fame , Whose Actions speak him plainer than his Name , In vain he struggl'd , he harangu'd in vain , To bring in Whipping Sentences again . And to debauch a Milder Government , With Abdicated kinds of Punishment . No wonder he should Law despise , Who Jesus Christ himself denies , His Actions only now direct . That we when he is made a Judge , expect . Let L --------- ll next to his Disgrace , With Whitney's Horses staring in his Face , There let his Cup of Penance be kept full , Till he's less Noisy , Insolent and Dull . When all these Heroes have passed once thy Srage , And thou hast been the Satyr of the Age , Wait then a while for all those Sons of Fame , Whom present Pow'r has made too great to name . Fenc'd from thy hands , they keep our Verse in Awe , Too great for Satyr , and too great for Law . As they their Commands lay down , They all shall pay their Homage to thy Cloudy Throne . And till within thy reach they be , Exalt thy in Effigy [ i ] e . The Martyr of the bypast Reign , For whom new Oaths have been prepar'd in vain , She ------ k's Disciple first by him trepan'd , He for a K ------ and they for F ------ s should stand , Tho' some affirm he ought to be excus'd , Since to this Day he had refus'd ; And this was all the Frailty of his Life , He Damn'd his Conscience , to oblige his Wife , But spare that Priest , whose tottering Conscience knew That if he took but one , he'd Perjure two ; [ ? ] untly resolv'd he wou'd not break 'em both , And swore by G ------ worser he'd never take the Oath ; Hang him , he can't be fit for thee , For his unusual Honesty . Thou Speaking Trumpet of Men's Fame , Enter into every Court thy Claim ; Demand 'em all , for they are all thy own , Who Swear to Three Kings , but are true to none . Turn-Coats of all sides are thy due , And he who once is false , is never true ; To Day can Swear , to Morrow can Abjure , For Treachery's a Crime no Man can Cure . Such without scruple , for the time to come , May Swear to all the Kings in Christendom , But he's a Mad Man will rely Upon their lost Fidelity . They that in vast Employments rob the State , See them in thy Embraces meet their Fate , Let not the Millions they by Fraud obtain , Protect Protect 'em from the Scandal , or the Pain . They who from Mean Beginning grow To vast Estates , but God knows how , Who carry untold Sums away , From little Places , with but little Pay , Who Costly Palaces Erect , The Thieves that bullt them to Protect , The Gardens , Grotto's , Fountains , Walks , and Groves Where Vice Triumphs in Pride , and Lawless Loves . Where mighty Luxury and Drunk'ness Reign'd , Profusely spend what they Profanely Gain'd . Tell 'em there's Mene Tekel's on the Wall , Tell 'em the Nations Money paid for all . Advance by double-Front and show , And let us both the Crimes and Persons know . Place them aloft upon thy Throne , Who slight the Nation's Business for their own , Neglect their Posts , in spite of Double Pay , And run us all in Debt the Shortest Way . Great Pageant Change thy Dirty Scene , For on thy Steps some Ladies may be seen , When Beauty stoops upon thy Stage to show She laughs at all the humble Fools below . Set Sapho there , whose Husband paid Clothes . Two Hundred Pound a Week in in Furbulo's , There in her Silks and Scarlets let her shine , She's Beauttous all without , all Whore within . Next let Gay URIANA Ride , Her Coach and Six attending by her side . Long has she waited , but in vain , The City Homage to obtain . The Sumptuous Harlot long'd t' Insult the Chair , And Triumph'd o'er our City Beauty's there . Here let her Haughty Thoughts be Gratify'd , In Triumph let her Ride , Let DIADORA next appear , And all that want to know her , see her there . What tho' she's not a True Born English Wh ------ re French Harlots have been here before , Let not the Pomp nor Grandeur of her State Prevent the Justice of her Fate , But let her and Example now be made To Foreign Wh ------ s who spoil the English Trade . Claim 'em , thou Herald of Reproach , Who with uncommon Lewdness will Debauch , Let C ------ upon thy Borders spend his Life , Till he Recants the Bargain with his Wife , And till this Riddle both Explain , How neither can themselves Contain , How Nature can on both sides run so high , As neither side can neither side supply , And so in Charity agree , He keeps two Brace of Whores , two Stallions she . What need of Satyr to Reform the Town ? Or Laws to keep our Vices down ? Let 'em to Thee due Homage pay , This will Reform us all the Shortest Way . Set 'em to Thee bring all the Knaves and Fools , Virtue will guide the rest by Rules , They'll need no Treacherous Friends , no breach of Faith , No Hir'd Evidence with their In [ ? ] cting Breath . No Servants Master's to Betray , Or Knight o' th' Post , who Swear for Pay , No injur'd Author'l on thy Steps appear , Nor such as wou'd be Rogues , but such as are . The first Intent of Laws Was to Correct th' Effect , and check the Cause , And all the Ends of Punishment , Were only Future Mischiefs to prevent . But Justice is Inverted when Those Engines of the Law , Instead of pinching Vicious Men , Keep Honest ones in awe , Thy Business is , as all Men know , To Punish Villains , not to make Men so . Whenever then thou art prepar'd . To prompt that Vice thou should'st Reward , And by the Terrors of thy Grisly Face , Make Men turn Rogues to shun Disgrace , The End of thy Creation is destroy'd , Justice expires of Course , and Law's made void . What are thy Yerrors ? that for fear of thee , Mankind should dare to sink their Honesty ? He's Bold to Impudence , that dare turn Knave , The Scandal of thy Company to save . He that will Crimes he never knew confess , Does more than if he knew those Crimes transgress , And he that fears thee more than to be base , May want a Heart , but does not want a Face . Thou like the Devil dost [ ? ] Blacker than [ ? ] alley thou a [ ? ] A wild Chymerick Notion of Reproach , Too little for a Crime , for none too much , Let none th' Indignity resent , For Crime is all the shame of Punishment . Thou Bugbear of the Law stand up and speak , Thy long Misconstru'd Silence break , Tell us who 'tis upon thy Ridge stands there , So full of Fault , and yet so void of Fear , And from the Paper in his Hat , Let all Mankind be told for ( 1 ) ( 1 ) A HYMN TO THE PILLORY . HAIL Hi'roglyphick State Machin , Contriv'd to Punish Fancy in : Men that are Men , in thee can feel no Pain , And all thy Insignificants Disdain . Contempt , that false New Word for shame , Is without Crime and empty Name . A Shadow to amuse Mankind , But never frights the Wise or Well-fix'd Mind : [ ? ] , despise Humane Scorn , And Scandals Innocence adorn . Exalted on thy Stool of State , What Prospect do I see of Sov'reign Fate ; How th' Inscrutables of Providence , Differ from our contracted Sense ; Here by the Errors of the Town , The Fools look out and Knaves look on . Persons or Crimes find here the same respect , And Vice does Virtue oft Correct , The undistinguish'd Fury of the Street , Which Mob and Malice Mankind Gree No Bias can the Rabble draw , But Dirt throws Dirt without respect to Merit , or to Law . Sometime the Air of Scannal to maintain , Villains look from thy Lofty Loops in Vain : But who can judge of Crimes by Punishment , Where Parties Rule , and L ------ s Subservient . Justice with Change of Int'rest Learns to bow , And what was Merit once , is Murder now : Actions receive their Tincture from the Times , And as they change are Virtues made or Crimes . Thou art the State-Trap of the Law , But neither can keep Knaves nor Honest Men in Awe : These are too harden'd in Offence , And those upheld by Innocence . How have thy opening Vacancys receiv'd , In every Age the Criminals of State ? And how has Mankind been deceiv'd , When they distinguish Crimes by Fate ? Tell us Great Engine how to understand . Or reconcile the Justice of the Land ; How Bastwick , Pryn , Hunt , Hollingsby and Pye , Men of unspotted Honesty ; Men that had Learning , Wit and Sense , And more than most Men have had since , Could equal Title to thee claim , With Oats and Fuller , Men of later Fame : Even the Learned Selden saw , A Prospect of the [ m ] thro' the Law : He had thy Lofty Pinnacles in view , But so much Honour never was thy due : Had the Great Selden Triumph'd on thy Stage , Selden the Honour of his Age ; No Man wou'd ever shun thee more , Or grudge to stand where Selden stood before . Thou art no Shame to Truth and Honesty , Nor is the Character of such defac'd by thee , Who suffer by Oppressive Injury . Shame , like the Exhalations of the Sun , Falls back where first the motion was begun : And they who for no Crime shall on thy Brows appear Bear less Reproach than they who plac'd 'em there But if Contempt is on thy Face entail'd , Disgrace itself shall be asham'd ; Scandal shall blush that it has not prevail'd , To blast the Man it has defam'd . Let all that Merit equal Pnishment , Stand there with him , and we are all Content . There would the Fam'd S --------- ll stand , With Trumpet of Sedition in his Hand , Sounding the first Crusado in the Land. He from a Church of England Pulpit first , All his Dissenting Brothers Cursed ; Doom'd then to Satan for a Prey , And first found out The Shortest Way ; With him the Wise Vice-Chancellor o' th' Press , Who , tho' our Printers Licenses defy , Willing to show his forwardness , Bless'd it with his Authority ; ( 2 ) He gave the Churche's Sanction to the Work , As Popes bless Colours for Troops which fight the Turk . Doctors in scandal these are grown , For Redhot Zeal and Furious Learning known : Professors in Reproach and highly fit , For Juno's Academy , Billingsgate . Thou like a Trueborn English Tool , Hast from their Composition stole , And now art like to smart for being a Fool : And as of English Men , 'twas always meant , They'r better to Improve than to Invent ; Upon their Model thou hast made , A Monster makes the World afraid . With them let all the Statesmen stand , Who Guide us with unsteady Hand : Who Armies , Fleet , and Men betray ; And Ruin all the Shortest Way . Let all those Soulders stand in sighed , Who're willing to be paid and not to fight . Agents , and Colonels , who false Musters bring , To Cheat your Country first , and then your King : Bring all your Coward Captains of the Fleet ; Lord ! What a Crowd will there be when they meet ? They who let Ponti 'scape to Breast , With all the Gods of Carthagena Blessed . Those who betray'd our Turky Fleet ; Or Injur'd Talmash Sold at Camaret . Who miss'd the Squadron from Thouloon , And always came to late or else to soon ; All these are Heroes whose g [ r ] eat F [ a ] ctions Claim , Immortal Honour to their Dying Fame ; And ought not to have been Denied , On thy great Counterscarp , to have their Valour try'd . Why have not these upon thy swelling Stage , Tasted the keener Justice of the Age ; If 'tis because their Crimes are to remote , Whom leaden-footed Justice has forgotten ? Let's view the modern Scenes of Fame , If Men and Management are not the same ; When Fleets go out with Money , and with Men , Just time enough to venture home again ? Navies prepar'd to guard th' insult [ e ] worser Coast , And Convoys settl'd when Our Ships are lost . Some Heroes lately come from Sea , If they were paid their Due , should stand with thee ; Papers too should their Deeds relate , To prove the Justice of their Fate : Their Deeds of War at Port Saint Mary's done , And see the Trophy's by them , which they wone ; Let Or --------- d's Declaration there appear , He'd certainly be pleas'd to see 'em there . Let some good Limner represent , the ravish'd Nuns , the plunder'd Town , The English Honour how mispent ; The shameful coming back , and little done . The Vigo Men should next appear , To Triumph on thy Theater ; They , who on board the Great Galloons had been , Who rob'd the Spaniards first , and then the Queen Set up their praises to their Valour due , How Eighty Sail , had beaten Twenty two . Two Troopers so , and one Dragoon , Conquered a Spanish Boy , a Pampalone - Yet let them Or ---- d's Conduct own , Who beatrice them first on Shore , or little had been done What unknown spoils from thence are come , How much was brought away , How little home . If all the Thieves should on thy Scaffold stand Who rob'd their Master's in Command : The Multitude would soon out do , The City Crouds of Lord Mayors show , Upon thy Penitential stools , Some People should be plac'd for Fools : As some for Instance who while they look on ; See others plunder all , and they god none . Next the Lieutenant General , To get the Devil , lost the De'll and all ; And he some little badge should bear , Who ought in justice to have have hang'd 'em there : This had his Honour more maintain'd , That all the Spoils at Vigo gain'd . Then Clap thy wooden Wings for joy , And greet the Men of Great Employ ; The Authors of the Nations distontent , And Scandal of a Christian Government . Jobbers , and Brokers of the City Stocks , With forty Thousand Tallies at their backs ; Who make our Banks and Companies obey Or sink 'em all the shortest way . Th' Intrinsink Valve of our Stocks , Is stated in our Caculating Books ; Th' Imaginary Prizes rise and fallen , As they Command who toss the Ball ; Let 'em upon thy lofty Turrets stand , With Bearskins on the back , Debentures in the hand , And write in Capital upon the Post , That here they should remain , Till this AEnigma they explain , How stocks should Fallen , when Sales sermount the Cost And rise again when Ships are lost . Great Monster of the Law , Exalt thy Head ; Appear no more in Masquerade , In Homely Phrase Express thy Discontent , And move it in th' Approaching Parliament Tell 'em how Papers were instead of Coin , With Int'rest eight per Cent. and Discount Nine . Of Irish Transport Debt unpaid , Bills false Endors'd , and long Accounts unmade . And tell them all the Nation hope's to see , They'll send the Guilty down to thee ; Rather then those who write their History . Then bring those Justices upon thy Bench , Who vilely break the Laws they should defend ; And upon Equity Entrench , By Punishing the Crimes they will not Mend : Let every vicious Majestrate , Upon thy sumptuous Chariot of the State ; There ( 3 ) The [ r ] e let 'em all in Triumph ride , Their Purple and their Scarlet laid aside . Let no such Bride-well Justices Protect , As first debauch the Whores which they Correc Such who with Oaths and Drunk'ness fit , And Punish far less Crimes than they Commi These certainly deserve to stand , With Trophies of Authority in Each Hand . Upon thy Pulpit , see the Drunken Priest , Who turns the Gospel to a daily Jest ; Let the Fraternity Degrade him there , lest they like him appear : There let him , his Memento Mori Preach , And by Example , not by Doctrine , Teach . Next bring the Lewder Clergy there , Who Preach those Sins down , which they can't forbear ; Those Sons of God who every day Go in , Both to the Daughters and the Wives of Men ; There Let 'em stand to be the Nation Jest , And save the Reputation of the rest . A --- --- --- ll who for the Gospel left the Law , And deep within the Cleft of Darkness saw ; Let him be and Example made , Who durst the Parsons Province so Invade ; To his new Ecclesiastic Rules , We owe the knowledge that we are all Fools ; Old Charon shall no more dark Souls convey , A --------- ll has found the shortest way ; Vain is your fun [ ? P ] omp and Bells' , Your Gravestones , Monuments and Knells , Vain are the Trophies of the Grave , A --------- ll shall all tha [ tO ] Foppery save ; And to the Clergy's great Reproach , Shall change the Hearse into a Fiery Coach ; What Man the Learned Riddle can receive , Which none can Answer , and yet none Believe , Let him Recorded , on the List remain , Till he shall Heav'n by his own Rules obtain . If a Poor Author has Embrac'd thy Wood , Only because he has not understood , They Punish Mankind but by halves , Till they stand there , Who 'gainst their own Principles appear ; And cannot understand themselves . Those Nimshites , who with furious Zeal drive on , And built up Room to pull down Babylon , The real Author of the shortest way , Who for Destruction , not Conversion pray , There let those Sons of Strife remain , Till this Church Riddle they Explain , How a Dissenters they can raise a Storm , But would not have them ail Conform , For there their certain Ruin would come in , And Moderation , which they hate , begin . Next bring some Lawyers to thy Bar , By Inuendo they might all stand there , There let them Expiate that Gilded , And Pay for all that Blood their Tongues ha' spilled , These are the Mountebanks of State , Who by the slight of Tongues can Crimes create , And dress up Trifles in the Robes of Fate . The Mastiffs of a Government , To worry and run down the Innocen , There Sat a Man of Mighty Fame , Whose Actions speak him plainer than his Name , In vain he struggl'd , he harangu'd in vain , To bring in Whipping Sentences again . And to debauch a Milder Government , With Abdicated kinds of Punishment . No wonder he should Law despise , Who Jesus Christ himself denies , His Actions only now direct . That we when he is made a Judge , expect . Let L --------- ll next to his Disgrace , With Whitney's Horses staring in his Face , There let his Cup of Penance be kept full , Till he's less Noisy , Insolent and Dull . When all these Heroes have passed once thy Srage , And thou hast been the Satyr of the Age , Wait then a while for all those Sons of Fame , Whom present Pow'r has made too great to name . Fenc'd from thy hands , they keep our Verse in Awe , Too great for Satyr , and too great for Law . As they their Commands lay down , They all shall pay their Homage to thy Cloudy Throne . And till within thy reach they be , Exalt thy in Effigy [ i ] e . The Martyr of the bypast Reign , For whom new Oaths have been prepar'd in vain , She ------ k's Disciple first by him trepan'd , He for a K ------ and they for F ------ s should stand , Tho' some affirm he ought to be excus'd , Since to this Day he had refus'd ; And this was all the Frailty of his Life , He Damn'd his Conscience , to oblige his Wife , But spare that Priest , whose tottering Conscience knew That if he took but one , he'd Perjure two ; [ ? ] untly resolv'd he wou'd not break 'em both , And swore by G ------ worser he'd never take the Oath ; Hang him , he can't be fit for thee , For his unusual Honesty . Thou Speaking Trumpet of Men's Fame , Enter into every Court thy Claim ; Demand 'em all , for they are all thy own , Who Swear to Three Kings , but are true to none . Turn-Coats of all sides are thy due , And he who once is false , is never true ; To Day can Swear , to Morrow can Abjure , For Treachery's a Crime no Man can Cure . Such without scruple , for the time to come , May Swear to all the Kings in Christendom , But he's a Mad Man will rely Upon their lost Fidelity . They that in vast Employments rob the State , See them in thy Embraces meet their Fate , Let not the Millions they by Fraud obtain , Protect Protect 'em from the Scandal , or the Pain . They who from Mean Beginning grow To vast Estates , but God knows how , Who carry untold Sums away , From little Places , with but little Pay , Who Costly Palaces Erect , The Thieves that bullt them to Protect , The Gardens , Grotto's , Fountains , Walks , and Groves Where Vice Triumphs in Pride , and Lawless Loves . Where mighty Luxury and Drunk'ness Reign'd , Profusely spend what they Profanely Gain'd . Tell 'em there's Mene Tekel's on the Wall , Tell 'em the Nations Money paid for all . Advance by double-Front and show , And let us both the Crimes and Persons know . Place them aloft upon thy Throne , Who slight the Nation's Business for their own , Neglect their Posts , in spite of Double Pay , And run us all in Debt the Shortest Way . Great Pageant Change thy Dirty Scene , For on thy Steps some Ladies may be seen , When Beauty stoops upon thy Stage to show She laughs at all the humble Fools below . Set Sapho there , whose Husband paid Clothes . Two Hundred Pound a Week in in Furbulo's , There in her Silks and Scarlets let her shine , She's Beauttous all without , all Whore within . Next let Gay URIANA Ride , Her Coach and Six attending by her side . Long has she waited , but in vain , The City Homage to obtain . The Sumptuous Harlot long'd t' Insult the Chair , And Triumph'd o'er our City Beauty's there . Here let her Haughty Thoughts be Gratify'd , In Triumph let her Ride , Let DIADORA next appear , And all that want to know her , see her there . What tho' she's not a True Born English Wh ------ re French Harlots have been here before , Let not the Pomp nor Grandeur of her State Prevent the Justice of her Fate , But let her and Example now be made To Foreign Wh ------ s who spoil the English Trade . Claim 'em , thou Herald of Reproach , Who with uncommon Lewdness will Debauch , Let C ------ upon thy Borders spend his Life , Till he Recants the Bargain with his Wife , And till this Riddle both Explain , How neither can themselves Contain , How Nature can on both sides run so high , As neither side can neither side supply , And so in Charity agree , He keeps two Brace of Whores , two Stallions she . What need of Satyr to Reform the Town ? Or Laws to keep our Vices down ? Let 'em to Thee due Homage pay , This will Reform us all the Shortest Way . Set 'em to Thee bring all the Knaves and Fools , Virtue will guide the rest by Rules , They'll need no Treacherous Friends , no breach of Faith , No Hir'd Evidence with their In [ ? ] cting Breath . No Servants Master's to Betray , Or Knight o' th' Post , who Swear for Pay , No injur'd Author'l on thy Steps appear , Nor such as wou'd be Rogues , but such as are . The first Intent of Laws Was to Correct th' Effect , and check the Cause , And all the Ends of Punishment , Were only Future Mischiefs to prevent . But Justice is Inverted when Those Engines of the Law , Instead of pinching Vicious Men , Keep Honest ones in awe , Thy Business is , as all Men know , To Punish Villains , not to make Men so . Whenever then thou art prepar'd . To prompt that Vice thou should'st Reward , And by the Terrors of thy Grisly Face , Make Men turn Rogues to shun Disgrace , The End of thy Creation is destroy'd , Justice expires of Course , and Law's made void . What are thy Yerrors ? that for fear of thee , Mankind should dare to sink their Honesty ? He's Bold to Impudence , that dare turn Knave , The Scandal of thy Company to save . He that will Crimes he never knew confess , Does more than if he knew those Crimes transgress , And he that fears thee more than to be base , May want a Heart , but does not want a Face . Thou like the Devil dost [ ? ] Blacker than [ ? ] alley thou a [ ? ] A wild Chymerick Notion of Reproach , Too little for a Crime , for none too much , Let none th' Indignity resent , For Crime is all the shame of Punishment . Thou Bugbear of the Law stand up and speak , Thy long Misconstru'd Silence break , Tell us who 'tis upon thy Ridge stands there , So full of Fault , and yet so void of Fear , And from the Paper in his Hat , Let all Mankind be told for what . Tell them it was because he was too bold , And told those Truths , which should not ha' been tol [ worser ] Extol the Justice of the Land , Who Punish what they will not understand . Tell them he stands Exalted there , For speaking what we wou'd not hear , And yet he might ha' been secure , Had he said less , or wou'd he ha' said more . Tell them that this is his Reward , And worse for him is yet prepar'd , Because his Foolish Virtue was so Nice As not to fell his Friends , according to his Friends Ad. And thus he's and Example made , To make Men of their Honesty afraid , That for the time to come they may , More willingly their Friends betray , Tell 'em the Men that plac'd him here , Are Friends unto the Times , But at a loss to find his Gilded . They can't commit his Crimes . FI [ N ] IS what . Tell them it was because he was too bold , And told those Truths , which should not ha' been tol [ worser ] Extol the Justice of the Land , Who Punish what they will not understand . Tell them he stands Exalted there , For speaking what we wou'd not hear , And yet he might ha' been secure , Had he said less , or wou'd he ha' said more . Tell them that this is his Reward , And worse for him is yet prepar'd , Because his Foolish Virtue was so Nice As not to fell his Friends , according to his Friends Ad. And thus he's and Example made , To make Men of their Honesty afraid , That for the time to come they may , More willingly their Friends betray , Tell 'em the Men that plac'd him here , Are Friends unto the Times , But at a loss to find his Gilded . They can't commit his Crimes . FI [ N ] IS 