The Lovers complaint for the loss of his Love . To a pleasant new tune . I Wander up and down , and nobody cares for me , Though I am but poor and brown , yet constant will I be : My dearest love farewell , a thousand times adieu , Seeing thou hast forsaken me , and changed me for a new : I never gave thee cause , why thou shouldst me forsake , Nor never brake the faithful vow that you and I did make : Farewell my dearest love , I took thee at thy word , Hard hap had I to beat the bush , and another to catch the bird . I will go range abroad , I'll find some other thing : If I had known you would have flown , I would have clipped your wing : Would you have clipped my wing , she answered me again , You might have done it in the wood , you know the time and when . Farewell my dearest love , to thee I made my suit , Hard hap had I to grafted the tree , another to reap the fruit , I always wail in woe , I travile still in pain , I see my true love where she goes , I hope shee'l come again . I herd a pretty tune , concerning to a song : A lover mourning for his love , and said she did him wrong : He had her in the wood , he might have wrought his will , Pity it was to do him good that had no better skill . In woods or desert place , had I ere my love so , I think I would have played with her , before I had let her go : Had she been light of love , I should have soon espied : I trow I would a clipped her wing , and caus'd her to abide . Should I let escape the Bird , that I had fast on fis Then let her laugh and scoff at me , and use me as she list . He still does beat the bush , although the bird be los And being slothful in his suit , thus fortune hath him crossed . If with my love in woods , so happy were I sped , I should suppose my hap were hard , to miss her maiden head , Good friend be ruled by me , that made this mortal song , If thou wander up and down , thyself hath done thee wrong . Thou always wailst in woe , thou travailest still in pain : Look yonder where my true love goes , she will never come again : Therefore be ruled by me , and let thy lover pass : If thou look well thy chance may be , to find another lass . FINIS . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . The Lovers complaint for the loss of his Love . To a pleasant new tune . I Wander up and down , and nobody cares for me , Though I am but poor and brown , yet constant will I be : My dearest love farewell , a thousand times adieu , Seeing thou hast forsaken me , and changed me for a new : I never gave thee cause , why thou shouldst me forsake , Nor never brake the faithful vow that you and I did make : Farewell my dearest love , I took thee at thy word , Hard hap had I to beat the bush , and another to catch the bird . I will go range abroad , I'll find some other thing : If I had known you would have flown , I would have clipped your wing : Would you have clipped my wing , she answered me again , You might have done it in the wood , you know the time and when . Farewell my dearest love , to thee I made my suit , Hard hap had I to grafted the tree , another to reap the fruit , I always wail in woe , I travile still in pain , I see my true love where she goes , I hope shee'l come again . I herd a pretty tune , concerning to a song : A lover mourning for his love , and said she did him wrong : He had her in the wood , he might have wrought his will , Pity it was to do him good that had no better skill . In woods or desert place , had I ere my love so , I think I would have played with her , before I had let her go : Had she been light of love , I should have soon espied : I trow I would a clipped her wing , and caus'd her to abide . Should I let escape the Bird , that I had fast on fis Then let her laugh and scoff at me , and use me as she list . He still does beat the bush , although the bird be los And being slothful in his suit , thus fortune hath him crossed . If with my love in woods , so happy were I sped , I should suppose my hap were hard , to miss her maiden head , Good friend be ruled by me , that made this mortal song , If thou wander up and down , thyself hath done thee wrong . Thou always wailst in woe , thou travailest still in pain : Look yonder where my true love goes , she will never come again : Therefore be ruled by me , and let thy lover pass : If thou look well thy chance may be , to find another lass . FINIS . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . 