A PLEASANT Ballad of King Henry II And the MILLER of Mansfield , Showing how he was Entertain'd and Lodg'd at the MILLER's House HENRY our royal king would ride a hunting , To the green forest . so pleasant and fair , To have the Heart chased , and dainty Does tripping Unto merry Sheerwood his nobles repair ; Hauk and hound were unbound , all things prepar'd For the same , to the game , with good regard . All a long summer's day road the king pleasantly With all his princes and nobles each one , Chasing the heart and hound , and the buck gallantly , Till the dark evening forc'd him to go home . Then at last riding fast , he had lost quite All his lords in a word in a dark night . Wandering thus warily all alone merrily , With a rude Miller he met with at last , Asking the ready way to fair Nottingham , Sir , quoth the Miller , your way you have lost , Yet I think what I think , Truth for to say , You do not likely ride out [ oh ] f the way . What dost thou think of me , quoth our King merrily Passing thy judgement upon me so brief . Good faith , said the Miller , I mean not to flatter thee I guess thee to be some gentleman thief . Stand thee back in thee dark , light thee not down , Lest with my staff I crack thy knave's crown . Thou hast abus'd me much , quoth the King saying thus , I am a gentleman and lodging I lack , Thou hast not , said the Miller one groat in thy purse , All thy inheritance hangs on thy back . I have gold to discharge all that I call , If it were forty pounds , I would pay all . If thou be'st a true man , then quoth the Miller , I swear by my toll dish I will lodge thee all night , Here's my hand , quoth the King , that I was ever , Nay soft quoth the Miller , thou may'st be a spright , Better I'll know thee , e'er hands I do take , With none but honest men's hands will I shake . [ ? ] u they went along unto the Miller's house , Wh [ e ] re heigh were seething of puddings and souse , The Mler first enter'd in , and after him the King , Never came he in so smoky a house . Now quoth he let me see what you are Quoth our king , look your fill , and do not spare I like thy countenance , thou hast and honest face , With my son Richard this night thou shalt lie . Quoth his wife by my troth , he is a handsome youth . Yet it' [ s ] best husband to deal warily . Art thu not run away , prithee youth tell ? Show me thy passport , then all shall be well . Then the King presently making a low courtesy , With his hat in his hand thus did he say , I have no passport , nor ever was servitor , But a poor courtier , road out of my way . And for your kindness here offersd me , I will requite you in every degree . Then to the Miller his wife wisper'd secretly , Saying , it seems this youth's of good kin , Both by his apparel , and eke his manners , To turn him out , certainly it were a great since . Yea , quoth he , you may see he hath some grace , Well he does speak to his betters in place . Well quoth the Miller's wife , young man welcome , And tho' I say it , well lodg'd thou shalt be , Fresh straw I will have laid on the bed so brave Good brown hempen sheets likewise for thee . Ay , quoth the good man , and when that is done , You shall lie with no worse then our own son . Nay first quoth Richard , good fellow tell me true , Hast thou no creepers within thy gay hose ? Or art thou not troubled with some scabbabo ? I pray , quoth the King , what things are those ? Art thou not lousy , or scabby , quoth he ? If thou be'st , surely thou liest not with me . This made the King suddenly to laugh most heartily Till the tears trickled down from his eyes . Then to their supper they were set orderly , With a bag pudding , and good apple pies . Napple ale good and stall in a brown bowl , Which did about the board merrily roll . Here quoth the Miller , good fellow I'll drink to thee , And to all cuckolds wherever they be ; I pledge you quoth the King , and thank you heartily , For you are welcome in every degree . And here in like manner I drink to your son , Do so , quoth Richard , but quick let it come . Wife , quoth the Miller , fetch me forth Lightfoot That we of his sweetness a little may taste , A fine Venison pasty , then brought she forth presently , Eat Sir said he , but pray make no waste . Here's dainty lightfoot , in faith said the King , I never before eat so dainty a thing , I wis , quoth Richard , no dainty at all it is , For we eat of it every day . In what place quoth the King , can be bought like to this ; We never pay one penny for it by faith . From merry Sheerwood we fetch it home here , Now and then we make bold with our Kings Deer , Then I think said our King that it is venison , Each fool said Richard full well does know than Never are we without two or three under the roof , Very well fleshed , and excellent fa But prithee say nothing whatever you know , We would not for twopence the King should it know , Doubt not then said the King my promis'd secrecy . The King shall never know more on't for me . A cup of lamb's-wool they drank to him then , And to their bed they pass'd presently They Nobles next Morning went all up-and-down , For to seek the King in every town . At last at the Miller's house soon they saw him plain , As he was mounting upon his fair steed . To whom they came presently , falling upon their knee . Which made the Miller's heart woefully bleed . Shaking and quaking before them he stood , Thinking he should be cut off by the rood . The King perceiving him fearful and trembling , Drew forth his sword , and nothing he said . The Miller down did fallen , crying before them all , Doubting the King would cut off his head , But his courtesy for to requite , Gave him a living , and made him a knight . The Second PART . WHen as our royal King came home from Not-tinham And with his nobles at Westminster lay Recounting the pastimes and sports they had ta'n , In their late progress along by the way . Of them all great and small he did protest , The Miller of Mansfield's sport liked he best . And my lords , quoth the King I am determined Against St. George's sumptuous feast , That his old Miller , our late dubbed knight , With his son Richard , to be one of the guest , For in this merriment , 'tis my desire To talk with the jolly knight , and the young 'squire . When the lords did see this the king's pleasantness They were right joyful and glad in their hearts , A Pursuivant their was sent upon the business , The which had oftentimes been in those parts , When he came to the place where he did dwell , His Message orderly then he did tell . God save your worship , then said the messenger , And grant your lady her heart's desire , And to your son Richard good fortune and happiness , That sweet young gentleman , the happy 'squire . Our King does greet you , and thus does say , You must come to court on St. George's day . Therefore in any case , fail not in any place . I wis , quoth the Miller , this is and old jest . What shall we do there ? 'faith I am half afraid . I doubt quoth Richard , be hang'd at the least . Nay quoth the messenger , he does mistake ; The King hath provided a feast for thy sake . Then said the Miller , now by my troth messenger , Thou hast contented my worship right well . Hold there's three farthings to quit thy gentleness , For these happy tidings which thou does me tell . Let me see ; here's to thee ; tell to oar King , We'll wait on his mastership in every thing . The parsuivant smiled at their simplicity , And making many legs took his reward , And taking then his leave with great humility , To the King's court , again he repair'd . Showing unto his grace in each degree , The Miller's most liberal gift and bounty When he was gone away , thus did the Miller say , Here come's expenses and charges indeed . Now we must needs be brave , tho' we spend all we have , For of few garments we have god much need , Of horses and servant-men we must have store , With bridles and saddles , and twenty things more . Tush , Sir John , quoth his wife , never fret nor frown , You shall be at no more charges for me ; 'For I will turn and trim up my russet Gown , With everything as fine as may be , And on our mill horses full swift we will ride , With pillows and panels , as we shall provide . In this stately sort , road they unto the court , Their jolly son Richard foremost of all : Who set up by Hay a cock's feather in his cap , So they jetted down towards the King's hall . A PLEASANT Ballad of King Henry II And the MILLER of Mansfield , Showing how he was Entertain'd and Lodg'd at the MILLER's House HENRY our royal king would ride a hunting , To the green forest . so pleasant and fair , To have the Heart chased , and dainty Does tripping Unto merry Sheerwood his nobles repair ; Hauk and hound were unbound , all things prepar'd For the same , to the game , with good regard . All a long summer's day road the king pleasantly With all his princes and nobles each one , Chasing the heart and hound , and the buck gallantly , Till the dark evening forc'd him to go home . Then at last riding fast , he had lost quite All his lords in a word in a dark night . Wandering thus warily all alone merrily , With a rude Miller he met with at last , Asking the ready way to fair Nottingham , Sir , quoth the Miller , your way you have lost , Yet I think what I think , Truth for to say , You do not likely ride out [ oh ] f the way . What dost thou think of me , quoth our King merrily Passing thy judgement upon me so brief . Good faith , said the Miller , I mean not to flatter thee I guess thee to be some gentleman thief . Stand thee back in thee dark , light thee not down , Lest with my staff I crack thy knave's crown . Thou hast abus'd me much , quoth the King saying thus , I am a gentleman and lodging I lack , Thou hast not , said the Miller one groat in thy purse , All thy inheritance hangs on thy back . I have gold to discharge all that I call , If it were forty pounds , I would pay all . If thou be'st a true man , then quoth the Miller , I swear by my toll dish I will lodge thee all night , Here's my hand , quoth the King , that I was ever , Nay soft quoth the Miller , thou may'st be a spright , Better I'll know thee , e'er hands I do take , With none but honest men's hands will I shake . [ ? ] u they went along unto the Miller's house , Wh [ e ] re heigh were seething of puddings and souse , The Mler first enter'd in , and after him the King , Never came he in so smoky a house . Now quoth he let me see what you are Quoth our king , look your fill , and do not spare I like thy countenance , thou hast and honest face , With my son Richard this night thou shalt lie . Quoth his wife by my troth , he is a handsome youth . Yet it' [ s ] best husband to deal warily . Art thu not run away , prithee youth tell ? Show me thy passport , then all shall be well . Then the King presently making a low courtesy , With his hat in his hand thus did he say , I have no passport , nor ever was servitor , But a poor courtier , road out of my way . And for your kindness here offersd me , I will requite you in every degree . Then to the Miller his wife wisper'd secretly , Saying , it seems this youth's of good kin , Both by his apparel , and eke his manners , To turn him out , certainly it were a great since . Yea , quoth he , you may see he hath some grace , Well he does speak to his betters in place . Well quoth the Miller's wife , young man welcome , And tho' I say it , well lodg'd thou shalt be , Fresh straw I will have laid on the bed so brave Good brown hempen sheets likewise for thee . Ay , quoth the good man , and when that is done , You shall lie with no worse then our own son . Nay first quoth Richard , good fellow tell me true , Hast thou no creepers within thy gay hose ? Or art thou not troubled with some scabbabo ? I pray , quoth the King , what things are those ? Art thou not lousy , or scabby , quoth he ? If thou be'st , surely thou liest not with me . This made the King suddenly to laugh most heartily Till the tears trickled down from his eyes . Then to their supper they were set orderly , With a bag pudding , and good apple pies . Napple ale good and stall in a brown bowl , Which did about the board merrily roll . Here quoth the Miller , good fellow I'll drink to thee , And to all cuckolds wherever they be ; I pledge you quoth the King , and thank you heartily , For you are welcome in every degree . And here in like manner I drink to your son , Do so , quoth Richard , but quick let it come . Wife , quoth the Miller , fetch me forth Lightfoot That we of his sweetness a little may taste , A fine Venison pasty , then brought she forth presently , Eat Sir said he , but pray make no waste . Here's dainty lightfoot , in faith said the King , I never before eat so dainty a thing , I wis , quoth Richard , no dainty at all it is , For we eat of it every day . In what place quoth the King , can be bought like to this ; We never pay one penny for it by faith . From merry Sheerwood we fetch it home here , Now and then we make bold with our Kings Deer , Then I think said our King that it is venison , Each fool said Richard full well does know than Never are we without two or three under the roof , Very well fleshed , and excellent fa But prithee say nothing whatever you know , We would not for twopence the King should it know , Doubt not then said the King my promis'd secrecy . The King shall never know more on't for me . A cup of lamb's-wool they drank to him then , And to their bed they pass'd presently They Nobles next Morning went all up-and-down , For to seek the King in every town . At last at the Miller's house soon they saw him plain , As he was mounting upon his fair steed . To whom they came presently , falling upon their knee . Which made the Miller's heart woefully bleed . Shaking and quaking before them he stood , Thinking he should be cut off by the rood . The King perceiving him fearful and trembling , Drew forth his sword , and nothing he said . The Miller down did fallen , crying before them all , Doubting the King would cut off his head , But his courtesy for to requite , Gave him a living , and made him a knight . The Second PART . WHen as our royal King came home from Not-tinham And with his nobles at Westminster lay Recounting the pastimes and sports they had ta'n , In their late progress along by the way . Of them all great and small he did protest , The Miller of Mansfield's sport liked he best . And my lords , quoth the King I am determined Against St. George's sumptuous feast , That his old Miller , our late dubbed knight , With his son Richard , to be one of the guest , For in this merriment , 'tis my desire To talk with the jolly knight , and the young 'squire . When the lords did see this the king's pleasantness They were right joyful and glad in their hearts , A Pursuivant their was sent upon the business , The which had oftentimes been in those parts , When he came to the place where he did dwell , His Message orderly then he did tell . God save your worship , then said the messenger , And grant your lady her heart's desire , And to your son Richard good fortune and happiness , That sweet young gentleman , the happy 'squire . Our King does greet you , and thus does say , You must come to court on St. George's day . Therefore in any case , fail not in any place . I wis , quoth the Miller , this is and old jest . What shall we do there ? 'faith I am half afraid . I doubt quoth Richard , be hang'd at the least . Nay quoth the messenger , he does mistake ; The King hath provided a feast for thy sake . Then said the Miller , now by my troth messenger , Thou hast contented my worship right well . Hold there's three farthings to quit thy gentleness , For these happy tidings which thou does me tell . Let me see ; here's to thee ; tell to oar King , We'll wait on his mastership in every thing . The parsuivant smiled at their simplicity , And making many legs took his reward , And taking then his leave with great humility , To the King's court , again he repair'd . Showing unto his grace in each degree , The Miller's most liberal gift and bounty When he was gone away , thus did the Miller say , Here come's expenses and charges indeed . Now we must needs be brave , tho' we spend all we have , For of few garments we have god much need , Of horses and servant-men we must have store , With bridles and saddles , and twenty things more . Tush , Sir John , quoth his wife , never fret nor frown , You shall be at no more charges for me ; 'For I will turn and trim up my russet Gown , With everything as fine as may be , And on our mill horses full swift we will ride , With pillows and panels , as we shall provide . In this stately sort , road they unto the court , Their jolly son Richard foremost of all : Who set up by Hay a cock's feather in his cap , So they jetted down towards the King's hall . The merry old Miller , with his hands on his side . His wife like Maid Mariam laugh'd at that tide . The King and his nobles , who herd of his coming Meeting this gallant knight with his gay train . Welcome sir knight , said he , with this bright lady , Good sir John Cookle , once welcome again . And so his the squire of courage so free . Quoth Dick , abbots on you , do you know me ? Quoth our King gently , how can I forget thee ? Thou wast my bed fellow , that what I what . But I think on a trick . Tell me that prithee Dick , How thou with farting didst make the bed hight . Thou whoreson happy knave , then said the knight , Talk handsome to the King , or else go shite . The King and his courtiers laugh'd heartily at this While the King took them both by the hand . With ladies and their maids , like to the queen of spades The Miller's wife did so orderly stand . A milkmaid's court'sy at every word . Then the folks down were set at the sideboard . Where the King royally , in princely majesty Set at his dinner with joy and delight . When they had eat well , to jesting they fell , And the King then drank to the knight . Here's to you in good ale , wine , and bear , Thanking you for your country cheer . Quoth Sir John Cockle , I'll pledge you a bottle , Was it the best ale in Nottinghamshire . But then said the King , I do think of a thing , Some of your lightfoot I wish we had here . Oh! Oh! said Richard right will may I say it , 'Tis knavery to eat it and then to betray it . Why art thou angry , quoth the King merrily ? In faith I do take it very unkind . I thought thou wouldst pledge me in ale , wine or beer . You're like to stay quoth Dick , until I've din'd , You feed us with shattling dishes so small . X --- ds a black pudding is worth them all . Ay marry , quoth the King , that were a dainty thing , If a man could get here one to eat ; With that Dick arose , and took one out of his hose , Which with the heat of his breeches did sweat . The King made a proffer to snatch it away , 'Tis meat for your master , good sir , you must stay . Thus in great merriment was the time wholly spent And then the ladies appeared to dance , Old sir John Cockle and Richard incontinent , Unto this practice the King did advance ; Here with the ladies such sport they did make , The nobles with laughing did make their sides ach . Then sir John Cockle the King called unto him , And of merry Sheerwood made him overseer . Giving him out of hand three hundred pound a year Saving , take heed you steak no more deer . And once a quarter let's here have your view . And thus , Sir John Cockle , I'll bid you adieu . Printed and Sold at the Printing Off [ ice in ] B [ owe ] Church-Yard LONDON The merry old Miller , with his hands on his side . His wife like Maid Mariam laugh'd at that tide . The King and his nobles , who herd of his coming Meeting this gallant knight with his gay train . Welcome sir knight , said he , with this bright lady , Good sir John Cookle , once welcome again . And so his the squire of courage so free . Quoth Dick , abbots on you , do you know me ? Quoth our King gently , how can I forget thee ? Thou wast my bed fellow , that what I what . But I think on a trick . Tell me that prithee Dick , How thou with farting didst make the bed hight . Thou whoreson happy knave , then said the knight , Talk handsome to the King , or else go shite . The King and his courtiers laugh'd heartily at this While the King took them both by the hand . With ladies and their maids , like to the queen of spades The Miller's wife did so orderly stand . A milkmaid's court'sy at every word . Then the folks down were set at the sideboard . Where the King royally , in princely majesty Set at his dinner with joy and delight . When they had eat well , to jesting they fell , And the King then drank to the knight . Here's to you in good ale , wine , and bear , Thanking you for your country cheer . Quoth Sir John Cockle , I'll pledge you a bottle , Was it the best ale in Nottinghamshire . But then said the King , I do think of a thing , Some of your lightfoot I wish we had here . Oh! Oh! said Richard right will may I say it , 'Tis knavery to eat it and then to betray it . Why art thou angry , quoth the King merrily ? In faith I do take it very unkind . I thought thou wouldst pledge me in ale , wine or beer . You're like to stay quoth Dick , until I've din'd , You feed us with shattling dishes so small . X --- ds a black pudding is worth them all . Ay marry , quoth the King , that were a dainty thing , If a man could get here one to eat ; With that Dick arose , and took one out of his hose , Which with the heat of his breeches did sweat . The King made a proffer to snatch it away , 'Tis meat for your master , good sir , you must stay . Thus in great merriment was the time wholly spent And then the ladies appeared to dance , Old sir John Cockle and Richard incontinent , Unto this practice the King did advance ; Here with the ladies such sport they did make , The nobles with laughing did make their sides ach . Then sir John Cockle the King called unto him , And of merry Sheerwood made him overseer . Giving him out of hand three hundred pound a year Saving , take heed you steak no more deer . And once a quarter let's here have your view . And thus , Sir John Cockle , I'll bid you adieu . Printed and Sold at the Printing Off [ ice in ] B [ owe ] Church-Yard LONDON 