THE LAIRD OF DYSARTS DREAME . I The Laird of Desert , Melvine by name , In the reign of King Charles , I dream'd a dream , The like apparition ( as all men says ) Was never seen , since Thomas Rhymers days : And so because the Lords of the Session , And all the Advocates and their profession , Gets no employment ( for the people moans , For want of Justice , shading tears with groans : They vow , and swear they'l never be too feign While that the Session shall fit down again . And so to make our Law-men laugh or smile , I'le tell them this dream to sport them a while . I went to my Bed being drunk at night , When the Moon was mounted to her full hight , I thought I saw a Dove fly from the Sky , In bigness of the Turtles quantity . This Bird she lighted on a withered bough , Into a fair Wood spacious eneugh . And there by open Proclamation , She sommonds the ramping roaring Lion , The wood Wolf , and the Ass , only these three , She cits them to confess their villainy . She commands the Wolf the Lion to shrive , And to give account of his prerogative . She bides the Lion the Wolf to confess , And likewise to shrive the silly simple Ass , And so Cardinal Wolf first thus begins , To confess the Lion of his deadly sins . Since quoth the Wolf , great Lion you are prince , And King of beasts by divine providence , Confess your faults , for now I am your priest , To pardon and calm your conscience to rest . Then said the Lion , I confess I am The bloodiest beast that ever God did frame , For right and wrong with me indifferent are , Lawless I leave , what I desire , I dare , I make Religion a clock for my cause , But I am careless to defend her Laws , I devour all beasts , I murder , I kill , Horse , Kine , and Sheep , to glut my roaring will , My conscience is a gulf which nought can stuff , My stomach is hell which never gets annuffe , O! what a monster am I to depaint , I swim in since , and I cannot repent . I pray thee holy Wolf grant me a pardon , For all my faults , and let me reign at randum Tush , says the Wolf , My sovereign king and prince , Fear not , nor care not , for your small offence . You may commit , and never give a groan , The seven deadly sins bondled-up in one : A large prerogative to you is given , To rule on earth , as God does rule in heaven . So I absolve you , for the truth I tell , Kings are exempted from the plagues of hell . Thanks , says the Lion , you have set me free , And my room conscience runs at liberty : But Jesuite-Wofe , since you absolve me so , I must confess you now before you go : Tell me your sins , and tell them all in brief , For I know well you are a common thief . Yes , says the Wolf , I cannot abhor it Albeit Gods wrath should fallen upon me for it . Except the devil , and his fraternity , God never made a creature like to me . I am a deadly foe to man , and beast , And to my kine ; but yet I am a priest , I feed on carrion horses , Beeffe and Mutton , My stomach like my conscience is a glutton : I will not cry for mercy , I will go And hang myself , to end my endless woe . Despair not , says the Lion , for I tell thee , Thy sins are small , and silly that befell thee , For what thou doth , it is thy kindly nature , Inclines thee to it , ordain'd by thy Creator , Thy stomach is so sharp , it cannot want Flesh , though it were the carcage of a Saint , So I absolve thee from thy hearts affliction , God in his mercy is without restriction . Now says the Lion , Godless Ass come hither , Its you that yokes men by the ears together . No , says the Ass , I swear in all my life , I never injur'd neither man nor wife : Nor lad , nor lass , I never yet did wrong , To cat , or dog , either by teeth or tongue . The Lion says , Thou art a reprobate , Who think to live and die without a fault . One thing torments my conscience , quoth the Ass , Remark , and I shall tell you how it was , My master in his shoone did put some stray , To keep his feet warm , walking out the way : I being faint , some straes I plucked out , To glut my stomach , and my greedy gum This is the greatest since I boldly swear , That ever I committed late or air . O! cries the Lion , common thief and knave , Thou did thy master wickedly deceive , For which I doom thee to remain with Sathan , To burn in hell with Corah and with Dathan . So I the Laird of Dysart flang and started And at these words I wakened all aghasted : I dream'd this dream , soft sleeping at mine ease , Let all men's minds expound it as they please . To make my Law-men laugh it's my intent , Although I made myself a fool in print . FINIS . THE LAIRD OF DYSARTS DREAME . I The Laird of Desert , Melvine by name , In the reign of King Charles , I dream'd a dream , The like apparition ( as all men says ) Was never seen , since Thomas Rhymers days : And so because the Lords of the Session , And all the Advocates and their profession , Gets no employment ( for the people moans , For want of Justice , shading tears with groans : They vow , and swear they'l never be too feign While that the Session shall fit down again . And so to make our Law-men laugh or smile , I'le tell them this dream to sport them a while . I went to my Bed being drunk at night , When the Moon was mounted to her full hight , I thought I saw a Dove fly from the Sky , In bigness of the Turtles quantity . This Bird she lighted on a withered bough , Into a fair Wood spacious eneugh . And there by open Proclamation , She sommonds the ramping roaring Lion , The wood Wolf , and the Ass , only these three , She cits them to confess their villainy . She commands the Wolf the Lion to shrive , And to give account of his prerogative . She bides the Lion the Wolf to confess , And likewise to shrive the silly simple Ass , And so Cardinal Wolf first thus begins , To confess the Lion of his deadly sins . Since quoth the Wolf , great Lion you are prince , And King of beasts by divine providence , Confess your faults , for now I am your priest , To pardon and calm your conscience to rest . Then said the Lion , I confess I am The bloodiest beast that ever God did frame , For right and wrong with me indifferent are , Lawless I leave , what I desire , I dare , I make Religion a clock for my cause , But I am careless to defend her Laws , I devour all beasts , I murder , I kill , Horse , Kine , and Sheep , to glut my roaring will , My conscience is a gulf which nought can stuff , My stomach is hell which never gets annuffe , O! what a monster am I to depaint , I swim in since , and I cannot repent . I pray thee holy Wolf grant me a pardon , For all my faults , and let me reign at randum Tush , says the Wolf , My sovereign king and prince , Fear not , nor care not , for your small offence . You may commit , and never give a groan , The seven deadly sins bondled-up in one : A large prerogative to you is given , To rule on earth , as God does rule in heaven . So I absolve you , for the truth I tell , Kings are exempted from the plagues of hell . Thanks , says the Lion , you have set me free , And my room conscience runs at liberty : But Jesuite-Wofe , since you absolve me so , I must confess you now before you go : Tell me your sins , and tell them all in brief , For I know well you are a common thief . Yes , says the Wolf , I cannot abhor it Albeit Gods wrath should fallen upon me for it . Except the devil , and his fraternity , God never made a creature like to me . I am a deadly foe to man , and beast , And to my kine ; but yet I am a priest , I feed on carrion horses , Beeffe and Mutton , My stomach like my conscience is a glutton : I will not cry for mercy , I will go And hang myself , to end my endless woe . Despair not , says the Lion , for I tell thee , Thy sins are small , and silly that befell thee , For what thou doth , it is thy kindly nature , Inclines thee to it , ordain'd by thy Creator , Thy stomach is so sharp , it cannot want Flesh , though it were the carcage of a Saint , So I absolve thee from thy hearts affliction , God in his mercy is without restriction . Now says the Lion , Godless Ass come hither , Its you that yokes men by the ears together . No , says the Ass , I swear in all my life , I never injur'd neither man nor wife : Nor lad , nor lass , I never yet did wrong , To cat , or dog , either by teeth or tongue . The Lion says , Thou art a reprobate , Who think to live and die without a fault . One thing torments my conscience , quoth the Ass , Remark , and I shall tell you how it was , My master in his shoone did put some stray , To keep his feet warm , walking out the way : I being faint , some straes I plucked out , To glut my stomach , and my greedy gum This is the greatest since I boldly swear , That ever I committed late or air . O! cries the Lion , common thief and knave , Thou did thy master wickedly deceive , For which I doom thee to remain with Sathan , To burn in hell with Corah and with Dathan . So I the Laird of Dysart flang and started And at these words I wakened all aghasted : I dream'd this dream , soft sleeping at mine ease , Let all men's minds expound it as they please . To make my Law-men laugh it's my intent , Although I made myself a fool in print . FINIS . 