The Young Bastards Wish , A SONG To the Tune of the Old men Wish I . IF I live to be King , as the world knows I hope , I'll hang up the Bishops , L'Estrange , and the Pope ; My Father and Uncle , shall be the first Prey , That I'll Murder upon my great Coronation Day . I'll Govern three Kingdoms with absolute sway , Grant Licence for Whoring each Queen Bess --- day , Ambition and Faction shall never decay , shall never decay . II Then e'ry Buffoon that the Rout can afford , I'll quickly create him a Knight or a Lord : Then court them with Congys , & smile on my Train , And swear by my Maker I ever shall Reign . I'll Govern , etc III . I'll give them Commissions their States to possess , Of e'ry Lord , Duke , Great Peer and Marquis : The Bishops and Clergy , I'll hang up in Chains , Till none but the Saints of my Party Remains . I'll Govern , etc IV. And when thus Establish'd all things to my Ends , I'll hang up the Chief of my created Friends : When three parts o' th' Nation , is fall'n in my power , 'll burn down the City , Demolish the Tower . I'll Govern , etc V. And each Corporation that strength can afford , Shall yield me Allegiance , or die by the Sword ; As Nero did Room the Nation I'll burn , Till each City dreads that the next is her turn . I'll Govern , etc VI . All this by the power of the Rout I'll perform , And those that opposes I'll hang up in scorn ; And Laugh at their Nonsense that sat me on Throne Till no Man dare say that his Life is his own . I'll Govern , etc VII . Then next I'll Debauch the sweet Wife of my Friend ; And ravish ten Sisters where none dare contend : Each Night a true Virgin shall come to my Bed If false , the next Morning I'll cut off her Head. , I'll Govern , etc VIII . The Daughters of those that I hang'd for my Father , Shall all be my Misses and Brood that comes after ; Their Lives may be 'lustrious in process of time , As Pious and Powerful as this Life of mine . I'll Govern , etc IX . Danvers , I'll make him my Master of Horse , And Argile in Scotland Command all my Force ; And Gray the Lieutenant of Ireland I'll send , And my Palace in Kent-street in Southwark shall stand . I'll Govern , X. No Parliament Rumps for fear of some Trick , Lest they hang me , or serve me like Olivers Dick ; But as many Wenches the best I can Choose ; As will fill up Westminster , White-Hall and the Muse . I'll Govern three Kingdoms with absolute sway , Grant Licence for Whoring each Queen Bess --- day , Ambition and Faction shall never decay , shall never decay . London Printed for J. Dean , Bookseller in Cranborn-Street near Newport-House in Leicester-fields , 1685 The Young Bastards Wish , A SONG To the Tune of the Old men Wish I . IF I live to be King , as the world knows I hope , I'll hang up the Bishops , L'Estrange , and the Pope ; My Father and Uncle , shall be the first Prey , That I'll Murder upon my great Coronation Day . I'll Govern three Kingdoms with absolute sway , Grant Licence for Whoring each Queen Bess --- day , Ambition and Faction shall never decay , shall never decay . II Then e'ry Buffoon that the Rout can afford , I'll quickly create him a Knight or a Lord : Then court them with Congys , & smile on my Train , And swear by my Maker I ever shall Reign . I'll Govern , etc III . I'll give them Commissions their States to possess , Of e'ry Lord , Duke , Great Peer and Marquis : The Bishops and Clergy , I'll hang up in Chains , Till none but the Saints of my Party Remains . I'll Govern , etc IV. And when thus Establish'd all things to my Ends , I'll hang up the Chief of my created Friends : When three parts o' th' Nation , is fall'n in my power , 'll burn down the City , Demolish the Tower . I'll Govern , etc V. And each Corporation that strength can afford , Shall yield me Allegiance , or die by the Sword ; As Nero did Room the Nation I'll burn , Till each City dreads that the next is her turn . I'll Govern , etc VI . All this by the power of the Rout I'll perform , And those that opposes I'll hang up in scorn ; And Laugh at their Nonsense that sat me on Throne Till no Man dare say that his Life is his own . I'll Govern , etc VII . Then next I'll Debauch the sweet Wife of my Friend ; And ravish ten Sisters where none dare contend : Each Night a true Virgin shall come to my Bed If false , the next Morning I'll cut off her Head. , I'll Govern , etc VIII . The Daughters of those that I hang'd for my Father , Shall all be my Misses and Brood that comes after ; Their Lives may be 'lustrious in process of time , As Pious and Powerful as this Life of mine . I'll Govern , etc IX . Danvers , I'll make him my Master of Horse , And Argile in Scotland Command all my Force ; And Gray the Lieutenant of Ireland I'll send , And my Palace in Kent-street in Southwark shall stand . I'll Govern , X. No Parliament Rumps for fear of some Trick , Lest they hang me , or serve me like Olivers Dick ; But as many Wenches the best I can Choose ; As will fill up Westminster , White-Hall and the Muse . I'll Govern three Kingdoms with absolute sway , Grant Licence for Whoring each Queen Bess --- day , Ambition and Faction shall never decay , shall never decay . London Printed for J. Dean , Bookseller in Cranborn-Street near Newport-House in Leicester-fields , 1685 