A HUE and CRY AFTER A Man-Midwife . Who has Lately DELIVER'D the LAND-BANK OF THEIR MONEY . IF any Good Person , in Country or Town , Either Courtier , or Citizen , Sharper , or Clown , Gives Tidings or Tale , of a famous Projector , Whom Great-Belly'd Ladies have mighty respect-for , Shall at the Land-Bank be as Nobly rewarded , As by the Trustees it can well be afforded . He's a little old Man , very pale of Complexion , Into many Deep Things makes a narrow inspection : His Head's very Long , and his Hands very Small , Fit to fathom a gentle Tuquoque withal : In tormenting of which , as the Good Women tell us , He strangles more Necks , than the Rope and the Gallows . Among his Profession he's fam'd as a Topper , By some call'd a Midwife , by others a Groper . From his Office in Queen-street he lately has started , And left his Society half brokenhearted . Thus show'd them a Trick , one would think was beneath-him And run with their Stock ; marry Devil go with him ! But yet he was so civil unto the Trustees , Though he's taken the Chest , he has left 'em the Keys . Of Iron 'twas made , and secured with Chains , Being Lock'd with abundance of Cunning and Pains ; Which mingles their Sorrow with some little Pleasure , To think how 'twill plague him to come at the Treasure . By common Report into Holland he's fled ; If so , the Land-bank is brought finely to Bed : For if to the old place of Refuge he's run , Adzooks you're all Cozen'd as sure as a Gun. And you that are Chous'd , for your Money may mourn ; For Holland , like Hell , never makes a Retarn . 'Tis known to all Europe , the Dutch , like the Devil , Takes damnable care of the Root of all Evil. What Money is once carry'd into their Nation , Is more hard to regain , than if sunk in the Ocean . If the Coin was inclos'd ( like the Soil in a Gizzard ) In and Adamant Coffer , lock'd up by a Vizard , They'll show him a way , by some Pow'r Infernal , To break up the Shell , and to take out the Kernel . A Bank to give Paper , and hoard up our Coin , Was nothing at first but a Coz'ning Design : And he , like a Man of wise Circumspection , Has show'd the true end of a Roguish Proyection . Considering how often the Nation is bit By Projects , and yet will not see thro' the Cheat , 'Tis a wonder to me , we should learn no more Wit . We've Lott'ries from Venice , and Banks from the Dutch , Tho' Holland indeed has occasion for such ; For if they were down , as abundance do wish , They must die all like Puppies , or live all like Fish . My Brains are so heavy , I vow and protest , I must beg you'll accept of that Pun for a Jest . For talking of Holland so much , I'm a Dog , If my Fancy at last is not slip'd in a Bog . But now to the matter , If any discover The Man and the Money , and bring 'em both over , He shall find the Trustees of the Bank to be Noble , And give him what e'er he can get for his Trouble . To give you his Character truly Complete , He's Doctor , Projector , Man-Midwife and C ----- Who has Cunningly manag'd a subtle Device , Beyond the poor Parson , or Auberry Price . And all that I farther can say of the matter , He's gone to the Dutch , and the Devil go a'ter . LONDON , Printed in the Year 1699. A HUE and CRY AFTER A Man-Midwife . Who has Lately DELIVER'D the LAND-BANK OF THEIR MONEY . IF any Good Person , in Country or Town , Either Courtier , or Citizen , Sharper , or Clown , Gives Tidings or Tale , of a famous Projector , Whom Great-Belly'd Ladies have mighty respect-for , Shall at the Land-Bank be as Nobly rewarded , As by the Trustees it can well be afforded . He's a little old Man , very pale of Complexion , Into many Deep Things makes a narrow inspection : His Head's very Long , and his Hands very Small , Fit to fathom a gentle Tuquoque withal : In tormenting of which , as the Good Women tell us , He strangles more Necks , than the Rope and the Gallows . Among his Profession he's fam'd as a Topper , By some call'd a Midwife , by others a Groper . From his Office in Queen-street he lately has started , And left his Society half brokenhearted . Thus show'd them a Trick , one would think was beneath-him And run with their Stock ; marry Devil go with him ! But yet he was so civil unto the Trustees , Though he's taken the Chest , he has left 'em the Keys . Of Iron 'twas made , and secured with Chains , Being Lock'd with abundance of Cunning and Pains ; Which mingles their Sorrow with some little Pleasure , To think how 'twill plague him to come at the Treasure . By common Report into Holland he's fled ; If so , the Land-bank is brought finely to Bed : For if to the old place of Refuge he's run , Adzooks you're all Cozen'd as sure as a Gun. And you that are Chous'd , for your Money may mourn ; For Holland , like Hell , never makes a Retarn . 'Tis known to all Europe , the Dutch , like the Devil , Takes damnable care of the Root of all Evil. What Money is once carry'd into their Nation , Is more hard to regain , than if sunk in the Ocean . If the Coin was inclos'd ( like the Soil in a Gizzard ) In and Adamant Coffer , lock'd up by a Vizard , They'll show him a way , by some Pow'r Infernal , To break up the Shell , and to take out the Kernel . A Bank to give Paper , and hoard up our Coin , Was nothing at first but a Coz'ning Design : And he , like a Man of wise Circumspection , Has show'd the true end of a Roguish Proyection . Considering how often the Nation is bit By Projects , and yet will not see thro' the Cheat , 'Tis a wonder to me , we should learn no more Wit . We've Lott'ries from Venice , and Banks from the Dutch , Tho' Holland indeed has occasion for such ; For if they were down , as abundance do wish , They must die all like Puppies , or live all like Fish . My Brains are so heavy , I vow and protest , I must beg you'll accept of that Pun for a Jest . For talking of Holland so much , I'm a Dog , If my Fancy at last is not slip'd in a Bog . But now to the matter , If any discover The Man and the Money , and bring 'em both over , He shall find the Trustees of the Bank to be Noble , And give him what e'er he can get for his Trouble . To give you his Character truly Complete , He's Doctor , Projector , Man-Midwife and C ----- Who has Cunningly manag'd a subtle Device , Beyond the poor Parson , or Auberry Price . And all that I farther can say of the matter , He's gone to the Dutch , and the Devil go a'ter . LONDON , Printed in the Year 1699. 