The Indifferent LOV [ ER ] OR , The Roving Batchel [ or . ] To a Pleasant new Tune , Sung in the last new Comedy , called Amphytri [ on . ] FOr Iris I sighs and hourly Die , but not for a Lip nor a languishing Eye ; S [ he's fickle and false ] and there we agree , Oh! these are the Virtues that captivate me : We ne [ ither believe what ] either can say , and neither believing , we neither betray . ( 2 ) 'Tis civil to swear and say things of Course , We mean not the taking for better for worse , When present we love , when absent agree , I think not of Iris nor Iris of me ; The Legend of Love , no Couple can find , So easy to part , and so easily joyn'd . ( 3 ) I like not that Lover who'll whimpering stand , And wait a whole day to kiss Celias fair hand , No Beauty i' th' Town , tho' ten times as fair , Can ever , can ever with Celia Compare : How happy am I , who hourly find , Those fair as his Celia , as Iris kind . ( 4 ) I am still in the Fashion , or Mode-a-la-France , I think not upon her , unless by a chance , Iris when present I fancy the best , When absent I praise her no more then the res Iris and Phillis to me are all one ; So soon I can love , and as soon can have done . ( 5 ) I can love for and hour , fair Celia and then , I am Cloy'd of the Bliss , and Love Iris again , Till tyered of Happiness I do depart , Go the next way and give Phillis my Hear Till Cleo appears , whose delicate Eye , For and hour or two makes me languishing lie . ( 6 ) I love all I see when just in the fit , Yet can in a Moment my Mistress forget , Now Languish , now Love , now sighs and complain Now love her , now hate her , and love her again . I admire the Charms in Celias fair face , Till Phillis appears to take up her place . ( 7 ) But of all the Beauty's were ever admir'd , Whose Company many found Fops have desir'd , Whose every Charm in their Faces so takes , That several Coxcombs have dy'd for their sakes ; I never see any whose faces could Charm , So much by their Smiles or Frowns for to harm . ( 8 ) If Iris Loves me , then I can Love her , If she loves me not , then I can prefer , Another before her ; Or her 'fore another , For I can Love one as well as the other ; My passion to all alike I'll discover , And always remain and indifferent Lover . FINIS . Printed for Ch. Bates , at the White-Hart in West-Smith-Field . The Indifferent LOV [ ER ] OR , The Roving Batchel [ or . ] To a Pleasant new Tune , Sung in the last new Comedy , called Amphytri [ on . ] FOr Iris I sighs and hourly Die , but not for a Lip nor a languishing Eye ; S [ he's fickle and false ] and there we agree , Oh! these are the Virtues that captivate me : We ne [ ither believe what ] either can say , and neither believing , we neither betray . ( 2 ) 'Tis civil to swear and say things of Course , We mean not the taking for better for worse , When present we love , when absent agree , I think not of Iris nor Iris of me ; The Legend of Love , no Couple can find , So easy to part , and so easily joyn'd . ( 3 ) I like not that Lover who'll whimpering stand , And wait a whole day to kiss Celias fair hand , No Beauty i' th' Town , tho' ten times as fair , Can ever , can ever with Celia Compare : How happy am I , who hourly find , Those fair as his Celia , as Iris kind . ( 4 ) I am still in the Fashion , or Mode-a-la-France , I think not upon her , unless by a chance , Iris when present I fancy the best , When absent I praise her no more then the res Iris and Phillis to me are all one ; So soon I can love , and as soon can have done . ( 5 ) I can love for and hour , fair Celia and then , I am Cloy'd of the Bliss , and Love Iris again , Till tyered of Happiness I do depart , Go the next way and give Phillis my Hear Till Cleo appears , whose delicate Eye , For and hour or two makes me languishing lie . ( 6 ) I love all I see when just in the fit , Yet can in a Moment my Mistress forget , Now Languish , now Love , now sighs and complain Now love her , now hate her , and love her again . I admire the Charms in Celias fair face , Till Phillis appears to take up her place . ( 7 ) But of all the Beauty's were ever admir'd , Whose Company many found Fops have desir'd , Whose every Charm in their Faces so takes , That several Coxcombs have dy'd for their sakes ; I never see any whose faces could Charm , So much by their Smiles or Frowns for to harm . ( 8 ) If Iris Loves me , then I can Love her , If she loves me not , then I can prefer , Another before her ; Or her 'fore another , For I can Love one as well as the other ; My passion to all alike I'll discover , And always remain and indifferent Lover . FINIS . Printed for Ch. Bates , at the White-Hart in West-Smith-Field . 