/ 2 New Mad Tom of Bedlam . OR , The Man in the Moon drinks Claret , With Powder-beef , Turnip and Carret . Tune is , Grays-Inn-Mask . FOrth from my sad and darksome Cell , Or from the deep abyss of Hell , Mad Tom is come to view the world again , To see if he can ease his distempered Brain : Fear and care does pierce the Soul , Hark how the angry Furies howl , Pluto laughs and Proserpine is glad , To see poor naked Tom of Bedlam mad : Through the World I wander night and day , to find my strangling senses , In and angry Mood I found old Time , with's Pentarchy of Tenches , When me he spies Away he flies , For time will stay for no Man , In vain with cries , I rend the Skies , For pity is not common , Cold and Comfortless I lie , Help , Oh help , or else I die . Hark I hear Appollo's Team , The Carman begins to Whistle , Chaste Diana , Bends her Bow , The Boar begins to Bristle , Come Vulcan with tools and with tackle ; Shake off my troublesome shackle , Let Charl [ es ] make ready his wain , To bring [ my senses again . ] Last night I herd the Dog-Star bark Mars met Venus in the Dark , Leaping Vulcan het and Iron-Bar , And furiously did run at the God of War , Mars with his Weapon laid about , But Vulcans Temples had the Gout , His broad Horns did so hang in his sighed , He could not see to aim his Blows arigh Mercury the Nimble Post of Heaven , stayed still to see the Quarrel , Gorrel bellied Baccus Giantlike , bestri'd a strong Beer Barrel : To me he drank , I did him thank , But I could get no Sider , He drank whole Buts , Till he cracked his guts , But mine were ne'r the wider . Poor naked Tom is very dry , A little drink for charity : Hark I hear Acteon's Hounds , The Huntsman Whoops and hollows , Ringing Ryoster , Bowman Jowler , At the Chase now follows , The Man i'th Moon drinks Claret , With Powder-beef Turnip and Carret , A Cup of old Malagp S [ ack Will fire the Bush at his back . ] / 2 New Mad Tom of Bedlam . OR , The Man in the Moon drinks Claret , With Powder-beef , Turnip and Carret . Tune is , Grays-Inn-Mask . FOrth from my sad and darksome Cell , Or from the deep abyss of Hell , Mad Tom is come to view the world again , To see if he can ease his distempered Brain : Fear and care does pierce the Soul , Hark how the angry Furies howl , Pluto laughs and Proserpine is glad , To see poor naked Tom of Bedlam mad : Through the World I wander night and day , to find my strangling senses , In and angry Mood I found old Time , with's Pentarchy of Tenches , When me he spies Away he flies , For time will stay for no Man , In vain with cries , I rend the Skies , For pity is not common , Cold and Comfortless I lie , Help , Oh help , or else I die . Hark I hear Appollo's Team , The Carman begins to Whistle , Chaste Diana , Bends her Bow , The Boar begins to Bristle , Come Vulcan with tools and with tackle ; Shake off my troublesome shackle , Let Charl [ es ] make ready his wain , To bring [ my senses again . ] Last night I herd the Dog-Star bark Mars met Venus in the Dark , Leaping Vulcan het and Iron-Bar , And furiously did run at the God of War , Mars with his Weapon laid about , But Vulcans Temples had the Gout , His broad Horns did so hang in his sighed , He could not see to aim his Blows arigh Mercury the Nimble Post of Heaven , stayed still to see the Quarrel , Gorrel bellied Baccus Giantlike , bestri'd a strong Beer Barrel : To me he drank , I did him thank , But I could get no Sider , He drank whole Buts , Till he cracked his guts , But mine were ne'r the wider . Poor naked Tom is very dry , A little drink for charity : Hark I hear Acteon's Hounds , The Huntsman Whoops and hollows , Ringing Ryoster , Bowman Jowler , At the Chase now follows , The Man i'th Moon drinks Claret , With Powder-beef Turnip and Carret , A Cup of old Malagp S [ ack Will fire the Bush at his back . ] 