( 1 ) Innocence Unveil'd . OR , A POEM On the Acquittal of the Lord Chief Justice Scroggs , Right Honourable , IMperious Bedlow , and his Oaten Friend , Will now begin to buckle , or to bend : Now I do plainly see that they are Fools , They find it dang'rous meddling with Edge-Tools . Justice is sharp when it's too much abus'd ; Justice unjustly lately was accus'd : And now what follows ? Scourges of the Law , To keep such bold-fac'd Fellows all in awe . Your Innocence ( unless I miss my mark ) Will make their Evidence look dull and dark . Had they but found you Guilty , I dare swing If they had let alone our Gracious King . Their Heads were very high , their Hearts too stout , Now give their Pride and Confidence a rout . The House of Commons is there All in All , And while They stand , the Coxcombs cannot fallen . This is their strong conceit ; they do not fear : But ev'ry man that has and ear to hear , Shall shortly hear that they have spoil'd their sport By nothing more , than by this false Report . Those Scribblers Harris , Smith , and Care , will quake , For their Foundation does begin to shake : The first and second Saviour both look pale , To see their Gall and Malice does so fail : The ( 2 ) The Rubbish is remov'd , Knaves must fly hence , For who can stand against your Innocence ! The Chief in Justice shines in's proper place , While Envy lies obscur'd with great disgrace . Plot on , thou puny Levite , but beware ( Both Thou , the Captain , Harris , Smith and Care , ) Of him you aim'd to catch within your Snare . His great Integrity is fully known , And well approv'd by him that wears the Crown ; Is't a light thing to tread our Justice down ? Might Justice once be trodden under feet , Then ev'ry Knave would strive for CHARLES his Sea Justice is not so weak as you suppose ; Your Smith may sooner take the Devil by th' Nose , Than think his Libels , or your Oaths can taint That that's the badge of ev'ry Earthly Saint . Injustice is your Justice , I'me afraid , But yet by justice you shall all be paid : You have had Rope enough , too much , I doubt , Indeed I wonder that your Necks are ou You are not Hang'd , but choak'd up in your Throats ; Now who'l believe the Rev'rend Dr. Oats , Or the Heroic Captain ? Commons may Not when they find your Truth is gone astray : My Lord Chief Justice Story will be told , And 'twill appear that you have been too bold , And Truth and Justice both at once you've sold . FINIS . ( 1 ) Innocence Unveil'd . OR , A POEM On the Acquittal of the Lord Chief Justice Scroggs , Right Honourable , IMperious Bedlow , and his Oaten Friend , Will now begin to buckle , or to bend : Now I do plainly see that they are Fools , They find it dang'rous meddling with Edge-Tools . Justice is sharp when it's too much abus'd ; Justice unjustly lately was accus'd : And now what follows ? Scourges of the Law , To keep such bold-fac'd Fellows all in awe . Your Innocence ( unless I miss my mark ) Will make their Evidence look dull and dark . Had they but found you Guilty , I dare swing If they had let alone our Gracious King . Their Heads were very high , their Hearts too stout , Now give their Pride and Confidence a rout . The House of Commons is there All in All , And while They stand , the Coxcombs cannot fallen . This is their strong conceit ; they do not fear : But ev'ry man that has and ear to hear , Shall shortly hear that they have spoil'd their sport By nothing more , than by this false Report . Those Scribblers Harris , Smith , and Care , will quake , For their Foundation does begin to shake : The first and second Saviour both look pale , To see their Gall and Malice does so fail : The ( 2 ) The Rubbish is remov'd , Knaves must fly hence , For who can stand against your Innocence ! The Chief in Justice shines in's proper place , While Envy lies obscur'd with great disgrace . Plot on , thou puny Levite , but beware ( Both Thou , the Captain , Harris , Smith and Care , ) Of him you aim'd to catch within your Snare . His great Integrity is fully known , And well approv'd by him that wears the Crown ; Is't a light thing to tread our Justice down ? Might Justice once be trodden under feet , Then ev'ry Knave would strive for CHARLES his Sea Justice is not so weak as you suppose ; Your Smith may sooner take the Devil by th' Nose , Than think his Libels , or your Oaths can taint That that's the badge of ev'ry Earthly Saint . Injustice is your Justice , I'me afraid , But yet by justice you shall all be paid : You have had Rope enough , too much , I doubt , Indeed I wonder that your Necks are ou You are not Hang'd , but choak'd up in your Throats ; Now who'l believe the Rev'rend Dr. Oats , Or the Heroic Captain ? Commons may Not when they find your Truth is gone astray : My Lord Chief Justice Story will be told , And 'twill appear that you have been too bold , And Truth and Justice both at once you've sold . FINIS . 