/ 1 New Mad Tom of Bedlam , OR , The Man in the Moon drinks Claret , With Powder-beef , Turnip and Carret . Tune is Grays-In-Mask . FOrth from my sad and darksome Cell , Or from the deep abyss of Hell , Mad Tom is come to view the world again , To see if he can ease his distempered Brain : Fear and care does pierce the Soul , Hark how the angry Furies howl , Pluto laughs and Proserpine is glad , To see poor naked Tom of Bedlam mad : Through the World I wander night and day , to find my straggling senses , In and angry Mood I found old Time , with's Pentarchy of Tenches , When me he spes Away he flies , For time will stay for no Man , In vain with Cries , I rend the Skies , For pity is not common , Cold and comfortless I lie , Help , Oh help , or else I die , Hark I hear Apollo's theam . The Carman begins to Whistle , Chaste Diana , Bends her Bow , The Boar begins to Bristel , Come Vulcan with tools and with tackle ; Sake off my troublesome shackle , Let Charles make ready his wain , To bring my senses again . Last night I herd the Dog-Star bark Mars met Venus in the dark , Leaping Vulcan het and Iron-Bar , And furously did run at the God of War , Mars with his Weapon laid about , But Vulcans Temples had the Gout , His broad Horns did so hang in his sighed , He could not see to aim his Blows aright ; Mercury the Nimble Post of Heaven , stayed still to see the Quarrel , Gorrel bellied Baccus Giantlike , bestri'd a strong Beer Barrel : To me he drank , I did him thank , But I could get no Syder , He drank whole Buts , Till he cracked his guts , But mine were ne'r the wider . Poor naked Tom is very dry ; A little drink for charity : Hark I hear Acteon's Hounds , The Huntsman Whoops and hollows , Ringing Royster , Bowman Jowler At the Chase now follows , The Man i' that Moon drinks Claret , With Powder beef Turnip and Carret , A Cup of old Malago Sack , Will fire the Bush at his back . / 1 New Mad Tom of Bedlam , OR , The Man in the Moon drinks Claret , With Powder-beef , Turnip and Carret . Tune is Grays-In-Mask . FOrth from my sad and darksome Cell , Or from the deep abyss of Hell , Mad Tom is come to view the world again , To see if he can ease his distempered Brain : Fear and care does pierce the Soul , Hark how the angry Furies howl , Pluto laughs and Proserpine is glad , To see poor naked Tom of Bedlam mad : Through the World I wander night and day , to find my straggling senses , In and angry Mood I found old Time , with's Pentarchy of Tenches , When me he spes Away he flies , For time will stay for no Man , In vain with Cries , I rend the Skies , For pity is not common , Cold and comfortless I lie , Help , Oh help , or else I die , Hark I hear Apollo's theam . The Carman begins to Whistle , Chaste Diana , Bends her Bow , The Boar begins to Bristel , Come Vulcan with tools and with tackle ; Sake off my troublesome shackle , Let Charles make ready his wain , To bring my senses again . Last night I herd the Dog-Star bark Mars met Venus in the dark , Leaping Vulcan het and Iron-Bar , And furously did run at the God of War , Mars with his Weapon laid about , But Vulcans Temples had the Gout , His broad Horns did so hang in his sighed , He could not see to aim his Blows aright ; Mercury the Nimble Post of Heaven , stayed still to see the Quarrel , Gorrel bellied Baccus Giantlike , bestri'd a strong Beer Barrel : To me he drank , I did him thank , But I could get no Syder , He drank whole Buts , Till he cracked his guts , But mine were ne'r the wider . Poor naked Tom is very dry ; A little drink for charity : Hark I hear Acteon's Hounds , The Huntsman Whoops and hollows , Ringing Royster , Bowman Jowler At the Chase now follows , The Man i' that Moon drinks Claret , With Powder beef Turnip and Carret , A Cup of old Malago Sack , Will fire the Bush at his back . 