( 1 ) The Countrymans New Care away . To the tune of , Love will find out the way . IF there were employments for men , as have been , And Drums , Pikes , and Muskets , i' that field to be seen , And every worthy Soldier , had truly their pay , Then might they be bolder , to sing care away . If there were no Rooking , but plain dealing used , If honest Religion were no ways abused , If pride in the Country did not bear sway , The poor and the Gentry might sing care away . If Farmers consider'd the dearness of grain , How honest poor Tradesmen their charge should maintain , And would bore the price on't of what we did pay , We should not be nice on't to sing care away . If poor Tenants Landlords would not rack their rends , Which oft is the cause of their great discontents : If again good housekeeping in th' Land did bear sway , The poor that sits weeping , might sing care away . If to live uprightly all men were concurring , If Lawyers with clients would use no demurring , But kindly would use them for what they did pay , They need not fit musing , but sing care away . If spendthrifts were careful and would leave their follies , Ebriety hating , Cards Dice , Bowling-alleys , Or with wantons to dally by night or by day , Their wives might be merry , and sing Care away . The second Part To the same tune . IF Children to Parents would dutiful be , If servants with master's would deal faithfully , If Gallants poor Tradesmen would honestly pay , Then might they have comfort to sing Care away . There is no contentment to a conscience that's clear , That man is most wretched a bad mind does bear , To wrong his poor neighbour , by night or by day , He wants the true comfort , to sing Care away . But he that is ready by goodness to labour , In what he is able , to help his poor neighbour , The Lord will ever bless him by night and by day , All joys shall possess him to sing Care away . Would wives with their husbands , and husbands with wives , In love and true friendship would so lead their lives , As best may be pleasing , to God night and day , Then they with hearts easing , might sing Care away . No cross can be greater unto a good mind , Then a man to be matched with a woman unkind , Whose tongue is never quiet , but scolds night and day , That man wants the comfort to sing , Care away . A virtuous woman a husband that hath , That's given unto lewdness , to envy and wrath , Who after wicked women does hunt for his prey , That woman wants comfort to sing , Care away . Were there no resorting , to houses of vice , Or were there no courting a wench that is nice , Yet ere she will refuse it , the wanton will play , Poor men might be merry , and sing , Care away . Like true subject's loyal , to God let us pray , Our good King so royal , to preserve night and day : With the Queen , Prince & Nobles the Lord bless them aye : Then may we all have comfort , to sing , Care away . FINIS . Ro. Guy . London Printed for H. Gosson . ( 1 ) The Countrymans New Care away . To the tune of , Love will find out the way . IF there were employments for men , as have been , And Drums , Pikes , and Muskets , i' that field to be seen , And every worthy Soldier , had truly their pay , Then might they be bolder , to sing care away . If there were no Rooking , but plain dealing used , If honest Religion were no ways abused , If pride in the Country did not bear sway , The poor and the Gentry might sing care away . If Farmers consider'd the dearness of grain , How honest poor Tradesmen their charge should maintain , And would bore the price on't of what we did pay , We should not be nice on't to sing care away . If poor Tenants Landlords would not rack their rends , Which oft is the cause of their great discontents : If again good housekeeping in th' Land did bear sway , The poor that sits weeping , might sing care away . If to live uprightly all men were concurring , If Lawyers with clients would use no demurring , But kindly would use them for what they did pay , They need not fit musing , but sing care away . If spendthrifts were careful and would leave their follies , Ebriety hating , Cards Dice , Bowling-alleys , Or with wantons to dally by night or by day , Their wives might be merry , and sing Care away . The second Part To the same tune . IF Children to Parents would dutiful be , If servants with master's would deal faithfully , If Gallants poor Tradesmen would honestly pay , Then might they have comfort to sing Care away . There is no contentment to a conscience that's clear , That man is most wretched a bad mind does bear , To wrong his poor neighbour , by night or by day , He wants the true comfort , to sing Care away . But he that is ready by goodness to labour , In what he is able , to help his poor neighbour , The Lord will ever bless him by night and by day , All joys shall possess him to sing Care away . Would wives with their husbands , and husbands with wives , In love and true friendship would so lead their lives , As best may be pleasing , to God night and day , Then they with hearts easing , might sing Care away . No cross can be greater unto a good mind , Then a man to be matched with a woman unkind , Whose tongue is never quiet , but scolds night and day , That man wants the comfort to sing , Care away . A virtuous woman a husband that hath , That's given unto lewdness , to envy and wrath , Who after wicked women does hunt for his prey , That woman wants comfort to sing , Care away . Were there no resorting , to houses of vice , Or were there no courting a wench that is nice , Yet ere she will refuse it , the wanton will play , Poor men might be merry , and sing , Care away . Like true subject's loyal , to God let us pray , Our good King so royal , to preserve night and day : With the Queen , Prince & Nobles the Lord bless them aye : Then may we all have comfort , to sing , Care away . FINIS . Ro. Guy . London Printed for H. Gosson . 