THE GOOD-MAN of AUCHTER MUCHTY ; OR The WIFE turned GOOD-MAN . GIVING A merry ACCOUNT how the GOOD-MAN was fitted to his Mind . Tune of , Pultring Poverty , IN Auchtermuchty lived a Man , If all be true that I herd say . Who yok'd his Pleugh upon the Plain , Upon a wet and windy Day . The wind blew called which made him stay , From the Northeast , baith Hail and Rain , He lous'd his Pleugh he dought not stay ; The Called did chase him Hame again . Goodwife , quoth he , rise up amain , And give the Stots both Corn and Hay , The morn you shall my trouble ken ; And I'll be Good wife as I may . Ye've dwelled so lown this money Day , About the Fire you fit right glad , Tomorrow you shall try the Way , And learn yourself the Pleugh to had . This Seed Time it proves called and bade , And you fit warm no Troubles sees , The Morn you shall pass with the Lad , And then ye'll ken what Drinkers drees . Goodman , quoth she , if it you please , That I must travel to the Pleugh , And you to dwell at Hame at Ease , Perhaps you may get Toil enough Jack , dare we venture west the Cleugh , And thou shalt had , and I shall ca , I shall reward thee well enough , Of fine Gravats I'll give the twa . Goodman , since you have made this Law , Then guide a' well and don't break , They road safe that did ne'er fa Therefore let naithing be neglect . Since with my trade you are affected , See first the sift , and then you kened , Let all Things rightly be directed , Keep all the Gaislings frae the Gled . And see the Bairns file not the Bed , And kirn the Kirn , and make the Cheese , And if you occupy your Trade I trow you shall find little Ease . She sat up late her mind to please , For to her Trade she had a Care ; She kirn'd the Kirn , she bor'd his Neese , No Rigmari she left him there . Upon the Morn she raise up air , And on her Liver laid her disjoon ; As meikle in her Lap and more , As would have serv'd four Men at Noon . Then on she goes with merry Tone , Away with Jack to yoke the Pleugh , I trow e'er all the Play be played , Oh our Goodman will get Toil enough The Carling she was strong and teugh , And of her Trade she took no Fear ; But from a Tree she pull'd a Beugh , And stoutly made the Stots to steer . Then our Goodman when Time drew near , Got up for to go try the Spinning , His Spindle fell , all run a Rear , Alas ! he god and ill Beginning . I wat na whither Yearn or Linning , Was on the Rock , or Lint , or Tow , But round about the Fire Spinning , I what his Rock's Head took a Low ; And up into the Lumb did flow , The Soot took Fire , it fleed him then , Some Lumps did fa' and burned his Pow , I what he was a dririe Man. Yet he god Water in a Pan , Wherewith he slock out the Fire , To sweep the House he then began , To had a' right was his Desire . He fetch'd the Kirn ben from the Byre , Whereat he wrought until he sweated , But should he plunge until he tyre , He little or no butter got . Then on the Fire he hung the Pot , And with twa Stoups ran to the Spout Or ever he came back I what , The new Pot Bottom was brunt out . Next all the Bairns rair'd in a Rour , He thought to catch them all up clean , The first he god his Arms about , Was all bedirten to the Een . Alas ! quoth he , what did I mean , At first to take this Work in Hand ? I think I have bewitched been ; Then fyl'd the Blankets all he found . Then forth to wash them in the Strand , And for to poss them on a Stane , A Rush of Flood came from the Land , And down the Water hath them taken . By that Time Kine and Calves ilk ane , Did meeet , the Goodman ran to read , The Brandit Cow , Thief break her Bane ; Did boar his Buttocks till they bled . I trow he thought he was ill stead , The Gaislings wander'd far awa' And by then came the greedy Gled , She took up three and left but twa' . These poor Beasts paid the Skaith for a' , The Sow he gave her little Thank , Drew o'er the Kirn with her before Pa , And ay she winked , and ay she drank . He took the Kirn staff by the Shank , Wherewith to reach the Sow a Rout , The twa poor Gaislings god a Clank , For their Brains he chapped out . Then pull he th' old Sow by the Snout , And with the Kirn Staff on the Back ; He did her hit a right found Rour , 'Till o'er her Ribs the Shank played Crack . Had you been there to see the Knack . You would have laugh'd to seen the Sport , The Sow his Fingers gave a Snack , With her sharp Tusks she made them short . Then he began to rove a Thort , For of his Trade he then did tyre , Great Bearings to the Kiln did sort , While all the Ribs were on a Fire . Up through the Corn it did aspire , And to the Roof it took the Way , Wa's me , quoth he , a dear Kiln here Alas ! that e'er I saw this Day . For I was never at sie a Fray , Since first my Dame did rock my Head ; For every Thing does gang astray , I think there shall be no Remeed . But all shall turn to Wreck indeed , I wish I had my Pleugh Stilts keeped ; Let never better come of Fead , With that he sat him down and weeped . And o'er his Cheeks the Tears they creeped , Which oft he dighted with a Clou Then on the Dyke-head he leapt , And on his Wife gave many a Shou Who did steer her Stots about , And for her Husband took no Care , But at him did both laugh and flout , Indeed she thought the Sport was rare . While the poor man was in Despair , Not knowing what to say or do ; For every Thing did backward fair , That he put his Hand unto . But yet at Length it chanced so The Pleugh did lose , the wife came Hame , The Good man said , your welcome Jo For of my Trade I think great Shame . Your Occupation take my Dame ; Quoth she , Goodman well may you bruik , What is the Cause your hand is lame , Quoth he , the Sow , Mischief her choke . Did get it in her Teeth and shoak ; And eke the meikle branded Cow , Into my Breech her Horns did yoke , And's made my buttocks sair I trow , And now this Charge I'll quit to you , All Controversies let be ended , Both Corn and Kiln is quite burned throw , What miss is done none can be mended . Therefore my Dear be not offended , But take your Charge , and I'll take mine , I wish that I had quite miskend it , For now I dree , both shame and pine . Quoth she . Goodman the fault was thine , You took my Trade against my Will , Now after this do not repine , But occupy your own with Skill . Since of my Place you have your Fill , Then do not boast I live at Ease , When forth you walk the Pleugh until , For now you know what Drinkers drees . Gae fetch me Butter , Milk and Cheese , And let us eat , and drink , and 'gree . Indeed Goodwife , if it you please , The ne'er a Crumb the Sow left me . Goodman , quoth she , how may this be , That everything is gone arrear . Goodwife walk in and out , and see , And then you will have Cause to spear . Quoth she , Goodman , indeed I fear . If you should occupy this Trade , Within a Quarter of a Year , Our House would come to a short Stead . Now when you have these Lines all read , And of the Writer you have Skill , From the highway you need not speed , But speir for Lady Ann's new Mile . THE GOOD-MAN of AUCHTER MUCHTY ; OR The WIFE turned GOOD-MAN . GIVING A merry ACCOUNT how the GOOD-MAN was fitted to his Mind . Tune of , Pultring Poverty , IN Auchtermuchty lived a Man , If all be true that I herd say . Who yok'd his Pleugh upon the Plain , Upon a wet and windy Day . The wind blew called which made him stay , From the Northeast , baith Hail and Rain , He lous'd his Pleugh he dought not stay ; The Called did chase him Hame again . Goodwife , quoth he , rise up amain , And give the Stots both Corn and Hay , The morn you shall my trouble ken ; And I'll be Good wife as I may . Ye've dwelled so lown this money Day , About the Fire you fit right glad , Tomorrow you shall try the Way , And learn yourself the Pleugh to had . This Seed Time it proves called and bade , And you fit warm no Troubles sees , The Morn you shall pass with the Lad , And then ye'll ken what Drinkers drees . Goodman , quoth she , if it you please , That I must travel to the Pleugh , And you to dwell at Hame at Ease , Perhaps you may get Toil enough Jack , dare we venture west the Cleugh , And thou shalt had , and I shall ca , I shall reward thee well enough , Of fine Gravats I'll give the twa . Goodman , since you have made this Law , Then guide a' well and don't break , They road safe that did ne'er fa Therefore let naithing be neglect . Since with my trade you are affected , See first the sift , and then you kened , Let all Things rightly be directed , Keep all the Gaislings frae the Gled . And see the Bairns file not the Bed , And kirn the Kirn , and make the Cheese , And if you occupy your Trade I trow you shall find little Ease . She sat up late her mind to please , For to her Trade she had a Care ; She kirn'd the Kirn , she bor'd his Neese , No Rigmari she left him there . Upon the Morn she raise up air , And on her Liver laid her disjoon ; As meikle in her Lap and more , As would have serv'd four Men at Noon . Then on she goes with merry Tone , Away with Jack to yoke the Pleugh , I trow e'er all the Play be played , Oh our Goodman will get Toil enough The Carling she was strong and teugh , And of her Trade she took no Fear ; But from a Tree she pull'd a Beugh , And stoutly made the Stots to steer . Then our Goodman when Time drew near , Got up for to go try the Spinning , His Spindle fell , all run a Rear , Alas ! he god and ill Beginning . I wat na whither Yearn or Linning , Was on the Rock , or Lint , or Tow , But round about the Fire Spinning , I what his Rock's Head took a Low ; And up into the Lumb did flow , The Soot took Fire , it fleed him then , Some Lumps did fa' and burned his Pow , I what he was a dririe Man. Yet he god Water in a Pan , Wherewith he slock out the Fire , To sweep the House he then began , To had a' right was his Desire . He fetch'd the Kirn ben from the Byre , Whereat he wrought until he sweated , But should he plunge until he tyre , He little or no butter got . Then on the Fire he hung the Pot , And with twa Stoups ran to the Spout Or ever he came back I what , The new Pot Bottom was brunt out . Next all the Bairns rair'd in a Rour , He thought to catch them all up clean , The first he god his Arms about , Was all bedirten to the Een . Alas ! quoth he , what did I mean , At first to take this Work in Hand ? I think I have bewitched been ; Then fyl'd the Blankets all he found . Then forth to wash them in the Strand , And for to poss them on a Stane , A Rush of Flood came from the Land , And down the Water hath them taken . By that Time Kine and Calves ilk ane , Did meeet , the Goodman ran to read , The Brandit Cow , Thief break her Bane ; Did boar his Buttocks till they bled . I trow he thought he was ill stead , The Gaislings wander'd far awa' And by then came the greedy Gled , She took up three and left but twa' . These poor Beasts paid the Skaith for a' , The Sow he gave her little Thank , Drew o'er the Kirn with her before Pa , And ay she winked , and ay she drank . He took the Kirn staff by the Shank , Wherewith to reach the Sow a Rout , The twa poor Gaislings god a Clank , For their Brains he chapped out . Then pull he th' old Sow by the Snout , And with the Kirn Staff on the Back ; He did her hit a right found Rour , 'Till o'er her Ribs the Shank played Crack . Had you been there to see the Knack . You would have laugh'd to seen the Sport , The Sow his Fingers gave a Snack , With her sharp Tusks she made them short . Then he began to rove a Thort , For of his Trade he then did tyre , Great Bearings to the Kiln did sort , While all the Ribs were on a Fire . Up through the Corn it did aspire , And to the Roof it took the Way , Wa's me , quoth he , a dear Kiln here Alas ! that e'er I saw this Day . For I was never at sie a Fray , Since first my Dame did rock my Head ; For every Thing does gang astray , I think there shall be no Remeed . But all shall turn to Wreck indeed , I wish I had my Pleugh Stilts keeped ; Let never better come of Fead , With that he sat him down and weeped . And o'er his Cheeks the Tears they creeped , Which oft he dighted with a Clou Then on the Dyke-head he leapt , And on his Wife gave many a Shou Who did steer her Stots about , And for her Husband took no Care , But at him did both laugh and flout , Indeed she thought the Sport was rare . While the poor man was in Despair , Not knowing what to say or do ; For every Thing did backward fair , That he put his Hand unto . But yet at Length it chanced so The Pleugh did lose , the wife came Hame , The Good man said , your welcome Jo For of my Trade I think great Shame . Your Occupation take my Dame ; Quoth she , Goodman well may you bruik , What is the Cause your hand is lame , Quoth he , the Sow , Mischief her choke . Did get it in her Teeth and shoak ; And eke the meikle branded Cow , Into my Breech her Horns did yoke , And's made my buttocks sair I trow , And now this Charge I'll quit to you , All Controversies let be ended , Both Corn and Kiln is quite burned throw , What miss is done none can be mended . Therefore my Dear be not offended , But take your Charge , and I'll take mine , I wish that I had quite miskend it , For now I dree , both shame and pine . Quoth she . Goodman the fault was thine , You took my Trade against my Will , Now after this do not repine , But occupy your own with Skill . Since of my Place you have your Fill , Then do not boast I live at Ease , When forth you walk the Pleugh until , For now you know what Drinkers drees . Gae fetch me Butter , Milk and Cheese , And let us eat , and drink , and 'gree . Indeed Goodwife , if it you please , The ne'er a Crumb the Sow left me . Goodman , quoth she , how may this be , That everything is gone arrear . Goodwife walk in and out , and see , And then you will have Cause to spear . Quoth she , Goodman , indeed I fear . If you should occupy this Trade , Within a Quarter of a Year , Our House would come to a short Stead . Now when you have these Lines all read , And of the Writer you have Skill , From the highway you need not speed , But speir for Lady Ann's new Mile . 