THE WANTON WIFE OF BATH . IN Bath a wanton wife did dwell , As Chaucer he did write , Who did in pleasure spend her days , In many a found delight , Upon a time soar sick she was , And at the length did die , Her soul came to Elysium's gate , And knock'd most mightily . When Adam come unto the gate , Who knocketh there ? quoth he ; I am the wife of Bath she said , And fain would come to thee . Thou art a sinner , Adam said , And here no place shall have , Alas ! for you , good Sir , she said , Now gip you doting knave . I will come in , in spite , she said , Of all such churls us thee , Thou art the causer of our woe , Our pain and misery : You first broke the commandment , To pleasure thine own wife , When Adam herd her tell this tale , Me ran away for life . Then down came Jacob to the gate , And bid her pack to hell , Thou false deceiver , why ? quoth she , Thou shouldst be there as well ; For thou deceivest thy father dear , And thy own brother too , Away went Jacob presently , And made no more ado She knocks again with might and main And lot he chides her straight , Why then , quoth she , thou drunken ass , Who bids thee here to wait ? With thy two daughters thou didst lie , On them two bastards god , And thus most tauntingly she chafed , Against poor silly Lot . Who knocketh there ? quoth Judith then , With such shrill sounding notes , Alas ! fine minks , we come not here , Quoth she , for cutting throats ; Good lack how Judah blush'd for shame , When he herd her say so . King David hearing her say that , He to the gate did go . Quoth he , who knocks there so loud , And makes all this strife , Yond were more kind , good Sir , she said , Unto Uriah's wife ; And when thou causeth thy servants In battle to be slave , Thou causeth them more strife than I , Who would come in so fain . The woman's mad , said Solomon , That thus does taunt a king , Not half so bad as you she said , I know in many a thing ; Thou hadst seven hundred wives at once For whom thou didst provide , For all this three hundred whores , Thou didst maintain beside . And those made thee forget thy God , And worship stocks and stones , Beside the charge they put thee to , In breeding of young bones ; Hadst thou not been out of thy wits , Thou wouldst not have ventur'd , And therefore I do marvel much , How you this place have enter'd . I never herd quoth Jonas then , So vile a scold as this , Thou art not without faults quoth she , Thou hast likewise done amiss ; I think , quoth Thomas , women's tongues Of aspen leaves are made , Thou unbelieving saint quoth she , All is not true that's said , When Marry Magdalen herd this , She came unto the gate ; Says she good woman you must think , Upon your former state , No sinner enters in this place , Quoth Mary Magdalen ; This well for you then fair Mistress , She answer'd her again . You for your honesty quoth she , Should once been ston'd to death , Had not our Saviour Christ come by , And writ it on the earth . It was your occupation , You are become divine , I hope my soul in Christ's passion , Shall be as safe as thine . Then rose up the good apostle Paul , Unto this wife he said , Except thou shake thy sins away , Thou here shalt be deny'd Remember Paul what thou hast done , All through a wild desire , How thou didst persecute the church , With wrath as hight as fire . Then up rose Peter at the last , And to the gate he hies , Sinner quoth he , knock not so fast , Thou weariest us with cries Peter quoth she content thyself , For mercy may be wone , I never did deny the faith , As thou thyself hast done , When as our Saviour then herd this , With heavenly angels bright , He comes unto this sinful soul , Who trembles at the sighed . Of him for mercy she did crave , Quoth he thou hast refused , My profer'd grace and mercy both , And much my name abus'd . Soar have I sin'd Oh Lord said she , And spent my time in vain , But bring me like a wandering sheep , Unto thy flock again . O Lord my God I will forsake , My former wicked vice , The thief when he had said these words . Pass'd into Paradise . My laws and my commandments , Says Christ were known to thee , But of the same no notice took . As I did plainly see . Do thou forgive me now quoth she Most lewdly I did live , But yet the loving father did , His wicked son forgive . I will forgive thy soul said he , For thy repenting cry , So come enter into my rest , For I'll not thee deny . Printed and Sold by J. Pitts , No. 14 , Great St. Andrew Street , 7 Dials . THE WANTON WIFE OF BATH . IN Bath a wanton wife did dwell , As Chaucer he did write , Who did in pleasure spend her days , In many a found delight , Upon a time soar sick she was , And at the length did die , Her soul came to Elysium's gate , And knock'd most mightily . When Adam come unto the gate , Who knocketh there ? quoth he ; I am the wife of Bath she said , And fain would come to thee . Thou art a sinner , Adam said , And here no place shall have , Alas ! for you , good Sir , she said , Now gip you doting knave . I will come in , in spite , she said , Of all such churls us thee , Thou art the causer of our woe , Our pain and misery : You first broke the commandment , To pleasure thine own wife , When Adam herd her tell this tale , Me ran away for life . Then down came Jacob to the gate , And bid her pack to hell , Thou false deceiver , why ? quoth she , Thou shouldst be there as well ; For thou deceivest thy father dear , And thy own brother too , Away went Jacob presently , And made no more ado She knocks again with might and main And lot he chides her straight , Why then , quoth she , thou drunken ass , Who bids thee here to wait ? With thy two daughters thou didst lie , On them two bastards god , And thus most tauntingly she chafed , Against poor silly Lot . Who knocketh there ? quoth Judith then , With such shrill sounding notes , Alas ! fine minks , we come not here , Quoth she , for cutting throats ; Good lack how Judah blush'd for shame , When he herd her say so . King David hearing her say that , He to the gate did go . Quoth he , who knocks there so loud , And makes all this strife , Yond were more kind , good Sir , she said , Unto Uriah's wife ; And when thou causeth thy servants In battle to be slave , Thou causeth them more strife than I , Who would come in so fain . The woman's mad , said Solomon , That thus does taunt a king , Not half so bad as you she said , I know in many a thing ; Thou hadst seven hundred wives at once For whom thou didst provide , For all this three hundred whores , Thou didst maintain beside . And those made thee forget thy God , And worship stocks and stones , Beside the charge they put thee to , In breeding of young bones ; Hadst thou not been out of thy wits , Thou wouldst not have ventur'd , And therefore I do marvel much , How you this place have enter'd . I never herd quoth Jonas then , So vile a scold as this , Thou art not without faults quoth she , Thou hast likewise done amiss ; I think , quoth Thomas , women's tongues Of aspen leaves are made , Thou unbelieving saint quoth she , All is not true that's said , When Marry Magdalen herd this , She came unto the gate ; Says she good woman you must think , Upon your former state , No sinner enters in this place , Quoth Mary Magdalen ; This well for you then fair Mistress , She answer'd her again . You for your honesty quoth she , Should once been ston'd to death , Had not our Saviour Christ come by , And writ it on the earth . It was your occupation , You are become divine , I hope my soul in Christ's passion , Shall be as safe as thine . Then rose up the good apostle Paul , Unto this wife he said , Except thou shake thy sins away , Thou here shalt be deny'd Remember Paul what thou hast done , All through a wild desire , How thou didst persecute the church , With wrath as hight as fire . Then up rose Peter at the last , And to the gate he hies , Sinner quoth he , knock not so fast , Thou weariest us with cries Peter quoth she content thyself , For mercy may be wone , I never did deny the faith , As thou thyself hast done , When as our Saviour then herd this , With heavenly angels bright , He comes unto this sinful soul , Who trembles at the sighed . Of him for mercy she did crave , Quoth he thou hast refused , My profer'd grace and mercy both , And much my name abus'd . Soar have I sin'd Oh Lord said she , And spent my time in vain , But bring me like a wandering sheep , Unto thy flock again . O Lord my God I will forsake , My former wicked vice , The thief when he had said these words . Pass'd into Paradise . My laws and my commandments , Says Christ were known to thee , But of the same no notice took . As I did plainly see . Do thou forgive me now quoth she Most lewdly I did live , But yet the loving father did , His wicked son forgive . I will forgive thy soul said he , For thy repenting cry , So come enter into my rest , For I'll not thee deny . Printed and Sold by J. Pitts , No. 14 , Great St. Andrew Street , 7 Dials . 