THE BISHOP OF ANTIOCH Who was tempted by the Devil , in the likeness of a Lady . IN Antioch fair Town Did Bishop Pambus dwell : A man of great renown , Eusebius does tell . This pastor without peer Through all the land shew'd ligh His clean life did declare Him Christs disciple right , For he was ay both night and day in godly exercise : Daily preaching , and truly teaching , mine Author specifies . Great peace made he in land , And us'd much charity : The poor great kindness found , And counsel good had he The enemy of man Knowing him so perfect , Him to envy began , His clean life do despite : And sought all things how he might b [ ring ] him from felicity : And found a wile him to beguile , with lust and lechery . The fiend as I herd ween , Became a Lady bright . Whose like was never seen , So fair unto men's sighs Her hair like golden thread , Glad was her countenance : Her lips like roses read . Her eyes they gave a glance , Her rich array and beauty gay decor'd her passing wise : Perfume and myrrh she had with h [ er ] and jewels great of price , Wsth garlands bravely wrought With gold of Arabia : Bracelets she wanted nought Were sought in stea [ ? ] alley . As Pambus one a day , Even at his dinner sat , In likeness of a May , The fiend knocked at the gate , The porter sly most stubbornly opened with crabbed fear : But soon was he in ecstasy , such sighed was never there . Seeing her so decor'd , Asked what she would direct Quoth she . go tell my Lord , A maid with him would speak Matters of importance , Which have my spirit pin'd : Pray his benevolence , Show me his godly mind , The porter passed in at the last and told where she had been . Quoth he , my lord , I here record , such sighed you have not seen . At your gate stands alone : Lady of beauty's all ! Whose like in earth is none . For manners virginal , She comes from far Country , Right sober one her feet . For your counsel , says she . And things that vex her spirit . Quoth Pambus then bid thou her gang to kirk till We have dyn'd ; And afternoon I shall right soon come there and hear her mind . The porter told her soon , To kirk she went alone ? As he us'd afternoon , Pambus to kirk is gone , And after prayers fervent He rose , as I herd ween , This Lady incontinent , Bowing down bade him good-even , And Pambus he right reverently , salutes this Lady gen Then solitar familiar , they two a walking went . The Bishop gan to spear From whence or what she would , And she , as you shall hear This feigned tale hath told : In Spain , [ ? ] I was born , And late come in this land : None knows his luck beforn , At fortune's chance I stand : My Father dear had not his peers 'mongst Princes of this age : And hath not one but me alone , to brook his heritage , Though I down chastity , While I this life possess , Yet would my father marry me To Kings of great highness . I herd your godly life : Your counsel good and kind , And would no wayse be wife . Till first I herd your mind : Your good report caused me resort , even hither for your sake : Then to conclude , your counsel good : sir let me not fulake . Consider maid , quoth he , It stands not in your will To vow to chastity , Lest God grant grace theretill . For if you vow and break , Better were conversation Chaste marriage to elect For children's procreation . Promise no way , except you for inconvenien Better fulfil your father's will , and thereto stand content . Quoth he , this is the best , In truth I do record , Therefore do as you list , Grant thanks : quoth she my Lordt Yet one thing you shall trow , Kings have praised me , I love no man but you Nor yet shall till I die , Your life hath been ay just and clean , perfect and quiet kenned ; And you shall trust all carnal lust I hate to my life's end , Kings of great parentage Do vassalage for my sake : But I'le refuse marriage , Would you make me your maik . My birth nor high off spring , Shall me no ways sobborn : I'le selve you in all thing , As I were beggar born : Then Pambus he in ecstasy , thought marvel what she mean Her speech , her face , her goodly grac [ e ] o'rcame his good intent , Quoth he since love is free , And God hath love ordain'd , I'le love as well as you : Keep faith , and be constant , The fiend was glad of this , And grew effeminate , Then she gave him a kiss : Temptation came with that , And Cupids dart piercing his heart in burning rage he sat . Through beauty gay of this fair May , his godly life foregate . He said , come dine wish me , Tomorrow well talk more . I shall keep tryst , quoth she , Right glad they parted there , That night with languor spent , Next day their tryst was set , Ere Pambus to dine went , The fiend knocked at the gate . Then Pambus came to meet his Dame , with meikle mirth and joy : Before them all into the hall this lady did convoy . With many lovely kiss , And blithe love blinks between : Passed to the hall by this , The boards were covered clean , The courses thick were brought , The fiend was first set sin , Except the grace wants nought Great store of spice and wine , Play harp and lute in concord sweea with melody great store : Ballads of love for their behove ; which he us'd not before , But ere dinner was done , In midst of dalliance , They herd one knock right soon At Pambus gate by chance , The porter stubbornly Said with and awful cheer , You rape o're rude , quoth he , You wot not who is here , Then open'd he the gate boldly , and saw no more indeed But and old man was standing than , clade in a Pilgrim's weed , He asked with reverence , What crave you in this sort ? Quoth he , mine indigence Seeks of my Lord support , I beg for charity In honour of Gods glore For he of clemency , Hath given such men more . The porter thus , told good Pambus , quoth he , say him nay , The fiend soon herd , and grew afeard her beauty's gan decay . For he had suspection It was was some heavenly send , To utter her illusion And cause her craft be kenned , With leave , quoth she , my Lord , Go porter back again , Ask if he can record This question to you plain : What's marvelous and wondrous that God wrought in least bounds ? This question round if he expound , his wit right far abounds . The porter came believe , Asking as I have said , Quoth he I shall describe Great works our God hath madam ; In men face great difference , And women's manifold . The shapes in discrepance Is wondrous to behold , The bounds so small well wrought with : though men be native brother : The world about , seek you throughout , in all things none like other . The porter came to hall , Told as the old man spoke : The fiend grew feared withal , Her visage waxed black . The Bishop gan to spear , Wherefore she was on flought ; Quoth she , my coming here My body low hath brought , And now this rest does me molest , this mea [ ? ] and tender cheer It vexes me . Be blithe , quoth he . that will dissolve my dear . Go you , quoth she , and spear , If he can right discern How far from heaven so clear To hell that pit intern ; Is heaven or earth most high : These things if he define Perfect as they should be , He shall have entress sen : For Pilgrim's all by their travel , have great intelligence ; And best can tell manifest marvel , by their experience , The porter came again , Asked as he herd record ; The old man grudged then . And said , what ails my Lord , He never wont , I wish . Hold poor men at the gate , Such questions to discuss , At dinner when he sat . Apparently he hath , said he Some strangers which ask thus , The porter then told the old man , a Lady beauteous , Quoth head then dare I say , She is the fiend so sly , To tempt if that she may , My lord with lechery , She seeks him to destroy , Since his minority , To bring him from that joy , Which once he hope's to see Such things her fell can lightly tell [ ? ] e needs not ask I ween , For why she fell from heaven to hell and knows how far between . And where she bids you spear , Is heaven or earth most high : The earth is highest there Through Christs humanity , Christ clad with our lineage , Which is of earth most even , Left us his his spirit in pledge , And he surmounteh heaven . The porter came and told the same , right as the man reply'd , The fiend shook soar and might no . more these heavenly news abide Then wax'd she vile and horrible , Her face right fiend like grew With smoke most poisonable , Out through the window flew , Then Pambus fell with dread On knees with tears most huge , Thanking him THE BISHOP OF ANTIOCH Who was tempted by the Devil , in the likeness of a Lady . IN Antioch fair Town Did Bishop Pambus dwell : A man of great renown , Eusebius does tell . This pastor without peer Through all the land shew'd ligh His clean life did declare Him Christs disciple right , For he was ay both night and day in godly exercise : Daily preaching , and truly teaching , mine Author specifies . Great peace made he in land , And us'd much charity : The poor great kindness found , And counsel good had he The enemy of man Knowing him so perfect , Him to envy began , His clean life do despite : And sought all things how he might b [ ring ] him from felicity : And found a wile him to beguile , with lust and lechery . The fiend as I herd ween , Became a Lady bright . Whose like was never seen , So fair unto men's sighs Her hair like golden thread , Glad was her countenance : Her lips like roses read . Her eyes they gave a glance , Her rich array and beauty gay decor'd her passing wise : Perfume and myrrh she had with h [ er ] and jewels great of price , Wsth garlands bravely wrought With gold of Arabia : Bracelets she wanted nought Were sought in stea [ ? ] alley . As Pambus one a day , Even at his dinner sat , In likeness of a May , The fiend knocked at the gate , The porter sly most stubbornly opened with crabbed fear : But soon was he in ecstasy , such sighed was never there . Seeing her so decor'd , Asked what she would direct Quoth she . go tell my Lord , A maid with him would speak Matters of importance , Which have my spirit pin'd : Pray his benevolence , Show me his godly mind , The porter passed in at the last and told where she had been . Quoth he , my lord , I here record , such sighed you have not seen . At your gate stands alone : Lady of beauty's all ! Whose like in earth is none . For manners virginal , She comes from far Country , Right sober one her feet . For your counsel , says she . And things that vex her spirit . Quoth Pambus then bid thou her gang to kirk till We have dyn'd ; And afternoon I shall right soon come there and hear her mind . The porter told her soon , To kirk she went alone ? As he us'd afternoon , Pambus to kirk is gone , And after prayers fervent He rose , as I herd ween , This Lady incontinent , Bowing down bade him good-even , And Pambus he right reverently , salutes this Lady gen Then solitar familiar , they two a walking went . The Bishop gan to spear From whence or what she would , And she , as you shall hear This feigned tale hath told : In Spain , [ ? ] I was born , And late come in this land : None knows his luck beforn , At fortune's chance I stand : My Father dear had not his peers 'mongst Princes of this age : And hath not one but me alone , to brook his heritage , Though I down chastity , While I this life possess , Yet would my father marry me To Kings of great highness . I herd your godly life : Your counsel good and kind , And would no wayse be wife . Till first I herd your mind : Your good report caused me resort , even hither for your sake : Then to conclude , your counsel good : sir let me not fulake . Consider maid , quoth he , It stands not in your will To vow to chastity , Lest God grant grace theretill . For if you vow and break , Better were conversation Chaste marriage to elect For children's procreation . Promise no way , except you for inconvenien Better fulfil your father's will , and thereto stand content . Quoth he , this is the best , In truth I do record , Therefore do as you list , Grant thanks : quoth she my Lordt Yet one thing you shall trow , Kings have praised me , I love no man but you Nor yet shall till I die , Your life hath been ay just and clean , perfect and quiet kenned ; And you shall trust all carnal lust I hate to my life's end , Kings of great parentage Do vassalage for my sake : But I'le refuse marriage , Would you make me your maik . My birth nor high off spring , Shall me no ways sobborn : I'le selve you in all thing , As I were beggar born : Then Pambus he in ecstasy , thought marvel what she mean Her speech , her face , her goodly grac [ e ] o'rcame his good intent , Quoth he since love is free , And God hath love ordain'd , I'le love as well as you : Keep faith , and be constant , The fiend was glad of this , And grew effeminate , Then she gave him a kiss : Temptation came with that , And Cupids dart piercing his heart in burning rage he sat . Through beauty gay of this fair May , his godly life foregate . He said , come dine wish me , Tomorrow well talk more . I shall keep tryst , quoth she , Right glad they parted there , That night with languor spent , Next day their tryst was set , Ere Pambus to dine went , The fiend knocked at the gate . Then Pambus came to meet his Dame , with meikle mirth and joy : Before them all into the hall this lady did convoy . With many lovely kiss , And blithe love blinks between : Passed to the hall by this , The boards were covered clean , The courses thick were brought , The fiend was first set sin , Except the grace wants nought Great store of spice and wine , Play harp and lute in concord sweea with melody great store : Ballads of love for their behove ; which he us'd not before , But ere dinner was done , In midst of dalliance , They herd one knock right soon At Pambus gate by chance , The porter stubbornly Said with and awful cheer , You rape o're rude , quoth he , You wot not who is here , Then open'd he the gate boldly , and saw no more indeed But and old man was standing than , clade in a Pilgrim's weed , He asked with reverence , What crave you in this sort ? Quoth he , mine indigence Seeks of my Lord support , I beg for charity In honour of Gods glore For he of clemency , Hath given such men more . The porter thus , told good Pambus , quoth he , say him nay , The fiend soon herd , and grew afeard her beauty's gan decay . For he had suspection It was was some heavenly send , To utter her illusion And cause her craft be kenned , With leave , quoth she , my Lord , Go porter back again , Ask if he can record This question to you plain : What's marvelous and wondrous that God wrought in least bounds ? This question round if he expound , his wit right far abounds . The porter came believe , Asking as I have said , Quoth he I shall describe Great works our God hath madam ; In men face great difference , And women's manifold . The shapes in discrepance Is wondrous to behold , The bounds so small well wrought with : though men be native brother : The world about , seek you throughout , in all things none like other . The porter came to hall , Told as the old man spoke : The fiend grew feared withal , Her visage waxed black . The Bishop gan to spear , Wherefore she was on flought ; Quoth she , my coming here My body low hath brought , And now this rest does me molest , this mea [ ? ] and tender cheer It vexes me . Be blithe , quoth he . that will dissolve my dear . Go you , quoth she , and spear , If he can right discern How far from heaven so clear To hell that pit intern ; Is heaven or earth most high : These things if he define Perfect as they should be , He shall have entress sen : For Pilgrim's all by their travel , have great intelligence ; And best can tell manifest marvel , by their experience , The porter came again , Asked as he herd record ; The old man grudged then . And said , what ails my Lord , He never wont , I wish . Hold poor men at the gate , Such questions to discuss , At dinner when he sat . Apparently he hath , said he Some strangers which ask thus , The porter then told the old man , a Lady beauteous , Quoth head then dare I say , She is the fiend so sly , To tempt if that she may , My lord with lechery , She seeks him to destroy , Since his minority , To bring him from that joy , Which once he hope's to see Such things her fell can lightly tell [ ? ] e needs not ask I ween , For why she fell from heaven to hell and knows how far between . And where she bids you spear , Is heaven or earth most high : The earth is highest there Through Christs humanity , Christ clad with our lineage , Which is of earth most even , Left us his his spirit in pledge , And he surmounteh heaven . The porter came and told the same , right as the man reply'd , The fiend shook soar and might no . more these heavenly news abide Then wax'd she vile and horrible , Her face right fiend like grew With smoke most poisonable , Out through the window flew , Then Pambus fell with dread On knees with tears most huge , Thanking his God with speed , In time that sent refuge . Saying , Oh Lord , true is thy word , thou leavest none in distress Who hope to see thy kind mercy : Such is thy great goodness . Then for the man he sent , To cause him come and dine : But he his way had went . They could no [ tO ] find him sin : But knew assuredly Is was some wight divine , Come in necessity , To see he should not pine , I leave Pambus now weeping thus for his since soar offended : To God therefore be laus and glore , and so my song is ended . FINIS . s God with speed , In time that sent refuge . Saying , Oh Lord , true is thy word , thou leavest none in distress Who hope to see thy kind mercy : Such is thy great goodness . Then for the man he sent , To cause him come and dine : But he his way had went . They could no [ tO ] find him sin : But knew assuredly Is was some wight divine , Come in necessity , To see he should not pine , I leave Pambus now weeping thus for his since soar offended : To God therefore be laus and glore , and so my song is ended . FINIS . 