THE LIFE AND DEATH OF THE WEBSTERS MARE Tune of , To the Weaver when you . IN Brichin did a Webster dwell , who was a Man of Fame , And was the Deacon of his Trade , John Steinson was his Name : A Mare he had , a lusty Jade , both sturdy , stark and strong , Both lusty and trusty , and he had spar'd her long . The Webster bade his Mare go work , quoth she , I am not able ; For neither get I Corn nor Hay , nor stand I in a Stable ; But hunt's me and dunts me , and dings me from the Town , And fells me , and tells me I am not worth my r [ oh ] om . The Webster swore a bloody Oath , and out he drew a Knife , If one word come out of thy Head , I vow I'll take thy Life . The Mare ay , for fear ay , fell fainting to the Ground , And groaning and moaning , fell in a deadly Swooned . They clipped her , they nipped her , they took from her the Skin , The Haunshes and the Penshes they quickly brought them in : Make haste Dame , quoth he , and wash this Grease and dry it , For I will hazard on my Life the Doctor's Wife [ will ] buy it . They rumbled her , they tumbled her , they shot her o'er the Brae , With rumbling and tumbling , she to the Ground did gae : But the Night being called , and the Mare wanting her Skin ; And Darkness came out o'er the Land and fain would she been in . She rapped and she chapped with her two further Hoves , They heard and feared , and thought it had been Thieves : The Webster's Son was stout in Heart , he ran unto the Door , And thrust a Spear into the Mare , five quarters long and more . The Door ay , with more ay , they closed hastily , And trembling and shaking , and then for Help did cry . What ails thee my Son , he says , O! tell me if thou can : Ah and alas Father ! he says , for I have kill'd a Man : If Magistrates and Senators get knowledge of this Deed , They'll hang us and fine us without any remead . Then they run all unto the Door to bury the Man for fear , But when they came unto the Door they found it was the Mare . Go hast you , I request you , and tell my Father dear , What will we , or shall we , do with this wicked Mare . O! hold thy Tongue my Son , he says , I think you are a Fool , I wish she had hung in her Cords , we'll eat her again Yowl . We'll wash her , and we'll dash her ; she's all smir'd o'er with Dub , We'll wring her and sling her , and salt her in a Tub : And we'll cry in our Neighbours all , and bid them all come in , John Duncanson , John Davidson and kind Pettie Grin ; And Tamy Mill come if thou wi [ lt ] and bear good Company , For we shall have a merry Feast , and we shall merry be . On Christmass day this greasy [ lot ? ] did all convene in haste . The hail Tribe of Yarn-stealers [ there ? ] came all unto the Feas They eat and drank , and made a R [ owe ? ] till they beshit the Stool : All Terms's good , I do conclude , and bid you now farewell . FINIS . THE LIFE AND DEATH OF THE WEBSTERS MARE Tune of , To the Weaver when you . IN Brichin did a Webster dwell , who was a Man of Fame , And was the Deacon of his Trade , John Steinson was his Name : A Mare he had , a lusty Jade , both sturdy , stark and strong , Both lusty and trusty , and he had spar'd her long . The Webster bade his Mare go work , quoth she , I am not able ; For neither get I Corn nor Hay , nor stand I in a Stable ; But hunt's me and dunts me , and dings me from the Town , And fells me , and tells me I am not worth my r [ oh ] om . The Webster swore a bloody Oath , and out he drew a Knife , If one word come out of thy Head , I vow I'll take thy Life . The Mare ay , for fear ay , fell fainting to the Ground , And groaning and moaning , fell in a deadly Swooned . They clipped her , they nipped her , they took from her the Skin , The Haunshes and the Penshes they quickly brought them in : Make haste Dame , quoth he , and wash this Grease and dry it , For I will hazard on my Life the Doctor's Wife [ will ] buy it . They rumbled her , they tumbled her , they shot her o'er the Brae , With rumbling and tumbling , she to the Ground did gae : But the Night being called , and the Mare wanting her Skin ; And Darkness came out o'er the Land and fain would she been in . She rapped and she chapped with her two further Hoves , They heard and feared , and thought it had been Thieves : The Webster's Son was stout in Heart , he ran unto the Door , And thrust a Spear into the Mare , five quarters long and more . The Door ay , with more ay , they closed hastily , And trembling and shaking , and then for Help did cry . What ails thee my Son , he says , O! tell me if thou can : Ah and alas Father ! he says , for I have kill'd a Man : If Magistrates and Senators get knowledge of this Deed , They'll hang us and fine us without any remead . Then they run all unto the Door to bury the Man for fear , But when they came unto the Door they found it was the Mare . Go hast you , I request you , and tell my Father dear , What will we , or shall we , do with this wicked Mare . O! hold thy Tongue my Son , he says , I think you are a Fool , I wish she had hung in her Cords , we'll eat her again Yowl . We'll wash her , and we'll dash her ; she's all smir'd o'er with Dub , We'll wring her and sling her , and salt her in a Tub : And we'll cry in our Neighbours all , and bid them all come in , John Duncanson , John Davidson and kind Pettie Grin ; And Tamy Mill come if thou wi [ lt ] and bear good Company , For we shall have a merry Feast , and we shall merry be . On Christmass day this greasy [ lot ? ] did all convene in haste . The hail Tribe of Yarn-stealers [ there ? ] came all unto the Feas They eat and drank , and made a R [ owe ? ] till they beshit the Stool : All Terms's good , I do conclude , and bid you now farewell . FINIS . 