/ 1 The diseased maiden Lover : Being a pleasant new Song , to and Excellent New Tune , Or , may be sung to the Tune of , Bonny Nell . AS I went forth one Summer's day , To view the Meadows fresh and gay , A pleasant Bower I espy'd , Standing hard by a Rivers side . And in't I herd a Maiden cry , Alas there's none e're lov'd like I . I couched close to hear her moan , With many a sad and grievous groan , And wished that I had been the wight That might have bred her hearts deligh But these were all the words that she did still repeat , none loves like me . Then round the Meadows did she walk , Catching the Flower by the stalk , Such as within the Meadows grew , As Dead-mans thumb and Harebell blew . and as she plucked them still cry'd she , alas there's none e're lov'd like me . A bed therein she made to lie , Of fine green things that grew fast by , Of Poplars and Willow leaves , Of Sycamore and Flaggy sheaves : and as she plucked them , etc The little La [ r ] k-foot shee'd not pass , Nor yet the Flowers of three-leav'd grass With Milk-Maids Honey-suckles phrase The Crows-foot , nor the yellow Craise : and as she plucked them , etc The pretty Dasie which does show Her love to Phoebus , bred her woe , Who joys to see his cheerful fare , And mourns when he is not in place : alack , alack , alack , quoth she , there's none that ever Lov'd like me . The Flowers of the sweetest scent , She bound them round with knotted Bent , And as she laid them still in bans , She wept , she wail'd and wrung her hands alas , alas , alas , etc False man , quoth she , forgive thee heaven , As I do wish my sins forgiven , In blessed Elezium I shall sleep , When thou with perjur'd souls shalt weep . Who when they liv'd , did like to thee , That lov'd their loves as thou dost me . When she had fil'd her Apron full , Of such sweet Flowers as she could cull , The green leaves serv'd for a bed , The Flowers pillows for her head : Then down she lay , ne'r more did speak , Alas , with Love her heart did break . FINIS . The Faithless Lover . To the same Tune . WHen I had seen this Virgins end , I sorrowed as became a friend , And wept to see that such a Maid Should be by faithless love betray'd : But woe I fear will come to thee , That was not true in Love as she . The birds did cease their harmony , The harmless Lambs did seem to cry , The Flowers they did hang their head , The flower of Maidens being dead ; Whose Life by death is now set free , and none did love more dear then she . The bubbling brooks did seem to moan , And echos from the Valleys did groan , Diana's Nymphs did ring her knell , And to their Queen the same did tell : Who vowed by her chastity , That none should take revenge but she . When as I saw her corpse were cold , I to her Lover went and told , What chance unto this Maid befell , Who said I am glad she sped so well : Do you think that I so found would be , To love no Maid but only she . I was not made for one alone , I take delight to hear them moan ; When one is gone , I will have more , That man is rich that hath most store . I bondage hate , I must live free , And not be ty'd to such as she . O Sir remember then ( quoth I ) The power of Heavens Allseeing eye ; Who does remember vows forgotten , Though you deny you know it not Call to your mind this maiden free , The which was wrong'd by none but thee . Quoth he , I have a love more fair , Beside , she is her father's heir , A bonny Lass does please my mind , That unto me is wondrous kind : Her will I love , and none but she , Who still shall welcome be to me . False-minded man that so would prove , Disloyal to thy dearest love , Who at her death for thee did pray , And wished thee many a happy day : I would my Love would but love me , Even half so well as she lov'd thee . Fair Maidens will example take , Young men will curse thee for her sake , They'l stop their ears unto our plaints , And call us Devils seeming Saints : They'l say to day that we are kind , Tomorrow of another m [ i ] and . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . / 1 The diseased maiden Lover : Being a pleasant new Song , to and Excellent New Tune , Or , may be sung to the Tune of , Bonny Nell . AS I went forth one Summer's day , To view the Meadows fresh and gay , A pleasant Bower I espy'd , Standing hard by a Rivers side . And in't I herd a Maiden cry , Alas there's none e're lov'd like I . I couched close to hear her moan , With many a sad and grievous groan , And wished that I had been the wight That might have bred her hearts deligh But these were all the words that she did still repeat , none loves like me . Then round the Meadows did she walk , Catching the Flower by the stalk , Such as within the Meadows grew , As Dead-mans thumb and Harebell blew . and as she plucked them still cry'd she , alas there's none e're lov'd like me . A bed therein she made to lie , Of fine green things that grew fast by , Of Poplars and Willow leaves , Of Sycamore and Flaggy sheaves : and as she plucked them , etc The little La [ r ] k-foot shee'd not pass , Nor yet the Flowers of three-leav'd grass With Milk-Maids Honey-suckles phrase The Crows-foot , nor the yellow Craise : and as she plucked them , etc The pretty Dasie which does show Her love to Phoebus , bred her woe , Who joys to see his cheerful fare , And mourns when he is not in place : alack , alack , alack , quoth she , there's none that ever Lov'd like me . The Flowers of the sweetest scent , She bound them round with knotted Bent , And as she laid them still in bans , She wept , she wail'd and wrung her hands alas , alas , alas , etc False man , quoth she , forgive thee heaven , As I do wish my sins forgiven , In blessed Elezium I shall sleep , When thou with perjur'd souls shalt weep . Who when they liv'd , did like to thee , That lov'd their loves as thou dost me . When she had fil'd her Apron full , Of such sweet Flowers as she could cull , The green leaves serv'd for a bed , The Flowers pillows for her head : Then down she lay , ne'r more did speak , Alas , with Love her heart did break . FINIS . The Faithless Lover . To the same Tune . WHen I had seen this Virgins end , I sorrowed as became a friend , And wept to see that such a Maid Should be by faithless love betray'd : But woe I fear will come to thee , That was not true in Love as she . The birds did cease their harmony , The harmless Lambs did seem to cry , The Flowers they did hang their head , The flower of Maidens being dead ; Whose Life by death is now set free , and none did love more dear then she . The bubbling brooks did seem to moan , And echos from the Valleys did groan , Diana's Nymphs did ring her knell , And to their Queen the same did tell : Who vowed by her chastity , That none should take revenge but she . When as I saw her corpse were cold , I to her Lover went and told , What chance unto this Maid befell , Who said I am glad she sped so well : Do you think that I so found would be , To love no Maid but only she . I was not made for one alone , I take delight to hear them moan ; When one is gone , I will have more , That man is rich that hath most store . I bondage hate , I must live free , And not be ty'd to such as she . O Sir remember then ( quoth I ) The power of Heavens Allseeing eye ; Who does remember vows forgotten , Though you deny you know it not Call to your mind this maiden free , The which was wrong'd by none but thee . Quoth he , I have a love more fair , Beside , she is her father's heir , A bonny Lass does please my mind , That unto me is wondrous kind : Her will I love , and none but she , Who still shall welcome be to me . False-minded man that so would prove , Disloyal to thy dearest love , Who at her death for thee did pray , And wished thee many a happy day : I would my Love would but love me , Even half so well as she lov'd thee . Fair Maidens will example take , Young men will curse thee for her sake , They'l stop their ears unto our plaints , And call us Devils seeming Saints : They'l say to day that we are kind , Tomorrow of another m [ i ] and . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . / 1 The diseased maiden Lover : Being a pleasant new Song , to and Excellent New Tune , Or , may be sung to the Tune of , Bonny Nell . AS I went forth one Summer's day , To view the Meadows fresh and gay , A pleasant Bower I espy'd , Standing hard by a Rivers side . And in't I herd a Maiden cry , Alas there's none e're lov'd like I . I couched close to hear her moan , With many a sad and grievous groan , And wished that I had been the wight That might have bred her hearts deligh But these were all the words that she did still repeat , none loves like me . Then round the Meadows did she walk , Catching the Flower by the stalk , Such as within the Meadows grew , As Dead-mans thumb and Harebell blew . and as she plucked them still cry'd she , alas there's none e're lov'd like me . A bed therein she made to lie , Of fine green things that grew fast by , Of Poplars and Willow leaves , Of Sycamore and Flaggy sheaves : and as she plucked them , etc The little La [ r ] k-foot shee'd not pass , Nor yet the Flowers of three-leav'd grass With Milk-Maids Honey-suckles phrase The Crows-foot , nor the yellow Craise : and as she plucked them , etc The pretty Dasie which does show Her love to Phoebus , bred her woe , Who joys to see his cheerful fare , And mourns when he is not in place : alack , alack , alack , quoth she , there's none that ever Lov'd like me . The Flowers of the sweetest scent , She bound them round with knotted Bent , And as she laid them still in bans , She wept , she wail'd and wrung her hands alas , alas , alas , etc False man , quoth she , forgive thee heaven , As I do wish my sins forgiven , In blessed Elezium I shall sleep , When thou with perjur'd souls shalt weep . Who when they liv'd , did like to thee , That lov'd their loves as thou dost me . When she had fil'd her Apron full , Of such sweet Flowers as she could cull , The green leaves serv'd for a bed , The Flowers pillows for her head : Then down she lay , ne'r more did speak , Alas , with Love her heart did break . FINIS . The Faithless Lover . To the same Tune . WHen I had seen this Virgins end , I sorrowed as became a friend , And wept to see that such a Maid Should be by faithless love betray'd : But woe I fear will come to thee , That was not true in Love as she . The birds did cease their harmony , The harmless Lambs did seem to cry , The Flowers they did hang their head , The flower of Maidens being dead ; Whose Life by death is now set free , and none did love more dear then she . The bubbling brooks did seem to moan , And echos from the Valleys did groan , Diana's Nymphs did ring her knell , And to their Queen the same did tell : Who vowed by her chastity , That none should take revenge but she . When as I saw her corpse were cold , I to her Lover went and told , What chance unto this Maid befell , Who said I am glad she sped so well : Do you think that I so found would be , To love no Maid but only she . I was not made for one alone , I take delight to hear them moan ; When one is gone , I will have more , That man is rich that hath most store . I bondage hate , I must live free , And not be ty'd to such as she . O Sir remember then ( quoth I ) The power of Heavens Allseeing eye ; Who does remember vows forgotten , Though you deny you know it not Call to your mind this maiden free , The which was wrong'd by none but thee . Quoth he , I have a love more fair , Beside , she is her father's heir , A bonny Lass does please my mind , That unto me is wondrous kind : Her will I love , and none but she , Who still shall welcome be to me . False-minded man that so would prove , Disloyal to thy dearest love , Who at her death for thee did pray , And wished thee many a happy day : I would my Love would but love me , Even half so well as she lov'd thee . Fair Maidens will example take , Young men will curse thee for her sake , They'l stop their ears unto our plaints , And call us Devils seeming Saints : They'l say to day that we are kind , Tomorrow of another m [ i ] and . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . / 1 The diseased maiden Lover : Being a pleasant new Song , to and Excellent New Tune , Or , may be sung to the Tune of , Bonny Nell . AS I went forth one Summer's day , To view the Meadows fresh and gay , A pleasant Bower I espy'd , Standing hard by a Rivers side . And in't I herd a Maiden cry , Alas there's none e're lov'd like I . I couched close to hear her moan , With many a sad and grievous groan , And wished that I had been the wight That might have bred her hearts deligh But these were all the words that she did still repeat , none loves like me . Then round the Meadows did she walk , Catching the Flower by the stalk , Such as within the Meadows grew , As Dead-mans thumb and Harebell blew . and as she plucked them still cry'd she , alas there's none e're lov'd like me . A bed therein she made to lie , Of fine green things that grew fast by , Of Poplars and Willow leaves , Of Sycamore and Flaggy sheaves : and as she plucked them , etc The little La [ r ] k-foot shee'd not pass , Nor yet the Flowers of three-leav'd grass With Milk-Maids Honey-suckles phrase The Crows-foot , nor the yellow Craise : and as she plucked them , etc The pretty Dasie which does show Her love to Phoebus , bred her woe , Who joys to see his cheerful fare , And mourns when he is not in place : alack , alack , alack , quoth she , there's none that ever Lov'd like me . The Flowers of the sweetest scent , She bound them round with knotted Bent , And as she laid them still in bans , She wept , she wail'd and wrung her hands alas , alas , alas , etc False man , quoth she , forgive thee heaven , As I do wish my sins forgiven , In blessed Elezium I shall sleep , When thou with perjur'd souls shalt weep . Who when they liv'd , did like to thee , That lov'd their loves as thou dost me . When she had fil'd her Apron full , Of such sweet Flowers as she could cull , The green leaves serv'd for a bed , The Flowers pillows for her head : Then down she lay , ne'r more did speak , Alas , with Love her heart did break . FINIS . The Faithless Lover . To the same Tune . WHen I had seen this Virgins end , I sorrowed as became a friend , And wept to see that such a Maid Should be by faithless love betray'd : But woe I fear will come to thee , That was not true in Love as she . The birds did cease their harmony , The harmless Lambs did seem to cry , The Flowers they did hang their head , The flower of Maidens being dead ; Whose Life by death is now set free , and none did love more dear then she . The bubbling brooks did seem to moan , And echos from the Valleys did groan , Diana's Nymphs did ring her knell , And to their Queen the same did tell : Who vowed by her chastity , That none should take revenge but she . When as I saw her corpse were cold , I to her Lover went and told , What chance unto this Maid befell , Who said I am glad she sped so well : Do you think that I so found would be , To love no Maid but only she . I was not made for one alone , I take delight to hear them moan ; When one is gone , I will have more , That man is rich that hath most store . I bondage hate , I must live free , And not be ty'd to such as she . O Sir remember then ( quoth I ) The power of Heavens Allseeing eye ; Who does remember vows forgotten , Though you deny you know it not Call to your mind this maiden free , The which was wrong'd by none but thee . Quoth he , I have a love more fair , Beside , she is her father's heir , A bonny Lass does please my mind , That unto me is wondrous kind : Her will I love , and none but she , Who still shall welcome be to me . False-minded man that so would prove , Disloyal to thy dearest love , Who at her death for thee did pray , And wished thee many a happy day : I would my Love would but love me , Even half so well as she lov'd thee . Fair Maidens will example take , Young men will curse thee for her sake , They'l stop their ears unto our plaints , And call us Devils seeming Saints : They'l say to day that we are kind , Tomorrow of another m [ i ] and . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 