The Bloody GARDENER's Cruelty ; Or , The Shepherd's Daughter Betrayed . COME all you constant Lovers , and to me lend and Ear , And mind this sad Relation , which I do give you here , It is of a Maiden fair , a Shepherd's Daughter dear , But Love did prove her utter Overthrow . She was of beauteous Mould , fair and clear to behold , And by a noble Lord she courted were : But was too young we find , as yet found Love to mind , Yet little Cupid did her Heart ensnare . His Parents they were all of high Degree , They said , she is no Match at all for thee , If you'd our Blessing have , grant us but what we crave , And wed with none but whom we shall agree . Dear Son , for you we have chosen out a Bride , With Store of Gold , and beautiful beside . Of a Temper kind and free , she is the Girl for me , But not a Shepherd's Daughter of mean Degree . And is you'll not by us be rui'd or led , You from our Presence shall be banished . No more we will you own , to be our only Son , Then let our Will be done , to end the Strife . Madam , said he , if a Begging I should go , I should be well contented so to do . If that I could but have , the Girl that I do crave , No cursed Gold should part my Love and me . Was she as poor as Job , and I of Royal Robe , And Lord of all the Globe , she should be mine . His Mother said in Scorn , thou art most nobly born , And with a Beggar's Brat shalt never join . He hearing of his Mother to say so , His Eyes did then with Tears like Fountains flow , Saying , a Promise I have made , and her Heart betray'd , Therefore no other for my Bride I choose . A cruel Snare then for her Life she laid , And for to act this Thing , Oh! then she did , With her Gardener she agreed , to do this bloody Deed , And Butcher her forthwith , and dig her Grave . To the bloody Gardener she gave Fourscore Pound , To murder her , and lay her under Ground . All in a Grave so deep , in everlasting Sleep , Hoping her fair Body would not be found . She wrote a Letter , and sent it with speed , Saying , my dearest , with Haste now proceed . Meet me this Night my Dear , I've something to declare . Poor Girl , she little thought upon the Deed. The youthful Shepherdess of this nothing knew , But went to meet her true Love , as she us'd to do : She search'd the Garden round , but no true Love she found , At length the bloody Gardener did appear . What Business have you here , Madam , I pray ? Are you come here to rob the Garden gay ? Cries she , no Thief I am , but wait for a Young Man , Who did this Night appoint to meet me here . He spoke no more , but strait a Knife he took , And pierc'd her Heart before one Word she spoke . Then on the Ground she fell , crying , sweet Love , farewell . O welcome , welcome , Death , thy fatal Stroke . Was this done now my Dear , by your Design ? Or by your cruel Parents most unkind . My Life is thus betray'd , farewell , vain World , she said , I hope in Heaven I a Place shall find . But when he saw her Life was really gone , Immediately he laid her in the Ground . With Flowers fine and gay , her Corpse did overlay , Intending that her Body should not be found . Now all the Time this Lord he nothing knew , But went to meet his true Love , as he us'd to do , He search'd the Valleys round , but no true Love he found , The little Lambs went wand'ring to and fro' . Lamenting greatly for their Shepherdess . Then he did lay him down upon the Grass . To the Heavens he did implore , to see his Love once more , Oh! then you Gods above , I'm surely blessed . Oh! whither shall I seek that Angel bright ? Who is alone my Pleasure and Delight , Pray if alive she be , let me my true Love see , Or else my Soul will quickly take its Flight . Whereat the Woods and Groves began to mourn , The small Birds they did sing a mournful Tune , Crying , your Love is gone , and you left quite alone , Then on a Mossy Bank he laid him down . He had no sooner clos'd his Eyes to Sleep , But a Milkwhite Dove came to his Breast , Her fluttering Wings did beatrice , which wak'd him out of Sleep , And then the Dove took Wing , and he was blessed . To his Mother's Garden strait he did repair , For to bemoan the Loss of his own Dear . Here the Dove once more he see , sat on a Myrtle Tree , With dropping Wings disconsolate did appear . Oh! Dove disconsolate , why do you come ? Have you not lost your Love , as I have done ? That you do dodge me here , no Comfort can I bear , Then thus the Dove reply'd , and then flew down . Saying , it was your Mother order'd it so , Then from her Milkwhite Breast the Blood did flow . To the Grove he did repair , but found no true Love there , Then homeward to his Mother he did go . And said , Mother most cruel and severe , I fear you've kill'd my Joy and only Dear . For a Dove I do declare did all in Blood appear . He said , if she is dead , her Fate I'll share . His Mother hearing what the Son did say , She turn'd as pale as Death , and swoon'd away , Then into Distraction run , and told what she had done , And where the Virgin's Body it then lay . He said no more , but straitways took a Knife , And said , Farewell to the Comforts of my Life : Then into the Garden flew , and pierc'd his Body through , And said , 'twas cursed Gold caus'd all this Strife . These loyal Lovers in one Tomb were laid , And many a briny Tear for them was shed . And the Gardener as we hear was apprehended there , And hang'd in Chains for being so severe . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow-Church-Yard , London . The Bloody GARDENER's Cruelty ; Or , The Shepherd's Daughter Betrayed . COME all you constant Lovers , and to me lend and Ear , And mind this sad Relation , which I do give you here , It is of a Maiden fair , a Shepherd's Daughter dear , But Love did prove her utter Overthrow . She was of beauteous Mould , fair and clear to behold , And by a noble Lord she courted were : But was too young we find , as yet found Love to mind , Yet little Cupid did her Heart ensnare . His Parents they were all of high Degree , They said , she is no Match at all for thee , If you'd our Blessing have , grant us but what we crave , And wed with none but whom we shall agree . Dear Son , for you we have chosen out a Bride , With Store of Gold , and beautiful beside . Of a Temper kind and free , she is the Girl for me , But not a Shepherd's Daughter of mean Degree . And is you'll not by us be rui'd or led , You from our Presence shall be banished . No more we will you own , to be our only Son , Then let our Will be done , to end the Strife . Madam , said he , if a Begging I should go , I should be well contented so to do . If that I could but have , the Girl that I do crave , No cursed Gold should part my Love and me . Was she as poor as Job , and I of Royal Robe , And Lord of all the Globe , she should be mine . His Mother said in Scorn , thou art most nobly born , And with a Beggar's Brat shalt never join . He hearing of his Mother to say so , His Eyes did then with Tears like Fountains flow , Saying , a Promise I have made , and her Heart betray'd , Therefore no other for my Bride I choose . A cruel Snare then for her Life she laid , And for to act this Thing , Oh! then she did , With her Gardener she agreed , to do this bloody Deed , And Butcher her forthwith , and dig her Grave . To the bloody Gardener she gave Fourscore Pound , To murder her , and lay her under Ground . All in a Grave so deep , in everlasting Sleep , Hoping her fair Body would not be found . She wrote a Letter , and sent it with speed , Saying , my dearest , with Haste now proceed . Meet me this Night my Dear , I've something to declare . Poor Girl , she little thought upon the Deed. The youthful Shepherdess of this nothing knew , But went to meet her true Love , as she us'd to do : She search'd the Garden round , but no true Love she found , At length the bloody Gardener did appear . What Business have you here , Madam , I pray ? Are you come here to rob the Garden gay ? Cries she , no Thief I am , but wait for a Young Man , Who did this Night appoint to meet me here . He spoke no more , but strait a Knife he took , And pierc'd her Heart before one Word she spoke . Then on the Ground she fell , crying , sweet Love , farewell . O welcome , welcome , Death , thy fatal Stroke . Was this done now my Dear , by your Design ? Or by your cruel Parents most unkind . My Life is thus betray'd , farewell , vain World , she said , I hope in Heaven I a Place shall find . But when he saw her Life was really gone , Immediately he laid her in the Ground . With Flowers fine and gay , her Corpse did overlay , Intending that her Body should not be found . Now all the Time this Lord he nothing knew , But went to meet his true Love , as he us'd to do , He search'd the Valleys round , but no true Love he found , The little Lambs went wand'ring to and fro' . Lamenting greatly for their Shepherdess . Then he did lay him down upon the Grass . To the Heavens he did implore , to see his Love once more , Oh! then you Gods above , I'm surely blessed . Oh! whither shall I seek that Angel bright ? Who is alone my Pleasure and Delight , Pray if alive she be , let me my true Love see , Or else my Soul will quickly take its Flight . Whereat the Woods and Groves began to mourn , The small Birds they did sing a mournful Tune , Crying , your Love is gone , and you left quite alone , Then on a Mossy Bank he laid him down . He had no sooner clos'd his Eyes to Sleep , But a Milkwhite Dove came to his Breast , Her fluttering Wings did beatrice , which wak'd him out of Sleep , And then the Dove took Wing , and he was blessed . To his Mother's Garden strait he did repair , For to bemoan the Loss of his own Dear . Here the Dove once more he see , sat on a Myrtle Tree , With dropping Wings disconsolate did appear . Oh! Dove disconsolate , why do you come ? Have you not lost your Love , as I have done ? That you do dodge me here , no Comfort can I bear , Then thus the Dove reply'd , and then flew down . Saying , it was your Mother order'd it so , Then from her Milkwhite Breast the Blood did flow . To the Grove he did repair , but found no true Love there , Then homeward to his Mother he did go . And said , Mother most cruel and severe , I fear you've kill'd my Joy and only Dear . For a Dove I do declare did all in Blood appear . He said , if she is dead , her Fate I'll share . His Mother hearing what the Son did say , She turn'd as pale as Death , and swoon'd away , Then into Distraction run , and told what she had done , And where the Virgin's Body it then lay . He said no more , but straitways took a Knife , And said , Farewell to the Comforts of my Life : Then into the Garden flew , and pierc'd his Body through , And said , 'twas cursed Gold caus'd all this Strife . These loyal Lovers in one Tomb were laid , And many a briny Tear for them was shed . And the Gardener as we hear was apprehended there , And hang'd in Chains for being so severe . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow-Church-Yard , London . 