A Lamentable BALLAD . Of a Combat lately Fought , near LONDON , between Sir . James Steward , and Sir George Wharton : Who were both Slave near Waltham . ( Tune down Plumpton-Park , ) etc IT grieves my heart to tell the woe , that did near London late befall , On Martlemas-eve , Oh woe is me , I grieve the chance and ever shall . Of two right gallant Gentlemen , who very rashly fell at Words , But to their Quarrel could not fallen , till they fell both by their keen sword The one Sir George Wharton call'd , the good Lord Wharton's son & heir , The other Sir James a Scottish Knight , a Man that a valiant heart did bear : Near to the Court the Gallants stout , fell out as they agaming were : And in their fury grew so hight , they hardly could from blows forbear Nay kind entreaties could not stay , Sir James from striking in that place , For in the height and heat of Blood , he struck young Wharton o'er th' face What dost thou mean said Wharton then to strike in such unmanly Sort , That I will take it at thy Hands , the Tongue of Man shall n'eer report , Then do thy worst then said Sir James , and mark me Wharton what I say , There is ne'er a Lord in England breathes shall make me give and inch of way , This Brags too brave stout Wharton said Let our brave English Lords alone , And talk with me that am your foe : for you shall find enough of one , Alas alas said the Scottish Knight , thy Blood and mind's too base for me , Thy oppositions are too bold and will thy dire destruction be , Nay said young Wharton , you mistake , my courage and valour equals thine , To mak't apparent cast thy Glove , to gage to try as I do mine , Ay said Sir James hast thou such spirit , I did not think within my breast That such a haughty daring heart , as thou mak'st show of e'er could rest , I interchange my Glove with thee , take it and point thy Bed of Death , The Field I mean where we must fight , and one for both lose Life and breath , We'll meet near Waltham said Sir George to Morrow that shall be the Day , We'll either take a single man , and try who bears the Bell away , This done together hands they shook , and without any envious sign , They went to Ludgate where they stayed and drank each Man his Pint of Wine , No kind of anger might be seen , no words of anger might bewray , But all was fair as calm as cool : as love within their bosoms lay , Till parting time and then Indeed , they shew'd some rancour of their heart George said Sir James next time we meet so found I know we shall not part , And so they parted both resolv'd , to have their Valour fully try'd , The second part shall briefly show : both how they met and how they dy'd . The Second PART YOung Wharton was the first that came to the appointed Place next Day Who presently 'spy'd Sir James coming , as fast as he could Post away . And being met in manly sort , the Scotch Kt. did to Wharton say , I do not like thy Doublet George , it sits so well on thee to Day : Hast thou no privy Armour on , nor yet no privy Coat of Steel , I never say Lord in all my Life , become a Doublet half so well . Now nay now nay stout Wharton said , Sir James Steward that may not be , I'll not and armed Man come hither , and thou a naked Man truly Our Men shall strip our Doublets George , so shall we know whither of us lie , And then we'll to our Weapans sharp , ourselves true Gallants for to try Then they stripped off their Doublets fair , standing up in their Shirts of Lawn , Follow my Council the Scoch-man said and Wharton to thee I'll make known Now follow my counsel , I'll follow thine and we'll fight in our Shirts said he , Now nay , now nay young Wharton said Sir James Steward that may not be , Unless we were drunkards & quarrellers , that had no care of our fell , Not caring what we go about , or whither our souls go to heaven or hell We'll first to god bequeathe our souls , then next our Corpse to dust and clay : With that stout Wharton was the first took Raiper and Poniard there that day Seven thrusts in turns these Gallants had , before one drop of Blood was drawn , The Scottish Kt. then spoke valiantly , stout Wharton still thou holdest thy own With the next thrust Wharton thrust , he ran him thro' the Shoulder Bone , The next was thro' the thick o'th thigh thinking he had the Scottish Kt. slave . Then Wharton said to the Scottish Kt. are you a living Man tell me ? If there be a Surgeon in England can , he shall cure your wounds right speedily Now nay now nay , the Scottish Kt. said , Sir George Wharton that may not be , The one of us shall the other kill , e'er off this Ground that we do flee . Then in amaze Sir George looked back , to see what Company was nigh - they both had dangerous marks of death , yet neither would from the other fly . But both thro' Body wounded soar , with courage lusty strong and found , They made a deadly desperate close , and both fell dead unto the Ground . Our English Kt. was the first that fell , the Scottish Knight fell immediately , Who cried both to Jesus Christ , receive our Souls Oh Lord we die , God bless our noble King and Queen , and all the noble Progeny , That Britain still may live in one , in perfect love and unity . Thus to conclude I make and end , wishing that quarrels still may cease , And that we still may live in love , in prosperous state , in Joy and Peace . A Lamentable BALLAD . Of a Combat lately Fought , near LONDON , between Sir . James Steward , and Sir George Wharton : Who were both Slave near Waltham . ( Tune down Plumpton-Park , ) etc IT grieves my heart to tell the woe , that did near London late befall , On Martlemas-eve , Oh woe is me , I grieve the chance and ever shall . Of two right gallant Gentlemen , who very rashly fell at Words , But to their Quarrel could not fallen , till they fell both by their keen sword The one Sir George Wharton call'd , the good Lord Wharton's son & heir , The other Sir James a Scottish Knight , a Man that a valiant heart did bear : Near to the Court the Gallants stout , fell out as they agaming were : And in their fury grew so hight , they hardly could from blows forbear Nay kind entreaties could not stay , Sir James from striking in that place , For in the height and heat of Blood , he struck young Wharton o'er th' face What dost thou mean said Wharton then to strike in such unmanly Sort , That I will take it at thy Hands , the Tongue of Man shall n'eer report , Then do thy worst then said Sir James , and mark me Wharton what I say , There is ne'er a Lord in England breathes shall make me give and inch of way , This Brags too brave stout Wharton said Let our brave English Lords alone , And talk with me that am your foe : for you shall find enough of one , Alas alas said the Scottish Knight , thy Blood and mind's too base for me , Thy oppositions are too bold and will thy dire destruction be , Nay said young Wharton , you mistake , my courage and valour equals thine , To mak't apparent cast thy Glove , to gage to try as I do mine , Ay said Sir James hast thou such spirit , I did not think within my breast That such a haughty daring heart , as thou mak'st show of e'er could rest , I interchange my Glove with thee , take it and point thy Bed of Death , The Field I mean where we must fight , and one for both lose Life and breath , We'll meet near Waltham said Sir George to Morrow that shall be the Day , We'll either take a single man , and try who bears the Bell away , This done together hands they shook , and without any envious sign , They went to Ludgate where they stayed and drank each Man his Pint of Wine , No kind of anger might be seen , no words of anger might bewray , But all was fair as calm as cool : as love within their bosoms lay , Till parting time and then Indeed , they shew'd some rancour of their heart George said Sir James next time we meet so found I know we shall not part , And so they parted both resolv'd , to have their Valour fully try'd , The second part shall briefly show : both how they met and how they dy'd . The Second PART YOung Wharton was the first that came to the appointed Place next Day Who presently 'spy'd Sir James coming , as fast as he could Post away . And being met in manly sort , the Scotch Kt. did to Wharton say , I do not like thy Doublet George , it sits so well on thee to Day : Hast thou no privy Armour on , nor yet no privy Coat of Steel , I never say Lord in all my Life , become a Doublet half so well . Now nay now nay stout Wharton said , Sir James Steward that may not be , I'll not and armed Man come hither , and thou a naked Man truly Our Men shall strip our Doublets George , so shall we know whither of us lie , And then we'll to our Weapans sharp , ourselves true Gallants for to try Then they stripped off their Doublets fair , standing up in their Shirts of Lawn , Follow my Council the Scoch-man said and Wharton to thee I'll make known Now follow my counsel , I'll follow thine and we'll fight in our Shirts said he , Now nay , now nay young Wharton said Sir James Steward that may not be , Unless we were drunkards & quarrellers , that had no care of our fell , Not caring what we go about , or whither our souls go to heaven or hell We'll first to god bequeathe our souls , then next our Corpse to dust and clay : With that stout Wharton was the first took Raiper and Poniard there that day Seven thrusts in turns these Gallants had , before one drop of Blood was drawn , The Scottish Kt. then spoke valiantly , stout Wharton still thou holdest thy own With the next thrust Wharton thrust , he ran him thro' the Shoulder Bone , The next was thro' the thick o'th thigh thinking he had the Scottish Kt. slave . Then Wharton said to the Scottish Kt. are you a living Man tell me ? If there be a Surgeon in England can , he shall cure your wounds right speedily Now nay now nay , the Scottish Kt. said , Sir George Wharton that may not be , The one of us shall the other kill , e'er off this Ground that we do flee . Then in amaze Sir George looked back , to see what Company was nigh - they both had dangerous marks of death , yet neither would from the other fly . But both thro' Body wounded soar , with courage lusty strong and found , They made a deadly desperate close , and both fell dead unto the Ground . Our English Kt. was the first that fell , the Scottish Knight fell immediately , Who cried both to Jesus Christ , receive our Souls Oh Lord we die , God bless our noble King and Queen , and all the noble Progeny , That Britain still may live in one , in perfect love and unity . Thus to conclude I make and end , wishing that quarrels still may cease , And that we still may live in love , in prosperous state , in Joy and Peace . 