The STAFFORDSHIRE MAID . COME all you young Gallants and listen a while , I'll tell you a story will make you smile : It is of a young bold Staffordshire Maid , Her part with a rogue of a Tinker she play'd . At Yarmouth this Damsel did live . as we hear , Along with a Farmer the space of a year ; But being desirous her parents to see , She gave her master warning to go away : Her master in wages paid her four pound . She put it in her box with headclothes and gown , And having a box for to hold her clothes , With it on her head from her master she goes . She had not been gone from the Town half a mile , Before a bold Tinker met her at a style ; When smiling in her face , unto her he said , Where are you going my charming fair maid ? I'm going to Hurley , where my parents do dwell , Then reply'd the Tinker I know them full well ; But be ruled by me , the Tinker did say , You'll surely be rob'd if you go the highway ; If you turn to the right it will be the same , Then be ruled by me , and go strait down the lane : 'Tis round about , yet better he said , Than for to be robb'd my charming sweet maid , She thanked the Tinker , and went on her way , But he soon call'd to her , and bid her to stay ; I'm going down this lane the space of a mile , But little she thought that he would her beguile : Down the lane the Maid and the Tinker did walk , Diverting each other with innocent talk , Until they came to a lonesome place , Then the Tinker he look'd her so sly in the face : What's in your box , come tell unto me , And taking it from her , demanded the key ; She said she had lost it , with tears in her eyes , A long pikestaff the Tinker lay by ; And while he was busy in opening the lock , With the same she gave him a very great knock ; The knock that she gave him , let him to know , Her staff it was ready to give t'other blow , Another she gave him on the side of the head , The blood it run down , she left him for dead , And said , Lie there villain , and rogue in thy heart , Thy traitorous actions have met their desert So taking her box on her head once again , Away she went walking down the Lane ; There she met a Gentleman , who did her entreat , And ask'd her the favour to open the gate ; To open the gate , that his horse might go through , And as the Gentleman near to her drew , He said , To whom does the box on your head belong , To master or Mistress , or have you done wrong ? No , I've done no wrong , but a crime that's as ill , For I do believe a man I have kill'd . Come show me the man , he strait to her said , And I will protect you from danger fair maid : She shew'd him the place where the Tinker lay dead , A long stream of blood was run down from his head ; In his budgets were pistols , with powder and ball , And likewise a whistle , his companions to call . Also a hanger he had by his side , And a large pair of spurs if occasion to ride ; He said , Fair damsel , you might have been abus'd , These are odd sorts of tools for a Tinker to use : He said . Fair maid , have you courage to stand , To fire a pistol when danger's at hand ? She said , I have , and never will start , When dangers at hand . I will soon play my par Then he took the whistle , and gave such a blow , As made the groves to ring and the thieves to crow : In a few minutes the thieves did appear , And seeing what was done , began for to swear They would be revenged ; when the maid without dread , She cocked her pistol , and kill'd one stone dead ; Another bold villain the gentleman shot , Who fell to the ground stone dead on the spot ; Another bold villain seeing what was done , He took to his heels , and away he did run ; The gentleman pursu'd him , and brought him to town , Where the truth of the matter was quickly made known The gentleman to the assizes is come it is said , And for this brave girl shall have money paid ; Full fifty bright guineas she made it appear , Beside the effects in the budget we hear ; Now all the brave Lads were in a strife , Who should gain this fair girl for a wife ; But none of them was ordained so right , As he who made her a Lady so bright . Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church Yard , London . The STAFFORDSHIRE MAID . COME all you young Gallants and listen a while , I'll tell you a story will make you smile : It is of a young bold Staffordshire Maid , Her part with a rogue of a Tinker she play'd . At Yarmouth this Damsel did live . as we hear , Along with a Farmer the space of a year ; But being desirous her parents to see , She gave her master warning to go away : Her master in wages paid her four pound . She put it in her box with headclothes and gown , And having a box for to hold her clothes , With it on her head from her master she goes . She had not been gone from the Town half a mile , Before a bold Tinker met her at a style ; When smiling in her face , unto her he said , Where are you going my charming fair maid ? I'm going to Hurley , where my parents do dwell , Then reply'd the Tinker I know them full well ; But be ruled by me , the Tinker did say , You'll surely be rob'd if you go the highway ; If you turn to the right it will be the same , Then be ruled by me , and go strait down the lane : 'Tis round about , yet better he said , Than for to be robb'd my charming sweet maid , She thanked the Tinker , and went on her way , But he soon call'd to her , and bid her to stay ; I'm going down this lane the space of a mile , But little she thought that he would her beguile : Down the lane the Maid and the Tinker did walk , Diverting each other with innocent talk , Until they came to a lonesome place , Then the Tinker he look'd her so sly in the face : What's in your box , come tell unto me , And taking it from her , demanded the key ; She said she had lost it , with tears in her eyes , A long pikestaff the Tinker lay by ; And while he was busy in opening the lock , With the same she gave him a very great knock ; The knock that she gave him , let him to know , Her staff it was ready to give t'other blow , Another she gave him on the side of the head , The blood it run down , she left him for dead , And said , Lie there villain , and rogue in thy heart , Thy traitorous actions have met their desert So taking her box on her head once again , Away she went walking down the Lane ; There she met a Gentleman , who did her entreat , And ask'd her the favour to open the gate ; To open the gate , that his horse might go through , And as the Gentleman near to her drew , He said , To whom does the box on your head belong , To master or Mistress , or have you done wrong ? No , I've done no wrong , but a crime that's as ill , For I do believe a man I have kill'd . Come show me the man , he strait to her said , And I will protect you from danger fair maid : She shew'd him the place where the Tinker lay dead , A long stream of blood was run down from his head ; In his budgets were pistols , with powder and ball , And likewise a whistle , his companions to call . Also a hanger he had by his side , And a large pair of spurs if occasion to ride ; He said , Fair damsel , you might have been abus'd , These are odd sorts of tools for a Tinker to use : He said . Fair maid , have you courage to stand , To fire a pistol when danger's at hand ? She said , I have , and never will start , When dangers at hand . I will soon play my par Then he took the whistle , and gave such a blow , As made the groves to ring and the thieves to crow : In a few minutes the thieves did appear , And seeing what was done , began for to swear They would be revenged ; when the maid without dread , She cocked her pistol , and kill'd one stone dead ; Another bold villain the gentleman shot , Who fell to the ground stone dead on the spot ; Another bold villain seeing what was done , He took to his heels , and away he did run ; The gentleman pursu'd him , and brought him to town , Where the truth of the matter was quickly made known The gentleman to the assizes is come it is said , And for this brave girl shall have money paid ; Full fifty bright guineas she made it appear , Beside the effects in the budget we hear ; Now all the brave Lads were in a strife , Who should gain this fair girl for a wife ; But none of them was ordained so right , As he who made her a Lady so bright . Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church Yard , London . 