( 1 ) THE Blind BEGGAR OF BEDNAL-GREEN . IT was a blind Beggar that long lost his Sighed , he had fair a Daughter most pleasant and bright , and many a gallant brave Suitor had she , for none was so comely as pretty Bessee . And though she was of Favour most fair , yet seeing she was but a Beggar's Heir , of ancient House keepers despised was she , who came as Suitors to pretty Bessee . Wherefore in great Sorrow fair Bessee did say , good Father and Mother let me go my Way , to seek out my Fortune where ever it be , the Suit was then granted to pretty Bessee . Thus Bessee , that was of Beauty most bright , then clad in gray Russet , and late in the Night , from Father and Mother alone parted she , who sighed and sobbed for pretty Bessee . She went till she came to Stratford near Bow , then she knew not whither nor which Way to go , with Tears she lamented her hard Destiny , so sad and so heavy was pretty Bessee . She kept on her Journey until it was Day , and went unto Rumford along the Highway ; and at the King's Arms entertained was she , so fair and well favour'd was pretty Bessee . She had not been there one Month to and End , but Master and Mistress , and all was her Friend ; and every brave Gallant that once did her see , where straightway in Love with pretty Bessee . Great Gifts they did send her of Silver and Gold , and in her Songs daily her Love they extoll'd , her Beauty was blazed in every Degree , so fair and so comely was pretty Bessee . The young Men in Rumford in her had their Joy : she shew'd herself courteous but never to coy ; and at her Commandment still would they be , so fair and so comely was pretty Bessee . Four Suitors at once unto her did go , they craved her Favour , but still she said no , I would not with Gentlemen to marry with me ; yet ever they honoured pretty Bessee . The one of them was a gallant young Knight , and he came to her disguis'd in the Night ; the second a Gentleman of good Degree , who wooed and sued to pretty Bessee . A Merchant of London whose wealth was not small was then the third Suitor and proper withal ; her Master's own Son the fourth Man must be , who swore he would die for pretty Bessee . And if thou wilt marry with me quoth the Knight I'll make the a Lady with Joy and Delight ; my Heart is inthrall'd by thy fair Beauty , then grant me thy Favour , my pretty Bessee . The Gentleman said , come , marry with me , thou shalt live in London most gallant and gay , my Ships shall bring home rich Jewels to thee , and I will forever love pretty Bessee . Then Bessee she sighed , and thus she did say , my Father and Mother I mean to obey , first get their good Will , and be faithful to me , and thou shalt enjoy your pretty Bessee . To everyone this Answer she made , wherefore unto her they joyfully said , this Thing to fulfil we all do agree , but where dwell , thy Father my pretty Bessee . My Father , quoth she , is plain to be seen , the silly blind Beggar of Rednal Green , that daily sits begging for Charity , he is the good Father of pretty Bessee . His Marks and his Tokens are known full well , he always is led with a Dog and a Bell ; a silly old Man God knoweth is he , yet he is the Father of pretty Bessee . Nay , then quoth the Merchant thou art not for me , nor , quoth the Inholder , my Bride shall not be ; I loath , quoth the Gentleman , a Beggar's Degree ; and so fare you well my pretty Bessee . Why then , quoth the Knight , hap better or worse , I weigh not true Love by the Weight of the Purse ; and Beauty is Beauty in every Degree , then welcome to me my pretty Bessee . With thee to thy Father forthwith will I go , nay soft , quoth his Kinsman , it must not be so , a Beggar's Daughter no Lady shall be , then take thy adieu of pretty Bessee . And soon after this by break of the Day , the Knight had from Rumford stole Bessee away , the young Men of Rumford so sick as may be , road after to fetch again pretty Bessee . As swift as the Wind to ride the were seen , until they came near unto Bednal-Green ; and as the Knight lighted most courteously , they fought against him for pretty Bessee . But rescue came presently over the Plain , or else the Knight for his Love had been slave ; the Fray being ended , then strait he did see , his Kinsman come railing at pretty Bessee . Then speak the blind Beggar , altho' I be poor , rail not against my Child at my own Door ; though she be not deck'd with Velvet and Pearl , yet will I drop Angels for thee with my Girl . And then if my Gold will better her Birth , and equal the Gold that you lay on the Earth , then neither rail nor grudge you to see , the blind Beggar's Daughter a Lady to be . But first I will hear and have it well known , the Gold that you drop shall be all your own ; with that they reply'd contented we be , then there's , quoth the Beggar , for pretty Bessee . With that and Angel he cast on the Ground , and dropped in Angels full three thousand Pound ; and oftentimes it proved most plain , for the Gentleman's one , the Beggar dropped twain . So as the Place where he did fit , with Gold was covered every Whit ; the Gentleman having dropped all his Store , said , Beggar , hold , for I have no more . Thou hast fulfilled thy Promise aright , then marry my Girl , quoth he to the Knigh and here , quoth he , I'll throw thee down , a hundred Pound more to buy her a Gown . The Gentlemen all that this Treasure had seen , admir'd the Beggar of Bednal Green ; and those that were her Suitors before , their Flesh for very Anger they tore . Thus was their Bessee a Match for a Knight , and made a Lady in others Despite ; a fairer Lady there never was seen , than the Beggar's Daughter of Bednal Green . But of her sumptuous Marriage and Feast , and what brave Lords and Knights theither were , the second Part shall set forth to your Sighed , with marvelous Pleasure and wished Delight . The Second PART . WIthin a gallant Palace most brave , adorn'd with all the Cost they could have , this Wedding was kept most sumptuously , and all for the Love of pretty Bessee . All kind of Dainties most delicate sweet , were brought to their Banquet as was thought meet ; Patridge , Plover , and Venison most free , against the brave Wedding of pretty Bessee . This Wedding thro' England was spread by report , so that great Numbers did thither resort ; of Nobles and Gentles of every Degree , and all for the Fame of pretty Bessee . To Church then went this gallant young Knight , his Bride follow'd after like a Lady most bright , with Troops of Ladies , the like was ne'er seen , as went with sweet Bessee to Bednal-Green . This Wedding being solemnized then , with Music performed by skilful Men ; the Nobles and Gentles sat down at that Tide , each one beholding the beautiful Bride . But after the sumptuous Dinner was done , to talk and to reason a Number begun ; of the blind Beggar's Daughter most bright , and what his Daughter he gave to the Knight . Then spoke the Nobles much marvel have we , the jolly blind Beggar we cannot here see ; my Lords , quoth the Bride , my Father's so base , he's loath with his Presence these States to disgrace . The Praise of a Woman in question to bring , before her own Face were a flattering thing ; we think thy Father's baseness ( quoth they ) might by thy beauty be clean put away . They had no sooner these pleasant Words spoke , but in comes the Beggar with a Silken Cloak ; a Velvet Cap and a Feather had he , and now a Musician forsooth he would be . And being led in from catching of Harm , he touch'd his Strings which made such a Charm , said , please you to hear any Music of me , a Song I'll sing of pretty Bessee . With that his Lute he twang'd straightway , and thereon began most sweetly to play , and after a Lesson was play'd two or three , he strain'd out his Song most delicately . A Beggar's Daughter did dwell on the Green , who for her Beauty might well be a Queen ; a blithe bonny Lass and dainty was she , and many one call'd her pretty Bessee . Her Father had no Goods nor Lands , but begg'd for a Penny all Day with his Hands ; and yet in Marriage gave thousands three , yet still he has something for pretty Bessee . And if anyone her Birth do disdain , her Father is ready with Might and with Main , to prove she is come of a noble Degree , therefore let none flout my pretty Bessee . With that the Lords and Company round , with hearty Laughter were ready to found ; at ( 1 ) THE Blind BEGGAR OF BEDNAL-GREEN . IT was a blind Beggar that long lost his Sighed , he had fair a Daughter most pleasant and bright , and many a gallant brave Suitor had she , for none was so comely as pretty Bessee . And though she was of Favour most fair , yet seeing she was but a Beggar's Heir , of ancient House keepers despised was she , who came as Suitors to pretty Bessee . Wherefore in great Sorrow fair Bessee did say , good Father and Mother let me go my Way , to seek out my Fortune where ever it be , the Suit was then granted to pretty Bessee . Thus Bessee , that was of Beauty most bright , then clad in gray Russet , and late in the Night , from Father and Mother alone parted she , who sighed and sobbed for pretty Bessee . She went till she came to Stratford near Bow , then she knew not whither nor which Way to go , with Tears she lamented her hard Destiny , so sad and so heavy was pretty Bessee . She kept on her Journey until it was Day , and went unto Rumford along the Highway ; and at the King's Arms entertained was she , so fair and well favour'd was pretty Bessee . She had not been there one Month to and End , but Master and Mistress , and all was her Friend ; and every brave Gallant that once did her see , where straightway in Love with pretty Bessee . Great Gifts they did send her of Silver and Gold , and in her Songs daily her Love they extoll'd , her Beauty was blazed in every Degree , so fair and so comely was pretty Bessee . The young Men in Rumford in her had their Joy : she shew'd herself courteous but never to coy ; and at her Commandment still would they be , so fair and so comely was pretty Bessee . Four Suitors at once unto her did go , they craved her Favour , but still she said no , I would not with Gentlemen to marry with me ; yet ever they honoured pretty Bessee . The one of them was a gallant young Knight , and he came to her disguis'd in the Night ; the second a Gentleman of good Degree , who wooed and sued to pretty Bessee . A Merchant of London whose wealth was not small was then the third Suitor and proper withal ; her Master's own Son the fourth Man must be , who swore he would die for pretty Bessee . And if thou wilt marry with me quoth the Knight I'll make the a Lady with Joy and Delight ; my Heart is inthrall'd by thy fair Beauty , then grant me thy Favour , my pretty Bessee . The Gentleman said , come , marry with me , thou shalt live in London most gallant and gay , my Ships shall bring home rich Jewels to thee , and I will forever love pretty Bessee . Then Bessee she sighed , and thus she did say , my Father and Mother I mean to obey , first get their good Will , and be faithful to me , and thou shalt enjoy your pretty Bessee . To everyone this Answer she made , wherefore unto her they joyfully said , this Thing to fulfil we all do agree , but where dwell , thy Father my pretty Bessee . My Father , quoth she , is plain to be seen , the silly blind Beggar of Rednal Green , that daily sits begging for Charity , he is the good Father of pretty Bessee . His Marks and his Tokens are known full well , he always is led with a Dog and a Bell ; a silly old Man God knoweth is he , yet he is the Father of pretty Bessee . Nay , then quoth the Merchant thou art not for me , nor , quoth the Inholder , my Bride shall not be ; I loath , quoth the Gentleman , a Beggar's Degree ; and so fare you well my pretty Bessee . Why then , quoth the Knight , hap better or worse , I weigh not true Love by the Weight of the Purse ; and Beauty is Beauty in every Degree , then welcome to me my pretty Bessee . With thee to thy Father forthwith will I go , nay soft , quoth his Kinsman , it must not be so , a Beggar's Daughter no Lady shall be , then take thy adieu of pretty Bessee . And soon after this by break of the Day , the Knight had from Rumford stole Bessee away , the young Men of Rumford so sick as may be , road after to fetch again pretty Bessee . As swift as the Wind to ride the were seen , until they came near unto Bednal-Green ; and as the Knight lighted most courteously , they fought against him for pretty Bessee . But rescue came presently over the Plain , or else the Knight for his Love had been slave ; the Fray being ended , then strait he did see , his Kinsman come railing at pretty Bessee . Then speak the blind Beggar , altho' I be poor , rail not against my Child at my own Door ; though she be not deck'd with Velvet and Pearl , yet will I drop Angels for thee with my Girl . And then if my Gold will better her Birth , and equal the Gold that you lay on the Earth , then neither rail nor grudge you to see , the blind Beggar's Daughter a Lady to be . But first I will hear and have it well known , the Gold that you drop shall be all your own ; with that they reply'd contented we be , then there's , quoth the Beggar , for pretty Bessee . With that and Angel he cast on the Ground , and dropped in Angels full three thousand Pound ; and oftentimes it proved most plain , for the Gentleman's one , the Beggar dropped twain . So as the Place where he did fit , with Gold was covered every Whit ; the Gentleman having dropped all his Store , said , Beggar , hold , for I have no more . Thou hast fulfilled thy Promise aright , then marry my Girl , quoth he to the Knigh and here , quoth he , I'll throw thee down , a hundred Pound more to buy her a Gown . The Gentlemen all that this Treasure had seen , admir'd the Beggar of Bednal Green ; and those that were her Suitors before , their Flesh for very Anger they tore . Thus was their Bessee a Match for a Knight , and made a Lady in others Despite ; a fairer Lady there never was seen , than the Beggar's Daughter of Bednal Green . But of her sumptuous Marriage and Feast , and what brave Lords and Knights theither were , the second Part shall set forth to your Sighed , with marvelous Pleasure and wished Delight . The Second PART . WIthin a gallant Palace most brave , adorn'd with all the Cost they could have , this Wedding was kept most sumptuously , and all for the Love of pretty Bessee . All kind of Dainties most delicate sweet , were brought to their Banquet as was thought meet ; Patridge , Plover , and Venison most free , against the brave Wedding of pretty Bessee . This Wedding thro' England was spread by report , so that great Numbers did thither resort ; of Nobles and Gentles of every Degree , and all for the Fame of pretty Bessee . To Church then went this gallant young Knight , his Bride follow'd after like a Lady most bright , with Troops of Ladies , the like was ne'er seen , as went with sweet Bessee to Bednal-Green . This Wedding being solemnized then , with Music performed by skilful Men ; the Nobles and Gentles sat down at that Tide , each one beholding the beautiful Bride . But after the sumptuous Dinner was done , to talk and to reason a Number begun ; of the blind Beggar's Daughter most bright , and what his Daughter he gave to the Knight . Then spoke the Nobles much marvel have we , the jolly blind Beggar we cannot here see ; my Lords , quoth the Bride , my Father's so base , he's loath with his Presence these States to disgrace . The Praise of a Woman in question to bring , before her own Face were a flattering thing ; we think thy Father's baseness ( quoth they ) might by thy beauty be clean put away . They had no sooner these pleasant Words spoke , but in comes the Beggar with a Silken Cloak ; a Velvet Cap and a Feather had he , and now a Musician forsooth he would be . And being led in from catching of Harm , he touch'd his Strings which made such a Charm , said , please you to hear any Music of me , a Song I'll sing of pretty Bessee . With that his Lute he twang'd straightway , and thereon began most sweetly to play , and after a Lesson was play'd two or three , he strain'd out his Song most delicately . A Beggar's Daughter did dwell on the Green , who for her Beauty might well be a Queen ; a blithe bonny Lass and dainty was she , and many one call'd her pretty Bessee . Her Father had no Goods nor Lands , but begg'd for a Penny all Day with his Hands ; and yet in Marriage gave thousands three , yet still he has something for pretty Bessee . And if anyone her Birth do disdain , her Father is ready with Might and with Main , to prove she is come of a noble Degree , therefore let none flout my pretty Bessee . With that the Lords and Company round , with hearty Laughter were ready to found ; at last said the Lords full well may we see , the Bride and the Beggar's beholden to thee . With that the Bride all blushing did rise , with the fair Water all in her bright Eyes . Pardon my Father brave Nobles ( quoth she ) who through blind Affection thus dotes on me . If this be thy Father the Nobles did say , then may he be proud of this happy Day ; Yet by his Countenance well may we see , his Birth with his Fortune did never agree . And therefore blind Beggar we pray the bewray , and look that the Truth to us thou dost say , thy birth and thy Parentage what it might be , even for the Love thou bearest to pretty Bessee . Then give me Leave , you Gentles each one , a Song for to sing and then I'll begone ; and if that I do not win good Report , then do not give me a Groat for my Sport . When first our King his Fame did advance , and fought for his Title in delicate France ; in many Places great Perils past he , but then was not born my pretty Bessee . And in those Wars went over to fight , many a brave Duke , a Lord and a Knight ; and with them young Monford of Courage so free , but then was not born my pretty Bessee . And there did young Monford with a Blow o' th' Face , loose both his Eyes in a very short Space ; his Life had also been gone with his Sighed , had not a young Woman come forth in the Night . among the slave Men her Fancy does move , to search and to seek for her own true Love ; who seeing young Monford there gasping to die , she saved his Life through her Charity . And then all our Victuals in Beggar's Attire , at the Hands of good People we then did require ; at last unto England . as now it seen . we came and remained at Bednal-Green . And thus we have lived in Fortune's Despite , though poor yet contented with humble Deligh and in my old Age a Comfort to be , God sent me a Daughter call'd pretty Bessee . And thus you , my Nobles my Song I do end , hoping the same does not Man offend ; full forty long Winners thus I have been , a silly blind Beggar of Bednal-Green . Now when the Company had every one , herd the strange Tale in the Song he had shown , they were all amazed , as well they might be , both at the blind Beggar and pretty Bessee . With that the fair Bride they then did embrace , saying , your come of and honourable Raze ; thy Father likewise of high Degree , and thou art worthy a Lady to be . Thus was the Feast ended with Joy and Delight , a happy Bridegroom was made the young Knight ; who lived in Joy and Felicity , with his fair Lady pretty Bessee . Sold by W. Evans , on St. James's Back , Bristol . last said the Lords full well may we see , the Bride and the Beggar's beholden to thee . With that the Bride all blushing did rise , with the fair Water all in her bright Eyes . Pardon my Father brave Nobles ( quoth she ) who through blind Affection thus dotes on me . If this be thy Father the Nobles did say , then may he be proud of this happy Day ; Yet by his Countenance well may we see , his Birth with his Fortune did never agree . And therefore blind Beggar we pray the bewray , and look that the Truth to us thou dost say , thy birth and thy Parentage what it might be , even for the Love thou bearest to pretty Bessee . Then give me Leave , you Gentles each one , a Song for to sing and then I'll begone ; and if that I do not win good Report , then do not give me a Groat for my Sport . When first our King his Fame did advance , and fought for his Title in delicate France ; in many Places great Perils past he , but then was not born my pretty Bessee . And in those Wars went over to fight , many a brave Duke , a Lord and a Knight ; and with them young Monford of Courage so free , but then was not born my pretty Bessee . And there did young Monford with a Blow o' th' Face , loose both his Eyes in a very short Space ; his Life had also been gone with his Sighed , had not a young Woman come forth in the Night . among the slave Men her Fancy does move , to search and to seek for her own true Love ; who seeing young Monford there gasping to die , she saved his Life through her Charity . And then all our Victuals in Beggar's Attire , at the Hands of good People we then did require ; at last unto England . as now it seen . we came and remained at Bednal-Green . And thus we have lived in Fortune's Despite , though poor yet contented with humble Deligh and in my old Age a Comfort to be , God sent me a Daughter call'd pretty Bessee . And thus you , my Nobles my Song I do end , hoping the same does not Man offend ; full forty long Winners thus I have been , a silly blind Beggar of Bednal-Green . Now when the Company had every one , herd the strange Tale in the Song he had shown , they were all amazed , as well they might be , both at the blind Beggar and pretty Bessee . With that the fair Bride they then did embrace , saying , your come of and honourable Raze ; thy Father likewise of high Degree , and thou art worthy a Lady to be . Thus was the Feast ended with Joy and Delight , a happy Bridegroom was made the young Knight ; who lived in Joy and Felicity , with his fair Lady pretty Bessee . Sold by W. Evans , on St. James's Back , Bristol . 