Father PETER's Birth , Character , and Last Will . Quo teneam nodo mutantem Protea vultum ? IN cloudy times and place , where Priestcraft rul'd the State , And Men ( as some to Virtue ) to Vice seem'd born by Fate ; Where Sin and Error ( though in others ) a mere privation was Of Good , and nothing but defection of habitual Grace : In them 'twas Virtue , and Perfection , that professed And Elaborate , Superfine , and Curious Wickedness ; Whose duty was to force , and Chemist New Discoveries ; And since refine , and improve ( like other Sciences . ) Here Man and Beast , did with New Incest join , And Witch and Devil , with Lustful Reeks were lim'd , ( as Dog and Bitch ) here our Romanticque Boar Was bullied forth ( not born ) of De'l and Whore ; He huffed , and puffed , and thrust his sweaty Loins With Cyclop's Force into the craving hungry Groin : He swinged the brawny Members with such Stroke , ( As a young Stallion upon a Mare new broke ) The Female Brutus conceiv'd the Monster in her Womb , Grows ripe in Vice , by help of since Original , and Sire's Bumb ; ( As and Eccentric monstrous Creature takes for his Growth , ) Full Sixteen Months his Mother groans in's bringing forth : But growing found and lustful in the Incestuous Womb , By sodomittical Act he fixeth his Point in his Mother's Bumb . The Hydra breaks forth , wracking his Mother's Loins , ( Looks sad as mourning Purple , or religious in lowry time ) For national Sins : The Beast grew under most sacred Smock , And blessing of his Holiness , and Prayers of Cardinal Flock : His Mother finding him without Grace , and grown most spract , At Lying , Swearing , Canting , and the lucky Knack . Of Calculating Births , gets the fam'd in those Doctrines , To instruct the forward Child , and gull him on with Necktarines , And plain Pulse Pottage , his first Food or Pap , Good to strengthen his Wit ( as the learn'd of old ) or brawn his Back : For craving Whore . The Pupil grew most Excellent , His Doctors Banters in Aquine and Ipnatian Can ( As a second fam'd Drake he steers new Ways ) In Vice most fine and Subtle , A new World discryes , And fixeth the Pillars of unpassable Iniquities : Knew what was what ; What lucky Star did reign , When the young Priestling from under Cushion-pains Should Comet in our Sphere , By Algebra and Astronomic Rules ? What 'tis that makes us Statesmen , Buffoons , and what Fools , Knew the predestinated Minute of his Birth and Father , Whither the Tile-man's Wife , or other sanctify'd Quean was Mother ? Knew , after the Conjunction , on which Majestic side The Queen repos'd herself ; foresaw the Tide Of our English State to a hair ; or whither a young Laird , Or Lady should grace Jemmy's Circumcis'd Yard . Though the Question was as difficult , and nice and wise , As whither Adam was Navel'd , a Crablouse has Stones , or Mole has Eyes : A Prince A Prince by help of prolific Warming-pan is born , Portentous with Hair and Teeth ( as Lewis ) and his Toes with Corns , As Caesar's Horse was Foal'd ; Te Devil was sung At Whitehall ; and Ave-Ignatius by the Pope of Rome . The Babe is Dipp'd and Chrism'd , and has for his Godfather The blessed Vicar of Rome , who sits in Peter's Chair ; 'Twixt Heav'n and Hell ( as Solomon in the Air ) Our Virtuoso triumphs with fresh Laurels crowned , Blesses his Stars that fatally has Heir'd the English Crown ; Proves by unanswerable Dilemma , that the King's a God On Earth , and may dispense with Law and since , as Heav'ns Lord ; Proves by strict Logic and Mathematic Features , That a Beggar is a Prince , a Church , a Stew , or Theatre ; But Orange cool'd the Heat , and brought in those That Kidnapped Jesuitism , Spaded their Religion , and their Whores : Yet this Hieroglyphic diversyfies and Saints it on ; He rogues , defrauds , and buggers by Rome's Commission : But now grown sick , he humbly requests the Queen In verbis Conceptis to from and observe his last Theme . His WILL . Imprimis . I Desire that my Body may be decently Interr'd , With my dear Queen , under our Lady Mary's Goard : For truly I think my Body better than my Soul ; For the one shall perish , but the other Immortal howl In Flames Eternal ; my Soul to God , perhaps my Maker , Though I much doubt it , as whither Peter was the Father Of our Church or Utrecht ; Or whither Pope Joan was not a Mother ? For truly my Soul , of late , I have often Mortgag'd , As Knaves their Land , and of Equity 'tis the Devil's Cabbage . Item , One Thousand Pound unto my dear fair Nun , Who keeps the Vestal , and my Flames in Room . Item , I give Five thousand Pound unto the Pious English King , Because his Coffers I have drain'd , and now again I pay him in his own Coin : As for the Residue , I give not one Peter's Penny to the Heretic Crew . Yet I had almost forgotten my Holy and Dear Queen , Who has been kind ( as by the young Prince it seems ) To me , Groom of her Linen Stole , and the late Tenant Of her fair Body , and Chastity , and Father with a Why-not . Item , Unto the healthy , hopeful , Idol Prince , In whom I claim a share , by Justice and strict Sense Of Sweet ---- ing I give him a Thousand Italian Crowns , To be paid to him ( that is , never ) when He enjoys the English Crown . Item , One Thousand Pound to Erect my fair and goodly Tomb In Monumental Brass , in via sacra , in Old Room ; Who have done more by Fraud , and Cheats , and Lying , Than Famed Alexander , or Caesar by their Killing . In witness whereof , I Sign and Seal it in the presence Of Pope , Devil , and Cardinal , with a crooked Ninepence . By L. MARTIN of the Inner - Temple , London , Gent. Father PETER's Birth , Character , and Last Will . Quo teneam nodo mutantem Protea vultum ? IN cloudy times and place , where Priestcraft rul'd the State , And Men ( as some to Virtue ) to Vice seem'd born by Fate ; Where Sin and Error ( though in others ) a mere privation was Of Good , and nothing but defection of habitual Grace : In them 'twas Virtue , and Perfection , that professed And Elaborate , Superfine , and Curious Wickedness ; Whose duty was to force , and Chemist New Discoveries ; And since refine , and improve ( like other Sciences . ) Here Man and Beast , did with New Incest join , And Witch and Devil , with Lustful Reeks were lim'd , ( as Dog and Bitch ) here our Romanticque Boar Was bullied forth ( not born ) of De'l and Whore ; He huffed , and puffed , and thrust his sweaty Loins With Cyclop's Force into the craving hungry Groin : He swinged the brawny Members with such Stroke , ( As a young Stallion upon a Mare new broke ) The Female Brutus conceiv'd the Monster in her Womb , Grows ripe in Vice , by help of since Original , and Sire's Bumb ; ( As and Eccentric monstrous Creature takes for his Growth , ) Full Sixteen Months his Mother groans in's bringing forth : But growing found and lustful in the Incestuous Womb , By sodomittical Act he fixeth his Point in his Mother's Bumb . The Hydra breaks forth , wracking his Mother's Loins , ( Looks sad as mourning Purple , or religious in lowry time ) For national Sins : The Beast grew under most sacred Smock , And blessing of his Holiness , and Prayers of Cardinal Flock : His Mother finding him without Grace , and grown most spract , At Lying , Swearing , Canting , and the lucky Knack . Of Calculating Births , gets the fam'd in those Doctrines , To instruct the forward Child , and gull him on with Necktarines , And plain Pulse Pottage , his first Food or Pap , Good to strengthen his Wit ( as the learn'd of old ) or brawn his Back : For craving Whore . The Pupil grew most Excellent , His Doctors Banters in Aquine and Ipnatian Can ( As a second fam'd Drake he steers new Ways ) In Vice most fine and Subtle , A new World discryes , And fixeth the Pillars of unpassable Iniquities : Knew what was what ; What lucky Star did reign , When the young Priestling from under Cushion-pains Should Comet in our Sphere , By Algebra and Astronomic Rules ? What 'tis that makes us Statesmen , Buffoons , and what Fools , Knew the predestinated Minute of his Birth and Father , Whither the Tile-man's Wife , or other sanctify'd Quean was Mother ? Knew , after the Conjunction , on which Majestic side The Queen repos'd herself ; foresaw the Tide Of our English State to a hair ; or whither a young Laird , Or Lady should grace Jemmy's Circumcis'd Yard . Though the Question was as difficult , and nice and wise , As whither Adam was Navel'd , a Crablouse has Stones , or Mole has Eyes : A Prince A Prince by help of prolific Warming-pan is born , Portentous with Hair and Teeth ( as Lewis ) and his Toes with Corns , As Caesar's Horse was Foal'd ; Te Devil was sung At Whitehall ; and Ave-Ignatius by the Pope of Rome . The Babe is Dipp'd and Chrism'd , and has for his Godfather The blessed Vicar of Rome , who sits in Peter's Chair ; 'Twixt Heav'n and Hell ( as Solomon in the Air ) Our Virtuoso triumphs with fresh Laurels crowned , Blesses his Stars that fatally has Heir'd the English Crown ; Proves by unanswerable Dilemma , that the King's a God On Earth , and may dispense with Law and since , as Heav'ns Lord ; Proves by strict Logic and Mathematic Features , That a Beggar is a Prince , a Church , a Stew , or Theatre ; But Orange cool'd the Heat , and brought in those That Kidnapped Jesuitism , Spaded their Religion , and their Whores : Yet this Hieroglyphic diversyfies and Saints it on ; He rogues , defrauds , and buggers by Rome's Commission : But now grown sick , he humbly requests the Queen In verbis Conceptis to from and observe his last Theme . His WILL . Imprimis . I Desire that my Body may be decently Interr'd , With my dear Queen , under our Lady Mary's Goard : For truly I think my Body better than my Soul ; For the one shall perish , but the other Immortal howl In Flames Eternal ; my Soul to God , perhaps my Maker , Though I much doubt it , as whither Peter was the Father Of our Church or Utrecht ; Or whither Pope Joan was not a Mother ? For truly my Soul , of late , I have often Mortgag'd , As Knaves their Land , and of Equity 'tis the Devil's Cabbage . Item , One Thousand Pound unto my dear fair Nun , Who keeps the Vestal , and my Flames in Room . Item , I give Five thousand Pound unto the Pious English King , Because his Coffers I have drain'd , and now again I pay him in his own Coin : As for the Residue , I give not one Peter's Penny to the Heretic Crew . Yet I had almost forgotten my Holy and Dear Queen , Who has been kind ( as by the young Prince it seems ) To me , Groom of her Linen Stole , and the late Tenant Of her fair Body , and Chastity , and Father with a Why-not . Item , Unto the healthy , hopeful , Idol Prince , In whom I claim a share , by Justice and strict Sense Of Sweet ---- ing I give him a Thousand Italian Crowns , To be paid to him ( that is , never ) when He enjoys the English Crown . Item , One Thousand Pound to Erect my fair and goodly Tomb In Monumental Brass , in via sacra , in Old Room ; Who have done more by Fraud , and Cheats , and Lying , Than Famed Alexander , or Caesar by their Killing . In witness whereof , I Sign and Seal it in the presence Of Pope , Devil , and Cardinal , with a crooked Ninepence . By L. MARTIN of the Inner - Temple , London , Gent. 