The Crafty BARBER of Debtford You Debtford Women all beware of this same Crafty Barber : For when he gets between your Arms There he takes up his harbour . Tune of , Daniel Cooper . COme and hear my pleasant Song all you that would be merry : For unto you it does belong that are both brisk and airy : A Barber liv'd in Debtford Town , believe it is no Lie sir , He loved well a bit o' th' brown , and a Nurse to turn him dry , sir . Another man liv'd in the Town , and he did use to fiddle ; The Barber lov'd his Wife also , and pay'd her Tarradidle . But he ( poor man ) was gone to Sea , and little did he think , sir , That his poor wife would wanton be and with the Barber drink , sir . But on a time it happened so , the Barber he did quarrel ; For there is Virtue you do know that lies within the barrel Will make and Old Man bear up brisk , and overcomes the Youth too , This god into the Barber's crown , and made him tell the truth too . The Second Part , to the same Tune . BEfore the Justice he was had , who question'd him severely ; Which made the Barber almost mad and he confessed clearly That he drank in a bawdyhouse and that full well he knew sir ; 'Twas asked , How ? and he confessed that there he lay with two sir . The Justice ask'd him who they were ? and straightway he confessed , A long-back'd Nurse that lived there , he plainly did express i A very gentile Dame was she , and wore her clouded Stockings ; But some there are do think that she god such fine things by knockings . The Fiddlers wife was fine and neat , and decently attired ; And she full well could do the feat the Barber oft desired : He oft embrac'd her in his Arms , and catch'd her by the thing too ; So that she wone him by her Charms , and he touch'd the Fidler's strings too . He had and opportunity I pray sirs understand you : The Hostess she was sitting by , and tope'd her Nose with brandy , While he did please his Ladies fair and trimm'd them both so neatly , That she did wish to have a share , he did it so completely . Think it not strange what now you hear , for if you will believe it , The Barber loves the sport so dear , I doubt he ne'r will leave i Still Robin Redbreast is content , that little sneaking fool too , He accounts it all but merriment to catch his Wife by th' Tool too . And Maycrill-back she is so fine , there's few that can outbrave her , And when she drinks a Glass of Wine , the Barber he does shave her ; And up and down where e're he goes , he mightily does praise her ; A gentle hand he hath she knows , and well she likes his Razor . And now good people to conclude , mythinks it is a pity The Barber should these two delude that are so neat and pretty . Then women all prey have a care , for Barber's minds are waving ; And now methinks he's had his share , he may leave off his shaving . Printed for John Clark Junior , at the Horshoo in West Smithfield . The Crafty BARBER of Debtford You Debtford Women all beware of this same Crafty Barber : For when he gets between your Arms There he takes up his harbour . Tune of , Daniel Cooper . COme and hear my pleasant Song all you that would be merry : For unto you it does belong that are both brisk and airy : A Barber liv'd in Debtford Town , believe it is no Lie sir , He loved well a bit o' th' brown , and a Nurse to turn him dry , sir . Another man liv'd in the Town , and he did use to fiddle ; The Barber lov'd his Wife also , and pay'd her Tarradidle . But he ( poor man ) was gone to Sea , and little did he think , sir , That his poor wife would wanton be and with the Barber drink , sir . But on a time it happened so , the Barber he did quarrel ; For there is Virtue you do know that lies within the barrel Will make and Old Man bear up brisk , and overcomes the Youth too , This god into the Barber's crown , and made him tell the truth too . The Second Part , to the same Tune . BEfore the Justice he was had , who question'd him severely ; Which made the Barber almost mad and he confessed clearly That he drank in a bawdyhouse and that full well he knew sir ; 'Twas asked , How ? and he confessed that there he lay with two sir . The Justice ask'd him who they were ? and straightway he confessed , A long-back'd Nurse that lived there , he plainly did express i A very gentile Dame was she , and wore her clouded Stockings ; But some there are do think that she god such fine things by knockings . The Fiddlers wife was fine and neat , and decently attired ; And she full well could do the feat the Barber oft desired : He oft embrac'd her in his Arms , and catch'd her by the thing too ; So that she wone him by her Charms , and he touch'd the Fidler's strings too . He had and opportunity I pray sirs understand you : The Hostess she was sitting by , and tope'd her Nose with brandy , While he did please his Ladies fair and trimm'd them both so neatly , That she did wish to have a share , he did it so completely . Think it not strange what now you hear , for if you will believe it , The Barber loves the sport so dear , I doubt he ne'r will leave i Still Robin Redbreast is content , that little sneaking fool too , He accounts it all but merriment to catch his Wife by th' Tool too . And Maycrill-back she is so fine , there's few that can outbrave her , And when she drinks a Glass of Wine , the Barber he does shave her ; And up and down where e're he goes , he mightily does praise her ; A gentle hand he hath she knows , and well she likes his Razor . And now good people to conclude , mythinks it is a pity The Barber should these two delude that are so neat and pretty . Then women all prey have a care , for Barber's minds are waving ; And now methinks he's had his share , he may leave off his shaving . Printed for John Clark Junior , at the Horshoo in West Smithfield . 