The Vicar of BRAY . IN Charles the Second's Golden Reign , When Loyalty had no harm in't ; A zealous High Church Man I was , And so I god Preferment To teach my Flock , I never miss'd , Kings were by God appointed ; And he was damn'd that did resist , Or curse the Lord's anointed . And this is Law , I do maintain , And to the Day I die will , That whatsoever King shall reign , I'll be the Vicar of Bray still . When Royal James our King became , And Popery was in Fashion : The Penal Laws I voted down , And I read the Declaration : The Church of Rome I found would fit Full well my Constitution , And I had been a Jesuit , But for the Revolution . And this is Law , etc When William was our King delcar'd , To redress the Nations Grievance ; With this new Whim I then averr'd , And swore to him Allegiance : Old Principles I then revok'd , Set Conscience at a Distance ; And prov'd Religion was a Joke , And a Jest was Non Resistance . And this is Law , etc When Royal Anne our Queen became , The Church of England's Glory ; Another Face of things were seen , So I became a Tory : Occasional Conformists base , I curs'd their Moderation ; And prov'd the Church in Danger was , By such Prevarication . And this is Law , etc When G --- came o'er in Pudding-time , And moderate Men look'd big , Sir , The Cat in Pan I turn'd again , And so became a Whig , Sir : By which Preferment I procur'd From our great Faith's Defender , And almost every Day abjur'd The Pope and the Pretender . And this is Law , etc The Illustrious House of H --------- r , And Protestant Succession , To them I lustily will cleave , While they can keep Possession : And in my Faith , no one shall say , I any ways do falter ; For G ------ our rightful King shall be , Until the times do altar . And this is Law , I do maintain , And to the Day I die will , That whatsoever King shall reign , I'll be the Vicar of Bray still . The Vicar of BRAY . IN Charles the Second's Golden Reign , When Loyalty had no harm in't ; A zealous High Church Man I was , And so I god Preferment To teach my Flock , I never miss'd , Kings were by God appointed ; And he was damn'd that did resist , Or curse the Lord's anointed . And this is Law , I do maintain , And to the Day I die will , That whatsoever King shall reign , I'll be the Vicar of Bray still . When Royal James our King became , And Popery was in Fashion : The Penal Laws I voted down , And I read the Declaration : The Church of Rome I found would fit Full well my Constitution , And I had been a Jesuit , But for the Revolution . And this is Law , etc When William was our King delcar'd , To redress the Nations Grievance ; With this new Whim I then averr'd , And swore to him Allegiance : Old Principles I then revok'd , Set Conscience at a Distance ; And prov'd Religion was a Joke , And a Jest was Non Resistance . And this is Law , etc When Royal Anne our Queen became , The Church of England's Glory ; Another Face of things were seen , So I became a Tory : Occasional Conformists base , I curs'd their Moderation ; And prov'd the Church in Danger was , By such Prevarication . And this is Law , etc When G --- came o'er in Pudding-time , And moderate Men look'd big , Sir , The Cat in Pan I turn'd again , And so became a Whig , Sir : By which Preferment I procur'd From our great Faith's Defender , And almost every Day abjur'd The Pope and the Pretender . And this is Law , etc The Illustrious House of H --------- r , And Protestant Succession , To them I lustily will cleave , While they can keep Possession : And in my Faith , no one shall say , I any ways do falter ; For G ------ our rightful King shall be , Until the times do altar . And this is Law , I do maintain , And to the Day I die will , That whatsoever King shall reign , I'll be the Vicar of Bray still . 