THE Young-Womans Answer TO Her Former Sweet-Heart On board one of His Majesty's Ships , who come - plains of her Unkindness . Tune of , I lov'd you dearly , etc IN e'ery street I hear 'em sing My Love's Complaint , who serv'd the King : I went with him to the Boy i' th' Nore , And could a gone all the World o're . He says my Love appeared true , I do declare it was so too ; And let his love be ne're so great , Mine was as much , tho' unfortunate . A Golden Chain I had of him , Which I will freely return again ; As for my sighing when we did part , 'Twas from the bottom of my heart . Then both of us did straight agree , At his return Married to be ; As for his letters he sent to Town , I do declare I ne're had one . But now I find it ( tho' too late ) My love complains of his hard Fate ; But 'tis my Father's Fault indeed , He often said that you were Dead . Those letters that you sent to me , My Father would not let me see ; But always said : Child be at rest , For thy Sweetheart was slave at Breast . Then he persuaded me to wed To a rich Old Man that's almost dead : It's true I'm Married , and am a wife , I wish I'd liv'd single all my life . I always lov'd a Seaman brave , And once I was in hope's to have Him which I now ne're expect to see ; You Maidens all then pity me . While we are young and once in love , It looks like blessings from above ; Yet our Friends oftentimes will make Us break those Vows for Riches sake . And as for Gold and Silver too , I freely curse it as well as you ; For if that had not caus'd this strife , Then you and I had been Man and Wife . Altho' we both are crossed in love , Your Resolution I'd have you move ; Since now you see that fault's not mine , Think not so hard on womankind . Where one Woman is false in love ; A hundred Men they false do prove ; Tho' I lay not this charge to you , Nor I hope you don't think me untrue . Return , return , I beg my Dear , For here are thousand Women here , That are more Beautiful than I , Therefore ne're go where Bullets fly . 'Twould be the comfort of my life , To see you have a happy Wife , Tho' I am crossed , 'twill ease my pain , To see you once return'd again . Printed for Charles Barnet . THE Young-Womans Answer TO Her Former Sweet-Heart On board one of His Majesty's Ships , who come - plains of her Unkindness . Tune of , I lov'd you dearly , etc IN e'ery street I hear 'em sing My Love's Complaint , who serv'd the King : I went with him to the Boy i' th' Nore , And could a gone all the World o're . He says my Love appeared true , I do declare it was so too ; And let his love be ne're so great , Mine was as much , tho' unfortunate . A Golden Chain I had of him , Which I will freely return again ; As for my sighing when we did part , 'Twas from the bottom of my heart . Then both of us did straight agree , At his return Married to be ; As for his letters he sent to Town , I do declare I ne're had one . But now I find it ( tho' too late ) My love complains of his hard Fate ; But 'tis my Father's Fault indeed , He often said that you were Dead . Those letters that you sent to me , My Father would not let me see ; But always said : Child be at rest , For thy Sweetheart was slave at Breast . Then he persuaded me to wed To a rich Old Man that's almost dead : It's true I'm Married , and am a wife , I wish I'd liv'd single all my life . I always lov'd a Seaman brave , And once I was in hope's to have Him which I now ne're expect to see ; You Maidens all then pity me . While we are young and once in love , It looks like blessings from above ; Yet our Friends oftentimes will make Us break those Vows for Riches sake . And as for Gold and Silver too , I freely curse it as well as you ; For if that had not caus'd this strife , Then you and I had been Man and Wife . Altho' we both are crossed in love , Your Resolution I'd have you move ; Since now you see that fault's not mine , Think not so hard on womankind . Where one Woman is false in love ; A hundred Men they false do prove ; Tho' I lay not this charge to you , Nor I hope you don't think me untrue . Return , return , I beg my Dear , For here are thousand Women here , That are more Beautiful than I , Therefore ne're go where Bullets fly . 'Twould be the comfort of my life , To see you have a happy Wife , Tho' I am crossed , 'twill ease my pain , To see you once return'd again . Printed for Charles Barnet . 