( 1 ) King Alfred and the Shepherd . WITH THE Humours of Gillian , the Shepherd's Wife To the Tune of Flying Fame . In this Song , there is at least a Possibility , ( and I believe I might say ) a Probability of Truth Alfred was not the only King , who has wander'd incog , among his Subject's , to discover their Hu - mours , Affection , and Manner of Living . We have had some of our own , as well as several Foreign Potentates , who have made a practice of it ; and even this good King Alfred himself is recorded to have done it , at a Time when the Danger was far greater than venturing among Swains and Peasants . For the Danes having invaded England , and left him ( of the whole Island ) only the Counties of Southampton , Wilts , and Somerset , he disguised himself , and enter'd their Camp , to reconnoitre their Strength , Manner of Encamping , etc And having seen and learned all he desired , he return'd to his own Soldiers ; and leading them on , they fell unawares up - on the Danes , and for that Year drove 'em out of the Kingdom . If he could do this , we may reasonably suppose , that in Time of Peace he could venture himself among his own Subject's ; especially considering how much he was belov'd by them all , and how little Risque he ran among them ; for he was a just , wise , and pious Prince , of a very liberal Education ; Endowments uncom - mon in those early Days : And beside the Arts of War and Government , he understood several of the Sciences ; and , among other , Music and Poetry to a Perfection . His Works of Piety were many ; but in particular , we are indebted to him for the Foundation of the University of Oxford : And notwithstanding the petty Cavils and Criticisms of some Antiquarians , the Members of Uni - versity-College still return Thanks for him , as their Founder . This Prince was the Fourth Son of King Egbert , of the Saxon Line : His three Elder Brother's reign'd successively before him ; but all dying without Issue , he at length inherited the Crown , reign'd Nine and Twenty Years , died in the Year 901 , and was buried at Winchester . I have nothing more to add , than that I think this Song one of the best Pastorals that ever was written in the English Tongue . I will not say , that our Poet had read the Story of Baucis and Philemon ; but thus much I dare assert , That in the Description of the Shepherd and his Wife's Manner of Living , their Fare on better Days , etc he truly comes up to the Spirit of Ovid , and does not fallen short of Theocritus in Simplicity , and a natural Way of expressing every Thing in Words becoming a Pastoral Song . IN Elder Time there was of Yore , When Gibes of churlish Glee Were us'd among our Country Carls , Tho' not such Thing now be . The which King Alfred liking well , Forsook his stately Court , And in disguise unknown went forth , To see that jovial Sport ; How Dick and Tom in clouted Shoes , And Coats of Russet Gray , Esteem'd themselves more brave than them That went in Golden Ray . In Garments fit for such a Life , The good King Alfred went , Ragged and torn as from his Back The Beggar his Clothes had rend . A Sword and Buckler good and strong , To give Jack Sauce a Rap ; And on his Head , instead of a Crown , He wore a Monmouth Cap. Thus coasting thourough Somersetshire , Near Newton-Court he met A Shepherd Swain of lusty Limb , That up and down did je He wore a Bonnet of good Gray , Close button'd to his Chin , And at his Back a Leather Scrip , With much good Meat therein . God speed , good Shepherd , quoth the King , I come to be thy Guest , To taste of thy good Victual here , And drink that's of the bes Thy Scrip , I know hath Cheer good Store : What then , the Shepherd said ? Thou seem'st to be some sturdy Thief , And mak'st me soar afraid : Yet if thou wilt thy Dinner win , Thy Sword and Buckler take ; And , if thou canst , into my Scrip Therewith and Entrance make . I tell thee , Roister , it hath store Of Beef , and Bacon fat , With Sheaves of Barley Bred to make Your Chaps to water a Here stands my Bottle , here my Bag , If thou can'st win them , Roister ; Against thy Sword and Buckler here , My Sheep hook is my Master . Benedicite , quoth our good King ; It never shall be said , That Alfred of the Shepherd's Hook Will stand a whit afraid . So soundly thus they both fell to 't , And giving Bang for Bang ; At every Blow the Shepherd gave , King Alfred's Sword cry'd Twang . His Buckler prov'd his chiefest Fence ; For still the Shepherd's Hook Was that the which King Alfred could In no good manner brook . At last , when they had fought Four Hours , And it grew just Midday , And weary'd , both , with right good Will Desir'd each other's Stay : K [ ing , truce Jery quoth Alfred then ] Good [ shepherd hold thy han ] worser ; A sturdier [ fellow than thyself ] Lives not [ within this land . ] Nor a lustier R [ oyster than ] thou art , The churlish Shepherd I said : To tell thee plain , thy Thievish Look Now makes my Heart afraid . Else sure thou art some Prodigal , Which hast consum'd thy Store , And now com'st wandering in this Place , To rob and steal for more . Deem not of me then , quoth our King , Good Shepherd , in this Sort ; A Gentleman well known I am In good King Alfred's Court . The Devil thou art , the Shepherd said ; Thou go'st in Rags all torn ; Thou rather seem [ ' ] st I think to be Some Beggar basely born : But if thou wilt mend thy Estate , And here a Shepherd be ; At Night , to Gillian , my sweet Wife , Thou shalt go home with me : For she's as good a toothless Dame , As mumbleth on brown Bred ; Where thou shalt lie in hurden Sheets , Upon a fresh Straw Bed. Of Whig and Whey we have good Store , And keep good Peas-straw Fire ; And now and then good Barley Cakes , As better Days require . But for my Master , which is Chief , And Lord of Newton-Court , He keeps , I say , his Shepherd Swains In far more braver Sort ; We there have Curds and clouted Cream , Of Read Cow's Morning Milk ; And now and then fine butter'd Cakes , As soft as any Silk , Of Beef and raised Bacon store , That is most fat and greasy , We have likewise , to feed our Chaps , And make them glib and easy . Thus if thou wilt my Man become , This Usage thou shalt have ; If not , adieu ; go hang thyself ; And so farewell , Sir Knave . King Alfred hearing of this Glee The churlish Shepherd said , Was well content to be his Man ; So they a Bargain made : A Penny round the Shepherd gave , In Earnest of this Match , To keep his Sheep in Field and Fold , As Shepherd's use to watch . His Wages shall be full Ten Groats , For Service of a Year ; Yet was it not his Use , old Lad , To hire a Man so dear : For did the King himself , quoth he , Unto my Cottage come , He should not , for a twelvemonth's Pay , Receive a greater Sum , Hereat the bonny King grew blithe , To hear the clounish Jest ; How silly Sots , as Custom is , Do descent at the best . But not to spoil the foolish Sport , He was content , good King , To fit the Shepherd's Humour right In every kind of Thing . A Sheep hook then , with Patch his Dog , And Tar-box by his Side ; He , with his Master , Cheek by Joll , Unto old Gillian hy'd . Into whose Sighed no sooner came ; Whom have you here , quoth she ; A Fellow , I doubt , will cut our Throats ; So like a Knave looks he . Not so , old Dame , quoth Alfred straight , Of me you need not fear ; My Master hir'd me for Ten Groats , To serve you one whole Year : So , good Dame Gillian , grant me Leave Within your House to stay ; For by St. Anne , do what you can , I will not yet away . Her churlish Usage pleas'd him still , and put him to such Proof , That he at Night was almost choak'd Within that smoky Roof : But as he sat with smiling Cheer , The Event of all to see , His Dame brought forth a Piece of Dough , Which in the Fire throughs she ; Where lying on the Hearth to bake , By chance the Cake did burn : What can'st thou not , thou Lout , ( quoth she ) Take Pains the same to turn ? Thou art more quick to take it out , And eat it up half Dough , Than thus to stay till 't be enough , And so thy Manners show . But serve me such another Trick , I'll thwack thee on the Snou Which made the Patient King , good Man , Of her to stand in doubt . But , to be brief , to Bed they went , The old Man and his Wife ; But never such a Lodging had King Alfred in his Life ; For he was laid in white Sheep's Wool , New pull'd from tanned Fells ; And o're his Head hang'd Spiders Webs , As if they had ( 1 ) King Alfred and the Shepherd . WITH THE Humours of Gillian , the Shepherd's Wife To the Tune of Flying Fame . In this Song , there is at least a Possibility , ( and I believe I might say ) a Probability of Truth Alfred was not the only King , who has wander'd incog , among his Subject's , to discover their Hu - mours , Affection , and Manner of Living . We have had some of our own , as well as several Foreign Potentates , who have made a practice of it ; and even this good King Alfred himself is recorded to have done it , at a Time when the Danger was far greater than venturing among Swains and Peasants . For the Danes having invaded England , and left him ( of the whole Island ) only the Counties of Southampton , Wilts , and Somerset , he disguised himself , and enter'd their Camp , to reconnoitre their Strength , Manner of Encamping , etc And having seen and learned all he desired , he return'd to his own Soldiers ; and leading them on , they fell unawares up - on the Danes , and for that Year drove 'em out of the Kingdom . If he could do this , we may reasonably suppose , that in Time of Peace he could venture himself among his own Subject's ; especially considering how much he was belov'd by them all , and how little Risque he ran among them ; for he was a just , wise , and pious Prince , of a very liberal Education ; Endowments uncom - mon in those early Days : And beside the Arts of War and Government , he understood several of the Sciences ; and , among other , Music and Poetry to a Perfection . His Works of Piety were many ; but in particular , we are indebted to him for the Foundation of the University of Oxford : And notwithstanding the petty Cavils and Criticisms of some Antiquarians , the Members of Uni - versity-College still return Thanks for him , as their Founder . This Prince was the Fourth Son of King Egbert , of the Saxon Line : His three Elder Brother's reign'd successively before him ; but all dying without Issue , he at length inherited the Crown , reign'd Nine and Twenty Years , died in the Year 901 , and was buried at Winchester . I have nothing more to add , than that I think this Song one of the best Pastorals that ever was written in the English Tongue . I will not say , that our Poet had read the Story of Baucis and Philemon ; but thus much I dare assert , That in the Description of the Shepherd and his Wife's Manner of Living , their Fare on better Days , etc he truly comes up to the Spirit of Ovid , and does not fallen short of Theocritus in Simplicity , and a natural Way of expressing every Thing in Words becoming a Pastoral Song . IN Elder Time there was of Yore , When Gibes of churlish Glee Were us'd among our Country Carls , Tho' not such Thing now be . The which King Alfred liking well , Forsook his stately Court , And in disguise unknown went forth , To see that jovial Sport ; How Dick and Tom in clouted Shoes , And Coats of Russet Gray , Esteem'd themselves more brave than them That went in Golden Ray . In Garments fit for such a Life , The good King Alfred went , Ragged and torn as from his Back The Beggar his Clothes had rend . A Sword and Buckler good and strong , To give Jack Sauce a Rap ; And on his Head , instead of a Crown , He wore a Monmouth Cap. Thus coasting thourough Somersetshire , Near Newton-Court he met A Shepherd Swain of lusty Limb , That up and down did je He wore a Bonnet of good Gray , Close button'd to his Chin , And at his Back a Leather Scrip , With much good Meat therein . God speed , good Shepherd , quoth the King , I come to be thy Guest , To taste of thy good Victual here , And drink that's of the bes Thy Scrip , I know hath Cheer good Store : What then , the Shepherd said ? Thou seem'st to be some sturdy Thief , And mak'st me soar afraid : Yet if thou wilt thy Dinner win , Thy Sword and Buckler take ; And , if thou canst , into my Scrip Therewith and Entrance make . I tell thee , Roister , it hath store Of Beef , and Bacon fat , With Sheaves of Barley Bred to make Your Chaps to water a Here stands my Bottle , here my Bag , If thou can'st win them , Roister ; Against thy Sword and Buckler here , My Sheep hook is my Master . Benedicite , quoth our good King ; It never shall be said , That Alfred of the Shepherd's Hook Will stand a whit afraid . So soundly thus they both fell to 't , And giving Bang for Bang ; At every Blow the Shepherd gave , King Alfred's Sword cry'd Twang . His Buckler prov'd his chiefest Fence ; For still the Shepherd's Hook Was that the which King Alfred could In no good manner brook . At last , when they had fought Four Hours , And it grew just Midday , And weary'd , both , with right good Will Desir'd each other's Stay : K [ ing , truce Jery quoth Alfred then ] Good [ shepherd hold thy han ] worser ; A sturdier [ fellow than thyself ] Lives not [ within this land . ] Nor a lustier R [ oyster than ] thou art , The churlish Shepherd I said : To tell thee plain , thy Thievish Look Now makes my Heart afraid . Else sure thou art some Prodigal , Which hast consum'd thy Store , And now com'st wandering in this Place , To rob and steal for more . Deem not of me then , quoth our King , Good Shepherd , in this Sort ; A Gentleman well known I am In good King Alfred's Court . The Devil thou art , the Shepherd said ; Thou go'st in Rags all torn ; Thou rather seem [ ' ] st I think to be Some Beggar basely born : But if thou wilt mend thy Estate , And here a Shepherd be ; At Night , to Gillian , my sweet Wife , Thou shalt go home with me : For she's as good a toothless Dame , As mumbleth on brown Bred ; Where thou shalt lie in hurden Sheets , Upon a fresh Straw Bed. Of Whig and Whey we have good Store , And keep good Peas-straw Fire ; And now and then good Barley Cakes , As better Days require . But for my Master , which is Chief , And Lord of Newton-Court , He keeps , I say , his Shepherd Swains In far more braver Sort ; We there have Curds and clouted Cream , Of Read Cow's Morning Milk ; And now and then fine butter'd Cakes , As soft as any Silk , Of Beef and raised Bacon store , That is most fat and greasy , We have likewise , to feed our Chaps , And make them glib and easy . Thus if thou wilt my Man become , This Usage thou shalt have ; If not , adieu ; go hang thyself ; And so farewell , Sir Knave . King Alfred hearing of this Glee The churlish Shepherd said , Was well content to be his Man ; So they a Bargain made : A Penny round the Shepherd gave , In Earnest of this Match , To keep his Sheep in Field and Fold , As Shepherd's use to watch . His Wages shall be full Ten Groats , For Service of a Year ; Yet was it not his Use , old Lad , To hire a Man so dear : For did the King himself , quoth he , Unto my Cottage come , He should not , for a twelvemonth's Pay , Receive a greater Sum , Hereat the bonny King grew blithe , To hear the clounish Jest ; How silly Sots , as Custom is , Do descent at the best . But not to spoil the foolish Sport , He was content , good King , To fit the Shepherd's Humour right In every kind of Thing . A Sheep hook then , with Patch his Dog , And Tar-box by his Side ; He , with his Master , Cheek by Joll , Unto old Gillian hy'd . Into whose Sighed no sooner came ; Whom have you here , quoth she ; A Fellow , I doubt , will cut our Throats ; So like a Knave looks he . Not so , old Dame , quoth Alfred straight , Of me you need not fear ; My Master hir'd me for Ten Groats , To serve you one whole Year : So , good Dame Gillian , grant me Leave Within your House to stay ; For by St. Anne , do what you can , I will not yet away . Her churlish Usage pleas'd him still , and put him to such Proof , That he at Night was almost choak'd Within that smoky Roof : But as he sat with smiling Cheer , The Event of all to see , His Dame brought forth a Piece of Dough , Which in the Fire throughs she ; Where lying on the Hearth to bake , By chance the Cake did burn : What can'st thou not , thou Lout , ( quoth she ) Take Pains the same to turn ? Thou art more quick to take it out , And eat it up half Dough , Than thus to stay till 't be enough , And so thy Manners show . But serve me such another Trick , I'll thwack thee on the Snou Which made the Patient King , good Man , Of her to stand in doubt . But , to be brief , to Bed they went , The old Man and his Wife ; But never such a Lodging had King Alfred in his Life ; For he was laid in white Sheep's Wool , New pull'd from tanned Fells ; And o're his Head hang'd Spiders Webs , As if they had been Bells' . Is this the Country Guise , thought he ? Then here I will not stay , But hence be gone , as soon as breaks The peeping of next Day . The cackling Hens and Geese kept roost , And perched at his Side ; Where , at the last , the watchful Cock Made known the Morning Tide : Then up god Alfred , with his Horn , And blew so long a Blast , That it made Gillian and her Groom , In Bed , full soar aghast . Arise , quoth she , we are undone ; This Night we lodged have , At unawares , within our House , A false dissembling Knave : Rise , Husband , rise ; he'll cut our Throats ; He calls for his Mates : I'd give , Old Will , our good Cade Lamb , He would depart our Gates . But still King Alfred blew his Horn Before them more and more ; Till that and Hundred Lords and Knights All lighted at the Door : Who cry'd , All hail , all hail , good King ; Long have we sought your Grace . And here you find ( my Merry Men all ) Your Sov'reign in this Place . We surely must be hang'd up both , Old Gillian I much fear , The Shepherd said , for using thus Our good King Alfred here . O Pardon , my Liege , quoth Gillian then , For my Husband , and for me : By these ten Bones , I never thought The same that now I see . And by my Hook , the Shepherd said , ( And Oath both good and true ) Before this Time , Oh Noble King , I ne're your Highness knew : Then pardon me and my old Wife , That we may after say , When first you came into our House It was a happy Day . It shall be done , said Alfred , straight ; And Gillian , thy old Dame , For this her churlish using me Deserveth not much Blame : For 'tis the Country Guise , I see , To be thus bluntish still ; And where the plainest Meaning is , Remains the smallest Ill. And , Master , lo , I tell thee now For thy late Manhood shown , A Thousand Weathers I'll bestow Upon thee for thy own ; And Pasture-Ground , as much as will Suffice to feed them all : And this thy Cottage I will change Into a stately Hall . And for the same , as Duty binds , The Shepherd said good King , A Milkwhite Lamb , once ev'ry Year , I'll to your Highness bring ; And Gillian , my Wife , likewise , Of Wool to make you Coats , Will give you as much at New-Year's Tide , As shall be worth Ten Groats : And in your Praise , my Bagpipes shall Found sweetly once a Year , How Alfred , our renowned King , Most kindly hath been here . Thanks , Shepherd , Thanks , quoth he again : The next Time I come hither , My Lords with me , here in this House , Will all be merry together . NORTHAMPTON , Printed by WILLIAM DICEY ; and sold by William Peachey , near St. Ben - net's Church in Cambridge ; Matthias Dagnell , Bookseller , and at Mr. Burnham's Snuff-Shop in Aylesbury : John Timbs in Stony-Stratford ; Paul Stevens in Bicester ; Thomas Williams in Tring Anthony Thorpe in St. Albans ; and by Churrude Brady in St. Ives . been Bells' . Is this the Country Guise , thought he ? Then here I will not stay , But hence be gone , as soon as breaks The peeping of next Day . The cackling Hens and Geese kept roost , And perched at his Side ; Where , at the last , the watchful Cock Made known the Morning Tide : Then up god Alfred , with his Horn , And blew so long a Blast , That it made Gillian and her Groom , In Bed , full soar aghast . Arise , quoth she , we are undone ; This Night we lodged have , At unawares , within our House , A false dissembling Knave : Rise , Husband , rise ; he'll cut our Throats ; He calls for his Mates : I'd give , Old Will , our good Cade Lamb , He would depart our Gates . But still King Alfred blew his Horn Before them more and more ; Till that and Hundred Lords and Knights All lighted at the Door : Who cry'd , All hail , all hail , good King ; Long have we sought your Grace . And here you find ( my Merry Men all ) Your Sov'reign in this Place . We surely must be hang'd up both , Old Gillian I much fear , The Shepherd said , for using thus Our good King Alfred here . O Pardon , my Liege , quoth Gillian then , For my Husband , and for me : By these ten Bones , I never thought The same that now I see . And by my Hook , the Shepherd said , ( And Oath both good and true ) Before this Time , Oh Noble King , I ne're your Highness knew : Then pardon me and my old Wife , That we may after say , When first you came into our House It was a happy Day . It shall be done , said Alfred , straight ; And Gillian , thy old Dame , For this her churlish using me Deserveth not much Blame : For 'tis the Country Guise , I see , To be thus bluntish still ; And where the plainest Meaning is , Remains the smallest Ill. And , Master , lo , I tell thee now For thy late Manhood shown , A Thousand Weathers I'll bestow Upon thee for thy own ; And Pasture-Ground , as much as will Suffice to feed them all : And this thy Cottage I will change Into a stately Hall . And for the same , as Duty binds , The Shepherd said good King , A Milkwhite Lamb , once ev'ry Year , I'll to your Highness bring ; And Gillian , my Wife , likewise , Of Wool to make you Coats , Will give you as much at New-Year's Tide , As shall be worth Ten Groats : And in your Praise , my Bagpipes shall Found sweetly once a Year , How Alfred , our renowned King , Most kindly hath been here . Thanks , Shepherd , Thanks , quoth he again : The next Time I come hither , My Lords with me , here in this House , Will all be merry together . NORTHAMPTON , Printed by WILLIAM DICEY ; and sold by William Peachey , near St. Ben - net's Church in Cambridge ; Matthias Dagnell , Bookseller , and at Mr. Burnham's Snuff-Shop in Aylesbury : John Timbs in Stony-Stratford ; Paul Stevens in Bicester ; Thomas Williams in Tring Anthony Thorpe in St. Albans ; and by Churrude Brady in St. Ives . 