The GOSPORT Tragedy : Or , The Perjur'd Ship-Carpenter . Tune of Peggy's gone over Sea , etc IN Gosport of late there a Damsel did dwell , For wit and for beauty did many excel ; A young Man to court her to be his dear , And he by his Trade was a Sh [ i ] p-carpenter . He said , Oh! dear Molly , if you will agree , And will consent to marry me ; My love you will ease me of sorrow and care , If you will but wed a Ship carpenter . With Blushes more charming than Roses in June , She answer'd sweet William , To wed I'm too young . Young Men are so fickle I see very plain . If a Maid is not coy they will her disdain . They flatter and swear their charms they adore , When gain'd their consent , they care for no more ; The handsomest creature that ever was born , When Man has enjoy'd , he will hold in scorn . My charming Molly what makes you say so ? Thy Beauty's the Haven to which I would go . If into that Country I chance for to steer , I there will cast Anchor , and stay with my dear . I ne'er shall be cloy'd with the Charms of my Love , My love is as true as the Turtle Dove ; And all I crave is to wed with my dear , And when thou art mine no danger I fear . The life of a Virgin , sweet William , I prize , For Marriage brings Sorrows and Troubles likewise ; I am loath to venture , and therefore forbear , For I will not wed a Ship-carpenter . For in Time of War to the Sea you must go , And leave Wife and Children in Sorrow and Woe ! The Seas they are perilous , therefore forbear , For I will not wed with a Ship carpenter . But yet all in vain , she his Suit did deny , Though he still did press to make her comply ; At length with his cunning he did her betray , And to lewd Desires he led her away . But when with Child this young Damsel were , The Tidings she instantly sent to her dear ; And by the good Heaven he swore to be true , Saying , I will wed no other but you . This passed on till at length we hear , The King wants Sailors , to Sea he repairs , Which grieved the Damsel unto the Heart , To think she so soon with her Lover must part . She said , my dear William e'er thou go'st to Sea , Remember the Vow that thou madest to me ; But if you forsake me I never shall rest , Oh! why dost thou leave me with Sorrow oppressed ? Then with kind Embraces to her he did say , I'll wed thee , dear Molly , e'er I go away ; And if Tomorrow to me thou dost come , A License I'll buy , and it shall be done . So with kind Embraces be parted that Night , She went to meet him in the Morning light ; He said dear Charmer thou must go with me , Before we are wedded , a Friend to see . He led her through Valleys and Groves so deep , At length this Maiden began to weep ; Saying , William , I fancy thou lead'st me astray , On purpose my innocent Life to betray . He said that is true , and none can you save , For I all this Night have been digging a Grave ; Poor innocent Soul when she herd him say so , Her Eyes like a Fountain began for to flow . O perjur'd Creature , the worst of all Men , Heavens reward thee when I'm dead and gone ; Oh pity the Infant , and spare my life , Let me go distressed , if I'm not thy Wife . Her Hands white as lilies in Sorrow she wrung , Beseeching for Mercy , saying , what have I done ? To you my dear William , what makes you severe ? For to murder one that loves you so dear . He said here's no Time disputing to stand , And instantly taking the Knife in his Hand ; He pierced her Body till the Blood it did flow , Then into the Grave her Body did throw . He cover'd her Body , then Home he did run , Leaving none but Birds her Death to mourn ; On Board the Bedford he enter'd straightway , Which lay at Portsmouth out bound for the Sea. For Carpenter's Mate he was enter'd we hear , Fitted for his Voyage away he did steer ; But as in his Cabin one Night he did lie , The Voice of his Sweetheart he herd to cry ; Oh perjur'd Villain , awake now and hear , The Voice of your love that lov'd you so dear ; This Ship out of Portsmouth never shall go , Till I am revenged for this Overthrow . She afterwards vanish'd with Shrieks and Cries , Flashes of lightning did dart from her Eyes ; Which put the Ship's Crew into great fear , None saw the Ghost , but the Voice all did hear . Charles Steuart , a Man of Courage so bold , One Night was going into the Hold ; A beautiful Creature to him did appear , And she in her Arms had a Daughter most fair . The Charms of this so glorious a Face , Being merry in Drink , he goes to Embrace , But to his Surprise it vanish'd away , So he goes to the Captain without more Delay . And told him the Story , which when he did hear , The Captain said , some of my Men I do fear ; Have done some Murder , and if it be so , Our Ship in great Danger to the Sea must go . One at a Time then his merry Men all , Into his Cabin he did them strait call ? And said , my lad , the News I do bear , Does much surprise me with Sorrow and Care . This Ghost which appear'd in the dead of the Night , Which all my Seamen so sadly did fright ; I fear has been wronged by some of the Crew , And therefore the Person I fain would know . Then William affrighted did tremble in fear , And began by the Powers above to swear ; He nothing at all of the Matter did know , But as from the Captain he went to go . Unto his Surprise his true love did see , With that he immediately fell on his Knee ; And said here's my true love where shall I run tO Oh save me , or else I am surely undone , Now he the Murder confessed out of Hand , And said , before me my Molly does stand , Sweet injur'd Ghost thy Pardon I crave , And soon I will seek thee in the silent Grave . No one but this Wretch did see this sad Sighed . Then raving distracted he dy'd in the Night ; As soon as her Parents these Tidings did hear , They sought for the Body of their Daughter dear . Near a Place call'd Southampton in a Valley deep , The Body was found , while many did weep ; At the Fallen of the Damsel and her Daughter dear , In Gosport Church they bury'd her there . I hope that this may be a Warning to all Young Men how innocent Maids do enthral ; Young Men be constant and true to your love , Then a Blessing indeed will attend you above . Printed and Sold at the Prnting-Office in Bow-Church-Yard , London . The GOSPORT Tragedy : Or , The Perjur'd Ship-Carpenter . Tune of Peggy's gone over Sea , etc IN Gosport of late there a Damsel did dwell , For wit and for beauty did many excel ; A young Man to court her to be his dear , And he by his Trade was a Sh [ i ] p-carpenter . He said , Oh! dear Molly , if you will agree , And will consent to marry me ; My love you will ease me of sorrow and care , If you will but wed a Ship carpenter . With Blushes more charming than Roses in June , She answer'd sweet William , To wed I'm too young . Young Men are so fickle I see very plain . If a Maid is not coy they will her disdain . They flatter and swear their charms they adore , When gain'd their consent , they care for no more ; The handsomest creature that ever was born , When Man has enjoy'd , he will hold in scorn . My charming Molly what makes you say so ? Thy Beauty's the Haven to which I would go . If into that Country I chance for to steer , I there will cast Anchor , and stay with my dear . I ne'er shall be cloy'd with the Charms of my Love , My love is as true as the Turtle Dove ; And all I crave is to wed with my dear , And when thou art mine no danger I fear . The life of a Virgin , sweet William , I prize , For Marriage brings Sorrows and Troubles likewise ; I am loath to venture , and therefore forbear , For I will not wed a Ship-carpenter . For in Time of War to the Sea you must go , And leave Wife and Children in Sorrow and Woe ! The Seas they are perilous , therefore forbear , For I will not wed with a Ship carpenter . But yet all in vain , she his Suit did deny , Though he still did press to make her comply ; At length with his cunning he did her betray , And to lewd Desires he led her away . But when with Child this young Damsel were , The Tidings she instantly sent to her dear ; And by the good Heaven he swore to be true , Saying , I will wed no other but you . This passed on till at length we hear , The King wants Sailors , to Sea he repairs , Which grieved the Damsel unto the Heart , To think she so soon with her Lover must part . She said , my dear William e'er thou go'st to Sea , Remember the Vow that thou madest to me ; But if you forsake me I never shall rest , Oh! why dost thou leave me with Sorrow oppressed ? Then with kind Embraces to her he did say , I'll wed thee , dear Molly , e'er I go away ; And if Tomorrow to me thou dost come , A License I'll buy , and it shall be done . So with kind Embraces be parted that Night , She went to meet him in the Morning light ; He said dear Charmer thou must go with me , Before we are wedded , a Friend to see . He led her through Valleys and Groves so deep , At length this Maiden began to weep ; Saying , William , I fancy thou lead'st me astray , On purpose my innocent Life to betray . He said that is true , and none can you save , For I all this Night have been digging a Grave ; Poor innocent Soul when she herd him say so , Her Eyes like a Fountain began for to flow . O perjur'd Creature , the worst of all Men , Heavens reward thee when I'm dead and gone ; Oh pity the Infant , and spare my life , Let me go distressed , if I'm not thy Wife . Her Hands white as lilies in Sorrow she wrung , Beseeching for Mercy , saying , what have I done ? To you my dear William , what makes you severe ? For to murder one that loves you so dear . He said here's no Time disputing to stand , And instantly taking the Knife in his Hand ; He pierced her Body till the Blood it did flow , Then into the Grave her Body did throw . He cover'd her Body , then Home he did run , Leaving none but Birds her Death to mourn ; On Board the Bedford he enter'd straightway , Which lay at Portsmouth out bound for the Sea. For Carpenter's Mate he was enter'd we hear , Fitted for his Voyage away he did steer ; But as in his Cabin one Night he did lie , The Voice of his Sweetheart he herd to cry ; Oh perjur'd Villain , awake now and hear , The Voice of your love that lov'd you so dear ; This Ship out of Portsmouth never shall go , Till I am revenged for this Overthrow . She afterwards vanish'd with Shrieks and Cries , Flashes of lightning did dart from her Eyes ; Which put the Ship's Crew into great fear , None saw the Ghost , but the Voice all did hear . Charles Steuart , a Man of Courage so bold , One Night was going into the Hold ; A beautiful Creature to him did appear , And she in her Arms had a Daughter most fair . The Charms of this so glorious a Face , Being merry in Drink , he goes to Embrace , But to his Surprise it vanish'd away , So he goes to the Captain without more Delay . And told him the Story , which when he did hear , The Captain said , some of my Men I do fear ; Have done some Murder , and if it be so , Our Ship in great Danger to the Sea must go . One at a Time then his merry Men all , Into his Cabin he did them strait call ? And said , my lad , the News I do bear , Does much surprise me with Sorrow and Care . This Ghost which appear'd in the dead of the Night , Which all my Seamen so sadly did fright ; I fear has been wronged by some of the Crew , And therefore the Person I fain would know . Then William affrighted did tremble in fear , And began by the Powers above to swear ; He nothing at all of the Matter did know , But as from the Captain he went to go . Unto his Surprise his true love did see , With that he immediately fell on his Knee ; And said here's my true love where shall I run tO Oh save me , or else I am surely undone , Now he the Murder confessed out of Hand , And said , before me my Molly does stand , Sweet injur'd Ghost thy Pardon I crave , And soon I will seek thee in the silent Grave . No one but this Wretch did see this sad Sighed . Then raving distracted he dy'd in the Night ; As soon as her Parents these Tidings did hear , They sought for the Body of their Daughter dear . Near a Place call'd Southampton in a Valley deep , The Body was found , while many did weep ; At the Fallen of the Damsel and her Daughter dear , In Gosport Church they bury'd her there . I hope that this may be a Warning to all Young Men how innocent Maids do enthral ; Young Men be constant and true to your love , Then a Blessing indeed will attend you above . Printed and Sold at the Prnting-Office in Bow-Church-Yard , London . 