The ESSEX BALLAD . To and old Tune new reviv'd . IN Essex much renown'd for Calves , And giving Verdicts in by halves , For Oysters , Agues , and for Knaves of Faction . One Peer , and Men of Worship four , With Gentlemen some half a score , Did draw in ten Dutch Else of Boar to Actium . The Squire , whose Name does famous grow As Marcus Tullius Cicero , And keeps true Time with Sir A ------ --- A ------ As freely gave himself his Hand , As once his Voice to rule the Land , By such as should not understand too rashly . The Rout that erst did roar so loud ; A M ------ and a H ------ Are of their Choice now grown so proud , you'd wonder : And these State-Tinkers must be sent To stop the Leaks of Government , Grown crazy now , and almost rend in sunder . His Honour first set all his Hands , Each Members next in order stands ; The Rabble , without If's or And's , subscratch it . The Cause , not obsolete , though old , Like Insects lay in Winter cold , And warm Petitions ( they were told ) would hatch it . Corn boar a price in Cromwel's days , Nor did we want a vent for Bays ; Nay , even Calves were several ways advanced : And then we fear'd not wicked Plots ; The Godly serv'd to cut our Throats , Though Agents for the Pope , as Oats and Prance said . Those Reasons did so much prevail , That they petition'd Tooth and Nail , To have the Sovereign strike Sail , and stand by : While th' Parliament had sat some years , To drive out Pope with Presbyters , And try the Babylonish Peers , and Danby . For how can Corn and Wool be dear , Since Popish Lords drink little Beer , Eat Fish , and very seldom wear our Woollen ? Nay , even their Horses are afraid Of Treason in the Manger laid ; And the King's Evidence dismay'd their Pullen . These Grievances , with others many , ( Too long for Ballad of a Penny ) Drove on a Heard of Clowns to any adventure . Those Brands , which in the days of Yore , Unmanufactur'd Parchment boar ; And when Farms let , sign'd heretofore Indenture . In Hieroglyphic rows were set Like Oriental Alphabet ; And lest the King should quite forget the Senate , Their Hinds lay whip and whistling by , Humbly to council Majesty ; And what they could not read , would try their Pen at . The Milkmaid hop'd old comfort's in 't , Since Bodkins once did Breeches Mint , And straight subscrib'd their Butterprint to Creamer : But these were all but single gains , And hardly worth their toil and pains , The Cause wants vigour , and disdains a Dreamer . This dallying therefore to prevent , And Anti-popish Bull was sent , The Emblem of the Government , to baiting : Where Butchers , Tinkers , Ostlers go , Tapsters and Broom-men all a row ; And Carters for the sport left Ho and Haiting . Th' unanswerable Scotch-Cloth Men , Taps , Sives , Chairs , and Coney-skin , Beggars and Boys all throng'd , and then Egyptians . This Honourable Covey met , Hedge draws the Members Setting-Net , And gets from all , without Regret , Subscriptions . When this great Council was dismiss'd , They found that several Yards of Fist Were wanting to complete the List ; and order'd , Seven Elders to disperse the Deed , To those of the Geneva Creed , Brothers to such as on the Tweed are border'd . These trudg'd a Conventicling , To pray the Lord , and beg the King ; The Congregation sign'd the thing Sans Scruple . Those Scholars that could write , they bribe To prompt and proxy every Tribe ; And these did personally subscribe Centuple . But now the time draws on apace , And Member itches for his place , The Knights and Gentlemen five brace assemble : And brought the Muster-Roll to Court , Though Charles did hardly thank 'em for 't ; But made 'em with a sharp retort to tremble . Now God preserve our King and Queen From Piebald Coats , and Ribbons green ; Let neither Knave nor Fool be seen about 'em : And those that will not say Amen , Let 'em Petition once again , For everyone the Shire has , ten to rout 'em . FINIS . Printed at LONDON , in the Year 1680. The ESSEX BALLAD . To and old Tune new reviv'd . IN Essex much renown'd for Calves , And giving Verdicts in by halves , For Oysters , Agues , and for Knaves of Faction . One Peer , and Men of Worship four , With Gentlemen some half a score , Did draw in ten Dutch Else of Boar to Actium . The Squire , whose Name does famous grow As Marcus Tullius Cicero , And keeps true Time with Sir A ------ --- A ------ As freely gave himself his Hand , As once his Voice to rule the Land , By such as should not understand too rashly . The Rout that erst did roar so loud ; A M ------ and a H ------ Are of their Choice now grown so proud , you'd wonder : And these State-Tinkers must be sent To stop the Leaks of Government , Grown crazy now , and almost rend in sunder . His Honour first set all his Hands , Each Members next in order stands ; The Rabble , without If's or And's , subscratch it . The Cause , not obsolete , though old , Like Insects lay in Winter cold , And warm Petitions ( they were told ) would hatch it . Corn boar a price in Cromwel's days , Nor did we want a vent for Bays ; Nay , even Calves were several ways advanced : And then we fear'd not wicked Plots ; The Godly serv'd to cut our Throats , Though Agents for the Pope , as Oats and Prance said . Those Reasons did so much prevail , That they petition'd Tooth and Nail , To have the Sovereign strike Sail , and stand by : While th' Parliament had sat some years , To drive out Pope with Presbyters , And try the Babylonish Peers , and Danby . For how can Corn and Wool be dear , Since Popish Lords drink little Beer , Eat Fish , and very seldom wear our Woollen ? Nay , even their Horses are afraid Of Treason in the Manger laid ; And the King's Evidence dismay'd their Pullen . These Grievances , with others many , ( Too long for Ballad of a Penny ) Drove on a Heard of Clowns to any adventure . Those Brands , which in the days of Yore , Unmanufactur'd Parchment boar ; And when Farms let , sign'd heretofore Indenture . In Hieroglyphic rows were set Like Oriental Alphabet ; And lest the King should quite forget the Senate , Their Hinds lay whip and whistling by , Humbly to council Majesty ; And what they could not read , would try their Pen at . The Milkmaid hop'd old comfort's in 't , Since Bodkins once did Breeches Mint , And straight subscrib'd their Butterprint to Creamer : But these were all but single gains , And hardly worth their toil and pains , The Cause wants vigour , and disdains a Dreamer . This dallying therefore to prevent , And Anti-popish Bull was sent , The Emblem of the Government , to baiting : Where Butchers , Tinkers , Ostlers go , Tapsters and Broom-men all a row ; And Carters for the sport left Ho and Haiting . Th' unanswerable Scotch-Cloth Men , Taps , Sives , Chairs , and Coney-skin , Beggars and Boys all throng'd , and then Egyptians . This Honourable Covey met , Hedge draws the Members Setting-Net , And gets from all , without Regret , Subscriptions . When this great Council was dismiss'd , They found that several Yards of Fist Were wanting to complete the List ; and order'd , Seven Elders to disperse the Deed , To those of the Geneva Creed , Brothers to such as on the Tweed are border'd . These trudg'd a Conventicling , To pray the Lord , and beg the King ; The Congregation sign'd the thing Sans Scruple . Those Scholars that could write , they bribe To prompt and proxy every Tribe ; And these did personally subscribe Centuple . But now the time draws on apace , And Member itches for his place , The Knights and Gentlemen five brace assemble : And brought the Muster-Roll to Court , Though Charles did hardly thank 'em for 't ; But made 'em with a sharp retort to tremble . Now God preserve our King and Queen From Piebald Coats , and Ribbons green ; Let neither Knave nor Fool be seen about 'em : And those that will not say Amen , Let 'em Petition once again , For everyone the Shire has , ten to rout 'em . FINIS . Printed at LONDON , in the Year 1680. 