A Wondered Prophesy , Declared by Christian James , a Maid of Twenty Years of Age , ( late Daughter to Daniel James ) who was born and bred near the Town which is called Padstow , in the County of Cornwal , who departed this Life upon the 8th . of March . With a True Relation of her Behaviour , both in her Lifetime , and at the Hour of her Death ; worthy to be had in perpetual Memory . To the Tune of In Summertime . THE mighty Lord that rules in Heaven , strange Wonders does in England send , And many Warnings hath us given , 'cause we our Lives should soon amend ; But like the misbelieving Jews , so hard of Heart our People be , They think that nothing can be true , but that which their own Eyes do see . Therefore , good People , mark it well , I'll here lay open to your view A Song most wondered and strange , and can approve it to be true : A Damsel did near Padstow dwell , within the County of Cornwal fair , Whose Parents had no Child but her ; she was her Father's only Heir : To whom came many a brave Young Man , intending to make her a Wife ; But never tempting Tongue could make this Maid to change her Maiden Life : And though her Parents Riches had , and costly Garments her allow'd , In homely Habit she would go , and always hated to be proud . She ne'er was herd to curse or swear , nor any Word of Anger give , But courteous was in everything , to them that did about her live : If she herd anyone to swear , or take God's Sacred Name in vain , She told them that they crucified our Saviour Jesus Christ again . She often did frequent the Church , and also did relieve the Poor , The Widow and the Fatherless , she every Day fed at the Door . Upon a time , this Damsel she fell sick , and in a dealy found She lay , for Twenty Hours space no Life in her could then be found . Her aged Father did lament , her Mother she shed many a Tear , She wept , she wail'd , she wrung her Hands for loss of this her Daughter dear . Alas ! Alas ! my Child , she said , how dearly have I tender'd thee ; And wilt thou now forsake the World , and leave me in this misery ! I would my birth had been my death , then never had I seen this Day ! This grievous moan the Mother made by her dear Daughter as she lay ; At last she did Strong Waters fetch , and rubs her Temples and each Vein , Till at the last the Damsel had recover'd Life and Sense again . And being come unto her Speech , with Voice most shrill aloud she cry'd , Oh Mother you have done me wrong , this cannot be by you deny'd ; For I was in the way to Heaven , two glorious Angels did me guide , Who gently took me by the Hand , and held me up on every side . SInging of Psalms , and spiritual Songs , so long as we pass'd on the way , Till he which had a Golden Crown met us , and caused us to stay : Return , said he , from whence thou cam'st , thy Mother for thee makes great moan , And tell these things , which I declare , unto thy Neighbours every one . Speak this , quoth he , unto them all , How that the Lord e'er long will send A grievous Punishment to them that do his Will wilfully offend : This is the last Age of the World , even to the very sink of since , The Puddle of Iniquity , which you long time have wallowed in . The Men and Wives live in discord , the Father envies his own Son , The Rich , and Poor , the Old , the Young , do hourly into Mischief run : Extortion and Idolatry , and hateful Pride is now in use ; Blasphemous Oaths and Curses vile , the People count as no abuse . Good Ministers are set at nought , the Sabbath is prophan'd also , The Poor lies starving in the Street , oppressed with sorrow , grief , and woe : The loathsome since of Drunkenness , and Whoredom , does too much exceed ; He that can do his Neighbour wrong , does think he does a Godly Deed. Now ponder well what I do say , Doom's dreadful Day is nigh at hand , Fire and Brimstone shall destroy the Heaven , the Earth , the Sea , and Land , And every Soul before the Lord , a just Account he then shall give ; His Conscience shall a witness be , in what Condition he did live . Then he that hath done well shall pass forthwith to everlasting rest , And live among those glorious Saints , which Jesus Christ our Lord hath blessed ; Where Martyrs , Prophets , and Patriarchs , do Hallelujahs ever sing , Glory and Honour be to God , and unto Christ our Heavenly King . Then woe to them that have done ill , when they shall here the Sentence past , Depart you Cursed into Hell , whose Fire for evermore shall las The Sorrows which are here foretold , will come on you , e'er it be long , Except Repentance truly dwell In Hearts of all , both old and young . Repentance , and true watery Eyes , will help to quench the burning Flame Which he hath kindled , to consume this wicked World's most rotten Frame : Let not your Building all , so brave , be burned and wasted with God's Ire , Nor let our Souls , for whom Christ dy'd , be burned in Hell's eternal Fire . Here endeth the Prophecy . THese Speeches spoke , the Maiden dy'd , and came no more to Life again ; Her Soul , no doubt , is gone to Heaven , with glorious Angels to remain : At her decease , and Harmony of Music there was herd to found , Which ravish'd all the standers by , it did with sweetness so abound ; It pierc'd the Earth and Air also , yet no Man knew from whence it came ; But each one said it came from Heaven : And presently , upon the same , The Magistrates of that same Parish , which herd and saw this Wonder strange , Desired to have it put in print , cause wicked Men their Ways may change . The Names of the Master's of the Parish that saw the Maid on her Deathbed , and herd the Words of the Prophesy which she delivered , were as follows : W. Wates , Curate ; T. Davis , Head Constable ; R. Wilkins , and C. Tanner , Church-Wardens ; who , by Consent of diverse others in the same Parish , which were in the presence at the Damsel's de - cease , caused a Letter to be written , and sent from thence to London , on purpose to have it printed , whereby to avoid Scandal . Contrived into Metre , by L. P. Printed for George Conyers , at the Golden Ring in Little Britain . A Wondered Prophesy , Declared by Christian James , a Maid of Twenty Years of Age , ( late Daughter to Daniel James ) who was born and bred near the Town which is called Padstow , in the County of Cornwal , who departed this Life upon the 8th . of March . With a True Relation of her Behaviour , both in her Lifetime , and at the Hour of her Death ; worthy to be had in perpetual Memory . To the Tune of In Summertime . THE mighty Lord that rules in Heaven , strange Wonders does in England send , And many Warnings hath us given , 'cause we our Lives should soon amend ; But like the misbelieving Jews , so hard of Heart our People be , They think that nothing can be true , but that which their own Eyes do see . Therefore , good People , mark it well , I'll here lay open to your view A Song most wondered and strange , and can approve it to be true : A Damsel did near Padstow dwell , within the County of Cornwal fair , Whose Parents had no Child but her ; she was her Father's only Heir : To whom came many a brave Young Man , intending to make her a Wife ; But never tempting Tongue could make this Maid to change her Maiden Life : And though her Parents Riches had , and costly Garments her allow'd , In homely Habit she would go , and always hated to be proud . She ne'er was herd to curse or swear , nor any Word of Anger give , But courteous was in everything , to them that did about her live : If she herd anyone to swear , or take God's Sacred Name in vain , She told them that they crucified our Saviour Jesus Christ again . She often did frequent the Church , and also did relieve the Poor , The Widow and the Fatherless , she every Day fed at the Door . Upon a time , this Damsel she fell sick , and in a dealy found She lay , for Twenty Hours space no Life in her could then be found . Her aged Father did lament , her Mother she shed many a Tear , She wept , she wail'd , she wrung her Hands for loss of this her Daughter dear . Alas ! Alas ! my Child , she said , how dearly have I tender'd thee ; And wilt thou now forsake the World , and leave me in this misery ! I would my birth had been my death , then never had I seen this Day ! This grievous moan the Mother made by her dear Daughter as she lay ; At last she did Strong Waters fetch , and rubs her Temples and each Vein , Till at the last the Damsel had recover'd Life and Sense again . And being come unto her Speech , with Voice most shrill aloud she cry'd , Oh Mother you have done me wrong , this cannot be by you deny'd ; For I was in the way to Heaven , two glorious Angels did me guide , Who gently took me by the Hand , and held me up on every side . SInging of Psalms , and spiritual Songs , so long as we pass'd on the way , Till he which had a Golden Crown met us , and caused us to stay : Return , said he , from whence thou cam'st , thy Mother for thee makes great moan , And tell these things , which I declare , unto thy Neighbours every one . Speak this , quoth he , unto them all , How that the Lord e'er long will send A grievous Punishment to them that do his Will wilfully offend : This is the last Age of the World , even to the very sink of since , The Puddle of Iniquity , which you long time have wallowed in . The Men and Wives live in discord , the Father envies his own Son , The Rich , and Poor , the Old , the Young , do hourly into Mischief run : Extortion and Idolatry , and hateful Pride is now in use ; Blasphemous Oaths and Curses vile , the People count as no abuse . Good Ministers are set at nought , the Sabbath is prophan'd also , The Poor lies starving in the Street , oppressed with sorrow , grief , and woe : The loathsome since of Drunkenness , and Whoredom , does too much exceed ; He that can do his Neighbour wrong , does think he does a Godly Deed. Now ponder well what I do say , Doom's dreadful Day is nigh at hand , Fire and Brimstone shall destroy the Heaven , the Earth , the Sea , and Land , And every Soul before the Lord , a just Account he then shall give ; His Conscience shall a witness be , in what Condition he did live . Then he that hath done well shall pass forthwith to everlasting rest , And live among those glorious Saints , which Jesus Christ our Lord hath blessed ; Where Martyrs , Prophets , and Patriarchs , do Hallelujahs ever sing , Glory and Honour be to God , and unto Christ our Heavenly King . Then woe to them that have done ill , when they shall here the Sentence past , Depart you Cursed into Hell , whose Fire for evermore shall las The Sorrows which are here foretold , will come on you , e'er it be long , Except Repentance truly dwell In Hearts of all , both old and young . Repentance , and true watery Eyes , will help to quench the burning Flame Which he hath kindled , to consume this wicked World's most rotten Frame : Let not your Building all , so brave , be burned and wasted with God's Ire , Nor let our Souls , for whom Christ dy'd , be burned in Hell's eternal Fire . Here endeth the Prophecy . THese Speeches spoke , the Maiden dy'd , and came no more to Life again ; Her Soul , no doubt , is gone to Heaven , with glorious Angels to remain : At her decease , and Harmony of Music there was herd to found , Which ravish'd all the standers by , it did with sweetness so abound ; It pierc'd the Earth and Air also , yet no Man knew from whence it came ; But each one said it came from Heaven : And presently , upon the same , The Magistrates of that same Parish , which herd and saw this Wonder strange , Desired to have it put in print , cause wicked Men their Ways may change . The Names of the Master's of the Parish that saw the Maid on her Deathbed , and herd the Words of the Prophesy which she delivered , were as follows : W. Wates , Curate ; T. Davis , Head Constable ; R. Wilkins , and C. Tanner , Church-Wardens ; who , by Consent of diverse others in the same Parish , which were in the presence at the Damsel's de - cease , caused a Letter to be written , and sent from thence to London , on purpose to have it printed , whereby to avoid Scandal . Contrived into Metre , by L. P. Printed for George Conyers , at the Golden Ring in Little Britain . A Wondered Prophesy , Declared by Christian James , a Maid of Twenty Years of Age , ( late Daughter to Daniel James ) who was born and bred near the Town which is called Padstow , in the County of Cornwal , who departed this Life upon the 8th . of March . With a True Relation of her Behaviour , both in her Lifetime , and at the Hour of her Death ; worthy to be had in perpetual Memory . To the Tune of In Summertime . THE mighty Lord that rules in Heaven , strange Wonders does in England send , And many Warnings hath us given , 'cause we our Lives should soon amend ; But like the misbelieving Jews , so hard of Heart our People be , They think that nothing can be true , but that which their own Eyes do see . Therefore , good People , mark it well , I'll here lay open to your view A Song most wondered and strange , and can approve it to be true : A Damsel did near Padstow dwell , within the County of Cornwal fair , Whose Parents had no Child but her ; she was her Father's only Heir : To whom came many a brave Young Man , intending to make her a Wife ; But never tempting Tongue could make this Maid to change her Maiden Life : And though her Parents Riches had , and costly Garments her allow'd , In homely Habit she would go , and always hated to be proud . She ne'er was herd to curse or swear , nor any Word of Anger give , But courteous was in everything , to them that did about her live : If she herd anyone to swear , or take God's Sacred Name in vain , She told them that they crucified our Saviour Jesus Christ again . She often did frequent the Church , and also did relieve the Poor , The Widow and the Fatherless , she every Day fed at the Door . Upon a time , this Damsel she fell sick , and in a dealy found She lay , for Twenty Hours space no Life in her could then be found . Her aged Father did lament , her Mother she shed many a Tear , She wept , she wail'd , she wrung her Hands for loss of this her Daughter dear . Alas ! Alas ! my Child , she said , how dearly have I tender'd thee ; And wilt thou now forsake the World , and leave me in this misery ! I would my birth had been my death , then never had I seen this Day ! This grievous moan the Mother made by her dear Daughter as she lay ; At last she did Strong Waters fetch , and rubs her Temples and each Vein , Till at the last the Damsel had recover'd Life and Sense again . And being come unto her Speech , with Voice most shrill aloud she cry'd , Oh Mother you have done me wrong , this cannot be by you deny'd ; For I was in the way to Heaven , two glorious Angels did me guide , Who gently took me by the Hand , and held me up on every side . SInging of Psalms , and spiritual Songs , so long as we pass'd on the way , Till he which had a Golden Crown met us , and caused us to stay : Return , said he , from whence thou cam'st , thy Mother for thee makes great moan , And tell these things , which I declare , unto thy Neighbours every one . Speak this , quoth he , unto them all , How that the Lord e'er long will send A grievous Punishment to them that do his Will wilfully offend : This is the last Age of the World , even to the very sink of since , The Puddle of Iniquity , which you long time have wallowed in . The Men and Wives live in discord , the Father envies his own Son , The Rich , and Poor , the Old , the Young , do hourly into Mischief run : Extortion and Idolatry , and hateful Pride is now in use ; Blasphemous Oaths and Curses vile , the People count as no abuse . Good Ministers are set at nought , the Sabbath is prophan'd also , The Poor lies starving in the Street , oppressed with sorrow , grief , and woe : The loathsome since of Drunkenness , and Whoredom , does too much exceed ; He that can do his Neighbour wrong , does think he does a Godly Deed. Now ponder well what I do say , Doom's dreadful Day is nigh at hand , Fire and Brimstone shall destroy the Heaven , the Earth , the Sea , and Land , And every Soul before the Lord , a just Account he then shall give ; His Conscience shall a witness be , in what Condition he did live . Then he that hath done well shall pass forthwith to everlasting rest , And live among those glorious Saints , which Jesus Christ our Lord hath blessed ; Where Martyrs , Prophets , and Patriarchs , do Hallelujahs ever sing , Glory and Honour be to God , and unto Christ our Heavenly King . Then woe to them that have done ill , when they shall here the Sentence past , Depart you Cursed into Hell , whose Fire for evermore shall las The Sorrows which are here foretold , will come on you , e'er it be long , Except Repentance truly dwell In Hearts of all , both old and young . Repentance , and true watery Eyes , will help to quench the burning Flame Which he hath kindled , to consume this wicked World's most rotten Frame : Let not your Building all , so brave , be burned and wasted with God's Ire , Nor let our Souls , for whom Christ dy'd , be burned in Hell's eternal Fire . Here endeth the Prophecy . THese Speeches spoke , the Maiden dy'd , and came no more to Life again ; Her Soul , no doubt , is gone to Heaven , with glorious Angels to remain : At her decease , and Harmony of Music there was herd to found , Which ravish'd all the standers by , it did with sweetness so abound ; It pierc'd the Earth and Air also , yet no Man knew from whence it came ; But each one said it came from Heaven : And presently , upon the same , The Magistrates of that same Parish , which herd and saw this Wonder strange , Desired to have it put in print , cause wicked Men their Ways may change . The Names of the Master's of the Parish that saw the Maid on her Deathbed , and herd the Words of the Prophesy which she delivered , were as follows : W. Wates , Curate ; T. Davis , Head Constable ; R. Wilkins , and C. Tanner , Church-Wardens ; who , by Consent of diverse others in the same Parish , which were in the presence at the Damsel's de - cease , caused a Letter to be written , and sent from thence to London , on purpose to have it printed , whereby to avoid Scandal . Contrived into Metre , by L. P. Printed for George Conyers , at the Golden Ring in Little Britain . A Wondered Prophesy , Declared by Christian James , a Maid of Twenty Years of Age , ( late Daughter to Daniel James ) who was born and bred near the Town which is called Padstow , in the County of Cornwal , who departed this Life upon the 8th . of March . With a True Relation of her Behaviour , both in her Lifetime , and at the Hour of her Death ; worthy to be had in perpetual Memory . To the Tune of In Summertime . THE mighty Lord that rules in Heaven , strange Wonders does in England send , And many Warnings hath us given , 'cause we our Lives should soon amend ; But like the misbelieving Jews , so hard of Heart our People be , They think that nothing can be true , but that which their own Eyes do see . Therefore , good People , mark it well , I'll here lay open to your view A Song most wondered and strange , and can approve it to be true : A Damsel did near Padstow dwell , within the County of Cornwal fair , Whose Parents had no Child but her ; she was her Father's only Heir : To whom came many a brave Young Man , intending to make her a Wife ; But never tempting Tongue could make this Maid to change her Maiden Life : And though her Parents Riches had , and costly Garments her allow'd , In homely Habit she would go , and always hated to be proud . She ne'er was herd to curse or swear , nor any Word of Anger give , But courteous was in everything , to them that did about her live : If she herd anyone to swear , or take God's Sacred Name in vain , She told them that they crucified our Saviour Jesus Christ again . She often did frequent the Church , and also did relieve the Poor , The Widow and the Fatherless , she every Day fed at the Door . Upon a time , this Damsel she fell sick , and in a dealy found She lay , for Twenty Hours space no Life in her could then be found . Her aged Father did lament , her Mother she shed many a Tear , She wept , she wail'd , she wrung her Hands for loss of this her Daughter dear . Alas ! Alas ! my Child , she said , how dearly have I tender'd thee ; And wilt thou now forsake the World , and leave me in this misery ! I would my birth had been my death , then never had I seen this Day ! This grievous moan the Mother made by her dear Daughter as she lay ; At last she did Strong Waters fetch , and rubs her Temples and each Vein , Till at the last the Damsel had recover'd Life and Sense again . And being come unto her Speech , with Voice most shrill aloud she cry'd , Oh Mother you have done me wrong , this cannot be by you deny'd ; For I was in the way to Heaven , two glorious Angels did me guide , Who gently took me by the Hand , and held me up on every side . SInging of Psalms , and spiritual Songs , so long as we pass'd on the way , Till he which had a Golden Crown met us , and caused us to stay : Return , said he , from whence thou cam'st , thy Mother for thee makes great moan , And tell these things , which I declare , unto thy Neighbours every one . Speak this , quoth he , unto them all , How that the Lord e'er long will send A grievous Punishment to them that do his Will wilfully offend : This is the last Age of the World , even to the very sink of since , The Puddle of Iniquity , which you long time have wallowed in . The Men and Wives live in discord , the Father envies his own Son , The Rich , and Poor , the Old , the Young , do hourly into Mischief run : Extortion and Idolatry , and hateful Pride is now in use ; Blasphemous Oaths and Curses vile , the People count as no abuse . Good Ministers are set at nought , the Sabbath is prophan'd also , The Poor lies starving in the Street , oppressed with sorrow , grief , and woe : The loathsome since of Drunkenness , and Whoredom , does too much exceed ; He that can do his Neighbour wrong , does think he does a Godly Deed. Now ponder well what I do say , Doom's dreadful Day is nigh at hand , Fire and Brimstone shall destroy the Heaven , the Earth , the Sea , and Land , And every Soul before the Lord , a just Account he then shall give ; His Conscience shall a witness be , in what Condition he did live . Then he that hath done well shall pass forthwith to everlasting rest , And live among those glorious Saints , which Jesus Christ our Lord hath blessed ; Where Martyrs , Prophets , and Patriarchs , do Hallelujahs ever sing , Glory and Honour be to God , and unto Christ our Heavenly King . Then woe to them that have done ill , when they shall here the Sentence past , Depart you Cursed into Hell , whose Fire for evermore shall las The Sorrows which are here foretold , will come on you , e'er it be long , Except Repentance truly dwell In Hearts of all , both old and young . Repentance , and true watery Eyes , will help to quench the burning Flame Which he hath kindled , to consume this wicked World's most rotten Frame : Let not your Building all , so brave , be burned and wasted with God's Ire , Nor let our Souls , for whom Christ dy'd , be burned in Hell's eternal Fire . Here endeth the Prophecy . THese Speeches spoke , the Maiden dy'd , and came no more to Life again ; Her Soul , no doubt , is gone to Heaven , with glorious Angels to remain : At her decease , and Harmony of Music there was herd to found , Which ravish'd all the standers by , it did with sweetness so abound ; It pierc'd the Earth and Air also , yet no Man knew from whence it came ; But each one said it came from Heaven : And presently , upon the same , The Magistrates of that same Parish , which herd and saw this Wonder strange , Desired to have it put in print , cause wicked Men their Ways may change . The Names of the Master's of the Parish that saw the Maid on her Deathbed , and herd the Words of the Prophesy which she delivered , were as follows : W. Wates , Curate ; T. Davis , Head Constable ; R. Wilkins , and C. Tanner , Church-Wardens ; who , by Consent of diverse others in the same Parish , which were in the presence at the Damsel's de - cease , caused a Letter to be written , and sent from thence to London , on purpose to have it printed , whereby to avoid Scandal . Contrived into Metre , by L. P. Printed for George Conyers , at the Golden Ring in Little Britain . 