The Scotch Wedding : OR , A short and Pretty Way of Wooing . When as Complexions do agree , And all things they are fitting ; Why should the time prolonged be , Be quick and mind your Knitting . To a New Northern Tune , much us'd at the Theatres With Allowance . IN January last , upon a Munday on the Morn ; As along the fields I passed , to view the Winter Corn : I ligged me behind the Bray , and I saw come o're the Slow , Yean glenting in and Apron , with a bonny brant brow . I had good Morrow fair Maid , and she right courteously , By Fe and Tro , geud Sir , she said , geud day again to you ; I said to her , fair Maid , quo I , how far intend you now , Quo she geud Sir a mile or twa , to yonder bonny Brow. Fair Maid i'm weel contented , to have sike company For I am ganging on the gate , where you intend to be ; When we had walked a mile or two , I said to her my Dow ; May I not lift your Apron , and kiss your bonny Brow. Nay geud Sir you'r mistaken , for I am na'ne of these ; I wot you would mare breeding , then lift a wemans cleathes : You knaw we Must for modesty , nea at the first time bow , But if we like your company , we are as kind as you . I Teuk her by the hand so smaw , and I led her o're the Lawn , I gave her many a glancing leuk , so did she me again : I led her in among the bent , where nean of awe cu'd see , And then quo I my bonny Lass , now wilt thou mow with me . I dare not deam that deed , quo she , for fear I prove with Bearn , And then may I sing Lulabee , and live in much scorn : Tush , fie , quo I tack thou ne care , fear not with Bearn to be , For we'l I wat next Holiday , that I will wed with thee . I laid her down upon the Green , and said prove kind to me dear , We now are safe from being seen , thou needs nea danger fear , She blushed and smiled in my face , my bonny Lad , quo she , Since we are in this uncouth place , deal kindly now with me . I used all my skill and art , her humour for to please , I pricked her , but she felt no smart , but still lay at her ease : At length I put her to the squeak , and claw'd her bonny weam , Quo she my heart with joy will break , pray let me now gang heam . When we had taken of Love our fill , sea well she pleas'd my mind I vow'd I would be constant still , since that she was so kind : Quo I my only Duck and dear , now let us twa agree , How to provide our Bridal cheer , against we wedded be . The warst on't is my love quo she , we want a Ring we trow , Ne'r rack quo I , leave that to me , i'le iell my Dodded You : Miss John the Vicar is my friend , who will be rul'd by me , And hour or twa with us to spend , when we wall wedded be . We'l would beath bak'd & boiled & roast , upon our wedding day , And Will the Weaver at my cost , shall on the Bagpipes play : The Lads and Lasses in the Town , shall at our Nuptials be , And thou shalt have a Tawny Gown sea well thou pleasest me . Now when the wedding-day was come as they did beath conclude , The Dinner was in readiness , the Liquour it was brew'd : And so they went unto the Kirk weel wedded for to be , And made a much merry Feast , and now lives lovingly . Printed for P. Brooksby , near the Hospital-gate , in West-smithfield . The Scotch Wedding : OR , A short and Pretty Way of Wooing . When as Complexions do agree , And all things they are fitting ; Why should the time prolonged be , Be quick and mind your Knitting . To a New Northern Tune , much us'd at the Theatres With Allowance . IN January last , upon a Munday on the Morn ; As along the fields I passed , to view the Winter Corn : I ligged me behind the Bray , and I saw come o're the Slow , Yean glenting in and Apron , with a bonny brant brow . I had good Morrow fair Maid , and she right courteously , By Fe and Tro , geud Sir , she said , geud day again to you ; I said to her , fair Maid , quo I , how far intend you now , Quo she geud Sir a mile or twa , to yonder bonny Brow. Fair Maid i'm weel contented , to have sike company For I am ganging on the gate , where you intend to be ; When we had walked a mile or two , I said to her my Dow ; May I not lift your Apron , and kiss your bonny Brow. Nay geud Sir you'r mistaken , for I am na'ne of these ; I wot you would mare breeding , then lift a wemans cleathes : You knaw we Must for modesty , nea at the first time bow , But if we like your company , we are as kind as you . I Teuk her by the hand so smaw , and I led her o're the Lawn , I gave her many a glancing leuk , so did she me again : I led her in among the bent , where nean of awe cu'd see , And then quo I my bonny Lass , now wilt thou mow with me . I dare not deam that deed , quo she , for fear I prove with Bearn , And then may I sing Lulabee , and live in much scorn : Tush , fie , quo I tack thou ne care , fear not with Bearn to be , For we'l I wat next Holiday , that I will wed with thee . I laid her down upon the Green , and said prove kind to me dear , We now are safe from being seen , thou needs nea danger fear , She blushed and smiled in my face , my bonny Lad , quo she , Since we are in this uncouth place , deal kindly now with me . I used all my skill and art , her humour for to please , I pricked her , but she felt no smart , but still lay at her ease : At length I put her to the squeak , and claw'd her bonny weam , Quo she my heart with joy will break , pray let me now gang heam . When we had taken of Love our fill , sea well she pleas'd my mind I vow'd I would be constant still , since that she was so kind : Quo I my only Duck and dear , now let us twa agree , How to provide our Bridal cheer , against we wedded be . The warst on't is my love quo she , we want a Ring we trow , Ne'r rack quo I , leave that to me , i'le iell my Dodded You : Miss John the Vicar is my friend , who will be rul'd by me , And hour or twa with us to spend , when we wall wedded be . We'l would beath bak'd & boiled & roast , upon our wedding day , And Will the Weaver at my cost , shall on the Bagpipes play : The Lads and Lasses in the Town , shall at our Nuptials be , And thou shalt have a Tawny Gown sea well thou pleasest me . Now when the wedding-day was come as they did beath conclude , The Dinner was in readiness , the Liquour it was brew'd : And so they went unto the Kirk weel wedded for to be , And made a much merry Feast , and now lives lovingly . Printed for P. Brooksby , near the Hospital-gate , in West-smithfield . 