Beautiful MOGGY : OR , Scotch JEMMY's Delight . BEING A brief Account of a late Wooing and Wedding at the City of Edinborough . To the Tune of The Female Trooper . Licensed according to Order . I . MOggy full as blithe and gay As Flora in the Month of May ; Beautified with all the Charms of Love , As ever Female boasted of . Jemmy went this Lass to Woo , With Sword , and Belt , and Bonnet blue ; With a noble Feather neat and trim , Scarce a Scottish Laird was like to him . Prithee be free , my Dear , said he , For to suffer me to lig by thee , Till next day Noon ; she answer'd soon , I'm will never yield to sike a Loon . II Moggy I has Gold and Pearl , The which I'm freely give my Girl ; Rings , and Jewels , nay , and all that's mine , For the bless'd minute I'd resign ; Therefore do not answer no , But muccle Love and Kindness show ; For thy Beauty does my Heart surprise , It is wounded by those charming Eyes ; Thy Beauty bright is my Delight , For the sake of which the World I slight ; Sike Lass as thee I'm never see , Dearest , be but loving , kind , and free . III . I'm a Laird of muccle Fame , Who from the Town of Glasgow came , For to kiss and court my charming fair , With whom the World cannot compare : Grant me but a Night's Repose , Close by thy side , my blushing Rose , Till the Morning Sun does gild the Grove , Where we will both dissolve in Love ; There in my Arms , Cupids Alarms , Shall invite us to those tempting Charms , Which shall agree with thee and me , And next Morning both we'll Married be . IV. Jemmy prithee now forbear , I'm can avoid thy tempting Snare ; For I tell thee there is not a Loon , That shall attain my Love so soon : Tho' you are a Scottish Laird , Your Glory I'm will not regard , Never any shall lig by my side , Till I'm be made a lawful Bride : Should you obtain , what you would fain , I'm alas ! in Sorrow might remain ; Yet e'er I'll try your Constancy , Here a Maiden I will live and die . V. Jemmy found he could not have , What he so earnestly did crave ; This his Loyal Love enflam'd the more , So that her Charms he did adore , And strait he gave her Heart and Hand , No longer they disputing stand , But unto the Kirk resolv'd to go , Since she was free it should be so : Scotch Lairds was there , and Ladies fair , Yet not any Beauty could compare , With the sweet Bride , who Thousands ey'd , Counting her the Scottish Kingdom's Pride . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . Beautiful MOGGY : OR , Scotch JEMMY's Delight . BEING A brief Account of a late Wooing and Wedding at the City of Edinborough . To the Tune of The Female Trooper . Licensed according to Order . I . MOggy full as blithe and gay As Flora in the Month of May ; Beautified with all the Charms of Love , As ever Female boasted of . Jemmy went this Lass to Woo , With Sword , and Belt , and Bonnet blue ; With a noble Feather neat and trim , Scarce a Scottish Laird was like to him . Prithee be free , my Dear , said he , For to suffer me to lig by thee , Till next day Noon ; she answer'd soon , I'm will never yield to sike a Loon . II Moggy I has Gold and Pearl , The which I'm freely give my Girl ; Rings , and Jewels , nay , and all that's mine , For the bless'd minute I'd resign ; Therefore do not answer no , But muccle Love and Kindness show ; For thy Beauty does my Heart surprise , It is wounded by those charming Eyes ; Thy Beauty bright is my Delight , For the sake of which the World I slight ; Sike Lass as thee I'm never see , Dearest , be but loving , kind , and free . III . I'm a Laird of muccle Fame , Who from the Town of Glasgow came , For to kiss and court my charming fair , With whom the World cannot compare : Grant me but a Night's Repose , Close by thy side , my blushing Rose , Till the Morning Sun does gild the Grove , Where we will both dissolve in Love ; There in my Arms , Cupids Alarms , Shall invite us to those tempting Charms , Which shall agree with thee and me , And next Morning both we'll Married be . IV. Jemmy prithee now forbear , I'm can avoid thy tempting Snare ; For I tell thee there is not a Loon , That shall attain my Love so soon : Tho' you are a Scottish Laird , Your Glory I'm will not regard , Never any shall lig by my side , Till I'm be made a lawful Bride : Should you obtain , what you would fain , I'm alas ! in Sorrow might remain ; Yet e'er I'll try your Constancy , Here a Maiden I will live and die . V. Jemmy found he could not have , What he so earnestly did crave ; This his Loyal Love enflam'd the more , So that her Charms he did adore , And strait he gave her Heart and Hand , No longer they disputing stand , But unto the Kirk resolv'd to go , Since she was free it should be so : Scotch Lairds was there , and Ladies fair , Yet not any Beauty could compare , With the sweet Bride , who Thousands ey'd , Counting her the Scottish Kingdom's Pride . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 