The Glory of the WEST , or , the Virgins of Taunton Dean , Who ripped open their Silk-Petticoats , to make Colours for the late D. of M's . Army , when he came before the Town . A SONG . To the Tune of the Winchester Wedding . This may be Printed , July the 31. 1685. R . LS . I . IN Lime began a Rebellion , For there the Rebels came in ; Rebels almost a Million , Came there to proclaim M. King : The News being usher'd about , The Virgins of Taunton Dean , With joyful surprising a crowd ; They summon'd up all their men , And sent them to meet his Grace , Their Protestant Prince of the West , While the Girls from each corner did trace , With Ornaments fit for their Guest . II Round the Market-Cross in the Town , Their Petticoats down did fallen , Without either Blush or Frown , They had like to pull'd up all Their Petticoats they rip'd open , Some Yellow , some Read , some Green , Tho' ne're a Commandment broken , Yet all things were there to be seen : Of these they made Ensigns of War , Alexander the like never boar , The Motto , Embroidered with Hair , Such Colours was never before . III . Then Notice was given the Army Was within a Mile of the Gate ; The Maids then came to a Parley , Which should be the Captain in State : They Twenty Seven in Number That all in White did appear , The Colonels Daughter tho' Younger Made Captain , and Colours did bear ; All cover'd in Cambrick and Lawn , With Garlands march'd out of the Town , Their Skins through their Veils were shown , Some Tawny , some White , & some Brown . IV. But when they appear'd on the Downs , Proud Perkin they did surprise , And all his Country Clowns , Draw'd Lustre from their bright Eyes ; Then at his most Gracious Feet , They threw down their Garlands & Crown , With Colours fit for Field or Fleet ; Or School-Boys about the Town : They being upon their Knees , He kindly saluted them round ; With Congies , and touches and squeeze , He took them up from the Ground . V. Three Volleys of Shot were given , To welcome the Maids in the West ; As if they had dropped from Heaven , And by whom the Army was bles Their Captain was first saluted , By their mighty Monarch o' th' crowd ; And Katy did not dispute it , But Courched , and turned abou He Carress'd them every one , As they were drawn up a part , Both Betty , and Molly , and Jone , Yet Kate was the Lass had his Heart . VI . Each Officer took his place , His choice he kindly drew forth ; They all were as free to Embrace , As Maidens of meaner Worth , Each couple into their Tent ; They merrily did retire , Where all the sweet Night was spent , The Virgins had their desire : They learn'd the Discipline of War , To excercise Musquet or Pike ; Next Morning did freely declare , They ne're had so pleasant a Night . LONDON , Printed for James Dean , Bookseller at the Queen's Head between the Royal Grove and Helmet in Drury-Lane , 1685. The Glory of the WEST , or , the Virgins of Taunton Dean , Who ripped open their Silk-Petticoats , to make Colours for the late D. of M's . Army , when he came before the Town . A SONG . To the Tune of the Winchester Wedding . This may be Printed , July the 31. 1685. R . LS . I . IN Lime began a Rebellion , For there the Rebels came in ; Rebels almost a Million , Came there to proclaim M. King : The News being usher'd about , The Virgins of Taunton Dean , With joyful surprising a crowd ; They summon'd up all their men , And sent them to meet his Grace , Their Protestant Prince of the West , While the Girls from each corner did trace , With Ornaments fit for their Guest . II Round the Market-Cross in the Town , Their Petticoats down did fallen , Without either Blush or Frown , They had like to pull'd up all Their Petticoats they rip'd open , Some Yellow , some Read , some Green , Tho' ne're a Commandment broken , Yet all things were there to be seen : Of these they made Ensigns of War , Alexander the like never boar , The Motto , Embroidered with Hair , Such Colours was never before . III . Then Notice was given the Army Was within a Mile of the Gate ; The Maids then came to a Parley , Which should be the Captain in State : They Twenty Seven in Number That all in White did appear , The Colonels Daughter tho' Younger Made Captain , and Colours did bear ; All cover'd in Cambrick and Lawn , With Garlands march'd out of the Town , Their Skins through their Veils were shown , Some Tawny , some White , & some Brown . IV. But when they appear'd on the Downs , Proud Perkin they did surprise , And all his Country Clowns , Draw'd Lustre from their bright Eyes ; Then at his most Gracious Feet , They threw down their Garlands & Crown , With Colours fit for Field or Fleet ; Or School-Boys about the Town : They being upon their Knees , He kindly saluted them round ; With Congies , and touches and squeeze , He took them up from the Ground . V. Three Volleys of Shot were given , To welcome the Maids in the West ; As if they had dropped from Heaven , And by whom the Army was bles Their Captain was first saluted , By their mighty Monarch o' th' crowd ; And Katy did not dispute it , But Courched , and turned abou He Carress'd them every one , As they were drawn up a part , Both Betty , and Molly , and Jone , Yet Kate was the Lass had his Heart . VI . Each Officer took his place , His choice he kindly drew forth ; They all were as free to Embrace , As Maidens of meaner Worth , Each couple into their Tent ; They merrily did retire , Where all the sweet Night was spent , The Virgins had their desire : They learn'd the Discipline of War , To excercise Musquet or Pike ; Next Morning did freely declare , They ne're had so pleasant a Night . LONDON , Printed for James Dean , Bookseller at the Queen's Head between the Royal Grove and Helmet in Drury-Lane , 1685. 