The Unnatural SON : OR , The Old MAN and Poor WIFE ; Who , in their Want and Misery , sought to their Children for Succour , by whom they were disdained , and scornfully sent away Succourless : With God's just Vengeance showed on their Chil - dren for the same . Tune of , Pricillia , etc Licens'd according to Order . IT was and old Man and his poor Wife , in great Distress did fallen , They were so feeble with Age , God wot , they could not work at all : A gallant Son they had which lived wealthily , To him they went with full intent , to ease their Misery : Alack , and alas , for Woe . A hundred miles when they had gone , with many a weary step , At length they saw their Son's fair house , which made their hearts to leap ; They set them on that [ e ] green , their hose [ ? ] to trim , They put that [ ? ] their necks , against tO [ ? ] er in : [ A ] lack , etc Unto the door with trembling joints , when these old Couple came , The Woman with a shaking hand , the old Man blind and lame ; Full mannerly they knocked , fearing for to offend ; At last their Son frowningly came unto them in the end ; Alack , etc Good Folks , quoth he , what would you have ? methinks you are too bold ; Why get you not home to your own Country , now you are lame and old ? With that they both reply'd , with sorrow , care , and grief , Here are we come , to thee our [ Son ] for succour and relief : Alack , and alas , for Woe . This is thy Father , gentle Son , and I thy loving Mother , That brought thee up so tenderly , and lov'd thee above all other ; I boar thee in my womb , these breasts did nourish thee , And as it chanc'd I often danc'd thee on my tender knee : Alack , and alas , for Woe . And humbly now we do entreat our dear and loving Son , That thou wilt do for us in our Age , as we for you have done . Now nay , not so , he said . your suit is all in vain , 'Tis best for you , I tell you true , to get you home again : Alack , etc The world's not now as when I was born , all things are grown more dear , My charge of Children likewise is great , as plainly does appear ; The best that I can do , will hardly them maintain ; Therefore , I say , be packing away , and get you home again : Alack , etc The old Man with his hat in his hand , full many a leg did make ; The Woman wept and wrung her hands , and pray'd for Christ his sake , Not to send them back , distressed and undone , But let us lie in some barn here by , quoth she , my loving Son : Alack , and alas , etc By no means he would thereto consent , but sent them soon away , Qd. he , You know the peril of the Law , if long time here you stay , The stocks and whipping-post shall fallen unto your share ; Then take you heed ; and with all speed to your Country repair : Alack , etc Away then went this woeful old Man , full sad in heart and mind , With weeping tears his Wife did lament their Son was so unkind : Thou wicked Wretch , quoth they , for this thy cruel deed , The Lord send thee as little pity , when thou dost stand in need : Alack , etc His Children hearing their Father set his Parents thus at nought , In short time after to have his land , his death they subtly wrought ; What cause have we , quoth they , more kindness to express , Then he unto his Parents did , in their great wretchedness ? Alack , etc They murdered him in piteous sort , they weigh'd not his intreats ; The more he pray'd compassionately ; the greater were their threats : Speak not to us , quoth they , for thou the death shalt die ; And at that word , with a dagger and sword they mangled him monstrously . Alack , etc When they had god his silver and gold , according to their mind , They buried him in a stinking ditch where no Man should him find : But now behold and see God's vengeance on them all , To gain their gold their Cousin came , and slew them great and small : Alcak , etc He came among them with a great club ; in dead time of the night , Yea , two of the Sons he brain'd therewith : and taking of his flight The Murderer then taken was , and suffered for the same , Deservedly for that cruelty , and ended his Days in Shame . Alack , and alas that [ er ] efore . Printed by and for W.O. and sold by B. Deacon , at the Angel in Gilt-spur-street . The Unnatural SON : OR , The Old MAN and Poor WIFE ; Who , in their Want and Misery , sought to their Children for Succour , by whom they were disdained , and scornfully sent away Succourless : With God's just Vengeance showed on their Chil - dren for the same . Tune of , Pricillia , etc Licens'd according to Order . IT was and old Man and his poor Wife , in great Distress did fallen , They were so feeble with Age , God wot , they could not work at all : A gallant Son they had which lived wealthily , To him they went with full intent , to ease their Misery : Alack , and alas , for Woe . A hundred miles when they had gone , with many a weary step , At length they saw their Son's fair house , which made their hearts to leap ; They set them on that [ e ] green , their hose [ ? ] to trim , They put that [ ? ] their necks , against tO [ ? ] er in : [ A ] lack , etc Unto the door with trembling joints , when these old Couple came , The Woman with a shaking hand , the old Man blind and lame ; Full mannerly they knocked , fearing for to offend ; At last their Son frowningly came unto them in the end ; Alack , etc Good Folks , quoth he , what would you have ? methinks you are too bold ; Why get you not home to your own Country , now you are lame and old ? With that they both reply'd , with sorrow , care , and grief , Here are we come , to thee our [ Son ] for succour and relief : Alack , and alas , for Woe . This is thy Father , gentle Son , and I thy loving Mother , That brought thee up so tenderly , and lov'd thee above all other ; I boar thee in my womb , these breasts did nourish thee , And as it chanc'd I often danc'd thee on my tender knee : Alack , and alas , for Woe . And humbly now we do entreat our dear and loving Son , That thou wilt do for us in our Age , as we for you have done . Now nay , not so , he said . your suit is all in vain , 'Tis best for you , I tell you true , to get you home again : Alack , etc The world's not now as when I was born , all things are grown more dear , My charge of Children likewise is great , as plainly does appear ; The best that I can do , will hardly them maintain ; Therefore , I say , be packing away , and get you home again : Alack , etc The old Man with his hat in his hand , full many a leg did make ; The Woman wept and wrung her hands , and pray'd for Christ his sake , Not to send them back , distressed and undone , But let us lie in some barn here by , quoth she , my loving Son : Alack , and alas , etc By no means he would thereto consent , but sent them soon away , Qd. he , You know the peril of the Law , if long time here you stay , The stocks and whipping-post shall fallen unto your share ; Then take you heed ; and with all speed to your Country repair : Alack , etc Away then went this woeful old Man , full sad in heart and mind , With weeping tears his Wife did lament their Son was so unkind : Thou wicked Wretch , quoth they , for this thy cruel deed , The Lord send thee as little pity , when thou dost stand in need : Alack , etc His Children hearing their Father set his Parents thus at nought , In short time after to have his land , his death they subtly wrought ; What cause have we , quoth they , more kindness to express , Then he unto his Parents did , in their great wretchedness ? Alack , etc They murdered him in piteous sort , they weigh'd not his intreats ; The more he pray'd compassionately ; the greater were their threats : Speak not to us , quoth they , for thou the death shalt die ; And at that word , with a dagger and sword they mangled him monstrously . Alack , etc When they had god his silver and gold , according to their mind , They buried him in a stinking ditch where no Man should him find : But now behold and see God's vengeance on them all , To gain their gold their Cousin came , and slew them great and small : Alcak , etc He came among them with a great club ; in dead time of the night , Yea , two of the Sons he brain'd therewith : and taking of his flight The Murderer then taken was , and suffered for the same , Deservedly for that cruelty , and ended his Days in Shame . Alack , and alas that [ er ] efore . Printed by and for W.O. and sold by B. Deacon , at the Angel in Gilt-spur-street . 