The subtle Miss of LONDON : OR , The Ranting Hector well fitted by this cunning Miss , Who by putting certain Ingredients into his Wine , laid him into a deep sleep , and striping his Gallant At - tire , clothed him in a read Petticoat , and a Coif on his Head ; then sent him in a great Chest by water to Gravesend . To the Tune of , The two English Travellers . This may be Printed , R. P. A Miss who near London did set up her Trade , And while she did use it , some projects she play'd , among all the rest , here is one I declare , The like of this humour you seldom did hear . As she was a ranging along in the street A Ranting brave Gallant she chanced to meet ; His Coat was of Velvet , a Sword by his side , He feared no dangers , whatever betide . This Gallant no sooner had fixed his Eyes Upon her fair Beauty , but straight he replies , I'le give thee a Guinea , so I may enjoy Those tender embraces ; sweet Love be not coy . To seal this kind promise , he gave her a kiss ; Oh Fie , fie , forbear Sir , what mean you by this ? Your words are so winning , I grant your demand , What Damsel is able your force to withstand ? They straight struck a bargain and made no delay , To her habitation they posted away , Where with her old Mother this Miss she did dwell ; Now listen , i'le tell you what after befell . A Dinner of Dainties they straight did prepare , For their jovial pastime , no charges they'd spare ; But yet I must tell you , it soon came to pass , Tho' they found the meat , yet he paid for the sauce . For Claret , Canary , he freely did call , To show himself noble , he'd pay for it all ; And thus he appeared most jovial and free , They all were as merry as merry might be . They ply'd him with Bumpers , which he ne'r deny'd And likewise with other ingredients beside , They gave him in order , his courage to cool , Which quickly did make him as wise as a fool . This Liquour up into his Noddle did creep , So that in short time they had laid him to sleep ; His Reason and Senses was perfectly fled , With their subtle Doses , as if he were dead . Then , then they went on with their rifling trade , And of this brave Gallant a Booty they made , He had store of Silver , both Guineas and Rings , His Watch and Broad-Pieces , and other rich things . Thus while he was sleeping they stripped off his Clothes His Hat , Wigg and Cravat , his Shirt Shoes & Hose ; Then being as naked as e're he was born , In other Apparel they did him adorn . A course Hempen Smock they did put him on there , One which the old Woman was used to wear ; A read Petticoat , with a Coif on his Pate , Then he was array'd at a notable rate . They put him into a great Chest that stood there , And made a small hold for to let in the air ; So great was the kindness which to him they show'd , They called a Porter to take up this load . This Gallant had told them he had at Gravesend , And Uncle who was his particular Friend ; And therefore to Billingsgate they did repair , And hir'd a Boatman to carry him there . As soon as the Chest was set safe in the Boat , To the Waterman they delivered a Note , And bid him be careful his trust to discharge , He vow'd he wou'd do it , their pay being large . But now at the last comes the cream of the jest , He knew not what treasure he had in the Chest , Until at Gravesend he had set him on shore , Then , then he awaken'd and never before . It was about twelve of the Clock in the night , They call'd up his Uncle to see this strange sighed ; The read Petticoat , with a Coif on his Crown , With wonder and laughter did fill the whole town . With grief , shame and sorrow his Heart it did bleed , Next day up to London he rid with all speed ; His Clothes , Watch and Guineas , in hope's to obtain , For tho' he did seek her , it was but in vain . The Miss had no sooner committed this Crime , She shifted her Lodging , it being high time ; Therefore this young Gallant must patiently bear His loss , for to find her he could not tell where . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate . The subtle Miss of LONDON : OR , The Ranting Hector well fitted by this cunning Miss , Who by putting certain Ingredients into his Wine , laid him into a deep sleep , and striping his Gallant At - tire , clothed him in a read Petticoat , and a Coif on his Head ; then sent him in a great Chest by water to Gravesend . To the Tune of , The two English Travellers . This may be Printed , R. P. A Miss who near London did set up her Trade , And while she did use it , some projects she play'd , among all the rest , here is one I declare , The like of this humour you seldom did hear . As she was a ranging along in the street A Ranting brave Gallant she chanced to meet ; His Coat was of Velvet , a Sword by his side , He feared no dangers , whatever betide . This Gallant no sooner had fixed his Eyes Upon her fair Beauty , but straight he replies , I'le give thee a Guinea , so I may enjoy Those tender embraces ; sweet Love be not coy . To seal this kind promise , he gave her a kiss ; Oh Fie , fie , forbear Sir , what mean you by this ? Your words are so winning , I grant your demand , What Damsel is able your force to withstand ? They straight struck a bargain and made no delay , To her habitation they posted away , Where with her old Mother this Miss she did dwell ; Now listen , i'le tell you what after befell . A Dinner of Dainties they straight did prepare , For their jovial pastime , no charges they'd spare ; But yet I must tell you , it soon came to pass , Tho' they found the meat , yet he paid for the sauce . For Claret , Canary , he freely did call , To show himself noble , he'd pay for it all ; And thus he appeared most jovial and free , They all were as merry as merry might be . They ply'd him with Bumpers , which he ne'r deny'd And likewise with other ingredients beside , They gave him in order , his courage to cool , Which quickly did make him as wise as a fool . This Liquour up into his Noddle did creep , So that in short time they had laid him to sleep ; His Reason and Senses was perfectly fled , With their subtle Doses , as if he were dead . Then , then they went on with their rifling trade , And of this brave Gallant a Booty they made , He had store of Silver , both Guineas and Rings , His Watch and Broad-Pieces , and other rich things . Thus while he was sleeping they stripped off his Clothes His Hat , Wigg and Cravat , his Shirt Shoes & Hose ; Then being as naked as e're he was born , In other Apparel they did him adorn . A course Hempen Smock they did put him on there , One which the old Woman was used to wear ; A read Petticoat , with a Coif on his Pate , Then he was array'd at a notable rate . They put him into a great Chest that stood there , And made a small hold for to let in the air ; So great was the kindness which to him they show'd , They called a Porter to take up this load . This Gallant had told them he had at Gravesend , And Uncle who was his particular Friend ; And therefore to Billingsgate they did repair , And hir'd a Boatman to carry him there . As soon as the Chest was set safe in the Boat , To the Waterman they delivered a Note , And bid him be careful his trust to discharge , He vow'd he wou'd do it , their pay being large . But now at the last comes the cream of the jest , He knew not what treasure he had in the Chest , Until at Gravesend he had set him on shore , Then , then he awaken'd and never before . It was about twelve of the Clock in the night , They call'd up his Uncle to see this strange sighed ; The read Petticoat , with a Coif on his Crown , With wonder and laughter did fill the whole town . With grief , shame and sorrow his Heart it did bleed , Next day up to London he rid with all speed ; His Clothes , Watch and Guineas , in hope's to obtain , For tho' he did seek her , it was but in vain . The Miss had no sooner committed this Crime , She shifted her Lodging , it being high time ; Therefore this young Gallant must patiently bear His loss , for to find her he could not tell where . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate . 