The merry Maid of Middlesex . OR , A pretty Song made by a pretty Maid , Which had seven Suitors , she herself so said , And yet ( poor soul ) she hath been strangely crossed , And through her Mother's means , her Sweet . heart's los But yet she is resolved in this Sonnet , To have a Husband , whatsoer'e comes on it . To a delicate Northern Tune : Or , The Maid that lost her way . IT was not long ago since Cupid with his Dart , Shot through my tender skin , and pricked my lovesick heart And since that desperate time , I am so lovesick grown , I neither can nor will no longer lie alone : Let Father angry be let mother brawl , and chide , A Husband I will have , whatever me betide , It is well known that I am fifteen years of oge , Yet live as weary a life , as a Bird pen'd in a Cage . Therefore Youngmen I pray , give ear unto my Song , And you shall know in what , my Parents did me wrong : But now let Father frown , etc Seven Suitors in one day , unto me came a wooing , And every one of them would fain with me be doing : First Will the Weaver came with Silks & Ribonds brave , And out of his pure love , these Tokens to me gave , Let Father fret and frown , etc Full many a honeyed kiss the Weaver did me give , Which was enough to make a dying Maid to live : But yet my Parents would not give me their consent , That I should marry with him , which makes me to lament . But now let Father frown , let Mother brawl , and chide , A Husband I will have whatever me betide . The second part , to the same Tune . NExe Tom the Taylor trim , he brought me a brave new gown And would have gave it me for to have laid me down , My Mother standind by , would not thereto agree , whereby I did both loose my gown and sweetheart , woe is me . But now let Father frown , let Mother brawl and chide : A Husband I will have , whatever me betide , Then Same the Shoemaker brought me a pair of shoes To fit my pretty feet as he did often use : But at the drawing on his hand by chance did slip , Which made my Mother vex , and sorely bite the Lip , But now let Father grieve , etc George Glover he gave me a pair of dainty Gloves , Such as your bravest Batchlors do use to give their Loves ; And therewithal kind heart , he kissed me tenderly : And then my Mother she did soon break up our company . But now let Father angery be , etc There came a bonny Lad , a Vintner neat and fine , And in his hand he brought a bottle of Muscadine , And bade me for to drink as long as I could pull : For he had and intent to fill my belly full : At which my Mother she began to frown and chide , Yet I will have a Husband whatever me betide . A nimble Tapster next gave me a gay gold Ring , And promised to bestow on me a better thing : But in the bringing he had wondro [ us ] ill luck , My Mother she did chance to see and would not let us truck . But now let Father frown , etc Then came a noble Spark , a Soldier stout and bold , And quickly cast into my lap full sevenscore pound in gold Oh he was a brave Youngman , I lov'd him as my life : & yet my Mother she would not now let me be his Wife . But now let Father frown , etc The Cobbler he poor fool , fell sick and needs must die , Except my Love would grant him love , as a remedy : Cobbler my Mother said , you have of late been dipped , Before you shall my Daughter have I'll see you soundly whipped . But now let Father frown , etc A Maidenhead it is a load too heavy for me to carry ; Therefore I will make all the speed that ever I can to marry , No matter for his wealth nor Trade , what er'e it be , For I will dearly love the Man if he could fancy me . So now you know my mind , although my Mother chide , A Husband I must have , whatever me betide . FINIS . London , Printed by E. Crowch , for F. Coals , T. Vere , & J. Wright . The merry Maid of Middlesex . OR , A pretty Song made by a pretty Maid , Which had seven Suitors , she herself so said , And yet ( poor soul ) she hath been strangely crossed , And through her Mother's means , her Sweet . heart's los But yet she is resolved in this Sonnet , To have a Husband , whatsoer'e comes on it . To a delicate Northern Tune : Or , The Maid that lost her way . IT was not long ago since Cupid with his Dart , Shot through my tender skin , and pricked my lovesick heart And since that desperate time , I am so lovesick grown , I neither can nor will no longer lie alone : Let Father angry be let mother brawl , and chide , A Husband I will have , whatever me betide , It is well known that I am fifteen years of oge , Yet live as weary a life , as a Bird pen'd in a Cage . Therefore Youngmen I pray , give ear unto my Song , And you shall know in what , my Parents did me wrong : But now let Father frown , etc Seven Suitors in one day , unto me came a wooing , And every one of them would fain with me be doing : First Will the Weaver came with Silks & Ribonds brave , And out of his pure love , these Tokens to me gave , Let Father fret and frown , etc Full many a honeyed kiss the Weaver did me give , Which was enough to make a dying Maid to live : But yet my Parents would not give me their consent , That I should marry with him , which makes me to lament . But now let Father frown , let Mother brawl , and chide , A Husband I will have whatever me betide . The second part , to the same Tune . NExe Tom the Taylor trim , he brought me a brave new gown And would have gave it me for to have laid me down , My Mother standind by , would not thereto agree , whereby I did both loose my gown and sweetheart , woe is me . But now let Father frown , let Mother brawl and chide : A Husband I will have , whatever me betide , Then Same the Shoemaker brought me a pair of shoes To fit my pretty feet as he did often use : But at the drawing on his hand by chance did slip , Which made my Mother vex , and sorely bite the Lip , But now let Father grieve , etc George Glover he gave me a pair of dainty Gloves , Such as your bravest Batchlors do use to give their Loves ; And therewithal kind heart , he kissed me tenderly : And then my Mother she did soon break up our company . But now let Father angery be , etc There came a bonny Lad , a Vintner neat and fine , And in his hand he brought a bottle of Muscadine , And bade me for to drink as long as I could pull : For he had and intent to fill my belly full : At which my Mother she began to frown and chide , Yet I will have a Husband whatever me betide . A nimble Tapster next gave me a gay gold Ring , And promised to bestow on me a better thing : But in the bringing he had wondro [ us ] ill luck , My Mother she did chance to see and would not let us truck . But now let Father frown , etc Then came a noble Spark , a Soldier stout and bold , And quickly cast into my lap full sevenscore pound in gold Oh he was a brave Youngman , I lov'd him as my life : & yet my Mother she would not now let me be his Wife . But now let Father frown , etc The Cobbler he poor fool , fell sick and needs must die , Except my Love would grant him love , as a remedy : Cobbler my Mother said , you have of late been dipped , Before you shall my Daughter have I'll see you soundly whipped . But now let Father frown , etc A Maidenhead it is a load too heavy for me to carry ; Therefore I will make all the speed that ever I can to marry , No matter for his wealth nor Trade , what er'e it be , For I will dearly love the Man if he could fancy me . So now you know my mind , although my Mother chide , A Husband I must have , whatever me betide . FINIS . London , Printed by E. Crowch , for F. Coals , T. Vere , & J. Wright . 