The Distracted Young-MANS Answer TO The Injured Maiden . Showing the Cruelty of his Parents , in forcing him to marry ano - ther , because she had a bettet Fortune , which proved the Ruin of the young Man and his former Mistress . Te the same Tune : or , The Languishing Swain . IT's true , thou justly mayest complain , On thy unfaithful perjur'd Swain , But yet at first I did design , To marry you , to marry you , In little time . I found you beautiful and fair , Delightful with a pleasing air ; Endow'd with all the charms of love , And I believ'd , and I believ'd , You'd constant prove . My father told me o're and o're , Of one who riches had great store ; He said , If I did not agree , To court that lass , to court that lass , He'd own not me . I went as he did give command , Altho' you had my heart and hand ; The God above do know it's true , I always meant , I always meant ; To marry you . Our Parents straightways did agree , And said , That I must married be ; To her they lately wish'd me to . Then I reply'd , then I reply'd ; What shall I do ? My father said , To Church now go , A thousand pound this has I know ; For her you courted just before , She has not half , she has not half ; So much in store . I answer'd yea , she has my heart , Beside me vow'd never to part ; Therefore dear father , do not make Me break this vow , me break this vow ; which I did take . He said , If I a thousand took , I should no more upon her look ; But straight he made me for to go To Church and wed , to Church and wed , I know not who . Altho' I have a rich young wife , I have no comfort of my life ; For she that had my heart before , Will keep the same , will keep the same , For evermore . I do implore the God above , To look upon my injur'd love , Who justly does complain on me , And help her in , and help her in Her misery . Then young men all a warning take , Ne'er break those vows in love you make If she you love does prove but kind , Be not like me , be not like me ; To change your mind . Since I have proved thus untrue ; I bid unto the world adieu , For I no comfort now can have ; Then death come send , then death come send , Me to my grave . LONDON : Printed for P. Pelcomb , in Fleet-street . The Distracted Young-MANS Answer TO The Injured Maiden . Showing the Cruelty of his Parents , in forcing him to marry ano - ther , because she had a bettet Fortune , which proved the Ruin of the young Man and his former Mistress . Te the same Tune : or , The Languishing Swain . IT's true , thou justly mayest complain , On thy unfaithful perjur'd Swain , But yet at first I did design , To marry you , to marry you , In little time . I found you beautiful and fair , Delightful with a pleasing air ; Endow'd with all the charms of love , And I believ'd , and I believ'd , You'd constant prove . My father told me o're and o're , Of one who riches had great store ; He said , If I did not agree , To court that lass , to court that lass , He'd own not me . I went as he did give command , Altho' you had my heart and hand ; The God above do know it's true , I always meant , I always meant ; To marry you . Our Parents straightways did agree , And said , That I must married be ; To her they lately wish'd me to . Then I reply'd , then I reply'd ; What shall I do ? My father said , To Church now go , A thousand pound this has I know ; For her you courted just before , She has not half , she has not half ; So much in store . I answer'd yea , she has my heart , Beside me vow'd never to part ; Therefore dear father , do not make Me break this vow , me break this vow ; which I did take . He said , If I a thousand took , I should no more upon her look ; But straight he made me for to go To Church and wed , to Church and wed , I know not who . Altho' I have a rich young wife , I have no comfort of my life ; For she that had my heart before , Will keep the same , will keep the same , For evermore . I do implore the God above , To look upon my injur'd love , Who justly does complain on me , And help her in , and help her in Her misery . Then young men all a warning take , Ne'er break those vows in love you make If she you love does prove but kind , Be not like me , be not like me ; To change your mind . Since I have proved thus untrue ; I bid unto the world adieu , For I no comfort now can have ; Then death come send , then death come send , Me to my grave . LONDON : Printed for P. Pelcomb , in Fleet-street . 