The Crafty Maid : OR , The young Man put to his Trumps . He did begin to Woo this Maid But she not believed one word he said ; She put him off then , with a Jear , And sent him away with a Flay in's Ear . To the Tune of The Despairing Maid : or , Fie Love , fie . IN Moor-fields one Evening Tide , A pretty couple there I espy'd , A dainty young Man and a Lass , But you shall hear what came to pass , He strait began to court this Maid , And thought her heart for to betray : But she would not yield to his Desire , As by the Story you shall hear . To Compliment he did begin , The Maid's Affection for to win , With Speeches fair he did entreat , And often said his Heart would break . Quoth he , I am my Father's Heir , And have Threescore pound a year ; I will maintain you gallantly , If thou wilt yield my Bride to be . Therefore I pray you be not coy , For thou shalt be my only Joy , If thou deniest thou wilt break my Heart ; For did'st thou feel the deadly smart Which I sustain both day and night For thee , which art my Hearts delight ; Therefore my Dearest pity me , Or I shall die for love of thee . The Maid . Good Sir I thank you for your Love , Of your Discourse I don't approve ; For many now adais I see , Do bring themselves to Poverty , By Marrying while they are so young , But I'll not do myself such wrong ; Therefore forbear , thy Suit's in vain , I will not Marry I tell you plain . You say you have Threescore pound a year , What if thou hast , I do not care , I knew those that had three times more , And spent it all upon a Whore , And so may thou for ought I know , For all you make so fair a Show , Then be content , and do not prate , For fear that I should break thy pate . The young Man. The young Man standing in a mare , And on the Maid did strangely gaze , At last he made her this Reply , And unto her these words did say : What ails thee for to be so cross ? In troth I like thee worse and worse , Of all the Maids that e'er I see , I never herd the like of thee . Sweetheart believe me , or else choose , I'd have thee know I am none of those , That spend my means upon a Whore , Or run upon the Alewives Score ; No I will better be advised , It's good to be merry and wise ; For Friends I see are very scant , If that a Man do's come to want . Maid . My Friend , quoth she , what you have said , Is not half true , I am afraid ; I cannot think you're so precise , One may see plainly by your Eyes ; Your Hair is of the Colour right , To cozen Maids is your delight ; But thou shalt ne'er prove false to me , Or I will ne'er prove true to thee ; Therefore forbear my Company , And henceforth come not me a nigh , For I am not resolved to Wed , Nor yet to lose my Maidenhead : A single Life is void of Care , For married Wives must pinch and spare , There Charge for to maintain I see , Therefore a single Life for me . The Man. Seeing thou provest so unkind , I am resolved to change my mind ; A hundred pound I have in store , And Threescore pound a year more , If I can find and honest Girl , I'll prize her more than Gold or Pearl , And she shall live a Ladies Life , After she's Maid my wedded Wife . And so farewell , thou scornful Dame , In time thou mayest repent the same , That thou to me didst prove untrue , In time thou mayest have cause to rue ; Before that I will Marry thee , I'll hang myself upon a Tree , Rather I'll give my Wealth and Store , To one that begs from door to door . The Maid . Farewell , be gone , thou saucy Jack , With thy Wealth and Money prithee pack , My Portion is and hundred pound , In Silver , and in good Gold so round , Beside my Mother she does cry , I shall have all when she does die , Then what need I care for thy Wealth ? Even as thou sayest , go hang thyself . For I am resolved as I begun To end , and so conclude my Song , A single Life I hold it best , And thereon still my mind is pressed ; For Marriage brings Sorrow and Care ; So in it I'll not bear a share , Since young Men are so fickle grown , I am resolved to hold my own . So Maids of you I'll take my leave , Let no false young Men you deceive , For many they are hard to trust , Scarce one in twenty proves jus I for my own part will advice All Maids henceforth for to be wise , And have a care who you do wed , For fear you bring a Knave to Bed. Printed for P. Brooksby in Pye-Corner . The Crafty Maid : OR , The young Man put to his Trumps . He did begin to Woo this Maid But she not believed one word he said ; She put him off then , with a Jear , And sent him away with a Flay in's Ear . To the Tune of The Despairing Maid : or , Fie Love , fie . IN Moor-fields one Evening Tide , A pretty couple there I espy'd , A dainty young Man and a Lass , But you shall hear what came to pass , He strait began to court this Maid , And thought her heart for to betray : But she would not yield to his Desire , As by the Story you shall hear . To Compliment he did begin , The Maid's Affection for to win , With Speeches fair he did entreat , And often said his Heart would break . Quoth he , I am my Father's Heir , And have Threescore pound a year ; I will maintain you gallantly , If thou wilt yield my Bride to be . Therefore I pray you be not coy , For thou shalt be my only Joy , If thou deniest thou wilt break my Heart ; For did'st thou feel the deadly smart Which I sustain both day and night For thee , which art my Hearts delight ; Therefore my Dearest pity me , Or I shall die for love of thee . The Maid . Good Sir I thank you for your Love , Of your Discourse I don't approve ; For many now adais I see , Do bring themselves to Poverty , By Marrying while they are so young , But I'll not do myself such wrong ; Therefore forbear , thy Suit's in vain , I will not Marry I tell you plain . You say you have Threescore pound a year , What if thou hast , I do not care , I knew those that had three times more , And spent it all upon a Whore , And so may thou for ought I know , For all you make so fair a Show , Then be content , and do not prate , For fear that I should break thy pate . The young Man. The young Man standing in a mare , And on the Maid did strangely gaze , At last he made her this Reply , And unto her these words did say : What ails thee for to be so cross ? In troth I like thee worse and worse , Of all the Maids that e'er I see , I never herd the like of thee . Sweetheart believe me , or else choose , I'd have thee know I am none of those , That spend my means upon a Whore , Or run upon the Alewives Score ; No I will better be advised , It's good to be merry and wise ; For Friends I see are very scant , If that a Man do's come to want . Maid . My Friend , quoth she , what you have said , Is not half true , I am afraid ; I cannot think you're so precise , One may see plainly by your Eyes ; Your Hair is of the Colour right , To cozen Maids is your delight ; But thou shalt ne'er prove false to me , Or I will ne'er prove true to thee ; Therefore forbear my Company , And henceforth come not me a nigh , For I am not resolved to Wed , Nor yet to lose my Maidenhead : A single Life is void of Care , For married Wives must pinch and spare , There Charge for to maintain I see , Therefore a single Life for me . The Man. Seeing thou provest so unkind , I am resolved to change my mind ; A hundred pound I have in store , And Threescore pound a year more , If I can find and honest Girl , I'll prize her more than Gold or Pearl , And she shall live a Ladies Life , After she's Maid my wedded Wife . And so farewell , thou scornful Dame , In time thou mayest repent the same , That thou to me didst prove untrue , In time thou mayest have cause to rue ; Before that I will Marry thee , I'll hang myself upon a Tree , Rather I'll give my Wealth and Store , To one that begs from door to door . The Maid . Farewell , be gone , thou saucy Jack , With thy Wealth and Money prithee pack , My Portion is and hundred pound , In Silver , and in good Gold so round , Beside my Mother she does cry , I shall have all when she does die , Then what need I care for thy Wealth ? Even as thou sayest , go hang thyself . For I am resolved as I begun To end , and so conclude my Song , A single Life I hold it best , And thereon still my mind is pressed ; For Marriage brings Sorrow and Care ; So in it I'll not bear a share , Since young Men are so fickle grown , I am resolved to hold my own . So Maids of you I'll take my leave , Let no false young Men you deceive , For many they are hard to trust , Scarce one in twenty proves jus I for my own part will advice All Maids henceforth for to be wise , And have a care who you do wed , For fear you bring a Knave to Bed. Printed for P. Brooksby in Pye-Corner . 