THE TWO Faithful Lover's Tragedy , Showing , How a young London Merchant fell in Love with a Dutch Lady , and being hindered by their Covetous Parents they both died for Love . To the Tune of Hope Farewell . IN London liv'd a Crafty old Miser , who had a Son blessed in every degree , In whom kind Nature bestow'd all her Treasure , no one in his Gifts was more happy than he . This Youth by his Father a Merchant was bred , and greatly his Fortune's improv'd by his Trade , His Carriage and Mien so much were admir'd ; His Company was by all Persons desir'd . Urgent Occasions to Holland did call him , that he for his Voyage with speed did prepare , But what sad Grief alas ! did befall him , you all in the Sequal o' th' Story shall hear ; When he of his Friends had taken his leave , who at his departure all greatly did grieve ; On Ship board he went , and with a fresh Gale , he plough'd up the waves , and for Holland did fail When he had reach'd the Coast he intended , he presently manag'd his weighty affair : Where he by all was belov'd and befriended so courteous and kind he to all did appear . A crafty Dutch Merchant observing his care , who had a fine Daughter both virtuous and fair , To dine at his House he the Youth did invite , who gladly beheld the young Virgin so Bright . Her Beauty struck him to such admiration , that in his soft heart be kindled a Flame ; Which quickly grew to so loving a Passion , he thought he ne'er see so melting a Dame : The beautiful Maid was equally mov'd , she thought the brave Youth did deserve to be [ l ] ov'd Thus did blind Cupid scatter his Darts , and equally wounded these Lover's tender hearts , Then with kind and feeling Addresses , the Noble young Lover accosted his Dame ; She could not resist his modest Embraces , her heart was possessed with so equal a flame : His virtuous attempt he did daily improve , and chiefly pursu'd the blessed business of Love , TO [ i ] ll Love in their hearts began to be free , they vow'd to each other they'd ever faithful be . The happy time they appointed to Marry , and things were preparing against the blessed day , But here alas ! how their hope's did miscarry , what accident happen'd to call him away , A Letter from England from's Father there came , commanding him strait to return home again , And that he with speed must in England arrive , if e'er he would see his poor Father alive . Never was Youth under such a vexation , these tidings did all his comforts destroy , Loaded with such weighty oppressions he put off that bliss he so hop'd to enjoy : Then taking his leave of the flower of his Love , vowing forever be constant would prove , And with all speed fly over the Main , that soon to his dearest he might rerurn again . Then with speed he to England did hast him , but found his old Father recover'd again : Who welcom'd his son and kindly embrace him , and joy'd to see him on this side the Main : The Father a farther Speech then began , and laid his Commands in these words on his son : I have took care to choose you a Bride , a Beautiful Fortune , and must not be deny'd . The Son reply'd , Good Father I beg you don't force me to marry with one you have chosen , For I am betroth' to a Virgin already , and urge me not , pray , to forfeit my Vows . The Father fell into a violent Rage , and charg'd him on his blessing with her to engage , Or else he must never expect he would own a Child so undutiful to be his Son. His Father forc'd him to make his Addresses , while he with her parents the match did conclude The son his first Contract to the Lady confesses , and told her those Vows he resolv'd should stand good : His Constancy she did greatly commend , and told him in all things she would stand his Friend , Rather than's Father's good will he should lose , they'd take it on part his Suit to refuse . By this time a Merchant to Holland went over , who told the Dutch Lady her Love she must lose , That in England he was going to marry another , a Beautiful Fortune his Father had chosen . This news convey'd Horror into every part , she burst into tears , in few days broke her heart , Dying she cry'd , as she beatrice her white Breast , Faithless young Lover thou ne'er shall have rest . That night strange dismal thoughts did possess him as restless upon his Pillow he lay , While these cares and fears did oppress him , a light in his Room shone brighter than day ; The Ghost of his Love , crown'd with gold did appear with drops of Blood hanging on every hair , She slowly mov'd on , and approach'd his Bedside , and with a shrill Voice to her frighted Love she cry'd . From silent shades I come to discover , I'm she whom you love , now submitted to fate , I herd you paid your Vows to another , but know it's all false , now alas it's too late ! The Vows you have made forever maintain , for we in blessed shades e'er long shall meet again . By this time the Cock for Morning 'had crew , she vanquish'd in light , and so bid him adieu . Thus he lay in a sad Consternatiun , distracted he grew for loss of his Love , Living but just to give the Relation , and then took his flight to th' Elizium Grove . Between the two Father's to hear of their grief , would force us to yield them our tears for relief . Parents let this a Warning to you prove , you ne'er force your Children to falsify their love . Printed for J. Conyers , at the Black Raven in Holborn . THE TWO Faithful Lover's Tragedy , Showing , How a young London Merchant fell in Love with a Dutch Lady , and being hindered by their Covetous Parents they both died for Love . To the Tune of Hope Farewell . IN London liv'd a Crafty old Miser , who had a Son blessed in every degree , In whom kind Nature bestow'd all her Treasure , no one in his Gifts was more happy than he . This Youth by his Father a Merchant was bred , and greatly his Fortune's improv'd by his Trade , His Carriage and Mien so much were admir'd ; His Company was by all Persons desir'd . Urgent Occasions to Holland did call him , that he for his Voyage with speed did prepare , But what sad Grief alas ! did befall him , you all in the Sequal o' th' Story shall hear ; When he of his Friends had taken his leave , who at his departure all greatly did grieve ; On Ship board he went , and with a fresh Gale , he plough'd up the waves , and for Holland did fail When he had reach'd the Coast he intended , he presently manag'd his weighty affair : Where he by all was belov'd and befriended so courteous and kind he to all did appear . A crafty Dutch Merchant observing his care , who had a fine Daughter both virtuous and fair , To dine at his House he the Youth did invite , who gladly beheld the young Virgin so Bright . Her Beauty struck him to such admiration , that in his soft heart be kindled a Flame ; Which quickly grew to so loving a Passion , he thought he ne'er see so melting a Dame : The beautiful Maid was equally mov'd , she thought the brave Youth did deserve to be [ l ] ov'd Thus did blind Cupid scatter his Darts , and equally wounded these Lover's tender hearts , Then with kind and feeling Addresses , the Noble young Lover accosted his Dame ; She could not resist his modest Embraces , her heart was possessed with so equal a flame : His virtuous attempt he did daily improve , and chiefly pursu'd the blessed business of Love , TO [ i ] ll Love in their hearts began to be free , they vow'd to each other they'd ever faithful be . The happy time they appointed to Marry , and things were preparing against the blessed day , But here alas ! how their hope's did miscarry , what accident happen'd to call him away , A Letter from England from's Father there came , commanding him strait to return home again , And that he with speed must in England arrive , if e'er he would see his poor Father alive . Never was Youth under such a vexation , these tidings did all his comforts destroy , Loaded with such weighty oppressions he put off that bliss he so hop'd to enjoy : Then taking his leave of the flower of his Love , vowing forever be constant would prove , And with all speed fly over the Main , that soon to his dearest he might rerurn again . Then with speed he to England did hast him , but found his old Father recover'd again : Who welcom'd his son and kindly embrace him , and joy'd to see him on this side the Main : The Father a farther Speech then began , and laid his Commands in these words on his son : I have took care to choose you a Bride , a Beautiful Fortune , and must not be deny'd . The Son reply'd , Good Father I beg you don't force me to marry with one you have chosen , For I am betroth' to a Virgin already , and urge me not , pray , to forfeit my Vows . The Father fell into a violent Rage , and charg'd him on his blessing with her to engage , Or else he must never expect he would own a Child so undutiful to be his Son. His Father forc'd him to make his Addresses , while he with her parents the match did conclude The son his first Contract to the Lady confesses , and told her those Vows he resolv'd should stand good : His Constancy she did greatly commend , and told him in all things she would stand his Friend , Rather than's Father's good will he should lose , they'd take it on part his Suit to refuse . By this time a Merchant to Holland went over , who told the Dutch Lady her Love she must lose , That in England he was going to marry another , a Beautiful Fortune his Father had chosen . This news convey'd Horror into every part , she burst into tears , in few days broke her heart , Dying she cry'd , as she beatrice her white Breast , Faithless young Lover thou ne'er shall have rest . That night strange dismal thoughts did possess him as restless upon his Pillow he lay , While these cares and fears did oppress him , a light in his Room shone brighter than day ; The Ghost of his Love , crown'd with gold did appear with drops of Blood hanging on every hair , She slowly mov'd on , and approach'd his Bedside , and with a shrill Voice to her frighted Love she cry'd . From silent shades I come to discover , I'm she whom you love , now submitted to fate , I herd you paid your Vows to another , but know it's all false , now alas it's too late ! The Vows you have made forever maintain , for we in blessed shades e'er long shall meet again . By this time the Cock for Morning 'had crew , she vanquish'd in light , and so bid him adieu . Thus he lay in a sad Consternatiun , distracted he grew for loss of his Love , Living but just to give the Relation , and then took his flight to th' Elizium Grove . Between the two Father's to hear of their grief , would force us to yield them our tears for relief . Parents let this a Warning to you prove , you ne'er force your Children to falsify their love . Printed for J. Conyers , at the Black Raven in Holborn . 