A SPEECH Made to his Excellency THE Lord General MONCK , AND THE COUNCELL of STATE , AT DRAPERS-HALL in LONDON : The 28th of March , 1660. At which time they were entertained by that honourable Company . MOst honoured Sir , if a poor Scholar may ( among the rest ) his duteous offering pay , Accept my might unto your Merit , you That have given life to us , and learning to : How had the Churches glory lain in th' dust ? A Sacrifice to the Phanatiques lust , The Virgin had been rifled , and our Laws Become a Prey unto the Monstrous Jaws Of Wolves , and Vermin , had not you stepped in Unto their rescue : nay the City been A Shambles made ; you have redeem'd our States , As though y'ad sat in council with the Fates , And by your casting voice diverted our Intended ruin ; thus you shew'd your power , And love unto your Country ; and so mixed , It carries settlement our hope's are fixed . Ambition that did Gangrinate the State , Like a false Starr's , fall'n from its usurped heigh The spirit of division is now laid , The Genius of three Nations in one made ; You have re-hing'd our happiness in these Most reverend Patriots , Branches of our peace : These Luminaries , that through envious Night , In th' absence of our Sun , afford us Light ; Whose Pious Care and Courage ever wakes , More for our safety , then for their own sakes ; That prize a public more then private good , And swam not to a Government through blood ; So clear in all their ways , that if they might , They will not take away another's right ; That if the Proverb hold , ( although but plain ) 'Tis , like , the Man may have his Mare again : To you , and them with reverence I Proclaim A hearty welcome in the Companies name , Th' expression of whose Joys transported me Into these truths wrapped up in Poetry ; Go on brave Senators may your Union prove A Subject to the World of peace and love . Spoken by Walter Yeokney The Reader may take notice that the other Speech is a forged cheat , and disowned by Walter Yeokney . LONDON : Printed for Henry Broom at the Gun in Ivy-lane , 1660. A SPEECH Made to his Excellency THE Lord General MONCK , AND THE COUNCELL of STATE , AT DRAPERS-HALL in LONDON : The 28th of March , 1660. At which time they were entertained by that honourable Company . MOst honoured Sir , if a poor Scholar may ( among the rest ) his duteous offering pay , Accept my might unto your Merit , you That have given life to us , and learning to : How had the Churches glory lain in th' dust ? A Sacrifice to the Phanatiques lust , The Virgin had been rifled , and our Laws Become a Prey unto the Monstrous Jaws Of Wolves , and Vermin , had not you stepped in Unto their rescue : nay the City been A Shambles made ; you have redeem'd our States , As though y'ad sat in council with the Fates , And by your casting voice diverted our Intended ruin ; thus you shew'd your power , And love unto your Country ; and so mixed , It carries settlement our hope's are fixed . Ambition that did Gangrinate the State , Like a false Starr's , fall'n from its usurped heigh The spirit of division is now laid , The Genius of three Nations in one made ; You have re-hing'd our happiness in these Most reverend Patriots , Branches of our peace : These Luminaries , that through envious Night , In th' absence of our Sun , afford us Light ; Whose Pious Care and Courage ever wakes , More for our safety , then for their own sakes ; That prize a public more then private good , And swam not to a Government through blood ; So clear in all their ways , that if they might , They will not take away another's right ; That if the Proverb hold , ( although but plain ) 'Tis , like , the Man may have his Mare again : To you , and them with reverence I Proclaim A hearty welcome in the Companies name , Th' expression of whose Joys transported me Into these truths wrapped up in Poetry ; Go on brave Senators may your Union prove A Subject to the World of peace and love . Spoken by Walter Yeokney The Reader may take notice that the other Speech is a forged cheat , and disowned by Walter Yeokney . LONDON : Printed for Henry Broom at the Gun in Ivy-lane , 1660. 