A DIALOGUE Betwixt TOM AND DICK The former a COUNTRY-MAN , The other a CITIZEN , Presented to his EXCELLENCY and the COUNCIL of STATE , at DRA - PERS-Hall in LONDON , March 28 , 1660. ( To the tune of I'le never love thee more . ) Tom. NOW would I give my life to see , This wondrous man of might . Dick . Dost see that Jolly Lad ? that's he I'le warrant him he's right . Ther's a true Trojan in his Face : Observe him o're and o're . Chorus . Dick . Come Tom , if ever GEORGE be base , Ne're trust Good-fellow more . He's none of them Fanatic Brood , That murder , while they pray : That truss , and cheat us , for our Good ; ( All in a Godly way . ) He drinks no Blood , and they no Sack into their Guts will pour . Chorus . But if GEORGE does not do the knack ; Ne're trust goodfellow more . His quiet Conscience needs no guard , He's brave , but full of pity . Tom. Yet by your leave , he knock'd so hard , Had like t' awak'd the City . Dick . Fool , 'Twas the Rump that let a Fart , The Chains and Gates it tore . Chorus . But if GEORGE bears not a true heart , Ne're trust goodfellow more . Tom. Your City-Blades are cunning Rooks ; How rarely you Collogue him ? But when your Gates flew of the Hooks , You did as much be-rougue him . Dick . Pug'h . ------ It the Rump did only Feel , The blows the City boar . Chorus . But if GEORGE be'nt as true as steel , Ne're trust goodfellow more . Dick . Come , by this Hand , we'll crack a quare , Thou'll pledge his health , I trow . Tom. Tope boy , Dick ------ A lusty dish my heart , Away wot ; Tom. ------ Let it go . Drench me you slave in a full Bowl , I'll take't an'twere a score . Chorus . Dick . Nay if GEORGE be'nt a hearty Soul , Ne're trust goodfellow more . Tom. But , hark you , Sirrah , we're too loud , He'll Hang us , by and by . Dick . Methinks , he should be vengeance proud ? No more then thee , and I . Tom. Why then I'le give him the best Blade , That ere the Bilbo wrote , Chorus . Dick . If GEORGE prove not a Bonny Lad , Ne're trust goodfellow more . Tom. It well he came , we'd mawll'd the Tail ; ------ We've all thrown up our Farms . And from the Musket , to the Flail , Put all our men in Arms . The Girls had ta'ne the Members down , Ne're saw such things before . Chorus . Dick . If GEORGE speak not the Town our own , Ne're trust goodfellow more . But prithee , are the Folk so mad ? Tom. ------ So mad , say'dst ; ------ Their undone , There's not a penny to be had ; And every Mother's Son Must fight , if he intend to eat , Grow valiant , now he is poor . Chorus . Dick . Come -- yet if GEORGE don't do the feat , Ne're trust Good-fellow more . Tom. ------ Why Richard , 'tis a Devilish thing , We're not left worth a groat . My Doll has sold her wedding-ring , And Sum has pawned her Coat . The Sniv'ling Rogues abus'd our Squire , And called our Mistress Whore . Chorus . Dick . Yet -- If GEORGE don't what we desire , Ne're trust Good-fellow more . Tom. --- By this good day ; I did but speak ; They took my Py-Ball'd Mare , And put the Carri'on Wench to th' speak : ( Things go against the Hair . ) Our Prick-ear'd Cor'nel looks as big Still as he did before . Chor. Dick . And yet if GEORGE don't humme his Gigg , Ne're trust Good fellow more . 'Faith Tom : our Case is much at one ; We'er broke for want of Trade ; Our City's baffled and undone , Betwixt the Rump and Blade . We've emptied both our Vines and Bags , Upon a Factious score . Chorus . If GEORGE compassion not our Rags , Ne're trust Good fellow more . Tom. But what dost think should be the Cause , Whence all these mischiefs spring ? Dick . Our damned breach of Oaths and Laws ; Our Murder of the King . We have been Slaves since Charles his Reign , We liv'd like Lords before . Chorus . If GEORGE doubt set all right again , Ne're trust good fellow more . Tom. Our Vicar ---- ( and he is own that knows . ) Told me once ; ---- I know wha ( And yet the thief is wondy Close ) Dick . 'Tis all the better ; ----- That . H'as too much Honesty and Wit , To let his Tongue run o're : Choros . If this prove not a lucky bit , Ne're trust Good-fellow more . Shall's ask him what he means to do ? Tom. ----- 'Good faith , with all my heart ; Thou mak'st the better leg o' th' Two : Take thou the better part . I'le follow , if thou't lead the Van. Dick . Content , ---- I'll march before . Chorus . If GEORGE prove not a Gallant man , Ne're trust good fellow more . My Lord : ------ in us the Nation Craves But you are bound to do . Tom. --- We have liv'd Drudges : Ric. -- And We Slaves ; We would not die so too . Chorus . Restore us but our Laws again ; The unborn shall thee adore : If GEORGE denies us his Amen ; Ne're trust Good-fellow more . A DIALOGUE Betwixt TOM AND DICK The former a COUNTRY-MAN , The other a CITIZEN , Presented to his EXCELLENCY and the COUNCIL of STATE , at DRA - PERS-Hall in LONDON , March 28 , 1660. ( To the tune of I'le never love thee more . ) Tom. NOW would I give my life to see , This wondrous man of might . Dick . Dost see that Jolly Lad ? that's he I'le warrant him he's right . Ther's a true Trojan in his Face : Observe him o're and o're . Chorus . Dick . Come Tom , if ever GEORGE be base , Ne're trust Good-fellow more . He's none of them Fanatic Brood , That murder , while they pray : That truss , and cheat us , for our Good ; ( All in a Godly way . ) He drinks no Blood , and they no Sack into their Guts will pour . Chorus . But if GEORGE does not do the knack ; Ne're trust goodfellow more . His quiet Conscience needs no guard , He's brave , but full of pity . Tom. Yet by your leave , he knock'd so hard , Had like t' awak'd the City . Dick . Fool , 'Twas the Rump that let a Fart , The Chains and Gates it tore . Chorus . But if GEORGE bears not a true heart , Ne're trust goodfellow more . Tom. Your City-Blades are cunning Rooks ; How rarely you Collogue him ? But when your Gates flew of the Hooks , You did as much be-rougue him . Dick . Pug'h . ------ It the Rump did only Feel , The blows the City boar . Chorus . But if GEORGE be'nt as true as steel , Ne're trust goodfellow more . Dick . Come , by this Hand , we'll crack a quare , Thou'll pledge his health , I trow . Tom. Tope boy , Dick ------ A lusty dish my heart , Away wot ; Tom. ------ Let it go . Drench me you slave in a full Bowl , I'll take't an'twere a score . Chorus . Dick . Nay if GEORGE be'nt a hearty Soul , Ne're trust goodfellow more . Tom. But , hark you , Sirrah , we're too loud , He'll Hang us , by and by . Dick . Methinks , he should be vengeance proud ? No more then thee , and I . Tom. Why then I'le give him the best Blade , That ere the Bilbo wrote , Chorus . Dick . If GEORGE prove not a Bonny Lad , Ne're trust goodfellow more . Tom. It well he came , we'd mawll'd the Tail ; ------ We've all thrown up our Farms . And from the Musket , to the Flail , Put all our men in Arms . The Girls had ta'ne the Members down , Ne're saw such things before . Chorus . Dick . If GEORGE speak not the Town our own , Ne're trust goodfellow more . But prithee , are the Folk so mad ? Tom. ------ So mad , say'dst ; ------ Their undone , There's not a penny to be had ; And every Mother's Son Must fight , if he intend to eat , Grow valiant , now he is poor . Chorus . Dick . Come -- yet if GEORGE don't do the feat , Ne're trust Good-fellow more . Tom. ------ Why Richard , 'tis a Devilish thing , We're not left worth a groat . My Doll has sold her wedding-ring , And Sum has pawned her Coat . The Sniv'ling Rogues abus'd our Squire , And called our Mistress Whore . Chorus . Dick . Yet -- If GEORGE don't what we desire , Ne're trust Good-fellow more . Tom. --- By this good day ; I did but speak ; They took my Py-Ball'd Mare , And put the Carri'on Wench to th' speak : ( Things go against the Hair . ) Our Prick-ear'd Cor'nel looks as big Still as he did before . Chor. Dick . And yet if GEORGE don't humme his Gigg , Ne're trust Good fellow more . 'Faith Tom : our Case is much at one ; We'er broke for want of Trade ; Our City's baffled and undone , Betwixt the Rump and Blade . We've emptied both our Vines and Bags , Upon a Factious score . Chorus . If GEORGE compassion not our Rags , Ne're trust Good fellow more . Tom. But what dost think should be the Cause , Whence all these mischiefs spring ? Dick . Our damned breach of Oaths and Laws ; Our Murder of the King . We have been Slaves since Charles his Reign , We liv'd like Lords before . Chorus . If GEORGE doubt set all right again , Ne're trust good fellow more . Tom. Our Vicar ---- ( and he is own that knows . ) Told me once ; ---- I know wha ( And yet the thief is wondy Close ) Dick . 'Tis all the better ; ----- That . H'as too much Honesty and Wit , To let his Tongue run o're : Choros . If this prove not a lucky bit , Ne're trust Good-fellow more . Shall's ask him what he means to do ? Tom. ----- 'Good faith , with all my heart ; Thou mak'st the better leg o' th' Two : Take thou the better part . I'le follow , if thou't lead the Van. Dick . Content , ---- I'll march before . Chorus . If GEORGE prove not a Gallant man , Ne're trust good fellow more . My Lord : ------ in us the Nation Craves But you are bound to do . Tom. --- We have liv'd Drudges : Ric. -- And We Slaves ; We would not die so too . Chorus . Restore us but our Laws again ; The unborn shall thee adore : If GEORGE denies us his Amen ; Ne're trust Good-fellow more . 