Robin Hood and the Tanner . Or , Robin Hood met with his Match : A merry and pleasant Song . Relating the gallant and fierce Combat between Arthur Bland , a Tanner of Nottingham , and Robin Hood the greatest are - cher in England . Tune is , Robin Hood and the Stranger . IN Nottingham there lives a jolly Tanner , with a heigh down down a down down , his name is Arthur a Bland , There is ne're a Squire in Nottinghamshire , dare bid bold Arthur to stand . With a long Pikestaff upon his shoulder , with a heigh , etc so well he can clear his way , By two and by three he makes them to flee , for he hath no list to stay . As he went forth on a Summer's morning , with a heigh , etc in the Forest of merry Sherwood , To view the read Deer that range here and there , there met he with bold Robin Hood . As soon as bold Robin he did him espy , with a heigh , etc he thought some sport he would make , Therefore out of hand he bid him to stand , and thus to him he did speak . Why , what art thou , thou bold fellow , with a heigh , etc that ranges so boldly here , Insooth to be brief , thou look'st like a Thief , that comes to steal the Kings Deer . If thou be'st a Keeper in this Forest , with a heigh , etc the King puts me in trust , To look to his Deer that range here and there , therefore stay thee I must , If thou be'st a keeper in this Forest , with a heigh , etc and hast such a great command , Then thou must have more partakers in store , before thou mak'st me to stand . Nay , I have no more partakers in store , with a heigh , etc nor any that I do need , But I have a Staff of another Oak-graff , I know it will do the deed : For thy sword & thy bow I care not a straw , with a heigh , etc nor all thy Arrows to boot , If thou get a knock upon the bore scop , thou canst as well shite as shoot , Speak cleanly , speak cleanly , said jolly Robin , with a heigh , etc and give better terms to me , Else i'le thee correct for thy neglect , and make thee more mannerly . Marry gip with a winnion , quod Arthur a Bland , with a heigh , etc art thou such a goodly man ? I care not a fig for thy looking so big , mend thou thyself where thou can . Then Robin Hood he unbuckled his belt , with a heigh , etc and threw it upon the ground , Says , I have a staff of another Oak-graff , that is both strong and found . But let me measure , said jolly Robin , with a heigh , etc since thou wilt not yield to mine . For I have a staff of another Oak-graff , not half a foot longer than thine . But let me measure , said jolly Robin , with a heigh , etc before we begin our fray , For i'le not have mine no longer than thine , for that will be counted foul play . I pass not for length , bold Arthur reply'd , with a heigh , etc my staff is of Oak so free , Eight foot and a half , it will knock down a Calf , and I hope it will knock down thee . Then Robin Hood could no longer forbear , with a heigh , etc he gave him such a knock , Quickly and soon , the blood came down , before it was ten a Clock . Then Arthur soon recover'd himself , with a heigh , etc and gave him such a knock on the crown , That from every hair of bold Robins head the blood came trickling down . Then Robin Hood raved like a wild Boar , with a heigh , etc as soon as he saw his own blood , Then Bland was in haste , he laid on so fast as though he had been stacking of wood . And about , and about , and about they went , with a heigh , etc like two wild Boars in a chase , Striving to aim each other to maim , Leg , arm or any place . And knock for knock they lustily dealt , with a heigh , etc which held two hours and more , That all the wood rang at every bang , they ply'd their work so soar , Hold thy hand , hold thy hand , said Robin Hood , with a heigh , etc and let our Quarrel fallen , For here we may thrash our bones to mash , and get no Coin at all : And in the Forest of merry Sherwood , with a heigh , etc hereafter thou shalt be free , Gramercy for nought , my freedom I've bought , I may thank my good staff , and not thee . What tradesman art thou , said jolly Robin , with a heigh , etc good fellow I prithee me show , And also me tell , in what place thou dost dwell , for both these fain would I know . I am a Tanner , bold Arthur reply'd , with a heigh , etc in Nottingham long have I wrought , And if thou come there , I vow & do swear , I will tann thy hide for nough God-a-mercy good fellow , said jolly Robin , with a heigh , etc since thou art so kind to me , And if thou wilt tann my Hide for nought , I will do as much for thee . But if thou wilt forsake thy Tanners Trade , with a heigh , etc & live in the green woods with me , My name is Robin Hood , I swear by the wood , I will give thee both gold and fee : If thou be Robin Hood , bold Arthur reply'd , with a heigh , etc as I think well thou art , Then here's my hand , my name's Arthur Bland we two will never part . But tell me , Oh tell me , where is little John ? with a heigh , etc of him fain would I hear , For we are Ally'd by the Mother's side , and he is my Kinsman near . Then Robin Hood blew on his bugle horn , with a heigh , etc he blew both loud and shrill , And quickly anon , appear'd little John , come tripping over the Hill. O what is the matter , then said little John , with a heigh , etc Master I pray you me tell , Why do you stand with your staff in your hand , I fear all is not well , Oh man I do stand , and he makes me to stand , with a heigh , etc the Tanner that stands thee beside , He is a bonny blade , and master of his trade , for soundly he hath tann'd my hide , He is to be commended , then said little John , with a heigh , etc if such a feat he can do , If he be so stout , we will have a bout , and he shall tan my hide too . Hold thy hand , hold thy hand , said Robin Hood , with a heigh , etc for as I do understand , He is a Yeoman good , and of thy own blood , for his name is Arthur a Bland . Then little John threw his staff away , with a heigh , etc and as far as he could it sling , And ran out of hand to Arthur a Bland , and about his neck did cling . With loving respect there was no neglect , with a heigh , etc they was neither nice nor coy , Each other did face with a lovely grace , & both did weep for joy . Then Robin Hood took them both by the hand , with a heigh , etc & Danc't about the Oak-tree , For three merry men , and three merry men , and three merry men we be . And ever hereafter as long as we live , with a heigh , etc we three will be all as one , The wood shall ring , and the old wife sing , of Robin Hood , Arthur and John. FINIS . Printed for A.M. and W.O. Robin Hood and the Tanner . Or , Robin Hood met with his Match : A merry and pleasant Song . Relating the gallant and fierce Combat between Arthur Bland , a Tanner of Nottingham , and Robin Hood the greatest are - cher in England . Tune is , Robin Hood and the Stranger . IN Nottingham there lives a jolly Tanner , with a heigh down down a down down , his name is Arthur a Bland , There is ne're a Squire in Nottinghamshire , dare bid bold Arthur to stand . With a long Pikestaff upon his shoulder , with a heigh , etc so well he can clear his way , By two and by three he makes them to flee , for he hath no list to stay . As he went forth on a Summer's morning , with a heigh , etc in the Forest of merry Sherwood , To view the read Deer that range here and there , there met he with bold Robin Hood . As soon as bold Robin he did him espy , with a heigh , etc he thought some sport he would make , Therefore out of hand he bid him to stand , and thus to him he did speak . Why , what art thou , thou bold fellow , with a heigh , etc that ranges so boldly here , Insooth to be brief , thou look'st like a Thief , that comes to steal the Kings Deer . If thou be'st a Keeper in this Forest , with a heigh , etc the King puts me in trust , To look to his Deer that range here and there , therefore stay thee I must , If thou be'st a keeper in this Forest , with a heigh , etc and hast such a great command , Then thou must have more partakers in store , before thou mak'st me to stand . Nay , I have no more partakers in store , with a heigh , etc nor any that I do need , But I have a Staff of another Oak-graff , I know it will do the deed : For thy sword & thy bow I care not a straw , with a heigh , etc nor all thy Arrows to boot , If thou get a knock upon the bore scop , thou canst as well shite as shoot , Speak cleanly , speak cleanly , said jolly Robin , with a heigh , etc and give better terms to me , Else i'le thee correct for thy neglect , and make thee more mannerly . Marry gip with a winnion , quod Arthur a Bland , with a heigh , etc art thou such a goodly man ? I care not a fig for thy looking so big , mend thou thyself where thou can . Then Robin Hood he unbuckled his belt , with a heigh , etc and threw it upon the ground , Says , I have a staff of another Oak-graff , that is both strong and found . But let me measure , said jolly Robin , with a heigh , etc since thou wilt not yield to mine . For I have a staff of another Oak-graff , not half a foot longer than thine . But let me measure , said jolly Robin , with a heigh , etc before we begin our fray , For i'le not have mine no longer than thine , for that will be counted foul play . I pass not for length , bold Arthur reply'd , with a heigh , etc my staff is of Oak so free , Eight foot and a half , it will knock down a Calf , and I hope it will knock down thee . Then Robin Hood could no longer forbear , with a heigh , etc he gave him such a knock , Quickly and soon , the blood came down , before it was ten a Clock . Then Arthur soon recover'd himself , with a heigh , etc and gave him such a knock on the crown , That from every hair of bold Robins head the blood came trickling down . Then Robin Hood raved like a wild Boar , with a heigh , etc as soon as he saw his own blood , Then Bland was in haste , he laid on so fast as though he had been stacking of wood . And about , and about , and about they went , with a heigh , etc like two wild Boars in a chase , Striving to aim each other to maim , Leg , arm or any place . And knock for knock they lustily dealt , with a heigh , etc which held two hours and more , That all the wood rang at every bang , they ply'd their work so soar , Hold thy hand , hold thy hand , said Robin Hood , with a heigh , etc and let our Quarrel fallen , For here we may thrash our bones to mash , and get no Coin at all : And in the Forest of merry Sherwood , with a heigh , etc hereafter thou shalt be free , Gramercy for nought , my freedom I've bought , I may thank my good staff , and not thee . What tradesman art thou , said jolly Robin , with a heigh , etc good fellow I prithee me show , And also me tell , in what place thou dost dwell , for both these fain would I know . I am a Tanner , bold Arthur reply'd , with a heigh , etc in Nottingham long have I wrought , And if thou come there , I vow & do swear , I will tann thy hide for nough God-a-mercy good fellow , said jolly Robin , with a heigh , etc since thou art so kind to me , And if thou wilt tann my Hide for nought , I will do as much for thee . But if thou wilt forsake thy Tanners Trade , with a heigh , etc & live in the green woods with me , My name is Robin Hood , I swear by the wood , I will give thee both gold and fee : If thou be Robin Hood , bold Arthur reply'd , with a heigh , etc as I think well thou art , Then here's my hand , my name's Arthur Bland we two will never part . But tell me , Oh tell me , where is little John ? with a heigh , etc of him fain would I hear , For we are Ally'd by the Mother's side , and he is my Kinsman near . Then Robin Hood blew on his bugle horn , with a heigh , etc he blew both loud and shrill , And quickly anon , appear'd little John , come tripping over the Hill. O what is the matter , then said little John , with a heigh , etc Master I pray you me tell , Why do you stand with your staff in your hand , I fear all is not well , Oh man I do stand , and he makes me to stand , with a heigh , etc the Tanner that stands thee beside , He is a bonny blade , and master of his trade , for soundly he hath tann'd my hide , He is to be commended , then said little John , with a heigh , etc if such a feat he can do , If he be so stout , we will have a bout , and he shall tan my hide too . Hold thy hand , hold thy hand , said Robin Hood , with a heigh , etc for as I do understand , He is a Yeoman good , and of thy own blood , for his name is Arthur a Bland . Then little John threw his staff away , with a heigh , etc and as far as he could it sling , And ran out of hand to Arthur a Bland , and about his neck did cling . With loving respect there was no neglect , with a heigh , etc they was neither nice nor coy , Each other did face with a lovely grace , & both did weep for joy . Then Robin Hood took them both by the hand , with a heigh , etc & Danc't about the Oak-tree , For three merry men , and three merry men , and three merry men we be . And ever hereafter as long as we live , with a heigh , etc we three will be all as one , The wood shall ring , and the old wife sing , of Robin Hood , Arthur and John. FINIS . Printed for A.M. and W.O. 