A Song to his Excellency THE LORD GENERAL MONCK , AT Skinners-Hall on Wednesday Aprill 4. 1660. At which time he was entertained by that honourable COMPANY . To the Tune of I'll never Leave thee more . ADmire not noble Sir , that you should hear Beasts echo out your acclamations here , And those whom nature had tonguety'd , should break There silent Chains your fulmouth'd praise to speak It is no wonder Sir , since that to you The admiration of a greaters due , While by your hands have curb'd the furious rage Of Steel , and have restor'd our golden age , This British Isle by nature fram'd to be Of the great World the grand Epitome Whom Neptune circling in his briny arms Hath made secure from foreign foes alarms , And Providence so seated , that she seems By her to prize all other Diadems ; And yet had she thus freed from foreign Wars Rend her own Bowels with intestine jars , And when no force of supercilious Spaine Nor power of furious France could from his gain , His wealth and honour , she of both bereaves His self ; and gives them to his basest slaves He whose brave Heroes in the days of yore Could beatrice down others Sceptors or restore Them at her will : now did his own betray And to herself , herself did make a prey . O foolish Nation , while thou sought to bring Subjection to thee from thy Sovereign King Forgets in Bodies ruin must be read When Members Rebels turn against the Head , A people who turn Traitors to their King Must needs themselves into destruction bring ; Most desperate is their case , nor can I rate The mischiefs which succeed a headless State , This you have prov'd , and now you sadly see Rebellion recompenc'd with misery ; But isle be silent here , and will no more Thus smartly rub you raw , and galled soar Since here you came not to lament , or make A Fast , but feast for your Redemptions sake , And it to you great Sir they did intend And to your praise I should my Speeches bend And think not Sir that your renowned name , Receives detraction in the rolls of fame By being sung by me ; for though that here My guards and followers do not appear To show my greatness yet at my Command The Forests bow and as my Subject's stand And though I boast myself a mighty King My greatest Honour is your praise to sing Let Room no more her Fabius show or boast His moderate prudence sav'd her being lost ; Since you have justly brag , your wife delays Have sav'd a Nation Crown'd your self with Baies . Had you been furious any have cast the Die Of War , we now might all in ashes lie ; Triumph'd one by our foes , when now we see England restored to its Liberty By this your prudence nothing now remains But that you recompense our other pains , And Crown your merits , while you and our strife By giving Head as well as Body life . The Members you have joyn'd , yet they're but dead , While thus they stand dissever'd from the Head Procyed then George , and as thou hast brought down The Traitors , so restore the lawful Crown , That after ages may thee justly call Restorer of thy Country , KING and all . The Reader may take notice that this is the right Speech , sung by W. Yeokney . LONDON : Printed for William Anderson , in the YEAR , 1660. A Song to his Excellency THE LORD GENERAL MONCK , AT Skinners-Hall on Wednesday Aprill 4. 1660. At which time he was entertained by that honourable COMPANY . To the Tune of I'll never Leave thee more . ADmire not noble Sir , that you should hear Beasts echo out your acclamations here , And those whom nature had tonguety'd , should break There silent Chains your fulmouth'd praise to speak It is no wonder Sir , since that to you The admiration of a greaters due , While by your hands have curb'd the furious rage Of Steel , and have restor'd our golden age , This British Isle by nature fram'd to be Of the great World the grand Epitome Whom Neptune circling in his briny arms Hath made secure from foreign foes alarms , And Providence so seated , that she seems By her to prize all other Diadems ; And yet had she thus freed from foreign Wars Rend her own Bowels with intestine jars , And when no force of supercilious Spaine Nor power of furious France could from his gain , His wealth and honour , she of both bereaves His self ; and gives them to his basest slaves He whose brave Heroes in the days of yore Could beatrice down others Sceptors or restore Them at her will : now did his own betray And to herself , herself did make a prey . O foolish Nation , while thou sought to bring Subjection to thee from thy Sovereign King Forgets in Bodies ruin must be read When Members Rebels turn against the Head , A people who turn Traitors to their King Must needs themselves into destruction bring ; Most desperate is their case , nor can I rate The mischiefs which succeed a headless State , This you have prov'd , and now you sadly see Rebellion recompenc'd with misery ; But isle be silent here , and will no more Thus smartly rub you raw , and galled soar Since here you came not to lament , or make A Fast , but feast for your Redemptions sake , And it to you great Sir they did intend And to your praise I should my Speeches bend And think not Sir that your renowned name , Receives detraction in the rolls of fame By being sung by me ; for though that here My guards and followers do not appear To show my greatness yet at my Command The Forests bow and as my Subject's stand And though I boast myself a mighty King My greatest Honour is your praise to sing Let Room no more her Fabius show or boast His moderate prudence sav'd her being lost ; Since you have justly brag , your wife delays Have sav'd a Nation Crown'd your self with Baies . Had you been furious any have cast the Die Of War , we now might all in ashes lie ; Triumph'd one by our foes , when now we see England restored to its Liberty By this your prudence nothing now remains But that you recompense our other pains , And Crown your merits , while you and our strife By giving Head as well as Body life . The Members you have joyn'd , yet they're but dead , While thus they stand dissever'd from the Head Procyed then George , and as thou hast brought down The Traitors , so restore the lawful Crown , That after ages may thee justly call Restorer of thy Country , KING and all . The Reader may take notice that this is the right Speech , sung by W. Yeokney . LONDON : Printed for William Anderson , in the YEAR , 1660. 