A SPEECH Made to his EXCELLENCY GEORGE MONCK General , etc The Twelfth day of Aprill , M. DC . LX . At a Solemn Entertainment at VINTENERS-HAL . Wherein His Illustrious Virtues are shadowed forth under the Emblem of a VINE . WElcome ( Great Sir ) thrice welcome to this Hall ; We've nothing else to welcome you withal . All else is but your own ; to You we owe , Life , Liberties , Estates , Religion too : All else is in your Power , only our hearts Are free to welcome and admire your arts . Time was , when we were forc't to court our Chains , And kiss the Rod which jerk't us for our pains : We durst not cry for fear of t'other lash , But smooth'd our brows , and blubber'd faces washed . Our Lurdan Master's made us them reward , For keeping of our Liberties in Ward . But unto You , our hearts aspire to fallen A willing Sacrifice , this Festival ; Nor think it ( Sir ) a hollow compliment , We deal in Wine , Wine only truth does vent . Now give us leave to borrow from our Trade , Something which may your radiant Virtues shade : And what may better Suit you than the Vine , That Noble Plant , which does such worth enshrine ? First , in its leaves which hide and guard thee cluster , It notes your modesty , which hides your lustre ; It shows your secrecy ; by which secur'd You have a Bloodless Victory procur'd : Oh happy soul ! whose silence could do more Then Arts and Arms , then Rhetoric and Pow'r . You have Three Nations redeem'd , and yet , Not spilled one drop of blood in doing it . You gently did the Strength and Weapons steal Out of their hands , before they could it feel . Let Room and Tully boast ; let Athens bless Demostenes , and thundering Pericles : Give me the man who works without a noise , Who spares his tongue and hands , but Wit employs . Again , the Vine's not spent in leaves and paint , But under its own fruitful load does faint ; That load which lightens men of all their cares , And fainting spirits with new life repairs . Thus You ( my Lord ) oppress yourself with pains , To bring forth unto us more easy gains . Under your watchful eyes we sleep secure , Under your arms our Commerce we ensure . Peace , Freedom , Laws ( both humane and divine ) Are the delicious fruits of You our Vine . These are your firstfruits , and they taste so sweet , We long for those which hang not ripened you There's something still remains to crown the rest , To bind all fast , and make us firmly blessed . Some are already drunk with what they taste , And in a drunken fit quarrel for haste . We wrestle yet with jealousies and threats ? 'Tis time must ripen all with kindly heats . There are Phanatiques that on both sides rage , 'Till by your art you coop 'em in one cage : And while you check Religious lunacies , Restrain likewise prophaner luxuries . Secure all stakes ; all sober men Engage ; This will embalm your Name to future age . And as the Vine adorns its prop and spreads , And twists the branches of the tree it Weds : So do your Virtues spread about these Lands Which You Espouse , and link them all in bans Of sacred wedlock ; all men do combine In You , and mingled Interests intwine . You moderate , You hush , and silence all Our jangling factions and confused brawl . Bind all unto Yourself , and each to other ; Let none Engross You , be a common Brother . The Vine ( as in the Parable we read ) Refus'd to domineer with lofty head . Though Brambles may in Lordly rule delight To scratch , and tear , and rend down all by migh The humble Vine seeks no such rampant tops , But lowly creeps unless advanc't by props : Thus You aspire not unto gay Dominion ; Whose happiness is merely in opinion : It is presum'd you'd rather make a King Then your own hands , to Sway a Sceptre bring ; This will Immortalise and blaze your story , And Crown your head with spendant beams of glory . If any other Speech be Printed , pretended to be spoken in Vinteners-Hall , they are Counterfeits , and none true but this . Tho. Jordan . A SPEECH Made to his EXCELLENCY GEORGE MONCK General , etc The Twelfth day of Aprill , M. DC . LX . At a Solemn Entertainment at VINTENERS-HAL . Wherein His Illustrious Virtues are shadowed forth under the Emblem of a VINE . WElcome ( Great Sir ) thrice welcome to this Hall ; We've nothing else to welcome you withal . All else is but your own ; to You we owe , Life , Liberties , Estates , Religion too : All else is in your Power , only our hearts Are free to welcome and admire your arts . Time was , when we were forc't to court our Chains , And kiss the Rod which jerk't us for our pains : We durst not cry for fear of t'other lash , But smooth'd our brows , and blubber'd faces washed . Our Lurdan Master's made us them reward , For keeping of our Liberties in Ward . But unto You , our hearts aspire to fallen A willing Sacrifice , this Festival ; Nor think it ( Sir ) a hollow compliment , We deal in Wine , Wine only truth does vent . Now give us leave to borrow from our Trade , Something which may your radiant Virtues shade : And what may better Suit you than the Vine , That Noble Plant , which does such worth enshrine ? First , in its leaves which hide and guard thee cluster , It notes your modesty , which hides your lustre ; It shows your secrecy ; by which secur'd You have a Bloodless Victory procur'd : Oh happy soul ! whose silence could do more Then Arts and Arms , then Rhetoric and Pow'r . You have Three Nations redeem'd , and yet , Not spilled one drop of blood in doing it . You gently did the Strength and Weapons steal Out of their hands , before they could it feel . Let Room and Tully boast ; let Athens bless Demostenes , and thundering Pericles : Give me the man who works without a noise , Who spares his tongue and hands , but Wit employs . Again , the Vine's not spent in leaves and paint , But under its own fruitful load does faint ; That load which lightens men of all their cares , And fainting spirits with new life repairs . Thus You ( my Lord ) oppress yourself with pains , To bring forth unto us more easy gains . Under your watchful eyes we sleep secure , Under your arms our Commerce we ensure . Peace , Freedom , Laws ( both humane and divine ) Are the delicious fruits of You our Vine . These are your firstfruits , and they taste so sweet , We long for those which hang not ripened you There's something still remains to crown the rest , To bind all fast , and make us firmly blessed . Some are already drunk with what they taste , And in a drunken fit quarrel for haste . We wrestle yet with jealousies and threats ? 'Tis time must ripen all with kindly heats . There are Phanatiques that on both sides rage , 'Till by your art you coop 'em in one cage : And while you check Religious lunacies , Restrain likewise prophaner luxuries . Secure all stakes ; all sober men Engage ; This will embalm your Name to future age . And as the Vine adorns its prop and spreads , And twists the branches of the tree it Weds : So do your Virtues spread about these Lands Which You Espouse , and link them all in bans Of sacred wedlock ; all men do combine In You , and mingled Interests intwine . You moderate , You hush , and silence all Our jangling factions and confused brawl . Bind all unto Yourself , and each to other ; Let none Engross You , be a common Brother . The Vine ( as in the Parable we read ) Refus'd to domineer with lofty head . Though Brambles may in Lordly rule delight To scratch , and tear , and rend down all by migh The humble Vine seeks no such rampant tops , But lowly creeps unless advanc't by props : Thus You aspire not unto gay Dominion ; Whose happiness is merely in opinion : It is presum'd you'd rather make a King Then your own hands , to Sway a Sceptre bring ; This will Immortalise and blaze your story , And Crown your head with spendant beams of glory . If any other Speech be Printed , pretended to be spoken in Vinteners-Hall , they are Counterfeits , and none true but this . Tho. Jordan . 