Beauteous JENNY : OR , The Maiden Mistress . To and Excellent New Scotch Tune . Licensed according to Order . I. JEnny has a Thousand Charms , Oh! that she were in my Arms ; Oh! how brisk we'd pass the pleasing night , While the minutes glide away in sweet Delight , What is softer then her tender Arms ? What is sweeter than her melting Charms ? When she dies , How bright her Eyes , how white her Thighs ? What Treasures , Pleasures , Where the Fountain lies ? All the Swains and Shepherd's sighs , and bring Crowns , of Garlands , from the fragrant Spring , And each Shepherdess around Fairy Ground do's dance , While Pan do's pipe and sing . II When I view her sparkling Eye , There Ten thousand Cupid's lie , All that's either fair , or soft , or sweet , In my dearest tender Jenny always meet . What can we poor Mortals wish for more ? Beauty's Blessing is the sweetest store . Full of Charms Are Jenny's Arms , There are no harms , From Lovers there are always safe Alarms , Let us then to Myrtle Groves retire , Full of Love , and full of harmless Fire , There in secret Shades , Like kind and bashful Maids , We may there enjoy whatever we desire . III . Give me then a White-Fac'd-Foe , Then to War I'll quickly go ; Let her have be sure a beauteous Face , And her Headpiece made of Bobbin-Flanders-lace : Let her try me whither I can fight , In the Day , or in the darkest Night , If I'm slave , I'll rise again , I fear no Pain ; So like a Trojan true I'll ne'er complain . Genteels , what I say , to this I'll stand , And whene'er she please , I'll give my hand , And upon my word to this , Seal it with a Kiss , To be at her Command . IV. Come my Lasses , come away , Prithee try me , while you may , Put on either Scarf , Commode , or Hood , But make haste I say , while I am warm and good . Let each Man that courts or loves a Maid , Take and kiss her e'er Beauty fade , No Delay , But Now today , Once more I say , Go take and hug , and kiss her while you may Nothing can be like the present Time , Give me Wine and Women in their prime , And before that e'er they pall Give me all ; Beauty's Pleasure is sublime . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . Beauteous JENNY : OR , The Maiden Mistress . To and Excellent New Scotch Tune . Licensed according to Order . I. JEnny has a Thousand Charms , Oh! that she were in my Arms ; Oh! how brisk we'd pass the pleasing night , While the minutes glide away in sweet Delight , What is softer then her tender Arms ? What is sweeter than her melting Charms ? When she dies , How bright her Eyes , how white her Thighs ? What Treasures , Pleasures , Where the Fountain lies ? All the Swains and Shepherd's sighs , and bring Crowns , of Garlands , from the fragrant Spring , And each Shepherdess around Fairy Ground do's dance , While Pan do's pipe and sing . II When I view her sparkling Eye , There Ten thousand Cupid's lie , All that's either fair , or soft , or sweet , In my dearest tender Jenny always meet . What can we poor Mortals wish for more ? Beauty's Blessing is the sweetest store . Full of Charms Are Jenny's Arms , There are no harms , From Lovers there are always safe Alarms , Let us then to Myrtle Groves retire , Full of Love , and full of harmless Fire , There in secret Shades , Like kind and bashful Maids , We may there enjoy whatever we desire . III . Give me then a White-Fac'd-Foe , Then to War I'll quickly go ; Let her have be sure a beauteous Face , And her Headpiece made of Bobbin-Flanders-lace : Let her try me whither I can fight , In the Day , or in the darkest Night , If I'm slave , I'll rise again , I fear no Pain ; So like a Trojan true I'll ne'er complain . Genteels , what I say , to this I'll stand , And whene'er she please , I'll give my hand , And upon my word to this , Seal it with a Kiss , To be at her Command . IV. Come my Lasses , come away , Prithee try me , while you may , Put on either Scarf , Commode , or Hood , But make haste I say , while I am warm and good . Let each Man that courts or loves a Maid , Take and kiss her e'er Beauty fade , No Delay , But Now today , Once more I say , Go take and hug , and kiss her while you may Nothing can be like the present Time , Give me Wine and Women in their prime , And before that e'er they pall Give me all ; Beauty's Pleasure is sublime . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . 