[ A Pleasant BALLAD of TOBIAS : Wherein is showed what wondered Things chanced to him in his Youth ; and how he wedded a young Damosel that had had Seven Husbands , but never enjoyed their Company , being all Slave by and Evil Spirit . ] The Angel said , good courage take , for so it shall be with thee , For Such perfumes I will thee make , the wicked Spirit away shall flee . To Raguel's house away they run , where Sarah met them , fair and bright And after Salutations done , she brought them to her father's sighed , Great cheer there was and down they sat and all for young Tobias's sake , And after long and pleasant chat between them both a match did make By Moses Law they married were , the Bride's Bedchamber prepar'd likewise : When young Tobias came in there , the tears fell down from Sarah's eyes , A pan of coals he brought with him , the Fish's heart and Liver there , within the fire he did cast in , which cast a faour everywhere , And by that sweet and pleasant smell , the wicked Spirit was displac'd . within that room he could not dwell , and there out he went in haste , In bed they laid this beauteous bride , the chamber door Was shut therefore ; Young Toby lying by her side , whom she did think to see no more : And therefore Raguel in the night ; for him before had made a grave ; And to his wife he wept and said , There is no way his life to save . One of the maidens send quoth he , to see how all the matters stands And if so be that dead he be , he shall be buried by my hands . This maiden Joyful news did bring , Tobias is alive quoth she , When Raguel heard of this thing , he did rejoice exceedingly , For Joy he made a solemn feast , the bridal fourteen days they kept ; There came many Friendly Guest ; in sorrow now no more they Slept , Azarius went straightway , unto the feast Gabriel borough Rejoicing at his marriage day , and paid the money that he ought . But yet old Toby and his wife , did all this while in sorrow dwell , They thought their Son had lost his life , and nothing could their grief expel ; His aged mother every day . did watch the high way side ; And for his welfare oft did pray , no meat nor drink she could abide . But when the wedding ended was , young Toby with his lovely bride , To Nineve did homeward pass , with Goods and Cattle on each side , But Toby and his Angel bright , before his wife made haste to go , For to prepare all things aright . his lovely bride to welcome home His mother watching in the way , full soon espy'd her tender Son ; Rejoicing at that happy Day , she told her Husband he was come , Whereat old Toby Tumbled out , for he was blind and could not see ; Young Toby with the Fish's Gaul , rub'd both his eyes immediately , Whereat the whiteness of his eyes , incontinent did fallen out quite ; So that before he did arise , he had again his perfect sighed Great Joy there was , and do [ wn they sat , ] Young Toby told his fathe [ r all ] Who went to meet his lovely [ Bride , ] with joy and mir [ th that was not small . ] LONDON Printed by and [ worser ] for W.O. and to be sold by the Booksellers . [ A Pleasant BALLAD of TOBIAS : Wherein is showed what wondered Things chanced to him in his Youth ; and how he wedded a young Damosel that had had Seven Husbands , but never enjoyed their Company , being all Slave by and Evil Spirit . ] The Angel said , good courage take , for so it shall be with thee , For Such perfumes I will thee make , the wicked Spirit away shall flee . To Raguel's house away they run , where Sarah met them , fair and bright And after Salutations done , she brought them to her father's sighed , Great cheer there was and down they sat and all for young Tobias's sake , And after long and pleasant chat between them both a match did make By Moses Law they married were , the Bride's Bedchamber prepar'd likewise : When young Tobias came in there , the tears fell down from Sarah's eyes , A pan of coals he brought with him , the Fish's heart and Liver there , within the fire he did cast in , which cast a faour everywhere , And by that sweet and pleasant smell , the wicked Spirit was displac'd . within that room he could not dwell , and there out he went in haste , In bed they laid this beauteous bride , the chamber door Was shut therefore ; Young Toby lying by her side , whom she did think to see no more : And therefore Raguel in the night ; for him before had made a grave ; And to his wife he wept and said , There is no way his life to save . One of the maidens send quoth he , to see how all the matters stands And if so be that dead he be , he shall be buried by my hands . This maiden Joyful news did bring , Tobias is alive quoth she , When Raguel heard of this thing , he did rejoice exceedingly , For Joy he made a solemn feast , the bridal fourteen days they kept ; There came many Friendly Guest ; in sorrow now no more they Slept , Azarius went straightway , unto the feast Gabriel borough Rejoicing at his marriage day , and paid the money that he ought . But yet old Toby and his wife , did all this while in sorrow dwell , They thought their Son had lost his life , and nothing could their grief expel ; His aged mother every day . did watch the high way side ; And for his welfare oft did pray , no meat nor drink she could abide . But when the wedding ended was , young Toby with his lovely bride , To Nineve did homeward pass , with Goods and Cattle on each side , But Toby and his Angel bright , before his wife made haste to go , For to prepare all things aright . his lovely bride to welcome home His mother watching in the way , full soon espy'd her tender Son ; Rejoicing at that happy Day , she told her Husband he was come , Whereat old Toby Tumbled out , for he was blind and could not see ; Young Toby with the Fish's Gaul , rub'd both his eyes immediately , Whereat the whiteness of his eyes , incontinent did fallen out quite ; So that before he did arise , he had again his perfect sighed Great Joy there was , and do [ wn they sat , ] Young Toby told his fathe [ r all ] Who went to meet his lovely [ Bride , ] with joy and mir [ th that was not small . ] LONDON Printed by and [ worser ] for W.O. and to be sold by the Booksellers . 