A BALLAD ON Lord PELHAM'S Birth-Day , July 24,1714 . To the Tune of , London is a fine Town , etc I . COME bring the Liquour hither , And Matt. raise up thy Voice : Lord Pelham's One and Twenty , And therefore we'll Rejoice . In One and Twenty Bumpers Then let his Health go round ; Here's One and Twenty Verses Worth One and Twenty Pound . O all the Sussex Freeholders Come listen to my Story , 'Tis of a Gallant Whig Lord , I Scorn to Sing a Tory. II Next Year into the House he'll come , For to assist the State ; And there he'll Talk more than them All : Good Lord how he'll Debate ! For he , you know , has Wit at will , And Tongue that glib will run ; And he's Wise enough for Fifty , Tho' he's but Twenty one . O all the Sussex Freeholders Come listen to my Story ; 'Tis of a Gallant Whig Lord , I'll never Sing a Tory. III . This Lord most bountifully gives To all , both Drink and Food ; And knows no use of Plenty , But to do others good . Then merrily let's Drink about , And empty this here Bowl ; Altho' he has a great Estate , He has a greater Soul O all the Sussex Freeholders Then listen to my Story ; And drink to this brave Whig Lord , Ne'er Sampled by a Tory. IV. This Day Six thousand Stomachs good With him did kindly Dine ; And every Man had on his Plate Of Beef a stately Chine . A roasted Ox beside there was , Of great and goodly Mien : A Tun of Pudding in his Guts : Pray God preserve the Queen . O Oh all the Sussex Freeholders Then listen to my Story ; Lord Pelham is a Whig Lord , There's no such Lord a Tory. V. To the fair Shire of Nottingham When as this Lord shall come , He'll raise the Trained Bans around Without the beatrice of Drum. In Noble Sherwood Forest Such a Racket we shall have , That Robin Hood , to see this Lord , Will bounce out of his Grave . Then all you Northern Freeholders Come harken to my Story , And Vote for this brave Whig Lord , Who'll live like Tory Rory . VI . In Haughton Park , of old Renown , A stately House he'll built ; With a Hall as big as Pauls , And often better fill'd A Score of Tables there shall stand , And all both broad and long ; And Rumps of Beef shall enter , with A Bagpipe and a Song . Then all his jolly Tenants Come listen to my Story ; And fit you down , and eat and drink Of all that comes before you . VII . Take every Man his Glass then , And raise his Jolly Voice , Lord Pelham's One and Twenty , And therefore we'll rejoice . In One and twenty Bumpers Then let his Health go round ; Here's One and twenty Verses Worth One and twenty Pound . Then all you Northern Freeholders Come listen to my Story ; And Honour this same Whig Lord , You ne'er saw such a Tory. VIII . All Happiness attend him , Long Life for to enjoy ; A pretty Lady by his side , And every Year a Boy . Then may he live a Hundred Years , If he wou'd live so long ; And when he's Dead , I have taken care He shall live in this Song . O all you British Freeholders Come listen to my Story ; 'Tis of a Gallant Whig Lord , My A ------ se upon a Tory. Printed in the Year MDCCXIV . A BALLAD ON Lord PELHAM'S Birth-Day , July 24,1714 . To the Tune of , London is a fine Town , etc I . COME bring the Liquour hither , And Matt. raise up thy Voice : Lord Pelham's One and Twenty , And therefore we'll Rejoice . In One and Twenty Bumpers Then let his Health go round ; Here's One and Twenty Verses Worth One and Twenty Pound . O all the Sussex Freeholders Come listen to my Story , 'Tis of a Gallant Whig Lord , I Scorn to Sing a Tory. II Next Year into the House he'll come , For to assist the State ; And there he'll Talk more than them All : Good Lord how he'll Debate ! For he , you know , has Wit at will , And Tongue that glib will run ; And he's Wise enough for Fifty , Tho' he's but Twenty one . O all the Sussex Freeholders Come listen to my Story ; 'Tis of a Gallant Whig Lord , I'll never Sing a Tory. III . This Lord most bountifully gives To all , both Drink and Food ; And knows no use of Plenty , But to do others good . Then merrily let's Drink about , And empty this here Bowl ; Altho' he has a great Estate , He has a greater Soul O all the Sussex Freeholders Then listen to my Story ; And drink to this brave Whig Lord , Ne'er Sampled by a Tory. IV. This Day Six thousand Stomachs good With him did kindly Dine ; And every Man had on his Plate Of Beef a stately Chine . A roasted Ox beside there was , Of great and goodly Mien : A Tun of Pudding in his Guts : Pray God preserve the Queen . O Oh all the Sussex Freeholders Then listen to my Story ; Lord Pelham is a Whig Lord , There's no such Lord a Tory. V. To the fair Shire of Nottingham When as this Lord shall come , He'll raise the Trained Bans around Without the beatrice of Drum. In Noble Sherwood Forest Such a Racket we shall have , That Robin Hood , to see this Lord , Will bounce out of his Grave . Then all you Northern Freeholders Come harken to my Story , And Vote for this brave Whig Lord , Who'll live like Tory Rory . VI . In Haughton Park , of old Renown , A stately House he'll built ; With a Hall as big as Pauls , And often better fill'd A Score of Tables there shall stand , And all both broad and long ; And Rumps of Beef shall enter , with A Bagpipe and a Song . Then all his jolly Tenants Come listen to my Story ; And fit you down , and eat and drink Of all that comes before you . VII . Take every Man his Glass then , And raise his Jolly Voice , Lord Pelham's One and Twenty , And therefore we'll rejoice . In One and twenty Bumpers Then let his Health go round ; Here's One and twenty Verses Worth One and twenty Pound . Then all you Northern Freeholders Come listen to my Story ; And Honour this same Whig Lord , You ne'er saw such a Tory. VIII . All Happiness attend him , Long Life for to enjoy ; A pretty Lady by his side , And every Year a Boy . Then may he live a Hundred Years , If he wou'd live so long ; And when he's Dead , I have taken care He shall live in this Song . O all you British Freeholders Come listen to my Story ; 'Tis of a Gallant Whig Lord , My A ------ se upon a Tory. Printed in the Year MDCCXIV . 