A SPEECH Made to His EXCELLENCY The Lord General MONCK And the COUNCIL of STATE , At Fishmongers-Hall in LONDON The Thirteenth of April , 1660. At which time they were Entertained by that Honourable COMPANY . Written by Tho. Jordan . After a SONG of difference betwixt the Lawyer , the Soldier , the Citizen and the Countryman . The CHORUS being ended . Enter the Ghost of MASSIANELLO Fisherman of NAPLES IS your Peace just ? What Rock stands it upon ? Conscience and Law make the best Union . If you gain Birthrights here by Blood and Slaughter , Though you sing now , you'l howl for ever after : Trust my Experience , one that can unfold The strangest truest Tale that er'e was told , In my degree , few men shall overtake me , I was as great as Wickedness could make me ; This heart , this habit , and this tongue to boot Commanded Forty thousand Horse and Foot , In three weeks time , My fortune grew so high I could have match'd my Fishers Family With the best Blood in Naples : Right and Wrong , And Life and Death attended on my Tongue , Till ( by a quick verticity of Fate ) I find too soon what I repent too late ; And , though a Rebel in a righteous clothing , My glowworm glories glimmer'd into nothing . Thus fell that Fisherman that had no fellow , I am the Wandering Shade of Massianello ; Who , since I was into Perdition hurl'd , Am come to preach this Doctrine to the world . Rebels though backed with Power , and seeming Reason , Time and Success , shall feel the fate of Treason . But stay ! what Picture's this hangs in my sighed ? 'Tis valiant Walworth , the King-saving Knigh That stab'd Jack Straw : Had Walworth liv'd within These four Months , where had Jack the Cobbler been ? It was a bold brave deed , and act in Season , Whilst he was on the Top-branch of his Treason . He looks up to the Picture of Sir William Walworth ( who stab'd Jack Straw ) that hangs over the head of my Lord Ge - neral . But from that Shadow , dropping down My eye , I see a Substance of like Loyalty . To the Lord General . IF long renowned Walworth had the fate To save a King , You have to save a State ; And , who knows what by Consequence ? The Knight By that brave Deed , gain'd every man his Rig [ h ] And you , by this , may gain each Man his due [ , ] Not only Trusty Hearts , but Traitors too : He drew blood , you did not ; 'tis all one sense ; There's but a Straws breadth in the difference : He sav'd the Town from being burned , and You Have rescued it from Fire and Plunder too : He was this Companies good Benefactor , And You have been their Liberties Protector ; For which , I herd them say , they would enga [ ge ] Their States , and Bloods , and Lives against all [ rage ] That shall oppose Your just Designs : And that You are the welcom'st Guest , ever came at This Table ; they say , All they can exhibit Is not so much a Treatment as a Tribute : They call you the First step to England's [ Peace , ] The True forerunner of our Happiness : And , joyn'd with these great Councillors , Our best Preservatives in Peace and War. You have a Loyal Heart , a Lucky Hand , Elected for the Cure of this Sick Land , Who by Protectors and unjust Trustees , Hath been Enslav'd and brought upon her Kne [ es ] We humbly pray this may be thought upon Before the Kingdoms Treasure be quite gone : And hope you will ( though Envy look a squin [ tO ] When all is fit , Put a Just Steward in 't . A Paralle [ l ] To the Coun - cil of State . Spoken by WALTER YOUKC [ NIGH . ] CHORUS . Then may your fame outlive all Story , And prove a Monument of Glory , Kings and Queen's ( as Tribute due ) On their knees shall pray for you , While all True hearts confess with Tongue and [ Pen , ] A Loyal Subject is the best of Men . LONDON [ , ] Printed by W. Godbid over against the Anchor Inn in Little Brittain . 1660. A SPEECH Made to His EXCELLENCY The Lord General MONCK And the COUNCIL of STATE , At Fishmongers-Hall in LONDON The Thirteenth of April , 1660. At which time they were Entertained by that Honourable COMPANY . Written by Tho. Jordan . After a SONG of difference betwixt the Lawyer , the Soldier , the Citizen and the Countryman . The CHORUS being ended . Enter the Ghost of MASSIANELLO Fisherman of NAPLES IS your Peace just ? What Rock stands it upon ? Conscience and Law make the best Union . If you gain Birthrights here by Blood and Slaughter , Though you sing now , you'l howl for ever after : Trust my Experience , one that can unfold The strangest truest Tale that er'e was told , In my degree , few men shall overtake me , I was as great as Wickedness could make me ; This heart , this habit , and this tongue to boot Commanded Forty thousand Horse and Foot , In three weeks time , My fortune grew so high I could have match'd my Fishers Family With the best Blood in Naples : Right and Wrong , And Life and Death attended on my Tongue , Till ( by a quick verticity of Fate ) I find too soon what I repent too late ; And , though a Rebel in a righteous clothing , My glowworm glories glimmer'd into nothing . Thus fell that Fisherman that had no fellow , I am the Wandering Shade of Massianello ; Who , since I was into Perdition hurl'd , Am come to preach this Doctrine to the world . Rebels though backed with Power , and seeming Reason , Time and Success , shall feel the fate of Treason . But stay ! what Picture's this hangs in my sighed ? 'Tis valiant Walworth , the King-saving Knigh That stab'd Jack Straw : Had Walworth liv'd within These four Months , where had Jack the Cobbler been ? It was a bold brave deed , and act in Season , Whilst he was on the Top-branch of his Treason . He looks up to the Picture of Sir William Walworth ( who stab'd Jack Straw ) that hangs over the head of my Lord Ge - neral . But from that Shadow , dropping down My eye , I see a Substance of like Loyalty . To the Lord General . IF long renowned Walworth had the fate To save a King , You have to save a State ; And , who knows what by Consequence ? The Knight By that brave Deed , gain'd every man his Rig [ h ] And you , by this , may gain each Man his due [ , ] Not only Trusty Hearts , but Traitors too : He drew blood , you did not ; 'tis all one sense ; There's but a Straws breadth in the difference : He sav'd the Town from being burned , and You Have rescued it from Fire and Plunder too : He was this Companies good Benefactor , And You have been their Liberties Protector ; For which , I herd them say , they would enga [ ge ] Their States , and Bloods , and Lives against all [ rage ] That shall oppose Your just Designs : And that You are the welcom'st Guest , ever came at This Table ; they say , All they can exhibit Is not so much a Treatment as a Tribute : They call you the First step to England's [ Peace , ] The True forerunner of our Happiness : And , joyn'd with these great Councillors , Our best Preservatives in Peace and War. You have a Loyal Heart , a Lucky Hand , Elected for the Cure of this Sick Land , Who by Protectors and unjust Trustees , Hath been Enslav'd and brought upon her Kne [ es ] We humbly pray this may be thought upon Before the Kingdoms Treasure be quite gone : And hope you will ( though Envy look a squin [ tO ] When all is fit , Put a Just Steward in 't . A Paralle [ l ] To the Coun - cil of State . Spoken by WALTER YOUKC [ NIGH . ] CHORUS . Then may your fame outlive all Story , And prove a Monument of Glory , Kings and Queen's ( as Tribute due ) On their knees shall pray for you , While all True hearts confess with Tongue and [ Pen , ] A Loyal Subject is the best of Men . LONDON [ , ] Printed by W. Godbid over against the Anchor Inn in Little Brittain . 1660. 