The BALLAD of the CLOAK : Or , The Cloaks Knavery . To the Tune of , From Hunger and Cold , or Packington's Pound . COme buy my new Ballet , I have't in my Wallet , But 'twill not I fear please every Pall Then mark what ensu'th , I swear by my Youth , That every Line in my Ballad is truth : A Ballad of Wit , a brave Ballad of worth , 'Tis newly printed , and newly come forth . 'Twas made of a Cloak that fell out with a Gown , that cramped all the Kingdom , and crippl'd the Crown . I'le tell you in brief , A story of Grief , Which happen'd when Cloak was Commander in Chief : It tore Common Pray'rs , Imprison'd Lord May'rs , In one day it voted down Prelates and Players ; It made People perjur'd in point of Obedience , And the Covenant did cut off the Oath of Allegiance . Then let us endeavour to pull the Cloak down , That cramped all the Kingdom and crippl'd the Crown . It was a Black Cloak , In good time be it spoke , That kill'd many thousands , but never struck stroke : With Hatchet and Rope , The Forlorn Hope , Did join with the Devil to pull down the Pope : It set all the Sects in the City to work , And rather than fail 'twould have brought in the Turk . Then let us endeavour , etc It seiz'd on the Tow'r Guns , Those fierce Demi-Gorgons ; It brought in the Bagpipes , and pull'd down the Organs : The Pulpits did smoke , The Churches did Choke ; And all our Religion was turn'd to a Cloak : It brought in Lay-Elders could not write nor read ; It set Public Faith up , and pull'd down the Creed . Then let us endeavour , etc This pious imposter Such fury did foster , It left us no penny , nor no Paternoster : It threw to the Ground Ten Commandments down , And set up twice Twenty times ten of it's own : It routed the King , and Villains elected , To plunder all those whom they though disaffected . Then let us endeavour , etc To blind Peoples Eyes , This Cloak was so wise , It took off Shipmoney , but set up Excise : Men brought in their Plate , For Reasons of State , And gave it to Tom Trumpeter and his Mate : In Pamphlets it writ many specious Epistles , To cozen poor Wenches of Bodkins and Whistles . Then let us endeavour , etc In pulpits it moved , And was much approved , For crying out --- Fight the Lards Battles beloved : It bobtayl'd the Gown , Put Prelacy down ; It trod on the Miter to reach at the Crown : And into the Field it and Army did bring , To aim at the Council , but shoot at the King . Then let us endeavour , etc It raised up States , Whose politic Pates Do now keep their Quarters on the City Gates : To Father and Mother , To Sister and Brother , It gave a Commission to kill one another : It took up Men's Horses at very low Rates , And plunder'd our Goods to secure our Estates . Then let us endeavour , etc This Cloak did proceed To a damnable Deed , It made the best mirror of Majesty bleed : Though Cloak did not do't , He set it on Foot , By rallying and calling his Journeymen to' For never had come such a Bloody Disaster , If Cloak had not first drawn a Sword at his Master . Then let us endeavour , etc Though some of them went hence By sorrowful Sentence , This lofty long Cloak is not mov'd to Repentance ; But he and his Men , Twenty Thousand times ten , Are plotting to do their tricks over again : But let this proud Cloak to Authority stoop , Or DVN will provide him a Button and Loop : Then let us endeavour to pull the Cloak down , That basely did sever the Head from the Crown . Let's pray , That the King , And His Parliament , In Sacred and Secular Things may consent ; So Righteously firm , And Religiously free ; That Papists and Atheists suppressed may be . And as there's one Deity does over-reign us , One Faith , and one From , and one Church may contain us . Then Peace , Truth and Plenty , our Kingdom will crown , And all Popish Plots and their Plotters shall down . Reprinted , Corrected , Revised , and enlarged , by the Author . The BALLAD of the CLOAK : Or , The Cloaks Knavery . To the Tune of , From Hunger and Cold , or Packington's Pound . COme buy my new Ballet , I have't in my Wallet , But 'twill not I fear please every Pall Then mark what ensu'th , I swear by my Youth , That every Line in my Ballad is truth : A Ballad of Wit , a brave Ballad of worth , 'Tis newly printed , and newly come forth . 'Twas made of a Cloak that fell out with a Gown , that cramped all the Kingdom , and crippl'd the Crown . I'le tell you in brief , A story of Grief , Which happen'd when Cloak was Commander in Chief : It tore Common Pray'rs , Imprison'd Lord May'rs , In one day it voted down Prelates and Players ; It made People perjur'd in point of Obedience , And the Covenant did cut off the Oath of Allegiance . Then let us endeavour to pull the Cloak down , That cramped all the Kingdom and crippl'd the Crown . It was a Black Cloak , In good time be it spoke , That kill'd many thousands , but never struck stroke : With Hatchet and Rope , The Forlorn Hope , Did join with the Devil to pull down the Pope : It set all the Sects in the City to work , And rather than fail 'twould have brought in the Turk . Then let us endeavour , etc It seiz'd on the Tow'r Guns , Those fierce Demi-Gorgons ; It brought in the Bagpipes , and pull'd down the Organs : The Pulpits did smoke , The Churches did Choke ; And all our Religion was turn'd to a Cloak : It brought in Lay-Elders could not write nor read ; It set Public Faith up , and pull'd down the Creed . Then let us endeavour , etc This pious imposter Such fury did foster , It left us no penny , nor no Paternoster : It threw to the Ground Ten Commandments down , And set up twice Twenty times ten of it's own : It routed the King , and Villains elected , To plunder all those whom they though disaffected . Then let us endeavour , etc To blind Peoples Eyes , This Cloak was so wise , It took off Shipmoney , but set up Excise : Men brought in their Plate , For Reasons of State , And gave it to Tom Trumpeter and his Mate : In Pamphlets it writ many specious Epistles , To cozen poor Wenches of Bodkins and Whistles . Then let us endeavour , etc In pulpits it moved , And was much approved , For crying out --- Fight the Lards Battles beloved : It bobtayl'd the Gown , Put Prelacy down ; It trod on the Miter to reach at the Crown : And into the Field it and Army did bring , To aim at the Council , but shoot at the King . Then let us endeavour , etc It raised up States , Whose politic Pates Do now keep their Quarters on the City Gates : To Father and Mother , To Sister and Brother , It gave a Commission to kill one another : It took up Men's Horses at very low Rates , And plunder'd our Goods to secure our Estates . Then let us endeavour , etc This Cloak did proceed To a damnable Deed , It made the best mirror of Majesty bleed : Though Cloak did not do't , He set it on Foot , By rallying and calling his Journeymen to' For never had come such a Bloody Disaster , If Cloak had not first drawn a Sword at his Master . Then let us endeavour , etc Though some of them went hence By sorrowful Sentence , This lofty long Cloak is not mov'd to Repentance ; But he and his Men , Twenty Thousand times ten , Are plotting to do their tricks over again : But let this proud Cloak to Authority stoop , Or DVN will provide him a Button and Loop : Then let us endeavour to pull the Cloak down , That basely did sever the Head from the Crown . Let's pray , That the King , And His Parliament , In Sacred and Secular Things may consent ; So Righteously firm , And Religiously free ; That Papists and Atheists suppressed may be . And as there's one Deity does over-reign us , One Faith , and one From , and one Church may contain us . Then Peace , Truth and Plenty , our Kingdom will crown , And all Popish Plots and their Plotters shall down . Reprinted , Corrected , Revised , and enlarged , by the Author . 