The True English Prophe OR , ENGLANDS Happiness A Hundred Years Hence . Licensed according to Order . To a New Play-House Tune . I . COme cheer up your Hearts , Boys , & all hands to Work , We'll be Happy and Blessed , spite of Devil and Turk ; Our Land you must know , we shall one day see flow With that dear Milk and Honey , Call'd Plenty and Money , If we can but a little with Patience dispense , Those Blessed Days will be Ours all a Hundred Years hence . II By that time our Foes will be all Dead and Rotten , Our Quarrels all hush't , and our Troubles forgotten ; His Gout , Stone and Pox , will have then done the work Of Europes Old Bloodhound , The most Christian Turk : For Lucifer waits his New Reign to Commence , And all long before a Hundred Years hence . III . Our Taxes we'll heartily pay in our Turns , Count it which way you please , for our Heads or our Horns We shall see that blessed Day , when we ne're shall be poor , If our Wives have not sent us To Heav'n long before . Peace , Blessing , and Plenty , their Smiles will dispense At furthest within one poor Hundred Years hence . IV. And what , tho' thus long we have mourn'd the sad wants Of a Glass of good Bourdeaux and Cup of fine Nants , We then shall have Wine , and Brandy most certain , A Quart for a Shilling , And Twopence a Quartern ; For the Generous French will that Favour dispense , If we happen to live but a Hundred Years hence . V. 'Tis true , no great store of Coin we can boast , Our Wealth and our Silver , alas , are Rid Post ; But what , though the Clippers and Coiners have snip'd it , And o're the Herring-Pond The Wars they have whipp'd it , We shall role in the Mill'd Crowns , Pounds , Shillings & Pence , If we live and do well but a Hundred Years hence . VI . In a Hundred Years time , how the World we shall settle , We shall certainly then have quite mended our Kettle , Our Disputes and our Titles , will then be Adjusted , And Monsieur by that time Perhaps may be trusted : Then England to France her smiles shall dispense In a General Peace a Hundred Years hence . VII . In Wedding , and Bedding , and Gossiping Rates , Tho' we now pay for Kissing , and getting of Brats ; Our Grandsons will lay the young Girls on their Backs In the fear of the Lord , And without fear of Tax ; Without Socket-Money , or Christening Expense , Take up the Smock Cheaper a Hundred Years hence . VIII . And what tho' our Citizens , honest good People , In hope's of a New , and swinging Paul's Steeple , Stand Gaping to see it Rise higher and higher ; While we Raise by our Coals What we Lost by our Fire , With that small yearly Rend they'll easily dispense : For Pauls will be Built in a Hundred Years hence . IX . Nay , the Bank Bills that Swagger'd so high , tho' of late They're Dwindled to Twenty per Centum Rebate , If you'll stay but a while , and be but so Civil To wait but till Knavery Is gone to the Devil ; By that time they'll hold up their Heads , and speak sense If you can but have Patience i' a Hundred Years hence . X. The City will then make their Orphans all Rich , Have pay'd off their Bedlam-Score , Mum-Glass and Ditc [ h ] Our Casements and Windows , that now pay their Light ; And all to the making Our Silver more Bright ; Will Crown with full Glory our Shillings and Pence : For our Mint will Shine out a Hundred Years hence . XI . But now , without Rallying or Joque , lets agree , To pay our Great Caesar our Hand , Heart and Knee The Hero , whose Sword for our Liberty Draws , Who faces Blood , Danger , And Death in Our Cause . Some few Months , we hope , will his warm Beams dispen [ se ] And our Heirs Bless his Name a Hundred Years hence . LONDON ; Printed for T. Alldridge in Southwark . 1697. The True English Prophe OR , ENGLANDS Happiness A Hundred Years Hence . Licensed according to Order . To a New Play-House Tune . I . COme cheer up your Hearts , Boys , & all hands to Work , We'll be Happy and Blessed , spite of Devil and Turk ; Our Land you must know , we shall one day see flow With that dear Milk and Honey , Call'd Plenty and Money , If we can but a little with Patience dispense , Those Blessed Days will be Ours all a Hundred Years hence . II By that time our Foes will be all Dead and Rotten , Our Quarrels all hush't , and our Troubles forgotten ; His Gout , Stone and Pox , will have then done the work Of Europes Old Bloodhound , The most Christian Turk : For Lucifer waits his New Reign to Commence , And all long before a Hundred Years hence . III . Our Taxes we'll heartily pay in our Turns , Count it which way you please , for our Heads or our Horns We shall see that blessed Day , when we ne're shall be poor , If our Wives have not sent us To Heav'n long before . Peace , Blessing , and Plenty , their Smiles will dispense At furthest within one poor Hundred Years hence . IV. And what , tho' thus long we have mourn'd the sad wants Of a Glass of good Bourdeaux and Cup of fine Nants , We then shall have Wine , and Brandy most certain , A Quart for a Shilling , And Twopence a Quartern ; For the Generous French will that Favour dispense , If we happen to live but a Hundred Years hence . V. 'Tis true , no great store of Coin we can boast , Our Wealth and our Silver , alas , are Rid Post ; But what , though the Clippers and Coiners have snip'd it , And o're the Herring-Pond The Wars they have whipp'd it , We shall role in the Mill'd Crowns , Pounds , Shillings & Pence , If we live and do well but a Hundred Years hence . VI . In a Hundred Years time , how the World we shall settle , We shall certainly then have quite mended our Kettle , Our Disputes and our Titles , will then be Adjusted , And Monsieur by that time Perhaps may be trusted : Then England to France her smiles shall dispense In a General Peace a Hundred Years hence . VII . In Wedding , and Bedding , and Gossiping Rates , Tho' we now pay for Kissing , and getting of Brats ; Our Grandsons will lay the young Girls on their Backs In the fear of the Lord , And without fear of Tax ; Without Socket-Money , or Christening Expense , Take up the Smock Cheaper a Hundred Years hence . VIII . And what tho' our Citizens , honest good People , In hope's of a New , and swinging Paul's Steeple , Stand Gaping to see it Rise higher and higher ; While we Raise by our Coals What we Lost by our Fire , With that small yearly Rend they'll easily dispense : For Pauls will be Built in a Hundred Years hence . IX . Nay , the Bank Bills that Swagger'd so high , tho' of late They're Dwindled to Twenty per Centum Rebate , If you'll stay but a while , and be but so Civil To wait but till Knavery Is gone to the Devil ; By that time they'll hold up their Heads , and speak sense If you can but have Patience i' a Hundred Years hence . X. The City will then make their Orphans all Rich , Have pay'd off their Bedlam-Score , Mum-Glass and Ditc [ h ] Our Casements and Windows , that now pay their Light ; And all to the making Our Silver more Bright ; Will Crown with full Glory our Shillings and Pence : For our Mint will Shine out a Hundred Years hence . XI . But now , without Rallying or Joque , lets agree , To pay our Great Caesar our Hand , Heart and Knee The Hero , whose Sword for our Liberty Draws , Who faces Blood , Danger , And Death in Our Cause . Some few Months , we hope , will his warm Beams dispen [ se ] And our Heirs Bless his Name a Hundred Years hence . LONDON ; Printed for T. Alldridge in Southwark . 1697. 