A LAMENTABLE BALLAD , Of the Tragical End of a Gallant Lord and his Beautiful Lady , with the untimely Death of their Children , wickedly performed by a Heathen Blackamoor , their Servan The like seldom herd before . IN Rome a Nobleman did wed a Virgin of great Fame : A fairer Creature never did Dame Nature ever Frame . By whom he had two Children fair , whose Beauty did excel And were their Parents only Joy , they lov'd them both so well . This Lord he lov'd to hunt the Buck , the Tygar and the Boar , And still for Swiftness always took with him a Blackamoor . Which Blackamoor within the Woods , his Lord he did offend , For which he did him then correct , in hope's he would amend . The Day it drew unto and End , then homeward do they haste , Where with his Lady he did rest until the Night was passed . Then in the Morning he did rise , and does his Servants call , A Hunting to provide to go ; straight they were ready all . 'Cause of his Toil , his Lady did entreated him not to go , Alas good Lady ! then , quoth he why art thou grieved so ? Content thyself , I will return with Speed to thee again . Good , Father quoth the little Babes , with us here still remain ; Farewell dear Children , I will go , a fine Thing you to buy ; But they therewith no whit content , aloud began to cry . Their Mother took them by the Hand , saying , Come go with me Unto my highest Tower , where your Father you shall see . The Blackamoor perceiving now , who then did stay behind , His Lord a Hunting to be gone , began to call to mind , My Master he did me correct , my Fault not being great ; Now of his Wife I'll be reveng'd , she shall not me entreat . The Place was moated round about , the Bridge he did up draw , The Gates he bolted very strong , of none he stood in Awe . He up into the Tower went . the Lady being there , Which when she saw his Countenance grim she straight began to fear . But now my trembling Heart it quakes , to think what I must write , My Senses all began to faint , my Soul it does affright . Yet I must make and End of this , which here I have begun ; Which will make sad the hardest Heart before that I have done . The Wretch unto his Lady went , and her with speed did will His Lust for with to satisfy his Mind for to fulfil . The Lady she amazed was to hear the Villain speak , Alas ! quoth she , what will I do ? with Grief my Heart will break ? With that he took her in his Arms , she straight for help did cry : Content yourself , Lady , quoth he , your Husband is not nigh . The Bridge is drawn & Gates are shut , therefore come lie with me . Or else I do protest and vow , thy Butcher I will be The crystals tears ran down her Cheeks her Children cried amain , And sought to help their Mother dear , but all alas in vain ! For that egregious filthy Rogue , her Hands behind her bound , And then perforce with all his strength he threw her on the Ground . With that she skreak'd , her Children cry'd and such a Noise did make The Townsmen hearing their Lament did seek their Part to take , But all in vain , no Way they found to aid the Lady's Need , Who cry'd to them most piteously , O help , o help with Speed ! Some ran into the Forest wide , his Lord home for to call ; And they that stood did still lament the gallant Lady's Fallen . With speed his Lord came posting home but could not enter in ; His Lady's cries did pierce his Heart to call he did begin . O hold thy hand , thou Savage more ! to hurt her do forbear , Or else be sure if I do live , Wild Horses shall thee tear . With that the Rogue ran to the Wall he having had his Will , And brought one Child under his Arm his dearest Blood to spill ; The Child sing his Father there , to him for Help did call ; O Father ! help my Mother dear , we shall be killed all . Then fell the Lord upon his Knee , and did the More entreat , To save the Life of his poor Child , whose Fear as then was great . But the vile Wretch , the little Child by both the Heels did take , And dash'd the Brains against the wall while Parents Heart did quake . That being dead he straightway ran' : the other Child to fe [ tO ] changed , And pluck't from the Mother's Breast most like a Cruel Wretch . Within one Hand a Knife he brought the Child within the other , And holding it over the Wall , said , Thus die shall thy Mother , With that he cuts the Throat of it , then to his Father did he call ; To look how he the Head did cut , then down the Brain did fallen . This done , he threw it over the Wall , into the Moat so deep , Which made his Father wring his Hands and grievously to weep , Then to the Lady went this Rogue , who was near dead with fear , Yet the vile Wretch most cruelly did drag her by the Hair , And drew her to the very wall , which when her Lord did see , Then presently he cried out , and fell upon his Knee , Quoth he if thou wilt save her Life , whom I do love so dear , I will forgive thee all that's past , though they concern me near . O save her Life ! I thee beseech , Ah , save her ! I thee pray ; And I will give thee what thou wilt demand of me this Day : We'll quoth the More I do regard the Moan that thou dost make If thou will grant what I request , I'll save her for thy Sake : O save her Life ! and now demand of me what Thing thou wilt , Cut of thy Nose , and not one Drop , of her Blood shall be spil With that his Noble Lord did take a Knife unto his Hand , And then his Nose did quite cut off in Place where he did stand Now I have bought my Lady's Life he to the More did call ; Then take her quoth the wicked Rogue , and down he lets her fallen . Which when this gallant Lord did see his Senses all did fail ; Yet many sought to save his Life , but they could not prevail , When as the More did see him dead , then did he laugh amain : At them who for this gallant Lord , and Lady did complain , Quoth he , I know you'll torture me , if that you could me get ; But all your Threats I do not fear , nor yet regard on Whi Wild Horses should my Body tear , I know it to be true ; But I'll prevent you of that Pain , then down himself he threw Too good a Death for such a Wretch , a Villain void of Fear , And thus does end so sad a Tale as ever Man did hear . FINIS . A LAMENTABLE BALLAD , Of the Tragical End of a Gallant Lord and his Beautiful Lady , with the untimely Death of their Children , wickedly performed by a Heathen Blackamoor , their Servan The like seldom herd before . IN Rome a Nobleman did wed a Virgin of great Fame : A fairer Creature never did Dame Nature ever Frame . By whom he had two Children fair , whose Beauty did excel And were their Parents only Joy , they lov'd them both so well . This Lord he lov'd to hunt the Buck , the Tygar and the Boar , And still for Swiftness always took with him a Blackamoor . Which Blackamoor within the Woods , his Lord he did offend , For which he did him then correct , in hope's he would amend . The Day it drew unto and End , then homeward do they haste , Where with his Lady he did rest until the Night was passed . Then in the Morning he did rise , and does his Servants call , A Hunting to provide to go ; straight they were ready all . 'Cause of his Toil , his Lady did entreated him not to go , Alas good Lady ! then , quoth he why art thou grieved so ? Content thyself , I will return with Speed to thee again . Good , Father quoth the little Babes , with us here still remain ; Farewell dear Children , I will go , a fine Thing you to buy ; But they therewith no whit content , aloud began to cry . Their Mother took them by the Hand , saying , Come go with me Unto my highest Tower , where your Father you shall see . The Blackamoor perceiving now , who then did stay behind , His Lord a Hunting to be gone , began to call to mind , My Master he did me correct , my Fault not being great ; Now of his Wife I'll be reveng'd , she shall not me entreat . The Place was moated round about , the Bridge he did up draw , The Gates he bolted very strong , of none he stood in Awe . He up into the Tower went . the Lady being there , Which when she saw his Countenance grim she straight began to fear . But now my trembling Heart it quakes , to think what I must write , My Senses all began to faint , my Soul it does affright . Yet I must make and End of this , which here I have begun ; Which will make sad the hardest Heart before that I have done . The Wretch unto his Lady went , and her with speed did will His Lust for with to satisfy his Mind for to fulfil . The Lady she amazed was to hear the Villain speak , Alas ! quoth she , what will I do ? with Grief my Heart will break ? With that he took her in his Arms , she straight for help did cry : Content yourself , Lady , quoth he , your Husband is not nigh . The Bridge is drawn & Gates are shut , therefore come lie with me . Or else I do protest and vow , thy Butcher I will be The crystals tears ran down her Cheeks her Children cried amain , And sought to help their Mother dear , but all alas in vain ! For that egregious filthy Rogue , her Hands behind her bound , And then perforce with all his strength he threw her on the Ground . With that she skreak'd , her Children cry'd and such a Noise did make The Townsmen hearing their Lament did seek their Part to take , But all in vain , no Way they found to aid the Lady's Need , Who cry'd to them most piteously , O help , o help with Speed ! Some ran into the Forest wide , his Lord home for to call ; And they that stood did still lament the gallant Lady's Fallen . With speed his Lord came posting home but could not enter in ; His Lady's cries did pierce his Heart to call he did begin . O hold thy hand , thou Savage more ! to hurt her do forbear , Or else be sure if I do live , Wild Horses shall thee tear . With that the Rogue ran to the Wall he having had his Will , And brought one Child under his Arm his dearest Blood to spill ; The Child sing his Father there , to him for Help did call ; O Father ! help my Mother dear , we shall be killed all . Then fell the Lord upon his Knee , and did the More entreat , To save the Life of his poor Child , whose Fear as then was great . But the vile Wretch , the little Child by both the Heels did take , And dash'd the Brains against the wall while Parents Heart did quake . That being dead he straightway ran' : the other Child to fe [ tO ] changed , And pluck't from the Mother's Breast most like a Cruel Wretch . Within one Hand a Knife he brought the Child within the other , And holding it over the Wall , said , Thus die shall thy Mother , With that he cuts the Throat of it , then to his Father did he call ; To look how he the Head did cut , then down the Brain did fallen . This done , he threw it over the Wall , into the Moat so deep , Which made his Father wring his Hands and grievously to weep , Then to the Lady went this Rogue , who was near dead with fear , Yet the vile Wretch most cruelly did drag her by the Hair , And drew her to the very wall , which when her Lord did see , Then presently he cried out , and fell upon his Knee , Quoth he if thou wilt save her Life , whom I do love so dear , I will forgive thee all that's past , though they concern me near . O save her Life ! I thee beseech , Ah , save her ! I thee pray ; And I will give thee what thou wilt demand of me this Day : We'll quoth the More I do regard the Moan that thou dost make If thou will grant what I request , I'll save her for thy Sake : O save her Life ! and now demand of me what Thing thou wilt , Cut of thy Nose , and not one Drop , of her Blood shall be spil With that his Noble Lord did take a Knife unto his Hand , And then his Nose did quite cut off in Place where he did stand Now I have bought my Lady's Life he to the More did call ; Then take her quoth the wicked Rogue , and down he lets her fallen . Which when this gallant Lord did see his Senses all did fail ; Yet many sought to save his Life , but they could not prevail , When as the More did see him dead , then did he laugh amain : At them who for this gallant Lord , and Lady did complain , Quoth he , I know you'll torture me , if that you could me get ; But all your Threats I do not fear , nor yet regard on Whi Wild Horses should my Body tear , I know it to be true ; But I'll prevent you of that Pain , then down himself he threw Too good a Death for such a Wretch , a Villain void of Fear , And thus does end so sad a Tale as ever Man did hear . FINIS . 