THE INFORMERS Lecture To his Sons , instructing them in the Mysteries of that Religion . COme children , come , and learn your Father's trade , Though all else fail , here's good advantage made : Come , come away , and learn my Precepts all , They'l make you rich , you'l get the Devil and all . Your very breath shall do't , my art is such , No Lawyer with his Tongue gets half so much : Time ne're till now did open such a door To wealth , to those that had spent all before . No trade like this , no gains can clearer be ; There's none have cause to glory more than we : The gainfull'st trade comes short , the richest fails , Merchant's themselves may hear to us strike Sails . The nimble Cutpurse always works in fears , He ventures Neck and all , we but our Ears : The Soldier ventures hard for Spoils , and so Gets them by force , but we do'nt strike a blow : The Highway men oft meet with many a Prey , And yet we drive a richer trade than they : For Juggler-like we need not bid them stand , Blow but a blast , our Money's in our hand : The Paritor , though he be near of kin , In such a way of trading ne're has been : The pilfering Thief's in danger of the Stocks , And Courtesans and Whores may fear the Pox ; This mars their Markets , makes them work in fear , But in our Calling no such dangers are . We need not fear , no danger's in our eye : At least if we can escape the Pillory : And truly this we need not fear a jot , Hundreds that have deserv'd it , have it not And if we had , for all their Mocks and Jears , For twenty pound who would not loose his Ears ? We neither Preach nor Pray , we take no pains , Preaching and Praying bravely us maintains : They preach and pray , we swear , yet who gets more ? We thrive by swearing , preaching makes them poor . We sail with tide , against the stream they row , Swearing's the All-a-mode in fashion now . Why should we labour ? will not swearing doe ? That gets both Money and Preferment too . Some Swearers formerly did Money give , And yet it is by Swearing that we live . And Perjury's but a small fault ; what more ? And better too than we have been forswore : And what a Crime is this ? is this so bad ? 'Tis but turn Papist , Pardons may be had . Whoever then is poor may thank himself , Never did Mortals easier get their wealth . Learn lustily to swear , to damn and rant , And then my life for yours , you'l never want . Though swear you must , all swearing will not serve ; Many that swear and curse , yet want and starve . There is and Art in't all men do not know , And this I'le now to you ( my Children ) show . Take my directions , and you need not fear , I'le show you how , and when , and what to swear . Mark when you swear , be sure to swear for gain , 'Tis those that swear for nought , that swear in vain . Be sure Inform , do this without dispute , But yet don't meddle with forbidden Frui Observe your Friends , strive not against the tIED , Oppose not those that are o'th' rising side . Churchmen in pow'r , whate're be their Offence , Meddle not with , we will with them dispense . For this should be the chiefest of your care , To know for whom , and against whom you swear . For if you should reform all things amiss , It would undo you , meddle not with this . A thousand Oaths you hear , and many a Lie , Meddle not yet , you've better Fish to fry : For swearing , whoring , drinking overmuch , Are genteel sins , and these you must not touch ; 'Tis not the Mark at which you ought to aim , You're Huntsmen , mind not then so low a game . Though Papists , Atheists , God and Christ blaspheme , If you Inform , you'l sail against the stream : The Pocky-nose , and the red-pimpled face , Are not the persons that you have in chase . These little sins that are not worth reforming , Will never bring a Penny for informing . Fanatics faults are of a deeper die , And therefore mind these well , for so do I ; Mind therefore their Offences , yet not all , But chiefly that they do their Duty call . Praying and Preaching , these are worse by far , Than swearing , whoring , or blaspheming are : For men may Swear unto their dying day , Before they be compell'd a Groat to pay : Fanatic Preaching though ne're so precise , Is more infectious far than Swearing is . Adultery ! no doubt Fanatics love it , And are as bad as we , if we could prove it . The mischief is , they sin as bade no doubt In secret , but the Devil brings ours out . If you should find them guilty , for your pains Shame them enough , but this is all your gains . But meddle not too much , such is our Fate , Press them too hard , they will retaliate . Be sure with Whores and Harlots you dispense , For fear you give the Worshipful Offence . The Sabbath-breakers sins are less by far , Than the Offences of Tub-preachers are . The Sodomites did many things amiss , Yet ne're were guilty of such since as this . These Meetings are more dangerous by far , Than Bull-baits , Bear-baits or Cock-fightings are : Stageplays and Morrice-danes , Masks and Shows , Wakes , May-games , Puppet-plays , and such as those More harmless are ; for all their Mocks and Jears Are innocent , if but compar'd with theirs : You need not suchlike numerous meetings fear , There's none but Loyal Subject's will be here . Whorehouse and Stews which Gallants do frequent , Compar'd with these are far more innocen 'Tis five or six crept in some hold to pray , That Plot the ruin of the Monarchy ; Women and Children have been prov'd of late , To be supplanters of the Church and State . Some Country People , though yet out of sighed , Do put the King and Kingdom in a frigh And those that neither Sword nor Staff did bear , Have made a Riot , put the World in fear . Though France and Spain , and Room , and all conspire Against our Land , our City set on fire ; Threaten a Massacre , to spill our Blood , To bring in Popery on us like a Flood : If half a score Fanatics come to hear , They'l put the Nation in a greater fear . II Get God but on their side , where are we then ? Keep them asunder , that they might not pray , Or do your best to keep their God away ; For fear lest he should hear when they do cry , And should Conventicle as well as they . If they storm Heaven before us , 'tis a venture , Whither they'l leave us any room to enter . What though for King and Kingdom they do pray , If we will Swear they mind it to destroy ? They Plot in secret though we do not hear it , We know it well enough , and we dare swear it . The Papists are by far more innocent , For all their Plots , have far less mischief meant . What those call piety , we must confess They prosecute but in a fouler dress . Call it Rebellion , Schism , or what is bad , Those that will kill a dog must say he's mad . Say they are plotting and conspiring too , And boldly Swear it , if that will not do . What though your conscience give your tongue the lie , Heed not your conscience for to loose thereby . Praying and Preaching ! this is worse by far , Than all the crying Sins of Sodom are ; These sins are acted o're and o're each day , Yet no one yet his forty pound did pay : The fault is greater , and the danger's more , To teach five Sisters , than to bed a score . These are but tricks of youth , yea harmless toys , Whatever God , and Man , and Conscience says . Gods Laws condemn these sins say they : what then ? We know not those , we know the Laws of men . Preaching and Praying , say men what they will , You must regard , this water drives your Mill. One Sermon brings more profit ten times over , Than if you should a thousand whores discover . Fanatic-preachers bring more gain no doubt , Than if you found so many Jesuits out . Swearing and Whoring now is all in fashion , Preaching and Praying are the sins of th' Nation . A Jesuit's a mild and Gentle man , If we compare him with the Puritan : Who say in Doctrine they with us agree , And they are Protestants as well as we , 'Gainst Ceremonies only they contend , Which do their queasy Stomachs so offend . Well be it so : e're they and we agree , We'll make them swallow knives as well as we . And though in secret corners now they sneak , E're long we'll make them either bend or break . We'll teach them shortly without much ado , To bow to th' Altar , and the Image too : Whoe're commands , we'll make them to obey , The Bishops do't , and therefore why not they ? We'll bring them down betime , for there's no doubt If times should change , they'l be the fi THE INFORMERS Lecture To his Sons , instructing them in the Mysteries of that Religion . COme children , come , and learn your Father's trade , Though all else fail , here's good advantage made : Come , come away , and learn my Precepts all , They'l make you rich , you'l get the Devil and all . Your very breath shall do't , my art is such , No Lawyer with his Tongue gets half so much : Time ne're till now did open such a door To wealth , to those that had spent all before . No trade like this , no gains can clearer be ; There's none have cause to glory more than we : The gainfull'st trade comes short , the richest fails , Merchant's themselves may hear to us strike Sails . The nimble Cutpurse always works in fears , He ventures Neck and all , we but our Ears : The Soldier ventures hard for Spoils , and so Gets them by force , but we do'nt strike a blow : The Highway men oft meet with many a Prey , And yet we drive a richer trade than they : For Juggler-like we need not bid them stand , Blow but a blast , our Money's in our hand : The Paritor , though he be near of kin , In such a way of trading ne're has been : The pilfering Thief's in danger of the Stocks , And Courtesans and Whores may fear the Pox ; This mars their Markets , makes them work in fear , But in our Calling no such dangers are . We need not fear , no danger's in our eye : At least if we can escape the Pillory : And truly this we need not fear a jot , Hundreds that have deserv'd it , have it not And if we had , for all their Mocks and Jears , For twenty pound who would not loose his Ears ? We neither Preach nor Pray , we take no pains , Preaching and Praying bravely us maintains : They preach and pray , we swear , yet who gets more ? We thrive by swearing , preaching makes them poor . We sail with tide , against the stream they row , Swearing's the All-a-mode in fashion now . Why should we labour ? will not swearing doe ? That gets both Money and Preferment too . Some Swearers formerly did Money give , And yet it is by Swearing that we live . And Perjury's but a small fault ; what more ? And better too than we have been forswore : And what a Crime is this ? is this so bad ? 'Tis but turn Papist , Pardons may be had . Whoever then is poor may thank himself , Never did Mortals easier get their wealth . Learn lustily to swear , to damn and rant , And then my life for yours , you'l never want . Though swear you must , all swearing will not serve ; Many that swear and curse , yet want and starve . There is and Art in't all men do not know , And this I'le now to you ( my Children ) show . Take my directions , and you need not fear , I'le show you how , and when , and what to swear . Mark when you swear , be sure to swear for gain , 'Tis those that swear for nought , that swear in vain . Be sure Inform , do this without dispute , But yet don't meddle with forbidden Frui Observe your Friends , strive not against the tIED , Oppose not those that are o'th' rising side . Churchmen in pow'r , whate're be their Offence , Meddle not with , we will with them dispense . For this should be the chiefest of your care , To know for whom , and against whom you swear . For if you should reform all things amiss , It would undo you , meddle not with this . A thousand Oaths you hear , and many a Lie , Meddle not yet , you've better Fish to fry : For swearing , whoring , drinking overmuch , Are genteel sins , and these you must not touch ; 'Tis not the Mark at which you ought to aim , You're Huntsmen , mind not then so low a game . Though Papists , Atheists , God and Christ blaspheme , If you Inform , you'l sail against the stream : The Pocky-nose , and the red-pimpled face , Are not the persons that you have in chase . These little sins that are not worth reforming , Will never bring a Penny for informing . Fanatics faults are of a deeper die , And therefore mind these well , for so do I ; Mind therefore their Offences , yet not all , But chiefly that they do their Duty call . Praying and Preaching , these are worse by far , Than swearing , whoring , or blaspheming are : For men may Swear unto their dying day , Before they be compell'd a Groat to pay : Fanatic Preaching though ne're so precise , Is more infectious far than Swearing is . Adultery ! no doubt Fanatics love it , And are as bad as we , if we could prove it . The mischief is , they sin as bade no doubt In secret , but the Devil brings ours out . If you should find them guilty , for your pains Shame them enough , but this is all your gains . But meddle not too much , such is our Fate , Press them too hard , they will retaliate . Be sure with Whores and Harlots you dispense , For fear you give the Worshipful Offence . The Sabbath-breakers sins are less by far , Than the Offences of Tub-preachers are . The Sodomites did many things amiss , Yet ne're were guilty of such since as this . These Meetings are more dangerous by far , Than Bull-baits , Bear-baits or Cock-fightings are : Stageplays and Morrice-danes , Masks and Shows , Wakes , May-games , Puppet-plays , and such as those More harmless are ; for all their Mocks and Jears Are innocent , if but compar'd with theirs : You need not suchlike numerous meetings fear , There's none but Loyal Subject's will be here . Whorehouse and Stews which Gallants do frequent , Compar'd with these are far more innocen 'Tis five or six crept in some hold to pray , That Plot the ruin of the Monarchy ; Women and Children have been prov'd of late , To be supplanters of the Church and State . Some Country People , though yet out of sighed , Do put the King and Kingdom in a frigh And those that neither Sword nor Staff did bear , Have made a Riot , put the World in fear . Though France and Spain , and Room , and all conspire Against our Land , our City set on fire ; Threaten a Massacre , to spill our Blood , To bring in Popery on us like a Flood : If half a score Fanatics come to hear , They'l put the Nation in a greater fear . II Get God but on their side , where are we then ? Keep them asunder , that they might not pray , Or do your best to keep their God away ; For fear lest he should hear when they do cry , And should Conventicle as well as they . If they storm Heaven before us , 'tis a venture , Whither they'l leave us any room to enter . What though for King and Kingdom they do pray , If we will Swear they mind it to destroy ? They Plot in secret though we do not hear it , We know it well enough , and we dare swear it . The Papists are by far more innocent , For all their Plots , have far less mischief meant . What those call piety , we must confess They prosecute but in a fouler dress . Call it Rebellion , Schism , or what is bad , Those that will kill a dog must say he's mad . Say they are plotting and conspiring too , And boldly Swear it , if that will not do . What though your conscience give your tongue the lie , Heed not your conscience for to loose thereby . Praying and Preaching ! this is worse by far , Than all the crying Sins of Sodom are ; These sins are acted o're and o're each day , Yet no one yet his forty pound did pay : The fault is greater , and the danger's more , To teach five Sisters , than to bed a score . These are but tricks of youth , yea harmless toys , Whatever God , and Man , and Conscience says . Gods Laws condemn these sins say they : what then ? We know not those , we know the Laws of men . Preaching and Praying , say men what they will , You must regard , this water drives your Mill. One Sermon brings more profit ten times over , Than if you should a thousand whores discover . Fanatic-preachers bring more gain no doubt , Than if you found so many Jesuits out . Swearing and Whoring now is all in fashion , Preaching and Praying are the sins of th' Nation . A Jesuit's a mild and Gentle man , If we compare him with the Puritan : Who say in Doctrine they with us agree , And they are Protestants as well as we , 'Gainst Ceremonies only they contend , Which do their queasy Stomachs so offend . Well be it so : e're they and we agree , We'll make them swallow knives as well as we . And though in secret corners now they sneak , E're long we'll make them either bend or break . We'll teach them shortly without much ado , To bow to th' Altar , and the Image too : Whoe're commands , we'll make them to obey , The Bishops do't , and therefore why not they ? We'll bring them down betime , for there's no doubt If times should change , they'l be the first stand out . Those that the Bishops laws do now withstand , We'll not obey , no though the Pope command . 'Gainst King's and Kingdom's sins they rage and roar , When in their Tubs they care not who they goar . In a right course therefore that you may sail , Take these directions and you cannot fail . Those men that will not pray and preach in jest , Mark these , they are more dang'rous than the rest . Those that act Sermons , as a Stageplayers part , You need not fear them , they are found at heart . Those that against the Nations sins exclaim , Are like to bring to you the Greatest gain . He that does rather choose i'th' fire to burn , Before he'll Atheist or a Papist turn ; A Grand affronter of Authority . He that does bow , and bend , and stand , and fit , And shift his sails still as the wind does flit , Observe his Leaders , and his right-hand-man , Ne're fear , he'll never turn a Puritan . But he that Serves God for love , not money , Without Tradition or a Ceremony ; As the Apostles did in days of yore , Who never Cross did use or Surplice wore : And those that in their Family would pray , And not the Sabbath spend in sports and play : Beware of those , for it is ten to one , They're foully tainted , if not wholly gone : As also those that unto Sermons gad , Papists and Atheists are not half so bad : Watch those , and they will fallen into your trap , And when they once are in let none escape . With Sermon , Prayer , and Fasting , bait the Net , And a full draught you will be sure to get . But venture Swearers , Drunkards , never fear , You need not watch them , they will ne're come there [ e ] Taverns and Whore-houses they haunt , 'tis plain , You'l meet them there , but nothing to your gain . Having your prey before you , spare you none , And whensoe're you Swear , be sure Swear home . I hate these quaking fellows , that are loath To swear to purpose , these but spoil and Oath . E're I'de loose Twenty pound for want of reaching , I would Swear home , and Swear that praying's preac [ h ] in [ g ] In doubtful cases you may safely Swear , For twenty pound who would not loose and Ear ? And sometime when you cannot come to see , Swear those are present that are us'd to be . March on brave Lads , fear not to drink and roar , While the Fanatick's rich we'll ne're be poor . We shall get money from these rustic Boars , To pay our debts , and to maintain our Whores . Like Furies haunt Fanatics to the death , Leave not while they have money , life , or breath . To drink , to drab , to whore , to lie , to swear , It is the Garb that all our Tradesmen wear . Hap'ly they'l call us Knaves , but 'tis no shame , For any honest man to own his name . O but our Names will rot they say ! what then ? Let's die like Beasts , so we may live like Men . But God will plague us in a darksome Den , I would we could be sure to 'scape till then . They do their duty : Well , and so do we , Our wives and Children must maintained be . But of all men , they say , we are the worst , The Fox thrives best ( they say ) when he's most cursed Many Informers Beggars prove to be ; And many Tradesmen break , whats that to me ? With Stocks and Pillory they would us fear , Many for money loose more than and Ear . But ill god goods third Heirs do seldom see ! We mean our own Executors to be . Sons ply your work , while you have ought to do , For fear the Parliament prove Roundheads too : And pray , no law in England may be made To help Fanatick's , or to spoil our trade . If once the Papists get the upper hand , Our trade will mend , though other trades should stand If this succeed ( my Sons ) let's never fear , They shall to Mass , as well as Common-prayer . Meanwhile we'll let them cant , we'll sing and roar , And with their Money drink , and drab , and whore . LONDON , Printed for Joseph Collier on London-Bridge , 1682 . rst stand out . Those that the Bishops laws do now withstand , We'll not obey , no though the Pope command . 'Gainst King's and Kingdom's sins they rage and roar , When in their Tubs they care not who they goar . In a right course therefore that you may sail , Take these directions and you cannot fail . Those men that will not pray and preach in jest , Mark these , they are more dang'rous than the rest . Those that act Sermons , as a Stageplayers part , You need not fear them , they are found at heart . Those that against the Nations sins exclaim , Are like to bring to you the Greatest gain . He that does rather choose i'th' fire to burn , Before he'll Atheist or a Papist turn ; A Grand affronter of Authority . He that does bow , and bend , and stand , and fit , And shift his sails still as the wind does flit , Observe his Leaders , and his right-hand-man , Ne're fear , he'll never turn a Puritan . But he that Serves God for love , not money , Without Tradition or a Ceremony ; As the Apostles did in days of yore , Who never Cross did use or Surplice wore : And those that in their Family would pray , And not the Sabbath spend in sports and play : Beware of those , for it is ten to one , They're foully tainted , if not wholly gone : As also those that unto Sermons gad , Papists and Atheists are not half so bad : Watch those , and they will fallen into your trap , And when they once are in let none escape . With Sermon , Prayer , and Fasting , bait the Net , And a full draught you will be sure to get . But venture Swearers , Drunkards , never fear , You need not watch them , they will ne're come there [ e ] Taverns and Whore-houses they haunt , 'tis plain , You'l meet them there , but nothing to your gain . Having your prey before you , spare you none , And whensoe're you Swear , be sure Swear home . I hate these quaking fellows , that are loath To swear to purpose , these but spoil and Oath . E're I'de loose Twenty pound for want of reaching , I would Swear home , and Swear that praying's preac [ h ] in [ g ] In doubtful cases you may safely Swear , For twenty pound who would not loose and Ear ? And sometime when you cannot come to see , Swear those are present that are us'd to be . March on brave Lads , fear not to drink and roar , While the Fanatick's rich we'll ne're be poor . We shall get money from these rustic Boars , To pay our debts , and to maintain our Whores . Like Furies haunt Fanatics to the death , Leave not while they have money , life , or breath . To drink , to drab , to whore , to lie , to swear , It is the Garb that all our Tradesmen wear . Hap'ly they'l call us Knaves , but 'tis no shame , For any honest man to own his name . O but our Names will rot they say ! what then ? Let's die like Beasts , so we may live like Men . But God will plague us in a darksome Den , I would we could be sure to 'scape till then . They do their duty : Well , and so do we , Our wives and Children must maintained be . But of all men , they say , we are the worst , The Fox thrives best ( they say ) when he's most cursed Many Informers Beggars prove to be ; And many Tradesmen break , whats that to me ? With Stocks and Pillory they would us fear , Many for money loose more than and Ear . But ill god goods third Heirs do seldom see ! We mean our own Executors to be . Sons ply your work , while you have ought to do , For fear the Parliament prove Roundheads too : And pray , no law in England may be made To help Fanatick's , or to spoil our trade . If once the Papists get the upper hand , Our trade will mend , though other trades should stand If this succeed ( my Sons ) let's never fear , They shall to Mass , as well as Common-prayer . Meanwhile we'll let them cant , we'll sing and roar , And with their Money drink , and drab , and whore . LONDON , Printed for Joseph Collier on London-Bridge , 1682. 