The poor men Counsellor , OR , The married men Guide . If God have blessed thee with a careful wife Take my directions how to led thy life , Though Riches thou dost want yet thou shall find Far greater wealth in a contented mind , Thy honest labour shall thy charge maintain , Being truly god , not by unlawful gain . Tune of , The Poor Man's Comfort , COme friend if thy leisure permit thee to stay , I'll teach thee some precepts the same to obey , Now thou hast betaken thy self to a Wife How thou mayest live happy all days of thy life , Then take my directions though thou art but poor Melearn thee to keep the wolf from the door . This not all men's fortune great Riches to have And they that have little have most need to save , For Riches have wings and away they will fly And leave them forsaken that once were so high , [ ? ] ittle is better with peace and content Then wealth in abundance in misery spent . The wealth of the world does too many bewitch And they are too blame that make haste to be rich For goods ill got like snow-bals will wast And he that was rich shall be poor at the last . Therefore be content with a lowly degree And God will provide in due time you shall see . If thou hast a wife that is loving and kind Great comfort in her at all times thou wilt find Whatever betide thee she will bear a share And help to advise thee in woe or welfare , Then strive not her patience at all to provoke But freely submit to draw both in a yoke . A wife that is froward I do not commend What thou dost take pains for she'l lavishly spend And do what thou canst for to humour her still She'l hold thee in scorn if she want of her will , Make much of thy wife that is loving and chaste For she will be saving and fearful to wast . Each morning when thou dost thy labour begin Have God in thy mind 'twill keep thee from since A penny hard earned , since it is thy lot Will do thee more good than a pound thats ill god , Then labour to thrive by the sweat of thy brows For thats the best way all honest men knows . If God give a blessing that Children you have The more you must labour in time for to save And do not you murmur & count them a charge The better you'l thrive , & your stock will enlarge 'Twill be a great comfort thy children to see If that they obedient and dutiful be . Let no man entice thee thy money to waste Be careful to spare and lay up what thou hast Whoever shall ask thee , he is not thy friend To go to the Alehouse thy money to spend , Avoid such bad courses as bring men to want And thou shalt have plenty when others have scant . Lewd houses and Gaming be sure that you shun Ther's many frequent them and so are undone By such bad companions a man that's misled May quickly be brought to a morsel of bred A cup of good liquour at home with thy wife Will cheer up your hearts , & prevent further strife . Be courteous and kind to thy neighbours about And then they will love thee thou need not to doubt Avoid all contention with strife and debate For that will procure thee all honest men's hate , Be civil to all men as they are to thee Then kindly respected thou surely shalt be , If times do prove hard and Money be scant , Then labour for little before you do want , And thankfully take whatsoever God sends As times do grow better it will make amends , A dinner of Herbs with content serves as well As all the rich dainties which far does excel . When thou for thy labour some Money hast god , Be sure do not spend it in tossing the pot , Make haste to thy wife and children small , And that will supply when they for bred do call , 'Twould be a great grief to thee while thou dost live To hear thy Babes cry and have nothing to give . Whatever affliction befall thee or thine , Yet do not thou murmur or seem to repine , For God that hath given thee mean to subsist Can take it away whensoever he list , Therefore be contented whatever betide , Submit with all patience and God will provide . Take care to remember what here I have told , And valve it dearer then silver or gold , When thou art inclined to wander astray Perhaps it may bring thee into the right way And by thy example all others may see , 'Tis good to be careful and live honestly . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball Py-corner . The poor men Counsellor , OR , The married men Guide . If God have blessed thee with a careful wife Take my directions how to led thy life , Though Riches thou dost want yet thou shall find Far greater wealth in a contented mind , Thy honest labour shall thy charge maintain , Being truly god , not by unlawful gain . Tune of , The Poor Man's Comfort , COme friend if thy leisure permit thee to stay , I'll teach thee some precepts the same to obey , Now thou hast betaken thy self to a Wife How thou mayest live happy all days of thy life , Then take my directions though thou art but poor Melearn thee to keep the wolf from the door . This not all men's fortune great Riches to have And they that have little have most need to save , For Riches have wings and away they will fly And leave them forsaken that once were so high , [ ? ] ittle is better with peace and content Then wealth in abundance in misery spent . The wealth of the world does too many bewitch And they are too blame that make haste to be rich For goods ill got like snow-bals will wast And he that was rich shall be poor at the last . Therefore be content with a lowly degree And God will provide in due time you shall see . If thou hast a wife that is loving and kind Great comfort in her at all times thou wilt find Whatever betide thee she will bear a share And help to advise thee in woe or welfare , Then strive not her patience at all to provoke But freely submit to draw both in a yoke . A wife that is froward I do not commend What thou dost take pains for she'l lavishly spend And do what thou canst for to humour her still She'l hold thee in scorn if she want of her will , Make much of thy wife that is loving and chaste For she will be saving and fearful to wast . Each morning when thou dost thy labour begin Have God in thy mind 'twill keep thee from since A penny hard earned , since it is thy lot Will do thee more good than a pound thats ill god , Then labour to thrive by the sweat of thy brows For thats the best way all honest men knows . If God give a blessing that Children you have The more you must labour in time for to save And do not you murmur & count them a charge The better you'l thrive , & your stock will enlarge 'Twill be a great comfort thy children to see If that they obedient and dutiful be . Let no man entice thee thy money to waste Be careful to spare and lay up what thou hast Whoever shall ask thee , he is not thy friend To go to the Alehouse thy money to spend , Avoid such bad courses as bring men to want And thou shalt have plenty when others have scant . Lewd houses and Gaming be sure that you shun Ther's many frequent them and so are undone By such bad companions a man that's misled May quickly be brought to a morsel of bred A cup of good liquour at home with thy wife Will cheer up your hearts , & prevent further strife . Be courteous and kind to thy neighbours about And then they will love thee thou need not to doubt Avoid all contention with strife and debate For that will procure thee all honest men's hate , Be civil to all men as they are to thee Then kindly respected thou surely shalt be , If times do prove hard and Money be scant , Then labour for little before you do want , And thankfully take whatsoever God sends As times do grow better it will make amends , A dinner of Herbs with content serves as well As all the rich dainties which far does excel . When thou for thy labour some Money hast god , Be sure do not spend it in tossing the pot , Make haste to thy wife and children small , And that will supply when they for bred do call , 'Twould be a great grief to thee while thou dost live To hear thy Babes cry and have nothing to give . Whatever affliction befall thee or thine , Yet do not thou murmur or seem to repine , For God that hath given thee mean to subsist Can take it away whensoever he list , Therefore be contented whatever betide , Submit with all patience and God will provide . Take care to remember what here I have told , And valve it dearer then silver or gold , When thou art inclined to wander astray Perhaps it may bring thee into the right way And by thy example all others may see , 'Tis good to be careful and live honestly . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball Py-corner . 