[ F ] ather Peter's Policy Discovered ; Or , the P ------ of Wales Prov'd a P ----- Perkin . IN Room there is a most fearful Rout , And what do you think it is about Because the Birth of the Babe's come out . Sing Lulla by Babee , By , by , by . The Jesuits Swear the Midwife told tales , And ruin'd his Highness the Prince of Wales , She's a Jade for her pains Cutsplutter-anails . Sing Lulla by Babee , by , by , by . The Popish Crew did all protest , That twenty great Men would Swear at least , They see his Welch Highness creep out of his Nest. Sing Lulla by Babee , by , by , by . The Goggle-Ey'd Monster in the Tower , He peep'd at his Birth for above and hour , And 'twas a true Prince of Wales he Swore . Sing Lulla by Babee , by , by , by . Another great Lord , both Grave and Wise , Stood peeping between Her M -------- TO ------- ; He look'd through a Glass for to save his Eyes . Sing Lully by Babee , by , by , by . Both were so well satisfy'd , They knew the sweet Babe from a thousand they cry'd , 'Twas born with the Print of a Tile on his side . Sing Lulla by Babee , by , by , by . Some say 'tis a Prince of Wales by Right , And those that deny it , 'tis out of Spite ; But God send the Mother came honestly by't . Sing Lulla by Babee , by , by , by . Some Priest they say crept nigh her Honour , And sprinkled some good Holy Water upon Her , Which made her conceive of what has undone Her. Sing Lulla by Babee , by , by , by . The Papists thought themselves greatly blessed , Before the Young Babe was brought to the Test ; But now they call Peters a Fool of a Priest . Sing Lulla by Babee , by , by , by . The Priests in order to fly to the Pope , Are god on Board of the Foreign Hope , For all that stay here will be sure of a Rope . Sing Lulla by Babee , by , by , by . London , Printed for R.M. [ F ] ather Peter's Policy Discovered ; Or , the P ------ of Wales Prov'd a P ----- Perkin . IN Room there is a most fearful Rout , And what do you think it is about Because the Birth of the Babe's come out . Sing Lulla by Babee , By , by , by . The Jesuits Swear the Midwife told tales , And ruin'd his Highness the Prince of Wales , She's a Jade for her pains Cutsplutter-anails . Sing Lulla by Babee , by , by , by . The Popish Crew did all protest , That twenty great Men would Swear at least , They see his Welch Highness creep out of his Nest. Sing Lulla by Babee , by , by , by . The Goggle-Ey'd Monster in the Tower , He peep'd at his Birth for above and hour , And 'twas a true Prince of Wales he Swore . Sing Lulla by Babee , by , by , by . Another great Lord , both Grave and Wise , Stood peeping between Her M -------- TO ------- ; He look'd through a Glass for to save his Eyes . Sing Lully by Babee , by , by , by . Both were so well satisfy'd , They knew the sweet Babe from a thousand they cry'd , 'Twas born with the Print of a Tile on his side . Sing Lulla by Babee , by , by , by . Some say 'tis a Prince of Wales by Right , And those that deny it , 'tis out of Spite ; But God send the Mother came honestly by't . Sing Lulla by Babee , by , by , by . Some Priest they say crept nigh her Honour , And sprinkled some good Holy Water upon Her , Which made her conceive of what has undone Her. Sing Lulla by Babee , by , by , by . The Papists thought themselves greatly blessed , Before the Young Babe was brought to the Test ; But now they call Peters a Fool of a Priest . Sing Lulla by Babee , by , by , by . The Priests in order to fly to the Pope , Are god on Board of the Foreign Hope , For all that stay here will be sure of a Rope . Sing Lulla by Babee , by , by , by . London , Printed for R.M. 