' The Credulous Virgins come - plaint . Or , Lovers made Happy at last . Being a Caution to the Female Sex. Being a most pleasant new Song in two parts , With the Youngman's kind Answer . Caelia complains Virgins are oft too kind , The which she did by late experience find , For yielding unto Damon she does prove That hasty pleasures are the bain of Love ; But in the Tempest of her wounding grief , Damon comes in and yields her kind relief : But vows renew , and at last both are wed , Though he before had god her Maidenhead . To the Tune of Sawny will never be my Love again . COme harken to me young Maidens all , And hear what a Story I shall tell , The which to our Sex does often bef [ a ] ll , Though we in beauty and virtue excel . Yet we are apt to be led astray , When tempting young men with vows betray : We do surrender on what they say , So 'twas fondness that parted my Love and I . When he began to swear he did love , And gave me a kiss on the under Lip , Vowing he ever would faithful prove Then in his Arms he did me clip . And told me that I should be his Bride , So that him nothing I denied ; But that Tune chang'd when he had try'd So 'twas fondness that parted my Love and I . After my willing Arms I did fold , To grasp him close unto my breast , He unto marriage still grew cold And would not hear ought of it express'd . Though before he often did cry Caelia so love of thee I die , All things for thee I will defy . But 'twas fondness etc For when as my blooming Rosebuds he Had gathered from the Stalk so fair , Then he would not purchase the Tree , But bid me all marriage thoughts forbear . Of pleasure when he'd had his fill , To stay him my tears could not prevail : But had I been coy i'd had him still . For 'twas fondness that parted my Love and I . When as I did urge his former vow , He said I plead [ e ] worser but all in vain , If i'd by him be tempted now , Others when married might do the same . So he left me with shame and grief For to bewail my easy belief , And hard hearted man would yield no relief , For 'twas fondness that parted my Love and I . Therefore young maidens warning take And believe not men what they do say , For they a thousand vows will break Your easy Nature to betray , And when they've done they'l leave to cares Possessed with a thousand fears , Nor will they at all regard your Tears . For 'twas fondness that parted my Love and I . The Youngman's Answer to the Maids Complaint . COmplain now no more [ r ] e my Love , for I Have herd at last and do pity thee , What I did it's true was for to try , But since thou hast been so kind to me , I repent of what I have done , Nor shalt thou now be left alone , Cease then my Dear come cease thy moan . Such fondness shan't part my Love and I . My vows to thee I do renew , And promise for ever to be thine , Hencefo [ r ] th to me be thou but true , And we in wedlock soon will join . No Gold nor Silver shall e'r part Nor all the Indias move my Heart From my vows of Love to start . No fondness etc What and if thou did yield to me , Thy Chastity does still remain , To marry each other we did agree , Therefore my dearest doe not complain . For thy beauty is such a dower As might make Jove lay by his power , And descend in a Golden shower . Then no fondness etc Come now shake off thy Cloud of sorrow And blush no more at what is done , For we'l join hearts and hands tomorrow , Though Gold and Silver we have none , Yet true love shall supply that scant , And where that is they never want , Therefore my dear cease thy complaint . For thy fondness shan't part my Love and I . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in West-smithfield . ' The Credulous Virgins come - plaint . Or , Lovers made Happy at last . Being a Caution to the Female Sex. Being a most pleasant new Song in two parts , With the Youngman's kind Answer . Caelia complains Virgins are oft too kind , The which she did by late experience find , For yielding unto Damon she does prove That hasty pleasures are the bain of Love ; But in the Tempest of her wounding grief , Damon comes in and yields her kind relief : But vows renew , and at last both are wed , Though he before had god her Maidenhead . To the Tune of Sawny will never be my Love again . COme harken to me young Maidens all , And hear what a Story I shall tell , The which to our Sex does often bef [ a ] ll , Though we in beauty and virtue excel . Yet we are apt to be led astray , When tempting young men with vows betray : We do surrender on what they say , So 'twas fondness that parted my Love and I . When he began to swear he did love , And gave me a kiss on the under Lip , Vowing he ever would faithful prove Then in his Arms he did me clip . And told me that I should be his Bride , So that him nothing I denied ; But that Tune chang'd when he had try'd So 'twas fondness that parted my Love and I . After my willing Arms I did fold , To grasp him close unto my breast , He unto marriage still grew cold And would not hear ought of it express'd . Though before he often did cry Caelia so love of thee I die , All things for thee I will defy . But 'twas fondness etc For when as my blooming Rosebuds he Had gathered from the Stalk so fair , Then he would not purchase the Tree , But bid me all marriage thoughts forbear . Of pleasure when he'd had his fill , To stay him my tears could not prevail : But had I been coy i'd had him still . For 'twas fondness that parted my Love and I . When as I did urge his former vow , He said I plead [ e ] worser but all in vain , If i'd by him be tempted now , Others when married might do the same . So he left me with shame and grief For to bewail my easy belief , And hard hearted man would yield no relief , For 'twas fondness that parted my Love and I . Therefore young maidens warning take And believe not men what they do say , For they a thousand vows will break Your easy Nature to betray , And when they've done they'l leave to cares Possessed with a thousand fears , Nor will they at all regard your Tears . For 'twas fondness that parted my Love and I . The Youngman's Answer to the Maids Complaint . COmplain now no more [ r ] e my Love , for I Have herd at last and do pity thee , What I did it's true was for to try , But since thou hast been so kind to me , I repent of what I have done , Nor shalt thou now be left alone , Cease then my Dear come cease thy moan . Such fondness shan't part my Love and I . My vows to thee I do renew , And promise for ever to be thine , Hencefo [ r ] th to me be thou but true , And we in wedlock soon will join . No Gold nor Silver shall e'r part Nor all the Indias move my Heart From my vows of Love to start . No fondness etc What and if thou did yield to me , Thy Chastity does still remain , To marry each other we did agree , Therefore my dearest doe not complain . For thy beauty is such a dower As might make Jove lay by his power , And descend in a Golden shower . Then no fondness etc Come now shake off thy Cloud of sorrow And blush no more at what is done , For we'l join hearts and hands tomorrow , Though Gold and Silver we have none , Yet true love shall supply that scant , And where that is they never want , Therefore my dear cease thy complaint . For thy fondness shan't part my Love and I . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in West-smithfield . ' The Credulous Virgins come - plaint . Or , Lovers made Happy at last . Being a Caution to the Female Sex. Being a most pleasant new Song in two parts , With the Youngman's kind Answer . Caelia complains Virgins are oft too kind , The which she did by late experience find , For yielding unto Damon she does prove That hasty pleasures are the bain of Love ; But in the Tempest of her wounding grief , Damon comes in and yields her kind relief : But vows renew , and at last both are wed , Though he before had god her Maidenhead . To the Tune of Sawny will never be my Love again . COme harken to me young Maidens all , And hear what a Story I shall tell , The which to our Sex does often bef [ a ] ll , Though we in beauty and virtue excel . Yet we are apt to be led astray , When tempting young men with vows betray : We do surrender on what they say , So 'twas fondness that parted my Love and I . When he began to swear he did love , And gave me a kiss on the under Lip , Vowing he ever would faithful prove Then in his Arms he did me clip . And told me that I should be his Bride , So that him nothing I denied ; But that Tune chang'd when he had try'd So 'twas fondness that parted my Love and I . After my willing Arms I did fold , To grasp him close unto my breast , He unto marriage still grew cold And would not hear ought of it express'd . Though before he often did cry Caelia so love of thee I die , All things for thee I will defy . But 'twas fondness etc For when as my blooming Rosebuds he Had gathered from the Stalk so fair , Then he would not purchase the Tree , But bid me all marriage thoughts forbear . Of pleasure when he'd had his fill , To stay him my tears could not prevail : But had I been coy i'd had him still . For 'twas fondness that parted my Love and I . When as I did urge his former vow , He said I plead [ e ] worser but all in vain , If i'd by him be tempted now , Others when married might do the same . So he left me with shame and grief For to bewail my easy belief , And hard hearted man would yield no relief , For 'twas fondness that parted my Love and I . Therefore young maidens warning take And believe not men what they do say , For they a thousand vows will break Your easy Nature to betray , And when they've done they'l leave to cares Possessed with a thousand fears , Nor will they at all regard your Tears . For 'twas fondness that parted my Love and I . The Youngman's Answer to the Maids Complaint . COmplain now no more [ r ] e my Love , for I Have herd at last and do pity thee , What I did it's true was for to try , But since thou hast been so kind to me , I repent of what I have done , Nor shalt thou now be left alone , Cease then my Dear come cease thy moan . Such fondness shan't part my Love and I . My vows to thee I do renew , And promise for ever to be thine , Hencefo [ r ] th to me be thou but true , And we in wedlock soon will join . No Gold nor Silver shall e'r part Nor all the Indias move my Heart From my vows of Love to start . No fondness etc What and if thou did yield to me , Thy Chastity does still remain , To marry each other we did agree , Therefore my dearest doe not complain . For thy beauty is such a dower As might make Jove lay by his power , And descend in a Golden shower . Then no fondness etc Come now shake off thy Cloud of sorrow And blush no more at what is done , For we'l join hearts and hands tomorrow , Though Gold and Silver we have none , Yet true love shall supply that scant , And where that is they never want , Therefore my dear cease thy complaint . For thy fondness shan't part my Love and I . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in West-smithfield . ' The Credulous Virgins come - plaint . Or , Lovers made Happy at last . Being a Caution to the Female Sex. Being a most pleasant new Song in two parts , With the Youngman's kind Answer . Caelia complains Virgins are oft too kind , The which she did by late experience find , For yielding unto Damon she does prove That hasty pleasures are the bain of Love ; But in the Tempest of her wounding grief , Damon comes in and yields her kind relief : But vows renew , and at last both are wed , Though he before had god her Maidenhead . To the Tune of Sawny will never be my Love again . COme harken to me young Maidens all , And hear what a Story I shall tell , The which to our Sex does often bef [ a ] ll , Though we in beauty and virtue excel . Yet we are apt to be led astray , When tempting young men with vows betray : We do surrender on what they say , So 'twas fondness that parted my Love and I . When he began to swear he did love , And gave me a kiss on the under Lip , Vowing he ever would faithful prove Then in his Arms he did me clip . And told me that I should be his Bride , So that him nothing I denied ; But that Tune chang'd when he had try'd So 'twas fondness that parted my Love and I . After my willing Arms I did fold , To grasp him close unto my breast , He unto marriage still grew cold And would not hear ought of it express'd . Though before he often did cry Caelia so love of thee I die , All things for thee I will defy . But 'twas fondness etc For when as my blooming Rosebuds he Had gathered from the Stalk so fair , Then he would not purchase the Tree , But bid me all marriage thoughts forbear . Of pleasure when he'd had his fill , To stay him my tears could not prevail : But had I been coy i'd had him still . For 'twas fondness that parted my Love and I . When as I did urge his former vow , He said I plead [ e ] worser but all in vain , If i'd by him be tempted now , Others when married might do the same . So he left me with shame and grief For to bewail my easy belief , And hard hearted man would yield no relief , For 'twas fondness that parted my Love and I . Therefore young maidens warning take And believe not men what they do say , For they a thousand vows will break Your easy Nature to betray , And when they've done they'l leave to cares Possessed with a thousand fears , Nor will they at all regard your Tears . For 'twas fondness that parted my Love and I . The Youngman's Answer to the Maids Complaint . COmplain now no more [ r ] e my Love , for I Have herd at last and do pity thee , What I did it's true was for to try , But since thou hast been so kind to me , I repent of what I have done , Nor shalt thou now be left alone , Cease then my Dear come cease thy moan . Such fondness shan't part my Love and I . My vows to thee I do renew , And promise for ever to be thine , Hencefo [ r ] th to me be thou but true , And we in wedlock soon will join . No Gold nor Silver shall e'r part Nor all the Indias move my Heart From my vows of Love to start . No fondness etc What and if thou did yield to me , Thy Chastity does still remain , To marry each other we did agree , Therefore my dearest doe not complain . For thy beauty is such a dower As might make Jove lay by his power , And descend in a Golden shower . Then no fondness etc Come now shake off thy Cloud of sorrow And blush no more at what is done , For we'l join hearts and hands tomorrow , Though Gold and Silver we have none , Yet true love shall supply that scant , And where that is they never want , Therefore my dear cease thy complaint . For thy fondness shan't part my Love and I . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in West-smithfield . 