Epipapresbyter , Grand-Child TO SMECTYMNUUS . OR , The World's HUY and CRY , After TITUS OATES . Ordain'd Doctor of DEVILITY , at SALAMANCA . Dr. Turncoat Incubus . Tymist . Unthankful Seducing Old Serpent . Arrogant Traitor . Enchanting Sorcerer . : The Devil of Sham PLOTS . COme hark and hear and draw me nigh , Good People all that pass me by : Give Audience , and slight me not , And give your Ears and Antidote : Of late the whole World's great Trapan , That's half a Hog and half a Man Hath run ; none knows from whence nor whither , But all affirm that he came hither . A Linsy Wolfy Emp'rick Doctor , A Spiritual Hocus Pocus Proctor ; Who did ( 'gainst Nature's Civil Laws ) Betray himself and Romish Cause : And ( though the Lady kiss'd and dandl'd Him on her Knee , and softly handl'd ) He did her slight and vilify , When he had almost suck'd her Dry . He forg'd he urg'd a thing ( God wot ) Call'd Bloody Babels Popish PLO And when he could it Built no more , He kick'd the Castle , and threw it o'r . He's all Religions , yet none True ; He Jack of all Trades does outdo ; And oaten , whiten , know not what , Pretended Christian , Aposta No Papist , for he hath no Merit ; No Quaker , for he hath no Spiri No Protestant , for want of Grace ; Proteus Lodges in his Face : He is no Turk , for ( like a Swine ) He wallows in a Tub of Wine . The Devils he does most resemble , Because he needs must fear and Tremble . He Mumps to gain his daily Bred ; And he does wear upon his Head Both Cowl and Presbyterian Callet ; He bears a Knapsack Bag and Wall He Bauls , he Barks , he Roars , he Grins , He Swears , he Lies he pardons Sins . The Raze of Mankind he Abuseth , And all his Brothers he Accuseth . He that does meet him ( with a Cane ) May thresh him till he Stink again . This Tymist Turncoat of our Age , Would be a Show , if put in Cage ; For he is elivate ( preserve us ) Above the Sphere of Hircocervus : And all the World desire to see What Human Monster can he be , Who did set Daughter against the Mother , The Father against both Son and Brother ; And ( from the King to Country Clown ) Hath turn'd the Nation up-side-down . He so bewitch'd the London Pedlars , The Cobblers , Tinkers , and the Saddlers , That they ( for snuffing up the Air ) Might with th' Ephesians well compare ; For Rag , and Tag , and Bobtail , all The Ribble Rabble what you call Did Mould and Image Rood like Ape , They call'd the Romish Papish Pape , And in a fury passed its Doom , As it had been the Pope of Rome : And then ( to satiate their Desire ) They Burn'd the Heretic in Fire . Had he prov'd True to any one , His Knavery might have been unknown ; But Justice did most wisely Reckon To fix this Rascal for a Beacon ; That all self-Interest Rogues may see The end of Treacherous Loyalty ; To be and Hissing to the Nation , And and abhorring Detestation . For Sense and Reason both controls To mend a Breach by making Holes : He's Traitor that betray's by Lies A PLOT ; to raise Conspiracies . He needs must be a Tinker's Brother , Who mends one hold , and makes another . He Conjurs , ( though I blush to tell it , How he did use poor Doctor Ell'ot ) For with a Wind-bal mouth Granado He turn'd him Turkish Renegade , Swore seriously , ( not in Derision ) That he was of the Circumcision ; And ( for a Witness ) did detect His Codpiece to Condemn his Neck He was half Hang'd , but not Defacto , Condemn'd but in signato Actu : But 'ere he swang the Soveraing Tree , A Demonstration made him free . This Brutish Man , or Homo-hog Was Musty once to Haman-gog ; Yet all his antic Tricks and Trade Could hardly gain his daily Bred ; Therefore he ( in a Hocus Prank ) Did turn a Spiritual Mountebank ; And ( like a cunning Fox ) crept in among the Romish Men of since , Pretending that himself was nigh Religious sick , in Piety . With them he lived , fed-ox well , Till Wanton Flesh began to swell ; And then his Brains began to breed A Poyson'd Spider Homicide , And Treason-big began to cry A PLOT or damn'd Conspiracy : And chosen poor Babels Whore , that she Might Midwife to the Monster be . Now when it was brought to the Light , It seem'd a Screech-Owl of the Night ; But when he saw its Cloven Feet , He swore it was a Jesuite . And threw the Brat down at his Door That's call'd the Husband of the Whore : Then all the Noise that fill'd our Streets Was Papishes and Jesuites ; The brand of Papist was enough To interchange and English Cuff ; But Jesuite was cause indeed Enough to knock one in the Head. The Huy and Cry was Fifty pound To Catch where any could be found ; And Vulgar ( that unruly Beast ) Did Law and Reason so Arrest , That Bedrid Justice seem'd to die , And Order turn to Anarchy . London , Printed by George Croom , at the Blue-Ball in Thames-street , over against Baynard's-Castle . 1685. Epipapresbyter , Grand-Child TO SMECTYMNUUS . OR , The World's HUY and CRY , After TITUS OATES . Ordain'd Doctor of DEVILITY , at SALAMANCA . Dr. Turncoat Incubus . Tymist . Unthankful Seducing Old Serpent . Arrogant Traitor . Enchanting Sorcerer . : The Devil of Sham PLOTS . COme hark and hear and draw me nigh , Good People all that pass me by : Give Audience , and slight me not , And give your Ears and Antidote : Of late the whole World's great Trapan , That's half a Hog and half a Man Hath run ; none knows from whence nor whither , But all affirm that he came hither . A Linsy Wolfy Emp'rick Doctor , A Spiritual Hocus Pocus Proctor ; Who did ( 'gainst Nature's Civil Laws ) Betray himself and Romish Cause : And ( though the Lady kiss'd and dandl'd Him on her Knee , and softly handl'd ) He did her slight and vilify , When he had almost suck'd her Dry . He forg'd he urg'd a thing ( God wot ) Call'd Bloody Babels Popish PLO And when he could it Built no more , He kick'd the Castle , and threw it o'r . He's all Religions , yet none True ; He Jack of all Trades does outdo ; And oaten , whiten , know not what , Pretended Christian , Aposta No Papist , for he hath no Merit ; No Quaker , for he hath no Spiri No Protestant , for want of Grace ; Proteus Lodges in his Face : He is no Turk , for ( like a Swine ) He wallows in a Tub of Wine . The Devils he does most resemble , Because he needs must fear and Tremble . He Mumps to gain his daily Bred ; And he does wear upon his Head Both Cowl and Presbyterian Callet ; He bears a Knapsack Bag and Wall He Bauls , he Barks , he Roars , he Grins , He Swears , he Lies he pardons Sins . The Raze of Mankind he Abuseth , And all his Brothers he Accuseth . He that does meet him ( with a Cane ) May thresh him till he Stink again . This Tymist Turncoat of our Age , Would be a Show , if put in Cage ; For he is elivate ( preserve us ) Above the Sphere of Hircocervus : And all the World desire to see What Human Monster can he be , Who did set Daughter against the Mother , The Father against both Son and Brother ; And ( from the King to Country Clown ) Hath turn'd the Nation up-side-down . He so bewitch'd the London Pedlars , The Cobblers , Tinkers , and the Saddlers , That they ( for snuffing up the Air ) Might with th' Ephesians well compare ; For Rag , and Tag , and Bobtail , all The Ribble Rabble what you call Did Mould and Image Rood like Ape , They call'd the Romish Papish Pape , And in a fury passed its Doom , As it had been the Pope of Rome : And then ( to satiate their Desire ) They Burn'd the Heretic in Fire . Had he prov'd True to any one , His Knavery might have been unknown ; But Justice did most wisely Reckon To fix this Rascal for a Beacon ; That all self-Interest Rogues may see The end of Treacherous Loyalty ; To be and Hissing to the Nation , And and abhorring Detestation . For Sense and Reason both controls To mend a Breach by making Holes : He's Traitor that betray's by Lies A PLOT ; to raise Conspiracies . He needs must be a Tinker's Brother , Who mends one hold , and makes another . He Conjurs , ( though I blush to tell it , How he did use poor Doctor Ell'ot ) For with a Wind-bal mouth Granado He turn'd him Turkish Renegade , Swore seriously , ( not in Derision ) That he was of the Circumcision ; And ( for a Witness ) did detect His Codpiece to Condemn his Neck He was half Hang'd , but not Defacto , Condemn'd but in signato Actu : But 'ere he swang the Soveraing Tree , A Demonstration made him free . This Brutish Man , or Homo-hog Was Musty once to Haman-gog ; Yet all his antic Tricks and Trade Could hardly gain his daily Bred ; Therefore he ( in a Hocus Prank ) Did turn a Spiritual Mountebank ; And ( like a cunning Fox ) crept in among the Romish Men of since , Pretending that himself was nigh Religious sick , in Piety . With them he lived , fed-ox well , Till Wanton Flesh began to swell ; And then his Brains began to breed A Poyson'd Spider Homicide , And Treason-big began to cry A PLOT or damn'd Conspiracy : And chosen poor Babels Whore , that she Might Midwife to the Monster be . Now when it was brought to the Light , It seem'd a Screech-Owl of the Night ; But when he saw its Cloven Feet , He swore it was a Jesuite . And threw the Brat down at his Door That's call'd the Husband of the Whore : Then all the Noise that fill'd our Streets Was Papishes and Jesuites ; The brand of Papist was enough To interchange and English Cuff ; But Jesuite was cause indeed Enough to knock one in the Head. The Huy and Cry was Fifty pound To Catch where any could be found ; And Vulgar ( that unruly Beast ) Did Law and Reason so Arrest , That Bedrid Justice seem'd to die , And Order turn to Anarchy . London , Printed by George Croom , at the Blue-Ball in Thames-street , over against Baynard's-Castle . 1685. 