The Bedfordshire Widow ; OR , The Poor in Distress Reliev'd , Being a full and true Relation , of a poor Widow , whose Hus - band was dead , and she turn'd out of doors by her Creditors , and forced with her three Children to lie in the street , and Beg for Bred ; and how that Queen Marry , walking in her Garden , and hearing her Beg , came to her , and caused her children to be clothed and put to Nurse , and gave the poor widow a weekly pension , to maintain her as long as she liv'd . To the Tune of , Let Caesar live long . Licensed according to Order , IN Scripture we read how that Dorcas the good , Did daily supply the poor Widows with Food . And many Examples beside we may find ; All which have been Acted by good Women kind , But none e're more great , or yet glorious were seen , Than this Pious Act of good Marry our Queen . One time it so chanc'd , on a morning so fair : Queen Mary did walk for to take the fresh Air , In her Garden so Richly bedecked with Flowers , Where , she with delights , did pass several hours , There sitting her down in and Arbour alone , She herd a poor widow , make pitiful moan . The Queen much admiring to hear such a cry , She look'd through a wicket , where she did espy A widow , as likewise , three Children small , Who lay in the street , without side of the wall , Begging for Money for to buy them Bred , Who with hunger and pining , were almost quite dead The Queen , she did open the wicket straightway , And unto the widow , Queen Mary did say , Good woman I pray you , now why do you cry ? The woman , not knowing her , thus did reply , My want it is great , I shall perish for need , And this is the cause of my mourning indeed . My Husband in Prison was cast and is dead ; The Stones are my Couch , & the Streets is my Bed ; My Creditors cruel have seized of all , Poor I and my Children have nothing at all ; The Lord be my comfort or else I shall die , For here in much hunger , and pain I do lie . In Bedfordshire , I was born , it is well known . My Father had Houses and Land of his own , But now I am poor , and nothing I have , I wish I was put alive into my Grave ; Friends I have none , and my bred it is scant , That I and my Babes , we shall perish for want . I have a brother , who riches hath store , Yet now will not own me , because I am poor ; He tells me , my Fortune was once very great , When I had full plenty , and lived in State ; He will give me nothing , he often does say , Though I have entreated him day after day . The Queen did reply , now I pray be content , For some good provision to you shall be sent ; Rely upon God , who for you will provide , And for your poor Children also beside ; Ask and receive , in full plenty therefore , He always regardeth the cries of the Poor . Queen Marry , she then did immediately call , Saying bring this Poor Woman and Children small , Now into my Palace , where let them remain ; The widow perceiving , it Mary our Queen , She was so amaz'd , on the ground , as she lay , That not one poor word for herself she could say . Some Victuals were brought , and they heartily fed ; Warm Clothes were provided , as also a bed ; The Children , were then put to Nurse with all speed , The Queen a good Alms-House to th' widow decreed , And likewise a Pension , for her did ordain , And now the poor widow is happy again . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . The Bedfordshire Widow ; OR , The Poor in Distress Reliev'd , Being a full and true Relation , of a poor Widow , whose Hus - band was dead , and she turn'd out of doors by her Creditors , and forced with her three Children to lie in the street , and Beg for Bred ; and how that Queen Marry , walking in her Garden , and hearing her Beg , came to her , and caused her children to be clothed and put to Nurse , and gave the poor widow a weekly pension , to maintain her as long as she liv'd . To the Tune of , Let Caesar live long . Licensed according to Order , IN Scripture we read how that Dorcas the good , Did daily supply the poor Widows with Food . And many Examples beside we may find ; All which have been Acted by good Women kind , But none e're more great , or yet glorious were seen , Than this Pious Act of good Marry our Queen . One time it so chanc'd , on a morning so fair : Queen Mary did walk for to take the fresh Air , In her Garden so Richly bedecked with Flowers , Where , she with delights , did pass several hours , There sitting her down in and Arbour alone , She herd a poor widow , make pitiful moan . The Queen much admiring to hear such a cry , She look'd through a wicket , where she did espy A widow , as likewise , three Children small , Who lay in the street , without side of the wall , Begging for Money for to buy them Bred , Who with hunger and pining , were almost quite dead The Queen , she did open the wicket straightway , And unto the widow , Queen Mary did say , Good woman I pray you , now why do you cry ? The woman , not knowing her , thus did reply , My want it is great , I shall perish for need , And this is the cause of my mourning indeed . My Husband in Prison was cast and is dead ; The Stones are my Couch , & the Streets is my Bed ; My Creditors cruel have seized of all , Poor I and my Children have nothing at all ; The Lord be my comfort or else I shall die , For here in much hunger , and pain I do lie . In Bedfordshire , I was born , it is well known . My Father had Houses and Land of his own , But now I am poor , and nothing I have , I wish I was put alive into my Grave ; Friends I have none , and my bred it is scant , That I and my Babes , we shall perish for want . I have a brother , who riches hath store , Yet now will not own me , because I am poor ; He tells me , my Fortune was once very great , When I had full plenty , and lived in State ; He will give me nothing , he often does say , Though I have entreated him day after day . The Queen did reply , now I pray be content , For some good provision to you shall be sent ; Rely upon God , who for you will provide , And for your poor Children also beside ; Ask and receive , in full plenty therefore , He always regardeth the cries of the Poor . Queen Marry , she then did immediately call , Saying bring this Poor Woman and Children small , Now into my Palace , where let them remain ; The widow perceiving , it Mary our Queen , She was so amaz'd , on the ground , as she lay , That not one poor word for herself she could say . Some Victuals were brought , and they heartily fed ; Warm Clothes were provided , as also a bed ; The Children , were then put to Nurse with all speed , The Queen a good Alms-House to th' widow decreed , And likewise a Pension , for her did ordain , And now the poor widow is happy again . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 