The Young-Mans Complaint for The Loss of his Mistress . Young - men you see my Fortune is such , I have lost my Love by loving her too much : My fortune's bad as other Young men's be , Read but these Lines , and you shall Plainly see : I being bashful , she was something coy , I have lost my Love , which should have been my joy . To and Excellent New Tune , I have lost my dear Mistress . COme harken Apollo my pitiful groan , Of all loyal Lovers that is left here alone ; I'le fight for my true Love though Mars be my Foe , For I've lost my dear Mistress by being too Slow . How Lovers are often tormented in mind , when as their own sweethearts proves to them unkind Though many that hears me the same would forgo , I have lost my dear Mistress by being too Slow . I would I had ne'r seen her , that I had ne'r been , That I for her Love now sorrow have seen : But my heart it with sorrow my sense or'e-go , That i've lost my dear Mistress by being too Slow . When as we were Children we loved most dear , But now of that Love I am never the near : My heart is so sad and oppressed with woe , That i've lost my dear Mistress by being too Slow . When unto years elder our Youth did it spring , Then to Complementing I stright did begin : Yet bashfulness daunted and shamed me so , That I lost my dear Mistress by being too Slow . Quoth I my dear Honey though I cannot woo , Yet slight me not for it for loving of you : Entirely I Love thee , the truth it is so , Then do not refuse me by being too Slow . At Fairs and at Markets you know it right well , hat I in your Company still did excel : Neither car'd I for Money nor time it is so , Then let me not lose you by being too Slow . But she gave me Denial and bid me be gone , For all I lamented and to her made moan , aying , I would not have you any more to do so , For you have lost me plainly by being too Slow . The Maidens Answer . THough company together long time we have kept One another , my mind and my heart is set , Though one not so handsome as yourself must go Away with me , and leave you by being too slow . You are young and youthful , and may be may have A mind on a woman , but do not deceive Your self any more by neglecting it so , For you have lost me plainly by being too slow . I would have been marri'd before now e're long , At fourteen in truth I could wish't had been done : If thou'd willing been then to Church with me go , You need not have lost me by being too slow . But you did neglect your time soar in that case , For a woman can tarry but while time does las For at fourteen she is ripe , there is few but does know So you fool'd your self then by being too slow . So adieu to you youngmen , you hear how it is , And all the frail ways how my fortune I miss : But it shall be a warning unto me I trow , That i'le never loose more by being too slow . O Cupid thy Arrows are tip'd with pure Gold , And it strikes me quite thorough when thee I behold ; But like to Amintas , I made my Moan so , When I lost my dear Mistress by being too slow . But like to Leander i'le mourn for my love , Through new lands & countries , & constant i'le prove I'le Drink and i'le Fuddle 'gainst who dares say not , Since I've lost my dear Mistress , by being too Slow . You Goddesses assist my Fortune being such , For I have lost my Sweetheart by Loving too much : But it shall ne'r fret me although it be so , That I have lost my Sweetheart by being too slow . Good Cupid assist me that now I may mend , And cause my heart strong to continue toth' end : And go along with me I will bear thy Bow , So Cupid but hit them that they'l with me go . So Youngmen if that they stand , you must strike , Not one way in forty that more they will like : That they'l call you honey and with you will go , And love you most dearly for using them so . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . The Young-Mans Complaint for The Loss of his Mistress . Young - men you see my Fortune is such , I have lost my Love by loving her too much : My fortune's bad as other Young men's be , Read but these Lines , and you shall Plainly see : I being bashful , she was something coy , I have lost my Love , which should have been my joy . To and Excellent New Tune , I have lost my dear Mistress . COme harken Apollo my pitiful groan , Of all loyal Lovers that is left here alone ; I'le fight for my true Love though Mars be my Foe , For I've lost my dear Mistress by being too Slow . How Lovers are often tormented in mind , when as their own sweethearts proves to them unkind Though many that hears me the same would forgo , I have lost my dear Mistress by being too Slow . I would I had ne'r seen her , that I had ne'r been , That I for her Love now sorrow have seen : But my heart it with sorrow my sense or'e-go , That i've lost my dear Mistress by being too Slow . When as we were Children we loved most dear , But now of that Love I am never the near : My heart is so sad and oppressed with woe , That i've lost my dear Mistress by being too Slow . When unto years elder our Youth did it spring , Then to Complementing I stright did begin : Yet bashfulness daunted and shamed me so , That I lost my dear Mistress by being too Slow . Quoth I my dear Honey though I cannot woo , Yet slight me not for it for loving of you : Entirely I Love thee , the truth it is so , Then do not refuse me by being too Slow . At Fairs and at Markets you know it right well , hat I in your Company still did excel : Neither car'd I for Money nor time it is so , Then let me not lose you by being too Slow . But she gave me Denial and bid me be gone , For all I lamented and to her made moan , aying , I would not have you any more to do so , For you have lost me plainly by being too Slow . The Maidens Answer . THough company together long time we have kept One another , my mind and my heart is set , Though one not so handsome as yourself must go Away with me , and leave you by being too slow . You are young and youthful , and may be may have A mind on a woman , but do not deceive Your self any more by neglecting it so , For you have lost me plainly by being too slow . I would have been marri'd before now e're long , At fourteen in truth I could wish't had been done : If thou'd willing been then to Church with me go , You need not have lost me by being too slow . But you did neglect your time soar in that case , For a woman can tarry but while time does las For at fourteen she is ripe , there is few but does know So you fool'd your self then by being too slow . So adieu to you youngmen , you hear how it is , And all the frail ways how my fortune I miss : But it shall be a warning unto me I trow , That i'le never loose more by being too slow . O Cupid thy Arrows are tip'd with pure Gold , And it strikes me quite thorough when thee I behold ; But like to Amintas , I made my Moan so , When I lost my dear Mistress by being too slow . But like to Leander i'le mourn for my love , Through new lands & countries , & constant i'le prove I'le Drink and i'le Fuddle 'gainst who dares say not , Since I've lost my dear Mistress , by being too Slow . You Goddesses assist my Fortune being such , For I have lost my Sweetheart by Loving too much : But it shall ne'r fret me although it be so , That I have lost my Sweetheart by being too slow . Good Cupid assist me that now I may mend , And cause my heart strong to continue toth' end : And go along with me I will bear thy Bow , So Cupid but hit them that they'l with me go . So Youngmen if that they stand , you must strike , Not one way in forty that more they will like : That they'l call you honey and with you will go , And love you most dearly for using them so . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . The Young-Mans Complaint for The Loss of his Mistress . Young - men you see my Fortune is such , I have lost my Love by loving her too much : My fortune's bad as other Young men's be , Read but these Lines , and you shall Plainly see : I being bashful , she was something coy , I have lost my Love , which should have been my joy . To and Excellent New Tune , I have lost my dear Mistress . COme harken Apollo my pitiful groan , Of all loyal Lovers that is left here alone ; I'le fight for my true Love though Mars be my Foe , For I've lost my dear Mistress by being too Slow . How Lovers are often tormented in mind , when as their own sweethearts proves to them unkind Though many that hears me the same would forgo , I have lost my dear Mistress by being too Slow . I would I had ne'r seen her , that I had ne'r been , That I for her Love now sorrow have seen : But my heart it with sorrow my sense or'e-go , That i've lost my dear Mistress by being too Slow . When as we were Children we loved most dear , But now of that Love I am never the near : My heart is so sad and oppressed with woe , That i've lost my dear Mistress by being too Slow . When unto years elder our Youth did it spring , Then to Complementing I stright did begin : Yet bashfulness daunted and shamed me so , That I lost my dear Mistress by being too Slow . Quoth I my dear Honey though I cannot woo , Yet slight me not for it for loving of you : Entirely I Love thee , the truth it is so , Then do not refuse me by being too Slow . At Fairs and at Markets you know it right well , hat I in your Company still did excel : Neither car'd I for Money nor time it is so , Then let me not lose you by being too Slow . But she gave me Denial and bid me be gone , For all I lamented and to her made moan , aying , I would not have you any more to do so , For you have lost me plainly by being too Slow . The Maidens Answer . THough company together long time we have kept One another , my mind and my heart is set , Though one not so handsome as yourself must go Away with me , and leave you by being too slow . You are young and youthful , and may be may have A mind on a woman , but do not deceive Your self any more by neglecting it so , For you have lost me plainly by being too slow . I would have been marri'd before now e're long , At fourteen in truth I could wish't had been done : If thou'd willing been then to Church with me go , You need not have lost me by being too slow . But you did neglect your time soar in that case , For a woman can tarry but while time does las For at fourteen she is ripe , there is few but does know So you fool'd your self then by being too slow . So adieu to you youngmen , you hear how it is , And all the frail ways how my fortune I miss : But it shall be a warning unto me I trow , That i'le never loose more by being too slow . O Cupid thy Arrows are tip'd with pure Gold , And it strikes me quite thorough when thee I behold ; But like to Amintas , I made my Moan so , When I lost my dear Mistress by being too slow . But like to Leander i'le mourn for my love , Through new lands & countries , & constant i'le prove I'le Drink and i'le Fuddle 'gainst who dares say not , Since I've lost my dear Mistress , by being too Slow . You Goddesses assist my Fortune being such , For I have lost my Sweetheart by Loving too much : But it shall ne'r fret me although it be so , That I have lost my Sweetheart by being too slow . Good Cupid assist me that now I may mend , And cause my heart strong to continue toth' end : And go along with me I will bear thy Bow , So Cupid but hit them that they'l with me go . So Youngmen if that they stand , you must strike , Not one way in forty that more they will like : That they'l call you honey and with you will go , And love you most dearly for using them so . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . The Young-Mans Complaint for The Loss of his Mistress . Young - men you see my Fortune is such , I have lost my Love by loving her too much : My fortune's bad as other Young men's be , Read but these Lines , and you shall Plainly see : I being bashful , she was something coy , I have lost my Love , which should have been my joy . To and Excellent New Tune , I have lost my dear Mistress . COme harken Apollo my pitiful groan , Of all loyal Lovers that is left here alone ; I'le fight for my true Love though Mars be my Foe , For I've lost my dear Mistress by being too Slow . How Lovers are often tormented in mind , when as their own sweethearts proves to them unkind Though many that hears me the same would forgo , I have lost my dear Mistress by being too Slow . I would I had ne'r seen her , that I had ne'r been , That I for her Love now sorrow have seen : But my heart it with sorrow my sense or'e-go , That i've lost my dear Mistress by being too Slow . When as we were Children we loved most dear , But now of that Love I am never the near : My heart is so sad and oppressed with woe , That i've lost my dear Mistress by being too Slow . When unto years elder our Youth did it spring , Then to Complementing I stright did begin : Yet bashfulness daunted and shamed me so , That I lost my dear Mistress by being too Slow . Quoth I my dear Honey though I cannot woo , Yet slight me not for it for loving of you : Entirely I Love thee , the truth it is so , Then do not refuse me by being too Slow . At Fairs and at Markets you know it right well , hat I in your Company still did excel : Neither car'd I for Money nor time it is so , Then let me not lose you by being too Slow . But she gave me Denial and bid me be gone , For all I lamented and to her made moan , aying , I would not have you any more to do so , For you have lost me plainly by being too Slow . The Maidens Answer . THough company together long time we have kept One another , my mind and my heart is set , Though one not so handsome as yourself must go Away with me , and leave you by being too slow . You are young and youthful , and may be may have A mind on a woman , but do not deceive Your self any more by neglecting it so , For you have lost me plainly by being too slow . I would have been marri'd before now e're long , At fourteen in truth I could wish't had been done : If thou'd willing been then to Church with me go , You need not have lost me by being too slow . But you did neglect your time soar in that case , For a woman can tarry but while time does las For at fourteen she is ripe , there is few but does know So you fool'd your self then by being too slow . So adieu to you youngmen , you hear how it is , And all the frail ways how my fortune I miss : But it shall be a warning unto me I trow , That i'le never loose more by being too slow . O Cupid thy Arrows are tip'd with pure Gold , And it strikes me quite thorough when thee I behold ; But like to Amintas , I made my Moan so , When I lost my dear Mistress by being too slow . But like to Leander i'le mourn for my love , Through new lands & countries , & constant i'le prove I'le Drink and i'le Fuddle 'gainst who dares say not , Since I've lost my dear Mistress , by being too Slow . You Goddesses assist my Fortune being such , For I have lost my Sweetheart by Loving too much : But it shall ne'r fret me although it be so , That I have lost my Sweetheart by being too slow . Good Cupid assist me that now I may mend , And cause my heart strong to continue toth' end : And go along with me I will bear thy Bow , So Cupid but hit them that they'l with me go . So Youngmen if that they stand , you must strike , Not one way in forty that more they will like : That they'l call you honey and with you will go , And love you most dearly for using them so . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 