Death's Uncontrollable Summons ; OR , The Mortality of MANKIND . Being a Dialogue between DEATH and a YOUNG-MAN . To the Tune of , My Bleeding Heart . IN slumber and Sleep my senses fail'd , heigh ho , heigh ho , then slept I ; The bright Sun rais'd a missed withal , eclipsed in the darksome Sky . And ancient Father stood by me , heigh ho , heigh ho , hollow eyes , A foul deformed Wight was he I thought my youth did him despise . His Cloak was green his head was grey , heigh ho , heigh ho , silver hair , His Face was pale as any clay his Countenance made me much to fear . Amazed at the sudden sighed , heigh ho , heigh ho , youthful boy ; I stood as one amazed quite , heigh ho , heigh ho , dismal day , Father , quoth I , tell me your name , heigh ho , high ho , tell me true , I pray you tell to me the same , my joints do tremble at thy view . Young Youth , quoth he , I tell to thee heigh ho , heigh ho , thy thread is spun ; My name is Death , I come for thee heigh ho , heigh ho , thy Glass is run . For me sweet Death I hope not so , heigh ho , heigh ho , I am young ; Let me be old before I go , alas ! my time hath not been long . I have this worldly wealth at will , heigh ho , heigh ho , ask and have , Let me enjoy those Pleasures still , o my Soul abhors the Grave . I scorn thy Treasure and thy Pelf , heigh ho , heigh ho , haste away , Thy goods shall perish with thyself , 'tis not thy Wealth , my stroke shall stay . O Death ! what will my true Love say ? heigh ho , heigh ho , shee'l complain On thee , for taking me away ; sweet Death with her let me remain . I tell thee yet , thou strivest in vain , heigh ho , heigh ho , go 'tis time ; Thy vital thread is cut in twain , o hark and hear the dulsome Chime . Then woe is me ! I must be gone , heigh ho , heigh ho , my heart , My World's delight and all is gone , there was never man so loath to part . Mark well my Fallen you youthful Buds , heigh ho , heigh ho , view my Fallen , My Pleasures , Plenty Life and Goods , heigh ho , heigh ho , Death ends all . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . Death's Uncontrollable Summons ; OR , The Mortality of MANKIND . Being a Dialogue between DEATH and a YOUNG-MAN . To the Tune of , My Bleeding Heart . IN slumber and Sleep my senses fail'd , heigh ho , heigh ho , then slept I ; The bright Sun rais'd a missed withal , eclipsed in the darksome Sky . And ancient Father stood by me , heigh ho , heigh ho , hollow eyes , A foul deformed Wight was he I thought my youth did him despise . His Cloak was green his head was grey , heigh ho , heigh ho , silver hair , His Face was pale as any clay his Countenance made me much to fear . Amazed at the sudden sighed , heigh ho , heigh ho , youthful boy ; I stood as one amazed quite , heigh ho , heigh ho , dismal day , Father , quoth I , tell me your name , heigh ho , high ho , tell me true , I pray you tell to me the same , my joints do tremble at thy view . Young Youth , quoth he , I tell to thee heigh ho , heigh ho , thy thread is spun ; My name is Death , I come for thee heigh ho , heigh ho , thy Glass is run . For me sweet Death I hope not so , heigh ho , heigh ho , I am young ; Let me be old before I go , alas ! my time hath not been long . I have this worldly wealth at will , heigh ho , heigh ho , ask and have , Let me enjoy those Pleasures still , o my Soul abhors the Grave . I scorn thy Treasure and thy Pelf , heigh ho , heigh ho , haste away , Thy goods shall perish with thyself , 'tis not thy Wealth , my stroke shall stay . O Death ! what will my true Love say ? heigh ho , heigh ho , shee'l complain On thee , for taking me away ; sweet Death with her let me remain . I tell thee yet , thou strivest in vain , heigh ho , heigh ho , go 'tis time ; Thy vital thread is cut in twain , o hark and hear the dulsome Chime . Then woe is me ! I must be gone , heigh ho , heigh ho , my heart , My World's delight and all is gone , there was never man so loath to part . Mark well my Fallen you youthful Buds , heigh ho , heigh ho , view my Fallen , My Pleasures , Plenty Life and Goods , heigh ho , heigh ho , Death ends all . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . 