And Excellent Medley , Which you may admire at ( without offence ) For every line speaks a contrary sense . The Tune is , Tarletons Medley . IN Summer time when folks make Hay , All is not true that people say , The Fool's the wisest in the Play , tush take away your hand . The Fiddlers Boy hath broke his Base , Sirs is not this a piteous case , Most gallants loath to smell the Mace of Wood-street . The City follows Courtly pride , Jone swears she cannot John abide , Dick wears a Dagger by his side , come tell us what's to pay . The Lawyers thrives by others fallen , The weakest always goes to th' wall , The Shoemaker commands all at's pleasure . The Weaver prays for Huswives store , A pretty woman was Jane Shore , Kick the base Rascal out o' that door , peace , peace , you brawling Curs . A Cuckold's band wears out behind , 'Tis cast to beguile the blind , All people are not of one mind , hold Carman . Our women cut their hair like men , The Cock's o're-mastered by the Hen , There's hardly one good friend in ten , turn there on the right hand : But few regard the cries o'th poor , Will spendeth all upon a Whore , The Soldier longeth to go o're brave knocking . What shall we do in these sad days ? Will not the wicked mend their ways , Some loose their lives in drunken frays , the pudding burns to' that po The Cooper says the Tub's bepissed , The Cobbler preaches what he list , Their knavery now is manifest , hold Halter . When the fifth Henry sail'd to France , Let me alone for a Country dance , Nell does bewail her luckless chance , fie on falsehearted men : Dick Tarleton was a merry wag , Hark how that prating Ass does brag , John Dory sold his ambling Nag , for Kickshaws . THe Sailor counts the Ship his house , I'le say no more dut Dun's the Mouse , He is no man that scorns a Louse , vain pride undoes the Land : Hard-hearted-men makes corn so dear , Few French-men love well English Bear , I hope e're long good news to hear , heigh Lustick . Now hides are cheap the Tonner thrives , Hang those base knaves that beatrice their wives , He needs must go that the Devil drives , God bless us from a Gun : The Beadles make the lame to run , Vaunt not before the battel's wone , A cloud sometime may hide the Sun , chance medley . The Surgeon thrives by fencing schools Some for strong liquour pawn their tools , For one wiseman there's twenty fools , o when shall we be married ? In time of youth when I was wild , Who touches pitch shall be defil'd , Mol is afraid she is with child , peace Peter . The poor still hope's for better days , I do not love these long delays , All love and charity decays , in the days of old : I'm very loath to pawn my Cloak , Mere poverty does me provoke , They say a scald head is soon broke ; poor trading . Hark , mother hark , there's news in town , What tell you me of half a Crown , Now the Exise is going down , thou pratest like and Ass : I scorn the Coin give me the man , Pray pledge the health Sir I began , I love King Charles say what you can , God save him . The Dutch-men thrive by Sea and Land , Women are Ships and must be man'd , Let's bravely to our colours stand , Courage my hearts of Gold : I read in modern Histories , The King of Swedens victories , At Islington there's Pudding Pies , hight Custards . The Tapster is undone by Chalk , Tush 'tis in vain to prate and talk , The Parrat prattles , walk knaves walk , Duke Humphrey lies in Pauls : The soldiers hath but small regard , There's weekly news in Pauls-Church Yard The poor man cries the world grows hard , cold winter . Heigh for New England hoist up sail , The truth is strong and will prevail , Fill me a cup of nappy Ale , hang care the Kings a coming . This Egg hath long a hatching been , When you have done then wee'l begin , O what and age do we live in , hang pinching . From Long-lane cloth , & Turnstile boots , Oh fie upon these scabbed Coots , The cheapest meat is Reddish roots , come all for a penny . Light my Tobacco quickly here , There lies a pretty woman near , This Boy will come to nought I fear , proud Coxcomb . The world is full of odious sins , 'Tis ten to one but this horse wins , Fools set stools to break wise men's shins , This man's more knave then fool , Jane oft in private meets with Tom , Husband thou art kindly welcome home , Hast any money ; lend me some , I'me broken . In ancient times all things were cheap , 'Tis good to look before you leap , When Corn is ripe , 'tis time to reap , once walking by the way , A jealous man the Cuckoo loathes , The Gallant Compliments with Oaths , A wench will make you fell your clothes , run Broker . The Courtiers and the Country man Let's live as honest as we can : When Arthur first in Court began his men wore hanging sleeves . In May when Grass and Flowers green , The strangest sighed that ere was seen , God send our gracious King and Queen , to London . FINIS . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . And Excellent Medley , Which you may admire at ( without offence ) For every line speaks a contrary sense . The Tune is , Tarletons Medley . IN Summer time when folks make Hay , All is not true that people say , The Fool's the wisest in the Play , tush take away your hand . The Fiddlers Boy hath broke his Base , Sirs is not this a piteous case , Most gallants loath to smell the Mace of Wood-street . The City follows Courtly pride , Jone swears she cannot John abide , Dick wears a Dagger by his side , come tell us what's to pay . The Lawyers thrives by others fallen , The weakest always goes to th' wall , The Shoemaker commands all at's pleasure . The Weaver prays for Huswives store , A pretty woman was Jane Shore , Kick the base Rascal out o' that door , peace , peace , you brawling Curs . A Cuckold's band wears out behind , 'Tis cast to beguile the blind , All people are not of one mind , hold Carman . Our women cut their hair like men , The Cock's o're-mastered by the Hen , There's hardly one good friend in ten , turn there on the right hand : But few regard the cries o'th poor , Will spendeth all upon a Whore , The Soldier longeth to go o're brave knocking . What shall we do in these sad days ? Will not the wicked mend their ways , Some loose their lives in drunken frays , the pudding burns to' that po The Cooper says the Tub's bepissed , The Cobbler preaches what he list , Their knavery now is manifest , hold Halter . When the fifth Henry sail'd to France , Let me alone for a Country dance , Nell does bewail her luckless chance , fie on falsehearted men : Dick Tarleton was a merry wag , Hark how that prating Ass does brag , John Dory sold his ambling Nag , for Kickshaws . THe Sailor counts the Ship his house , I'le say no more dut Dun's the Mouse , He is no man that scorns a Louse , vain pride undoes the Land : Hard-hearted-men makes corn so dear , Few French-men love well English Bear , I hope e're long good news to hear , heigh Lustick . Now hides are cheap the Tonner thrives , Hang those base knaves that beatrice their wives , He needs must go that the Devil drives , God bless us from a Gun : The Beadles make the lame to run , Vaunt not before the battel's wone , A cloud sometime may hide the Sun , chance medley . The Surgeon thrives by fencing schools Some for strong liquour pawn their tools , For one wiseman there's twenty fools , o when shall we be married ? In time of youth when I was wild , Who touches pitch shall be defil'd , Mol is afraid she is with child , peace Peter . The poor still hope's for better days , I do not love these long delays , All love and charity decays , in the days of old : I'm very loath to pawn my Cloak , Mere poverty does me provoke , They say a scald head is soon broke ; poor trading . Hark , mother hark , there's news in town , What tell you me of half a Crown , Now the Exise is going down , thou pratest like and Ass : I scorn the Coin give me the man , Pray pledge the health Sir I began , I love King Charles say what you can , God save him . The Dutch-men thrive by Sea and Land , Women are Ships and must be man'd , Let's bravely to our colours stand , Courage my hearts of Gold : I read in modern Histories , The King of Swedens victories , At Islington there's Pudding Pies , hight Custards . The Tapster is undone by Chalk , Tush 'tis in vain to prate and talk , The Parrat prattles , walk knaves walk , Duke Humphrey lies in Pauls : The soldiers hath but small regard , There's weekly news in Pauls-Church Yard The poor man cries the world grows hard , cold winter . Heigh for New England hoist up sail , The truth is strong and will prevail , Fill me a cup of nappy Ale , hang care the Kings a coming . This Egg hath long a hatching been , When you have done then wee'l begin , O what and age do we live in , hang pinching . From Long-lane cloth , & Turnstile boots , Oh fie upon these scabbed Coots , The cheapest meat is Reddish roots , come all for a penny . Light my Tobacco quickly here , There lies a pretty woman near , This Boy will come to nought I fear , proud Coxcomb . The world is full of odious sins , 'Tis ten to one but this horse wins , Fools set stools to break wise men's shins , This man's more knave then fool , Jane oft in private meets with Tom , Husband thou art kindly welcome home , Hast any money ; lend me some , I'me broken . In ancient times all things were cheap , 'Tis good to look before you leap , When Corn is ripe , 'tis time to reap , once walking by the way , A jealous man the Cuckoo loathes , The Gallant Compliments with Oaths , A wench will make you fell your clothes , run Broker . The Courtiers and the Country man Let's live as honest as we can : When Arthur first in Court began his men wore hanging sleeves . In May when Grass and Flowers green , The strangest sighed that ere was seen , God send our gracious King and Queen , to London . FINIS . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 