And Amorous Dialogue between John and his Mistress . Being a complete and true Relation of some merry passages between the Mistress and her Apprentice , who pleased her so well , that she rewarded him with fifty broad pieces for his pains . Here by this Dialogue you may discern , While old Cats nibble Cheese the young ones learn . To the Tune of , Packington's pound , or , What should a young woman , etc or , Captain Digby . COme John fit thee down I have some what to say , In my mind I have kept it this many a day , Your Master you know is a Fool and a Sot , And minds nothing else but the Pipe and the Po Till twelve or till one he will never come home , And then he's so drunk that he lies like a Mome : Such usage as this would make any one mad , But a Woman will have it if 'tis to be had . 'Tis true forsooth Mistress , the case is but hard , That a woman should be of her pleasure debar'd : But 'tis the sad fate of a thousand beside , Or else the whole City is foully beli'd : There is not a man among twenty that thrives , Not ten in fifteen that do lie with their Wives , Yet still you had better be merry than sad , And take it where ever it is to be had . But John , 'tis a difficult matter to find , A man that is trusty and constantly kind : All Inns-of-Court Gallant he cringes and bows , He's presently known by his Oaths and his Vows , And though both his clothes and his speeches be gay , Yet he loves you but only a night and away : Such usage as this would make any one mad , Yet a Woman will have it , if 'tis to be had . What think you of one that belongs to the Court , They say they are youthful , and given to spor He'l present you with bracelets , and jewels , & Rings , With stones that are precious , & twenty fine things : Or if you are not for the Court nor the Town , What think you forsooth of a man with a Gown ? You must have a gallant , a good or a bad , And take it where ever it is to be had . The Second Part , to the same Tune . NO John , I confess that not any of these , Had ever the power my fancy to please ; I like no such blades for a trick that I know , For as soon as they've trod , they are given to crow ; Plain dealing is best , and I like a man well , That when he has kill'd will be hang'd e're he'l tell : My meaning is honest and thou art the Lad , Then give it and take it where 'tis to be had . Alas ! my dear mistress , it never can be , That you can affect such a fellow as me : Yet heaven forbid , since I am but your man , I should ever refuse to do all that I can ; But then if my master should know what we've done We both shou'd be blown up as sure as a Gun : For after our joys , he would make us as sad , For taking it where it ought not to be had . But how shou'd he know it thou scrupulous Elf , Do'st think i'me so silly to tell him myself ? If we are but so wise our own counsel to keep , We may laugh and lie down while the sot is asleep : Some hundreds I know in the city that use , To give to their men what their master's refuse : The man is the master , the Pren [ tO ] ice the Dad , For women must take it where 'tis to be had . Some Prentices use it , forsooth , I allow , But I am a Novice and cannot tell how : However , I hope that I shall not be blam'd , For to tell you the truth I am somewhat asham'd ; I know how to carry your Bible to Church , But to play with my mistress i'me left in the lurch : Yet if you can show me the [ w ] ay good or bad , I'le promise you all that there is to be had . You quickly may learn it , my Johnny , for ----- Thus , Before you proceed we begin with a buss ; And then you must clasp me about with your arm . Nay , fear me not Johnny i'le do thee no harm : Now I sighs , now I tremble , now backwards I lie , And now dear Johnny , ah now I must die : Oh! who can resist such a mettle-some Lad , And refuse such a pleasure when 'tis to be had . Alas , pretty mistress the pleasure is such , We never can give one another too much : If this be the business , the way is so plain , I think I can easily find it again : 'Twas Thus we began ; and ---- Thus we lie down , And thus ---- O thus ! that we fell in a swoon : Such sport to refuse who was ever so mad , I'le take it where ever it is to be had . Now Johnny you talk like and ignorant mome , You can have such pleasure no where but at home , Here's fifty broad pieces for what you have done , But see that you never a gadding do run ; For no new employment then trouble your brains , For here when you work you'l be paid for your pain But shou'd you deceive me no woman's so sad , To loose all the pleasure that once she has had . A mistress so noble I never will leave , 'Twere a since and a shame such a friend to deceive ; For my Master's shop no more will I care , 'Tis pleasanter handling my mistress's ware : A fig for Indentures for now I am made , Free of a Gentler and pleasanter trade : I know when i'me well , I was never so mad . To forsake a good thing when 'tis to be had . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ball , near the Hospital-gate , in West-smith-field . And Amorous Dialogue between John and his Mistress . Being a complete and true Relation of some merry passages between the Mistress and her Apprentice , who pleased her so well , that she rewarded him with fifty broad pieces for his pains . Here by this Dialogue you may discern , While old Cats nibble Cheese the young ones learn . To the Tune of , Packington's pound , or , What should a young woman , etc or , Captain Digby . COme John fit thee down I have some what to say , In my mind I have kept it this many a day , Your Master you know is a Fool and a Sot , And minds nothing else but the Pipe and the Po Till twelve or till one he will never come home , And then he's so drunk that he lies like a Mome : Such usage as this would make any one mad , But a Woman will have it if 'tis to be had . 'Tis true forsooth Mistress , the case is but hard , That a woman should be of her pleasure debar'd : But 'tis the sad fate of a thousand beside , Or else the whole City is foully beli'd : There is not a man among twenty that thrives , Not ten in fifteen that do lie with their Wives , Yet still you had better be merry than sad , And take it where ever it is to be had . But John , 'tis a difficult matter to find , A man that is trusty and constantly kind : All Inns-of-Court Gallant he cringes and bows , He's presently known by his Oaths and his Vows , And though both his clothes and his speeches be gay , Yet he loves you but only a night and away : Such usage as this would make any one mad , Yet a Woman will have it , if 'tis to be had . What think you of one that belongs to the Court , They say they are youthful , and given to spor He'l present you with bracelets , and jewels , & Rings , With stones that are precious , & twenty fine things : Or if you are not for the Court nor the Town , What think you forsooth of a man with a Gown ? You must have a gallant , a good or a bad , And take it where ever it is to be had . The Second Part , to the same Tune . NO John , I confess that not any of these , Had ever the power my fancy to please ; I like no such blades for a trick that I know , For as soon as they've trod , they are given to crow ; Plain dealing is best , and I like a man well , That when he has kill'd will be hang'd e're he'l tell : My meaning is honest and thou art the Lad , Then give it and take it where 'tis to be had . Alas ! my dear mistress , it never can be , That you can affect such a fellow as me : Yet heaven forbid , since I am but your man , I should ever refuse to do all that I can ; But then if my master should know what we've done We both shou'd be blown up as sure as a Gun : For after our joys , he would make us as sad , For taking it where it ought not to be had . But how shou'd he know it thou scrupulous Elf , Do'st think i'me so silly to tell him myself ? If we are but so wise our own counsel to keep , We may laugh and lie down while the sot is asleep : Some hundreds I know in the city that use , To give to their men what their master's refuse : The man is the master , the Pren [ tO ] ice the Dad , For women must take it where 'tis to be had . Some Prentices use it , forsooth , I allow , But I am a Novice and cannot tell how : However , I hope that I shall not be blam'd , For to tell you the truth I am somewhat asham'd ; I know how to carry your Bible to Church , But to play with my mistress i'me left in the lurch : Yet if you can show me the [ w ] ay good or bad , I'le promise you all that there is to be had . You quickly may learn it , my Johnny , for ----- Thus , Before you proceed we begin with a buss ; And then you must clasp me about with your arm . Nay , fear me not Johnny i'le do thee no harm : Now I sighs , now I tremble , now backwards I lie , And now dear Johnny , ah now I must die : Oh! who can resist such a mettle-some Lad , And refuse such a pleasure when 'tis to be had . Alas , pretty mistress the pleasure is such , We never can give one another too much : If this be the business , the way is so plain , I think I can easily find it again : 'Twas Thus we began ; and ---- Thus we lie down , And thus ---- O thus ! that we fell in a swoon : Such sport to refuse who was ever so mad , I'le take it where ever it is to be had . Now Johnny you talk like and ignorant mome , You can have such pleasure no where but at home , Here's fifty broad pieces for what you have done , But see that you never a gadding do run ; For no new employment then trouble your brains , For here when you work you'l be paid for your pain But shou'd you deceive me no woman's so sad , To loose all the pleasure that once she has had . A mistress so noble I never will leave , 'Twere a since and a shame such a friend to deceive ; For my Master's shop no more will I care , 'Tis pleasanter handling my mistress's ware : A fig for Indentures for now I am made , Free of a Gentler and pleasanter trade : I know when i'me well , I was never so mad . To forsake a good thing when 'tis to be had . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ball , near the Hospital-gate , in West-smith-field . 