( 1 ) The Last Observator : OR , THE Devil in MOURNING . A DIALOGUE BETWEEN John Tutchin and his Countryman . Obser. COme , honest Countryman , what News dost bring ? Countr. Faith , Master John , they say you're like to swing . Obs. Thou know'st I once for Hanging did Petition . Countr. Ay [ ? ] e th' effects of Preaching up Sedition ; But the most general Report supposes , You'll on the Pillory tell Peoples Noses . When that day comes , ------ Your trusty Farmer here most humbly begs You'll let him give you a small Treat of Eggs. Obs. Jesting apart ; Hast with thee brought some Nancy , Or Protestant March-Beer to raise my fancy ? Inspir'd by that , my Thoughts will quicker flow , And I'll by far out-hymn the fam'd de F ------ . Coutr . No , not a drop . I'm to be gull'd no more ; Too much you have trespass'd on the ancient Score . I'll be no longer with Whig-Birdlime caught , Ne'er stir , I wou'd not save thee for a Groat . Misled by thee , I left my Herds and Flocks , And must turn Politician with a Pox. Obs. And where's the harm to know the Springs of State ? Countr. It only hasten'd Hone's and Rouses Fate . Obs. Happen the worst , I've Friends will pay my Cost . Countr. You reckon Nobs , I fear , without your Host. Obs. Won't merciful Low-Church espouse my Cause ? Countr. They'll leave you to the Mercy of the Laws . Obs. But then the Whiggs will back me Tooth and Nail . Countr. Yes , those are saving Cards that never fail . Obs. Old-Nick thus uses Witches , as they tell us , And drops the gaping Wretches at the Gallows . ( 2 ) Will none my Person then from malice skreen ? Say , Countryman , What think'st thou of my Queen ? Countr. S'life not a word of Her , thou Scandal-Pedlar , Thy Loyalty's as Rotten as a Medlar . After such Libeling the Royal-Race , How dar'st thou sue to Majesty for Grace ? Obs. What , am I then by all the World forsaken ? Countr. E'en get your Friends the Jews to save your Bacon : Or should you to the Devil's Church repair , None will suspect you'd venture Playhouse Air . Obs. Howe'er I'm thus abandon'd by the rest , Yet while I'm still with thy dear Friendship blessed --------- Countr. Nor Friendship , nor Relief expect from me , Through all thy thin pretences now I see : No more with sour Republicans I'll heard , But pluck those prating Rascals by the Beard . No more with Mercenary Scribes take part , But get me home , and mind my Plough and Car Scow'r o'er my Grounds by break of Day , old Tutchin , And freely pay my Taxes without grudging . No more Notch'd Levi's holy Buckram hear , But with my Betters to the Church I'll steer . Dance with our Lads and Lasses on the Green , Then steal a harmless Buss ------ And so God save the QUEEN . FINIS . On Tuesday next will be publish'd a Dialogue by the same Hand with this , between William Fuller of the Queens-Bench , Gent. and John Tutchin of Sedition-Hall in Scandalshire , Esq ; . ADVERTISEMENT . THE Secret History of the Calves-Head Club , or the Republican Unmasq'd ; wherein is fully shown the Religion of the Calves-Head Heroes , in their Anniversary Thanksgiving Songs on the Thirtieth of January , by them called Anthems ; for five Years last . The Fourth Edition with Editions , Corrected . Dedicated to the Observator . The Stage-Beaux toss'd in a Blank Or , Hypocrisy Alamode ; expos'd in a true Picture of Jerry ------ a pretending Scourge to the English Stage . A Comedy , With a Prologue on Occasional Conformity , being a full Explanation of the Poussin Doctor's Book ; and and Epilogue on the Re - formers , Spoken at the Theatre-Royal in Drury-lane . Certamen Epistolate : Or Eight Letters be - tween and Attorney and a Dead Parson ; Joe Haines's Third Letter , being a Supplement to the Second Part of Letters from the dead to the Living . Never before Printed . With a Collection of Letters , By Mr. Thomas Brown . The Source of our present Pears discover'd ; or plain Proof of some late Designs against our present Constitution and Government Containing Remarks and Scandalous Libels and Pam - phlets publish'd of late , and a Justification of some Passages in a late Book , Entitled , The History of the lost Sessions of Parliament , written by the Author of the History of the last Parliament ; Price 1s . ( 1 ) The Last Observator : OR , THE Devil in MOURNING . A DIALOGUE BETWEEN John Tutchin and his Countryman . Obser. COme , honest Countryman , what News dost bring ? Countr. Faith , Master John , they say you're like to swing . Obs. Thou know'st I once for Hanging did Petition . Countr. Ay [ ? ] e th' effects of Preaching up Sedition ; But the most general Report supposes , You'll on the Pillory tell Peoples Noses . When that day comes , ------ Your trusty Farmer here most humbly begs You'll let him give you a small Treat of Eggs. Obs. Jesting apart ; Hast with thee brought some Nancy , Or Protestant March-Beer to raise my fancy ? Inspir'd by that , my Thoughts will quicker flow , And I'll by far out-hymn the fam'd de F ------ . Coutr . No , not a drop . I'm to be gull'd no more ; Too much you have trespass'd on the ancient Score . I'll be no longer with Whig-Birdlime caught , Ne'er stir , I wou'd not save thee for a Groat . Misled by thee , I left my Herds and Flocks , And must turn Politician with a Pox. Obs. And where's the harm to know the Springs of State ? Countr. It only hasten'd Hone's and Rouses Fate . Obs. Happen the worst , I've Friends will pay my Cost . Countr. You reckon Nobs , I fear , without your Host. Obs. Won't merciful Low-Church espouse my Cause ? Countr. They'll leave you to the Mercy of the Laws . Obs. But then the Whiggs will back me Tooth and Nail . Countr. Yes , those are saving Cards that never fail . Obs. Old-Nick thus uses Witches , as they tell us , And drops the gaping Wretches at the Gallows . ( 2 ) Will none my Person then from malice skreen ? Say , Countryman , What think'st thou of my Queen ? Countr. S'life not a word of Her , thou Scandal-Pedlar , Thy Loyalty's as Rotten as a Medlar . After such Libeling the Royal-Race , How dar'st thou sue to Majesty for Grace ? Obs. What , am I then by all the World forsaken ? Countr. E'en get your Friends the Jews to save your Bacon : Or should you to the Devil's Church repair , None will suspect you'd venture Playhouse Air . Obs. Howe'er I'm thus abandon'd by the rest , Yet while I'm still with thy dear Friendship blessed --------- Countr. Nor Friendship , nor Relief expect from me , Through all thy thin pretences now I see : No more with sour Republicans I'll heard , But pluck those prating Rascals by the Beard . No more with Mercenary Scribes take part , But get me home , and mind my Plough and Car Scow'r o'er my Grounds by break of Day , old Tutchin , And freely pay my Taxes without grudging . No more Notch'd Levi's holy Buckram hear , But with my Betters to the Church I'll steer . Dance with our Lads and Lasses on the Green , Then steal a harmless Buss ------ And so God save the QUEEN . FINIS . On Tuesday next will be publish'd a Dialogue by the same Hand with this , between William Fuller of the Queens-Bench , Gent. and John Tutchin of Sedition-Hall in Scandalshire , Esq ; . ADVERTISEMENT . THE Secret History of the Calves-Head Club , or the Republican Unmasq'd ; wherein is fully shown the Religion of the Calves-Head Heroes , in their Anniversary Thanksgiving Songs on the Thirtieth of January , by them called Anthems ; for five Years last . The Fourth Edition with Editions , Corrected . Dedicated to the Observator . The Stage-Beaux toss'd in a Blank Or , Hypocrisy Alamode ; expos'd in a true Picture of Jerry ------ a pretending Scourge to the English Stage . A Comedy , With a Prologue on Occasional Conformity , being a full Explanation of the Poussin Doctor's Book ; and and Epilogue on the Re - formers , Spoken at the Theatre-Royal in Drury-lane . Certamen Epistolate : Or Eight Letters be - tween and Attorney and a Dead Parson ; Joe Haines's Third Letter , being a Supplement to the Second Part of Letters from the dead to the Living . Never before Printed . With a Collection of Letters , By Mr. Thomas Brown . The Source of our present Pears discover'd ; or plain Proof of some late Designs against our present Constitution and Government Containing Remarks and Scandalous Libels and Pam - phlets publish'd of late , and a Justification of some Passages in a late Book , Entitled , The History of the lost Sessions of Parliament , written by the Author of the History of the last Parliament ; Price 1s . ( 1 ) The Last Observator : OR , THE Devil in MOURNING . A DIALOGUE BETWEEN John Tutchin and his Countryman . Obser. COme , honest Countryman , what News dost bring ? Countr. Faith , Master John , they say you're like to swing . Obs. Thou know'st I once for Hanging did Petition . Countr. Ay [ ? ] e th' effects of Preaching up Sedition ; But the most general Report supposes , You'll on the Pillory tell Peoples Noses . When that day comes , ------ Your trusty Farmer here most humbly begs You'll let him give you a small Treat of Eggs. Obs. Jesting apart ; Hast with thee brought some Nancy , Or Protestant March-Beer to raise my fancy ? Inspir'd by that , my Thoughts will quicker flow , And I'll by far out-hymn the fam'd de F ------ . Coutr . No , not a drop . I'm to be gull'd no more ; Too much you have trespass'd on the ancient Score . I'll be no longer with Whig-Birdlime caught , Ne'er stir , I wou'd not save thee for a Groat . Misled by thee , I left my Herds and Flocks , And must turn Politician with a Pox. Obs. And where's the harm to know the Springs of State ? Countr. It only hasten'd Hone's and Rouses Fate . Obs. Happen the worst , I've Friends will pay my Cost . Countr. You reckon Nobs , I fear , without your Host. Obs. Won't merciful Low-Church espouse my Cause ? Countr. They'll leave you to the Mercy of the Laws . Obs. But then the Whiggs will back me Tooth and Nail . Countr. Yes , those are saving Cards that never fail . Obs. Old-Nick thus uses Witches , as they tell us , And drops the gaping Wretches at the Gallows . ( 2 ) Will none my Person then from malice skreen ? Say , Countryman , What think'st thou of my Queen ? Countr. S'life not a word of Her , thou Scandal-Pedlar , Thy Loyalty's as Rotten as a Medlar . After such Libeling the Royal-Race , How dar'st thou sue to Majesty for Grace ? Obs. What , am I then by all the World forsaken ? Countr. E'en get your Friends the Jews to save your Bacon : Or should you to the Devil's Church repair , None will suspect you'd venture Playhouse Air . Obs. Howe'er I'm thus abandon'd by the rest , Yet while I'm still with thy dear Friendship blessed --------- Countr. Nor Friendship , nor Relief expect from me , Through all thy thin pretences now I see : No more with sour Republicans I'll heard , But pluck those prating Rascals by the Beard . No more with Mercenary Scribes take part , But get me home , and mind my Plough and Car Scow'r o'er my Grounds by break of Day , old Tutchin , And freely pay my Taxes without grudging . No more Notch'd Levi's holy Buckram hear , But with my Betters to the Church I'll steer . Dance with our Lads and Lasses on the Green , Then steal a harmless Buss ------ And so God save the QUEEN . FINIS . On Tuesday next will be publish'd a Dialogue by the same Hand with this , between William Fuller of the Queens-Bench , Gent. and John Tutchin of Sedition-Hall in Scandalshire , Esq ; . ADVERTISEMENT . THE Secret History of the Calves-Head Club , or the Republican Unmasq'd ; wherein is fully shown the Religion of the Calves-Head Heroes , in their Anniversary Thanksgiving Songs on the Thirtieth of January , by them called Anthems ; for five Years last . The Fourth Edition with Editions , Corrected . Dedicated to the Observator . The Stage-Beaux toss'd in a Blank Or , Hypocrisy Alamode ; expos'd in a true Picture of Jerry ------ a pretending Scourge to the English Stage . A Comedy , With a Prologue on Occasional Conformity , being a full Explanation of the Poussin Doctor's Book ; and and Epilogue on the Re - formers , Spoken at the Theatre-Royal in Drury-lane . Certamen Epistolate : Or Eight Letters be - tween and Attorney and a Dead Parson ; Joe Haines's Third Letter , being a Supplement to the Second Part of Letters from the dead to the Living . Never before Printed . With a Collection of Letters , By Mr. Thomas Brown . The Source of our present Pears discover'd ; or plain Proof of some late Designs against our present Constitution and Government Containing Remarks and Scandalous Libels and Pam - phlets publish'd of late , and a Justification of some Passages in a late Book , Entitled , The History of the lost Sessions of Parliament , written by the Author of the History of the last Parliament ; Price 1s . ( 1 ) The Last Observator : OR , THE Devil in MOURNING . A DIALOGUE BETWEEN John Tutchin and his Countryman . Obser. COme , honest Countryman , what News dost bring ? Countr. Faith , Master John , they say you're like to swing . Obs. Thou know'st I once for Hanging did Petition . Countr. Ay [ ? ] e th' effects of Preaching up Sedition ; But the most general Report supposes , You'll on the Pillory tell Peoples Noses . When that day comes , ------ Your trusty Farmer here most humbly begs You'll let him give you a small Treat of Eggs. Obs. Jesting apart ; Hast with thee brought some Nancy , Or Protestant March-Beer to raise my fancy ? Inspir'd by that , my Thoughts will quicker flow , And I'll by far out-hymn the fam'd de F ------ . Coutr . No , not a drop . I'm to be gull'd no more ; Too much you have trespass'd on the ancient Score . I'll be no longer with Whig-Birdlime caught , Ne'er stir , I wou'd not save thee for a Groat . Misled by thee , I left my Herds and Flocks , And must turn Politician with a Pox. Obs. And where's the harm to know the Springs of State ? Countr. It only hasten'd Hone's and Rouses Fate . Obs. Happen the worst , I've Friends will pay my Cost . Countr. You reckon Nobs , I fear , without your Host. Obs. Won't merciful Low-Church espouse my Cause ? Countr. They'll leave you to the Mercy of the Laws . Obs. But then the Whiggs will back me Tooth and Nail . Countr. Yes , those are saving Cards that never fail . Obs. Old-Nick thus uses Witches , as they tell us , And drops the gaping Wretches at the Gallows . ( 2 ) Will none my Person then from malice skreen ? Say , Countryman , What think'st thou of my Queen ? Countr. S'life not a word of Her , thou Scandal-Pedlar , Thy Loyalty's as Rotten as a Medlar . After such Libeling the Royal-Race , How dar'st thou sue to Majesty for Grace ? Obs. What , am I then by all the World forsaken ? Countr. E'en get your Friends the Jews to save your Bacon : Or should you to the Devil's Church repair , None will suspect you'd venture Playhouse Air . Obs. Howe'er I'm thus abandon'd by the rest , Yet while I'm still with thy dear Friendship blessed --------- Countr. Nor Friendship , nor Relief expect from me , Through all thy thin pretences now I see : No more with sour Republicans I'll heard , But pluck those prating Rascals by the Beard . No more with Mercenary Scribes take part , But get me home , and mind my Plough and Car Scow'r o'er my Grounds by break of Day , old Tutchin , And freely pay my Taxes without grudging . No more Notch'd Levi's holy Buckram hear , But with my Betters to the Church I'll steer . Dance with our Lads and Lasses on the Green , Then steal a harmless Buss ------ And so God save the QUEEN . FINIS . On Tuesday next will be publish'd a Dialogue by the same Hand with this , between William Fuller of the Queens-Bench , Gent. and John Tutchin of Sedition-Hall in Scandalshire , Esq ; . ADVERTISEMENT . THE Secret History of the Calves-Head Club , or the Republican Unmasq'd ; wherein is fully shown the Religion of the Calves-Head Heroes , in their Anniversary Thanksgiving Songs on the Thirtieth of January , by them called Anthems ; for five Years last . The Fourth Edition with Editions , Corrected . Dedicated to the Observator . The Stage-Beaux toss'd in a Blank Or , Hypocrisy Alamode ; expos'd in a true Picture of Jerry ------ a pretending Scourge to the English Stage . A Comedy , With a Prologue on Occasional Conformity , being a full Explanation of the Poussin Doctor's Book ; and and Epilogue on the Re - formers , Spoken at the Theatre-Royal in Drury-lane . Certamen Epistolate : Or Eight Letters be - tween and Attorney and a Dead Parson ; Joe Haines's Third Letter , being a Supplement to the Second Part of Letters from the dead to the Living . Never before Printed . With a Collection of Letters , By Mr. Thomas Brown . The Source of our present Pears discover'd ; or plain Proof of some late Designs against our present Constitution and Government Containing Remarks and Scandalous Libels and Pam - phlets publish'd of late , and a Justification of some Passages in a late Book , Entitled , The History of the lost Sessions of Parliament , written by the Author of the History of the last Parliament ; Price 1s . 