And excellent Ballad of a Prince of England's Courtship to the King of France's Daughter , and how the Prince was disastrously slave ; and how the afore - said Princess was afterwards married to a Forester . To the Tune of , Crimson Velvet , etc IN the Days of Old when fair France did flourish , Stories plainly told , Lovers it annoy ; The King a Daughter had , beauteous , fair , and lovely , Which made her father glad , she was his only Joy : A Prince of England came , Whose Deeds did merit fame , he woo'd her long , and lo at last , And what he did require , She granted his desire , their hearts in one were linked fast . Which when her father proved , Lord how he was moved , and tormented in his mind , He sought for to prevent them , And to discontent them , Fortune crossed Lovers kind . When these Princes twain , were thus bar'd of pleasure . Through the Kings Disdain , which their joys withstood , The Lady locked up close , her jewels and her treasure , Having no remorse of State and Royal blood : In homely poor array , She went from Court away , to meet her love and hearts deligh Who in a Forest great , Had taken up his seat , to wait her coming in the nigh But lo what sudden Danger , To this Princely Stranger chanced as he sat alone ; By Outlaws he was robbed , And with Poniard stabbed , uttering many a dying Groan . The Princess armed by him , and by true Desire , Wandering all that night , without dread at all ; Still unknown she passed , in her strange attire , Coming at the last , within Eccho's call ; You fair wood quoth she , Honoured may you be , harbouring my hearts delight , Which does encompass here , My Joy and only Dear , my trusty friend & comely Knight ; Sweet I come unto thee , Sweet I come to woo thee , that thou mayest not angry be , For my long delaying , And thy courteous staying , amends for all I'll make to thee . Passing thus alone , through the silent Forest , Many a grievous groan sounded in her ear , Where she herd a man to lament the sorest Chance that ever came , forc'd by Deadly strife : Farewell ( my Dear ) quoth he , Whom I shall never see , for why my life is at and end ; For thy sweet sake I die , Thro' Villains cruelty , to show I am a faithful friend ; Here lie a bleeding , While my thoughts are feeding on the rarest beauty found : Oh hard hap that may be , Little knows my Lady my heart blood lies on the ground . With that he gave a Groan that did break asunder , All the tender strings of his gentle hear She who knew his voice , at his tale did wonder , All her former joys did to grief convert , Straight she ran to see who this Man should be , That so like her love did speak , and found when as she came , Her lovely Lord lay slave , smear'd in blood which life did break ; Which when that she espied , Lord how soar she cried , her sorrows could not counted be , Her eyes like fountains running , While she cry'd out , My Darling , would God that I had dy'd for thee . His pale lips ; alas , twenty times she kissed , And his face did wash with her brinish tears ; Every bleeding wound her fair face bedewed , Wiping off the blood with her golden hair : Speak my Lord ( quoth she ) Speak fair Prince to me one sweet word of comfort give ; Lift up thy fair eyes , Listen to my cries , think in what great grief I live ; All in vain she sued , All in vain she wooed , the Prince's life was fled & gone : There stood she still mourning , Till the Suns approaching , & bright day was coming on . In this great Distress , quoth this Royal Lady , Who can now express what will become of me ? To my Father's Court never will I wander , But some service seek , where I may placed be . While she thus made her moan , Weeping all alone , in this deep & deadly fear , A Forester all in green , Most comely to be seen , ranging the wood did find her there , Round beset with sorrow , Maid ( quoth he ) good morrow , what hard hap hath brought you here Harder hap did never Chance to a Maiden ever , here lies slave my Brother dear . Where might I be plac'd , gentle Forrester tell me ; Where might I procure a service in my need ? Pains will I not spare , but would do my duty , Ease me of my care , help my extreme need . The Forester all amazed ; On her beauty gazed till his heart was set on fire : If fair maid ( quoth he ) You will go with me , you shall have your hearts desire . He brought her to his mother , And above all other he set forth this maidens praise ; Long was his heart inflamed , At length her love he gained , so fortune did his glory raise . Thus unknown he matched with the Kings fair Daughter , Children seven he had , e'er she to him was known : But when he understood she was a Royal Princess , By this means at last he shows forth her fame : He clothed his children then , Not like to other men , in partly colours strange to see , The right side cloth of gold , The left side to behold of woollen cloth still framed he : Men thereat did wonder ; Golden Fame did thunder this strange Deed in every place : The King of France came thither , Being pleasant weather in these woods the heart to chase . The Children there did stand as their mother willed , Where the Royal King must of force come by . Their mother richly clad in fair Crimson Velvet , Their faither all in grey , most comely to the eye , When this famous king , Noting everything , did ask how he durst be so bold , To let his wife to wear , And deck his Children there , in costly Robes of pearl & gold . The Forester bold replied , And the cause Descried ; & to the king he thus did say : Well may they by their mother , Wear rich clothes with other , being by birth a Princess gay . The king upon these words more heedfully beheld them , Till a crimson blush his conceit did cross : The more I look ( quoth he ) upon thy wife and children , The more I call to mind my daughter whom I lost . I am that child ( quoth she ) Falling on her knee , pardon me my Sovereign Liege , The king perceiving this , His Daughter dear did kiss , till joyful tears did stop his speech With his train he turned , And with her sojourned , straight he dub'd her husband knight , He made him Earl of Flanders , One of his chief Commanders ; thus was their sorrow put to flight . Licensed and Entered according to Order . Printed by and for A.M. and sold by the Booksellers of London . And excellent Ballad of a Prince of England's Courtship to the King of France's Daughter , and how the Prince was disastrously slave ; and how the afore - said Princess was afterwards married to a Forester . To the Tune of , Crimson Velvet , etc IN the Days of Old when fair France did flourish , Stories plainly told , Lovers it annoy ; The King a Daughter had , beauteous , fair , and lovely , Which made her father glad , she was his only Joy : A Prince of England came , Whose Deeds did merit fame , he woo'd her long , and lo at last , And what he did require , She granted his desire , their hearts in one were linked fast . Which when her father proved , Lord how he was moved , and tormented in his mind , He sought for to prevent them , And to discontent them , Fortune crossed Lovers kind . When these Princes twain , were thus bar'd of pleasure . Through the Kings Disdain , which their joys withstood , The Lady locked up close , her jewels and her treasure , Having no remorse of State and Royal blood : In homely poor array , She went from Court away , to meet her love and hearts deligh Who in a Forest great , Had taken up his seat , to wait her coming in the nigh But lo what sudden Danger , To this Princely Stranger chanced as he sat alone ; By Outlaws he was robbed , And with Poniard stabbed , uttering many a dying Groan . The Princess armed by him , and by true Desire , Wandering all that night , without dread at all ; Still unknown she passed , in her strange attire , Coming at the last , within Eccho's call ; You fair wood quoth she , Honoured may you be , harbouring my hearts delight , Which does encompass here , My Joy and only Dear , my trusty friend & comely Knight ; Sweet I come unto thee , Sweet I come to woo thee , that thou mayest not angry be , For my long delaying , And thy courteous staying , amends for all I'll make to thee . Passing thus alone , through the silent Forest , Many a grievous groan sounded in her ear , Where she herd a man to lament the sorest Chance that ever came , forc'd by Deadly strife : Farewell ( my Dear ) quoth he , Whom I shall never see , for why my life is at and end ; For thy sweet sake I die , Thro' Villains cruelty , to show I am a faithful friend ; Here lie a bleeding , While my thoughts are feeding on the rarest beauty found : Oh hard hap that may be , Little knows my Lady my heart blood lies on the ground . With that he gave a Groan that did break asunder , All the tender strings of his gentle hear She who knew his voice , at his tale did wonder , All her former joys did to grief convert , Straight she ran to see who this Man should be , That so like her love did speak , and found when as she came , Her lovely Lord lay slave , smear'd in blood which life did break ; Which when that she espied , Lord how soar she cried , her sorrows could not counted be , Her eyes like fountains running , While she cry'd out , My Darling , would God that I had dy'd for thee . His pale lips ; alas , twenty times she kissed , And his face did wash with her brinish tears ; Every bleeding wound her fair face bedewed , Wiping off the blood with her golden hair : Speak my Lord ( quoth she ) Speak fair Prince to me one sweet word of comfort give ; Lift up thy fair eyes , Listen to my cries , think in what great grief I live ; All in vain she sued , All in vain she wooed , the Prince's life was fled & gone : There stood she still mourning , Till the Suns approaching , & bright day was coming on . In this great Distress , quoth this Royal Lady , Who can now express what will become of me ? To my Father's Court never will I wander , But some service seek , where I may placed be . While she thus made her moan , Weeping all alone , in this deep & deadly fear , A Forester all in green , Most comely to be seen , ranging the wood did find her there , Round beset with sorrow , Maid ( quoth he ) good morrow , what hard hap hath brought you here Harder hap did never Chance to a Maiden ever , here lies slave my Brother dear . Where might I be plac'd , gentle Forrester tell me ; Where might I procure a service in my need ? Pains will I not spare , but would do my duty , Ease me of my care , help my extreme need . The Forester all amazed ; On her beauty gazed till his heart was set on fire : If fair maid ( quoth he ) You will go with me , you shall have your hearts desire . He brought her to his mother , And above all other he set forth this maidens praise ; Long was his heart inflamed , At length her love he gained , so fortune did his glory raise . Thus unknown he matched with the Kings fair Daughter , Children seven he had , e'er she to him was known : But when he understood she was a Royal Princess , By this means at last he shows forth her fame : He clothed his children then , Not like to other men , in partly colours strange to see , The right side cloth of gold , The left side to behold of woollen cloth still framed he : Men thereat did wonder ; Golden Fame did thunder this strange Deed in every place : The King of France came thither , Being pleasant weather in these woods the heart to chase . The Children there did stand as their mother willed , Where the Royal King must of force come by . Their mother richly clad in fair Crimson Velvet , Their faither all in grey , most comely to the eye , When this famous king , Noting everything , did ask how he durst be so bold , To let his wife to wear , And deck his Children there , in costly Robes of pearl & gold . The Forester bold replied , And the cause Descried ; & to the king he thus did say : Well may they by their mother , Wear rich clothes with other , being by birth a Princess gay . The king upon these words more heedfully beheld them , Till a crimson blush his conceit did cross : The more I look ( quoth he ) upon thy wife and children , The more I call to mind my daughter whom I lost . I am that child ( quoth she ) Falling on her knee , pardon me my Sovereign Liege , The king perceiving this , His Daughter dear did kiss , till joyful tears did stop his speech With his train he turned , And with her sojourned , straight he dub'd her husband knight , He made him Earl of Flanders , One of his chief Commanders ; thus was their sorrow put to flight . Licensed and Entered according to Order . Printed by and for A.M. and sold by the Booksellers of London . 