The Noble Fisher-Man . Or Robin Hood's preferment showing how he wone a prize on the Sea and how he gave one half to his dame , and the other to the building of Almshouses . To the Tune of In Summeth time , etc IN summertime when leaves grow green when they grow both green and long , Of a bold Outlaw call'd Robin Hood , it is of him I sing my Song . When the Lily Leaf and the Elephant , does bud and spring with a merry cheer , This Outlaw was weary of the woodside and chasing of the Fallow Deer . The Fishermen brave , more money have , then any Merchant two or three , Therefore I will to Scarbrough go , that I a Fisherman might be . This Outlaw called his merry men all , as they sat under the Greenwood tree , If you have any Gold to spend , I pray you heartily spend it with me , Now quoth Robin i'le to Scarbrough go , it seems to be a very fair day , Who took up his Inn at a Widows house , hard by upon the waters grey . Who asked him , where wertenberg thou born , or tell to me where thou dost fare , I am a poor Fisherman , said he then , this day entrapped all in care . What is thy name thou fine fellow , I pray the heartily tell it to me , In mine own Country where I was born , men call me Simon over the Lee. Simon , Simon , said the good wife , I wish thou mayest well brook thy name , The Outlaw was aware of her courtesy , and rejoiced he had god so good a dame . Simon , wilt thou be my man ? and good round wages I will give thee , I have as good a Ship of mine own , as any Sails upon the Sea. Anchors and Planks thou shalt not want , Masts and Ropes that are so long , And if thou thus furnish me , said Simon nothing shall go wrong . They plucked up Anchor and away did sail , more of a day then two or three , When others cast in their ba [ i ] ted hooks , the bore Lines into the Sea cast he . It will be long said the Master then , e're this great Lubber do thrive on the sea , I'le assure he shall have no part of our fish for in truth he is no part worthy . O Woe is me , said Simon then , this day that ever I came here , I wish I were in Plompton Park , in chasing of the Fallow-Deer . For every Clown laughs me to scorn , and they by me set nothing all , If I had them in Plumpton Park , I would set as little by them all . They plucked up Anchur and away did sail , more of a day then two or three , But Simon espied a Ship of War , that sailed towards them valorously . O woe is me , said the Master then , this day that ever I was born : For all our Fish that we have god , is every bit lost and forlorn . For yond French Robber on the Sea , they will not spare of us one man , But carry us to the coast of France , and lay us in the Prison strong . But Simon said , do not fear them , neither Master take you any care , Give me my bent bow in my hand , and never a French-man will I spare . Hold thy peace thou long Lubber , for thou art nought but brags and boast , If I should cast thee overboard , there's but a simple Lubber lost . Simon grew angry at these words , and so angry then was he , That he took his bent bow in his hand , and to the Ship-hatch go does he . Master tie me to the Mast , that at my mark I may stand fair , And give me my bent bow in my hand , and never a French-man will I spare . He drew his Arrow to the very head , and drew it with all might and main , And in the twinkling of and eye , does the French-mans heart the arrow gain . the frenchman fell down on the ship catch , and under the hutches here below . Another French-man that him espy'd , the dead corpse into the Sea does throw . O Master lose me from the Mast , he said , and for them all take you no care , And give me my bent bow in my hand , and never a French-man will I spare . Then they boarded the French Ship , they lying all dead in their sighed , They found within the Ship of War , twelve thousand pound in Money bright . The one half of the Ship , said Simon then , i'le give to my Dame and children small , The other part of the ship , i'le give , to you that are my fellows all . But now bespoke the Master then , for so Simon it shall not be , For you have wone it with your own hands , and the owner thereof must be . It shall be so as I have said , and with this Gold for the oppressed , And Habitation I will built , where they shall live in peace and rest . Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Noble Fisher-Man . Or Robin Hood's preferment showing how he wone a prize on the Sea and how he gave one half to his dame , and the other to the building of Almshouses . To the Tune of In Summeth time , etc IN summertime when leaves grow green when they grow both green and long , Of a bold Outlaw call'd Robin Hood , it is of him I sing my Song . When the Lily Leaf and the Elephant , does bud and spring with a merry cheer , This Outlaw was weary of the woodside and chasing of the Fallow Deer . The Fishermen brave , more money have , then any Merchant two or three , Therefore I will to Scarbrough go , that I a Fisherman might be . This Outlaw called his merry men all , as they sat under the Greenwood tree , If you have any Gold to spend , I pray you heartily spend it with me , Now quoth Robin i'le to Scarbrough go , it seems to be a very fair day , Who took up his Inn at a Widows house , hard by upon the waters grey . Who asked him , where wertenberg thou born , or tell to me where thou dost fare , I am a poor Fisherman , said he then , this day entrapped all in care . What is thy name thou fine fellow , I pray the heartily tell it to me , In mine own Country where I was born , men call me Simon over the Lee. Simon , Simon , said the good wife , I wish thou mayest well brook thy name , The Outlaw was aware of her courtesy , and rejoiced he had god so good a dame . Simon , wilt thou be my man ? and good round wages I will give thee , I have as good a Ship of mine own , as any Sails upon the Sea. Anchors and Planks thou shalt not want , Masts and Ropes that are so long , And if thou thus furnish me , said Simon nothing shall go wrong . They plucked up Anchor and away did sail , more of a day then two or three , When others cast in their ba [ i ] ted hooks , the bore Lines into the Sea cast he . It will be long said the Master then , e're this great Lubber do thrive on the sea , I'le assure he shall have no part of our fish for in truth he is no part worthy . O Woe is me , said Simon then , this day that ever I came here , I wish I were in Plompton Park , in chasing of the Fallow-Deer . For every Clown laughs me to scorn , and they by me set nothing all , If I had them in Plumpton Park , I would set as little by them all . They plucked up Anchur and away did sail , more of a day then two or three , But Simon espied a Ship of War , that sailed towards them valorously . O woe is me , said the Master then , this day that ever I was born : For all our Fish that we have god , is every bit lost and forlorn . For yond French Robber on the Sea , they will not spare of us one man , But carry us to the coast of France , and lay us in the Prison strong . But Simon said , do not fear them , neither Master take you any care , Give me my bent bow in my hand , and never a French-man will I spare . Hold thy peace thou long Lubber , for thou art nought but brags and boast , If I should cast thee overboard , there's but a simple Lubber lost . Simon grew angry at these words , and so angry then was he , That he took his bent bow in his hand , and to the Ship-hatch go does he . Master tie me to the Mast , that at my mark I may stand fair , And give me my bent bow in my hand , and never a French-man will I spare . He drew his Arrow to the very head , and drew it with all might and main , And in the twinkling of and eye , does the French-mans heart the arrow gain . the frenchman fell down on the ship catch , and under the hutches here below . Another French-man that him espy'd , the dead corpse into the Sea does throw . O Master lose me from the Mast , he said , and for them all take you no care , And give me my bent bow in my hand , and never a French-man will I spare . Then they boarded the French Ship , they lying all dead in their sighed , They found within the Ship of War , twelve thousand pound in Money bright . The one half of the Ship , said Simon then , i'le give to my Dame and children small , The other part of the ship , i'le give , to you that are my fellows all . But now bespoke the Master then , for so Simon it shall not be , For you have wone it with your own hands , and the owner thereof must be . It shall be so as I have said , and with this Gold for the oppressed , And Habitation I will built , where they shall live in peace and rest . Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 