True Love Exalted : Or , A Dialogue between a Courteous young Knight of the City of London , and a Searge Weavers Daughter of Devonshire . Showing how the young Knight was Traveling in Devonshire , and fell in Love with a fair Maid there : How he Courted her to be his Miss , but she not yielding to his Lascivious desires , he was so much in Love with her Virtue , that he Married her , and made her a Lady , and carried her to the Kings Court at London , where they now live in joy and happiness . The Tune is , Tender Hearts , etc The Author speaks . IN the West in Devonshire . Liv'd a Maid of Beauty rare , pretty Peggy as her name ; So much Beauty , so much Duty Peggy there had all the Fame , Wheresoe're that you are walking , Or of [ w ] hatsoever talking , pretty Peggy must come in ; So much Beauty , so much Duty , not to worship were a Sin. Fate that many a one does flatter , Told of this the truth o'th matter , to a young and lovely Knight ; One lov'd Pleasure , more then Treasure beauty was his chief delight . Straight he was with Love involved , and to try it was resolved , if that Peggy would be kind , But did never , meet with ever , such a Face , or such a mind . The Knigh When he first beheld the Creature , All her Charms were lent by Nature , neither Spots nor Tower she wore : But was singing , and a Spinning , at her poor old Father's door . Peggy . When she saw him she retired , But his senses were so fired , at the little interview ; Stay , he said , thou lovely Maid , for now I swear report is true . STraight ways , then he ent unto her , And with all his art did woe her , kissed her hands and blessed her eyes : Proffer'd her Treasure for his Pleasure , but alas ! she still denies . Golden promises he made her , And with vows would fain persuade her , but her virtue was too strong : All his art , ne'r wrought her heart , though poor Peggy was but young . Quoth he , dear Peggy , be not cruel , To yourself and me my jewel , Leave your homely Rurial Sport , Be but mine thou shalt shine , among the Glorious stars at Court . All the Pride of London City , That can make proud Lady's pretty , what the Changes affords that's rare , All shall be , my dear for thee , and none with Peggy may compare . Peggys Answer . Sir , quoth she , do not endeavour , The poor Daughter of a Weaver , has a heart of virtuous mould ; That no pride ; can draw aside , to be corrupted by your Gold . The Knight . Then quoth he , dear Peggy may be You'l deny to be a Lady , tell me how that suits your mind , Sir , quoth she , my poor degree , is still to humble thoughts confin'd . For that , quoth he , I ne'r will fault thee , But for humbleness exalt thee , thou this day my Bride shall be , Then he tarried till they married , and Lady Margaret was she , The Author . You may think her friends consented , And that she was well contented : and I'm sure so was the Knight ; All the day they kiss and play , and God knows what they did at night . Now you see how she regarded , For her virtue how rewarded . made a Lady for her parts ; Rais'd to power , without Dower , only by her own deserts . You that would be great as she is , And would have a Knight as he is , let her Virtues be your guide , To London fair , they did repair , the Knight and his beloved Bride . Now she hath no other care , But to please her only Dear , serve her Father and her Knight , All his Treasure's at her pleasure , he her joy , she his Delight . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pie-corner . True Love Exalted : Or , A Dialogue between a Courteous young Knight of the City of London , and a Searge Weavers Daughter of Devonshire . Showing how the young Knight was Traveling in Devonshire , and fell in Love with a fair Maid there : How he Courted her to be his Miss , but she not yielding to his Lascivious desires , he was so much in Love with her Virtue , that he Married her , and made her a Lady , and carried her to the Kings Court at London , where they now live in joy and happiness . The Tune is , Tender Hearts , etc The Author speaks . IN the West in Devonshire . Liv'd a Maid of Beauty rare , pretty Peggy as her name ; So much Beauty , so much Duty Peggy there had all the Fame , Wheresoe're that you are walking , Or of [ w ] hatsoever talking , pretty Peggy must come in ; So much Beauty , so much Duty , not to worship were a Sin. Fate that many a one does flatter , Told of this the truth o'th matter , to a young and lovely Knight ; One lov'd Pleasure , more then Treasure beauty was his chief delight . Straight he was with Love involved , and to try it was resolved , if that Peggy would be kind , But did never , meet with ever , such a Face , or such a mind . The Knigh When he first beheld the Creature , All her Charms were lent by Nature , neither Spots nor Tower she wore : But was singing , and a Spinning , at her poor old Father's door . Peggy . When she saw him she retired , But his senses were so fired , at the little interview ; Stay , he said , thou lovely Maid , for now I swear report is true . STraight ways , then he ent unto her , And with all his art did woe her , kissed her hands and blessed her eyes : Proffer'd her Treasure for his Pleasure , but alas ! she still denies . Golden promises he made her , And with vows would fain persuade her , but her virtue was too strong : All his art , ne'r wrought her heart , though poor Peggy was but young . Quoth he , dear Peggy , be not cruel , To yourself and me my jewel , Leave your homely Rurial Sport , Be but mine thou shalt shine , among the Glorious stars at Court . All the Pride of London City , That can make proud Lady's pretty , what the Changes affords that's rare , All shall be , my dear for thee , and none with Peggy may compare . Peggys Answer . Sir , quoth she , do not endeavour , The poor Daughter of a Weaver , has a heart of virtuous mould ; That no pride ; can draw aside , to be corrupted by your Gold . The Knight . Then quoth he , dear Peggy may be You'l deny to be a Lady , tell me how that suits your mind , Sir , quoth she , my poor degree , is still to humble thoughts confin'd . For that , quoth he , I ne'r will fault thee , But for humbleness exalt thee , thou this day my Bride shall be , Then he tarried till they married , and Lady Margaret was she , The Author . You may think her friends consented , And that she was well contented : and I'm sure so was the Knight ; All the day they kiss and play , and God knows what they did at night . Now you see how she regarded , For her virtue how rewarded . made a Lady for her parts ; Rais'd to power , without Dower , only by her own deserts . You that would be great as she is , And would have a Knight as he is , let her Virtues be your guide , To London fair , they did repair , the Knight and his beloved Bride . Now she hath no other care , But to please her only Dear , serve her Father and her Knight , All his Treasure's at her pleasure , he her joy , she his Delight . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pie-corner . 