The Famous Battle between Robin Hood , and the Curtal Fryar . To a New Northern Tune . IN Summer time when leaves grow green and flowers are fresh and gay , Robin Hood and his merry men , were disposed to play : Then some would leap and some would Run , and some would use Artillery , Which of you can a good Bow draw , a good Archer to be ? Which of you can kill a Buck ? or who can kill a Doe ? Or who can kill a Heart of Greece , five hundred foot him from ? Will Scadlock he kill'd a Buck , and Midge he kill'd a Do ; And little John kill'd a Heart of Greece , five hundred foot him from : Gods blessing on thy heart , said Robin Hood that shot such a shoot to me , I would ride my Horse and hundred miles , to find one could match thee . That causes Will Scadlock to laugh , he laughed full heartily , There lives a curtal Fryar in Fountain-Abby will beatrice both him and thee . Robin Hood put on his Harness good , and on his head a Cap of Steel , Broad Sword and Buckler by his side , and they became him weel . He took his Bow into his hand , it was of a trusty tree , With a Sheaf of Arrows at his Belt , to the Fountains Dale went he . And coming unto Fountains Dale , no farther would he ride . There was he aware of a Curtal Fryar , walking by the water side . The Friar had a Harness good , and on his head a Cap of Steel , Broad Sword and Buckler by his side , and they became him weel . Robin Hood lighted off his Horse , and tied him to a thorn , Carry me over the water thou Curtal Fryar , or else thy life's forlorn . The Friar took Robin Hood on his back , deep water he did bestride , And spoke neither good word nor bad , till he came at the other side . Lightly stepped Robin Hood off the Friars back , the Friar said to him again , Carry me over the water thou fine fellow , or it shall breed thy pain . Robin Hood took the Friar on his back , deep water he did bestride , And speak neither good word nor bad , till he came at the other side . Lightly leapt the Friar off Robin Hoods back Robin Hood said to him again , Carry me over the water thou Curtal Fryar , or it shall breed thy pain . The Friar took Robin Hood on's back again and stepped up to the knee , Till he came at the middle stream , neither good nor bad spoke he . And coming to the middle stream , there he threw Robin in , And choose thee , choose thee , fine fellow , with thou wilt sink or swim . The second part , to the same Tune . Robin Hood swam to a bush of Broom , the Friar to a wigger wand , Bold Robin Hood is gone to the shore , and took his Bow in hand . One of his best Arrows under his Belt , to the Friar he let fly , The Curtal Fryar with his Steel Buckler , he put that Arrow by . Shoot on , shoot on , thou fine fellow , shoot as thou hast begun , If thou shoot here a Summer's day , thy mark I will not shun . Robin Hood shot so passing well , till his Arrows were all gone , They took their Swords and steel Bucklers , they fought with might and main , From ten o'th Clock that day , till four i'th Afternoon , Then Robin Hood came to his knees , of the Friar to beg a boon . A boon , a boon , thou Curtal Fryar , I beg it on my knee , Give me leave to set my Horn to my mouth , and to blow blasts three . That will I do , said the Curtal Fryar , of thy blasts I have no doubt , I hope thou'lt blow so passing well , till both thy eyes fallen out . Robin Hood set his Horn to his mouth , he blew out blasts three , Half a hundred Yeomen with Bows bent , came ranging over the Lee. Whose men are these , said the Friar , that come so hastily ? These men are mine , said Robin Hood , Fryar , what is that to thee . A boon , a boon , said the Curtal Fryar , the like I gave to thee , Give me leave to set my Fist to my mouth , and to whute whutes three . That will I do , said Robin Hood , or else I were to blame , Three whutes in a Friars Fist , would make me glad and fain . The Friar he set his Fist to his mouth , and whuted whutes three , Half a hundred good bay Dogs , came running the Friar unto . Here is for every man a Dog , and I myself for thee . Nay by my faith , quoth Robin Hood , Fryar that may not be . Two Dogs at once to Robin Hood did go , the one behind the other before , Robin Hoods Mantle of Lincoln green , off from his back they tore . And whither his men shot East or West , or they shot North or South , The Cutrtles Dogs so taught they were , they caught the Arrows in their mouth . Take up thy Dogs , said little John , Fryar at my bidding be , Whose man art thou , said the Curtal Fryar , comes here to prate with me ? I am little John , Robin Hoods man , Fryar I will not lie , If thou take not up thy Dogs soon , i'le take up them and thee . Little John had a Bow in his hand , he shot with might and main , Soon half a score of the Friars Dogs , lay dead upon the plain . Hold thy hand , hold thy hand , said the Curtal Fryar , thy Master and I will agree , And we will have new order taken , with all the haste that may be . If thou wilt forsake fair Fountain Dale , and Fountain-Abby free . Every Sundy through the year , a Noble shall be thy fee . And every Holiday through the year changed shall thy Garments be , If thou wilt go to fair Nottingham , and there remain with me . This Curtal Fryar had kept Fountain Dale , seven long years and more , There was neither Knight , Lord nor Earl , could make him yield before . Printed for W. Thackeray , J. Millet , and A. Milbourn . The Famous Battle between Robin Hood , and the Curtal Fryar . To a New Northern Tune . IN Summer time when leaves grow green and flowers are fresh and gay , Robin Hood and his merry men , were disposed to play : Then some would leap and some would Run , and some would use Artillery , Which of you can a good Bow draw , a good Archer to be ? Which of you can kill a Buck ? or who can kill a Doe ? Or who can kill a Heart of Greece , five hundred foot him from ? Will Scadlock he kill'd a Buck , and Midge he kill'd a Do ; And little John kill'd a Heart of Greece , five hundred foot him from : Gods blessing on thy heart , said Robin Hood that shot such a shoot to me , I would ride my Horse and hundred miles , to find one could match thee . That causes Will Scadlock to laugh , he laughed full heartily , There lives a curtal Fryar in Fountain-Abby will beatrice both him and thee . Robin Hood put on his Harness good , and on his head a Cap of Steel , Broad Sword and Buckler by his side , and they became him weel . He took his Bow into his hand , it was of a trusty tree , With a Sheaf of Arrows at his Belt , to the Fountains Dale went he . And coming unto Fountains Dale , no farther would he ride . There was he aware of a Curtal Fryar , walking by the water side . The Friar had a Harness good , and on his head a Cap of Steel , Broad Sword and Buckler by his side , and they became him weel . Robin Hood lighted off his Horse , and tied him to a thorn , Carry me over the water thou Curtal Fryar , or else thy life's forlorn . The Friar took Robin Hood on his back , deep water he did bestride , And spoke neither good word nor bad , till he came at the other side . Lightly stepped Robin Hood off the Friars back , the Friar said to him again , Carry me over the water thou fine fellow , or it shall breed thy pain . Robin Hood took the Friar on his back , deep water he did bestride , And speak neither good word nor bad , till he came at the other side . Lightly leapt the Friar off Robin Hoods back Robin Hood said to him again , Carry me over the water thou Curtal Fryar , or it shall breed thy pain . The Friar took Robin Hood on's back again and stepped up to the knee , Till he came at the middle stream , neither good nor bad spoke he . And coming to the middle stream , there he threw Robin in , And choose thee , choose thee , fine fellow , with thou wilt sink or swim . The second part , to the same Tune . Robin Hood swam to a bush of Broom , the Friar to a wigger wand , Bold Robin Hood is gone to the shore , and took his Bow in hand . One of his best Arrows under his Belt , to the Friar he let fly , The Curtal Fryar with his Steel Buckler , he put that Arrow by . Shoot on , shoot on , thou fine fellow , shoot as thou hast begun , If thou shoot here a Summer's day , thy mark I will not shun . Robin Hood shot so passing well , till his Arrows were all gone , They took their Swords and steel Bucklers , they fought with might and main , From ten o'th Clock that day , till four i'th Afternoon , Then Robin Hood came to his knees , of the Friar to beg a boon . A boon , a boon , thou Curtal Fryar , I beg it on my knee , Give me leave to set my Horn to my mouth , and to blow blasts three . That will I do , said the Curtal Fryar , of thy blasts I have no doubt , I hope thou'lt blow so passing well , till both thy eyes fallen out . Robin Hood set his Horn to his mouth , he blew out blasts three , Half a hundred Yeomen with Bows bent , came ranging over the Lee. Whose men are these , said the Friar , that come so hastily ? These men are mine , said Robin Hood , Fryar , what is that to thee . A boon , a boon , said the Curtal Fryar , the like I gave to thee , Give me leave to set my Fist to my mouth , and to whute whutes three . That will I do , said Robin Hood , or else I were to blame , Three whutes in a Friars Fist , would make me glad and fain . The Friar he set his Fist to his mouth , and whuted whutes three , Half a hundred good bay Dogs , came running the Friar unto . Here is for every man a Dog , and I myself for thee . Nay by my faith , quoth Robin Hood , Fryar that may not be . Two Dogs at once to Robin Hood did go , the one behind the other before , Robin Hoods Mantle of Lincoln green , off from his back they tore . And whither his men shot East or West , or they shot North or South , The Cutrtles Dogs so taught they were , they caught the Arrows in their mouth . Take up thy Dogs , said little John , Fryar at my bidding be , Whose man art thou , said the Curtal Fryar , comes here to prate with me ? I am little John , Robin Hoods man , Fryar I will not lie , If thou take not up thy Dogs soon , i'le take up them and thee . Little John had a Bow in his hand , he shot with might and main , Soon half a score of the Friars Dogs , lay dead upon the plain . Hold thy hand , hold thy hand , said the Curtal Fryar , thy Master and I will agree , And we will have new order taken , with all the haste that may be . If thou wilt forsake fair Fountain Dale , and Fountain-Abby free . Every Sundy through the year , a Noble shall be thy fee . And every Holiday through the year changed shall thy Garments be , If thou wilt go to fair Nottingham , and there remain with me . This Curtal Fryar had kept Fountain Dale , seven long years and more , There was neither Knight , Lord nor Earl , could make him yield before . Printed for W. Thackeray , J. Millet , and A. Milbourn . 