THE RUMP Roughly but righteously handled , In a New BALLAD : To the tune of Cook Lorrel . MOre sacks to the Mill , here comes a fresh Wit , That means without Mittens ( as you shall see ) To handle a RUMP that's all to be shit , Sir reverence of the company . 2. And let other sinners that love a whole Skin , Keep out of my reach , for fear of a Stone ; For I'm like the Hangman , who ( when's hand was in ) Said he had [ tr ] uss up fourty as one . 3. First I'le tell you [ wh ] ence this Rump-regnant came , When England [ to F ] actium and Schism was bent , By means of long peace to settle the same , Our noble [ K ] ing summon'd a Parliament . 4. A Parliament which may make old men grieve , And Children that ne're shall be born complain ; I mean such as dy'd before they did live , Like Harrington's Ro [ tO ] a , and th' Engine of Vane . 5. This Parliament , like a wild skittish Tit , Unman'd and unback't , and unapt to obey , Would let neither Prince , Peer , nor Prelate fit , Yet stammell nos'd OLIVER smelled out a way . 6. With Pistol and Musquet he brought the Beast under , And aw'd it so much , and so far did prevail , That tamely he dock't it , and ( to all men's wonder ) He cast off the Colt , and saddled the Tail : 7. Which shortly began to kick at's Command , And restive it grew , and left its true pacing , Which made him resolve on his own Legs to stand , And turn the RUMP out of the Stable a grazing . 8. The Red-coats , with breath like my Ladys Bum-blast , This Parliament-snuff blew twice out and in ; But North and West-winds will so out it at last , That nought but Hell fire shall out it again , 9. Though now they tempt Monk with a thousand per annum In hope's that to worship , his face hee'l fallen flat on ; Yet he's wise enough to resist and disdain 'em , And cry , Get behind me , thou Bobtail of Satan . 10. Right pat with St. Georg's this story will jump , Poor Englands the Damsel appointed for slaughter , And Monk the St. George to kill Dragon RUMP , And safely restore to the King his fair Daughter . 11. The RUMP thus in gross no more shall be played on , But now I will whet my Pen ( if it please you ) To joint it , and show what foul parts it is made on , God grant that your stomachs prove not over-queasie . 12. Here's Lenthall once Mouth to the Parliament's mind , Though he at length acted the Fundaments part , Whose speech was not breaking of silence , but Wind , And's giving the Thanks of the House , but a Fart . 13. 'Tis said he's now sick , and if't be the POX , I'de wish him in time his Disease to disclose , And call Dr. Ba [ ? ] es , who's ex'lent at Nocks , Although his skill failed him in his own Nose . 14. Or let Jesuitical Pridian be god , Of whose crabbed Humours the Doctors come short all And as for Sir Walter Py [ e ] , he had not Dy'd under his hands , had he been immortal . 15. But if his Gold-greedy Soul will be gone Out at Postern Gate , he hath 'mong his Waiters At Cat-in-pan Pedant , the way to make known To th' General Rendezvous of all Traitors . 16. But many I find this Opinion are firm in , That he has no real distemper at all , But feigns it ; and like a prophetical Vermin , Runs from and old House that is ready to fallen . 17. If Ludlow the state of Grace had been in , And kept himself safe fro' th' Committee of Safety , For's Father's sake , Deputy Fart he had been , Instead of the Forced , they call Say the Crafty . 18. Next comes the Rump's Gadfly , the John-like driver . [ King-abjuring ARTHUR ; Sir , you ( if I ken you ) ] O' th' Bishop's Uriah-like fallen were Contriver , To get the fair Bersheba of their Revenue . 19. But 'twas a more carnal concupiscence That at Bristol-Vicaridge set you a neighing , Which you enjoyed and occupyd in the sense Which puts pretty Maids to pishing and fying . 20. Nay you like the Trojan-Adulterer swore To those that once saved you from the Kings Fury , That rather then Helen of Duresm restore , Their Troynovant in its own ashes you'd burn . 21. But I dare no farther his passion provoke For fear of a prejudice which it may do me , For with his own Choler should he chance to choke , The Hangman in Actium of Trespass might sue me . 22. Then have at Sir Harry the Int'rest Refiner , Who's not of the Church , but Society of JESUS , And can make Divinity's self-Diviner , And model new Heavens and new Earth's to please us . 23. It he that injected the sublimed matter To late-Lady Lambert , and she to th' Squire , Which made him Protector and Parliament-hater , And to be Fift Monarch devoutly aspire . 24. Like Grub from Sheeps tails since the Rump does him throw , He'le creep to some placket of Sanctification , And come forth a Flesh-flye next Summer , and blow New Maggots in's Church , of more whimsical fashion . 25. Methinks in his eyes the Waters do gather , As if the Lord Staffords Dust troubled his sighed ; Perhaps he repents , and intends ( like his Father ) Ev'n in his own Garter to do his Ghost right . 26. There goes the twice treacherous Bankrupt Sallaway From Westminster Wolves , to Tow'r Lions bound , Cause he from one Treason to another did fallen away , And will fallen again , but not quite to the ground . 27. The next is a politic penman that got-land By's Knavery more then his birth , and 'tis his-hope That Lambeth shall ever and ever be Scotland , And Seat of and Arch-one , but not of a bishop . 28. Here's Nevil , ( who to be made in Scot's stead , A State-Secretary ) did practice a New art , To th' Office , by Letters ( unto the House read ) He courted himself in the name of Charls Stuart . 29. Now see with a POX , where Martin comes on , The Seed of corrupt and sinful Loins , Who a Worthy had been , if as near Solomon In Wisdom , as number of Concubines . 30. If in utter darkness there should be a failing of Horror , the RUMP may furnish it with Squire Fleetwood to help out the weeping and wailing , And Sir William Brereton for gnashing of teeth . 31. Now Mildmay , and Whitlock , and Lisle I might call in , And Master Lord Salesbury ( from noble house , Who seems not descended , so much as down fallen ) And others , which well may serve a fresh Muse . 32. And now the RUMP's set in the Salt , and Monk Hath offer'd full fairly his own for to make it , But finding himself by the Devil out-drunk , He honestly cries , Nay then let him take it . 33. But for 'em when hence they go , ( such were their follies ) Above nor beneath , there no quiet place is , King Charls is in heaven , in hell tyrant NOL is , Who ( as God us'd Fleetwood ) will spit in their faces . 34. Now mark what sweet Morsels Hell swallowed of late , Theres Cromwel , and Prideaux , and Bradshaw , and theres He that made Old Neck ( when he entered his Gate ) Cry , O my Son Pride , are you there with your Bears ? 35 , And now I no longer will rake in this sink , But shortly the RUMP is for Tiburn , and then I'll tell you more of it ; but you ( as I think ) [ Do now stop your Noses , and I'll stop my pen . ] THE RUMP Roughly but righteously handled , In a New BALLAD : To the tune of Cook Lorrel . MOre sacks to the Mill , here comes a fresh Wit , That means without Mittens ( as you shall see ) To handle a RUMP that's all to be shit , Sir reverence of the company . 2. And let other sinners that love a whole Skin , Keep out of my reach , for fear of a Stone ; For I'm like the Hangman , who ( when's hand was in ) Said he had [ tr ] uss up fourty as one . 3. First I'le tell you [ wh ] ence this Rump-regnant came , When England [ to F ] actium and Schism was bent , By means of long peace to settle the same , Our noble [ K ] ing summon'd a Parliament . 4. A Parliament which may make old men grieve , And Children that ne're shall be born complain ; I mean such as dy'd before they did live , Like Harrington's Ro [ tO ] a , and th' Engine of Vane . 5. This Parliament , like a wild skittish Tit , Unman'd and unback't , and unapt to obey , Would let neither Prince , Peer , nor Prelate fit , Yet stammell nos'd OLIVER smelled out a way . 6. With Pistol and Musquet he brought the Beast under , And aw'd it so much , and so far did prevail , That tamely he dock't it , and ( to all men's wonder ) He cast off the Colt , and saddled the Tail : 7. Which shortly began to kick at's Command , And restive it grew , and left its true pacing , Which made him resolve on his own Legs to stand , And turn the RUMP out of the Stable a grazing . 8. The Red-coats , with breath like my Ladys Bum-blast , This Parliament-snuff blew twice out and in ; But North and West-winds will so out it at last , That nought but Hell fire shall out it again , 9. Though now they tempt Monk with a thousand per annum In hope's that to worship , his face hee'l fallen flat on ; Yet he's wise enough to resist and disdain 'em , And cry , Get behind me , thou Bobtail of Satan . 10. Right pat with St. Georg's this story will jump , Poor Englands the Damsel appointed for slaughter , And Monk the St. George to kill Dragon RUMP , And safely restore to the King his fair Daughter . 11. The RUMP thus in gross no more shall be played on , But now I will whet my Pen ( if it please you ) To joint it , and show what foul parts it is made on , God grant that your stomachs prove not over-queasie . 12. Here's Lenthall once Mouth to the Parliament's mind , Though he at length acted the Fundaments part , Whose speech was not breaking of silence , but Wind , And's giving the Thanks of the House , but a Fart . 13. 'Tis said he's now sick , and if't be the POX , I'de wish him in time his Disease to disclose , And call Dr. Ba [ ? ] es , who's ex'lent at Nocks , Although his skill failed him in his own Nose . 14. Or let Jesuitical Pridian be god , Of whose crabbed Humours the Doctors come short all And as for Sir Walter Py [ e ] , he had not Dy'd under his hands , had he been immortal . 15. But if his Gold-greedy Soul will be gone Out at Postern Gate , he hath 'mong his Waiters At Cat-in-pan Pedant , the way to make known To th' General Rendezvous of all Traitors . 16. But many I find this Opinion are firm in , That he has no real distemper at all , But feigns it ; and like a prophetical Vermin , Runs from and old House that is ready to fallen . 17. If Ludlow the state of Grace had been in , And kept himself safe fro' th' Committee of Safety , For's Father's sake , Deputy Fart he had been , Instead of the Forced , they call Say the Crafty . 18. Next comes the Rump's Gadfly , the John-like driver . [ King-abjuring ARTHUR ; Sir , you ( if I ken you ) ] O' th' Bishop's Uriah-like fallen were Contriver , To get the fair Bersheba of their Revenue . 19. But 'twas a more carnal concupiscence That at Bristol-Vicaridge set you a neighing , Which you enjoyed and occupyd in the sense Which puts pretty Maids to pishing and fying . 20. Nay you like the Trojan-Adulterer swore To those that once saved you from the Kings Fury , That rather then Helen of Duresm restore , Their Troynovant in its own ashes you'd burn . 21. But I dare no farther his passion provoke For fear of a prejudice which it may do me , For with his own Choler should he chance to choke , The Hangman in Actium of Trespass might sue me . 22. Then have at Sir Harry the Int'rest Refiner , Who's not of the Church , but Society of JESUS , And can make Divinity's self-Diviner , And model new Heavens and new Earth's to please us . 23. It he that injected the sublimed matter To late-Lady Lambert , and she to th' Squire , Which made him Protector and Parliament-hater , And to be Fift Monarch devoutly aspire . 24. Like Grub from Sheeps tails since the Rump does him throw , He'le creep to some placket of Sanctification , And come forth a Flesh-flye next Summer , and blow New Maggots in's Church , of more whimsical fashion . 25. Methinks in his eyes the Waters do gather , As if the Lord Staffords Dust troubled his sighed ; Perhaps he repents , and intends ( like his Father ) Ev'n in his own Garter to do his Ghost right . 26. There goes the twice treacherous Bankrupt Sallaway From Westminster Wolves , to Tow'r Lions bound , Cause he from one Treason to another did fallen away , And will fallen again , but not quite to the ground . 27. The next is a politic penman that got-land By's Knavery more then his birth , and 'tis his-hope That Lambeth shall ever and ever be Scotland , And Seat of and Arch-one , but not of a bishop . 28. Here's Nevil , ( who to be made in Scot's stead , A State-Secretary ) did practice a New art , To th' Office , by Letters ( unto the House read ) He courted himself in the name of Charls Stuart . 29. Now see with a POX , where Martin comes on , The Seed of corrupt and sinful Loins , Who a Worthy had been , if as near Solomon In Wisdom , as number of Concubines . 30. If in utter darkness there should be a failing of Horror , the RUMP may furnish it with Squire Fleetwood to help out the weeping and wailing , And Sir William Brereton for gnashing of teeth . 31. Now Mildmay , and Whitlock , and Lisle I might call in , And Master Lord Salesbury ( from noble house , Who seems not descended , so much as down fallen ) And others , which well may serve a fresh Muse . 32. And now the RUMP's set in the Salt , and Monk Hath offer'd full fairly his own for to make it , But finding himself by the Devil out-drunk , He honestly cries , Nay then let him take it . 33. But for 'em when hence they go , ( such were their follies ) Above nor beneath , there no quiet place is , King Charls is in heaven , in hell tyrant NOL is , Who ( as God us'd Fleetwood ) will spit in their faces . 34. Now mark what sweet Morsels Hell swallowed of late , Theres Cromwel , and Prideaux , and Bradshaw , and theres He that made Old Neck ( when he entered his Gate ) Cry , O my Son Pride , are you there with your Bears ? 35 , And now I no longer will rake in this sink , But shortly the RUMP is for Tiburn , and then I'll tell you more of it ; but you ( as I think ) [ Do now stop your Noses , and I'll stop my pen . ] 