The Lamentable Song of the Lord WIGMORE , Governor of Warwick Castle , And the fair Maid of Dunsmore , as a warning to all Maids to have a care , how they yield to the wanton Delight of young Gallants . To the Tune : Diana . IN Warkshire there stands a down , And Dunsmoreheath it hath to name And joining to a Country town , Made famous by a Maidenr name . Fair Isabel she nam was , A Shepherd's daughter as some say , To Wigmore's ears her fame did pass , As he in Warwick Castle lay , Poor lovesick Lord immediately , Upon her fame set his delight , And thought much pleasure sure did lie , possessing of so fair a Wigh Therefore to Dunsmore did repair , To recreate his sickly mind , Where in a summer's evening fair , His chance was Isabel to find She sat amid a meadow green , Most richly spread with smelling flow'rs And by a River she was seen , to spend away some evening hours ; There lay this Maiden all alone , Washing her feet in secret wise ; Which Virgin fair to look upon . did much delight his loving eyes . She thinking not to be espy'd , And laid from her , her Country tire , The tresses of her hair unty'd , Hung glistering like the golden wire , And as the flakes of winter snow , That lie unmelted on the plains , So white her body was in show , Like silver springs did run her veins He ravished with this pleasant sighed , Stood as a Man amazed still , Suffering his eyes to take delight . that never thought they had their fill She blinded their affections so , That reasons rules were laid away , And love the coals of lust did blow . Which to a fire flamed high , And tho' he knew the since was great , It burned so within his breast , With such a vehement scorching heat . That none but she could lend him rest Lord Wigmore being thus drown'd in lust By liking of this dainty Dame , He call'd a Servant of great trust . Inquiring straight what was her name , She is quoth he , no married Wife , But a Shepherd's daughter as you see , And with her Father leads her life , Whose dwellings by these pastures be , Her name is Isabel the fair , Then stay quoth he , and speak no more But to my Castle straight her bear , Her sighed hath wound me full soar , Thus to Lord Wigmore she was brought , who with delight is fancies fix , And thro' his suit such means he wrougt That he entic'd her to his bed , This being done in content , She did return from whence she came , And every day she did invent , To cover her received shame , But e're three months were fully passed , Her crime committed plain appears , Unto Lord Wigmore then in haste , She long complain'd with weeping tears Lord Wigmore thus I have defil [ ' ] worser , And spotted my pure Virgin's bed , Behold I am conceiv'd with child , To which vile folly you me led , For now this deed that I have wrought , Throughout the Country well is known And to my woeful Parents brought , Who now for me do make great moan , How shall I look them in the face , When they my shameless self shall see ? O curse Eve I feel thy case , When thou hadst tasted on the Tree , Thou hidst thyself and so must I , But God thy trespass quickly found , No dark may hide me from God's eye . But leave my shame still to abound Wide open are mine eyes to look , Upon my sad and heavy since , And quite unclapsed in the book . Were my Accounts are written in , This since of mine deserveth death , But judge , Lord Wigmore I am she , For I have trod a Strumpet's path . And for the same I needs must die , Bespotted with reproachful shame , To ages following shall I be , And in records be writ my blame , Lord Wigmore , this is long of thee , Lord Wigmore prostrate at thy feet , I crave my just deserved doom , That death may cut off from the root . This body , blossom , brench , and bloom , Let modesty accurse this crime , Let love , and law . and nature speak , Was ever any Wretch yet seen . that in one instant all did break ? Then Wigmore justice on me show , For thus consenting to the act , Give me my death for that is due . To such as since in such a fact , Oh that the womb had been my grave , Or I had perish'd in my birth , Oh that same day may darkness have . Wherein I first drew vital breath , Let God reguard it not at all , Let not the Sun upon it shine , Let misty darkness on it fallen For to make know this since of mine , The night wherein I was conceiv'd , Let be accursed with mournful cries , Let twinkling stars from sky be reav'd , And clouds of darkness thereon rise , Because they shut not up their powers , That gave the passage to my life , Come sorrow , finish up my hours . And let my time here end with grief And having made this woeful moan , A knife she snatched from her side , There Lucretia's part was righsly shown . For with the same fair Isabel dy'd . Whereat Lord Wigmore grieved soar , A heart repenting his amiss , And after would attempt no more , To crop the flower of Maiden's bliss : But lived long in woeful wise , Till death did finish up his days , And now in Isabel's grave he lies . till Judgement comes them both to rise . The Lamentable Song of the Lord WIGMORE , Governor of Warwick Castle , And the fair Maid of Dunsmore , as a warning to all Maids to have a care , how they yield to the wanton Delight of young Gallants . To the Tune : Diana . IN Warkshire there stands a down , And Dunsmoreheath it hath to name And joining to a Country town , Made famous by a Maidenr name . Fair Isabel she nam was , A Shepherd's daughter as some say , To Wigmore's ears her fame did pass , As he in Warwick Castle lay , Poor lovesick Lord immediately , Upon her fame set his delight , And thought much pleasure sure did lie , possessing of so fair a Wigh Therefore to Dunsmore did repair , To recreate his sickly mind , Where in a summer's evening fair , His chance was Isabel to find She sat amid a meadow green , Most richly spread with smelling flow'rs And by a River she was seen , to spend away some evening hours ; There lay this Maiden all alone , Washing her feet in secret wise ; Which Virgin fair to look upon . did much delight his loving eyes . She thinking not to be espy'd , And laid from her , her Country tire , The tresses of her hair unty'd , Hung glistering like the golden wire , And as the flakes of winter snow , That lie unmelted on the plains , So white her body was in show , Like silver springs did run her veins He ravished with this pleasant sighed , Stood as a Man amazed still , Suffering his eyes to take delight . that never thought they had their fill She blinded their affections so , That reasons rules were laid away , And love the coals of lust did blow . Which to a fire flamed high , And tho' he knew the since was great , It burned so within his breast , With such a vehement scorching heat . That none but she could lend him rest Lord Wigmore being thus drown'd in lust By liking of this dainty Dame , He call'd a Servant of great trust . Inquiring straight what was her name , She is quoth he , no married Wife , But a Shepherd's daughter as you see , And with her Father leads her life , Whose dwellings by these pastures be , Her name is Isabel the fair , Then stay quoth he , and speak no more But to my Castle straight her bear , Her sighed hath wound me full soar , Thus to Lord Wigmore she was brought , who with delight is fancies fix , And thro' his suit such means he wrougt That he entic'd her to his bed , This being done in content , She did return from whence she came , And every day she did invent , To cover her received shame , But e're three months were fully passed , Her crime committed plain appears , Unto Lord Wigmore then in haste , She long complain'd with weeping tears Lord Wigmore thus I have defil [ ' ] worser , And spotted my pure Virgin's bed , Behold I am conceiv'd with child , To which vile folly you me led , For now this deed that I have wrought , Throughout the Country well is known And to my woeful Parents brought , Who now for me do make great moan , How shall I look them in the face , When they my shameless self shall see ? O curse Eve I feel thy case , When thou hadst tasted on the Tree , Thou hidst thyself and so must I , But God thy trespass quickly found , No dark may hide me from God's eye . But leave my shame still to abound Wide open are mine eyes to look , Upon my sad and heavy since , And quite unclapsed in the book . Were my Accounts are written in , This since of mine deserveth death , But judge , Lord Wigmore I am she , For I have trod a Strumpet's path . And for the same I needs must die , Bespotted with reproachful shame , To ages following shall I be , And in records be writ my blame , Lord Wigmore , this is long of thee , Lord Wigmore prostrate at thy feet , I crave my just deserved doom , That death may cut off from the root . This body , blossom , brench , and bloom , Let modesty accurse this crime , Let love , and law . and nature speak , Was ever any Wretch yet seen . that in one instant all did break ? Then Wigmore justice on me show , For thus consenting to the act , Give me my death for that is due . To such as since in such a fact , Oh that the womb had been my grave , Or I had perish'd in my birth , Oh that same day may darkness have . Wherein I first drew vital breath , Let God reguard it not at all , Let not the Sun upon it shine , Let misty darkness on it fallen For to make know this since of mine , The night wherein I was conceiv'd , Let be accursed with mournful cries , Let twinkling stars from sky be reav'd , And clouds of darkness thereon rise , Because they shut not up their powers , That gave the passage to my life , Come sorrow , finish up my hours . And let my time here end with grief And having made this woeful moan , A knife she snatched from her side , There Lucretia's part was righsly shown . For with the same fair Isabel dy'd . Whereat Lord Wigmore grieved soar , A heart repenting his amiss , And after would attempt no more , To crop the flower of Maiden's bliss : But lived long in woeful wise , Till death did finish up his days , And now in Isabel's grave he lies . till Judgement comes them both to rise . 