The Bountiful BREWERS , Who pays the King's Taxes out of the Poor Men's Purses , rather than diminish their own golden Stores . To the Tune of , And Orange . IN this present Reign , the War to maintain , A Tax being laid upon Liquour of Grain , 'Tis Barley made Malt , but here I must halt , To give you a Touch of a damnable Fault of the Brewer . The Parliament they , was pleased to lay The Tax upon those that are able to pay ; May Heaven therefore , replenish their Store , Yet this very Tax is now laid on the Poor , by the Brewer . On Dealers retail of strong Beer and Ale , This Tax is not laid but of Traders whole-sail ; This was the intent of the good Parliament , But some says , they had not the perfect consent of the Brewers . The Case being thus , they make a sad Fuss Yet they will pay nothing out of their own Purse But as for the Act , they vow to exact Upon the poor Tradesmen , and thus they are rack'd by the Brewer : Their Liquours made small , their Measures they maul , Nay , was I but now for to reckon up all , The Ways that they take , this Money to make , You'd swear that the Devil had now lent a Rake to the Brewers . Their Conscience they stain , for Profit and Gain , And yet if and honest Man chance to complain , They huffingly say , Such Taxes they pay , That it will be smaller before [ the next day ; ] wretched Brewers . Their Coffers to fill , I know that they will Give us a true touch of their dexterous skill ; Much Water they'll put to make us Rat-gut ; Likewise it is said that their Gallons are cut ; wretched Brewers . And were you to sink , for one Cup of Drink They will not part with it , but cry , Do you think That Tax we can pay , by giving away ? They shant have so much as the smell of a Dray u [ n ] der Sixpence . They are glad of this hit , for why they will get A triple Excise by their Diligent Wit ; For the River and Wells , where Water excels Shall pay the King's Taxes , and get Golden Spells , for the Brewer . The Truth to relate , their Profit is great , For most of them having a worthy Estate , Gold , Silver beside , flows in like a tIED , And they have the River of Thames on their side ; wealthy Brewers . We formerly here , complain'd of their Beer , But then they would tell us that Malt it was dear ; Yet now Princes fallen , the Liquour is small , And therefore they should get the Devil and all , wretched Brewers . Strange ways they devise , to raise this Excise , The smallest of Liquour now highly they prize ; Such Profit they bring from every Spring , That Faith , I believe , they get more then the King , wretched Brewers . At the Alehouse likewise , Strong-liquor does rise , For two they must needs have full seven Excise ; Twopence Halfpenny a Quart , my Host will retort , And at their best Costomers plaguely snort , if they grumble . Hads Zookers , cries Will , that [ ? ] Will spoil the next Two-pen [ ? ] Have none of their Drink [ ? ] We'll save all our Mon [ ? ] to a But [ ? ] The Bountiful BREWERS , Who pays the King's Taxes out of the Poor Men's Purses , rather than diminish their own golden Stores . To the Tune of , And Orange . IN this present Reign , the War to maintain , A Tax being laid upon Liquour of Grain , 'Tis Barley made Malt , but here I must halt , To give you a Touch of a damnable Fault of the Brewer . The Parliament they , was pleased to lay The Tax upon those that are able to pay ; May Heaven therefore , replenish their Store , Yet this very Tax is now laid on the Poor , by the Brewer . On Dealers retail of strong Beer and Ale , This Tax is not laid but of Traders whole-sail ; This was the intent of the good Parliament , But some says , they had not the perfect consent of the Brewers . The Case being thus , they make a sad Fuss Yet they will pay nothing out of their own Purse But as for the Act , they vow to exact Upon the poor Tradesmen , and thus they are rack'd by the Brewer : Their Liquours made small , their Measures they maul , Nay , was I but now for to reckon up all , The Ways that they take , this Money to make , You'd swear that the Devil had now lent a Rake to the Brewers . Their Conscience they stain , for Profit and Gain , And yet if and honest Man chance to complain , They huffingly say , Such Taxes they pay , That it will be smaller before [ the next day ; ] wretched Brewers . Their Coffers to fill , I know that they will Give us a true touch of their dexterous skill ; Much Water they'll put to make us Rat-gut ; Likewise it is said that their Gallons are cut ; wretched Brewers . And were you to sink , for one Cup of Drink They will not part with it , but cry , Do you think That Tax we can pay , by giving away ? They shant have so much as the smell of a Dray u [ n ] der Sixpence . They are glad of this hit , for why they will get A triple Excise by their Diligent Wit ; For the River and Wells , where Water excels Shall pay the King's Taxes , and get Golden Spells , for the Brewer . The Truth to relate , their Profit is great , For most of them having a worthy Estate , Gold , Silver beside , flows in like a tIED , And they have the River of Thames on their side ; wealthy Brewers . We formerly here , complain'd of their Beer , But then they would tell us that Malt it was dear ; Yet now Princes fallen , the Liquour is small , And therefore they should get the Devil and all , wretched Brewers . Strange ways they devise , to raise this Excise , The smallest of Liquour now highly they prize ; Such Profit they bring from every Spring , That Faith , I believe , they get more then the King , wretched Brewers . At the Alehouse likewise , Strong-liquor does rise , For two they must needs have full seven Excise ; Twopence Halfpenny a Quart , my Host will retort , And at their best Costomers plaguely snort , if they grumble . Hads Zookers , cries Will , that [ ? ] Will spoil the next Two-pen [ ? ] Have none of their Drink [ ? ] We'll save all our Mon [ ? ] to a But [ ? ] 