THE PROLOGUE TO HIS MAJESTY At the first PLAY presented at the Cockpit in WHITEHALL ; Being part of that Noble Entertainment which Their MAJESTIES received Novemb. 19. from his Grace the Duke of ALBEMARLE . GReatest of Monarchs , welcome to this place Which Majesty so oft was wont to grace Before our Exile , to divert the Court , And balance weighty Cares with harmless sport , This truth we can to our advantage say , They that would have no KING , would have no Play : The Laurel and the Crown together went , Had the same Foes , and the same Banishmen The Ghosts of their great Ancestors they fear'd , Who by the art of conjuring Poets rear'd , Our HARRIES & our EDWARDS long since dead Still on the Stage a march of Glory tread : Those Monuments of Fame ( they thought ) would stain And teach the People to despise their Reign : Nor durst they look into the Muses Well , lest the clear Spring their ugliness should tell ; Affrighted with the shadow of their Rage , They broke the Mirror of the times , the Stage ; The Stage against them still maintain'd the War , When they debauch'd the Pulpit and the Bar. Though to be Hypocrites , be our Praise alone , 'Tis our peculiar boast that we were none . ' What er'e they taught , we practis'd what was true , And something we had learn'd of honour too , When by Your Danger , and our Duty pressed , We acted in the Field , and not in Jest ; Then for the Cause our Tiring-house they sack't , And silenc't us that they alone might act ; And ( to our shame ) most dext'rously they do it , Outact the Players , and out-ly the Poet ; But all the other Arts appear'd so scarce , Ours were the Moral Lectures , theirs the Farse : This spacious Land their Theater became , And they Grave Counsellors , and Lords in Name ; Which these Mechanics Personate so ill That ev'n the Oppressed with contempt they fill , But when the Lyons dreadful skin they took , They roar'd so loud that the whole Forest shook ; The noise kept all the Neighbourhood in awe , Who thought 'twas the true Lion by his Paw . If feigned Virtue could such Wonders do , What may we not expect from this that's true ! But this Great Theme must serve another Age , To fill our Story , and adorn our Stage . LONDON , Printed for G. Bedell and T. Collins , at the Middle-Temple Gate in Fleet-street . 1660. THE PROLOGUE TO HIS MAJESTY At the first PLAY presented at the Cockpit in WHITEHALL ; Being part of that Noble Entertainment which Their MAJESTIES received Novemb. 19. from his Grace the Duke of ALBEMARLE . GReatest of Monarchs , welcome to this place Which Majesty so oft was wont to grace Before our Exile , to divert the Court , And balance weighty Cares with harmless sport , This truth we can to our advantage say , They that would have no KING , would have no Play : The Laurel and the Crown together went , Had the same Foes , and the same Banishmen The Ghosts of their great Ancestors they fear'd , Who by the art of conjuring Poets rear'd , Our HARRIES & our EDWARDS long since dead Still on the Stage a march of Glory tread : Those Monuments of Fame ( they thought ) would stain And teach the People to despise their Reign : Nor durst they look into the Muses Well , lest the clear Spring their ugliness should tell ; Affrighted with the shadow of their Rage , They broke the Mirror of the times , the Stage ; The Stage against them still maintain'd the War , When they debauch'd the Pulpit and the Bar. Though to be Hypocrites , be our Praise alone , 'Tis our peculiar boast that we were none . ' What er'e they taught , we practis'd what was true , And something we had learn'd of honour too , When by Your Danger , and our Duty pressed , We acted in the Field , and not in Jest ; Then for the Cause our Tiring-house they sack't , And silenc't us that they alone might act ; And ( to our shame ) most dext'rously they do it , Outact the Players , and out-ly the Poet ; But all the other Arts appear'd so scarce , Ours were the Moral Lectures , theirs the Farse : This spacious Land their Theater became , And they Grave Counsellors , and Lords in Name ; Which these Mechanics Personate so ill That ev'n the Oppressed with contempt they fill , But when the Lyons dreadful skin they took , They roar'd so loud that the whole Forest shook ; The noise kept all the Neighbourhood in awe , Who thought 'twas the true Lion by his Paw . If feigned Virtue could such Wonders do , What may we not expect from this that's true ! But this Great Theme must serve another Age , To fill our Story , and adorn our Stage . LONDON , Printed for G. Bedell and T. Collins , at the Middle-Temple Gate in Fleet-street . 1660. 