THE ENTERTAINMENT OF THE LADY MONK , At FISHERS-FOLLY . Together with and Address made to her by a Member of the College of Bed - lamb at her visiting those Phanatiques . The Bedlams Speech . TOpsie tervie , hai down derry . You sober boys lets now be merry , Here comes noble Georges Wife , Let's then bespeak her to the life . Most Noble Lady , now we see The World turns round as well as we ; Our Chains are Ornaments , our Cells Are Palaces where Honour dwells , While you adorn this place , we know No greater happiness below , Than to behold the sweet delight Of him that will restore our righ Madam , to you it is we look As the best Scripture in our Book , Could we but learn to be so wise As love our Head as well as Eyes ; Our University might be Happy in your felicity , Our Chains as useless as the large Contents of Lamberts no-discharge , Our Time not spent in picking straws , Our Holds , only most wholesome Laws , Our Bedlam true Phanatiques keep , Not such as dream when fast asleep . Let George know we are not so mad , But we can love and honest Lad. The Speech at Fishers-Folly . THrice welcome noble Lady to this place , Wife to a Person sprung of royal Raze ; Whose Highborn soul proclaims him one of those Which claim and Interest in the Milky Rose , Upon whose Brow prudence and valour cry Masteries , and strive each other to outvie : And what's his greatest praise , his Royalty Appears full fraught with ancient Loyalty . The rarest Jewels that the World imparts Are Royal Subject's crown'd with loyal Hearts . And such ( sweet Lady ) is your royal Spouse , Who cannot choose but mind his former Vows , One that is versed in honest Politics , And deeply hates such Pedantic tricks As Murder , Rapine , Perjury , which crimes Were in vile Cromwell's and the Rumpers times Accounted Godliness , and in wrong Sense Stil'd Acts of Heavens Gracious Providence . But now ( I hope ) we shall be free'd from th' Spell And witching Charms o' that Devil and Machiavel , They must invent new Sleights , a cloak that's stronger , Religion will vail villainy no longer ; All men have now found their false knavery out , But noble George hath put them to the Rou As Fabius wearied Hanibal , he so Blasted their force , yet gave them nev'r a blow : Wonderful Conqueror that could withstand , Nay foil his Enemy without a hand ! Never had England a more prosperous fate , Nor purchased freedom at a cheaper rate . Who absent , lo , we Pay all Honour due To her who is a Part of him ; that's you , Ev'n you ( fair Lady ) who are ever blessed In his Injoymen Y' are a welcome Guest Unto our Board , whose presence makes us Jolly , Since you vouch safe to come to Fishers-Folly , So called from the Founder , a Lackwit Who built the House , but could not finish i Our Geogre a greater Work hath well begun , And scorns to leave it , till its thoroughly done : He gently does his business , and hath learn'd To move the Wheel , so that its not discern'd . And with a silent calmness does assuage The Hotspur spirits and the fiery rage Of fierce Phanatiques ; who , like foolish Elves , By their mad zeal would have burned up themselves . Thus hath he wisely stopped the mouths of those Builders of Babel , which did still oppose Th' repairing of our Sion ; to whose aid Wee'l all stand up until the top-stone's laid : And after all confess Great George to be the chief Restorer of our Liberty : And you thrice happy favourite of Fate Who have so wise , so great , so good a Mate . If any other Speeches shall be printed pretended to be spoken before the Lady Monk at Fishers-Folly , they are false and disowned by W. Y. Printed 1660. THE ENTERTAINMENT OF THE LADY MONK , At FISHERS-FOLLY . Together with and Address made to her by a Member of the College of Bed - lamb at her visiting those Phanatiques . The Bedlams Speech . TOpsie tervie , hai down derry . You sober boys lets now be merry , Here comes noble Georges Wife , Let's then bespeak her to the life . Most Noble Lady , now we see The World turns round as well as we ; Our Chains are Ornaments , our Cells Are Palaces where Honour dwells , While you adorn this place , we know No greater happiness below , Than to behold the sweet delight Of him that will restore our righ Madam , to you it is we look As the best Scripture in our Book , Could we but learn to be so wise As love our Head as well as Eyes ; Our University might be Happy in your felicity , Our Chains as useless as the large Contents of Lamberts no-discharge , Our Time not spent in picking straws , Our Holds , only most wholesome Laws , Our Bedlam true Phanatiques keep , Not such as dream when fast asleep . Let George know we are not so mad , But we can love and honest Lad. The Speech at Fishers-Folly . THrice welcome noble Lady to this place , Wife to a Person sprung of royal Raze ; Whose Highborn soul proclaims him one of those Which claim and Interest in the Milky Rose , Upon whose Brow prudence and valour cry Masteries , and strive each other to outvie : And what's his greatest praise , his Royalty Appears full fraught with ancient Loyalty . The rarest Jewels that the World imparts Are Royal Subject's crown'd with loyal Hearts . And such ( sweet Lady ) is your royal Spouse , Who cannot choose but mind his former Vows , One that is versed in honest Politics , And deeply hates such Pedantic tricks As Murder , Rapine , Perjury , which crimes Were in vile Cromwell's and the Rumpers times Accounted Godliness , and in wrong Sense Stil'd Acts of Heavens Gracious Providence . But now ( I hope ) we shall be free'd from th' Spell And witching Charms o' that Devil and Machiavel , They must invent new Sleights , a cloak that's stronger , Religion will vail villainy no longer ; All men have now found their false knavery out , But noble George hath put them to the Rou As Fabius wearied Hanibal , he so Blasted their force , yet gave them nev'r a blow : Wonderful Conqueror that could withstand , Nay foil his Enemy without a hand ! Never had England a more prosperous fate , Nor purchased freedom at a cheaper rate . Who absent , lo , we Pay all Honour due To her who is a Part of him ; that's you , Ev'n you ( fair Lady ) who are ever blessed In his Injoymen Y' are a welcome Guest Unto our Board , whose presence makes us Jolly , Since you vouch safe to come to Fishers-Folly , So called from the Founder , a Lackwit Who built the House , but could not finish i Our Geogre a greater Work hath well begun , And scorns to leave it , till its thoroughly done : He gently does his business , and hath learn'd To move the Wheel , so that its not discern'd . And with a silent calmness does assuage The Hotspur spirits and the fiery rage Of fierce Phanatiques ; who , like foolish Elves , By their mad zeal would have burned up themselves . Thus hath he wisely stopped the mouths of those Builders of Babel , which did still oppose Th' repairing of our Sion ; to whose aid Wee'l all stand up until the top-stone's laid : And after all confess Great George to be the chief Restorer of our Liberty : And you thrice happy favourite of Fate Who have so wise , so great , so good a Mate . If any other Speeches shall be printed pretended to be spoken before the Lady Monk at Fishers-Folly , they are false and disowned by W. Y. Printed 1660. 