The honest Maidens Loyalty ; Or , The Young men faithful constancy . He vows to endure the Rack and the Stake And suffer dearly for his true Lovers sake , To a pleasant new Tune , Wertenberg thou more fairer . MOst early in a morning fair , a young man sung this pleasant choir . Where his dear sweating did use to lie , and thus lamenting he did cry . Farewell sweet heart for I must be gone , but I'le have my love or I'le have none , Set forty thousand on a row , There's none can make so fair a show . For in the Palace of her twinkling eyes , I see how amorous Cupid flies , As for my part I have chosen one , etc No rack nor Stake with tortures great , That shalt my Love entire defeat , Oh do not waver like the turning wind , But hear a lovers constant mind , As for my part , etc Thus who can love so true as I , That am so sick yet cannot die : A cordial kiss can my heart revive , And make a lovesick man alive , And by experience is well know , etc A Lady in her high degree , Her lofty mind cannot fancy me : For many are ambitious in their ways , But Maidens chaste young men should praise I will be faithful to my own , For I'll have , etc Your City dams with mincing feats , Have many tricks and fine conceits , But my true Love is virtuous chaste and wise And like and Angel in mine eyes , As for my part , etc Into some far Country I'le go , Confine myself to care and woe , Till fickle fortune please to smile , That hath so lower'd all this while . As for my part I have chosen one , And I'le have , etc The Second Part to the same Tune . THe Youngman ending of his Song , The Maiden knew his voice and tongue . And stepping then unto his window side How fares my Love , aloud she cry'd . As for my part I have chosen one , I'le have my true or I'le have none . Though Locks and Bolts do hinder me , Theres none shall keep my Love from thee , But as the Dove is constant to the end , So I'le prove true to thee my friend . As for , etc My Father and my Mother both , Have bound it with a fearful oath , They will thee kill and spill thy harmless blood And so disturb us of our good , As for , etc My Brother does in ambush wait , Thee to betray with all decei Though Father frown and Mother angry be , Yet I will have no Man but thee . As for , etc My Uncles and my Kindred all , Are much enrag'd do scold and brawl And wish that day that I to thee am wed , That we may perish in our bed . As for , etc And I ten thousand pounds of gold , Or Lands , they surely should be sold , I'le change my state into a low degree , And go a begging along with thee . As for etc Through fire and water I will go Along with thee who e're say no , I am coming now to take with thee my lot , That we may tie the Trueloves knot . as for , etc Welcome my sweet to him that bears A loyal heart , overwhelm'd with cares . Welcome a thousand times my dearest Love For I most faithful to thee will prove . as for , etc Heaven bless the day as we enjoy True Lovers bliss without annoy . A thousand kisses to my love I'le give , Our hearts united in love to live . as for , etc Young men and Maids whate're you be , Make all your choices firm and free , Prove Loyal , constant , to your dearest friend , So Heavens will bless you unto the end , Let all your voices thus go into one , I will have my true Love or I'll have none London , Printed for Richard Burton at the Horseshoe in Smithfield . The honest Maidens Loyalty ; Or , The Young men faithful constancy . He vows to endure the Rack and the Stake And suffer dearly for his true Lovers sake , To a pleasant new Tune , Wertenberg thou more fairer . MOst early in a morning fair , a young man sung this pleasant choir . Where his dear sweating did use to lie , and thus lamenting he did cry . Farewell sweet heart for I must be gone , but I'le have my love or I'le have none , Set forty thousand on a row , There's none can make so fair a show . For in the Palace of her twinkling eyes , I see how amorous Cupid flies , As for my part I have chosen one , etc No rack nor Stake with tortures great , That shalt my Love entire defeat , Oh do not waver like the turning wind , But hear a lovers constant mind , As for my part , etc Thus who can love so true as I , That am so sick yet cannot die : A cordial kiss can my heart revive , And make a lovesick man alive , And by experience is well know , etc A Lady in her high degree , Her lofty mind cannot fancy me : For many are ambitious in their ways , But Maidens chaste young men should praise I will be faithful to my own , For I'll have , etc Your City dams with mincing feats , Have many tricks and fine conceits , But my true Love is virtuous chaste and wise And like and Angel in mine eyes , As for my part , etc Into some far Country I'le go , Confine myself to care and woe , Till fickle fortune please to smile , That hath so lower'd all this while . As for my part I have chosen one , And I'le have , etc The Second Part to the same Tune . THe Youngman ending of his Song , The Maiden knew his voice and tongue . And stepping then unto his window side How fares my Love , aloud she cry'd . As for my part I have chosen one , I'le have my true or I'le have none . Though Locks and Bolts do hinder me , Theres none shall keep my Love from thee , But as the Dove is constant to the end , So I'le prove true to thee my friend . As for , etc My Father and my Mother both , Have bound it with a fearful oath , They will thee kill and spill thy harmless blood And so disturb us of our good , As for , etc My Brother does in ambush wait , Thee to betray with all decei Though Father frown and Mother angry be , Yet I will have no Man but thee . As for , etc My Uncles and my Kindred all , Are much enrag'd do scold and brawl And wish that day that I to thee am wed , That we may perish in our bed . As for , etc And I ten thousand pounds of gold , Or Lands , they surely should be sold , I'le change my state into a low degree , And go a begging along with thee . As for etc Through fire and water I will go Along with thee who e're say no , I am coming now to take with thee my lot , That we may tie the Trueloves knot . as for , etc Welcome my sweet to him that bears A loyal heart , overwhelm'd with cares . Welcome a thousand times my dearest Love For I most faithful to thee will prove . as for , etc Heaven bless the day as we enjoy True Lovers bliss without annoy . A thousand kisses to my love I'le give , Our hearts united in love to live . as for , etc Young men and Maids whate're you be , Make all your choices firm and free , Prove Loyal , constant , to your dearest friend , So Heavens will bless you unto the end , Let all your voices thus go into one , I will have my true Love or I'll have none London , Printed for Richard Burton at the Horseshoe in Smithfield . 