The Lamenting Ladies farewell to the world , Who being in strange Exile , bewails her own Mi - sery , complains upon Fortune and Destiny , describes the manner of her Breeding ; deplores the loss of her Parents , wishing Peace and Happiness to England which was their Native Country : And withal , re - solved for Death , cheerfully recommended her Soul to Heaven , and her Body to earth , and quietly de - parted this Life . Anno 1650. To and Excellent new Tune , called , o hone , o hone . MOurnful Melpomenie assist my Quill , That I may pensively now make my will , Guide thou my hands to write And senses to indite A Ladies last good night , O pity me . I that was Nobly born , hither am sent , Like to a wretch forlorn . here to lamen In this most strange exile : Here to remain a whiele , Till Heaven be pleas'd to smile , and send for me . My Friends cannot come nigh me in this place ; Nor bear me company , such is my case . Poor I am left alone , But few to regard my moan , All my delights are gone , Heaven succour me . Each day with cares and fears , I am perplex My drink is brinish Tears , with sorrow mixed ; When others soundly sleep , I sadly sob and weep , Oppressed with dangers deep , Lord , comfort me . When England flourished my Parents dear Tenderly nourished me many a year : I was advanc'd on high In place of dignity : In golden bravery they decked me . The Second part to the same Tune . My Garments dressed with pearl richly approved , Never was English Girl better beloved , Old and young , great and small , Waited upon my call ; I had the love of all that did know me . But from my former state I am call'd back , Through destiny and fate all goes to wrack ; Fortune did lately frown And caught me by the crown , So pull'd me headlong down O woe is me ! My dear friends are decayed which lov'd me best . Never was harmless maid so much distressed ! My Father he is dead My Mother Banished , All joys are from me fled ; Heaven comfort me . How well are they at ease ; and sweetly blessed ; That may go when they please and when they list ; To see their Parents kind As nature does them bind ; Such joys I cannot find , O woe is me . All earthly joys are gone I will and must Only in GOD alone put my whole trust Oh Blessed Trinity One GOD and persons three , Release my misery ; and comfort me . No creature on the earth , can ease my grief , Until such time as death yield me relief , A Coffin and a Grave Is that which I would have Sweet Christ , my Soul receive , and succour me . My Enemies that be both great and small , Good LORD , I pray to thee forgive them all : May England flourish brave When I am laid in Grave : So thus I take my leave , Christ sends for me . I have in heaven above a Place prepar'd Never shall I remove , from thence afterwards : Go toll my passing Bell While Angels ring my knell So vain world now farewell Christ sends for me When she those words had said with cheerful heart ; The noble minded Maid then did depart ; No doubt her Souls at rest With them whom God hath blessed . The Last words she expressed , was , Christ calls for me . FINIS . The Lamenting Ladies farewell to the world , Who being in strange Exile , bewails her own Mi - sery , complains upon Fortune and Destiny , describes the manner of her Breeding ; deplores the loss of her Parents , wishing Peace and Happiness to England which was their Native Country : And withal , re - solved for Death , cheerfully recommended her Soul to Heaven , and her Body to earth , and quietly de - parted this Life . Anno 1650. To and Excellent new Tune , called , o hone , o hone . MOurnful Melpomenie assist my Quill , That I may pensively now make my will , Guide thou my hands to write And senses to indite A Ladies last good night , O pity me . I that was Nobly born , hither am sent , Like to a wretch forlorn . here to lamen In this most strange exile : Here to remain a whiele , Till Heaven be pleas'd to smile , and send for me . My Friends cannot come nigh me in this place ; Nor bear me company , such is my case . Poor I am left alone , But few to regard my moan , All my delights are gone , Heaven succour me . Each day with cares and fears , I am perplex My drink is brinish Tears , with sorrow mixed ; When others soundly sleep , I sadly sob and weep , Oppressed with dangers deep , Lord , comfort me . When England flourished my Parents dear Tenderly nourished me many a year : I was advanc'd on high In place of dignity : In golden bravery they decked me . The Second part to the same Tune . My Garments dressed with pearl richly approved , Never was English Girl better beloved , Old and young , great and small , Waited upon my call ; I had the love of all that did know me . But from my former state I am call'd back , Through destiny and fate all goes to wrack ; Fortune did lately frown And caught me by the crown , So pull'd me headlong down O woe is me ! My dear friends are decayed which lov'd me best . Never was harmless maid so much distressed ! My Father he is dead My Mother Banished , All joys are from me fled ; Heaven comfort me . How well are they at ease ; and sweetly blessed ; That may go when they please and when they list ; To see their Parents kind As nature does them bind ; Such joys I cannot find , O woe is me . All earthly joys are gone I will and must Only in GOD alone put my whole trust Oh Blessed Trinity One GOD and persons three , Release my misery ; and comfort me . No creature on the earth , can ease my grief , Until such time as death yield me relief , A Coffin and a Grave Is that which I would have Sweet Christ , my Soul receive , and succour me . My Enemies that be both great and small , Good LORD , I pray to thee forgive them all : May England flourish brave When I am laid in Grave : So thus I take my leave , Christ sends for me . I have in heaven above a Place prepar'd Never shall I remove , from thence afterwards : Go toll my passing Bell While Angels ring my knell So vain world now farewell Christ sends for me When she those words had said with cheerful heart ; The noble minded Maid then did depart ; No doubt her Souls at rest With them whom God hath blessed . The Last words she expressed , was , Christ calls for me . FINIS . 