THE Association . MOst certainly none From the Planets last shone , Cou'd promise such Days wou'd advance , That the Worst of the Nation Shou'd join Reformation , Who Sold us so lately to France . With ONE HEART and VOICE , Cry'd they we Rejoice , Tho' Two as distinctly before , As Black is from White Or Day from the Night , Or True Heir from the Son of a Wh -- Quoth Hermodactyl , None knew by my Style , Whither I was a Whig or a Tory , So I 'ave Room to declare With the Rest for the Heir , And there is and end of the Story . Codicil look'd askew , For already He knew , He had set down his Name but too often , That it look'd as uncouth As in being the Mouth , What He heartily hated to soften ; Howe'er there's my Name : And I must the same , Quoth Gambol ; though lately a Bully , I fear I must stand With Papers in Hand At the Door like a poor sneaking Cully . Will Wildfire cry'd , Zounds ! This our Project confounds , Yet I must subscribe in my Turn , And smile with the Rest , 'Thout feeling the Jest , While inward I heartily mourn . Atty Brogue with more ease ( Being what the Times please ) Subscrib'd , for the Circle before He fully had run , And when that is done , Will run round a Thousand such more . The rest of that Tribe , Turn'd each one a Scribe , And slap'd down their Names or their Mark , And then clos'd their Eyes , Like a Man when he die , And is going somewhere in the Dark . But what is the Devil , They're grown now thus civil , Their Principles timely to altar , Not from Virtue or Sense , They are Shams and Pretense , But only the fear of a Halter . Printed , for J. Spoorn , near the Strand . Pr. 1d THE Association . MOst certainly none From the Planets last shone , Cou'd promise such Days wou'd advance , That the Worst of the Nation Shou'd join Reformation , Who Sold us so lately to France . With ONE HEART and VOICE , Cry'd they we Rejoice , Tho' Two as distinctly before , As Black is from White Or Day from the Night , Or True Heir from the Son of a Wh -- Quoth Hermodactyl , None knew by my Style , Whither I was a Whig or a Tory , So I 'ave Room to declare With the Rest for the Heir , And there is and end of the Story . Codicil look'd askew , For already He knew , He had set down his Name but too often , That it look'd as uncouth As in being the Mouth , What He heartily hated to soften ; Howe'er there's my Name : And I must the same , Quoth Gambol ; though lately a Bully , I fear I must stand With Papers in Hand At the Door like a poor sneaking Cully . Will Wildfire cry'd , Zounds ! This our Project confounds , Yet I must subscribe in my Turn , And smile with the Rest , 'Thout feeling the Jest , While inward I heartily mourn . Atty Brogue with more ease ( Being what the Times please ) Subscrib'd , for the Circle before He fully had run , And when that is done , Will run round a Thousand such more . The rest of that Tribe , Turn'd each one a Scribe , And slap'd down their Names or their Mark , And then clos'd their Eyes , Like a Man when he die , And is going somewhere in the Dark . But what is the Devil , They're grown now thus civil , Their Principles timely to altar , Not from Virtue or Sense , They are Shams and Pretense , But only the fear of a Halter . Printed , for J. Spoorn , near the Strand . Pr. 1d 