KENTISH DICK ; OR , THE Lusty Coach-Man of Westminster . With and Account how he Tickled the Young Lasses , and caused their sad Lamentation . Tune of , Let Marry live long . Licensed according to Order . IN Westminster town , you there may discover , a wavering lover ; The tawny and brown , as well as the fair , He will commonly court , He is right for the spor a Coachman by trade , Stout brawny young Richard , Stout brawny young Richard . a delicate blade . He came out of Kent , with delicate triming , for pleasing young women ; He give's them content , wherever he goes : He'll have at them all , Both the short and the tall , and follows the trade : His name is stout Richard , His name is stout Richard , a brawny young blade . He's loath to be ty'd , to any one woman ; he love's to live common , The name of a bride , he cannot endure : When he's weary of one , To another he'll run , now this is the trade Of lusty stout Richard , Of lusty stout Richard , that dexterous blade . He's wanton and wild , a Stallion he passes , and five or six lasses , Are got with child by him , as I hear ; Yet he'll marry with none , Though they make their sad moan , but does them degrade : A brawny young fellow A brawny young fellow , a dexterous blade . Dear Richard , one cries , behold my condition , with humble submission , And watery eyes , your love I entreat , Tell me , when we shall wed ? You have my maidenhead . he does her degrade , And swears he'll not marry , And swears he'll not marry , no impudent jade . She told him again , when first he did use her , he would not abuse her : Yet this was in vain , like Hector he swore , That he'd never be ty'd , To any one bride : thus did he degrade , The poor loving creature , The poor loving creature , that once was a maid . A horrible crime , some says , their is seven , and others eleven , At this very time , with child by this spark ; Who does waddle about , For to find the knave out , that does them degrade : He cries he hath knickt it , He cries he hath knickt it , and impudent blade . We [ ' ] ll geld him , says one , of nutmegs we'll free him , if ever we see him , Or he'll overrun all maids of the town : Let's sever from him , That unruly limb , which did us degrade ; He is , I must tell you , He is , I must tell you , and impudent blade . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in G [ i ] lt-spur-street without Newgate . KENTISH DICK ; OR , THE Lusty Coach-Man of Westminster . With and Account how he Tickled the Young Lasses , and caused their sad Lamentation . Tune of , Let Marry live long . Licensed according to Order . IN Westminster town , you there may discover , a wavering lover ; The tawny and brown , as well as the fair , He will commonly court , He is right for the spor a Coachman by trade , Stout brawny young Richard , Stout brawny young Richard . a delicate blade . He came out of Kent , with delicate triming , for pleasing young women ; He give's them content , wherever he goes : He'll have at them all , Both the short and the tall , and follows the trade : His name is stout Richard , His name is stout Richard , a brawny young blade . He's loath to be ty'd , to any one woman ; he love's to live common , The name of a bride , he cannot endure : When he's weary of one , To another he'll run , now this is the trade Of lusty stout Richard , Of lusty stout Richard , that dexterous blade . He's wanton and wild , a Stallion he passes , and five or six lasses , Are got with child by him , as I hear ; Yet he'll marry with none , Though they make their sad moan , but does them degrade : A brawny young fellow A brawny young fellow , a dexterous blade . Dear Richard , one cries , behold my condition , with humble submission , And watery eyes , your love I entreat , Tell me , when we shall wed ? You have my maidenhead . he does her degrade , And swears he'll not marry , And swears he'll not marry , no impudent jade . She told him again , when first he did use her , he would not abuse her : Yet this was in vain , like Hector he swore , That he'd never be ty'd , To any one bride : thus did he degrade , The poor loving creature , The poor loving creature , that once was a maid . A horrible crime , some says , their is seven , and others eleven , At this very time , with child by this spark ; Who does waddle about , For to find the knave out , that does them degrade : He cries he hath knickt it , He cries he hath knickt it , and impudent blade . We [ ' ] ll geld him , says one , of nutmegs we'll free him , if ever we see him , Or he'll overrun all maids of the town : Let's sever from him , That unruly limb , which did us degrade ; He is , I must tell you , He is , I must tell you , and impudent blade . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in G [ i ] lt-spur-street without Newgate . 