The Lamenting Ladies last Farewell to the WORLD . Who , being in a strange Exile , bewails her own misery , come - plains upon Fortune and Destiny ; describeth the manner of her breeding , deplores the loss of her Parents , wishing peace and happiness to England which was her Native Country , and withal resolved for death , cheerfully commending her Soul to Heaven , and her body to the Earth , and quietly departed this Life . To and excellent Tune , called , Oh Hone , Oh Hone . MOurnful Melpomony assist my Quill , That I may pensively now make my Will ; Guide thou my hand to write , And senses to indite , A Ladies last goodnight , Oh pity me . I that was Nobly Born , hither am sent , Like to a Wretch forlorn , here to lament , In this most strange Exile , Here to remain a while , Till heaven be pleas'd to smile , and send for me . My Friends cannot come nigh me in this place ; Nor bear me company , such is my case : Poor I am left alone , But few regard my moan , All my Delights are gone , Heaven succour me . Each Day with cares and fears I am perplexed , My Drink is brinish Tears , with sorrow mix When others soundly sleep , I sadly sob and weep , Oppressed with Dangers deep , Lord comfort me . WHen England flourished , my Parents dear , Tenderly nourished me many a Year : I was advanc'd on high , In place of Dignity , In Golden Bravery they Decked me . My Garments decked with Gold , richly approved , Never was English Girl better beloved ; Old and young , great and small , Waited upon my call , I had the love of all that did know me . But from my former state I am call'd back , Through Destiny and Fate , all goes to wrack ; Fortune did lately frown , And caught me by the crown , So pull'd me headlong down , Oh! woe is me . My dear Friends are decay'd , which lov'd me best , Never was harmless Maid so much distressed ; My Father he is dead , My Mother banished , All joys are from me fled , Heaven comfort me . How well are they at ease , and sweetly blessed , That may go where they please , and where they list , To see their Parents kind , As Nature does them bind , Such joys I cannot find , Oh! woe is me . All earthly helps are gone , I will and must Only in God alone put my whole trust ; Oh blessed Trinity , One God and Persons three , Release my misery , and comfort me . No creature on the Earth can ease my grief , Until such time as Death yield me relief : A Coffin and a Grave Is that which I would have , Sweet Christ my Soul receive , and succour me . My Enemies that be both great and small , Good Lord I pray to thee forgive them all : May England flourish brave , When I am laid in Grave , So thus I take my leave , Christ calls for me . I have in Heaven above , a place prepar'd , Never shall I depart from thence afterwards : Go tole my Passing-Bell , While Angels ring my Knell , So vain World now farewell , Christ sends for me . When she these words had spoke with cheerful heart , The noble-minded Maid then did depar No doubt her Soul's at rest , With them whom God hath blessed , The last words she expressed , was , Christ calls for me . FINIS . Licensed according to Order . Printed for W. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck-Lane . The Lamenting Ladies last Farewell to the WORLD . Who , being in a strange Exile , bewails her own misery , come - plains upon Fortune and Destiny ; describeth the manner of her breeding , deplores the loss of her Parents , wishing peace and happiness to England which was her Native Country , and withal resolved for death , cheerfully commending her Soul to Heaven , and her body to the Earth , and quietly departed this Life . To and excellent Tune , called , Oh Hone , Oh Hone . MOurnful Melpomony assist my Quill , That I may pensively now make my Will ; Guide thou my hand to write , And senses to indite , A Ladies last goodnight , Oh pity me . I that was Nobly Born , hither am sent , Like to a Wretch forlorn , here to lament , In this most strange Exile , Here to remain a while , Till heaven be pleas'd to smile , and send for me . My Friends cannot come nigh me in this place ; Nor bear me company , such is my case : Poor I am left alone , But few regard my moan , All my Delights are gone , Heaven succour me . Each Day with cares and fears I am perplexed , My Drink is brinish Tears , with sorrow mix When others soundly sleep , I sadly sob and weep , Oppressed with Dangers deep , Lord comfort me . WHen England flourished , my Parents dear , Tenderly nourished me many a Year : I was advanc'd on high , In place of Dignity , In Golden Bravery they Decked me . My Garments decked with Gold , richly approved , Never was English Girl better beloved ; Old and young , great and small , Waited upon my call , I had the love of all that did know me . But from my former state I am call'd back , Through Destiny and Fate , all goes to wrack ; Fortune did lately frown , And caught me by the crown , So pull'd me headlong down , Oh! woe is me . My dear Friends are decay'd , which lov'd me best , Never was harmless Maid so much distressed ; My Father he is dead , My Mother banished , All joys are from me fled , Heaven comfort me . How well are they at ease , and sweetly blessed , That may go where they please , and where they list , To see their Parents kind , As Nature does them bind , Such joys I cannot find , Oh! woe is me . All earthly helps are gone , I will and must Only in God alone put my whole trust ; Oh blessed Trinity , One God and Persons three , Release my misery , and comfort me . No creature on the Earth can ease my grief , Until such time as Death yield me relief : A Coffin and a Grave Is that which I would have , Sweet Christ my Soul receive , and succour me . My Enemies that be both great and small , Good Lord I pray to thee forgive them all : May England flourish brave , When I am laid in Grave , So thus I take my leave , Christ calls for me . I have in Heaven above , a place prepar'd , Never shall I depart from thence afterwards : Go tole my Passing-Bell , While Angels ring my Knell , So vain World now farewell , Christ sends for me . When she these words had spoke with cheerful heart , The noble-minded Maid then did depar No doubt her Soul's at rest , With them whom God hath blessed , The last words she expressed , was , Christ calls for me . FINIS . Licensed according to Order . Printed for W. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck-Lane . 