And Hundred Godly Lessons , That a Mother on her Death-Bed gave to her Children , whereby they may know how to Guide themselves to - wards God and Man , to the benefit of the Commonwealth , joy of their Parents , and good to themselves . To the Tune of , Dying Christians Exhortation . MY Children dear mark well my words , and keep thy Parents will , Consider daily in your minds the words which I shall tell : The Gain is great which shall ensue , good Counsel does direct , Their ways and actions for the best , that do it not neglect First , worship GOD above all things , vain swearing see you shun : Hear much , but see you little say , thereby much good is wone ; Speak thou no ill of any man , tend well thine own affairs , Bridle thy wrath and anger so , that thereof comes no cares . Be mild and gentle in thy speech both unto Man and Child , Refuse not good and lawful gains , with words be not beguil'd : Forget not any good turn done , and help thy Neighbours need , Commit no ill in any case , the hungry see thou feed . Cast no man in the Teeth with that which thou for him hast done ; Remember flesh is found and frail , and hatred see thou shun . Leave wicked things , then no mishap shall thee to trouble bring , Crave no preferment of the Lord , nor honour of the King . Boast not thyself before God's sighed , who knows thy heart always : Offend not thou the multitude , faint not when thou dost pray , Scorn not a Man in misery , esteem not tattling Tales , Consider , Reason is exil'd when as a Drunkard rails . Use not thy lips to loathsome lies , by craft increase no wealth , And strive not with a mighty man , with temporance nourish health . Look that thou order well thy words , leave not thy Friend for Gold , Trust not too much before thou try , in vent'ring be not bold . In God Repose thy strength and stay , with Tongue extol his praise , Honour thy Parents , and the Lord he will prolong thy days . He that his Father honour does , God will forgive his since , He that his Mother loves , is like one that does favour win . A Child obedient to the Lord , his Mother comfort shall , The father's Blessing stays the house , his curse does make it fallen . A wise Child makes the father glad , fools do their Mother grieve , And shame shall come to such as do their Parents not relieve . He that his Mother does despise , shall come to nought and worse : The Ravens shall pick out their Eyes that do their Parents curse : From needy men turn not thy face , let not thy right hand know , What thou dost with thy left hand give or on the Poor bestow . They that upon the Poor bestow , unto the Lord does lend , And God unto such men again a thousand fold will send : As water does the fire quench , whose fury great does grow , Even so shall mercy quench their sins , the which do mercy show . Hear thou God's word with earnest ear with wisdom answer make , Be thou not mov'd with every wind , such course do sinners take ; Thy talk will show thy fame or shame , fools oft themselves annoy , Trust not thy own will overmuch , for that may thee destroy . They that the living God do fear , a faithful friend shall find : A true friend is a jewel rare , and comfort to the mind . Hear Sermons , that good sentences thou mayest conceive aright , In God's Commandments exercise thyself both day and night . Think on the pain thy Mother had , in bringing thee to life ; Fear God who knows thy secret thoughts , and look thou make no strife . Visit the sick with carefulness , the Prisoners grief consider , Show pity to the Fatherless , and God will thee deliver . Help still to right the Widows wrong , remember still thine end , So thou shalt never do amiss , nor wilfully offend : Trust not a Reconciled Friend , more than and open Foe , Who touches Pitch shall be defil'd , take heed thou do not so . Take not a wife that wanton is , and full of shameful words , The flattering of and Harlot is at length more sharp than Swords . Cast not thy love on such a one , whose looks can thee allure , In every face where Beauty is , the heart's not always pure . A woman fair and undiscreet , is like a Ring of gold , The which in a Swines snout is set , unseemly to behold : The malice of lewd women shun , for they will thee destroy , Hate her that does on every man set her delight and joy . From others let thy praise proceed , boast not thyself in ought , For do not hear a flattering tongue , thereby much ill is wrough The Child that does his Parents rob , and counteth it no since , A vile destroyer he is deem'd , and shall no favour win . Correction brings wisdom found , fools hate good Counsel still , That Child does shame his Mother m [ such , ] that's let to have his will : The good man's paths shines as the lig [ ht , ] that beautifies the day , The wicked know not where they wall [ k , ] for darkness is their way . Put far from thee a froward mouth , A slanderous tongue is ill , And do not thou and Envious mind in any wise fulfil . A Harlot brings a Man to beg , in her is found no truth , In gladness therefore live and die , with the wife of thy Youth . Much Babbling breeds great offence , he that speaks least is wise , God's blessing only makes men Ric [ h ] from thence all joys arise , Better is little fearing God , than bags of gold god ill , And better is one bit of bred , than a fat Ox with ill will . Who brooks no warning hates his s [ oul , ] true Age worship aright , A patient Man far better is than one endued with might , men credit tames by doing good , and humble mind indeed Is better than a Liar proud , from whence vain brags proceed . By this dear Children you may learn how to direct your ways , To God , to Prince , to Common-wea [ lth ] whereon your welfare stays . Print well in your Remembrance , the Lessons I have shown , Then shall you live in happy state when I am dead and gone . Printed for A. Milbourn , in Green-Arbor-Court , in the Little Old [ - Baily ] And Hundred Godly Lessons , That a Mother on her Death-Bed gave to her Children , whereby they may know how to Guide themselves to - wards God and Man , to the benefit of the Commonwealth , joy of their Parents , and good to themselves . To the Tune of , Dying Christians Exhortation . MY Children dear mark well my words , and keep thy Parents will , Consider daily in your minds the words which I shall tell : The Gain is great which shall ensue , good Counsel does direct , Their ways and actions for the best , that do it not neglect First , worship GOD above all things , vain swearing see you shun : Hear much , but see you little say , thereby much good is wone ; Speak thou no ill of any man , tend well thine own affairs , Bridle thy wrath and anger so , that thereof comes no cares . Be mild and gentle in thy speech both unto Man and Child , Refuse not good and lawful gains , with words be not beguil'd : Forget not any good turn done , and help thy Neighbours need , Commit no ill in any case , the hungry see thou feed . Cast no man in the Teeth with that which thou for him hast done ; Remember flesh is found and frail , and hatred see thou shun . Leave wicked things , then no mishap shall thee to trouble bring , Crave no preferment of the Lord , nor honour of the King . Boast not thyself before God's sighed , who knows thy heart always : Offend not thou the multitude , faint not when thou dost pray , Scorn not a Man in misery , esteem not tattling Tales , Consider , Reason is exil'd when as a Drunkard rails . Use not thy lips to loathsome lies , by craft increase no wealth , And strive not with a mighty man , with temporance nourish health . Look that thou order well thy words , leave not thy Friend for Gold , Trust not too much before thou try , in vent'ring be not bold . In God Repose thy strength and stay , with Tongue extol his praise , Honour thy Parents , and the Lord he will prolong thy days . He that his Father honour does , God will forgive his since , He that his Mother loves , is like one that does favour win . A Child obedient to the Lord , his Mother comfort shall , The father's Blessing stays the house , his curse does make it fallen . A wise Child makes the father glad , fools do their Mother grieve , And shame shall come to such as do their Parents not relieve . He that his Mother does despise , shall come to nought and worse : The Ravens shall pick out their Eyes that do their Parents curse : From needy men turn not thy face , let not thy right hand know , What thou dost with thy left hand give or on the Poor bestow . They that upon the Poor bestow , unto the Lord does lend , And God unto such men again a thousand fold will send : As water does the fire quench , whose fury great does grow , Even so shall mercy quench their sins , the which do mercy show . Hear thou God's word with earnest ear with wisdom answer make , Be thou not mov'd with every wind , such course do sinners take ; Thy talk will show thy fame or shame , fools oft themselves annoy , Trust not thy own will overmuch , for that may thee destroy . They that the living God do fear , a faithful friend shall find : A true friend is a jewel rare , and comfort to the mind . Hear Sermons , that good sentences thou mayest conceive aright , In God's Commandments exercise thyself both day and night . Think on the pain thy Mother had , in bringing thee to life ; Fear God who knows thy secret thoughts , and look thou make no strife . Visit the sick with carefulness , the Prisoners grief consider , Show pity to the Fatherless , and God will thee deliver . Help still to right the Widows wrong , remember still thine end , So thou shalt never do amiss , nor wilfully offend : Trust not a Reconciled Friend , more than and open Foe , Who touches Pitch shall be defil'd , take heed thou do not so . Take not a wife that wanton is , and full of shameful words , The flattering of and Harlot is at length more sharp than Swords . Cast not thy love on such a one , whose looks can thee allure , In every face where Beauty is , the heart's not always pure . A woman fair and undiscreet , is like a Ring of gold , The which in a Swines snout is set , unseemly to behold : The malice of lewd women shun , for they will thee destroy , Hate her that does on every man set her delight and joy . From others let thy praise proceed , boast not thyself in ought , For do not hear a flattering tongue , thereby much ill is wrough The Child that does his Parents rob , and counteth it no since , A vile destroyer he is deem'd , and shall no favour win . Correction brings wisdom found , fools hate good Counsel still , That Child does shame his Mother m [ such , ] that's let to have his will : The good man's paths shines as the lig [ ht , ] that beautifies the day , The wicked know not where they wall [ k , ] for darkness is their way . Put far from thee a froward mouth , A slanderous tongue is ill , And do not thou and Envious mind in any wise fulfil . A Harlot brings a Man to beg , in her is found no truth , In gladness therefore live and die , with the wife of thy Youth . Much Babbling breeds great offence , he that speaks least is wise , God's blessing only makes men Ric [ h ] from thence all joys arise , Better is little fearing God , than bags of gold god ill , And better is one bit of bred , than a fat Ox with ill will . Who brooks no warning hates his s [ oul , ] true Age worship aright , A patient Man far better is than one endued with might , men credit tames by doing good , and humble mind indeed Is better than a Liar proud , from whence vain brags proceed . By this dear Children you may learn how to direct your ways , To God , to Prince , to Common-wea [ lth ] whereon your welfare stays . Print well in your Remembrance , the Lessons I have shown , Then shall you live in happy state when I am dead and gone . Printed for A. Milbourn , in Green-Arbor-Court , in the Little Old [ - Baily ] 