JOHNNY ARMSTRONG's last Goodnigh Declaring how John Armstrong and his Eightscore Men , fought a bloody Battle with the Scotch King at Edenborough . To a pretty Northern Tune . Licensed and Entered according to Order . IS there never a man in all Scotland , from the highest estate to the lowest degree , That can show himself now before the King , Scotland is so full of treachery ? Yes , there is a man in Westmorland , and Jonny Armstrong they do him call , He has no lands nor rends coming in , yet he keeps eightscore men within his hall . He has horse and harness for them all , and goodly steeds that be milkwhite , With their goo [ dly ] belts about their necks , with hats and feeathers all alike . The King he writes a loving letter , and with his own hand so tenderly , And hath sent it unto Jonny Armstrong , to come [ e ] and speak with him speedily . When John he looked this letter upon , good Lord he looked as blithe as a bird in a tree , I was never before a King in my life , my father , my grandfather , nor none of us three : But seeing we must go before the King , Lord , we will go most gallantly ; You shall everyone have a velvet-coat , laid down with golden laces three And you shall everyone have a scarlet cloak laid down with silver laces five , With your golden belts about your necks , with hats and brave feathers all alike . But when John he went from Giltknock-hall , the wind it blew hard , & full fast it did rain , Now fare thee well thou Giltknock-hall , I fear I shall never see thee again . Now Jonny is to Edenborough gone , with his eightscore men so gallantly , And every one of them on a milkwhite steed , with their bucklers and swords hanging to their knee . But when John came the King before , with his eightscore men so gallant to see , The King he mov'd his bonnet to him , he thought he had been a King as well as he . O pardon , pardon , my Sovereign Liege , pardon for my eightscore men and me , For my name it is Jonny Armstrong , and a subject of yours , my Liege , said he . Away with thee , thou false traitor , no pardon will I grant to thee , But tomorrow morning by eight of the clock I will hang up thy eightscore men and thee . Then Jonny looked over his left shoulder , and to his merry men thus said he , I have asked grace of a graceless face , no pardon there is for you or me . Then John pull'd out his nutbrown sword , and it was made of mettle so free , Had not the King mov'd his foot as he did , John had taken his head from his fair body . Come follow me my merry men all , we will scorn one foot for to fly , It shall ne'r be said we were hung like dogs , we will fight it out so manfully . Then they fought on like champions bold , for their hearts were sturdy , stout and free , Till they had killed all the King's good guard , there was none left alive but two or three . But then rose up all Edenborough , they rose up by thousands three , A cowardly Scot came John behind , and run him thorough the fair body . Said John , Fight on my merry men all , I am a little wounded but am not slave , I will lay me down for to bleed awhile , then I'll rise and fight with you agam [ i ] n . Then they fought on like mad men all , till many a man lay dead upon the plain , For they were resolved before they would yeil [ worser , ] that every man would there be slave : So there they fought courageously , till most of them lay dead there and slave , But little Musgrove that was his foot-page , with his bonny griselda god away untain . But when he came to Guiltknock-hall , the Lady spied him presently , What news , what news , thou little foot-page , what news from thy Master and his company ? My news is bad , Lady he said , which I do bring , as you may see , My Master Jonny Armstrong is slave , and all his gallant company . Yet thou art welcome home my bonny Grissel , full oft thou hast been fed with corn and hay , But now thou shalt be fed with bred and wine , and thy sides shall be spur'd no more , I say . O then bespoke his little son , as he sat on his nurse's knee , 'If ever I live to be a man , 'my father's death reveng'd shall be . London : Printed for and by W.O. and sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner and London-brige . JOHNNY ARMSTRONG's last Goodnigh Declaring how John Armstrong and his Eightscore Men , fought a bloody Battle with the Scotch King at Edenborough . To a pretty Northern Tune . Licensed and Entered according to Order . IS there never a man in all Scotland , from the highest estate to the lowest degree , That can show himself now before the King , Scotland is so full of treachery ? Yes , there is a man in Westmorland , and Jonny Armstrong they do him call , He has no lands nor rends coming in , yet he keeps eightscore men within his hall . He has horse and harness for them all , and goodly steeds that be milkwhite , With their goo [ dly ] belts about their necks , with hats and feeathers all alike . The King he writes a loving letter , and with his own hand so tenderly , And hath sent it unto Jonny Armstrong , to come [ e ] and speak with him speedily . When John he looked this letter upon , good Lord he looked as blithe as a bird in a tree , I was never before a King in my life , my father , my grandfather , nor none of us three : But seeing we must go before the King , Lord , we will go most gallantly ; You shall everyone have a velvet-coat , laid down with golden laces three And you shall everyone have a scarlet cloak laid down with silver laces five , With your golden belts about your necks , with hats and brave feathers all alike . But when John he went from Giltknock-hall , the wind it blew hard , & full fast it did rain , Now fare thee well thou Giltknock-hall , I fear I shall never see thee again . Now Jonny is to Edenborough gone , with his eightscore men so gallantly , And every one of them on a milkwhite steed , with their bucklers and swords hanging to their knee . But when John came the King before , with his eightscore men so gallant to see , The King he mov'd his bonnet to him , he thought he had been a King as well as he . O pardon , pardon , my Sovereign Liege , pardon for my eightscore men and me , For my name it is Jonny Armstrong , and a subject of yours , my Liege , said he . Away with thee , thou false traitor , no pardon will I grant to thee , But tomorrow morning by eight of the clock I will hang up thy eightscore men and thee . Then Jonny looked over his left shoulder , and to his merry men thus said he , I have asked grace of a graceless face , no pardon there is for you or me . Then John pull'd out his nutbrown sword , and it was made of mettle so free , Had not the King mov'd his foot as he did , John had taken his head from his fair body . Come follow me my merry men all , we will scorn one foot for to fly , It shall ne'r be said we were hung like dogs , we will fight it out so manfully . Then they fought on like champions bold , for their hearts were sturdy , stout and free , Till they had killed all the King's good guard , there was none left alive but two or three . But then rose up all Edenborough , they rose up by thousands three , A cowardly Scot came John behind , and run him thorough the fair body . Said John , Fight on my merry men all , I am a little wounded but am not slave , I will lay me down for to bleed awhile , then I'll rise and fight with you agam [ i ] n . Then they fought on like mad men all , till many a man lay dead upon the plain , For they were resolved before they would yeil [ worser , ] that every man would there be slave : So there they fought courageously , till most of them lay dead there and slave , But little Musgrove that was his foot-page , with his bonny griselda god away untain . But when he came to Guiltknock-hall , the Lady spied him presently , What news , what news , thou little foot-page , what news from thy Master and his company ? My news is bad , Lady he said , which I do bring , as you may see , My Master Jonny Armstrong is slave , and all his gallant company . Yet thou art welcome home my bonny Grissel , full oft thou hast been fed with corn and hay , But now thou shalt be fed with bred and wine , and thy sides shall be spur'd no more , I say . O then bespoke his little son , as he sat on his nurse's knee , 'If ever I live to be a man , 'my father's death reveng'd shall be . London : Printed for and by W.O. and sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner and London-brige . 