THE Inn-keeper's Complaint ; OR , THE Country Victuallor's Lamentation for the Dearness of MALT , Which hinder's their affording their Shot-Flaggons : concluding with a Hope of seeing happy Days after this Royal Decent . To the Tune of , Let Marry live long . Licensed according to Order . POor Innkeepers now , all over the nation , make sad lamentation ; We cannot allow , large measure of late ; For the Malt here does rise . Beside double Excise , which grieve's us full soar : We can't fell large flaggons , We can't fell large flaggons , as we did before . Poor Innkeepers they , do scarce take a penny , or twopence of any , Sometime in a day , since trading is dead : For the generous soul , Who did love a full bowl , great husbands they grow , Which ruin's our calling , etc good people you know . 'Twas happy when we , had farmers and plowmen , rich grafters and yeomen , Who noble and free , would call in for ale ; While in mirth they did roar , We could decently score , two flaggons for one : But now they'r grown saving , But now they'r grown saving , it cannot be done . We then could afford , to keep a good table , alas ! we were able To bring to the board , good bacon or beef , As a relishing bit , That all day they might fit , and business ply ; Until their dear noses , Until their dear noses , was of a deep die . At paying their shot , we hated all sneaking , without any speaking , A come-again-pot , we'd presently draw : Which would settle them in , To their drinking again ; this frequently made , Among the Innkeepers , Among the Innkeepers , a delicate trade . But Malt now is dear , with taxes and trouble , it make's the price double , And therefore I fear , Innkeepers will break : Instead of coin'd plate , Heavy farthings of late , does plague us likewise : While not one collecter , While no one collecter , will take for excise . In ten or twelve pound , the Maltster's unwilling , to take twenty shilling , He cry's he's not bound , to take no such sum : Thus a racket they make , When 'tis half that we take ; ( men down with their dust , ) And if we refuse it , And if we refuse it , efaith we must trust . Though taxes are large , and silver be scanty , while farthings are plenty ; Yet still we'll discharge our duty like men : Nay , and patiently wait For a flourishing state , when William our King , The Crown of old Lewis , The Crown of old Lewis , to England shall bring . A royal decent , our monarch is making , while Lewis is quaking ; Then let us content ourselves for a while : We wall see happy days , Which our spirits will raise , and give France they'r bane , Then , then , the shot-flaggon , Then , then , the shot-flaggon , you shall have again . Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass on London-Bridge . THE Inn-keeper's Complaint ; OR , THE Country Victuallor's Lamentation for the Dearness of MALT , Which hinder's their affording their Shot-Flaggons : concluding with a Hope of seeing happy Days after this Royal Decent . To the Tune of , Let Marry live long . Licensed according to Order . POor Innkeepers now , all over the nation , make sad lamentation ; We cannot allow , large measure of late ; For the Malt here does rise . Beside double Excise , which grieve's us full soar : We can't fell large flaggons , We can't fell large flaggons , as we did before . Poor Innkeepers they , do scarce take a penny , or twopence of any , Sometime in a day , since trading is dead : For the generous soul , Who did love a full bowl , great husbands they grow , Which ruin's our calling , etc good people you know . 'Twas happy when we , had farmers and plowmen , rich grafters and yeomen , Who noble and free , would call in for ale ; While in mirth they did roar , We could decently score , two flaggons for one : But now they'r grown saving , But now they'r grown saving , it cannot be done . We then could afford , to keep a good table , alas ! we were able To bring to the board , good bacon or beef , As a relishing bit , That all day they might fit , and business ply ; Until their dear noses , Until their dear noses , was of a deep die . At paying their shot , we hated all sneaking , without any speaking , A come-again-pot , we'd presently draw : Which would settle them in , To their drinking again ; this frequently made , Among the Innkeepers , Among the Innkeepers , a delicate trade . But Malt now is dear , with taxes and trouble , it make's the price double , And therefore I fear , Innkeepers will break : Instead of coin'd plate , Heavy farthings of late , does plague us likewise : While not one collecter , While no one collecter , will take for excise . In ten or twelve pound , the Maltster's unwilling , to take twenty shilling , He cry's he's not bound , to take no such sum : Thus a racket they make , When 'tis half that we take ; ( men down with their dust , ) And if we refuse it , And if we refuse it , efaith we must trust . Though taxes are large , and silver be scanty , while farthings are plenty ; Yet still we'll discharge our duty like men : Nay , and patiently wait For a flourishing state , when William our King , The Crown of old Lewis , The Crown of old Lewis , to England shall bring . A royal decent , our monarch is making , while Lewis is quaking ; Then let us content ourselves for a while : We wall see happy days , Which our spirits will raise , and give France they'r bane , Then , then , the shot-flaggon , Then , then , the shot-flaggon , you shall have again . Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass on London-Bridge . THE Inn-keeper's Complaint ; OR , THE Country Victuallor's Lamentation for the Dearness of MALT , Which hinder's their affording their Shot-Flaggons : concluding with a Hope of seeing happy Days after this Royal Decent . To the Tune of , Let Marry live long . Licensed according to Order . POor Innkeepers now , all over the nation , make sad lamentation ; We cannot allow , large measure of late ; For the Malt here does rise . Beside double Excise , which grieve's us full soar : We can't fell large flaggons , We can't fell large flaggons , as we did before . Poor Innkeepers they , do scarce take a penny , or twopence of any , Sometime in a day , since trading is dead : For the generous soul , Who did love a full bowl , great husbands they grow , Which ruin's our calling , etc good people you know . 'Twas happy when we , had farmers and plowmen , rich grafters and yeomen , Who noble and free , would call in for ale ; While in mirth they did roar , We could decently score , two flaggons for one : But now they'r grown saving , But now they'r grown saving , it cannot be done . We then could afford , to keep a good table , alas ! we were able To bring to the board , good bacon or beef , As a relishing bit , That all day they might fit , and business ply ; Until their dear noses , Until their dear noses , was of a deep die . At paying their shot , we hated all sneaking , without any speaking , A come-again-pot , we'd presently draw : Which would settle them in , To their drinking again ; this frequently made , Among the Innkeepers , Among the Innkeepers , a delicate trade . But Malt now is dear , with taxes and trouble , it make's the price double , And therefore I fear , Innkeepers will break : Instead of coin'd plate , Heavy farthings of late , does plague us likewise : While not one collecter , While no one collecter , will take for excise . In ten or twelve pound , the Maltster's unwilling , to take twenty shilling , He cry's he's not bound , to take no such sum : Thus a racket they make , When 'tis half that we take ; ( men down with their dust , ) And if we refuse it , And if we refuse it , efaith we must trust . Though taxes are large , and silver be scanty , while farthings are plenty ; Yet still we'll discharge our duty like men : Nay , and patiently wait For a flourishing state , when William our King , The Crown of old Lewis , The Crown of old Lewis , to England shall bring . A royal decent , our monarch is making , while Lewis is quaking ; Then let us content ourselves for a while : We wall see happy days , Which our spirits will raise , and give France they'r bane , Then , then , the shot-flaggon , Then , then , the shot-flaggon , you shall have again . Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass on London-Bridge . THE Inn-keeper's Complaint ; OR , THE Country Victuallor's Lamentation for the Dearness of MALT , Which hinder's their affording their Shot-Flaggons : concluding with a Hope of seeing happy Days after this Royal Decent . To the Tune of , Let Marry live long . Licensed according to Order . POor Innkeepers now , all over the nation , make sad lamentation ; We cannot allow , large measure of late ; For the Malt here does rise . Beside double Excise , which grieve's us full soar : We can't fell large flaggons , We can't fell large flaggons , as we did before . Poor Innkeepers they , do scarce take a penny , or twopence of any , Sometime in a day , since trading is dead : For the generous soul , Who did love a full bowl , great husbands they grow , Which ruin's our calling , etc good people you know . 'Twas happy when we , had farmers and plowmen , rich grafters and yeomen , Who noble and free , would call in for ale ; While in mirth they did roar , We could decently score , two flaggons for one : But now they'r grown saving , But now they'r grown saving , it cannot be done . We then could afford , to keep a good table , alas ! we were able To bring to the board , good bacon or beef , As a relishing bit , That all day they might fit , and business ply ; Until their dear noses , Until their dear noses , was of a deep die . At paying their shot , we hated all sneaking , without any speaking , A come-again-pot , we'd presently draw : Which would settle them in , To their drinking again ; this frequently made , Among the Innkeepers , Among the Innkeepers , a delicate trade . But Malt now is dear , with taxes and trouble , it make's the price double , And therefore I fear , Innkeepers will break : Instead of coin'd plate , Heavy farthings of late , does plague us likewise : While not one collecter , While no one collecter , will take for excise . In ten or twelve pound , the Maltster's unwilling , to take twenty shilling , He cry's he's not bound , to take no such sum : Thus a racket they make , When 'tis half that we take ; ( men down with their dust , ) And if we refuse it , And if we refuse it , efaith we must trust . Though taxes are large , and silver be scanty , while farthings are plenty ; Yet still we'll discharge our duty like men : Nay , and patiently wait For a flourishing state , when William our King , The Crown of old Lewis , The Crown of old Lewis , to England shall bring . A royal decent , our monarch is making , while Lewis is quaking ; Then let us content ourselves for a while : We wall see happy days , Which our spirits will raise , and give France they'r bane , Then , then , the shot-flaggon , Then , then , the shot-flaggon , you shall have again . Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass on London-Bridge . 