AND ANSWER TO The Unconstant Shepherd : OR , Fair Cynthia's Grief and Care Crowned with Joy and Hap - piness , by her Lover's Return . To and excellent New Tune . I . MY Dear let nothing trouble thy Heart , for here I am returned again , In order to cure that killing Smart , of which thou so often didst complain . II 'Tis true I was banish'd from my Love , which was a Torment and Grief to me ; Yet now I will ever Loyal prove , so long as I have my Liberty . III . As I am thy true entire Friend , thy faithful and ever loving Swain ; There's no evil Tongue shall thee offend , so long as I do alive remain . IV. In Kisses and sweet Embraces still , our Minutes we'll freely pass away , As void of the thoughts of any ill , as innocent Lambs that sport and play . V. Thy Wishes at length are come to pass , my Chamber and all I have is thine ; I never did see a sweeter Lass , thy Beauty has wone the Heart of mine . VI . By wandering shady Groves about , expressing true Sorrow , Grief , and Care , Thy wandering Heart hath found me out , now I am thy Captive , charming Fair . VII . 'Tis true thou saidst thou sett'st Love as light as the Wind that blew from Tree to Tree , But thy former Wrongs I now will right , and we'll live in Love and Loyalty . VIII . Love dry up thy flowing Tears , he cry'd , and bid all thy Sorrows and Cares adieu ; Tho' Fortune awhile did us divide , yet I'll Love none in the World but you . IX . The whistling Winds did soon convey thy scornful Sighs , and Groans to me , And therefore I made no more delay , but readily came , my Love , to thee . X. And now in the Circuit of mine Arms , the former Delights thou still shalt find ; For viewing thy Youthful pleasing Charms , young Phaon he cannot prove unkind . XI . I pitied thy bitter Sighs and Cries , and sorrowful Groans that fill'd my Ears ; My Senses was struck with a strange surprise , and straightways my Eyes did flow Tears . XII . Such killing Torments I then did feel , which neither my Tongue nor Pen can tell ; No longer I could my Love conceal , to hear thee taking thy last Farewell . And now my sweet Cynthia and charming Fair , if thou wilt but pardon what is past , Thy Phaon do's solemnly declare , he'll love thee as long as Life shall last . Printed for Charles Bates next to the Crown Tavern in Westsmithfield . AND ANSWER TO The Unconstant Shepherd : OR , Fair Cynthia's Grief and Care Crowned with Joy and Hap - piness , by her Lover's Return . To and excellent New Tune . I . MY Dear let nothing trouble thy Heart , for here I am returned again , In order to cure that killing Smart , of which thou so often didst complain . II 'Tis true I was banish'd from my Love , which was a Torment and Grief to me ; Yet now I will ever Loyal prove , so long as I have my Liberty . III . As I am thy true entire Friend , thy faithful and ever loving Swain ; There's no evil Tongue shall thee offend , so long as I do alive remain . IV. In Kisses and sweet Embraces still , our Minutes we'll freely pass away , As void of the thoughts of any ill , as innocent Lambs that sport and play . V. Thy Wishes at length are come to pass , my Chamber and all I have is thine ; I never did see a sweeter Lass , thy Beauty has wone the Heart of mine . VI . By wandering shady Groves about , expressing true Sorrow , Grief , and Care , Thy wandering Heart hath found me out , now I am thy Captive , charming Fair . VII . 'Tis true thou saidst thou sett'st Love as light as the Wind that blew from Tree to Tree , But thy former Wrongs I now will right , and we'll live in Love and Loyalty . VIII . Love dry up thy flowing Tears , he cry'd , and bid all thy Sorrows and Cares adieu ; Tho' Fortune awhile did us divide , yet I'll Love none in the World but you . IX . The whistling Winds did soon convey thy scornful Sighs , and Groans to me , And therefore I made no more delay , but readily came , my Love , to thee . X. And now in the Circuit of mine Arms , the former Delights thou still shalt find ; For viewing thy Youthful pleasing Charms , young Phaon he cannot prove unkind . XI . I pitied thy bitter Sighs and Cries , and sorrowful Groans that fill'd my Ears ; My Senses was struck with a strange surprise , and straightways my Eyes did flow Tears . XII . Such killing Torments I then did feel , which neither my Tongue nor Pen can tell ; No longer I could my Love conceal , to hear thee taking thy last Farewell . And now my sweet Cynthia and charming Fair , if thou wilt but pardon what is past , Thy Phaon do's solemnly declare , he'll love thee as long as Life shall last . Printed for Charles Bates next to the Crown Tavern in Westsmithfield . 