The Deluded Lasses Lamentation : OR , The False Youth's Unkindness to his Beloved Mistress . To the Tune of Is she gone , let her go . Licensed according to Order . IS she gone ? let her go , I do not care , Though she has a dainty thing , I had my share : She has more Land than I by one whole Acre , I have plow'd in her Ground , who will may take her . Did not you promise me when you lay by me , That you wou'd Marry me , can you deny me ? If I did promise thee , 'twas but to try thee , Bring in your Witness , for now I defy thee . Did not you swear by the Powers above , That you wou'd Marry if I'd grant you love ? Of all fair Lasses I thought thee bonniest , And wou'd have marry'd thee hadst thou kept honest . 'Twas your deluding Tongue made me miscarry , Because you promis'd with me for to marry , Had not you yielded so soon to lie by me , Then to have Marry'd I had not deny'd thee . I never lay with Man , except it were you , Not thinking you wou'd have prov'd so untrue : If to lie by me thou then hadst refused , Then I thy Person sure ne'er had abused . You with the Art of a vigorous Lover , Told me you pleasure and joys cou'd discover ; But your false pleasure did last but a moment , And for that pleasure I suffer more Torment . Sweet fair charming Beauty you then had in store , Had Virtue been added , there needed no more ; But if you had not been as willing as I , You had not yielded with me for to lie . Your promise made me to let you lie by me , I thought you constant , and could not deny thee ; But had I known the Intent of your Passion , Thus for to grieve there had been no occasion . Thou found and foolish Girl , leave thy lamenting When thou art wiser then I'll be Relenting ; When thou again art a Virgin I'll Wed thee , And then with License I boldly may Bed thee . You pleasure take to rail at my Misfortune , While my poor Heart do's ache to think of parting , But since that you are resolved to fly me , I hope no other Lass e'er will lie by thee . Farewell thou perjur'd Youth , false and deceitful , I ne'er thought you wou'd have prov'd so ungrateful First by deluding Words thus to deceive me , Having obtain'd your ends , scornfully leave me . Do but remember now when you came to me , Every solemn Vow made to undo me ; By your alluring Charms I was invited , You for my present Harms may be requited . Being the worst of Men , first to Defile me , And this no sooner done , but straight revile me ; From which I perfectly now do discover , You were no more at best , but a false Lover . Let Lasses young and fair , that hears this Story , Of a false Lover beware , blast not your Glory ; For many youngmen will strive to deceive you , And when they have their Will , straightway leave [ you . ] Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . The Deluded Lasses Lamentation : OR , The False Youth's Unkindness to his Beloved Mistress . To the Tune of Is she gone , let her go . Licensed according to Order . IS she gone ? let her go , I do not care , Though she has a dainty thing , I had my share : She has more Land than I by one whole Acre , I have plow'd in her Ground , who will may take her . Did not you promise me when you lay by me , That you wou'd Marry me , can you deny me ? If I did promise thee , 'twas but to try thee , Bring in your Witness , for now I defy thee . Did not you swear by the Powers above , That you wou'd Marry if I'd grant you love ? Of all fair Lasses I thought thee bonniest , And wou'd have marry'd thee hadst thou kept honest . 'Twas your deluding Tongue made me miscarry , Because you promis'd with me for to marry , Had not you yielded so soon to lie by me , Then to have Marry'd I had not deny'd thee . I never lay with Man , except it were you , Not thinking you wou'd have prov'd so untrue : If to lie by me thou then hadst refused , Then I thy Person sure ne'er had abused . You with the Art of a vigorous Lover , Told me you pleasure and joys cou'd discover ; But your false pleasure did last but a moment , And for that pleasure I suffer more Torment . Sweet fair charming Beauty you then had in store , Had Virtue been added , there needed no more ; But if you had not been as willing as I , You had not yielded with me for to lie . Your promise made me to let you lie by me , I thought you constant , and could not deny thee ; But had I known the Intent of your Passion , Thus for to grieve there had been no occasion . Thou found and foolish Girl , leave thy lamenting When thou art wiser then I'll be Relenting ; When thou again art a Virgin I'll Wed thee , And then with License I boldly may Bed thee . You pleasure take to rail at my Misfortune , While my poor Heart do's ache to think of parting , But since that you are resolved to fly me , I hope no other Lass e'er will lie by thee . Farewell thou perjur'd Youth , false and deceitful , I ne'er thought you wou'd have prov'd so ungrateful First by deluding Words thus to deceive me , Having obtain'd your ends , scornfully leave me . Do but remember now when you came to me , Every solemn Vow made to undo me ; By your alluring Charms I was invited , You for my present Harms may be requited . Being the worst of Men , first to Defile me , And this no sooner done , but straight revile me ; From which I perfectly now do discover , You were no more at best , but a false Lover . Let Lasses young and fair , that hears this Story , Of a false Lover beware , blast not your Glory ; For many youngmen will strive to deceive you , And when they have their Will , straightway leave [ you . ] Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 