The Sailors Account OF THE ACTION at VIGO . MUse will have her Song ; hark ! she merrily sings , The Praise of a Queen that has beaten two Kings : Of Ormond and Rook too , and how they fell on , And flat as a Flounder laid Monsieur and Don. Bright Eugene and Marlbrough shou'd live in our Rhyme , And other brave Heroes too , had we but time : But Heroes excuse us , for now Muse and I go , To raise to the Stars the Dead-doers at VIGO . You Monsieurs and Dons , if with Losses you meet , Yet don't be discourag'd , we'll pay off your Fleet. Cries a Hawk from the Wing , the Eagle-ey'd Hardy , Game ! game ! Royal Game ! we shall take 'em all tardy : In VIGO they ride , Men of War , Galleons , The Might of the Monsieurs and Pride of the Dons : Led on , great Commander , sink , burn , take the Plate ; 'Twill all be our own , if we don't come too late . We'll brisk up old England with Fame & with Plunder ; We'll win 't tho' we Charge thoro' Lightning & Thunder . You Monsieurs and Dons , if with Losses you meet , Yet don't be discourag'd , we'll pay off your Fleet. Sir George sends the News to the stout Hogen Mogen , Then Squadrons we join without any Proroguing : Soon VIGO we make , where a Deodand Cloak , A Cloak sent from Heaven , wraps us and our Oak . Unseen we consult , and resolve to break in , But not with First Rates , lest the Brine be too thin : On the Thirds high in View , are the First Rate Commanders , This Rums the brisk Seamen , & Brandys the Landers : You Monsieurs and Dons , if with Losses you meet , Yet don't be discourag'd , we'll pay off your Fleet. My dear Baladina , let's stop and take Breath ; One Glass , and no more then ; for Halting is Death . Here's a Health to the Queen . I'll pledg't . One had said , Sir , speech up your Men , that they mayn't be afraid . Afraid ? And a Speech ? says a Sailor there by , Sir , you slander the Fleet , and your Country belly . Let Cowards be Speecht , that Spur is here vain ; The English need rather the Curb and the Rein . You Monsieurs and Dons , if with Losses you meet , Yet don't be discourag'd , we'll pay off your Fleet. The Second PART . GReat Ormond first Lands with his Jolly Marines , Men fit to serve ANNA the greatest of Queen's : In Order they march , two Thousand in all , All handsome Young Men , all Lusty and tall . Of the Dons and their Guns they do but make sport , Defy their whole Army , and Ravish their For They had blocked up their Port with Mast , Cable and Chain , But Hobson soon taught 'em it Labour in Vain . You Monsieurs and Dons , if with Losses you meet , Yet don't be discourag'd , we'll pay off your Fleet. Your Boom is now cut , and your Fort is now taken , And now , Rogues , where are you ? Now where is your Bacon ? Your Shatereno , we shall make him to skip ; But , scorning to yield her , he burns his tall Ship : 'Twas a Forest alone , 'twas a new Rising SUN , But alas ! this must set , as the former had done . Surviving Confounders against us still roar , Excuse 'em this once and they'll do so no more . You Monsieurs and Dons , tho' with Losses you meet , Yet don't be dismay'd , we have paid off your Fleet. Now , after Work , Wages , we'll laugh and relate , Oh , what a rich Cordial is Plunder and Plate ! Both Monsieurs and Dons had been many Moons Rig - ging , And thousands of Hands many Years had been Dig - ging : But ( Oh , 'tis to them a sad Tale to be told ! ) For Us 'twas they rigg'd , and digg'd Silver and Gold . The Dreadful now quake , and the poor Galleons Surrender rich Cargo to Tars and Dragoons . But what is't to us if with Losses they meet ? If we had their Money , we paid off their Fleet. O , Britain , be thankful for such a good Queen ! The like since Great El'zabeth never was seen : Be thankful for Statesmen , who don't Rob and starve Us ; For Sea and Land Worthies , that Fight to Preserve Us : Be thankful for Ormond , the Churchills , and Rook ; But yet , let me tell you , GOD never will Brook Your Cursing and Swearing , your Lying & Cheating ; These Winds are contrary , they'll hinder Defeating . Let Lewis repent too ; For what can he gain , Who Looses his Soul for the Kingdoms of Spain . EXON : Printed by Sam. Farley , 1702. The Sailors Account OF THE ACTION at VIGO . MUse will have her Song ; hark ! she merrily sings , The Praise of a Queen that has beaten two Kings : Of Ormond and Rook too , and how they fell on , And flat as a Flounder laid Monsieur and Don. Bright Eugene and Marlbrough shou'd live in our Rhyme , And other brave Heroes too , had we but time : But Heroes excuse us , for now Muse and I go , To raise to the Stars the Dead-doers at VIGO . You Monsieurs and Dons , if with Losses you meet , Yet don't be discourag'd , we'll pay off your Fleet. Cries a Hawk from the Wing , the Eagle-ey'd Hardy , Game ! game ! Royal Game ! we shall take 'em all tardy : In VIGO they ride , Men of War , Galleons , The Might of the Monsieurs and Pride of the Dons : Led on , great Commander , sink , burn , take the Plate ; 'Twill all be our own , if we don't come too late . We'll brisk up old England with Fame & with Plunder ; We'll win 't tho' we Charge thoro' Lightning & Thunder . You Monsieurs and Dons , if with Losses you meet , Yet don't be discourag'd , we'll pay off your Fleet. Sir George sends the News to the stout Hogen Mogen , Then Squadrons we join without any Proroguing : Soon VIGO we make , where a Deodand Cloak , A Cloak sent from Heaven , wraps us and our Oak . Unseen we consult , and resolve to break in , But not with First Rates , lest the Brine be too thin : On the Thirds high in View , are the First Rate Commanders , This Rums the brisk Seamen , & Brandys the Landers : You Monsieurs and Dons , if with Losses you meet , Yet don't be discourag'd , we'll pay off your Fleet. My dear Baladina , let's stop and take Breath ; One Glass , and no more then ; for Halting is Death . Here's a Health to the Queen . I'll pledg't . One had said , Sir , speech up your Men , that they mayn't be afraid . Afraid ? And a Speech ? says a Sailor there by , Sir , you slander the Fleet , and your Country belly . Let Cowards be Speecht , that Spur is here vain ; The English need rather the Curb and the Rein . You Monsieurs and Dons , if with Losses you meet , Yet don't be discourag'd , we'll pay off your Fleet. The Second PART . GReat Ormond first Lands with his Jolly Marines , Men fit to serve ANNA the greatest of Queen's : In Order they march , two Thousand in all , All handsome Young Men , all Lusty and tall . Of the Dons and their Guns they do but make sport , Defy their whole Army , and Ravish their For They had blocked up their Port with Mast , Cable and Chain , But Hobson soon taught 'em it Labour in Vain . You Monsieurs and Dons , if with Losses you meet , Yet don't be discourag'd , we'll pay off your Fleet. Your Boom is now cut , and your Fort is now taken , And now , Rogues , where are you ? Now where is your Bacon ? Your Shatereno , we shall make him to skip ; But , scorning to yield her , he burns his tall Ship : 'Twas a Forest alone , 'twas a new Rising SUN , But alas ! this must set , as the former had done . Surviving Confounders against us still roar , Excuse 'em this once and they'll do so no more . You Monsieurs and Dons , tho' with Losses you meet , Yet don't be dismay'd , we have paid off your Fleet. Now , after Work , Wages , we'll laugh and relate , Oh , what a rich Cordial is Plunder and Plate ! Both Monsieurs and Dons had been many Moons Rig - ging , And thousands of Hands many Years had been Dig - ging : But ( Oh , 'tis to them a sad Tale to be told ! ) For Us 'twas they rigg'd , and digg'd Silver and Gold . The Dreadful now quake , and the poor Galleons Surrender rich Cargo to Tars and Dragoons . But what is't to us if with Losses they meet ? If we had their Money , we paid off their Fleet. O , Britain , be thankful for such a good Queen ! The like since Great El'zabeth never was seen : Be thankful for Statesmen , who don't Rob and starve Us ; For Sea and Land Worthies , that Fight to Preserve Us : Be thankful for Ormond , the Churchills , and Rook ; But yet , let me tell you , GOD never will Brook Your Cursing and Swearing , your Lying & Cheating ; These Winds are contrary , they'll hinder Defeating . Let Lewis repent too ; For what can he gain , Who Looses his Soul for the Kingdoms of Spain . EXON : Printed by Sam. Farley , 1702. 