The Poor men Prayer for Peace , in these sorrowful Times of Trouble . OR , Poor England's Misery in this time of Distress . It is for our Sins as we do understand , That all this great trouble does lie on this Land This Innocent Blood may make us all start , God bless us hereafter we take not a part Our great God of Heaven and our gracious King , Let us serve and obey in everything . To the Tune of Game at Cards . POor England's sorrows this many a year has made us much to stand in fear , This twenty years and more I say we have had suspicion of this day Our sins are god so very high let us to God for mercy cry , That all our trouble they may cease And England may enjoy true Peace . What though the times be very cross it's for our Sins we must confess Let us serve God and obey the King observe Gods word in everything : And keep no Rebellion in our Heart that is the thing makes England smart And pray all our trouble , etc Every morning when we rise with Heart and Mind let us devise To call one God and fallen to Prayer to bless our doing everywhere . Take not so much Gods Name in vain for that we greatly are to blame . And pray all our troubles they may cease And England may enjoy true peace . The Western Parts have suffered most by Enemies that came on their Coast But blessed be the God of might that fought the Battle for the right But if we trust in God near fear he will defend us everywhere . And pray , etc LEt's not distrust in God at all he can defend both great and small We need not fear what Man can do if our God be not our Foe It is our sins causes all this Woes that makes so many their lives loose And pray all our troubles they may cease And England may enjoy true Peace . Let us repent and call on God then hee'l take off his heavy Rod , And spare us for his mercies sake innocent Blood does make us quake . There be Widows we do fear and many a Fatherless Child this year . prey that our troubles they may cease , That England may enjoy true Peace . Keep a good Heart and never fear and work with patience ne'r despair We have a God if we him trust will not forsake us for he is just . Rely upon him that is Divine let us keep from evil and ne'r repine And pray , etc Poor Englands Sins as you may see that causes this difference here to be , There's but one way that we can have , and one true way our Souls to save , I am sorry that our English Men has no more perseuance of the same . And pray etc I have no more to say on this I pray God mend all that is amiss And God bless our King and Kingdom too that he his Enemies may subdue . And God bless us all then every way that Gods and the Kings Laws we may obey And pray our Troubles they may cease That England may enjoy true Peace . That we the right way may pursue lets keep from swearing drunken crew For swearing drunkards do excel that damn themselves and Souls to Hell Children as soon as they can speak will swear 'twould make one's Heart to ache , Then let us pray and ne'r rebel , And by the grace of God we shall live well , FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . The Poor men Prayer for Peace , in these sorrowful Times of Trouble . OR , Poor England's Misery in this time of Distress . It is for our Sins as we do understand , That all this great trouble does lie on this Land This Innocent Blood may make us all start , God bless us hereafter we take not a part Our great God of Heaven and our gracious King , Let us serve and obey in everything . To the Tune of Game at Cards . POor England's sorrows this many a year has made us much to stand in fear , This twenty years and more I say we have had suspicion of this day Our sins are god so very high let us to God for mercy cry , That all our trouble they may cease And England may enjoy true Peace . What though the times be very cross it's for our Sins we must confess Let us serve God and obey the King observe Gods word in everything : And keep no Rebellion in our Heart that is the thing makes England smart And pray all our trouble , etc Every morning when we rise with Heart and Mind let us devise To call one God and fallen to Prayer to bless our doing everywhere . Take not so much Gods Name in vain for that we greatly are to blame . And pray all our troubles they may cease And England may enjoy true peace . The Western Parts have suffered most by Enemies that came on their Coast But blessed be the God of might that fought the Battle for the right But if we trust in God near fear he will defend us everywhere . And pray , etc LEt's not distrust in God at all he can defend both great and small We need not fear what Man can do if our God be not our Foe It is our sins causes all this Woes that makes so many their lives loose And pray all our troubles they may cease And England may enjoy true Peace . Let us repent and call on God then hee'l take off his heavy Rod , And spare us for his mercies sake innocent Blood does make us quake . There be Widows we do fear and many a Fatherless Child this year . prey that our troubles they may cease , That England may enjoy true Peace . Keep a good Heart and never fear and work with patience ne'r despair We have a God if we him trust will not forsake us for he is just . Rely upon him that is Divine let us keep from evil and ne'r repine And pray , etc Poor Englands Sins as you may see that causes this difference here to be , There's but one way that we can have , and one true way our Souls to save , I am sorry that our English Men has no more perseuance of the same . And pray etc I have no more to say on this I pray God mend all that is amiss And God bless our King and Kingdom too that he his Enemies may subdue . And God bless us all then every way that Gods and the Kings Laws we may obey And pray our Troubles they may cease That England may enjoy true Peace . That we the right way may pursue lets keep from swearing drunken crew For swearing drunkards do excel that damn themselves and Souls to Hell Children as soon as they can speak will swear 'twould make one's Heart to ache , Then let us pray and ne'r rebel , And by the grace of God we shall live well , FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . The Poor men Prayer for Peace , in these sorrowful Times of Trouble . OR , Poor England's Misery in this time of Distress . It is for our Sins as we do understand , That all this great trouble does lie on this Land This Innocent Blood may make us all start , God bless us hereafter we take not a part Our great God of Heaven and our gracious King , Let us serve and obey in everything . To the Tune of Game at Cards . POor England's sorrows this many a year has made us much to stand in fear , This twenty years and more I say we have had suspicion of this day Our sins are god so very high let us to God for mercy cry , That all our trouble they may cease And England may enjoy true Peace . What though the times be very cross it's for our Sins we must confess Let us serve God and obey the King observe Gods word in everything : And keep no Rebellion in our Heart that is the thing makes England smart And pray all our trouble , etc Every morning when we rise with Heart and Mind let us devise To call one God and fallen to Prayer to bless our doing everywhere . Take not so much Gods Name in vain for that we greatly are to blame . And pray all our troubles they may cease And England may enjoy true peace . The Western Parts have suffered most by Enemies that came on their Coast But blessed be the God of might that fought the Battle for the right But if we trust in God near fear he will defend us everywhere . And pray , etc LEt's not distrust in God at all he can defend both great and small We need not fear what Man can do if our God be not our Foe It is our sins causes all this Woes that makes so many their lives loose And pray all our troubles they may cease And England may enjoy true Peace . Let us repent and call on God then hee'l take off his heavy Rod , And spare us for his mercies sake innocent Blood does make us quake . There be Widows we do fear and many a Fatherless Child this year . prey that our troubles they may cease , That England may enjoy true Peace . Keep a good Heart and never fear and work with patience ne'r despair We have a God if we him trust will not forsake us for he is just . Rely upon him that is Divine let us keep from evil and ne'r repine And pray , etc Poor Englands Sins as you may see that causes this difference here to be , There's but one way that we can have , and one true way our Souls to save , I am sorry that our English Men has no more perseuance of the same . And pray etc I have no more to say on this I pray God mend all that is amiss And God bless our King and Kingdom too that he his Enemies may subdue . And God bless us all then every way that Gods and the Kings Laws we may obey And pray our Troubles they may cease That England may enjoy true Peace . That we the right way may pursue lets keep from swearing drunken crew For swearing drunkards do excel that damn themselves and Souls to Hell Children as soon as they can speak will swear 'twould make one's Heart to ache , Then let us pray and ne'r rebel , And by the grace of God we shall live well , FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . The Poor men Prayer for Peace , in these sorrowful Times of Trouble . OR , Poor England's Misery in this time of Distress . It is for our Sins as we do understand , That all this great trouble does lie on this Land This Innocent Blood may make us all start , God bless us hereafter we take not a part Our great God of Heaven and our gracious King , Let us serve and obey in everything . To the Tune of Game at Cards . POor England's sorrows this many a year has made us much to stand in fear , This twenty years and more I say we have had suspicion of this day Our sins are god so very high let us to God for mercy cry , That all our trouble they may cease And England may enjoy true Peace . What though the times be very cross it's for our Sins we must confess Let us serve God and obey the King observe Gods word in everything : And keep no Rebellion in our Heart that is the thing makes England smart And pray all our trouble , etc Every morning when we rise with Heart and Mind let us devise To call one God and fallen to Prayer to bless our doing everywhere . Take not so much Gods Name in vain for that we greatly are to blame . And pray all our troubles they may cease And England may enjoy true peace . The Western Parts have suffered most by Enemies that came on their Coast But blessed be the God of might that fought the Battle for the right But if we trust in God near fear he will defend us everywhere . And pray , etc LEt's not distrust in God at all he can defend both great and small We need not fear what Man can do if our God be not our Foe It is our sins causes all this Woes that makes so many their lives loose And pray all our troubles they may cease And England may enjoy true Peace . Let us repent and call on God then hee'l take off his heavy Rod , And spare us for his mercies sake innocent Blood does make us quake . There be Widows we do fear and many a Fatherless Child this year . prey that our troubles they may cease , That England may enjoy true Peace . Keep a good Heart and never fear and work with patience ne'r despair We have a God if we him trust will not forsake us for he is just . Rely upon him that is Divine let us keep from evil and ne'r repine And pray , etc Poor Englands Sins as you may see that causes this difference here to be , There's but one way that we can have , and one true way our Souls to save , I am sorry that our English Men has no more perseuance of the same . And pray etc I have no more to say on this I pray God mend all that is amiss And God bless our King and Kingdom too that he his Enemies may subdue . And God bless us all then every way that Gods and the Kings Laws we may obey And pray our Troubles they may cease That England may enjoy true Peace . That we the right way may pursue lets keep from swearing drunken crew For swearing drunkards do excel that damn themselves and Souls to Hell Children as soon as they can speak will swear 'twould make one's Heart to ache , Then let us pray and ne'r rebel , And by the grace of God we shall live well , FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . 