To see how soon the fatal Hand of Death , [ ? ] , who can forbear to weep , To see how soon the fatal Hand of Death , After his Mayoralty , could snatch the Breath Of such a Wife , Judicious Magistrate ! One of the Pillars of our present State . When Death the Glories of this World will shake , He on the Mighty do's a Conquest make , And takes 'em from the Place of Trust and Care , To live where Saints forever happy are : In Blessed Regions of Celestial Love , Which neither Storm nor Tempest can remove , Of this contentious restless World below ; For there perpetual Joys like Rivers flow . His quiet Soul shall there in Glory reign ; 'Tis only we have Reason to complain , That Death such Subject's to the Grave should bring , While they are serviceable to their King . Two years and more , he govern'd here with care , Still doing what was honest , just and fair , Between the King and Subject constantly , In Love and Truth , without partiality . No Fear nor Favour cou'd his Judgement sway , Nor could his upright Heart be drawn away From Justice by the Gifts of Golden Oar , For he had seen too much of that before . When Laws did on the brink of Ruin stand , And Room did seem to bear the sole Command , Still flowing on us like a mighty Flood , And punish'd Men merely for being good . among the rest , Sir THOMAS PILKINGTON , Did feel that Storm and Stream against him run ; Who being long confin'd in Prison , where He did his Cross with Christian Patience bear . That he Three times obtain'd a Legal Choice . But stay my Muse , why do we rove so far , Since Death hath dimn'd the Glory of his Star ? Let me return back to his mournful Hearse , There to present this sad relenting Verse . How are the Mighty fallen by the Hand Of Death ! who never does disputing stand : The highest pitch of Honour he will meet , And make them lay their Trophies at his Feet . Yet tho' he may Man's Worldly Glory blast , Yet he the Righteous will convey at last Unto the Mansions of eternal Joy , Which neither Time nor Death shall e'er destroy . There's neither Sighs , nor sad lamenting Tears , Nor dying Groans for to invade our Ears ; But Songs of Triumph sung on e'ery side , By Saints and Angels , which are glorify'd . Farewell Sir THOMAS , thou art happy made , Whose spotless Soul was carefully convey'd From this tumultuous World , on Angels Wings , As a sweet Present to the KING of Kings . EPITAPH . HEre lies a Magistrate of worthy Fame , Who in his Time sad Troubles has run through : Lord Mayor of London , Pilkington by Name , To King and Subject's ever just and true . FINIS . To see how soon the fatal Hand of Death , [ ? ] , who can forbear to weep , To see how soon the fatal Hand of Death , After his Mayoralty , could snatch the Breath Of such a Wife , Judicious Magistrate ! One of the Pillars of our present State . When Death the Glories of this World will shake , He on the Mighty do's a Conquest make , And takes 'em from the Place of Trust and Care , To live where Saints forever happy are : In Blessed Regions of Celestial Love , Which neither Storm nor Tempest can remove , Of this contentious restless World below ; For there perpetual Joys like Rivers flow . His quiet Soul shall there in Glory reign ; 'Tis only we have Reason to complain , That Death such Subject's to the Grave should bring , While they are serviceable to their King . Two years and more , he govern'd here with care , Still doing what was honest , just and fair , Between the King and Subject constantly , In Love and Truth , without partiality . No Fear nor Favour cou'd his Judgement sway , Nor could his upright Heart be drawn away From Justice by the Gifts of Golden Oar , For he had seen too much of that before . When Laws did on the brink of Ruin stand , And Room did seem to bear the sole Command , Still flowing on us like a mighty Flood , And punish'd Men merely for being good . among the rest , Sir THOMAS PILKINGTON , Did feel that Storm and Stream against him run ; Who being long confin'd in Prison , where He did his Cross with Christian Patience bear . That he Three times obtain'd a Legal Choice . But stay my Muse , why do we rove so far , Since Death hath dimn'd the Glory of his Star ? Let me return back to his mournful Hearse , There to present this sad relenting Verse . How are the Mighty fallen by the Hand Of Death ! who never does disputing stand : The highest pitch of Honour he will meet , And make them lay their Trophies at his Feet . Yet tho' he may Man's Worldly Glory blast , Yet he the Righteous will convey at last Unto the Mansions of eternal Joy , Which neither Time nor Death shall e'er destroy . There's neither Sighs , nor sad lamenting Tears , Nor dying Groans for to invade our Ears ; But Songs of Triumph sung on e'ery side , By Saints and Angels , which are glorify'd . Farewell Sir THOMAS , thou art happy made , Whose spotless Soul was carefully convey'd From this tumultuous World , on Angels Wings , As a sweet Present to the KING of Kings . EPITAPH . HEre lies a Magistrate of worthy Fame , Who in his Time sad Troubles has run through : Lord Mayor of London , Pilkington by Name , To King and Subject's ever just and true . FINIS . 