The Mariner's Delight , OR , The Seaman's SEAVEN WIVES . Being a pleasant new Song ; showing how a Seaman call'd Anthony courted a young Maid whose Name is Susan , in London : and ( with great difficulty ) gain'd her affection ; Notwith - standing he had seaven Wives , all alive at that time : and at last was discovered , to the great advan - tage and satisfaction of the Virtuous Maid and all her Relations . From which every Woman , With - dow and Maid may learn how to be wary , and cautious in their Courting . To the Tune of , Hail to the Myrtle Shades . MY Dearest I must to the Sea ; I'm come now to bid thee adieu ; But pray thee be constant to me , as I shall prove real , and true : The Wind and the Storms may blow . and make a tempestuous Sea ; But ( whithersoever I go my Heart it remains with thee . Dear Anthony , Susan reply'd , I love you with Soul , and with Life ; But ( I'm sure ) you are basely belie'd If you reckon to make me your Wife . I'm told that you have a whole score of Sweethearts therefore 'tis in vain , To think that you'l make me a Whore , My credit to blemish , and stain . He seem'd as ore'helmed with care ; And since by all that is good : The Fowls that Fly in the Air ; and Fish that swim in the Flood Before that he prov'd a false Lover To her that he had by the hands No Water the Ocean should cover , nor green Grass grow on the Land. Then Susan began to look grave , and sorry for doubting his Love And modestly Pardon did crave ; persuaded he real would prove . Then after a Glass of Canary , and such as the house could afford The Seaman could no longer tarry , but kiss'd her and straight went aboard . Poor Susan ( for Grief ) she did cry , to think that her Sweetheart was gone , And left her to sighs and to die in love and in sorrow alone . But ( thinking upon his returning ) to languish she thought it in vain ? Therefore she left off her found mourning , expecting to see him again . But 'ere a Month was overpast , the hope's of her Marriage was gone , And Sorrow her Face did o'recast , her Heart was as cold as a Stone , A Maid that was with her acquainted inform'd her of Anthony's Life ; Her shame and disgrace she prevented , and kept her from being his Wife . A wife in Virginia he had , and three more in England and Wailes ; In Holland a Phraw he did Would , a couple he marri'd in Cailes . But Anthony brave he was brisk , and passed for a Bachelor still ; And ready was for the next Frisk , and Women he had at his Will . Then Maids that are honest and chaste , and you that are light ( like the Wind And Widows that still are confessed To be ever loving and kind Learn wisdom from what I have told For words they are made but of Air A Virtuous woman's worth Gold ; and Men that are honest are rare . Printed for J Conyers at the Raven in Duck-lain . The Mariner's Delight , OR , The Seaman's SEAVEN WIVES . Being a pleasant new Song ; showing how a Seaman call'd Anthony courted a young Maid whose Name is Susan , in London : and ( with great difficulty ) gain'd her affection ; Notwith - standing he had seaven Wives , all alive at that time : and at last was discovered , to the great advan - tage and satisfaction of the Virtuous Maid and all her Relations . From which every Woman , With - dow and Maid may learn how to be wary , and cautious in their Courting . To the Tune of , Hail to the Myrtle Shades . MY Dearest I must to the Sea ; I'm come now to bid thee adieu ; But pray thee be constant to me , as I shall prove real , and true : The Wind and the Storms may blow . and make a tempestuous Sea ; But ( whithersoever I go my Heart it remains with thee . Dear Anthony , Susan reply'd , I love you with Soul , and with Life ; But ( I'm sure ) you are basely belie'd If you reckon to make me your Wife . I'm told that you have a whole score of Sweethearts therefore 'tis in vain , To think that you'l make me a Whore , My credit to blemish , and stain . He seem'd as ore'helmed with care ; And since by all that is good : The Fowls that Fly in the Air ; and Fish that swim in the Flood Before that he prov'd a false Lover To her that he had by the hands No Water the Ocean should cover , nor green Grass grow on the Land. Then Susan began to look grave , and sorry for doubting his Love And modestly Pardon did crave ; persuaded he real would prove . Then after a Glass of Canary , and such as the house could afford The Seaman could no longer tarry , but kiss'd her and straight went aboard . Poor Susan ( for Grief ) she did cry , to think that her Sweetheart was gone , And left her to sighs and to die in love and in sorrow alone . But ( thinking upon his returning ) to languish she thought it in vain ? Therefore she left off her found mourning , expecting to see him again . But 'ere a Month was overpast , the hope's of her Marriage was gone , And Sorrow her Face did o'recast , her Heart was as cold as a Stone , A Maid that was with her acquainted inform'd her of Anthony's Life ; Her shame and disgrace she prevented , and kept her from being his Wife . A wife in Virginia he had , and three more in England and Wailes ; In Holland a Phraw he did Would , a couple he marri'd in Cailes . But Anthony brave he was brisk , and passed for a Bachelor still ; And ready was for the next Frisk , and Women he had at his Will . Then Maids that are honest and chaste , and you that are light ( like the Wind And Widows that still are confessed To be ever loving and kind Learn wisdom from what I have told For words they are made but of Air A Virtuous woman's worth Gold ; and Men that are honest are rare . Printed for J Conyers at the Raven in Duck-lain . 