GILDEROY To its own Proper Tune . MY Love he was as brave a Man as ever Scotland bred , Descended from a Highland Clan , a Kater to his Trade : No Woman then , or Woman kind had ever greater Joy , Than we two when we lodg'd alone , I and my Gilderoy . First when I and my Love met , with Joy he did me Crown , He gave me a new Petticoat , and then a Tartan Gown : No Woman then , etc Gilderoy was a bony Boy when he went to the Glen He had Silk Stockings on his Legs , and Roses in his Shoes : No Woman then , etc When Cilderoy went to the Wood , he ofttimes catch'd the Fat , Into the Desert as he went , scarce one durst Beldecat , But if he were as stout as Wallace wight , and tall as Dalmahoy , He'd never miss to get a Clout from my love Gilderoy . When Gilderoy and I was young , we was brought up together , And we were scarce seven years old , when the one did love the other ? out Father's and our Mother's both they thought of us great joy , And long'd to see the wedding day betwixt me and Gilderoy . Till it fell once upon a time they catch'd him like a Thief , And ty'd his hands behind back , which was to me much grief ? Three Gallons large of Iscobee they drank to my Loves Foy , And in to Edinburgh they have ta'en my gallant Gilderoy . Pox upon you English Laws , that hangs a man for Gear , Either for catching Gow or Ewe , or stealing Horse or Mare . Had not their Laws been so strict , I'de never lost my Joy , But now he's gone whom I lov'd best , I mean my Gilderoy . And now he is in Edinburgh Town 'twas long ere I came there ; They hanged him upon a Pin , And he wagg'd in the Air : His Relicts they were more esteem than Scanderberg at Troy : I never lov'd to see the face that gaz'd on Gilderoy . FINIS . GILDEROY To its own Proper Tune . MY Love he was as brave a Man as ever Scotland bred , Descended from a Highland Clan , a Kater to his Trade : No Woman then , or Woman kind had ever greater Joy , Than we two when we lodg'd alone , I and my Gilderoy . First when I and my Love met , with Joy he did me Crown , He gave me a new Petticoat , and then a Tartan Gown : No Woman then , etc Gilderoy was a bony Boy when he went to the Glen He had Silk Stockings on his Legs , and Roses in his Shoes : No Woman then , etc When Cilderoy went to the Wood , he ofttimes catch'd the Fat , Into the Desert as he went , scarce one durst Beldecat , But if he were as stout as Wallace wight , and tall as Dalmahoy , He'd never miss to get a Clout from my love Gilderoy . When Gilderoy and I was young , we was brought up together , And we were scarce seven years old , when the one did love the other ? out Father's and our Mother's both they thought of us great joy , And long'd to see the wedding day betwixt me and Gilderoy . Till it fell once upon a time they catch'd him like a Thief , And ty'd his hands behind back , which was to me much grief ? Three Gallons large of Iscobee they drank to my Loves Foy , And in to Edinburgh they have ta'en my gallant Gilderoy . Pox upon you English Laws , that hangs a man for Gear , Either for catching Gow or Ewe , or stealing Horse or Mare . Had not their Laws been so strict , I'de never lost my Joy , But now he's gone whom I lov'd best , I mean my Gilderoy . And now he is in Edinburgh Town 'twas long ere I came there ; They hanged him upon a Pin , And he wagg'd in the Air : His Relicts they were more esteem than Scanderberg at Troy : I never lov'd to see the face that gaz'd on Gilderoy . FINIS . 