: 912 THE Wanton wenches of Wiltshire Being a Pleasant Discourse between Four young Females , as they Sat together in a convenient place to scatter their Water , who being over - herd by Two youngmen , occasioned the whole Discovery of their Discourse . Tune of , The Maids a Washing . This may be printed , R. P. NOw young Bachelors all draw near , And you a pleasant Discourse shall here : Of four young Damsels all meeting & greeting Each other together in fair Wiltshire : All complain'd at a sorrowful rate , Because they could not enjoy a mate While they made their sad pitiful moan They thought they were private and all alone . One said , I must depart a space , For here I am in a woeful case , I find I'm ready to scatter my water , Therefore I must find a convenient place , where no young man may see what I do , And then i'le straight ways return to you ; But unto this they would no ways agree , They'd all go together for Company . Hand in hand then away they go , Like loving Sisters all in a row , Two young men hearing their tattle & prattle , Resolved some more of this Gigg to know : Therefore watching them whither they went , These two young men by joint consent , Both resolved in Ambush to lie , Where both words and actions they might descry . My sweet Sister , says one I find , Night and day such a pain in my mind , Because I am not the blessing possessing , Which I might enjoy if young men were kind , Now I tremble while here I reveal The inward torments which now I feel , But yet in vain do I utter my grief , Since no one will yield me the least relief . Once I herd of a woman old , Whose face was wrinkl'd and blood near cold , But yet I tell you , she crying , replying The sorrow I suffer cannot be told ; You may easily guess at the cause , And need not stand very long to pause : Now if old Women such passion express , I hope a young Damosel can do no less . Said the Second , young sweet fac'd John , You know he is a young lusty man , I dearly love him , provoke him , and stroke him , Yet he will not Kiss me do what I can I have fed him with Custards and Cream , And all things that can pleasant seem ; Nay , call him my honey , my love and dear , And Yet I protest I am ne'r the near . Said the Third , I am pure Coalblack , And that you know has a dainty Smock , Beside , I know I am witty and pretty , Then why should not I have those joys I lack ? Being youthful , and just in my prime , And loath to loose my Teeming time , Yet brisk young Gallants not kindness will show , What reason have I to be served so . Then the Fourth did begin to prate , And that was bony , brisk bouncing Kate , Who did with fury , behold 'um and told 'um , That she was stark mad , for a manlike mate , Tho' I'm shorter then others may be Yet wherefore should this hinder me ? Behold I am of a delicate Brown , No Colour is better in all the Town . Nay , the worst of us all might serve , For surely Bachelors don't deserve To have our Favour who spite us , & flight us , And suffer poor Damsels to pine and starve ; But we'l tattle no longer of this , So e'ry Sister sat down to P ---- s , But yet before they had perfectly done , The Youngmen they laughed , & the Wenches run . Printed for J. Back , at the Black Boy on London-Bridge near the Draw-Bridge . : 912 THE Wanton wenches of Wiltshire Being a Pleasant Discourse between Four young Females , as they Sat together in a convenient place to scatter their Water , who being over - herd by Two youngmen , occasioned the whole Discovery of their Discourse . Tune of , The Maids a Washing . This may be printed , R. P. NOw young Bachelors all draw near , And you a pleasant Discourse shall here : Of four young Damsels all meeting & greeting Each other together in fair Wiltshire : All complain'd at a sorrowful rate , Because they could not enjoy a mate While they made their sad pitiful moan They thought they were private and all alone . One said , I must depart a space , For here I am in a woeful case , I find I'm ready to scatter my water , Therefore I must find a convenient place , where no young man may see what I do , And then i'le straight ways return to you ; But unto this they would no ways agree , They'd all go together for Company . Hand in hand then away they go , Like loving Sisters all in a row , Two young men hearing their tattle & prattle , Resolved some more of this Gigg to know : Therefore watching them whither they went , These two young men by joint consent , Both resolved in Ambush to lie , Where both words and actions they might descry . My sweet Sister , says one I find , Night and day such a pain in my mind , Because I am not the blessing possessing , Which I might enjoy if young men were kind , Now I tremble while here I reveal The inward torments which now I feel , But yet in vain do I utter my grief , Since no one will yield me the least relief . Once I herd of a woman old , Whose face was wrinkl'd and blood near cold , But yet I tell you , she crying , replying The sorrow I suffer cannot be told ; You may easily guess at the cause , And need not stand very long to pause : Now if old Women such passion express , I hope a young Damosel can do no less . Said the Second , young sweet fac'd John , You know he is a young lusty man , I dearly love him , provoke him , and stroke him , Yet he will not Kiss me do what I can I have fed him with Custards and Cream , And all things that can pleasant seem ; Nay , call him my honey , my love and dear , And Yet I protest I am ne'r the near . Said the Third , I am pure Coalblack , And that you know has a dainty Smock , Beside , I know I am witty and pretty , Then why should not I have those joys I lack ? Being youthful , and just in my prime , And loath to loose my Teeming time , Yet brisk young Gallants not kindness will show , What reason have I to be served so . Then the Fourth did begin to prate , And that was bony , brisk bouncing Kate , Who did with fury , behold 'um and told 'um , That she was stark mad , for a manlike mate , Tho' I'm shorter then others may be Yet wherefore should this hinder me ? Behold I am of a delicate Brown , No Colour is better in all the Town . Nay , the worst of us all might serve , For surely Bachelors don't deserve To have our Favour who spite us , & flight us , And suffer poor Damsels to pine and starve ; But we'l tattle no longer of this , So e'ry Sister sat down to P ---- s , But yet before they had perfectly done , The Youngmen they laughed , & the Wenches run . Printed for J. Back , at the Black Boy on London-Bridge near the Draw-Bridge . 