The Long-Nosd LASS : OR , The Tailors , Millers , Tinkers , Tanners , and Glovers ; with a great number of other Trades-Men , dash't out of Countenance by a Sow-ships Beauty , to their great Discon - tent , and her perpetual trouble . Tune of , The Country Farmer . This may be Printed , R.P. O Did you not hear of a Rumor of late , Concerning a person whose Fortune was great , Her Portion was Seventeen thousand good pound , But yet a good Husband was not to be found : The reason of this I will tell to you now , Her Visage was perfectly just like a Sow , And many to Court her came flocking each day , But seeing her , straight they run frighted away . among all the rest a fine Taylor also , Resolv'd to this person a Suitor to go ; Quoth he , at the present alas I am poor , Of Silver and Gold I shall then have good store : 'Tis Cowcomber-time , and I now have no Trade , But if I do get her , I then shall be made , Therefore I will put on the best of my Clothes , My Hat , with my Band , and my Holy-day-hose . The hope's of this Fortune his fancy did feed , And therefore to her he did hasten with speed When coming he straight for this person did ask , She came her own self in a fine Visor-Mask ; And said , I am she Sir , pray what would you have ? I'm come , quoth the Taylor , your Love for to crave , She open'd the door , and bid him welcome in , And then to his Courting he straight did begin . The Taylor went on with a noble good grace , Like one of much Courage his Love to Embrace ; Thought he , with a Fortune I now shall be blessed , But listen I pray to the Cream of the Jes She pull'd off her Vizor , and turn'd her about , And straightway the Taylor beheld her long Snout ; Ah! how he was frighted and run out of door , And vow'd he would never come near her no more . The next was a Miller , who to her did Ride , Resolved he was for to make her his Bride ; Quoth he , as I now am a right honest Man , I'le Wed her and Love her as well as I can : For Beauty , Oh let it be now as it will , As long as she brings me good Grist to the Mill ; Both Silver and Gold I shall have at command , With which I will Purchase me Houses and Land. I now in conceit am as great as a Lord What pleasures soever the World can afford , I'le have it , and likewise in Silver will shine , Then Gillian will wonder to see me so fine : To Robin my Servant i'le give my great Bowl , With which I was formerly us'd to take Toll , And likewise the Mill , if I Marry this Maid , For never no more will I follow the Trade . As he was a riding to her on his Mare , He thus was a building Castles in the Air ; But when he beheld her most amiable Face , Alas ! he was soon in a sorrowful case : His hope's were confounded , away he did run , Saying , should I have her , a thousand to one But I shall be frighted , when her I behold , Therefore I'le not have her for Silver or Gold . Both Tinkers and Tanners , and Glovers also Came to her , the Money encouraged them so ; Nay , thousands came to her then every day , Each striving to carry this Beauty away : But when they beheld this most ordinary Stuff , The sighed of her Visage did give them enough ; Yet if she be Marry'd while here she does live , A perfect account of the Wedding I'le give . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner The Long-Nosd LASS : OR , The Tailors , Millers , Tinkers , Tanners , and Glovers ; with a great number of other Trades-Men , dash't out of Countenance by a Sow-ships Beauty , to their great Discon - tent , and her perpetual trouble . Tune of , The Country Farmer . This may be Printed , R.P. O Did you not hear of a Rumor of late , Concerning a person whose Fortune was great , Her Portion was Seventeen thousand good pound , But yet a good Husband was not to be found : The reason of this I will tell to you now , Her Visage was perfectly just like a Sow , And many to Court her came flocking each day , But seeing her , straight they run frighted away . among all the rest a fine Taylor also , Resolv'd to this person a Suitor to go ; Quoth he , at the present alas I am poor , Of Silver and Gold I shall then have good store : 'Tis Cowcomber-time , and I now have no Trade , But if I do get her , I then shall be made , Therefore I will put on the best of my Clothes , My Hat , with my Band , and my Holy-day-hose . The hope's of this Fortune his fancy did feed , And therefore to her he did hasten with speed When coming he straight for this person did ask , She came her own self in a fine Visor-Mask ; And said , I am she Sir , pray what would you have ? I'm come , quoth the Taylor , your Love for to crave , She open'd the door , and bid him welcome in , And then to his Courting he straight did begin . The Taylor went on with a noble good grace , Like one of much Courage his Love to Embrace ; Thought he , with a Fortune I now shall be blessed , But listen I pray to the Cream of the Jes She pull'd off her Vizor , and turn'd her about , And straightway the Taylor beheld her long Snout ; Ah! how he was frighted and run out of door , And vow'd he would never come near her no more . The next was a Miller , who to her did Ride , Resolved he was for to make her his Bride ; Quoth he , as I now am a right honest Man , I'le Wed her and Love her as well as I can : For Beauty , Oh let it be now as it will , As long as she brings me good Grist to the Mill ; Both Silver and Gold I shall have at command , With which I will Purchase me Houses and Land. I now in conceit am as great as a Lord What pleasures soever the World can afford , I'le have it , and likewise in Silver will shine , Then Gillian will wonder to see me so fine : To Robin my Servant i'le give my great Bowl , With which I was formerly us'd to take Toll , And likewise the Mill , if I Marry this Maid , For never no more will I follow the Trade . As he was a riding to her on his Mare , He thus was a building Castles in the Air ; But when he beheld her most amiable Face , Alas ! he was soon in a sorrowful case : His hope's were confounded , away he did run , Saying , should I have her , a thousand to one But I shall be frighted , when her I behold , Therefore I'le not have her for Silver or Gold . Both Tinkers and Tanners , and Glovers also Came to her , the Money encouraged them so ; Nay , thousands came to her then every day , Each striving to carry this Beauty away : But when they beheld this most ordinary Stuff , The sighed of her Visage did give them enough ; Yet if she be Marry'd while here she does live , A perfect account of the Wedding I'le give . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner 