GENEVA & ROME : Or , The ZEAL of both boiling over : In and earnest Dispute for Preeminence , carried on at a Private Conference between Jack a Presbyter and Believe-All a Papist . Now Printed for Public Satisfaction . I. JOhn Presbyter and the Sons of the Pope Had a late dispute of the right of the Rope , Who'd merit hanging without any Trope . Which no body can deny . II First Jack held forth and bid him remember The horrible Plot on the fifth of November , The very Month preceding December . Which , etc III . The Thirtieth of January , th' other reply'd , We herd of't at Room , which can't be deny'd , Had Jack been Loyal then Charles had not dy'd . Which , etc IV. Then John cry'd , out Damn'd Jesuit thou ly'st , I only appear'd for the Lord Jesus Christ , Which thou as a Meritmonger deny'st . Which , etc V. The Powder Treason , O horrible Plot ! Why prithee , Jack Presbyter , be not so hight , For Charles was kill'd and Jemmy was not . Which , etc VI . Then Presbyter John his Zeal was inflam'd , And now I find it I'le make thee asham'd . If so , prithee Jack , let the Cov'nant be nam'd . Which , etc VII . Why the Covenant nam'd ? 'tis found on Record To be and old and new Testament word , As I prov'd to Charles by Text and by Sword . Which , etc VIII . Thou prove it to Charles ? impertinent Ass , What thou design'dst old Noll brought to pass , And then like a Beast he turn'd thee to grass . Which , etc IX . A Truce , a Truce , quoth Presbyter Jack , We both love Treason as Loyalists Sack , And if either prevails the King goes to rack . Which , etc X. The Bishops tell Charles we both have long nails , And Charles shall find it if either prevails , For like Sampsons Foxes we are ty'd by the Tails . Which , etc XI . The Jesuits and the Brats of John Knox Both visited Europe with the French-Pox , By the means of Loyola and Calvin the Fox . Which nobody can deny . FINIS . LONDON : Printed in the Year 1679. GENEVA & ROME : Or , The ZEAL of both boiling over : In and earnest Dispute for Preeminence , carried on at a Private Conference between Jack a Presbyter and Believe-All a Papist . Now Printed for Public Satisfaction . I. JOhn Presbyter and the Sons of the Pope Had a late dispute of the right of the Rope , Who'd merit hanging without any Trope . Which no body can deny . II First Jack held forth and bid him remember The horrible Plot on the fifth of November , The very Month preceding December . Which , etc III . The Thirtieth of January , th' other reply'd , We herd of't at Room , which can't be deny'd , Had Jack been Loyal then Charles had not dy'd . Which , etc IV. Then John cry'd , out Damn'd Jesuit thou ly'st , I only appear'd for the Lord Jesus Christ , Which thou as a Meritmonger deny'st . Which , etc V. The Powder Treason , O horrible Plot ! Why prithee , Jack Presbyter , be not so hight , For Charles was kill'd and Jemmy was not . Which , etc VI . Then Presbyter John his Zeal was inflam'd , And now I find it I'le make thee asham'd . If so , prithee Jack , let the Cov'nant be nam'd . Which , etc VII . Why the Covenant nam'd ? 'tis found on Record To be and old and new Testament word , As I prov'd to Charles by Text and by Sword . Which , etc VIII . Thou prove it to Charles ? impertinent Ass , What thou design'dst old Noll brought to pass , And then like a Beast he turn'd thee to grass . Which , etc IX . A Truce , a Truce , quoth Presbyter Jack , We both love Treason as Loyalists Sack , And if either prevails the King goes to rack . Which , etc X. The Bishops tell Charles we both have long nails , And Charles shall find it if either prevails , For like Sampsons Foxes we are ty'd by the Tails . Which , etc XI . The Jesuits and the Brats of John Knox Both visited Europe with the French-Pox , By the means of Loyola and Calvin the Fox . Which nobody can deny . FINIS . LONDON : Printed in the Year 1679. 