CUPID'S REVENGE ; Being and account of a certain Indian King who slighted and despised the most wealthy and beautiful Women , and at length was obli - gated ( by the force of love ) to Marry a Beggar . A KING once reign'd beyond the seas , As we in ancient story find , Who no bright face could ever please , He cared not for women kind . He despis'd the fairest beauty's , And the greatest fortune's too , At length he marry'd to a beggar ! See what Cupid's darts can do . The blinded boy that shoots so trim , Did to his closet window steal , Then drew a dart and shot at him , And made him soon his power feel . He that ne'er car'd for women kind , But did females ever hate , [ At le ] ngth was smitten , wounded , swooned , [ For ] a beggar at his gate . But mark what happen'd on a day , As he look'd from his window high , He spy'd a beggar all in gray , With two more in her company . She his fancy soon enflam'd , And his heart was grieved soar , Must I have her , court her , crave her , I that never lov'd before . This noble prince of high renown , Did to his chamber strait repair , And on his couch he laid him down , Oppressed with love sick grief and care , Ne'er was a monarch so surprised , Here I lie a captive slave , But I'll to her , court her , woo her , She must heal the wound she gave . Then to his palace gate he goes , The beggar's crav'd his charity , A purse of gold to them he throws , With thankfulness away they fly . But the king call'd her unto him , Tho' she was but poor and mean , His hand did hold her while he told her , She should be his stately queen . At this she blush'd like scarlet read , And on this mighty king did gaze , Then strait again as pale as led , Alas ! she was in such amaze . Hand in hand they walk'd together , And the king did kindly say , He'd respect her , strait they deck'd her , In most sumptuous rich array . He did appoint the wedding day , And likewise then commanded strait , That noble lords and ladies gay , Upon this gracious queen should wait , She appear'd a splendid beauty , All the court did her adore , She in marriage , shew'd a carriage , As if she'd been a queen before . Her fame through all the world did ring , Altho' she came of parents poor , She by her sov'reign lord the king , Did bore one son and eke no more . All the nobles were well pleased , And the ladies frank and free , For her behaviour always gave her , A title to her dignity . At length the king and queen were laid , Together in their silent tomb , Their royal son the sceptre sway'd , Who govern'd in his father's room . Long in glory did he flourish , Wealth and honour to increase , Still possessing such a blessing , That he liv'd and reign'd in peace . CUPID'S REVENGE ; Being and account of a certain Indian King who slighted and despised the most wealthy and beautiful Women , and at length was obli - gated ( by the force of love ) to Marry a Beggar . A KING once reign'd beyond the seas , As we in ancient story find , Who no bright face could ever please , He cared not for women kind . He despis'd the fairest beauty's , And the greatest fortune's too , At length he marry'd to a beggar ! See what Cupid's darts can do . The blinded boy that shoots so trim , Did to his closet window steal , Then drew a dart and shot at him , And made him soon his power feel . He that ne'er car'd for women kind , But did females ever hate , [ At le ] ngth was smitten , wounded , swooned , [ For ] a beggar at his gate . But mark what happen'd on a day , As he look'd from his window high , He spy'd a beggar all in gray , With two more in her company . She his fancy soon enflam'd , And his heart was grieved soar , Must I have her , court her , crave her , I that never lov'd before . This noble prince of high renown , Did to his chamber strait repair , And on his couch he laid him down , Oppressed with love sick grief and care , Ne'er was a monarch so surprised , Here I lie a captive slave , But I'll to her , court her , woo her , She must heal the wound she gave . Then to his palace gate he goes , The beggar's crav'd his charity , A purse of gold to them he throws , With thankfulness away they fly . But the king call'd her unto him , Tho' she was but poor and mean , His hand did hold her while he told her , She should be his stately queen . At this she blush'd like scarlet read , And on this mighty king did gaze , Then strait again as pale as led , Alas ! she was in such amaze . Hand in hand they walk'd together , And the king did kindly say , He'd respect her , strait they deck'd her , In most sumptuous rich array . He did appoint the wedding day , And likewise then commanded strait , That noble lords and ladies gay , Upon this gracious queen should wait , She appear'd a splendid beauty , All the court did her adore , She in marriage , shew'd a carriage , As if she'd been a queen before . Her fame through all the world did ring , Altho' she came of parents poor , She by her sov'reign lord the king , Did bore one son and eke no more . All the nobles were well pleased , And the ladies frank and free , For her behaviour always gave her , A title to her dignity . At length the king and queen were laid , Together in their silent tomb , Their royal son the sceptre sway'd , Who govern'd in his father's room . Long in glory did he flourish , Wealth and honour to increase , Still possessing such a blessing , That he liv'd and reign'd in peace . 