King LEAR and his Three Daughters . KING Lear once ruled in this L [ a ] and , With Princely Power and Peace . A [ and ] had all Things with Heart's Content , TO [ h ] at might his Joys inc [ r ] e [ a ] se ; among those Things that N [ a ] ture gave , Three Daughters [ f ] air had he ; So Princely seeming beautiful , As fairer could not be . So on a Time it pleasant [ ' ] worser the King A Q [ u ] estion thus to move ; Which of his Daughters to his Grace , Could show the dearest Love . For to my Age you bring Content , Quoth he , then let me hear , Which of you three in plighted Troth , The kindest will appear . To him the eldest thus began , Dear Father mild , quoth she , Before your Face to do you Good , My Blood shall render'd be : And for your sake , my bleeding Heart Shall here be cut in twain ; Ere that I see your Reverend Age , The smallest Grief sustain ; And so will I , the second said ; Dear Father for your sake ; The worst of all Extremities , I'll gently undertake . And serve your Highness Night and Day , With Diligence and Love ; That sweet Content and Quietness Discomforts may remove . In doing so , you glad my Soul , The aged Father reply'd ; But what say'st thou my youngest Girl , How is thy Love ally'd ? My Love ( quoth young Cordelia then ) Which to your Grace I owe ; Shall be the Duty of a Child , And that is all I shall bestow . And wilt thou show no more , said he , Than does thy Duty bind ? I well perceive thy Love is small , When as no more we find : Henceforth I banish thee my Court ; Thou art no Child of mine : Nor any Part of this my Realm By Favour shall be thine . Thy eldest Sisters Loves are more Than well I can demand ; To whom I equally bestow My Kingdom and my Land : My pompous State , and all my Goods ; That lovingly I may With those thy Sisters be maintain'd Unto my dying Day . Thus flattering Speeches wone Renown . By these two Sisters here ; The third had causeless Banishment ; Yet was her Love more dear : For p [ oh ] or Cordelia patiently Went wandering up-and-down ; Unhelp'd , unpity'd , gentle Maid . Thro' many and English Town . Until at last , in famous France She gentler Fortune found ; Tho' poor and bore , yet she was deem'd , The fairest on the Ground . Where when the King , her Virtues herd : And this fair Lady seen ? With full Consent of all the Court . He made his wife and Queen . Her Father , Old King Lear , this while With his two Daughters stayed ; Forgetful of their promis'd Loves , Full soon the same deny'd . And living in Queen Regan's Court . The eldest of the twain ; She took from him his chiefest Means , And most of all his Train ; For whereas twenty Men were wont To wait with bent Knee ; She gave Allowance but to ten . And after scarce to three . Nay , one she thought too much for him ; So took she all away ; In hope's that in her Court , good King , He would no longer stay : Am I rewarded thus , said he , In giving all I have ? Unto my Children , and to beg , For what I lately gave ; I'll go unto my Goneril : My second Child , I know Will be more kind and pitiful , And will relieve my Woe : Full fast he hies unto her Court ; Where when she hears his Moan : Return'd him Answer , that she griev'd , That all his Means were gone . But no Way could relieve his Wants . Yet if that he would stay . Within her Kitchen , he should have What Scullions gave away . When he had herd , with bitter Tears , He made this Answer then ; In what I did , let me be made Example to all Men . I will return again , said he , Unto my Regan's Court ; She will not use me thus I hope , But in a kinder Sort. Where when he came , she gave Command To drive him thence away ; When he was well within her Court , She said , he could not stay : Then back again to Goneril , The woeful King did high ; That in her Kitchen he might have , What Scullion Boys set by . But there of that he was deny'd , Which she had promis'd late ; For once refusing , he should not Come after to her Gate . Thus 'twixt his Daughters , for Relief , He wander'd up and down : Being glad to feed on Beggars Food , That lately wore a Crown . And calling to Remembrance then His youngest Daughter's Words ; Who said the Duty of a Child Was all that Love affords : But doubting to repair to her , Whom he had banish'd so ; Grew frantic Mad ; for in his Mind He boar the Wounds of Woe . Which made him rend his Milkwhite Locks And Tresses from his Head ; And all with Blood bestain'd his Cheeks , With Age and Honour spread , To Hills and Woods , and watery Founts , He made his hourly Moan : Till Hills and Woods , and senseless Things , Did seem to sighs and groan : Even thus press'd with Discontent , He passed o'er to France : In hope's from fair Cordelia there , To find some gentler Chance . Most virtuous Dame ! Which when she herd Of this her Father's Grief ; As in Duty bound , she quickly sent Him Comfort and Relief . And by a Train of noble Peers , In brave and gallant Sort ; She gave in Charge , he should be brought , To Agannipus' Cour Whose Royal King , whose Noble Mind , So freely gave Consent ; To muster up his Knights at Arms , To Fame and Courage bent . And so to England came with speed , To repossess King Lear : And drive his Daughters from their Thrones : By his Cordelia dear . Where she , true hearted noble Queen . Was in the Battle slave ; Yet he , good King , in his old Days . Possess'd his Crown again . But when he herd of Cordelia's Death . Who dy'd indeed for Love Of her dear Father , in whose Cause , She did this Battle move ; He swooning fell upon her Breast , From whence he never parted ; But on her Bosom left his Life , That was so truly-hearted . The Lords and Nobles when they saw The End of these Events ; The other Sisters unto Death , They doomed by Consents : And being dead , their Crowns they left Unto the next of Kin : Thus have you seen the Fallen of Pride , And disobedient Sin. Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow Church-Yard , London . King LEAR and his Three Daughters . KING Lear once ruled in this L [ a ] and , With Princely Power and Peace . A [ and ] had all Things with Heart's Content , TO [ h ] at might his Joys inc [ r ] e [ a ] se ; among those Things that N [ a ] ture gave , Three Daughters [ f ] air had he ; So Princely seeming beautiful , As fairer could not be . So on a Time it pleasant [ ' ] worser the King A Q [ u ] estion thus to move ; Which of his Daughters to his Grace , Could show the dearest Love . For to my Age you bring Content , Quoth he , then let me hear , Which of you three in plighted Troth , The kindest will appear . To him the eldest thus began , Dear Father mild , quoth she , Before your Face to do you Good , My Blood shall render'd be : And for your sake , my bleeding Heart Shall here be cut in twain ; Ere that I see your Reverend Age , The smallest Grief sustain ; And so will I , the second said ; Dear Father for your sake ; The worst of all Extremities , I'll gently undertake . And serve your Highness Night and Day , With Diligence and Love ; That sweet Content and Quietness Discomforts may remove . In doing so , you glad my Soul , The aged Father reply'd ; But what say'st thou my youngest Girl , How is thy Love ally'd ? My Love ( quoth young Cordelia then ) Which to your Grace I owe ; Shall be the Duty of a Child , And that is all I shall bestow . And wilt thou show no more , said he , Than does thy Duty bind ? I well perceive thy Love is small , When as no more we find : Henceforth I banish thee my Court ; Thou art no Child of mine : Nor any Part of this my Realm By Favour shall be thine . Thy eldest Sisters Loves are more Than well I can demand ; To whom I equally bestow My Kingdom and my Land : My pompous State , and all my Goods ; That lovingly I may With those thy Sisters be maintain'd Unto my dying Day . Thus flattering Speeches wone Renown . By these two Sisters here ; The third had causeless Banishment ; Yet was her Love more dear : For p [ oh ] or Cordelia patiently Went wandering up-and-down ; Unhelp'd , unpity'd , gentle Maid . Thro' many and English Town . Until at last , in famous France She gentler Fortune found ; Tho' poor and bore , yet she was deem'd , The fairest on the Ground . Where when the King , her Virtues herd : And this fair Lady seen ? With full Consent of all the Court . He made his wife and Queen . Her Father , Old King Lear , this while With his two Daughters stayed ; Forgetful of their promis'd Loves , Full soon the same deny'd . And living in Queen Regan's Court . The eldest of the twain ; She took from him his chiefest Means , And most of all his Train ; For whereas twenty Men were wont To wait with bent Knee ; She gave Allowance but to ten . And after scarce to three . Nay , one she thought too much for him ; So took she all away ; In hope's that in her Court , good King , He would no longer stay : Am I rewarded thus , said he , In giving all I have ? Unto my Children , and to beg , For what I lately gave ; I'll go unto my Goneril : My second Child , I know Will be more kind and pitiful , And will relieve my Woe : Full fast he hies unto her Court ; Where when she hears his Moan : Return'd him Answer , that she griev'd , That all his Means were gone . But no Way could relieve his Wants . Yet if that he would stay . Within her Kitchen , he should have What Scullions gave away . When he had herd , with bitter Tears , He made this Answer then ; In what I did , let me be made Example to all Men . I will return again , said he , Unto my Regan's Court ; She will not use me thus I hope , But in a kinder Sort. Where when he came , she gave Command To drive him thence away ; When he was well within her Court , She said , he could not stay : Then back again to Goneril , The woeful King did high ; That in her Kitchen he might have , What Scullion Boys set by . But there of that he was deny'd , Which she had promis'd late ; For once refusing , he should not Come after to her Gate . Thus 'twixt his Daughters , for Relief , He wander'd up and down : Being glad to feed on Beggars Food , That lately wore a Crown . And calling to Remembrance then His youngest Daughter's Words ; Who said the Duty of a Child Was all that Love affords : But doubting to repair to her , Whom he had banish'd so ; Grew frantic Mad ; for in his Mind He boar the Wounds of Woe . Which made him rend his Milkwhite Locks And Tresses from his Head ; And all with Blood bestain'd his Cheeks , With Age and Honour spread , To Hills and Woods , and watery Founts , He made his hourly Moan : Till Hills and Woods , and senseless Things , Did seem to sighs and groan : Even thus press'd with Discontent , He passed o'er to France : In hope's from fair Cordelia there , To find some gentler Chance . Most virtuous Dame ! Which when she herd Of this her Father's Grief ; As in Duty bound , she quickly sent Him Comfort and Relief . And by a Train of noble Peers , In brave and gallant Sort ; She gave in Charge , he should be brought , To Agannipus' Cour Whose Royal King , whose Noble Mind , So freely gave Consent ; To muster up his Knights at Arms , To Fame and Courage bent . And so to England came with speed , To repossess King Lear : And drive his Daughters from their Thrones : By his Cordelia dear . Where she , true hearted noble Queen . Was in the Battle slave ; Yet he , good King , in his old Days . Possess'd his Crown again . But when he herd of Cordelia's Death . Who dy'd indeed for Love Of her dear Father , in whose Cause , She did this Battle move ; He swooning fell upon her Breast , From whence he never parted ; But on her Bosom left his Life , That was so truly-hearted . The Lords and Nobles when they saw The End of these Events ; The other Sisters unto Death , They doomed by Consents : And being dead , their Crowns they left Unto the next of Kin : Thus have you seen the Fallen of Pride , And disobedient Sin. Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow Church-Yard , London . 