THE CAREFUL Wife's Good Counsel : OR , THE Husband's firm Resolution to Reform his Life , and to lay up something a - gainst a Rainy Day . To the Tune of The Spinning-Wheel . Licensed according to Order . KInd Husband , if you mean to thrive , Some other Ways you must contrive , And not consume and wast your store , It will be hard to work for more ; Therefore be rul'd by me I pray , save something for a rainy day . I in thy Yoke will draw with you , And what I can will freely do , If you the like will do again , Our Charge I'm sure we may maintain ; Thus by our Labour then we may save something for a rainy day . Behold ! we see the painful Bee Lays up , by his Industry , A Stock , to serve in Winter Cold , And so should Man 'gainst he grows Old ; And therefore kind Husband now I pray , lay up against a rainy day . If Man has nothing of his own , Alas ! he then may make his moan , And yet at length be ne'er the near , For Friends like Strangers will appear , When as you fallen unto decay : Remember then the rainy day . The Alewives they go fine and gay , Deck'd in their Silks and rich Array , When as the poor Man's Wife may lack Both Food and Clothing to her back : Good Man consider this I pray , Save something for a rainy day . The Hostess she will flout at thee , And any one in Misery , When as they can no longer spend , She'll show no pity , give , or lend , Consider this without delay , Save something for a rainy day . Your jovial boon Companions too Will likewise take their leave of you , They'll know you not in Time of Need , And won't this make your Heart to bleed ? Therefore take up in time , I pray , Save something for a rainy day . He that shall wast his youthful strength , And bring himself to Want , at length , When feeble Age his Limbs shall seize , And he hath nought to take his ease , Will find the World as cold as Clay , then think upon the rainy day . Grayheaded Men are often seen Here in this World both poor and mean , Having scarce Meat or Clothes to wear , And this has been for want of care : Oh think of this good Man I pray , lay up against a rainy day . Consider , we are Man and Wife , And ought to led a careful Life , I'll do my best to get and save , That we another Day may have Something to help Old Age I say , 'tis that I call a rainy day . O loving Wife he then reply'd , I will endeavour to provide Henceforth for our poor Family , Thy Words have so prevail'd on me ; No longer will I run astray , but think upon the rainy day . I needs must own thy Words are true , Therefore I will my Life renew , And all my feigned Friends forsake , Noy , likewise better Courses take ; No longer will I run astray , but lay up for a rainy day . With Care I'll follow my Concerns , That Man goes far that ne'er returns , I do resolve to mend my Ways , And hope to see brave Golden Days , And that we both may happy be , And live in Love and Unity . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . THE CAREFUL Wife's Good Counsel : OR , THE Husband's firm Resolution to Reform his Life , and to lay up something a - gainst a Rainy Day . To the Tune of The Spinning-Wheel . Licensed according to Order . KInd Husband , if you mean to thrive , Some other Ways you must contrive , And not consume and wast your store , It will be hard to work for more ; Therefore be rul'd by me I pray , save something for a rainy day . I in thy Yoke will draw with you , And what I can will freely do , If you the like will do again , Our Charge I'm sure we may maintain ; Thus by our Labour then we may save something for a rainy day . Behold ! we see the painful Bee Lays up , by his Industry , A Stock , to serve in Winter Cold , And so should Man 'gainst he grows Old ; And therefore kind Husband now I pray , lay up against a rainy day . If Man has nothing of his own , Alas ! he then may make his moan , And yet at length be ne'er the near , For Friends like Strangers will appear , When as you fallen unto decay : Remember then the rainy day . The Alewives they go fine and gay , Deck'd in their Silks and rich Array , When as the poor Man's Wife may lack Both Food and Clothing to her back : Good Man consider this I pray , Save something for a rainy day . The Hostess she will flout at thee , And any one in Misery , When as they can no longer spend , She'll show no pity , give , or lend , Consider this without delay , Save something for a rainy day . Your jovial boon Companions too Will likewise take their leave of you , They'll know you not in Time of Need , And won't this make your Heart to bleed ? Therefore take up in time , I pray , Save something for a rainy day . He that shall wast his youthful strength , And bring himself to Want , at length , When feeble Age his Limbs shall seize , And he hath nought to take his ease , Will find the World as cold as Clay , then think upon the rainy day . Grayheaded Men are often seen Here in this World both poor and mean , Having scarce Meat or Clothes to wear , And this has been for want of care : Oh think of this good Man I pray , lay up against a rainy day . Consider , we are Man and Wife , And ought to led a careful Life , I'll do my best to get and save , That we another Day may have Something to help Old Age I say , 'tis that I call a rainy day . O loving Wife he then reply'd , I will endeavour to provide Henceforth for our poor Family , Thy Words have so prevail'd on me ; No longer will I run astray , but think upon the rainy day . I needs must own thy Words are true , Therefore I will my Life renew , And all my feigned Friends forsake , Noy , likewise better Courses take ; No longer will I run astray , but lay up for a rainy day . With Care I'll follow my Concerns , That Man goes far that ne'er returns , I do resolve to mend my Ways , And hope to see brave Golden Days , And that we both may happy be , And live in Love and Unity . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 