[ CUPID'S R ] EVENGE . [ Or , And account of a King ] who slighted all Women , and [ at length was forced tO ] oh marry a BEGGAR . A King once reign'd beyond the Seas , As we in ancient Stories find , Whom no Face could ever please , He cared not for Womankind . He despis'd the fairest Beauty's , And the greatest Fortune's too ; At length he marry'd to a Beggar . See what Cupid's Darts can do ! The blinded Boy , that shoots so trim , Did to his Closet Window steal ; Then drew a Dart , and shot at him , And made him soon his Power feel . He that never car'd for Woman , But did Females ever hate , At length was smitten , wounded , swooned , For a Beggar at his Gate . For , mark what happen'd on a Day ! As he look'd from his Window high , He spy'd a Beggar all in gray , With two more in her Company . She his Fancy soon inflamed , And his Heart was grieved soar : Must I have her , court her , crave her ? I , that never lov'd before ! This noble Prince of high Renown Did to his chamber strait repair , And on his Couch he laid him down , Oppressed with lovesick Grief and Care . Ne'er was Monarch so surprised : Here I lie a Captive Slave ! But I'll to her , court her , woo her : She must heal the Wound she gave . Then to his Palace Gate he goes : The Beggars crav'd his Charity . A Purse of Gold to them he throws : With Thankfulness away they fly . But the King he call'd her to him , Tho' she was but poor and mean . His Hand did hold her , while he told her , She should be his stately Queen . At this she blushed scarlet-red , And on this mighty King did gaze : Then strait again at pale as Led : Alas ! she was in such Amaze . Hand in Hand they walk'd together , And the King did kindly say , He'd respect her : --- strait they decked her In most sumptuous rich Array . He did appoint the Wedding-day , And likewise then commanded strait , The noble Lords and Ladies gay Upon his gracious Queen should wait . She appear'd a splendid Beauty ; All the Court did her adore : And in Marriage , with a Carriage , As if she had been a Queen before . Her Fame thro' all the Realm did ring , Altho' she came of Parents poor . She by her Sov'reign Lord the King Did bear one Son , and eke no more . All the Nobles were well pleased , And the Ladies frank and free : For her Behaviour always gave her A Title to her Dignity . At length the King and Queen were laid Together in a silent Tomb. Their Royal Son the Sceptre sway'd , Who govern'd in his Father's Room . Long in Glory did he flourish , Wealth and Honour to increase : Still possessing such a Blessing , That he liv'd and reign'd in Peace . Printed and sold at the Printing-Office in Bow-Church-Yard , London . [ CUPID'S R ] EVENGE . [ Or , And account of a King ] who slighted all Women , and [ at length was forced tO ] oh marry a BEGGAR . A King once reign'd beyond the Seas , As we in ancient Stories find , Whom no Face could ever please , He cared not for Womankind . He despis'd the fairest Beauty's , And the greatest Fortune's too ; At length he marry'd to a Beggar . See what Cupid's Darts can do ! The blinded Boy , that shoots so trim , Did to his Closet Window steal ; Then drew a Dart , and shot at him , And made him soon his Power feel . He that never car'd for Woman , But did Females ever hate , At length was smitten , wounded , swooned , For a Beggar at his Gate . For , mark what happen'd on a Day ! As he look'd from his Window high , He spy'd a Beggar all in gray , With two more in her Company . She his Fancy soon inflamed , And his Heart was grieved soar : Must I have her , court her , crave her ? I , that never lov'd before ! This noble Prince of high Renown Did to his chamber strait repair , And on his Couch he laid him down , Oppressed with lovesick Grief and Care . Ne'er was Monarch so surprised : Here I lie a Captive Slave ! But I'll to her , court her , woo her : She must heal the Wound she gave . Then to his Palace Gate he goes : The Beggars crav'd his Charity . A Purse of Gold to them he throws : With Thankfulness away they fly . But the King he call'd her to him , Tho' she was but poor and mean . His Hand did hold her , while he told her , She should be his stately Queen . At this she blushed scarlet-red , And on this mighty King did gaze : Then strait again at pale as Led : Alas ! she was in such Amaze . Hand in Hand they walk'd together , And the King did kindly say , He'd respect her : --- strait they decked her In most sumptuous rich Array . He did appoint the Wedding-day , And likewise then commanded strait , The noble Lords and Ladies gay Upon his gracious Queen should wait . She appear'd a splendid Beauty ; All the Court did her adore : And in Marriage , with a Carriage , As if she had been a Queen before . Her Fame thro' all the Realm did ring , Altho' she came of Parents poor . She by her Sov'reign Lord the King Did bear one Son , and eke no more . All the Nobles were well pleased , And the Ladies frank and free : For her Behaviour always gave her A Title to her Dignity . At length the King and Queen were laid Together in a silent Tomb. Their Royal Son the Sceptre sway'd , Who govern'd in his Father's Room . Long in Glory did he flourish , Wealth and Honour to increase : Still possessing such a Blessing , That he liv'd and reign'd in Peace . Printed and sold at the Printing-Office in Bow-Church-Yard , London . 