: 907 And Excellent New [ SONG : ] OR , No KISSI [ NG at all . ] In a DIALOGUE between CORI [ DON and MOPSIPHIL ] as it was Sung in a late Opera i [ n the Theatre Royal. ] To and Excellent New Tune . Cor. NOw the maids and the men are making of hay , We have left the dull fools , and are stol'n away ; Then Mopsa no more Be coy as before , But let us merrily , merrily play , And kiss , and kiss , the sweet time away . Mop . Why how now , sir clown , how came you so bold ? I'd have you to know , I'm not made of that mould . I tell you again , Maids must kiss no men , No , no ; no , no ; no kissing at all . I'll not kiss , till I kiss you for good and all . Cor. No , no . Mop . No , no . Cor. Not kiss you at all ? Mop . Not kiss , till you kiss me for good and all . Not kiss , etc Cor. Should you give me a score , 'Twould not lessen the store , Then bid me cheerfully , cheerfully kiss , And take , and take my fill of your bliss . Mop . I'll not trust you so far , I know you too well ; Should I give you and inch , you'd take a whole ell : Then lord like you rule , and laugh at the fool . No , no , etc Cor. Nay , but Mopsa , my dear , soft kisses invite , Longing lovers to feast on a greater delight ; Then do not deny , But freely comply ; And I will lovingly , lovingly right , My Dear , my Dear , in pleasures of night ; Mop . Stand back , master clown , your suit is in vain , I tell you , that I will unspotted remain ; For kisses they may Young Damsels betray : Go , go ; go , go ; go , let me alone ; I'll not kiss till you lowfully are my own . Cor. No , no . Mop . No , No. Cor. Not kiss you at all ? Mop . Not kiss , till you kiss me for good and all , Not kiss , etc Cor. Dearest trust me , he cry'd , I will make thee my bride , And love thee faithfully , faithfully too , My heart , my heart , is conquer'd by you . Your disconsolate swain , lies languishing here , Let me kiss thee but once , my dull spirits to cheer . Mop . You're a slippery blade , I'll not kiss you she said . Cor. No , no . Mop . No , no . Cor. Not kiss you at all ? Mop . Not kiss , till you kiss me for good and all , Not kiss , etc FINIS . LONDON : Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . : 907 And Excellent New [ SONG : ] OR , No KISSI [ NG at all . ] In a DIALOGUE between CORI [ DON and MOPSIPHIL ] as it was Sung in a late Opera i [ n the Theatre Royal. ] To and Excellent New Tune . Cor. NOw the maids and the men are making of hay , We have left the dull fools , and are stol'n away ; Then Mopsa no more Be coy as before , But let us merrily , merrily play , And kiss , and kiss , the sweet time away . Mop . Why how now , sir clown , how came you so bold ? I'd have you to know , I'm not made of that mould . I tell you again , Maids must kiss no men , No , no ; no , no ; no kissing at all . I'll not kiss , till I kiss you for good and all . Cor. No , no . Mop . No , no . Cor. Not kiss you at all ? Mop . Not kiss , till you kiss me for good and all . Not kiss , etc Cor. Should you give me a score , 'Twould not lessen the store , Then bid me cheerfully , cheerfully kiss , And take , and take my fill of your bliss . Mop . I'll not trust you so far , I know you too well ; Should I give you and inch , you'd take a whole ell : Then lord like you rule , and laugh at the fool . No , no , etc Cor. Nay , but Mopsa , my dear , soft kisses invite , Longing lovers to feast on a greater delight ; Then do not deny , But freely comply ; And I will lovingly , lovingly right , My Dear , my Dear , in pleasures of night ; Mop . Stand back , master clown , your suit is in vain , I tell you , that I will unspotted remain ; For kisses they may Young Damsels betray : Go , go ; go , go ; go , let me alone ; I'll not kiss till you lowfully are my own . Cor. No , no . Mop . No , No. Cor. Not kiss you at all ? Mop . Not kiss , till you kiss me for good and all , Not kiss , etc Cor. Dearest trust me , he cry'd , I will make thee my bride , And love thee faithfully , faithfully too , My heart , my heart , is conquer'd by you . Your disconsolate swain , lies languishing here , Let me kiss thee but once , my dull spirits to cheer . Mop . You're a slippery blade , I'll not kiss you she said . Cor. No , no . Mop . No , no . Cor. Not kiss you at all ? Mop . Not kiss , till you kiss me for good and all , Not kiss , etc FINIS . LONDON : Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . 