THE Young Men's ADVICE TO Proud Ladies : OR , A Friendly Caution against their Monstrous Dress , Exhorting them to modesty , which will much more become them . To the Tune of , How blessed are Shepherd's , etc Licensed according to Order . I. LAdies of London I strange and admire , that you the folly of Pride should adore ; Throw by the Gawdy and Ranting Attire , a modest dress ( Lasses ) graces you more Than a Fantastical Top Knot and Tower , Which all your Credit and Fame will devour . II Pride is a folly which reigns in Young-women , see their black patches and powdered Hair , Commodes with Laces and other rich trimming , which is their absolute study and care How other Fashions may still be invented , or else they will not , or cann't be contented . III . Bridget that comes from the Country Dairy , if in fair London she happen to dwell , She will be straightway as topping and Airy , nay , to her strength she will strive to excel , Ladys by birth , who are highly descended , And if she cannot she's highly offended . IV. She that was yesterday ragged and torn , in a course Garment of Country grey , By her Rich Satins today must be worn , and she more proud than a fair Lady gay , Clearly forgetting her Country garment , While in fair London she's seeking preferment . V. Then a Young Citizen dotes on her Beauty , being her Captive he Marrys her strait , And does account it his absolute duty , to make a Mistress of Bridget or Kate ; Pride and Ambition that minute does seize her , So that there's nothing of Garments can please her . VI . She that has never a Groat to her portion , but did descend from the meanest degree , When she shall mount on the wings of promotion , who is more proud and imperious than she , Swimming as 'twere in sweet rivers of pleasure , At the vast charge of her kind Husbands treasure . VII . He that would marry a fair charming creature , who is endow'd with bright silver and gold , His joys will be a thousand times the sweeter , as he those plentiful Bags shall behold , Beauty and Riches together united , Makes the young Lovers in pleasures delighted . VIII . And with your Riches still strive for discretion , that you those mercies may never abuse , He that's the Author of any oppression , tho' he be great , he the blessing may lose , Pride and Ambition hath ruined many , But kind and Courteous ne'e prejudic'd any Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 1692. THE Young Men's ADVICE TO Proud Ladies : OR , A Friendly Caution against their Monstrous Dress , Exhorting them to modesty , which will much more become them . To the Tune of , How blessed are Shepherd's , etc Licensed according to Order . I. LAdies of London I strange and admire , that you the folly of Pride should adore ; Throw by the Gawdy and Ranting Attire , a modest dress ( Lasses ) graces you more Than a Fantastical Top Knot and Tower , Which all your Credit and Fame will devour . II Pride is a folly which reigns in Young-women , see their black patches and powdered Hair , Commodes with Laces and other rich trimming , which is their absolute study and care How other Fashions may still be invented , or else they will not , or cann't be contented . III . Bridget that comes from the Country Dairy , if in fair London she happen to dwell , She will be straightway as topping and Airy , nay , to her strength she will strive to excel , Ladys by birth , who are highly descended , And if she cannot she's highly offended . IV. She that was yesterday ragged and torn , in a course Garment of Country grey , By her Rich Satins today must be worn , and she more proud than a fair Lady gay , Clearly forgetting her Country garment , While in fair London she's seeking preferment . V. Then a Young Citizen dotes on her Beauty , being her Captive he Marrys her strait , And does account it his absolute duty , to make a Mistress of Bridget or Kate ; Pride and Ambition that minute does seize her , So that there's nothing of Garments can please her . VI . She that has never a Groat to her portion , but did descend from the meanest degree , When she shall mount on the wings of promotion , who is more proud and imperious than she , Swimming as 'twere in sweet rivers of pleasure , At the vast charge of her kind Husbands treasure . VII . He that would marry a fair charming creature , who is endow'd with bright silver and gold , His joys will be a thousand times the sweeter , as he those plentiful Bags shall behold , Beauty and Riches together united , Makes the young Lovers in pleasures delighted . VIII . And with your Riches still strive for discretion , that you those mercies may never abuse , He that's the Author of any oppression , tho' he be great , he the blessing may lose , Pride and Ambition hath ruined many , But kind and Courteous ne'e prejudic'd any Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 1692. 