The True Lovers Ghost . False Men do often prove unkind to those that would to them be true ; Then carefully my story mind , the like before you never knew . To the Tune of , Tender Hearts of London-City . LAdies all behold and wonder , At the pains that I lie under , burning in a quenchless fire , What I endure there's none can cure , but he whose person I admire . Virtues in him still are shining , Though his pity is declining , and his heart does grow obdure , My tender heart does feel the smart , that none but he himself can cure , Now I languish in my trouble , And my sorrows they grow double , night and day I do lament , But his disdain creates my pain , and all my comforts circumvent . Not a Maid in all the Nation , Ever took more recreation , when I was from passion free , But now in vain , I may complain , for losing of my Liberty . O that Love should have such power , Maidens freedoms to devour , making Captive , who were free , You maids take care , of love beware , lest you in chains do lie like me . Never did a slighting Lover , So much cruelty discover , as this Tyrant does to me , O come kind death , and stop my breath , and end my pain and misery . As she sat thus discontented , Of all hope's she was prevented , for death with his all-killing dart , Did give a stroke , which her heart broke and so she dy'd with deadly smart . When these tidings were brought to him It was enough for to undo him , sorrow then did him surprise , O then he said , what is she dead , the tears ran trickling from his eyes . Since my Love is gone before me , She that did so much adore me , I'le make haste with her to be , Death's killing dart shall pierce my heart my Love I come , I follow thee . In this world I take no pleasure , But do grieve beyond all measure , 'cause I proved so unkind , But she's gone , my joys are flown , and long I wiil not stay behind . Thus he sat with grief tormented , Her misfortune he lamented , at last he struck his gentle breast , And sighing said , Oh lovely Maid , how for my sake wertenberg thou oppressed . Then to him her Ghost appeared , At which sighed he greatly feared , lest he should be snatch'd away , Yet 'tis , said I , but equity , because my Love I did betray . Then on him the Ghost it seized , Whose anger could not be appeased , but away with him it flew , And through the air , it did him bear , he had no time to bid adieu . Lovers all but mind this Story , That my pen hath lay'd before you , and prove loyal unto death , Then you will find , content in mind , when you do lose your vital breath . Printed for , J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate . The True Lovers Ghost . False Men do often prove unkind to those that would to them be true ; Then carefully my story mind , the like before you never knew . To the Tune of , Tender Hearts of London-City . LAdies all behold and wonder , At the pains that I lie under , burning in a quenchless fire , What I endure there's none can cure , but he whose person I admire . Virtues in him still are shining , Though his pity is declining , and his heart does grow obdure , My tender heart does feel the smart , that none but he himself can cure , Now I languish in my trouble , And my sorrows they grow double , night and day I do lament , But his disdain creates my pain , and all my comforts circumvent . Not a Maid in all the Nation , Ever took more recreation , when I was from passion free , But now in vain , I may complain , for losing of my Liberty . O that Love should have such power , Maidens freedoms to devour , making Captive , who were free , You maids take care , of love beware , lest you in chains do lie like me . Never did a slighting Lover , So much cruelty discover , as this Tyrant does to me , O come kind death , and stop my breath , and end my pain and misery . As she sat thus discontented , Of all hope's she was prevented , for death with his all-killing dart , Did give a stroke , which her heart broke and so she dy'd with deadly smart . When these tidings were brought to him It was enough for to undo him , sorrow then did him surprise , O then he said , what is she dead , the tears ran trickling from his eyes . Since my Love is gone before me , She that did so much adore me , I'le make haste with her to be , Death's killing dart shall pierce my heart my Love I come , I follow thee . In this world I take no pleasure , But do grieve beyond all measure , 'cause I proved so unkind , But she's gone , my joys are flown , and long I wiil not stay behind . Thus he sat with grief tormented , Her misfortune he lamented , at last he struck his gentle breast , And sighing said , Oh lovely Maid , how for my sake wertenberg thou oppressed . Then to him her Ghost appeared , At which sighed he greatly feared , lest he should be snatch'd away , Yet 'tis , said I , but equity , because my Love I did betray . Then on him the Ghost it seized , Whose anger could not be appeased , but away with him it flew , And through the air , it did him bear , he had no time to bid adieu . Lovers all but mind this Story , That my pen hath lay'd before you , and prove loyal unto death , Then you will find , content in mind , when you do lose your vital breath . Printed for , J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate . 