A way to Woo a witty Wench . Or , A Dialogue between two Lovers who meeting one day ; The Youngman desired the Maiden to stay : The Maid we was witty herself to defend , And so they concluded the Match in the end . To a pleasant new Tune , or , Musgroves March . Man. Oh My dearest doe not grieve for I will prove ever kind ; Say no more , thou mayest believe , nothing but death shall change my mind : Oh then let nothing grieve thee , For I vow thou mayest believe me ; That I do love thee , That I do love thee , Come Sweetheart and embrace thine own . Maid . O sweet Sir I cannot stay , my Mistress sent me out in haste , I pray you choose some other place , for so much time I dare not waste , Lest that my Mistress chide ; Then Sir what will me betide ? I dare not tarry , Lest I miscarry , Farewell I must be gone . Man. Turn not thy fair eyes away , neither leave me here in scorn , To torment me every day , and to leave me quite forlorn ; For it is a terrible pain , To love and not be lov'd again . Then take some pity , Then take some pity , Sweetheart for I am thine own . Maid . O good Sir , what think you of this , all that glisters is not Gold ? You may believe that true it is , that Maidens must not be so bold . Young men having had their pleasure , Leaves them to repent at leisure : Therefore forbear me , Come not near me , Hands off for I must be gone . Man. Thy favour is more sweet to me , far more precious then is Gold , When shall I thy husband be , prithee Sweetheart say and hold : Oh that it were tomorrow , That it might release my sorrow . Do not disdain me , Do not disdain me , Come kiss and embrace thine own . Maid . If that be all you have to say , I mean to led a single life , Rome was not built in a day , nor I so soon am made a Wife . First I mean to try your breeding , Ere I yield to your proceeding : Oh now forbear me , Do not come near me , Hands off for I must be gone . The second part , to the same Tune . Man. SWeet think upon the former Vow , which I to thee did make , I have kept it until now , and will ever for thy sake : Then let not thy unkindness Dim thine eyes with too much blindness : For I do love thee , For I do love thee , Come Sweetheart and embrace thine own . Maid . O good Sir there's none so blind ; as those that may , yet will not see ; I know which way you are inclin'd , indeed you are to quick for me . Hight love is guickly cooled , Therefore I will dot be fooled . O fie forbear me , Do not come near me , Hands off for I must be gone . Man. I prithee give me leave to touch or to kiss thy milkwhite hand , Wer't thy lips thou needest not grutch , for I am at thy command : Oh do not thou disdain me , For thy frowns hath almost slave me ; So dear I love thee , So dear I love thee , Come kiss and embrace thine own . Maid . It is not for a kiss or two which so much I do stand upon , If that be all you mean to do , take it quickly and be gone : For a kiss is but a trifle , Yet be sure and do not rifle ; Lest you undo me , Lest you undo me , Hands off for I must be gone . Man. Oh but give me leave to twine both mine arms about thy waste : And let the pale lips of mine betwixt thy rubies plac' Come Sweetheart and let's be doing , Fie upon this tedious wooing : For I do love thee , For I do love thee , Come kiss and embrace thine own . Maid . O good Sir , your snapping short is that which makes you look so lean ; As for your kiss I thank you for't , but now I know not what you mean : To tear my clothes in sunder , What's your intention I wonder . O fie forbear me , Do not so fear me , Hands off for I must be gone . Man. Oh Sweetheart be thou content , for I mean no harm at all , Thou shalt not need for to repent , for whatsoever shall befall : Neither thought I to abuse thee , Only kiss and kindly use thee . What I did by thee , Was but to try thee , Come Sweetheart and embrace thine own . Maid . Then sweet Sir , if this be true which you unto me do say , I'le be constant unto you ; Oh that I durst but longer stay ! Come kiss once again and spare not , Though my Mistress see I care not ; For I do love thee , No man above thee , Come Sweetheart and embrace thine own . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clark . A way to Woo a witty Wench . Or , A Dialogue between two Lovers who meeting one day ; The Youngman desired the Maiden to stay : The Maid we was witty herself to defend , And so they concluded the Match in the end . To a pleasant new Tune , or , Musgroves March . Man. Oh My dearest doe not grieve for I will prove ever kind ; Say no more , thou mayest believe , nothing but death shall change my mind : Oh then let nothing grieve thee , For I vow thou mayest believe me ; That I do love thee , That I do love thee , Come Sweetheart and embrace thine own . Maid . O sweet Sir I cannot stay , my Mistress sent me out in haste , I pray you choose some other place , for so much time I dare not waste , Lest that my Mistress chide ; Then Sir what will me betide ? I dare not tarry , Lest I miscarry , Farewell I must be gone . Man. Turn not thy fair eyes away , neither leave me here in scorn , To torment me every day , and to leave me quite forlorn ; For it is a terrible pain , To love and not be lov'd again . Then take some pity , Then take some pity , Sweetheart for I am thine own . Maid . O good Sir , what think you of this , all that glisters is not Gold ? You may believe that true it is , that Maidens must not be so bold . Young men having had their pleasure , Leaves them to repent at leisure : Therefore forbear me , Come not near me , Hands off for I must be gone . Man. Thy favour is more sweet to me , far more precious then is Gold , When shall I thy husband be , prithee Sweetheart say and hold : Oh that it were tomorrow , That it might release my sorrow . Do not disdain me , Do not disdain me , Come kiss and embrace thine own . Maid . If that be all you have to say , I mean to led a single life , Rome was not built in a day , nor I so soon am made a Wife . First I mean to try your breeding , Ere I yield to your proceeding : Oh now forbear me , Do not come near me , Hands off for I must be gone . The second part , to the same Tune . Man. SWeet think upon the former Vow , which I to thee did make , I have kept it until now , and will ever for thy sake : Then let not thy unkindness Dim thine eyes with too much blindness : For I do love thee , For I do love thee , Come Sweetheart and embrace thine own . Maid . O good Sir there's none so blind ; as those that may , yet will not see ; I know which way you are inclin'd , indeed you are to quick for me . Hight love is guickly cooled , Therefore I will dot be fooled . O fie forbear me , Do not come near me , Hands off for I must be gone . Man. I prithee give me leave to touch or to kiss thy milkwhite hand , Wer't thy lips thou needest not grutch , for I am at thy command : Oh do not thou disdain me , For thy frowns hath almost slave me ; So dear I love thee , So dear I love thee , Come kiss and embrace thine own . Maid . It is not for a kiss or two which so much I do stand upon , If that be all you mean to do , take it quickly and be gone : For a kiss is but a trifle , Yet be sure and do not rifle ; Lest you undo me , Lest you undo me , Hands off for I must be gone . Man. Oh but give me leave to twine both mine arms about thy waste : And let the pale lips of mine betwixt thy rubies plac' Come Sweetheart and let's be doing , Fie upon this tedious wooing : For I do love thee , For I do love thee , Come kiss and embrace thine own . Maid . O good Sir , your snapping short is that which makes you look so lean ; As for your kiss I thank you for't , but now I know not what you mean : To tear my clothes in sunder , What's your intention I wonder . O fie forbear me , Do not so fear me , Hands off for I must be gone . Man. Oh Sweetheart be thou content , for I mean no harm at all , Thou shalt not need for to repent , for whatsoever shall befall : Neither thought I to abuse thee , Only kiss and kindly use thee . What I did by thee , Was but to try thee , Come Sweetheart and embrace thine own . Maid . Then sweet Sir , if this be true which you unto me do say , I'le be constant unto you ; Oh that I durst but longer stay ! Come kiss once again and spare not , Though my Mistress see I care not ; For I do love thee , No man above thee , Come Sweetheart and embrace thine own . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clark . 