Unconstant SHEPHERD : OR , THE Forsaken Lass's Lamentation . To and excellent new Tune , much in Request . O , how can I be merry or glad , or in my mind contented be ; When the bonny bonny lad whom I love best , is banished out of my company . Tho' he was banished , it was for my sake , And his true love I still remain ; He has caus'd me many a night for to wake , and adieu to my true love once again . [ I ] dare not come where my love is , I dare not for to sport nor play , For their evil evil tongues they are so glib , I must take a kiss and go my way . Kissing is but a silly fancy , it brings true lovers into since ; Oh that I were , and I wish that I were for to see my true love once again . As I was a walking through the Hall , I spy'd the twinkling of my loves eyes , Oh that I were , and I wish that I were in the chamber where my true love lies . Away found fool , call home thy heart , and in thy mind contented be ; For thou spend'st thy time , and gets no gain , by loving a lover that loves not thee . If I do spend my time in vain , o , it is no loss to none but me , I'll set it as light as the wavering wind , that daily blows from tree to tree . My love so lively , tall and young , I had not the power to say him nay ; The words of his false deluding tongue , did suddenly steal my heart away . In deserts I'll wander for his sake , for here I no peace nor joy can find ; My innocent heart I fear will break , because he has proved so unkind . I cannot forget the pleasing charms , which every day he did renew ; When as I lay clasped in my arms ; but now I must bid them all adieu . I did the delights of love allow , and stroked his locks of curl'd hair ; Then is he not most ungrateful now , to leave me in grief , and deep despair . Some other young nymph enjoys my swain , she which does indeed my glory blast ; Yet though he should kill me with disdain , I'll love him as long as life shall last . I languish and have not long to breathe , therefore I'll write my last farewell : To Phaon , I here my heart bequeathe , with whom I did once in pleasure dwell . Unto the Elizium shades I'll go , where hovering spirits do remain ; Repeating their killing griefs and woe , who by their hardhearted loves was slave . Of my little lambs I take my leave , and every creature in the grove ; Young Phaon he won't my life reprieve , therefore , alas ! I die for love . London : Printed for C. Bates , at the Sun and Bible in Pie corner , near West-smithfield . Unconstant SHEPHERD : OR , THE Forsaken Lass's Lamentation . To and excellent new Tune , much in Request . O , how can I be merry or glad , or in my mind contented be ; When the bonny bonny lad whom I love best , is banished out of my company . Tho' he was banished , it was for my sake , And his true love I still remain ; He has caus'd me many a night for to wake , and adieu to my true love once again . [ I ] dare not come where my love is , I dare not for to sport nor play , For their evil evil tongues they are so glib , I must take a kiss and go my way . Kissing is but a silly fancy , it brings true lovers into since ; Oh that I were , and I wish that I were for to see my true love once again . As I was a walking through the Hall , I spy'd the twinkling of my loves eyes , Oh that I were , and I wish that I were in the chamber where my true love lies . Away found fool , call home thy heart , and in thy mind contented be ; For thou spend'st thy time , and gets no gain , by loving a lover that loves not thee . If I do spend my time in vain , o , it is no loss to none but me , I'll set it as light as the wavering wind , that daily blows from tree to tree . My love so lively , tall and young , I had not the power to say him nay ; The words of his false deluding tongue , did suddenly steal my heart away . In deserts I'll wander for his sake , for here I no peace nor joy can find ; My innocent heart I fear will break , because he has proved so unkind . I cannot forget the pleasing charms , which every day he did renew ; When as I lay clasped in my arms ; but now I must bid them all adieu . I did the delights of love allow , and stroked his locks of curl'd hair ; Then is he not most ungrateful now , to leave me in grief , and deep despair . Some other young nymph enjoys my swain , she which does indeed my glory blast ; Yet though he should kill me with disdain , I'll love him as long as life shall last . I languish and have not long to breathe , therefore I'll write my last farewell : To Phaon , I here my heart bequeathe , with whom I did once in pleasure dwell . Unto the Elizium shades I'll go , where hovering spirits do remain ; Repeating their killing griefs and woe , who by their hardhearted loves was slave . Of my little lambs I take my leave , and every creature in the grove ; Young Phaon he won't my life reprieve , therefore , alas ! I die for love . London : Printed for C. Bates , at the Sun and Bible in Pie corner , near West-smithfield . 