A PANEGYRICK Upon the ensuing SPRING . 1. O ! Heavenly Calm thou merit'st praise , Beside thou hast lasted now nine days , And may I hope a longer space , 'Twixt Thunder Clashing . 2. The City too is now becalm'd , Their Threats are unto Mourning turn'd , Their pointed Push is now adjourn'd , And kept from Lashing . 3. But their Libels fly to every Shire , As thick as Atomes in the Air , To ripen all their Brothers there , For new Rebellion . 4. This Disappointment makes them Itch , Their Limbs are cramped with the old Stitch , Like Dogs in Strings , they Snarl and Twitch , Then lie to Spawn . 5. The Doctor's busy now at work , With his new Knights o'th' Post i'th' dark , As Noah with all the World in's Ark , He's Catechizing . 6. The Badger's buckling up his Legs For the next Summer , peeps through the Hedge , And hope's there's Brood in all the Eggs , That are Baptizing . 7. The Tribe compos'd of Jew and Turk , And Irish Tories of great worth , Stand like a solemn Holding forth , Cunning their Lessons . 8. The Senate swarms like cast out Bees , And squoils like Rooks i'th' tops of Trees , Their Nests as near each other lies , Plotting Petitions . 9. Striving still to rouse the Rout , With many a dangerous senseless Doubt , And make them ready to help out , When Lying fails 'um . 10. Pretended Griefs they do devise , And Judas-like their Looks disguise , Beg for redress upon their knees , When nothing ails 'um . 11. Fears of the French they do deplore , The native Papists ten times more , Yet still to keep their Sovereign poor , They do endeavour . 12. This shows that they no credit give To what they would have him believe , This begging's for Prerogative , Sir under favour . 13. But when it comes , great comfort brings , Poor Subject's Slaves , and Members Kings , But Heaven , I hope , stops such damn'd things , Rebels be quiet . 14. Or by that Loyalty I swear , Which to my Sovereign Prince I bear , I'le tell the World what Rogues you are , Can you deny it ? 15. Come never threaten to Rebel , Nor damn your Souls to stingy Hell , After your Bones are basted well , You must be Conquer'd . 16. Think not on forty one , nor eight , That President gives us such light , Tho' few dare speak , yet all dare fight , Till you be hamper'd . 17. Let not your guilt o'th' guiltless fallen , Nor Loyal Prelates Papists call , As if all were Rebels like you all , But Papists . 18. Trust not too much to Tony's Wit , Because the Devil Licens'd it , To draw you all into this Fit , Frenzy and Apish . 19. If he like Luxemburg with's Art , Should let the Devil spoil his part , His Wit is all not worth a F --- Then where's his Followers ? 20. Mouth not so much against the Duke , Nor feed black hope's with vain dispute , What God decrees none can confute , Nor Tony Hollowers . FINIS . A PANEGYRICK Upon the ensuing SPRING . 1. O ! Heavenly Calm thou merit'st praise , Beside thou hast lasted now nine days , And may I hope a longer space , 'Twixt Thunder Clashing . 2. The City too is now becalm'd , Their Threats are unto Mourning turn'd , Their pointed Push is now adjourn'd , And kept from Lashing . 3. But their Libels fly to every Shire , As thick as Atomes in the Air , To ripen all their Brothers there , For new Rebellion . 4. This Disappointment makes them Itch , Their Limbs are cramped with the old Stitch , Like Dogs in Strings , they Snarl and Twitch , Then lie to Spawn . 5. The Doctor's busy now at work , With his new Knights o'th' Post i'th' dark , As Noah with all the World in's Ark , He's Catechizing . 6. The Badger's buckling up his Legs For the next Summer , peeps through the Hedge , And hope's there's Brood in all the Eggs , That are Baptizing . 7. The Tribe compos'd of Jew and Turk , And Irish Tories of great worth , Stand like a solemn Holding forth , Cunning their Lessons . 8. The Senate swarms like cast out Bees , And squoils like Rooks i'th' tops of Trees , Their Nests as near each other lies , Plotting Petitions . 9. Striving still to rouse the Rout , With many a dangerous senseless Doubt , And make them ready to help out , When Lying fails 'um . 10. Pretended Griefs they do devise , And Judas-like their Looks disguise , Beg for redress upon their knees , When nothing ails 'um . 11. Fears of the French they do deplore , The native Papists ten times more , Yet still to keep their Sovereign poor , They do endeavour . 12. This shows that they no credit give To what they would have him believe , This begging's for Prerogative , Sir under favour . 13. But when it comes , great comfort brings , Poor Subject's Slaves , and Members Kings , But Heaven , I hope , stops such damn'd things , Rebels be quiet . 14. Or by that Loyalty I swear , Which to my Sovereign Prince I bear , I'le tell the World what Rogues you are , Can you deny it ? 15. Come never threaten to Rebel , Nor damn your Souls to stingy Hell , After your Bones are basted well , You must be Conquer'd . 16. Think not on forty one , nor eight , That President gives us such light , Tho' few dare speak , yet all dare fight , Till you be hamper'd . 17. Let not your guilt o'th' guiltless fallen , Nor Loyal Prelates Papists call , As if all were Rebels like you all , But Papists . 18. Trust not too much to Tony's Wit , Because the Devil Licens'd it , To draw you all into this Fit , Frenzy and Apish . 19. If he like Luxemburg with's Art , Should let the Devil spoil his part , His Wit is all not worth a F --- Then where's his Followers ? 20. Mouth not so much against the Duke , Nor feed black hope's with vain dispute , What God decrees none can confute , Nor Tony Hollowers . FINIS . 