The Languishing Young Man : Or , The Lovesick Sail-man's sorrowful Lamentation for the Loss of his Beautiful Maria , who left him languishing at the Point of Despair . To which is added , Maria's Kind Answer at the last time of Distress . To the Tune of , If Love's a Sweet Passion , etc Licens'd according to Order . O ! Why does my true Love so sadly disdain All the Gifts I afford her ? Yet sure 'tis in vain For to offer her any ; she's grown so unkind , That I'm least in her Fancy , and less in her Mind , Who before was her Darling , yet now she does turn Her Affections to Hatred which daily does burn . Look down , O , fair Venus , thou Goddess of Love , And send Cupid , that he may these Arrows remove , With which I this present am wounded so soar , For the fear I shall see dear Maria no more : I'm sinking , I'm swooning , I'm fainting away , For the loss of Maria : Oh! what shall I say ? Why was I so foolish to settle my Love , Or Affections on any , since falsely they prove ? Above all , dear Maria , she has prov'd so untrue , That the Hour of Birth I am forced to rue . I'm wounded , I'm bleeding , I'm struck to the Heart ? Come , my dearest Maria , ease me of this smart . Oh! Where are you Gods that are wonted to be Great help unto Mortals ? Why help you not me , Against this fierce . fiery , powerful Dart , Which is shot by fierce Cupid into my poor Heart . Oh! help me ! Oh! help me this moment ! I cry , Or else , for the loss of Maria I die . Come here , Oh! thou Charon , and make no delay , And bring here thy Ferry ; I no longer can stay : Make haste with me over unto the dark Grove Of Elizium , that there I may mourn for my Love ? Come quickly , come quickly , why dost thou delay ? Ev'ry Moment's a Year that I here have to stay Adieu to my Kinsfolks , and Parents most dear ; Adieu to my Brother , and Sister most near ; Farewell you my Uncle , above all the rest , For of Parents and Kinsfolks , you have been the best . Adieu to you all that my Moans now do hear , I am ready to die for the Loss of my Dear . Maria's Kind Answer . NO sooner had Willy thus utter'd his Grief , But Maria she came with a speedy Relief ; Who declar'd that her Dearest should never complain For the Loss of his Love , who wou'd Loyal remain : I adore thee , said she , the true Joy of my Heart , And as long as we live , Love , we never will part . 'Tis true , my Relations would have me deny All the Vows which I made thee , sweet Willy ; for why ? There's a wealthy young 'Squire provided for me , Who has promis'd to make me a Lady , said she ; But my Love , and dear Willy , thou , thou hast my Heart , And as long as we live , Love , we never will part . My Parents , I tell thee , has been so unkind , That a Month in my Chamber I have been confin'd ; But so soon as I e'er did my Freedom obtain , I came running to thee my sweet Willy again : Thou art lodg'd in my Breast , and art Lord of my Heart , And as long as we live , Love , we never will part . I valve not Riches , true Love I adore , And I therefore am come all thy Joys to restore ; Let my Friends and Relations all grieve and repine , Thou shalt be my sweet Jewel , and I will be thine : Thou art lodg'd in my Breast , and art Lord of my Heart , And as long as we live , Love , we never will part . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel , in Gilt-spur-street , without Newgate . The Languishing Young Man : Or , The Lovesick Sail-man's sorrowful Lamentation for the Loss of his Beautiful Maria , who left him languishing at the Point of Despair . To which is added , Maria's Kind Answer at the last time of Distress . To the Tune of , If Love's a Sweet Passion , etc Licens'd according to Order . O ! Why does my true Love so sadly disdain All the Gifts I afford her ? Yet sure 'tis in vain For to offer her any ; she's grown so unkind , That I'm least in her Fancy , and less in her Mind , Who before was her Darling , yet now she does turn Her Affections to Hatred which daily does burn . Look down , O , fair Venus , thou Goddess of Love , And send Cupid , that he may these Arrows remove , With which I this present am wounded so soar , For the fear I shall see dear Maria no more : I'm sinking , I'm swooning , I'm fainting away , For the loss of Maria : Oh! what shall I say ? Why was I so foolish to settle my Love , Or Affections on any , since falsely they prove ? Above all , dear Maria , she has prov'd so untrue , That the Hour of Birth I am forced to rue . I'm wounded , I'm bleeding , I'm struck to the Heart ? Come , my dearest Maria , ease me of this smart . Oh! Where are you Gods that are wonted to be Great help unto Mortals ? Why help you not me , Against this fierce . fiery , powerful Dart , Which is shot by fierce Cupid into my poor Heart . Oh! help me ! Oh! help me this moment ! I cry , Or else , for the loss of Maria I die . Come here , Oh! thou Charon , and make no delay , And bring here thy Ferry ; I no longer can stay : Make haste with me over unto the dark Grove Of Elizium , that there I may mourn for my Love ? Come quickly , come quickly , why dost thou delay ? Ev'ry Moment's a Year that I here have to stay Adieu to my Kinsfolks , and Parents most dear ; Adieu to my Brother , and Sister most near ; Farewell you my Uncle , above all the rest , For of Parents and Kinsfolks , you have been the best . Adieu to you all that my Moans now do hear , I am ready to die for the Loss of my Dear . Maria's Kind Answer . NO sooner had Willy thus utter'd his Grief , But Maria she came with a speedy Relief ; Who declar'd that her Dearest should never complain For the Loss of his Love , who wou'd Loyal remain : I adore thee , said she , the true Joy of my Heart , And as long as we live , Love , we never will part . 'Tis true , my Relations would have me deny All the Vows which I made thee , sweet Willy ; for why ? There's a wealthy young 'Squire provided for me , Who has promis'd to make me a Lady , said she ; But my Love , and dear Willy , thou , thou hast my Heart , And as long as we live , Love , we never will part . My Parents , I tell thee , has been so unkind , That a Month in my Chamber I have been confin'd ; But so soon as I e'er did my Freedom obtain , I came running to thee my sweet Willy again : Thou art lodg'd in my Breast , and art Lord of my Heart , And as long as we live , Love , we never will part . I valve not Riches , true Love I adore , And I therefore am come all thy Joys to restore ; Let my Friends and Relations all grieve and repine , Thou shalt be my sweet Jewel , and I will be thine : Thou art lodg'd in my Breast , and art Lord of my Heart , And as long as we live , Love , we never will part . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel , in Gilt-spur-street , without Newgate . 