The Birds Lamentation . When Birds could speak , and Women they Had neither Good nor Bad to say , The pretty Birds then fill'd with pain , Did to each other thus complain . To the Tune of The Bird-catcher's Delight . O ! says the Cuckoo loud and stout , I fly the Country round about , While other Birds my young ones feed , And I myself do stand in need . Then said the Sparrow on her Nest , I lov'd a Lass but it was in jest , And ever since that selfsame thing , I made a vow I ne'er would sing . Then said the Blackbird as she fled , I loved one , but she is dead ; And ever since my Love I do lack , This is the cause I mourn in black . Oh! says the Water-wag-tail then I ne'er shall be myself again , I loved one , but could not prevail , And this is the cause that I wag my Tail . Then did begin the chattering Swallow , My Love she is fled but I would not follow , And now upon the Chimney high I sing forth my poor Melody . Oh! says the Rook , and eke the Crow , The reason why in Black we go , It is because we are forsook , Come pity us poor Crow and Rook . Oh! says the Owl that flies by Night , I have quite lost my hearts delight , But since my love is gone away , I never fly out in the day . Oh! says the squeaking little Thresh , my sorrows now begin afresh ; For my poor Lover grows exceeding proud , and that is the cause that I squeal so loud . Oh! says the Robin Read breast , when you do me see , conclude it then The cold hard Winter's drawing nigh , which makes me towards the Houses fly . Oh! says the pretty Skie-Lark , I up to the Element do fly ; I lost my Love that caus'd my pain , and strive to sing it away in vain . Oh! says the little Titty-mouse , in secret holes I keep my House , Where mournfully I do complain , and curse my Lover's rash disdain . Oh! says the Bull finch mind my moan , like my great loss you ne'er had none ; Then to my Lamentation hark , as I fit singing in the dark . Oh! says the Magpie what's the matter that you admire me when I chatter ? I lost my Love and dearest Mate , I think 'tis then high time to prate . Oh! says the Jack daw I'm perplexed , I lost my Love , and am strangely vexed ; And now I am forc'd to lodge in Straw most people still call me Jackdaw . Oh! says the Gold finch mind me well , while my sad story I do tell , It often puts me in a rage , to see me penn'd up in a Cage . Oh! says the pretty little Linnet , I loved well , but the duce was in it , For I'm forsook for good and all , though oft in vain on him I call . Oh! says the pretty Nightingale , come listen a while unto my Tale ; While other Birds do sleep , I mourn , leaning my Breast against a Thorn . When they had mourn'd thus every one , telling the cause they made such moan ; All of a sudden away they flew , and ne'er so much as said adieu . But I suppose to their Nests they went , to sleep all night was their intent ; But when the morning came again , then they began for to complain . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden - Ball , in Pie-corner . The Birds Lamentation . When Birds could speak , and Women they Had neither Good nor Bad to say , The pretty Birds then fill'd with pain , Did to each other thus complain . To the Tune of The Bird-catcher's Delight . O ! says the Cuckoo loud and stout , I fly the Country round about , While other Birds my young ones feed , And I myself do stand in need . Then said the Sparrow on her Nest , I lov'd a Lass but it was in jest , And ever since that selfsame thing , I made a vow I ne'er would sing . Then said the Blackbird as she fled , I loved one , but she is dead ; And ever since my Love I do lack , This is the cause I mourn in black . Oh! says the Water-wag-tail then I ne'er shall be myself again , I loved one , but could not prevail , And this is the cause that I wag my Tail . Then did begin the chattering Swallow , My Love she is fled but I would not follow , And now upon the Chimney high I sing forth my poor Melody . Oh! says the Rook , and eke the Crow , The reason why in Black we go , It is because we are forsook , Come pity us poor Crow and Rook . Oh! says the Owl that flies by Night , I have quite lost my hearts delight , But since my love is gone away , I never fly out in the day . Oh! says the squeaking little Thresh , my sorrows now begin afresh ; For my poor Lover grows exceeding proud , and that is the cause that I squeal so loud . Oh! says the Robin Read breast , when you do me see , conclude it then The cold hard Winter's drawing nigh , which makes me towards the Houses fly . Oh! says the pretty Skie-Lark , I up to the Element do fly ; I lost my Love that caus'd my pain , and strive to sing it away in vain . Oh! says the little Titty-mouse , in secret holes I keep my House , Where mournfully I do complain , and curse my Lover's rash disdain . Oh! says the Bull finch mind my moan , like my great loss you ne'er had none ; Then to my Lamentation hark , as I fit singing in the dark . Oh! says the Magpie what's the matter that you admire me when I chatter ? I lost my Love and dearest Mate , I think 'tis then high time to prate . Oh! says the Jack daw I'm perplexed , I lost my Love , and am strangely vexed ; And now I am forc'd to lodge in Straw most people still call me Jackdaw . Oh! says the Gold finch mind me well , while my sad story I do tell , It often puts me in a rage , to see me penn'd up in a Cage . Oh! says the pretty little Linnet , I loved well , but the duce was in it , For I'm forsook for good and all , though oft in vain on him I call . Oh! says the pretty Nightingale , come listen a while unto my Tale ; While other Birds do sleep , I mourn , leaning my Breast against a Thorn . When they had mourn'd thus every one , telling the cause they made such moan ; All of a sudden away they flew , and ne'er so much as said adieu . But I suppose to their Nests they went , to sleep all night was their intent ; But when the morning came again , then they began for to complain . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden - Ball , in Pie-corner . 