The Doubting Virgin , AND The Constant Youngman . Observe what here is put in Print , All you that do love merrimen It's for Young-Men and Maids also , Stay and hear't o're before you go . Tune of , The Repriev'd Captive , By Tobias Brown . O my dearest doe not slight me , for my Love to thee is true , There is none but thee can right me , never change me for a new : You intrude me , and delude me , I think you cannot it deny , Now you leave me and deceive me , but can show no reason why . I wonder youngmen are so crossful , since Virgins are so full of Love ? That makes Maids to be bashful , thinking how young men will prove But if in proving they were loving , as they formerly pretend ; Then how neatly and completely should we live till Life does end . The men Answer . O my dear , why dost thou doubt me , that to thee I'le prove unkind I think myself not well without thee , thou art always in my mind ; If I do leave thee or deceive thee , then I wish nothing may thrive , For let never my endeavour prosper while I am alive . THou art she whom I love dearly , what can any man say more , This is my mind I speak it freely , I never said so much before : Then sweet believe me , for it did grieve me to hear the moan my Love did make , My dearest Love i'le constant prove , or believe no man for my sake . The Maids Answer . My dear , what can there be expected , while that we on earth de dwell , Let not true love be neglected , then will everything doe well , This my speeches , though we have riches my sweet heart I you call , For all the money my dear honey , true love is the best of all . Suppose that we had all the treasure that's in England to be seen , Or if that we had all the pleasure that belongeth to a Queen : Observe my speeches , I mean the riches that upon some men do fallen , For all their pleasure , and their treasure ; true love is the best of all . The Man. Why do you use such expression , unto me who am your own , My heart you have in your possession , unto you it is well known ; Pray never doubt it , nor pause about it , my dearest love 'tis thou art she , Water shall burn , and wind ne'r turn , if that I prove false to thee , This full glass I hope to drink it , in remembrance of my dear , Happy is the hour I think it , that I met my true love here ; Now in pleasure without measure , we will pass the time away , Come my sweet heart we'l kiss and part , for now we can no longer stay . So they parted for that instant , they both then were firm and true , If all young people were so constant , what need there be so much ado , There needs no weeping , nor lost sleeping if they did in love agree , Nor no shaking , nor heart breaking , pray observe this thing from me . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . The Doubting Virgin , AND The Constant Youngman . Observe what here is put in Print , All you that do love merrimen It's for Young-Men and Maids also , Stay and hear't o're before you go . Tune of , The Repriev'd Captive , By Tobias Brown . O my dearest doe not slight me , for my Love to thee is true , There is none but thee can right me , never change me for a new : You intrude me , and delude me , I think you cannot it deny , Now you leave me and deceive me , but can show no reason why . I wonder youngmen are so crossful , since Virgins are so full of Love ? That makes Maids to be bashful , thinking how young men will prove But if in proving they were loving , as they formerly pretend ; Then how neatly and completely should we live till Life does end . The men Answer . O my dear , why dost thou doubt me , that to thee I'le prove unkind I think myself not well without thee , thou art always in my mind ; If I do leave thee or deceive thee , then I wish nothing may thrive , For let never my endeavour prosper while I am alive . THou art she whom I love dearly , what can any man say more , This is my mind I speak it freely , I never said so much before : Then sweet believe me , for it did grieve me to hear the moan my Love did make , My dearest Love i'le constant prove , or believe no man for my sake . The Maids Answer . My dear , what can there be expected , while that we on earth de dwell , Let not true love be neglected , then will everything doe well , This my speeches , though we have riches my sweet heart I you call , For all the money my dear honey , true love is the best of all . Suppose that we had all the treasure that's in England to be seen , Or if that we had all the pleasure that belongeth to a Queen : Observe my speeches , I mean the riches that upon some men do fallen , For all their pleasure , and their treasure ; true love is the best of all . The Man. Why do you use such expression , unto me who am your own , My heart you have in your possession , unto you it is well known ; Pray never doubt it , nor pause about it , my dearest love 'tis thou art she , Water shall burn , and wind ne'r turn , if that I prove false to thee , This full glass I hope to drink it , in remembrance of my dear , Happy is the hour I think it , that I met my true love here ; Now in pleasure without measure , we will pass the time away , Come my sweet heart we'l kiss and part , for now we can no longer stay . So they parted for that instant , they both then were firm and true , If all young people were so constant , what need there be so much ado , There needs no weeping , nor lost sleeping if they did in love agree , Nor no shaking , nor heart breaking , pray observe this thing from me . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . 