The Mystery Discovered ; OR , Frolic upon Frolic . A Pleasant New Play Song , Greatly in Request . [ Sno ] w melts not sooner when the sun Regains [ his ] long lost heat , and beats upon the Plains , [ wit ] h scorching Rays , then Female hearts do yield [ if ] men be bold and Brave in Venus Field : Shame on the softer sex Impression makes , And though they wish , yet words their tongues forsakes ; But put them too 't , and tho' ( though faintly they ) Do struggle long , they'l gladly lose the Day . To the Pleasant New Tune of , Come Let us be Frolic , etc COme Let us be Frolic and Gay , 'tis now merry days let us quaff it , And Kiss each brisk Lass in our way , there's not one in ten but would have it , O fain they would Firk it , Caper and Jerk it , Though they'r asham'd for to crave it . Their's Jenny with Rolling Black eyes , with Silence does court you to do it , Your kindness she scorns in despise , if once that you dare put her to it ; O fain she would Firk it , Caper and Jerk it , Tough she's ashamed for to show it . There's Margery minces along , The Pride of the bonny brisk Lasses , A Buckle she has for your Thong , whenever you dare to meet faces : O fain she would Firk it , Caper and Jerk it , Though she seems cold in Carresses . Brisk Betty's both Witty and fair , her Locks they are curled most Neatly , Her Amorous looks do declare , that she does desire it greatly ; O fain she would Firk it , Caper and Jerk it , But that she's asham'd to entreat you . Simpering Molly comes next to hand , her Smiles do foretell she'd be doing Constable-like she'd make you stand , and take and account where your going ; O fain she would Firk it , Caper and Jerk it , Though she's asham'd to be Wooing . Dorothy next with Rosy Cheeks , where Lilies for Conquest are striving , To win your Liking plays mad freaks , and a Bargain would fain be driving ; O fain she would Firk it , Caper and Jerk it , Although she's asham'd to crave Swiveing , Fair Susan so Courteous and towards , wou'd never the less be a gaining , At put Inn and Inn , or All-Fours ; she'l play for what Bet you'd be naming O fain she would Firk it , Caper and Jerk it , Although she's asham'd of defaming . Kind Nancy with panting white breasts , so pleasant , delightful and Loving , Would afford you those delicate rests , while her Buttocks nimbly were moving O fain she would Firk it , Caper and jerk it , Though she's asham'd to be proving . Brisk Joan she will never stick out , but with plain broad signs she'l dare you , For to give her a breathing bout during which she will never spare you O fain she would Firk it , Caper and jerk it , Although she'l not ask for to bear you . Blithe bonny Frances comes the next , to lie alone alas ! she's grieved , She'd have you Comment on the Text , that's written in her Book Two-Leaved ; O fain she would Firk it , Caper and jerk it , But alas she fears she's deceived . Grave Rachel does fallen in the Rear whose sighs do betray her deep passion She moves to delight with much fear , yet denys not the Recreation ; O fain she would Firk it , Caper and jerk it , Though she's asham'd to Petition . Thus boldness in Love it does all , while he is despis'd that wants courage , Push hard and the Lasses will fallen , when you in each Field may find forage ; For fain would they Firk it , Caper and jerk it , With Ay , or without the thing Marriage . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Mystery Discovered ; OR , Frolic upon Frolic . A Pleasant New Play Song , Greatly in Request . [ Sno ] w melts not sooner when the sun Regains [ his ] long lost heat , and beats upon the Plains , [ wit ] h scorching Rays , then Female hearts do yield [ if ] men be bold and Brave in Venus Field : Shame on the softer sex Impression makes , And though they wish , yet words their tongues forsakes ; But put them too 't , and tho' ( though faintly they ) Do struggle long , they'l gladly lose the Day . To the Pleasant New Tune of , Come Let us be Frolic , etc COme Let us be Frolic and Gay , 'tis now merry days let us quaff it , And Kiss each brisk Lass in our way , there's not one in ten but would have it , O fain they would Firk it , Caper and Jerk it , Though they'r asham'd for to crave it . Their's Jenny with Rolling Black eyes , with Silence does court you to do it , Your kindness she scorns in despise , if once that you dare put her to it ; O fain she would Firk it , Caper and Jerk it , Tough she's ashamed for to show it . There's Margery minces along , The Pride of the bonny brisk Lasses , A Buckle she has for your Thong , whenever you dare to meet faces : O fain she would Firk it , Caper and Jerk it , Though she seems cold in Carresses . Brisk Betty's both Witty and fair , her Locks they are curled most Neatly , Her Amorous looks do declare , that she does desire it greatly ; O fain she would Firk it , Caper and Jerk it , But that she's asham'd to entreat you . Simpering Molly comes next to hand , her Smiles do foretell she'd be doing Constable-like she'd make you stand , and take and account where your going ; O fain she would Firk it , Caper and Jerk it , Though she's asham'd to be Wooing . Dorothy next with Rosy Cheeks , where Lilies for Conquest are striving , To win your Liking plays mad freaks , and a Bargain would fain be driving ; O fain she would Firk it , Caper and Jerk it , Although she's asham'd to crave Swiveing , Fair Susan so Courteous and towards , wou'd never the less be a gaining , At put Inn and Inn , or All-Fours ; she'l play for what Bet you'd be naming O fain she would Firk it , Caper and Jerk it , Although she's asham'd of defaming . Kind Nancy with panting white breasts , so pleasant , delightful and Loving , Would afford you those delicate rests , while her Buttocks nimbly were moving O fain she would Firk it , Caper and jerk it , Though she's asham'd to be proving . Brisk Joan she will never stick out , but with plain broad signs she'l dare you , For to give her a breathing bout during which she will never spare you O fain she would Firk it , Caper and jerk it , Although she'l not ask for to bear you . Blithe bonny Frances comes the next , to lie alone alas ! she's grieved , She'd have you Comment on the Text , that's written in her Book Two-Leaved ; O fain she would Firk it , Caper and jerk it , But alas she fears she's deceived . Grave Rachel does fallen in the Rear whose sighs do betray her deep passion She moves to delight with much fear , yet denys not the Recreation ; O fain she would Firk it , Caper and jerk it , Though she's asham'd to Petition . Thus boldness in Love it does all , while he is despis'd that wants courage , Push hard and the Lasses will fallen , when you in each Field may find forage ; For fain would they Firk it , Caper and jerk it , With Ay , or without the thing Marriage . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 