The Hunting of the HARE , WITH Her last Will and Testamen As 'twas perform'd on BANSTEAD-DOWNS , By CONEY-CATCHERS and their Hounds To a most pleasant new Tune , etc Of all Delights that Earth does yield , Give me a Pack of Hounds in field ; Whose Echo shall throughout the Sky , Make Jove admire our Harmony , And wish that he a Mortal were , To view the Pastime we have here . I will tell you of a rare Scent , Where many a gallant Horse was spent , On Banstead-Downs a Hare we found , Which led us all a smoking Round , O're hedge and ditch away she goes , Admiring her approaching Foes . But when she found her strength to wast , She parly'd with the Hounds at las Kind Hounds ( quoth she ) forbear to kill A harmless Hare that ne'r thought ill ; And if your Master Sport do crave , I'll led a Scent as he would have . Huntsman . Away , away , thou art alone , Make haste , I say , and get thee gone ; We'll give thee Law for half a Mile , To see if thou can'st us beguile ; But then expect a thundering Cry , Made by us and our Harmony . Hare . Now since you set my life so light , I'll make Black-slowen turn to white , And Yorkshire Gray that runs at all , I'll make him wish he were in stall ; And Sorrel he that seems to fly , I'll make him supple e're I die . And Barnard-bay , do what he can , Or Baron's Bay , that now and then Did inturrupt me in my way , I'll make him neither jet nor play ; Or constant Robin , though he lie At his advantage , what care I . Will . Hatton he hath done me wrong , He struck me as I ran along , And with one pat made me so soar , That I ran reeling two and from ; But if I die , his Master tell , That Fool shall ring my Passing-bell . Hound . Alas , poor Hare , it is our nature , To kill thee and not other Creature ; For our Master wants a Bit , And thou wilt well become the Spit , He'll eat thy Flesh , we'll pick thy Bone ; This is thy Doom , so get thee gone . Hare . Your Master may have better Cheer , For I am dry , and Butter's dear ; But if he please to make a Friend , He'd better give a Pudding's End : For being kill'd he Sport will lack , And I must hang o'th' Huntsman's back . Hound . Alas , poor Hare , we pity thee , If with our nature 'twould agree ; But all thy Doubling-shifts we fear , Will not prevail , thy Death's so near : Then make thy Will , it may be that May save thee , or we know not what . Hare . Then I bequeathe my Body free , Unto your Master's Courtesy ; And if he please my Life to grant , I'll be his Game when Sport is scant ; But if I die , each greedy Hound , Divides my Entrails on the ground : Imprimis , I bequeathe my Head , To him that a fair Fool does wed , Who hath before her Maidenhead lost ; I would not have the Proverb crossed , Which i've herd 'mongst many Quiblets , Set the Hare's Head 'gainst the Goose-giblets . Item , I do give and bequeathe , To Men in debt , ( after my death ) My subtle Scent , that so they may Beware of such as would betray Them to a miserable Fate , By Bloodhounds from the Compter-gate . Item , I to a Turncoat give , ( That he may more obscurely live , ) My swift and sudden Doublings , which Will make him politic and rich ; Though at the last , with many wounds , I wish him kill'd by his own Houndst . Item , I give into their hands , That purchase Dean and Chapter's Land [ s , ] My wretched Jealousies and Fears , Mixed with the Salt of Orphans Tears , That long Vexations may persevere , To plague them and their Heirs forever Before I die , ( for Life is scant , ) I would supply Men's proper want ; And therefore I bequeathe unto The Scrivener ( give the Devil his due ) That forgeth , swears , and then forsmes ( To save his Credit ) both my Ears . I give to some Sequestered Man , My Skin to make a Jacket on ; And I bequeathe my Feet to they That shortly mean to run away : When Truth is Speaker , Falshood's dum [ b , ] Foxes must fly when Lyons come . To Fiddlers , for all Trades must live , ( To serve for Strings ) my Guts I give For Gamesters that do play at Rut , And love the Sport , I give my Sku But last of all in this sad Dump , To Towerhill I bequeathe my Rump . Hound . Was ever Hounds so basely crossed ? Our Master's calls us off so fast , That we the Scent have almost lost , And they themselves must rule the roas Therefore , kind Hare , we'll pardon you , Thanks , gentle Hounds , and so adieu . Hare And since your Master hath pardon'd me I'll led you all to Banbury , Where John Turner hath a large Room , To entertain all Guest that come ; To laugh and quaff in Wine and Beer , A fully Carouse to your Galleer . Licensed and Enter'd according to Order . LONDON : Printed by and for W.O. and are to be sold by the Booksellers . The Hunting of the HARE , WITH Her last Will and Testamen As 'twas perform'd on BANSTEAD-DOWNS , By CONEY-CATCHERS and their Hounds To a most pleasant new Tune , etc Of all Delights that Earth does yield , Give me a Pack of Hounds in field ; Whose Echo shall throughout the Sky , Make Jove admire our Harmony , And wish that he a Mortal were , To view the Pastime we have here . I will tell you of a rare Scent , Where many a gallant Horse was spent , On Banstead-Downs a Hare we found , Which led us all a smoking Round , O're hedge and ditch away she goes , Admiring her approaching Foes . But when she found her strength to wast , She parly'd with the Hounds at las Kind Hounds ( quoth she ) forbear to kill A harmless Hare that ne'r thought ill ; And if your Master Sport do crave , I'll led a Scent as he would have . Huntsman . Away , away , thou art alone , Make haste , I say , and get thee gone ; We'll give thee Law for half a Mile , To see if thou can'st us beguile ; But then expect a thundering Cry , Made by us and our Harmony . Hare . Now since you set my life so light , I'll make Black-slowen turn to white , And Yorkshire Gray that runs at all , I'll make him wish he were in stall ; And Sorrel he that seems to fly , I'll make him supple e're I die . And Barnard-bay , do what he can , Or Baron's Bay , that now and then Did inturrupt me in my way , I'll make him neither jet nor play ; Or constant Robin , though he lie At his advantage , what care I . Will . Hatton he hath done me wrong , He struck me as I ran along , And with one pat made me so soar , That I ran reeling two and from ; But if I die , his Master tell , That Fool shall ring my Passing-bell . Hound . Alas , poor Hare , it is our nature , To kill thee and not other Creature ; For our Master wants a Bit , And thou wilt well become the Spit , He'll eat thy Flesh , we'll pick thy Bone ; This is thy Doom , so get thee gone . Hare . Your Master may have better Cheer , For I am dry , and Butter's dear ; But if he please to make a Friend , He'd better give a Pudding's End : For being kill'd he Sport will lack , And I must hang o'th' Huntsman's back . Hound . Alas , poor Hare , we pity thee , If with our nature 'twould agree ; But all thy Doubling-shifts we fear , Will not prevail , thy Death's so near : Then make thy Will , it may be that May save thee , or we know not what . Hare . Then I bequeathe my Body free , Unto your Master's Courtesy ; And if he please my Life to grant , I'll be his Game when Sport is scant ; But if I die , each greedy Hound , Divides my Entrails on the ground : Imprimis , I bequeathe my Head , To him that a fair Fool does wed , Who hath before her Maidenhead lost ; I would not have the Proverb crossed , Which i've herd 'mongst many Quiblets , Set the Hare's Head 'gainst the Goose-giblets . Item , I do give and bequeathe , To Men in debt , ( after my death ) My subtle Scent , that so they may Beware of such as would betray Them to a miserable Fate , By Bloodhounds from the Compter-gate . Item , I to a Turncoat give , ( That he may more obscurely live , ) My swift and sudden Doublings , which Will make him politic and rich ; Though at the last , with many wounds , I wish him kill'd by his own Houndst . Item , I give into their hands , That purchase Dean and Chapter's Land [ s , ] My wretched Jealousies and Fears , Mixed with the Salt of Orphans Tears , That long Vexations may persevere , To plague them and their Heirs forever Before I die , ( for Life is scant , ) I would supply Men's proper want ; And therefore I bequeathe unto The Scrivener ( give the Devil his due ) That forgeth , swears , and then forsmes ( To save his Credit ) both my Ears . I give to some Sequestered Man , My Skin to make a Jacket on ; And I bequeathe my Feet to they That shortly mean to run away : When Truth is Speaker , Falshood's dum [ b , ] Foxes must fly when Lyons come . To Fiddlers , for all Trades must live , ( To serve for Strings ) my Guts I give For Gamesters that do play at Rut , And love the Sport , I give my Sku But last of all in this sad Dump , To Towerhill I bequeathe my Rump . Hound . Was ever Hounds so basely crossed ? Our Master's calls us off so fast , That we the Scent have almost lost , And they themselves must rule the roas Therefore , kind Hare , we'll pardon you , Thanks , gentle Hounds , and so adieu . Hare And since your Master hath pardon'd me I'll led you all to Banbury , Where John Turner hath a large Room , To entertain all Guest that come ; To laugh and quaff in Wine and Beer , A fully Carouse to your Galleer . Licensed and Enter'd according to Order . LONDON : Printed by and for W.O. and are to be sold by the Booksellers . 