The Scotch LORDS Welcome to England : OR The Union DIALOGUE , Between a Scotchman and and English-man , on the Coronation of Queen ANNE . To the Tune of , Over the Hills , and far away . English-man . COme let us joyful Anthems raise , And sing together Anna's Praise : The Glorious Work for both is done , 'Tis She has fix'd the Union : 'Tis She has fix'd the Union , And made the happy Nations One : Then may we all the Blessing find , And Scotch and English Hearts be join'd . Scotchman . Geud Heaven Bless Her Reign , say I , For I rejoice in 't heartily , And o'er the Hills and far away , I'm come my muckle Thanks to pay : I'm come my muckle Thanks to pay , On this Her Coronation-Day , And may She long enjoy the Throne , And Scotch and English Hearts be One . English-man . In ancient Times , as I have herd , Both Nations have in Arms appear'd , When Bloody Battles have been fought , Before the Union it was wrought ; Before the Union it was wrought , And happy Anne had ty'd the Know But now we shall the Blessing find , When Scotch and English Hearts are join'd . Scotchman . De'el ta' the Loons that made such stir , And so against the Union were , That fed us with strange fine Tales , And squinted towards the Prince of W --- s , And squinted towards the Prince of W -- s : But now their muckle Malice fails . And Brittain will the Blessing find , When Scotch and English Hearts are join'd . English-man . Our Trade together we'll maintain , Our Ships shall sail upon the Main : No Land shall be Bless'd as we , While English Hearts and Scotch agree : While English Hearts and Scotch agree , Our Fame shall spread by Land and Sea : Great Britain's Glory there shall shine , Where Scotch and English Arms do join . Scotchman . The muckle De'el stop all their Wems , That deem the French , or Penkin James ; For Geud Queen Anne we'll boldly Fight , Where Scotch and English Arms unite : Where Scotch and English Arms unite , We bravely will maintain her Right , No Prince shall be so great as she , While English Hearts and Scotch agree . English-man . The Scottish Lords of late come here , Both Members , and each Noble Peer , To England , as they welcome be , May they in Parliament agree : May they in Parliament agree ; To crown the happy Unity . Great Britain's Glory than will shine , When Scotch and English Hearts do join . Scotchman . Well fare the Day it did begin , To prosper under such a Queen ; And may they hang that do complain , Or wish it were undone again ; Thus while in Union we agree , No Land shall be so Bless'd as we : For which , and for Queen Anne I'll pra [ y ] When o'er the Hills and far away . The Scotch LORDS Welcome to England : OR The Union DIALOGUE , Between a Scotchman and and English-man , on the Coronation of Queen ANNE . To the Tune of , Over the Hills , and far away . English-man . COme let us joyful Anthems raise , And sing together Anna's Praise : The Glorious Work for both is done , 'Tis She has fix'd the Union : 'Tis She has fix'd the Union , And made the happy Nations One : Then may we all the Blessing find , And Scotch and English Hearts be join'd . Scotchman . Geud Heaven Bless Her Reign , say I , For I rejoice in 't heartily , And o'er the Hills and far away , I'm come my muckle Thanks to pay : I'm come my muckle Thanks to pay , On this Her Coronation-Day , And may She long enjoy the Throne , And Scotch and English Hearts be One . English-man . In ancient Times , as I have herd , Both Nations have in Arms appear'd , When Bloody Battles have been fought , Before the Union it was wrought ; Before the Union it was wrought , And happy Anne had ty'd the Know But now we shall the Blessing find , When Scotch and English Hearts are join'd . Scotchman . De'el ta' the Loons that made such stir , And so against the Union were , That fed us with strange fine Tales , And squinted towards the Prince of W --- s , And squinted towards the Prince of W -- s : But now their muckle Malice fails . And Brittain will the Blessing find , When Scotch and English Hearts are join'd . English-man . Our Trade together we'll maintain , Our Ships shall sail upon the Main : No Land shall be Bless'd as we , While English Hearts and Scotch agree : While English Hearts and Scotch agree , Our Fame shall spread by Land and Sea : Great Britain's Glory there shall shine , Where Scotch and English Arms do join . Scotchman . The muckle De'el stop all their Wems , That deem the French , or Penkin James ; For Geud Queen Anne we'll boldly Fight , Where Scotch and English Arms unite : Where Scotch and English Arms unite , We bravely will maintain her Right , No Prince shall be so great as she , While English Hearts and Scotch agree . English-man . The Scottish Lords of late come here , Both Members , and each Noble Peer , To England , as they welcome be , May they in Parliament agree : May they in Parliament agree ; To crown the happy Unity . Great Britain's Glory than will shine , When Scotch and English Hearts do join . Scotchman . Well fare the Day it did begin , To prosper under such a Queen ; And may they hang that do complain , Or wish it were undone again ; Thus while in Union we agree , No Land shall be so Bless'd as we : For which , and for Queen Anne I'll pra [ y ] When o'er the Hills and far away . 