Diddle , Diddle . Or , The Kind Country Lovers . With sly insinuations he persuades her And by the bans of Love , along he leads her . Relating pleasant stories for to bind her And all to make her unto him prove kinder . And so in Love at last they live together With pleasant days enjoying one another . Tune of Lavender green , etc With Allowance , Ro. L'Estrange . LAvenders green , Diddle , diddle Lavenders blue You must love me diddle diddle , cause I love you , I herd one say diddle diddle since I came hither , That you and I diddle diddle must lie together . My hosttess maid diddle diddle her name was Nell , She was a lass diddle diddle that I loved well , But if she die diddle diddle by some mishap Then she shall lie diddle diddle under the Tap , That she may drink Diddle , diddle , when she's a dry , Because she lov'd Diddle , diddle my Dog & I , Coll up your Maids Diddle diddle set them to work , Some to make Hay , Diddle diddle some to the Rock . Some to make Hay , Diddle diddle , some to the Corn While you and I Diddle , diddle , keep the bed warm , Let the birds sing Diddle , diddle and the Lambs play , We shall be safe Diddle , diddle out of harms way . James at the George , Diddle , diddle Sue at the Swan , He loves his maid Diddle diddle , she loves her man , But if they chance Diddle , diddle for to be found , Catch them i'th Corn Diddle diddle put them i'th pound . I herd a bird Diddle , diddle sing in my Ear , Maids will be scarce Diddle , diddle , the next New year , For young men are Diddle , diddle so wanton grown That they ne'r mind Diddle , diddle which is their own . Down in a Vale Diddle , diddle where flowers do grow And the birds sing Diddlle , diddle all on a row . A brisk young man Diddle , diddle met with a Maid , And laid her down , Diddle diddle under the shade . Where they did play Diddle diddle & Kiss & Court , Like Lambs in May Diddle diddle making fine sport . There lives a Lass Diddle , diddle over the Green , She sells good Ale Diddle , diddle think what I mean . Oft have I been Diddle , diddle with her i'th dark And yet I never Diddle diddle shot at the mark . But now my Dear Diddle , diddle have at thy humm For I do swear Diddle , diddle now I am come . I will be kind Diddle diddle until I die , Then prithee love Diddle diddle my Dog & I . For thee & I Diddle diddle now are all one , And we will lie Diddle di [ worser ] dle no more alone . Printed for J. Wright . J. Clark , W. Thackery and T. Passenger . Diddle , Diddle . Or , The Kind Country Lovers . With sly insinuations he persuades her And by the bans of Love , along he leads her . Relating pleasant stories for to bind her And all to make her unto him prove kinder . And so in Love at last they live together With pleasant days enjoying one another . Tune of Lavender green , etc With Allowance , Ro. L'Estrange . LAvenders green , Diddle , diddle Lavenders blue You must love me diddle diddle , cause I love you , I herd one say diddle diddle since I came hither , That you and I diddle diddle must lie together . My hosttess maid diddle diddle her name was Nell , She was a lass diddle diddle that I loved well , But if she die diddle diddle by some mishap Then she shall lie diddle diddle under the Tap , That she may drink Diddle , diddle , when she's a dry , Because she lov'd Diddle , diddle my Dog & I , Coll up your Maids Diddle diddle set them to work , Some to make Hay , Diddle diddle some to the Rock . Some to make Hay , Diddle diddle , some to the Corn While you and I Diddle , diddle , keep the bed warm , Let the birds sing Diddle , diddle and the Lambs play , We shall be safe Diddle , diddle out of harms way . James at the George , Diddle , diddle Sue at the Swan , He loves his maid Diddle diddle , she loves her man , But if they chance Diddle , diddle for to be found , Catch them i'th Corn Diddle diddle put them i'th pound . I herd a bird Diddle , diddle sing in my Ear , Maids will be scarce Diddle , diddle , the next New year , For young men are Diddle , diddle so wanton grown That they ne'r mind Diddle , diddle which is their own . Down in a Vale Diddle , diddle where flowers do grow And the birds sing Diddlle , diddle all on a row . A brisk young man Diddle , diddle met with a Maid , And laid her down , Diddle diddle under the shade . Where they did play Diddle diddle & Kiss & Court , Like Lambs in May Diddle diddle making fine sport . There lives a Lass Diddle , diddle over the Green , She sells good Ale Diddle , diddle think what I mean . Oft have I been Diddle , diddle with her i'th dark And yet I never Diddle diddle shot at the mark . But now my Dear Diddle , diddle have at thy humm For I do swear Diddle , diddle now I am come . I will be kind Diddle diddle until I die , Then prithee love Diddle diddle my Dog & I . For thee & I Diddle diddle now are all one , And we will lie Diddle di [ worser ] dle no more alone . Printed for J. Wright . J. Clark , W. Thackery and T. Passenger . 