The Female's Frolic OR , THE Distressed young Maiden : Who enter'd herself on Board of the Marlborough , to go to some foreign for the sake of her Sweetheart . Tune of , Young Essex . COme listen , come listen , come listen a while , I'll tell you a Story may make you to smile ; It is of a young Female , as some they do say , Whose mind it was bent for to go to the Sea : With a fall la la , fall la la la la la la . She enter'd on Board as we do understand , In order to go into some foreign Land ; On Board of our Ship , the Marlborough by name , A bold Volunteer when on Board she first came : With a fall la la , etc Her Purpose was crossed , as now we do find , A Sweetheart she had , and she boar him in mind ; To venture her Life she was fully bent , With mind and good will she did freely consen With a fall la la , etc Such Lovers indeed , they are hard to be found , For once she did live at the Smack run on Ground In Gosport we find , as some they do say , She was not content in her Service to stay : With a fall la la , etc Her modest Behaviour to us it was known , A Carriage of a Woman , but was loath for to own ; Until at the last it did plainer appear To her Discontent , cost her many a Tear : With a fall la la , etc To hide her design , she did freely consent To enter as Servant , she was well content ; To free her from Labour , as now we do find , Her modest Behaviour did bear a good mind : With a fall la la , etc Her mind it was willing , and so she did show , For her Ship-mates she did both Mend and Sow ; To gain their good will in diverse did she , And nothing was wanting in her as we see : With a fall la la , etc When true Lovers they entangled are , The Burden's so great , nothing can compare ; All you that have felt a true Lover's smart , You can do no less , then your pity impart . With a fall la la , etc Now I do express my Grief and my Mo [ ? ] I hope that your kindness to me will be sl [ ? ] Don't greet me unkindly , a Maid in distr [ ess ] There's none of you knows my sad heavi [ ne ] ss : With a fall la la , etc I matter not Billows that rises so high , Nor Winds that blows lofty , when Dangers [ ? ] So I can obtain but the Man that I love , I'll venture for him by the Powers above : With a fall la la , etc It is not my Foes that shall me surprise , Nor Dangers one sees , whatever may rise ; I'll venture my Life against my proud Foe , I think it not hard what I under go : With a fall la la , etc I alter'd my Name , this was my intent , To find out my Love I was fully bent ; But Fortune did cross me , now as you do find , But like a true Lover I bear him in mind : With a fall la la , etc Wherever I ramble , where ever I go , Since Cupid has darted and gave me a blow ; A constant true Lover I ever will be , If Fortune does favour , I'm bound for the Sea With a fall la la , etc From Susan to Richard , I alter'd my Name , When first I on Board the Marlborough ca [ me ] I soon was discover'd , the matter is true , And this have I acted , my Dearest , for you : With a fall la la , etc But Fortune does frown , and I must be content , I am left alone my case to relent ; My constancy's so , I will ever prove true , If by you I am slighted , I will not slight you : With a fall la la , etc In sad discontent I must now make Moan , My Love he is gone and has left me alone And now I conclude my sad sorrowful Case , I fain would have venter'd my Love to embrace With a fall la la , fall la la la la la la . London : Printed by and for W.O. for T. Norris , at the Looking glass on London-bridge . The Female's Frolic OR , THE Distressed young Maiden : Who enter'd herself on Board of the Marlborough , to go to some foreign for the sake of her Sweetheart . Tune of , Young Essex . COme listen , come listen , come listen a while , I'll tell you a Story may make you to smile ; It is of a young Female , as some they do say , Whose mind it was bent for to go to the Sea : With a fall la la , fall la la la la la la . She enter'd on Board as we do understand , In order to go into some foreign Land ; On Board of our Ship , the Marlborough by name , A bold Volunteer when on Board she first came : With a fall la la , etc Her Purpose was crossed , as now we do find , A Sweetheart she had , and she boar him in mind ; To venture her Life she was fully bent , With mind and good will she did freely consen With a fall la la , etc Such Lovers indeed , they are hard to be found , For once she did live at the Smack run on Ground In Gosport we find , as some they do say , She was not content in her Service to stay : With a fall la la , etc Her modest Behaviour to us it was known , A Carriage of a Woman , but was loath for to own ; Until at the last it did plainer appear To her Discontent , cost her many a Tear : With a fall la la , etc To hide her design , she did freely consent To enter as Servant , she was well content ; To free her from Labour , as now we do find , Her modest Behaviour did bear a good mind : With a fall la la , etc Her mind it was willing , and so she did show , For her Ship-mates she did both Mend and Sow ; To gain their good will in diverse did she , And nothing was wanting in her as we see : With a fall la la , etc When true Lovers they entangled are , The Burden's so great , nothing can compare ; All you that have felt a true Lover's smart , You can do no less , then your pity impart . With a fall la la , etc Now I do express my Grief and my Mo [ ? ] I hope that your kindness to me will be sl [ ? ] Don't greet me unkindly , a Maid in distr [ ess ] There's none of you knows my sad heavi [ ne ] ss : With a fall la la , etc I matter not Billows that rises so high , Nor Winds that blows lofty , when Dangers [ ? ] So I can obtain but the Man that I love , I'll venture for him by the Powers above : With a fall la la , etc It is not my Foes that shall me surprise , Nor Dangers one sees , whatever may rise ; I'll venture my Life against my proud Foe , I think it not hard what I under go : With a fall la la , etc I alter'd my Name , this was my intent , To find out my Love I was fully bent ; But Fortune did cross me , now as you do find , But like a true Lover I bear him in mind : With a fall la la , etc Wherever I ramble , where ever I go , Since Cupid has darted and gave me a blow ; A constant true Lover I ever will be , If Fortune does favour , I'm bound for the Sea With a fall la la , etc From Susan to Richard , I alter'd my Name , When first I on Board the Marlborough ca [ me ] I soon was discover'd , the matter is true , And this have I acted , my Dearest , for you : With a fall la la , etc But Fortune does frown , and I must be content , I am left alone my case to relent ; My constancy's so , I will ever prove true , If by you I am slighted , I will not slight you : With a fall la la , etc In sad discontent I must now make Moan , My Love he is gone and has left me alone And now I conclude my sad sorrowful Case , I fain would have venter'd my Love to embrace With a fall la la , fall la la la la la la . London : Printed by and for W.O. for T. Norris , at the Looking glass on London-bridge . 