Faithful DAMON ; OR , Fair CELIA Obtained . Though Virgins they may say you nay , Yet make a new Reply , And you will find , they will be kind , They cannot you deny . To the Tune of , The Doubting Virgin . LAtely in a Shady Bower , Celia with her Love conversed , Fairer then the Lily Flower , with all virtues she was bles Damon loving , often moving her to yield unto his will , Celia cried , and replied , will Live a Maiden still . Then said Damon , my sweet jewel , do not frown nor yet revile , Cease to be to me so cruel , send me now a gentle smile : Such a blessing , if possessing , of thy Love and kind good will , Do not vex me , nor perplex me , I will Live a Maiden still . Celia here's my hand , I love thee , do not seem to be so coy , I esteem no one above thee , thou shalt be my only joy : Be not froward , nor untoward , do not seek my heart to kill , Oh forbear me , Damon spare me , I will live a Maiden still . O my Celia's frowns are killing , nothing but a smile can cure , Now my heart with grief is filling , how shall I these pains endure : Then come near me , Love and cheer me grant me now thy kind good will , She replied , it's denied , for I'le Live a Maiden still . While a maid remains unmarry'd , then we do enjoy our peace , For this cause I do defer it , lest our troubles should increase , For my treasure , is my pleasure , nothing can my comforts spill , But when double , then comes trouble thus I live a Maiden still . Celia I do highly prize thee , for my heart is in thy breast , Should my Celia now despise me , I should never be at res My dear Creature , none more sweeter , do not you my suit deny , I'le respect thee , and protect thee , till the very day I die . O my Love is most entire , nothing shall thee now annoy , Grant me what I do desire , I will crown thy days with joy : Ne'r was creature more completer , in a Loyal Lovers eye , Celia pity , hear my ditty , grant me Love or else I die . The Maids Reply . Was I sure thou wouldst be Loyal then i'de grant thee thy request , I would make no more denial , thou shouldst set thy heart at res Then he kissed her , and he blessed her , and imbrac'd her in his arms , No disputing , but saluting , thus began their pleasant charms . while their joys they were completed nothing could their Love annoy , Sweet embraces kindly greeting , sounding forth their mutual joy : Thus inviting , and delighting , nothing could their comforts spill , They commending , and extending , both their Love , and kind good will . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Gilded - spur-street , without Newgate . Faithful DAMON ; OR , Fair CELIA Obtained . Though Virgins they may say you nay , Yet make a new Reply , And you will find , they will be kind , They cannot you deny . To the Tune of , The Doubting Virgin . LAtely in a Shady Bower , Celia with her Love conversed , Fairer then the Lily Flower , with all virtues she was bles Damon loving , often moving her to yield unto his will , Celia cried , and replied , will Live a Maiden still . Then said Damon , my sweet jewel , do not frown nor yet revile , Cease to be to me so cruel , send me now a gentle smile : Such a blessing , if possessing , of thy Love and kind good will , Do not vex me , nor perplex me , I will Live a Maiden still . Celia here's my hand , I love thee , do not seem to be so coy , I esteem no one above thee , thou shalt be my only joy : Be not froward , nor untoward , do not seek my heart to kill , Oh forbear me , Damon spare me , I will live a Maiden still . O my Celia's frowns are killing , nothing but a smile can cure , Now my heart with grief is filling , how shall I these pains endure : Then come near me , Love and cheer me grant me now thy kind good will , She replied , it's denied , for I'le Live a Maiden still . While a maid remains unmarry'd , then we do enjoy our peace , For this cause I do defer it , lest our troubles should increase , For my treasure , is my pleasure , nothing can my comforts spill , But when double , then comes trouble thus I live a Maiden still . Celia I do highly prize thee , for my heart is in thy breast , Should my Celia now despise me , I should never be at res My dear Creature , none more sweeter , do not you my suit deny , I'le respect thee , and protect thee , till the very day I die . O my Love is most entire , nothing shall thee now annoy , Grant me what I do desire , I will crown thy days with joy : Ne'r was creature more completer , in a Loyal Lovers eye , Celia pity , hear my ditty , grant me Love or else I die . The Maids Reply . Was I sure thou wouldst be Loyal then i'de grant thee thy request , I would make no more denial , thou shouldst set thy heart at res Then he kissed her , and he blessed her , and imbrac'd her in his arms , No disputing , but saluting , thus began their pleasant charms . while their joys they were completed nothing could their Love annoy , Sweet embraces kindly greeting , sounding forth their mutual joy : Thus inviting , and delighting , nothing could their comforts spill , They commending , and extending , both their Love , and kind good will . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Gilded - spur-street , without Newgate . 