The Rump Carbonadod . Or , A New Ballad , To the Tune of the Blacksmith . LEnd me your ears , not cropped , and I'le sing Of and hideous Monster , or Parliament thing , That City and Country does woefully wring , Which nobody can deny . Take care that no Sectary be in this place , For if you offend the least Babe of Grace , The Rump will be ready to fly in your face , Which nobody can deny . They fram'd a Remonstrance , to set all on fire , Which took with the People , as they did desire , And forc'd them to Covenant that they would conspire , Which nobody can deny . No sooner exalted was Essex his H [ oh ] rn , But Gods law , and men too , the Cuckold did scorn , To ruin our Country this Rebel was born , Which nobody can deny . Take Warwick along , if company you lack , No Admiral like and old Puritan Jack , A verier knave you can't find in the Pack , Which nobody can deny . These arm'd with Commissions by Sea and by Land , Did send forth their Forces the King to withstand , Till of all that was good , they had soon made and hand , Which nobody can deny . In glory and wealth , we once so ab [ oh ] undead , And were in Religion s [ oh ] thoroughly grounded , That none could have shatter'd us thus but the Round-head , Which nobody can deny . Which pluck'd down the King , the Church , and the Laws , To set up and Idol , then N [ i ] ck-nam'd the Cause . Like Bell and Dragon , to gorge their own Maws , Which nobody can deny . They banished all Royalists out of the Line , And scarce could endure to hear any Divine , That would not for company cog , lie and whine , Which nobody can deny . So frantically zealous they were at that season , That the five rotten Members impeached of high Treason , They guarded against all Right , Law and Reason , Which nobody can deny . Will fool was counted the worst of the twaine , Till Tom fool Lord Fairfax the Cause to maintain , His Honour and Conscience did fearfully stain , Which nobody can deny . Sir William at Run-away-downs had a bout , Which him and his Lobsters did totally rout , And his Lady the Conqueror could not help him out , Which nobody can deny . Though General Brown do now fawn and beseech , The Caveleeres found him a bloodsucking Leech , He would seem a Convert , but he stinks of the breech , Which nobody can deny . All will confess that Saint Oliver Cromwell , Had learn'd in his reign the three Nations to scum-well , Although it be true that he did love a Bum-well , Which nobody will deny . But young Dick and Harry , not his Heirs but his brats : As if they had less wit and grace than Gib-Cats , Slunk from their Commands , like a pair of drow [ n ] 'd Rats , Which nobody can deny . The found of a Rump , near herd of before , In their addle pates , did so whistle and roar , That straight they betook themselves to the back door , Which nobody can deny . When Haselrige o' the Rump brought up the rear , The Army was in such a bodily fear , That no one Commander durst ever appear , Which nobody can deny . Down goes the Public , when Knaves usurp Power , The Rump by one Ordinance can more men devour , Than all the great Guns shot from the Tower , Which nobody can deny . Pennington long since was broken to fitters , Yet sits with the Rump of Sects to Pig-litters ; And such as come near him , he all to besquitters , Which nobody can deny . If Alderman Atkins you keep not in mind , Heel take it so ill , that hee'le fly out behind , And make you remember with every wind , Which nobody can deny . Tichborn could preach , pray , and prate by the spirit , And Ireton little better , who rang'd like a Ferret , And Tyburn thinks long to give them their merit , Which nobody can deny . Lord Gourney was right , whom the City betrayed ; Now the City would be right , were the Mayor not a Jade : Till such as he be made examples , ne're look for better Trade , Which nobody can deny . Ne're did any Nation so court their own good , As we have all offer's of mercy withstood , God's judgement on our rapine , and shedding of blood , Which nobody can deny All wise men and good , say it is a mischievous fate , A Kingdom to turn into a popular State ; Yet weel take no warning , until it be too late . Which nobody can deny . A desperate crew of self-seeking elves , Do wilfully force us on quicksands and shelves ; This we see , yet we seek not to safeguard ourselves . Which nobody can deny . For when the poor Cits are plunder'd by force , Their grievances find full as little remorse I'th man-beast , the Mayor , as in his great horse , Which nobody can deny The Rump yet sits brooding upon their close stool , In labour to bring forth a Knave or a Fool ; Begotten by a new Legislative Tool , Which nobody can deny . Sir Henry Vane Prince of the last modell'd rout , Was known as a traitor , both cunning and stout , Yet for being too rampant , the Rump shit him out , Which nobody can deny James Harrington knight or knave , choose you whither , For in the Rump still knight and knave go together ; The times cannot mend till hee's tied to his tether , Which nobody can deny . Harry Martin and Scot , with some thirty eight more , Are resolv'd on the question to keep us all poor , Whilst they have the power to Plunder and Whore , Which nobody can deny . Who can gainsay that it was a strong fart , Which blew the Lord Desborough back to his Cart , And taught silly Fleetwood of crying the Art ? Which nobody can deny . This pity that Huson the Lord should have died , For piercing his brother , the Cobblers Hide ; Since the word of command came from his blinde-side , Which nobody can deny . Luke Robinson wants both his Bristles and Aule , To stitch up his lame leg , and help him to craule , Who downright hath halted betwixt God and Baal , Which nobody can deny . The Prentices once put the troupers to flight , And the Red-coats for fear , then were ready to shite , When Lambert the Atheist march't Northward to fight , Which nobody can deny . The Greeks that sack Troy from the belly did come Of Epriis his horse ; but with Musket and drum The war among us is carried on by the Bum , Which nobody can deny . Jack Presbyter struts up and down in a jump , Curtail'd on purpose for fear lest the Rump Should fit on his skirts and give him a thump , Which nobody can deny . Instead of and Use of divine Consolation , The Hypocrite publish't a late Exhortation , To Trepan this poor City , and beggar the Nation , Which nobody can deny . For what is call'd Christian , it is no great matter , So they may but gather , they care not who scatter ; They cannot be gifted unless they do flatter , Which nobody can deny . Since Charls was beheaded , we h [ a ] we backward gone , And now are brought even to the bore Rump-bone , Which speak's in no other but Atkinses tone , Which nobody can deny . This hard to say , how much these Arse-wormes do urge us , We now need no Quack , but these Jacks , for to purge us , For resisting our Head , the tail now does scourge us , Which nobody can deny . Lenthall now Lords it , though the Rabble him mock In calling him Sneaker , and Speaker to the Dock , For and hundred pound more , he'ele kiss their very Nock , Which nobody can deny . And now if we crave but a Parliament Free , We are sure to feel Plunder , or Prison to see ; They'le gore us , and boar us , and slaves we must be , Which nobody can deny . We are sensible now , that there is no one thing , Can full satisfaction to all Interests bring , Till in spite of all Traitors , we fetch in the King , Which nobody can deny . Monck , like the Oracle , play's fast and lose ; We know not yet , whither hee's a Fox or a Goose ; He had need look about him , for his neck's in a noose , Which nobody can deny . Then to Conclude this innocent Song , lest the Rump should infect you , which smelleth so strong : Old Neck bless them all , and take them e're long , Which nobody can deny . FINIS . The Rump Carbonadod . Or , A New Ballad , To the Tune of the Blacksmith . LEnd me your ears , not cropped , and I'le sing Of and hideous Monster , or Parliament thing , That City and Country does woefully wring , Which nobody can deny . Take care that no Sectary be in this place , For if you offend the least Babe of Grace , The Rump will be ready to fly in your face , Which nobody can deny . They fram'd a Remonstrance , to set all on fire , Which took with the People , as they did desire , And forc'd them to Covenant that they would conspire , Which nobody can deny . No sooner exalted was Essex his H [ oh ] rn , But Gods law , and men too , the Cuckold did scorn , To ruin our Country this Rebel was born , Which nobody can deny . Take Warwick along , if company you lack , No Admiral like and old Puritan Jack , A verier knave you can't find in the Pack , Which nobody can deny . These arm'd with Commissions by Sea and by Land , Did send forth their Forces the King to withstand , Till of all that was good , they had soon made and hand , Which nobody can deny . In glory and wealth , we once so ab [ oh ] undead , And were in Religion s [ oh ] thoroughly grounded , That none could have shatter'd us thus but the Round-head , Which nobody can deny . Which pluck'd down the King , the Church , and the Laws , To set up and Idol , then N [ i ] ck-nam'd the Cause . Like Bell and Dragon , to gorge their own Maws , Which nobody can deny . They banished all Royalists out of the Line , And scarce could endure to hear any Divine , That would not for company cog , lie and whine , Which nobody can deny . So frantically zealous they were at that season , That the five rotten Members impeached of high Treason , They guarded against all Right , Law and Reason , Which nobody can deny . Will fool was counted the worst of the twaine , Till Tom fool Lord Fairfax the Cause to maintain , His Honour and Conscience did fearfully stain , Which nobody can deny . Sir William at Run-away-downs had a bout , Which him and his Lobsters did totally rout , And his Lady the Conqueror could not help him out , Which nobody can deny . Though General Brown do now fawn and beseech , The Caveleeres found him a bloodsucking Leech , He would seem a Convert , but he stinks of the breech , Which nobody can deny . All will confess that Saint Oliver Cromwell , Had learn'd in his reign the three Nations to scum-well , Although it be true that he did love a Bum-well , Which nobody will deny . But young Dick and Harry , not his Heirs but his brats : As if they had less wit and grace than Gib-Cats , Slunk from their Commands , like a pair of drow [ n ] 'd Rats , Which nobody can deny . The found of a Rump , near herd of before , In their addle pates , did so whistle and roar , That straight they betook themselves to the back door , Which nobody can deny . When Haselrige o' the Rump brought up the rear , The Army was in such a bodily fear , That no one Commander durst ever appear , Which nobody can deny . Down goes the Public , when Knaves usurp Power , The Rump by one Ordinance can more men devour , Than all the great Guns shot from the Tower , Which nobody can deny . Pennington long since was broken to fitters , Yet sits with the Rump of Sects to Pig-litters ; And such as come near him , he all to besquitters , Which nobody can deny . If Alderman Atkins you keep not in mind , Heel take it so ill , that hee'le fly out behind , And make you remember with every wind , Which nobody can deny . Tichborn could preach , pray , and prate by the spirit , And Ireton little better , who rang'd like a Ferret , And Tyburn thinks long to give them their merit , Which nobody can deny . Lord Gourney was right , whom the City betrayed ; Now the City would be right , were the Mayor not a Jade : Till such as he be made examples , ne're look for better Trade , Which nobody can deny . Ne're did any Nation so court their own good , As we have all offer's of mercy withstood , God's judgement on our rapine , and shedding of blood , Which nobody can deny All wise men and good , say it is a mischievous fate , A Kingdom to turn into a popular State ; Yet weel take no warning , until it be too late . Which nobody can deny . A desperate crew of self-seeking elves , Do wilfully force us on quicksands and shelves ; This we see , yet we seek not to safeguard ourselves . Which nobody can deny . For when the poor Cits are plunder'd by force , Their grievances find full as little remorse I'th man-beast , the Mayor , as in his great horse , Which nobody can deny The Rump yet sits brooding upon their close stool , In labour to bring forth a Knave or a Fool ; Begotten by a new Legislative Tool , Which nobody can deny . Sir Henry Vane Prince of the last modell'd rout , Was known as a traitor , both cunning and stout , Yet for being too rampant , the Rump shit him out , Which nobody can deny James Harrington knight or knave , choose you whither , For in the Rump still knight and knave go together ; The times cannot mend till hee's tied to his tether , Which nobody can deny . Harry Martin and Scot , with some thirty eight more , Are resolv'd on the question to keep us all poor , Whilst they have the power to Plunder and Whore , Which nobody can deny . Who can gainsay that it was a strong fart , Which blew the Lord Desborough back to his Cart , And taught silly Fleetwood of crying the Art ? Which nobody can deny . This pity that Huson the Lord should have died , For piercing his brother , the Cobblers Hide ; Since the word of command came from his blinde-side , Which nobody can deny . Luke Robinson wants both his Bristles and Aule , To stitch up his lame leg , and help him to craule , Who downright hath halted betwixt God and Baal , Which nobody can deny . The Prentices once put the troupers to flight , And the Red-coats for fear , then were ready to shite , When Lambert the Atheist march't Northward to fight , Which nobody can deny . The Greeks that sack Troy from the belly did come Of Epriis his horse ; but with Musket and drum The war among us is carried on by the Bum , Which nobody can deny . Jack Presbyter struts up and down in a jump , Curtail'd on purpose for fear lest the Rump Should fit on his skirts and give him a thump , Which nobody can deny . Instead of and Use of divine Consolation , The Hypocrite publish't a late Exhortation , To Trepan this poor City , and beggar the Nation , Which nobody can deny . For what is call'd Christian , it is no great matter , So they may but gather , they care not who scatter ; They cannot be gifted unless they do flatter , Which nobody can deny . Since Charls was beheaded , we h [ a ] we backward gone , And now are brought even to the bore Rump-bone , Which speak's in no other but Atkinses tone , Which nobody can deny . This hard to say , how much these Arse-wormes do urge us , We now need no Quack , but these Jacks , for to purge us , For resisting our Head , the tail now does scourge us , Which nobody can deny . Lenthall now Lords it , though the Rabble him mock In calling him Sneaker , and Speaker to the Dock , For and hundred pound more , he'ele kiss their very Nock , Which nobody can deny . And now if we crave but a Parliament Free , We are sure to feel Plunder , or Prison to see ; They'le gore us , and boar us , and slaves we must be , Which nobody can deny . We are sensible now , that there is no one thing , Can full satisfaction to all Interests bring , Till in spite of all Traitors , we fetch in the King , Which nobody can deny . Monck , like the Oracle , play's fast and lose ; We know not yet , whither hee's a Fox or a Goose ; He had need look about him , for his neck's in a noose , Which nobody can deny . Then to Conclude this innocent Song , lest the Rump should infect you , which smelleth so strong : Old Neck bless them all , and take them e're long , Which nobody can deny . FINIS . 