And Excellent New Ballad To the Tune of , How Unhappy is Phillis in Love , [ 1 ] LEt Oliver now be forgotten , His Policy's quite out of Doors ; Let Bradshaw and Hewson lie rotten , Like Sons of Fanatical Whores : For Tony's grown a Patrician , By Voting damn'd Sedition , For many years , Fam'd Politician , The Mouth of all Presbyter Peers . [ 2 ] Old Tony a Turncoat at Worster , Yet swore he'd maintain the King's Right But Tony did Swagger and Bluster , Yet never drew Sword on his side For Tony is like and old Stallion He has still the Pox of Rebellion And never was found Like the Chameleon , Still changing his Shape and his Ground . [ 3 ] Old Rowly's return'd ( Heave'ns bless him , ) From Exile and Danger fer free ; Old Tony made haste to Address him And swore none more Loyal than He. The King , ( who knew him a Traitor ) And saw him squint like a Satyr ; Yet through his Grace , Pardon'd the Matter And gave him since the Purse & the Mace . [ 4 ] And now little Chancellor Tony With Honour had feather'd his Wing And carefully pick'd up the Money ; But never a Groat for the King : But Tony's Luck was confounded , The Duke who smoked him a Round-head , From Head to Heel Tony was sounded And Y ------ soon put a Spoke in the Wheel . [ 5 ] But now little Tony in passion Like Boy that had nettl'd his Breech Maliciously took and occasion To make a most delicate Speech ; He told the King like a Croney , If e're he hop'd to have Money He must be rul'd : O fine Tony ! Was ever Potent Monarch so school'd ? [ 6 ] The King issues out a Proclamation , By Learned and Loyal Advice But Tony possesses the Nation The Council will never be wise : For Tony is madder and madder And M ------ blows like a bladder , And L ------ too , Who grows gladder That They great York are like to subdue . [ 7 ] But Destiny shortly will cross it For Tony's grown Gouty and Sick , In spite of his Spigot and Faucet , The Statesman must go to Old Neck : For Tony rails at the Papist Yet He himself is and Atheist ; Though so precise Foolish and Apish , Like Holy Quack or Priest in Disguise . [ 8 ] But now let this Rump of the Law see A Maxim as Learned in part , Whoe're with his Prince is too saucy This fear'd he's a Traitor in 's Hear Then Tony cease to be witty By buzzing Treason i' th' City ; And love the King So ends my Dity ; Or else let me die like a Dog in a string , Printed for Benjamin Harris at the Stationers Arms at the Royal Exchange , and are to be sold by Langley Curtis in Goatham Court on Ludgate Hill , 1682 , And Excellent New Ballad To the Tune of , How Unhappy is Phillis in Love , [ 1 ] LEt Oliver now be forgotten , His Policy's quite out of Doors ; Let Bradshaw and Hewson lie rotten , Like Sons of Fanatical Whores : For Tony's grown a Patrician , By Voting damn'd Sedition , For many years , Fam'd Politician , The Mouth of all Presbyter Peers . [ 2 ] Old Tony a Turncoat at Worster , Yet swore he'd maintain the King's Right But Tony did Swagger and Bluster , Yet never drew Sword on his side For Tony is like and old Stallion He has still the Pox of Rebellion And never was found Like the Chameleon , Still changing his Shape and his Ground . [ 3 ] Old Rowly's return'd ( Heave'ns bless him , ) From Exile and Danger fer free ; Old Tony made haste to Address him And swore none more Loyal than He. The King , ( who knew him a Traitor ) And saw him squint like a Satyr ; Yet through his Grace , Pardon'd the Matter And gave him since the Purse & the Mace . [ 4 ] And now little Chancellor Tony With Honour had feather'd his Wing And carefully pick'd up the Money ; But never a Groat for the King : But Tony's Luck was confounded , The Duke who smoked him a Round-head , From Head to Heel Tony was sounded And Y ------ soon put a Spoke in the Wheel . [ 5 ] But now little Tony in passion Like Boy that had nettl'd his Breech Maliciously took and occasion To make a most delicate Speech ; He told the King like a Croney , If e're he hop'd to have Money He must be rul'd : O fine Tony ! Was ever Potent Monarch so school'd ? [ 6 ] The King issues out a Proclamation , By Learned and Loyal Advice But Tony possesses the Nation The Council will never be wise : For Tony is madder and madder And M ------ blows like a bladder , And L ------ too , Who grows gladder That They great York are like to subdue . [ 7 ] But Destiny shortly will cross it For Tony's grown Gouty and Sick , In spite of his Spigot and Faucet , The Statesman must go to Old Neck : For Tony rails at the Papist Yet He himself is and Atheist ; Though so precise Foolish and Apish , Like Holy Quack or Priest in Disguise . [ 8 ] But now let this Rump of the Law see A Maxim as Learned in part , Whoe're with his Prince is too saucy This fear'd he's a Traitor in 's Hear Then Tony cease to be witty By buzzing Treason i' th' City ; And love the King So ends my Dity ; Or else let me die like a Dog in a string , Printed for Benjamin Harris at the Stationers Arms at the Royal Exchange , and are to be sold by Langley Curtis in Goatham Court on Ludgate Hill , 1682 , 