Celia's Triumph , Or , Venus Dethron'd . The Gods forsake their Venus quite , And make fair Celia their Delight ; Who now they have Enthron'd above , And made her Queen of Us , and Love . To a new Tune of , Let the Critics adore , as it is Sung at the Playhouse . With Allowance . May 8. 1678. Ro. L'Estrange . LEt the Critics adore , Their Old Venus no more , She's a Gypsie , Silly Mortals ne'r think , That the Goddess will Drink and be Tipsy . None but Vulcan can abide her , she's grown so Black of late , In his Colehole he does hide her , to secure her from fate : All the Gods are stark mad , for a Venus more fair , And swear they'd be glad , that my Celia were there . For her beauty transcends , What fortune commends , I there Dowdy , All the Spheres took their light , From her Lustre more bright , that were Cloudy . At which transformation , the Gods they stood mute , Like Stocks in their Station , none daring Dispute , The force of her eyes which so wholly had gain'd From sad Venus the prize , which Celia obtain'd . Boast no more in Dull Rhimes , Brisk Lads of the times , that your Misses Whom you only can prize , 'Cause by hope's you may rise to dry Kisses . For their High-flown desires , could never attain To what Phillis aspires , for Celia shall reign : And since Venus submitted to her prevalent charms , And her Sovereignty quit , she slights your alarms . Let no new Upstart then Pretend to cross men with false flashes , And with pantings presume , Which the Mercuries consume into ashes . But Submit and admire , what in Celia is found , And blushing retire to leave Celia Crown'd : Let their Gallants run mad , for mere spite to behold , What made Phillis so sad , and Venus so cold . Let the Poets lay down Their long Usurped Crown , and present it Her the Muses have had , In their beauty's been clad , and had lent it . But for Celia's great Glory , to dispose it where she Might in Fortune's Story , the chief wonder be : In adoring her beauty , I to happiness rise , And pay amorous Duty to Celia's Eyes . To their forces I gave Myself a willing slave , and am freer Then a Monarch in 's Throne , Who calls Europe his own , shou'd he see her . For her Charms , like Medea's , would Eclipse his great state , Had he bounds , as the Sea has , he must yield to his Fate , And adore my bright Star , by whose influence I move , Like the Great God of War , in the Orb of her Love . Where I seated shall Reign , And still happy remain , since she gave me In return of my pain , What the Gods could not gain , and did save me . From a desperate fate , which her scorn would invite , And have put a full date to my joy and deligh But since she prefers me to the Gods , by whose pain , I shall freed from all fears be , and Celia obtain . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Hospital-gate , in West-smithfield . Celia's Triumph , Or , Venus Dethron'd . The Gods forsake their Venus quite , And make fair Celia their Delight ; Who now they have Enthron'd above , And made her Queen of Us , and Love . To a new Tune of , Let the Critics adore , as it is Sung at the Playhouse . With Allowance . May 8. 1678. Ro. L'Estrange . LEt the Critics adore , Their Old Venus no more , She's a Gypsie , Silly Mortals ne'r think , That the Goddess will Drink and be Tipsy . None but Vulcan can abide her , she's grown so Black of late , In his Colehole he does hide her , to secure her from fate : All the Gods are stark mad , for a Venus more fair , And swear they'd be glad , that my Celia were there . For her beauty transcends , What fortune commends , I there Dowdy , All the Spheres took their light , From her Lustre more bright , that were Cloudy . At which transformation , the Gods they stood mute , Like Stocks in their Station , none daring Dispute , The force of her eyes which so wholly had gain'd From sad Venus the prize , which Celia obtain'd . Boast no more in Dull Rhimes , Brisk Lads of the times , that your Misses Whom you only can prize , 'Cause by hope's you may rise to dry Kisses . For their High-flown desires , could never attain To what Phillis aspires , for Celia shall reign : And since Venus submitted to her prevalent charms , And her Sovereignty quit , she slights your alarms . Let no new Upstart then Pretend to cross men with false flashes , And with pantings presume , Which the Mercuries consume into ashes . But Submit and admire , what in Celia is found , And blushing retire to leave Celia Crown'd : Let their Gallants run mad , for mere spite to behold , What made Phillis so sad , and Venus so cold . Let the Poets lay down Their long Usurped Crown , and present it Her the Muses have had , In their beauty's been clad , and had lent it . But for Celia's great Glory , to dispose it where she Might in Fortune's Story , the chief wonder be : In adoring her beauty , I to happiness rise , And pay amorous Duty to Celia's Eyes . To their forces I gave Myself a willing slave , and am freer Then a Monarch in 's Throne , Who calls Europe his own , shou'd he see her . For her Charms , like Medea's , would Eclipse his great state , Had he bounds , as the Sea has , he must yield to his Fate , And adore my bright Star , by whose influence I move , Like the Great God of War , in the Orb of her Love . Where I seated shall Reign , And still happy remain , since she gave me In return of my pain , What the Gods could not gain , and did save me . From a desperate fate , which her scorn would invite , And have put a full date to my joy and deligh But since she prefers me to the Gods , by whose pain , I shall freed from all fears be , and Celia obtain . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Hospital-gate , in West-smithfield . 