The Country Lass for me , Give me the bonny Country Lass , take you the Girls o' that City , The Country Girls do them surpass , though London Girls are witty : The Country Girls in Honesty , do Citizens surpass , Then once again I do proclaim , none like the Country Lass. The Tune is , Heigh Boys up go we . COme Lovers all , both great and small , and listen to my Ditty , That often boast , nay cry and yall , of the Beauty's of the City : Yet in my mind , all men may find , as they the Country pass , That Maidens they , are brisk and gay , beyond a London Lass. There [ ' ] s Joan and Margaret , wondrous fair , and beautiful indeed , No Citizen can them compare , they do them all exceed ; For they are lively stirring Girls , whose goodness does surpass , And now say I , none can come nigh , the brisk young Country Lass. But let me not most carelessly , forget poor loving Jenny , If on her once you cast your eye , 'tis ten to one she'l win you : For she is beautiful indeed , and other Girls surpass , Come all agree , and say with me , none's like the Country Lass. There's pretty Betty among the rest , whose Lips are like a Cherry , Her virtues cannot be expressed , beside she's wondrous merry : She has a lovely ruling eye , he needs must be and Ass , That in this point will not comply , and love the Country Lass. THeir Headclothes are as white as milk and neatly they are dressed , Their skin as soft as any silk , and Lily-white the Breas But mind how prettily they trip , and jet it o're the Grass , You'l cry out then , like other men , give me the Country Lass. But go unto a Market Town , brave Lasses you may see , Though dressed in a homespun Gown , yet tite and neat they be : And like good Huswives they are dressed , yea , neatly by they pass , And you may know where e're you go the honest Country Lass. Mind but the colour of their Cheeks , they Roses do exceed , While London Lasses like to Leeks , look green and pale indeed : But you may find them brisk and Kind , when they fit on the Grass , They'l kiss and play , up and away , Oh bonny Country Lass. Their Sweethearts they do keep in awe with knitting of the Brow , And bind them for to keep the Law , which Cupid does allow : These bonny Girls are precious Pearls , whose goodness does surpass , And far exceed , the London breed , Oh brave young Country Lass. The Country Lass betimes does rise , and in the air she goes , When mighty Storms does dim the skies , in bittter Frosts and Snows : Through Rain and Hail , with Milking-pail , she merrily does pass , And thinks no harm , be it cold or warm , brave downright Country Lass. Then boast no more , of your great store , of bonny London Lasses , Since you may find in every kind , the Country girls surpasses : And do indeed , your Comforts breed , then he is a simple Ass , His judgement's weak , who once dare speak , against the Country Lass. Printed for P. Brooksby , in West-smithfield . The Country Lass for me , Give me the bonny Country Lass , take you the Girls o' that City , The Country Girls do them surpass , though London Girls are witty : The Country Girls in Honesty , do Citizens surpass , Then once again I do proclaim , none like the Country Lass. The Tune is , Heigh Boys up go we . COme Lovers all , both great and small , and listen to my Ditty , That often boast , nay cry and yall , of the Beauty's of the City : Yet in my mind , all men may find , as they the Country pass , That Maidens they , are brisk and gay , beyond a London Lass. There [ ' ] s Joan and Margaret , wondrous fair , and beautiful indeed , No Citizen can them compare , they do them all exceed ; For they are lively stirring Girls , whose goodness does surpass , And now say I , none can come nigh , the brisk young Country Lass. But let me not most carelessly , forget poor loving Jenny , If on her once you cast your eye , 'tis ten to one she'l win you : For she is beautiful indeed , and other Girls surpass , Come all agree , and say with me , none's like the Country Lass. There's pretty Betty among the rest , whose Lips are like a Cherry , Her virtues cannot be expressed , beside she's wondrous merry : She has a lovely ruling eye , he needs must be and Ass , That in this point will not comply , and love the Country Lass. THeir Headclothes are as white as milk and neatly they are dressed , Their skin as soft as any silk , and Lily-white the Breas But mind how prettily they trip , and jet it o're the Grass , You'l cry out then , like other men , give me the Country Lass. But go unto a Market Town , brave Lasses you may see , Though dressed in a homespun Gown , yet tite and neat they be : And like good Huswives they are dressed , yea , neatly by they pass , And you may know where e're you go the honest Country Lass. Mind but the colour of their Cheeks , they Roses do exceed , While London Lasses like to Leeks , look green and pale indeed : But you may find them brisk and Kind , when they fit on the Grass , They'l kiss and play , up and away , Oh bonny Country Lass. Their Sweethearts they do keep in awe with knitting of the Brow , And bind them for to keep the Law , which Cupid does allow : These bonny Girls are precious Pearls , whose goodness does surpass , And far exceed , the London breed , Oh brave young Country Lass. The Country Lass betimes does rise , and in the air she goes , When mighty Storms does dim the skies , in bittter Frosts and Snows : Through Rain and Hail , with Milking-pail , she merrily does pass , And thinks no harm , be it cold or warm , brave downright Country Lass. Then boast no more , of your great store , of bonny London Lasses , Since you may find in every kind , the Country girls surpasses : And do indeed , your Comforts breed , then he is a simple Ass , His judgement's weak , who once dare speak , against the Country Lass. Printed for P. Brooksby , in West-smithfield . 