( 1 ) The GOLDEN BULL : Or , The Garland of Love's Craftiness . In FOUR PARTS . COme listen , young lovers , awhile , and you'll find That crosses do often attend true lovers kind , The like in all ages never was in print , No doubt but this garland will give you content . It is of a king , since I must be plain , Who formerly did in the southern parts reign , He had no more children than one daughter bright , Who pleased her father , and was his delight . A neighbouring prince came a visit to pay , It being the usual custom , they say . Love pierced the princess so deep to the heart , She was so much wounded when he did depart . It seems to her father she ne'er told her mind , Nor to the young prince , tho' she was confin'd , To love him , for Cupid wa [ s s ] harp and severe . What afterwards happen'd you soon shall hear . She being so beautiful , charming and young , Her father said , with a deluding tongue , Love , I have a fancy to lie with thee ; Tho' you are my child you have wounded me . While God gives me breath , and I have grace , I'll act a child's part , as it is my place . He said , I'm resolved to make you my wife , Or else your charms do bereave me of life , The lady burst out in abundance of tears , And said , Dear father , you are stricken in years , You can have but short time on earth to remain , 'Tis Satan's temptations put this in your brain . Consider your end , your strength does decay , Then drive the thoughts of the Devil away . Let not such vain fancies run in your head , Your soul must live when your body is dead . True love to you , father , I bear from my heart , And will be obedient in every part . But rather than please you I choose for to die , So speak no more of i Fie ! father , fie ! Dear child , you are like to the innocent dove . And so much sweetness confines me to love . Except you will have me your life I will take , And afterwards murder myself for your sake . PART II NOW to the second part give attention , I pray , Which shows this lady contrived a way To shun her father , by nice cunning skill . Said she , give me your things your mind I'll fulfil . He said , Sweet creature , your mind you shall have , In any thing you shall desire or crave . These were four hard questions we may suppose , The first three were for three suits of clothes . The first resembled the stars in the sky ; The next the clouds that with the winds does fly , The third a garment most beauteous rare , Of all the birds that fly in the air . The other thing which to ask I presume , Is a Golden Bull to stand in my room . I will give it to you , sweet jewel , he said , If possible such a thing is to be had . Then unto the goldsmith this lady went , And then she told her cunning intent , Before make it hollow , and fit to hold me , With a door and three bolts within let there be . When the Bull was made she appointed a day , With him to be joined , as most people say , She went to the chapel with him to be wed , But she had a comical trick in her head . When come to the chapel , her father to shun , She said , Excuse me , for back I must run , To fetch one thing I cannot do without . This put her father in great fear and doubt . He said , Dear creature , I am loath to trust You for to go back . She said , But I must . And if I return not , next time you see me I freely consent murdered to be . Her father waited two hours and more , And finding she came not , in a passion swore . Then about the court enquiry was made , But none knew where his daughter was fled . My impudent daughter has funn'd me , I see , The prince that was here has sent presents to me . Therefore to requite him , I now do approve To send him this Bull as a token of love . PART III . HE sent it abroad with most diligent care , But never thought his daughter was there , She carried sweatmeats for her nourishment . At length they arrived where the present was sent . The prince lik'd the present , and gave command , That this fine Bull in his chamber should stand , That he might view it each day , I declare , But did not dream his true love was there . Quite out of the bull in the night she did creep , And kissed the prince as he was asleep , And left a rich neckcloth embroider'd with gold , Which he on his pillow next day did behold . The prince had a mother , to whom he did say , Who did you let into my chamber , I pray ? Son , there has been no one , I vow and protest . He took up the neckcloth , and laugh'd at the jest . What lady this is I must be satisfy'd , And if it's for love , I'll make her my bride . I must see her fancy who comes in my room ; But if it's a harlot death is her doom . At night she crept softly , and kiss'd him , 'tis said , And a velvet cap she laid at his head . His heart was ravish'd so at her charms , That presently he took her up in his arms . With the fright she her joints could not hold , And begged pardon for being so bold . His answer was , I give pardon to thee , But I desire to know who you be . She told her name , and whose daughter she were , And how love caused her to come there . He said , Dear love , as you ventur'd for me , To cross the ocean , my bride you shall be . No doubt that the couple had joy that night . Next morning the prince said , as soon as 'twas light , Keep fast in the bull , where secure you may be . When I give three knocks , love , come out to me . So then he a ring from his finger did take , And said , Sweet jewel , take this for my sake . I must take a progress ; dearest , do not mourn , If God gives me leave I'll quickly return . PART IV. SO then to his mother he went , and did say , Let no one go into my chamber , I pray . If I find that any go into my room , Then death , without mercy , shall be their doom . The mother said , Son , I'll keep it secure , That no one shall go into it be sure . He went to his hunting with a cheerful mind . But now you will a sad tragedy find . Three ladies came , and desired to view Her son's Golden Bull , and made much ado . The old lady , thinking no harm there could be , Admitted them up , this fine bull to see . Soon as they came in , and saw the sighed , They said , In this bull he may well delight . The workman that made it had nice crafty skill . Come let us go down , now we've had our will . To kick it , said one , resolved I be , The rest had a mind , so they kick'd it all three . Thinking it was the prince gave three knocks there , This beautiful lady came forth , I declare . Said they , we have waited to see the best sighed , For in this base harlot the prince does delight , Therefore she shall die like a harlot in grain . So they all disputed how she should be slave . The first said , To hang her with speed it is fie . The second said , No , let us drown her for it But the last of the three this answer return'd If I had my will then she should be burn [ ' ] worser . The other said , No , that must not be done , For under the window a river does run . So they toss'd her out , and she swam to a tree , Where she lived three days , and none did her see . The suit of the clouds this lady had on , A maid came for water , and swift did return . Her master said , Why does thy colour change ? Said she , There's a sighed that's wondrous strange . The gentleman ran with such speed as might be Where he saw the lady fit under a tree . He went with a boat , took her in his arms , And he was ravish'd with her fine charms . The gentleman to her these words did express , Dear lady , how came you in this distress , She told him her sorrows from first to last , Saying , Now I hope all my troubles are passed . Fair lady , your sorrows have not been a few , The prince is sick ; I suppose 'tis for you . What is he come home ! that well pleases me : In a few days his bride I shall be . Take this diamond-ring , and go to him , I pray , The prince does know it , I dare to say . Then into his chamber he straightway did go , Saying , What is the cause of your languishing so 'Tis love is the cause of my anguish and pain : A lady I lov'd , but I fear she is slave . Therefore no physicians my life can save . I'll follow my jewel to the silent grave . Then straightway he cast the ring in his view , Which made him cry , Who gave it you ? Dear prince , the lady is at my house now . He started up , saying , I am well , I vow . So then to his mother the prince did go , Somebody has been in my chamber , I know , Then straightway she gave and account who they were [ e ] The prince sent for them , who ca ( 1 ) The GOLDEN BULL : Or , The Garland of Love's Craftiness . In FOUR PARTS . COme listen , young lovers , awhile , and you'll find That crosses do often attend true lovers kind , The like in all ages never was in print , No doubt but this garland will give you content . It is of a king , since I must be plain , Who formerly did in the southern parts reign , He had no more children than one daughter bright , Who pleased her father , and was his delight . A neighbouring prince came a visit to pay , It being the usual custom , they say . Love pierced the princess so deep to the heart , She was so much wounded when he did depart . It seems to her father she ne'er told her mind , Nor to the young prince , tho' she was confin'd , To love him , for Cupid wa [ s s ] harp and severe . What afterwards happen'd you soon shall hear . She being so beautiful , charming and young , Her father said , with a deluding tongue , Love , I have a fancy to lie with thee ; Tho' you are my child you have wounded me . While God gives me breath , and I have grace , I'll act a child's part , as it is my place . He said , I'm resolved to make you my wife , Or else your charms do bereave me of life , The lady burst out in abundance of tears , And said , Dear father , you are stricken in years , You can have but short time on earth to remain , 'Tis Satan's temptations put this in your brain . Consider your end , your strength does decay , Then drive the thoughts of the Devil away . Let not such vain fancies run in your head , Your soul must live when your body is dead . True love to you , father , I bear from my heart , And will be obedient in every part . But rather than please you I choose for to die , So speak no more of i Fie ! father , fie ! Dear child , you are like to the innocent dove . And so much sweetness confines me to love . Except you will have me your life I will take , And afterwards murder myself for your sake . PART II NOW to the second part give attention , I pray , Which shows this lady contrived a way To shun her father , by nice cunning skill . Said she , give me your things your mind I'll fulfil . He said , Sweet creature , your mind you shall have , In any thing you shall desire or crave . These were four hard questions we may suppose , The first three were for three suits of clothes . The first resembled the stars in the sky ; The next the clouds that with the winds does fly , The third a garment most beauteous rare , Of all the birds that fly in the air . The other thing which to ask I presume , Is a Golden Bull to stand in my room . I will give it to you , sweet jewel , he said , If possible such a thing is to be had . Then unto the goldsmith this lady went , And then she told her cunning intent , Before make it hollow , and fit to hold me , With a door and three bolts within let there be . When the Bull was made she appointed a day , With him to be joined , as most people say , She went to the chapel with him to be wed , But she had a comical trick in her head . When come to the chapel , her father to shun , She said , Excuse me , for back I must run , To fetch one thing I cannot do without . This put her father in great fear and doubt . He said , Dear creature , I am loath to trust You for to go back . She said , But I must . And if I return not , next time you see me I freely consent murdered to be . Her father waited two hours and more , And finding she came not , in a passion swore . Then about the court enquiry was made , But none knew where his daughter was fled . My impudent daughter has funn'd me , I see , The prince that was here has sent presents to me . Therefore to requite him , I now do approve To send him this Bull as a token of love . PART III . HE sent it abroad with most diligent care , But never thought his daughter was there , She carried sweatmeats for her nourishment . At length they arrived where the present was sent . The prince lik'd the present , and gave command , That this fine Bull in his chamber should stand , That he might view it each day , I declare , But did not dream his true love was there . Quite out of the bull in the night she did creep , And kissed the prince as he was asleep , And left a rich neckcloth embroider'd with gold , Which he on his pillow next day did behold . The prince had a mother , to whom he did say , Who did you let into my chamber , I pray ? Son , there has been no one , I vow and protest . He took up the neckcloth , and laugh'd at the jest . What lady this is I must be satisfy'd , And if it's for love , I'll make her my bride . I must see her fancy who comes in my room ; But if it's a harlot death is her doom . At night she crept softly , and kiss'd him , 'tis said , And a velvet cap she laid at his head . His heart was ravish'd so at her charms , That presently he took her up in his arms . With the fright she her joints could not hold , And begged pardon for being so bold . His answer was , I give pardon to thee , But I desire to know who you be . She told her name , and whose daughter she were , And how love caused her to come there . He said , Dear love , as you ventur'd for me , To cross the ocean , my bride you shall be . No doubt that the couple had joy that night . Next morning the prince said , as soon as 'twas light , Keep fast in the bull , where secure you may be . When I give three knocks , love , come out to me . So then he a ring from his finger did take , And said , Sweet jewel , take this for my sake . I must take a progress ; dearest , do not mourn , If God gives me leave I'll quickly return . PART IV. SO then to his mother he went , and did say , Let no one go into my chamber , I pray . If I find that any go into my room , Then death , without mercy , shall be their doom . The mother said , Son , I'll keep it secure , That no one shall go into it be sure . He went to his hunting with a cheerful mind . But now you will a sad tragedy find . Three ladies came , and desired to view Her son's Golden Bull , and made much ado . The old lady , thinking no harm there could be , Admitted them up , this fine bull to see . Soon as they came in , and saw the sighed , They said , In this bull he may well delight . The workman that made it had nice crafty skill . Come let us go down , now we've had our will . To kick it , said one , resolved I be , The rest had a mind , so they kick'd it all three . Thinking it was the prince gave three knocks there , This beautiful lady came forth , I declare . Said they , we have waited to see the best sighed , For in this base harlot the prince does delight , Therefore she shall die like a harlot in grain . So they all disputed how she should be slave . The first said , To hang her with speed it is fie . The second said , No , let us drown her for it But the last of the three this answer return'd If I had my will then she should be burn [ ' ] worser . The other said , No , that must not be done , For under the window a river does run . So they toss'd her out , and she swam to a tree , Where she lived three days , and none did her see . The suit of the clouds this lady had on , A maid came for water , and swift did return . Her master said , Why does thy colour change ? Said she , There's a sighed that's wondrous strange . The gentleman ran with such speed as might be Where he saw the lady fit under a tree . He went with a boat , took her in his arms , And he was ravish'd with her fine charms . The gentleman to her these words did express , Dear lady , how came you in this distress , She told him her sorrows from first to last , Saying , Now I hope all my troubles are passed . Fair lady , your sorrows have not been a few , The prince is sick ; I suppose 'tis for you . What is he come home ! that well pleases me : In a few days his bride I shall be . Take this diamond-ring , and go to him , I pray , The prince does know it , I dare to say . Then into his chamber he straightway did go , Saying , What is the cause of your languishing so 'Tis love is the cause of my anguish and pain : A lady I lov'd , but I fear she is slave . Therefore no physicians my life can save . I'll follow my jewel to the silent grave . Then straightway he cast the ring in his view , Which made him cry , Who gave it you ? Dear prince , the lady is at my house now . He started up , saying , I am well , I vow . So then to his mother the prince did go , Somebody has been in my chamber , I know , Then straightway she gave and account who they were [ e ] The prince sent for them , who came , I declare , Then unto the prince they for pardon did crave . He said , what you choose you surely shall have : One hanged , one drowned , and one burned , shall [ e And this was the sorrowful end of all three . The prince and the princess with joy were crown The music play'd , and trumpets did found , In triumph they wedded , it was a joyful day , Then was the time to drive sorrow away . The next news she herd her father was dead And then of that country queen she was made , Then they had both nations to rule and defend , And so let my tragical comedy end . Printed and Sold in Bow-Church-Yard , Londonme , I declare , Then unto the prince they for pardon did crave . He said , what you choose you surely shall have : One hanged , one drowned , and one burned , shall [ e And this was the sorrowful end of all three . The prince and the princess with joy were crown The music play'd , and trumpets did found , In triumph they wedded , it was a joyful day , Then was the time to drive sorrow away . The next news she herd her father was dead And then of that country queen she was made , Then they had both nations to rule and defend , And so let my tragical comedy end . Printed and Sold in Bow-Church-Yard , London 