( 1 ) The Honour of the Inns of Court Gentlemen : OR , A brief recital of the Magnificent and matchless show , that passed from Hatton and Ely house in Holborne to White-hall on Munday night , being the third of February : [ a ] and the next day after Candlemas . To the tune of our noble King in his Progress . MY noble Muse assist me , that I may with credit undergo my task , A humour hath possessed me , To write a new ditty , of the triumphant Mask , Which lately was performed in high magnific sort , To the honour of those Gentry , that live at the Inns of Court . These Noble minded Gallants , to show their true love , to our Royal King and Queen , Did largely spend their talents , To make a fair show . that the like was never seen . To let down all exactly , my skill comes far too short , To the honour of those Gentry , that live at the Inns of Court . The next day after Candlemas , betwixt the hours of seven and nine at night , This stately company did pass From Hatton-house in Holborne , unto White-hall in sighs Of such a peerless object , no age can make report , To the honour of those Gentry , that live at the Inns of Court . A various crew of Antics all which several humours in shape did represent , The number of them was not small , Which to the spectators gave wondered conten Each one in his due posture , did show exceeding sport , To the honour of those Gentry , that live at the Inns of Court . A hundred sweet young Gentlemen , that all upon great Horses , were mounted gallantly , Clad in white cloth of Tissue then , And read and white Feathers , most glorious to the eye : In equipage most sumptuous , they passed in solemn sort , These were the brave young Gentry , that live at the Inns of Court , By two and two , and foure and foure , they slowly did ride , on their proud and haughty Steeds , Search all the Lands in Europe over , No men both in person and face these men exceeds : Their time was long in passing , yet people thought 'twas short , So much they praised these Gentry , that live at the inns of Court . The Drums and trumpets loudly , did found before this Heroic company , The Horses danced proudly , As sensible of this so high solemnity : Their footmen did attend them , in brave and solemn sort , To the honour of those Gentry , etc The second part , To the same tune BUt that which admiration exacts from all men , that saw or herd of it , Was the Charets , Which is a fashion for mighty Princes and Conquerors most fit , The glory of this actium exceeds all report . To the honour of those Gentry that live at the Inns of Court . Just sixe there were in Number , in those the Maskers themselves did fit in State , Which made the people to wonder , And ravished the Senses of all that there did wait , The oldest man alive cannot of the like report . To the honour of those Gentry that live at the Inns of Court . Two Charets had foure horses each , that went by two and two the rest did go by foure a breast , In order without any breach : A thing which of all things becomes a triumph best , No one did break array , but went on in sober sort . To the honour of those Gentry that live at the Inns of Court . Our gracious King with his deer Queen , did fit to behold this so beautiful a show , It joy'd their hearts when they had seen , The true and Loyal love , that their subject's to them owe : Unto their long liv'd credit , they showed their Princely sport . To the honour of those Gentry that live at the Inns of Court . Many thousand pounds of gold this thought hath not the charge of this matchless mask defrayed , Yet let no Critic deem that nought Which hath on a sudden employ'd so many a trade , Young people may hereafter unto their young report The honour of those Gentry that live at the Inns of Court . No Prince throughout all Christendome can like to our King , of so strange a triumph boast , Those strangers that do hither come , Will spread our Lands glory abroad in many a coast , For all their quaint devises , to this must come far short . To the honour of those Gentry that live at the Inns of Court . FINIS . London Printed for Thomas Lambert . M.P. ( 1 ) The Honour of the Inns of Court Gentlemen : OR , A brief recital of the Magnificent and matchless show , that passed from Hatton and Ely house in Holborne to White-hall on Munday night , being the third of February : [ a ] and the next day after Candlemas . To the tune of our noble King in his Progress . MY noble Muse assist me , that I may with credit undergo my task , A humour hath possessed me , To write a new ditty , of the triumphant Mask , Which lately was performed in high magnific sort , To the honour of those Gentry , that live at the Inns of Court . These Noble minded Gallants , to show their true love , to our Royal King and Queen , Did largely spend their talents , To make a fair show . that the like was never seen . To let down all exactly , my skill comes far too short , To the honour of those Gentry , that live at the Inns of Court . The next day after Candlemas , betwixt the hours of seven and nine at night , This stately company did pass From Hatton-house in Holborne , unto White-hall in sighs Of such a peerless object , no age can make report , To the honour of those Gentry , that live at the Inns of Court . A various crew of Antics all which several humours in shape did represent , The number of them was not small , Which to the spectators gave wondered conten Each one in his due posture , did show exceeding sport , To the honour of those Gentry , that live at the Inns of Court . A hundred sweet young Gentlemen , that all upon great Horses , were mounted gallantly , Clad in white cloth of Tissue then , And read and white Feathers , most glorious to the eye : In equipage most sumptuous , they passed in solemn sort , These were the brave young Gentry , that live at the Inns of Court , By two and two , and foure and foure , they slowly did ride , on their proud and haughty Steeds , Search all the Lands in Europe over , No men both in person and face these men exceeds : Their time was long in passing , yet people thought 'twas short , So much they praised these Gentry , that live at the inns of Court . The Drums and trumpets loudly , did found before this Heroic company , The Horses danced proudly , As sensible of this so high solemnity : Their footmen did attend them , in brave and solemn sort , To the honour of those Gentry , etc The second part , To the same tune BUt that which admiration exacts from all men , that saw or herd of it , Was the Charets , Which is a fashion for mighty Princes and Conquerors most fit , The glory of this actium exceeds all report . To the honour of those Gentry that live at the Inns of Court . Just sixe there were in Number , in those the Maskers themselves did fit in State , Which made the people to wonder , And ravished the Senses of all that there did wait , The oldest man alive cannot of the like report . To the honour of those Gentry that live at the Inns of Court . Two Charets had foure horses each , that went by two and two the rest did go by foure a breast , In order without any breach : A thing which of all things becomes a triumph best , No one did break array , but went on in sober sort . To the honour of those Gentry that live at the Inns of Court . Our gracious King with his deer Queen , did fit to behold this so beautiful a show , It joy'd their hearts when they had seen , The true and Loyal love , that their subject's to them owe : Unto their long liv'd credit , they showed their Princely sport . To the honour of those Gentry that live at the Inns of Court . Many thousand pounds of gold this thought hath not the charge of this matchless mask defrayed , Yet let no Critic deem that nought Which hath on a sudden employ'd so many a trade , Young people may hereafter unto their young report The honour of those Gentry that live at the Inns of Court . No Prince throughout all Christendome can like to our King , of so strange a triumph boast , Those strangers that do hither come , Will spread our Lands glory abroad in many a coast , For all their quaint devises , to this must come far short . To the honour of those Gentry that live at the Inns of Court . FINIS . London Printed for Thomas Lambert . M.P. 