God Speed the Blow , And Bless the Corn-Mow . A Dialogue between The Husbandman and Servingman . The Servingman , the Blow man would invite To leave his Calling , and to take Delight ; But to that , by no means will agree , Lest he thereby should come to Beggary . He makes it plain appear , a Country Life Does far excel ; and so they end the Strife . The Tune is , I am the Duke of Norfolk . My Noble friends Give Ear , If Mirth you love to hear , I'e tell you as fast as I can , A story very True , Then mark what does ensue , concerning of a Husbandman . Serving-Man . A Servingman did meet A Husbandman in the street , and thus unto him he began ; I pray you tell to me Of what Calling you be ; or if you be a Servingman . Husbandman . Quoth he , my brother dear , The Coast I mean to Clear , and the truth you shall Understand . I do not one disdain ; But this I tell you Plain , I am and honest Husbandman . Servingman . If a Husbandman you be , Then Come along with me ; i'le help you as soon as I can ; Unto a gallant place , Where in a little space , you shall be a Servingman . Husbandman . Sir , for your diligence , I Give you many thanks : then answered the Plowman again , I pray you to me show Whereby that I might know , what Pleasures hath a Servingman . Servingman . A Servingman hath pleasure , Which passes time and measure ; when the Hauk on his Fist does stand , His hood and his verril's brave , And other things we have , which yields Joy to a Servingman , Husbandman . My pleasures more than that , To see my Oxen fat , and to prosper well under my hand And therefore I do mean , With my Horse and Team to keep myself a husbandman . Servingman . O 'tis a Gallant thing , In the prime time of the Spring , to hear the huntsmen now and then His Beaugle for to blow And the hounds Run all a row ; this is pleasure for a servingman : To hear the Beagle Cry , And to see the Falcon fly , and the hare trip over the plain , And the Huntsmen and the hound , Makes Hill and Dale rebovud : this is pleasure for a Servingman . Husbandman . 'Tis pleasure you know To see the Corn to Grow ; and to grow so well on the Land , The Plowing and the Sowing , The Reaping and the Mowing yields pleasure to the Huband-man . Servingman . At our Table you may Eat All sorts of Dainty Meat ; big , Cony , Goose , Capon , and Swan ; And with Lords and Ladies fine , You may drink bear , ale , and wine , this is pleasure for a Servingman . Husband man . While you Eat Goose and Capon , I'le feed on Beef and Bacon , and piece of hard Cheese now and then ; We Pudding have , and Souse , Always ready in the house ; which Contents the honest Husbandman . Servingman . At the Court you may have , Your Garments fine and brave , and Cloak with Gold Lace laid upon , A shirt as white as milk , And wrought with finest silk , that's pleasure for a servingman . Husbandman . Such proud and costly Gear , Is not for us to wear , among the briers and brambles many a one A Good strong russet Coat , And at your need a groat , will suffice the husbandman . A Proverb hear I tell , Which likes my humour well , and remember it well I can , If a Courtier be to bold , He'l want when he is old , then farewell the servingman . Servingman . It needs must be Confessed , That your Calling Is the best ; no longer discourse with you I can , But henceforth I will pray , By night and by day ; Heavens bless the honest husband man . FI [ NIS ] . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . God Speed the Blow , And Bless the Corn-Mow . A Dialogue between The Husbandman and Servingman . The Servingman , the Blow man would invite To leave his Calling , and to take Delight ; But to that , by no means will agree , Lest he thereby should come to Beggary . He makes it plain appear , a Country Life Does far excel ; and so they end the Strife . The Tune is , I am the Duke of Norfolk . My Noble friends Give Ear , If Mirth you love to hear , I'e tell you as fast as I can , A story very True , Then mark what does ensue , concerning of a Husbandman . Serving-Man . A Servingman did meet A Husbandman in the street , and thus unto him he began ; I pray you tell to me Of what Calling you be ; or if you be a Servingman . Husbandman . Quoth he , my brother dear , The Coast I mean to Clear , and the truth you shall Understand . I do not one disdain ; But this I tell you Plain , I am and honest Husbandman . Servingman . If a Husbandman you be , Then Come along with me ; i'le help you as soon as I can ; Unto a gallant place , Where in a little space , you shall be a Servingman . Husbandman . Sir , for your diligence , I Give you many thanks : then answered the Plowman again , I pray you to me show Whereby that I might know , what Pleasures hath a Servingman . Servingman . A Servingman hath pleasure , Which passes time and measure ; when the Hauk on his Fist does stand , His hood and his verril's brave , And other things we have , which yields Joy to a Servingman , Husbandman . My pleasures more than that , To see my Oxen fat , and to prosper well under my hand And therefore I do mean , With my Horse and Team to keep myself a husbandman . Servingman . O 'tis a Gallant thing , In the prime time of the Spring , to hear the huntsmen now and then His Beaugle for to blow And the hounds Run all a row ; this is pleasure for a servingman : To hear the Beagle Cry , And to see the Falcon fly , and the hare trip over the plain , And the Huntsmen and the hound , Makes Hill and Dale rebovud : this is pleasure for a Servingman . Husbandman . 'Tis pleasure you know To see the Corn to Grow ; and to grow so well on the Land , The Plowing and the Sowing , The Reaping and the Mowing yields pleasure to the Huband-man . Servingman . At our Table you may Eat All sorts of Dainty Meat ; big , Cony , Goose , Capon , and Swan ; And with Lords and Ladies fine , You may drink bear , ale , and wine , this is pleasure for a Servingman . Husband man . While you Eat Goose and Capon , I'le feed on Beef and Bacon , and piece of hard Cheese now and then ; We Pudding have , and Souse , Always ready in the house ; which Contents the honest Husbandman . Servingman . At the Court you may have , Your Garments fine and brave , and Cloak with Gold Lace laid upon , A shirt as white as milk , And wrought with finest silk , that's pleasure for a servingman . Husbandman . Such proud and costly Gear , Is not for us to wear , among the briers and brambles many a one A Good strong russet Coat , And at your need a groat , will suffice the husbandman . A Proverb hear I tell , Which likes my humour well , and remember it well I can , If a Courtier be to bold , He'l want when he is old , then farewell the servingman . Servingman . It needs must be Confessed , That your Calling Is the best ; no longer discourse with you I can , But henceforth I will pray , By night and by day ; Heavens bless the honest husband man . FI [ NIS ] . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . God Speed the Blow , And Bless the Corn-Mow . A Dialogue between The Husbandman and Servingman . The Servingman , the Blow man would invite To leave his Calling , and to take Delight ; But to that , by no means will agree , Lest he thereby should come to Beggary . He makes it plain appear , a Country Life Does far excel ; and so they end the Strife . The Tune is , I am the Duke of Norfolk . My Noble friends Give Ear , If Mirth you love to hear , I'e tell you as fast as I can , A story very True , Then mark what does ensue , concerning of a Husbandman . Serving-Man . A Servingman did meet A Husbandman in the street , and thus unto him he began ; I pray you tell to me Of what Calling you be ; or if you be a Servingman . Husbandman . Quoth he , my brother dear , The Coast I mean to Clear , and the truth you shall Understand . I do not one disdain ; But this I tell you Plain , I am and honest Husbandman . Servingman . If a Husbandman you be , Then Come along with me ; i'le help you as soon as I can ; Unto a gallant place , Where in a little space , you shall be a Servingman . Husbandman . Sir , for your diligence , I Give you many thanks : then answered the Plowman again , I pray you to me show Whereby that I might know , what Pleasures hath a Servingman . Servingman . A Servingman hath pleasure , Which passes time and measure ; when the Hauk on his Fist does stand , His hood and his verril's brave , And other things we have , which yields Joy to a Servingman , Husbandman . My pleasures more than that , To see my Oxen fat , and to prosper well under my hand And therefore I do mean , With my Horse and Team to keep myself a husbandman . Servingman . O 'tis a Gallant thing , In the prime time of the Spring , to hear the huntsmen now and then His Beaugle for to blow And the hounds Run all a row ; this is pleasure for a servingman : To hear the Beagle Cry , And to see the Falcon fly , and the hare trip over the plain , And the Huntsmen and the hound , Makes Hill and Dale rebovud : this is pleasure for a Servingman . Husbandman . 'Tis pleasure you know To see the Corn to Grow ; and to grow so well on the Land , The Plowing and the Sowing , The Reaping and the Mowing yields pleasure to the Husbandman . Servingman . At our Table you may Eat All sorts of Dainty Meat ; big , Cony , Goose , Capon , and Swan ; And with Lords and Ladies fine , You may drink bear , ale , and wine , this is pleasure for a Servingman . Husband man . While you Eat Goose and Capon , I'le feed on Beef and Bacon , and piece of hard Cheese now and then ; We Pudding have , and Souse , Always ready in the house ; which Contents the honest Husbandman . Servingman . At the Court you may have , Your Garments fine and brave , and Cloak with Gold Lace laid upon , A shirt as white as milk , And wrought with finest silk , that's pleasure for a servingman . Husbandman . Such proud and costly Gear , Is not for us to wear , among the briers and brambles many a one A Good strong russet Coat , And at your need a groat , will suffice the husbandman . A Proverb hear I tell , Which likes my humour well , and remember it well I can , If a Courtier be to bold , He'l want when he is old , then farewell the servingman . Servingman . It needs must be Confessed , That your Calling Is the best ; no longer discourse with you I can , But henceforth I will pray , By night and by day ; Heavens bless the honest husband man . FI [ NIS ] . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . God Speed the Blow , And Bless the Corn-Mow . A Dialogue between The Husbandman and Servingman . The Servingman , the Blow man would invite To leave his Calling , and to take Delight ; But to that , by no means will agree , Lest he thereby should come to Beggary . He makes it plain appear , a Country Life Does far excel ; and so they end the Strife . The Tune is , I am the Duke of Norfolk . My Noble friends Give Ear , If Mirth you love to hear , I'e tell you as fast as I can , A story very True , Then mark what does ensue , concerning of a Husbandman . Serving-Man . A Servingman did meet A Husbandman in the street , and thus unto him he began ; I pray you tell to me Of what Calling you be ; or if you be a Servingman . Husbandman . Quoth he , my brother dear , The Coast I mean to Clear , and the truth you shall Understand . I do not one disdain ; But this I tell you Plain , I am and honest Husbandman . Servingman . If a Husbandman you be , Then Come along with me ; i'le help you as soon as I can ; Unto a gallant place , Where in a little space , you shall be a Servingman . Husbandman . Sir , for your diligence , I Give you many thanks : then answered the Plowman again , I pray you to me show Whereby that I might know , what Pleasures hath a Servingman . Servingman . A Servingman hath pleasure , Which passes time and measure ; when the Hauk on his Fist does stand , His hood and his verril's brave , And other things we have , which yields Joy to a Servingman , Husbandman . My pleasures more than that , To see my Oxen fat , and to prosper well under my hand And therefore I do mean , With my Horse and Team to keep myself a husbandman . Servingman . O 'tis a Gallant thing , In the prime time of the Spring , to hear the huntsmen now and then His Beaugle for to blow And the hounds Run all a row ; this is pleasure for a servingman : To hear the Beagle Cry , And to see the Falcon fly , and the hare trip over the plain , And the Huntsmen and the hound , Makes Hill and Dale rebovud : this is pleasure for a Servingman . Husbandman . 'Tis pleasure you know To see the Corn to Grow ; and to grow so well on the Land , The Plowing and the Sowing , The Reaping and the Mowing yields pleasure to the Husbandman . Servingman . At our Table you may Eat All sorts of Dainty Meat ; big , Cony , Goose , Capon , and Swan ; And with Lords and Ladies fine , You may drink bear , ale , and wine , this is pleasure for a Servingman . Husband man . While you Eat Goose and Capon , I'le feed on Beef and Bacon , and piece of hard Cheese now and then ; We Pudding have , and Souse , Always ready in the house ; which Contents the honest Husbandman . Servingman . At the Court you may have , Your Garments fine and brave , and Cloak with Gold Lace laid upon , A shirt as white as milk , And wrought with finest silk , that's pleasure for a servingman . Husbandman . Such proud and costly Gear , Is not for us to wear , among the briers and brambles many a one A Good strong russet Coat , And at your need a groat , will suffice the husbandman . A Proverb hear I tell , Which likes my humour well , and remember it well I can , If a Courtier be to bold , He'l want when he is old , then farewell the servingman . Servingman . It needs must be Confessed , That your Calling Is the best ; no longer discourse with you I can , But henceforth I will pray , By night and by day ; Heavens bless the honest husband man . FI [ NIS ] . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . 