Merry Tom of all TRADES ; OR , A trick to get money at every dead lift , Made known by Tom of all Trades , that bravely could shift , From one Place to another , about he did range , And at his own pleasure his Trade he could change . The Tune is , Behold the Man. MY name is Tom of all Trades , there's many knows me well , But no man needs examine me , to know where I do dwell ; For why my common custom is , to ramble up and down , And I have left behind me , full many a gallant Town , Then heigh for Tom of all Trades , is all the peoples cry , And point their fingers at me , as I am passing by . Sometimes I am a Taylor , and work well as I can , And if you'l take my own word for't , I am and honest man , All those that are my customers , I use them all so well , The third part of their cloth I throw it into Hell . Yet heigh , etc Sometime I am a Glover , and make perfumed Gloves , And every kind of Fashion , for youngmen and their Loves ; All those that do deal with me , good pennyworth shall have , You know that Tom of all trades , does seldom play the Knave , Yet heigh , etc Sometime I am a Shoemaker , fine ware I make to fell , And can fit a pretty Wench , and please her humours well , But if in drawing on her shoes , my hand should chance to slip , I soon can make amends again : with smacking of her lips But heigh , etc Sometime I am a Weaver , and let my Shuttle fly , But if the Alehouse catch me , then woe be to the Pie ; And if I chance to loiter but five days in the week , 'Tis ten to one on Sunday my Dinner is to seek : Yet heigh for Tom of all Trades , is all tO [ h ] e peoples cry , And point there fingers at me , [ as I am passing by . ] Sometime I am a Baker , wherein is no deceit , There's no man can accuse me for making too much weigh But for my Lord Mayors Officers , I dare not come them nigh , For fear that they should put my head into the Pillory . Then heigh for Tom of all Trades , is all the peoples cry , etc Sometime I am a Miller , my actions are so just , I never cozen any one but them that do me trus When I put in my Tole-dish , so honestly I deal , That out of one whole bushel of grist I but a Peck do steal . Yet heigh , etc Sometime I am a Blacksmith , and Vulcan is my name , But if my Wife do horn me , there's no man can me blame , For if it be my Fortune , a Cuckold for to die , There's others of my Neighbours , do so as well as I . Yet heigh , etc The Brewers trade I practice , sometime the rest among , And I can make my Ale and Beer both Nappy stout and strong . But like to other Brewers I order well the matter , For if I put in too little Malt , I put in the more water . Yet heigh , etc Sometime I am a Shaver and Barb well as I can , And I can trim a woman as well as any man : My Razor and my Washing-balls , make me so neat a Barber , That I can cut the hair so close a Louse can have no harbour . Yet heigh , etc Sometime I keep and Alehouse the best trade of them all , For they will surely stand fast when other trades do fallen : I likewise keep two Wenchs brave that can both kiss and spin , And they will wait on Gentlemen and bring me profit in . Yet heigh , etc When all these trades do fail me , the truth of all is so , Unto Barbados , Jamacio , or New England will I go : Or to High Spaniola , among the Golden Over , For there is room enough for me and forty thousand more . Then heigh , etc Printed for J. Wriight , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . Merry Tom of all TRADES ; OR , A trick to get money at every dead lift , Made known by Tom of all Trades , that bravely could shift , From one Place to another , about he did range , And at his own pleasure his Trade he could change . The Tune is , Behold the Man. MY name is Tom of all Trades , there's many knows me well , But no man needs examine me , to know where I do dwell ; For why my common custom is , to ramble up and down , And I have left behind me , full many a gallant Town , Then heigh for Tom of all Trades , is all the peoples cry , And point their fingers at me , as I am passing by . Sometimes I am a Taylor , and work well as I can , And if you'l take my own word for't , I am and honest man , All those that are my customers , I use them all so well , The third part of their cloth I throw it into Hell . Yet heigh , etc Sometime I am a Glover , and make perfumed Gloves , And every kind of Fashion , for youngmen and their Loves ; All those that do deal with me , good pennyworth shall have , You know that Tom of all trades , does seldom play the Knave , Yet heigh , etc Sometime I am a Shoemaker , fine ware I make to fell , And can fit a pretty Wench , and please her humours well , But if in drawing on her shoes , my hand should chance to slip , I soon can make amends again : with smacking of her lips But heigh , etc Sometime I am a Weaver , and let my Shuttle fly , But if the Alehouse catch me , then woe be to the Pie ; And if I chance to loiter but five days in the week , 'Tis ten to one on Sunday my Dinner is to seek : Yet heigh for Tom of all Trades , is all tO [ h ] e peoples cry , And point there fingers at me , [ as I am passing by . ] Sometime I am a Baker , wherein is no deceit , There's no man can accuse me for making too much weigh But for my Lord Mayors Officers , I dare not come them nigh , For fear that they should put my head into the Pillory . Then heigh for Tom of all Trades , is all the peoples cry , etc Sometime I am a Miller , my actions are so just , I never cozen any one but them that do me trus When I put in my Tole-dish , so honestly I deal , That out of one whole bushel of grist I but a Peck do steal . Yet heigh , etc Sometime I am a Blacksmith , and Vulcan is my name , But if my Wife do horn me , there's no man can me blame , For if it be my Fortune , a Cuckold for to die , There's others of my Neighbours , do so as well as I . Yet heigh , etc The Brewers trade I practice , sometime the rest among , And I can make my Ale and Beer both Nappy stout and strong . But like to other Brewers I order well the matter , For if I put in too little Malt , I put in the more water . Yet heigh , etc Sometime I am a Shaver and Barb well as I can , And I can trim a woman as well as any man : My Razor and my Washing-balls , make me so neat a Barber , That I can cut the hair so close a Louse can have no harbour . Yet heigh , etc Sometime I keep and Alehouse the best trade of them all , For they will surely stand fast when other trades do fallen : I likewise keep two Wenchs brave that can both kiss and spin , And they will wait on Gentlemen and bring me profit in . Yet heigh , etc When all these trades do fail me , the truth of all is so , Unto Barbados , Jamacio , or New England will I go : Or to High Spaniola , among the Golden Over , For there is room enough for me and forty thousand more . Then heigh , etc Printed for J. Wriight , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 