The Old Gentlewoman's last Legacy To her Sons and Daughters upon her Death-Bed , a little before she departed out of this World . With her good Instructions , that she gave them to live a godly sober Life , for the good of their own Souls , till God call them out of this World . Tune of My bleeding Heart . Licensed according to Order . MY own dear Children understand , I would wish you to obey your Mother's command You see my Sickness in my Bed , Think on my words when I am dead ; Fear God and keep up his Command , All things will prosper you take in hand . Avoid bad company and make no strife , And be careful how you led your life ; And be charitable to the poor , Then God's Blessing will ne'er depart your door , Fear God , etc Keep God's Commandments night and day , Then you'll be out of danger every way , And serve him truly in your heart , Then of Heaven you'll have your part . Fear God , etc In your Maker ever put your trust , And forsake all works that are unjust , And defraud not any man I say , But know your own then every way , Fear God , etc Keep a clear Conscience that is pure , Then Gods mercy will to you endure , Slander no man in any case , For a lying tongue is ever base . Fear God , etc Be not puffed up with that since of Pride , That Evil the Lord cannot abide : If you do any good to any man , Do not hit him i' th' teeth with it again . But fear God , etc Do not be drunk in anything , The Scripture says it's a wicked since , And serve the Lord and loose no time , While you are in your youth and prime : But fear God , etc Wrong not the Widow nor the Fatherless , But relieve them in their weak distress , The Lord will repay you ten times more , 'Tis a step to Heaven to relieve the poor : But fear God and be at his command , All things will prosper you take in hand . TRust not your own will every day , Nor of your Neighbour make a prey , But what God Almighty he does send , My own dear Children be conten Fear God , and keep his true Command , All things will prosper you take in hand , Don't be too proud in your own ways , Nor seek not for to get a praise , Do not a flattering Tongue believe , 'Twill fail you , and will you deceive : But fear God , etc Give reverence to the Ancient sort ; For by that you'll gain and get report ; And do not use to mock and jeer , It's a cursed thing , pray have a care : Fear God , etc Be careful of the Sabbath-day , And be sure you go to Church and prey , And mind the preaching of the word , Great comfort it will you afford : But be sure to keep the Lords Command , All things will prosper you take in hand . Do not Blaspheme the Lord of might , To swear and lie it will sink you straight ; Take counsel of your dying Mother , That has care of you above all other : But be sure , etc Be not too fluent of your Tongue , Vain speeches they will do you wrong , He's a wise man that speaks the least , Till a Man be call'd , that is the bes Fear God , etc He's a fool that hates good counsel sure , That with itching ears will not endure : There's but one way that we can have , And but one true way our souls to save : Take Counsel of your Mother dear , My own dear Children have a care . Now at the last be sure stand fast , that Gods Words may be your chiefest guide , And have a care you be not cast , for our manifold sins we must be try'd : And fear God , etc My Children I'll bid you adieu , these words I speak pray bear in mind , Love one another , and to God be true , then you need not fear what Man is unkind , And obey Gods Word and his Command , Then he'll bless all things you take in hand . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . The Old Gentlewoman's last Legacy To her Sons and Daughters upon her Death-Bed , a little before she departed out of this World . With her good Instructions , that she gave them to live a godly sober Life , for the good of their own Souls , till God call them out of this World . Tune of My bleeding Heart . Licensed according to Order . MY own dear Children understand , I would wish you to obey your Mother's command You see my Sickness in my Bed , Think on my words when I am dead ; Fear God and keep up his Command , All things will prosper you take in hand . Avoid bad company and make no strife , And be careful how you led your life ; And be charitable to the poor , Then God's Blessing will ne'er depart your door , Fear God , etc Keep God's Commandments night and day , Then you'll be out of danger every way , And serve him truly in your heart , Then of Heaven you'll have your part . Fear God , etc In your Maker ever put your trust , And forsake all works that are unjust , And defraud not any man I say , But know your own then every way , Fear God , etc Keep a clear Conscience that is pure , Then Gods mercy will to you endure , Slander no man in any case , For a lying tongue is ever base . Fear God , etc Be not puffed up with that since of Pride , That Evil the Lord cannot abide : If you do any good to any man , Do not hit him i' th' teeth with it again . But fear God , etc Do not be drunk in anything , The Scripture says it's a wicked since , And serve the Lord and loose no time , While you are in your youth and prime : But fear God , etc Wrong not the Widow nor the Fatherless , But relieve them in their weak distress , The Lord will repay you ten times more , 'Tis a step to Heaven to relieve the poor : But fear God and be at his command , All things will prosper you take in hand . TRust not your own will every day , Nor of your Neighbour make a prey , But what God Almighty he does send , My own dear Children be conten Fear God , and keep his true Command , All things will prosper you take in hand , Don't be too proud in your own ways , Nor seek not for to get a praise , Do not a flattering Tongue believe , 'Twill fail you , and will you deceive : But fear God , etc Give reverence to the Ancient sort ; For by that you'll gain and get report ; And do not use to mock and jeer , It's a cursed thing , pray have a care : Fear God , etc Be careful of the Sabbath-day , And be sure you go to Church and prey , And mind the preaching of the word , Great comfort it will you afford : But be sure to keep the Lords Command , All things will prosper you take in hand . Do not Blaspheme the Lord of might , To swear and lie it will sink you straight ; Take counsel of your dying Mother , That has care of you above all other : But be sure , etc Be not too fluent of your Tongue , Vain speeches they will do you wrong , He's a wise man that speaks the least , Till a Man be call'd , that is the bes Fear God , etc He's a fool that hates good counsel sure , That with itching ears will not endure : There's but one way that we can have , And but one true way our souls to save : Take Counsel of your Mother dear , My own dear Children have a care . Now at the last be sure stand fast , that Gods Words may be your chiefest guide , And have a care you be not cast , for our manifold sins we must be try'd : And fear God , etc My Children I'll bid you adieu , these words I speak pray bear in mind , Love one another , and to God be true , then you need not fear what Man is unkind , And obey Gods Word and his Command , Then he'll bless all things you take in hand . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . 