God speed the Blow , And bless the Corn-Mow . A Dialogue between The Husbandman and Servingman . The Servingman the Plowman would invite , To leave his Calling , and to take Delight ; But he to that by no means will agree , Lest he thereby should come to Beggary : He makes it plain appear , a Country life , Does far excel , and so they end the strife . The Tune is , I am the Duke of Norfolk . MY Noble friends give ear , If mirth you love to hear , I'le tell you as fast as I can , A Story very true , Then mark what does ensue , concerning of a Husbandman . Serving-Man . A Servingman did meet A Husbandman in the street , and thus unto him he began , I pray you tell to me , Of what calling you be , or if you be a Servingman ? Husbandman . Quoth he my brother dear , The Coast I mean to clear , and the truth you shall understand , I do not one disdain , But this I tell you plain , I am and honest Husbandman . Servingman . If a Husbandman you be , Then come along with me , i'le help you as soon as I can , Unto a gallant place , Where in a little space , you shall be a Servingman . Husbandman . Sir for your Diligence , I give you many thanks , then answered the Plowman again , I pray you to me show , Whereby that you may know , what pleasures hath a Servingman . Serving-Man . A Servingman hath pleasure , Which passes time and measure , when his Hawk on his Fist does stand His Hood and his Verrils brave , And other things we have , which yields joy to a Servingman . Husbandman . My pleasures more then that , To see my Oxen fat , and to prosper well under my hand , And therefore I do mean With my Horse and my Team , to keep myself a Husbandman . Servingman . O this a gallant thing , In the prime time of the spring , to hear the Huntsmen now & then , His Beaugle for to blow , And the Hounds run all arrow , this is the pleasure for a servingman . To hear the Beagle cry , And to see the Falcon fly , and the Hare trip over the plain , And the huntsmen and the hound Makes hill and Dale rebound , this is pleasure for a servingman . Husbandman . This pleasure you know , To see the Corn to grow , and to grow so well on the land , The Plowing and the Sowing , The Reaping and the Mowing , yields pleasure to the husbandman . Servingman . At our Table you may eat , All sorts of dainty meat , big , Coney , Goose , Capon , & Swan , And with Lords and Ladies fine , You may drink Beer , ale , and wine . this is pleasure for a Servingman . Husbandman . While you eat Goose and Capon , I'le feed on Beef and Bacon , and a piece of hard cheese now & then , We Pudding have and Souse Always ready in the house , which contents the honest Husbandman . Servingman . At the Court you may have , Your Garments fine and brave , & a cloak with a gold lace laid upon , A Shirt as white as milk , And wrought with finest silk , that's pleasure for a Servingman . Husbandman . Such proud and costly gear , Is not for us to wear , among the briers & brambles many a one , A good strong Russer Coat , And at our need a groat , that will suffice the Husbandman . A Proverb herd I tell , Which likes my humour well , and remember it well I can , If a Courtier be too bold , He'l want when he is Old , then farewell the Servingman . Servingman . It needs must be confessed , That your calling is the best , no longer discourse with you I can , But henceforth I will pray , By night and by day , Heavens bless the honest Husbandman . Printed for J. Clarke , W Thackeray , and T. Passenger . God speed the Blow , And bless the Corn-Mow . A Dialogue between The Husbandman and Servingman . The Servingman the Plowman would invite , To leave his Calling , and to take Delight ; But he to that by no means will agree , Lest he thereby should come to Beggary : He makes it plain appear , a Country life , Does far excel , and so they end the strife . The Tune is , I am the Duke of Norfolk . MY Noble friends give ear , If mirth you love to hear , I'le tell you as fast as I can , A Story very true , Then mark what does ensue , concerning of a Husbandman . Serving-Man . A Servingman did meet A Husbandman in the street , and thus unto him he began , I pray you tell to me , Of what calling you be , or if you be a Servingman ? Husbandman . Quoth he my brother dear , The Coast I mean to clear , and the truth you shall understand , I do not one disdain , But this I tell you plain , I am and honest Husbandman . Servingman . If a Husbandman you be , Then come along with me , i'le help you as soon as I can , Unto a gallant place , Where in a little space , you shall be a Servingman . Husbandman . Sir for your Diligence , I give you many thanks , then answered the Plowman again , I pray you to me show , Whereby that you may know , what pleasures hath a Servingman . Serving-Man . A Servingman hath pleasure , Which passes time and measure , when his Hawk on his Fist does stand His Hood and his Verrils brave , And other things we have , which yields joy to a Servingman . Husbandman . My pleasures more then that , To see my Oxen fat , and to prosper well under my hand , And therefore I do mean With my Horse and my Team , to keep myself a Husbandman . Servingman . O this a gallant thing , In the prime time of the spring , to hear the Huntsmen now & then , His Beaugle for to blow , And the Hounds run all arrow , this is the pleasure for a servingman . To hear the Beagle cry , And to see the Falcon fly , and the Hare trip over the plain , And the huntsmen and the hound Makes hill and Dale rebound , this is pleasure for a servingman . Husbandman . This pleasure you know , To see the Corn to grow , and to grow so well on the land , The Plowing and the Sowing , The Reaping and the Mowing , yields pleasure to the husbandman . Servingman . At our Table you may eat , All sorts of dainty meat , big , Coney , Goose , Capon , & Swan , And with Lords and Ladies fine , You may drink Beer , ale , and wine . this is pleasure for a Servingman . Husbandman . While you eat Goose and Capon , I'le feed on Beef and Bacon , and a piece of hard cheese now & then , We Pudding have and Souse Always ready in the house , which contents the honest Husbandman . Servingman . At the Court you may have , Your Garments fine and brave , & a cloak with a gold lace laid upon , A Shirt as white as milk , And wrought with finest silk , that's pleasure for a Servingman . Husbandman . Such proud and costly gear , Is not for us to wear , among the briers & brambles many a one , A good strong Russer Coat , And at our need a groat , that will suffice the Husbandman . A Proverb herd I tell , Which likes my humour well , and remember it well I can , If a Courtier be too bold , He'l want when he is Old , then farewell the Servingman . Servingman . It needs must be confessed , That your calling is the best , no longer discourse with you I can , But henceforth I will pray , By night and by day , Heavens bless the honest Husbandman . Printed for J. Clarke , W Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 