Religion made a Cloak for Villainy . OR , The Loyal Subject's Delight . Who is neither WHIGG nor TORY . Being a most Pleasant New Play SONG . Alas ! what pity is't , when thus we see Religious Masques oft cover Villainy ; Tory and Whigg contend for Loyalty , When both alike do Envy Monarchy : The Name of Jesuit , Fryar , and Monk's forgotten , 'Tis Whigg and Tory manage all the Plot , Under those Names , Room and Geneva lurk , And daily carry on their Cursed Work . To the Tune of , Now , now the Fight's done . LEt Tories Curse on and the Wiggs let them Rage , While both strive the Nation in Wars to engage ; While Religion's the Cloak to cover their since , And wrap up Rebellion and Sedition in : Both alike dangerous to Monarchy , why ? For they up do the Mass , and the Covenant cry ; But those are good Subject's that from Clamour cease , And pray for the King and the Nations long peace . When Gun-powder-Plots to destroy us were laid , Then Tories and Whiggs did each other upbraid ; Tho' then these Vile Names they so well were not known , Yet Papist and Puritan then they did own , And Religion , Religion , was then all the cry , Though nothing but mischief they meant us thereby : But those are good Subject's that from Clamour cease , And pray for the King and the Nations long peace . Religion in Fortione Routed the Laws , Or 'twas a thing call'd so , wrapped in the Old Cause ; Oh did not Jack Presbyter under that Guise , Deceive all the Simple , and Cheat many Wise ? The League and the Covenant what were they more , Then to make Knaves Rich , and all Honest men Poor ? But those are good Subject's that from Clamour cease , And pray for the King and the Nations long peace . Was't not true Religion those Villains did plead , Who 'gainst the King , in his Name , Armies did led , And cry'd , we're the Righteous , to us Plunder's free , And this is the way for to gain Liberty ; When as into Slavery they did us all bring , And call'd it Religion to Murder their King : But those are good Subject's , etc O they were to be Sainted that Thimbles and Bodkins , Upon Public Faith were sent , with many odd things ; When as the Rump turn'd them to Sack and to Claret , Though each old Wife did long after mourn for i Religion was then the cry , when none was used , But in the Name they the thing much abused ; For those are good Subject's , etc Fifth-monarchy Cullys , Religion did cry , When as to get Plunder they purpos'd thereby ; Though 'tis plain , if the Doctor does tell us but right , The Jesuits back'd them and bid them to figh And now all the noise for Religion must be , When by such as make the stir , none's us'd we see : But those are good Subject's , etc For Tories whose fortune's Ill Husbandry made Bore as their Conscience , are never afraid To loose what they have , but would fain be at strife , For why ? 'tis Contention they love as their life ; What care they for peace or for quiet , so they Can Murder and Plunder , and for it have pay : But those are good Subject's , etc In drinking of Healths they do take a great pride , And swear they'l be Loyal if they were but try'd ; And that for the King and Religion they'l fight , But this with their Actions cannot agree righ For why they who Oaths against God do still fling , Can ne'r be Religious , and true to their King : But those are good Subject's , etc Then were Whigg and Tory that make all this noise , And would at all honest men's downfalls rejoice , But once Unmasqu'd , and you plainly should see , As to all Religion Impostors they be : For from Geneva and Rome they are sent , To trouble the Nation , and raise disconten But those are good Subject's , etc Religion 'tis Sacred when rightly 'tis us'd , But in no Age it was ne'r more abus'd ; For why , for the most part a Cloak it is made , To cover vile Treason , or else 'tis a Trade ; But Heaven defend it from such wicked men , And make it to flourish and prosper again : While those are good Subject's that from Clamour cease and pray for the King and the Nations long peace Finis . Printed for J.W. J.C. W.T. and T.P. Religion made a Cloak for Villainy . OR , The Loyal Subject's Delight . Who is neither WHIGG nor TORY . Being a most Pleasant New Play SONG . Alas ! what pity is't , when thus we see Religious Masques oft cover Villainy ; Tory and Whigg contend for Loyalty , When both alike do Envy Monarchy : The Name of Jesuit , Fryar , and Monk's forgotten , 'Tis Whigg and Tory manage all the Plot , Under those Names , Room and Geneva lurk , And daily carry on their Cursed Work . To the Tune of , Now , now the Fight's done . LEt Tories Curse on and the Wiggs let them Rage , While both strive the Nation in Wars to engage ; While Religion's the Cloak to cover their since , And wrap up Rebellion and Sedition in : Both alike dangerous to Monarchy , why ? For they up do the Mass , and the Covenant cry ; But those are good Subject's that from Clamour cease , And pray for the King and the Nations long peace . When Gun-powder-Plots to destroy us were laid , Then Tories and Whiggs did each other upbraid ; Tho' then these Vile Names they so well were not known , Yet Papist and Puritan then they did own , And Religion , Religion , was then all the cry , Though nothing but mischief they meant us thereby : But those are good Subject's that from Clamour cease , And pray for the King and the Nations long peace . Religion in Fortione Routed the Laws , Or 'twas a thing call'd so , wrapped in the Old Cause ; Oh did not Jack Presbyter under that Guise , Deceive all the Simple , and Cheat many Wise ? The League and the Covenant what were they more , Then to make Knaves Rich , and all Honest men Poor ? But those are good Subject's that from Clamour cease , And pray for the King and the Nations long peace . Was't not true Religion those Villains did plead , Who 'gainst the King , in his Name , Armies did led , And cry'd , we're the Righteous , to us Plunder's free , And this is the way for to gain Liberty ; When as into Slavery they did us all bring , And call'd it Religion to Murder their King : But those are good Subject's , etc O they were to be Sainted that Thimbles and Bodkins , Upon Public Faith were sent , with many odd things ; When as the Rump turn'd them to Sack and to Claret , Though each old Wife did long after mourn for i Religion was then the cry , when none was used , But in the Name they the thing much abused ; For those are good Subject's , etc Fifth-monarchy Cullys , Religion did cry , When as to get Plunder they purpos'd thereby ; Though 'tis plain , if the Doctor does tell us but right , The Jesuits back'd them and bid them to figh And now all the noise for Religion must be , When by such as make the stir , none's us'd we see : But those are good Subject's , etc For Tories whose fortune's Ill Husbandry made Bore as their Conscience , are never afraid To loose what they have , but would fain be at strife , For why ? 'tis Contention they love as their life ; What care they for peace or for quiet , so they Can Murder and Plunder , and for it have pay : But those are good Subject's , etc In drinking of Healths they do take a great pride , And swear they'l be Loyal if they were but try'd ; And that for the King and Religion they'l fight , But this with their Actions cannot agree righ For why they who Oaths against God do still fling , Can ne'r be Religious , and true to their King : But those are good Subject's , etc Then were Whigg and Tory that make all this noise , And would at all honest men's downfalls rejoice , But once Unmasqu'd , and you plainly should see , As to all Religion Impostors they be : For from Geneva and Rome they are sent , To trouble the Nation , and raise disconten But those are good Subject's , etc Religion 'tis Sacred when rightly 'tis us'd , But in no Age it was ne'r more abus'd ; For why , for the most part a Cloak it is made , To cover vile Treason , or else 'tis a Trade ; But Heaven defend it from such wicked men , And make it to flourish and prosper again : While those are good Subject's that from Clamour cease and pray for the King and the Nations long peace Finis . Printed for J.W. J.C. W.T. and T.P. 