The countrymans lamentation for the death of his cow . A Country Swain of little wit one day , Did kill his Cow because she went astray : What's that to I or you , she was his own , But now the Ass for his Cow does moan : Most pineously methink he cries in vain , For now his Cow's free from hunger , and pain : What ails the fool to make so great oh stir , She cannot come to him , he may to her . To a pleasant Country Tune , called , Colly my Cow . LIttle Tom Dogget , what dost thou mean , To kill thy poor Colly , now she's so lean : Sing , O poor Colly ; Colly my Cow ; For Colly will give me no more milk now . Pruh high , pruh hoe , Pruh high , pruh hoe , Pruh , pruh , pruh , pruh , pruh , pruh , pruh , Tal dal daw . I had better have kept her , till fatter she had been , For now I confess she's a little too lean : Sing , O poor Colly , etc First in comes the Tanner , with his Sword by his side ; And he bids me five Shillings , for my Cows hide : Sing , O poor Colly , etc Then in comes the Tallow-chandler , whose brains were but shallow , And he bids me two and Sixpence , for my Cows Tallow : Sing , O poor Colly , Colly my Cow , For Colly will give me no more milk now : Pruh high , pruh hoe , Pruh high , and pruh hoe , Sing , pruh , pruh , pruh , pruh , pruh , pruh , Tal dal daw . THen in comes the Huntsman , so early in the morn , He bid me a Penny for my Cows horn : Sing , O poor Colly , Colly my Cow : For Colly will give me no more mifk now : Pruh high , pruh hoe , Pruh high , and pruh hoe , Sing , pruh , pruh , pruh , pruh , pruh , Pruh Tal dal daw . Then in comes the Tripe-woman , so fine and so neat , She bid me three-half-pence for my Cows fee Sing , O poor Colly , etc Then in comes the Butcher , that nimble-tongu'd youth : Who said she was Carrion , but he spoke not the truth : Sing , Oh poor Colly , etc This Cow had a skin , was as soft as the silk , And three times a day , my poor Cow would give milk : Sing , O poor Colly , etc She every year , a fine Calf did me bring , Which fetched me a pound , for it came in the Spring : Sing , O poor Colly , etc But now I have kill'd her , I can't her recall : I will fell my poor Colly , Hide , Horns , and all : Sing , O poor Colly , etc The Butcher shall have her , though he gives but a pound : And he knows in his heart , that my Colly was found : Sing , O poor Colly , etc And when he has bought her , let him fell all together , The flesh for to eat , and the hide for Leather . Sing , O poor Colly , etc Some say i'm a Cuckold , but i'le swear I am none , For how can it be , now my horns are gone . Sing , O poor Colly , etc FINIS . Printed for C. Passenger , at the seven stars in the new Buildings , on London-bridge . The countrymans lamentation for the death of his cow . A Country Swain of little wit one day , Did kill his Cow because she went astray : What's that to I or you , she was his own , But now the Ass for his Cow does moan : Most pineously methink he cries in vain , For now his Cow's free from hunger , and pain : What ails the fool to make so great oh stir , She cannot come to him , he may to her . To a pleasant Country Tune , called , Colly my Cow . LIttle Tom Dogget , what dost thou mean , To kill thy poor Colly , now she's so lean : Sing , O poor Colly ; Colly my Cow ; For Colly will give me no more milk now . Pruh high , pruh hoe , Pruh high , pruh hoe , Pruh , pruh , pruh , pruh , pruh , pruh , pruh , Tal dal daw . I had better have kept her , till fatter she had been , For now I confess she's a little too lean : Sing , O poor Colly , etc First in comes the Tanner , with his Sword by his side ; And he bids me five Shillings , for my Cows hide : Sing , O poor Colly , etc Then in comes the Tallow-chandler , whose brains were but shallow , And he bids me two and Sixpence , for my Cows Tallow : Sing , O poor Colly , Colly my Cow , For Colly will give me no more milk now : Pruh high , pruh hoe , Pruh high , and pruh hoe , Sing , pruh , pruh , pruh , pruh , pruh , pruh , Tal dal daw . THen in comes the Huntsman , so early in the morn , He bid me a Penny for my Cows horn : Sing , O poor Colly , Colly my Cow : For Colly will give me no more mifk now : Pruh high , pruh hoe , Pruh high , and pruh hoe , Sing , pruh , pruh , pruh , pruh , pruh , Pruh Tal dal daw . Then in comes the Tripe-woman , so fine and so neat , She bid me three-half-pence for my Cows fee Sing , O poor Colly , etc Then in comes the Butcher , that nimble-tongu'd youth : Who said she was Carrion , but he spoke not the truth : Sing , Oh poor Colly , etc This Cow had a skin , was as soft as the silk , And three times a day , my poor Cow would give milk : Sing , O poor Colly , etc She every year , a fine Calf did me bring , Which fetched me a pound , for it came in the Spring : Sing , O poor Colly , etc But now I have kill'd her , I can't her recall : I will fell my poor Colly , Hide , Horns , and all : Sing , O poor Colly , etc The Butcher shall have her , though he gives but a pound : And he knows in his heart , that my Colly was found : Sing , O poor Colly , etc And when he has bought her , let him fell all together , The flesh for to eat , and the hide for Leather . Sing , O poor Colly , etc Some say i'm a Cuckold , but i'le swear I am none , For how can it be , now my horns are gone . Sing , O poor Colly , etc FINIS . Printed for C. Passenger , at the seven stars in the new Buildings , on London-bridge . 