A Serious Discourse between two Lovers . This Song will teach young Men to woo , And show young Maidens what to do ; Nay it will learn them to be cunning to , To the Tune of , When Sol will cast no Light , Or , Deep in Love . J . Wade . MY pretty little Rogue do but come hither , With thee I'le not collogue , if thou'lt consider , That pains for thee I've took , Cupid so wounded me , But now I'me in the Brook , if thou dost not love me . I'le forsake all my Kin , Father and Mother I valve not a Pin , or any other , 'Tis only thy sweet face , the which does move me . And I think thou hast some grace , and thou'lt love me . Riches I'le promise none , nor no great Treasure , Because I'le do no wrong , to thee my Pleasure ; But all that e're I have thou shalt command it , And I'le maintain thee brave , thou'st understand it , My Word nor yet my Oath shall not be broken , Then take this sugared kiss in sign of Loves Token . My heart is firm and true , then let pity move thee , Il'e not seek for a new , if thou'lt but love me . The Maid . GOod Sir I thank you fine for what is spoken , But all's non gold that shines , and as for your token , I shall not it receive , though you do prove me , My joy thou'lt never bereave , for I cannot love thee . Young men can swear and lie , but who will believe them . All goodness they defy , and it never grieves them . Only to tempt a Maid by their delusion , Therefore I am afraid 'twill breed confusion . A Maid had need beware that does mean honest , Lest she fallen in a snare , when they do promise ; For they'le vow and sware they'le never leave you , But when they know your mind , then they'le deceive you . Therefore I will be wise , lest I be taken , In a fools Paradise , and then be forsaken , I'le put no trust in man to one nor other , Let them do what they can , if't were my brother . The Man. My Dear you do but jest , I may boldly speak it , Of all I love thee best , prithee so take it , There is no flesh alive , ever shall move me ; If thou wilt be my wife , I'le dearly love thee . Servants on thee shall tend , and come at thy pleasure , For I will be thy friend , to bring thee Treasure . What canst thee wish for more ? then do but prove me , And thou shalt plainly find how dear I love thee . For means thou shalt not want , if I do gain thee . I have good house and land , for to maintain thee . I have good Sheep i'th field , and Beasts that's proving . All is at thy command , if thou'lt be loving . I'le give thee gold my Dear , I'le give thee Money , Then thou needs not to fear , I'le be thy honey . No Lady in the Land , ever shall move me , Thou'lt have my heart and hand , if thou'lt but love me . The Maid . Your words are very fair , I much commend you , Seeing you are so rare , thus I'le befriend you . Though at first I was coy , 'twas but to prove thee , Yet now I'le be thy joy , and dearly love thee , The Young man hearing this , by the hand took her , The bargain seal'd with a kiss , he never forsook her , But strait to Church they went , things were so carried , He gave his Love content , when they was married . Thus all young Maids may find , young man are honest , If they bear the like mind , true to their promise . But if they falsify , who can believe them , And when they have lost their Loves , then it does grieve them . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Pass [ i ] nger , and W. Wh [ itw ] ood . A Serious Discourse between two Lovers . This Song will teach young Men to woo , And show young Maidens what to do ; Nay it will learn them to be cunning to , To the Tune of , When Sol will cast no Light , Or , Deep in Love . J . Wade . MY pretty little Rogue do but come hither , With thee I'le not collogue , if thou'lt consider , That pains for thee I've took , Cupid so wounded me , But now I'me in the Brook , if thou dost not love me . I'le forsake all my Kin , Father and Mother I valve not a Pin , or any other , 'Tis only thy sweet face , the which does move me . And I think thou hast some grace , and thou'lt love me . Riches I'le promise none , nor no great Treasure , Because I'le do no wrong , to thee my Pleasure ; But all that e're I have thou shalt command it , And I'le maintain thee brave , thou'st understand it , My Word nor yet my Oath shall not be broken , Then take this sugared kiss in sign of Loves Token . My heart is firm and true , then let pity move thee , Il'e not seek for a new , if thou'lt but love me . The Maid . GOod Sir I thank you fine for what is spoken , But all's non gold that shines , and as for your token , I shall not it receive , though you do prove me , My joy thou'lt never bereave , for I cannot love thee . Young men can swear and lie , but who will believe them . All goodness they defy , and it never grieves them . Only to tempt a Maid by their delusion , Therefore I am afraid 'twill breed confusion . A Maid had need beware that does mean honest , Lest she fallen in a snare , when they do promise ; For they'le vow and sware they'le never leave you , But when they know your mind , then they'le deceive you . Therefore I will be wise , lest I be taken , In a fools Paradise , and then be forsaken , I'le put no trust in man to one nor other , Let them do what they can , if't were my brother . The Man. My Dear you do but jest , I may boldly speak it , Of all I love thee best , prithee so take it , There is no flesh alive , ever shall move me ; If thou wilt be my wife , I'le dearly love thee . Servants on thee shall tend , and come at thy pleasure , For I will be thy friend , to bring thee Treasure . What canst thee wish for more ? then do but prove me , And thou shalt plainly find how dear I love thee . For means thou shalt not want , if I do gain thee . I have good house and land , for to maintain thee . I have good Sheep i'th field , and Beasts that's proving . All is at thy command , if thou'lt be loving . I'le give thee gold my Dear , I'le give thee Money , Then thou needs not to fear , I'le be thy honey . No Lady in the Land , ever shall move me , Thou'lt have my heart and hand , if thou'lt but love me . The Maid . Your words are very fair , I much commend you , Seeing you are so rare , thus I'le befriend you . Though at first I was coy , 'twas but to prove thee , Yet now I'le be thy joy , and dearly love thee , The Young man hearing this , by the hand took her , The bargain seal'd with a kiss , he never forsook her , But strait to Church they went , things were so carried , He gave his Love content , when they was married . Thus all young Maids may find , young man are honest , If they bear the like mind , true to their promise . But if they falsify , who can believe them , And when they have lost their Loves , then it does grieve them . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Pass [ i ] nger , and W. Wh [ itw ] ood . 