The Scotch Lasses Choice , OR , Jennys Love for Jockey's Kindness . And Excellent New Song , much in Request . To a pleasant New Scotch Tune . I . LOng Cold Nights , when Winter Frozen , Jockeys head lay on my Bosom ; Now each wanton Lass pursues him , Ah-wa's-me , that I must lose him : Sawney and Jemmy came often to try me , Philly and Willy would fain ligg by me ; But , alas ! they do but Tease me , Jockey he alone can please me . II When he Writes his Love in Meeter , When he Sings to make it sweeter , To the Clouds my Soul was driven , Then I thought myself in Heaven ; Feather and Mether that knew little of it , Woo'd me , and su'd me , to Wed for profit ; But had Fate been bad or lucky , I'm wou'd ne'r forsake poor Jockey . III . Wot you weel why I adore him , Wou'd you know why I'm die for him ? He was young , and blithe , and bonny , And cou'd love the best of any : When I'm was lying in dying condition , Jockey wou'd still be my best Physician ; Though the Doctor ne'r cou'd please me , He had still a Doze wou'd ease me . IV. In his Arms he wou'd enfold me , And he there so fast would hold me , That I'm hardly cou'd get from him , May geud Fortune light upon him . With Kisses and blisses my heart reviving , Philly and Willy they fain wou'd deprive him Of my Love , to him so much , But geud faith , I'm not so fickle . V. Sawney fine as any Leard too , With a blue Bonnet and Sword too ; Woo'd me , and wou'd fain have led me To the Kirk , there for to Wed me : Gin Feather and Mether they both consented , But I'm fear'd I'm should after repent it ; To Marry wou'd be Unlucky Any but my neane sweet Jockey . VI . But ah-wa's-me , I'm am fearful , And cannot be glad and Cheerful ; The Lasses make sike a doing , And my Jockey from me Wooing ; They wou'd if they cou'd , by their kindness move him Molly and Dolly too , vow they do love him ; If Jockey is from me flying , Ah-wa's-me , then Jenny's dying . VII . But Jockey vow'd by his Bonnet , He'd Wed me what e're came on it ; Without the consent of either , My Old Feather or my Mether : For be they willing or no , I'm ne'r tarry , But as soon as I can , my Jockey Marry : Then wee's both will ligg together , And ne'r matter the Cold Weather . FINIS . This may be Printed , R. P. Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street , without Newgate . The Scotch Lasses Choice , OR , Jennys Love for Jockey's Kindness . And Excellent New Song , much in Request . To a pleasant New Scotch Tune . I . LOng Cold Nights , when Winter Frozen , Jockeys head lay on my Bosom ; Now each wanton Lass pursues him , Ah-wa's-me , that I must lose him : Sawney and Jemmy came often to try me , Philly and Willy would fain ligg by me ; But , alas ! they do but Tease me , Jockey he alone can please me . II When he Writes his Love in Meeter , When he Sings to make it sweeter , To the Clouds my Soul was driven , Then I thought myself in Heaven ; Feather and Mether that knew little of it , Woo'd me , and su'd me , to Wed for profit ; But had Fate been bad or lucky , I'm wou'd ne'r forsake poor Jockey . III . Wot you weel why I adore him , Wou'd you know why I'm die for him ? He was young , and blithe , and bonny , And cou'd love the best of any : When I'm was lying in dying condition , Jockey wou'd still be my best Physician ; Though the Doctor ne'r cou'd please me , He had still a Doze wou'd ease me . IV. In his Arms he wou'd enfold me , And he there so fast would hold me , That I'm hardly cou'd get from him , May geud Fortune light upon him . With Kisses and blisses my heart reviving , Philly and Willy they fain wou'd deprive him Of my Love , to him so much , But geud faith , I'm not so fickle . V. Sawney fine as any Leard too , With a blue Bonnet and Sword too ; Woo'd me , and wou'd fain have led me To the Kirk , there for to Wed me : Gin Feather and Mether they both consented , But I'm fear'd I'm should after repent it ; To Marry wou'd be Unlucky Any but my neane sweet Jockey . VI . But ah-wa's-me , I'm am fearful , And cannot be glad and Cheerful ; The Lasses make sike a doing , And my Jockey from me Wooing ; They wou'd if they cou'd , by their kindness move him Molly and Dolly too , vow they do love him ; If Jockey is from me flying , Ah-wa's-me , then Jenny's dying . VII . But Jockey vow'd by his Bonnet , He'd Wed me what e're came on it ; Without the consent of either , My Old Feather or my Mether : For be they willing or no , I'm ne'r tarry , But as soon as I can , my Jockey Marry : Then wee's both will ligg together , And ne'r matter the Cold Weather . FINIS . This may be Printed , R. P. Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street , without Newgate . 