The Gloucestershire Tragedy : Or , The True Lovers DOWNFALL . NEar Guildford Town I hear , of late in Gloucestershire , There liv'd a Lady fair of Beauty bright . Her Father vastly great in Money and Estate , Which most unfortunate , ruin'd her quite . Four thousand pounds a Year her Father had I hear . And had no other Heir but this Lady ; And he married her outright unto a rich old Knight , But she the same did slight disdainfully . Father , she often cry'd , if that I should be ty'd To be and old Man's Bride , how would this prove ? If I in Marriage Bans must obey your Commands , Let me Sir have a Man that I can love . Her Father angry grew , saying , Child , if you My Command will not do , to Pleasure me , Assured be of this , that if you wed amiss , Unto my Mind , I'll disinherit you . For some Time this pass'd on , when a young Gentleman Who lived near at Hand , a wooing came ; One thousand Pound a Year his Father had we hear , And he is only Heir unto the same . When to her Father came , his Business he made known , For whose dear sake alone he him addressed . Sir , if you give he cry'd , your Daughter for my Bride , Sure no Man e'er beside can be more blessed . Her Father cunningly did make him this Reply , Your Suit I'll not deny , get her in Mind . But when they fix'd their Love , by all the Powers above , To whom he false did prove , as you shall find . But when some Months alas ! in Courtship they had pass , Their Hearts were linked fast in lasting Love , Cupid had shown his Art , and sent a flaming Dart , To pierce each others Heart , which none could move . But see the wretched fate of her base Father's hate , He strove to separate them you shall hear , And would not yield he said , tho' he had promised , This Gentleman should wed his Daughter fair , Pray Sir , he often said , why must I be denied , Of this sweet charming Bride , I so much love ? If that unkind you are to part this charming fair , We're ruin'd I declare , then kinder prove Her Father then did say , think you young Man I pray , That I will throw away my Daughter so ? Her Fortune is too great for one of your Estate , Therefore stand not to prate , my Mind you know . Then in great Discontent he to his Dearest went , And sadly did lament , this high hard Fate , And said , sweet Charmer bright , I'm ruin'd , ruin'd quite , Your Father me does slight at a sad Rate . He'll not consent he cries , for you to be my Bride , Oh! what shall me betide ; I am undone ? Now I have fixed my Love , he most unkind does prove , Pity you Pewers above a poor young Man. Then did he sadly weep , grieving and sighing deep , And at his Lady's Feet fell in a Found : This griev'd her to the Heart , of Love she felt the smart , As in the ensuing Part will soon be found . When thus this Lady fair beheld her Lover dear , She us'd her utmost Care him to revive . And often , often cry'd , if I am thus denied , I'll have not one beside , as I'm alive . Then did the Tears apace run down her charming Face . And did him oft embrace upon the Floor . Wretched Father , said she , is this your Love to me , I shall now ruin'd be for evermore . As from his Swoon he came with a deep sighs and groan , He cry'd , undone , undone , my Dear am I , My Love is just and true , and if I have not you , I'll bid this World adieu eternally . These Words she did express , my Love is nothing less , I freely must confess , it must be true : But if my Father he , will not to it agree , I cannot married be , dear Sir , to you . I will most constant prove , no other can I Love , Witness you Gods above , to what is said , Rise , cease for to lament , and strive to be content , For without his consent I dare not wed . When she these Words did speak , his Heart it broke , Saying , Love for thy sake ruin'd am I , I'll ask no more than this , give me one parting Kiss , Now farewell earthly Bliss eternally . Then from her he did go , with a Heart full of Woe , To work his overthrow resolutely . Some Poison strong he took which quickly did him work , So he this World forsook most wretchedly . When this News to her came she grieved for the same , And said he was to blame himself to kill . She to her Father ran , and said Oh cruel Man , See , see , what you have done thro' your Ill-will . Like one distracted she lamented bitterly , And said , dear Love for thee would I had dy'd . Declare it now I shall , I'm ruin'd by his Fallen , I love him best of all the World beside . Thus constant she did cry , my Love why did you die ? And leave wretchedly behind you here ? O come dear Ghost to me , and let me once more see , That handsome Face said she , I loved so dear . As she one Night did lie weeping most bitterly , She herd a Voice to cry , my Dear , my Dear ; For your sweet sake I dy'd , that should ha' been my Bride , Behold at your Bedside I'm here , I'm here . At which the Curtain she put up immediately , And the pale Ghost did see at her Bedside . He clothed was in white , holding a Torch so bright , And when she saw the Sighed she shriek'd and cry'd . The Ghost he then thus did speak , I died for your sake , 'Twas Love my Heart did break most certainly . The Morning Cock I fear won't let me long stay here , Therefore come now prepare and go with me . The Ghost a dead Man's Scul did hold with Poison full , Saying come drink your fill of this black Cup : 'Twill Love sick Passion cure , I've drank the same before , And so have hundreds more , then take it up . She took it , saying Love , by all the Power above This shall my Witness prove , I love you well . Now I will go she said and in your Grave be laid , In sweet Elisian Shades our Souls must dwell . She instantly arose , surrounded all in Woes , And with the Ghost she goes down to the Gate . Whereas the Coach did stand with many a serving-Man , With Torches in their Hand , that there did wait . Being put into a Coach with her beloved Ghost , Most sweetly did post unto the Grave ; To which he strait did high , saying Love here I lie , Then quickly , quickly die , 'tis that I'd have . Vanishing all away , they left her there to stay Till the approaching Day , among the Tombs She sadly did lament , her cries to Heaven sent , And said , Ghost be content , I come , I come , The Poison wreck'd her Heart , working in every Part , And caus'd a dreadful Smart . the Wound she gave , In woeful Misery she did expecting lie Each Minute for to die upon his Grave . As in this State she lay until the silent Day , A Youngman pass'd that Way , and did her know , Fair Lady to me tell , what Chance has you befell ; I fear you are not well , that you lie so . Then she declar'd what past , from first unto the last , And said , Youngman make Hast , and run with Speed , Unto my Father dear , who has been so severe , And bid him quick come here , e're I am dead . Her Father came and found her lying on the Ground , And ready was to swoon at this sad Sighed . She said , dear Father I for Love here must die , 'Tis your Severity has kill'd me quite . Death wrecks in every Place , and stares me in the Face , Dear Grave I'll thee embrace so lovingly . Dear Love come open wide the Arms of thy dear Bride , I come , I come , she cry'd , and so she dy'd . Her Father grieved soar , hugging her o'er and o'er , You Heavens I implore to let me die , Then with a Dagger sharp , he cut him to the Heart , His Life did then depart immediately . O cruel Death severe , what a sad Sighed was there ? Father and Daughter dear thus for to die , Their sad and dismal Fallen lamented was by all , And did for Pity call from every Eye . Then home they were convey'd with speed as it is said , And both in State were laid in a large Hall . Which thousands came to see , hearing this Tragedy , That might a warning be to Lovers all . By all both Rich and Poor , they were lamented o'er , About a Week or more , in mournful State , Many a Lover dear , and many a Lady fair , In Mourning did appear , for their sad Fate . A Hearse and Six with speed provided were indeed , Many in Mourning Weeds did there attend . Her Grave was made hard by , where her true Love did lie , And so of this Tragedy I make and End Printed and Sold in Bow-Church-Yard , London . The Gloucestershire Tragedy : Or , The True Lovers DOWNFALL . NEar Guildford Town I hear , of late in Gloucestershire , There liv'd a Lady fair of Beauty bright . Her Father vastly great in Money and Estate , Which most unfortunate , ruin'd her quite . Four thousand pounds a Year her Father had I hear . And had no other Heir but this Lady ; And he married her outright unto a rich old Knight , But she the same did slight disdainfully . Father , she often cry'd , if that I should be ty'd To be and old Man's Bride , how would this prove ? If I in Marriage Bans must obey your Commands , Let me Sir have a Man that I can love . Her Father angry grew , saying , Child , if you My Command will not do , to Pleasure me , Assured be of this , that if you wed amiss , Unto my Mind , I'll disinherit you . For some Time this pass'd on , when a young Gentleman Who lived near at Hand , a wooing came ; One thousand Pound a Year his Father had we hear , And he is only Heir unto the same . When to her Father came , his Business he made known , For whose dear sake alone he him addressed . Sir , if you give he cry'd , your Daughter for my Bride , Sure no Man e'er beside can be more blessed . Her Father cunningly did make him this Reply , Your Suit I'll not deny , get her in Mind . But when they fix'd their Love , by all the Powers above , To whom he false did prove , as you shall find . But when some Months alas ! in Courtship they had pass , Their Hearts were linked fast in lasting Love , Cupid had shown his Art , and sent a flaming Dart , To pierce each others Heart , which none could move . But see the wretched fate of her base Father's hate , He strove to separate them you shall hear , And would not yield he said , tho' he had promised , This Gentleman should wed his Daughter fair , Pray Sir , he often said , why must I be denied , Of this sweet charming Bride , I so much love ? If that unkind you are to part this charming fair , We're ruin'd I declare , then kinder prove Her Father then did say , think you young Man I pray , That I will throw away my Daughter so ? Her Fortune is too great for one of your Estate , Therefore stand not to prate , my Mind you know . Then in great Discontent he to his Dearest went , And sadly did lament , this high hard Fate , And said , sweet Charmer bright , I'm ruin'd , ruin'd quite , Your Father me does slight at a sad Rate . He'll not consent he cries , for you to be my Bride , Oh! what shall me betide ; I am undone ? Now I have fixed my Love , he most unkind does prove , Pity you Pewers above a poor young Man. Then did he sadly weep , grieving and sighing deep , And at his Lady's Feet fell in a Found : This griev'd her to the Heart , of Love she felt the smart , As in the ensuing Part will soon be found . When thus this Lady fair beheld her Lover dear , She us'd her utmost Care him to revive . And often , often cry'd , if I am thus denied , I'll have not one beside , as I'm alive . Then did the Tears apace run down her charming Face . And did him oft embrace upon the Floor . Wretched Father , said she , is this your Love to me , I shall now ruin'd be for evermore . As from his Swoon he came with a deep sighs and groan , He cry'd , undone , undone , my Dear am I , My Love is just and true , and if I have not you , I'll bid this World adieu eternally . These Words she did express , my Love is nothing less , I freely must confess , it must be true : But if my Father he , will not to it agree , I cannot married be , dear Sir , to you . I will most constant prove , no other can I Love , Witness you Gods above , to what is said , Rise , cease for to lament , and strive to be content , For without his consent I dare not wed . When she these Words did speak , his Heart it broke , Saying , Love for thy sake ruin'd am I , I'll ask no more than this , give me one parting Kiss , Now farewell earthly Bliss eternally . Then from her he did go , with a Heart full of Woe , To work his overthrow resolutely . Some Poison strong he took which quickly did him work , So he this World forsook most wretchedly . When this News to her came she grieved for the same , And said he was to blame himself to kill . She to her Father ran , and said Oh cruel Man , See , see , what you have done thro' your Ill-will . Like one distracted she lamented bitterly , And said , dear Love for thee would I had dy'd . Declare it now I shall , I'm ruin'd by his Fallen , I love him best of all the World beside . Thus constant she did cry , my Love why did you die ? And leave wretchedly behind you here ? O come dear Ghost to me , and let me once more see , That handsome Face said she , I loved so dear . As she one Night did lie weeping most bitterly , She herd a Voice to cry , my Dear , my Dear ; For your sweet sake I dy'd , that should ha' been my Bride , Behold at your Bedside I'm here , I'm here . At which the Curtain she put up immediately , And the pale Ghost did see at her Bedside . He clothed was in white , holding a Torch so bright , And when she saw the Sighed she shriek'd and cry'd . The Ghost he then thus did speak , I died for your sake , 'Twas Love my Heart did break most certainly . The Morning Cock I fear won't let me long stay here , Therefore come now prepare and go with me . The Ghost a dead Man's Scul did hold with Poison full , Saying come drink your fill of this black Cup : 'Twill Love sick Passion cure , I've drank the same before , And so have hundreds more , then take it up . She took it , saying Love , by all the Power above This shall my Witness prove , I love you well . Now I will go she said and in your Grave be laid , In sweet Elisian Shades our Souls must dwell . She instantly arose , surrounded all in Woes , And with the Ghost she goes down to the Gate . Whereas the Coach did stand with many a serving-Man , With Torches in their Hand , that there did wait . Being put into a Coach with her beloved Ghost , Most sweetly did post unto the Grave ; To which he strait did high , saying Love here I lie , Then quickly , quickly die , 'tis that I'd have . Vanishing all away , they left her there to stay Till the approaching Day , among the Tombs She sadly did lament , her cries to Heaven sent , And said , Ghost be content , I come , I come , The Poison wreck'd her Heart , working in every Part , And caus'd a dreadful Smart . the Wound she gave , In woeful Misery she did expecting lie Each Minute for to die upon his Grave . As in this State she lay until the silent Day , A Youngman pass'd that Way , and did her know , Fair Lady to me tell , what Chance has you befell ; I fear you are not well , that you lie so . Then she declar'd what past , from first unto the last , And said , Youngman make Hast , and run with Speed , Unto my Father dear , who has been so severe , And bid him quick come here , e're I am dead . Her Father came and found her lying on the Ground , And ready was to swoon at this sad Sighed . She said , dear Father I for Love here must die , 'Tis your Severity has kill'd me quite . Death wrecks in every Place , and stares me in the Face , Dear Grave I'll thee embrace so lovingly . Dear Love come open wide the Arms of thy dear Bride , I come , I come , she cry'd , and so she dy'd . Her Father grieved soar , hugging her o'er and o'er , You Heavens I implore to let me die , Then with a Dagger sharp , he cut him to the Heart , His Life did then depart immediately . O cruel Death severe , what a sad Sighed was there ? Father and Daughter dear thus for to die , Their sad and dismal Fallen lamented was by all , And did for Pity call from every Eye . Then home they were convey'd with speed as it is said , And both in State were laid in a large Hall . Which thousands came to see , hearing this Tragedy , That might a warning be to Lovers all . By all both Rich and Poor , they were lamented o'er , About a Week or more , in mournful State , Many a Lover dear , and many a Lady fair , In Mourning did appear , for their sad Fate . A Hearse and Six with speed provided were indeed , Many in Mourning Weeds did there attend . Her Grave was made hard by , where her true Love did lie , And so of this Tragedy I make and End Printed and Sold in Bow-Church-Yard , London . 