[ The Brides Burial . ] COME mourn , come mourn with me , You loyal Lovers all , Laments my Loss in Weeds of Woe , Whom gripping Grief does thrall . Like to the drooping Vine , Cut by the Gardener's Knife ; Even so my Heart with Sorrow slave , Does bleed for my sweet Wife . By De [ a ] th , that grisly Ghost , My Turtle Dove is slave ; And I am left , unhappy Man ! To spend my Days in Pain . Her Beauty , late so bright , Like Roses in their Prime , Is wasted like the Summer's Snow , By Force of Phoebus' Shine . Her fair and colour'd Cheeks Now pale , and won her Eyes , Which late did shine like Crystal Stars , Alas ! their Light it die . Her pretty lily-white Hands , With Fingers long and small , In Colour like the Earthly Clay , Yea , cold and stiff withal . When as the Morning Star Her golden Gates had spread , And the bright glittering Sun arose , Forth from fair Thetis' Bed , Then did my Lover wake , Most like a Lily Flower , And as the lovely Queen of May , So shone she in her Bower . Attired was she then Like Flora in her Pride ; As fair as any of Dian's Nymphs , So look'd my lovely Bride . And as fair Helen's Face Gave Grecian Dams the Lurch , So did my Dear exceed in Sighed All Virgins in the Church . When we had knit the Knot Of holy Wedlock's band , Like Alabaster join'd to Jet , So stood we Hand-in-Hand . When , lo ! a chilling Cold Struck every vital Part , And gripping Grief , like Pangs of Death , Seiz'd on my true Love's Heart . Down in a Swoon she fell , As cold as any Stone ; Like Venus' Picture lacking Life , So was my Love brought home . At length he rosy Read , Throughout her comely Face , As Phoebus' Beams with watery Clouds Are cover'd for a Space . When with a grievous Groan , And Voice both hoarse and dry , Farewell , said she , my loving Friend , For this Day I must die . The Messenger of God With Golden Trump I see , With many other Angels more , Who found and call for me . Instead of Music sweet , Go toll my Passing-bell , And with sweet Flowers strew my Grave , Which in my Chamber smell . Strip off my bright Array , My Cork Shoes from my Feet ; And , gentle Mother , be so kind , To bring my Winding Sheet . My Wedding Dinner dressed , Bestow upon the Poor , Ann on the Hungry , Needy , Maim'd , Which beggeth at the Door . Instead of Virgins young , My Bride-Maids for to be , Go cause some curious Carpenter To make a Chest for me . My Bride-Laces of Silk Bestow'd on Maidens meek , May fitly serve , when I am dead , To tie my Hands and Feet , And thou , my Lover true , My Husband , and my Friend , Let me entreat you here to stay , Until my Life does end . Now leave to talk of Love , And humble on your Knee , Direct your Prayers unto God , But mourn no more for me . In Love , as we have liv'd , In Love too let us part ; And as a Token of my Love , Do kiss thee with my Heart . O staunch those bootless Tears , Your Weeping is in vain ; I am not lost , we were in Heaven , And there shall meet again . With that she turn'd aside , As one dispos'd to sleep , And like a Lamb departed Life , While Friends did sorely weep . Her true Love seeing this , Did fetch a grievous Groan , As tho' his Heart was burst in two , And thus he made his Moan . O dismal and unhappy Day ! A Day of Grief and Care , Which hath bereft the Sun so high , Whose beams refresh the Air . Now woe unto the World , And all that therein dwell . O! that I were with thee in Heav'n ; For now I live in Hell . And now this Lover lives A discontented Life ; Whose Bride was brought unto the Grave A Maiden and a Wife . A Garland fresh and fair , Of Lilies there was made , In Sign of her Virginity , And on her Coffin laid . Six Maidens all in White Did bear her to the Ground ; The Bells' did ring in solemn Sort , And made a doleful Found . In Earth they laid her then , Fos hungry Worms a Prey : So shall the fairest Face alive At length be brought to Clay [ The Brides Burial . ] COME mourn , come mourn with me , You loyal Lovers all , Laments my Loss in Weeds of Woe , Whom gripping Grief does thrall . Like to the drooping Vine , Cut by the Gardener's Knife ; Even so my Heart with Sorrow slave , Does bleed for my sweet Wife . By De [ a ] th , that grisly Ghost , My Turtle Dove is slave ; And I am left , unhappy Man ! To spend my Days in Pain . Her Beauty , late so bright , Like Roses in their Prime , Is wasted like the Summer's Snow , By Force of Phoebus' Shine . Her fair and colour'd Cheeks Now pale , and won her Eyes , Which late did shine like Crystal Stars , Alas ! their Light it die . Her pretty lily-white Hands , With Fingers long and small , In Colour like the Earthly Clay , Yea , cold and stiff withal . When as the Morning Star Her golden Gates had spread , And the bright glittering Sun arose , Forth from fair Thetis' Bed , Then did my Lover wake , Most like a Lily Flower , And as the lovely Queen of May , So shone she in her Bower . Attired was she then Like Flora in her Pride ; As fair as any of Dian's Nymphs , So look'd my lovely Bride . And as fair Helen's Face Gave Grecian Dams the Lurch , So did my Dear exceed in Sighed All Virgins in the Church . When we had knit the Knot Of holy Wedlock's band , Like Alabaster join'd to Jet , So stood we Hand-in-Hand . When , lo ! a chilling Cold Struck every vital Part , And gripping Grief , like Pangs of Death , Seiz'd on my true Love's Heart . Down in a Swoon she fell , As cold as any Stone ; Like Venus' Picture lacking Life , So was my Love brought home . At length he rosy Read , Throughout her comely Face , As Phoebus' Beams with watery Clouds Are cover'd for a Space . When with a grievous Groan , And Voice both hoarse and dry , Farewell , said she , my loving Friend , For this Day I must die . The Messenger of God With Golden Trump I see , With many other Angels more , Who found and call for me . Instead of Music sweet , Go toll my Passing-bell , And with sweet Flowers strew my Grave , Which in my Chamber smell . Strip off my bright Array , My Cork Shoes from my Feet ; And , gentle Mother , be so kind , To bring my Winding Sheet . My Wedding Dinner dressed , Bestow upon the Poor , Ann on the Hungry , Needy , Maim'd , Which beggeth at the Door . Instead of Virgins young , My Bride-Maids for to be , Go cause some curious Carpenter To make a Chest for me . My Bride-Laces of Silk Bestow'd on Maidens meek , May fitly serve , when I am dead , To tie my Hands and Feet , And thou , my Lover true , My Husband , and my Friend , Let me entreat you here to stay , Until my Life does end . Now leave to talk of Love , And humble on your Knee , Direct your Prayers unto God , But mourn no more for me . In Love , as we have liv'd , In Love too let us part ; And as a Token of my Love , Do kiss thee with my Heart . O staunch those bootless Tears , Your Weeping is in vain ; I am not lost , we were in Heaven , And there shall meet again . With that she turn'd aside , As one dispos'd to sleep , And like a Lamb departed Life , While Friends did sorely weep . Her true Love seeing this , Did fetch a grievous Groan , As tho' his Heart was burst in two , And thus he made his Moan . O dismal and unhappy Day ! A Day of Grief and Care , Which hath bereft the Sun so high , Whose beams refresh the Air . Now woe unto the World , And all that therein dwell . O! that I were with thee in Heav'n ; For now I live in Hell . And now this Lover lives A discontented Life ; Whose Bride was brought unto the Grave A Maiden and a Wife . A Garland fresh and fair , Of Lilies there was made , In Sign of her Virginity , And on her Coffin laid . Six Maidens all in White Did bear her to the Ground ; The Bells' did ring in solemn Sort , And made a doleful Found . In Earth they laid her then , Fos hungry Worms a Prey : So shall the fairest Face alive At length be brought to Clay 