A Tragical BALLAD , Of the Unfortunate LOVE of Lord THOMAS and Fair ELEANOR . Together with The DOWNFALL of the BROWN GIRL . LORD Thonas he was a bold Forester , And a Chaser of the King's Deer : Fair Eleanor was a fine Woman , And Lord Thomas he lov'd her dear . Come riddle my Riddle , dear Mother , he said , And riddle us both as one , Whither I shall marry with fair Eleanor , And let the Brown Girl alone ? The Brown Girl she has god Houses and Land , And Fair Eleanor she has god none : Therefore I charge you , on my Blessing , Bring me the Brown Girl home . And as it befell on a high Holiday , As many more do beside , Lord Thomas he went to Fair Eleanor , That should have been his Bride . But when he came to Fair Eleanor's Bower , He knocked then at the Ring . Then who was so ready as Fair Eleanor For to let Lord Thomas in . What News , what News , Lord Thomas , she said ? What News hast thou brought unto me ? I am come to bid thee to my Wedding . And that is bad News for thee . O God forbid ! Lord Thomas , she said , That such a Thing should be done : I thought to have been thy Bride myself , And thou to have been the Bridegroom . Come riddle my Riddle , dear Mother , she said , And riddle it all in one : Whither I shall go to Lord Thomas's Wedding ? Or whither I shall tarry at home . There's many are our Friends , Daughter , And many that are our Foes : Therefore I charge you on my Blessing , To Lord Thomas's Wedding don't go . There's many that are my Friends , Mother , If a Thousand more were my Foe . Betide me Life , betide me Death , To Lord Thomas's Wedding I'll go . She clothed herself in gallant Attire , And her merry Men all in Green ; And as they road thro' every Place , They took her to be some Queen . But when she came to Lord Thomas's Gate , She knocked there at the Ring . And who was so ready as Lord Thomas , For to let Fair Eleanor in . Is this your Bride ? Fair Eleanor said , Methinks she looks wondered Brown ; Thou might'st have had as fair a woman As ever trod upon the Ground . Despise her not , Lord Thomas he said . Despise her not unto me ; For better I love thy little Finger , Than all her whole Body . This Brown Girl had a little Pen-Knife , Which was both long and sharp ; And betwixt the short Ribs and the long , She prick'd fair Eleanor to the Heart . O Christ now save me ! Lord Thomas he said , Methink's thou look'st wondrous wan , Thou used'st to look with as fresh a Colour As ever the Sun shined on . Oh! art thou blind , Lord Thomas , she said ? Or canst thou not very well see ? Oh! dost thou not see my dear Heart's Blood Run trikling down my Knee . Lord Thomas he had a Sword by his Side , As he walked about the Hall ; He cut off his Bride's Head from her Shoulders , And he flung it against the Wall . He set the Hilt against the Ground , And the Point against his Heart . There never were three Lovers sure , That sooner did depart . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow - Church-Yard , London . A Tragical BALLAD , Of the Unfortunate LOVE of Lord THOMAS and Fair ELEANOR . Together with The DOWNFALL of the BROWN GIRL . LORD Thonas he was a bold Forester , And a Chaser of the King's Deer : Fair Eleanor was a fine Woman , And Lord Thomas he lov'd her dear . Come riddle my Riddle , dear Mother , he said , And riddle us both as one , Whither I shall marry with fair Eleanor , And let the Brown Girl alone ? The Brown Girl she has god Houses and Land , And Fair Eleanor she has god none : Therefore I charge you , on my Blessing , Bring me the Brown Girl home . And as it befell on a high Holiday , As many more do beside , Lord Thomas he went to Fair Eleanor , That should have been his Bride . But when he came to Fair Eleanor's Bower , He knocked then at the Ring . Then who was so ready as Fair Eleanor For to let Lord Thomas in . What News , what News , Lord Thomas , she said ? What News hast thou brought unto me ? I am come to bid thee to my Wedding . And that is bad News for thee . O God forbid ! Lord Thomas , she said , That such a Thing should be done : I thought to have been thy Bride myself , And thou to have been the Bridegroom . Come riddle my Riddle , dear Mother , she said , And riddle it all in one : Whither I shall go to Lord Thomas's Wedding ? Or whither I shall tarry at home . There's many are our Friends , Daughter , And many that are our Foes : Therefore I charge you on my Blessing , To Lord Thomas's Wedding don't go . There's many that are my Friends , Mother , If a Thousand more were my Foe . Betide me Life , betide me Death , To Lord Thomas's Wedding I'll go . She clothed herself in gallant Attire , And her merry Men all in Green ; And as they road thro' every Place , They took her to be some Queen . But when she came to Lord Thomas's Gate , She knocked there at the Ring . And who was so ready as Lord Thomas , For to let Fair Eleanor in . Is this your Bride ? Fair Eleanor said , Methinks she looks wondered Brown ; Thou might'st have had as fair a woman As ever trod upon the Ground . Despise her not , Lord Thomas he said . Despise her not unto me ; For better I love thy little Finger , Than all her whole Body . This Brown Girl had a little Pen-Knife , Which was both long and sharp ; And betwixt the short Ribs and the long , She prick'd fair Eleanor to the Heart . O Christ now save me ! Lord Thomas he said , Methink's thou look'st wondrous wan , Thou used'st to look with as fresh a Colour As ever the Sun shined on . Oh! art thou blind , Lord Thomas , she said ? Or canst thou not very well see ? Oh! dost thou not see my dear Heart's Blood Run trikling down my Knee . Lord Thomas he had a Sword by his Side , As he walked about the Hall ; He cut off his Bride's Head from her Shoulders , And he flung it against the Wall . He set the Hilt against the Ground , And the Point against his Heart . There never were three Lovers sure , That sooner did depart . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow - Church-Yard , London . 