More Lampoons . The Hieroglyphic . COme Painter take a Prospect from this Hill , And on a well-spread Canvas show thy Skill : Draw all in Colours as they shall appear , And as they stand in merit place them there . Draw , as the Heralds do , a spacious Field ; And , as directed , so let that be fill'd . First , draw a Popish Army brisk and gay , Fighting , and beatrice , destroy'd , and run away . Then draw a Hearse , and let it stand in view , The Mourners more , far more than they'r in show , Cursing their Fate , their Stars . and in that fear , Show , if thou canst , how these damn'd Sots prepare To run , or stay and skulk in holes alone : By them , this Motto , Gallows claim thy own . Now , to the Life , let thy brisk Pencil show Distinctly what they are , and what's their endue . Now , to the Life , let thy brisk Pencil show Distinctly what they are , and what's their endue . Now draw a crowd of Priests prepar'd to run , Like broken Merchant's when their stock is gone ; Some howling out their Prayers , forget and say , Save us St. Catch : Are all our Saints away ? Draw 'em in hurry , running to and from , Posting to Dover , Portsmouth , Tyburn too . Next draw a crowd of Lords . This Label by , The great Design is lost . Alas , they cry , Who'd serve a Cause of such cursed destiny . Now draw four Priests , show how they Room adore , And each men Scarf hang to be seen before . Two brace of Bishops , fallen to despair , Arm'd Cap-a-pe , but running God knows where . Now show the Judges , and with them thy Skill , That all who see it done may say , 'Tis well ; In Caps and Gowns , as they in order sat 'Twixt Heaven and Earth do thou them elevate : For their grave Noddles can Dispense with that . Now draw the little Rogues , the scoundrel Crew , Knights Knaves , & Beggars , they must have their endue , Gadbury , Butler , ay , and R --- too . Amid this crowd , on a fit spot of Land , To crown the work , let a large Gallows stand : All trembling by , arm'd with their guilt and fears , Kneel to this Image , and pour out their Prayers . And then die by Suffocation . To the respective Judges . DIgnifi'd things , may I your leaves implore , To kiss your Hands , & your high Heads ador [ e ] Judges you are , but you are something more . May I draw near , and with rough-hew'd Pen , Give a small Draught of you , the worst of Men : Tell of your Merits , and your mighty Skill , And how your Charms all Courts of Justice fill . Your Laws , far stronger than the Commons Votes , So finely flows from your Dispensing Throats . What Room will ask , you must not her deny : If Hell command you too , you must comply . There's none but you would in this Cause combin [ e ] Things made like Men , but act like Brutus's & Swin [ e ] Law Books are trash , a Student he's a drudge : Learn to say , Yes , he's and accomplish'd Judge ; He wins the Scarlet Robe , and wears it too : Ay , and deserves it well , for more's his due ; All that completes a Traitor dwells in you . Thus you like Villains to the Benches get , And , in defiance to the Laws , you fit , And all base actions that will please commi There must you toil for Room , and also try Your Irish Sense and Cobweb Policy , Complete your Crimes ; and then you'r fit to die . True Loyal Babes ! Pimps to the Church of Rome . Trisilian's Heirs : Heirs to his crimes and doom . Was ere the Hall fill'd up with such a Brood , All dipped in Treason , Villainies or Blood : Worse than Fanatic Priests ; for they being pressed By a Wise Prince , Preach'd to Repeal the Test. Then here's the difference , 'twixt you Popish Tools You'r downright Rogues : They , only Knaves and Fools FINIS . Printed , 1688. More Lampoons . The Hieroglyphic . COme Painter take a Prospect from this Hill , And on a well-spread Canvas show thy Skill : Draw all in Colours as they shall appear , And as they stand in merit place them there . Draw , as the Heralds do , a spacious Field ; And , as directed , so let that be fill'd . First , draw a Popish Army brisk and gay , Fighting , and beatrice , destroy'd , and run away . Then draw a Hearse , and let it stand in view , The Mourners more , far more than they'r in show , Cursing their Fate , their Stars . and in that fear , Show , if thou canst , how these damn'd Sots prepare To run , or stay and skulk in holes alone : By them , this Motto , Gallows claim thy own . Now , to the Life , let thy brisk Pencil show Distinctly what they are , and what's their endue . Now , to the Life , let thy brisk Pencil show Distinctly what they are , and what's their endue . Now draw a crowd of Priests prepar'd to run , Like broken Merchant's when their stock is gone ; Some howling out their Prayers , forget and say , Save us St. Catch : Are all our Saints away ? Draw 'em in hurry , running to and from , Posting to Dover , Portsmouth , Tyburn too . Next draw a crowd of Lords . This Label by , The great Design is lost . Alas , they cry , Who'd serve a Cause of such cursed destiny . Now draw four Priests , show how they Room adore , And each men Scarf hang to be seen before . Two brace of Bishops , fallen to despair , Arm'd Cap-a-pe , but running God knows where . Now show the Judges , and with them thy Skill , That all who see it done may say , 'Tis well ; In Caps and Gowns , as they in order sat 'Twixt Heaven and Earth do thou them elevate : For their grave Noddles can Dispense with that . Now draw the little Rogues , the scoundrel Crew , Knights Knaves , & Beggars , they must have their endue , Gadbury , Butler , ay , and R --- too . Amid this crowd , on a fit spot of Land , To crown the work , let a large Gallows stand : All trembling by , arm'd with their guilt and fears , Kneel to this Image , and pour out their Prayers . And then die by Suffocation . To the respective Judges . DIgnifi'd things , may I your leaves implore , To kiss your Hands , & your high Heads ador [ e ] Judges you are , but you are something more . May I draw near , and with rough-hew'd Pen , Give a small Draught of you , the worst of Men : Tell of your Merits , and your mighty Skill , And how your Charms all Courts of Justice fill . Your Laws , far stronger than the Commons Votes , So finely flows from your Dispensing Throats . What Room will ask , you must not her deny : If Hell command you too , you must comply . There's none but you would in this Cause combin [ e ] Things made like Men , but act like Brutus's & Swin [ e ] Law Books are trash , a Student he's a drudge : Learn to say , Yes , he's and accomplish'd Judge ; He wins the Scarlet Robe , and wears it too : Ay , and deserves it well , for more's his due ; All that completes a Traitor dwells in you . Thus you like Villains to the Benches get , And , in defiance to the Laws , you fit , And all base actions that will please commi There must you toil for Room , and also try Your Irish Sense and Cobweb Policy , Complete your Crimes ; and then you'r fit to die . True Loyal Babes ! Pimps to the Church of Rome . Trisilian's Heirs : Heirs to his crimes and doom . Was ere the Hall fill'd up with such a Brood , All dipped in Treason , Villainies or Blood : Worse than Fanatic Priests ; for they being pressed By a Wise Prince , Preach'd to Repeal the Test. Then here's the difference , 'twixt you Popish Tools You'r downright Rogues : They , only Knaves and Fools FINIS . Printed , 1688. 