The Royal Recreation Of Jovial ANGLERS Proving that all Men are Intanglers , And all Professions are turn'd Anglers . To the Tune of , Amarillis . OF all the Recreations which attend on humane Nature , There's nothing sores so high a pitch , Or is of such a Stature , As is a subtle Anglers life , in all men's Approbation : For Anglers tricks , do daily mix , with every Corporation . When Eve and Adam liv'd by love , and had no cause for Jangling , The Devil did the Waters move , the Serpent fell to Angling : He baits his hook with Godlike look . quoth he , this will entangle her , The Woman chops , and down she drops the Devil was first and Angler . Physicians , Lawyers , and Divines , are most ingenious Janglers , And he that trys , shall find in fine , that all of them are Anglers : While grave Divines do fish for souls , Physicians , like Cormudgeons , Do bait with Health , to fish for Wealth and Lawyers fish for Gudgeons . A Politician too , is One , concern'd in Piscatory , He Writes & Fights , Unites & Slights , to purchase Wealth and Glory ; His Plumets sounds , the Kingdoms Bounds to make the Fish Nibble , He draws em with a Past of Lies , and he blinds them with the Bible . The second part to the same Tune . A Fisherman subdued a Place in spite of Locks and Staples , The Warlike Massinello was a Fisherman of Naples , Commanded forty thousand Men , and prov'd a Royal Wrangler : You ne'r shall see the like again , of such a famous Angler . Upon the Exchange 'twixt Twelve and One meets many a neat Intangler ; Most Merchantmen , not one in ten , but is a cunning Angler , And ( like the Fish in the Brook , ) Brother does fish for Brother ; A golden Bait hangs at the Hook , and they fish for one another , A Shopkeeper I next prefer , a Formal Man in black , sir , That throws his Angle everywhere , and cries , What is't you lack , sir , Fine Silks & Stuffs , or Hoods & Muffs , but if a Courtier prove the Intangler My Citizen must look to't then , or the Fish will catch the Angler . A Lover is and Angler too , and baits his Hook with Kisses , He plays and toys , and fain would do , but oftentimes he misses : He gives her Rings , & such like things as Fan or Muff , or Night-hood , But if you'l cheat , a City-Peat , you must bait her with a Knighthood ? There is no Angler like a Wench , stark naked in the Water , She'l make you leave both Trout and Tench and throw yourself in after : Your Hook and Line , she will confine , the Entangled is the Intangler ; And this I fear , hath spoyl'd the Ware , of many a jovial Angler . If you will trowl , for a Scriveners soul cast in a rich young Gallant ; To take a Courtier by the powl , throw out a golden Talent , And yet I doubt , the draught will not Compound for half the charge on't , But if you'l catch , the Devil at a snatch go bait him with a Sergeant . Thus have I made , the Anglers Trade , to stand above defiance , For like the Mathematic Art , it runs through every Science , If with my Angling song I can with Mirth and Pleasure seize you , I'll bait my Hook with Wit again , and Angle still to please you . London , Printed by E.C. for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . The Royal Recreation Of Jovial ANGLERS Proving that all Men are Intanglers , And all Professions are turn'd Anglers . To the Tune of , Amarillis . OF all the Recreations which attend on humane Nature , There's nothing sores so high a pitch , Or is of such a Stature , As is a subtle Anglers life , in all men's Approbation : For Anglers tricks , do daily mix , with every Corporation . When Eve and Adam liv'd by love , and had no cause for Jangling , The Devil did the Waters move , the Serpent fell to Angling : He baits his hook with Godlike look . quoth he , this will entangle her , The Woman chops , and down she drops the Devil was first and Angler . Physicians , Lawyers , and Divines , are most ingenious Janglers , And he that trys , shall find in fine , that all of them are Anglers : While grave Divines do fish for souls , Physicians , like Cormudgeons , Do bait with Health , to fish for Wealth and Lawyers fish for Gudgeons . A Politician too , is One , concern'd in Piscatory , He Writes & Fights , Unites & Slights , to purchase Wealth and Glory ; His Plumets sounds , the Kingdoms Bounds to make the Fish Nibble , He draws em with a Past of Lies , and he blinds them with the Bible . The second part to the same Tune . A Fisherman subdued a Place in spite of Locks and Staples , The Warlike Massinello was a Fisherman of Naples , Commanded forty thousand Men , and prov'd a Royal Wrangler : You ne'r shall see the like again , of such a famous Angler . Upon the Exchange 'twixt Twelve and One meets many a neat Intangler ; Most Merchantmen , not one in ten , but is a cunning Angler , And ( like the Fish in the Brook , ) Brother does fish for Brother ; A golden Bait hangs at the Hook , and they fish for one another , A Shopkeeper I next prefer , a Formal Man in black , sir , That throws his Angle everywhere , and cries , What is't you lack , sir , Fine Silks & Stuffs , or Hoods & Muffs , but if a Courtier prove the Intangler My Citizen must look to't then , or the Fish will catch the Angler . A Lover is and Angler too , and baits his Hook with Kisses , He plays and toys , and fain would do , but oftentimes he misses : He gives her Rings , & such like things as Fan or Muff , or Night-hood , But if you'l cheat , a City-Peat , you must bait her with a Knighthood ? There is no Angler like a Wench , stark naked in the Water , She'l make you leave both Trout and Tench and throw yourself in after : Your Hook and Line , she will confine , the Entangled is the Intangler ; And this I fear , hath spoyl'd the Ware , of many a jovial Angler . If you will trowl , for a Scriveners soul cast in a rich young Gallant ; To take a Courtier by the powl , throw out a golden Talent , And yet I doubt , the draught will not Compound for half the charge on't , But if you'l catch , the Devil at a snatch go bait him with a Sergeant . Thus have I made , the Anglers Trade , to stand above defiance , For like the Mathematic Art , it runs through every Science , If with my Angling song I can with Mirth and Pleasure seize you , I'll bait my Hook with Wit again , and Angle still to please you . London , Printed by E.C. for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 