The Ungrateful Son ; OR , And Example of God's Justice upon the abusefull Disobedience of a False - hearted and cruel Son to his Aged Father . To the Tune of Kentish miracle . Licensed according to Order . OF and ungrateful Son , my purpose is to write , By whom a Father was undone , and clearly ruin'd quite : The Sequel of this Song will make it well appear , That those that do their Parents wrong , will feel God's Wrath severe . And ancient wealthy Man , near London lived indeed , Who at his Door reliev'd the Poor , and those that stood in need ; But Troubles coming on , we find that ev'ry where , Religious Men , not One in Ten , but persecuted were . And eke for Conscience sake , in Prison was likewise ; Informers they made them their Prey , Rome's Malice to suffice : Both Lands and Goods were seiz'd , no Pity they'd afford , For at that time 'twas thought a Crime to serve the living Lord . This good man seeing then , how strange the things did run , He did depend to find a Friend of his beloved Son : Therefore without delay , he call'd him out of hand , And did make o'er his Goods and Store , likewise his house and land . Said he , My Son be just , secure the same for me , I have no Friend that I can trust in these Affairs but thee . Dear Father , then said he , your Will shall be obey'd , And if I wrong you , let me see a just Example made . The old Man him believ'd , and turn'd o'er his Estate , But yet at last , e'er Three years passed he did repent at las For after turn of Times did Liberty afford , The old Man went , with full intent to have his Means restor'd . Then coming to the Gate whereas his Son did dwell , It was one Evening something late , the very Truth to tell ; The Servant let him in , and when he was sat down , The Son with Anger did begin to knit his Brows and frown . The Father said , My Son , I come in hope's that you Will now return the great Concern , which is my proper endue . Yea Presbyterian Knave , said this Son , void of shame ; I'll part with nothing that I have , be gone from whence you came . The old Man then besought this Villain to forbear , I am your Father which hath brought you up with Cost and Care . But yet he rav'd the more , and Curses did repeat ; At length he threw him out of do [ r ] and kick'd him in the Street . His Eyes like Fountains flow , ran down his Cheeks like Rain , His aged hair as white as Snow , no Pity could obtain . O cruel wretched Son ! the Father then reply'd , Consider well what thou hast done , God will pull down thy Pride . The bitter Winds did blow , the Skies was darkened quite , And for a Lodging where to go , he did not know that nigh But Heaven did provide for him in that distress ; He with a Farmer did reside , who did his Love express . But for this wicked Son , e'er Morning did appear , He quite beside his Wits did run , God's Wrath was so severe : Then for a Week or more , Father , Father , he cry'd , In frantic Fits , beside his Wits , and then at length he dy'd . Thus for his Villainy God sent him to the Grave ; Oh let these Lines a warning be , to all that Parents have : Be dutiful always , and do not Parents scorn , For those that do , in time may rue , they'd better ne'er been born . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . The Ungrateful Son ; OR , And Example of God's Justice upon the abusefull Disobedience of a False - hearted and cruel Son to his Aged Father . To the Tune of Kentish miracle . Licensed according to Order . OF and ungrateful Son , my purpose is to write , By whom a Father was undone , and clearly ruin'd quite : The Sequel of this Song will make it well appear , That those that do their Parents wrong , will feel God's Wrath severe . And ancient wealthy Man , near London lived indeed , Who at his Door reliev'd the Poor , and those that stood in need ; But Troubles coming on , we find that ev'ry where , Religious Men , not One in Ten , but persecuted were . And eke for Conscience sake , in Prison was likewise ; Informers they made them their Prey , Rome's Malice to suffice : Both Lands and Goods were seiz'd , no Pity they'd afford , For at that time 'twas thought a Crime to serve the living Lord . This good man seeing then , how strange the things did run , He did depend to find a Friend of his beloved Son : Therefore without delay , he call'd him out of hand , And did make o'er his Goods and Store , likewise his house and land . Said he , My Son be just , secure the same for me , I have no Friend that I can trust in these Affairs but thee . Dear Father , then said he , your Will shall be obey'd , And if I wrong you , let me see a just Example made . The old Man him believ'd , and turn'd o'er his Estate , But yet at last , e'er Three years passed he did repent at las For after turn of Times did Liberty afford , The old Man went , with full intent to have his Means restor'd . Then coming to the Gate whereas his Son did dwell , It was one Evening something late , the very Truth to tell ; The Servant let him in , and when he was sat down , The Son with Anger did begin to knit his Brows and frown . The Father said , My Son , I come in hope's that you Will now return the great Concern , which is my proper endue . Yea Presbyterian Knave , said this Son , void of shame ; I'll part with nothing that I have , be gone from whence you came . The old Man then besought this Villain to forbear , I am your Father which hath brought you up with Cost and Care . But yet he rav'd the more , and Curses did repeat ; At length he threw him out of do [ r ] and kick'd him in the Street . His Eyes like Fountains flow , ran down his Cheeks like Rain , His aged hair as white as Snow , no Pity could obtain . O cruel wretched Son ! the Father then reply'd , Consider well what thou hast done , God will pull down thy Pride . The bitter Winds did blow , the Skies was darkened quite , And for a Lodging where to go , he did not know that nigh But Heaven did provide for him in that distress ; He with a Farmer did reside , who did his Love express . But for this wicked Son , e'er Morning did appear , He quite beside his Wits did run , God's Wrath was so severe : Then for a Week or more , Father , Father , he cry'd , In frantic Fits , beside his Wits , and then at length he dy'd . Thus for his Villainy God sent him to the Grave ; Oh let these Lines a warning be , to all that Parents have : Be dutiful always , and do not Parents scorn , For those that do , in time may rue , they'd better ne'er been born . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 