And Excellent Ballad of St. GEORGE for England , and the King of Egypt's Daughter whom he deliver - ed from Death , and how he slew a Monstrous Dragon , etc To the Tune of Flying Fame . OF Hector's Deed did Homer sing , and of the Sack of stately Troy , What Grief fair Hellen did them bring , which was Sir Paris only Joy , And with my Pen I must recite , St. George's Deeds and English Knight Against the Sarazens full rude fought he full long and many a Day Where many a Gallant he subdu'd , in honour of the Christian way , And after many adventures Past , To Egypt Land he came at last - And as the Story plain does tell , within the Country there did rest , A dreadful Dragon fierce and fell , whereby they were full soar oppressed , Who by his poison'd Breath each day Did many of the City slay . The Grief whereof did grow so great throughout the limits of the Land , That their Wisemen did entreat to show their Cunning out of Hand , Which way they might this Dragon stroy That did their Country so annoy . The Wisemen all before the King , fram'd this matter Incontinent , The Dragon none to Death might bring by any means they could invent , his skin more herd than Brass was foun [ worser , ] That Sword or Spear could pierce or wound . When this the People understood , they cried out most piteous , The Dragon's Breath infected their Blood that they each day in Heaps did die , among them such a Plague it bred , The living scarce could bury their dead No means their was that he could find for to appease the Dragon's rage , But by a Virgin pure and kind , whereby he might his Fury suage , Each day he should a Maiden eat , For to allay his Hunger great . This thing by Art the Wisemen found which truly must observed be , Wherefore throughout the City round a Virgin pure of good degree , Was by the King's Commission still , Took up to serve the Dragon's Will . Thus did the Dragon every day , a Maiden of the Town devour , Till all the Maidens were worn away , and none were left that present Hour , Saving the King's fair Daughter bright Her Father's joy and Heart's delight , Then came the Officers to the King , this heavy Message to declare , Which did his Heart with [ s ] orrow sting , She is quoth he my Kingdom's Heir , Oh let us all be poisoned here , E're she should die that is my dear . Then rose the People presently and to the King in rage they went Who said his Daughter dear should die the Dragon's Fury to prevent ; Our Daughter's all are dead quoth they And have been made the Dragons pray , And by their Blood thou hast been blessed and thou hast sav'd thy Life thereby , And now in Justice it does rest . for as thy Daughter so should die Oh save my Daughter said the King , And let me feel the Dragon's sting . Then fell fair Sabrine on her knee , And to her Father thus did say , Oh Father strive not thus for me , but let me be the Dragon's prey , It may be for my sake alone , This Plague upon the Land was shown . 'Tis better I should die she said , than all your subject's Perish quite , Perhaps the Dragon here was laid , for my Offence to work this spite , And after he hath sucked my gore , Your Land shall know the Grief no more What hast thou done my daughter dear for to deserve this heavy scourge , It is my fault it shall appear , which makes the Gods our state grudge Then ought I die to stint the strife , Like Madmen all the People cry'd , thy Death to us can do no good , Our safety only does abide , to make thy Daughter Dragon's Food . Lo here I am Oh then quoth she , Therefore do what you will with me . Nay stay dear Daughter quoth the King and as thou art a Virgin bright , That hath for Virtue famous been , so let me cloth thee all in white , And crown thy Head with Flowers sweet And Ornament for Virgins meet , And when she was attired so , According to her Mother's mind , Unto the Stake then she did go , to which they did this fair Maid bind , And being bound to Stake and Thrall , She bid farewell unto them all . Farewell dear Father then quoth she , and my dear Mother meek and mild , Take you no thought nor care for me , for you may have another Child , here for my Country's good I'll die , which I receive most willingly . The King and Queen with all their Train , with weeping Eyes then went away , and let their Daughter there remain , to be the hungry Dragon's prey ; but as she there did weeping lie , behold St. George came riding by . And seeing there a Lady bright , fast tied to the Stake that Day , most like unto a valiant Knight , straight unto her did take his way , tell me sweet Maiden then quoth he , what Person thus abused thee . And lo by Christ his Blood I vow , which here is figur'd on my Breast , I will revenge it on his Brow , and break my Lance upon his Crest , and speaking thus whereas he stood , the Dragon issu'd out of the Wood . The Lady that did first espy , the dreadful Dragon coming so , unto St. George aloud did cry , and willed him away to go ; here comes the ugly Fiend quoth she that soon will make and end of me . St. George then looking round about the Fiery Dragon there espy'd , and like a knight of Courage stout , against him he did fiercely ride , and with such Blows he did him greet , that he fell under his Horse's Feet , For with a Lance that was so strong , as he came Gaping in his Face , in at his Mouth he thrust it long , the which could plerce no other place , and there within this Lady's view , this dreadful Dragon then he slew , The Savour of his poisoned Breath , could do this Christian Knight no harm , thus he did this Lady save from Death , and home he led led her by the Arm , Which when Potolomy did see , there was great Joy and Melody . When as this famous Knight St. George had slave the Dragon in the Field , and brought the Lady to the Court , whose sighed with joy their Hearts they fill'd he in the Egyptian Court then stayed till he most falsely was betray'd . The Lady Sabrine lov'd him well , he counted her his only Joy , but when their Loves were open known it prov'd St. Georoe's great annoy , the Morocco King was then in Court , who to the Ochard did resort Daily to take the pleasant Air , for pleasures sake he us'd to walk , under the Wall whereas he herd , St. George with fair Sabrine talk , their Loves he revealed to the King , which to Saint George great woe did bring . These Kings together did devise , to make the Christian Knight away , with Letters him Ambassador , they straightway sent to Persia , and wrote to the Sophy him to kill , and treacherously his Blood to spill , Thus they for Good did him reward with Evil , and most subtly by such vile means they did devise , to work his Death most cruelly ; while he in Persia abided , he straight destroy'd each Idol-God . Which being done he strait was slung into a Dungeon dark and deep , but when he thought upon his wrong , he bitterly began to weep , but like a Knight of Courage stout , Forth of the Dungeon he god out . And in the Night three Horsekeepers this valiant Knight by Power slew , although he had fasted many a Day , and then away from thence he flew , On the best Steed that Sophy had , which when he knew he was full sad . Then into Christendom he came , and met a Giant by the way , with him in Combat he did fight , most valiantly a Summer's day , who yet for all his Bars of Steel was forc'd the Sting of Death to feel . From Christendom this Valiant Knight , then with warlike Soldiers hast , vowing upon that heathen Land , to work revenge which at the last , e're thrice 3 year was gone and spent , he did unto his great Content , Save only Egypt Land he spar'd , for Sabrine bright her only sake . and e're his Rage he did suppress he meant a Trial kind to make , Potolomy did know his Strength in Field and unto him did kindly yield . Then he the Morocco King did kill , and took fair Sabrine to his Wife , and afterwards contentedly , with her St. George did led his Life , who by the Virtue of a Chain , did still a Virgin pure remain , To England then St. George did bring this gallant Lady Sabrine bright , and Eunuch also came with him , in whom the Lady did delight , none but these 3 from Egypt came , now let me Print St. George's fame When they were in the Forest great the Lady did desire to rest , and then St. George to kill a Deer , to feed thereon did think it best , Left Sabrine and the Eunuch there , while he did go to kill a Deer . And Excellent Ballad of St. GEORGE for England , and the King of Egypt's Daughter whom he deliver - ed from Death , and how he slew a Monstrous Dragon , etc To the Tune of Flying Fame . OF Hector's Deed did Homer sing , and of the Sack of stately Troy , What Grief fair Hellen did them bring , which was Sir Paris only Joy , And with my Pen I must recite , St. George's Deeds and English Knight Against the Sarazens full rude fought he full long and many a Day Where many a Gallant he subdu'd , in honour of the Christian way , And after many adventures Past , To Egypt Land he came at last - And as the Story plain does tell , within the Country there did rest , A dreadful Dragon fierce and fell , whereby they were full soar oppressed , Who by his poison'd Breath each day Did many of the City slay . The Grief whereof did grow so great throughout the limits of the Land , That their Wisemen did entreat to show their Cunning out of Hand , Which way they might this Dragon stroy That did their Country so annoy . The Wisemen all before the King , fram'd this matter Incontinent , The Dragon none to Death might bring by any means they could invent , his skin more herd than Brass was foun [ worser , ] That Sword or Spear could pierce or wound . When this the People understood , they cried out most piteous , The Dragon's Breath infected their Blood that they each day in Heaps did die , among them such a Plague it bred , The living scarce could bury their dead No means their was that he could find for to appease the Dragon's rage , But by a Virgin pure and kind , whereby he might his Fury suage , Each day he should a Maiden eat , For to allay his Hunger great . This thing by Art the Wisemen found which truly must observed be , Wherefore throughout the City round a Virgin pure of good degree , Was by the King's Commission still , Took up to serve the Dragon's Will . Thus did the Dragon every day , a Maiden of the Town devour , Till all the Maidens were worn away , and none were left that present Hour , Saving the King's fair Daughter bright Her Father's joy and Heart's delight , Then came the Officers to the King , this heavy Message to declare , Which did his Heart with [ s ] orrow sting , She is quoth he my Kingdom's Heir , Oh let us all be poisoned here , E're she should die that is my dear . Then rose the People presently and to the King in rage they went Who said his Daughter dear should die the Dragon's Fury to prevent ; Our Daughter's all are dead quoth they And have been made the Dragons pray , And by their Blood thou hast been blessed and thou hast sav'd thy Life thereby , And now in Justice it does rest . for as thy Daughter so should die Oh save my Daughter said the King , And let me feel the Dragon's sting . Then fell fair Sabrine on her knee , And to her Father thus did say , Oh Father strive not thus for me , but let me be the Dragon's prey , It may be for my sake alone , This Plague upon the Land was shown . 'Tis better I should die she said , than all your subject's Perish quite , Perhaps the Dragon here was laid , for my Offence to work this spite , And after he hath sucked my gore , Your Land shall know the Grief no more What hast thou done my daughter dear for to deserve this heavy scourge , It is my fault it shall appear , which makes the Gods our state grudge Then ought I die to stint the strife , Like Madmen all the People cry'd , thy Death to us can do no good , Our safety only does abide , to make thy Daughter Dragon's Food . Lo here I am Oh then quoth she , Therefore do what you will with me . Nay stay dear Daughter quoth the King and as thou art a Virgin bright , That hath for Virtue famous been , so let me cloth thee all in white , And crown thy Head with Flowers sweet And Ornament for Virgins meet , And when she was attired so , According to her Mother's mind , Unto the Stake then she did go , to which they did this fair Maid bind , And being bound to Stake and Thrall , She bid farewell unto them all . Farewell dear Father then quoth she , and my dear Mother meek and mild , Take you no thought nor care for me , for you may have another Child , here for my Country's good I'll die , which I receive most willingly . The King and Queen with all their Train , with weeping Eyes then went away , and let their Daughter there remain , to be the hungry Dragon's prey ; but as she there did weeping lie , behold St. George came riding by . And seeing there a Lady bright , fast tied to the Stake that Day , most like unto a valiant Knight , straight unto her did take his way , tell me sweet Maiden then quoth he , what Person thus abused thee . And lo by Christ his Blood I vow , which here is figur'd on my Breast , I will revenge it on his Brow , and break my Lance upon his Crest , and speaking thus whereas he stood , the Dragon issu'd out of the Wood . The Lady that did first espy , the dreadful Dragon coming so , unto St. George aloud did cry , and willed him away to go ; here comes the ugly Fiend quoth she that soon will make and end of me . St. George then looking round about the Fiery Dragon there espy'd , and like a knight of Courage stout , against him he did fiercely ride , and with such Blows he did him greet , that he fell under his Horse's Feet , For with a Lance that was so strong , as he came Gaping in his Face , in at his Mouth he thrust it long , the which could plerce no other place , and there within this Lady's view , this dreadful Dragon then he slew , The Savour of his poisoned Breath , could do this Christian Knight no harm , thus he did this Lady save from Death , and home he led led her by the Arm , Which when Potolomy did see , there was great Joy and Melody . When as this famous Knight St. George had slave the Dragon in the Field , and brought the Lady to the Court , whose sighed with joy their Hearts they fill'd he in the Egyptian Court then stayed till he most falsely was betray'd . The Lady Sabrine lov'd him well , he counted her his only Joy , but when their Loves were open known it prov'd St. Georoe's great annoy , the Morocco King was then in Court , who to the Ochard did resort Daily to take the pleasant Air , for pleasures sake he us'd to walk , under the Wall whereas he herd , St. George with fair Sabrine talk , their Loves he revealed to the King , which to Saint George great woe did bring . These Kings together did devise , to make the Christian Knight away , with Letters him Ambassador , they straightway sent to Persia , and wrote to the Sophy him to kill , and treacherously his Blood to spill , Thus they for Good did him reward with Evil , and most subtly by such vile means they did devise , to work his Death most cruelly ; while he in Persia abided , he straight destroy'd each Idol-God . Which being done he strait was slung into a Dungeon dark and deep , but when he thought upon his wrong , he bitterly began to weep , but like a Knight of Courage stout , Forth of the Dungeon he god out . And in the Night three Horsekeepers this valiant Knight by Power slew , although he had fasted many a Day , and then away from thence he flew , On the best Steed that Sophy had , which when he knew he was full sad . Then into Christendom he came , and met a Giant by the way , with him in Combat he did fight , most valiantly a Summer's day , who yet for all his Bars of Steel was forc'd the Sting of Death to feel . From Christendom this Valiant Knight , then with warlike Soldiers hast , vowing upon that heathen Land , to work revenge which at the last , e're thrice 3 year was gone and spent , he did unto his great Content , Save only Egypt Land he spar'd , for Sabrine bright her only sake . and e're his Rage he did suppress he meant a Trial kind to make , Potolomy did know his Strength in Field and unto him did kindly yield . Then he the Morocco King did kill , and took fair Sabrine to his Wife , and afterwards contentedly , with her St. George did led his Life , who by the Virtue of a Chain , did still a Virgin pure remain , To England then St. George did bring this gallant Lady Sabrine bright , and Eunuch also came with him , in whom the Lady did delight , none but these 3 from Egypt came , now let me Print St. George's fame When they were in the Forest great the Lady did desire to rest , and then St. George to kill a Deer , to feed thereon did think it best , Left Sabrine and the Eunuch there , while he did go to kill a Deer . The meantime in his Absence comes two hungry Lions fierce and fell , and tore the Eunuch presently , in Pieces small the truth to tell , Down by the Lady then they laid , whereby it seem'd she was a Maid . But when Saint George from Hunting cam and did behold his heavy Chance yet for his lovely Virgin pure his courage stout he did Advance , and came within the Lions sighed , who run at him with all their might . And he being no whit dismay'd , but like a stout and valiant Knight Did kill the hungry Lyons both , within the Lady Sabrine's sighed , but all this while sad and demure , she stood there like a Virgin pure , But when Saint George did truly know , his Lady was a Virgin true , those doleful thoughts that before was began most firmly to renew , he set her on a Pelfrey steed , and towards England came with speed Where he arrived' in short time , unto his Father's dwelling place , where with his dearest Love he lived when Fortune did their Nuptials grace , they many Years of Joy did see , and let their Lives at Coventry . The meantime in his Absence comes two hungry Lions fierce and fell , and tore the Eunuch presently , in Pieces small the truth to tell , Down by the Lady then they laid , whereby it seem'd she was a Maid . But when Saint George from Hunting cam and did behold his heavy Chance yet for his lovely Virgin pure his courage stout he did Advance , and came within the Lions sighed , who run at him with all their might . And he being no whit dismay'd , but like a stout and valiant Knight Did kill the hungry Lyons both , within the Lady Sabrine's sighed , but all this while sad and demure , she stood there like a Virgin pure , But when Saint George did truly know , his Lady was a Virgin true , those doleful thoughts that before was began most firmly to renew , he set her on a Pelfrey steed , and towards England came with speed Where he arrived' in short time , unto his Father's dwelling place , where with his dearest Love he lived when Fortune did their Nuptials grace , they many Years of Joy did see , and let their Lives at Coventry . 