A Young Man put to his shifts : OR , The Ranting Young men Resolution . Wherein is show'd how young Wenches he does please , And of their heavy burdens he does them ease ; With cunning tricks their fancies up does feed , And they him relieve when he does stand in need . To the Tune of , Cupids Trappan . OF late did I hear a young damsel complain , and rail much against a young man , His cause and his state i'le now vindicate , and hold battle with Cupids , trepan , brave boys and hold , etc Surely she thinks , that I am stark mad , to wed every Girl I do see , No let her stay awhile for I can make a fool , of twenty far better then she , etc For if I court a Maid she will get nothing by't , for so soon as her money is gone , And I have god her Rings and other fine things , then the Devil may take her for John. etc I can give them fair words but little good deeds any girl of me shall find , And if I see she will do 't then I put her to 't , but straight I can turn with the wind , etc He's but a fool that will fawn of a Maid , although she seem never so coy , Make tho' you'd be gone she'l bid you come on , if you tell her you'l git her a boy , brave boys , if , etc But if she don't find thou canst stir up her blood , she will laugh and jear thee to thy face , But if she perceives thou canst do her some good , then thy body she strait will embrace , etc As for my own part I valve it not a pin I care not what Girl does it know , But the coyest Lass I can easily win , and bring her unto my own bow , etc I drink of the best , and live at hearts ease for Money I take little care , I can humour young wenches & have what I please , be it never so fine and so rare , etc I Count him a noddy that can't win a Maid to buckle to bow and to bend , And if he stands in need to do a good deed , and to give him some money in hand , brave boys , and to , etc Though Maidens do seem coy on 't they long till they would 't either Marry Sue Bridget or Nan , If they were put to their choice for to lie alone , they had rather to lie with a man , etc For daily and hourly full often it is seen , what Maiden 'tis will lie alone , If she han't a husband when she is fifteen , she thinks she shall never have none , etc So it does appear how hasty they are , the fruits of Love for to taste , It makes their great belly the truth for to tell you , they've been clipping a man about 'th wast , etc Theirs choice of young Damsels I have at command that with money my pockets do see , And it I want a bout they will not stand out , to help a good turn in my need , etc If I cheat a young damsel the fault's none of mine to herself she better may look . For if I lay my bait by day or by night , be sure I take her of my hook , etc And when I have caught her be sure she's my own for little we two do embrace , But before we go to church , I leave her i'th lurch thus I cheat her unto her own face , etc I'le never be bound when I may live free , nor i'le never be tide to a wife , Theirs soap fire & candle a child for to dandle , which makes a man weary on's life , etc So I get but the child let who will it keep , for my part I do not mean to keep none , So I have but the sport let them provide fort , for so soon as i've done I am gone . For if I should keep all the Children I get , I should have a great many lives , I will take a halter and cut my own throat , before isle have so many wives , etc For a Gentleman's life I live as I be , and am free from both care and sorrow , If never a penny I have over night , be sure I have some the next morrow , etc So young men i'le leave you make use of your time for so long as my Codpise do hold , I am sure of this let it hit or miss , I shall want neither silver nor gold , brave boys , I shall want neither silver nor gold . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . A Young Man put to his shifts : OR , The Ranting Young men Resolution . Wherein is show'd how young Wenches he does please , And of their heavy burdens he does them ease ; With cunning tricks their fancies up does feed , And they him relieve when he does stand in need . To the Tune of , Cupids Trappan . OF late did I hear a young damsel complain , and rail much against a young man , His cause and his state i'le now vindicate , and hold battle with Cupids , trepan , brave boys and hold , etc Surely she thinks , that I am stark mad , to wed every Girl I do see , No let her stay awhile for I can make a fool , of twenty far better then she , etc For if I court a Maid she will get nothing by't , for so soon as her money is gone , And I have god her Rings and other fine things , then the Devil may take her for John. etc I can give them fair words but little good deeds any girl of me shall find , And if I see she will do 't then I put her to 't , but straight I can turn with the wind , etc He's but a fool that will fawn of a Maid , although she seem never so coy , Make tho' you'd be gone she'l bid you come on , if you tell her you'l git her a boy , brave boys , if , etc But if she don't find thou canst stir up her blood , she will laugh and jear thee to thy face , But if she perceives thou canst do her some good , then thy body she strait will embrace , etc As for my own part I valve it not a pin I care not what Girl does it know , But the coyest Lass I can easily win , and bring her unto my own bow , etc I drink of the best , and live at hearts ease for Money I take little care , I can humour young wenches & have what I please , be it never so fine and so rare , etc I Count him a noddy that can't win a Maid to buckle to bow and to bend , And if he stands in need to do a good deed , and to give him some money in hand , brave boys , and to , etc Though Maidens do seem coy on 't they long till they would 't either Marry Sue Bridget or Nan , If they were put to their choice for to lie alone , they had rather to lie with a man , etc For daily and hourly full often it is seen , what Maiden 'tis will lie alone , If she han't a husband when she is fifteen , she thinks she shall never have none , etc So it does appear how hasty they are , the fruits of Love for to taste , It makes their great belly the truth for to tell you , they've been clipping a man about 'th wast , etc Theirs choice of young Damsels I have at command that with money my pockets do see , And it I want a bout they will not stand out , to help a good turn in my need , etc If I cheat a young damsel the fault's none of mine to herself she better may look . For if I lay my bait by day or by night , be sure I take her of my hook , etc And when I have caught her be sure she's my own for little we two do embrace , But before we go to church , I leave her i'th lurch thus I cheat her unto her own face , etc I'le never be bound when I may live free , nor i'le never be tide to a wife , Theirs soap fire & candle a child for to dandle , which makes a man weary on's life , etc So I get but the child let who will it keep , for my part I do not mean to keep none , So I have but the sport let them provide fort , for so soon as i've done I am gone . For if I should keep all the Children I get , I should have a great many lives , I will take a halter and cut my own throat , before isle have so many wives , etc For a Gentleman's life I live as I be , and am free from both care and sorrow , If never a penny I have over night , be sure I have some the next morrow , etc So young men i'le leave you make use of your time for so long as my Codpise do hold , I am sure of this let it hit or miss , I shall want neither silver nor gold , brave boys , I shall want neither silver nor gold . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 