b A Copy of a Letter sent to the Reverend Dr. Beveridge , up - on Occasion of the Second Edition of the Paper of Re - marks upon his Sermon about Restitution . SIR ! I Have here sent You the Second Edition , with Additions , of the Paper with Remarks upon your late Sermon about Restitution , wherein , as in a Glass , you may see your abominable Hypocrisy , in preaching up Restitution to the wrong'd , and that upon pain of Damnation , and yet you yourself can receive and enter upon the Right and Possession of another , and Innocent , Con - scientious* Bishop of our Church , ( yet in Being , and Uncanonically turned out to beg his Bred ) whose Bishopric was settled on him for his Life , according to the Laws of the Realm , ( which settled St. Peter's in Cornhil upon you ) which you have sworn to preserve and maintain to your power . You are not ignorant that a Bishop , according to the Rules and Practice of the Church in all Ages , cannot warrantably be depriv'd , or depos'd , but by a Synod of Bishops , either General , or Provincial . But was there any such Method of Proceeding in the Case of our deprived Bishops ? It being never herd of old , that Bishops were deposed , or deprived by mere Laymen ( who might in - deed as legally depose Bishops , as the People might and Hereditary King ) no , not in the Arian Persecution . * Dr. Tho. Ken , Lord Bishop of Bath and Wells . Reflect , I beseech You , on the dismal Fate ( as a just Punishment of the since , much like that of Corah ) of those Ecclesiastical , Schismatical * Usurpers , Gregory and George of Cappadocia , who unjustly invaded the See of Alexan - dria ( which was wisely and honestly refus'd by Eusebius Emisenus , when proffer'd to him ) upon the deposing of Athanasius , the Orthodox Bishop there , for no other Crime , than that of his Conscience , ( your deprived Bishop's Fault ) refusing to comply with the Wickedness of the Time , and vigorously opposing the prevailing Arian Faction . But the Good , Conscientious Bishop was by the Providence of God , with Honour restor'd to his See , to the Joy of his Friends , ( who faithfully stuck to him in Banishment ) and the Shame and Confusion of his Enemies . * Two Arian Priests , who died miserably and unpitied . To enter upon the Right and Possession of another , Is it , I pray , agreeable to the Golden Rule , which , you observ'd , our Saviour recommended --- What - soever you would that Men should do to you , even so do you to them . --- Read and apply the Apostle's earnest Expostulation , Rom. 2. 21 , 22 , etc Thou therefore which teachest another , teachest thou not thy self ? Thou that preachest a Man should not steal , dost thou steal ? Thou that abhorrest Idols , dost thou commit Sacrilege ? Thou that makest thy boast of the Law , through breaking the Law dishonourest thou God ? For the Name of God is blasphemed , through you . ------ O Sir ! Consider what Occasion you give to the Enemies of our Religion , to blaspheme that worthy Name by which we are called . ------ Is this worthy of the Pious Dr. Beveridge , the Humble , Mortified , Self-denying , Heavenly-minded Dr. Beveridge ? Whom we esteem'd a Second Chrysostom in our Antioch , the Or - nament of our Protestant City , a Main Pillar in our Church , the Beauty of our Israel , a burning and a shining Light , a bright Star in our English Firmament , and the great Reviver and Example of Primitive Piety , celebrating the bles - sed Sacrament ( the lively Memory of the Passion of our Lord , that heavenly Feast of Love , which thinks and does not Ill to its Neighbour ) every Sun - day . And is it not strange that so worthy a Divine , and so good a Christian , should be guilty of so scandalous , so shameful a Prevarication ? But , Oh , how are the Mighty fallen ! --- How unaccountably prevalent and mischievous are the Charms of that since , which the Spirit of God compares to the * since of Witch - craft ? * 1 Sam. 15. 23. God Almighty open your Eyes , and your Brethren's , that you may see your Errors , and repent , and break off your Sins by Righteousness , and so avert his Wrath and Judgments , both from your Selves , and these trembling Nations . --- Which is the earnest Prayer of , REVEREND SIR ! London , May 2. 1691. Your Sincere and Faithful Monitor , And Hearty Wellwisher , etc SIR ! You'll pardon this plain Dealing , for which I have a Warrant from God himself , Lev. 19. 17. Thou shalt not hate thy Brother in thine hear thou shalt in any wise rebuke thy Neighbour , and not suffer since upon him . b A Copy of a Letter sent to the Reverend Dr. Beveridge , up - on Occasion of the Second Edition of the Paper of Re - marks upon his Sermon about Restitution . SIR ! I Have here sent You the Second Edition , with Additions , of the Paper with Remarks upon your late Sermon about Restitution , wherein , as in a Glass , you may see your abominable Hypocrisy , in preaching up Restitution to the wrong'd , and that upon pain of Damnation , and yet you yourself can receive and enter upon the Right and Possession of another , and Innocent , Con - scientious* Bishop of our Church , ( yet in Being , and Uncanonically turned out to beg his Bred ) whose Bishopric was settled on him for his Life , according to the Laws of the Realm , ( which settled St. Peter's in Cornhil upon you ) which you have sworn to preserve and maintain to your power . You are not ignorant that a Bishop , according to the Rules and Practice of the Church in all Ages , cannot warrantably be depriv'd , or depos'd , but by a Synod of Bishops , either General , or Provincial . But was there any such Method of Proceeding in the Case of our deprived Bishops ? It being never herd of old , that Bishops were deposed , or deprived by mere Laymen ( who might in - deed as legally depose Bishops , as the People might and Hereditary King ) no , not in the Arian Persecution . * Dr. Tho. Ken , Lord Bishop of Bath and Wells . Reflect , I beseech You , on the dismal Fate ( as a just Punishment of the since , much like that of Corah ) of those Ecclesiastical , Schismatical * Usurpers , Gregory and George of Cappadocia , who unjustly invaded the See of Alexan - dria ( which was wisely and honestly refus'd by Eusebius Emisenus , when proffer'd to him ) upon the deposing of Athanasius , the Orthodox Bishop there , for no other Crime , than that of his Conscience , ( your deprived Bishop's Fault ) refusing to comply with the Wickedness of the Time , and vigorously opposing the prevailing Arian Faction . But the Good , Conscientious Bishop was by the Providence of God , with Honour restor'd to his See , to the Joy of his Friends , ( who faithfully stuck to him in Banishment ) and the Shame and Confusion of his Enemies . * Two Arian Priests , who died miserably and unpitied . To enter upon the Right and Possession of another , Is it , I pray , agreeable to the Golden Rule , which , you observ'd , our Saviour recommended --- What - soever you would that Men should do to you , even so do you to them . --- Read and apply the Apostle's earnest Expostulation , Rom. 2. 21 , 22 , etc Thou therefore which teachest another , teachest thou not thy self ? Thou that preachest a Man should not steal , dost thou steal ? Thou that abhorrest Idols , dost thou commit Sacrilege ? Thou that makest thy boast of the Law , through breaking the Law dishonourest thou God ? For the Name of God is blasphemed , through you . ------ O Sir ! Consider what Occasion you give to the Enemies of our Religion , to blaspheme that worthy Name by which we are called . ------ Is this worthy of the Pious Dr. Beveridge , the Humble , Mortified , Self-denying , Heavenly-minded Dr. Beveridge ? Whom we esteem'd a Second Chrysostom in our Antioch , the Or - nament of our Protestant City , a Main Pillar in our Church , the Beauty of our Israel , a burning and a shining Light , a bright Star in our English Firmament , and the great Reviver and Example of Primitive Piety , celebrating the bles - sed Sacrament ( the lively Memory of the Passion of our Lord , that heavenly Feast of Love , which thinks and does not Ill to its Neighbour ) every Sun - day . And is it not strange that so worthy a Divine , and so good a Christian , should be guilty of so scandalous , so shameful a Prevarication ? But , Oh , how are the Mighty fallen ! --- How unaccountably prevalent and mischievous are the Charms of that since , which the Spirit of God compares to the * since of Witch - craft ? * 1 Sam. 15. 23. God Almighty open your Eyes , and your Brethren's , that you may see your Errors , and repent , and break off your Sins by Righteousness , and so avert his Wrath and Judgments , both from your Selves , and these trembling Nations . --- Which is the earnest Prayer of , REVEREND SIR ! London , May 2. 1691. Your Sincere and Faithful Monitor , And Hearty Wellwisher , etc SIR ! You'll pardon this plain Dealing , for which I have a Warrant from God himself , Lev. 19. 17. Thou shalt not hate thy Brother in thine hear thou shalt in any wise rebuke thy Neighbour , and not suffer since upon him . 