And excellent Ballad of St. GEORGE for England , and the King of Egypt's Daughter , whom he delivered from Death , and how he slew a Monstrous Dragon , etc To the Tune of , Flying Fame , etc Licensed and Entered according to Order . OF Hectors Deeds did Homer sing , & of the sack of stately Troy , What grief fair Hellen did them bring , which was Sir Paris only joy : And with my pen I must recite St. Georges Deeds , and English Knigh Against the Sarazens full rude fought he full long & many a Day , Where many a Giant he subdu'd , in honour of the Christian way ; And after many adventures past , To Egypt Land he came at last . And as the Story plain does tell , within that Country there did rest , A dreadful Dragon fierce and fell , whereby they were full soar oppressed , Who by his poisoned breath each Day , Did many of the City slay . The Grief whereof did grow so great , throughout the Limits of the Land , That they their wisemen did entreat , to show their cunning out of hand ; Which way they might this Dragon 'stroy , That did their Country so annoy . The wisemen all before the King , fram'd this Matter incontinent , The Dragon none to death might bring , by any means they could invent ; His skin more hard than brass was found , That sword or spear could pierce or wound . When this the people understood , they cried out most piteously , The Dragons breath infected their blood , that they each day in heaps did Die ; among them such a Plague it bred , The Living scarce could bury the Dead . No means there was that they could find , for to appease the Dragons rage , But by a Virgin pure and kind , whereby he might his fury suage ; Each Day he should a Maiden eat , For to allay his Hunger great . This thing by art the Wisemen found , which truly must observed be , Wherefore throughout the City round , a Virgin pure of good Degree , Was by the Kings Commission still , Took up to serve the Dragons will . Thus did the Dragon every Day a Maiden of the town devour , Till all the Maids were worn away , and none were left that present hour , Saving the kings fair Daughter bright , Her Father's joy and hearts Delight . Then came the Officers to the king , this Heavy Message to declare , Which did his heart with sorrow sting , She is ( quoth he ) my Kingdoms Heir , Oh let us all be poisoned here , E'er she should die that is my dear . Then rose the People presently , and to the king in rage they went , Who said His Daughter dear should die , the Dragons fury to prevent ; Our daughters all are dead , quoth they , And have been made the Dragons prey . And by their blood thou hast been blessed , and thou hast sav'd their life thereby , And now in Justice it does rest , for us thy Daughter so should die . O save my Daughter , said the king , And let me feel the Dragons sting . Then fell fair Sabrine on her knee , and to her Father then did say , Oh Father strive not thus for me , but let me be the Dragons prey ; It may be for my sake alone , This Plague upon the land was shown . 'Tis better I should die ( she said ) than all your subject's perish quite , Perhaps the Dragon here was laid , for my offence to work this spite ; And after he hath sucked my gore , Your Land shall know the grief no more . What hast thou done ( my Daughter dear ) for to deserve this heavy scourge ? It is my fault it shall appear , which makes the Gods our state to grudge ; Then ought I die to stint the strife , And to preserve thy happy life . Like mad men all the people cry'd , thy death to us can do no good , Our safety only does abide to make thy Daughter Dragons food . Lo here I am , Oh then ( quoth she ) Therefore do what you will with me . Nay stay dear daughter , ( quoth the Queen ) and as thou art a Virgin bright , That hath for Virtue famous been , so let me cloth thee all in white , And crown thy head with flowers sweet , And Ornament for Virgins meet And when she was attired so , according to her Mother's mind , Unto the stake then did she go , to which they did this virgin bind ; And being bound to stake and thrall , She bid farewell unto them all : Farewell , dear Father , then ( quoth she ) and my sweet Mother meek and mild , Take you no thought or care for me , for you may have another Child : Here for my Countries good I'll die , Which I receive most willingly . The King and Queen with all their train , with weeping eyes then went their way , And let their Daughter there remain , to be the hungry Dragons prey : But as she there did weeping lie , Behold St. George came riding by : And seeing there a Lady bright , fast tied to the stake that day , Most like unto a Valiant Knight , straight unto her did take his way : Tell me sweet Maiden , then quoth he , What person thus abused thee ? And lo by Christ his blood I vow , which here is figured on my breast , I will revenge it on his brow , and break my Lance upon his cres And speaking thus whereas he stood , The Dragon issu'd out of the wood . The Lady that did first espy the Dreadful Dragon coming so , Unto St. George aloud did cry , and willed him away to go , Here comes that ugly Fiend , quoth she , That soon will make and end of me . St. George then looking round about , the fiery Dragon soon espy'd , And like a knight of Courage stout , against him he did fiercely ride : And with such blows he did him greet , That he fell under his horses feet . For with a Lance that was so strong , as he came gaping in his face , In at his mouth he thrust it long , the which could pierce no other place : And there within this Ladys view , This dreadful Dragon then he slew . The savour of his poisoned breath , could do this Christian knight no harm ; Thus he did save this Lady from Death , and home he led her by the arm ; Which when Ptolomy did see , There was great Joy and Melody . When as this famous knight St. George , had slave the Dragon in the field , And brought the Lady to the Court , whose sighed with joy their hearts then fill'd He in the Egyptian Court then stayed , Till he most falsely was betray'd . The Lady Sabrine lov'd him well , he counted her his only Joy , But when their loves was open known it prov'd St. Georges great annoy ; The Morrocco King was then in Court , Who to the Orchard did resort . Daily to take the pleasant air , for pleasure sake he used to walk Under the wall , whereas he herd St. George with fair Sarabrine talk ; Their loves he revealed to the King , Which to St. George great woe did bring . These Kings together did devise to make this Christian knight away , With Letters him Ambassador , they straightway sent to Persia , And wrote to the Sophy him to kill , And treacherously his blood to spill . Thus they for good did him reward with evil , and most subtlety , By such vile means they did Devise to work his Death most cruelly ; While he in Persia abided , He straight Destroy'd each idol-god . Which being done he straight was flung into a Dungeon dark and deep ; But when he thought upon his wrong , he bitterly began to weep ; Yet like a knight of Courage stout , Forth of the Dungeon he god out . And in the night three Horsekeepers this valiant Knight by power slew , Although he fasted many a day , and then away from thence he flew , On the best steed that Sophy had , Which when he knew he was full sad . Then into Christendom he came , and met a Giant by the way , With him in Combat he did fight , most valiantly a Summer's day ; Who yet for all his bats of steel , Was forc'd the sting of death to feel . From Christendom this valiant knigh [ tO ] then with warlike Soldiers passed , Vowing upon that Heathen Land , to work revenge , which at the last E'er thrice three years was gone & spent , He did unto his great content . Save only AEgypt land he spar'd , for Sabrine bright her only sake , And e'er his rage he did suppress , he meant a trial kind to make : Ptolomy did know his strength in field , And unto him did kindly yield . Then he the Morrocco king did kill , and took fair Sabrine to his wife , And afterwards contentedly with her St. George did leed his life : Who by the virtue of a Chain , Did still a Virgin pure remain . To England then St. George did brin [ g ] this Gallant Lady Sabrine bright , And Eunuch also came with him , in whom the Lady did deligh None but these three from Egypt cam [ e ] Now let me Print St. Georges Fame When they were in the Forest grea [ tO ] the Lady did desire to res And then St. George to kill a Deer to And excellent Ballad of St. GEORGE for England , and the King of Egypt's Daughter , whom he delivered from Death , and how he slew a Monstrous Dragon , etc To the Tune of , Flying Fame , etc Licensed and Entered according to Order . OF Hectors Deeds did Homer sing , & of the sack of stately Troy , What grief fair Hellen did them bring , which was Sir Paris only joy : And with my pen I must recite St. Georges Deeds , and English Knigh Against the Sarazens full rude fought he full long & many a Day , Where many a Giant he subdu'd , in honour of the Christian way ; And after many adventures past , To Egypt Land he came at last . And as the Story plain does tell , within that Country there did rest , A dreadful Dragon fierce and fell , whereby they were full soar oppressed , Who by his poisoned breath each Day , Did many of the City slay . The Grief whereof did grow so great , throughout the Limits of the Land , That they their wisemen did entreat , to show their cunning out of hand ; Which way they might this Dragon 'stroy , That did their Country so annoy . The wisemen all before the King , fram'd this Matter incontinent , The Dragon none to death might bring , by any means they could invent ; His skin more hard than brass was found , That sword or spear could pierce or wound . When this the people understood , they cried out most piteously , The Dragons breath infected their blood , that they each day in heaps did Die ; among them such a Plague it bred , The Living scarce could bury the Dead . No means there was that they could find , for to appease the Dragons rage , But by a Virgin pure and kind , whereby he might his fury suage ; Each Day he should a Maiden eat , For to allay his Hunger great . This thing by art the Wisemen found , which truly must observed be , Wherefore throughout the City round , a Virgin pure of good Degree , Was by the Kings Commission still , Took up to serve the Dragons will . Thus did the Dragon every Day a Maiden of the town devour , Till all the Maids were worn away , and none were left that present hour , Saving the kings fair Daughter bright , Her Father's joy and hearts Delight . Then came the Officers to the king , this Heavy Message to declare , Which did his heart with sorrow sting , She is ( quoth he ) my Kingdoms Heir , Oh let us all be poisoned here , E'er she should die that is my dear . Then rose the People presently , and to the king in rage they went , Who said His Daughter dear should die , the Dragons fury to prevent ; Our daughters all are dead , quoth they , And have been made the Dragons prey . And by their blood thou hast been blessed , and thou hast sav'd their life thereby , And now in Justice it does rest , for us thy Daughter so should die . O save my Daughter , said the king , And let me feel the Dragons sting . Then fell fair Sabrine on her knee , and to her Father then did say , Oh Father strive not thus for me , but let me be the Dragons prey ; It may be for my sake alone , This Plague upon the land was shown . 'Tis better I should die ( she said ) than all your subject's perish quite , Perhaps the Dragon here was laid , for my offence to work this spite ; And after he hath sucked my gore , Your Land shall know the grief no more . What hast thou done ( my Daughter dear ) for to deserve this heavy scourge ? It is my fault it shall appear , which makes the Gods our state to grudge ; Then ought I die to stint the strife , And to preserve thy happy life . Like mad men all the people cry'd , thy death to us can do no good , Our safety only does abide to make thy Daughter Dragons food . Lo here I am , Oh then ( quoth she ) Therefore do what you will with me . Nay stay dear daughter , ( quoth the Queen ) and as thou art a Virgin bright , That hath for Virtue famous been , so let me cloth thee all in white , And crown thy head with flowers sweet , And Ornament for Virgins meet And when she was attired so , according to her Mother's mind , Unto the stake then did she go , to which they did this virgin bind ; And being bound to stake and thrall , She bid farewell unto them all : Farewell , dear Father , then ( quoth she ) and my sweet Mother meek and mild , Take you no thought or care for me , for you may have another Child : Here for my Countries good I'll die , Which I receive most willingly . The King and Queen with all their train , with weeping eyes then went their way , And let their Daughter there remain , to be the hungry Dragons prey : But as she there did weeping lie , Behold St. George came riding by : And seeing there a Lady bright , fast tied to the stake that day , Most like unto a Valiant Knight , straight unto her did take his way : Tell me sweet Maiden , then quoth he , What person thus abused thee ? And lo by Christ his blood I vow , which here is figured on my breast , I will revenge it on his brow , and break my Lance upon his cres And speaking thus whereas he stood , The Dragon issu'd out of the wood . The Lady that did first espy the Dreadful Dragon coming so , Unto St. George aloud did cry , and willed him away to go , Here comes that ugly Fiend , quoth she , That soon will make and end of me . St. George then looking round about , the fiery Dragon soon espy'd , And like a knight of Courage stout , against him he did fiercely ride : And with such blows he did him greet , That he fell under his horses feet . For with a Lance that was so strong , as he came gaping in his face , In at his mouth he thrust it long , the which could pierce no other place : And there within this Ladys view , This dreadful Dragon then he slew . The savour of his poisoned breath , could do this Christian knight no harm ; Thus he did save this Lady from Death , and home he led her by the arm ; Which when Ptolomy did see , There was great Joy and Melody . When as this famous knight St. George , had slave the Dragon in the field , And brought the Lady to the Court , whose sighed with joy their hearts then fill'd He in the Egyptian Court then stayed , Till he most falsely was betray'd . The Lady Sabrine lov'd him well , he counted her his only Joy , But when their loves was open known it prov'd St. Georges great annoy ; The Morrocco King was then in Court , Who to the Orchard did resort . Daily to take the pleasant air , for pleasure sake he used to walk Under the wall , whereas he herd St. George with fair Sarabrine talk ; Their loves he revealed to the King , Which to St. George great woe did bring . These Kings together did devise to make this Christian knight away , With Letters him Ambassador , they straightway sent to Persia , And wrote to the Sophy him to kill , And treacherously his blood to spill . Thus they for good did him reward with evil , and most subtlety , By such vile means they did Devise to work his Death most cruelly ; While he in Persia abided , He straight Destroy'd each idol-god . Which being done he straight was flung into a Dungeon dark and deep ; But when he thought upon his wrong , he bitterly began to weep ; Yet like a knight of Courage stout , Forth of the Dungeon he god out . And in the night three Horsekeepers this valiant Knight by power slew , Although he fasted many a day , and then away from thence he flew , On the best steed that Sophy had , Which when he knew he was full sad . Then into Christendom he came , and met a Giant by the way , With him in Combat he did fight , most valiantly a Summer's day ; Who yet for all his bats of steel , Was forc'd the sting of death to feel . From Christendom this valiant knigh [ tO ] then with warlike Soldiers passed , Vowing upon that Heathen Land , to work revenge , which at the last E'er thrice three years was gone & spent , He did unto his great content . Save only AEgypt land he spar'd , for Sabrine bright her only sake , And e'er his rage he did suppress , he meant a trial kind to make : Ptolomy did know his strength in field , And unto him did kindly yield . Then he the Morrocco king did kill , and took fair Sabrine to his wife , And afterwards contentedly with her St. George did leed his life : Who by the virtue of a Chain , Did still a Virgin pure remain . To England then St. George did brin [ g ] this Gallant Lady Sabrine bright , And Eunuch also came with him , in whom the Lady did deligh None but these three from Egypt cam [ e ] Now let me Print St. Georges Fame When they were in the Forest grea [ tO ] the Lady did desire to res And then St. George to kill a Deer to feed thereon did think it best , Left Sabrine and the Eunuch there , While he did go and kill a Deer . The meantime in his absence came two hungry Lyons fierce and fell , And tore the Eunuch presently in pieces small the truth to tell ; Down by the Lady then they laid , Whereby it seem'd she was a maid . But when St. George from hunting cam [ e ] and did behold this heavy chance , Yet for this lovely virgin pure his courage stout he did advance : And came within the Lions sighed , who run at him with all their might . But he being no whit dismayed , but like a stout and valiant knight , Did kill the hungry Lions both , within the Lady Sabrines sighed ; But all this while sad and demure She stood there like a virgin pure . But when St. George did truly know , his Lady was a virgin true , Those doleful thoughts that e'er was dum [ b ] began most firmly to renew : He set her on a Palfrey steed , And towards England came with speed . where he arrived in short time unto his Father's Dwelling-place , where with his Dearest Love he lived , when Fortune did their Nuptials grace , They many years of Joy did see , And led their lives at Coventry . Printed by and for Alex. Milbourn [ at ] the Stationers Arms in Green-Arbo [ r - ] Court in the Little Old-Baily . feed thereon did think it best , Left Sabrine and the Eunuch there , While he did go and kill a Deer . The meantime in his absence came two hungry Lyons fierce and fell , And tore the Eunuch presently in pieces small the truth to tell ; Down by the Lady then they laid , Whereby it seem'd she was a maid . But when St. George from hunting cam [ e ] and did behold this heavy chance , Yet for this lovely virgin pure his courage stout he did advance : And came within the Lions sighed , who run at him with all their might . But he being no whit dismayed , but like a stout and valiant knight , Did kill the hungry Lions both , within the Lady Sabrines sighed ; But all this while sad and demure She stood there like a virgin pure . But when St. George did truly know , his Lady was a virgin true , Those doleful thoughts that e'er was dum [ b ] began most firmly to renew : He set her on a Palfrey steed , And towards England came with speed . where he arrived in short time unto his Father's Dwelling-place , where with his Dearest Love he lived , when Fortune did their Nuptials grace , They many years of Joy did see , And led their lives at Coventry . Printed by and for Alex. Milbourn [ at ] the Stationers Arms in Green-Arbo [ r - ] Court in the Little Old-Baily . 