THE Merry Gossips Vindication , To the Groats worth of good Council Declaration . Some Women can drink and be drunk night and day , For all the fault is laid most on the Men , they do say . For if a Man do intend for to thrive . Then he must be sure to ask leave of his Wife . To the Tune of , Digbies Farewell . A Company of Gossips that love strong bub that met at and Alehouse and there they did club , They called for the short Pot and likewise the long come Tapster be quick for we soon must begun , They cupt it about and they made such great haste till their nose and their face were all of a blaze , A man he may work all the days of his Life , But he must ask his wife leave if he intends for to thrive What i'st for a man to marry a Wife if she proves a drunkard hee'l be weary of his Life As there is in London and England all or'e they'l take it so sweetly till they lie on the floor When a knot of merry Gossips are got together they then take no care for fare or foul Weather There's many a Husband takes pains and do's thrive But he must ask his Wife leave if he intends for to thrive . When the Ale and the Brandy does work in their head they care not a pin how there Children are fed Then one says here Sister il'e drink unto thee our Husbands are bound to maintain us truly , I have a shilling says one , I have two says another we will let it fly now we are met together , And thus you may see although a Man strive He must ask his Wife leave if he intend for to thrive . When their Bellies are full they are bound to give o're they have drunken so much they can drink no more , Then they'l hast to go home when they hardly can stand , you laugh for to see them then go hand in hand , A Man he is mad that hath god such a Wife , he may work and may toil all the days of his Life . There's many a Husband . THey tottor and wattor and fallen in the Dirt then the Boys they will shout and them will make sport Sometime cry a Hare and sometime cry a Whore to see them so drunk then they cry out the more , It's a inconvenience for a Women do so to take so much drink that she hardly can go , There's many a Husband , There is some that is known that will drink all the day & within night come home drunk & not a word they can say I'le promise you true there so heavy ith head they lie on the Stairs , and they cannot go Bed , It needs now must be a great shame unto those , for a Woman drunk so she cannot put of her Clothes . There's many a Husband , Some Women will set there Husbasd 'oth Score more then they are able to pay to be sure , When they are absent and taking of Pains , thus they lie at the Alehouse and consume all their gains Which makes many a man to fret all his life because he is tide to such a careless Wife . There's m [ a ] ny a Husband . But for civil good Women I have nothing to say they deserve a great praise though all these go astray They are a great shame to the rest of their Sex and many a good Woman to see them thus vexed For a Woman to bring herself in such a snare , and of Husband and Children have no better care . There's many a Husband It is good for a Woman live in a good way & keep at home with her Family that nothing go astray Then her Husband will love her the better sure and let her want nothing what he can procure For a Women thats giving to waste and consume makes many a honest man be not for home . That [ e ] re's many a Husband . What is't for a Woman to drink and to swill and never be satisfied till her belly be full , And then there , one husband they straight will abuse with all the base names that they ever can use And then if her Husband but strike her a blow she ready cry murder all this we may know , Then the neighbours are all put in a fear , when a Woman gets drink she for none will care . There's many a Husband . And now all good women that hears this Song , I pray you forgive me , if I have done you any wrong I will not condemn all for half askore I dare say in our Parish , we have a great many more Beside other places God send them to mend and then I do hope they take me for their Friend . And now to conclude there is no more to be said I wish that this Song it often be read . among the good Women that loves for to club and spendeth their money in Brandy and Bub , And then you shall see what brave days they will be your Housekeeping will be better in every Degree , Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden-Ball in Pie Corner . THE Merry Gossips Vindication , To the Groats worth of good Council Declaration . Some Women can drink and be drunk night and day , For all the fault is laid most on the Men , they do say . For if a Man do intend for to thrive . Then he must be sure to ask leave of his Wife . To the Tune of , Digbies Farewell . A Company of Gossips that love strong bub that met at and Alehouse and there they did club , They called for the short Pot and likewise the long come Tapster be quick for we soon must begun , They cupt it about and they made such great haste till their nose and their face were all of a blaze , A man he may work all the days of his Life , But he must ask his wife leave if he intends for to thrive What i'st for a man to marry a Wife if she proves a drunkard hee'l be weary of his Life As there is in London and England all or'e they'l take it so sweetly till they lie on the floor When a knot of merry Gossips are got together they then take no care for fare or foul Weather There's many a Husband takes pains and do's thrive But he must ask his Wife leave if he intends for to thrive . When the Ale and the Brandy does work in their head they care not a pin how there Children are fed Then one says here Sister il'e drink unto thee our Husbands are bound to maintain us truly , I have a shilling says one , I have two says another we will let it fly now we are met together , And thus you may see although a Man strive He must ask his Wife leave if he intend for to thrive . When their Bellies are full they are bound to give o're they have drunken so much they can drink no more , Then they'l hast to go home when they hardly can stand , you laugh for to see them then go hand in hand , A Man he is mad that hath god such a Wife , he may work and may toil all the days of his Life . There's many a Husband . THey tottor and wattor and fallen in the Dirt then the Boys they will shout and them will make sport Sometime cry a Hare and sometime cry a Whore to see them so drunk then they cry out the more , It's a inconvenience for a Women do so to take so much drink that she hardly can go , There's many a Husband , There is some that is known that will drink all the day & within night come home drunk & not a word they can say I'le promise you true there so heavy ith head they lie on the Stairs , and they cannot go Bed , It needs now must be a great shame unto those , for a Woman drunk so she cannot put of her Clothes . There's many a Husband , Some Women will set there Husbasd 'oth Score more then they are able to pay to be sure , When they are absent and taking of Pains , thus they lie at the Alehouse and consume all their gains Which makes many a man to fret all his life because he is tide to such a careless Wife . There's m [ a ] ny a Husband . But for civil good Women I have nothing to say they deserve a great praise though all these go astray They are a great shame to the rest of their Sex and many a good Woman to see them thus vexed For a Woman to bring herself in such a snare , and of Husband and Children have no better care . There's many a Husband It is good for a Woman live in a good way & keep at home with her Family that nothing go astray Then her Husband will love her the better sure and let her want nothing what he can procure For a Women thats giving to waste and consume makes many a honest man be not for home . That [ e ] re's many a Husband . What is't for a Woman to drink and to swill and never be satisfied till her belly be full , And then there , one husband they straight will abuse with all the base names that they ever can use And then if her Husband but strike her a blow she ready cry murder all this we may know , Then the neighbours are all put in a fear , when a Woman gets drink she for none will care . There's many a Husband . And now all good women that hears this Song , I pray you forgive me , if I have done you any wrong I will not condemn all for half askore I dare say in our Parish , we have a great many more Beside other places God send them to mend and then I do hope they take me for their Friend . And now to conclude there is no more to be said I wish that this Song it often be read . among the good Women that loves for to club and spendeth their money in Brandy and Bub , And then you shall see what brave days they will be your Housekeeping will be better in every Degree , Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden-Ball in Pie Corner . 