a To the Reverend Dr. BEVERIDGE , AND EUCHARISTICON , Occasion'd by his seasonable and excellent Sermon about Restitution , on * St. Lycia 19. 8. preach'd at St. Laurence's London , Tuesday , March 17. 1690. * And Zacheus stood , and said unto the Lord , Behold , Lord , the half of my Goods I give to the Poor , and if I have taken anything from any man by false accu - sation , I restore him fourfold . COming by Chance into St. Laurence-Kirk , Where Preachers did of Old Resistance Jerk , The prating Reader having made and End , I saw your Rev'rence on the Mount ascend , Like Publican-Zacheus , who , to see Jesus pass by , climb'd up into the Tree . My Thanks , good Sir , I must confess is due To penitent Zacheus , and to You. He by Example , You by Preaching , taught ( And therein seas'nably reveal'd the Thought Of many Hearts ) the Nature and Extent Of that great Duty of the Penitent , Call'd Restitution , which embalms his Tears , Sets him to Rights , and pays off all Arrears : Procures his Pardon from th'offended God , Atones his Vengeance , and do's charm his Rod . Pardon ( a ) th' Impenitent in vain implore , Impenitent are they that don't ( b ) Restore To th'wronged Man what was his ( c ) Own before . ( a ) No Pardon without Repentance , and no Repentance without Restitution . Dr. Be - veridge's Sermon on St. Luke 19. 8. before - mention'd . ( b ) And as you have hurt the Name of your Neighbour , or otherwise hindered him , so now intend to Restore it to him again . For without Restitution , God accepteth not your Confession , nor yet your Repen - tance . Book of Homilies , Fol. page . 286. 120. page . 465. ( c ) And so it is still , for Possession does not take away Right , and therefore Zacheus emphatically says , My Goods . Behold Lord , the half of my Goods I give to the Poor -- My Goods , i.e. what remains to me after I have restor'd what I have unjustly taken from another , who has the Right , and not I , though I have the Possession . And what remains when I have made such Restitu - cion , I may truly call my own --- Dr. Bev - ut supra . If this be true , Sir , then Your Flock is damn'd , And every swearing Priest that can be nam'd ; Who , to detain unjustly , do not dread , The Crown they stole from off their Monarch's Head : Whom by false Accusation they dethron'd , And , as and Abdicating King , disown'd . Tho'* t' Abdicate by Force , seems , by the By , A Monstrous Riddle , and Unlearned Lie : Which to ( worser ) believe , a Judgement is on those , Who think't no since their Sov'raign to Depose , Renounce , Abjure , Transfer Allegiance too : And what cannot a debauch'd Conscience do ? * To abdicate and Office , supposes a volun - tarry Act and the consent of him who quits i according to Tully , Salust , Livy , etc ( d ) For this cause God shall send them strong delusion , that they should believe a Lie : That they all might be damned who believed not the Truth , but had plea - sure in Unrighteousness , 2 Thess. 2. 11. 12. If RESTITUTION , Sir , must needs be made , Why not to Sceptres , as well as to the Spade ? If to our Fellow-Subjects we owe that Care , Much more to Kings who God's Vicegerents are . Or is it Lawful to defraud the King , Whil'st we are just to every other Thing ? Is it our Duty to do Right to All Except to Him , whom we our Father call ? Must God's Laws be obey'd b'our partial Will , Th' Apostles sad ( e ) Prediction to fulfil ? Render to all their Dues , the Gospel says , Directs to strait , condemns all crooked Ways . Restore to th' Wrong'd , and to all Justice do , The Voice of * Moses is , and ( f ) Jesus too . ( e ) In the last days perilous times shall come , for Men shall be lovers of their own selves , covetous ---- disobedient to Pa - rends , unthankful , unholy , without Natu - ral Affection , Truce-breakers , False Accu - sers --- Fierce , Despisers of those that are Good , Traitors --- 2 Tim. 3 1 , 2 , 3 , 4. A Text , which 'tis to be wished a certain Re - verend Divine , [ Dr. Sh -- ock ] who lately preach'd at Whitehall , had gone through with . * Lev. 6. 2 , 3 , 4 , 5. ( f ) Remember the G [ oh ] lden Rule which our Saviour recommends , Whatsoever you would that Men , etc Dr. Bev. ut supra . Go preach this Gospel-Doctrine through the Town , Bid 'em Restore who doe Usurp the Crown . The Man's ( g ) alive , and too his injur'd Son , To whom Restore before the ( h ) Setting-Sun , Or else ( sad Fate ! ) Three Kingdoms are undone . Fill City and Court-Pulpits with the Found , Cry , ( i ) RESTITUTION , all the Kingdom round . Fear not , preach , pray ( You Leader of the Blind ! ) Bewitched Subjects to a better Mind . By the Excorcising Art conjure the Devil From Rebel-Hearts , stop the impending Evil. Bid 'em transcribe Zacheus's ( k ) Honesty , Lest they ascend , not his , but Haman's Tree ; ( Though , as Zacheus , so amply to Restore , Will make the Thieves , and frolic Lenders , poor . ) Or else descend into the lowest Hell , Where Parricides , Robbers and Rebels dwell : For if the Publican we do contemn , The Publican the Christian will condemn . Bid 'em Repent , do Justice , and Restore , Call home the King , and then Rebel no more . ( g ) If the Man is alive whom you have wrong'd , make Restitution to him ; or if he is dead , to his Son , or Executor , etc ( h ) And I advice you to make no delay , make Restitution before the Sun is set . Id. ibid . ( i ) Without Restitution to the wrong'd , never expect God's Blessing upon you or yours , etc Id. ibid . ( k ) Be just , and act like honest Men , etc follow the Example in the Text , etc Id. ib . FINIS . a To the Reverend Dr. BEVERIDGE , AND EUCHARISTICON , Occasion'd by his seasonable and excellent Sermon about Restitution , on * St. Lycia 19. 8. preach'd at St. Laurence's London , Tuesday , March 17. 1690. * And Zacheus stood , and said unto the Lord , Behold , Lord , the half of my Goods I give to the Poor , and if I have taken anything from any man by false accu - sation , I restore him fourfold . COming by Chance into St. Laurence-Kirk , Where Preachers did of Old Resistance Jerk , The prating Reader having made and End , I saw your Rev'rence on the Mount ascend , Like Publican-Zacheus , who , to see Jesus pass by , climb'd up into the Tree . My Thanks , good Sir , I must confess is due To penitent Zacheus , and to You. He by Example , You by Preaching , taught ( And therein seas'nably reveal'd the Thought Of many Hearts ) the Nature and Extent Of that great Duty of the Penitent , Call'd Restitution , which embalms his Tears , Sets him to Rights , and pays off all Arrears : Procures his Pardon from th'offended God , Atones his Vengeance , and do's charm his Rod . Pardon ( a ) th' Impenitent in vain implore , Impenitent are they that don't ( b ) Restore To th'wronged Man what was his ( c ) Own before . ( a ) No Pardon without Repentance , and no Repentance without Restitution . Dr. Be - veridge's Sermon on St. Luke 19. 8. before - mention'd . ( b ) And as you have hurt the Name of your Neighbour , or otherwise hindered him , so now intend to Restore it to him again . For without Restitution , God accepteth not your Confession , nor yet your Repen - tance . Book of Homilies , Fol. page . 286. 120. page . 465. ( c ) And so it is still , for Possession does not take away Right , and therefore Zacheus emphatically says , My Goods . Behold Lord , the half of my Goods I give to the Poor -- My Goods , i.e. what remains to me after I have restor'd what I have unjustly taken from another , who has the Right , and not I , though I have the Possession . And what remains when I have made such Restitu - cion , I may truly call my own --- Dr. Bev - ut supra . If this be true , Sir , then Your Flock is damn'd , And every swearing Priest that can be nam'd ; Who , to detain unjustly , do not dread , The Crown they stole from off their Monarch's Head : Whom by false Accusation they dethron'd , And , as and Abdicating King , disown'd . Tho'* t' Abdicate by Force , seems , by the By , A Monstrous Riddle , and Unlearned Lie : Which to ( worser ) believe , a Judgement is on those , Who think't no since their Sov'raign to Depose , Renounce , Abjure , Transfer Allegiance too : And what cannot a debauch'd Conscience do ? * To abdicate and Office , supposes a volun - tarry Act and the consent of him who quits i according to Tully , Salust , Livy , etc ( d ) For this cause God shall send them strong delusion , that they should believe a Lie : That they all might be damned who believed not the Truth , but had plea - sure in Unrighteousness , 2 Thess. 2. 11. 12. If RESTITUTION , Sir , must needs be made , Why not to Sceptres , as well as to the Spade ? If to our Fellow-Subjects we owe that Care , Much more to Kings who God's Vicegerents are . Or is it Lawful to defraud the King , Whil'st we are just to every other Thing ? Is it our Duty to do Right to All Except to Him , whom we our Father call ? Must God's Laws be obey'd b'our partial Will , Th' Apostles sad ( e ) Prediction to fulfil ? Render to all their Dues , the Gospel says , Directs to strait , condemns all crooked Ways . Restore to th' Wrong'd , and to all Justice do , The Voice of * Moses is , and ( f ) Jesus too . ( e ) In the last days perilous times shall come , for Men shall be lovers of their own selves , covetous ---- disobedient to Pa - rends , unthankful , unholy , without Natu - ral Affection , Truce-breakers , False Accu - sers --- Fierce , Despisers of those that are Good , Traitors --- 2 Tim. 3 1 , 2 , 3 , 4. A Text , which 'tis to be wished a certain Re - verend Divine , [ Dr. Sh -- ock ] who lately preach'd at Whitehall , had gone through with . * Lev. 6. 2 , 3 , 4 , 5. ( f ) Remember the G [ oh ] lden Rule which our Saviour recommends , Whatsoever you would that Men , etc Dr. Bev. ut supra . Go preach this Gospel-Doctrine through the Town , Bid 'em Restore who doe Usurp the Crown . The Man's ( g ) alive , and too his injur'd Son , To whom Restore before the ( h ) Setting-Sun , Or else ( sad Fate ! ) Three Kingdoms are undone . Fill City and Court-Pulpits with the Found , Cry , ( i ) RESTITUTION , all the Kingdom round . Fear not , preach , pray ( You Leader of the Blind ! ) Bewitched Subjects to a better Mind . By the Excorcising Art conjure the Devil From Rebel-Hearts , stop the impending Evil. Bid 'em transcribe Zacheus's ( k ) Honesty , Lest they ascend , not his , but Haman's Tree ; ( Though , as Zacheus , so amply to Restore , Will make the Thieves , and frolic Lenders , poor . ) Or else descend into the lowest Hell , Where Parricides , Robbers and Rebels dwell : For if the Publican we do contemn , The Publican the Christian will condemn . Bid 'em Repent , do Justice , and Restore , Call home the King , and then Rebel no more . ( g ) If the Man is alive whom you have wrong'd , make Restitution to him ; or if he is dead , to his Son , or Executor , etc ( h ) And I advice you to make no delay , make Restitution before the Sun is set . Id. ibid . ( i ) Without Restitution to the wrong'd , never expect God's Blessing upon you or yours , etc Id. ibid . ( k ) Be just , and act like honest Men , etc follow the Example in the Text , etc Id. ib . FINIS . 