A Good Wife is a Portion every day . OR A Dialogue discovering a good Wife from a bad . And happy is that man that hath such a one . The Tune is , Pockingtons pound . By J. Wade . COme youngmen & listen to what I'le you show then William , and Harry , and Robin , & John When as you are minded a wooing to go , for these Lines do concern you every one : And what I declare , I'le make it appear , From Eve it sprang out , and has last till this year , For though she was Man's fallen . mark what I say , A good Wife is a portion every day . For a good wife will be saving and fearful to waste , but keep all things together so near as she can , When that a Spend : thrift will let fly as fast , and seeks by all means to undo her good man : Though he carps and does care , She'l not pinch nor spare . But junket abroad , [ a ] and must have her fine cheer , She thinks what she brought will never decay , When a good Wife is a portion every day . A wife that is virtuous and civil beside will honour her Husband , his words she'l obey , She'l not strive to cross him whatever betide , but make all things well when there should be a With fair words she'l him draw To submit to her Law , Though his Beard it be frozen , in time she'l tO thaw Although he be given to wander and stray , A good wife will led him into the right way . But she that takes no care but only for Pride how Buckle and Thong together to hold , She will have her humour whatever betide , or else day and night at him she will scold , For let a man starve , As I am alive , First he must ask his wife is he shall thrive : And if she says not , his Estate will decay ; When a good Wife is a portion every day . If a youngman hath but little withal to begin , if he lights of a good wife his stock will increase , What he gets without doors she'l save it within , and if he be froward she'l strive to keep peace : When a cross-grained wife That's given to strife , Will seek to make a man weary on's life : What e're he says to her she'l not him obey , When a good wife is a portion every day . Therefore young Bachelors wherever you be , let not this money your hearts so bewitch , For 't 'ant that which makes a good husband you see nor Means altogether don't make a man rich : The reason isle show you why , You shan't say I lie , She that brings a great deal looks to be maintained high Her costly Attire and Estate will decay , When a good wife etc I herd of two Brother's , the one was the Heir , the other had little at all to begin , He married a wife that was both rich and fair , then for his poor Brother he car'd not a pin : For he did live high , And his wife she let fly His means , till she brought him to poverty , Then to his poor brother he sigh'd and did say , A good wife etc Thus you may see how some are made poor , and some that hath but little to fortune does rise , then he that has a good wife make much of her therefore and do not against her no mischief devise : But some men cannot see When as they well be , But seeks for to ruin their Family : Then all the blame on the poor woman they lay , When a good etc He that has a good wife , happy is that man , if he does his endeavour his Living to get , And not spend it abroad in Pot nor in Can , she'l strive always to keep him out of Debt ; Good Counsel she'l him give , If he'l it receive , And set him all times in a way for to live : But a wife that is froward his Estate will decay , But a good etc But youngmen you'l say how should a man know , how to choose a good wife from a bad , In few lines I here will you show , and teach you that will make your hearts glad , Choose one that is civil , And strives to shun evil , For some are too cunning I think for the Devil , But she that means honest will keep the right way When a good etc Be sure don't take a wife that will swear and lie , nor one that is given to flout or to jeer , Though she has ne'r so much means , she'l make it all fly , & spend more in a week then thou'lt get in a year , Nor do not take one That's too fluent in tongue , She'l always be tattling of that she knows not on , Though it be nonsense she will have her way , when a good etc But if thou art minded for to have a Mate , chum [ s ] e one that is virtuous and civil beside , Although thou art poor she'l live at the same rate , and with patience will wait till thou canst better provide , For content is a thing , That comfort does bring , It makes a poor man as well as a Lord to sing : Then let the read shanx or Dane deny what I say , If a good wife etc Concluding my ditty of what I have told , make much of thy wife though thou [ ' ] rt never so poor , And if thou'st god children esteem them as gold , then thou'lt find a Salve for to cure thy soar : To work do thou strive , To keep them alive , As thy charge grows up thy stock it will thrive : Then youngmen remember these words that I say A good Wife is a Portion eve [ r ] y day . FINIS Printed for P. Brooksby at the golden Ball near the Hospital Gate in West Smithfield . A Good Wife is a Portion every day . OR A Dialogue discovering a good Wife from a bad . And happy is that man that hath such a one . The Tune is , Pockingtons pound . By J. Wade . COme youngmen & listen to what I'le you show then William , and Harry , and Robin , & John When as you are minded a wooing to go , for these Lines do concern you every one : And what I declare , I'le make it appear , From Eve it sprang out , and has last till this year , For though she was Man's fallen . mark what I say , A good Wife is a portion every day . For a good wife will be saving and fearful to waste , but keep all things together so near as she can , When that a Spend : thrift will let fly as fast , and seeks by all means to undo her good man : Though he carps and does care , She'l not pinch nor spare . But junket abroad , [ a ] and must have her fine cheer , She thinks what she brought will never decay , When a good Wife is a portion every day . A wife that is virtuous and civil beside will honour her Husband , his words she'l obey , She'l not strive to cross him whatever betide , but make all things well when there should be a With fair words she'l him draw To submit to her Law , Though his Beard it be frozen , in time she'l tO thaw Although he be given to wander and stray , A good wife will led him into the right way . But she that takes no care but only for Pride how Buckle and Thong together to hold , She will have her humour whatever betide , or else day and night at him she will scold , For let a man starve , As I am alive , First he must ask his wife is he shall thrive : And if she says not , his Estate will decay ; When a good Wife is a portion every day . If a youngman hath but little withal to begin , if he lights of a good wife his stock will increase , What he gets without doors she'l save it within , and if he be froward she'l strive to keep peace : When a cross-grained wife That's given to strife , Will seek to make a man weary on's life : What e're he says to her she'l not him obey , When a good wife is a portion every day . Therefore young Bachelors wherever you be , let not this money your hearts so bewitch , For 't 'ant that which makes a good husband you see nor Means altogether don't make a man rich : The reason isle show you why , You shan't say I lie , She that brings a great deal looks to be maintained high Her costly Attire and Estate will decay , When a good wife etc I herd of two Brother's , the one was the Heir , the other had little at all to begin , He married a wife that was both rich and fair , then for his poor Brother he car'd not a pin : For he did live high , And his wife she let fly His means , till she brought him to poverty , Then to his poor brother he sigh'd and did say , A good wife etc Thus you may see how some are made poor , and some that hath but little to fortune does rise , then he that has a good wife make much of her therefore and do not against her no mischief devise : But some men cannot see When as they well be , But seeks for to ruin their Family : Then all the blame on the poor woman they lay , When a good etc He that has a good wife , happy is that man , if he does his endeavour his Living to get , And not spend it abroad in Pot nor in Can , she'l strive always to keep him out of Debt ; Good Counsel she'l him give , If he'l it receive , And set him all times in a way for to live : But a wife that is froward his Estate will decay , But a good etc But youngmen you'l say how should a man know , how to choose a good wife from a bad , In few lines I here will you show , and teach you that will make your hearts glad , Choose one that is civil , And strives to shun evil , For some are too cunning I think for the Devil , But she that means honest will keep the right way When a good etc Be sure don't take a wife that will swear and lie , nor one that is given to flout or to jeer , Though she has ne'r so much means , she'l make it all fly , & spend more in a week then thou'lt get in a year , Nor do not take one That's too fluent in tongue , She'l always be tattling of that she knows not on , Though it be nonsense she will have her way , when a good etc But if thou art minded for to have a Mate , chum [ s ] e one that is virtuous and civil beside , Although thou art poor she'l live at the same rate , and with patience will wait till thou canst better provide , For content is a thing , That comfort does bring , It makes a poor man as well as a Lord to sing : Then let the read shanx or Dane deny what I say , If a good wife etc Concluding my ditty of what I have told , make much of thy wife though thou [ ' ] rt never so poor , And if thou'st god children esteem them as gold , then thou'lt find a Salve for to cure thy soar : To work do thou strive , To keep them alive , As thy charge grows up thy stock it will thrive : Then youngmen remember these words that I say A good Wife is a Portion eve [ r ] y day . FINIS Printed for P. Brooksby at the golden Ball near the Hospital Gate in West Smithfield . 