Unconstant WILLIAM : Or , The Damosels Resolution to Love Indifferently all MEN alike , from her Experience of his Disloyalty . To and excellent new Tune . Constancy I am sure is not my fate , For him I lov'd yesterday to day I hate : For here I love , there I love , thus I love now ; For Love has intangl'd me I know not how . Of all the Young men that ever I did see , I lov'd William best , till he prov'd false to me : For here I love , etc For Love has intangl'd , etc I loved him well , but his love it was small , And now for the future I swear to love all : For here I love , etc For Love has intangl'd , etc For now I love Richard , Charles , Thomas and John , I likewise love Robert that pretty young Man : For here I love , etc For Love has intangl'd , etc Tho' once I was Constant , yet now I am free , and I am resolv'd ever so for to be : For here I love , etc For Love has intangl'd , etc Might I have a Miser with thousands , and more , I'd slight him , altho' he my Charms would adore : For here I love , etc For Love has intangl'd , etc I never will valve the name of a Bride , To one Huffing Gallant I'll never be ty'd : For here I love , etc For Love has intangl'd , etc I now can be Coach'd to a Ball or a Play , And with a young Spark be conducted away : For here I love , there I love , thus I love now ; For Love has intangl'd , me I know not how . With Twenty or more , I will reap my Delight , It is not one Strephon shall ruin me quite : For here I love , there I love , thus I love now ; For Love has intangl'd me I know not how . My heart now will never be subject to break , Like other young Maids whom their Gallants forsake : For here I love , etc For Love has intangl'd , etc To Lawyers , nay , Scholars , and Merchant's also , My equal affections and kindness I show : For here I love , etc For Love has intangl'd , etc I'll never be subject to any ones frown , While I am belov'd by the best in the Town : For here I love , etc For Love has intangl'd , etc When leaving the City I rang'd to the Court , And there with young Gallants in Pleasure I spor For here I love , etc For Love has intangl'd , etc I could have been Loyal to one and no more , Had I not been slighted by William before : For here I love , etc For Love has intangl'd , etc I find by Experience , young Men are unjust , Therefore I will now be as false as the res For here I love , etc For Love has intangl'd , etc If Bachelors they , through and evil design , Let their Fancy waver , pray why may not mine ? For here I love , there I love , thus I love now ; For Love has intangl'd me I know not how . FINIS . Printed for C. Bates , at the White-Hart in West-Smithfield . Unconstant WILLIAM : Or , The Damosels Resolution to Love Indifferently all MEN alike , from her Experience of his Disloyalty . To and excellent new Tune . Constancy I am sure is not my fate , For him I lov'd yesterday to day I hate : For here I love , there I love , thus I love now ; For Love has intangl'd me I know not how . Of all the Young men that ever I did see , I lov'd William best , till he prov'd false to me : For here I love , etc For Love has intangl'd , etc I loved him well , but his love it was small , And now for the future I swear to love all : For here I love , etc For Love has intangl'd , etc For now I love Richard , Charles , Thomas and John , I likewise love Robert that pretty young Man : For here I love , etc For Love has intangl'd , etc Tho' once I was Constant , yet now I am free , and I am resolv'd ever so for to be : For here I love , etc For Love has intangl'd , etc Might I have a Miser with thousands , and more , I'd slight him , altho' he my Charms would adore : For here I love , etc For Love has intangl'd , etc I never will valve the name of a Bride , To one Huffing Gallant I'll never be ty'd : For here I love , etc For Love has intangl'd , etc I now can be Coach'd to a Ball or a Play , And with a young Spark be conducted away : For here I love , there I love , thus I love now ; For Love has intangl'd , me I know not how . With Twenty or more , I will reap my Delight , It is not one Strephon shall ruin me quite : For here I love , there I love , thus I love now ; For Love has intangl'd me I know not how . My heart now will never be subject to break , Like other young Maids whom their Gallants forsake : For here I love , etc For Love has intangl'd , etc To Lawyers , nay , Scholars , and Merchant's also , My equal affections and kindness I show : For here I love , etc For Love has intangl'd , etc I'll never be subject to any ones frown , While I am belov'd by the best in the Town : For here I love , etc For Love has intangl'd , etc When leaving the City I rang'd to the Court , And there with young Gallants in Pleasure I spor For here I love , etc For Love has intangl'd , etc I could have been Loyal to one and no more , Had I not been slighted by William before : For here I love , etc For Love has intangl'd , etc I find by Experience , young Men are unjust , Therefore I will now be as false as the res For here I love , etc For Love has intangl'd , etc If Bachelors they , through and evil design , Let their Fancy waver , pray why may not mine ? For here I love , there I love , thus I love now ; For Love has intangl'd me I know not how . FINIS . Printed for C. Bates , at the White-Hart in West-Smithfield . 