The Bogg-Trotters March ; Or , King William's Glorious Conquest over the whole Irish Army . To and Excellent New Tune , Or , March Boys , March Boys , etc Licensed according to Order . I. OLd James with his rascally Rabble of Rogues , He drew up his Army pretending to stand ; But as they march [ ' ] worser they must trust to their Brogues , The De'l take hind most was his Command : He had a Ditty he mumbl'd along , It went in the Tune of Lilli borlero ; But we will follow them close with a Song , Of march Boys , march , Boys , Tan ta ra ro : March Boys , march Boys , merry , merry march , Boys , Trague's but a Mushroom to a Man , Boys , See how how they fly , how they run , how they die , Whilst Conquering William leads us on Boys . II Thus Teague with his Loyalty , Mettle , and Pride , Resolve to maintain his Natural Prince ; Who the plague blames him so nearly ally'd , In Truth , Religion , Wit , and Sense ; He quits his Crowns , they surrender his Towns , If he plays the Fool , they all do the same , Sir ; Loose or win , or get it all again soon ; Thus they play the factious Game , Sir , Game Sir , Game Sir , Ninny , Ninny , tame Sir ; See what a Monster they have made thee ; Shave , shave thy Pate , drown thy Wife , poison Kate , Be Chreest and St. Patrick they've all betray'd thee . III . The Irish Nation was carry'd to pawn , For Money , the Catholic War to maintain ; As soon as King William a Sword he had drawn , His Conquering Army redeem'd it again ; Now Monsier , Begar , he may hang himself , They scamper'd and left the whole Kingdom behind 'em , But still we will follow the hectoring Elf , In France , in France , we hope to find 'em Charge , Boys chare Boys , rally , rally , charge Boys , Like noble Lads with warlike Thunder ; Pursue them amain , in retreat they are slave , Their Troops and their Ranks we'll break in sun-der . IV. Loud Cannons did roar , and the Trumpets did found , The which warlike Music soon fill'd 'em with fear ; The Devil a Teague of 'em all stood their ground , Nor likewise the prodigal Huff , Monsieur ; For , like nimble Deer , they all took their flight , Not only the French , but the Cartholick Tory ; And still in their running they bid us Goodnight , And thus brave Nassau gained Glory : Found Boys , found Boys , let the Trumpet found , Boys , We were resolved they should restore us ; Towns which we wone , while the Catholics run , And thus did we conquer all before us . V. Poor Teague with a sighs and a sorrowful face , With crossing his breast , to the Saints he did cry , In spite of Tyrconnel , his Majesty's Grace , We'er forc'd to the Bogs and Mountains to fly : When none did resist we conquer'd a deal , The greatest part of the Irish Nation ; But fait it has prov'd like a slippery Eel , We are forc'd to surrender at Discretion : Nassau , Nassau , with his Valiant Army , Fought and pursu'd us all together ; Rather than die , we did bid them Good-bye , For our Brogues they were made of running Leather . VI . Old Jemmy our Master is scamper'd to France . And we wou'd have follow'd as fast as we could ; But e'er we cou'd out of the Nation advance , Like sorrowful Tories we all were fool'd ; Many that ventur'd to fight were kill'd , But , for my own part , I was fearful to fire : Be Chreest in my running I was well skill'd , And therefore in time I did retire : Charge Boys , charge Boys , still they follow'd , Charge Boys ; Fearful I was that they wou'd find me ; But as I run , I did throw down my Gun , And never so much as look'd behind me . Printed for C. Bates , next door to the Crown-Tavern in West-Smithfield . The Bogg-Trotters March ; Or , King William's Glorious Conquest over the whole Irish Army . To and Excellent New Tune , Or , March Boys , March Boys , etc Licensed according to Order . I. OLd James with his rascally Rabble of Rogues , He drew up his Army pretending to stand ; But as they march [ ' ] worser they must trust to their Brogues , The De'l take hind most was his Command : He had a Ditty he mumbl'd along , It went in the Tune of Lilli borlero ; But we will follow them close with a Song , Of march Boys , march , Boys , Tan ta ra ro : March Boys , march Boys , merry , merry march , Boys , Trague's but a Mushroom to a Man , Boys , See how how they fly , how they run , how they die , Whilst Conquering William leads us on Boys . II Thus Teague with his Loyalty , Mettle , and Pride , Resolve to maintain his Natural Prince ; Who the plague blames him so nearly ally'd , In Truth , Religion , Wit , and Sense ; He quits his Crowns , they surrender his Towns , If he plays the Fool , they all do the same , Sir ; Loose or win , or get it all again soon ; Thus they play the factious Game , Sir , Game Sir , Game Sir , Ninny , Ninny , tame Sir ; See what a Monster they have made thee ; Shave , shave thy Pate , drown thy Wife , poison Kate , Be Chreest and St. Patrick they've all betray'd thee . III . The Irish Nation was carry'd to pawn , For Money , the Catholic War to maintain ; As soon as King William a Sword he had drawn , His Conquering Army redeem'd it again ; Now Monsier , Begar , he may hang himself , They scamper'd and left the whole Kingdom behind 'em , But still we will follow the hectoring Elf , In France , in France , we hope to find 'em Charge , Boys chare Boys , rally , rally , charge Boys , Like noble Lads with warlike Thunder ; Pursue them amain , in retreat they are slave , Their Troops and their Ranks we'll break in sun-der . IV. Loud Cannons did roar , and the Trumpets did found , The which warlike Music soon fill'd 'em with fear ; The Devil a Teague of 'em all stood their ground , Nor likewise the prodigal Huff , Monsieur ; For , like nimble Deer , they all took their flight , Not only the French , but the Cartholick Tory ; And still in their running they bid us Goodnight , And thus brave Nassau gained Glory : Found Boys , found Boys , let the Trumpet found , Boys , We were resolved they should restore us ; Towns which we wone , while the Catholics run , And thus did we conquer all before us . V. Poor Teague with a sighs and a sorrowful face , With crossing his breast , to the Saints he did cry , In spite of Tyrconnel , his Majesty's Grace , We'er forc'd to the Bogs and Mountains to fly : When none did resist we conquer'd a deal , The greatest part of the Irish Nation ; But fait it has prov'd like a slippery Eel , We are forc'd to surrender at Discretion : Nassau , Nassau , with his Valiant Army , Fought and pursu'd us all together ; Rather than die , we did bid them Good-bye , For our Brogues they were made of running Leather . VI . Old Jemmy our Master is scamper'd to France . And we wou'd have follow'd as fast as we could ; But e'er we cou'd out of the Nation advance , Like sorrowful Tories we all were fool'd ; Many that ventur'd to fight were kill'd , But , for my own part , I was fearful to fire : Be Chreest in my running I was well skill'd , And therefore in time I did retire : Charge Boys , charge Boys , still they follow'd , Charge Boys ; Fearful I was that they wou'd find me ; But as I run , I did throw down my Gun , And never so much as look'd behind me . Printed for C. Bates , next door to the Crown-Tavern in West-Smithfield . 