The Quarrelsome Lovers : Or , the successless Woeing . Being a most Pleasant Song by way of Dialogue between Robin and Susan . Love grows enraged , denial and disdain Makes passion rise which Love cannot restrain , Sweet Venus combat here is laid aside , And Sue resolves she uppermost will ride , Robin no longer dare with her engage , But plies his Heels to bear him from her Rage . To a pleasant New Tune called Old Tony , Or let Oliver now be forgotten . Of late I did hear of a Woeing ; And Robin at first did worser [ e ] clare : Sweet Susan , pray let us be doing , And thou of the Pleasure shalt share . Says Susan , nay soft bonny Robin although you would feign be a gobbing Me to deceive , Yet there's no bobbing Until the Parson first give you leave . Sweet Susan I love thee most dearly and thou my Affection shalt find , Susan Stand off Sir , and come not so near me , for fear that I beatrice your eyes blind , you swear that you Love by Lord Harry , but when do you mean for to marry Me poor Sue , If you can tarry , I will not tarry much longer for you . Robin . Dear Susan thou know'st my affection , and no one I'm sure that knows more , Then keep me not thus in subjection because my condition is poor For want of both clothing and money I cant enjoy thee my honey , As 'tis thy due In Matrimony , Robin would surely else marry with Sue . YOu say you want Money and Clothing , to make me your wedded wife , Yet you would get Bastards for nothing , to cause to the Parish great strife . But if that you dance by the middle , good-faith you must pay for the Fiddle , And Fiddler too , Then you'l not giggle , Therefore be gone with you I'le not do . Robin . Let all our past strife be forgotten , and let us think on it no more , But henceforth sweet Sue let us cotton , for thou art the Lass I adore , There's nothing shall ever divide us , though Father and Mother both chide us Come let us to't , Though some deride us , I'le learn thee how thy Mother did do't Sue . Do what , pray stand off , come not nigh me , your flatteriy's quite out of Doors , I scorn such a one shou'd lie by me , go get you gone hence to your Wh ---- , Although you so well can dissemble , and a faithful Lover resemble , It will not boot , For by my Thimble , I never will yield me unto't . Robin . Nay , rather than I'le loose my longing I'le marry thee Sue , shall it be , And then will sweet pleasures come thronging while that you do dally with me , We'l swim in and Ocean of pleasure , we'l kiss and we'l clip without measure , Oh then let's to't , Come my dear treasure , I'll show thee how thy Father did do't . Sue . Nay , soft I am now out of humour , go Sheehead I am not a prize , No , first I will wed the next comer , and he by my fortune shall rise , Had you in my Loves first beginning been faithful , obliging , and winning , Then passed all doubt , I had been willing , But now you shall never come to't . Robin . A Pox on your ugly ill features , think you on your face I do dote , You stairing ill-favourdst of Creatures ; no , had you not Money to boot , I ne'r would have prais'd your Complexion , nor Breath that's as bad as Infection , This is the fruit Of my election , When all was spent , I'd no more do't . Sue . Thou ill-gotten crab-headed fellow , you hamper-brith'd splayfooted Knave , Your looks are like half-melted Tallow A Whipping-post you do deserve : Your practice is only delusion , to bring silly Maids to confusion , And your best Friend ( In the Conclusion ) You will betray , But Tyburn's your END . Printed for Phil. Brooksby at the sign of the Golden Ball in West Smithfield . The Quarrelsome Lovers : Or , the successless Woeing . Being a most Pleasant Song by way of Dialogue between Robin and Susan . Love grows enraged , denial and disdain Makes passion rise which Love cannot restrain , Sweet Venus combat here is laid aside , And Sue resolves she uppermost will ride , Robin no longer dare with her engage , But plies his Heels to bear him from her Rage . To a pleasant New Tune called Old Tony , Or let Oliver now be forgotten . Of late I did hear of a Woeing ; And Robin at first did worser [ e ] clare : Sweet Susan , pray let us be doing , And thou of the Pleasure shalt share . Says Susan , nay soft bonny Robin although you would feign be a gobbing Me to deceive , Yet there's no bobbing Until the Parson first give you leave . Sweet Susan I love thee most dearly and thou my Affection shalt find , Susan Stand off Sir , and come not so near me , for fear that I beatrice your eyes blind , you swear that you Love by Lord Harry , but when do you mean for to marry Me poor Sue , If you can tarry , I will not tarry much longer for you . Robin . Dear Susan thou know'st my affection , and no one I'm sure that knows more , Then keep me not thus in subjection because my condition is poor For want of both clothing and money I cant enjoy thee my honey , As 'tis thy due In Matrimony , Robin would surely else marry with Sue . YOu say you want Money and Clothing , to make me your wedded wife , Yet you would get Bastards for nothing , to cause to the Parish great strife . But if that you dance by the middle , good-faith you must pay for the Fiddle , And Fiddler too , Then you'l not giggle , Therefore be gone with you I'le not do . Robin . Let all our past strife be forgotten , and let us think on it no more , But henceforth sweet Sue let us cotton , for thou art the Lass I adore , There's nothing shall ever divide us , though Father and Mother both chide us Come let us to't , Though some deride us , I'le learn thee how thy Mother did do't Sue . Do what , pray stand off , come not nigh me , your flatteriy's quite out of Doors , I scorn such a one shou'd lie by me , go get you gone hence to your Wh ---- , Although you so well can dissemble , and a faithful Lover resemble , It will not boot , For by my Thimble , I never will yield me unto't . Robin . Nay , rather than I'le loose my longing I'le marry thee Sue , shall it be , And then will sweet pleasures come thronging while that you do dally with me , We'l swim in and Ocean of pleasure , we'l kiss and we'l clip without measure , Oh then let's to't , Come my dear treasure , I'll show thee how thy Father did do't . Sue . Nay , soft I am now out of humour , go Sheehead I am not a prize , No , first I will wed the next comer , and he by my fortune shall rise , Had you in my Loves first beginning been faithful , obliging , and winning , Then passed all doubt , I had been willing , But now you shall never come to't . Robin . A Pox on your ugly ill features , think you on your face I do dote , You stairing ill-favourdst of Creatures ; no , had you not Money to boot , I ne'r would have prais'd your Complexion , nor Breath that's as bad as Infection , This is the fruit Of my election , When all was spent , I'd no more do't . Sue . Thou ill-gotten crab-headed fellow , you hamper-brith'd splayfooted Knave , Your looks are like half-melted Tallow A Whipping-post you do deserve : Your practice is only delusion , to bring silly Maids to confusion , And your best Friend ( In the Conclusion ) You will betray , But Tyburn's your END . Printed for Phil. Brooksby at the sign of the Golden Ball in West Smithfield . 