The Vergins Advice TO THE Maids of LONDON . To the Tune of , Oh! that I were but young for you . OFt have I herd the Wives complain , Oh that they were but Maids again , Maids and they would marry with none , For the Maid is the best that lies alone . What is more sweet than to live free , And to enjoy ones Liberty ? Therefore I will marry with none , For the Maid is the best that lies alone . Love is a torment in the breast , And will not let a Maiden rest , And the young men now so faithless are grown , That the maid is the best that lies alone . When we are Young they praise us all , And their Delights and Darlings call ; And yet a Lover I will have none , For the Maid , etc Why should [ I ] wear Young Cupid's Chain ? Why should I grieve and sighs in vain ? Now my heart I'm sure is my own , And the Maid , etc Why should the Maidens marry then ? Only to please Fantastic men ; No one need to make any moan , And the Maid , etc Which is most fine the Rose or thorn ? Or that which on some soft Breast is worn ; There the fragrant sweetness is gone , And the Maid , etc In a sweet harmless single life , There is no scolding noise or strife , To which the Husbands ever were prove , Therefore maids are the best , etc In lying alone there is no harm , And our maidenheads sure can keep us warm , Therefore Young Virgins keep what's your own , For the Maid , etc I do advice that you touch no man , And you'll be a Maid do what they can , And this I'll lay a hundred to one That she's the best , etc Though men are found , they're fickle still , And every Jack must have his Jill , Have a Jill , though none of his own , Therefore Maids are the best , etc Cupid is but a silly Toy , And idle Young blind fantastic Boy , Therefore Lovers I will have none , For the maid , etc Therefore Young Damsels learn of me , For to live harmless and live free ; But as for Young men meddle with none , For the Maid is the best that lies alone . Printed and Sold by Charles Barnet . The Vergins Advice TO THE Maids of LONDON . To the Tune of , Oh! that I were but young for you . OFt have I herd the Wives complain , Oh that they were but Maids again , Maids and they would marry with none , For the Maid is the best that lies alone . What is more sweet than to live free , And to enjoy ones Liberty ? Therefore I will marry with none , For the Maid is the best that lies alone . Love is a torment in the breast , And will not let a Maiden rest , And the young men now so faithless are grown , That the maid is the best that lies alone . When we are Young they praise us all , And their Delights and Darlings call ; And yet a Lover I will have none , For the Maid , etc Why should [ I ] wear Young Cupid's Chain ? Why should I grieve and sighs in vain ? Now my heart I'm sure is my own , And the Maid , etc Why should the Maidens marry then ? Only to please Fantastic men ; No one need to make any moan , And the Maid , etc Which is most fine the Rose or thorn ? Or that which on some soft Breast is worn ; There the fragrant sweetness is gone , And the Maid , etc In a sweet harmless single life , There is no scolding noise or strife , To which the Husbands ever were prove , Therefore maids are the best , etc In lying alone there is no harm , And our maidenheads sure can keep us warm , Therefore Young Virgins keep what's your own , For the Maid , etc I do advice that you touch no man , And you'll be a Maid do what they can , And this I'll lay a hundred to one That she's the best , etc Though men are found , they're fickle still , And every Jack must have his Jill , Have a Jill , though none of his own , Therefore Maids are the best , etc Cupid is but a silly Toy , And idle Young blind fantastic Boy , Therefore Lovers I will have none , For the maid , etc Therefore Young Damsels learn of me , For to live harmless and live free ; But as for Young men meddle with none , For the Maid is the best that lies alone . Printed and Sold by Charles Barnet . 