Darby-shires Glory . To the Tune of , I am a Jovial Bachelor . OLd England many Countries hath of Fame and great Renown ; But Darbyshire for Wool and Led all others does put down : For Youngmen neat , And Maids complete , All those that have been there , Will boldly swear , None can compare With famous Darbyshere . In Yorkshire it is reported , there is store of Bred and Beef ; And Cheshire , as I hear them say , for Men it is the Chief : There's Lancashire aboundeth for Fair Women , they say ; But Darbyshire for Wool and Led , does bear the Bell away . Their Sheep they feed in Pastures good , upon the pleasant Plain : There is great store of Coals and Wood , beside all sorts of Grain . And Clothes most brave Likewise they have , That is both fresh and fair : Which makes , etc In other Countries I have herd tell of the Fame of Darby Malt ; For let them make the best they can , they of it come far short . It bears the Bell , As I have herd tell , Of all both far and near ; Which makes me swear , None can compare With famous Derbyshire . And then such Drink of this same Malt the Brewers they do make , Will make and old Woman's Tongue to talk , and a Cat almost to speak : It will do them good , And warm their Blood , That drinks but of this Beer ; Which makes me swear , None can compare With famous Derbyshire . The Grovers they do work full hard within the Stony Ground , ( Although with Stones they're debarr'd ) till they their Over have found : Then with their Prize away they high to take a Glass of Beer : Which makes , etc In Darby , which is the Country Town , there is a Castle strong ; Which many and arrant Rogue hath known , that hath done his Neighbours wrong . And the County Sheriff does ride in State , with Trumpets sounding clear : Which makes , etc There is Heafeild Hope , and Tidswal , ( as I have herd many tell ) For Fairs and merry Meetings , all others does excel . The Youngmen and Maids , With their Comrades , Will Dance and Sing most rare : Which makes , etc Their is great Hunting every year , not far from Tidswall Town , To which brave Gentlemen repair , and Men of high Renown : To the Moors they're bound , With Horse and Hound , To chase the nimble Hare : Which makes , etc There is the Chapel of Frith likewise , it I must not forge There is proper young-Men comes to Town , and Maidens very nea Then at the Thorn , They're not think scorn , To take a Cup of Beer : Which makes , etc The Wonders of the World I think , at Buxtons may be found ; While a white pound of Candles burn , one may walk under the Ground . Then there is Well , ( As I have herd tell ) For Virtues very rare : Which makes , etc , There is Fishing , and there is Fowling , likewise at Backwall Town ; There is Hunting , and there is Bowling both up the Hills and down . All Recreations lawful and civil , they use there ; Which makes , etc And now my Song for to conclude , I here do make and End ; Sure every one that is not rude , will take me for his Friend : Then buy then all , both Great and Small , the Purchase is not dear , When for one Penny you may have The Fame of Darby-shere . FINIS . London Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . Darby-shires Glory . To the Tune of , I am a Jovial Bachelor . OLd England many Countries hath of Fame and great Renown ; But Darbyshire for Wool and Led all others does put down : For Youngmen neat , And Maids complete , All those that have been there , Will boldly swear , None can compare With famous Darbyshere . In Yorkshire it is reported , there is store of Bred and Beef ; And Cheshire , as I hear them say , for Men it is the Chief : There's Lancashire aboundeth for Fair Women , they say ; But Darbyshire for Wool and Led , does bear the Bell away . Their Sheep they feed in Pastures good , upon the pleasant Plain : There is great store of Coals and Wood , beside all sorts of Grain . And Clothes most brave Likewise they have , That is both fresh and fair : Which makes , etc In other Countries I have herd tell of the Fame of Darby Malt ; For let them make the best they can , they of it come far short . It bears the Bell , As I have herd tell , Of all both far and near ; Which makes me swear , None can compare With famous Derbyshire . And then such Drink of this same Malt the Brewers they do make , Will make and old Woman's Tongue to talk , and a Cat almost to speak : It will do them good , And warm their Blood , That drinks but of this Beer ; Which makes me swear , None can compare With famous Derbyshire . The Grovers they do work full hard within the Stony Ground , ( Although with Stones they're debarr'd ) till they their Over have found : Then with their Prize away they high to take a Glass of Beer : Which makes , etc In Darby , which is the Country Town , there is a Castle strong ; Which many and arrant Rogue hath known , that hath done his Neighbours wrong . And the County Sheriff does ride in State , with Trumpets sounding clear : Which makes , etc There is Heafeild Hope , and Tidswal , ( as I have herd many tell ) For Fairs and merry Meetings , all others does excel . The Youngmen and Maids , With their Comrades , Will Dance and Sing most rare : Which makes , etc Their is great Hunting every year , not far from Tidswall Town , To which brave Gentlemen repair , and Men of high Renown : To the Moors they're bound , With Horse and Hound , To chase the nimble Hare : Which makes , etc There is the Chapel of Frith likewise , it I must not forge There is proper young-Men comes to Town , and Maidens very nea Then at the Thorn , They're not think scorn , To take a Cup of Beer : Which makes , etc The Wonders of the World I think , at Buxtons may be found ; While a white pound of Candles burn , one may walk under the Ground . Then there is Well , ( As I have herd tell ) For Virtues very rare : Which makes , etc , There is Fishing , and there is Fowling , likewise at Backwall Town ; There is Hunting , and there is Bowling both up the Hills and down . All Recreations lawful and civil , they use there ; Which makes , etc And now my Song for to conclude , I here do make and End ; Sure every one that is not rude , will take me for his Friend : Then buy then all , both Great and Small , the Purchase is not dear , When for one Penny you may have The Fame of Darby-shere . FINIS . London Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . 