The Mournful Shepherd : OR Torment of Loving , and not being Lov'd again . A SONG made by a Gentleman who Died for his cruel Mistress . No Torment can be found no greater pain Then truly Loving and not Lov'd again ; For thats a strange Disease which Racks , the mind , Still routs the Judgement , and does Reason blind : Raises a Civil War , distrasts the Soul , While Fancy like a Raging Sea does roll : The Lovers dreams of nothing but strange Charms . And often thinks his Mistress in his Arms ; But waking finds he did embrace a Shade ; Which all his hope's with it he had Conveyed , To a Pleasant New Tune , called Could Man his Wish Obtain , etc. Play'd and Sung at the King's Play-House . COuld man his wish obtain , how happy would he be ; But wishes seldom gain , And hope's are but in vain , if Fortune's disagree : Pity you Powers of Love , our Infelicicy ; ' Why should the Fates Conspire , To frustrate my desire , Since Love's the gentle fire that keeps the World alive : But me it puts to pain , My Wishes are in vain , Nor promise any hope to gain . I love and still I view , but dare not tell my mind , Should I my flames pursue , I might that Bliss undo , which is for her design'd , A Bliss that's far above , more lasting , rich , and kind ; Though hope's successless prove , My heart shall ne'r remove , From wishing of her Love , in Fortune's Triumph led ; And though she banish me , If she but happy be , 'twill please my Ghost when I am dead . Much like a Tyrant sits th' insulting Prince of Love , And with his Arrows hits Poor Mortals as it fits , his humour from above ; The Second Part , To the same Tune . But pity I implore . O let some pity move : But ah , what is my Error , when love thus proves a Terror , That is the world's bright Mirror , and guides the Starry frame ; The flame that's in my breast , Alas disturbs my rest , Since I of hope's am dispossessed , Thou Centre of my joy , the fairesi of her kind , Does still with frowns destroy , My Bliss by proving Coy , while Love torments my mind ; And scorches me in pain , that I no quiet find : Pity some gentle power , And rain a golden Shower , For sure nought else can woo her to cool my raging Flame : Alas , that Gold should prove The Orb that still does move the happy Sphere of sacred love . O're Hills and Rocks I stray , through fields and gloomy shade I take my restless way , To Venus oft I pray , to grant me speedy aid , And pity my distress , or how the cruel Maid : Whose eyes do Lightning bear , Which blast me with despair , And takes me in Loves snare , nor can I thence escape : But strugele there in vain , And still does suffer pain , While I to free my self do strain . Witness you Founts and Springs , Groves , and each pleasant Mead , Each warbling Bird that sings , And spreads his airy wings ; and bleeting flocks that feed : How cruel the fair Nymph to me as ever been . But Tyrant love no more , To persecute give o're , Keep , keep your shafts in store , of them there is no need : For lick the Swan , now I , To sing my last leave try , Which done , I thus lie down & die . ( He Die . ) FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Sign of the Golden-Ball , in Pye-Corner . The Mournful Shepherd : OR Torment of Loving , and not being Lov'd again . A SONG made by a Gentleman who Died for his cruel Mistress . No Torment can be found no greater pain Then truly Loving and not Lov'd again ; For thats a strange Disease which Racks , the mind , Still routs the Judgement , and does Reason blind : Raises a Civil War , distrasts the Soul , While Fancy like a Raging Sea does roll : The Lovers dreams of nothing but strange Charms . And often thinks his Mistress in his Arms ; But waking finds he did embrace a Shade ; Which all his hope's with it he had Conveyed , To a Pleasant New Tune , called Could Man his Wish Obtain , etc. Play'd and Sung at the King's Play-House . COuld man his wish obtain , how happy would he be ; But wishes seldom gain , And hope's are but in vain , if Fortune's disagree : Pity you Powers of Love , our Infelicicy ; ' Why should the Fates Conspire , To frustrate my desire , Since Love's the gentle fire that keeps the World alive : But me it puts to pain , My Wishes are in vain , Nor promise any hope to gain . I love and still I view , but dare not tell my mind , Should I my flames pursue , I might that Bliss undo , which is for her design'd , A Bliss that's far above , more lasting , rich , and kind ; Though hope's successless prove , My heart shall ne'r remove , From wishing of her Love , in Fortune's Triumph led ; And though she banish me , If she but happy be , 'twill please my Ghost when I am dead . Much like a Tyrant sits th' insulting Prince of Love , And with his Arrows hits Poor Mortals as it fits , his humour from above ; The Second Part , To the same Tune . But pity I implore . O let some pity move : But ah , what is my Error , when love thus proves a Terror , That is the world's bright Mirror , and guides the Starry frame ; The flame that's in my breast , Alas disturbs my rest , Since I of hope's am dispossessed , Thou Centre of my joy , the fairesi of her kind , Does still with frowns destroy , My Bliss by proving Coy , while Love torments my mind ; And scorches me in pain , that I no quiet find : Pity some gentle power , And rain a golden Shower , For sure nought else can woo her to cool my raging Flame : Alas , that Gold should prove The Orb that still does move the happy Sphere of sacred love . O're Hills and Rocks I stray , through fields and gloomy shade I take my restless way , To Venus oft I pray , to grant me speedy aid , And pity my distress , or how the cruel Maid : Whose eyes do Lightning bear , Which blast me with despair , And takes me in Loves snare , nor can I thence escape : But strugele there in vain , And still does suffer pain , While I to free my self do strain . Witness you Founts and Springs , Groves , and each pleasant Mead , Each warbling Bird that sings , And spreads his airy wings ; and bleeting flocks that feed : How cruel the fair Nymph to me as ever been . But Tyrant love no more , To persecute give o're , Keep , keep your shafts in store , of them there is no need : For lick the Swan , now I , To sing my last leave try , Which done , I thus lie down & die . ( He Die . ) FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Sign of the Golden-Ball , in Pye-Corner . 