TOBIA'S ADVICE , Or , A Remedy for a ranting Young-Man . While you are single you take but little care , Therefore I say better you married were , Perhaps there's some at this will make a Jest , But I say still a married Life is best . Therefore youngmen take this Advice of me Better take one than run to two or three . Tune of , Daniel Cooper . By Tobias Bowne . ON May morning as I walked forth , I to myself was musing ; Though I what a fool am I in truth that I so long am choosing , For Maids enough are to be had , I to myself was thinking , Sure I will have one good or bad , to keep me out of drinking . Yet some there be have said to me , a single life is gallant ; But where is he that I can see that lays up any Talant ? They'l say we'l live so all our life , for marriage we'l prevent it ; But where is he without a wife that can live well contented . For marriage is a thing ordain'd and what man can deny it ? If my truelove does constant prove , I am resolv'd to try i He that does live a single life , I count a simple actium , But if you get a loving Wife , that will be satisfaction . I pray observe what I do speak , you'l say these lines are witty ; How many hearts you cause to break in Country , Town and City , And then you think to cast it off , and turns it to a laughter ; You think that you do well enough , but pray mark what comes after . When I was young I did the like , then I was brisk and bonny ; Sometime walk abroad all night , and so spent all my money , But now I see it's vanity , i'le strive for to prevent it , I'le go no more to seek a Whore , I'm with my wife contented . All you stand by I ask you why that Marriage should be slighted ; Sure you may say as well as I young men are oversight : But here you run and there you run , and count yourselves brave fellows , But if that One you had at home , she'd keep you from the Alehouse . A youngman said that he would wed but he aim'd at promotion ; He fain would have a wife in Bed , but not without a portion : I call'd him fool unto his face , I did not like his speeches ; Said I , take thou a virtuous Lass , she's better far than Riches . If once you get a loving mate , and you abroad are ranting , You'l think why shall I stay out late , my wife she finds me wanting ; I will haste home unto my choice , she shall not for me tarry : And if you will take my advice , I think it good to marry . And then you may live happily be but a little thrifty ; Sure if you spend your time away till you do mount to fifty , And then a wife you chance to have , you may become a Father ; You'l say what money might I have sav'd , had I been married rather . And so I bid you all adieu , I hope you don't deny me , I do not speak to you or you , but all that stand here by me . It's but a penny once your life , the Ballad's ready for you ; And so I wish you a good wife when that you chance to marry . Printed for P. Brooksby in Py-corner . TOBIA'S ADVICE , Or , A Remedy for a ranting Young-Man . While you are single you take but little care , Therefore I say better you married were , Perhaps there's some at this will make a Jest , But I say still a married Life is best . Therefore youngmen take this Advice of me Better take one than run to two or three . Tune of , Daniel Cooper . By Tobias Bowne . ON May morning as I walked forth , I to myself was musing ; Though I what a fool am I in truth that I so long am choosing , For Maids enough are to be had , I to myself was thinking , Sure I will have one good or bad , to keep me out of drinking . Yet some there be have said to me , a single life is gallant ; But where is he that I can see that lays up any Talant ? They'l say we'l live so all our life , for marriage we'l prevent it ; But where is he without a wife that can live well contented . For marriage is a thing ordain'd and what man can deny it ? If my truelove does constant prove , I am resolv'd to try i He that does live a single life , I count a simple actium , But if you get a loving Wife , that will be satisfaction . I pray observe what I do speak , you'l say these lines are witty ; How many hearts you cause to break in Country , Town and City , And then you think to cast it off , and turns it to a laughter ; You think that you do well enough , but pray mark what comes after . When I was young I did the like , then I was brisk and bonny ; Sometime walk abroad all night , and so spent all my money , But now I see it's vanity , i'le strive for to prevent it , I'le go no more to seek a Whore , I'm with my wife contented . All you stand by I ask you why that Marriage should be slighted ; Sure you may say as well as I young men are oversight : But here you run and there you run , and count yourselves brave fellows , But if that One you had at home , she'd keep you from the Alehouse . A youngman said that he would wed but he aim'd at promotion ; He fain would have a wife in Bed , but not without a portion : I call'd him fool unto his face , I did not like his speeches ; Said I , take thou a virtuous Lass , she's better far than Riches . If once you get a loving mate , and you abroad are ranting , You'l think why shall I stay out late , my wife she finds me wanting ; I will haste home unto my choice , she shall not for me tarry : And if you will take my advice , I think it good to marry . And then you may live happily be but a little thrifty ; Sure if you spend your time away till you do mount to fifty , And then a wife you chance to have , you may become a Father ; You'l say what money might I have sav'd , had I been married rather . And so I bid you all adieu , I hope you don't deny me , I do not speak to you or you , but all that stand here by me . It's but a penny once your life , the Ballad's ready for you ; And so I wish you a good wife when that you chance to marry . Printed for P. Brooksby in Py-corner . 