ENGLANDS PRIDE , OR , A Friendly Exhortation to forsake that since so much in Request . The Proud are God Almighty's Foes , yet that since is too rife ; But why should Sinners thus oppose that God that gave them life . Tune is , Sefaution's Farewell . Licensed according to Order . PRide's a reigning since of this Nation , and too much practis'd among us by Youth ; What can be a more high provocation , than when we sin against knowledge and Truth ? Powdered Hair , young wantons they wear , Their Shoulders and Bosoms are likewise laid bore ; All to Delude , Men to be Rude , Nay , happy they are if they get 'em in the mood . E'ry Blouse must have her fine Feather , in her Apparel most Richly array'd ; So that when they are walking together the Mistress cannot be known from the Maid : Gillian , with Nan , they must have a Fan , And twenty fine Knickknacks they have to put on ; New Modes are found , all London round , Sure Pride in young women did never more abound . E'ry Joan in Silks now will Rusle , with slanting Hoods , Laces , and Topknots beside ; Till their Heads are as big as a Bushel , Oh is not this a mere Monster of Pride ? Women for shame , now strive to Reclaim , Or else I must tell you you're highly to blame ; Pride in excess , makes your Fame less , Nothing speaks your praise like a Modest Civil Dress , Their rich Robes with Sweets must be Scented , and this they make all their study and care , How new Fashions must still be invented , because they do not know what they shall wear : Pride they adore , spend Thousands and more , But never a Penny will give to the Poor , For this we know , where e're they go , Their Heads are so high that they cannot look so low . Dives like , they are cloath'd in fine Linen , and fare as sumptuous and dainty as he , Though this is a most happy beginning , they do not know what their ending may be : Pride is a since , that most wallow in , And daily committed again , and again : Heaven may frown , bring your Pride down , Remember this Ladies of London , London Town . See how some will jet in their going , as if that carriage was none of the worst , While , alas ! the poor Mortal not knowing , how soon that Pride may be laid in the Dus Death will take place , in each painted Face , There's none can withstand him he will you embrace In his cold Arms , then farewell Charms , All Beauty's now living must yield to Death's alarms . Are not some who once did adore you , now laid asleep in their Lodgings of Clay ? They are gone but a little before you , and you must follow the very same way : Instead of neat , new Fashions complete , You must have a Shroud , or a poor Winding-shee This is your state , though ne'r so great , Consider your Folly before it is too late . If that we a Blessing desire , should on this Nation among us appear , Learn more Modesty in your Attire , or else alas ! we have reason to fear Gods heavy hand , may punish this Land , While in opposition against him you stand : Therefore , I pray , this very day , Let Topknots and Towers be clearly cast away . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Angel in Gilt-Spur-Street . ENGLANDS PRIDE , OR , A Friendly Exhortation to forsake that since so much in Request . The Proud are God Almighty's Foes , yet that since is too rife ; But why should Sinners thus oppose that God that gave them life . Tune is , Sefaution's Farewell . Licensed according to Order . PRide's a reigning since of this Nation , and too much practis'd among us by Youth ; What can be a more high provocation , than when we sin against knowledge and Truth ? Powdered Hair , young wantons they wear , Their Shoulders and Bosoms are likewise laid bore ; All to Delude , Men to be Rude , Nay , happy they are if they get 'em in the mood . E'ry Blouse must have her fine Feather , in her Apparel most Richly array'd ; So that when they are walking together the Mistress cannot be known from the Maid : Gillian , with Nan , they must have a Fan , And twenty fine Knickknacks they have to put on ; New Modes are found , all London round , Sure Pride in young women did never more abound . E'ry Joan in Silks now will Rusle , with slanting Hoods , Laces , and Topknots beside ; Till their Heads are as big as a Bushel , Oh is not this a mere Monster of Pride ? Women for shame , now strive to Reclaim , Or else I must tell you you're highly to blame ; Pride in excess , makes your Fame less , Nothing speaks your praise like a Modest Civil Dress , Their rich Robes with Sweets must be Scented , and this they make all their study and care , How new Fashions must still be invented , because they do not know what they shall wear : Pride they adore , spend Thousands and more , But never a Penny will give to the Poor , For this we know , where e're they go , Their Heads are so high that they cannot look so low . Dives like , they are cloath'd in fine Linen , and fare as sumptuous and dainty as he , Though this is a most happy beginning , they do not know what their ending may be : Pride is a since , that most wallow in , And daily committed again , and again : Heaven may frown , bring your Pride down , Remember this Ladies of London , London Town . See how some will jet in their going , as if that carriage was none of the worst , While , alas ! the poor Mortal not knowing , how soon that Pride may be laid in the Dus Death will take place , in each painted Face , There's none can withstand him he will you embrace In his cold Arms , then farewell Charms , All Beauty's now living must yield to Death's alarms . Are not some who once did adore you , now laid asleep in their Lodgings of Clay ? They are gone but a little before you , and you must follow the very same way : Instead of neat , new Fashions complete , You must have a Shroud , or a poor Winding-shee This is your state , though ne'r so great , Consider your Folly before it is too late . If that we a Blessing desire , should on this Nation among us appear , Learn more Modesty in your Attire , or else alas ! we have reason to fear Gods heavy hand , may punish this Land , While in opposition against him you stand : Therefore , I pray , this very day , Let Topknots and Towers be clearly cast away . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Angel in Gilt-Spur-Street . ENGLANDS PRIDE , OR , A Friendly Exhortation to forsake that since so much in Request . The Proud are God Almighty's Foes , yet that since is too rife ; But why should Sinners thus oppose that God that gave them life . Tune is , Sefaution's Farewell . Licensed according to Order . PRide's a reigning since of this Nation , and too much practis'd among us by Youth ; What can be a more high provocation , than when we sin against knowledge and Truth ? Powdered Hair , young wantons they wear , Their Shoulders and Bosoms are likewise laid bore ; All to Delude , Men to be Rude , Nay , happy they are if they get 'em in the mood . E'ry Blouse must have her fine Feather , in her Apparel most Richly array'd ; So that when they are walking together the Mistress cannot be known from the Maid : Gillian , with Nan , they must have a Fan , And twenty fine Knickknacks they have to put on ; New Modes are found , all London round , Sure Pride in young women did never more abound . E'ry Joan in Silks now will Rusle , with slanting Hoods , Laces , and Topknots beside ; Till their Heads are as big as a Bushel , Oh is not this a mere Monster of Pride ? Women for shame , now strive to Reclaim , Or else I must tell you you're highly to blame ; Pride in excess , makes your Fame less , Nothing speaks your praise like a Modest Civil Dress , Their rich Robes with Sweets must be Scented , and this they make all their study and care , How new Fashions must still be invented , because they do not know what they shall wear : Pride they adore , spend Thousands and more , But never a Penny will give to the Poor , For this we know , where e're they go , Their Heads are so high that they cannot look so low . Dives like , they are cloath'd in fine Linen , and fare as sumptuous and dainty as he , Though this is a most happy beginning , they do not know what their ending may be : Pride is a since , that most wallow in , And daily committed again , and again : Heaven may frown , bring your Pride down , Remember this Ladies of London , London Town . See how some will jet in their going , as if that carriage was none of the worst , While , alas ! the poor Mortal not knowing , how soon that Pride may be laid in the Dus Death will take place , in each painted Face , There's none can withstand him he will you embrace In his cold Arms , then farewell Charms , All Beauty's now living must yield to Death's alarms . Are not some who once did adore you , now laid asleep in their Lodgings of Clay ? They are gone but a little before you , and you must follow the very same way : Instead of neat , new Fashions complete , You must have a Shroud , or a poor Winding-shee This is your state , though ne'r so great , Consider your Folly before it is too late . If that we a Blessing desire , should on this Nation among us appear , Learn more Modesty in your Attire , or else alas ! we have reason to fear Gods heavy hand , may punish this Land , While in opposition against him you stand : Therefore , I pray , this very day , Let Topknots and Towers be clearly cast away . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Angel in Gilt-Spur-Street . ENGLANDS PRIDE , OR , A Friendly Exhortation to forsake that since so much in Request . The Proud are God Almighty's Foes , yet that since is too rife ; But why should Sinners thus oppose that God that gave them life . Tune is , Sefaution's Farewell . Licensed according to Order . PRide's a reigning since of this Nation , and too much practis'd among us by Youth ; What can be a more high provocation , than when we sin against knowledge and Truth ? Powdered Hair , young wantons they wear , Their Shoulders and Bosoms are likewise laid bore ; All to Delude , Men to be Rude , Nay , happy they are if they get 'em in the mood . E'ry Blouse must have her fine Feather , in her Apparel most Richly array'd ; So that when they are walking together the Mistress cannot be known from the Maid : Gillian , with Nan , they must have a Fan , And twenty fine Knickknacks they have to put on ; New Modes are found , all London round , Sure Pride in young women did never more abound . E'ry Joan in Silks now will Rusle , with slanting Hoods , Laces , and Topknots beside ; Till their Heads are as big as a Bushel , Oh is not this a mere Monster of Pride ? Women for shame , now strive to Reclaim , Or else I must tell you you're highly to blame ; Pride in excess , makes your Fame less , Nothing speaks your praise like a Modest Civil Dress , Their rich Robes with Sweets must be Scented , and this they make all their study and care , How new Fashions must still be invented , because they do not know what they shall wear : Pride they adore , spend Thousands and more , But never a Penny will give to the Poor , For this we know , where e're they go , Their Heads are so high that they cannot look so low . Dives like , they are cloath'd in fine Linen , and fare as sumptuous and dainty as he , Though this is a most happy beginning , they do not know what their ending may be : Pride is a since , that most wallow in , And daily committed again , and again : Heaven may frown , bring your Pride down , Remember this Ladies of London , London Town . See how some will jet in their going , as if that carriage was none of the worst , While , alas ! the poor Mortal not knowing , how soon that Pride may be laid in the Dus Death will take place , in each painted Face , There's none can withstand him he will you embrace In his cold Arms , then farewell Charms , All Beauty's now living must yield to Death's alarms . Are not some who once did adore you , now laid asleep in their Lodgings of Clay ? They are gone but a little before you , and you must follow the very same way : Instead of neat , new Fashions complete , You must have a Shroud , or a poor Winding-shee This is your state , though ne'r so great , Consider your Folly before it is too late . If that we a Blessing desire , should on this Nation among us appear , Learn more Modesty in your Attire , or else alas ! we have reason to fear Gods heavy hand , may punish this Land , While in opposition against him you stand : Therefore , I pray , this very day , Let Topknots and Towers be clearly cast away . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Angel in Gilt-Spur-Street . 