THE KIND LADY Or , The Loves of Stella and Adonis . A new Court song much in request . To a new tune . Or , Heigh boys up go we , the charming Nymph , or Jenny Gin . THe night her blackest sables wore , all glooming were the Skies , And glittering Stars there were no more then those in Stella's Eyes : When at her Father's Gate I knocked , where I had often been , And shrouded only in her Smock , The fair one let me in . Fast lock'd within my close embrace she blushing lay asham'd ; Her swelling Breasts , and glowing face , and every touch inflam'd My eager passion ; I obey'd , resolving the Fort to win , And her found heart was soon betray'd to yield , and let me in . Then , then , beyond expressing , immortal was the joy , I knew no greater Blessing , so happy then was I : And she , transported with delight , oft prayed me to come again , And kindly vow'd that e'ry night she'd rise and let me in . But , ah ! at last she prov'd with Bearn , and sighing sat , and dull ; And I , who had as much concern , looked then just like a fool : Her lovely eyes with tears ran down , repenting her rash since , She sigh'd and cursed that fatal hour that e're she let me in . But who cou'd cruelly deceive , or from such beauty part ? I lov'd her so I could not leave the Charmer for my heart ; But wedded , and conceal'd the Crime ; thus all was well again , And now she thanks the blessed time that e're she let me in . Such wanton youngsters seldom prove so true at heart as I , But when they gain a Damsels Love , too oft away they fly : Whilst I such Treachery abhor , for 'tis a deadly since , And now no cause she has to grieve that she did let me in . Those Rosie-blushes that did stain her Cheeks , do now grow pale , Her heart is now reviv'd again , sighs did with me prevail : She grieved was , and I perplexed , but now rejoice again , And Stella now no more is vexed because she let me in . When young Adonis call'd to mind the tricks of wanton youth ; He cry'd , my Stella she was kind : this is the very truth . Quod she , thou now hast god the knack a tender heart to win , Good Lodging thou shalt never lack , for I will let thee in . With fiery eyes he then beheld Stella , his hearts delight ; He vow'd to love he was compell'd by charms of beauty brigh A thousand times he did her kiss , and then she did begin , And said , there is no joy like this : I'me glad I have let thee in . Printed for J. Conyers at the Black Raven in Duck Lane . Where are sold all sorts of New Songs , And CHAPMEN may be furnish with New or Old. THE KIND LADY Or , The Loves of Stella and Adonis . A new Court song much in request . To a new tune . Or , Heigh boys up go we , the charming Nymph , or Jenny Gin . THe night her blackest sables wore , all glooming were the Skies , And glittering Stars there were no more then those in Stella's Eyes : When at her Father's Gate I knocked , where I had often been , And shrouded only in her Smock , The fair one let me in . Fast lock'd within my close embrace she blushing lay asham'd ; Her swelling Breasts , and glowing face , and every touch inflam'd My eager passion ; I obey'd , resolving the Fort to win , And her found heart was soon betray'd to yield , and let me in . Then , then , beyond expressing , immortal was the joy , I knew no greater Blessing , so happy then was I : And she , transported with delight , oft prayed me to come again , And kindly vow'd that e'ry night she'd rise and let me in . But , ah ! at last she prov'd with Bearn , and sighing sat , and dull ; And I , who had as much concern , looked then just like a fool : Her lovely eyes with tears ran down , repenting her rash since , She sigh'd and cursed that fatal hour that e're she let me in . But who cou'd cruelly deceive , or from such beauty part ? I lov'd her so I could not leave the Charmer for my heart ; But wedded , and conceal'd the Crime ; thus all was well again , And now she thanks the blessed time that e're she let me in . Such wanton youngsters seldom prove so true at heart as I , But when they gain a Damsels Love , too oft away they fly : Whilst I such Treachery abhor , for 'tis a deadly since , And now no cause she has to grieve that she did let me in . Those Rosie-blushes that did stain her Cheeks , do now grow pale , Her heart is now reviv'd again , sighs did with me prevail : She grieved was , and I perplexed , but now rejoice again , And Stella now no more is vexed because she let me in . When young Adonis call'd to mind the tricks of wanton youth ; He cry'd , my Stella she was kind : this is the very truth . Quod she , thou now hast god the knack a tender heart to win , Good Lodging thou shalt never lack , for I will let thee in . With fiery eyes he then beheld Stella , his hearts delight ; He vow'd to love he was compell'd by charms of beauty brigh A thousand times he did her kiss , and then she did begin , And said , there is no joy like this : I'me glad I have let thee in . Printed for J. Conyers at the Black Raven in Duck Lane . Where are sold all sorts of New Songs , And CHAPMEN may be furnish with New or Old. 