Damon and Celia , Or , the languishing Lover comforted . Of all new Songs , the Poet hope's that this Will please you well , because he knows it is A very good one , you may find hereby , There's nothing lost by loving constantly . Which ought to be all honest Lovers Guide But as for such who no delays abide ; Let them love one , for half and hour no more , And when they've done go call their Mrs. whore . To a pleasant New playhouse Tune , called No , no this in vain , etc. NO , no , it's in vain , Though I sighs and complain , Yet the secret I'll never reveal : The Wracks shall not tear it , From my breast , but i'll bear it , to the Grave , where it ever shall dwell : Oh! would that the Gods had created her low , and placed the poor Hylas above , Then , then I a present might freely bestow , of a heart that is all over Love . Like the Damned from the fire , I may gaze and admire , Yet never can hope to be bles O the pangs of a Love , That dares not discover , The Poison that lodged in his Breas Like a Deer that is wounded I bleeding run on , and fain I the passion would hide , But o it's vain , for wherever I run , the bloody Dart sticks in my side . Like a Ship on the Ocean , That's ever in motion , Continually tumbled and tos When each greedy wave Portendeth a grave and on the hard Rock to be los Each frown from my Celia does threaten my woe which alas I find to be true , My torments do follow where ever I go , it's in vain to fly , fate will pursue . If the cause she'd discover , To her languishing Lover , Why , why she so cruel does prove , And Alter i'll raise , And her anger appease , By a sacrificed heart to her Love : Then Cupid would know the fault lay not in me and ease my distraction and pain , Methinks to his Godhead and honour twould be , in making her love me again . But if he take part , To destroy my poor heart Then i'll curse both his Quiver and Bow , For he if he please , Can to Lovers give ease , And make them his power to know , My Celia from blame I will ever set free , and her name I will always adore , She ; s a Goddess on earth , to be worshipped by me expecting her blessing in store . Celia's Kind Answer . IT is not in vain , You do sighs and complain , For the secret to me is revealed : My Breast now does bear it , Where for ever I'll wear it , such flames cannot long be concealed : The Gods have created me low to your mind , and placed your affections above , The present I ask is that still you'd prove kind and give me that heart full of Love . Like the blessed free from trouble , Our joys still may double , And never no sorrow can know , Then happy's that Lover , Which dares not discover , Those flames which occasion his woe : Like a prisoner set free , he may sing and rejoice when he from confinement is clear , If his Love prove kind , then thrice happy's his choice , no bloody darts after appear . Like a Merchant whose treasure Comes home in full measure , From the Indies who long have been gone , Such joys do abound , To a Lover that's Crowned , With success , that before looked for none : Now smile my dear Damon , the day is your own , no more of your Celia complain , Your constancy my true affections hath wone , then count not your sorrows in vain . It was only to Try you , Which made me deny you , The cause now you certainly know , My heart you shall have , Till cold death to the Grave , Does force us to pay what we owe : Little Cupid hath herd thee , & made me prove kind , he herd your complains e'ry day , But when the night came , he did torture my mind by telling me what you did say . He was your best friend , And your suit did commend , Then pretty sweet Damon , no more , Let's not angry prove , To the God of our love , but for ever his power adore : My heart is thy own , and i'll give thee my hand , we'll marry and make no delay , And I my own self will be at thy command , to please thee by night and by day . FINIS Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , & T. Passenger . Damon and Celia , Or , the languishing Lover comforted . Of all new Songs , the Poet hope's that this Will please you well , because he knows it is A very good one , you may find hereby , There's nothing lost by loving constantly . Which ought to be all honest Lovers Guide But as for such who no delays abide ; Let them love one , for half and hour no more , And when they've done go call their Mrs. whore . To a pleasant New playhouse Tune , called No , no this in vain , etc. NO , no , it's in vain , Though I sighs and complain , Yet the secret I'll never reveal : The Wracks shall not tear it , From my breast , but i'll bear it , to the Grave , where it ever shall dwell : Oh! would that the Gods had created her low , and placed the poor Hylas above , Then , then I a present might freely bestow , of a heart that is all over Love . Like the Damned from the fire , I may gaze and admire , Yet never can hope to be bles O the pangs of a Love , That dares not discover , The Poison that lodged in his Breas Like a Deer that is wounded I bleeding run on , and fain I the passion would hide , But o it's vain , for wherever I run , the bloody Dart sticks in my side . Like a Ship on the Ocean , That's ever in motion , Continually tumbled and tos When each greedy wave Portendeth a grave and on the hard Rock to be los Each frown from my Celia does threaten my woe which alas I find to be true , My torments do follow where ever I go , it's in vain to fly , fate will pursue . If the cause she'd discover , To her languishing Lover , Why , why she so cruel does prove , And Alter i'll raise , And her anger appease , By a sacrificed heart to her Love : Then Cupid would know the fault lay not in me and ease my distraction and pain , Methinks to his Godhead and honour twould be , in making her love me again . But if he take part , To destroy my poor heart Then i'll curse both his Quiver and Bow , For he if he please , Can to Lovers give ease , And make them his power to know , My Celia from blame I will ever set free , and her name I will always adore , She ; s a Goddess on earth , to be worshipped by me expecting her blessing in store . Celia's Kind Answer . IT is not in vain , You do sighs and complain , For the secret to me is revealed : My Breast now does bear it , Where for ever I'll wear it , such flames cannot long be concealed : The Gods have created me low to your mind , and placed your affections above , The present I ask is that still you'd prove kind and give me that heart full of Love . Like the blessed free from trouble , Our joys still may double , And never no sorrow can know , Then happy's that Lover , Which dares not discover , Those flames which occasion his woe : Like a prisoner set free , he may sing and rejoice when he from confinement is clear , If his Love prove kind , then thrice happy's his choice , no bloody darts after appear . Like a Merchant whose treasure Comes home in full measure , From the Indies who long have been gone , Such joys do abound , To a Lover that's Crowned , With success , that before looked for none : Now smile my dear Damon , the day is your own , no more of your Celia complain , Your constancy my true affections hath wone , then count not your sorrows in vain . It was only to Try you , Which made me deny you , The cause now you certainly know , My heart you shall have , Till cold death to the Grave , Does force us to pay what we owe : Little Cupid hath herd thee , & made me prove kind , he herd your complains e'ry day , But when the night came , he did torture my mind by telling me what you did say . He was your best friend , And your suit did commend , Then pretty sweet Damon , no more , Let's not angry prove , To the God of our love , but for ever his power adore : My heart is thy own , and i'll give thee my hand , we'll marry and make no delay , And I my own self will be at thy command , to please thee by night and by day . FINIS Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , & T. Passenger . 