A PACKINGTONS POUND . I . WHen the Joy of all hearts , and desire of all eyes , In whom our chief Refuge , and Confidence lies , The Protestant Bulwark against all Despair , Has depriv'd us at once , of her Self , and her Heir : That hopeful Young Thing Begotten by a King , And a Queen , whose Perfections o're all the world ring . A Father whose Courage no Mortal can daunt , And a Mother whose Virtue no Scandal can taint . II When Wide-mouth resign'd up the Purse and the Mace , Whose impudent Arrogance gain'd him the place : When , like Lucifer , thrown from the height of his Pride , And the Knot of his Villany's strangely unty'd . From the Chancery Bawling , He turns a Tarpaulin , Men will catch at anything when they are falling : But to hasten his Fate , before he cou'd scour , He was tak'n at Wapping , and sent to the Tow'r . III . When Confessor Petre's did yield up the Game , and prov'd to the worst of Religion a shame , When his cheating no more on our Reason prevails , But is blasted like that of his true Prince of W ----- s , Which was his Contrivance , And Friars Connivance , To establish the Papists , and Protestants drive hence : But their Cobweb Conception is brought to the Test , And the coming of ORANGE has quite spoil'd the Jest . IV. When and Old Cuff was Noted for all that is ill , Was urg'd by his Wife to the making his Will ; At the hearing which words , he did stare , foam and roar , Then broke out in Cursing , and calling her Whore . And for Two Hours at least His Tongue never ceas't , He rail'd on Religion , and damn'd the poor Priest , And his Friends , who had hope to behold him expire , Are afraid by this Bout they shall loose their desire . V. A young Hero was fam'd in this great Expedition , Not for going to War , but obtaining Commission ; It's no Mystery to me , if his Courage did fail , When great Politicians were apt to turn Tail : So that if he took Flight , With his Betters by Night , I am apt to believe the pert Spark was i' th' righ For the Papists that Maxim do everywhere hold , To be forward in Boasting , in Courage less Bold . VI . Nor shou'd Jesuits , Friars , such Papishes throng , But each in due place have their Attributes sung . Yet since 'tis believ'd by the strange turn of Times , They'l be call'd to account for their Treasonable Cr [ imes ] While the Damn'd Popish Plot , Is not yet quite forgotten , For which a great Peer went justly to po And to their great comfort I'le make it appear , Who gave them their Freedom shall suffer severe . VII . Another true Trout to the Bishops and Laws , As the Devil wou'd have it , espous'd the wrong Ca [ use ] Now loath'd by the Commons , and scorn'd by the [ ? ] His Patent for Honour , in pieces he tears . Both our Brittains are Fool'd , Who the Laws Over-rul'd , And next Parliament each , will be plagu'ly School'd Then try if your Cunning can find out a Flaw , To preserve you from Judgement according to Law VIII . The Kentish Knights Actions I shall not repeat , Till by Axe , or by Halter , his Life he complete ; P --- 's History shall be related by Nobb , Who has ventur'd his Neck for a Snack in the Job All their Priests and Confessors , With their dumb Idol-Dressers , Shall meet that Reward which is due to Transgress [ sors ] May the Protestant people this Land long inherit , Then ORANGE shall reap the Reward of his Me [ rit ] FINIS . A PACKINGTONS POUND . I . WHen the Joy of all hearts , and desire of all eyes , In whom our chief Refuge , and Confidence lies , The Protestant Bulwark against all Despair , Has depriv'd us at once , of her Self , and her Heir : That hopeful Young Thing Begotten by a King , And a Queen , whose Perfections o're all the world ring . A Father whose Courage no Mortal can daunt , And a Mother whose Virtue no Scandal can taint . II When Wide-mouth resign'd up the Purse and the Mace , Whose impudent Arrogance gain'd him the place : When , like Lucifer , thrown from the height of his Pride , And the Knot of his Villany's strangely unty'd . From the Chancery Bawling , He turns a Tarpaulin , Men will catch at anything when they are falling : But to hasten his Fate , before he cou'd scour , He was tak'n at Wapping , and sent to the Tow'r . III . When Confessor Petre's did yield up the Game , and prov'd to the worst of Religion a shame , When his cheating no more on our Reason prevails , But is blasted like that of his true Prince of W ----- s , Which was his Contrivance , And Friars Connivance , To establish the Papists , and Protestants drive hence : But their Cobweb Conception is brought to the Test , And the coming of ORANGE has quite spoil'd the Jest . IV. When and Old Cuff was Noted for all that is ill , Was urg'd by his Wife to the making his Will ; At the hearing which words , he did stare , foam and roar , Then broke out in Cursing , and calling her Whore . And for Two Hours at least His Tongue never ceas't , He rail'd on Religion , and damn'd the poor Priest , And his Friends , who had hope to behold him expire , Are afraid by this Bout they shall loose their desire . V. A young Hero was fam'd in this great Expedition , Not for going to War , but obtaining Commission ; It's no Mystery to me , if his Courage did fail , When great Politicians were apt to turn Tail : So that if he took Flight , With his Betters by Night , I am apt to believe the pert Spark was i' th' righ For the Papists that Maxim do everywhere hold , To be forward in Boasting , in Courage less Bold . VI . Nor shou'd Jesuits , Friars , such Papishes throng , But each in due place have their Attributes sung . Yet since 'tis believ'd by the strange turn of Times , They'l be call'd to account for their Treasonable Cr [ imes ] While the Damn'd Popish Plot , Is not yet quite forgotten , For which a great Peer went justly to po And to their great comfort I'le make it appear , Who gave them their Freedom shall suffer severe . VII . Another true Trout to the Bishops and Laws , As the Devil wou'd have it , espous'd the wrong Ca [ use ] Now loath'd by the Commons , and scorn'd by the [ ? ] His Patent for Honour , in pieces he tears . Both our Brittains are Fool'd , Who the Laws Over-rul'd , And next Parliament each , will be plagu'ly School'd Then try if your Cunning can find out a Flaw , To preserve you from Judgement according to Law VIII . The Kentish Knights Actions I shall not repeat , Till by Axe , or by Halter , his Life he complete ; P --- 's History shall be related by Nobb , Who has ventur'd his Neck for a Snack in the Job All their Priests and Confessors , With their dumb Idol-Dressers , Shall meet that Reward which is due to Transgress [ sors ] May the Protestant people this Land long inherit , Then ORANGE shall reap the Reward of his Me [ rit ] FINIS . 