The Audience . THE Critics that pretend to sense Do cavel at the Audience , As if his Grace were not as good To bow to , as a piece of Wood . Did not our Father's heretofore Their senseless Deities adore ? Did not old Delphos all along Vent Oracles without a Tongue ? And wisest Monarchs did importune , From the dumb God to know their fortune . Did not the speaking Head of late Of matters learnedly Debate ? And rendered without Tongue or Ears Wise answers to his whisp'ring Peers ? And shall we to a living Prince Deny the State of Audience ? What though the Bantling cannot speak ? Yet like the Blockhead he may squeak ; Give Audience by Interpreter ; The wisest Prince can do no more . Then enter with a Princes Banner Sir Charles after the usual manner . Great Sir , His Holiness from Room Greets your high Birth . The Prince cry'd Mum . The Consecrated Robe and Clout , If you'll vouchsafe to hear me out , And many other Toys I'm come To lay them to your sacred Bum. So young , yet such a Godlike Ray ! Phoebus your Dad was Priest WORSER --- a , Great Prince , I have no more to say . Conducted next there comes , Great Sir , And Envoy from the Emperor , To gratulate your lucky fate , That gives to Englands Throne new date ; We joy that Any Thing should Reign , To baffle Orange and the Dane . The Youth , to see them thus beguil'd , In token of his favour , smil'd . But at the Spaniard laugh'd outright . As shamm'd again in Eighty Eight . Next , having pass'd the inward Centry , The doubtful Monsieur makes his entry . The King my Master , Sir , has sent Your Royal Birth to compliment ; If you will make it but appear , That you are Englands lawful Heir . Here Lady Powis took him short , French - man . Have you a King ? Thank Maz'rine for't . Whoe'r the Father was , the Mother Was France's Queen , [ Powis ] Who questions t'other ? At this Reproof he pawn'd a Purse , And parting made his Peace with Nurse . The Dane , the Suede , with other Nations Come in with loud Congratulations . Upon the Suede so fam'd for Battle He cast a frown and shook his Rattle . And for the Dane , who took the part Of good Prince George , he let a fart . This put him in a sullen fit , Nurse scarce could dance him out of it . When and Ambassador from Poland Knock'd at the Door , and Velt from Holland , He crying Suck'd , and Sucking cry'd , When Lady Governess reply'd , Peace , Prince , Peace , Prince , Peace , pretty Prince , And let the States have Audience . Dutch - man . From Holland I am hither sent To Challenge , not to Compliment . Prepare with speed your Twenty Sail , Your twice Four thousand on the Nail ; Which by your Senate was enacted , With Orange when your Sire contracted . The name of Holland did affright And make th' young Hero scream outright . But , Orange nam'd , the Royal Elf , The sweet , sweet Babe beshit himself . Tyrconnel , who came o'r no less Than to be made his Governess , To take her leave , by luck came in , She suck'd his Nose and lick'd him clean . Last came the Lady Hales from Play , Mov'd by instinct he cry'd , Mamma , And posted to the Queen away . EXIT . The Audience . THE Critics that pretend to sense Do cavel at the Audience , As if his Grace were not as good To bow to , as a piece of Wood . Did not our Father's heretofore Their senseless Deities adore ? Did not old Delphos all along Vent Oracles without a Tongue ? And wisest Monarchs did importune , From the dumb God to know their fortune . Did not the speaking Head of late Of matters learnedly Debate ? And rendered without Tongue or Ears Wise answers to his whisp'ring Peers ? And shall we to a living Prince Deny the State of Audience ? What though the Bantling cannot speak ? Yet like the Blockhead he may squeak ; Give Audience by Interpreter ; The wisest Prince can do no more . Then enter with a Princes Banner Sir Charles after the usual manner . Great Sir , His Holiness from Room Greets your high Birth . The Prince cry'd Mum . The Consecrated Robe and Clout , If you'll vouchsafe to hear me out , And many other Toys I'm come To lay them to your sacred Bum. So young , yet such a Godlike Ray ! Phoebus your Dad was Priest WORSER --- a , Great Prince , I have no more to say . Conducted next there comes , Great Sir , And Envoy from the Emperor , To gratulate your lucky fate , That gives to Englands Throne new date ; We joy that Any Thing should Reign , To baffle Orange and the Dane . The Youth , to see them thus beguil'd , In token of his favour , smil'd . But at the Spaniard laugh'd outright . As shamm'd again in Eighty Eight . Next , having pass'd the inward Centry , The doubtful Monsieur makes his entry . The King my Master , Sir , has sent Your Royal Birth to compliment ; If you will make it but appear , That you are Englands lawful Heir . Here Lady Powis took him short , French - man . Have you a King ? Thank Maz'rine for't . Whoe'r the Father was , the Mother Was France's Queen , [ Powis ] Who questions t'other ? At this Reproof he pawn'd a Purse , And parting made his Peace with Nurse . The Dane , the Suede , with other Nations Come in with loud Congratulations . Upon the Suede so fam'd for Battle He cast a frown and shook his Rattle . And for the Dane , who took the part Of good Prince George , he let a fart . This put him in a sullen fit , Nurse scarce could dance him out of it . When and Ambassador from Poland Knock'd at the Door , and Velt from Holland , He crying Suck'd , and Sucking cry'd , When Lady Governess reply'd , Peace , Prince , Peace , Prince , Peace , pretty Prince , And let the States have Audience . Dutch - man . From Holland I am hither sent To Challenge , not to Compliment . Prepare with speed your Twenty Sail , Your twice Four thousand on the Nail ; Which by your Senate was enacted , With Orange when your Sire contracted . The name of Holland did affright And make th' young Hero scream outright . But , Orange nam'd , the Royal Elf , The sweet , sweet Babe beshit himself . Tyrconnel , who came o'r no less Than to be made his Governess , To take her leave , by luck came in , She suck'd his Nose and lick'd him clean . Last came the Lady Hales from Play , Mov'd by instinct he cry'd , Mamma , And posted to the Queen away . EXIT . 