The Sorrowful Lamentation of Counsellor , Layer's who was Condemned , to die at Land - on for High Treason . NOble Hearts all round the Nation , That do hear my wretched Fate , [ I ] 'd have you lay by all Confusion , Do not meddle with the State , Let my Exit be a warning . Now unto you both great and small , My mirth is turn'd to Grief and Mourning , Thus you see poor Layer's Fallen . A Counseller I was of late , And oft I did for Justice plead , [ I ] liv'd both Noble , Rich and great , Till I pursu'd this fatal Deed , Who by a Woman was betray'd And I was apprehended soon , And now I am arraign'd and cast , And thus you see poor Layer's Doom . At Westminster I took my trial , Which lasted 16 Hours long , While a Multitude to hear it , Then into the Court did throng , While I with Iron Fetters loaded , For my Life did stand to plead , But no Mercy is afforded , I must suffer for the Deed. Christopher Layer , come and answer , For what unto your Charge is laid , For listing Men for the Pretender , As by witness here is said . You have been a most rebellious Traitor , Against our Sovereign Lord the King , Answer to your Accusation , [ A ] re you guilty of the thing , I boldly for a while did plead , And spoke up in my own Defence , [ That ] at yet my Case was made so plain , [ G ] uilty was I of the Offence , At four a Clock all in the Morning , I was then cast for my Life , And I at Tyburn must expire , A Grief unto my dearest Wife . And my Children who lies weeping For my most unhappy Fate , I cannot expect no pity , For the Crime that is so great , It is best to be at Quiet , I advice you one and all . Lest like me it proves your Ruin , Thus you see poor Layer's Fallen . For sure this is the Hand of Heaven Suffers me this Death to die , For to finish my intention , I could not expect ; for why , Because for thus so bold attempting , Many here before did die , But still I could not be at Quiet , By which I have wrought my Destiny , I hope my Fallen will be a warning , To all that see my fatal End , My dearest Friends they do me blame , That I the Nation should offend , My tender Wife does lie lamenting , My Children are ready to despair . I hope that this will be a warning , To all that see the fate of Layer . When my Body it is Quarter'd , And my Head expos'd on high , I hope my fleeting Soul will dwell With Christ for evermore on high . Farewell my dearest Wife and Children , To Heaven I you recommend , Weep not for me unhappy Creature , Think not on my fatal End. The Sorrowful Lamentation of Counsellor , Layer's who was Condemned , to die at Land - on for High Treason . NOble Hearts all round the Nation , That do hear my wretched Fate , [ I ] 'd have you lay by all Confusion , Do not meddle with the State , Let my Exit be a warning . Now unto you both great and small , My mirth is turn'd to Grief and Mourning , Thus you see poor Layer's Fallen . A Counseller I was of late , And oft I did for Justice plead , [ I ] liv'd both Noble , Rich and great , Till I pursu'd this fatal Deed , Who by a Woman was betray'd And I was apprehended soon , And now I am arraign'd and cast , And thus you see poor Layer's Doom . At Westminster I took my trial , Which lasted 16 Hours long , While a Multitude to hear it , Then into the Court did throng , While I with Iron Fetters loaded , For my Life did stand to plead , But no Mercy is afforded , I must suffer for the Deed. Christopher Layer , come and answer , For what unto your Charge is laid , For listing Men for the Pretender , As by witness here is said . You have been a most rebellious Traitor , Against our Sovereign Lord the King , Answer to your Accusation , [ A ] re you guilty of the thing , I boldly for a while did plead , And spoke up in my own Defence , [ That ] at yet my Case was made so plain , [ G ] uilty was I of the Offence , At four a Clock all in the Morning , I was then cast for my Life , And I at Tyburn must expire , A Grief unto my dearest Wife . And my Children who lies weeping For my most unhappy Fate , I cannot expect no pity , For the Crime that is so great , It is best to be at Quiet , I advice you one and all . Lest like me it proves your Ruin , Thus you see poor Layer's Fallen . For sure this is the Hand of Heaven Suffers me this Death to die , For to finish my intention , I could not expect ; for why , Because for thus so bold attempting , Many here before did die , But still I could not be at Quiet , By which I have wrought my Destiny , I hope my Fallen will be a warning , To all that see my fatal End , My dearest Friends they do me blame , That I the Nation should offend , My tender Wife does lie lamenting , My Children are ready to despair . I hope that this will be a warning , To all that see the fate of Layer . When my Body it is Quarter'd , And my Head expos'd on high , I hope my fleeting Soul will dwell With Christ for evermore on high . Farewell my dearest Wife and Children , To Heaven I you recommend , Weep not for me unhappy Creature , Think not on my fatal End. 