The Presumptuous sinner : Or , a Dialogue between a Noble Lord , and a poor Woodman , concerning the fallen of Adam , which brought since , Death and Labour into the World ; with and account how the Nobleman reproved him for his sharp Reflection , To which is added , and agreement made between them , to place the poor Man in all the Pomps and Glories of the World , which he was to enjoy , while he abstained from one Thing commanded . Concluding with the Poor Man's Disobediences , which shows the Vanity of those that presume to stand by their own strength . To the Tune of , The Complete Christian . A Noble Lord of high renown As he was coursing up and down , [ TO ] hrough Groves and shady Valleys green , [ B ] y him and aged [ m ] and was seen , With ax in Hand cleaving of Wood ; Now as he at his Labour stood , ah ! Adam , Adam , was his tone [ s ] till as he labour'd all alone . He sigh'd as if his Heart would break , And said at every heavy Stroke , ah ! Adam , Adam , was his Cries , While Tears did trickle from his Eyes . at length behold the noble Peer , as he these Words did overhear ; Said , aged [ m ] and , pray let me know Why do you talk of Adam so ? The old Man answer'd him and said , The Laws of God he disobey'd , By eating the Forbidden Fruit , And thus our Sins at first took Root . For if that Breach had never been , We had been blessed , and free from since ! In that sweet State of Innocence , But Sorrow came by his Offence . For Adam's found Curiosity It was ordain'd that he should be Oppressed with Sorrow , Grief and Pain , Till he return to Earth again . And I , one of poor Adam's Heirs , To earn my Bred with anxious Cares , and at his Fallen I was brought to this Labour which I now go through . Why did he not his Wife oppose ; Why did he with the Serpent close ; Why did he on the apple feed , Which does so many Sorrows breed : The Garden was at his Command , the loaded Branches kiss'd his Hand : Which he might pull with Pleasure free , All but that one forbidden tree . The Nobleman he th [ e ] n reply'd , 'tis true Adam he turn'd aside From God's Commands , and did the thing Which does continual Sorrow bring . Yet don't reflect upon him so , the very same , for ought I know , thou might'st have done to thy disgrace , If thou hadst been in Adam's Place . No says he the strict command was great Beside that very blessed S [ tO ] ate Of Innocence was free from Care ; We would have liv'd and flourish'd there . I'd not have touch'd the tree of [ Li ] fe For ever a Serpent , Friend or Wife ; Behold there was enough beside If Man could have been satisfy'd . But Father hear me what I say , the Fruit was beautiful and gay , this made him soon consent when woo'd , to taste of the forbidden Food . & Men are of a longing [ k ] ind , Still as by Law they are confin'd from this or that , they long the more , to taste , tho' Death stands at the Door . Right worthy Sir , I would have stood Upon the Guard [ f ] or future Good ; And none should [ e' ] er have [ e ] wrought on me , to taste of the forbidden tree . All but that very tree alone the Lord had made old Adam's own , Which was enough , and eke to spare , What could he not that one forbear ! With that replied the noble Lord , thou shalt receive a large Reward , And thou shalt never work again , If from one thing thou wilt abstain . Thou seem'st to be as poor as Job , But I'll give thee a Royal Robe ; A Chain of G [ old ] and Palace gay , While these Order thou dost obey . Thou shalt have honour , pomp and state , and like the mighty potentate Music shall lull thee to thy Rest , No Heat nor Cold shall thee molest . and every Day I will afford the best of Food to grace the Board Choice Dainties , forty more or less , But one shall be a cover'd Mess . That shall be brought then each Day , among the rest , then took away ; Still at the end [ i ] ng of the Feast , You [ tO ] thou shan't touch it in the least . These just Commands be sure thou keep , For if thou ventur'st once to peep , Under the Cover , more or less , You forfeit all the Happiness . Said he , my Lord I do declare , from time to time I will forbear , Touching that private cover'd Mess In any manner more or less . Altho' it does before me stand , I'll never touch it with my Hand ; Nor in the least be found to see What is conceal'd and hid from me . In all Obedience I'll remain , You shall in the least complain . I'll never do as Adam did , To taste of that which is forbid . then come and follow me I pray , Henceforth old Father from this Day , thou shalt not labour , carp or care , If this one Thing thou dost forbear . After this , the noble Lord he goes ; Who stripped him of his Leather Clothes , Then deck'd him like a noble Peer , Of many Thousand Pounds a Year . His [ C ] oach , his Star , his Chain of Gold , a sumptuous palace to behold ; With all Things to his Heart's Content , Just for to see this strange Event . The Lord who had this romise made , and cause him strait to be array'd In Robes of rich embroider'd Gold , And sent him Dishes manifold . the best that all the Land could yield [ F ] rome forest , Garden , park or field , With fish , fowls , and all that might Sweeten his Want and Appetite . In midst of Joy his Life was led , And was with curious Dainties fed : He wanted neither food nor Mirth to make him blessed here on Earth . The Lord allow'd that he should have . Whatever his Heart could wish or crave . [ A ] and so he had , but see at last How he did all his Glories blast . [ F ] or Day by Day still as he din'd , he cover'd Mess ran in his Mind . He wants to know what there was hid , Altho' he knew 'twas forbid . Tho' he had plenty at his Board , What Court and Kingdom could afford , Yet this one Thing he wants to know , Which stood before him covered so . His [ f ] ancy to that Height was grown , That as he feasted all alone : Resolved he was to satisfy His foolish found Curiosity . With that he raised up the Dish , But there was neither [ f ] lesh nor Fish , But out there leap'd a living Mouse , Which run from him across the House . Which he could not the least Retrieve , With that he strait began to Grieve , As soon as e'er he saw it run , He sighing said , what have I done ? A Fault which makes me blush for Shame I am as much or more to blame Than Adam was , without Dispute , Who tasted the forbidden Fruit. Alas ! he had no ecedent , [ TO ] oh warn him of the like Event As I have had from Time to Time Therefore the greater is my Crime . While thus he did lamenting stand Behold the Servants out of Hand Were sent to clear the Table strait this led to his unhappy Fate . for having search'd the cover'd Mess Which he was never to possess . And finding that the Mouse was fled He to the noble Lord was led . Who then examin'd him and said Wherefore hast thou disobey'd My just Commands , come tell me true Was I not good and kind to you I herd your Groans and piteous Cries , I saw the tears drop down your Eyes ; When Adam you was pleas'd to blame , Because through him your Labour came . When you was encompass'd with Cares , as being one of Adam's Heirs ; Who suffer'd by his fatal fallen , I took you in and gave you all . that e'er your Heart could wish or crave , Nothing but leisure should you have , While in the World you did remain , If from one thing you did abstain . With great resumption you reply'd , that my Commands should be your Guide these were the very Words you spoke , Yet now thou hast that romise broke Which has offended me indeed , Strip off those Royal Robes with Speed , And take your Leather Clothes once more , or thou shalt labour as before . the poor Man said , i must confess , 'tis through my own Unworthiness , that i must with these pleasures part therefore it is my just Desert . the Nobleman said , prithee go , And don't reflect on Adam so As thou hast done , for as i'm true [ I ] find a greater [ fa ] ult in you . London : Printed and Sold by M. EDWARDS , at the GLOBE , without NEWGATE . The Presumptuous sinner : Or , a Dialogue between a Noble Lord , and a poor Woodman , concerning the fallen of Adam , which brought since , Death and Labour into the World ; with and account how the Nobleman reproved him for his sharp Reflection , To which is added , and agreement made between them , to place the poor Man in all the Pomps and Glories of the World , which he was to enjoy , while he abstained from one Thing commanded . Concluding with the Poor Man's Disobediences , which shows the Vanity of those that presume to stand by their own strength . To the Tune of , The Complete Christian . A Noble Lord of high renown As he was coursing up and down , [ TO ] hrough Groves and shady Valleys green , [ B ] y him and aged [ m ] and was seen , With ax in Hand cleaving of Wood ; Now as he at his Labour stood , ah ! Adam , Adam , was his tone [ s ] till as he labour'd all alone . He sigh'd as if his Heart would break , And said at every heavy Stroke , ah ! Adam , Adam , was his Cries , While Tears did trickle from his Eyes . at length behold the noble Peer , as he these Words did overhear ; Said , aged [ m ] and , pray let me know Why do you talk of Adam so ? The old Man answer'd him and said , The Laws of God he disobey'd , By eating the Forbidden Fruit , And thus our Sins at first took Root . For if that Breach had never been , We had been blessed , and free from since ! In that sweet State of Innocence , But Sorrow came by his Offence . For Adam's found Curiosity It was ordain'd that he should be Oppressed with Sorrow , Grief and Pain , Till he return to Earth again . And I , one of poor Adam's Heirs , To earn my Bred with anxious Cares , and at his Fallen I was brought to this Labour which I now go through . Why did he not his Wife oppose ; Why did he with the Serpent close ; Why did he on the apple feed , Which does so many Sorrows breed : The Garden was at his Command , the loaded Branches kiss'd his Hand : Which he might pull with Pleasure free , All but that one forbidden tree . The Nobleman he th [ e ] n reply'd , 'tis true Adam he turn'd aside From God's Commands , and did the thing Which does continual Sorrow bring . Yet don't reflect upon him so , the very same , for ought I know , thou might'st have done to thy disgrace , If thou hadst been in Adam's Place . No says he the strict command was great Beside that very blessed S [ tO ] ate Of Innocence was free from Care ; We would have liv'd and flourish'd there . I'd not have touch'd the tree of [ Li ] fe For ever a Serpent , Friend or Wife ; Behold there was enough beside If Man could have been satisfy'd . But Father hear me what I say , the Fruit was beautiful and gay , this made him soon consent when woo'd , to taste of the forbidden Food . & Men are of a longing [ k ] ind , Still as by Law they are confin'd from this or that , they long the more , to taste , tho' Death stands at the Door . Right worthy Sir , I would have stood Upon the Guard [ f ] or future Good ; And none should [ e' ] er have [ e ] wrought on me , to taste of the forbidden tree . All but that very tree alone the Lord had made old Adam's own , Which was enough , and eke to spare , What could he not that one forbear ! With that replied the noble Lord , thou shalt receive a large Reward , And thou shalt never work again , If from one thing thou wilt abstain . Thou seem'st to be as poor as Job , But I'll give thee a Royal Robe ; A Chain of G [ old ] and Palace gay , While these Order thou dost obey . Thou shalt have honour , pomp and state , and like the mighty potentate Music shall lull thee to thy Rest , No Heat nor Cold shall thee molest . and every Day I will afford the best of Food to grace the Board Choice Dainties , forty more or less , But one shall be a cover'd Mess . That shall be brought then each Day , among the rest , then took away ; Still at the end [ i ] ng of the Feast , You [ tO ] thou shan't touch it in the least . These just Commands be sure thou keep , For if thou ventur'st once to peep , Under the Cover , more or less , You forfeit all the Happiness . Said he , my Lord I do declare , from time to time I will forbear , Touching that private cover'd Mess In any manner more or less . Altho' it does before me stand , I'll never touch it with my Hand ; Nor in the least be found to see What is conceal'd and hid from me . In all Obedience I'll remain , You shall in the least complain . I'll never do as Adam did , To taste of that which is forbid . then come and follow me I pray , Henceforth old Father from this Day , thou shalt not labour , carp or care , If this one Thing thou dost forbear . After this , the noble Lord he goes ; Who stripped him of his Leather Clothes , Then deck'd him like a noble Peer , Of many Thousand Pounds a Year . His [ C ] oach , his Star , his Chain of Gold , a sumptuous palace to behold ; With all Things to his Heart's Content , Just for to see this strange Event . The Lord who had this romise made , and cause him strait to be array'd In Robes of rich embroider'd Gold , And sent him Dishes manifold . the best that all the Land could yield [ F ] rome forest , Garden , park or field , With fish , fowls , and all that might Sweeten his Want and Appetite . In midst of Joy his Life was led , And was with curious Dainties fed : He wanted neither food nor Mirth to make him blessed here on Earth . The Lord allow'd that he should have . Whatever his Heart could wish or crave . [ A ] and so he had , but see at last How he did all his Glories blast . [ F ] or Day by Day still as he din'd , he cover'd Mess ran in his Mind . He wants to know what there was hid , Altho' he knew 'twas forbid . Tho' he had plenty at his Board , What Court and Kingdom could afford , Yet this one Thing he wants to know , Which stood before him covered so . His [ f ] ancy to that Height was grown , That as he feasted all alone : Resolved he was to satisfy His foolish found Curiosity . With that he raised up the Dish , But there was neither [ f ] lesh nor Fish , But out there leap'd a living Mouse , Which run from him across the House . Which he could not the least Retrieve , With that he strait began to Grieve , As soon as e'er he saw it run , He sighing said , what have I done ? A Fault which makes me blush for Shame I am as much or more to blame Than Adam was , without Dispute , Who tasted the forbidden Fruit. Alas ! he had no ecedent , [ TO ] oh warn him of the like Event As I have had from Time to Time Therefore the greater is my Crime . While thus he did lamenting stand Behold the Servants out of Hand Were sent to clear the Table strait this led to his unhappy Fate . for having search'd the cover'd Mess Which he was never to possess . And finding that the Mouse was fled He to the noble Lord was led . Who then examin'd him and said Wherefore hast thou disobey'd My just Commands , come tell me true Was I not good and kind to you I herd your Groans and piteous Cries , I saw the tears drop down your Eyes ; When Adam you was pleas'd to blame , Because through him your Labour came . When you was encompass'd with Cares , as being one of Adam's Heirs ; Who suffer'd by his fatal fallen , I took you in and gave you all . that e'er your Heart could wish or crave , Nothing but leisure should you have , While in the World you did remain , If from one thing you did abstain . With great resumption you reply'd , that my Commands should be your Guide these were the very Words you spoke , Yet now thou hast that romise broke Which has offended me indeed , Strip off those Royal Robes with Speed , And take your Leather Clothes once more , or thou shalt labour as before . the poor Man said , i must confess , 'tis through my own Unworthiness , that i must with these pleasures part therefore it is my just Desert . the Nobleman said , prithee go , And don't reflect on Adam so As thou hast done , for as i'm true [ I ] find a greater [ fa ] ult in you . London : Printed and Sold by M. EDWARDS , at the GLOBE , without NEWGATE . 