The Secret Lovers : OR , The Jealous Father beguil'd . Loves Passion is not easily put under , Nor faithful Lovers to be kept asunder ; Because you know the Proverb it is so , That Love will creep , when as it cannot go . To a West-Country Tune : Or , Alack for my Love I must die . A Dainty spruce young Gallant that lived in the West , He Courted a young Lady , and real Love profess And coming one Night to her , his Mind he thus express And sing go from my Window Love go . What is my Love a sleeping , or is my Love awake ? Who knocketh at the Window , who knocketh there so late ? It is your true Love , Lady , that for your sake does wait . And sing go from my Window Love go . Then open me your Father's Gate , and do not me deny ; But grant to me your true Love , or surely I shall die . I dare not open now the Gates , For fear my Father spy : And sing go from my Window Love go . O Dearest be not daunted , thou needest not to fear , Thy Father may be sleeping , our Love he shall not hear ; Then open it without delay , my Joy and only Dear . And sing go from my Window Love go . MY Father he does watch me , his Jealousy is so : If he should chance to catch me , Oh then what shall we do ? Therefore I dare not venture , my Dear , to open now : And sing go from my Window Love go . I wish there were no Hinges , nor yet no Key nor Lock ; That I might come unto my Love , now she is in her Smock : Oh peace , and be contented , I hear my Father knock : And sing go from my Window Love go . O Daughter dear , why are you out of your Bed so late ? O Father , I am very sick , and in distressed state . Methinks I hear some body under your Window prate . And sing go from my Window Love go . O Father 'tis the Watchmen , this Evening , passing by . Hark how a faithful Lover can frame a pretty Lie . O Daughter I command you unto your Bed to high . And sing go from , etc Dear Father I obey you , and quickly I am gone ; But yet I am not willing to leave my Love alone : So soon as you are sleeping , I down again will come . And sing go from , etc And then she sent her Maiden unto her Chamber strait ; And came unto her true Love , who at the Door did wait ; And open'd him the Wicket , for all it was so late . And sing go from , etc Then softly he did enter , and to the Lady said , My Love there is no danger , we cannot be betray'd : Let us enjoy our Pleasure , and never be afraid . And sing go from , etc And thus this faithful Couple , their Wishes had at last ; For all her jealous Father , the sweets of Love they taste : And when the Day appeared , her Love away did haste : And sing go from my Window Love g [ oh . ] Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , in Pie-corner . The Secret Lovers : OR , The Jealous Father beguil'd . Loves Passion is not easily put under , Nor faithful Lovers to be kept asunder ; Because you know the Proverb it is so , That Love will creep , when as it cannot go . To a West-Country Tune : Or , Alack for my Love I must die . A Dainty spruce young Gallant that lived in the West , He Courted a young Lady , and real Love profess And coming one Night to her , his Mind he thus express And sing go from my Window Love go . What is my Love a sleeping , or is my Love awake ? Who knocketh at the Window , who knocketh there so late ? It is your true Love , Lady , that for your sake does wait . And sing go from my Window Love go . Then open me your Father's Gate , and do not me deny ; But grant to me your true Love , or surely I shall die . I dare not open now the Gates , For fear my Father spy : And sing go from my Window Love go . O Dearest be not daunted , thou needest not to fear , Thy Father may be sleeping , our Love he shall not hear ; Then open it without delay , my Joy and only Dear . And sing go from my Window Love go . MY Father he does watch me , his Jealousy is so : If he should chance to catch me , Oh then what shall we do ? Therefore I dare not venture , my Dear , to open now : And sing go from my Window Love go . I wish there were no Hinges , nor yet no Key nor Lock ; That I might come unto my Love , now she is in her Smock : Oh peace , and be contented , I hear my Father knock : And sing go from my Window Love go . O Daughter dear , why are you out of your Bed so late ? O Father , I am very sick , and in distressed state . Methinks I hear some body under your Window prate . And sing go from my Window Love go . O Father 'tis the Watchmen , this Evening , passing by . Hark how a faithful Lover can frame a pretty Lie . O Daughter I command you unto your Bed to high . And sing go from , etc Dear Father I obey you , and quickly I am gone ; But yet I am not willing to leave my Love alone : So soon as you are sleeping , I down again will come . And sing go from , etc And then she sent her Maiden unto her Chamber strait ; And came unto her true Love , who at the Door did wait ; And open'd him the Wicket , for all it was so late . And sing go from , etc Then softly he did enter , and to the Lady said , My Love there is no danger , we cannot be betray'd : Let us enjoy our Pleasure , and never be afraid . And sing go from , etc And thus this faithful Couple , their Wishes had at last ; For all her jealous Father , the sweets of Love they taste : And when the Day appeared , her Love away did haste : And sing go from my Window Love g [ oh . ] Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , in Pie-corner . 