A Weeks Loving , Wooing , and Wedding : OR , Happy is that Wooing that is not long a Doing .. Here was a nimble Bridegroom , and a Bride , In Eight short days the long fast Knot was ty'd . To the Tune of Billy and Molly . Licensed according to Order . ON Sunday Johnny went to Church so spruce , and neat , and finey , Cupid lay for John at lurch , and shew'd him pretty Jinny , Johnny was shot to the heart , and prov'd a zealous Lover , That Jenny she might cure his smart , he was resolved to move her . Johnny was a stitching Blade , and he could not work a Monday ; Jinny lov'd the stitching Trade , but minded John a Sunday : He to her did make Address , but she receiv'd it shiely , The loving truth he did confess , but Jinny she was wily . Tuesday came , and Johnny then professed to her profoundly , He lov'd her more than any Man , and spoke his Passion roundly ; Jinny she did love to spin , as pretty Maids do often , She fancy'd John could put it in , and that did Jinny soften . On Wednesday then the Lovers met , and Johnny pressed her home to't ; He said his Love was on her set , but she said nought but mum to' Jinny was a coming Lass , her Silence was consenting , When John had brought it to that pass , he then fell to presenting . On Thursday then he brought her store , what Maid could have forsook 'em ? Of Ribbons , Gloves , with sundry more , and she said No , and took 'em : Johnny was a Lover free , though bound in Jinny's Fetters , Jinny lov'd as well as he , tho' she might a had his Betters . On Friday Johnny ask'd her what she had to say against it ; She said there was two words to that , for fear she shou'd repent i But John he did her so persuade , that she gave no denial , But said he should be her own Blade , and put it to the Trial. On Saturday there ne'er was seen such Billing , and such Cooing ; Jinny and her John between , such Kissing and such Wooing . Thus both agreed in Love to speed , concluded on the Morrow , That they would Wed , and so to Bed , and sport away all Sorrow . On Sunday they to Church did go , where Love first had beginning , The Parson he made one of two , so the Business had and ending : John and Jinny marry'd were , O! merry night of Sunday ! Pretty Maids do not Despair , 'twill be your own case one day . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner , J. Deacon at the Angel in Gilt-spur-street , J. Blare at the Looking - glass on London-bridge near the Church , J. Back at the Black Boy on London-bridge near the Draw Bridge . A Weeks Loving , Wooing , and Wedding : OR , Happy is that Wooing that is not long a Doing .. Here was a nimble Bridegroom , and a Bride , In Eight short days the long fast Knot was ty'd . To the Tune of Billy and Molly . Licensed according to Order . ON Sunday Johnny went to Church so spruce , and neat , and finey , Cupid lay for John at lurch , and shew'd him pretty Jinny , Johnny was shot to the heart , and prov'd a zealous Lover , That Jenny she might cure his smart , he was resolved to move her . Johnny was a stitching Blade , and he could not work a Monday ; Jinny lov'd the stitching Trade , but minded John a Sunday : He to her did make Address , but she receiv'd it shiely , The loving truth he did confess , but Jinny she was wily . Tuesday came , and Johnny then professed to her profoundly , He lov'd her more than any Man , and spoke his Passion roundly ; Jinny she did love to spin , as pretty Maids do often , She fancy'd John could put it in , and that did Jinny soften . On Wednesday then the Lovers met , and Johnny pressed her home to't ; He said his Love was on her set , but she said nought but mum to' Jinny was a coming Lass , her Silence was consenting , When John had brought it to that pass , he then fell to presenting . On Thursday then he brought her store , what Maid could have forsook 'em ? Of Ribbons , Gloves , with sundry more , and she said No , and took 'em : Johnny was a Lover free , though bound in Jinny's Fetters , Jinny lov'd as well as he , tho' she might a had his Betters . On Friday Johnny ask'd her what she had to say against it ; She said there was two words to that , for fear she shou'd repent i But John he did her so persuade , that she gave no denial , But said he should be her own Blade , and put it to the Trial. On Saturday there ne'er was seen such Billing , and such Cooing ; Jinny and her John between , such Kissing and such Wooing . Thus both agreed in Love to speed , concluded on the Morrow , That they would Wed , and so to Bed , and sport away all Sorrow . On Sunday they to Church did go , where Love first had beginning , The Parson he made one of two , so the Business had and ending : John and Jinny marry'd were , O! merry night of Sunday ! Pretty Maids do not Despair , 'twill be your own case one day . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner , J. Deacon at the Angel in Gilt-spur-street , J. Blare at the Looking - glass on London-bridge near the Church , J. Back at the Black Boy on London-bridge near the Draw Bridge . 