My good old Lord Falcon - bridge's generous Gift . A Nobleman liv'd near a Village of late , Hard-by a poor Thrasher whose Care was great He had seven Children , and most of them small , And nought but his Labour to keep them withal . He never was given to idle or lurk , This Nobleman seeing him go daily to Work , His Flail , with his Dog , and Bottle of Beer , As cheerful as those that have Thousands a Year . Thus cheerful and constant each Morning he went To his daily Labour with Joy and Content . Both joyful and jolly he'd whistle and sing , As blithe and as brisk as a Bird in the Spring . One Morning this Gentleman taking his Walk , He met this poor Man , and freely did talk . And asked him many Questions at large Concerning his Labour , and likewise his Charge . You have many Children I very well know , Your Labour is hard , and the Wages are low . And still thou art cheerful , come tell me true , How you maintain them so well as you do . I carefully take home what I do earn , Now daily Experience this me does learn , Altho' it is possible we may live poor . Yet we keep the ravenous Wolf from the Door . I reap , I mow , I harrow and sow , Sometime I a hedging and ditching do go . No Work comes amiss , I thrash , I blow , Thus I earn my Bred by the Sweat of my Blow . My Wife she is willing to draw in the Yoke , We live like two Lambs , and never prove . Each other , but like to the labouring Ant , We do our Endeavour to keep us from Scant . And when I come home from Labour at Night , To my Wife and Children in whom I delight , To hear them come round me prattling Noise , Now these are the Riches that poor Men enjoys . Altho' I am weary as weary may be , The Youngest I commonly set on my Knee . I find that Content is and entire Feast . And never repine at my Lot in the least . The Nobleman hearing what he did say , Was plers'd to invite him home the next Day . His Wife and Children he bid him to bring , In Token of Favour he gave him a Ring . So thanking his Honour , he took his Leave , He went to his Wife , who would hardly believe , But that this fine Story himself might raise , But seeing the Ring , she was in Amaze . Betimes in the Morning the good Wife arose , And made them fine with their best Clothes . So the Man and Wife with their Children small Did go to dine at this Nobleman's Hall . But when they god there , as Stories report , All Things were served in plentiful sort . And they with the Nobleman then did dine , With most kind of Dainties , and best of Wine . All things being over , he soon let them know What he intended on them to bestow . A Farm with forty good Acres of Land , And give him the Writings in his own Hand . Because you're industrious and kind to your Wife , I will make you happy the rest of your Life . It shall be for ever to thee and thy Heirs , For why I beheld thy industrious Cares . No Tongue was able in full to express The Depth of their Joy and true Thankfulness . With many a Curt'sy and Bow to the Ground . But such Noblemen are few to be found . My good old Lord Falcon - bridge's generous Gift . A Nobleman liv'd near a Village of late , Hard-by a poor Thrasher whose Care was great He had seven Children , and most of them small , And nought but his Labour to keep them withal . He never was given to idle or lurk , This Nobleman seeing him go daily to Work , His Flail , with his Dog , and Bottle of Beer , As cheerful as those that have Thousands a Year . Thus cheerful and constant each Morning he went To his daily Labour with Joy and Content . Both joyful and jolly he'd whistle and sing , As blithe and as brisk as a Bird in the Spring . One Morning this Gentleman taking his Walk , He met this poor Man , and freely did talk . And asked him many Questions at large Concerning his Labour , and likewise his Charge . You have many Children I very well know , Your Labour is hard , and the Wages are low . And still thou art cheerful , come tell me true , How you maintain them so well as you do . I carefully take home what I do earn , Now daily Experience this me does learn , Altho' it is possible we may live poor . Yet we keep the ravenous Wolf from the Door . I reap , I mow , I harrow and sow , Sometime I a hedging and ditching do go . No Work comes amiss , I thrash , I blow , Thus I earn my Bred by the Sweat of my Blow . My Wife she is willing to draw in the Yoke , We live like two Lambs , and never prove . Each other , but like to the labouring Ant , We do our Endeavour to keep us from Scant . And when I come home from Labour at Night , To my Wife and Children in whom I delight , To hear them come round me prattling Noise , Now these are the Riches that poor Men enjoys . Altho' I am weary as weary may be , The Youngest I commonly set on my Knee . I find that Content is and entire Feast . And never repine at my Lot in the least . The Nobleman hearing what he did say , Was plers'd to invite him home the next Day . His Wife and Children he bid him to bring , In Token of Favour he gave him a Ring . So thanking his Honour , he took his Leave , He went to his Wife , who would hardly believe , But that this fine Story himself might raise , But seeing the Ring , she was in Amaze . Betimes in the Morning the good Wife arose , And made them fine with their best Clothes . So the Man and Wife with their Children small Did go to dine at this Nobleman's Hall . But when they god there , as Stories report , All Things were served in plentiful sort . And they with the Nobleman then did dine , With most kind of Dainties , and best of Wine . All things being over , he soon let them know What he intended on them to bestow . A Farm with forty good Acres of Land , And give him the Writings in his own Hand . Because you're industrious and kind to your Wife , I will make you happy the rest of your Life . It shall be for ever to thee and thy Heirs , For why I beheld thy industrious Cares . No Tongue was able in full to express The Depth of their Joy and true Thankfulness . With many a Curt'sy and Bow to the Ground . But such Noblemen are few to be found . 