PATIENT GRISSEL AND A Noble MARQUESS , To the Tune of The Bride's Good Morrow . A Noble Marquis as he did ride a Hunting , hard by a River side , A proper Maiden she did fit a Spinning , his gentle Eye espy'd ; Most fair and lovely , and of comely Grace was she altho' in simple Attire , She sang most sweet with pleasant Voice melodiously , The more he looked , the more he might , Beauty bred his Heart's Delight ; and to this Damsel he went . God speed , quoth he , thou famous Flower , Fair Mistress of this homely Bower , Where Love and Virtue lives with sweet Content , With comely gesture , and modest mild behaviour , She bade him welcome then , She entertain'd him in faithful friendly manner , and all his Gentlemen . The noble Marquis in his Heart felt such a Flame , which set his Senses all at Strife , Quoth he fair Maiden show soon what is thy Name ? I mean to take thee to my wife , Grissel is my Name , quoth she , Fare unfit for your Degree , a silly Maiden , and of Parents poor , Nay Grissel thou art Rich , he said , a virtuous fair and comely Maid ; Grant me thy Love and I will ask no more . At length she consented and been both contented , they married were with speed ; Her Country Russet was turn'd to Silk and Velvet , as to her State agreed ; And when that she was trimly tried in the same , her Beauty shin'd most bright ; For staining every other brave and comely Dame , that did appear in her Sighed ; Many envied her therefore , because she was of Parents poor , And 'twixt her Lord and her great Strife did raise , Some said this , and same said that , Some did call her Beggar's Brat , And to her Lord they would her often dispraise , Oh noble Marquis quoth they , why do you wrong us thus basely for to wed , That might have god and Honourable Lady , into your Princely Bed , Who will not now your noble Issue still deride , which shall be hereafter born , That are of Blood so base by the Mother's side , the which will bring them to scorn , Put her therefore quite away , take to you a Lady gay , Whereby your Lineage may renowned be , Thus every Day they seem'd to prate , That malic'd Grissels good Estate , who took all this most mild and patiently when that the Marquis did see that they were bent thus , against his faithful Wife , who most dearly and tenderly he lov'd as his Life , Minding in secret for to prove her Patient heart , thereby her Foes to disgrace : Thinking to play a hard discourteous part , that Men might pity her Case ; Great with Child this Lady was , And at length it came to pass , Two lovely Children at one Birth she had , A Son and Daughter God had sent , which did their Father well content , and which did make their Mother's heart full glad . Great Royal Feasting were at the Children's Christening , and princely Triumph made , Six weeks together all Nobles that came thither , were entertain'd and stayed ; And when that these pleasant Sportings quite were [ done ] the Marquis a Messenger [ sent ] , For his young Daughter , and his pretty smiling Son , declaring his full Intent , How that the Babes must murdered be , For so the Marquis did decree . Come let me have the Children he said , with that fair Grissel wept full soar , She wrung her Hands and said no more , My gracious Lord must have his will obey'd , She took the Babies from the Nursing Ladies , Between her tender Arms , She often wishes with many sorrowful Kisses , that She might help their Harms ; Farewell , quoth she , my Children dear , never shall I see you again ; 'Tis along of me your sad and woeful Mother dear , for whose sake you must be slave ; Had I been born of royal Raze , You might have liv'd in happy Case , but now you must die for my Unworthiness , Come Messenger of Death quoth she , Take my despised Babes to thee . and to their Father my Complaint express , He took the Children , and to his noble Master , he brought them forth with speed , Who secretly sent them unto a noble Lady , to be nursed up indeed . Then to fair Grissel with a heavy heart he goes , where she sat mildly all alone . A pleasant Gesture , and a lovely Look she shows , as if Grief she had never known , Quoth he , my Children now are slave , What thinks fair Grissel of the same ? sweet Grissel now declare thy Mind to me . Since you my Lord are pleas'd with it , Poor Grissel thinks the Actium fit , both I and mine at your Command will be , The Nobles murmur fair Grissel at thine Honour , and I no Joy can have , 'Till thou be banish'd from my Court and Presence , as they unjustly crave , Thou must be stripped out of thy Stately Garments , and as thou camest to me , In homely grey , instead of Silk and purest Pall , Now all thy Clothing must be ; My Lady thou must be no more , Nor I thy Lord , which grieves me soar ; The poorest Life must now content thy Mind , A Groat to thee I may not give , Thee to maintain while I do live , Against my Grissel such great Foes I find . When gentle Grissel herd these woeful Tidings , the Teers stood in her Eyes , She nothing said , no words of Discontentment , did from her Lips arise ; Her Velvet Gown most patiently she stripped off , her Girdle of Silk of the same ; Her russet Gown was brought again with many a Scoff ; to bear them all , herself did frame ; When she was dressed in this Array , and ready was to part away , God send long Life unto my Lord , quoth she , let no Offence be found in this , To give my Lord a parting Kiss ; with watery Eyes , Farewell my Dear , quoth he , From Stately Palace unto her Father's Cottage , poor Grissel now is gone ; Full Fifteen winter's she liv'd there contented , no wrong she thought upon ; And at that time thro' all the Land the speeches went the Marquis should married be , Unto a noble Lady of high Descent , and the same all Parties did agree , The Marquis sent for Grissel fair , The Bride's Bedchamber to prepare , that nothing should therein be found awry , The Bride was with her Brother come , Which was great Joy to all and some ; and Grissel took all this most patiently ; And in the Morning when that they should be wedded , her Patience now was try'd , Grissel was charg'd in princely manner , for to attend the Bride ; Most willingly she gave Consent unto the same ; the Bride in her Bravery was dressed , And presently the noble Marquis thither came , with all the Ladies at his Request , O Grissel ! I would ask of thee , If to this Match thou wouldst agree ? methinks thy Looks are waxed wondrous coy . With that they all began to smile , And Grissel she replies the while , God send Lord Marquis many Years of Joy . The Marquis was mov'd to see his best beloved , thus patient in Distress , He stepped unto her , ard by the Hand he took her , these words he did express , Thou art the Bride , and all the Brides I mean to have , these two thy own Children be ; The youthful Lady on her Knees did Blessing crave the Brother as willing as she ; And you that envy her Estate , Whom I have made my loving Mate , now blush for shame and honour virtuous Life ; The Chronicles of lasting Fame , Shall evermore extol the Name , of Patient Grissel , my most constant Wife . Enter'd into the Stamp-Office according to Act of Parliament . London : Printed by J.D. for Sam. Howells . PATIENT GRISSEL AND A Noble MARQUESS , To the Tune of The Bride's Good Morrow . A Noble Marquis as he did ride a Hunting , hard by a River side , A proper Maiden she did fit a Spinning , his gentle Eye espy'd ; Most fair and lovely , and of comely Grace was she altho' in simple Attire , She sang most sweet with pleasant Voice melodiously , The more he looked , the more he might , Beauty bred his Heart's Delight ; and to this Damsel he went . God speed , quoth he , thou famous Flower , Fair Mistress of this homely Bower , Where Love and Virtue lives with sweet Content , With comely gesture , and modest mild behaviour , She bade him welcome then , She entertain'd him in faithful friendly manner , and all his Gentlemen . The noble Marquis in his Heart felt such a Flame , which set his Senses all at Strife , Quoth he fair Maiden show soon what is thy Name ? I mean to take thee to my wife , Grissel is my Name , quoth she , Fare unfit for your Degree , a silly Maiden , and of Parents poor , Nay Grissel thou art Rich , he said , a virtuous fair and comely Maid ; Grant me thy Love and I will ask no more . At length she consented and been both contented , they married were with speed ; Her Country Russet was turn'd to Silk and Velvet , as to her State agreed ; And when that she was trimly tried in the same , her Beauty shin'd most bright ; For staining every other brave and comely Dame , that did appear in her Sighed ; Many envied her therefore , because she was of Parents poor , And 'twixt her Lord and her great Strife did raise , Some said this , and same said that , Some did call her Beggar's Brat , And to her Lord they would her often dispraise , Oh noble Marquis quoth they , why do you wrong us thus basely for to wed , That might have god and Honourable Lady , into your Princely Bed , Who will not now your noble Issue still deride , which shall be hereafter born , That are of Blood so base by the Mother's side , the which will bring them to scorn , Put her therefore quite away , take to you a Lady gay , Whereby your Lineage may renowned be , Thus every Day they seem'd to prate , That malic'd Grissels good Estate , who took all this most mild and patiently when that the Marquis did see that they were bent thus , against his faithful Wife , who most dearly and tenderly he lov'd as his Life , Minding in secret for to prove her Patient heart , thereby her Foes to disgrace : Thinking to play a hard discourteous part , that Men might pity her Case ; Great with Child this Lady was , And at length it came to pass , Two lovely Children at one Birth she had , A Son and Daughter God had sent , which did their Father well content , and which did make their Mother's heart full glad . Great Royal Feasting were at the Children's Christening , and princely Triumph made , Six weeks together all Nobles that came thither , were entertain'd and stayed ; And when that these pleasant Sportings quite were [ done ] the Marquis a Messenger [ sent ] , For his young Daughter , and his pretty smiling Son , declaring his full Intent , How that the Babes must murdered be , For so the Marquis did decree . Come let me have the Children he said , with that fair Grissel wept full soar , She wrung her Hands and said no more , My gracious Lord must have his will obey'd , She took the Babies from the Nursing Ladies , Between her tender Arms , She often wishes with many sorrowful Kisses , that She might help their Harms ; Farewell , quoth she , my Children dear , never shall I see you again ; 'Tis along of me your sad and woeful Mother dear , for whose sake you must be slave ; Had I been born of royal Raze , You might have liv'd in happy Case , but now you must die for my Unworthiness , Come Messenger of Death quoth she , Take my despised Babes to thee . and to their Father my Complaint express , He took the Children , and to his noble Master , he brought them forth with speed , Who secretly sent them unto a noble Lady , to be nursed up indeed . Then to fair Grissel with a heavy heart he goes , where she sat mildly all alone . A pleasant Gesture , and a lovely Look she shows , as if Grief she had never known , Quoth he , my Children now are slave , What thinks fair Grissel of the same ? sweet Grissel now declare thy Mind to me . Since you my Lord are pleas'd with it , Poor Grissel thinks the Actium fit , both I and mine at your Command will be , The Nobles murmur fair Grissel at thine Honour , and I no Joy can have , 'Till thou be banish'd from my Court and Presence , as they unjustly crave , Thou must be stripped out of thy Stately Garments , and as thou camest to me , In homely grey , instead of Silk and purest Pall , Now all thy Clothing must be ; My Lady thou must be no more , Nor I thy Lord , which grieves me soar ; The poorest Life must now content thy Mind , A Groat to thee I may not give , Thee to maintain while I do live , Against my Grissel such great Foes I find . When gentle Grissel herd these woeful Tidings , the Teers stood in her Eyes , She nothing said , no words of Discontentment , did from her Lips arise ; Her Velvet Gown most patiently she stripped off , her Girdle of Silk of the same ; Her russet Gown was brought again with many a Scoff ; to bear them all , herself did frame ; When she was dressed in this Array , and ready was to part away , God send long Life unto my Lord , quoth she , let no Offence be found in this , To give my Lord a parting Kiss ; with watery Eyes , Farewell my Dear , quoth he , From Stately Palace unto her Father's Cottage , poor Grissel now is gone ; Full Fifteen winter's she liv'd there contented , no wrong she thought upon ; And at that time thro' all the Land the speeches went the Marquis should married be , Unto a noble Lady of high Descent , and the same all Parties did agree , The Marquis sent for Grissel fair , The Bride's Bedchamber to prepare , that nothing should therein be found awry , The Bride was with her Brother come , Which was great Joy to all and some ; and Grissel took all this most patiently ; And in the Morning when that they should be wedded , her Patience now was try'd , Grissel was charg'd in princely manner , for to attend the Bride ; Most willingly she gave Consent unto the same ; the Bride in her Bravery was dressed , And presently the noble Marquis thither came , with all the Ladies at his Request , O Grissel ! I would ask of thee , If to this Match thou wouldst agree ? methinks thy Looks are waxed wondrous coy . With that they all began to smile , And Grissel she replies the while , God send Lord Marquis many Years of Joy . The Marquis was mov'd to see his best beloved , thus patient in Distress , He stepped unto her , ard by the Hand he took her , these words he did express , Thou art the Bride , and all the Brides I mean to have , these two thy own Children be ; The youthful Lady on her Knees did Blessing crave the Brother as willing as she ; And you that envy her Estate , Whom I have made my loving Mate , now blush for shame and honour virtuous Life ; The Chronicles of lasting Fame , Shall evermore extol the Name , of Patient Grissel , my most constant Wife . Enter'd into the Stamp-Office according to Act of Parliament . London : Printed by J.D. for Sam. Howells . 