The New Way of Gaberlunzy Man. To its own proper Tune . ONce in a Morning sweet and fair As I went forth to take the Air , I spy'd a Nymph without Compare , was following the Gaberlunzy Man. I thought it had DIANA been , Or Nell of Troy that I had seen , I ask'd at her , What she did mean , by following the Gaberlunzy Man ? A Council of the Gods above , They all convin'd and did approve , They all agreed , That I should love , and follow the Gaberlunzy Man. Although his Robes be not so fine , His Grace and Face appears divine , Although I were of Europe Queen , I'd follow the Gaberlunzy Man. Although he's not at my Command , I'll foot the Alpes and trade the Sand , Since I am bound in mutual Band , to follow the Gaberlunzy Man. I hope to see my Love again , Altho' I'm left to sighs and moan ; I'll fell my Gown of Satain Green , for my own Gaberlunzy Man. More fine than the Pole Star above , On which th' uncertain Earth does move , I've fix'd my Heart , I'll constant prove , to my dear Gaberlunzy Man. In Spite of Amours , in Spite of Fate , In Spite of those that do him hate , My flaming Love shall never abate from my dear Gaberlunzy Man. When first I herd , and read long since , He was by Birth of noble Raze : Pity my Heart did soon convince , To love the Gaberlunzy Man. But o ! when first his Mind he told , He ask'd me for his Bride ; Behold , My Virgin Blushes could not hold , from loving the Gaberlunzy Man. In Extassie of Love I grew , I long'd , I sigh'd , I ran , I flew ; My Heart did burn like Wine that's new , to my near Gaberlunzy Man. Tho' Cruelty does now combine , To stop such heavenly Bless like mine , My tender Years could ne're decline , from my dear Gaberlunzy Man. With him in tranced Joys I live , I ease his Cares , he does not grieve , Just Heavens may once us both relieve , and bless my Gaberlunzy Man. All Prophets tell , This happy Year , Will put and End to all Despair , Make Rivels from Earth disappear , and love my Gaberlunzy Man. Ne're match with Rogues to your Disgrace , Take Caveliers into their Place , Then we'll bring forth a happy Raze , to my dear Gaberlunzy Man. FINIS . The New Way of Gaberlunzy Man. To its own proper Tune . ONce in a Morning sweet and fair As I went forth to take the Air , I spy'd a Nymph without Compare , was following the Gaberlunzy Man. I thought it had DIANA been , Or Nell of Troy that I had seen , I ask'd at her , What she did mean , by following the Gaberlunzy Man ? A Council of the Gods above , They all convin'd and did approve , They all agreed , That I should love , and follow the Gaberlunzy Man. Although his Robes be not so fine , His Grace and Face appears divine , Although I were of Europe Queen , I'd follow the Gaberlunzy Man. Although he's not at my Command , I'll foot the Alpes and trade the Sand , Since I am bound in mutual Band , to follow the Gaberlunzy Man. I hope to see my Love again , Altho' I'm left to sighs and moan ; I'll fell my Gown of Satain Green , for my own Gaberlunzy Man. More fine than the Pole Star above , On which th' uncertain Earth does move , I've fix'd my Heart , I'll constant prove , to my dear Gaberlunzy Man. In Spite of Amours , in Spite of Fate , In Spite of those that do him hate , My flaming Love shall never abate from my dear Gaberlunzy Man. When first I herd , and read long since , He was by Birth of noble Raze : Pity my Heart did soon convince , To love the Gaberlunzy Man. But o ! when first his Mind he told , He ask'd me for his Bride ; Behold , My Virgin Blushes could not hold , from loving the Gaberlunzy Man. In Extassie of Love I grew , I long'd , I sigh'd , I ran , I flew ; My Heart did burn like Wine that's new , to my near Gaberlunzy Man. Tho' Cruelty does now combine , To stop such heavenly Bless like mine , My tender Years could ne're decline , from my dear Gaberlunzy Man. With him in tranced Joys I live , I ease his Cares , he does not grieve , Just Heavens may once us both relieve , and bless my Gaberlunzy Man. All Prophets tell , This happy Year , Will put and End to all Despair , Make Rivels from Earth disappear , and love my Gaberlunzy Man. Ne're match with Rogues to your Disgrace , Take Caveliers into their Place , Then we'll bring forth a happy Raze , to my dear Gaberlunzy Man. FINIS . 