News from Hide-Parke . OR A very merry Passage which happened betwixt a No [ r ] that Country Gentleman , and a very Gaudy Gallant Lady of pleasure , whom he took up in the Park , and conducted her ( in her own Coach ) home to her Lodgings , and what chanced there , if you'l venture Attention the Song will declare . To the Tune of , The Crossed Couple . One Evening a little before it was dark Sing Tan tara rara Tantivvee , I call'd for my Gelding & rid to Hide-Parke on Tan tara rara Tantivvee , It was in the motly month of May , When Meaddows & fields were gaudy & gay And Flowers aparell'd as bright as the day I god upon my tantivvee . The park shon brighter then the Skies , sing tan tara rara Tantivvee , With Jewels and Gold and Ladies eyes that sparkled & cry'd , come see me , Of all parts in England Hide-Park hath the name For Coaches and horses & persons of fame It looked at first sighed like a field full of flame which made me ride up tantivvee There hath not been seen such a sighed since Adam's for Periwig Ribbon & Feather , Hide-Parke may be tearm'd the Market of Madams or Lady-Faire choose you whither , Their gowns were a yard too long for their legs , They showed like the Rain-Bow cut into rags A Garden of Flowers or a Navy of Flags , When they did all mingle together . among all these Ladies I singled out one to prattle of Love and Folly , I found her not coy but jovial as Jone , or Betty , or Margret , or Molly , With honour & love & Storys of Chances , My spirits did move & my blood she advan-ces With twenty Quonundrums & fifty-five fancies I'de feign have been at her tantivvee . We talked away time until it grew dark , the place did begin to grow privee , For Gallants began to draw out of the Park their Horses did gallop tantivvee , But finding my courage a little to come , I sent my Bay-Gelding away by my Groom And proffer'd my service to wait on her home in a Coach we went both tantivvee . I Offered & proffered , but found her straight lac'd , she cried I shall never believe you , This Armful of Satin I bravely embraced , and feign would have been at tantivvee , Her Lodgings were pleasant for scent & for sighed , She seemed as and Angel by Candlelight And like a bold Archer I aimed-at-games at the White , tan tivvee tantivvee tantivvee . With many denials she yielded at last , her Chamber being wondrous privvee , That I all the night there might have my repast , to run at the Ring tantivvee , I put off my clothes & I tumbled to bed , She went in her Closet to dress up her head But I peepd in the Keyhole to see what she did , which put me quite by tantivvee . She took off her head-tire & showed her baldpate , her cunning did very much grieve me . Thought I to myself if it were not so late , I would home to my Lodgings believe me : Her hair being gone , she seemed like a Hag , Her baldpate did look like and Estritches Egg , This Lady thought I , is as right as my leg she hath been too much at tantivvee . The more I did peep the more I did spy , which did to amazement drive me , She put up her finger , & out dropped her eye , I pray'd that some power would relieve me , But now my resolves were never to trouble her Or venture my Carkais with such a blind Hob'er She looked with one eye just like Hewson the Cobbler , when he used to ride tantivvee I peepd & was still more perplexed therewith thought I though't be midnight I'l leave thee She fetches a yawn and out fell her teeth , this Quean had intents to deceive me , She drew out her Handkerchief as I suppose To wipe her high forehead & down drops her nose Which made me run quickly & pull on my Hose the Devil is my tantivee . She washd all the paint from her visage , & then she look't just ( if you will believe me ) Like a Lankashier Witch of four score and ten , and I as the Devil did drive me , I put on my Clothes & cried Witches and Whores I tumbled down stairs , & broke open the doors , And down in the Country again to my Boors , next morning I rid tantivvee . You North country gallants , that live pleasant lives , let not curiosity drive you . To leave the fresh air , & your own Tenants wives for Satin will sadly decieve you For my part I will no more be such a Meacoc [ k ] To deal with the Plumes of a Hide-Park Peaco [ ck ] But find out a russet-coat wench and a Haycock and there I will ride tan-tivvet . Finis . London , Printed for William Gilbertson dwelling in Giltspur-street . News from Hide-Parke . OR A very merry Passage which happened betwixt a No [ r ] that Country Gentleman , and a very Gaudy Gallant Lady of pleasure , whom he took up in the Park , and conducted her ( in her own Coach ) home to her Lodgings , and what chanced there , if you'l venture Attention the Song will declare . To the Tune of , The Crossed Couple . One Evening a little before it was dark Sing Tan tara rara Tantivvee , I call'd for my Gelding & rid to Hide-Parke on Tan tara rara Tantivvee , It was in the motly month of May , When Meaddows & fields were gaudy & gay And Flowers aparell'd as bright as the day I god upon my tantivvee . The park shon brighter then the Skies , sing tan tara rara Tantivvee , With Jewels and Gold and Ladies eyes that sparkled & cry'd , come see me , Of all parts in England Hide-Park hath the name For Coaches and horses & persons of fame It looked at first sighed like a field full of flame which made me ride up tantivvee There hath not been seen such a sighed since Adam's for Periwig Ribbon & Feather , Hide-Parke may be tearm'd the Market of Madams or Lady-Faire choose you whither , Their gowns were a yard too long for their legs , They showed like the Rain-Bow cut into rags A Garden of Flowers or a Navy of Flags , When they did all mingle together . among all these Ladies I singled out one to prattle of Love and Folly , I found her not coy but jovial as Jone , or Betty , or Margret , or Molly , With honour & love & Storys of Chances , My spirits did move & my blood she advan-ces With twenty Quonundrums & fifty-five fancies I'de feign have been at her tantivvee . We talked away time until it grew dark , the place did begin to grow privee , For Gallants began to draw out of the Park their Horses did gallop tantivvee , But finding my courage a little to come , I sent my Bay-Gelding away by my Groom And proffer'd my service to wait on her home in a Coach we went both tantivvee . I Offered & proffered , but found her straight lac'd , she cried I shall never believe you , This Armful of Satin I bravely embraced , and feign would have been at tantivvee , Her Lodgings were pleasant for scent & for sighed , She seemed as and Angel by Candlelight And like a bold Archer I aimed-at-games at the White , tan tivvee tantivvee tantivvee . With many denials she yielded at last , her Chamber being wondrous privvee , That I all the night there might have my repast , to run at the Ring tantivvee , I put off my clothes & I tumbled to bed , She went in her Closet to dress up her head But I peepd in the Keyhole to see what she did , which put me quite by tantivvee . She took off her head-tire & showed her baldpate , her cunning did very much grieve me . Thought I to myself if it were not so late , I would home to my Lodgings believe me : Her hair being gone , she seemed like a Hag , Her baldpate did look like and Estritches Egg , This Lady thought I , is as right as my leg she hath been too much at tantivvee . The more I did peep the more I did spy , which did to amazement drive me , She put up her finger , & out dropped her eye , I pray'd that some power would relieve me , But now my resolves were never to trouble her Or venture my Carkais with such a blind Hob'er She looked with one eye just like Hewson the Cobbler , when he used to ride tantivvee I peepd & was still more perplexed therewith thought I though't be midnight I'l leave thee She fetches a yawn and out fell her teeth , this Quean had intents to deceive me , She drew out her Handkerchief as I suppose To wipe her high forehead & down drops her nose Which made me run quickly & pull on my Hose the Devil is my tantivee . She washd all the paint from her visage , & then she look't just ( if you will believe me ) Like a Lankashier Witch of four score and ten , and I as the Devil did drive me , I put on my Clothes & cried Witches and Whores I tumbled down stairs , & broke open the doors , And down in the Country again to my Boors , next morning I rid tantivvee . You North country gallants , that live pleasant lives , let not curiosity drive you . To leave the fresh air , & your own Tenants wives for Satin will sadly decieve you For my part I will no more be such a Meacoc [ k ] To deal with the Plumes of a Hide-Park Peaco [ ck ] But find out a russet-coat wench and a Haycock and there I will ride tan-tivvet . Finis . London , Printed for William Gilbertson dwelling in Giltspur-street . 