A Song upon the RANDIZVOUS ON Hounsley-Heath , With a Parallel of the Destruction of our English Turks in the West , and the Mahomitans in Hungary : How the Christian Army , Compos'd of Forty Thousand Men , took New-Hassel , relieved Grand , Defeated the Turks Army of Sixty Thousand Men in two days time . To the Tune , Hark , Hark , The Thundering Cannons Roar , etc This may be Printed , R.L.S. OUR Comet or the Blazing-Star , At Staffords Death was seen so far ; It plainly pointed out this year , 'Gainst Whiggish Calculation . This Year which Gadberry Foretold That English Mines should turn to Gold . Great Princes shall their Empires hold , By Christians preservation . Five Years ago , few thought to see , On Hounsley-Heath Great James to be ; Balance of Christian Princes he , All Europes Dread and Wonder . A Handful of his Army there , Cut down the Rebels in each Shire ; To Assist him in the Western-War , Great Jove threw down his Thunder . In Hounsley-Heath , both Foot and Horse , With Conquering Eyes resembling Mars ; With glittering Armour , Gold as Dross , Shone bright on every Soldier : All Amorous Ladies that were there , To the Commanders in despair ; None bow'd without a wishful tear , In Love was all Beholders . All night the Ladies vow'd to Dream Of nothing but those Warlike-Men , Monmouth was but a fool to them , For all his soft Debauches . Each Soldier like Adonis gains , Their trembling hearts , and smothered flames ; Achillis conquered Countrey-dames , But these were all in Coaches . The Morning was clos'd up with Clouds , The Herds and Sheep , for shelter crouds ; When James appeared , these threatening Shrouds Dispers'd , and Phebus Shined , And darts his Beams upon the Plain , Then Florish'd all the dazzling Train ; Both Holland , Flanders , France and Spain , To James the Laurel Signed . To Accomplish these our glorious Days , The Christian Arms beyond the Seas ; Victorious Harmony to please Our King , with Conquest sounding . With Horse and Foot , the Gun nnd Drum , And Christian Shouts they Run they Run , Like our west-Country Turks at home , In Hungary they're Confounded . Lorrain with Forty Thousand men , Newhasel took , relieved Gran , I'th' Face of Sixty Thousand Men , Cut these down at his leisure . In two days time he did Controal , With Conduct bright , and Warlike Soul , Without the help of French or Pole , He Conquers at his pleasure . This Year hath crushed the Serpents head , The Turks cut off , the Whigs are dead ; Some Jayl'd , some hang'd , the rest run mad ; Because the Turks are routed . While Christian Soldiers , daring Boys , Drinks the Kings Health , themselves enjoys , All dangerous Consequence destroys , No Kingdom ? Safe without it . LONDON , Printed for James Dean , Bookseller , between the Royal Grove , and the Helmet in Drury-Lane . 1685. A Song upon the RANDIZVOUS ON Hounsley-Heath , With a Parallel of the Destruction of our English Turks in the West , and the Mahomitans in Hungary : How the Christian Army , Compos'd of Forty Thousand Men , took New-Hassel , relieved Grand , Defeated the Turks Army of Sixty Thousand Men in two days time . To the Tune , Hark , Hark , The Thundering Cannons Roar , etc This may be Printed , R.L.S. OUR Comet or the Blazing-Star , At Staffords Death was seen so far ; It plainly pointed out this year , 'Gainst Whiggish Calculation . This Year which Gadberry Foretold That English Mines should turn to Gold . Great Princes shall their Empires hold , By Christians preservation . Five Years ago , few thought to see , On Hounsley-Heath Great James to be ; Balance of Christian Princes he , All Europes Dread and Wonder . A Handful of his Army there , Cut down the Rebels in each Shire ; To Assist him in the Western-War , Great Jove threw down his Thunder . In Hounsley-Heath , both Foot and Horse , With Conquering Eyes resembling Mars ; With glittering Armour , Gold as Dross , Shone bright on every Soldier : All Amorous Ladies that were there , To the Commanders in despair ; None bow'd without a wishful tear , In Love was all Beholders . All night the Ladies vow'd to Dream Of nothing but those Warlike-Men , Monmouth was but a fool to them , For all his soft Debauches . Each Soldier like Adonis gains , Their trembling hearts , and smothered flames ; Achillis conquered Countrey-dames , But these were all in Coaches . The Morning was clos'd up with Clouds , The Herds and Sheep , for shelter crouds ; When James appeared , these threatening Shrouds Dispers'd , and Phebus Shined , And darts his Beams upon the Plain , Then Florish'd all the dazzling Train ; Both Holland , Flanders , France and Spain , To James the Laurel Signed . To Accomplish these our glorious Days , The Christian Arms beyond the Seas ; Victorious Harmony to please Our King , with Conquest sounding . With Horse and Foot , the Gun nnd Drum , And Christian Shouts they Run they Run , Like our west-Country Turks at home , In Hungary they're Confounded . Lorrain with Forty Thousand men , Newhasel took , relieved Gran , I'th' Face of Sixty Thousand Men , Cut these down at his leisure . In two days time he did Controal , With Conduct bright , and Warlike Soul , Without the help of French or Pole , He Conquers at his pleasure . This Year hath crushed the Serpents head , The Turks cut off , the Whigs are dead ; Some Jayl'd , some hang'd , the rest run mad ; Because the Turks are routed . While Christian Soldiers , daring Boys , Drinks the Kings Health , themselves enjoys , All dangerous Consequence destroys , No Kingdom ? Safe without it . LONDON , Printed for James Dean , Bookseller , between the Royal Grove , and the Helmet in Drury-Lane . 1685. 