The Wandering Maiden , Or , True Love at length United . She searched the Hills and Mountains round , in grief and discontent , At length her dearest love she found , for whom she did lamen Then all her tears , and sighs , and fears was turned into bliss , And in his arms , a thousand charms , she sealed with a kiss . To and excellent new Tune . Entered according to Order . OVer Hills and high Mountains , long time have I gone , Ah! and down by the Fountains , by myself all alone : Through bushes and briars , being void of all care , Through perils and dangers , for the loss of my dear . I am forced and droven , unconstant to prove , I am forced and droven away from my love , I am forced and droven , from him quite away , By reason I am bound love , and needs must obey . Through the shade will I wander I can do no less , For the grief I lie under , no one can express , Neither terror nor danger , I ever will fear , For I will be a ranger , to find out my dear . I'le go to some desert , and mourn for my dear , And a bunch of green Willows , I vow for to wear : And instead of Loves token , myself i'le maintain , I'll go to some desert , and I may come again , For true love is a trial , beyond all compare , And without all denial , my life will ensnare , He is gone and does leave me , in much discontent , For his absence does grieve me , in tears I lament . Sure if I cannot find him , I well may agree , That the fates have design'd him , my ruin to be : Ah! sweet Cupid befriend me , and grant my desire , Or kind Death now come end me , that I may expire . Then her tears they were flowing . down from her fair eyes , But her love little knowing , her sorrowful cries : Yet at length when he heard , how she did lament , He then quickly appeared , to her hearts content . The men reply . My dear love cease thy weeping , now listen to me , For waking and sleeping , my heart is with thee ; My love let nothing grieve thee dear do not complain , For I never will leave thee , while life does remain . Then these Lovers embraced , in each others arms , Their affections was placed , in sweet loving charms : Thus they both was united , and free from annoy , Ah! and she is delighted , with her only joy . Then her trouble was ended her grief did expel , She in love was befriended , and then all was well ; For in him such a blessing , at length she hath found ; That beyond all expressing , her joys did abound . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . The Wandering Maiden , Or , True Love at length United . She searched the Hills and Mountains round , in grief and discontent , At length her dearest love she found , for whom she did lamen Then all her tears , and sighs , and fears was turned into bliss , And in his arms , a thousand charms , she sealed with a kiss . To and excellent new Tune . Entered according to Order . OVer Hills and high Mountains , long time have I gone , Ah! and down by the Fountains , by myself all alone : Through bushes and briars , being void of all care , Through perils and dangers , for the loss of my dear . I am forced and droven , unconstant to prove , I am forced and droven away from my love , I am forced and droven , from him quite away , By reason I am bound love , and needs must obey . Through the shade will I wander I can do no less , For the grief I lie under , no one can express , Neither terror nor danger , I ever will fear , For I will be a ranger , to find out my dear . I'le go to some desert , and mourn for my dear , And a bunch of green Willows , I vow for to wear : And instead of Loves token , myself i'le maintain , I'll go to some desert , and I may come again , For true love is a trial , beyond all compare , And without all denial , my life will ensnare , He is gone and does leave me , in much discontent , For his absence does grieve me , in tears I lament . Sure if I cannot find him , I well may agree , That the fates have design'd him , my ruin to be : Ah! sweet Cupid befriend me , and grant my desire , Or kind Death now come end me , that I may expire . Then her tears they were flowing . down from her fair eyes , But her love little knowing , her sorrowful cries : Yet at length when he heard , how she did lament , He then quickly appeared , to her hearts content . The men reply . My dear love cease thy weeping , now listen to me , For waking and sleeping , my heart is with thee ; My love let nothing grieve thee dear do not complain , For I never will leave thee , while life does remain . Then these Lovers embraced , in each others arms , Their affections was placed , in sweet loving charms : Thus they both was united , and free from annoy , Ah! and she is delighted , with her only joy . Then her trouble was ended her grief did expel , She in love was befriended , and then all was well ; For in him such a blessing , at length she hath found ; That beyond all expressing , her joys did abound . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . 