A New song on the Calling of a free Parliament . January 15th 1688 / 9. A Parliament with one Consent is all the Cry Oth' Nation , which now may be since Popery is growing out of fashion , The Belgic Troops approach to Town , the Oranges come Powering , and all the Lords agree as one to send the Papists Scouring . The holy Man shall led the Van Our Father and Confessor In Robes of Read , the Jesuits fled Who was the Chief Transgressor In this disguise he thought to Escape And hop'd to save his Bacon , But Herbert he has laid a Trapp The Rat may be Retaken The Nuncio too the day may Rue That he came o're the Ocean I'th English Court , to keep's Resort And teach his blind Devotion The Prelates Ellis Smith and Hall Have sold their Coach and Horses And will no longer in White hall Foment their learn'd Discourses . The Groom oth' Stool that play'd the Fool Full sorely will Repent it And Sunderland did bore foot stand For penance shall lament it Milford and the Scotch are fled Whom hope's of Interest Tempted Those Lords did turn for want of Bred And ought to be Exempted . But Salsbury what cause had he To fear his Highness Landing Who by his A --- s and Legs might pass For one of understanding . To take up Arms at such a time Against the Rules were gave him His Head must answer for the Crime His Pardon will not save him . The Friars and Monks with all their Punks Are now upon the Scamper Tirconnell swears , and Rants and tears And Teige does make a Clamper The foreign Priests that Posted or'e Into the English Nation Do now Repent that on that Shore They lay'd their weak Foundation . 'Twoud be a sighed , wou'd move Delight In each obdurate Varlet To see the Graves , that made us Slaves Hang in Dispensing Scarlet And every Popish Counselor That for the same Cause Pleaded Shall all turn off at the same score Be hang'd or else Beheaded . A New song on the Calling of a free Parliament . January 15th 1688 / 9. A Parliament with one Consent is all the Cry Oth' Nation , which now may be since Popery is growing out of fashion , The Belgic Troops approach to Town , the Oranges come Powering , and all the Lords agree as one to send the Papists Scouring . The holy Man shall led the Van Our Father and Confessor In Robes of Read , the Jesuits fled Who was the Chief Transgressor In this disguise he thought to Escape And hop'd to save his Bacon , But Herbert he has laid a Trapp The Rat may be Retaken The Nuncio too the day may Rue That he came o're the Ocean I'th English Court , to keep's Resort And teach his blind Devotion The Prelates Ellis Smith and Hall Have sold their Coach and Horses And will no longer in White hall Foment their learn'd Discourses . The Groom oth' Stool that play'd the Fool Full sorely will Repent it And Sunderland did bore foot stand For penance shall lament it Milford and the Scotch are fled Whom hope's of Interest Tempted Those Lords did turn for want of Bred And ought to be Exempted . But Salsbury what cause had he To fear his Highness Landing Who by his A --- s and Legs might pass For one of understanding . To take up Arms at such a time Against the Rules were gave him His Head must answer for the Crime His Pardon will not save him . The Friars and Monks with all their Punks Are now upon the Scamper Tirconnell swears , and Rants and tears And Teige does make a Clamper The foreign Priests that Posted or'e Into the English Nation Do now Repent that on that Shore They lay'd their weak Foundation . 'Twoud be a sighed , wou'd move Delight In each obdurate Varlet To see the Graves , that made us Slaves Hang in Dispensing Scarlet And every Popish Counselor That for the same Cause Pleaded Shall all turn off at the same score Be hang'd or else Beheaded . 