( 1 ) The Clarret Drinkers SONG : OR , The Good Fellows Design . By a Person of Quality . A POX of the Fooling and Plotting of late , What a Pother and Stir has it kept in the State ? Let the Rabble run mad with Suspicions and Fears ; Let 'em Scuffle and Jarr , till they go by the Ears ; Their Grievances never shall trouble my Pate , So I can but enjoy my dear Bottle at quiet . What Coxcombs were those , who would barter their Ease , And their Necks , for a Toy , a thin Wafer and Mass ? At Old Tyburn they never had needed to swing , Had they been but true Subject's to Drink , and their King : A Friend and a Bottle is all my Design , H'as no room for Treason , that's topful of Wine . I mind not the Members and Makers of Laws , Let 'em Sit or Prorogue as His Majesty please ; Let 'em damn us to Woollen , I'll never repine At my Lodging when dead , so alive I have Wine . Yet oft in my Drink I can hardly forbear , [ ? ] Curse 'em , for making my Claret so dear . I mind ( 2 ) I mind not grave Asses , who idly debate About Right and Succession , the Trifles of State ; We've a good King already , and he deserves laughter , That will trouble his head with who shall come after . Come here's to his health , and I wish he may be As free from all care and all trouble as we . What care I how Leagues with the Hollander go , Or Intrigues betwixt Sidney and Monsieur d'Avaux ; What concerns it my Drinking if Cazall be sold , If the Conqueror takes it by storming or Gold ; Good Bourdeaux alone is the place that I mind , And when the Fleet's coming , I pray for a Wind. The Bully of France , that aspires to Renown , By dull Cutting of Throats and vent'ring his own : Let him fight and be damn'd , and make Matches and treat , To afford News-mongers and Coffee house cham He's but a brave Wretch , while I am more free , More safe , and a thousand times happier than he . Come he or the Pope , or the Devil to boot ; Or come Faggot and Stake , I care not a Groa Never think that in Smithfield I Porters will hea No I swear Mr. Fox pray excuse me for that . I'll drink in Defiance of Gibbet and Halter , This is the Profession that never will altar . FINIS . LONDON , Printed 1680. ( 1 ) The Clarret Drinkers SONG : OR , The Good Fellows Design . By a Person of Quality . A POX of the Fooling and Plotting of late , What a Pother and Stir has it kept in the State ? Let the Rabble run mad with Suspicions and Fears ; Let 'em Scuffle and Jarr , till they go by the Ears ; Their Grievances never shall trouble my Pate , So I can but enjoy my dear Bottle at quiet . What Coxcombs were those , who would barter their Ease , And their Necks , for a Toy , a thin Wafer and Mass ? At Old Tyburn they never had needed to swing , Had they been but true Subject's to Drink , and their King : A Friend and a Bottle is all my Design , H'as no room for Treason , that's topful of Wine . I mind not the Members and Makers of Laws , Let 'em Sit or Prorogue as His Majesty please ; Let 'em damn us to Woollen , I'll never repine At my Lodging when dead , so alive I have Wine . Yet oft in my Drink I can hardly forbear , [ ? ] Curse 'em , for making my Claret so dear . I mind ( 2 ) I mind not grave Asses , who idly debate About Right and Succession , the Trifles of State ; We've a good King already , and he deserves laughter , That will trouble his head with who shall come after . Come here's to his health , and I wish he may be As free from all care and all trouble as we . What care I how Leagues with the Hollander go , Or Intrigues betwixt Sidney and Monsieur d'Avaux ; What concerns it my Drinking if Cazall be sold , If the Conqueror takes it by storming or Gold ; Good Bourdeaux alone is the place that I mind , And when the Fleet's coming , I pray for a Wind. The Bully of France , that aspires to Renown , By dull Cutting of Throats and vent'ring his own : Let him fight and be damn'd , and make Matches and treat , To afford News-mongers and Coffee house cham He's but a brave Wretch , while I am more free , More safe , and a thousand times happier than he . Come he or the Pope , or the Devil to boot ; Or come Faggot and Stake , I care not a Groa Never think that in Smithfield I Porters will hea No I swear Mr. Fox pray excuse me for that . I'll drink in Defiance of Gibbet and Halter , This is the Profession that never will altar . FINIS . LONDON , Printed 1680. ( 1 ) The Clarret Drinkers SONG : OR , The Good Fellows Design . By a Person of Quality . A POX of the Fooling and Plotting of late , What a Pother and Stir has it kept in the State ? Let the Rabble run mad with Suspicions and Fears ; Let 'em Scuffle and Jarr , till they go by the Ears ; Their Grievances never shall trouble my Pate , So I can but enjoy my dear Bottle at quiet . What Coxcombs were those , who would barter their Ease , And their Necks , for a Toy , a thin Wafer and Mass ? At Old Tyburn they never had needed to swing , Had they been but true Subject's to Drink , and their King : A Friend and a Bottle is all my Design , H'as no room for Treason , that's topful of Wine . I mind not the Members and Makers of Laws , Let 'em Sit or Prorogue as His Majesty please ; Let 'em damn us to Woollen , I'll never repine At my Lodging when dead , so alive I have Wine . Yet oft in my Drink I can hardly forbear , [ ? ] Curse 'em , for making my Claret so dear . I mind ( 2 ) I mind not grave Asses , who idly debate About Right and Succession , the Trifles of State ; We've a good King already , and he deserves laughter , That will trouble his head with who shall come after . Come here's to his health , and I wish he may be As free from all care and all trouble as we . What care I how Leagues with the Hollander go , Or Intrigues betwixt Sidney and Monsieur d'Avaux ; What concerns it my Drinking if Cazall be sold , If the Conqueror takes it by storming or Gold ; Good Bourdeaux alone is the place that I mind , And when the Fleet's coming , I pray for a Wind. The Bully of France , that aspires to Renown , By dull Cutting of Throats and vent'ring his own : Let him fight and be damn'd , and make Matches and treat , To afford News-mongers and Coffee house cham He's but a brave Wretch , while I am more free , More safe , and a thousand times happier than he . Come he or the Pope , or the Devil to boot ; Or come Faggot and Stake , I care not a Groa Never think that in Smithfield I Porters will hea No I swear Mr. Fox pray excuse me for that . I'll drink in Defiance of Gibbet and Halter , This is the Profession that never will altar . FINIS . LONDON , Printed 1680. ( 1 ) The Clarret Drinkers SONG : OR , The Good Fellows Design . By a Person of Quality . A POX of the Fooling and Plotting of late , What a Pother and Stir has it kept in the State ? Let the Rabble run mad with Suspicions and Fears ; Let 'em Scuffle and Jarr , till they go by the Ears ; Their Grievances never shall trouble my Pate , So I can but enjoy my dear Bottle at quiet . What Coxcombs were those , who would barter their Ease , And their Necks , for a Toy , a thin Wafer and Mass ? At Old Tyburn they never had needed to swing , Had they been but true Subject's to Drink , and their King : A Friend and a Bottle is all my Design , H'as no room for Treason , that's topful of Wine . I mind not the Members and Makers of Laws , Let 'em Sit or Prorogue as His Majesty please ; Let 'em damn us to Woollen , I'll never repine At my Lodging when dead , so alive I have Wine . Yet oft in my Drink I can hardly forbear , [ ? ] Curse 'em , for making my Claret so dear . I mind ( 2 ) I mind not grave Asses , who idly debate About Right and Succession , the Trifles of State ; We've a good King already , and he deserves laughter , That will trouble his head with who shall come after . Come here's to his health , and I wish he may be As free from all care and all trouble as we . What care I how Leagues with the Hollander go , Or Intrigues betwixt Sidney and Monsieur d'Avaux ; What concerns it my Drinking if Cazall be sold , If the Conqueror takes it by storming or Gold ; Good Bourdeaux alone is the place that I mind , And when the Fleet's coming , I pray for a Wind. The Bully of France , that aspires to Renown , By dull Cutting of Throats and vent'ring his own : Let him fight and be damn'd , and make Matches and treat , To afford News-mongers and Coffee house cham He's but a brave Wretch , while I am more free , More safe , and a thousand times happier than he . Come he or the Pope , or the Devil to boot ; Or come Faggot and Stake , I care not a Groa Never think that in Smithfield I Porters will hea No I swear Mr. Fox pray excuse me for that . I'll drink in Defiance of Gibbet and Halter , This is the Profession that never will altar . FINIS . LONDON , Printed 1680. 