Mad TOM a Bedlams desires of peace : or his Benedicities for distracted Englands restauration to her wits again . By a constant , though unjust , sufferer ( now in prison ) for his Majesties just Regality , and his Countries' Liberty . SFWB . POor Tom hath been imprison'd , With strange oppressions vexed ; He dares boldly say , they try'd each way , Wherewith Job was perplexed . Yet still he cries for the King for the good King , Tom loves brave confessors , But he curses those dare their King depose Committees and oppressors' . Tom prays for good King Charles , The best of Queens , Queen Marry ; Prays the Prince may advance in safety from France , Victorious as old Harry , Those have been false to the King to the good King , All those durst dissemble , Tom smiles but to think how the Rogues will stink , And like stout Atkins tremble . Next he prays for him in Holland , Who his keeper so deceived , Got the Speakers Pass for a pretty Lass , And so he was received . 'Twill be great joy to the King to the good King , To hear of his safety , But he taught them a trick , at hide and seek , They think hee's plaguy crafty . Bless the hopeful Duke of Gloster , And the Princess royal Marry , May she fruitful prove , to increase his love , A Charles first , then a Harry : Bless those have stood for the King for the good King , And the Offspring Royal : Tom prays heaven bless sweet Princess Besse , Loves none she thinks disloyal . Bless those few Lords are honest , From the Armies Adjutators , Saints sent from heaven , to make all even , Both Church and State translators : Those stood not firm to the King to the good King , But have him forsaken , Let the Crownets they wear , and supporters should bear , Their Arms from them be taken . Bless the reverend suffering Bishops , Each Parson , Vicar , Curate , From the Presbyter plots and subtle Scots , Whose hearts are so obdurate . Bless those stood fast to the King to the good King , Master's , Fellows , Proctors ; Pox take the fool went with his Council of Trent , To visit Oxford Doctors . Bless the loyal hearted Gentry In Country , Towns , and Cities From the bane of us all ( base Goldsmiths Hall ) And from their close Committees . Those who were false to the King to the good King Irish , Scot , or English ; Some marks may they bear or colours wear May them from us distinguish . Bless the City from their Lord Major From close Committee treasons From those are unjust to the Cities trust From traitors watch their seasons . Now make amends to your King to your good King For you have undone him ; Your coin to the Scots , your strength and their plots Have brought these ills upon him . By poor Tom be advised As you at White-hall tried So as stoutly call for a common hall , It cannot be denied . Call on the States for your King for your good King . Wish them to deliver Unto justice those who the peace oppose , You strike it dead forever . Bless us all 'tis a mad World , Tom's heart is struck with pity To think how of late this thing call'd a State Hath wrought upon this City . 'Tis time you call for the King for the good King , Else you will be undone If the Army should bring to ruin your King , What will become of London ? Bless the valiant honest soldiers From the hands of base Commanders , From those spirits employ'd , so many destroy'd , For want of pay in Flanders . Those have been false to the King , to the good King May they ship at Dover , Thence to Rupert in France who will led them a dance They hardly shall recover . Bless the Printer from the Searcher And from the Houses takers . Bless Tom from the slash ; from Bridewel's lash , Bless all poor Ballad-makers . Those who have writ for the King , for the good King Be it rhyme or reason , If they please but to look through Jenkins his book The'ile hardly find it treason . Printed , Anno Dommini , 1648. Mad TOM a Bedlams desires of peace : or his Benedicities for distracted Englands restauration to her wits again . By a constant , though unjust , sufferer ( now in prison ) for his Majesties just Regality , and his Countries' Liberty . SFWB . POor Tom hath been imprison'd , With strange oppressions vexed ; He dares boldly say , they try'd each way , Wherewith Job was perplexed . Yet still he cries for the King for the good King , Tom loves brave confessors , But he curses those dare their King depose Committees and oppressors' . Tom prays for good King Charles , The best of Queens , Queen Marry ; Prays the Prince may advance in safety from France , Victorious as old Harry , Those have been false to the King to the good King , All those durst dissemble , Tom smiles but to think how the Rogues will stink , And like stout Atkins tremble . Next he prays for him in Holland , Who his keeper so deceived , Got the Speakers Pass for a pretty Lass , And so he was received . 'Twill be great joy to the King to the good King , To hear of his safety , But he taught them a trick , at hide and seek , They think hee's plaguy crafty . Bless the hopeful Duke of Gloster , And the Princess royal Marry , May she fruitful prove , to increase his love , A Charles first , then a Harry : Bless those have stood for the King for the good King , And the Offspring Royal : Tom prays heaven bless sweet Princess Besse , Loves none she thinks disloyal . Bless those few Lords are honest , From the Armies Adjutators , Saints sent from heaven , to make all even , Both Church and State translators : Those stood not firm to the King to the good King , But have him forsaken , Let the Crownets they wear , and supporters should bear , Their Arms from them be taken . Bless the reverend suffering Bishops , Each Parson , Vicar , Curate , From the Presbyter plots and subtle Scots , Whose hearts are so obdurate . Bless those stood fast to the King to the good King , Master's , Fellows , Proctors ; Pox take the fool went with his Council of Trent , To visit Oxford Doctors . Bless the loyal hearted Gentry In Country , Towns , and Cities From the bane of us all ( base Goldsmiths Hall ) And from their close Committees . Those who were false to the King to the good King Irish , Scot , or English ; Some marks may they bear or colours wear May them from us distinguish . Bless the City from their Lord Major From close Committee treasons From those are unjust to the Cities trust From traitors watch their seasons . Now make amends to your King to your good King For you have undone him ; Your coin to the Scots , your strength and their plots Have brought these ills upon him . By poor Tom be advised As you at White-hall tried So as stoutly call for a common hall , It cannot be denied . Call on the States for your King for your good King . Wish them to deliver Unto justice those who the peace oppose , You strike it dead forever . Bless us all 'tis a mad World , Tom's heart is struck with pity To think how of late this thing call'd a State Hath wrought upon this City . 'Tis time you call for the King for the good King , Else you will be undone If the Army should bring to ruin your King , What will become of London ? Bless the valiant honest soldiers From the hands of base Commanders , From those spirits employ'd , so many destroy'd , For want of pay in Flanders . Those have been false to the King , to the good King May they ship at Dover , Thence to Rupert in France who will led them a dance They hardly shall recover . Bless the Printer from the Searcher And from the Houses takers . Bless Tom from the slash ; from Bridewel's lash , Bless all poor Ballad-makers . Those who have writ for the King , for the good King Be it rhyme or reason , If they please but to look through Jenkins his book The'ile hardly find it treason . Printed , Anno Dommini , 1648. Mad TOM a Bedlams desires of peace : or his Benedicities for distracted Englands restauration to her wits again . By a constant , though unjust , sufferer ( now in prison ) for his Majesties just Regality , and his Countries' Liberty . SFWB . POor Tom hath been imprison'd , With strange oppressions vexed ; He dares boldly say , they try'd each way , Wherewith Job was perplexed . Yet still he cries for the King for the good King , Tom loves brave confessors , But he curses those dare their King depose Committees and oppressors' . Tom prays for good King Charles , The best of Queens , Queen Marry ; Prays the Prince may advance in safety from France , Victorious as old Harry , Those have been false to the King to the good King , All those durst dissemble , Tom smiles but to think how the Rogues will stink , And like stout Atkins tremble . Next he prays for him in Holland , Who his keeper so deceived , Got the Speakers Pass for a pretty Lass , And so he was received . 'Twill be great joy to the King to the good King , To hear of his safety , But he taught them a trick , at hide and seek , They think hee's plaguy crafty . Bless the hopeful Duke of Gloster , And the Princess royal Marry , May she fruitful prove , to increase his love , A Charles first , then a Harry : Bless those have stood for the King for the good King , And the Offspring Royal : Tom prays heaven bless sweet Princess Besse , Loves none she thinks disloyal . Bless those few Lords are honest , From the Armies Adjutators , Saints sent from heaven , to make all even , Both Church and State translators : Those stood not firm to the King to the good King , But have him forsaken , Let the Crownets they wear , and supporters should bear , Their Arms from them be taken . Bless the reverend suffering Bishops , Each Parson , Vicar , Curate , From the Presbyter plots and subtle Scots , Whose hearts are so obdurate . Bless those stood fast to the King to the good King , Master's , Fellows , Proctors ; Pox take the fool went with his Council of Trent , To visit Oxford Doctors . Bless the loyal hearted Gentry In Country , Towns , and Cities From the bane of us all ( base Goldsmiths Hall ) And from their close Committees . Those who were false to the King to the good King Irish , Scot , or English ; Some marks may they bear or colours wear May them from us distinguish . Bless the City from their Lord Major From close Committee treasons From those are unjust to the Cities trust From traitors watch their seasons . Now make amends to your King to your good King For you have undone him ; Your coin to the Scots , your strength and their plots Have brought these ills upon him . By poor Tom be advised As you at White-hall tried So as stoutly call for a common hall , It cannot be denied . Call on the States for your King for your good King . Wish them to deliver Unto justice those who the peace oppose , You strike it dead forever . Bless us all 'tis a mad World , Tom's heart is struck with pity To think how of late this thing call'd a State Hath wrought upon this City . 'Tis time you call for the King for the good King , Else you will be undone If the Army should bring to ruin your King , What will become of London ? Bless the valiant honest soldiers From the hands of base Commanders , From those spirits employ'd , so many destroy'd , For want of pay in Flanders . Those have been false to the King , to the good King May they ship at Dover , Thence to Rupert in France who will led them a dance They hardly shall recover . Bless the Printer from the Searcher And from the Houses takers . Bless Tom from the slash ; from Bridewel's lash , Bless all poor Ballad-makers . Those who have writ for the King , for the good King Be it rhyme or reason , If they please but to look through Jenkins his book The'ile hardly find it treason . Printed , Anno Dommini , 1648. Mad TOM a Bedlams desires of peace : or his Benedicities for distracted Englands restauration to her wits again . By a constant , though unjust , sufferer ( now in prison ) for his Majesties just Regality , and his Countries' Liberty . SFWB . POor Tom hath been imprison'd , With strange oppressions vexed ; He dares boldly say , they try'd each way , Wherewith Job was perplexed . Yet still he cries for the King for the good King , Tom loves brave confessors , But he curses those dare their King depose Committees and oppressors' . Tom prays for good King Charles , The best of Queens , Queen Marry ; Prays the Prince may advance in safety from France , Victorious as old Harry , Those have been false to the King to the good King , All those durst dissemble , Tom smiles but to think how the Rogues will stink , And like stout Atkins tremble . Next he prays for him in Holland , Who his keeper so deceived , Got the Speakers Pass for a pretty Lass , And so he was received . 'Twill be great joy to the King to the good King , To hear of his safety , But he taught them a trick , at hide and seek , They think hee's plaguy crafty . Bless the hopeful Duke of Gloster , And the Princess royal Marry , May she fruitful prove , to increase his love , A Charles first , then a Harry : Bless those have stood for the King for the good King , And the Offspring Royal : Tom prays heaven bless sweet Princess Besse , Loves none she thinks disloyal . Bless those few Lords are honest , From the Armies Adjutators , Saints sent from heaven , to make all even , Both Church and State translators : Those stood not firm to the King to the good King , But have him forsaken , Let the Crownets they wear , and supporters should bear , Their Arms from them be taken . Bless the reverend suffering Bishops , Each Parson , Vicar , Curate , From the Presbyter plots and subtle Scots , Whose hearts are so obdurate . Bless those stood fast to the King to the good King , Master's , Fellows , Proctors ; Pox take the fool went with his Council of Trent , To visit Oxford Doctors . Bless the loyal hearted Gentry In Country , Towns , and Cities From the bane of us all ( base Goldsmiths Hall ) And from their close Committees . Those who were false to the King to the good King Irish , Scot , or English ; Some marks may they bear or colours wear May them from us distinguish . Bless the City from their Lord Major From close Committee treasons From those are unjust to the Cities trust From traitors watch their seasons . Now make amends to your King to your good King For you have undone him ; Your coin to the Scots , your strength and their plots Have brought these ills upon him . By poor Tom be advised As you at White-hall tried So as stoutly call for a common hall , It cannot be denied . Call on the States for your King for your good King . Wish them to deliver Unto justice those who the peace oppose , You strike it dead forever . Bless us all 'tis a mad World , Tom's heart is struck with pity To think how of late this thing call'd a State Hath wrought upon this City . 'Tis time you call for the King for the good King , Else you will be undone If the Army should bring to ruin your King , What will become of London ? Bless the valiant honest soldiers From the hands of base Commanders , From those spirits employ'd , so many destroy'd , For want of pay in Flanders . Those have been false to the King , to the good King May they ship at Dover , Thence to Rupert in France who will led them a dance They hardly shall recover . Bless the Printer from the Searcher And from the Houses takers . Bless Tom from the slash ; from Bridewel's lash , Bless all poor Ballad-makers . Those who have writ for the King , for the good King Be it rhyme or reason , If they please but to look through Jenkins his book The'ile hardly find it treason . Printed , Anno Dommini , 1648. 