R ( 1 ) A PASSIONATE SATYR Upon a Devilish Great HE-WHORE That lives yonder at ROME . A Pox on the Pope , with his damn'd bald Pate , What a stir hath this Toad made here of late ; Such a Noise and a horrible Clamour Is here with this Whore , a Plague of God on her . Must Majesty fallen and wallow in Blood For a Whore's Quarrel that's not worth a Turd ? Must the Kingdom and State be at a loss , Leave their sweet Peace to lie under a Cross ? Must Church and Churchmen be exposed to scorns , tossed up and down by a Beast with ten Horns ? Must Christians that know no more but one God Worship ten thousand , or be scourg'd with a Rod ? Must Beads , and a Cross , and a Relic from Jone , Make us fallen down to Prayers right or wrong ? Must Hobgoblin Mass , that's learn'd of Old-Nick , Compliment God for the Well and the Sick ? Must Water bless'd by a Conjuring Monk Scour away Sins from a Pockyfi'd Punk ? Must ( 2 ) Must Souls be pray'd out , the Devil hath god , At so much per Mass , else there they must rot ? Must Sinners be sav'd by Old Sinning Gulls ? I'll ne're beg your Pardon , those are damn'd Bulls . Must We , Canibal like , eat up our God , Or else must We not in Heaven have abroad ? Must Fire and Wood burn all that won't bow , Worship S. Doll , and the Devil knows who ? Must Ignorance be our Guide to Glory , Then Heaven I'm sure is but and old Story . Must all Men be blind that open their Eyes , That Priests may do what they please with their Wives ? Must killing of Kings , and Princes to boot Be Marks that the Pope is found at the Root ? Must a Conclave of Rogues , and Jesuit Priests , Persuade all the World to worship the Beast ? Must the Pope order all by Sea and by Land , Who must turn out , and who is to stand ? Must those be entrusted that swear and receive Whate're you impose , that they may deceive ? Must Judas be saved that eat of the Sop ? No , by the Mass , he deserved the Rope : Must such be employed at Sea and at Shore , That would subvert all to set up the Whore ? Must those be good that designed to seem such ? Who in Parliament time subscrib'd to the Church : Must We all be undone by a damn'd Popish Crew , Some that is about us , and some We ne're knew ? Must the King and his Friends see and know this , And yet be advised that nothing's amiss ? Must this be the Trap , then the Devil take it , Our Hogs We've brought to a blessed Market . FINIS . R ( 1 ) A PASSIONATE SATYR Upon a Devilish Great HE-WHORE That lives yonder at ROME . A Pox on the Pope , with his damn'd bald Pate , What a stir hath this Toad made here of late ; Such a Noise and a horrible Clamour Is here with this Whore , a Plague of God on her . Must Majesty fallen and wallow in Blood For a Whore's Quarrel that's not worth a Turd ? Must the Kingdom and State be at a loss , Leave their sweet Peace to lie under a Cross ? Must Church and Churchmen be exposed to scorns , tossed up and down by a Beast with ten Horns ? Must Christians that know no more but one God Worship ten thousand , or be scourg'd with a Rod ? Must Beads , and a Cross , and a Relic from Jone , Make us fallen down to Prayers right or wrong ? Must Hobgoblin Mass , that's learn'd of Old-Nick , Compliment God for the Well and the Sick ? Must Water bless'd by a Conjuring Monk Scour away Sins from a Pockyfi'd Punk ? Must ( 2 ) Must Souls be pray'd out , the Devil hath god , At so much per Mass , else there they must rot ? Must Sinners be sav'd by Old Sinning Gulls ? I'll ne're beg your Pardon , those are damn'd Bulls . Must We , Canibal like , eat up our God , Or else must We not in Heaven have abroad ? Must Fire and Wood burn all that won't bow , Worship S. Doll , and the Devil knows who ? Must Ignorance be our Guide to Glory , Then Heaven I'm sure is but and old Story . Must all Men be blind that open their Eyes , That Priests may do what they please with their Wives ? Must killing of Kings , and Princes to boot Be Marks that the Pope is found at the Root ? Must a Conclave of Rogues , and Jesuit Priests , Persuade all the World to worship the Beast ? Must the Pope order all by Sea and by Land , Who must turn out , and who is to stand ? Must those be entrusted that swear and receive Whate're you impose , that they may deceive ? Must Judas be saved that eat of the Sop ? No , by the Mass , he deserved the Rope : Must such be employed at Sea and at Shore , That would subvert all to set up the Whore ? Must those be good that designed to seem such ? Who in Parliament time subscrib'd to the Church : Must We all be undone by a damn'd Popish Crew , Some that is about us , and some We ne're knew ? Must the King and his Friends see and know this , And yet be advised that nothing's amiss ? Must this be the Trap , then the Devil take it , Our Hogs We've brought to a blessed Market . FINIS . R ( 1 ) A PASSIONATE SATYR Upon a Devilish Great HE-WHORE That lives yonder at ROME . A Pox on the Pope , with his damn'd bald Pate , What a stir hath this Toad made here of late ; Such a Noise and a horrible Clamour Is here with this Whore , a Plague of God on her . Must Majesty fallen and wallow in Blood For a Whore's Quarrel that's not worth a Turd ? Must the Kingdom and State be at a loss , Leave their sweet Peace to lie under a Cross ? Must Church and Churchmen be exposed to scorns , tossed up and down by a Beast with ten Horns ? Must Christians that know no more but one God Worship ten thousand , or be scourg'd with a Rod ? Must Beads , and a Cross , and a Relic from Jone , Make us fallen down to Prayers right or wrong ? Must Hobgoblin Mass , that's learn'd of Old-Nick , Compliment God for the Well and the Sick ? Must Water bless'd by a Conjuring Monk Scour away Sins from a Pockyfi'd Punk ? Must ( 2 ) Must Souls be pray'd out , the Devil hath god , At so much per Mass , else there they must rot ? Must Sinners be sav'd by Old Sinning Gulls ? I'll ne're beg your Pardon , those are damn'd Bulls . Must We , Canibal like , eat up our God , Or else must We not in Heaven have abroad ? Must Fire and Wood burn all that won't bow , Worship S. Doll , and the Devil knows who ? Must Ignorance be our Guide to Glory , Then Heaven I'm sure is but and old Story . Must all Men be blind that open their Eyes , That Priests may do what they please with their Wives ? Must killing of Kings , and Princes to boot Be Marks that the Pope is found at the Root ? Must a Conclave of Rogues , and Jesuit Priests , Persuade all the World to worship the Beast ? Must the Pope order all by Sea and by Land , Who must turn out , and who is to stand ? Must those be entrusted that swear and receive Whate're you impose , that they may deceive ? Must Judas be saved that eat of the Sop ? No , by the Mass , he deserved the Rope : Must such be employed at Sea and at Shore , That would subvert all to set up the Whore ? Must those be good that designed to seem such ? Who in Parliament time subscrib'd to the Church : Must We all be undone by a damn'd Popish Crew , Some that is about us , and some We ne're knew ? Must the King and his Friends see and know this , And yet be advised that nothing's amiss ? Must this be the Trap , then the Devil take it , Our Hogs We've brought to a blessed Market . FINIS . R ( 1 ) A PASSIONATE SATYR Upon a Devilish Great HE-WHORE That lives yonder at ROME . A Pox on the Pope , with his damn'd bald Pate , What a stir hath this Toad made here of late ; Such a Noise and a horrible Clamour Is here with this Whore , a Plague of God on her . Must Majesty fallen and wallow in Blood For a Whore's Quarrel that's not worth a Turd ? Must the Kingdom and State be at a loss , Leave their sweet Peace to lie under a Cross ? Must Church and Churchmen be exposed to scorns , tossed up and down by a Beast with ten Horns ? Must Christians that know no more but one God Worship ten thousand , or be scourg'd with a Rod ? Must Beads , and a Cross , and a Relic from Jone , Make us fallen down to Prayers right or wrong ? Must Hobgoblin Mass , that's learn'd of Old-Nick , Compliment God for the Well and the Sick ? Must Water bless'd by a Conjuring Monk Scour away Sins from a Pockyfi'd Punk ? Must ( 2 ) Must Souls be pray'd out , the Devil hath god , At so much per Mass , else there they must rot ? Must Sinners be sav'd by Old Sinning Gulls ? I'll ne're beg your Pardon , those are damn'd Bulls . Must We , Canibal like , eat up our God , Or else must We not in Heaven have abroad ? Must Fire and Wood burn all that won't bow , Worship S. Doll , and the Devil knows who ? Must Ignorance be our Guide to Glory , Then Heaven I'm sure is but and old Story . Must all Men be blind that open their Eyes , That Priests may do what they please with their Wives ? Must killing of Kings , and Princes to boot Be Marks that the Pope is found at the Root ? Must a Conclave of Rogues , and Jesuit Priests , Persuade all the World to worship the Beast ? Must the Pope order all by Sea and by Land , Who must turn out , and who is to stand ? Must those be entrusted that swear and receive Whate're you impose , that they may deceive ? Must Judas be saved that eat of the Sop ? No , by the Mass , he deserved the Rope : Must such be employed at Sea and at Shore , That would subvert all to set up the Whore ? Must those be good that designed to seem such ? Who in Parliament time subscrib'd to the Church : Must We all be undone by a damn'd Popish Crew , Some that is about us , and some We ne're knew ? Must the King and his Friends see and know this , And yet be advised that nothing's amiss ? Must this be the Trap , then the Devil take it , Our Hogs We've brought to a blessed Market . FINIS . 