Beauty's Triumph : OR , The Joys of Faithful Lovers made complete ; Showing the amorous Address of a young Gallant to a fair Virgin , whose consent , notwith - standing her many coy objections , & concluded the happy Marriage , under the feign'd names of Amintor and Silva , Being a most pleasant and delightful New Play-House SONG . All that's call'd Beauty , for men use was made , Why then should he of Females be afraid ? Encounter them but brisk , you'l find them yield , 'Tis seldom known they long do keep the Field ; But if you fear to court , faith , e'n despair ; For Cowards never Cupids Plunder share . To a New Play-House Tune ; Or , The Reward of Loyalty , etc A Pox upon this needless Scorn , Sylva for shame the Cheat give o're ; The end to which the fair are Born , is not to keep their Charms in store : But lavishly dispose in haste of joys , which only youth improve ; Joys which decay when Beauty's passed , and who when Beauty's passed , will love ? When age those Glories shall deface , revenging all the cold disdain ; And Sylva shall neglected pass by every one admiring Swain ; And we can only pity pay , when you in Love too late shall burn ; If Love increase , and Youth decay , ah ! Sylva , who will make return ? Then haste my Sylva to the Grove , where all the sweets of May conspire To teach us every art of Love , and raise our charms and pleasures higher . While in each others arms we lie , closely embrac'd on banks of flowers , The duller World while we defy , Years shall be minutes , ages hours . Sylva . Forbear Amintor to deceive , a harmless Nymph thus to betray ; Could you of Honour me bereave , your passion soon would melt away : O blame not Virgins that are coy , but that your constancies we prove ; For if our trust you once enjoy , farewell forever constant Love . Our Beauty's like a new blown Rose , when sully'd you will cast away ; And seek out where a fresh one grows , no more will you our Charms obey . I blush to think shou'd I be kind , how soon I shou'd my fault Repent ; When you unconstant as the Wind , wou'd all my newborn joys prevent . And for some fairer leave my Love , fly my embraces with disdain ; O then my sighs wou'd nothing move , I might regardless then complain , Then cease your suit Amintor now , say not I'm coy nor yet unkind , When Man so often breaks his Vow , and is to change so oft inclin'd . Amintor . Thou brightest from that I adore , fairest of Creatures say not so ; My Love shall last forevermore , and endless passion still shall flow : No Beauty shall divide my Love , to thee it shall be ever sure ; Then hast we to this pleasant Grove , to try the Charms that e're endure . Sylva . Could I poor harmless Nymph but trust you'd constant prove , then cou'd I raise My passion high , and 'twas but just , but then perhaps your Love decays : While I am like a Phoenix fry'd , in scorchings of self-kindl'd flame ; Yet were I once in Wedlock ty'd , methinks I'd blush away my stain . Amintor . A thousand blessings on my Love , those Sacred Bans shall tie us fast ; Come let it be , and then we'l prove those transports that will ever last . Sylva . I yield , I yield , tho' blushing still , methinks I dread , but let's precede ; For once Love conquer shall my will , Venus our Nuptials are decreed . Amintor . And Venus witness now we haste to pay our Offerings at thy shrine ; No more will we Loves moments waste , nor lose a pleasure that's Divine : But in each Grove we'l sport and play , and feed our Flocks , while the sweet strain Of Philomelia close the Day , and calls us to our home again . Finis . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , in West-smithfield . Beauty's Triumph : OR , The Joys of Faithful Lovers made complete ; Showing the amorous Address of a young Gallant to a fair Virgin , whose consent , notwith - standing her many coy objections , & concluded the happy Marriage , under the feign'd names of Amintor and Silva , Being a most pleasant and delightful New Play-House SONG . All that's call'd Beauty , for men use was made , Why then should he of Females be afraid ? Encounter them but brisk , you'l find them yield , 'Tis seldom known they long do keep the Field ; But if you fear to court , faith , e'n despair ; For Cowards never Cupids Plunder share . To a New Play-House Tune ; Or , The Reward of Loyalty , etc A Pox upon this needless Scorn , Sylva for shame the Cheat give o're ; The end to which the fair are Born , is not to keep their Charms in store : But lavishly dispose in haste of joys , which only youth improve ; Joys which decay when Beauty's passed , and who when Beauty's passed , will love ? When age those Glories shall deface , revenging all the cold disdain ; And Sylva shall neglected pass by every one admiring Swain ; And we can only pity pay , when you in Love too late shall burn ; If Love increase , and Youth decay , ah ! Sylva , who will make return ? Then haste my Sylva to the Grove , where all the sweets of May conspire To teach us every art of Love , and raise our charms and pleasures higher . While in each others arms we lie , closely embrac'd on banks of flowers , The duller World while we defy , Years shall be minutes , ages hours . Sylva . Forbear Amintor to deceive , a harmless Nymph thus to betray ; Could you of Honour me bereave , your passion soon would melt away : O blame not Virgins that are coy , but that your constancies we prove ; For if our trust you once enjoy , farewell forever constant Love . Our Beauty's like a new blown Rose , when sully'd you will cast away ; And seek out where a fresh one grows , no more will you our Charms obey . I blush to think shou'd I be kind , how soon I shou'd my fault Repent ; When you unconstant as the Wind , wou'd all my newborn joys prevent . And for some fairer leave my Love , fly my embraces with disdain ; O then my sighs wou'd nothing move , I might regardless then complain , Then cease your suit Amintor now , say not I'm coy nor yet unkind , When Man so often breaks his Vow , and is to change so oft inclin'd . Amintor . Thou brightest from that I adore , fairest of Creatures say not so ; My Love shall last forevermore , and endless passion still shall flow : No Beauty shall divide my Love , to thee it shall be ever sure ; Then hast we to this pleasant Grove , to try the Charms that e're endure . Sylva . Could I poor harmless Nymph but trust you'd constant prove , then cou'd I raise My passion high , and 'twas but just , but then perhaps your Love decays : While I am like a Phoenix fry'd , in scorchings of self-kindl'd flame ; Yet were I once in Wedlock ty'd , methinks I'd blush away my stain . Amintor . A thousand blessings on my Love , those Sacred Bans shall tie us fast ; Come let it be , and then we'l prove those transports that will ever last . Sylva . I yield , I yield , tho' blushing still , methinks I dread , but let's precede ; For once Love conquer shall my will , Venus our Nuptials are decreed . Amintor . And Venus witness now we haste to pay our Offerings at thy shrine ; No more will we Loves moments waste , nor lose a pleasure that's Divine : But in each Grove we'l sport and play , and feed our Flocks , while the sweet strain Of Philomelia close the Day , and calls us to our home again . Finis . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , in West-smithfield . Beauty's Triumph : OR , The Joys of Faithful Lovers made complete ; Showing the amorous Address of a young Gallant to a fair Virgin , whose consent , notwith - standing her many coy objections , & concluded the happy Marriage , under the feign'd names of Amintor and Silva , Being a most pleasant and delightful New Play-House SONG . All that's call'd Beauty , for men use was made , Why then should he of Females be afraid ? Encounter them but brisk , you'l find them yield , 'Tis seldom known they long do keep the Field ; But if you fear to court , faith , e'n despair ; For Cowards never Cupids Plunder share . To a New Play-House Tune ; Or , The Reward of Loyalty , etc A Pox upon this needless Scorn , Sylva for shame the Cheat give o're ; The end to which the fair are Born , is not to keep their Charms in store : But lavishly dispose in haste of joys , which only youth improve ; Joys which decay when Beauty's passed , and who when Beauty's passed , will love ? When age those Glories shall deface , revenging all the cold disdain ; And Sylva shall neglected pass by every one admiring Swain ; And we can only pity pay , when you in Love too late shall burn ; If Love increase , and Youth decay , ah ! Sylva , who will make return ? Then haste my Sylva to the Grove , where all the sweets of May conspire To teach us every art of Love , and raise our charms and pleasures higher . While in each others arms we lie , closely embrac'd on banks of flowers , The duller World while we defy , Years shall be minutes , ages hours . Sylva . Forbear Amintor to deceive , a harmless Nymph thus to betray ; Could you of Honour me bereave , your passion soon would melt away : O blame not Virgins that are coy , but that your constancies we prove ; For if our trust you once enjoy , farewell forever constant Love . Our Beauty's like a new blown Rose , when sully'd you will cast away ; And seek out where a fresh one grows , no more will you our Charms obey . I blush to think shou'd I be kind , how soon I shou'd my fault Repent ; When you unconstant as the Wind , wou'd all my newborn joys prevent . And for some fairer leave my Love , fly my embraces with disdain ; O then my sighs wou'd nothing move , I might regardless then complain , Then cease your suit Amintor now , say not I'm coy nor yet unkind , When Man so often breaks his Vow , and is to change so oft inclin'd . Amintor . Thou brightest from that I adore , fairest of Creatures say not so ; My Love shall last forevermore , and endless passion still shall flow : No Beauty shall divide my Love , to thee it shall be ever sure ; Then hast we to this pleasant Grove , to try the Charms that e're endure . Sylva . Could I poor harmless Nymph but trust you'd constant prove , then cou'd I raise My passion high , and 'twas but just , but then perhaps your Love decays : While I am like a Phoenix fry'd , in scorchings of self-kindl'd flame ; Yet were I once in Wedlock ty'd , methinks I'd blush away my stain . Amintor . A thousand blessings on my Love , those Sacred Bans shall tie us fast ; Come let it be , and then we'l prove those transports that will ever last . Sylva . I yield , I yield , tho' blushing still , methinks I dread , but let's precede ; For once Love conquer shall my will , Venus our Nuptials are decreed . Amintor . And Venus witness now we haste to pay our Offerings at thy shrine ; No more will we Loves moments waste , nor lose a pleasure that's Divine : But in each Grove we'l sport and play , and feed our Flocks , while the sweet strain Of Philomelia close the Day , and calls us to our home again . Finis . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , in West-smithfield . Beauty's Triumph : OR , The Joys of Faithful Lovers made complete ; Showing the amorous Address of a young Gallant to a fair Virgin , whose consent , notwith - standing her many coy objections , & concluded the happy Marriage , under the feign'd names of Amintor and Silva , Being a most pleasant and delightful New Play-House SONG . All that's call'd Beauty , for men use was made , Why then should he of Females be afraid ? Encounter them but brisk , you'l find them yield , 'Tis seldom known they long do keep the Field ; But if you fear to court , faith , e'n despair ; For Cowards never Cupids Plunder share . To a New Play-House Tune ; Or , The Reward of Loyalty , etc A Pox upon this needless Scorn , Sylva for shame the Cheat give o're ; The end to which the fair are Born , is not to keep their Charms in store : But lavishly dispose in haste of joys , which only youth improve ; Joys which decay when Beauty's passed , and who when Beauty's passed , will love ? When age those Glories shall deface , revenging all the cold disdain ; And Sylva shall neglected pass by every one admiring Swain ; And we can only pity pay , when you in Love too late shall burn ; If Love increase , and Youth decay , ah ! Sylva , who will make return ? Then haste my Sylva to the Grove , where all the sweets of May conspire To teach us every art of Love , and raise our charms and pleasures higher . While in each others arms we lie , closely embrac'd on banks of flowers , The duller World while we defy , Years shall be minutes , ages hours . Sylva . Forbear Amintor to deceive , a harmless Nymph thus to betray ; Could you of Honour me bereave , your passion soon would melt away : O blame not Virgins that are coy , but that your constancies we prove ; For if our trust you once enjoy , farewell forever constant Love . Our Beauty's like a new blown Rose , when sully'd you will cast away ; And seek out where a fresh one grows , no more will you our Charms obey . I blush to think shou'd I be kind , how soon I shou'd my fault Repent ; When you unconstant as the Wind , wou'd all my newborn joys prevent . And for some fairer leave my Love , fly my embraces with disdain ; O then my sighs wou'd nothing move , I might regardless then complain , Then cease your suit Amintor now , say not I'm coy nor yet unkind , When Man so often breaks his Vow , and is to change so oft inclin'd . Amintor . Thou brightest from that I adore , fairest of Creatures say not so ; My Love shall last forevermore , and endless passion still shall flow : No Beauty shall divide my Love , to thee it shall be ever sure ; Then hast we to this pleasant Grove , to try the Charms that e're endure . Sylva . Could I poor harmless Nymph but trust you'd constant prove , then cou'd I raise My passion high , and 'twas but just , but then perhaps your Love decays : While I am like a Phoenix fry'd , in scorchings of self-kindl'd flame ; Yet were I once in Wedlock ty'd , methinks I'd blush away my stain . Amintor . A thousand blessings on my Love , those Sacred Bans shall tie us fast ; Come let it be , and then we'l prove those transports that will ever last . Sylva . I yield , I yield , tho' blushing still , methinks I dread , but let's precede ; For once Love conquer shall my will , Venus our Nuptials are decreed . Amintor . And Venus witness now we haste to pay our Offerings at thy shrine ; No more will we Loves moments waste , nor lose a pleasure that's Divine : But in each Grove we'l sport and play , and feed our Flocks , while the sweet strain Of Philomelia close the Day , and calls us to our home again . Finis . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , in West-smithfield . 