The Falsehearted GLOVER ; OR , Fool and Knave well Fitted . To the Tune of , Lilli Burlero . Licensed according to Order . PRay now attend and listen a while , to a right new and Jocular Song ; Which I declare , will cause you to smile , if that I am not much in the wrong : It is of a bonny Glover , I , and his Name I tell you is John ; He Courted young Mary , who was brisk and airy , but Marry'd at length with Foggy-ars'd Nan . While he did Court his amorous Love , what Protestations then did he make ! Vowing his mind should never remove , no , he could freely Die for her sake : Thus alas ! she was deluded , I , and he prov'd a perfect Trappan , When leaving young Marry ; who was brisk and airy , to Marry at length with Foggy-ars'd Nan . Morning and Night to Marry he'd go , swearing he lov'd her dearer than life ; Thus he the height of Kindness did show , as if he meant to make her his Wife : Till at length he did deceive her , like a deceitful falsehearted Man ; Yet faith he is fitted , and not to be pitty'd , because he hath taken Foggy-ars'd Nan . Mary she said , it would be his Lot , to Marry Nan , in Love to combine ; But he declar'd and Earthen Pisspot , he would despise for Silver more fine : Thus he often did compare her , like a deceitful flattering Man ; Good faith he is fitted , and not to be pitty'd , because he hath taken Foggy-ars'd Nan . Forty good pounds in Silver and Gold , with his Love Marry he might have had ; Which was a pleasant sighed to behold , was he not then Distracted and Mad ? Thus to leave her for another , who is in Debt as much as she can ; The Glover is fitted , and not to be pitty'd , now let him make much of Foggy-ars'd Nan . Now she has god him fast in a Nooze , where he till Death a Slave must remain ; He for the world now cannot get lose , but must endure the torture and pain : Some says that she will Cornute him , tho' he does watch as much as he can : E'faith he is fitted , and not to be pitty'd , he knows that it is the Humours of Nan . Upon a day it happened so , that a right brisk young Gallant was there , Into the Room Pill-Garlick did go , but to Affront them he did not dare : For a while he did stand peeping , like to a poor disconsolate Man : E'faith he is fitted , and not to be pitty'd , as knowing it is the Humours of Nan . What if we find the Fates have decreed , that he should be a Cuckold by course ; And Marry she would not do the Deed , then lusty Nan she must upon force , Give the honest Spark his Fortune , for she alone is able , and can ; E'faith he is fitted , and not to be pitty'd , as knowing it is the Humour of Nan . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . The Falsehearted GLOVER ; OR , Fool and Knave well Fitted . To the Tune of , Lilli Burlero . Licensed according to Order . PRay now attend and listen a while , to a right new and Jocular Song ; Which I declare , will cause you to smile , if that I am not much in the wrong : It is of a bonny Glover , I , and his Name I tell you is John ; He Courted young Mary , who was brisk and airy , but Marry'd at length with Foggy-ars'd Nan . While he did Court his amorous Love , what Protestations then did he make ! Vowing his mind should never remove , no , he could freely Die for her sake : Thus alas ! she was deluded , I , and he prov'd a perfect Trappan , When leaving young Marry ; who was brisk and airy , to Marry at length with Foggy-ars'd Nan . Morning and Night to Marry he'd go , swearing he lov'd her dearer than life ; Thus he the height of Kindness did show , as if he meant to make her his Wife : Till at length he did deceive her , like a deceitful falsehearted Man ; Yet faith he is fitted , and not to be pitty'd , because he hath taken Foggy-ars'd Nan . Mary she said , it would be his Lot , to Marry Nan , in Love to combine ; But he declar'd and Earthen Pisspot , he would despise for Silver more fine : Thus he often did compare her , like a deceitful flattering Man ; Good faith he is fitted , and not to be pitty'd , because he hath taken Foggy-ars'd Nan . Forty good pounds in Silver and Gold , with his Love Marry he might have had ; Which was a pleasant sighed to behold , was he not then Distracted and Mad ? Thus to leave her for another , who is in Debt as much as she can ; The Glover is fitted , and not to be pitty'd , now let him make much of Foggy-ars'd Nan . Now she has god him fast in a Nooze , where he till Death a Slave must remain ; He for the world now cannot get lose , but must endure the torture and pain : Some says that she will Cornute him , tho' he does watch as much as he can : E'faith he is fitted , and not to be pitty'd , he knows that it is the Humours of Nan . Upon a day it happened so , that a right brisk young Gallant was there , Into the Room Pill-Garlick did go , but to Affront them he did not dare : For a while he did stand peeping , like to a poor disconsolate Man : E'faith he is fitted , and not to be pitty'd , as knowing it is the Humours of Nan . What if we find the Fates have decreed , that he should be a Cuckold by course ; And Marry she would not do the Deed , then lusty Nan she must upon force , Give the honest Spark his Fortune , for she alone is able , and can ; E'faith he is fitted , and not to be pitty'd , as knowing it is the Humour of Nan . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . The Falsehearted GLOVER ; OR , Fool and Knave well Fitted . To the Tune of , Lilli Burlero . Licensed according to Order . PRay now attend and listen a while , to a right new and Jocular Song ; Which I declare , will cause you to smile , if that I am not much in the wrong : It is of a bonny Glover , I , and his Name I tell you is John ; He Courted young Mary , who was brisk and airy , but Marry'd at length with Foggy-ars'd Nan . While he did Court his amorous Love , what Protestations then did he make ! Vowing his mind should never remove , no , he could freely Die for her sake : Thus alas ! she was deluded , I , and he prov'd a perfect Trappan , When leaving young Marry ; who was brisk and airy , to Marry at length with Foggy-ars'd Nan . Morning and Night to Marry he'd go , swearing he lov'd her dearer than life ; Thus he the height of Kindness did show , as if he meant to make her his Wife : Till at length he did deceive her , like a deceitful falsehearted Man ; Yet faith he is fitted , and not to be pitty'd , because he hath taken Foggy-ars'd Nan . Mary she said , it would be his Lot , to Marry Nan , in Love to combine ; But he declar'd and Earthen Pisspot , he would despise for Silver more fine : Thus he often did compare her , like a deceitful flattering Man ; Good faith he is fitted , and not to be pitty'd , because he hath taken Foggy-ars'd Nan . Forty good pounds in Silver and Gold , with his Love Marry he might have had ; Which was a pleasant sighed to behold , was he not then Distracted and Mad ? Thus to leave her for another , who is in Debt as much as she can ; The Glover is fitted , and not to be pitty'd , now let him make much of Foggy-ars'd Nan . Now she has god him fast in a Nooze , where he till Death a Slave must remain ; He for the world now cannot get lose , but must endure the torture and pain : Some says that she will Cornute him , tho' he does watch as much as he can : E'faith he is fitted , and not to be pitty'd , he knows that it is the Humours of Nan . Upon a day it happened so , that a right brisk young Gallant was there , Into the Room Pill-Garlick did go , but to Affront them he did not dare : For a while he did stand peeping , like to a poor disconsolate Man : E'faith he is fitted , and not to be pitty'd , as knowing it is the Humours of Nan . What if we find the Fates have decreed , that he should be a Cuckold by course ; And Marry she would not do the Deed , then lusty Nan she must upon force , Give the honest Spark his Fortune , for she alone is able , and can ; E'faith he is fitted , and not to be pitty'd , as knowing it is the Humour of Nan . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . The Falsehearted GLOVER ; OR , Fool and Knave well Fitted . To the Tune of , Lilli Burlero . Licensed according to Order . PRay now attend and listen a while , to a right new and Jocular Song ; Which I declare , will cause you to smile , if that I am not much in the wrong : It is of a bonny Glover , I , and his Name I tell you is John ; He Courted young Mary , who was brisk and airy , but Marry'd at length with Foggy-ars'd Nan . While he did Court his amorous Love , what Protestations then did he make ! Vowing his mind should never remove , no , he could freely Die for her sake : Thus alas ! she was deluded , I , and he prov'd a perfect Trappan , When leaving young Marry ; who was brisk and airy , to Marry at length with Foggy-ars'd Nan . Morning and Night to Marry he'd go , swearing he lov'd her dearer than life ; Thus he the height of Kindness did show , as if he meant to make her his Wife : Till at length he did deceive her , like a deceitful falsehearted Man ; Yet faith he is fitted , and not to be pitty'd , because he hath taken Foggy-ars'd Nan . Mary she said , it would be his Lot , to Marry Nan , in Love to combine ; But he declar'd and Earthen Pisspot , he would despise for Silver more fine : Thus he often did compare her , like a deceitful flattering Man ; Good faith he is fitted , and not to be pitty'd , because he hath taken Foggy-ars'd Nan . Forty good pounds in Silver and Gold , with his Love Marry he might have had ; Which was a pleasant sighed to behold , was he not then Distracted and Mad ? Thus to leave her for another , who is in Debt as much as she can ; The Glover is fitted , and not to be pitty'd , now let him make much of Foggy-ars'd Nan . Now she has god him fast in a Nooze , where he till Death a Slave must remain ; He for the world now cannot get lose , but must endure the torture and pain : Some says that she will Cornute him , tho' he does watch as much as he can : E'faith he is fitted , and not to be pitty'd , he knows that it is the Humours of Nan . Upon a day it happened so , that a right brisk young Gallant was there , Into the Room Pill-Garlick did go , but to Affront them he did not dare : For a while he did stand peeping , like to a poor disconsolate Man : E'faith he is fitted , and not to be pitty'd , as knowing it is the Humours of Nan . What if we find the Fates have decreed , that he should be a Cuckold by course ; And Marry she would not do the Deed , then lusty Nan she must upon force , Give the honest Spark his Fortune , for she alone is able , and can ; E'faith he is fitted , and not to be pitty'd , as knowing it is the Humour of Nan . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 