The YOUTHS Guide ; Being certain good Lessons of Instructions to all people to take care how they led their lives in these sorrowful times , warning them to avoid Luxury , Pride , and Drunkenness , with other Debaucherys . Written more especially to Youth , by a youngman that lay on his sick bed , and afterwards died in the Flower of his age , being 21 years old when he died at Mile-End . Tune of , A Lesson for all true Christians ; Or , My bleeding Heart . PRepare good People to give ear with speed , For now to give instructions I proceed , To tell of sins for which the Land does groan , Such sins whose cries will bring fierce Vengeance down . ANd make us to repent them when too late , Therefore in time let us prevent the fate , With meek submission Heavens high wrath assuage Before he ope's the floodgate of his Rage . VEngeance was lately studied , God did repent I'th midst of Judgement , & our woes preven Sure our deliverances an't quite forgotten , From Plague , fire , war , & this more dreadful Plot . LAment then all for sins , and sin no more , Let us our former wicked ways deplore , Youngmen and Maids embrace Gods Sacred truth Remember your Creator in your youth . BE not by Hells Temptations drawn away , Vile lustest and sinful follies to obey ; Know , if you'r good Heav [ e ] ns glories you shall share The bad in endless torments must despair . VAin swearing let not in your mouth be found For such presumption know the World was drowned Harbour no pride , for by that Satan fell From joys above to howl in flames of Hell . REmember that y'r bought with precious blood And that the Lord of life once thought it good To lay his glory by and take our shape , That we the second death might freely escape . GIve not yourselves to whoredom , 'tis a crime Youth's much addicted to in this our time : Lewd women Holy Writ does still declare Is unto man a stumbling block and snare . ISrael durst tempt from them the mighty God If Jacob , who consum'd them with his Rod ; Sent his devouring Plagues , which swept away Near twenty thousand of them in one day . SO for the like since we in numbers fell , The Living could not the Dead number well : Our City too was soon reduc'd to dust , And yet there's few that think of living just . ALthough Gods Judgments duly threaten , yet To swear & curse young children think it fit , And Parents , who severe for it should chide Do oft in hearing of them take a pride . BElching of swift damnation now is grown A thing so common , that some do't unknown , Though Blazing Stars and Prodigies foretell That we against the King of Kings rebel . CAutious be Youths and Maids I say how you Do hastily the paths of death pursue ; Wisdom cries loud , and bids you turn aside , O hear her voice , and let her be your guide . DO not give ear to such as wou'd betray You into mischief's , cause you to go astray , But let Gods word your only pattern be , For that is life unto Eternity . EVen follow their good lives who with their blood Seal'd up their Testimony , and withstood Romes Persecutions , nor did shrink nor faint To suffer all the Tyrants could invent . FOllow , I say , th' examples of the just , And in Gods mercies still be all thy trust ; Parents instruct your children that they may Your Precepts and your just commands obey . GOvern them wisely , and you'l quickly find As you instruct them so they'l be inclin'd ; But if you nurture them in Vice when young They'l vex your soul when they grow great & strong . HOnour your Parents , for if you despise , The Valley-Ravens will pluck out your eyes Pay homage to them and you long shall live , in the good Land which God himself does give . IMagine not but God does see thy ways , 'Tis he alone that can prolong thy days , And after give thee everlasting Life , Whence he has banished Envy , Hate , and Strife . KNow this youngman in this thy day the peace And welfare of thy soul e're life does cease , Dangers beset thee , and as death does leave So judgement finds , then don't thyself deceive . LEarn Servants to obey and to be just , Let none be prompted to betray his trus Eye-service hate , for such does God despise , Do not defraud , nor given be to lies . MAke no debate , nor on the Sabbath play , For that the Lord appoints his holy day That he hath Sacred made above the rest , And heavy doom 'gainst breakers on't expressed . NOw let your heart be pure and perfect , why ? Because the dreadful day of death draws nigh And after that the final day of doom , Which speedily will upon all flesh come . O Then let me extort both young and old To pray to God e're he his wrath unfold , And let all live as they intend to die , Lest they for since be bound in flames to lie . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Py-corner . The YOUTHS Guide ; Being certain good Lessons of Instructions to all people to take care how they led their lives in these sorrowful times , warning them to avoid Luxury , Pride , and Drunkenness , with other Debaucherys . Written more especially to Youth , by a youngman that lay on his sick bed , and afterwards died in the Flower of his age , being 21 years old when he died at Mile-End . Tune of , A Lesson for all true Christians ; Or , My bleeding Heart . PRepare good People to give ear with speed , For now to give instructions I proceed , To tell of sins for which the Land does groan , Such sins whose cries will bring fierce Vengeance down . ANd make us to repent them when too late , Therefore in time let us prevent the fate , With meek submission Heavens high wrath assuage Before he ope's the floodgate of his Rage . VEngeance was lately studied , God did repent I'th midst of Judgement , & our woes preven Sure our deliverances an't quite forgotten , From Plague , fire , war , & this more dreadful Plot . LAment then all for sins , and sin no more , Let us our former wicked ways deplore , Youngmen and Maids embrace Gods Sacred truth Remember your Creator in your youth . BE not by Hells Temptations drawn away , Vile lustest and sinful follies to obey ; Know , if you'r good Heav [ e ] ns glories you shall share The bad in endless torments must despair . VAin swearing let not in your mouth be found For such presumption know the World was drowned Harbour no pride , for by that Satan fell From joys above to howl in flames of Hell . REmember that y'r bought with precious blood And that the Lord of life once thought it good To lay his glory by and take our shape , That we the second death might freely escape . GIve not yourselves to whoredom , 'tis a crime Youth's much addicted to in this our time : Lewd women Holy Writ does still declare Is unto man a stumbling block and snare . ISrael durst tempt from them the mighty God If Jacob , who consum'd them with his Rod ; Sent his devouring Plagues , which swept away Near twenty thousand of them in one day . SO for the like since we in numbers fell , The Living could not the Dead number well : Our City too was soon reduc'd to dust , And yet there's few that think of living just . ALthough Gods Judgments duly threaten , yet To swear & curse young children think it fit , And Parents , who severe for it should chide Do oft in hearing of them take a pride . BElching of swift damnation now is grown A thing so common , that some do't unknown , Though Blazing Stars and Prodigies foretell That we against the King of Kings rebel . CAutious be Youths and Maids I say how you Do hastily the paths of death pursue ; Wisdom cries loud , and bids you turn aside , O hear her voice , and let her be your guide . DO not give ear to such as wou'd betray You into mischief's , cause you to go astray , But let Gods word your only pattern be , For that is life unto Eternity . EVen follow their good lives who with their blood Seal'd up their Testimony , and withstood Romes Persecutions , nor did shrink nor faint To suffer all the Tyrants could invent . FOllow , I say , th' examples of the just , And in Gods mercies still be all thy trust ; Parents instruct your children that they may Your Precepts and your just commands obey . GOvern them wisely , and you'l quickly find As you instruct them so they'l be inclin'd ; But if you nurture them in Vice when young They'l vex your soul when they grow great & strong . HOnour your Parents , for if you despise , The Valley-Ravens will pluck out your eyes Pay homage to them and you long shall live , in the good Land which God himself does give . IMagine not but God does see thy ways , 'Tis he alone that can prolong thy days , And after give thee everlasting Life , Whence he has banished Envy , Hate , and Strife . KNow this youngman in this thy day the peace And welfare of thy soul e're life does cease , Dangers beset thee , and as death does leave So judgement finds , then don't thyself deceive . LEarn Servants to obey and to be just , Let none be prompted to betray his trus Eye-service hate , for such does God despise , Do not defraud , nor given be to lies . MAke no debate , nor on the Sabbath play , For that the Lord appoints his holy day That he hath Sacred made above the rest , And heavy doom 'gainst breakers on't expressed . NOw let your heart be pure and perfect , why ? Because the dreadful day of death draws nigh And after that the final day of doom , Which speedily will upon all flesh come . O Then let me extort both young and old To pray to God e're he his wrath unfold , And let all live as they intend to die , Lest they for since be bound in flames to lie . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Py-corner . The YOUTHS Guide ; Being certain good Lessons of Instructions to all people to take care how they led their lives in these sorrowful times , warning them to avoid Luxury , Pride , and Drunkenness , with other Debaucherys . Written more especially to Youth , by a youngman that lay on his sick bed , and afterwards died in the Flower of his age , being 21 years old when he died at Mile-End . Tune of , A Lesson for all true Christians ; Or , My bleeding Heart . PRepare good People to give ear with speed , For now to give instructions I proceed , To tell of sins for which the Land does groan , Such sins whose cries will bring fierce Vengeance down . ANd make us to repent them when too late , Therefore in time let us prevent the fate , With meek submission Heavens high wrath assuage Before he ope's the floodgate of his Rage . VEngeance was lately studied , God did repent I'th midst of Judgement , & our woes preven Sure our deliverances an't quite forgotten , From Plague , fire , war , & this more dreadful Plot . LAment then all for sins , and sin no more , Let us our former wicked ways deplore , Youngmen and Maids embrace Gods Sacred truth Remember your Creator in your youth . BE not by Hells Temptations drawn away , Vile lustest and sinful follies to obey ; Know , if you'r good Heav [ e ] ns glories you shall share The bad in endless torments must despair . VAin swearing let not in your mouth be found For such presumption know the World was drowned Harbour no pride , for by that Satan fell From joys above to howl in flames of Hell . REmember that y'r bought with precious blood And that the Lord of life once thought it good To lay his glory by and take our shape , That we the second death might freely escape . GIve not yourselves to whoredom , 'tis a crime Youth's much addicted to in this our time : Lewd women Holy Writ does still declare Is unto man a stumbling block and snare . ISrael durst tempt from them the mighty God If Jacob , who consum'd them with his Rod ; Sent his devouring Plagues , which swept away Near twenty thousand of them in one day . SO for the like since we in numbers fell , The Living could not the Dead number well : Our City too was soon reduc'd to dust , And yet there's few that think of living just . ALthough Gods Judgments duly threaten , yet To swear & curse young children think it fit , And Parents , who severe for it should chide Do oft in hearing of them take a pride . BElching of swift damnation now is grown A thing so common , that some do't unknown , Though Blazing Stars and Prodigies foretell That we against the King of Kings rebel . CAutious be Youths and Maids I say how you Do hastily the paths of death pursue ; Wisdom cries loud , and bids you turn aside , O hear her voice , and let her be your guide . DO not give ear to such as wou'd betray You into mischief's , cause you to go astray , But let Gods word your only pattern be , For that is life unto Eternity . EVen follow their good lives who with their blood Seal'd up their Testimony , and withstood Romes Persecutions , nor did shrink nor faint To suffer all the Tyrants could invent . FOllow , I say , th' examples of the just , And in Gods mercies still be all thy trust ; Parents instruct your children that they may Your Precepts and your just commands obey . GOvern them wisely , and you'l quickly find As you instruct them so they'l be inclin'd ; But if you nurture them in Vice when young They'l vex your soul when they grow great & strong . HOnour your Parents , for if you despise , The Valley-Ravens will pluck out your eyes Pay homage to them and you long shall live , in the good Land which God himself does give . IMagine not but God does see thy ways , 'Tis he alone that can prolong thy days , And after give thee everlasting Life , Whence he has banished Envy , Hate , and Strife . KNow this youngman in this thy day the peace And welfare of thy soul e're life does cease , Dangers beset thee , and as death does leave So judgement finds , then don't thyself deceive . LEarn Servants to obey and to be just , Let none be prompted to betray his trus Eye-service hate , for such does God despise , Do not defraud , nor given be to lies . MAke no debate , nor on the Sabbath play , For that the Lord appoints his holy day That he hath Sacred made above the rest , And heavy doom 'gainst breakers on't expressed . NOw let your heart be pure and perfect , why ? Because the dreadful day of death draws nigh And after that the final day of doom , Which speedily will upon all flesh come . O Then let me extort both young and old To pray to God e're he his wrath unfold , And let all live as they intend to die , Lest they for since be bound in flames to lie . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Py-corner . The YOUTHS Guide ; Being certain good Lessons of Instructions to all people to take care how they led their lives in these sorrowful times , warning them to avoid Luxury , Pride , and Drunkenness , with other Debaucherys . Written more especially to Youth , by a youngman that lay on his sick bed , and afterwards died in the Flower of his age , being 21 years old when he died at Mile-End . Tune of , A Lesson for all true Christians ; Or , My bleeding Heart . PRepare good People to give ear with speed , For now to give instructions I proceed , To tell of sins for which the Land does groan , Such sins whose cries will bring fierce Vengeance down . ANd make us to repent them when too late , Therefore in time let us prevent the fate , With meek submission Heavens high wrath assuage Before he ope's the floodgate of his Rage . VEngeance was lately studied , God did repent I'th midst of Judgement , & our woes preven Sure our deliverances an't quite forgotten , From Plague , fire , war , & this more dreadful Plot . LAment then all for sins , and sin no more , Let us our former wicked ways deplore , Youngmen and Maids embrace Gods Sacred truth Remember your Creator in your youth . BE not by Hells Temptations drawn away , Vile lustest and sinful follies to obey ; Know , if you'r good Heav [ e ] ns glories you shall share The bad in endless torments must despair . VAin swearing let not in your mouth be found For such presumption know the World was drowned Harbour no pride , for by that Satan fell From joys above to howl in flames of Hell . REmember that y'r bought with precious blood And that the Lord of life once thought it good To lay his glory by and take our shape , That we the second death might freely escape . GIve not yourselves to whoredom , 'tis a crime Youth's much addicted to in this our time : Lewd women Holy Writ does still declare Is unto man a stumbling block and snare . ISrael durst tempt from them the mighty God If Jacob , who consum'd them with his Rod ; Sent his devouring Plagues , which swept away Near twenty thousand of them in one day . SO for the like since we in numbers fell , The Living could not the Dead number well : Our City too was soon reduc'd to dust , And yet there's few that think of living just . ALthough Gods Judgments duly threaten , yet To swear & curse young children think it fit , And Parents , who severe for it should chide Do oft in hearing of them take a pride . BElching of swift damnation now is grown A thing so common , that some do't unknown , Though Blazing Stars and Prodigies foretell That we against the King of Kings rebel . CAutious be Youths and Maids I say how you Do hastily the paths of death pursue ; Wisdom cries loud , and bids you turn aside , O hear her voice , and let her be your guide . DO not give ear to such as wou'd betray You into mischief's , cause you to go astray , But let Gods word your only pattern be , For that is life unto Eternity . EVen follow their good lives who with their blood Seal'd up their Testimony , and withstood Romes Persecutions , nor did shrink nor faint To suffer all the Tyrants could invent . FOllow , I say , th' examples of the just , And in Gods mercies still be all thy trust ; Parents instruct your children that they may Your Precepts and your just commands obey . GOvern them wisely , and you'l quickly find As you instruct them so they'l be inclin'd ; But if you nurture them in Vice when young They'l vex your soul when they grow great & strong . HOnour your Parents , for if you despise , The Valley-Ravens will pluck out your eyes Pay homage to them and you long shall live , in the good Land which God himself does give . IMagine not but God does see thy ways , 'Tis he alone that can prolong thy days , And after give thee everlasting Life , Whence he has banished Envy , Hate , and Strife . KNow this youngman in this thy day the peace And welfare of thy soul e're life does cease , Dangers beset thee , and as death does leave So judgement finds , then don't thyself deceive . LEarn Servants to obey and to be just , Let none be prompted to betray his trus Eye-service hate , for such does God despise , Do not defraud , nor given be to lies . MAke no debate , nor on the Sabbath play , For that the Lord appoints his holy day That he hath Sacred made above the rest , And heavy doom 'gainst breakers on't expressed . NOw let your heart be pure and perfect , why ? Because the dreadful day of death draws nigh And after that the final day of doom , Which speedily will upon all flesh come . O Then let me extort both young and old To pray to God e're he his wrath unfold , And let all live as they intend to die , Lest they for since be bound in flames to lie . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Py-corner . 