A DIALOGUE Between a Late LORD MAJOR , AND A RECORDER . As also the BATTLE ROYAL between three Clergy-Men ; which had been Printed sooner had the Author dar'd to Pub - lish it . Ld : M : PRay Mr Recorder , Who gave you that order To withhold Mr. Man from his Duty : And to keep City Sword From hearing Gods Word ? I must tell you Sr. this does not suit you . It's True indeed I Myself would deny When Private I Obey my superiors : But you'd call me a Fool all If I who now rule all Should forgo due respect from Inferiors . Mr R ------ . My Lord your high Station Exacts this Confession That your Lordship should have due Obedience : But the Laws of which I Am a Champion reply That Sr. Humphry must give 'em precedence . Cook , Plowden , and Keble Give reasons not feeble And I their Expounder , must say here : The Sword is in Common , And therefore Sr. no Man Should bear it but to Common-Prayer . Ld : M : A fart for Epistle , And gospel go whistle With Church Ceremonious Sinners : Its enough that in Morn , To Paul's it is born , After Noon it shall go to Hall Pinners . In Scripture God's Word Is compar'd to a Sword , And the Sword shall Accompany't there : I'll not stand in awe Of Kings Sergeant at Law Since I am his MAJESTYS Major . Mr. R ---- . My Lord use your own Sense I have discharg'd my Conscience And expound'd the Law to the People : I never did fail yet Sending all Sorts to Jail yet , Or the Friends to the Chimney or Steeple . If you please , God offend , But the Laws of the Land If broken , send down many curses : From this Sword grant you Powers , That no Blood fallen in show'rs , As on Whitny the Blood of His Horses . Ld. M. Well Sir its no matter , Let us talk of 't here a'ter , When these Judgments come down , not before : I must in Sir and chide well , And send Old-Folks to Bridewell , And give order for Whipping the Poor . Mr. R ---- And I'll to the Hall To pass Sentence on All , And supplying your place will not fail you : Do as you think fitting , Have the Sword to the Meeting , I'll use't to some Tune at th' Old-Baily . The BATTLE ROYAL . To the Tune of , a Soldier and a Sailour . A Dean and Prebendary Had once a new-vagary , And where at doubtful Strife Sir Who led the better life Sir , And was the better Man. The Dean , he said that truly , Since Bluff was so unruly , He'd prove it to his Face Sir , That He had the most grace Sir , And so the Fight began . When Preb --- reply'd like Thunder , And roar'd out 'twas no wonder , For Gods the Dean had Three Sir , And more by Two than He Sir , For He had god but One . Now as these Two were raging , And in disputes engaging , The Master of the Charter , Said both had caught a Tartar , For Gods that there were none . And all the Books of Moses , Were nothing but Supposes , And he deserv'd rebuke Sir , Who wrote the Penteteuch Sir , 'Twas nohing but a Shamm . And as for Father Adam , With Mrs. Eve his Madam , And what the Serpent Spoke Sir , 'Twas nothing but a Joke Sir , And well invented Flamm . As thus in Battle Royal , Not one would take denial , The Dame for whom they strove Sir , Could neither of 'em love Sir , For all had given offence . She therefore slighly waiting , Left all Three Fools a prating , And being in a fright Sir , RELIGION took her flight Sir , And ne're was herd of Since . LONDON , Printed in the Year , 1698. A DIALOGUE Between a Late LORD MAJOR , AND A RECORDER . As also the BATTLE ROYAL between three Clergy-Men ; which had been Printed sooner had the Author dar'd to Pub - lish it . Ld : M : PRay Mr Recorder , Who gave you that order To withhold Mr. Man from his Duty : And to keep City Sword From hearing Gods Word ? I must tell you Sr. this does not suit you . It's True indeed I Myself would deny When Private I Obey my superiors : But you'd call me a Fool all If I who now rule all Should forgo due respect from Inferiors . Mr R ------ . My Lord your high Station Exacts this Confession That your Lordship should have due Obedience : But the Laws of which I Am a Champion reply That Sr. Humphry must give 'em precedence . Cook , Plowden , and Keble Give reasons not feeble And I their Expounder , must say here : The Sword is in Common , And therefore Sr. no Man Should bear it but to Common-Prayer . Ld : M : A fart for Epistle , And gospel go whistle With Church Ceremonious Sinners : Its enough that in Morn , To Paul's it is born , After Noon it shall go to Hall Pinners . In Scripture God's Word Is compar'd to a Sword , And the Sword shall Accompany't there : I'll not stand in awe Of Kings Sergeant at Law Since I am his MAJESTYS Major . Mr. R ---- . My Lord use your own Sense I have discharg'd my Conscience And expound'd the Law to the People : I never did fail yet Sending all Sorts to Jail yet , Or the Friends to the Chimney or Steeple . If you please , God offend , But the Laws of the Land If broken , send down many curses : From this Sword grant you Powers , That no Blood fallen in show'rs , As on Whitny the Blood of His Horses . Ld. M. Well Sir its no matter , Let us talk of 't here a'ter , When these Judgments come down , not before : I must in Sir and chide well , And send Old-Folks to Bridewell , And give order for Whipping the Poor . Mr. R ---- And I'll to the Hall To pass Sentence on All , And supplying your place will not fail you : Do as you think fitting , Have the Sword to the Meeting , I'll use't to some Tune at th' Old-Baily . The BATTLE ROYAL . To the Tune of , a Soldier and a Sailour . A Dean and Prebendary Had once a new-vagary , And where at doubtful Strife Sir Who led the better life Sir , And was the better Man. The Dean , he said that truly , Since Bluff was so unruly , He'd prove it to his Face Sir , That He had the most grace Sir , And so the Fight began . When Preb --- reply'd like Thunder , And roar'd out 'twas no wonder , For Gods the Dean had Three Sir , And more by Two than He Sir , For He had god but One . Now as these Two were raging , And in disputes engaging , The Master of the Charter , Said both had caught a Tartar , For Gods that there were none . And all the Books of Moses , Were nothing but Supposes , And he deserv'd rebuke Sir , Who wrote the Penteteuch Sir , 'Twas nohing but a Shamm . And as for Father Adam , With Mrs. Eve his Madam , And what the Serpent Spoke Sir , 'Twas nothing but a Joke Sir , And well invented Flamm . As thus in Battle Royal , Not one would take denial , The Dame for whom they strove Sir , Could neither of 'em love Sir , For all had given offence . She therefore slighly waiting , Left all Three Fools a prating , And being in a fright Sir , RELIGION took her flight Sir , And ne're was herd of Since . LONDON , Printed in the Year , 1698. A DIALOGUE Between a Late LORD MAJOR , AND A RECORDER . As also the BATTLE ROYAL between three Clergy-Men ; which had been Printed sooner had the Author dar'd to Pub - lish it . Ld : M : PRay Mr Recorder , Who gave you that order To withhold Mr. Man from his Duty : And to keep City Sword From hearing Gods Word ? I must tell you Sr. this does not suit you . It's True indeed I Myself would deny When Private I Obey my superiors : But you'd call me a Fool all If I who now rule all Should forgo due respect from Inferiors . Mr R ------ . My Lord your high Station Exacts this Confession That your Lordship should have due Obedience : But the Laws of which I Am a Champion reply That Sr. Humphry must give 'em precedence . Cook , Plowden , and Keble Give reasons not feeble And I their Expounder , must say here : The Sword is in Common , And therefore Sr. no Man Should bear it but to Common-Prayer . Ld : M : A fart for Epistle , And gospel go whistle With Church Ceremonious Sinners : Its enough that in Morn , To Paul's it is born , After Noon it shall go to Hall Pinners . In Scripture God's Word Is compar'd to a Sword , And the Sword shall Accompany't there : I'll not stand in awe Of Kings Sergeant at Law Since I am his MAJESTYS Major . Mr. R ---- . My Lord use your own Sense I have discharg'd my Conscience And expound'd the Law to the People : I never did fail yet Sending all Sorts to Jail yet , Or the Friends to the Chimney or Steeple . If you please , God offend , But the Laws of the Land If broken , send down many curses : From this Sword grant you Powers , That no Blood fallen in show'rs , As on Whitny the Blood of His Horses . Ld. M. Well Sir its no matter , Let us talk of 't here a'ter , When these Judgments come down , not before : I must in Sir and chide well , And send Old-Folks to Bridewell , And give order for Whipping the Poor . Mr. R ---- And I'll to the Hall To pass Sentence on All , And supplying your place will not fail you : Do as you think fitting , Have the Sword to the Meeting , I'll use't to some Tune at th' Old-Baily . The BATTLE ROYAL . To the Tune of , a Soldier and a Sailour . A Dean and Prebendary Had once a new-vagary , And where at doubtful Strife Sir Who led the better life Sir , And was the better Man. The Dean , he said that truly , Since Bluff was so unruly , He'd prove it to his Face Sir , That He had the most grace Sir , And so the Fight began . When Preb --- reply'd like Thunder , And roar'd out 'twas no wonder , For Gods the Dean had Three Sir , And more by Two than He Sir , For He had god but One . Now as these Two were raging , And in disputes engaging , The Master of the Charter , Said both had caught a Tartar , For Gods that there were none . And all the Books of Moses , Were nothing but Supposes , And he deserv'd rebuke Sir , Who wrote the Penteteuch Sir , 'Twas nohing but a Shamm . And as for Father Adam , With Mrs. Eve his Madam , And what the Serpent Spoke Sir , 'Twas nothing but a Joke Sir , And well invented Flamm . As thus in Battle Royal , Not one would take denial , The Dame for whom they strove Sir , Could neither of 'em love Sir , For all had given offence . She therefore slighly waiting , Left all Three Fools a prating , And being in a fright Sir , RELIGION took her flight Sir , And ne're was herd of Since . LONDON , Printed in the Year , 1698. A DIALOGUE Between a Late LORD MAJOR , AND A RECORDER . As also the BATTLE ROYAL between three Clergy-Men ; which had been Printed sooner had the Author dar'd to Pub - lish it . Ld : M : PRay Mr Recorder , Who gave you that order To withhold Mr. Man from his Duty : And to keep City Sword From hearing Gods Word ? I must tell you Sr. this does not suit you . It's True indeed I Myself would deny When Private I Obey my superiors : But you'd call me a Fool all If I who now rule all Should forgo due respect from Inferiors . Mr R ------ . My Lord your high Station Exacts this Confession That your Lordship should have due Obedience : But the Laws of which I Am a Champion reply That Sr. Humphry must give 'em precedence . Cook , Plowden , and Keble Give reasons not feeble And I their Expounder , must say here : The Sword is in Common , And therefore Sr. no Man Should bear it but to Common-Prayer . Ld : M : A fart for Epistle , And gospel go whistle With Church Ceremonious Sinners : Its enough that in Morn , To Paul's it is born , After Noon it shall go to Hall Pinners . In Scripture God's Word Is compar'd to a Sword , And the Sword shall Accompany't there : I'll not stand in awe Of Kings Sergeant at Law Since I am his MAJESTYS Major . Mr. R ---- . My Lord use your own Sense I have discharg'd my Conscience And expound'd the Law to the People : I never did fail yet Sending all Sorts to Jail yet , Or the Friends to the Chimney or Steeple . If you please , God offend , But the Laws of the Land If broken , send down many curses : From this Sword grant you Powers , That no Blood fallen in show'rs , As on Whitny the Blood of His Horses . Ld. M. Well Sir its no matter , Let us talk of 't here a'ter , When these Judgments come down , not before : I must in Sir and chide well , And send Old-Folks to Bridewell , And give order for Whipping the Poor . Mr. R ---- And I'll to the Hall To pass Sentence on All , And supplying your place will not fail you : Do as you think fitting , Have the Sword to the Meeting , I'll use't to some Tune at th' Old-Baily . The BATTLE ROYAL . To the Tune of , a Soldier and a Sailour . A Dean and Prebendary Had once a new-vagary , And where at doubtful Strife Sir Who led the better life Sir , And was the better Man. The Dean , he said that truly , Since Bluff was so unruly , He'd prove it to his Face Sir , That He had the most grace Sir , And so the Fight began . When Preb --- reply'd like Thunder , And roar'd out 'twas no wonder , For Gods the Dean had Three Sir , And more by Two than He Sir , For He had god but One . Now as these Two were raging , And in disputes engaging , The Master of the Charter , Said both had caught a Tartar , For Gods that there were none . And all the Books of Moses , Were nothing but Supposes , And he deserv'd rebuke Sir , Who wrote the Penteteuch Sir , 'Twas nohing but a Shamm . And as for Father Adam , With Mrs. Eve his Madam , And what the Serpent Spoke Sir , 'Twas nothing but a Joke Sir , And well invented Flamm . As thus in Battle Royal , Not one would take denial , The Dame for whom they strove Sir , Could neither of 'em love Sir , For all had given offence . She therefore slighly waiting , Left all Three Fools a prating , And being in a fright Sir , RELIGION took her flight Sir , And ne're was herd of Since . LONDON , Printed in the Year , 1698. 