R The West-Country Counsellor : OR , The Devonshire Damsels ADVICE to the Lasses of London , In their Choice of Kind and Loving Husbands . To the Tune of Found Boys , etc Licensed according to Order . PRetty Lasses attend to the Lines which I send , As a Token of Love , from the Hand of your Friend ; And be sure you take heed , when the same you do read , It will profit you much in the great time of need : Have a care of young Men , for there's scarce One in Ten But are False and Deceitful ; be careful , Oh then . Some will court half a score , whom they swear they adore , Nay , and others , perhaps , will have Twenty and more , Whom they swear they love by the Powers above ; [ ? ] will call their dear Dove : [ Have a care of young Men , for there's scarce One in Ten But are False and Deceitful ; be careful , Oh then . ] They will strive to make bold with your Silver and Gold , And , without special care , of your dear Copyhold ; Having rifl'd your Store , and they find you grow poor , 'Tis a thousand to one if they come any more : Have a care of such Men , for there's scarce One in Ten But are False and Deceitful ; be careful , Oh then . Once my Father's Man Ned he came up to my Bed , Where he begg'd and entreated for my Maidenhead , I did presently frown , and I crack'd the Knave's Crown , From the top to the bottom I tumbl'd him down ; [ ? ] have a care of such Men . [ ? ] Now it happen'd one Day , that a Friend Yea and Nay Came to court me , and fain he would frolic and play ; But I put him to flight , and it being dark Night , He slipped into the Well where he put out his ligh Have a care of such Men , for there's scarce One in Ten But are False and Deceitful ; be careful , Oh then . Some will dwindle , and cry , swear they love till they die , When , alas ! they dissemble , nay flatter , and lie ; When they once have betray'd a poor innocent Maid , Then with scorn and derision they will her degrade ; Have a care of such Men , for there's scarce One in Ten But are False and Deceitful , etc Such Deceivers as these , you may know , if you please , When they proffer to cuddle and tickle your Knees , Strait their Company shun , for the further they run , You may quickly be ruin'd and clearly undone : Have a care of such Men , for there's scarce One in Ten But are False and Deceitful ; be careful , Oh then . Nay , I further declare you may know by their Hair , If it be Read or Yellow , then then you may swear They will never prove true , but will love more than you ; And the sandy Complexions are Flatterers too : Have a care of such Men , for there's scarce One in Ten But are False and Deceitful , etc Of a two-colour'd Beard , you had need be afraid ; Now if by such a one you by chance are ensnar'd , You'll have Sorrow and Woe , they'll be Jealous I know , And will watch , peep , and haunt you wherever you go : Have a care of such Men , for there's scarce One in Ten But are False and Deceitful , etc But the Black and the Brown , both in City and Town , Are delightful and pleasant , they seldom can frown ; By the Powers above they are all over Love , And as Loyal they are as the dear tender Dove : Lasses these are the Men that will honour you then , There's not one of them false in full Fourscore and Ten. Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Giltspur-street , without Newgate . R The West-Country Counsellor : OR , The Devonshire Damsels ADVICE to the Lasses of London , In their Choice of Kind and Loving Husbands . To the Tune of Found Boys , etc Licensed according to Order . PRetty Lasses attend to the Lines which I send , As a Token of Love , from the Hand of your Friend ; And be sure you take heed , when the same you do read , It will profit you much in the great time of need : Have a care of young Men , for there's scarce One in Ten But are False and Deceitful ; be careful , Oh then . Some will court half a score , whom they swear they adore , Nay , and others , perhaps , will have Twenty and more , Whom they swear they love by the Powers above ; [ ? ] will call their dear Dove : [ Have a care of young Men , for there's scarce One in Ten But are False and Deceitful ; be careful , Oh then . ] They will strive to make bold with your Silver and Gold , And , without special care , of your dear Copyhold ; Having rifl'd your Store , and they find you grow poor , 'Tis a thousand to one if they come any more : Have a care of such Men , for there's scarce One in Ten But are False and Deceitful ; be careful , Oh then . Once my Father's Man Ned he came up to my Bed , Where he begg'd and entreated for my Maidenhead , I did presently frown , and I crack'd the Knave's Crown , From the top to the bottom I tumbl'd him down ; [ ? ] have a care of such Men . [ ? ] Now it happen'd one Day , that a Friend Yea and Nay Came to court me , and fain he would frolic and play ; But I put him to flight , and it being dark Night , He slipped into the Well where he put out his ligh Have a care of such Men , for there's scarce One in Ten But are False and Deceitful ; be careful , Oh then . Some will dwindle , and cry , swear they love till they die , When , alas ! they dissemble , nay flatter , and lie ; When they once have betray'd a poor innocent Maid , Then with scorn and derision they will her degrade ; Have a care of such Men , for there's scarce One in Ten But are False and Deceitful , etc Such Deceivers as these , you may know , if you please , When they proffer to cuddle and tickle your Knees , Strait their Company shun , for the further they run , You may quickly be ruin'd and clearly undone : Have a care of such Men , for there's scarce One in Ten But are False and Deceitful ; be careful , Oh then . Nay , I further declare you may know by their Hair , If it be Read or Yellow , then then you may swear They will never prove true , but will love more than you ; And the sandy Complexions are Flatterers too : Have a care of such Men , for there's scarce One in Ten But are False and Deceitful , etc Of a two-colour'd Beard , you had need be afraid ; Now if by such a one you by chance are ensnar'd , You'll have Sorrow and Woe , they'll be Jealous I know , And will watch , peep , and haunt you wherever you go : Have a care of such Men , for there's scarce One in Ten But are False and Deceitful , etc But the Black and the Brown , both in City and Town , Are delightful and pleasant , they seldom can frown ; By the Powers above they are all over Love , And as Loyal they are as the dear tender Dove : Lasses these are the Men that will honour you then , There's not one of them false in full Fourscore and Ten. Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Giltspur-street , without Newgate . R The West-Country Counsellor : OR , The Devonshire Damsels ADVICE to the Lasses of London , In their Choice of Kind and Loving Husbands . To the Tune of Found Boys , etc Licensed according to Order . PRetty Lasses attend to the Lines which I send , As a Token of Love , from the Hand of your Friend ; And be sure you take heed , when the same you do read , It will profit you much in the great time of need : Have a care of young Men , for there's scarce One in Ten But are False and Deceitful ; be careful , Oh then . Some will court half a score , whom they swear they adore , Nay , and others , perhaps , will have Twenty and more , Whom they swear they love by the Powers above ; [ ? ] will call their dear Dove : [ Have a care of young Men , for there's scarce One in Ten But are False and Deceitful ; be careful , Oh then . ] They will strive to make bold with your Silver and Gold , And , without special care , of your dear Copyhold ; Having rifl'd your Store , and they find you grow poor , 'Tis a thousand to one if they come any more : Have a care of such Men , for there's scarce One in Ten But are False and Deceitful ; be careful , Oh then . Once my Father's Man Ned he came up to my Bed , Where he begg'd and entreated for my Maidenhead , I did presently frown , and I crack'd the Knave's Crown , From the top to the bottom I tumbl'd him down ; [ ? ] have a care of such Men . [ ? ] Now it happen'd one Day , that a Friend Yea and Nay Came to court me , and fain he would frolic and play ; But I put him to flight , and it being dark Night , He slipped into the Well where he put out his ligh Have a care of such Men , for there's scarce One in Ten But are False and Deceitful ; be careful , Oh then . Some will dwindle , and cry , swear they love till they die , When , alas ! they dissemble , nay flatter , and lie ; When they once have betray'd a poor innocent Maid , Then with scorn and derision they will her degrade ; Have a care of such Men , for there's scarce One in Ten But are False and Deceitful , etc Such Deceivers as these , you may know , if you please , When they proffer to cuddle and tickle your Knees , Strait their Company shun , for the further they run , You may quickly be ruin'd and clearly undone : Have a care of such Men , for there's scarce One in Ten But are False and Deceitful ; be careful , Oh then . Nay , I further declare you may know by their Hair , If it be Read or Yellow , then then you may swear They will never prove true , but will love more than you ; And the sandy Complexions are Flatterers too : Have a care of such Men , for there's scarce One in Ten But are False and Deceitful , etc Of a two-colour'd Beard , you had need be afraid ; Now if by such a one you by chance are ensnar'd , You'll have Sorrow and Woe , they'll be Jealous I know , And will watch , peep , and haunt you wherever you go : Have a care of such Men , for there's scarce One in Ten But are False and Deceitful , etc But the Black and the Brown , both in City and Town , Are delightful and pleasant , they seldom can frown ; By the Powers above they are all over Love , And as Loyal they are as the dear tender Dove : Lasses these are the Men that will honour you then , There's not one of them false in full Fourscore and Ten. Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Giltspur-street , without Newgate . R The West-Country Counsellor : OR , The Devonshire Damsels ADVICE to the Lasses of London , In their Choice of Kind and Loving Husbands . To the Tune of Found Boys , etc Licensed according to Order . PRetty Lasses attend to the Lines which I send , As a Token of Love , from the Hand of your Friend ; And be sure you take heed , when the same you do read , It will profit you much in the great time of need : Have a care of young Men , for there's scarce One in Ten But are False and Deceitful ; be careful , Oh then . Some will court half a score , whom they swear they adore , Nay , and others , perhaps , will have Twenty and more , Whom they swear they love by the Powers above ; [ ? ] will call their dear Dove : [ Have a care of young Men , for there's scarce One in Ten But are False and Deceitful ; be careful , Oh then . ] They will strive to make bold with your Silver and Gold , And , without special care , of your dear Copyhold ; Having rifl'd your Store , and they find you grow poor , 'Tis a thousand to one if they come any more : Have a care of such Men , for there's scarce One in Ten But are False and Deceitful ; be careful , Oh then . Once my Father's Man Ned he came up to my Bed , Where he begg'd and entreated for my Maidenhead , I did presently frown , and I crack'd the Knave's Crown , From the top to the bottom I tumbl'd him down ; [ ? ] have a care of such Men . [ ? ] Now it happen'd one Day , that a Friend Yea and Nay Came to court me , and fain he would frolic and play ; But I put him to flight , and it being dark Night , He slipped into the Well where he put out his ligh Have a care of such Men , for there's scarce One in Ten But are False and Deceitful ; be careful , Oh then . Some will dwindle , and cry , swear they love till they die , When , alas ! they dissemble , nay flatter , and lie ; When they once have betray'd a poor innocent Maid , Then with scorn and derision they will her degrade ; Have a care of such Men , for there's scarce One in Ten But are False and Deceitful , etc Such Deceivers as these , you may know , if you please , When they proffer to cuddle and tickle your Knees , Strait their Company shun , for the further they run , You may quickly be ruin'd and clearly undone : Have a care of such Men , for there's scarce One in Ten But are False and Deceitful ; be careful , Oh then . Nay , I further declare you may know by their Hair , If it be Read or Yellow , then then you may swear They will never prove true , but will love more than you ; And the sandy Complexions are Flatterers too : Have a care of such Men , for there's scarce One in Ten But are False and Deceitful , etc Of a two-colour'd Beard , you had need be afraid ; Now if by such a one you by chance are ensnar'd , You'll have Sorrow and Woe , they'll be Jealous I know , And will watch , peep , and haunt you wherever you go : Have a care of such Men , for there's scarce One in Ten But are False and Deceitful , etc But the Black and the Brown , both in City and Town , Are delightful and pleasant , they seldom can frown ; By the Powers above they are all over Love , And as Loyal they are as the dear tender Dove : Lasses these are the Men that will honour you then , There's not one of them false in full Fourscore and Ten. Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Giltspur-street , without Newgate . 