Shall I ? shall I ? No , No. A wanton Lad and comely Lass did once together meet ; Though she seem'd coy her heart he wone with Compliments most sweet . Tune of , The doubting Virgin . PRetty Betty now come to me , thou hast set my Heart on fire , Thy denial will undo me , grant me then what I desire : Prithee try me , don't deny me lest it prove my overthrow , Never dally , shall I ? shall I ? still she answered , no , no , no . In the Fields they went a walking , he this Maid did sweetly court , But the subject of his talking tended still to Venus spor He persuaded , she delay'd it , and would not be deluded so ; Come let's dally , shall I ? shall I ? but she answered No no no . He bestow'd on her sweet kisses , hoping thereby to obtain And to taste true Lovers blisses , Which he long time sought in vain With sighs , & sobs , & deadly throbs , he strove the Damsels mind to know Come let's dally , shall I ? shall I ? still she answered No no no . To the Tavern then he took her , feasting her with costly Wine ; In the Face did often look her , swearing that she was divine : She told the Youth it was untruth , I would not have you flatter so : Come let's dally , shall I ? shall I ? but she answered No no no . With fair Words he did entreat her to him for to condescend ; As his passion waxed greater he her Beauty did commend : She denied it and defy'd it , vowing it should ne'r be so : Come let's dally , shall I ? shall I ? but she answered No no no . Thus he spent his time in Wooing but found no encouragement , His fingers itch'd for to be doing , and she perceived his intent ; She still at trial gave denial , but Maidens often times do so : Come let's dally , shall I ? shall I ? but she answered No no no . He continued still to woo her , but she made him this Reply : That his aim was to undo her , and would know his reason why . He protested that she jested , his design was nothing so ; Come let's dally , shall I ? shall I ? but she answered No no no . But on hope's the Youngster built , hoping she at last would yield ; And at length the Damsel yielded , with his Charms he wone the field : In the shade down her he laid , he himself lay smiling by ; Come let's dally , shall I ? shall I ? then she answered Ay , ay , ay . Then they fell to sweet embraces , Lovers you know what I mean , So close did join their blushing faces you could not put a straw between , In amorous chains there he remains till he for breath did panting lie ; Come let's dally , shall I ? shall I ? then she answered Ay ay ay . She who stoutly first deny'd him , by his Compliments was wone ; And she vowed when she had try'd him that the job was neatly done . Maids beware , and have a care of flattering youths , who oft do try , And will dally , shall I ? shall I ? till you cry out Ay ay ay . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Harp & ball in Pie Corner . Shall I ? shall I ? No , No. A wanton Lad and comely Lass did once together meet ; Though she seem'd coy her heart he wone with Compliments most sweet . Tune of , The doubting Virgin . PRetty Betty now come to me , thou hast set my Heart on fire , Thy denial will undo me , grant me then what I desire : Prithee try me , don't deny me lest it prove my overthrow , Never dally , shall I ? shall I ? still she answered , no , no , no . In the Fields they went a walking , he this Maid did sweetly court , But the subject of his talking tended still to Venus spor He persuaded , she delay'd it , and would not be deluded so ; Come let's dally , shall I ? shall I ? but she answered No no no . He bestow'd on her sweet kisses , hoping thereby to obtain And to taste true Lovers blisses , Which he long time sought in vain With sighs , & sobs , & deadly throbs , he strove the Damsels mind to know Come let's dally , shall I ? shall I ? still she answered No no no . To the Tavern then he took her , feasting her with costly Wine ; In the Face did often look her , swearing that she was divine : She told the Youth it was untruth , I would not have you flatter so : Come let's dally , shall I ? shall I ? but she answered No no no . With fair Words he did entreat her to him for to condescend ; As his passion waxed greater he her Beauty did commend : She denied it and defy'd it , vowing it should ne'r be so : Come let's dally , shall I ? shall I ? but she answered No no no . Thus he spent his time in Wooing but found no encouragement , His fingers itch'd for to be doing , and she perceived his intent ; She still at trial gave denial , but Maidens often times do so : Come let's dally , shall I ? shall I ? but she answered No no no . He continued still to woo her , but she made him this Reply : That his aim was to undo her , and would know his reason why . He protested that she jested , his design was nothing so ; Come let's dally , shall I ? shall I ? but she answered No no no . But on hope's the Youngster built , hoping she at last would yield ; And at length the Damsel yielded , with his Charms he wone the field : In the shade down her he laid , he himself lay smiling by ; Come let's dally , shall I ? shall I ? then she answered Ay , ay , ay . Then they fell to sweet embraces , Lovers you know what I mean , So close did join their blushing faces you could not put a straw between , In amorous chains there he remains till he for breath did panting lie ; Come let's dally , shall I ? shall I ? then she answered Ay ay ay . She who stoutly first deny'd him , by his Compliments was wone ; And she vowed when she had try'd him that the job was neatly done . Maids beware , and have a care of flattering youths , who oft do try , And will dally , shall I ? shall I ? till you cry out Ay ay ay . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Harp & ball in Pie Corner . Shall I ? shall I ? No , No. A wanton Lad and comely Lass did once together meet ; Though she seem'd coy her heart he wone with Compliments most sweet . Tune of , The doubting Virgin . PRetty Betty now come to me , thou hast set my Heart on fire , Thy denial will undo me , grant me then what I desire : Prithee try me , don't deny me lest it prove my overthrow , Never dally , shall I ? shall I ? still she answered , no , no , no . In the Fields they went a walking , he this Maid did sweetly court , But the subject of his talking tended still to Venus spor He persuaded , she delay'd it , and would not be deluded so ; Come let's dally , shall I ? shall I ? but she answered No no no . He bestow'd on her sweet kisses , hoping thereby to obtain And to taste true Lovers blisses , Which he long time sought in vain With sighs , & sobs , & deadly throbs , he strove the Damsels mind to know Come let's dally , shall I ? shall I ? still she answered No no no . To the Tavern then he took her , feasting her with costly Wine ; In the Face did often look her , swearing that she was divine : She told the Youth it was untruth , I would not have you flatter so : Come let's dally , shall I ? shall I ? but she answered No no no . With fair Words he did entreat her to him for to condescend ; As his passion waxed greater he her Beauty did commend : She denied it and defy'd it , vowing it should ne'r be so : Come let's dally , shall I ? shall I ? but she answered No no no . Thus he spent his time in Wooing but found no encouragement , His fingers itch'd for to be doing , and she perceived his intent ; She still at trial gave denial , but Maidens often times do so : Come let's dally , shall I ? shall I ? but she answered No no no . He continued still to woo her , but she made him this Reply : That his aim was to undo her , and would know his reason why . He protested that she jested , his design was nothing so ; Come let's dally , shall I ? shall I ? but she answered No no no . But on hope's the Youngster built , hoping she at last would yield ; And at length the Damsel yielded , with his Charms he wone the field : In the shade down her he laid , he himself lay smiling by ; Come let's dally , shall I ? shall I ? then she answered Ay , ay , ay . Then they fell to sweet embraces , Lovers you know what I mean , So close did join their blushing faces you could not put a straw between , In amorous chains there he remains till he for breath did panting lie ; Come let's dally , shall I ? shall I ? then she answered Ay ay ay . She who stoutly first deny'd him , by his Compliments was wone ; And she vowed when she had try'd him that the job was neatly done . Maids beware , and have a care of flattering youths , who oft do try , And will dally , shall I ? shall I ? till you cry out Ay ay ay . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Harp & ball in Pie Corner . Shall I ? shall I ? No , No. A wanton Lad and comely Lass did once together meet ; Though she seem'd coy her heart he wone with Compliments most sweet . Tune of , The doubting Virgin . PRetty Betty now come to me , thou hast set my Heart on fire , Thy denial will undo me , grant me then what I desire : Prithee try me , don't deny me lest it prove my overthrow , Never dally , shall I ? shall I ? still she answered , no , no , no . In the Fields they went a walking , he this Maid did sweetly court , But the subject of his talking tended still to Venus spor He persuaded , she delay'd it , and would not be deluded so ; Come let's dally , shall I ? shall I ? but she answered No no no . He bestow'd on her sweet kisses , hoping thereby to obtain And to taste true Lovers blisses , Which he long time sought in vain With sighs , & sobs , & deadly throbs , he strove the Damsels mind to know Come let's dally , shall I ? shall I ? still she answered No no no . To the Tavern then he took her , feasting her with costly Wine ; In the Face did often look her , swearing that she was divine : She told the Youth it was untruth , I would not have you flatter so : Come let's dally , shall I ? shall I ? but she answered No no no . With fair Words he did entreat her to him for to condescend ; As his passion waxed greater he her Beauty did commend : She denied it and defy'd it , vowing it should ne'r be so : Come let's dally , shall I ? shall I ? but she answered No no no . Thus he spent his time in Wooing but found no encouragement , His fingers itch'd for to be doing , and she perceived his intent ; She still at trial gave denial , but Maidens often times do so : Come let's dally , shall I ? shall I ? but she answered No no no . He continued still to woo her , but she made him this Reply : That his aim was to undo her , and would know his reason why . He protested that she jested , his design was nothing so ; Come let's dally , shall I ? shall I ? but she answered No no no . But on hope's the Youngster built , hoping she at last would yield ; And at length the Damsel yielded , with his Charms he wone the field : In the shade down her he laid , he himself lay smiling by ; Come let's dally , shall I ? shall I ? then she answered Ay , ay , ay . Then they fell to sweet embraces , Lovers you know what I mean , So close did join their blushing faces you could not put a straw between , In amorous chains there he remains till he for breath did panting lie ; Come let's dally , shall I ? shall I ? then she answered Ay ay ay . She who stoutly first deny'd him , by his Compliments was wone ; And she vowed when she had try'd him that the job was neatly done . Maids beware , and have a care of flattering youths , who oft do try , And will dally , shall I ? shall I ? till you cry out Ay ay ay . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Harp & ball in Pie Corner . 