NO LOVE , NO LIFE , OR , Damon comforted in Distress . You that are adorn'd with Beauty , do not thus your love disdain ; Count not it to be their duty , for to languish thus in pain . To the Tune of , Tender Hearts of London City . DAmon in the Shades was walking , With fair Phillis he was talking , their discourse was terms of Love , He was kind , as you shall find , and evermore did faithful prove . In his arms he did embrace her , Vowing he would ne'r disgrace her , but would still maintain the praise Of the Creature , whose Sweet Feature was the Glory of her days . Young men they will seem most grateful When their hearts are most deceitful , thus they draw Maids in a Snare , And deceive them , thus they leave them , fill their hearts with grief and care . O my Love I am more loyal , Phillis do but make a Trial , I will ever constant be , The heart of mine , is surely thine , I love none in the world but thee . The Woman's second Reply . How many Maidens thus have died , When their Loves have them denied , this we find of late is true , Then with tears , and frights , and fears , they , sighing , bid the world adieu . To escape from him she strived , Of his joys he was deprived , grieving at her high disdain ; He was vexed , and perplexed , yet he call'd her back again . She regarded not his passion , Leaving him in desperation , till sweet Cupid with his Bow , Sent a Dart which pierc'd her heart , and said it must and shall be so . When she found that she was wounded , She with sighs and sorrows swooned , then again she did revive , She confessed , she was blessed with the sweetest Man alive . Here I sighs , lament and languish , How can I endure this anguish , I am in a Sea of woe : This sad trial , my denial , proves my fatal overthrow : With what language did he greet me , And with smiles he did entreat me , yet I still did him deny , My disdain , increase my pain , I for love shall surely Die ; All her Sorrows thus he heard , Then he presently appeared , she to him with comfort smil'd , Then with kisses their sweet blisses , all their sorrows had beguil'd : Thus their hearts were both united , She with him was much delighted , thus their troubles had and end ; Sorrow ceased love increased , Cupid surely was their friend : FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , in Guiltspurstreet . NO LOVE , NO LIFE , OR , Damon comforted in Distress . You that are adorn'd with Beauty , do not thus your love disdain ; Count not it to be their duty , for to languish thus in pain . To the Tune of , Tender Hearts of London City . DAmon in the Shades was walking , With fair Phillis he was talking , their discourse was terms of Love , He was kind , as you shall find , and evermore did faithful prove . In his arms he did embrace her , Vowing he would ne'r disgrace her , but would still maintain the praise Of the Creature , whose Sweet Feature was the Glory of her days . Young men they will seem most grateful When their hearts are most deceitful , thus they draw Maids in a Snare , And deceive them , thus they leave them , fill their hearts with grief and care . O my Love I am more loyal , Phillis do but make a Trial , I will ever constant be , The heart of mine , is surely thine , I love none in the world but thee . The Woman's second Reply . How many Maidens thus have died , When their Loves have them denied , this we find of late is true , Then with tears , and frights , and fears , they , sighing , bid the world adieu . To escape from him she strived , Of his joys he was deprived , grieving at her high disdain ; He was vexed , and perplexed , yet he call'd her back again . She regarded not his passion , Leaving him in desperation , till sweet Cupid with his Bow , Sent a Dart which pierc'd her heart , and said it must and shall be so . When she found that she was wounded , She with sighs and sorrows swooned , then again she did revive , She confessed , she was blessed with the sweetest Man alive . Here I sighs , lament and languish , How can I endure this anguish , I am in a Sea of woe : This sad trial , my denial , proves my fatal overthrow : With what language did he greet me , And with smiles he did entreat me , yet I still did him deny , My disdain , increase my pain , I for love shall surely Die ; All her Sorrows thus he heard , Then he presently appeared , she to him with comfort smil'd , Then with kisses their sweet blisses , all their sorrows had beguil'd : Thus their hearts were both united , She with him was much delighted , thus their troubles had and end ; Sorrow ceased love increased , Cupid surely was their friend : FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , in Guiltspurstreet . 