( 1 ) ( 1 ) THE True PRESBYTERIAN Without DISGUISE : OR , A CHARACTER OF A Presbyterians Ways and Actions , By Sir JOHN DENHAM , Knight . Difficile est Satyram non scribere , namquis inique ''Tam patiens urbis tam ferrens , ut teneat se ? Juv. A Presbyter is such a Monstrous thing , That loves Democracy , and hates a King ; For Royal Issue never making prayers , Since Kingdoms ( as he thinks ) should have no Heirs , But stand Elective ; that the holy Crew May ( when their Zeal transports them ) choose a New. And is so strongly grounded in belief , That Antichrist his coming will be brief , [ ? ] s he dares swear ( if he dares swear at all ) [ TO ] he Quakers are ordain'd to make him fallen : From whence he grows impatient , and he says , The wisest Counsels are but found delays , To hold him lingering in deluding hope , Else long e're this he had subdu'd the Pope . A Presbyter is he , whose heart does hate The man ( how good so e're ) advanc'd in State ; And finding his disease a Leprosy , Does judge that all in Court Gehezi's be ; While he himself in Bribery is lost , And lies for gain unto the Holy Ghost . When though in show he seems a grave Tobias , He is within a very Ananias . The Lay-prophane-name ( Lord ) he hates , and says It is th' approaching sign of the last days , For Churchmen to be styled so ; Nay more , 'Tis Usher to the Babylonian Whore . The Bishops Habits , with the Tip and Rochets , Beget in him such Fancies and such Crochets , That he believes it is a thing as Evil To look on them , as to behold the Devil . And for the Government Episcopal , That he condemns to be the worst of all ; Because the primest Times did suffer no man T' exalt himself , for all was held in common : Yet 'tis most strange , when he is most Zeal-sick , Nothing can cure him but a Bishopric , Where once invested , proves without all scope , Insulting , boundless , more than any Pope . A Presbyter is he , that's never known To think on others good , beside his own ; And all his Doctrine is of Hope , and Faith , For Charity , 'tis Popery he says : And is not only silent in Good works , But in his practice too , resembles Turks . The Churches Ornaments , the Ring of Bells' , ( Can he get Pow'r ) 'tis ten to one he sells ; For his well-tuned ears cannot abide A Jangling noise , but when his Neighbours chide . A Presbyter is he , that never prays , But all the world must hear him what he says ; And in that fash'on too , that all may see , He is and open Modern Pharisee : The name of Sabbath still he keeps ( 'tis true ) But so he is less Christian , more a Jew ; Nor settled from of Prayer his zeal will keep , But preacheth all his purer Flock asleep : ( 2 ) To study what to say , where for to doubt Of a presumed Grace to hold him out ; And to be learn'd is too too Humane thought , Th' Apostles all ( he says ) were men untaught ; And thus he proves it for the best to be A simple-Teacher of Divinity . The Reverence which Ceremony brings , Into the Sacred Church , his Conscience stings , Which is so void of Grace , and so ill bent , That kneel he will not at the Sacrament , But sits more like a Judge , than like a Sinner , And takes it just , as he receives his Dinner , Thus do his saucy postures speak his since , For as without , such is his Heart within . A Presbyter is he , who does defame Those Reverend Ancestors from whence he came . And like a Graceless Child , above all other , Denies respect unto the Church his Mother ; His Chosen Protestants he scorns , as men Not sav'd because they are not Brothers : And lest his Doctrine should be counted new , He wears and ancient Beard to make it true . A Presbyter is he , that thinks his place At every Table is to say the Grace ; When the goodman , or when his child hath paid , And thanks to God for King , and Realm , hath said , He then starts up , and thinks his self a Debtor Till he does cry ( I pray you thank God better ; ) When long he prays for every living thing , But for the Catholic Church , and for the King . A Presbyter is he , would wondrous fain Be call'd Disciple by the Holy train . Which to be worthy of he'l stray and err Ten miles to hear a silenc'd Minister ; He loves a Vesper Sermon , hates a Matin , As he detests the Father's nam'd in Latin , And as he Friday , Sunday makes in diet , Because the King , and Canons do deny it , The selfsame nature makes him to repair To Weekday Lectures , more than Sundays prayer . And as the man , must need's in all things err , He starves his Parson , crams his Lecturer . A Presbyter is he , whose heart is bent To cross the Kings designs in Parliament , Where while the place of Burgess he does bear , He thinks he ows but small Allegiance there ; But stands at distance , as some higher thing , Like a Licurgus , or a kind of King . Then as and Errant , times bold Knights were wont To seek out Monsters , and adventures hunt ; So with his wit , and valour , he does try How the Prerogative he may defy ; Thus he attempts , and first he fain would know If that the Sovereign Power , be new , or no : Or if it were not fitter , Kings should be Confin'd unto a limited degree ; And for his part like a Plebean State , Where the poor Mechanics may still debate All matters at their pleasure , not confin'd To this , or that , but as they cause do find ; When though that every voice against him go , He'l slay the Giant , with his single ( not . ) He in his heart , though at a poor expense , Abhors a gift that's call'd Benevolence ; For as his mind , so is his bounty bent , And still unto the King molevolent . He is the Statesman , just enough precise , The nearest Government to Scandalise . Nor like a Drunkard , when he does expose In secret underneath the silent Rose . To use his freedom , when the Pot might bear The faults which closely he committed there , But Shimei-like , to all the men he meets , He spews his frantic Venom in the Streets : And though he says the Spirit moves him to it , The Devil is that Spirit made him do it . A Presbyter is he , ( else there is none ) That thinks the King will change Religion , His doubtful thought , like to his Moon-blind eyes , Makes the beast start at every shape he spies . And what his found mistaken fancy breed , He does believe as firmly as the Creed : From whence he does proclaim a Fast [ ? ] oh all That he allows to be Canonical ; And then he consecrates a secret Room , Where none but the Elected Sisters come : When being met , does Treason boldly Teach , And will not Fast and Pray , but Fast and Preach ; Then strains a Text , whereon he may relate The Churches danger , discontent of State , And hold them there so long in fear and doubt , That some do think 'tis danger to go out ; Believing if they hear the Ceiling crack , The Bishops are behind them , at their back ; And so they fit bewailing one another , Each groaning Sister howling to her Brother . A Presbyter is he has Women's fears , And yet will set the whole World by the ears : Hee'l rail in public if the King deny , To let the Quarrel of the Spaniard die ; He storms to hear in France the Wars should cease And that by Treaty there should be Peace : For sure ( says he ) the Church does Honour want When 'tis not truly called Militant , And in plain truth , as far as I can find , He bears the selfsame Treasonable mind As does the Jesuit ; for though they be Tongue-Enemies in show , their hearts agree . And both professed foes , alike consent , Both to betray the Anointed Innocent , For though their manners differ , yet they aim That either may the King or Kingdom maim : The difference is this way understood , One in Sedition , t'other deals in blood . Their Characters abridg'd if you will have , Each seems a Saint , yet either proves a Knave . FINIS . LONDON : Printed for J.B. 1680. ( 1 ) ( 1 ) THE True PRESBYTERIAN Without DISGUISE : OR , A CHARACTER OF A Presbyterians Ways and Actions , By Sir JOHN DENHAM , Knight . Difficile est Satyram non scribere , namquis inique ''Tam patiens urbis tam ferrens , ut teneat se ? Juv. A Presbyter is such a Monstrous thing , That loves Democracy , and hates a King ; For Royal Issue never making prayers , Since Kingdoms ( as he thinks ) should have no Heirs , But stand Elective ; that the holy Crew May ( when their Zeal transports them ) choose a New. And is so strongly grounded in belief , That Antichrist his coming will be brief , [ ? ] s he dares swear ( if he dares swear at all ) [ TO ] he Quakers are ordain'd to make him fallen : From whence he grows impatient , and he says , The wisest Counsels are but found delays , To hold him lingering in deluding hope , Else long e're this he had subdu'd the Pope . A Presbyter is he , whose heart does hate The man ( how good so e're ) advanc'd in State ; And finding his disease a Leprosy , Does judge that all in Court Gehezi's be ; While he himself in Bribery is lost , And lies for gain unto the Holy Ghost . When though in show he seems a grave Tobias , He is within a very Ananias . The Lay-prophane-name ( Lord ) he hates , and says It is th' approaching sign of the last days , For Churchmen to be styled so ; Nay more , 'Tis Usher to the Babylonian Whore . The Bishops Habits , with the Tip and Rochets , Beget in him such Fancies and such Crochets , That he believes it is a thing as Evil To look on them , as to behold the Devil . And for the Government Episcopal , That he condemns to be the worst of all ; Because the primest Times did suffer no man T' exalt himself , for all was held in common : Yet 'tis most strange , when he is most Zeal-sick , Nothing can cure him but a Bishopric , Where once invested , proves without all scope , Insulting , boundless , more than any Pope . A Presbyter is he , that's never known To think on others good , beside his own ; And all his Doctrine is of Hope , and Faith , For Charity , 'tis Popery he says : And is not only silent in Good works , But in his practice too , resembles Turks . The Churches Ornaments , the Ring of Bells' , ( Can he get Pow'r ) 'tis ten to one he sells ; For his well-tuned ears cannot abide A Jangling noise , but when his Neighbours chide . A Presbyter is he , that never prays , But all the world must hear him what he says ; And in that fash'on too , that all may see , He is and open Modern Pharisee : The name of Sabbath still he keeps ( 'tis true ) But so he is less Christian , more a Jew ; Nor settled from of Prayer his zeal will keep , But preacheth all his purer Flock asleep : ( 2 ) To study what to say , where for to doubt Of a presumed Grace to hold him out ; And to be learn'd is too too Humane thought , Th' Apostles all ( he says ) were men untaught ; And thus he proves it for the best to be A simple-Teacher of Divinity . The Reverence which Ceremony brings , Into the Sacred Church , his Conscience stings , Which is so void of Grace , and so ill bent , That kneel he will not at the Sacrament , But sits more like a Judge , than like a Sinner , And takes it just , as he receives his Dinner , Thus do his saucy postures speak his since , For as without , such is his Heart within . A Presbyter is he , who does defame Those Reverend Ancestors from whence he came . And like a Graceless Child , above all other , Denies respect unto the Church his Mother ; His Chosen Protestants he scorns , as men Not sav'd because they are not Brothers : And lest his Doctrine should be counted new , He wears and ancient Beard to make it true . A Presbyter is he , that thinks his place At every Table is to say the Grace ; When the goodman , or when his child hath paid , And thanks to God for King , and Realm , hath said , He then starts up , and thinks his self a Debtor Till he does cry ( I pray you thank God better ; ) When long he prays for every living thing , But for the Catholic Church , and for the King . A Presbyter is he , would wondrous fain Be call'd Disciple by the Holy train . Which to be worthy of he'l stray and err Ten miles to hear a silenc'd Minister ; He loves a Vesper Sermon , hates a Matin , As he detests the Father's nam'd in Latin , And as he Friday , Sunday makes in diet , Because the King , and Canons do deny it , The selfsame nature makes him to repair To Weekday Lectures , more than Sundays prayer . And as the man , must need's in all things err , He starves his Parson , crams his Lecturer . A Presbyter is he , whose heart is bent To cross the Kings designs in Parliament , Where while the place of Burgess he does bear , He thinks he ows but small Allegiance there ; But stands at distance , as some higher thing , Like a Licurgus , or a kind of King . Then as and Errant , times bold Knights were wont To seek out Monsters , and adventures hunt ; So with his wit , and valour , he does try How the Prerogative he may defy ; Thus he attempts , and first he fain would know If that the Sovereign Power , be new , or no : Or if it were not fitter , Kings should be Confin'd unto a limited degree ; And for his part like a Plebean State , Where the poor Mechanics may still debate All matters at their pleasure , not confin'd To this , or that , but as they cause do find ; When though that every voice against him go , He'l slay the Giant , with his single ( not . ) He in his heart , though at a poor expense , Abhors a gift that's call'd Benevolence ; For as his mind , so is his bounty bent , And still unto the King molevolent . He is the Statesman , just enough precise , The nearest Government to Scandalise . Nor like a Drunkard , when he does expose In secret underneath the silent Rose . To use his freedom , when the Pot might bear The faults which closely he committed there , But Shimei-like , to all the men he meets , He spews his frantic Venom in the Streets : And though he says the Spirit moves him to it , The Devil is that Spirit made him do it . A Presbyter is he , ( else there is none ) That thinks the King will change Religion , His doubtful thought , like to his Moon-blind eyes , Makes the beast start at every shape he spies . And what his found mistaken fancy breed , He does believe as firmly as the Creed : From whence he does proclaim a Fast [ ? ] oh all That he allows to be Canonical ; And then he consecrates a secret Room , Where none but the Elected Sisters come : When being met , does Treason boldly Teach , And will not Fast and Pray , but Fast and Preach ; Then strains a Text , whereon he may relate The Churches danger , discontent of State , And hold them there so long in fear and doubt , That some do think 'tis danger to go out ; Believing if they hear the Ceiling crack , The Bishops are behind them , at their back ; And so they fit bewailing one another , Each groaning Sister howling to her Brother . A Presbyter is he has Women's fears , And yet will set the whole World by the ears : Hee'l rail in public if the King deny , To let the Quarrel of the Spaniard die ; He storms to hear in France the Wars should cease And that by Treaty there should be Peace : For sure ( says he ) the Church does Honour want When 'tis not truly called Militant , And in plain truth , as far as I can find , He bears the selfsame Treasonable mind As does the Jesuit ; for though they be Tongue-Enemies in show , their hearts agree . And both professed foes , alike consent , Both to betray the Anointed Innocent , For though their manners differ , yet they aim That either may the King or Kingdom maim : The difference is this way understood , One in Sedition , t'other deals in blood . Their Characters abridg'd if you will have , Each seems a Saint , yet either proves a Knave . FINIS . LONDON : Printed for J.B. 1680. ( 1 ) ( 1 ) THE True PRESBYTERIAN Without DISGUISE : OR , A CHARACTER OF A Presbyterians Ways and Actions , By Sir JOHN DENHAM , Knight . Difficile est Satyram non scribere , namquis inique ''Tam patiens urbis tam ferrens , ut teneat se ? Juv. A Presbyter is such a Monstrous thing , That loves Democracy , and hates a King ; For Royal Issue never making prayers , Since Kingdoms ( as he thinks ) should have no Heirs , But stand Elective ; that the holy Crew May ( when their Zeal transports them ) choose a New. And is so strongly grounded in belief , That Antichrist his coming will be brief , [ ? ] s he dares swear ( if he dares swear at all ) [ TO ] he Quakers are ordain'd to make him fallen : From whence he grows impatient , and he says , The wisest Counsels are but found delays , To hold him lingering in deluding hope , Else long e're this he had subdu'd the Pope . A Presbyter is he , whose heart does hate The man ( how good so e're ) advanc'd in State ; And finding his disease a Leprosy , Does judge that all in Court Gehezi's be ; While he himself in Bribery is lost , And lies for gain unto the Holy Ghost . When though in show he seems a grave Tobias , He is within a very Ananias . The Lay-prophane-name ( Lord ) he hates , and says It is th' approaching sign of the last days , For Churchmen to be styled so ; Nay more , 'Tis Usher to the Babylonian Whore . The Bishops Habits , with the Tip and Rochets , Beget in him such Fancies and such Crochets , That he believes it is a thing as Evil To look on them , as to behold the Devil . And for the Government Episcopal , That he condemns to be the worst of all ; Because the primest Times did suffer no man T' exalt himself , for all was held in common : Yet 'tis most strange , when he is most Zeal-sick , Nothing can cure him but a Bishopric , Where once invested , proves without all scope , Insulting , boundless , more than any Pope . A Presbyter is he , that's never known To think on others good , beside his own ; And all his Doctrine is of Hope , and Faith , For Charity , 'tis Popery he says : And is not only silent in Good works , But in his practice too , resembles Turks . The Churches Ornaments , the Ring of Bells' , ( Can he get Pow'r ) 'tis ten to one he sells ; For his well-tuned ears cannot abide A Jangling noise , but when his Neighbours chide . A Presbyter is he , that never prays , But all the world must hear him what he says ; And in that fash'on too , that all may see , He is and open Modern Pharisee : The name of Sabbath still he keeps ( 'tis true ) But so he is less Christian , more a Jew ; Nor settled from of Prayer his zeal will keep , But preacheth all his purer Flock asleep : ( 2 ) To study what to say , where for to doubt Of a presumed Grace to hold him out ; And to be learn'd is too too Humane thought , Th' Apostles all ( he says ) were men untaught ; And thus he proves it for the best to be A simple-Teacher of Divinity . The Reverence which Ceremony brings , Into the Sacred Church , his Conscience stings , Which is so void of Grace , and so ill bent , That kneel he will not at the Sacrament , But sits more like a Judge , than like a Sinner , And takes it just , as he receives his Dinner , Thus do his saucy postures speak his since , For as without , such is his Heart within . A Presbyter is he , who does defame Those Reverend Ancestors from whence he came . And like a Graceless Child , above all other , Denies respect unto the Church his Mother ; His Chosen Protestants he scorns , as men Not sav'd because they are not Brothers : And lest his Doctrine should be counted new , He wears and ancient Beard to make it true . A Presbyter is he , that thinks his place At every Table is to say the Grace ; When the goodman , or when his child hath paid , And thanks to God for King , and Realm , hath said , He then starts up , and thinks his self a Debtor Till he does cry ( I pray you thank God better ; ) When long he prays for every living thing , But for the Catholic Church , and for the King . A Presbyter is he , would wondrous fain Be call'd Disciple by the Holy train . Which to be worthy of he'l stray and err Ten miles to hear a silenc'd Minister ; He loves a Vesper Sermon , hates a Matin , As he detests the Father's nam'd in Latin , And as he Friday , Sunday makes in diet , Because the King , and Canons do deny it , The selfsame nature makes him to repair To Weekday Lectures , more than Sundays prayer . And as the man , must need's in all things err , He starves his Parson , crams his Lecturer . A Presbyter is he , whose heart is bent To cross the Kings designs in Parliament , Where while the place of Burgess he does bear , He thinks he ows but small Allegiance there ; But stands at distance , as some higher thing , Like a Licurgus , or a kind of King . Then as and Errant , times bold Knights were wont To seek out Monsters , and adventures hunt ; So with his wit , and valour , he does try How the Prerogative he may defy ; Thus he attempts , and first he fain would know If that the Sovereign Power , be new , or no : Or if it were not fitter , Kings should be Confin'd unto a limited degree ; And for his part like a Plebean State , Where the poor Mechanics may still debate All matters at their pleasure , not confin'd To this , or that , but as they cause do find ; When though that every voice against him go , He'l slay the Giant , with his single ( not . ) He in his heart , though at a poor expense , Abhors a gift that's call'd Benevolence ; For as his mind , so is his bounty bent , And still unto the King molevolent . He is the Statesman , just enough precise , The nearest Government to Scandalise . Nor like a Drunkard , when he does expose In secret underneath the silent Rose . To use his freedom , when the Pot might bear The faults which closely he committed there , But Shimei-like , to all the men he meets , He spews his frantic Venom in the Streets : And though he says the Spirit moves him to it , The Devil is that Spirit made him do it . A Presbyter is he , ( else there is none ) That thinks the King will change Religion , His doubtful thought , like to his Moon-blind eyes , Makes the beast start at every shape he spies . And what his found mistaken fancy breed , He does believe as firmly as the Creed : From whence he does proclaim a Fast [ ? ] oh all That he allows to be Canonical ; And then he consecrates a secret Room , Where none but the Elected Sisters come : When being met , does Treason boldly Teach , And will not Fast and Pray , but Fast and Preach ; Then strains a Text , whereon he may relate The Churches danger , discontent of State , And hold them there so long in fear and doubt , That some do think 'tis danger to go out ; Believing if they hear the Ceiling crack , The Bishops are behind them , at their back ; And so they fit bewailing one another , Each groaning Sister howling to her Brother . A Presbyter is he has Women's fears , And yet will set the whole World by the ears : Hee'l rail in public if the King deny , To let the Quarrel of the Spaniard die ; He storms to hear in France the Wars should cease And that by Treaty there should be Peace : For sure ( says he ) the Church does Honour want When 'tis not truly called Militant , And in plain truth , as far as I can find , He bears the selfsame Treasonable mind As does the Jesuit ; for though they be Tongue-Enemies in show , their hearts agree . And both professed foes , alike consent , Both to betray the Anointed Innocent , For though their manners differ , yet they aim That either may the King or Kingdom maim : The difference is this way understood , One in Sedition , t'other deals in blood . Their Characters abridg'd if you will have , Each seems a Saint , yet either proves a Knave . FINIS . LONDON : Printed for J.B. 1680. ( 1 ) ( 1 ) THE True PRESBYTERIAN Without DISGUISE : OR , A CHARACTER OF A Presbyterians Ways and Actions , By Sir JOHN DENHAM , Knight . Difficile est Satyram non scribere , namquis inique ''Tam patiens urbis tam ferrens , ut teneat se ? Juv. A Presbyter is such a Monstrous thing , That loves Democracy , and hates a King ; For Royal Issue never making prayers , Since Kingdoms ( as he thinks ) should have no Heirs , But stand Elective ; that the holy Crew May ( when their Zeal transports them ) choose a New. And is so strongly grounded in belief , That Antichrist his coming will be brief , [ ? ] s he dares swear ( if he dares swear at all ) [ TO ] he Quakers are ordain'd to make him fallen : From whence he grows impatient , and he says , The wisest Counsels are but found delays , To hold him lingering in deluding hope , Else long e're this he had subdu'd the Pope . A Presbyter is he , whose heart does hate The man ( how good so e're ) advanc'd in State ; And finding his disease a Leprosy , Does judge that all in Court Gehezi's be ; While he himself in Bribery is lost , And lies for gain unto the Holy Ghost . When though in show he seems a grave Tobias , He is within a very Ananias . The Lay-prophane-name ( Lord ) he hates , and says It is th' approaching sign of the last days , For Churchmen to be styled so ; Nay more , 'Tis Usher to the Babylonian Whore . The Bishops Habits , with the Tip and Rochets , Beget in him such Fancies and such Crochets , That he believes it is a thing as Evil To look on them , as to behold the Devil . And for the Government Episcopal , That he condemns to be the worst of all ; Because the primest Times did suffer no man T' exalt himself , for all was held in common : Yet 'tis most strange , when he is most Zeal-sick , Nothing can cure him but a Bishopric , Where once invested , proves without all scope , Insulting , boundless , more than any Pope . A Presbyter is he , that's never known To think on others good , beside his own ; And all his Doctrine is of Hope , and Faith , For Charity , 'tis Popery he says : And is not only silent in Good works , But in his practice too , resembles Turks . The Churches Ornaments , the Ring of Bells' , ( Can he get Pow'r ) 'tis ten to one he sells ; For his well-tuned ears cannot abide A Jangling noise , but when his Neighbours chide . A Presbyter is he , that never prays , But all the world must hear him what he says ; And in that fash'on too , that all may see , He is and open Modern Pharisee : The name of Sabbath still he keeps ( 'tis true ) But so he is less Christian , more a Jew ; Nor settled from of Prayer his zeal will keep , But preacheth all his purer Flock asleep : ( 2 ) To study what to say , where for to doubt Of a presumed Grace to hold him out ; And to be learn'd is too too Humane thought , Th' Apostles all ( he says ) were men untaught ; And thus he proves it for the best to be A simple-Teacher of Divinity . The Reverence which Ceremony brings , Into the Sacred Church , his Conscience stings , Which is so void of Grace , and so ill bent , That kneel he will not at the Sacrament , But sits more like a Judge , than like a Sinner , And takes it just , as he receives his Dinner , Thus do his saucy postures speak his since , For as without , such is his Heart within . A Presbyter is he , who does defame Those Reverend Ancestors from whence he came . And like a Graceless Child , above all other , Denies respect unto the Church his Mother ; His Chosen Protestants he scorns , as men Not sav'd because they are not Brothers : And lest his Doctrine should be counted new , He wears and ancient Beard to make it true . A Presbyter is he , that thinks his place At every Table is to say the Grace ; When the goodman , or when his child hath paid , And thanks to God for King , and Realm , hath said , He then starts up , and thinks his self a Debtor Till he does cry ( I pray you thank God better ; ) When long he prays for every living thing , But for the Catholic Church , and for the King . A Presbyter is he , would wondrous fain Be call'd Disciple by the Holy train . Which to be worthy of he'l stray and err Ten miles to hear a silenc'd Minister ; He loves a Vesper Sermon , hates a Matin , As he detests the Father's nam'd in Latin , And as he Friday , Sunday makes in diet , Because the King , and Canons do deny it , The selfsame nature makes him to repair To Weekday Lectures , more than Sundays prayer . And as the man , must need's in all things err , He starves his Parson , crams his Lecturer . A Presbyter is he , whose heart is bent To cross the Kings designs in Parliament , Where while the place of Burgess he does bear , He thinks he ows but small Allegiance there ; But stands at distance , as some higher thing , Like a Licurgus , or a kind of King . Then as and Errant , times bold Knights were wont To seek out Monsters , and adventures hunt ; So with his wit , and valour , he does try How the Prerogative he may defy ; Thus he attempts , and first he fain would know If that the Sovereign Power , be new , or no : Or if it were not fitter , Kings should be Confin'd unto a limited degree ; And for his part like a Plebean State , Where the poor Mechanics may still debate All matters at their pleasure , not confin'd To this , or that , but as they cause do find ; When though that every voice against him go , He'l slay the Giant , with his single ( not . ) He in his heart , though at a poor expense , Abhors a gift that's call'd Benevolence ; For as his mind , so is his bounty bent , And still unto the King molevolent . He is the Statesman , just enough precise , The nearest Government to Scandalise . Nor like a Drunkard , when he does expose In secret underneath the silent Rose . To use his freedom , when the Pot might bear The faults which closely he committed there , But Shimei-like , to all the men he meets , He spews his frantic Venom in the Streets : And though he says the Spirit moves him to it , The Devil is that Spirit made him do it . A Presbyter is he , ( else there is none ) That thinks the King will change Religion , His doubtful thought , like to his Moon-blind eyes , Makes the beast start at every shape he spies . And what his found mistaken fancy breed , He does believe as firmly as the Creed : From whence he does proclaim a Fast [ ? ] oh all That he allows to be Canonical ; And then he consecrates a secret Room , Where none but the Elected Sisters come : When being met , does Treason boldly Teach , And will not Fast and Pray , but Fast and Preach ; Then strains a Text , whereon he may relate The Churches danger , discontent of State , And hold them there so long in fear and doubt , That some do think 'tis danger to go out ; Believing if they hear the Ceiling crack , The Bishops are behind them , at their back ; And so they fit bewailing one another , Each groaning Sister howling to her Brother . A Presbyter is he has Women's fears , And yet will set the whole World by the ears : Hee'l rail in public if the King deny , To let the Quarrel of the Spaniard die ; He storms to hear in France the Wars should cease And that by Treaty there should be Peace : For sure ( says he ) the Church does Honour want When 'tis not truly called Militant , And in plain truth , as far as I can find , He bears the selfsame Treasonable mind As does the Jesuit ; for though they be Tongue-Enemies in show , their hearts agree . And both professed foes , alike consent , Both to betray the Anointed Innocent , For though their manners differ , yet they aim That either may the King or Kingdom maim : The difference is this way understood , One in Sedition , t'other deals in blood . Their Characters abridg'd if you will have , Each seems a Saint , yet either proves a Knave . FINIS . LONDON : Printed for J.B. 1680. 