The Yarmouth TRAGEDY ; OR , The CONSTANT LOVERS . LOvers , I beg lend and Ear to this Story , See and Example in this constant Pair ; How Love a Virgin did blast in her Glory , Beautiful Nancy of Yarmouth , we hear . She was a Merchant's charming Daughter , Heiress to fifteen hundred a Year . A young Man courted her to be his Jewel , Son to a Gentleman who lived near . Many Years he courted this Jewel ; When Infants in Lov [ e ] they both agreed ; And when to Age this Couple arrived , Cupid and Arrow b [ e ] tween them display'd . Their tender Hearts were linked together ; But when her Parents the same did hear , They to their charming beautiful Daughter Acted a Part most base and severe . Bidding her give over her Intentions , For if against their Consent she did wed , Forevermore they resolv'd to disown her , If she wed one that was so meanly bred . Her Mother said , You are a great Fortune , Beside , you are young and handsome ; You are a Match , dear Child , that is fitting For ever a Lord in Christendom . Then made answer this handsome Daughter , Riches and Honour I do defy ; If I'm depriv'd of my dearest Lover , Then farewell World , it is all Vanity . Jemmy's the Man whom I do admire , He is the Riches whom I adore ; To be a Great one I never desire , My Heart is fixed to have no more . Then said her father , 'Tis my Resolution , Altho' I have no more Daughters than thee , If that with him you resolve to marry , Banish'd for evermore thou shalt be . For the young Man he sent in a Passion , And said , For evermore now take thy leave , I have a Match more fit for my Daughter , Therefore it is in vain thus for to strive . Honoured Father , thus said the Maiden , Promis'd we are by the Powers above ; Then of all Pleasures do not bereave me , Our Love is fixed never to remove . Then , said her Father , a Trip to the Ocean You shall go in a Ship of my own ; And I consent you shall have my Daughter , When to fair Yarmouth you do return . Honoured Sir , then said the Lovers , Since 'tis your Will , we must obey ; Our constant Hearts shall never be parted , But our Desires no longer must stay . Than Nancy said , dearest Jemmy , Here take this Ring the Pledge of my Vows , With it my Heart keep safe in your Bosom , And bear it with you wherever you go . Then close in his Arms he did enfold her , While Tears did down like Fountains flow Saying in return my Heart I will give you ; you shall be present wherever I go . When on the Ocean I am a sailing , The Thoughts of you the Compass will steer , Till tedious Absence the Time will devour And bring me safe to the Arms of my Dear . Therefore be constant my dearest Jewel , For , by the Heavens , if thou art untrue , My Ghost shall haunt you forever : Dead or Alive I must have none but you . Her Arms then round his Neck she twined , Saying , when thou art on the Sea , If the Fates unto us should prove cruel , That we each other no more should see , No one alive shall ever enjoy me . When the Tidings of thy Death I hear , Then like a sad distracted Lover , Down to the Grave I will go with my Dear . Then with a dismal Sighs he departed , The Wind it blew a pleasant Gale ; All being ready , the fam'd Marry Galley For the Island of Barbados did sail . Many Lords of high Birth and Breeding Came a Courting to this bright Maid : But their Presents and Favours she slighted , Constant I'll be to my Jemmy , she said . Now for a Time let's leave this Maiden , And show how Things with her Lover did go . In fair Barb [ a ] dos the Ship was laden : But now observe his sad Overthrow . Jemmy was handsome in each Feature , A Barbados Lady , whose Fortune was great , Fix'd her Eyes on him , saying , If I have not This handsome Sailor , I die for his sake . She dressed herself in rich Attire , With rich Jewels she plaited her Hair ; And Hundred Slaves for to attend her , She sent for the young Sailor there . Come noble Sailor , now can you love me ? A Lady whose Honour and Riches are great , And hundred Slaves there are to a [ tO ] tend thee , with Music to lull thee to thy silent Sleep . In Robes of Gol [ worser ] then I will deck thee , Pearls and rich Jewels I'll lay at thy Feet ; In a Chariot of Gold you shall ride with Pleasure if you can love me answer me strait . Amaz'd with Wonder , awhile he gazed , forbear , sweet Lady , then he cry'd ; For in old England I've vow'd to a Lady at my Return to make her my Bride . She is a charming beautiful Creature and has my Heart , I can have no more ; I bear in Mind her beauteous Features , no other Creature but her I adore . Hearing this , she rav'd in Distraction , crying , unfortunate Maid thus to love One that does slight me and my Glory , and of my Person does not approve . Lords of Renown I have slighted now must I die for a Sailor bold . I must not blame him for being so constant , true Love is better than Silver and Gold . A curious Jewel then she gave him , within her Hand she held a Knife ; One fatal Stroke ere they could stop her , did put and End to her tender Life Great Lamentation was made for the Lady , Jemmy on board the Ship did steer , And then to England he was a sailing with great Desire to meet his Dear . But her Father found he was coming , a Letter he writ to the Boatswain his Friend ; Saying a handsome Reward I will give you if you the Life of young Jemmy will end . Quite void of Grace , and for sake of Money , the Boatswain did the same complete ; As they on the Deck were a walking , he tumbled him into the Deep . All in the Night when he was sleeping , his Ghost unto his Love did appear ; Crying , arise , sweet beautiful Susan . perform the Vow you made to your Dear . You are my own , so tarry no longer , Seven long Years for thee I did stay : Jove does wait to crown us with Pleasure , the Bride Guests are ready so come away , Cries she , who's there under my Window ? surely it is the Voice of my Dear ; Lifting her Head from the downy Pillow , strait to the Casement she did repair . O Jemmy , she said , if my Father hears it , we shall be ruin'd both I fear ; At the Seaside there I will meet you , and with my Maids I will meet you there . Her Gown was embroider'd with Gold , carelessly round her Body she threw ; And with both her Maids to attend her to meet her Love she did instantly go . Clo [ s ] e in his Arms then he enf [ oh ] lds her ; Jemmy , says she , you are colder than Clay . You are not the Man whom I admire , paler than Death you appear to me . Yes , fair Creature , I am your Lover , dead or alive you know you are mine ; I came for your Vow , and you must follow , my Body unto the silent Grave . I for your Sake refus'd Gold and Silver , Riches and Jewels I did despise ; A charming Lady did for me expire , thinking of thee I was deaf to her Cries . Your cruel Parents have been my Undoing . ansl now I sleep in a watery Tomb ; Now for your Promise Dear I am suing , dead or alive you are my own . The trembling Lady was much affrighted , amaz'd she stood at the brink of the Sea , And with Eyes uplifted said cruel Parents , you have been the Cause of my Misery . Certain it is I promis'd thee sweet Jewel , dead or alive for to be thy own ; Now to perform my Vows I am ready , to follow thee to the watery Tomb. The Maidens herd her Lamentation , but the Apparition could not see ; Thinking their Lady was in Distraction , strove to persuade her contented to be . But she cried dearest I'm coming , and in thy Arms I soon shall be , When she had spoke the unfortunate Lady plunged herself quite into the Sea. But when her Father herd of the same , he said , O! what have I done ? My dearest Child , it was a cruel Father that provided thee a watery Tomb. Two or three Days being expired , these two unfortunate Lovers were seen In each others Arms in the Waves floating , by the Ship's Side in the watery Main . The cruel Boatswain struck with Horrow , then did confess the Fact he had done , Showing the Letter he had from her Father , which was the Cause of these Lover's Doom On board of Ship he was try'd for Murder , at the Yard-Arm he was hang'd [ fo ] r the same ; Her broke his Heart for his Daughter . before the Ship to the Harbour came . Thus cursed Gold caused Distraction , why should the Rich thus covet Gain ? I hope this Story will be a Warning , that cruel Parents may not do the same . Printed and Sold in Bow-church Yard , London . The Yarmouth TRAGEDY ; OR , The CONSTANT LOVERS . LOvers , I beg lend and Ear to this Story , See and Example in this constant Pair ; How Love a Virgin did blast in her Glory , Beautiful Nancy of Yarmouth , we hear . She was a Merchant's charming Daughter , Heiress to fifteen hundred a Year . A young Man courted her to be his Jewel , Son to a Gentleman who lived near . Many Years he courted this Jewel ; When Infants in Lov [ e ] they both agreed ; And when to Age this Couple arrived , Cupid and Arrow b [ e ] tween them display'd . Their tender Hearts were linked together ; But when her Parents the same did hear , They to their charming beautiful Daughter Acted a Part most base and severe . Bidding her give over her Intentions , For if against their Consent she did wed , Forevermore they resolv'd to disown her , If she wed one that was so meanly bred . Her Mother said , You are a great Fortune , Beside , you are young and handsome ; You are a Match , dear Child , that is fitting For ever a Lord in Christendom . Then made answer this handsome Daughter , Riches and Honour I do defy ; If I'm depriv'd of my dearest Lover , Then farewell World , it is all Vanity . Jemmy's the Man whom I do admire , He is the Riches whom I adore ; To be a Great one I never desire , My Heart is fixed to have no more . Then said her father , 'Tis my Resolution , Altho' I have no more Daughters than thee , If that with him you resolve to marry , Banish'd for evermore thou shalt be . For the young Man he sent in a Passion , And said , For evermore now take thy leave , I have a Match more fit for my Daughter , Therefore it is in vain thus for to strive . Honoured Father , thus said the Maiden , Promis'd we are by the Powers above ; Then of all Pleasures do not bereave me , Our Love is fixed never to remove . Then , said her Father , a Trip to the Ocean You shall go in a Ship of my own ; And I consent you shall have my Daughter , When to fair Yarmouth you do return . Honoured Sir , then said the Lovers , Since 'tis your Will , we must obey ; Our constant Hearts shall never be parted , But our Desires no longer must stay . Than Nancy said , dearest Jemmy , Here take this Ring the Pledge of my Vows , With it my Heart keep safe in your Bosom , And bear it with you wherever you go . Then close in his Arms he did enfold her , While Tears did down like Fountains flow Saying in return my Heart I will give you ; you shall be present wherever I go . When on the Ocean I am a sailing , The Thoughts of you the Compass will steer , Till tedious Absence the Time will devour And bring me safe to the Arms of my Dear . Therefore be constant my dearest Jewel , For , by the Heavens , if thou art untrue , My Ghost shall haunt you forever : Dead or Alive I must have none but you . Her Arms then round his Neck she twined , Saying , when thou art on the Sea , If the Fates unto us should prove cruel , That we each other no more should see , No one alive shall ever enjoy me . When the Tidings of thy Death I hear , Then like a sad distracted Lover , Down to the Grave I will go with my Dear . Then with a dismal Sighs he departed , The Wind it blew a pleasant Gale ; All being ready , the fam'd Marry Galley For the Island of Barbados did sail . Many Lords of high Birth and Breeding Came a Courting to this bright Maid : But their Presents and Favours she slighted , Constant I'll be to my Jemmy , she said . Now for a Time let's leave this Maiden , And show how Things with her Lover did go . In fair Barb [ a ] dos the Ship was laden : But now observe his sad Overthrow . Jemmy was handsome in each Feature , A Barbados Lady , whose Fortune was great , Fix'd her Eyes on him , saying , If I have not This handsome Sailor , I die for his sake . She dressed herself in rich Attire , With rich Jewels she plaited her Hair ; And Hundred Slaves for to attend her , She sent for the young Sailor there . Come noble Sailor , now can you love me ? A Lady whose Honour and Riches are great , And hundred Slaves there are to a [ tO ] tend thee , with Music to lull thee to thy silent Sleep . In Robes of Gol [ worser ] then I will deck thee , Pearls and rich Jewels I'll lay at thy Feet ; In a Chariot of Gold you shall ride with Pleasure if you can love me answer me strait . Amaz'd with Wonder , awhile he gazed , forbear , sweet Lady , then he cry'd ; For in old England I've vow'd to a Lady at my Return to make her my Bride . She is a charming beautiful Creature and has my Heart , I can have no more ; I bear in Mind her beauteous Features , no other Creature but her I adore . Hearing this , she rav'd in Distraction , crying , unfortunate Maid thus to love One that does slight me and my Glory , and of my Person does not approve . Lords of Renown I have slighted now must I die for a Sailor bold . I must not blame him for being so constant , true Love is better than Silver and Gold . A curious Jewel then she gave him , within her Hand she held a Knife ; One fatal Stroke ere they could stop her , did put and End to her tender Life Great Lamentation was made for the Lady , Jemmy on board the Ship did steer , And then to England he was a sailing with great Desire to meet his Dear . But her Father found he was coming , a Letter he writ to the Boatswain his Friend ; Saying a handsome Reward I will give you if you the Life of young Jemmy will end . Quite void of Grace , and for sake of Money , the Boatswain did the same complete ; As they on the Deck were a walking , he tumbled him into the Deep . All in the Night when he was sleeping , his Ghost unto his Love did appear ; Crying , arise , sweet beautiful Susan . perform the Vow you made to your Dear . You are my own , so tarry no longer , Seven long Years for thee I did stay : Jove does wait to crown us with Pleasure , the Bride Guests are ready so come away , Cries she , who's there under my Window ? surely it is the Voice of my Dear ; Lifting her Head from the downy Pillow , strait to the Casement she did repair . O Jemmy , she said , if my Father hears it , we shall be ruin'd both I fear ; At the Seaside there I will meet you , and with my Maids I will meet you there . Her Gown was embroider'd with Gold , carelessly round her Body she threw ; And with both her Maids to attend her to meet her Love she did instantly go . Clo [ s ] e in his Arms then he enf [ oh ] lds her ; Jemmy , says she , you are colder than Clay . You are not the Man whom I admire , paler than Death you appear to me . Yes , fair Creature , I am your Lover , dead or alive you know you are mine ; I came for your Vow , and you must follow , my Body unto the silent Grave . I for your Sake refus'd Gold and Silver , Riches and Jewels I did despise ; A charming Lady did for me expire , thinking of thee I was deaf to her Cries . Your cruel Parents have been my Undoing . ansl now I sleep in a watery Tomb ; Now for your Promise Dear I am suing , dead or alive you are my own . The trembling Lady was much affrighted , amaz'd she stood at the brink of the Sea , And with Eyes uplifted said cruel Parents , you have been the Cause of my Misery . Certain it is I promis'd thee sweet Jewel , dead or alive for to be thy own ; Now to perform my Vows I am ready , to follow thee to the watery Tomb. The Maidens herd her Lamentation , but the Apparition could not see ; Thinking their Lady was in Distraction , strove to persuade her contented to be . But she cried dearest I'm coming , and in thy Arms I soon shall be , When she had spoke the unfortunate Lady plunged herself quite into the Sea. But when her Father herd of the same , he said , O! what have I done ? My dearest Child , it was a cruel Father that provided thee a watery Tomb. Two or three Days being expired , these two unfortunate Lovers were seen In each others Arms in the Waves floating , by the Ship's Side in the watery Main . The cruel Boatswain struck with Horrow , then did confess the Fact he had done , Showing the Letter he had from her Father , which was the Cause of these Lover's Doom On board of Ship he was try'd for Murder , at the Yard-Arm he was hang'd [ fo ] r the same ; Her broke his Heart for his Daughter . before the Ship to the Harbour came . Thus cursed Gold caused Distraction , why should the Rich thus covet Gain ? I hope this Story will be a Warning , that cruel Parents may not do the same . Printed and Sold in Bow-church Yard , London . 