The Bleeding LOVER . Young Men that do promise make , In your performance be not slack . For well you know , 'tis often so , Ingratitude makes all things black . To the Tune of , The Doubting Virgin . LOvers all come hear my Story , which to you I shall relate , He on whom I fix'd my Glory , me requites with mortal hate , In my anguish , here I languish , wasting in my lingering pain , I'm delected , and rejected , yet delighted with my chain . Love , Oh love , is of such power , all my senses it confounds , It my vitals does devour , all my joys in sorrow drowns : Yet by nature , I poor creature , ever was to love inclin'd , Constant proving , dearly loving , those who were to me unkind . Now my life is near and ending , for I feel my strength decay , Hope's no longer are depending , my fierce passion to allay , Waking , sleeping , always weeping , comforts are quite from me fled , Oh 'twill pleasure when he sees me fainting on my lovesick bed . Surely he must needs be troubled , my condition for to see , And his sorrows will be doubled , at my sad perplexity : When I'm lying fainting , dying , on his name I'le surely call , Oft repeating , and relating , that he was the cause of all . Down my cheeks when tears do trickle , freely flowing from mine eyes , It will trouble him a little , that my love he did despise : Unrelieved , being grieved , to himself he thus will say , Oh deceitful and ungrateful , thou hast cast a maid away . On my tomb I'le have inserted , here lies one that was forlorn , By her lover quite deserted , which did cause her for to mourn : Broken hearted , she departed , that in love did all excel , Then she fainted , and lamented , saying cruel Love farewell . Thou shalt get but little by it , wheresoever thou dost go , Thou shalt never be at quiet , but oppressed with care and woe : I will follow , through each hollow , where thou goest thy self to hide , I'le come to thee , and pursue thee , saying 'twas for thee I dy'd . In thy dreams I will affright thee , and appear in ugly shape , Care and sorrow shall betide thee , there's no hope for to escape : You misused , and abused one that lov'd you too too dear , Pray now mind it , you shall find it , you shall ne're be quiet here . With sighs & groans I'le fill thine ears too , in the middle of the night , Which shall much increase thy fears too , and thy treacherous soul affrigh I forever will endeavour , for to be a plague to thee , 'Twill be pleasure beyond measure , to increase thy misery . False youngmen that hear this ditty , and to loyalty pretend , Of poor maidens take some pity , unto them some comfort lend : Maids forsaken , are o're-taken , with such dreadful mortal pain , Can't be cured , nor endured , so by Love are often slave . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Bleeding LOVER . Young Men that do promise make , In your performance be not slack . For well you know , 'tis often so , Ingratitude makes all things black . To the Tune of , The Doubting Virgin . LOvers all come hear my Story , which to you I shall relate , He on whom I fix'd my Glory , me requites with mortal hate , In my anguish , here I languish , wasting in my lingering pain , I'm delected , and rejected , yet delighted with my chain . Love , Oh love , is of such power , all my senses it confounds , It my vitals does devour , all my joys in sorrow drowns : Yet by nature , I poor creature , ever was to love inclin'd , Constant proving , dearly loving , those who were to me unkind . Now my life is near and ending , for I feel my strength decay , Hope's no longer are depending , my fierce passion to allay , Waking , sleeping , always weeping , comforts are quite from me fled , Oh 'twill pleasure when he sees me fainting on my lovesick bed . Surely he must needs be troubled , my condition for to see , And his sorrows will be doubled , at my sad perplexity : When I'm lying fainting , dying , on his name I'le surely call , Oft repeating , and relating , that he was the cause of all . Down my cheeks when tears do trickle , freely flowing from mine eyes , It will trouble him a little , that my love he did despise : Unrelieved , being grieved , to himself he thus will say , Oh deceitful and ungrateful , thou hast cast a maid away . On my tomb I'le have inserted , here lies one that was forlorn , By her lover quite deserted , which did cause her for to mourn : Broken hearted , she departed , that in love did all excel , Then she fainted , and lamented , saying cruel Love farewell . Thou shalt get but little by it , wheresoever thou dost go , Thou shalt never be at quiet , but oppressed with care and woe : I will follow , through each hollow , where thou goest thy self to hide , I'le come to thee , and pursue thee , saying 'twas for thee I dy'd . In thy dreams I will affright thee , and appear in ugly shape , Care and sorrow shall betide thee , there's no hope for to escape : You misused , and abused one that lov'd you too too dear , Pray now mind it , you shall find it , you shall ne're be quiet here . With sighs & groans I'le fill thine ears too , in the middle of the night , Which shall much increase thy fears too , and thy treacherous soul affrigh I forever will endeavour , for to be a plague to thee , 'Twill be pleasure beyond measure , to increase thy misery . False youngmen that hear this ditty , and to loyalty pretend , Of poor maidens take some pity , unto them some comfort lend : Maids forsaken , are o're-taken , with such dreadful mortal pain , Can't be cured , nor endured , so by Love are often slave . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 