Strephon and Clea : OR , Love in its Prime : BEING The Happy Shepherd and Lovely Nymph : The timorous Nymph at last does yield to Love , And finds it next to Joys Incense above , The only Solace of the Soul , such Joys , Flowing from thence , as all sad Care Destroys : Long in kind Strephons Arms she panting lay , 'Twixt Sighs and Smiles , well pleased with wanton play : Till both to feed their Bleating Flocks do rise , Not tyr'd with love , for Lovers that ne'r Cloys . To a pleasant New Tune Us'd at the play-House . LOvely and Charming Clea lay , transported in her dear Strephons Arms , With languishing Eyes , she dying lies , with melting Lips , and with sucking charms : Clinging close to embraces , and dying , short breath and sighs , with a Rapture , she said , Oh Dear , I die , my Soul you'l undo me , why will you ruin a harmless Maid ? Ah! lovely Clea , Strephon cries , our Souls shall no unkindness meet , Nothing was ever more Divine , mortal Rapture's not more swee Thus they did often melt in Kisses , with such delightful and ravishing Charms , Till they quite tired with pleasures and Blisses , fell fast asleep in each others arms . Where Paradise Dreams did them possess , and joys far more then can be told , In love there is such great Happiness , as cannot be purchas'd with Gold : The envying Nymphs did flock to view , them clasped beneath a Myrtle Shade , And wished that they such Pleasures knew , as these at Venus Altar paid . Then Clea open'd her bright Eyes , and finding herself in Strephons Arms , Sent up her Blushes to the Skies , and wakes him with her Gentle Charms , Who starting , blames his Drowsy Love , and then his kind Devotion paid , While she sigh'd by the Powers above , Why will you ruin a harmless Maid . Yet willing to enjoy such Bliss , a pleasing sign flush'd in her Face , And with her Sighs she mixed a Kiss , which bid him silently Embrace : While panting on her breast he lay , those Ivory Hills where Cupid's stay'd , To wing his Shafts she thus did say , Why will you ruin a harmless Maid ? But smiling still she dar'd him on , to Combat in Loves pleasing Field , While phebus Steeds their Course did run , and warbling Birds their Music yield : Who on each bough did Tune their joys , with amorous Ditty through the Shade , To cheer the Lovers , while still she cries , why will you ruin a harmless Maid . Then rising with her in his Arms , they pass unto the purling Stream , And there with Kissing , revive their Charms , more pleasing then a Virgin Dream : Half smiling then , alas , she sigh'd , why ? ever was I of Love afraid ? To thee my Love I cannot hide , Though it may ruin a harmless Maid . Fear not my Joy , the Shepherd then , to his fair Clea soon reply'd . Thou seem'st far lovelier now , then when thou wertenberg in all thy Virgin Pride : To feed our Flocks let us repair , and henceforth let all sorrow fade , 'Tis thou shalt be my only Care ; And i [ ' ] le not ruin a harmless Maid . Hark how the tender Lambs do bleat , thou shalt my Queen and Mistress be , And on thy Smiles i'le ever wait , in Love and pleasure we'l live free : And feed our Flocks within this Grove , while to thy Eyes Devotion's paid , At which she sighed , by the God of Love , if you'l not ruin a harmless Maid . I'le yield myself unto your trust , and Clea shall be ever thine , Fear not my Goddess , i'le be just , to love thee ever's my Design : Soon they went with Myrtle Crown'd ; to feed their bleating Flocks that stay'd , And liv'd in Love while she lost the found , why will you ruin a harmless Maid ? FINIS . Pointed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden - Ball , near the Hospital gate , in West-Smithfield . Strephon and Clea : OR , Love in its Prime : BEING The Happy Shepherd and Lovely Nymph : The timorous Nymph at last does yield to Love , And finds it next to Joys Incense above , The only Solace of the Soul , such Joys , Flowing from thence , as all sad Care Destroys : Long in kind Strephons Arms she panting lay , 'Twixt Sighs and Smiles , well pleased with wanton play : Till both to feed their Bleating Flocks do rise , Not tyr'd with love , for Lovers that ne'r Cloys . To a pleasant New Tune Us'd at the play-House . LOvely and Charming Clea lay , transported in her dear Strephons Arms , With languishing Eyes , she dying lies , with melting Lips , and with sucking charms : Clinging close to embraces , and dying , short breath and sighs , with a Rapture , she said , Oh Dear , I die , my Soul you'l undo me , why will you ruin a harmless Maid ? Ah! lovely Clea , Strephon cries , our Souls shall no unkindness meet , Nothing was ever more Divine , mortal Rapture's not more swee Thus they did often melt in Kisses , with such delightful and ravishing Charms , Till they quite tired with pleasures and Blisses , fell fast asleep in each others arms . Where Paradise Dreams did them possess , and joys far more then can be told , In love there is such great Happiness , as cannot be purchas'd with Gold : The envying Nymphs did flock to view , them clasped beneath a Myrtle Shade , And wished that they such Pleasures knew , as these at Venus Altar paid . Then Clea open'd her bright Eyes , and finding herself in Strephons Arms , Sent up her Blushes to the Skies , and wakes him with her Gentle Charms , Who starting , blames his Drowsy Love , and then his kind Devotion paid , While she sigh'd by the Powers above , Why will you ruin a harmless Maid . Yet willing to enjoy such Bliss , a pleasing sign flush'd in her Face , And with her Sighs she mixed a Kiss , which bid him silently Embrace : While panting on her breast he lay , those Ivory Hills where Cupid's stay'd , To wing his Shafts she thus did say , Why will you ruin a harmless Maid ? But smiling still she dar'd him on , to Combat in Loves pleasing Field , While phebus Steeds their Course did run , and warbling Birds their Music yield : Who on each bough did Tune their joys , with amorous Ditty through the Shade , To cheer the Lovers , while still she cries , why will you ruin a harmless Maid . Then rising with her in his Arms , they pass unto the purling Stream , And there with Kissing , revive their Charms , more pleasing then a Virgin Dream : Half smiling then , alas , she sigh'd , why ? ever was I of Love afraid ? To thee my Love I cannot hide , Though it may ruin a harmless Maid . Fear not my Joy , the Shepherd then , to his fair Clea soon reply'd . Thou seem'st far lovelier now , then when thou wertenberg in all thy Virgin Pride : To feed our Flocks let us repair , and henceforth let all sorrow fade , 'Tis thou shalt be my only Care ; And i [ ' ] le not ruin a harmless Maid . Hark how the tender Lambs do bleat , thou shalt my Queen and Mistress be , And on thy Smiles i'le ever wait , in Love and pleasure we'l live free : And feed our Flocks within this Grove , while to thy Eyes Devotion's paid , At which she sighed , by the God of Love , if you'l not ruin a harmless Maid . I'le yield myself unto your trust , and Clea shall be ever thine , Fear not my Goddess , i'le be just , to love thee ever's my Design : Soon they went with Myrtle Crown'd ; to feed their bleating Flocks that stay'd , And liv'd in Love while she lost the found , why will you ruin a harmless Maid ? FINIS . Pointed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden - Ball , near the Hospital gate , in West-Smithfield . 