The Trial of Patience : Being a Relation of a Widow in Yorkshire , who having Buried her Husband , and left Seven small Children , was reduc'd to great Poverty , and turn'd out of House and Home ; then going to her Husbands Brother , being a Rich Man , in hope's of finding Relief , but instead thereof , he threatened them with Cruelty . With and Ac - count of a Ladies Love at the greatest time of her Distress . Tune of , In Summer time . This may be Printed , R. P. A Loving Couple in Yorkshire , they having seven Children small , When Poverty was so severe , they had for them no Food at all . As I the naked truth may speak , their Father was in grief and woe , Three years he lay both sick and weak , this was enough to bring them low . They sold their Cattle , Corn , and Hay , with other [ Goo ] ds they parted free , Till all they had was made away , in this their sad Extremity . After the term of three long years , which he thus languishing did lie , Upon his Bed with brinish Tears . he said farewell , here now I die . A cruel Landlord the next day , turn'd her and Children out of door , Where in a Field all night they lay , this griev'd the Widows heart full soar . Poor Soul , she was in sad distress , full seven Children at her feet , With hunger , cold , and comfortless , and not one bit of Bred to eat . HEr Children cry'd to her alone , Oh give us Food Mother , they said , It would have broke a heart of Stone , to hear the piteous moan they made . With weeping tears she did reply , my heart is over-whelm'd with Grief , To your Rich Uncle we will high , and see if he will yield Relief . He told your Father thus in love , before this world he bid adieu , That he in tenderness would prove a Brother and a Father too . With cheerfulness they did repair unto their Uncles House that night , And they no sooner was come there ; but all their hope's was blasted quite . As soon as he did them behold , he said to her , what make you here , Be gone or else the Whipping-post , shall surely happen to your share . He threatened her with this abuse , likewise with greater Villainy , He vow'd his Dog [ h ] e would let lose , if that she did his patience try . In wrath he spurn'd them from his door , saying , they should not there abide , Her Children they were frighted soar , she likewise wrung her hands and cry'd , Oh here we will not tarry long , although we are in deep Distress , Dear Brother , pray now do not wrung the Widow and the Fatherless . Tears from their eyes in showers did flow , for there they see they might not stay , Their hearts were fill'd with grief and woe , as from his House they took their way . The Mother was with grief oppressed , the Children in a woeful plighted , We have no home nor place of rest , where shall we lay our heads this night ? As she did wander on the way , alas ! her very heart did bleed , Good Lord raise me some Friend I pray to help us in this time of need . Her Prayers was herd to Heaven high for she no sooner this had said , But a young Lady Riding by , did hear the piteous moan she made . And call'd her to her Coach with speed , giving her ten good Guinnies there , In order for her present need , and bid her to her House repair . A Farm of Twenty pound a year , I do declare I have in store , And I will give thee Title clear , to you and yours for evermore . The Lady bid her cease to mourn , for ever happy may you be , Ten thousand thanks she did return , for this her Generosity . No Tongue is able to express how joy and comforts did increase , For now the Farm they do possess , and live in plenty , joy , and peace . This Brother of malicious spite , who would not pity her poor case , All that he had was blasted quite , within a very little space Gods wrath and vengeance [ here we see , ] was just for his sad cruel Pride , He was reduc'd to Poverty , likewise upon a Dunghill Dy'd . For having then no Home nor Friend , that would this cruel wretch receive He made a miserable end , when he alas ! this Life did leave . Rich Men relieve the Poor I pray , who does to you for succour cry , Lest you be brought as low as they , by making God your Enemy . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pie Corner The Trial of Patience : Being a Relation of a Widow in Yorkshire , who having Buried her Husband , and left Seven small Children , was reduc'd to great Poverty , and turn'd out of House and Home ; then going to her Husbands Brother , being a Rich Man , in hope's of finding Relief , but instead thereof , he threatened them with Cruelty . With and Ac - count of a Ladies Love at the greatest time of her Distress . Tune of , In Summer time . This may be Printed , R. P. A Loving Couple in Yorkshire , they having seven Children small , When Poverty was so severe , they had for them no Food at all . As I the naked truth may speak , their Father was in grief and woe , Three years he lay both sick and weak , this was enough to bring them low . They sold their Cattle , Corn , and Hay , with other [ Goo ] ds they parted free , Till all they had was made away , in this their sad Extremity . After the term of three long years , which he thus languishing did lie , Upon his Bed with brinish Tears . he said farewell , here now I die . A cruel Landlord the next day , turn'd her and Children out of door , Where in a Field all night they lay , this griev'd the Widows heart full soar . Poor Soul , she was in sad distress , full seven Children at her feet , With hunger , cold , and comfortless , and not one bit of Bred to eat . HEr Children cry'd to her alone , Oh give us Food Mother , they said , It would have broke a heart of Stone , to hear the piteous moan they made . With weeping tears she did reply , my heart is over-whelm'd with Grief , To your Rich Uncle we will high , and see if he will yield Relief . He told your Father thus in love , before this world he bid adieu , That he in tenderness would prove a Brother and a Father too . With cheerfulness they did repair unto their Uncles House that night , And they no sooner was come there ; but all their hope's was blasted quite . As soon as he did them behold , he said to her , what make you here , Be gone or else the Whipping-post , shall surely happen to your share . He threatened her with this abuse , likewise with greater Villainy , He vow'd his Dog [ h ] e would let lose , if that she did his patience try . In wrath he spurn'd them from his door , saying , they should not there abide , Her Children they were frighted soar , she likewise wrung her hands and cry'd , Oh here we will not tarry long , although we are in deep Distress , Dear Brother , pray now do not wrung the Widow and the Fatherless . Tears from their eyes in showers did flow , for there they see they might not stay , Their hearts were fill'd with grief and woe , as from his House they took their way . The Mother was with grief oppressed , the Children in a woeful plighted , We have no home nor place of rest , where shall we lay our heads this night ? As she did wander on the way , alas ! her very heart did bleed , Good Lord raise me some Friend I pray to help us in this time of need . Her Prayers was herd to Heaven high for she no sooner this had said , But a young Lady Riding by , did hear the piteous moan she made . And call'd her to her Coach with speed , giving her ten good Guinnies there , In order for her present need , and bid her to her House repair . A Farm of Twenty pound a year , I do declare I have in store , And I will give thee Title clear , to you and yours for evermore . The Lady bid her cease to mourn , for ever happy may you be , Ten thousand thanks she did return , for this her Generosity . No Tongue is able to express how joy and comforts did increase , For now the Farm they do possess , and live in plenty , joy , and peace . This Brother of malicious spite , who would not pity her poor case , All that he had was blasted quite , within a very little space Gods wrath and vengeance [ here we see , ] was just for his sad cruel Pride , He was reduc'd to Poverty , likewise upon a Dunghill Dy'd . For having then no Home nor Friend , that would this cruel wretch receive He made a miserable end , when he alas ! this Life did leave . Rich Men relieve the Poor I pray , who does to you for succour cry , Lest you be brought as low as they , by making God your Enemy . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pie Corner 