CUPIDs Kindness to Constant CORIDON , OR , Fair SILVIA Wounded with a Dart , When Beauty's bright , Young men can fight , and seek their overthrow , Then Cupid's Darts must wound their hearts , he will not leave them so . Tune of Charon make haste etc This may be Printed R.P. SIlvia the Fair by the side of a River , where she sat combing her Golden hair , Cupid he drew forth a Dart from his Quiver , and without pity he smites her there ; Now when she felt her heart was wounded , strait cried with voice both soft and shrill , What sudden change has my freedom confounded ? why must I love now against my Will . Often in Valleys young Corridon courted me , yet I looked on him with scornful Eyes ; But now strange Raptures of love has transported me , which does my senses and soul surprise , This very Minute , time , and Season , sorrow and Grief my heart does fill , Here I admire what should be the reason , that I must love him against my Will . I was resolved to live and die single , tho' I had Suitors always in store , But e'ry vein in my heart does now tingle the like I never did feel before ; I had to love a Detestation , the which does now my comfort spill ; This is a sudden and strange Alteration , that I must love him against my Will . There was no Swain I cou'd ever admire ; all my delight was to live alone ; Therefore I'll triumph o're e [ ' ] ry desire , in love I will not be overthrown : Let Cupid seem to frown and lower , nay use his best and chiefest skill , I will endeavour to baffle his power , why shou'd I love him against my Will ? But still her Passion increased the stronger , and her Sweet Beauty grew pale and wan So that she could not endure any longer , but crying out my sweet Corridon , May e'ry Blessing now betide thee , d [ oh ] n [ oh ] tO a fainting Lover Kill , Although 'tis true , I have often deny'd thee , now I must love thee against my will . If I shall die for the loss of my Jewel , there is none but myself in blame , Sith to my Corridon I was too cruel , when like a Captive to me he came But for this Crime I have repented ; yet [ I ] remain in sorrows still With sighs and Tears I have often lamented , now I must love him against my Will . O that he herd but my sorrowful Ditty , likewise would come my sweet Life to save And with true Love and compassionate pity , pardon the frowns which to him I gave ; He could no longer stand to hear her , but did approach with right good will , To his fair Silvia in order to cheer her vowing he would be her true love still . Thanks be to Cupid that gain'd me thy favour , my drooping Spirits once more to raise , Now do I promise to Love thee forever , and in these Valleys wee'll spend our days , Can there be any greater blessing , my wounded heart with joy to fill , Then my fair Silvia , here to be possessing , whom I do Love and admire still . Printed for J. Back , at the Black Boy near the drawbridge on London-Bridge . CUPIDs Kindness to Constant CORIDON , OR , Fair SILVIA Wounded with a Dart , When Beauty's bright , Young men can fight , and seek their overthrow , Then Cupid's Darts must wound their hearts , he will not leave them so . Tune of Charon make haste etc This may be Printed R.P. SIlvia the Fair by the side of a River , where she sat combing her Golden hair , Cupid he drew forth a Dart from his Quiver , and without pity he smites her there ; Now when she felt her heart was wounded , strait cried with voice both soft and shrill , What sudden change has my freedom confounded ? why must I love now against my Will . Often in Valleys young Corridon courted me , yet I looked on him with scornful Eyes ; But now strange Raptures of love has transported me , which does my senses and soul surprise , This very Minute , time , and Season , sorrow and Grief my heart does fill , Here I admire what should be the reason , that I must love him against my Will . I was resolved to live and die single , tho' I had Suitors always in store , But e'ry vein in my heart does now tingle the like I never did feel before ; I had to love a Detestation , the which does now my comfort spill ; This is a sudden and strange Alteration , that I must love him against my Will . There was no Swain I cou'd ever admire ; all my delight was to live alone ; Therefore I'll triumph o're e [ ' ] ry desire , in love I will not be overthrown : Let Cupid seem to frown and lower , nay use his best and chiefest skill , I will endeavour to baffle his power , why shou'd I love him against my Will ? But still her Passion increased the stronger , and her Sweet Beauty grew pale and wan So that she could not endure any longer , but crying out my sweet Corridon , May e'ry Blessing now betide thee , d [ oh ] n [ oh ] tO a fainting Lover Kill , Although 'tis true , I have often deny'd thee , now I must love thee against my will . If I shall die for the loss of my Jewel , there is none but myself in blame , Sith to my Corridon I was too cruel , when like a Captive to me he came But for this Crime I have repented ; yet [ I ] remain in sorrows still With sighs and Tears I have often lamented , now I must love him against my Will . O that he herd but my sorrowful Ditty , likewise would come my sweet Life to save And with true Love and compassionate pity , pardon the frowns which to him I gave ; He could no longer stand to hear her , but did approach with right good will , To his fair Silvia in order to cheer her vowing he would be her true love still . Thanks be to Cupid that gain'd me thy favour , my drooping Spirits once more to raise , Now do I promise to Love thee forever , and in these Valleys wee'll spend our days , Can there be any greater blessing , my wounded heart with joy to fill , Then my fair Silvia , here to be possessing , whom I do Love and admire still . Printed for J. Back , at the Black Boy near the drawbridge on London-Bridge . 