Fair LUCINA Conquered By Prevailing Cupid . She that triumphed in disdain , at last was forc'd to yield , And of herself she thus complain'd when Cupid won the Field : Though at the first I was unkind , yet now I'le loving be , And that my Coridon shall find if he'l return to me . When Coridon did hear these words , he did most joyfully Embrace his kind , and dearest Love ; and they did both agree . To the Tune of , Jenny Gin . or , the fair one let me in . LUcina sitting in her Bower was wounded with a dart , Ascending from the secret power which smote her to the hear Immediately she thus did cry , who can my comforts spill ? Who can compel me for to love contrary to my will ? Quoth Cupid I will humble thee , and will subdue thy pride , I'le make thee now submit to me , it shall not be deny'd : I'le send such Arrows to thy heart , proceeding from my bow , Shall make thee feel love's fatal smart whither thou wilt or no . Quoth she , I did design to live a Maiden until Death , But now thou hast so wounded me , alas ! I pant for breath ? Thou pretty Nymph be not unkind to cast love quite away , I will be loyal thou shalt find unto my dying day . Sweet Coridon's deluding tongue hath so insnar'd my mind , That in Loves-firy flames I burn , and can no comfort find : I slighted him who was my Love , and held him in disdain , But now my ruin it does prove , in vain I may complain . What sweet expressions did he use my favour to obtain ; But I his kindness did abuse , by foul and gross disdain , For now I languish here in grief , and can no comfort see , Kind Death afford me some relief , make haste and set me free . O proud ambition , why did I his kindness thus reject , Who loved me so tenderly , and show'd me such respec A Princely presence , grac'd with Fame , which did adorn him so , Which renders me indeed to blame for often saying no . These words had searcely pierc'd the air , e're her sweet Coridon Did to his dearest Love repair , whose heart with Love was won : All sorrow seem'd to vanish quite , each Lover had their bliss ; They both enjoy'd their Hearts delight , and seal'd it with a kiss . The pretty Birds with pleasant notes most sweetly they did sing , With melody from their sweet Throats , which made the Groves to ring : Thus they proclaim'd their mutual joy when Lovers did agree ; Nothing seemed to annoy that gracious Harmony . Printed for Josh. Coniers at the Black Raven in Duck-Lane . Fair LUCINA Conquered By Prevailing Cupid . She that triumphed in disdain , at last was forc'd to yield , And of herself she thus complain'd when Cupid won the Field : Though at the first I was unkind , yet now I'le loving be , And that my Coridon shall find if he'l return to me . When Coridon did hear these words , he did most joyfully Embrace his kind , and dearest Love ; and they did both agree . To the Tune of , Jenny Gin . or , the fair one let me in . LUcina sitting in her Bower was wounded with a dart , Ascending from the secret power which smote her to the hear Immediately she thus did cry , who can my comforts spill ? Who can compel me for to love contrary to my will ? Quoth Cupid I will humble thee , and will subdue thy pride , I'le make thee now submit to me , it shall not be deny'd : I'le send such Arrows to thy heart , proceeding from my bow , Shall make thee feel love's fatal smart whither thou wilt or no . Quoth she , I did design to live a Maiden until Death , But now thou hast so wounded me , alas ! I pant for breath ? Thou pretty Nymph be not unkind to cast love quite away , I will be loyal thou shalt find unto my dying day . Sweet Coridon's deluding tongue hath so insnar'd my mind , That in Loves-firy flames I burn , and can no comfort find : I slighted him who was my Love , and held him in disdain , But now my ruin it does prove , in vain I may complain . What sweet expressions did he use my favour to obtain ; But I his kindness did abuse , by foul and gross disdain , For now I languish here in grief , and can no comfort see , Kind Death afford me some relief , make haste and set me free . O proud ambition , why did I his kindness thus reject , Who loved me so tenderly , and show'd me such respec A Princely presence , grac'd with Fame , which did adorn him so , Which renders me indeed to blame for often saying no . These words had searcely pierc'd the air , e're her sweet Coridon Did to his dearest Love repair , whose heart with Love was won : All sorrow seem'd to vanish quite , each Lover had their bliss ; They both enjoy'd their Hearts delight , and seal'd it with a kiss . The pretty Birds with pleasant notes most sweetly they did sing , With melody from their sweet Throats , which made the Groves to ring : Thus they proclaim'd their mutual joy when Lovers did agree ; Nothing seemed to annoy that gracious Harmony . Printed for Josh. Coniers at the Black Raven in Duck-Lane . 