And Answer To the forc'd Marriage . Or , the old men vindication . I Read a Song a Day or two ago , Which says that Celia's now grown whorish too , And makes a fine pretence because she's wed , To one that's old , she needs must wrong his bed : I of her wantonness having suspicion , Have search'd , and found out the old men condition ; And now I plainly see she wrongs him much , She only had a mind to take a touch ; With some found foolish youngster , not for need , For her old man as well can do the deed : As most men can , and this may satisfy , That Celia does her husband much belie . The Tune is , Celia's my Foe . SInce Celia's a Whore , I'le abide her no more , Let her go , Since I know , A far better in store : The ill luck was my own , That a slut I have known , Who scorns me , And horns me , And swears she'l be gone . Her Parents took care , That my wealth she should share , Crying Daughter , Hereafter , Be wife and beware . Though your Husband be old , Prithee be not too bold , If unkind , You will find , That his Love will grow cold . Methinks their advice , Might have made her more wife ; Till death Stop'd my breath , And had clos'd up my eyes . I'de have left her much coin , And her freedom too join : With that Youth , Who in truth , now enjoys what is mine . She swears I am a sot , Deform'd and what not , But I swear By the Beer , That I have in this Pot , I will cherish my blood , With the best of all food , Brisk Wine , Shall be mine , And all things that are good . I care not a pin , But let them laugh as win , I'll delight Day and Night , And ne'r count it a since . Pretty Phillis I know , So much love does me owe . She'd be willing , To be billing , And bend to my bow . Though she says I am in age , Yet I am free to engage , With a beauty , Where duty , All hatr does assuage . Since Celia's unkind , I'll be of the same mind , Let her go , Since I know , Where a better to find . She has taught me the way , For to sport and to play , She may leave me , Not grieve me , Nor my reason betray . Being free'd from a wife , I shall live without strife ; Enjoying , And toying , All days of my Life . Then think it not strange , If like Celia I range ; If she Love not me , Why may not I change ? I'll get free from the Charms Of those treacherous arms ; And i'le yield Up the field To loves private alarms . Be happy and poor , Like a wanton young whore : We'l part With free heart , And i'le ne'r see thee more . Thy youngster at last , Whom thou now hold'st so fast ; Will leave thee , And deceive thee , Then to Bridewel at last . Then when 'tis too late , Thou wilt praise thy old Mate : And curse Thyself worse , That his Love thou didst hate . But without all redress , For no love i'le express , To a woman That's common , As herself does confess . I'll not make my moan , To the Trees , nor to stone , Be it known , When you'r gone , I will not lie alone . To Phillis i'le show , What my courage can do ; She'l raise me , And praise me , Thus Celia adieu . FINIS . With Permission , Ro. L'Estrange . Printed for E. Oliver , at the Gol-den-Key on Snow-hill , near the Sarazens-head . Where any Chap-Men may be Fur-nished with all sorts of Books and Ballads . And Answer To the forc'd Marriage . Or , the old men vindication . I Read a Song a Day or two ago , Which says that Celia's now grown whorish too , And makes a fine pretence because she's wed , To one that's old , she needs must wrong his bed : I of her wantonness having suspicion , Have search'd , and found out the old men condition ; And now I plainly see she wrongs him much , She only had a mind to take a touch ; With some found foolish youngster , not for need , For her old man as well can do the deed : As most men can , and this may satisfy , That Celia does her husband much belie . The Tune is , Celia's my Foe . SInce Celia's a Whore , I'le abide her no more , Let her go , Since I know , A far better in store : The ill luck was my own , That a slut I have known , Who scorns me , And horns me , And swears she'l be gone . Her Parents took care , That my wealth she should share , Crying Daughter , Hereafter , Be wife and beware . Though your Husband be old , Prithee be not too bold , If unkind , You will find , That his Love will grow cold . Methinks their advice , Might have made her more wife ; Till death Stop'd my breath , And had clos'd up my eyes . I'de have left her much coin , And her freedom too join : With that Youth , Who in truth , now enjoys what is mine . She swears I am a sot , Deform'd and what not , But I swear By the Beer , That I have in this Pot , I will cherish my blood , With the best of all food , Brisk Wine , Shall be mine , And all things that are good . I care not a pin , But let them laugh as win , I'll delight Day and Night , And ne'r count it a since . Pretty Phillis I know , So much love does me owe . She'd be willing , To be billing , And bend to my bow . Though she says I am in age , Yet I am free to engage , With a beauty , Where duty , All hatr does assuage . Since Celia's unkind , I'll be of the same mind , Let her go , Since I know , Where a better to find . She has taught me the way , For to sport and to play , She may leave me , Not grieve me , Nor my reason betray . Being free'd from a wife , I shall live without strife ; Enjoying , And toying , All days of my Life . Then think it not strange , If like Celia I range ; If she Love not me , Why may not I change ? I'll get free from the Charms Of those treacherous arms ; And i'le yield Up the field To loves private alarms . Be happy and poor , Like a wanton young whore : We'l part With free heart , And i'le ne'r see thee more . Thy youngster at last , Whom thou now hold'st so fast ; Will leave thee , And deceive thee , Then to Bridewel at last . Then when 'tis too late , Thou wilt praise thy old Mate : And curse Thyself worse , That his Love thou didst hate . But without all redress , For no love i'le express , To a woman That's common , As herself does confess . I'll not make my moan , To the Trees , nor to stone , Be it known , When you'r gone , I will not lie alone . To Phillis i'le show , What my courage can do ; She'l raise me , And praise me , Thus Celia adieu . FINIS . With Permission , Ro. L'Estrange . Printed for E. Oliver , at the Gol-den-Key on Snow-hill , near the Sarazens-head . Where any Chap-Men may be Fur-nished with all sorts of Books and Ballads . 