The Soldiers Farewell to his love . Being a Dialogue betwixt Thomas and Margaret . To a pleasant new Tune . Thomas . MArgaret my sweetest , Margaret I must go , Margaret . Most dear to me , that never may be so : T. Ah , Fortune wills it , I cannot it deny , M. then know my love your Margaret must die . T. Not for the gold my Love that Croesus had , Would I once see thy sweetest looks so sad , M. Nor for all that the which my eye did see , Would I depart my sweetest Love from thee . T. The King commands , & I must to the wars M. Ther's others more enough may end the jars T. But I for one commanded am to go , And for my life I dare not once say no . M. Ah marry me , and you shall stay at home , Full thirty weeks you know that I have gone , T. There's time enough another for to take He'l love thee well , and not thy child forsake . M. And have I doted on thy sweetest face ? and dost infringe that which thou suedst in chase Thy faith I mean but I will weened with thee , T. It is too far for Peg to go with me . M. I'le go with thee my Love both night and day I'll bear thy sword , i'le run and led the way . T. But we must ride , how will you follow then , among a Troop of us thats Armed men ? M. I'll bear the Lance , isle guide thy stirrup too , I'll rub the horse , and more then that isle do , T. But Margarets fingers they are all too fine , To wait on me , when she does see me dine . Margaret . I'll see you dine , isle wait still at your back , I'll give you wine , or any thing you lack . Thomas . But you I repine when you shall see me have A dainty wench that is both fine and brave . M. I'll love your wench , my sweetest , I do vow , I'le watch time when she may pleasure you . T. But you will grieve to see me sleep in bed , And you must wait still in another's stead . M . I'll watch my love to see you sleep in rest , And when you sleep then I shall think me blessed . T. The time will come you must delivered be , If in the Camp it will discredit me . M. I'll go from you before the time shall be , When all is well my love again isle see . T. All will not serve for Margaret must not go , Then do resolve my Love , what else to do . M. If nought will serve why then sweet love adieu I needs must die , and yet in dying true . T. Nay stay my love , for I love Margaret well , And here I vow with Margaret to dwell . M. Give me your hand , your Margaret livs again T. Here is my hand , isle never breed thy pain . M. I'le kiss my Love in token it is so . T. We will be wed , come Margaret let us go . FINIS . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . The Soldiers Farewell to his love . Being a Dialogue betwixt Thomas and Margaret . To a pleasant new Tune . Thomas . MArgaret my sweetest , Margaret I must go , Margaret . Most dear to me , that never may be so : T. Ah , Fortune wills it , I cannot it deny , M. then know my love your Margaret must die . T. Not for the gold my Love that Croesus had , Would I once see thy sweetest looks so sad , M. Nor for all that the which my eye did see , Would I depart my sweetest Love from thee . T. The King commands , & I must to the wars M. Ther's others more enough may end the jars T. But I for one commanded am to go , And for my life I dare not once say no . M. Ah marry me , and you shall stay at home , Full thirty weeks you know that I have gone , T. There's time enough another for to take He'l love thee well , and not thy child forsake . M. And have I doted on thy sweetest face ? and dost infringe that which thou suedst in chase Thy faith I mean but I will weened with thee , T. It is too far for Peg to go with me . M. I'le go with thee my Love both night and day I'll bear thy sword , i'le run and led the way . T. But we must ride , how will you follow then , among a Troop of us thats Armed men ? M. I'll bear the Lance , isle guide thy stirrup too , I'll rub the horse , and more then that isle do , T. But Margarets fingers they are all too fine , To wait on me , when she does see me dine . Margaret . I'll see you dine , isle wait still at your back , I'll give you wine , or any thing you lack . Thomas . But you I repine when you shall see me have A dainty wench that is both fine and brave . M. I'll love your wench , my sweetest , I do vow , I'le watch time when she may pleasure you . T. But you will grieve to see me sleep in bed , And you must wait still in another's stead . M . I'll watch my love to see you sleep in rest , And when you sleep then I shall think me blessed . T. The time will come you must delivered be , If in the Camp it will discredit me . M. I'll go from you before the time shall be , When all is well my love again isle see . T. All will not serve for Margaret must not go , Then do resolve my Love , what else to do . M. If nought will serve why then sweet love adieu I needs must die , and yet in dying true . T. Nay stay my love , for I love Margaret well , And here I vow with Margaret to dwell . M. Give me your hand , your Margaret livs again T. Here is my hand , isle never breed thy pain . M. I'le kiss my Love in token it is so . T. We will be wed , come Margaret let us go . FINIS . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 