THE WELSH Fortune-Teller ; OR , Sheffery Morgan's Observation of the Stars , as he sat upon a Mountain in Wales . To the Tune of , Touch of the Times . Licensed according to Order . SInce Arrival , Proclaiming and Crowning is o're ; And song upon song made , what wou'd you have more , Why yet after all , I a Prophesy bring , 'Tis writ here in Verses for Lasses to Sing ; And therefore come buy this new Ditty , for why , The truth of this Story there's none can deny ; We see by the Stars that promotion will be , Extended to persons of e'ery degree . When we are united all over the Land , Resolving against all the Roman to stand , Under the protection of William our King , And pay our Allegiance in everything ; And Protestant Boys , with a thund'ring noise ; Has routed Tyrconnel , and all his Dear-Joys , Then all these three Kingdoms will flourish again , And we shall be blessed with a prosperous Reign . When Lawyers at Westminter plead without Fees , And Travellers walk on the turbulent Seas Without any Vessel from Brittain to Spain , And when it does fair Maids and Featherbeds rain ; When Room and her crew , are both Loyal and true , And bid all their Treasons and Plottings adieu ; I say when these wonders come truly to pass , The Protestants all will admire the Mass. When Lasses are mother's by lying alone , And Sheffery finds the Philosophers Stone , And England is wall'd round with Silver and Gold , When Knaves will not honest-mens Treasures withhold When Friars grow chaste , and will not embrace Young Ladies that comes with and amorous grace , To make and ingenious confession of since , Then Room will be purer than e'er she has been . When every River with Brandy does run , And hard stony Rocks they do melt with the Sun ; When Fish make Honey that swims in the Seas , And Oranges grows upon Sycamore Trees ; When Usurers they throw their money away , And then fill their Bags and their Coffers with clay ; When this comes to pass I will make it appear , That Room shall be honour [ ' ] worser by Protestants here . When the richest Amber of pebbles is made , And Diamonds with Jewels for Gravel is laid , The City and Country Roads to repair , When Towers and Castles do fly in the air , And great Ships refrain , the vast wide Ocean main , And sails in the middle of Salisbury plain , When all these strange wonders comes fairly to pass , The Protestants then shall admire the Mass. Here is a prediction for Lasses likewise , The which will their longing desires suffice ; Whenever you're merry be modest and chaste , And always give way to your betters in place ; Tho' you lie alone , yet make not your moan , For here by the Stars it is very well known , If you will be thrifty and both get and safe , When you are all marry'd you Husbands shall have . FINIS . Printed for G. Conyers on Ludgate-Hill . THE WELSH Fortune-Teller ; OR , Sheffery Morgan's Observation of the Stars , as he sat upon a Mountain in Wales . To the Tune of , Touch of the Times . Licensed according to Order . SInce Arrival , Proclaiming and Crowning is o're ; And song upon song made , what wou'd you have more , Why yet after all , I a Prophesy bring , 'Tis writ here in Verses for Lasses to Sing ; And therefore come buy this new Ditty , for why , The truth of this Story there's none can deny ; We see by the Stars that promotion will be , Extended to persons of e'ery degree . When we are united all over the Land , Resolving against all the Roman to stand , Under the protection of William our King , And pay our Allegiance in everything ; And Protestant Boys , with a thund'ring noise ; Has routed Tyrconnel , and all his Dear-Joys , Then all these three Kingdoms will flourish again , And we shall be blessed with a prosperous Reign . When Lawyers at Westminter plead without Fees , And Travellers walk on the turbulent Seas Without any Vessel from Brittain to Spain , And when it does fair Maids and Featherbeds rain ; When Room and her crew , are both Loyal and true , And bid all their Treasons and Plottings adieu ; I say when these wonders come truly to pass , The Protestants all will admire the Mass. When Lasses are mother's by lying alone , And Sheffery finds the Philosophers Stone , And England is wall'd round with Silver and Gold , When Knaves will not honest-mens Treasures withhold When Friars grow chaste , and will not embrace Young Ladies that comes with and amorous grace , To make and ingenious confession of since , Then Room will be purer than e'er she has been . When every River with Brandy does run , And hard stony Rocks they do melt with the Sun ; When Fish make Honey that swims in the Seas , And Oranges grows upon Sycamore Trees ; When Usurers they throw their money away , And then fill their Bags and their Coffers with clay ; When this comes to pass I will make it appear , That Room shall be honour [ ' ] worser by Protestants here . When the richest Amber of pebbles is made , And Diamonds with Jewels for Gravel is laid , The City and Country Roads to repair , When Towers and Castles do fly in the air , And great Ships refrain , the vast wide Ocean main , And sails in the middle of Salisbury plain , When all these strange wonders comes fairly to pass , The Protestants then shall admire the Mass. Here is a prediction for Lasses likewise , The which will their longing desires suffice ; Whenever you're merry be modest and chaste , And always give way to your betters in place ; Tho' you lie alone , yet make not your moan , For here by the Stars it is very well known , If you will be thrifty and both get and safe , When you are all marry'd you Husbands shall have . FINIS . Printed for G. Conyers on Ludgate-Hill . 