The Kentish MIRACLE : OR , A Strange and Miraculous work of Gods Providence , showed to a poor distressed Widow , and her Seven small Fatherless Children , who lived by a burned six - penny Loaf of Bred , and a little Water , for above seven Weeks , in the wild of Kent , to the Praise and Glory of Almighty God . To the Tune of , A rich Merchant Man. TAke comfort Christians all , for never shall you see The faithful forsaken quite , and left in misery . Who lives and loves to hear the truth in each degree , The story of a widows plaint , let them give ear to me . Who by this widow here sufficient have been try'd , The which was left both poor & bore when as her husband dy'd . And seven young children small upon her hands likewise , And knew not how to buy them bred , their hunger to suffice . She labours night and day , she spins and takes great pain , And many a thing to buy them bred God knows , she lays in pawn . But when the appointed time , as time consumeth all , Oh then she knew not how to keep her hungry Children small . MOst merciful God , said she , cast down a tender eye , And suffer not thy Servant here with a famishing death to die . Thou that the Ravens didst send Elias for to feed , When that he was in wilderness in extreme want and need . And reigned Bred from Heaven Old Israel to preserve : And wouldst not in the lyons den let Daniel pine and starve . I know my Lord , she said , thou didst five thousand feed With five small Barley Loaves , as we in Scripture read . And each one had enough their hunger to sustain ; & afterwards twelve baskets full of scraps did still remain . I know my Lord , she said , thou art so mighty still : And therefore everything be done according to thy will . Her Prayers ended thus ; her Children cry'd straightway , Oh Mother dear give us some bred we have eat none today . Give me some bred , said one give me some bred said another And thus the silly Infants flock about their careful Mother . The good Soul hearing this , persuades them to be still , Oh soon at night my lambs said she you shall have bred your fill . I will to Market go , let Corn be cheap or dear , I'l fell my Coat to buy some corn if you'l be quiet here . The Children smil'd at this , content they did remain , Good Mother everyone could say come quickly home again . Three Miles this woman went unto the Market Town , And for five shillings she did fell her Coat & Russet Gown . Who being glad in heart , to Market straight she hies , But there alas her purse was cut e're any Corn she buys . She cryeth out , God knows , she weeps and makes her moan , To everyone that passes by , her grief she makes it known . But yet behold and see , here in her woeful case , Her Husbands Brother he was one that sold Corn in that place . This woeful woman then did him desire and pray , To trust her with a peck of corn till the next Market day . But he denies her flat , and thus he tells her plain , I shall not have to serve my turn till Corn do come again . More heed you might have took unto your purse said he , And not to loose your money here so found and foolishly . This dogged answer cut this poor soul to the Heart , Especially when she did think upon her Infants smart , Who sits and strives at home , poor souls , but all in vain , Which of them should the biggest piece of bred and butter gain . But far alas they were from butter , bred , or cheese , Or anything to comfort them that their poor Mother sees . But now behold Gods work : As homeward she return'd , A Bakers Boy gave her a Loaf which was a little burn [ ' ] worser She gave God thanks for that , & joyful in her hand She bears the bred home to her babes , which waiting for her stand . She kisses them each one , and with a cheerful look : And said we will to supper go when you have said your book . Meantime she makes a fire , and Apples therein throws , The Widow and her seven children to supper sweetly goes . The Apples roasted well , and she does cut them bred , On every piece most lovingly she does the Apple spread . Instead of drink she had a Cup of Water clear , And every Child rejoiced much , and said here is good cheer . Behold when they had supped , for God their food did bless , when they had supped & were sufficed their Loaf was never the less . For seven weeks space together , as story's plainly spread , The widow & her seven children by this one Loaf was fed . The cut-Purse man I say , he brake his Neck in Kent , E'r he of this poor widows money one single penny had spent . And yet behold and see her Husbands churlish brother , That would not trust one peck of corn , her children to succour . And straightway after this his Corn was washed away All by a mighty flood that came before the break of day . The Gentlemen , and such that did this wonder see , Unto this widow gave such gifts that ne'r more wanted she . And now good people all , you here may plainly see , Gods servants are not forsaken quite Gods mercies is to them free . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guilt-spur street , without Newgate . The Kentish MIRACLE : OR , A Strange and Miraculous work of Gods Providence , showed to a poor distressed Widow , and her Seven small Fatherless Children , who lived by a burned six - penny Loaf of Bred , and a little Water , for above seven Weeks , in the wild of Kent , to the Praise and Glory of Almighty God . To the Tune of , A rich Merchant Man. TAke comfort Christians all , for never shall you see The faithful forsaken quite , and left in misery . Who lives and loves to hear the truth in each degree , The story of a widows plaint , let them give ear to me . Who by this widow here sufficient have been try'd , The which was left both poor & bore when as her husband dy'd . And seven young children small upon her hands likewise , And knew not how to buy them bred , their hunger to suffice . She labours night and day , she spins and takes great pain , And many a thing to buy them bred God knows , she lays in pawn . But when the appointed time , as time consumeth all , Oh then she knew not how to keep her hungry Children small . MOst merciful God , said she , cast down a tender eye , And suffer not thy Servant here with a famishing death to die . Thou that the Ravens didst send Elias for to feed , When that he was in wilderness in extreme want and need . And reigned Bred from Heaven Old Israel to preserve : And wouldst not in the lyons den let Daniel pine and starve . I know my Lord , she said , thou didst five thousand feed With five small Barley Loaves , as we in Scripture read . And each one had enough their hunger to sustain ; & afterwards twelve baskets full of scraps did still remain . I know my Lord , she said , thou art so mighty still : And therefore everything be done according to thy will . Her Prayers ended thus ; her Children cry'd straightway , Oh Mother dear give us some bred we have eat none today . Give me some bred , said one give me some bred said another And thus the silly Infants flock about their careful Mother . The good Soul hearing this , persuades them to be still , Oh soon at night my lambs said she you shall have bred your fill . I will to Market go , let Corn be cheap or dear , I'l fell my Coat to buy some corn if you'l be quiet here . The Children smil'd at this , content they did remain , Good Mother everyone could say come quickly home again . Three Miles this woman went unto the Market Town , And for five shillings she did fell her Coat & Russet Gown . Who being glad in heart , to Market straight she hies , But there alas her purse was cut e're any Corn she buys . She cryeth out , God knows , she weeps and makes her moan , To everyone that passes by , her grief she makes it known . But yet behold and see , here in her woeful case , Her Husbands Brother he was one that sold Corn in that place . This woeful woman then did him desire and pray , To trust her with a peck of corn till the next Market day . But he denies her flat , and thus he tells her plain , I shall not have to serve my turn till Corn do come again . More heed you might have took unto your purse said he , And not to loose your money here so found and foolishly . This dogged answer cut this poor soul to the Heart , Especially when she did think upon her Infants smart , Who sits and strives at home , poor souls , but all in vain , Which of them should the biggest piece of bred and butter gain . But far alas they were from butter , bred , or cheese , Or anything to comfort them that their poor Mother sees . But now behold Gods work : As homeward she return'd , A Bakers Boy gave her a Loaf which was a little burn [ ' ] worser She gave God thanks for that , & joyful in her hand She bears the bred home to her babes , which waiting for her stand . She kisses them each one , and with a cheerful look : And said we will to supper go when you have said your book . Meantime she makes a fire , and Apples therein throws , The Widow and her seven children to supper sweetly goes . The Apples roasted well , and she does cut them bred , On every piece most lovingly she does the Apple spread . Instead of drink she had a Cup of Water clear , And every Child rejoiced much , and said here is good cheer . Behold when they had supped , for God their food did bless , when they had supped & were sufficed their Loaf was never the less . For seven weeks space together , as story's plainly spread , The widow & her seven children by this one Loaf was fed . The cut-Purse man I say , he brake his Neck in Kent , E'r he of this poor widows money one single penny had spent . And yet behold and see her Husbands churlish brother , That would not trust one peck of corn , her children to succour . And straightway after this his Corn was washed away All by a mighty flood that came before the break of day . The Gentlemen , and such that did this wonder see , Unto this widow gave such gifts that ne'r more wanted she . And now good people all , you here may plainly see , Gods servants are not forsaken quite Gods mercies is to them free . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guilt-spur street , without Newgate . 