The Cheerful Husband : Or , The Despairing Wife . In a Dialogue between a loving Couple , about the Cares and Crosses of these troublesome Times . To the Tune of , The Jealous Lover . Woman . SWeet kind and loving Husband dear , We shall be ruin'd now , I fear ; Such Times before , I never knew Since I was born , what shall we do ? Our Charge is great and Profit small , And Charity grows cold withal ; This fills my Heart with grief and care , I nothing see but sad despair . Man. Cheer up , my kind and loving Wife , The joy and comfort of my Life , And do not in the least complain , I hope to see good Times again . Let us the while with patience wait , Submitting to the hand of Fate , Which will in time our Joys restore ; Then what can we desire more ? Woman . Dear Love , I know you hope to see Once more the Land's prosperity , That Fortune will upon us smile , But pray how shall we live the while ? Our Family is something large , Six Children is no little charge , For to be fed and cloath'd also , Whither we have employ or no . Man. My Children they are Blessing's Love , Sent from a gracious God above ; Then do not murmur in the least , Content is a continual Feast . God's Providence does comfort yield , He clothes the Lilies of the Field , And feeds the Ravens of the Air , Then why should'st thou and I despair ? Woman . But , Husband , Husband , she reply'd , When I was made your lawful Bride , I brought two hundred Pounds in Gold , As good as ever Merchant told : Yet , since the Times have been so bad , Through many Losses we have had , It's wasted , therefore I complain , I ne'er shall see so much again . Man. Perhaps you mayn't , yet ne'ertheless , If God does but our Labours bless , We may be furnish'd with content , Then do not in the least lament . Love , let not Losses make thee sad ; When Job was stripp'd of all he had , His Sorrows he with patience boar , And grew far richer than before . He in his Sorrows thus did say , God gives and likewise takes away , And blessed be his holy Name , From whom his greatest Comforts came . Then let us learn of him , my Dear , To bear with Faith and Patience here , The Sorrows which we undergo , For God is merciful I know . Then dry thine Eyes and do not weep , For , while I live , I hope to keep , With Pains and Care , my Family , Our eldest Son shall work with me . Woman . Well , loving Husband , since I find , That thou art so exceeding kind , God's Providence I'll not distrust , For he is merciful and just . Henceforward , with a cheerful heart , With thee I'll strive to bear a part ; Thy cheerful Words , like Cordials fine , Has cur'd this drooping Soul of mine . Licensed according to Order . London : Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass on London-bridge . The Cheerful Husband : Or , The Despairing Wife . In a Dialogue between a loving Couple , about the Cares and Crosses of these troublesome Times . To the Tune of , The Jealous Lover . Woman . SWeet kind and loving Husband dear , We shall be ruin'd now , I fear ; Such Times before , I never knew Since I was born , what shall we do ? Our Charge is great and Profit small , And Charity grows cold withal ; This fills my Heart with grief and care , I nothing see but sad despair . Man. Cheer up , my kind and loving Wife , The joy and comfort of my Life , And do not in the least complain , I hope to see good Times again . Let us the while with patience wait , Submitting to the hand of Fate , Which will in time our Joys restore ; Then what can we desire more ? Woman . Dear Love , I know you hope to see Once more the Land's prosperity , That Fortune will upon us smile , But pray how shall we live the while ? Our Family is something large , Six Children is no little charge , For to be fed and cloath'd also , Whither we have employ or no . Man. My Children they are Blessing's Love , Sent from a gracious God above ; Then do not murmur in the least , Content is a continual Feast . God's Providence does comfort yield , He clothes the Lilies of the Field , And feeds the Ravens of the Air , Then why should'st thou and I despair ? Woman . But , Husband , Husband , she reply'd , When I was made your lawful Bride , I brought two hundred Pounds in Gold , As good as ever Merchant told : Yet , since the Times have been so bad , Through many Losses we have had , It's wasted , therefore I complain , I ne'er shall see so much again . Man. Perhaps you mayn't , yet ne'ertheless , If God does but our Labours bless , We may be furnish'd with content , Then do not in the least lament . Love , let not Losses make thee sad ; When Job was stripp'd of all he had , His Sorrows he with patience boar , And grew far richer than before . He in his Sorrows thus did say , God gives and likewise takes away , And blessed be his holy Name , From whom his greatest Comforts came . Then let us learn of him , my Dear , To bear with Faith and Patience here , The Sorrows which we undergo , For God is merciful I know . Then dry thine Eyes and do not weep , For , while I live , I hope to keep , With Pains and Care , my Family , Our eldest Son shall work with me . Woman . Well , loving Husband , since I find , That thou art so exceeding kind , God's Providence I'll not distrust , For he is merciful and just . Henceforward , with a cheerful heart , With thee I'll strive to bear a part ; Thy cheerful Words , like Cordials fine , Has cur'd this drooping Soul of mine . Licensed according to Order . London : Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass on London-bridge . 