The Love sports of Wanton Jemmy and Simpering Jenny ; OR The Servingman and his Mistress the Chambermaid . As it was acted at twelve of the Clock at night when their Master was in Bed. To a new Tune , called , Tell me Jenny , etc The Man speaks . TEll me Jenny , tell me roundly , when you will your Heart surrender : Faith and troth i'm love you soundly ; 'tis I that was the first Pretender . Ne'r say nay , nor delay , here's my heart , and here's my hand too ; All that's mine shall be thine , Body and Goods at your Command too . The Maid speaks . Ah! how many Maids ( quoth J [ e ] nny ) have you promis'd to be tO [ r ] we to ? Fie , I think the Devil's in you , [ to ] kiss a body so as you do . What do you do ? let me go , I can't abide such foolish doing ; Get you gone , naughty man , fie , is this your way in wooing ? The Man speaks . Prithee Jenny , why so fretful ? tell me how I did displease you : Why is Jenny grown so hateful , that you e're should bid him leave you ? If that kiss was amiss 'twas a fault I did not then know ; Since 'tis done , let't alone , and bite me if I do again so . The Maid speaks . Lord ! how strangely you provoke me ! let me go i'le swear i'le beatrice you : Such another kiss will choke me , surely you intend to eat me : What d'ye mean ? what's your aim ? why d'ye give me cause to chide you ? Get you gone , naughty man , I vow and swear I can't abide you . The Man speaks . Jenny needs must know my meaning why I kiss her with such ferver , Kisses are not worth the naming to those pleasures I reserve her : Be not coy , let's enjoy what the gods and Nature gave us , Youeh with Love still should move , when we are Old the joy will leave us . The Maid speaks . Jemmy surely does not love me , if he did he would not woo me , Nor so passionately move me for the thing that will undo me : Pray give o're , pray no more , why d'ye tremble now and start so ? Get you gone you naughty man , you've rais'd up something at my heart lo . The Man speaks . I have that will quickly Cure you , if you will but be my Patient ; Of your health I will assure you , and will do't this very instan I have a Pill will not fail if your stomach will endure it ; Maid . Get you gone , foolish man , i'm sure one Dose will never cure it . The Maid speaks again . Well , i'le swear you're so unruly that I shall be forc'd to leave you ; Is this your loving me so truly ? don't you think Old Neck will have you ? Fie , nay pish , what d'ye do , is this your filthy way to cure me ? Get you gone , naughty man , I vow and swear I can't endure you . London , Printed for Phil. Brooksby at the Golden ball in West smithfield . The Love sports of Wanton Jemmy and Simpering Jenny ; OR The Servingman and his Mistress the Chambermaid . As it was acted at twelve of the Clock at night when their Master was in Bed. To a new Tune , called , Tell me Jenny , etc The Man speaks . TEll me Jenny , tell me roundly , when you will your Heart surrender : Faith and troth i'm love you soundly ; 'tis I that was the first Pretender . Ne'r say nay , nor delay , here's my heart , and here's my hand too ; All that's mine shall be thine , Body and Goods at your Command too . The Maid speaks . Ah! how many Maids ( quoth J [ e ] nny ) have you promis'd to be tO [ r ] we to ? Fie , I think the Devil's in you , [ to ] kiss a body so as you do . What do you do ? let me go , I can't abide such foolish doing ; Get you gone , naughty man , fie , is this your way in wooing ? The Man speaks . Prithee Jenny , why so fretful ? tell me how I did displease you : Why is Jenny grown so hateful , that you e're should bid him leave you ? If that kiss was amiss 'twas a fault I did not then know ; Since 'tis done , let't alone , and bite me if I do again so . The Maid speaks . Lord ! how strangely you provoke me ! let me go i'le swear i'le beatrice you : Such another kiss will choke me , surely you intend to eat me : What d'ye mean ? what's your aim ? why d'ye give me cause to chide you ? Get you gone , naughty man , I vow and swear I can't abide you . The Man speaks . Jenny needs must know my meaning why I kiss her with such ferver , Kisses are not worth the naming to those pleasures I reserve her : Be not coy , let's enjoy what the gods and Nature gave us , Youeh with Love still should move , when we are Old the joy will leave us . The Maid speaks . Jemmy surely does not love me , if he did he would not woo me , Nor so passionately move me for the thing that will undo me : Pray give o're , pray no more , why d'ye tremble now and start so ? Get you gone you naughty man , you've rais'd up something at my heart lo . The Man speaks . I have that will quickly Cure you , if you will but be my Patient ; Of your health I will assure you , and will do't this very instan I have a Pill will not fail if your stomach will endure it ; Maid . Get you gone , foolish man , i'm sure one Dose will never cure it . The Maid speaks again . Well , i'le swear you're so unruly that I shall be forc'd to leave you ; Is this your loving me so truly ? don't you think Old Neck will have you ? Fie , nay pish , what d'ye do , is this your filthy way to cure me ? Get you gone , naughty man , I vow and swear I can't endure you . London , Printed for Phil. Brooksby at the Golden ball in West smithfield . 