b And English Dance to a Scottish Bagpipe . A Hall , a Hall ; let's dance , our task is done ; Thanks unto Lowdon , and to Hinderson : Our bounds we will enlarge , our names advance , While that the English to our bagpipe dance : A Jig , a Jig , Edwards that Boanerges , Is come , accompanied with Doctor B ------ : Old G ------ halts hither too , and Call ------ , To try the case of the Presbytery . Delicious Swads , that by the Rubric prate , The Alphas and Omegas of the State : Most holy Caterwaulers , that can pry Into men's acts , by wits Stenography . Olimpick gewgaws , fram'd of pitch and tar , Whose sayings still are found orbicular . New-model'd Elders ; whose brains are as dry As blasted trees , or sand on mountains high . Blow thy wind Instrument , about , about , This music has enchanted , out of doubt , The English Senate , that on so small ground They gave to us two hundred thousand pound . The while their Sovereign does drenched lie , The essence of true griefs hydrography . Here comes too some o'th Army , whose intent Is alike good to King and Parliament . Why then dance you together in a ring ? You hate the Parliament , and they the King . And now we may prepare , unto our pain , Scilla and Marius days to see again . Let Samson turn these Foxes tail to tail , They need no firebrands for to assail ; Their tongues are fir'd by hell , their hands do fallen More ponderous then Talus iron maul . Their hope's and fears can't rest , until the Fates Do thrust them down to Proserpines black gates . But when these Herods show their cruelty , The guiltless children every one must die : But prudence through dark windings some may led Safely with Ariadnes clew of thread . If all were like to them , where should there be Saints for the heaven , for earth posterity ? Great Xerxes then might justly shed his tears , And say , that all will die within few years . The Daunian Wolves , Spartan Molossian Dogs , The Marsian Boars , Arcadian Boars and Hogs ; Th' African may 'mongst us his monsters find , His painted birds , and fowls of strangest kind . But while your selves you weary , have a care Of those that of you both so hated are . Anno 1647. b And English Dance to a Scottish Bagpipe . A Hall , a Hall ; let's dance , our task is done ; Thanks unto Lowdon , and to Hinderson : Our bounds we will enlarge , our names advance , While that the English to our bagpipe dance : A Jig , a Jig , Edwards that Boanerges , Is come , accompanied with Doctor B ------ : Old G ------ halts hither too , and Call ------ , To try the case of the Presbytery . Delicious Swads , that by the Rubric prate , The Alphas and Omegas of the State : Most holy Caterwaulers , that can pry Into men's acts , by wits Stenography . Olimpick gewgaws , fram'd of pitch and tar , Whose sayings still are found orbicular . New-model'd Elders ; whose brains are as dry As blasted trees , or sand on mountains high . Blow thy wind Instrument , about , about , This music has enchanted , out of doubt , The English Senate , that on so small ground They gave to us two hundred thousand pound . The while their Sovereign does drenched lie , The essence of true griefs hydrography . Here comes too some o'th Army , whose intent Is alike good to King and Parliament . Why then dance you together in a ring ? You hate the Parliament , and they the King . And now we may prepare , unto our pain , Scilla and Marius days to see again . Let Samson turn these Foxes tail to tail , They need no firebrands for to assail ; Their tongues are fir'd by hell , their hands do fallen More ponderous then Talus iron maul . Their hope's and fears can't rest , until the Fates Do thrust them down to Proserpines black gates . But when these Herods show their cruelty , The guiltless children every one must die : But prudence through dark windings some may led Safely with Ariadnes clew of thread . If all were like to them , where should there be Saints for the heaven , for earth posterity ? Great Xerxes then might justly shed his tears , And say , that all will die within few years . The Daunian Wolves , Spartan Molossian Dogs , The Marsian Boars , Arcadian Boars and Hogs ; Th' African may 'mongst us his monsters find , His painted birds , and fowls of strangest kind . But while your selves you weary , have a care Of those that of you both so hated are . Anno 1647. 