The Wealthy Graziers Joys COMPLETED . Or , The Shepherd's beautiful Daughter obtained . His Love was pure , and did endure , And will for evermore ; Her Beauty bright is his delight , And her he does adore . Tune of , Ladies of London , etc This may be printed , R.P. PRithee sweet Creature at down by my side , I have no design to undo thee ; But am resolved to make thee my Bride , and therefore am coming to woo thee : If that thou wilt but give thy consent , there needs no more disputation ; I shall have comfort and perfect content in thee , the sweet Girl of the Nation . Tell me , my dearest , if thou wilt be mine , 'tis nothing but Love I desire ; All that I have in the World shall be thine , thy person I much do admire . Here I protest my love it is true , I never use dissimulation ; Let me enjoy but the favour of you the beautiful Girl of the Nation . I Never fancied no Creature but thee , thou fair and most amorous beauty ; I do desire thy servant to be , and count it no more than my Duty , Nay , and I call the Powers above to witness this my Oration , That I will never prove false to my Love , the Beauty of all the whole Nation . Here I do promise , and give thee my hand , my Love , that I'll never offend thee ; But will endow thee with Houses and Land , and servants shall always attend thee : Therefore if thou to love wilt agree , there needs no more disputation ; I never fancied no Creature but thee , the Beauty of all the whole Nation . Both Corn and Cattle I have a great stock , and young ones they daily are breeding ; Three or four hundred Sheep in a Flock , with Lambs that are sweetly feeding ; I will maintain thee gallant and brave , and thou shalt live free from vexation ; Had I ten thousand times more than I have , 'tis thine , the sweet Girl of the Nation . Both night and day thou dost run in my mind , then prithee now do not deny me ; If you imagine I will prove unkind , my dearest I'd have thee but try me : Here in my Arms I will thee enfold , believe this my true protestation , For I do prize thee far better than Gold , thou beautiful Girl of the Nation . When he had told her his honest intent , she finding his Love so entire , This youthful Damosel did give her consent , and granted her true Love's desire ; Then by the hand his Love he did take , and brought her home to her Relation , Where he protested he'd never forsake this beautiful Girl of the Nation . He was for making no longer delay , with her he was truly delighted ; And the young Damosel appointed the day , their Friends they was likewise invited ; That they in Love might both be linked fast , according to Laws of the Nation ; And when the Wedding is over and passed , we'l give you a further Relation . Printed for J Deacon at the Angel in Guiltspur-street , without Newgate . The Wealthy Graziers Joys COMPLETED . Or , The Shepherd's beautiful Daughter obtained . His Love was pure , and did endure , And will for evermore ; Her Beauty bright is his delight , And her he does adore . Tune of , Ladies of London , etc This may be printed , R.P. PRithee sweet Creature at down by my side , I have no design to undo thee ; But am resolved to make thee my Bride , and therefore am coming to woo thee : If that thou wilt but give thy consent , there needs no more disputation ; I shall have comfort and perfect content in thee , the sweet Girl of the Nation . Tell me , my dearest , if thou wilt be mine , 'tis nothing but Love I desire ; All that I have in the World shall be thine , thy person I much do admire . Here I protest my love it is true , I never use dissimulation ; Let me enjoy but the favour of you the beautiful Girl of the Nation . I Never fancied no Creature but thee , thou fair and most amorous beauty ; I do desire thy servant to be , and count it no more than my Duty , Nay , and I call the Powers above to witness this my Oration , That I will never prove false to my Love , the Beauty of all the whole Nation . Here I do promise , and give thee my hand , my Love , that I'll never offend thee ; But will endow thee with Houses and Land , and servants shall always attend thee : Therefore if thou to love wilt agree , there needs no more disputation ; I never fancied no Creature but thee , the Beauty of all the whole Nation . Both Corn and Cattle I have a great stock , and young ones they daily are breeding ; Three or four hundred Sheep in a Flock , with Lambs that are sweetly feeding ; I will maintain thee gallant and brave , and thou shalt live free from vexation ; Had I ten thousand times more than I have , 'tis thine , the sweet Girl of the Nation . Both night and day thou dost run in my mind , then prithee now do not deny me ; If you imagine I will prove unkind , my dearest I'd have thee but try me : Here in my Arms I will thee enfold , believe this my true protestation , For I do prize thee far better than Gold , thou beautiful Girl of the Nation . When he had told her his honest intent , she finding his Love so entire , This youthful Damosel did give her consent , and granted her true Love's desire ; Then by the hand his Love he did take , and brought her home to her Relation , Where he protested he'd never forsake this beautiful Girl of the Nation . He was for making no longer delay , with her he was truly delighted ; And the young Damosel appointed the day , their Friends they was likewise invited ; That they in Love might both be linked fast , according to Laws of the Nation ; And when the Wedding is over and passed , we'l give you a further Relation . Printed for J Deacon at the Angel in Guiltspur-street , without Newgate . The Wealthy Graziers Joys COMPLETED . Or , The Shepherd's beautiful Daughter obtained . His Love was pure , and did endure , And will for evermore ; Her Beauty bright is his delight , And her he does adore . Tune of , Ladies of London , etc This may be printed , R.P. PRithee sweet Creature at down by my side , I have no design to undo thee ; But am resolved to make thee my Bride , and therefore am coming to woo thee : If that thou wilt but give thy consent , there needs no more disputation ; I shall have comfort and perfect content in thee , the sweet Girl of the Nation . Tell me , my dearest , if thou wilt be mine , 'tis nothing but Love I desire ; All that I have in the World shall be thine , thy person I much do admire . Here I protest my love it is true , I never use dissimulation ; Let me enjoy but the favour of you the beautiful Girl of the Nation . I Never fancied no Creature but thee , thou fair and most amorous beauty ; I do desire thy servant to be , and count it no more than my Duty , Nay , and I call the Powers above to witness this my Oration , That I will never prove false to my Love , the Beauty of all the whole Nation . Here I do promise , and give thee my hand , my Love , that I'll never offend thee ; But will endow thee with Houses and Land , and servants shall always attend thee : Therefore if thou to love wilt agree , there needs no more disputation ; I never fancied no Creature but thee , the Beauty of all the whole Nation . Both Corn and Cattle I have a great stock , and young ones they daily are breeding ; Three or four hundred Sheep in a Flock , with Lambs that are sweetly feeding ; I will maintain thee gallant and brave , and thou shalt live free from vexation ; Had I ten thousand times more than I have , 'tis thine , the sweet Girl of the Nation . Both night and day thou dost run in my mind , then prithee now do not deny me ; If you imagine I will prove unkind , my dearest I'd have thee but try me : Here in my Arms I will thee enfold , believe this my true protestation , For I do prize thee far better than Gold , thou beautiful Girl of the Nation . When he had told her his honest intent , she finding his Love so entire , This youthful Damosel did give her consent , and granted her true Love's desire ; Then by the hand his Love he did take , and brought her home to her Relation , Where he protested he'd never forsake this beautiful Girl of the Nation . He was for making no longer delay , with her he was truly delighted ; And the young Damosel appointed the day , their Friends they was likewise invited ; That they in Love might both be linked fast , according to Laws of the Nation ; And when the Wedding is over and passed , we'l give you a further Relation . Printed for J Deacon at the Angel in Guiltspur-street , without Newgate . The Wealthy Graziers Joys COMPLETED . Or , The Shepherd's beautiful Daughter obtained . His Love was pure , and did endure , And will for evermore ; Her Beauty bright is his delight , And her he does adore . Tune of , Ladies of London , etc This may be printed , R.P. PRithee sweet Creature at down by my side , I have no design to undo thee ; But am resolved to make thee my Bride , and therefore am coming to woo thee : If that thou wilt but give thy consent , there needs no more disputation ; I shall have comfort and perfect content in thee , the sweet Girl of the Nation . Tell me , my dearest , if thou wilt be mine , 'tis nothing but Love I desire ; All that I have in the World shall be thine , thy person I much do admire . Here I protest my love it is true , I never use dissimulation ; Let me enjoy but the favour of you the beautiful Girl of the Nation . I Never fancied no Creature but thee , thou fair and most amorous beauty ; I do desire thy servant to be , and count it no more than my Duty , Nay , and I call the Powers above to witness this my Oration , That I will never prove false to my Love , the Beauty of all the whole Nation . Here I do promise , and give thee my hand , my Love , that I'll never offend thee ; But will endow thee with Houses and Land , and servants shall always attend thee : Therefore if thou to love wilt agree , there needs no more disputation ; I never fancied no Creature but thee , the Beauty of all the whole Nation . Both Corn and Cattle I have a great stock , and young ones they daily are breeding ; Three or four hundred Sheep in a Flock , with Lambs that are sweetly feeding ; I will maintain thee gallant and brave , and thou shalt live free from vexation ; Had I ten thousand times more than I have , 'tis thine , the sweet Girl of the Nation . Both night and day thou dost run in my mind , then prithee now do not deny me ; If you imagine I will prove unkind , my dearest I'd have thee but try me : Here in my Arms I will thee enfold , believe this my true protestation , For I do prize thee far better than Gold , thou beautiful Girl of the Nation . When he had told her his honest intent , she finding his Love so entire , This youthful Damosel did give her consent , and granted her true Love's desire ; Then by the hand his Love he did take , and brought her home to her Relation , Where he protested he'd never forsake this beautiful Girl of the Nation . He was for making no longer delay , with her he was truly delighted ; And the young Damosel appointed the day , their Friends they was likewise invited ; That they in Love might both be linked fast , according to Laws of the Nation ; And when the Wedding is over and passed , we'l give you a further Relation . Printed for J Deacon at the Angel in Guiltspur-street , without Newgate . 