Courage Crowned with Conquest ; OR , A brief Relation , how that Valiant Knight , and Heroic Champion Sir Eglamore , bravely fought with , and manfully slew , a terrible , huge great Monstrous Dragon . To a pleasant new Tune . SIr Eglamore that valiant Knight with his fa , la , lanctre down dilie , He fetched his sword and he went to fight ; with his fa la lanctre , etc As he went over hill and dale All clothed in his Coat of Male . with his fa la lanctre , etc A huge great Dragon leapt out of his Den with his fa la lanctre , etc Which had killed the Lord knows how many men with his fa la lanctre , etc But when he saw Sir Eglamore Good lack had you seen how this Dragon did roar with his fa la lanctre , etc This Dragon , he had a plaguy hide with his fa la lanctre , etc Which could both sword and spear abide with his fa la lanctre , etc He could not enter with hacks and cuts Which vexed the Knight to the very hearts blood and guts , with his fa la lanctre , etc All the Trees in the Wood did shake with his fa la lanctre , etc Stars did tremble , and men did quake , with his fa la lanctre , etc But had you seen how the birds lay peeping 'Twould have made a men heart to fallen a weeping with his fa la lanctre , etc The second Part. To the same Tune . But it was too late to fear with his fa la lanctre , etc For now it was come to fight Dog , fight Bore with his fa la lanctre , etc And as a yawning he did fallen He thrust his Sword in hilt and all , with his fa la lanctre , etc But now as the Knight in choler did burn with his fa la lanctre , etc He owed the Dragon a shrewd good turn with his fa la lanctre , etc In at his mouth his sword he bent , The hilt appeared at his fundament , with his fa la lanctre , etc Then the Dragon like a coward began to fly with his fa la lanctre , etc Unto his Den that was hard by with his fa la lanctre , etc And there he laid him down and roar'd The Knight was vexed for his Sword with a fa la lanctre , etc The Sword that was a right good Blade , with his fa la lanctre , etc As ever Turk or Spaniard made . with his fa la lanctre , etc I for my part do forsake it And he that will fetch it , let him take it with his fa la lanctre , etc When all this was done , to the Alehouse he went with his fa la lanctre , etc And by and by his two pence he spent with his fa la lanctre , etc For he was so hight with tugging with the Dragon That nothing would quench him but a whole Flagon . with his fa la lanctre , etc Now God preserve our King and Queen , with his fa la lanctre , etc And eke in London may be seen , with his fa la lanctre , etc As many Knights , and as many more , And all so good as Sir Eglamore . with his fa la , langtre down dilly . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright , 1672. Courage Crowned with Conquest ; OR , A brief Relation , how that Valiant Knight , and Heroic Champion Sir Eglamore , bravely fought with , and manfully slew , a terrible , huge great Monstrous Dragon . To a pleasant new Tune . SIr Eglamore that valiant Knight with his fa , la , lanctre down dilie , He fetched his sword and he went to fight ; with his fa la lanctre , etc As he went over hill and dale All clothed in his Coat of Male . with his fa la lanctre , etc A huge great Dragon leapt out of his Den with his fa la lanctre , etc Which had killed the Lord knows how many men with his fa la lanctre , etc But when he saw Sir Eglamore Good lack had you seen how this Dragon did roar with his fa la lanctre , etc This Dragon , he had a plaguy hide with his fa la lanctre , etc Which could both sword and spear abide with his fa la lanctre , etc He could not enter with hacks and cuts Which vexed the Knight to the very hearts blood and guts , with his fa la lanctre , etc All the Trees in the Wood did shake with his fa la lanctre , etc Stars did tremble , and men did quake , with his fa la lanctre , etc But had you seen how the birds lay peeping 'Twould have made a men heart to fallen a weeping with his fa la lanctre , etc The second Part. To the same Tune . But it was too late to fear with his fa la lanctre , etc For now it was come to fight Dog , fight Bore with his fa la lanctre , etc And as a yawning he did fallen He thrust his Sword in hilt and all , with his fa la lanctre , etc But now as the Knight in choler did burn with his fa la lanctre , etc He owed the Dragon a shrewd good turn with his fa la lanctre , etc In at his mouth his sword he bent , The hilt appeared at his fundament , with his fa la lanctre , etc Then the Dragon like a coward began to fly with his fa la lanctre , etc Unto his Den that was hard by with his fa la lanctre , etc And there he laid him down and roar'd The Knight was vexed for his Sword with a fa la lanctre , etc The Sword that was a right good Blade , with his fa la lanctre , etc As ever Turk or Spaniard made . with his fa la lanctre , etc I for my part do forsake it And he that will fetch it , let him take it with his fa la lanctre , etc When all this was done , to the Alehouse he went with his fa la lanctre , etc And by and by his two pence he spent with his fa la lanctre , etc For he was so hight with tugging with the Dragon That nothing would quench him but a whole Flagon . with his fa la lanctre , etc Now God preserve our King and Queen , with his fa la lanctre , etc And eke in London may be seen , with his fa la lanctre , etc As many Knights , and as many more , And all so good as Sir Eglamore . with his fa la , langtre down dilly . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright , 1672. 