The New Oath Examined , and found Guilty . SInce Oaths are Solemn , Serious Things , The best Security to Kings ; And since we'ave all Allegiance swore To J ------ as King , or Successor ; I can't imagine , how we may Swear that or Fealty away . Nought sure but Death or Resignation Can free us from that Obligation . All Oaths are vain , both those and these , If we may break 'em , as we please . And did I fairly swallow both , Who'de give a Farthing for my Oath ? If you affirm , as many do , They both consistent are , and true . I ask , Can you Two Master's serve , And never from your Duty swerve ? Or can you True Allegiance bear To Two at once , and not forswear ? What's due to J ------ if W ------ have , And J ------ have what you W ------ gave ? It's plain , you're false to both , and shou'd Or take no Oaths , or make 'em good , Which here you cannot , if you wou'd . Nor will these Oaths , as some contend , To your own private Meaning bend . You swear to each as to a King , And ought to mean the self same Thing . And 'tis Allegiance Full and True Is sworn to both , to both as due . To say , The People have a Right Kings to depose , as they see fit , Is Pop'ry , or as bad as it . There is no Law , or Charter for' Kings can't be try'd in any Court . Bradshaw's High Court had but the Name Of Justice , and was Bradshaw's Shame . But that's by all condemn'd --------- Or he that dares such Presidents plead , Deserves , like him , to loose his Head , And hang for't , or alive or dead . Now to condemn the King untry'd , Seems something worse than Bradshaw did . 'Tis English Privilege to be herd , Before the Judge can give Award . I know , some Conquest plead , and say , The King was driv'n and forc'd away . Convention though pleads Abdication , Because unforc'd he left the Nation . Hard 'tis these Things to reconcile : He chosen to leave us 'gainst his Will . These Pleasant and Proofs are opposite , And cannot both be True and Righ A Sign their Cause is desperate , They'd something say , but know not what . Their Nonagreement is enough To show each Plea of theirs wants proof . Now as for Conquest , Why shou'd we Make Slaves of People that are Free ? Why shou'd we make so much ado 'Bout what Prince ne'er pretended to ? He from Convention took the Crown : Convention plac'd him in the Throne : Convention gave him all his Pow'r : Convention made the Oaths you swore . And therefore if to him we'de swear , 'Tis as their High Commissioner . And if they have no Right to choose , We may Allegiance refuse . We may and ought to keep't entire For Lawful King , and Lawful Heir . If People say , they have such Righ They ought to show how they came by't . If People made their Sov'reign Lord , They ought to show it by Record . The Law o'th' Land says no such Thing : By Law Succession makes the King . They can't plead Scripture , if they wou'd ; The Scripture says , All Pow'r's from God . God says himself , By me Kings Reign ; 'Tis he does Higher Pow'ers Ordain . 'Tis he does make them all Supreme ; The People's Choice is People's Dream . Nor can you prove by Law of Nature , That Princes are the People's Creature . 'Tis plain , the People never gave What they ne're had , nor cou'd they have ; I mean , the Power , which Princes bear : If People had it , make't appear , And tell us who , and when , and where . Our King has Pow'r o're Subject's Lives , By Law he takes away , or gives . The Sword the People never boar , They ne're o're their own Lives had Pow'r . Self-Murder never was allow'd By Law of Nature , or of God . Wherefore the Pow'r which Kings have now , The People never cou'd bestow . Indeed for Self-Defence to fight 'Gainst private Foes was Nature's Right . They ever had it , and still have it , And therefore to their Prince ne're gave it . Beside , the Magistrate's empowr'd In other cases t'use the Sword . Though Vengeance is the Subject's Crime , It's very innocent in him . Vengeance belongs to God alone : Who has it not from God , has none . In state of Nature People were All free and equal , and cou'd ne're That Pow'r possess , much less confer . No , 'tis the Prince God's place supplies : 'Tis his Prerogative to chastise The Evil , redress Injuries . If Rulers are for public Good Their Jus divinum's understood . Unerring Wisdom can't be thought To leave the Choice to giddy Rout. But granting Peoples Right , I say , They ought not , cou'd not give't away . In vain had they such Right from Heaven , If they shou'd part with't , 'soon as given . It were Impiety and since To give away a Right Divine . Nor is it like , they'd all consent To loose their share of Government . Nor cou'd they meet all for a Choice , That ev'ry Man might give his Voice . Some might be Busy , others Sick ; Some their Proceedings might dislike . Now if they all were free before , How cou'd those , who did ne're concur , Loose that their Liberty and Pow'r ? These Knots , and such like , I defy Pretended Patriots to untie . Be sure they can' And then their Cause Is grown much weaker by the Laws . The Laws which own our Kings Divine , And tie the Crown to Royal Line . The Laws , which make Allegiance due Without your Oaths , or theirs to you . The Laws , which give to ev'ry Man his own , To People their Estates , to Kings their Crown . Some idly fancy , That protection Does nat'rally infer Subjection . To which , I say , if this were True , Subjection were even Cromwel's due . He was Protector , ( Name and Thing ) He did th' whole Office of a King . No , 'tis a Right for to Protect us , Can only Lawfully Subject us . Who has no Right to Englands Throne , To Englands Fealty can have none . And when the lawful King's turn'd out , ( Whose will to govern is past doubt . ) It is not Merit , but a Crime His People to Protect 'gainst him . It is to keep him from his Right Who wou'd Protect us , if he might . It is to make himself Supreme , And to Protect himself , not them . It's to maintain his Usurpation , And to entail on Captive Nation A lasting War , and Desolation . And is this such a mighty Favour , As to deserve the Name of Saviour ? For my part , I shou'd give him rather A harder Name than that of Father . And with the Cynic wish him gone , Not stand betwixt me and the Sun. If where it's due , we pay Subjection , My Friends , we shall not want Protection . And now , I think I've made it clear , We cannot with good Conscience swear . We cannot take Oaths Old and New , And to both Faithful prove , and True . And if I must Starve or Comply : Be sure , I wou'd not swear , I'de die . I'de suffer ought for my dear Saviour's Laws , Who dy'd for me --------- I can't well suffer in a better Case . FINIS . The New Oath Examined , and found Guilty . SInce Oaths are Solemn , Serious Things , The best Security to Kings ; And since we'ave all Allegiance swore To J ------ as King , or Successor ; I can't imagine , how we may Swear that or Fealty away . Nought sure but Death or Resignation Can free us from that Obligation . All Oaths are vain , both those and these , If we may break 'em , as we please . And did I fairly swallow both , Who'de give a Farthing for my Oath ? If you affirm , as many do , They both consistent are , and true . I ask , Can you Two Master's serve , And never from your Duty swerve ? Or can you True Allegiance bear To Two at once , and not forswear ? What's due to J ------ if W ------ have , And J ------ have what you W ------ gave ? It's plain , you're false to both , and shou'd Or take no Oaths , or make 'em good , Which here you cannot , if you wou'd . Nor will these Oaths , as some contend , To your own private Meaning bend . You swear to each as to a King , And ought to mean the self same Thing . And 'tis Allegiance Full and True Is sworn to both , to both as due . To say , The People have a Right Kings to depose , as they see fit , Is Pop'ry , or as bad as it . There is no Law , or Charter for' Kings can't be try'd in any Court . Bradshaw's High Court had but the Name Of Justice , and was Bradshaw's Shame . But that's by all condemn'd --------- Or he that dares such Presidents plead , Deserves , like him , to loose his Head , And hang for't , or alive or dead . Now to condemn the King untry'd , Seems something worse than Bradshaw did . 'Tis English Privilege to be herd , Before the Judge can give Award . I know , some Conquest plead , and say , The King was driv'n and forc'd away . Convention though pleads Abdication , Because unforc'd he left the Nation . Hard 'tis these Things to reconcile : He chosen to leave us 'gainst his Will . These Pleasant and Proofs are opposite , And cannot both be True and Righ A Sign their Cause is desperate , They'd something say , but know not what . Their Nonagreement is enough To show each Plea of theirs wants proof . Now as for Conquest , Why shou'd we Make Slaves of People that are Free ? Why shou'd we make so much ado 'Bout what Prince ne'er pretended to ? He from Convention took the Crown : Convention plac'd him in the Throne : Convention gave him all his Pow'r : Convention made the Oaths you swore . And therefore if to him we'de swear , 'Tis as their High Commissioner . And if they have no Right to choose , We may Allegiance refuse . We may and ought to keep't entire For Lawful King , and Lawful Heir . If People say , they have such Righ They ought to show how they came by't . If People made their Sov'reign Lord , They ought to show it by Record . The Law o'th' Land says no such Thing : By Law Succession makes the King . They can't plead Scripture , if they wou'd ; The Scripture says , All Pow'r's from God . God says himself , By me Kings Reign ; 'Tis he does Higher Pow'ers Ordain . 'Tis he does make them all Supreme ; The People's Choice is People's Dream . Nor can you prove by Law of Nature , That Princes are the People's Creature . 'Tis plain , the People never gave What they ne're had , nor cou'd they have ; I mean , the Power , which Princes bear : If People had it , make't appear , And tell us who , and when , and where . Our King has Pow'r o're Subject's Lives , By Law he takes away , or gives . The Sword the People never boar , They ne're o're their own Lives had Pow'r . Self-Murder never was allow'd By Law of Nature , or of God . Wherefore the Pow'r which Kings have now , The People never cou'd bestow . Indeed for Self-Defence to fight 'Gainst private Foes was Nature's Right . They ever had it , and still have it , And therefore to their Prince ne're gave it . Beside , the Magistrate's empowr'd In other cases t'use the Sword . Though Vengeance is the Subject's Crime , It's very innocent in him . Vengeance belongs to God alone : Who has it not from God , has none . In state of Nature People were All free and equal , and cou'd ne're That Pow'r possess , much less confer . No , 'tis the Prince God's place supplies : 'Tis his Prerogative to chastise The Evil , redress Injuries . If Rulers are for public Good Their Jus divinum's understood . Unerring Wisdom can't be thought To leave the Choice to giddy Rout. But granting Peoples Right , I say , They ought not , cou'd not give't away . In vain had they such Right from Heaven , If they shou'd part with't , 'soon as given . It were Impiety and since To give away a Right Divine . Nor is it like , they'd all consent To loose their share of Government . Nor cou'd they meet all for a Choice , That ev'ry Man might give his Voice . Some might be Busy , others Sick ; Some their Proceedings might dislike . Now if they all were free before , How cou'd those , who did ne're concur , Loose that their Liberty and Pow'r ? These Knots , and such like , I defy Pretended Patriots to untie . Be sure they can' And then their Cause Is grown much weaker by the Laws . The Laws which own our Kings Divine , And tie the Crown to Royal Line . The Laws , which make Allegiance due Without your Oaths , or theirs to you . The Laws , which give to ev'ry Man his own , To People their Estates , to Kings their Crown . Some idly fancy , That protection Does nat'rally infer Subjection . To which , I say , if this were True , Subjection were even Cromwel's due . He was Protector , ( Name and Thing ) He did th' whole Office of a King . No , 'tis a Right for to Protect us , Can only Lawfully Subject us . Who has no Right to Englands Throne , To Englands Fealty can have none . And when the lawful King's turn'd out , ( Whose will to govern is past doubt . ) It is not Merit , but a Crime His People to Protect 'gainst him . It is to keep him from his Right Who wou'd Protect us , if he might . It is to make himself Supreme , And to Protect himself , not them . It's to maintain his Usurpation , And to entail on Captive Nation A lasting War , and Desolation . And is this such a mighty Favour , As to deserve the Name of Saviour ? For my part , I shou'd give him rather A harder Name than that of Father . And with the Cynic wish him gone , Not stand betwixt me and the Sun. If where it's due , we pay Subjection , My Friends , we shall not want Protection . And now , I think I've made it clear , We cannot with good Conscience swear . We cannot take Oaths Old and New , And to both Faithful prove , and True . And if I must Starve or Comply : Be sure , I wou'd not swear , I'de die . I'de suffer ought for my dear Saviour's Laws , Who dy'd for me --------- I can't well suffer in a better Case . FINIS . 