Private Occurrences ; OR , The Transactions of the four last Years , Written in Imitation of the Old Ballad of Hey brave Oliver , Ho brave Oliver , etc 1. A Protestant Muse , yet a Lover of Kings : On th'Age , grown a little Satyrical , Sings , Of Papists , their Counsels , and other fine things . Sing heigh brave Popery , ho rare Popery , o fine Po-pery . O dainty Popery , o . 2. She hope's she offends no Englishman's patience ; Though Satyr's forbid on all such occasions , She's too good a Subject to Read Declarations . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 3. If the saying be good , of Let him laugh that Wins , Sure a Loser may smile without any offence : My Muse then is gamesome , and thus she begins ; With heigh brave Popery , etc 4. When Changed ----- deceas'd , to His Kingdoms dismay , By and Appoplex , or else some other way ; Our Brother with Shouts was Proclaim'd the same day . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 5. His first Royal Promise was never to touch Our Rights , nor Religion , nor Privilege grutch : But Pet --- swore Dam him , he granted too much . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 6. Then Mon ------ came in with and Army of Fools : Betray'd by his Cuckold , and other dull Tools That Painted the Turf of Green Sedgmore with Gules . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 7. That Victory got , some think to our wrong : The Priests braid out Joy in a Thanksgiving Song , And Teague with the Bald-pates were at it ding dung . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 8. Then straight a strong Army was levy'd in haste , To hinder Rebellion ; a very good Jest ; For some Rogues will swear 'twas to Murder the Test. Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 9. A Politic Law which Recusants did doom ; That into our Senate , they never might come ; But Equivalent since , was propos'd in its Room . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 10. As if a True Friend should in Kindness demand A Tooth in my Head , which firmly does stand , To give for't another he had in his hand . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 11. Then Term after Term , this great Matter was weigh'd , Old Judges turn'd out , and new Block --- ds made : That Cook or Wife Littleton never did read . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 12. The good Church of England with speed was run down , Whose Loyalty ever stood fast to the Crown , And Presbyter John was made Mayor of the Town . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 13. The Bishops Disgrace made the Clergy to sob : A Prey to Old Pet --- and President Bob ; And hurried to Prison as if they did Rob. Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 14. Then into the World , a Dear P ------ of W ---- slipped . 'Twas plain , for we hear a great Minister peep'd . The Bricklayer for prating had like t'a been whip'd . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 15. Thus Englands Distresses more fierce than the Plague , That during three Years , of no Quiet could brag . The Prince van Auraignia has brought from the Hague . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 16. A strong Fleet and Army t'Invade us are bent ; We know not the Cause , though there is something in't ; But we doubt not , e'er long we shall see it in Print . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 17. Ah England , that never couldst valve thy Peace : Had matters been now as in Elsabeths Days , The Dutch had ne'r ventur'd to Fish in our Seas . Then Curse of Popery , pox o' Popery , plague o' Po-pery , O Senseless Popery , o . FINIS . Private Occurrences ; OR , The Transactions of the four last Years , Written in Imitation of the Old Ballad of Hey brave Oliver , Ho brave Oliver , etc 1. A Protestant Muse , yet a Lover of Kings : On th'Age , grown a little Satyrical , Sings , Of Papists , their Counsels , and other fine things . Sing heigh brave Popery , ho rare Popery , o fine Po-pery . O dainty Popery , o . 2. She hope's she offends no Englishman's patience ; Though Satyr's forbid on all such occasions , She's too good a Subject to Read Declarations . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 3. If the saying be good , of Let him laugh that Wins , Sure a Loser may smile without any offence : My Muse then is gamesome , and thus she begins ; With heigh brave Popery , etc 4. When Changed ----- deceas'd , to His Kingdoms dismay , By and Appoplex , or else some other way ; Our Brother with Shouts was Proclaim'd the same day . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 5. His first Royal Promise was never to touch Our Rights , nor Religion , nor Privilege grutch : But Pet --- swore Dam him , he granted too much . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 6. Then Mon ------ came in with and Army of Fools : Betray'd by his Cuckold , and other dull Tools That Painted the Turf of Green Sedgmore with Gules . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 7. That Victory got , some think to our wrong : The Priests braid out Joy in a Thanksgiving Song , And Teague with the Bald-pates were at it ding dung . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 8. Then straight a strong Army was levy'd in haste , To hinder Rebellion ; a very good Jest ; For some Rogues will swear 'twas to Murder the Test. Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 9. A Politic Law which Recusants did doom ; That into our Senate , they never might come ; But Equivalent since , was propos'd in its Room . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 10. As if a True Friend should in Kindness demand A Tooth in my Head , which firmly does stand , To give for't another he had in his hand . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 11. Then Term after Term , this great Matter was weigh'd , Old Judges turn'd out , and new Block --- ds made : That Cook or Wife Littleton never did read . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 12. The good Church of England with speed was run down , Whose Loyalty ever stood fast to the Crown , And Presbyter John was made Mayor of the Town . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 13. The Bishops Disgrace made the Clergy to sob : A Prey to Old Pet --- and President Bob ; And hurried to Prison as if they did Rob. Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 14. Then into the World , a Dear P ------ of W ---- slipped . 'Twas plain , for we hear a great Minister peep'd . The Bricklayer for prating had like t'a been whip'd . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 15. Thus Englands Distresses more fierce than the Plague , That during three Years , of no Quiet could brag . The Prince van Auraignia has brought from the Hague . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 16. A strong Fleet and Army t'Invade us are bent ; We know not the Cause , though there is something in't ; But we doubt not , e'er long we shall see it in Print . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 17. Ah England , that never couldst valve thy Peace : Had matters been now as in Elsabeths Days , The Dutch had ne'r ventur'd to Fish in our Seas . Then Curse of Popery , pox o' Popery , plague o' Po-pery , O Senseless Popery , o . FINIS . Private Occurrences ; OR , The Transactions of the four last Years , Written in Imitation of the Old Ballad of Hey brave Oliver , Ho brave Oliver , etc 1. A Protestant Muse , yet a Lover of Kings : On th'Age , grown a little Satyrical , Sings , Of Papists , their Counsels , and other fine things . Sing heigh brave Popery , ho rare Popery , o fine Po-pery . O dainty Popery , o . 2. She hope's she offends no Englishman's patience ; Though Satyr's forbid on all such occasions , She's too good a Subject to Read Declarations . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 3. If the saying be good , of Let him laugh that Wins , Sure a Loser may smile without any offence : My Muse then is gamesome , and thus she begins ; With heigh brave Popery , etc 4. When Changed ----- deceas'd , to His Kingdoms dismay , By and Appoplex , or else some other way ; Our Brother with Shouts was Proclaim'd the same day . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 5. His first Royal Promise was never to touch Our Rights , nor Religion , nor Privilege grutch : But Pet --- swore Dam him , he granted too much . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 6. Then Mon ------ came in with and Army of Fools : Betray'd by his Cuckold , and other dull Tools That Painted the Turf of Green Sedgmore with Gules . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 7. That Victory got , some think to our wrong : The Priests braid out Joy in a Thanksgiving Song , And Teague with the Bald-pates were at it ding dung . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 8. Then straight a strong Army was levy'd in haste , To hinder Rebellion ; a very good Jest ; For some Rogues will swear 'twas to Murder the Test. Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 9. A Politic Law which Recusants did doom ; That into our Senate , they never might come ; But Equivalent since , was propos'd in its Room . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 10. As if a True Friend should in Kindness demand A Tooth in my Head , which firmly does stand , To give for't another he had in his hand . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 11. Then Term after Term , this great Matter was weigh'd , Old Judges turn'd out , and new Block --- ds made : That Cook or Wife Littleton never did read . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 12. The good Church of England with speed was run down , Whose Loyalty ever stood fast to the Crown , And Presbyter John was made Mayor of the Town . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 13. The Bishops Disgrace made the Clergy to sob : A Prey to Old Pet --- and President Bob ; And hurried to Prison as if they did Rob. Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 14. Then into the World , a Dear P ------ of W ---- slipped . 'Twas plain , for we hear a great Minister peep'd . The Bricklayer for prating had like t'a been whip'd . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 15. Thus Englands Distresses more fierce than the Plague , That during three Years , of no Quiet could brag . The Prince van Auraignia has brought from the Hague . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 16. A strong Fleet and Army t'Invade us are bent ; We know not the Cause , though there is something in't ; But we doubt not , e'er long we shall see it in Print . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 17. Ah England , that never couldst valve thy Peace : Had matters been now as in Elsabeths Days , The Dutch had ne'r ventur'd to Fish in our Seas . Then Curse of Popery , pox o' Popery , plague o' Po-pery , O Senseless Popery , o . FINIS . Private Occurrences ; OR , The Transactions of the four last Years , Written in Imitation of the Old Ballad of Hey brave Oliver , Ho brave Oliver , etc 1. A Protestant Muse , yet a Lover of Kings : On th'Age , grown a little Satyrical , Sings , Of Papists , their Counsels , and other fine things . Sing heigh brave Popery , ho rare Popery , o fine Po-pery . O dainty Popery , o . 2. She hope's she offends no Englishman's patience ; Though Satyr's forbid on all such occasions , She's too good a Subject to Read Declarations . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 3. If the saying be good , of Let him laugh that Wins , Sure a Loser may smile without any offence : My Muse then is gamesome , and thus she begins ; With heigh brave Popery , etc 4. When Changed ----- deceas'd , to His Kingdoms dismay , By and Appoplex , or else some other way ; Our Brother with Shouts was Proclaim'd the same day . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 5. His first Royal Promise was never to touch Our Rights , nor Religion , nor Privilege grutch : But Pet --- swore Dam him , he granted too much . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 6. Then Mon ------ came in with and Army of Fools : Betray'd by his Cuckold , and other dull Tools That Painted the Turf of Green Sedgmore with Gules . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 7. That Victory got , some think to our wrong : The Priests braid out Joy in a Thanksgiving Song , And Teague with the Bald-pates were at it ding dung . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 8. Then straight a strong Army was levy'd in haste , To hinder Rebellion ; a very good Jest ; For some Rogues will swear 'twas to Murder the Test. Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 9. A Politic Law which Recusants did doom ; That into our Senate , they never might come ; But Equivalent since , was propos'd in its Room . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 10. As if a True Friend should in Kindness demand A Tooth in my Head , which firmly does stand , To give for't another he had in his hand . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 11. Then Term after Term , this great Matter was weigh'd , Old Judges turn'd out , and new Block --- ds made : That Cook or Wife Littleton never did read . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 12. The good Church of England with speed was run down , Whose Loyalty ever stood fast to the Crown , And Presbyter John was made Mayor of the Town . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 13. The Bishops Disgrace made the Clergy to sob : A Prey to Old Pet --- and President Bob ; And hurried to Prison as if they did Rob. Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 14. Then into the World , a Dear P ------ of W ---- slipped . 'Twas plain , for we hear a great Minister peep'd . The Bricklayer for prating had like t'a been whip'd . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 15. Thus Englands Distresses more fierce than the Plague , That during three Years , of no Quiet could brag . The Prince van Auraignia has brought from the Hague . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 16. A strong Fleet and Army t'Invade us are bent ; We know not the Cause , though there is something in't ; But we doubt not , e'er long we shall see it in Print . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc 17. Ah England , that never couldst valve thy Peace : Had matters been now as in Elsabeths Days , The Dutch had ne'r ventur'd to Fish in our Seas . Then Curse of Popery , pox o' Popery , plague o' Po-pery , O Senseless Popery , o . FINIS . 