The Hasty Wedding ; OR , William's Patience Rewarded . With the consent of Pretty NANCY . To the Tune of , The Man of Fashion , or , The Doubting Virgin . SItting with my Dearest Dear , by a Little purling Spring , In the pleasant time o'th year , when the little Birds do sing , Straight I was resolv'd to move her , for to know how she inclin'd , And to tell her that I lov'd her , and desire to know her mind . Then quoth I , my pretty Nancy , well thou know'st thou hast my heart ; Thou alone art she I fancy , and can only cure my smar Tell me then my pretty fair one , when you mean to change your life , Tell me quickly then my Dear one , when you will be Willy's Wife . Truly William then quoth Nancy , men they say are grown so strange , Everyone they'l swear they fancy , so they may perhaps for change : You may freely say your pleasure , I can hear without distaste , Marriage should be done with leisure , and I'm sure I'm not in haste . Will you be a peevish creature , and deny yourself a cure , Who could teach you such ill nature , not your Mother I am sure : She was scarce arriv'd at fourteen , when she lost a single life , And was pleas'd so well with courting that she soon became a wife . This I know is her confession , but I've herd her oft to pray , That I might have more discretion , and to wait a longer day : Therefore I do tell you fairly , some years more I mean to wast , Tho' indeed I love you dearly , yet I am not so much in haste . Well quoth he have , you consented , gave me hope , though very cold , If you have not again repented , I shall have you when you'r old : I have patience and you know it , still to wait on you while life , And will never think much to do it , if that you will be my wife . Now quoth she , I'm sure you love me , since you are content to stay , And your patience does so move me , I will marry you this day : Now I see you love me dearly , we no longer time will wast , And I do declare it clearly , that I am as much in haste . Hand in hand these Lovers walked , many a kiss she did exchange , Many a vow pass as they talked that their hearts should never range To to Church he did conduct her , where the Priest did end the strife , And so well he did instruct her , she that day was William's Wife . Printed for , P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pie-corner . The Hasty Wedding ; OR , William's Patience Rewarded . With the consent of Pretty NANCY . To the Tune of , The Man of Fashion , or , The Doubting Virgin . SItting with my Dearest Dear , by a Little purling Spring , In the pleasant time o'th year , when the little Birds do sing , Straight I was resolv'd to move her , for to know how she inclin'd , And to tell her that I lov'd her , and desire to know her mind . Then quoth I , my pretty Nancy , well thou know'st thou hast my heart ; Thou alone art she I fancy , and can only cure my smar Tell me then my pretty fair one , when you mean to change your life , Tell me quickly then my Dear one , when you will be Willy's Wife . Truly William then quoth Nancy , men they say are grown so strange , Everyone they'l swear they fancy , so they may perhaps for change : You may freely say your pleasure , I can hear without distaste , Marriage should be done with leisure , and I'm sure I'm not in haste . Will you be a peevish creature , and deny yourself a cure , Who could teach you such ill nature , not your Mother I am sure : She was scarce arriv'd at fourteen , when she lost a single life , And was pleas'd so well with courting that she soon became a wife . This I know is her confession , but I've herd her oft to pray , That I might have more discretion , and to wait a longer day : Therefore I do tell you fairly , some years more I mean to wast , Tho' indeed I love you dearly , yet I am not so much in haste . Well quoth he have , you consented , gave me hope , though very cold , If you have not again repented , I shall have you when you'r old : I have patience and you know it , still to wait on you while life , And will never think much to do it , if that you will be my wife . Now quoth she , I'm sure you love me , since you are content to stay , And your patience does so move me , I will marry you this day : Now I see you love me dearly , we no longer time will wast , And I do declare it clearly , that I am as much in haste . Hand in hand these Lovers walked , many a kiss she did exchange , Many a vow pass as they talked that their hearts should never range To to Church he did conduct her , where the Priest did end the strife , And so well he did instruct her , she that day was William's Wife . Printed for , P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pie-corner . 