Parthenia's Complaint . OR , The forsaken Shepherdess . The falsehood of Young men she does discover , By sad example of her Faithless Lover : And so against them all she does inveigh , Tho' injur'd but by one , which makes her say , Happy Nymph for certain is that can , So little valve that false Creature Man. To a New Tune much in Reques Or , Sitting beyond a River side . SItting beyond a Rivers side , Parthenia thus to Cloe cry'd ; Who from the fair Nymphs Eyes a pace , Another stream o'reflow'd her beauteous face , Ah happy Nymph , said she , that can So little valve that false creature Man. Oft she perfidious things would cry , They love , they bleed , they burn , they die , But if they'r absent half a day , Nay , if they stay but one poor hour away : No more they die , no more complain , But like unconstant wretches live again . If that you do their Vows believe , Then you are lost without reprieve , For Maids that's credulous and free , Are ruin'd soon by their inconstancy : With sugared words they will trappan , No creature ever was so false as Man. The sad effects myself have try'd , By one that vow'd for love he dy'd ; My pity overcame disdain , And I required him with love again : Which makes me say with looks so wan , No creature ever was so false as Man. For when I thought he lov'd me most , He proved false unto my cost , And like a fickle wretch did change His mind , 'mongst other beauty's for to range , Therefore she happy is that can , So little valve that false creature Man. When I upon the flowery Plains , Did feed my flocks , free from loves pains And rested near the Crystal streams , Not once affrighted with such idle dreams , Then could I say , 'tis I that can , So little valve that false creature Man. BUt since that love did me ensnare , My Heart is fill'd with grief and care , My looks are chang'd , and I complain , Being requited with such deep disdain : Then sure he happy is that can , So little valve that false Creature man . Wild Beasts that in the woods do range , Unto their mates are not so strange , As men are to their Loves untrue , Which makes poor simple maids so deeply rue . And say , she happy is that can , So little valve that false Creature Man. You Birds that warble in the grove , And hears the falsehood of my Love : Bear witness of my sad complaint , Who am with grief and sorrow like to faint Help me to learn , if that you can , No more to valve that false creature Man. The marble Rocks that do divide , The foaming billows as they glide ; Not so obdurate are in kind , As men who unto falsehood are inclin'd . Therefore she happy is that can , So little valve that false creature man . The Gods above will sure chastise , Such fickle Lovers treacheries , And Cupid with his powerful bow , Will make them all their Errors for to know , That they may love those Nymphs that can , So little valve that false creature man . You Virgins all who hear my moan , Let me not languish all alone , Come and assist me in my need , Lest that my broken heart with sorrow bleed , Help me to learn if that you can , No more to valve that false Creature man . One of a thousand you'll not find , That's true and bears a faithful mind , But of your hearts they'l you bereave , And then disloyally they will you leave ; Then sure she happy is that can , So little valve that false creature man . O that such falsehood should remain Within that heart whose deep disdain , Hath brought me to so sad despair , As never for mankind again to care ; Oh let me say if that you can , No more i'le valve that false creature man . Into some Desert I will go , And weary out my days in woe ; And with the Turtle there complain , And never come in mortals sighed again ; But strive by all the means I can , No more to valve that false creature man . Then let all Virgins have a care , And of their treacheries beware , Let my mishap your warning be , And trust not to their infidelity . Let me advice you if you can , No more to valve that false creature man . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , in Pye-Corner . Parthenia's Complaint . OR , The forsaken Shepherdess . The falsehood of Young men she does discover , By sad example of her Faithless Lover : And so against them all she does inveigh , Tho' injur'd but by one , which makes her say , Happy Nymph for certain is that can , So little valve that false Creature Man. To a New Tune much in Reques Or , Sitting beyond a River side . SItting beyond a Rivers side , Parthenia thus to Cloe cry'd ; Who from the fair Nymphs Eyes a pace , Another stream o'reflow'd her beauteous face , Ah happy Nymph , said she , that can So little valve that false creature Man. Oft she perfidious things would cry , They love , they bleed , they burn , they die , But if they'r absent half a day , Nay , if they stay but one poor hour away : No more they die , no more complain , But like unconstant wretches live again . If that you do their Vows believe , Then you are lost without reprieve , For Maids that's credulous and free , Are ruin'd soon by their inconstancy : With sugared words they will trappan , No creature ever was so false as Man. The sad effects myself have try'd , By one that vow'd for love he dy'd ; My pity overcame disdain , And I required him with love again : Which makes me say with looks so wan , No creature ever was so false as Man. For when I thought he lov'd me most , He proved false unto my cost , And like a fickle wretch did change His mind , 'mongst other beauty's for to range , Therefore she happy is that can , So little valve that false creature Man. When I upon the flowery Plains , Did feed my flocks , free from loves pains And rested near the Crystal streams , Not once affrighted with such idle dreams , Then could I say , 'tis I that can , So little valve that false creature Man. BUt since that love did me ensnare , My Heart is fill'd with grief and care , My looks are chang'd , and I complain , Being requited with such deep disdain : Then sure he happy is that can , So little valve that false Creature man . Wild Beasts that in the woods do range , Unto their mates are not so strange , As men are to their Loves untrue , Which makes poor simple maids so deeply rue . And say , she happy is that can , So little valve that false Creature Man. You Birds that warble in the grove , And hears the falsehood of my Love : Bear witness of my sad complaint , Who am with grief and sorrow like to faint Help me to learn , if that you can , No more to valve that false creature Man. The marble Rocks that do divide , The foaming billows as they glide ; Not so obdurate are in kind , As men who unto falsehood are inclin'd . Therefore she happy is that can , So little valve that false creature man . The Gods above will sure chastise , Such fickle Lovers treacheries , And Cupid with his powerful bow , Will make them all their Errors for to know , That they may love those Nymphs that can , So little valve that false creature man . You Virgins all who hear my moan , Let me not languish all alone , Come and assist me in my need , Lest that my broken heart with sorrow bleed , Help me to learn if that you can , No more to valve that false Creature man . One of a thousand you'll not find , That's true and bears a faithful mind , But of your hearts they'l you bereave , And then disloyally they will you leave ; Then sure she happy is that can , So little valve that false creature man . O that such falsehood should remain Within that heart whose deep disdain , Hath brought me to so sad despair , As never for mankind again to care ; Oh let me say if that you can , No more i'le valve that false creature man . Into some Desert I will go , And weary out my days in woe ; And with the Turtle there complain , And never come in mortals sighed again ; But strive by all the means I can , No more to valve that false creature man . Then let all Virgins have a care , And of their treacheries beware , Let my mishap your warning be , And trust not to their infidelity . Let me advice you if you can , No more to valve that false creature man . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , in Pye-Corner . 