Cupids Tragedy : BEING Corydon's Courtship ; Or , Philomels Exaltation . To the Tune of , The new Bory ; Or , Will you be a Man of Fashion . Pretty Phillomel was so Charming , so much sweetness grac'd each par All her actions so alarming , so much goodness in her hear That whoever saw this fair one , needs her Votary must be : She , ah ! she , is Nature's dear one , and I fear no less to me . Every smile was so betraying , in each look a Plot she laid : This I knew , yet was obeying ; though I saw each Ambuscade . And , to show my forward duty , needs must venture in her sighed , Till her Centinels of Beauty struck me blind with too much light In this Transport , like a creature , with too sudden joy o'recome , Gaz'd upon this lovely Creature , till with ecstasy struck dumb : Yet my posture did discover that I was her humble Slave , And I found she lik'd her Lover , by a Signal that she gave . WHen I saw my Pardon granted . straight I did approach her han [ worser ] Kissed and sigh'd , and sigh'd and panted , all my senses were at stand : Then she laughed , and plainly told me I more manly would appear : And caress a Nymph more boldly , if that Phillis were but there . But if Corydon will leave her , Phillis need not to despair , Young Alexis will receive her , and your Choice will be less fair . Search the Groves and every Bower , set the Nymphs all on a row : Phillis is of all the Flower , and does bend the sharpest Bow. Ah , said I , divinest Creature , that the Powers above e're made : Do not wrong the Gods and Nature , but repent of what you've said : Phillis does not think so vainly , for to give the Maid her endue : Oft she's said the Gods that made you , does admire themselves in you . Coridon , quoth she , your praises , if you love do not displease : But I know a Shepherd's phrases can dissemble a Disease : If my Beauty has the power to attract to brave a Swain : Walk with me to yonder Bower , I will gratify your aim . Strephon all this while lay panting in a Cave , where he could hear Her too easy heart consenting , what he begg'd for many a year . Out he rushed from forth the Thicket , with his Javelin he run In poor Coridon did strike it , die , said he , thou happy Man. When poor philomel saw him bleeding , stretched along upon the ground : From her eyes the tears succeeding , with which she washed the bloody wound . Wrung her hands , and tore her hair , sigh'd that ever she was born : Coridon , quoth she , my Dear , do not leave me thus forlorn . Thus poor philomel in distraction call'd on her lov'd Coridon : Pray'd the Gods for satisfaction , through her heart a Poniard run . Thus , said she , the Gods deliver those that in true love do join : Thine , dear Coridon , thine forever , thou in life and death art mine . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ball , in West-smithfield . Cupids Tragedy : BEING Corydon's Courtship ; Or , Philomels Exaltation . To the Tune of , The new Bory ; Or , Will you be a Man of Fashion . Pretty Phillomel was so Charming , so much sweetness grac'd each par All her actions so alarming , so much goodness in her hear That whoever saw this fair one , needs her Votary must be : She , ah ! she , is Nature's dear one , and I fear no less to me . Every smile was so betraying , in each look a Plot she laid : This I knew , yet was obeying ; though I saw each Ambuscade . And , to show my forward duty , needs must venture in her sighed , Till her Centinels of Beauty struck me blind with too much light In this Transport , like a creature , with too sudden joy o'recome , Gaz'd upon this lovely Creature , till with ecstasy struck dumb : Yet my posture did discover that I was her humble Slave , And I found she lik'd her Lover , by a Signal that she gave . WHen I saw my Pardon granted . straight I did approach her han [ worser ] Kissed and sigh'd , and sigh'd and panted , all my senses were at stand : Then she laughed , and plainly told me I more manly would appear : And caress a Nymph more boldly , if that Phillis were but there . But if Corydon will leave her , Phillis need not to despair , Young Alexis will receive her , and your Choice will be less fair . Search the Groves and every Bower , set the Nymphs all on a row : Phillis is of all the Flower , and does bend the sharpest Bow. Ah , said I , divinest Creature , that the Powers above e're made : Do not wrong the Gods and Nature , but repent of what you've said : Phillis does not think so vainly , for to give the Maid her endue : Oft she's said the Gods that made you , does admire themselves in you . Coridon , quoth she , your praises , if you love do not displease : But I know a Shepherd's phrases can dissemble a Disease : If my Beauty has the power to attract to brave a Swain : Walk with me to yonder Bower , I will gratify your aim . Strephon all this while lay panting in a Cave , where he could hear Her too easy heart consenting , what he begg'd for many a year . Out he rushed from forth the Thicket , with his Javelin he run In poor Coridon did strike it , die , said he , thou happy Man. When poor philomel saw him bleeding , stretched along upon the ground : From her eyes the tears succeeding , with which she washed the bloody wound . Wrung her hands , and tore her hair , sigh'd that ever she was born : Coridon , quoth she , my Dear , do not leave me thus forlorn . Thus poor philomel in distraction call'd on her lov'd Coridon : Pray'd the Gods for satisfaction , through her heart a Poniard run . Thus , said she , the Gods deliver those that in true love do join : Thine , dear Coridon , thine forever , thou in life and death art mine . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ball , in West-smithfield . Cupids Tragedy : BEING Corydon's Courtship ; Or , Philomels Exaltation . To the Tune of , The new Bory ; Or , Will you be a Man of Fashion . Pretty Phillomel was so Charming , so much sweetness grac'd each par All her actions so alarming , so much goodness in her hear That whoever saw this fair one , needs her Votary must be : She , ah ! she , is Nature's dear one , and I fear no less to me . Every smile was so betraying , in each look a Plot she laid : This I knew , yet was obeying ; though I saw each Ambuscade . And , to show my forward duty , needs must venture in her sighed , Till her Centinels of Beauty struck me blind with too much light In this Transport , like a creature , with too sudden joy o'recome , Gaz'd upon this lovely Creature , till with ecstasy struck dumb : Yet my posture did discover that I was her humble Slave , And I found she lik'd her Lover , by a Signal that she gave . WHen I saw my Pardon granted . straight I did approach her han [ worser ] Kissed and sigh'd , and sigh'd and panted , all my senses were at stand : Then she laughed , and plainly told me I more manly would appear : And caress a Nymph more boldly , if that Phillis were but there . But if Corydon will leave her , Phillis need not to despair , Young Alexis will receive her , and your Choice will be less fair . Search the Groves and every Bower , set the Nymphs all on a row : Phillis is of all the Flower , and does bend the sharpest Bow. Ah , said I , divinest Creature , that the Powers above e're made : Do not wrong the Gods and Nature , but repent of what you've said : Phillis does not think so vainly , for to give the Maid her endue : Oft she's said the Gods that made you , does admire themselves in you . Coridon , quoth she , your praises , if you love do not displease : But I know a Shepherd's phrases can dissemble a Disease : If my Beauty has the power to attract to brave a Swain : Walk with me to yonder Bower , I will gratify your aim . Strephon all this while lay panting in a Cave , where he could hear Her too easy heart consenting , what he begg'd for many a year . Out he rushed from forth the Thicket , with his Javelin he run In poor Coridon did strike it , die , said he , thou happy Man. When poor philomel saw him bleeding , stretched along upon the ground : From her eyes the tears succeeding , with which she washed the bloody wound . Wrung her hands , and tore her hair , sigh'd that ever she was born : Coridon , quoth she , my Dear , do not leave me thus forlorn . Thus poor philomel in distraction call'd on her lov'd Coridon : Pray'd the Gods for satisfaction , through her heart a Poniard run . Thus , said she , the Gods deliver those that in true love do join : Thine , dear Coridon , thine forever , thou in life and death art mine . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ball , in West-smithfield . Cupids Tragedy : BEING Corydon's Courtship ; Or , Philomels Exaltation . To the Tune of , The new Bory ; Or , Will you be a Man of Fashion . Pretty Phillomel was so Charming , so much sweetness grac'd each par All her actions so alarming , so much goodness in her hear That whoever saw this fair one , needs her Votary must be : She , ah ! she , is Nature's dear one , and I fear no less to me . Every smile was so betraying , in each look a Plot she laid : This I knew , yet was obeying ; though I saw each Ambuscade . And , to show my forward duty , needs must venture in her sighed , Till her Centinels of Beauty struck me blind with too much light In this Transport , like a creature , with too sudden joy o'recome , Gaz'd upon this lovely Creature , till with ecstasy struck dumb : Yet my posture did discover that I was her humble Slave , And I found she lik'd her Lover , by a Signal that she gave . WHen I saw my Pardon granted . straight I did approach her han [ worser ] Kissed and sigh'd , and sigh'd and panted , all my senses were at stand : Then she laughed , and plainly told me I more manly would appear : And caress a Nymph more boldly , if that Phillis were but there . But if Corydon will leave her , Phillis need not to despair , Young Alexis will receive her , and your Choice will be less fair . Search the Groves and every Bower , set the Nymphs all on a row : Phillis is of all the Flower , and does bend the sharpest Bow. Ah , said I , divinest Creature , that the Powers above e're made : Do not wrong the Gods and Nature , but repent of what you've said : Phillis does not think so vainly , for to give the Maid her endue : Oft she's said the Gods that made you , does admire themselves in you . Coridon , quoth she , your praises , if you love do not displease : But I know a Shepherd's phrases can dissemble a Disease : If my Beauty has the power to attract to brave a Swain : Walk with me to yonder Bower , I will gratify your aim . Strephon all this while lay panting in a Cave , where he could hear Her too easy heart consenting , what he begg'd for many a year . Out he rushed from forth the Thicket , with his Javelin he run In poor Coridon did strike it , die , said he , thou happy Man. When poor philomel saw him bleeding , stretched along upon the ground : From her eyes the tears succeeding , with which she washed the bloody wound . Wrung her hands , and tore her hair , sigh'd that ever she was born : Coridon , quoth she , my Dear , do not leave me thus forlorn . Thus poor philomel in distraction call'd on her lov'd Coridon : Pray'd the Gods for satisfaction , through her heart a Poniard run . Thus , said she , the Gods deliver those that in true love do join : Thine , dear Coridon , thine forever , thou in life and death art mine . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ball , in West-smithfield . 