Buxom Joan of Lymas's Love to a jolly Sailer : OR , The Maiden's Choice : Being LOVE for LOVE again . To and excellent new Playhouse Tune . A Soldier and a Sailer , A Tinker and a Tailer , Had once a doubtful strife , Sir To make a Maid a Wife , Sir , Whose name was buxom Joan. Whose name was buxom Joan , For now the time was ended , When she no more intended To lick her lips at Men , Sir , and gnaw the sheets in vain , Sir , And lie o'nights alone , And lie o'nights alone . The Soldier swore like thunder , He lov'd her more than plunder ; And shew'd her many a scar , Sir , Which he had borough from far , Sir , With fighting for her sake . With fighting , etc The Tailor thought to please her , With off'ring her his Measure : The Tinker too with mettle , Said he could mend her kettle , And stop up e'ry leak . And stop , etc But while those three were prating , The Sailer slyly waiting ; Thought if it came about , Sir , That they should all fallen out , Sir , He then might play his part . He then , etc And just e'en as he meant , Sir , To Loggerheads they went , Sir , And then he let fly at her , A shot 'twixt wind and water , Which wone this fair Maid's heart . Which wone , etc The Soldier being frustrate , Like Boreas loudly bluster'd , And wou'd have satisfaction , For such a treach'rous actium , Done by the cunning Tar , Done by , etc But he aboard his Pinnace , Ne'er fear'd the Bully's menace , But lustily he ply'd , Sir , Against both wind and tide , Sir , Like any Man of War , Like any , etc The Tailer boldly vows too , He'll serve him like a Louse too , And with his bloody shears , Sir , Will cut off both his ears , Sir , For stealing of his Love , For stealing , etc But he his end had compassed , And laugh'd at Bodkin's bombast ; Still pointing right his needle , He launch'd into the middle ; She tossed and heav'd ; he drove , She tossed , etc Then , next , the Man of mettle Began to beatrice his Kettle , And swore , that ( with a pox ) he Would thump him and his doxy , If ever he came near , If ever , etc But still the merry Sailer , Defy'd Buff , Brass , and Tailer , While , in his jolly mood , her He manag'd with his rudder , And right his course did steer , And right , etc LONDON : Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ball , in Pie-corner . Buxom Joan of Lymas's Love to a jolly Sailer : OR , The Maiden's Choice : Being LOVE for LOVE again . To and excellent new Playhouse Tune . A Soldier and a Sailer , A Tinker and a Tailer , Had once a doubtful strife , Sir To make a Maid a Wife , Sir , Whose name was buxom Joan. Whose name was buxom Joan , For now the time was ended , When she no more intended To lick her lips at Men , Sir , and gnaw the sheets in vain , Sir , And lie o'nights alone , And lie o'nights alone . The Soldier swore like thunder , He lov'd her more than plunder ; And shew'd her many a scar , Sir , Which he had borough from far , Sir , With fighting for her sake . With fighting , etc The Tailor thought to please her , With off'ring her his Measure : The Tinker too with mettle , Said he could mend her kettle , And stop up e'ry leak . And stop , etc But while those three were prating , The Sailer slyly waiting ; Thought if it came about , Sir , That they should all fallen out , Sir , He then might play his part . He then , etc And just e'en as he meant , Sir , To Loggerheads they went , Sir , And then he let fly at her , A shot 'twixt wind and water , Which wone this fair Maid's heart . Which wone , etc The Soldier being frustrate , Like Boreas loudly bluster'd , And wou'd have satisfaction , For such a treach'rous actium , Done by the cunning Tar , Done by , etc But he aboard his Pinnace , Ne'er fear'd the Bully's menace , But lustily he ply'd , Sir , Against both wind and tide , Sir , Like any Man of War , Like any , etc The Tailer boldly vows too , He'll serve him like a Louse too , And with his bloody shears , Sir , Will cut off both his ears , Sir , For stealing of his Love , For stealing , etc But he his end had compassed , And laugh'd at Bodkin's bombast ; Still pointing right his needle , He launch'd into the middle ; She tossed and heav'd ; he drove , She tossed , etc Then , next , the Man of mettle Began to beatrice his Kettle , And swore , that ( with a pox ) he Would thump him and his doxy , If ever he came near , If ever , etc But still the merry Sailer , Defy'd Buff , Brass , and Tailer , While , in his jolly mood , her He manag'd with his rudder , And right his course did steer , And right , etc LONDON : Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ball , in Pie-corner . 