[ Queen Eleanor's Confession : ] Showing how King Henry , with the Earl Martial , in Friars Habits , came to her instead of two Friars from France , which she sent for . To a pleasant new Tune . QUeen Elenor was a sick woman , and afraid that she should die ; Then she sent for two friars of France , for to speak with them speedily . The King call'd down his nobles all , by one , by two , and by three ; And sent away for Earl Martial , for to speak with him speedily . When that he came before the King , he fell on his bent knee , A boon , a boon , our Gracious King , that you sent so hastily . I'll pawn my livings , and my lands , my sceptre and my crown , That whatever Queen Elenor says , I will not write it down . Do you but put on one fryar's coat , and I'll put on another , And we will to Queen Elenor go , one friar like another . Thus both attired then they go : when they came to White-hall , The bells' they did ring , and the quiristers sing , and the torches did light them all . When that they came before the Queen , they fell on their bent knee , A boon , a boon our Gracious Queen , that you sent so hastily . Are you two friars of France , she said , which I suppose you be ; But if you are two English friars , then hanged you shall be . We are two friars of France , they said , as you suppose we be , We have not been at any mass since we came from the sea . The first vile thing that e'er I did , I will to you unfold , Earl Martial had my maidenhead , underneath this cloth of gold . That is a vile since , then said the King , God may forgive it thee : Amen , amen , quoth Earl Martial , with a heavy heart then spoke he . The next vile thing that e'er I did , to you I'd not deny ; I made a box of poison strong , to poison King Henry . That is a vile since then said the King , God may forgive it thee : Amen , amen , quoth Earl Martial , And I wish it so may be . The next vile thing that e'er I did , to you I will discover , I poysoded fair Rosamond , all in fair Woodstock-bower . That is a vile since , then said the King , God may forgive it thee : Amen , amen , quoth Earl Martial , and wish it so may be . Do you see yonders little Boy , a catching of the Ball ? That is Earl Martial's son , she said , and I love him the best of all Do you see yonders little Boy , a tossing of the ball , That is King Henry's son she said , and I love him the worst of all . His head is like unto a bull , his nose is like a boar . No matter for that , King Henry said , I love him the better therefore . The King pull'd off his fryar's coat , and appeared all in read ; She shriek'd and she cry'd , she wrung her hands , and said , she was betray'd . The King look'd over his left shoulder , and a grim look looked he , And said , Earl Martial , but for my oath , then hanged shouldst thou be . FINIS . Printed for C. Bates , at the White-hart , in West-Smithfield . [ Queen Eleanor's Confession : ] Showing how King Henry , with the Earl Martial , in Friars Habits , came to her instead of two Friars from France , which she sent for . To a pleasant new Tune . QUeen Elenor was a sick woman , and afraid that she should die ; Then she sent for two friars of France , for to speak with them speedily . The King call'd down his nobles all , by one , by two , and by three ; And sent away for Earl Martial , for to speak with him speedily . When that he came before the King , he fell on his bent knee , A boon , a boon , our Gracious King , that you sent so hastily . I'll pawn my livings , and my lands , my sceptre and my crown , That whatever Queen Elenor says , I will not write it down . Do you but put on one fryar's coat , and I'll put on another , And we will to Queen Elenor go , one friar like another . Thus both attired then they go : when they came to White-hall , The bells' they did ring , and the quiristers sing , and the torches did light them all . When that they came before the Queen , they fell on their bent knee , A boon , a boon our Gracious Queen , that you sent so hastily . Are you two friars of France , she said , which I suppose you be ; But if you are two English friars , then hanged you shall be . We are two friars of France , they said , as you suppose we be , We have not been at any mass since we came from the sea . The first vile thing that e'er I did , I will to you unfold , Earl Martial had my maidenhead , underneath this cloth of gold . That is a vile since , then said the King , God may forgive it thee : Amen , amen , quoth Earl Martial , with a heavy heart then spoke he . The next vile thing that e'er I did , to you I'd not deny ; I made a box of poison strong , to poison King Henry . That is a vile since then said the King , God may forgive it thee : Amen , amen , quoth Earl Martial , And I wish it so may be . The next vile thing that e'er I did , to you I will discover , I poysoded fair Rosamond , all in fair Woodstock-bower . That is a vile since , then said the King , God may forgive it thee : Amen , amen , quoth Earl Martial , and wish it so may be . Do you see yonders little Boy , a catching of the Ball ? That is Earl Martial's son , she said , and I love him the best of all Do you see yonders little Boy , a tossing of the ball , That is King Henry's son she said , and I love him the worst of all . His head is like unto a bull , his nose is like a boar . No matter for that , King Henry said , I love him the better therefore . The King pull'd off his fryar's coat , and appeared all in read ; She shriek'd and she cry'd , she wrung her hands , and said , she was betray'd . The King look'd over his left shoulder , and a grim look looked he , And said , Earl Martial , but for my oath , then hanged shouldst thou be . FINIS . Printed for C. Bates , at the White-hart , in West-Smithfield . [ Queen Eleanor's Confession : ] Showing how King Henry , with the Earl Martial , in Friars Habits , came to her instead of two Friars from France , which she sent for . To a pleasant new Tune . QUeen Elenor was a sick woman , and afraid that she should die ; Then she sent for two friars of France , for to speak with them speedily . The King call'd down his nobles all , by one , by two , and by three ; And sent away for Earl Martial , for to speak with him speedily . When that he came before the King , he fell on his bent knee , A boon , a boon , our Gracious King , that you sent so hastily . I'll pawn my livings , and my lands , my sceptre and my crown , That whatever Queen Elenor says , I will not write it down . Do you but put on one fryar's coat , and I'll put on another , And we will to Queen Elenor go , one friar like another . Thus both attired then they go : when they came to White-hall , The bells' they did ring , and the quiristers sing , and the torches did light them all . When that they came before the Queen , they fell on their bent knee , A boon , a boon our Gracious Queen , that you sent so hastily . Are you two friars of France , she said , which I suppose you be ; But if you are two English friars , then hanged you shall be . We are two friars of France , they said , as you suppose we be , We have not been at any mass since we came from the sea . The first vile thing that e'er I did , I will to you unfold , Earl Martial had my maidenhead , underneath this cloth of gold . That is a vile since , then said the King , God may forgive it thee : Amen , amen , quoth Earl Martial , with a heavy heart then spoke he . The next vile thing that e'er I did , to you I'd not deny ; I made a box of poison strong , to poison King Henry . That is a vile since then said the King , God may forgive it thee : Amen , amen , quoth Earl Martial , And I wish it so may be . The next vile thing that e'er I did , to you I will discover , I poysoded fair Rosamond , all in fair Woodstock-bower . That is a vile since , then said the King , God may forgive it thee : Amen , amen , quoth Earl Martial , and wish it so may be . Do you see yonders little Boy , a catching of the Ball ? That is Earl Martial's son , she said , and I love him the best of all Do you see yonders little Boy , a tossing of the ball , That is King Henry's son she said , and I love him the worst of all . His head is like unto a bull , his nose is like a boar . No matter for that , King Henry said , I love him the better therefore . The King pull'd off his fryar's coat , and appeared all in read ; She shriek'd and she cry'd , she wrung her hands , and said , she was betray'd . The King look'd over his left shoulder , and a grim look looked he , And said , Earl Martial , but for my oath , then hanged shouldst thou be . FINIS . Printed for C. Bates , at the White-hart , in West-Smithfield . [ Queen Eleanor's Confession : ] Showing how King Henry , with the Earl Martial , in Friars Habits , came to her instead of two Friars from France , which she sent for . To a pleasant new Tune . QUeen Elenor was a sick woman , and afraid that she should die ; Then she sent for two friars of France , for to speak with them speedily . The King call'd down his nobles all , by one , by two , and by three ; And sent away for Earl Martial , for to speak with him speedily . When that he came before the King , he fell on his bent knee , A boon , a boon , our Gracious King , that you sent so hastily . I'll pawn my livings , and my lands , my sceptre and my crown , That whatever Queen Elenor says , I will not write it down . Do you but put on one fryar's coat , and I'll put on another , And we will to Queen Elenor go , one friar like another . Thus both attired then they go : when they came to White-hall , The bells' they did ring , and the quiristers sing , and the torches did light them all . When that they came before the Queen , they fell on their bent knee , A boon , a boon our Gracious Queen , that you sent so hastily . Are you two friars of France , she said , which I suppose you be ; But if you are two English friars , then hanged you shall be . We are two friars of France , they said , as you suppose we be , We have not been at any mass since we came from the sea . The first vile thing that e'er I did , I will to you unfold , Earl Martial had my maidenhead , underneath this cloth of gold . That is a vile since , then said the King , God may forgive it thee : Amen , amen , quoth Earl Martial , with a heavy heart then spoke he . The next vile thing that e'er I did , to you I'd not deny ; I made a box of poison strong , to poison King Henry . That is a vile since then said the King , God may forgive it thee : Amen , amen , quoth Earl Martial , And I wish it so may be . The next vile thing that e'er I did , to you I will discover , I poysoded fair Rosamond , all in fair Woodstock-bower . That is a vile since , then said the King , God may forgive it thee : Amen , amen , quoth Earl Martial , and wish it so may be . Do you see yonders little Boy , a catching of the Ball ? That is Earl Martial's son , she said , and I love him the best of all Do you see yonders little Boy , a tossing of the ball , That is King Henry's son she said , and I love him the worst of all . His head is like unto a bull , his nose is like a boar . No matter for that , King Henry said , I love him the better therefore . The King pull'd off his fryar's coat , and appeared all in read ; She shriek'd and she cry'd , she wrung her hands , and said , she was betray'd . The King look'd over his left shoulder , and a grim look looked he , And said , Earl Martial , but for my oath , then hanged shouldst thou be . FINIS . Printed for C. Bates , at the White-hart , in West-Smithfield . 