The Countryman's Deligh Or , The Happy Wooing . Being the Successful Love of JOHN the SERVING-MAN , In his Courting of JOAN the DARY-MAID . John's humble suit Joan does long time withstand , Till his known Wealth her favour does command ; Then mustering all her Smiles , to him she bends , And to the Bargain straight she condescends : Now no Objection can retard her Love , If not of him , she does his Wealth approve ; So Women for base Gold their Beauty fell , To whom so e're bids most , that Cursed spell , Fix'd deep into their Souls , commands them still , And guides the Reins of their tempestuous will . To a New Play-House Tune : Or , Dolly and Molly . John. QUoth John to Joan wilt thou have me ? I prithee now wilt thou , i'le Marry with thee My Cow , my Cow , my House and Rends , All my Lands and Tennements : Say my Joan , say my Joan , what wilt thou do ? I cannot , I cannot come every every day to woo . I've Corn and Hay in a Barn hard by , And three fat Piggs penn'd up in a Stye ; I have a Mare and she is Coalblack , I ride on her Belly to save her Back , Say my Joan , say my Joan , what wilt thou do ? I cannot , I cannot come every every day to woo . I have three Mark ty'd up in a Rag , I keep them there instead of a Bag ; I have a Cheese upon the Shelf , I'se cannot eat it awe my self : Say my Joan , say my Joan , what wilt thou do ? I cannot , I cannot come every every day to woo . Joan. Quoth Joan to John you must not come , For your Master and Mistress are both at home ; You are a Servant , and must obey , Else they'l be angry and turn you away : Say my John , say my John , is this not true ? You must not , you must not come every every day to woo . John. I love thee Joan with all my heart , Come quickly consent , and we never will part ; My Shirt , my Shirt , and eke my Band , All I have is at thy Command : Believe me Joan , believe me Joan , I tell thee true , I cannot nown's , I cannot come every every day to woo Joan. In troth my John , I cannot consent , To gain your Cow , your Shirt , and your Rend ; Yet smiling I think of your Love , And wish oft I worthy cou'd prove : With a Servingman , with a Servingman i'le not do , who cannot , who dare not come every every day to woo . John. Nay my Joan , pray say not so , E're i'le lose thee , my Place i'le forgo Come Kiss my Joy , and I will be A Servant unto none but thee : My Master , my Master i'le bid adieu , I'le leave him , i'le leave him , every every day to woo . Joan. O John , by no means , not for me , I wou'd not your Master and you disagree ; For I shall never have you 'tis plain , You offer'd your Band , but all in vain : Cease you Clown , cease you Clown , it will not do , tho' you come , tho' you come every every day to woo . John. Then yet more my Joany I have , O think not pray , thy Johnny a Slave ; I was Free born i'le make it appear , My Father left me five Marks a Year : Believe me Joan , believe me Joan , I tell you true , I will come , I will come every every day to woo . Joan , Come , come , it is no time for delay , Hark John , your Mistress calls you away ; We must not so sudden agree , For what will the Maids think all of me : Say my John , say my John , is this not true ? You cannot by'th Mass , you cannot come every every day to woo . John. Fear not my Joan , for by this Kiss , They cannot think on it amiss ; Each on 'um wo'd , and wished the like , And conquer'd by Love , they would soon strike : Say my Joan , say my Joan , is this not true ? I cannot , I cannot come every every day to woo . Joan. Well John , you have Charm'd me I see , My Love thou hast wone , I yield it to thee , Though with soft sighs it is expressed , Yet Johnny is lodged in my Breas Say my John , say my John , what must we do ? You must come , you must come every every day to woo John. O speak it again my dear Joan , Can it be so quickly that thou art my own ; I'le Hug thee , i'le Buss thee , now for this , Thou art my Joy and all my Bliss : Say my Joan , say my Joan , is this not true ? Now Ii'le come , now i'le come every every day to woo . Joan. Well , when is the time you Design , That'th Parson in Wedlock may both of us join ? John. Uds-foot Joan , tomorrow let's meet , And then we'l do all things Complea Say my Joan , say my Joan , does it please you ? then i'le come , then i'le come every every day to woo . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , near the Hospital-gate , in West-Smithfield . The Countryman's Deligh Or , The Happy Wooing . Being the Successful Love of JOHN the SERVING-MAN , In his Courting of JOAN the DARY-MAID . John's humble suit Joan does long time withstand , Till his known Wealth her favour does command ; Then mustering all her Smiles , to him she bends , And to the Bargain straight she condescends : Now no Objection can retard her Love , If not of him , she does his Wealth approve ; So Women for base Gold their Beauty fell , To whom so e're bids most , that Cursed spell , Fix'd deep into their Souls , commands them still , And guides the Reins of their tempestuous will . To a New Play-House Tune : Or , Dolly and Molly . John. QUoth John to Joan wilt thou have me ? I prithee now wilt thou , i'le Marry with thee My Cow , my Cow , my House and Rends , All my Lands and Tennements : Say my Joan , say my Joan , what wilt thou do ? I cannot , I cannot come every every day to woo . I've Corn and Hay in a Barn hard by , And three fat Piggs penn'd up in a Stye ; I have a Mare and she is Coalblack , I ride on her Belly to save her Back , Say my Joan , say my Joan , what wilt thou do ? I cannot , I cannot come every every day to woo . I have three Mark ty'd up in a Rag , I keep them there instead of a Bag ; I have a Cheese upon the Shelf , I'se cannot eat it awe my self : Say my Joan , say my Joan , what wilt thou do ? I cannot , I cannot come every every day to woo . Joan. Quoth Joan to John you must not come , For your Master and Mistress are both at home ; You are a Servant , and must obey , Else they'l be angry and turn you away : Say my John , say my John , is this not true ? You must not , you must not come every every day to woo . John. I love thee Joan with all my heart , Come quickly consent , and we never will part ; My Shirt , my Shirt , and eke my Band , All I have is at thy Command : Believe me Joan , believe me Joan , I tell thee true , I cannot nown's , I cannot come every every day to woo Joan. In troth my John , I cannot consent , To gain your Cow , your Shirt , and your Rend ; Yet smiling I think of your Love , And wish oft I worthy cou'd prove : With a Servingman , with a Servingman i'le not do , who cannot , who dare not come every every day to woo . John. Nay my Joan , pray say not so , E're i'le lose thee , my Place i'le forgo Come Kiss my Joy , and I will be A Servant unto none but thee : My Master , my Master i'le bid adieu , I'le leave him , i'le leave him , every every day to woo . Joan. O John , by no means , not for me , I wou'd not your Master and you disagree ; For I shall never have you 'tis plain , You offer'd your Band , but all in vain : Cease you Clown , cease you Clown , it will not do , tho' you come , tho' you come every every day to woo . John. Then yet more my Joany I have , O think not pray , thy Johnny a Slave ; I was Free born i'le make it appear , My Father left me five Marks a Year : Believe me Joan , believe me Joan , I tell you true , I will come , I will come every every day to woo . Joan , Come , come , it is no time for delay , Hark John , your Mistress calls you away ; We must not so sudden agree , For what will the Maids think all of me : Say my John , say my John , is this not true ? You cannot by'th Mass , you cannot come every every day to woo . John. Fear not my Joan , for by this Kiss , They cannot think on it amiss ; Each on 'um wo'd , and wished the like , And conquer'd by Love , they would soon strike : Say my Joan , say my Joan , is this not true ? I cannot , I cannot come every every day to woo . Joan. Well John , you have Charm'd me I see , My Love thou hast wone , I yield it to thee , Though with soft sighs it is expressed , Yet Johnny is lodged in my Breas Say my John , say my John , what must we do ? You must come , you must come every every day to woo John. O speak it again my dear Joan , Can it be so quickly that thou art my own ; I'le Hug thee , i'le Buss thee , now for this , Thou art my Joy and all my Bliss : Say my Joan , say my Joan , is this not true ? Now Ii'le come , now i'le come every every day to woo . Joan. Well , when is the time you Design , That'th Parson in Wedlock may both of us join ? John. Uds-foot Joan , tomorrow let's meet , And then we'l do all things Complea Say my Joan , say my Joan , does it please you ? then i'le come , then i'le come every every day to woo . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , near the Hospital-gate , in West-Smithfield . The Countryman's Deligh Or , The Happy Wooing . Being the Successful Love of JOHN the SERVING-MAN , In his Courting of JOAN the DARY-MAID . John's humble suit Joan does long time withstand , Till his known Wealth her favour does command ; Then mustering all her Smiles , to him she bends , And to the Bargain straight she condescends : Now no Objection can retard her Love , If not of him , she does his Wealth approve ; So Women for base Gold their Beauty fell , To whom so e're bids most , that Cursed spell , Fix'd deep into their Souls , commands them still , And guides the Reins of their tempestuous will . To a New Play-House Tune : Or , Dolly and Molly . John. QUoth John to Joan wilt thou have me ? I prithee now wilt thou , i'le Marry with thee My Cow , my Cow , my House and Rends , All my Lands and Tennements : Say my Joan , say my Joan , what wilt thou do ? I cannot , I cannot come every every day to woo . I've Corn and Hay in a Barn hard by , And three fat Piggs penn'd up in a Stye ; I have a Mare and she is Coalblack , I ride on her Belly to save her Back , Say my Joan , say my Joan , what wilt thou do ? I cannot , I cannot come every every day to woo . I have three Mark ty'd up in a Rag , I keep them there instead of a Bag ; I have a Cheese upon the Shelf , I'se cannot eat it awe my self : Say my Joan , say my Joan , what wilt thou do ? I cannot , I cannot come every every day to woo . Joan. Quoth Joan to John you must not come , For your Master and Mistress are both at home ; You are a Servant , and must obey , Else they'l be angry and turn you away : Say my John , say my John , is this not true ? You must not , you must not come every every day to woo . John. I love thee Joan with all my heart , Come quickly consent , and we never will part ; My Shirt , my Shirt , and eke my Band , All I have is at thy Command : Believe me Joan , believe me Joan , I tell thee true , I cannot nown's , I cannot come every every day to woo Joan. In troth my John , I cannot consent , To gain your Cow , your Shirt , and your Rend ; Yet smiling I think of your Love , And wish oft I worthy cou'd prove : With a Servingman , with a Servingman i'le not do , who cannot , who dare not come every every day to woo . John. Nay my Joan , pray say not so , E're i'le lose thee , my Place i'le forgo Come Kiss my Joy , and I will be A Servant unto none but thee : My Master , my Master i'le bid adieu , I'le leave him , i'le leave him , every every day to woo . Joan. O John , by no means , not for me , I wou'd not your Master and you disagree ; For I shall never have you 'tis plain , You offer'd your Band , but all in vain : Cease you Clown , cease you Clown , it will not do , tho' you come , tho' you come every every day to woo . John. Then yet more my Joany I have , O think not pray , thy Johnny a Slave ; I was Free born i'le make it appear , My Father left me five Marks a Year : Believe me Joan , believe me Joan , I tell you true , I will come , I will come every every day to woo . Joan , Come , come , it is no time for delay , Hark John , your Mistress calls you away ; We must not so sudden agree , For what will the Maids think all of me : Say my John , say my John , is this not true ? You cannot by'th Mass , you cannot come every every day to woo . John. Fear not my Joan , for by this Kiss , They cannot think on it amiss ; Each on 'um wo'd , and wished the like , And conquer'd by Love , they would soon strike : Say my Joan , say my Joan , is this not true ? I cannot , I cannot come every every day to woo . Joan. Well John , you have Charm'd me I see , My Love thou hast wone , I yield it to thee , Though with soft sighs it is expressed , Yet Johnny is lodged in my Breas Say my John , say my John , what must we do ? You must come , you must come every every day to woo John. O speak it again my dear Joan , Can it be so quickly that thou art my own ; I'le Hug thee , i'le Buss thee , now for this , Thou art my Joy and all my Bliss : Say my Joan , say my Joan , is this not true ? Now Ii'le come , now i'le come every every day to woo . Joan. Well , when is the time you Design , That'th Parson in Wedlock may both of us join ? John. Uds-foot Joan , tomorrow let's meet , And then we'l do all things Complea Say my Joan , say my Joan , does it please you ? then i'le come , then i'le come every every day to woo . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , near the Hospital-gate , in West-Smithfield . The Countryman's Deligh Or , The Happy Wooing . Being the Successful Love of JOHN the SERVING-MAN , In his Courting of JOAN the DARY-MAID . John's humble suit Joan does long time withstand , Till his known Wealth her favour does command ; Then mustering all her Smiles , to him she bends , And to the Bargain straight she condescends : Now no Objection can retard her Love , If not of him , she does his Wealth approve ; So Women for base Gold their Beauty fell , To whom so e're bids most , that Cursed spell , Fix'd deep into their Souls , commands them still , And guides the Reins of their tempestuous will . To a New Play-House Tune : Or , Dolly and Molly . John. QUoth John to Joan wilt thou have me ? I prithee now wilt thou , i'le Marry with thee My Cow , my Cow , my House and Rends , All my Lands and Tennements : Say my Joan , say my Joan , what wilt thou do ? I cannot , I cannot come every every day to woo . I've Corn and Hay in a Barn hard by , And three fat Piggs penn'd up in a Stye ; I have a Mare and she is Coalblack , I ride on her Belly to save her Back , Say my Joan , say my Joan , what wilt thou do ? I cannot , I cannot come every every day to woo . I have three Mark ty'd up in a Rag , I keep them there instead of a Bag ; I have a Cheese upon the Shelf , I'se cannot eat it awe my self : Say my Joan , say my Joan , what wilt thou do ? I cannot , I cannot come every every day to woo . Joan. Quoth Joan to John you must not come , For your Master and Mistress are both at home ; You are a Servant , and must obey , Else they'l be angry and turn you away : Say my John , say my John , is this not true ? You must not , you must not come every every day to woo . John. I love thee Joan with all my heart , Come quickly consent , and we never will part ; My Shirt , my Shirt , and eke my Band , All I have is at thy Command : Believe me Joan , believe me Joan , I tell thee true , I cannot nown's , I cannot come every every day to woo Joan. In troth my John , I cannot consent , To gain your Cow , your Shirt , and your Rend ; Yet smiling I think of your Love , And wish oft I worthy cou'd prove : With a Servingman , with a Servingman i'le not do , who cannot , who dare not come every every day to woo . John. Nay my Joan , pray say not so , E're i'le lose thee , my Place i'le forgo Come Kiss my Joy , and I will be A Servant unto none but thee : My Master , my Master i'le bid adieu , I'le leave him , i'le leave him , every every day to woo . Joan. O John , by no means , not for me , I wou'd not your Master and you disagree ; For I shall never have you 'tis plain , You offer'd your Band , but all in vain : Cease you Clown , cease you Clown , it will not do , tho' you come , tho' you come every every day to woo . John. Then yet more my Joany I have , O think not pray , thy Johnny a Slave ; I was Free born i'le make it appear , My Father left me five Marks a Year : Believe me Joan , believe me Joan , I tell you true , I will come , I will come every every day to woo . Joan , Come , come , it is no time for delay , Hark John , your Mistress calls you away ; We must not so sudden agree , For what will the Maids think all of me : Say my John , say my John , is this not true ? You cannot by'th Mass , you cannot come every every day to woo . John. Fear not my Joan , for by this Kiss , They cannot think on it amiss ; Each on 'um wo'd , and wished the like , And conquer'd by Love , they would soon strike : Say my Joan , say my Joan , is this not true ? I cannot , I cannot come every every day to woo . Joan. Well John , you have Charm'd me I see , My Love thou hast wone , I yield it to thee , Though with soft sighs it is expressed , Yet Johnny is lodged in my Breas Say my John , say my John , what must we do ? You must come , you must come every every day to woo John. O speak it again my dear Joan , Can it be so quickly that thou art my own ; I'le Hug thee , i'le Buss thee , now for this , Thou art my Joy and all my Bliss : Say my Joan , say my Joan , is this not true ? Now Ii'le come , now i'le come every every day to woo . Joan. Well , when is the time you Design , That'th Parson in Wedlock may both of us join ? John. Uds-foot Joan , tomorrow let's meet , And then we'l do all things Complea Say my Joan , say my Joan , does it please you ? then i'le come , then i'le come every every day to woo . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , near the Hospital-gate , in West-Smithfield . 