And ACCOUNT of and APPARITION That appeared to TITUS OATES . SOme night late passed , as I ( accursed ) lay , Tumbling and Tossing , wishing long for day ; Just fallen into a Sleep , I did Espy ( Methought ) some frightful Things approaching nigh My trembling Bed : Those who at first appear'd , Were naked Men with Crimson Blood besmeer'd , Dragging their Bowels trailing at their Heel , Their Breasts ripped open , wanted Hearts to feel : They gently came , and drew near to my Bed , Shew'd what , and who they were but nothing said ; At which I then ( though ne'er before ) turn'd read : In every Gesture you might plainly find , A Soul compos'd , and a well order'd mind , They knew me not , their Thoughts did soar more high , Their Eyes and Thoughts were fix'd above the Sky : But with true Consort each did Sing this Song , Oh Lord most Holy , Lord most Just , how long ? Just following them , came Two so closely joyn'd As Matrimonial Bans had e're design'd ; For Man and Wife , ( Perhaps they so might be , ) The one dressed Manlike , t'other contrary ; The Robes he wore were of a Scarlet die , Of Aspect Reverend , full of Gravity : In whose right Hand fast held ( me thought ) I saw A Book , Entitled , Govern by the Law . Her Dress as Vestal Nuns are made to wear , From Head to Foot , did purely White appear ; Whose Eyes were Cover'd with the Finest Lawn ; In her right Hand a Naked Sword was drawn , Pointed towards me , at which I trembled more , Then at the Bleeding sighed I nam'd before . As if she knew me , she did boldly come , Inquir'd for Conscience , I reply'd , from 'home ; Quoth she , How long ? I said , I cou'd not tell , She very seldom us'd with Me to dwell . Then with a Bold ( I thought commanding ) word To th' Scarlet Gown cries , Judgement give my Lord . He He seem'd reserv'd , and would but little say , Yet shook his Head , Look'd Stearn , and went away , With threatening Signs of a severer day . At which I wak'd from that most dismal Dream . And thus I write upon the Tragyck Theme . Alas those inward Pangs I hourly feel , Are now grown greater than I can reveal , None e're more sensibly than I , cou'd tell , How like a wounded Conscience is to Hell : My crying Crimes , like Vipers daily tear My Bleeding Entrails , and I'm all despair : The Fate of Judas was more mild than mine , He shew'd Repentance of his Treacherous Crime : Favour was granted to that Cursed Elf , And strength of Mind enough to hang Himself . But I more miserable far than He Who dare not doe what none will do for me , Ungrateful Catch where's thy Civility ! You know that lately , might I had my Will , And Cornishes and Bethels Sheriffs still , I wou'd have sworn while Death had Power to Kill , And was in all Superlatively ill . For I , more fierce than all the Devils , hurl'd , And strove to turn to Chaos all the World : For which I'm Plagu'd , and Burn with more than fire , By the strict Vengeance of th' Almighty's Ire . To Heaven I dare not look , that Glorious Throne Did evermore my Hateful Crimes disown . Th' Infernal Spirits seem to dread me too , Or envy that my Crimes did Theirs outdo . Proscrib'd by all , Where Wretched shall I fly ? To hide my Gilded from GOD's All-searching Eye . --------- But hold , have I not read Pythagoras Faith , and what th' Egyptians said Of Transmigration of the Souls of Men , Into some Birds or Beasts , alas ! What then ? Where may I search ? for either Beast or Fowl Deserves the Plague of such a Loaded Soul ? What Land e'r so accursed as to produce So foul a Creature , to so foul a Use , Unless perhaps on that Unhallow'd Ground Where my Learn'd Tutor dy'd , such may be found . If that proves true , then Titus thou art blessed , And in that hope , accursed Oats take Rest. By ANTHONY HARRIS . Printed by Nat. Thompson at the Entrance into the Old Spring - Garden , near Charing-Cross . 1684. And ACCOUNT of and APPARITION That appeared to TITUS OATES . SOme night late passed , as I ( accursed ) lay , Tumbling and Tossing , wishing long for day ; Just fallen into a Sleep , I did Espy ( Methought ) some frightful Things approaching nigh My trembling Bed : Those who at first appear'd , Were naked Men with Crimson Blood besmeer'd , Dragging their Bowels trailing at their Heel , Their Breasts ripped open , wanted Hearts to feel : They gently came , and drew near to my Bed , Shew'd what , and who they were but nothing said ; At which I then ( though ne'er before ) turn'd read : In every Gesture you might plainly find , A Soul compos'd , and a well order'd mind , They knew me not , their Thoughts did soar more high , Their Eyes and Thoughts were fix'd above the Sky : But with true Consort each did Sing this Song , Oh Lord most Holy , Lord most Just , how long ? Just following them , came Two so closely joyn'd As Matrimonial Bans had e're design'd ; For Man and Wife , ( Perhaps they so might be , ) The one dressed Manlike , t'other contrary ; The Robes he wore were of a Scarlet die , Of Aspect Reverend , full of Gravity : In whose right Hand fast held ( me thought ) I saw A Book , Entitled , Govern by the Law . Her Dress as Vestal Nuns are made to wear , From Head to Foot , did purely White appear ; Whose Eyes were Cover'd with the Finest Lawn ; In her right Hand a Naked Sword was drawn , Pointed towards me , at which I trembled more , Then at the Bleeding sighed I nam'd before . As if she knew me , she did boldly come , Inquir'd for Conscience , I reply'd , from 'home ; Quoth she , How long ? I said , I cou'd not tell , She very seldom us'd with Me to dwell . Then with a Bold ( I thought commanding ) word To th' Scarlet Gown cries , Judgement give my Lord . He He seem'd reserv'd , and would but little say , Yet shook his Head , Look'd Stearn , and went away , With threatening Signs of a severer day . At which I wak'd from that most dismal Dream . And thus I write upon the Tragyck Theme . Alas those inward Pangs I hourly feel , Are now grown greater than I can reveal , None e're more sensibly than I , cou'd tell , How like a wounded Conscience is to Hell : My crying Crimes , like Vipers daily tear My Bleeding Entrails , and I'm all despair : The Fate of Judas was more mild than mine , He shew'd Repentance of his Treacherous Crime : Favour was granted to that Cursed Elf , And strength of Mind enough to hang Himself . But I more miserable far than He Who dare not doe what none will do for me , Ungrateful Catch where's thy Civility ! You know that lately , might I had my Will , And Cornishes and Bethels Sheriffs still , I wou'd have sworn while Death had Power to Kill , And was in all Superlatively ill . For I , more fierce than all the Devils , hurl'd , And strove to turn to Chaos all the World : For which I'm Plagu'd , and Burn with more than fire , By the strict Vengeance of th' Almighty's Ire . To Heaven I dare not look , that Glorious Throne Did evermore my Hateful Crimes disown . Th' Infernal Spirits seem to dread me too , Or envy that my Crimes did Theirs outdo . Proscrib'd by all , Where Wretched shall I fly ? To hide my Gilded from GOD's All-searching Eye . --------- But hold , have I not read Pythagoras Faith , and what th' Egyptians said Of Transmigration of the Souls of Men , Into some Birds or Beasts , alas ! What then ? Where may I search ? for either Beast or Fowl Deserves the Plague of such a Loaded Soul ? What Land e'r so accursed as to produce So foul a Creature , to so foul a Use , Unless perhaps on that Unhallow'd Ground Where my Learn'd Tutor dy'd , such may be found . If that proves true , then Titus thou art blessed , And in that hope , accursed Oats take Rest. By ANTHONY HARRIS . Printed by Nat. Thompson at the Entrance into the Old Spring - Garden , near Charing-Cross . 1684. 