A proper new Ballad , briefly declaring the Death and Execution of 14. most wicked Traitors , who suffered death in Lincolnes Inn field near London : the 20 and 21. of September . 1586. To the tune of Weep weep . Rejoice in heart good people all , sing praise to God on high : Which hath preserved us by his power , from traitors tyranny . Which now have had their due deserts , in London lately seen : And Ballard was the first that died , for Treason to our Queen . O praise the Lord with heart and mind , sing praise with voices clear : Sith traitorous crew , have had their due , to quail their partners cheer . Next , Babington that Caitiff vild , was hanged for his hire : His Carcase likewise quartered , and Heart cast in the fire . Was ever seen such wicked troops , of Traitors in this Land ? Against the precious word of truth , and their good Queen to stand ? O praise , etc But her behold the rage of Room , the fruits of Popish plants , Behold and see their wicked works , which all good meaning wants . For Savage also did receive , like death for his desert Which in that wicked enterprise , should then have done his part . O praise , etc O cursed catifes void of grace , will nothing serve your turn , But to behold your Countries wrack , in malice while you burn . And Barnwell thou which went to view , her grace in each degree : And how her life might be dispatched , thy death we all did see . O praise , etc Confounding shame fallen to their share , and hellish torments sting : That to the Lords anointed shall , devise so vile a thing . O Techburne what bewitched thee ? to have such hate in store : Against our good and gracious Queen , that thou must die therefore . O praise , etc What gain for Traitors can return ? if they their wish did win : Or what preferment should they get , by this their treacherous sin . Though Foreign power love Treason well , the Traitors they despise : And they the first that should sustain , the smart of their devise . O praise , etc What cause had Tilney Traitor stout , or Abbington likewise : Against the Lords anointed thus , such mischief to devise . But that the Devil enticed them , such wicked works to render : For which these seven did suffer death , the twentith of September . O praise , etc Seaven more the next day following , were drawn from the Tower : Which were of their confederates , to die that instant hour . The first of them was Salsburie , and next to him was Don : Who did complain most earnestly , of proud young Babington . O praise , etc Both Lords and Knights of high renown , he meant for to displace : And likewise all our Towers and Towns , and Cities for to raze . So likewise Jones did much complain , of his detested pride : And showed how lewdly he did live , before the time he died . O Praise etc Then Charnock was the next in place , to taste of bitter death : And praying unto holy Saints , he left his vital breath . And in like manner Trauers then , did suffer in that place : And fearfully he left his life , with Crossing breast and face . O praise , etc Then Gage was stripped in his shirt , who up the Lather wen And sought for to excuse himself , of Treasons falce intent . And Bellamie the last of all , did suffer death that day : Unto which end God bring all such , as wish our Queens decay . O praise , etc O faulce and foul disloyal men , what person would suppose : That Clothes of Velvet and of Silk , should hide such mortal foes . Or who would think such hidden hate , in men so fair in sighs But that the Devil can turn him self , into and Angel bright . O praise , etc But Sovereign Queen have thou no care , for God which knoweth all : Will still maintain thy royal state , and give thy foes a fallen . And for thy Grace thy Subject's all , will make their prayers still : That never Traitor in this Land , may have his wicked will . O praise , etc Whose glorious days in England here , the mighty God maintain : That long unto thy Subject's Joy , thy Grace may rule and reign . And Lord we pray for Christes sake , that all thy secret foes : May come to nought which seek thy life , and Englands lasting woes . O praise the Lord with heart and mind , etc The names of 7. Traitors which were Executed on Tuesday being the xx of September 1586. John Ballard Priest . Anthony Babington . John Savage . Robert Barnwell . Chodicus Techburne . Charles Tilney . Edward Abbington . The names of the other vij . which were Exe - cut on the next day after . Thomas Salsbury . Henry Dun. Edward Jhones . John Trauers . John Charnock . Robert Gage . Harman Bellamy . FINIS . T.D. Imprinted at London at the Long Shop adjoining unto Saint Mildreds Church in the Pultrie by Edward Allde . A proper new Ballad , briefly declaring the Death and Execution of 14. most wicked Traitors , who suffered death in Lincolnes Inn field near London : the 20 and 21. of September . 1586. To the tune of Weep weep . Rejoice in heart good people all , sing praise to God on high : Which hath preserved us by his power , from traitors tyranny . Which now have had their due deserts , in London lately seen : And Ballard was the first that died , for Treason to our Queen . O praise the Lord with heart and mind , sing praise with voices clear : Sith traitorous crew , have had their due , to quail their partners cheer . Next , Babington that Caitiff vild , was hanged for his hire : His Carcase likewise quartered , and Heart cast in the fire . Was ever seen such wicked troops , of Traitors in this Land ? Against the precious word of truth , and their good Queen to stand ? O praise , etc But her behold the rage of Room , the fruits of Popish plants , Behold and see their wicked works , which all good meaning wants . For Savage also did receive , like death for his desert Which in that wicked enterprise , should then have done his part . O praise , etc O cursed catifes void of grace , will nothing serve your turn , But to behold your Countries wrack , in malice while you burn . And Barnwell thou which went to view , her grace in each degree : And how her life might be dispatched , thy death we all did see . O praise , etc Confounding shame fallen to their share , and hellish torments sting : That to the Lords anointed shall , devise so vile a thing . O Techburne what bewitched thee ? to have such hate in store : Against our good and gracious Queen , that thou must die therefore . O praise , etc What gain for Traitors can return ? if they their wish did win : Or what preferment should they get , by this their treacherous sin . Though Foreign power love Treason well , the Traitors they despise : And they the first that should sustain , the smart of their devise . O praise , etc What cause had Tilney Traitor stout , or Abbington likewise : Against the Lords anointed thus , such mischief to devise . But that the Devil enticed them , such wicked works to render : For which these seven did suffer death , the twentith of September . O praise , etc Seaven more the next day following , were drawn from the Tower : Which were of their confederates , to die that instant hour . The first of them was Salsburie , and next to him was Don : Who did complain most earnestly , of proud young Babington . O praise , etc Both Lords and Knights of high renown , he meant for to displace : And likewise all our Towers and Towns , and Cities for to raze . So likewise Jones did much complain , of his detested pride : And showed how lewdly he did live , before the time he died . O Praise etc Then Charnock was the next in place , to taste of bitter death : And praying unto holy Saints , he left his vital breath . And in like manner Trauers then , did suffer in that place : And fearfully he left his life , with Crossing breast and face . O praise , etc Then Gage was stripped in his shirt , who up the Lather wen And sought for to excuse himself , of Treasons falce intent . And Bellamie the last of all , did suffer death that day : Unto which end God bring all such , as wish our Queens decay . O praise , etc O faulce and foul disloyal men , what person would suppose : That Clothes of Velvet and of Silk , should hide such mortal foes . Or who would think such hidden hate , in men so fair in sighs But that the Devil can turn him self , into and Angel bright . O praise , etc But Sovereign Queen have thou no care , for God which knoweth all : Will still maintain thy royal state , and give thy foes a fallen . And for thy Grace thy Subject's all , will make their prayers still : That never Traitor in this Land , may have his wicked will . O praise , etc Whose glorious days in England here , the mighty God maintain : That long unto thy Subject's Joy , thy Grace may rule and reign . And Lord we pray for Christes sake , that all thy secret foes : May come to nought which seek thy life , and Englands lasting woes . O praise the Lord with heart and mind , etc The names of 7. Traitors which were Executed on Tuesday being the xx of September 1586. John Ballard Priest . Anthony Babington . John Savage . Robert Barnwell . Chodicus Techburne . Charles Tilney . Edward Abbington . The names of the other vij . which were Exe - cut on the next day after . Thomas Salsbury . Henry Dun. Edward Jhones . John Trauers . John Charnock . Robert Gage . Harman Bellamy . FINIS . T.D. Imprinted at London at the Long Shop adjoining unto Saint Mildreds Church in the Pultrie by Edward Allde . A proper new Ballad , briefly declaring the Death and Execution of 14. most wicked Traitors , who suffered death in Lincolnes Inn field near London : the 20 and 21. of September . 1586. To the tune of Weep weep . Rejoice in heart good people all , sing praise to God on high : Which hath preserved us by his power , from traitors tyranny . Which now have had their due deserts , in London lately seen : And Ballard was the first that died , for Treason to our Queen . O praise the Lord with heart and mind , sing praise with voices clear : Sith traitorous crew , have had their due , to quail their partners cheer . Next , Babington that Caitiff vild , was hanged for his hire : His Carcase likewise quartered , and Heart cast in the fire . Was ever seen such wicked troops , of Traitors in this Land ? Against the precious word of truth , and their good Queen to stand ? O praise , etc But her behold the rage of Room , the fruits of Popish plants , Behold and see their wicked works , which all good meaning wants . For Savage also did receive , like death for his desert Which in that wicked enterprise , should then have done his part . O praise , etc O cursed catifes void of grace , will nothing serve your turn , But to behold your Countries wrack , in malice while you burn . And Barnwell thou which went to view , her grace in each degree : And how her life might be dispatched , thy death we all did see . O praise , etc Confounding shame fallen to their share , and hellish torments sting : That to the Lords anointed shall , devise so vile a thing . O Techburne what bewitched thee ? to have such hate in store : Against our good and gracious Queen , that thou must die therefore . O praise , etc What gain for Traitors can return ? if they their wish did win : Or what preferment should they get , by this their treacherous sin . Though Foreign power love Treason well , the Traitors they despise : And they the first that should sustain , the smart of their devise . O praise , etc What cause had Tilney Traitor stout , or Abbington likewise : Against the Lords anointed thus , such mischief to devise . But that the Devil enticed them , such wicked works to render : For which these seven did suffer death , the twentith of September . O praise , etc Seaven more the next day following , were drawn from the Tower : Which were of their confederates , to die that instant hour . The first of them was Salsburie , and next to him was Don : Who did complain most earnestly , of proud young Babington . O praise , etc Both Lords and Knights of high renown , he meant for to displace : And likewise all our Towers and Towns , and Cities for to raze . So likewise Jones did much complain , of his detested pride : And showed how lewdly he did live , before the time he died . O Praise etc Then Charnock was the next in place , to taste of bitter death : And praying unto holy Saints , he left his vital breath . And in like manner Trauers then , did suffer in that place : And fearfully he left his life , with Crossing breast and face . O praise , etc Then Gage was stripped in his shirt , who up the Lather wen And sought for to excuse himself , of Treasons falce intent . And Bellamie the last of all , did suffer death that day : Unto which end God bring all such , as wish our Queens decay . O praise , etc O faulce and foul disloyal men , what person would suppose : That Clothes of Velvet and of Silk , should hide such mortal foes . Or who would think such hidden hate , in men so fair in sighs But that the Devil can turn him self , into and Angel bright . O praise , etc But Sovereign Queen have thou no care , for God which knoweth all : Will still maintain thy royal state , and give thy foes a fallen . And for thy Grace thy Subject's all , will make their prayers still : That never Traitor in this Land , may have his wicked will . O praise , etc Whose glorious days in England here , the mighty God maintain : That long unto thy Subject's Joy , thy Grace may rule and reign . And Lord we pray for Christes sake , that all thy secret foes : May come to nought which seek thy life , and Englands lasting woes . O praise the Lord with heart and mind , etc The names of 7. Traitors which were Executed on Tuesday being the xx of September 1586. John Ballard Priest . Anthony Babington . John Savage . Robert Barnwell . Chodicus Techburne . Charles Tilney . Edward Abbington . The names of the other vij . which were Exe - cut on the next day after . Thomas Salsbury . Henry Dun. Edward Jhones . John Trauers . John Charnock . Robert Gage . Harman Bellamy . FINIS . T.D. Imprinted at London at the Long Shop adjoining unto Saint Mildreds Church in the Pultrie by Edward Allde . A proper new Ballad , briefly declaring the Death and Execution of 14. most wicked Traitors , who suffered death in Lincolnes Inn field near London : the 20 and 21. of September . 1586. To the tune of Weep weep . Rejoice in heart good people all , sing praise to God on high : Which hath preserved us by his power , from traitors tyranny . Which now have had their due deserts , in London lately seen : And Ballard was the first that died , for Treason to our Queen . O praise the Lord with heart and mind , sing praise with voices clear : Sith traitorous crew , have had their due , to quail their partners cheer . Next , Babington that Caitiff vild , was hanged for his hire : His Carcase likewise quartered , and Heart cast in the fire . Was ever seen such wicked troops , of Traitors in this Land ? Against the precious word of truth , and their good Queen to stand ? O praise , etc But her behold the rage of Room , the fruits of Popish plants , Behold and see their wicked works , which all good meaning wants . For Savage also did receive , like death for his desert Which in that wicked enterprise , should then have done his part . O praise , etc O cursed catifes void of grace , will nothing serve your turn , But to behold your Countries wrack , in malice while you burn . And Barnwell thou which went to view , her grace in each degree : And how her life might be dispatched , thy death we all did see . O praise , etc Confounding shame fallen to their share , and hellish torments sting : That to the Lords anointed shall , devise so vile a thing . O Techburne what bewitched thee ? to have such hate in store : Against our good and gracious Queen , that thou must die therefore . O praise , etc What gain for Traitors can return ? if they their wish did win : Or what preferment should they get , by this their treacherous sin . Though Foreign power love Treason well , the Traitors they despise : And they the first that should sustain , the smart of their devise . O praise , etc What cause had Tilney Traitor stout , or Abbington likewise : Against the Lords anointed thus , such mischief to devise . But that the Devil enticed them , such wicked works to render : For which these seven did suffer death , the twentith of September . O praise , etc Seaven more the next day following , were drawn from the Tower : Which were of their confederates , to die that instant hour . The first of them was Salsburie , and next to him was Don : Who did complain most earnestly , of proud young Babington . O praise , etc Both Lords and Knights of high renown , he meant for to displace : And likewise all our Towers and Towns , and Cities for to raze . So likewise Jones did much complain , of his detested pride : And showed how lewdly he did live , before the time he died . O Praise etc Then Charnock was the next in place , to taste of bitter death : And praying unto holy Saints , he left his vital breath . And in like manner Trauers then , did suffer in that place : And fearfully he left his life , with Crossing breast and face . O praise , etc Then Gage was stripped in his shirt , who up the Lather wen And sought for to excuse himself , of Treasons falce intent . And Bellamie the last of all , did suffer death that day : Unto which end God bring all such , as wish our Queens decay . O praise , etc O faulce and foul disloyal men , what person would suppose : That Clothes of Velvet and of Silk , should hide such mortal foes . Or who would think such hidden hate , in men so fair in sighs But that the Devil can turn him self , into and Angel bright . O praise , etc But Sovereign Queen have thou no care , for God which knoweth all : Will still maintain thy royal state , and give thy foes a fallen . And for thy Grace thy Subject's all , will make their prayers still : That never Traitor in this Land , may have his wicked will . O praise , etc Whose glorious days in England here , the mighty God maintain : That long unto thy Subject's Joy , thy Grace may rule and reign . And Lord we pray for Christes sake , that all thy secret foes : May come to nought which seek thy life , and Englands lasting woes . O praise the Lord with heart and mind , etc The names of 7. Traitors which were Executed on Tuesday being the xx of September 1586. John Ballard Priest . Anthony Babington . John Savage . Robert Barnwell . Chodicus Techburne . Charles Tilney . Edward Abbington . The names of the other vij . which were Exe - cut on the next day after . Thomas Salsbury . Henry Dun. Edward Jhones . John Trauers . John Charnock . Robert Gage . Harman Bellamy . FINIS . T.D. Imprinted at London at the Long Shop adjoining unto Saint Mildreds Church in the Pultrie by Edward Allde . 