The Country Lovers ; OR , Wooing without Ceremony . Being the Successful Amours of Roger and Margaret . A most Delightful New SONG . Hodge grieves to see his Peggy now grow Coy , Whom he so long esteem'd his only Joy ; But 'twas , it seems , a trick the Wench had god , To try whither he lov'd or lov'd her not But finding that he did , she thought it fit To yield to him , ( faith I commend her Wit . To the Tune of , Hail to the Myrtle Shades . REmember the standing Corn , remember the Haycock where I So oft to Peggy have sworn , that her I wou'd never deny : Oh there we eat Cheesecakes & Cream and many another fine thing , And there poor Hodge did dream he fast to his Peggy did cling . But waking it was not so , for I was deceiv'd in my joy , And Peggy did still say no , yea , and seemed woundy Coy ; That she'd not give one Leer , though a Poppy Garland I made , For to Crown my lovely dear , while we did fit under the Shade . O Cupid what dost thou mean , unless thou intend'st for to kill , A Lover quite and clean , now force my Peggy to smile : That like unto the gay Rose , ( which upon yond Bush does hang ) She may a Blush disclose , and with me merrily gang . To see the Kids and Lambs , frisk on the flowery plain , And Blating to their Dams , for want of the Teat complain : To hear the Sky-Lark Sing , and the Lapwing call her young , Oh Peggy as fair as the Spring , with Hodge wilt thou not gang ? Alas I am undone , if that thou dost say me nay , Woe's me I e're begun , if Peggy does turn away : Oh come my Nutbrown Lass , and pity thy Lovesick Swain , Who to tumble in the Grass , wou'd with thee now all so fain . And help thee Milk thy Kine , while that he sing thee a Song , Sweet Bird if thou'lt be mine , i'le please thee all the night long : And thou'st shall be my Queen , while Hodge he does constant prove And dance with thee on the Green , Oh then sweet Peggy come love . PEGGY's Answer to Hodges Complaint ; To the same Tune . FOrgo your sorrow Hodge , let not my unkindness move , I seemed Coy but to dodge , and thy Constancy for to prove : But now I find thee true , thou shalt no longer complain , Nor so mournfully Woo , for Peggy don't thee disdain . But freely thou may'st Kiss , and if thou'lt do something more , Do not neglect thy Bliss , but gang to yond shady Bower : For I can't be unkind , to Hodge whose fine treat of Cream And Strawberries do so bind , that Peggy must ever esteem . I've herd my Grannum say , that Maidens should bashful be , Once and again say nay , before they to Wed agree : And now my Grannums Will , thy Peggy she has obey'd , She must her own fulfil , which Hodge is thy Bride to be made At this began Hodge to smile , and Peggy Clip'd in his Arms , Where sweetly Kissing a while , she conquer'd so with her Charms , That Hodge could not forbear , but to the next Shade they went , Where he down did lay her , and gave her her hearts content . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , near the Hospi - tal-Gate , in West-Smithfield . The Country Lovers ; OR , Wooing without Ceremony . Being the Successful Amours of Roger and Margaret . A most Delightful New SONG . Hodge grieves to see his Peggy now grow Coy , Whom he so long esteem'd his only Joy ; But 'twas , it seems , a trick the Wench had god , To try whither he lov'd or lov'd her not But finding that he did , she thought it fit To yield to him , ( faith I commend her Wit . To the Tune of , Hail to the Myrtle Shades . REmember the standing Corn , remember the Haycock where I So oft to Peggy have sworn , that her I wou'd never deny : Oh there we eat Cheesecakes & Cream and many another fine thing , And there poor Hodge did dream he fast to his Peggy did cling . But waking it was not so , for I was deceiv'd in my joy , And Peggy did still say no , yea , and seemed woundy Coy ; That she'd not give one Leer , though a Poppy Garland I made , For to Crown my lovely dear , while we did fit under the Shade . O Cupid what dost thou mean , unless thou intend'st for to kill , A Lover quite and clean , now force my Peggy to smile : That like unto the gay Rose , ( which upon yond Bush does hang ) She may a Blush disclose , and with me merrily gang . To see the Kids and Lambs , frisk on the flowery plain , And Blating to their Dams , for want of the Teat complain : To hear the Sky-Lark Sing , and the Lapwing call her young , Oh Peggy as fair as the Spring , with Hodge wilt thou not gang ? Alas I am undone , if that thou dost say me nay , Woe's me I e're begun , if Peggy does turn away : Oh come my Nutbrown Lass , and pity thy Lovesick Swain , Who to tumble in the Grass , wou'd with thee now all so fain . And help thee Milk thy Kine , while that he sing thee a Song , Sweet Bird if thou'lt be mine , i'le please thee all the night long : And thou'st shall be my Queen , while Hodge he does constant prove And dance with thee on the Green , Oh then sweet Peggy come love . PEGGY's Answer to Hodges Complaint ; To the same Tune . FOrgo your sorrow Hodge , let not my unkindness move , I seemed Coy but to dodge , and thy Constancy for to prove : But now I find thee true , thou shalt no longer complain , Nor so mournfully Woo , for Peggy don't thee disdain . But freely thou may'st Kiss , and if thou'lt do something more , Do not neglect thy Bliss , but gang to yond shady Bower : For I can't be unkind , to Hodge whose fine treat of Cream And Strawberries do so bind , that Peggy must ever esteem . I've herd my Grannum say , that Maidens should bashful be , Once and again say nay , before they to Wed agree : And now my Grannums Will , thy Peggy she has obey'd , She must her own fulfil , which Hodge is thy Bride to be made At this began Hodge to smile , and Peggy Clip'd in his Arms , Where sweetly Kissing a while , she conquer'd so with her Charms , That Hodge could not forbear , but to the next Shade they went , Where he down did lay her , and gave her her hearts content . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , near the Hospi - tal-Gate , in West-Smithfield . The Country Lovers ; OR , Wooing without Ceremony . Being the Successful Amours of Roger and Margaret . A most Delightful New SONG . Hodge grieves to see his Peggy now grow Coy , Whom he so long esteem'd his only Joy ; But 'twas , it seems , a trick the Wench had god , To try whither he lov'd or lov'd her not But finding that he did , she thought it fit To yield to him , ( faith I commend her Wit . To the Tune of , Hail to the Myrtle Shades . REmember the standing Corn , remember the Haycock where I So oft to Peggy have sworn , that her I wou'd never deny : Oh there we eat Cheesecakes & Cream and many another fine thing , And there poor Hodge did dream he fast to his Peggy did cling . But waking it was not so , for I was deceiv'd in my joy , And Peggy did still say no , yea , and seemed woundy Coy ; That she'd not give one Leer , though a Poppy Garland I made , For to Crown my lovely dear , while we did fit under the Shade . O Cupid what dost thou mean , unless thou intend'st for to kill , A Lover quite and clean , now force my Peggy to smile : That like unto the gay Rose , ( which upon yond Bush does hang ) She may a Blush disclose , and with me merrily gang . To see the Kids and Lambs , frisk on the flowery plain , And Blating to their Dams , for want of the Teat complain : To hear the Sky-Lark Sing , and the Lapwing call her young , Oh Peggy as fair as the Spring , with Hodge wilt thou not gang ? Alas I am undone , if that thou dost say me nay , Woe's me I e're begun , if Peggy does turn away : Oh come my Nutbrown Lass , and pity thy Lovesick Swain , Who to tumble in the Grass , wou'd with thee now all so fain . And help thee Milk thy Kine , while that he sing thee a Song , Sweet Bird if thou'lt be mine , i'le please thee all the night long : And thou'st shall be my Queen , while Hodge he does constant prove And dance with thee on the Green , Oh then sweet Peggy come love . PEGGY's Answer to Hodges Complaint ; To the same Tune . FOrgo your sorrow Hodge , let not my unkindness move , I seemed Coy but to dodge , and thy Constancy for to prove : But now I find thee true , thou shalt no longer complain , Nor so mournfully Woo , for Peggy don't thee disdain . But freely thou may'st Kiss , and if thou'lt do something more , Do not neglect thy Bliss , but gang to yond shady Bower : For I can't be unkind , to Hodge whose fine treat of Cream And Strawberries do so bind , that Peggy must ever esteem . I've herd my Grannum say , that Maidens should bashful be , Once and again say nay , before they to Wed agree : And now my Grannums Will , thy Peggy she has obey'd , She must her own fulfil , which Hodge is thy Bride to be made At this began Hodge to smile , and Peggy Clip'd in his Arms , Where sweetly Kissing a while , she conquer'd so with her Charms , That Hodge could not forbear , but to the next Shade they went , Where he down did lay her , and gave her her hearts content . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , near the Hospi - tal-Gate , in West-Smithfield . The Country Lovers ; OR , Wooing without Ceremony . Being the Successful Amours of Roger and Margaret . A most Delightful New SONG . Hodge grieves to see his Peggy now grow Coy , Whom he so long esteem'd his only Joy ; But 'twas , it seems , a trick the Wench had god , To try whither he lov'd or lov'd her not But finding that he did , she thought it fit To yield to him , ( faith I commend her Wit . To the Tune of , Hail to the Myrtle Shades . REmember the standing Corn , remember the Haycock where I So oft to Peggy have sworn , that her I wou'd never deny : Oh there we eat Cheesecakes & Cream and many another fine thing , And there poor Hodge did dream he fast to his Peggy did cling . But waking it was not so , for I was deceiv'd in my joy , And Peggy did still say no , yea , and seemed woundy Coy ; That she'd not give one Leer , though a Poppy Garland I made , For to Crown my lovely dear , while we did fit under the Shade . O Cupid what dost thou mean , unless thou intend'st for to kill , A Lover quite and clean , now force my Peggy to smile : That like unto the gay Rose , ( which upon yond Bush does hang ) She may a Blush disclose , and with me merrily gang . To see the Kids and Lambs , frisk on the flowery plain , And Blating to their Dams , for want of the Teat complain : To hear the Sky-Lark Sing , and the Lapwing call her young , Oh Peggy as fair as the Spring , with Hodge wilt thou not gang ? Alas I am undone , if that thou dost say me nay , Woe's me I e're begun , if Peggy does turn away : Oh come my Nutbrown Lass , and pity thy Lovesick Swain , Who to tumble in the Grass , wou'd with thee now all so fain . And help thee Milk thy Kine , while that he sing thee a Song , Sweet Bird if thou'lt be mine , i'le please thee all the night long : And thou'st shall be my Queen , while Hodge he does constant prove And dance with thee on the Green , Oh then sweet Peggy come love . PEGGY's Answer to Hodges Complaint ; To the same Tune . FOrgo your sorrow Hodge , let not my unkindness move , I seemed Coy but to dodge , and thy Constancy for to prove : But now I find thee true , thou shalt no longer complain , Nor so mournfully Woo , for Peggy don't thee disdain . But freely thou may'st Kiss , and if thou'lt do something more , Do not neglect thy Bliss , but gang to yond shady Bower : For I can't be unkind , to Hodge whose fine treat of Cream And Strawberries do so bind , that Peggy must ever esteem . I've herd my Grannum say , that Maidens should bashful be , Once and again say nay , before they to Wed agree : And now my Grannums Will , thy Peggy she has obey'd , She must her own fulfil , which Hodge is thy Bride to be made At this began Hodge to smile , and Peggy Clip'd in his Arms , Where sweetly Kissing a while , she conquer'd so with her Charms , That Hodge could not forbear , but to the next Shade they went , Where he down did lay her , and gave her her hearts content . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , near the Hospi - tal-Gate , in West-Smithfield . 