THE Bleeding Lovers Lamentation : OR , Fair Clorindas sorrowful Complaint for the loss of her Unconstant Strephon. To the Tune of , The Ring of Gold . Licensed according to Order . RAnging the silent shade seeking for Pleasure , I herd a fair young Maid weep out of measuree : Her curled locks she tore and often crying , Strephon whom I ador is from me flying . Sure by some charming Saint he is deluded , While here in sad complaint I lie excluded From all the Joys of love , and grief lie under . My sorrows to remove , heart break in sunder . O Strephon most unkind how could you leave me With a tormented mind , the which does grieve me , Return , return again whom I admire , Or in tormenting pain I shall expire . AAlas you little know how I lie bleeding , These melting tears that flow for me are pleading , Let them some pity find , do not destroy me ; I am to love inclin'd , let me enjoy thee . In vain this moan I make , he will not hear me , Altho' my heart should break he'll not come near me ; But Violates the Laws of Lovers passion , What have I done to cause this separation . None had my heart but he ever in keeping , This said immediately , she fell a weeping , Her hands as white as Snow , she wrung them , crying , Down to the shades below , my soul is flying . My last Farewell I'll write and leave behind me , Since he for ruin quite thus hath design'd me , When he the same shall read , it may offend him ; A mournful life he'll led , grief may attend him . When he shall call to mind what Vows he made me , Seeming to love inclin'd 'till he betray'd me : This may his Soul enslave and cause his weeping , While in the silent Grave I shall lie sleeping . Death ease me of the smart which I lie under , And let this stubborn heart now break in sunder . Why should I live to feel loves flaming fire , Which I cannot conceal , let me expire . Once more her melting eyes like Fountains flowing And with relenting Cries , said she I'm going . Farewell thou perjur'd swain who from me parted , Thou hast a lover slave being hard hearted . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare and J. Back . THE Bleeding Lovers Lamentation : OR , Fair Clorindas sorrowful Complaint for the loss of her Unconstant Strephon. To the Tune of , The Ring of Gold . Licensed according to Order . RAnging the silent shade seeking for Pleasure , I herd a fair young Maid weep out of measuree : Her curled locks she tore and often crying , Strephon whom I ador is from me flying . Sure by some charming Saint he is deluded , While here in sad complaint I lie excluded From all the Joys of love , and grief lie under . My sorrows to remove , heart break in sunder . O Strephon most unkind how could you leave me With a tormented mind , the which does grieve me , Return , return again whom I admire , Or in tormenting pain I shall expire . AAlas you little know how I lie bleeding , These melting tears that flow for me are pleading , Let them some pity find , do not destroy me ; I am to love inclin'd , let me enjoy thee . In vain this moan I make , he will not hear me , Altho' my heart should break he'll not come near me ; But Violates the Laws of Lovers passion , What have I done to cause this separation . None had my heart but he ever in keeping , This said immediately , she fell a weeping , Her hands as white as Snow , she wrung them , crying , Down to the shades below , my soul is flying . My last Farewell I'll write and leave behind me , Since he for ruin quite thus hath design'd me , When he the same shall read , it may offend him ; A mournful life he'll led , grief may attend him . When he shall call to mind what Vows he made me , Seeming to love inclin'd 'till he betray'd me : This may his Soul enslave and cause his weeping , While in the silent Grave I shall lie sleeping . Death ease me of the smart which I lie under , And let this stubborn heart now break in sunder . Why should I live to feel loves flaming fire , Which I cannot conceal , let me expire . Once more her melting eyes like Fountains flowing And with relenting Cries , said she I'm going . Farewell thou perjur'd swain who from me parted , Thou hast a lover slave being hard hearted . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare and J. Back . THE Bleeding Lovers Lamentation : OR , Fair Clorindas sorrowful Complaint for the loss of her Unconstant Strephon. To the Tune of , The Ring of Gold . Licensed according to Order . RAnging the silent shade seeking for Pleasure , I herd a fair young Maid weep out of measuree : Her curled locks she tore and often crying , Strephon whom I ador is from me flying . Sure by some charming Saint he is deluded , While here in sad complaint I lie excluded From all the Joys of love , and grief lie under . My sorrows to remove , heart break in sunder . O Strephon most unkind how could you leave me With a tormented mind , the which does grieve me , Return , return again whom I admire , Or in tormenting pain I shall expire . AAlas you little know how I lie bleeding , These melting tears that flow for me are pleading , Let them some pity find , do not destroy me ; I am to love inclin'd , let me enjoy thee . In vain this moan I make , he will not hear me , Altho' my heart should break he'll not come near me ; But Violates the Laws of Lovers passion , What have I done to cause this separation . None had my heart but he ever in keeping , This said immediately , she fell a weeping , Her hands as white as Snow , she wrung them , crying , Down to the shades below , my soul is flying . My last Farewell I'll write and leave behind me , Since he for ruin quite thus hath design'd me , When he the same shall read , it may offend him ; A mournful life he'll led , grief may attend him . When he shall call to mind what Vows he made me , Seeming to love inclin'd 'till he betray'd me : This may his Soul enslave and cause his weeping , While in the silent Grave I shall lie sleeping . Death ease me of the smart which I lie under , And let this stubborn heart now break in sunder . Why should I live to feel loves flaming fire , Which I cannot conceal , let me expire . Once more her melting eyes like Fountains flowing And with relenting Cries , said she I'm going . Farewell thou perjur'd swain who from me parted , Thou hast a lover slave being hard hearted . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare and J. Back . THE Bleeding Lovers Lamentation : OR , Fair Clorindas sorrowful Complaint for the loss of her Unconstant Strephon. To the Tune of , The Ring of Gold . Licensed according to Order . RAnging the silent shade seeking for Pleasure , I herd a fair young Maid weep out of measuree : Her curled locks she tore and often crying , Strephon whom I ador is from me flying . Sure by some charming Saint he is deluded , While here in sad complaint I lie excluded From all the Joys of love , and grief lie under . My sorrows to remove , heart break in sunder . O Strephon most unkind how could you leave me With a tormented mind , the which does grieve me , Return , return again whom I admire , Or in tormenting pain I shall expire . AAlas you little know how I lie bleeding , These melting tears that flow for me are pleading , Let them some pity find , do not destroy me ; I am to love inclin'd , let me enjoy thee . In vain this moan I make , he will not hear me , Altho' my heart should break he'll not come near me ; But Violates the Laws of Lovers passion , What have I done to cause this separation . None had my heart but he ever in keeping , This said immediately , she fell a weeping , Her hands as white as Snow , she wrung them , crying , Down to the shades below , my soul is flying . My last Farewell I'll write and leave behind me , Since he for ruin quite thus hath design'd me , When he the same shall read , it may offend him ; A mournful life he'll led , grief may attend him . When he shall call to mind what Vows he made me , Seeming to love inclin'd 'till he betray'd me : This may his Soul enslave and cause his weeping , While in the silent Grave I shall lie sleeping . Death ease me of the smart which I lie under , And let this stubborn heart now break in sunder . Why should I live to feel loves flaming fire , Which I cannot conceal , let me expire . Once more her melting eyes like Fountains flowing And with relenting Cries , said she I'm going . Farewell thou perjur'd swain who from me parted , Thou hast a lover slave being hard hearted . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare and J. Back . 