THE Unfortunate WELCH-MAN ; OR , The Untimely Death of Scotch JOCKEY If her will Fight , her cause to right , as daring to presume To Kill and Slay , then well her may take this to be her Doom . To the Tune of , The Country-Farmer . This may be Printed , R [ . ] P. STout Shonny-ap-Morgan to London would ride , To seek Cousin Taffie what ever betide ; Her own Sisters Son , whom her loved so dear , Her had not beheld him this many long year : Betimes in the morning stout Shonny arose , And then on the journey with Courage her goes , A Cossit of Gray was the best of her Close , Her Boots they were out at the heels and the toes . A Sword by her side , and with Bob the Grey Mare , Her rid on the Road like a Champion so rare ; At last how it happened to her hard Lot , To meet with young Jockey , a bonny brisk Scot Then Jockey was jolly , and thus he did say , Let's gang to the Tavern , drink Wine by my faith , Then Shonny consented , and made no delay , But Jockey left Shonny the Reckoning to pay . While Morgan was Merry , and thinking no ill , The Scotchman he used the best of his Skill . Considering how he might Scamper away , For why Sir , he never intended to pay But like a false Loon he slipped out of door And never intended to come there no more , Poor Shonny-a-Morgan was left for the Score Cotza her was never so served before . Her paying the Shot , then away her went , The Welch Blood was up , and her mind was bent For speedy pursuing he then did prepare , Then Morgan did mount upon Bob the Grey Mare Then Whip and Spur stout Shonny did ride , And overtook Jockey near to a Woodside , And pull'd out her Sword in the height of her Pride , And wounded poor Jockey , who presently dy'd . Then Shonny was taken and hurry'd to Jail , Where her till the Sessions did weep and bewail ; And then at the last , by the Laws of the Land , Was brought to the Bar to hold up her hand ; Oh good her Lord Shudge , poor Shonny did cry , Now Whip her , and send her to Wales her Country ; Or cut off a Leg , or and Arm , or and Eye , For her is undone if Condemned to die . But this would not do , poor Shonny was Cast , And likewise received her Sentence at last ; A Gentleman Robber just at the same time , Received just Sentence then due for his Crime : Then Shonny-a-Morgan her shed many tears , Her heart was possessed with sorrow and fears , The Gentleman Thief likewise hung down his ears For then he expected his ancient Arrears . The day being come they must both bid adieu , Forsaking the world and the rest of their Crew ; The Spark was attir'd so gallant and gay , But Shonny was poor , and in ragged array : Then when they came both to the Gibbet Tree , The Gentleman gave to the Hang-Man a Fee , And said , let this Welch-man hang farther from me , So vile and so ragged a Rascal is he . The Welch-man he herd him , and was in a rage , That nothing almost could his anger assuage ; But fretting and chaffing , he thus did begin , Her will make her to know that her came of good kin Beside , her will tell her her hearty belief , That her is no more then a Gentleman Thief , That robb'd on the Roads , & the Plain , & the Heath Her now will Hang by her in spite of her teeth . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Gultispur-street . THE Unfortunate WELCH-MAN ; OR , The Untimely Death of Scotch JOCKEY If her will Fight , her cause to right , as daring to presume To Kill and Slay , then well her may take this to be her Doom . To the Tune of , The Country-Farmer . This may be Printed , R [ . ] P. STout Shonny-ap-Morgan to London would ride , To seek Cousin Taffie what ever betide ; Her own Sisters Son , whom her loved so dear , Her had not beheld him this many long year : Betimes in the morning stout Shonny arose , And then on the journey with Courage her goes , A Cossit of Gray was the best of her Close , Her Boots they were out at the heels and the toes . A Sword by her side , and with Bob the Grey Mare , Her rid on the Road like a Champion so rare ; At last how it happened to her hard Lot , To meet with young Jockey , a bonny brisk Scot Then Jockey was jolly , and thus he did say , Let's gang to the Tavern , drink Wine by my faith , Then Shonny consented , and made no delay , But Jockey left Shonny the Reckoning to pay . While Morgan was Merry , and thinking no ill , The Scotchman he used the best of his Skill . Considering how he might Scamper away , For why Sir , he never intended to pay But like a false Loon he slipped out of door And never intended to come there no more , Poor Shonny-a-Morgan was left for the Score Cotza her was never so served before . Her paying the Shot , then away her went , The Welch Blood was up , and her mind was bent For speedy pursuing he then did prepare , Then Morgan did mount upon Bob the Grey Mare Then Whip and Spur stout Shonny did ride , And overtook Jockey near to a Woodside , And pull'd out her Sword in the height of her Pride , And wounded poor Jockey , who presently dy'd . Then Shonny was taken and hurry'd to Jail , Where her till the Sessions did weep and bewail ; And then at the last , by the Laws of the Land , Was brought to the Bar to hold up her hand ; Oh good her Lord Shudge , poor Shonny did cry , Now Whip her , and send her to Wales her Country ; Or cut off a Leg , or and Arm , or and Eye , For her is undone if Condemned to die . But this would not do , poor Shonny was Cast , And likewise received her Sentence at last ; A Gentleman Robber just at the same time , Received just Sentence then due for his Crime : Then Shonny-a-Morgan her shed many tears , Her heart was possessed with sorrow and fears , The Gentleman Thief likewise hung down his ears For then he expected his ancient Arrears . The day being come they must both bid adieu , Forsaking the world and the rest of their Crew ; The Spark was attir'd so gallant and gay , But Shonny was poor , and in ragged array : Then when they came both to the Gibbet Tree , The Gentleman gave to the Hang-Man a Fee , And said , let this Welch-man hang farther from me , So vile and so ragged a Rascal is he . The Welch-man he herd him , and was in a rage , That nothing almost could his anger assuage ; But fretting and chaffing , he thus did begin , Her will make her to know that her came of good kin Beside , her will tell her her hearty belief , That her is no more then a Gentleman Thief , That robb'd on the Roads , & the Plain , & the Heath Her now will Hang by her in spite of her teeth . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Gultispur-street . 