The OXFORD Alderman's Speech to the D. of M. when his Grace made his En - trance into that City , about Sept. 1680. STout HANIBAL before He came to Age , Perpetual Wars with Rome was sworn to wage ! You led Us to such Wars ; Oh Happy We ! Great Prince ! You are a Soldier good as He ; Though some will say ( to give the Devil his endue , ) He was as good a Protestant as You. You to that whore of whores , the whore of Room , Devoted from your own fair Mother's womb , Though in the Schools of Jesuits true bred , You scorn'd to learn of them to Write or Read : A PROTESTANT the more to be admir'd , That never were instructed , but inspir'd . So unconcern'd from Popery You pass , No use of Understanding in the Case . True Interest , that all other things or'epowers , And Gen'rous Indignation made You Ours : Even so in Spain to Mass come trading Jews , Cast Drabs turn Quakers but to spite the Jews . But Fears and Jealousies of You we scorn , That were so true a Son of Honour born ; And since have made both Gog and Magog bleed , Act but the Demagogue , you'l do the Deed : You'l Dam and Ram proud Antichrist to Hell ; But force him first to work one Miracle . He that with four hard words , and one grave Nod , Turns and insipid Wafer into God ; Were You a Dough-bak'd DUKE , with less ado , To Prince of Wales may Transubstantiate You. Do You but say't , we'll swear that You are so , And rather kiss your Hand than kiss his Toe : Resolv'd , resolv'd it must not be gainsaid ; Faith we'll believe your Mother was a Maid . Why should you think Ambition any Crime ? We'll make you Duke of Venice in good time : Or , if You scruple to Usurp the Crown , Having once rais'd Us , You may then fit down : You or your Friends shall have the foremost place ; Perhaps we'll join Sir A -- st -- ng with your Grace : Whither You Reign or He , 'tis much at one , Great Alexander's dear Hephestion . But when you come to reap these goodly Fruits , Sweet Sir , Remember these our humble suits . First , Let these Lordly Bishops go to pot ; 'Tis plain their Lordship's all are in the PLOT ; They hold none Lawful Heirs , but Lawfully begotten . Our Commonwealth's a Castle in the Air , If we still Pray for KING in Common-Prayer . These Paltry Scholars , blast them with one Breath , Or they'l Rhime Your Grace and Us to Death . Then Oh Brave We ! then Hei for our good Town ! Then up go We when Wit and Sense go down . FINIS . The OXFORD Alderman's Speech to the D. of M. when his Grace made his En - trance into that City , about Sept. 1680. STout HANIBAL before He came to Age , Perpetual Wars with Rome was sworn to wage ! You led Us to such Wars ; Oh Happy We ! Great Prince ! You are a Soldier good as He ; Though some will say ( to give the Devil his endue , ) He was as good a Protestant as You. You to that whore of whores , the whore of Room , Devoted from your own fair Mother's womb , Though in the Schools of Jesuits true bred , You scorn'd to learn of them to Write or Read : A PROTESTANT the more to be admir'd , That never were instructed , but inspir'd . So unconcern'd from Popery You pass , No use of Understanding in the Case . True Interest , that all other things or'epowers , And Gen'rous Indignation made You Ours : Even so in Spain to Mass come trading Jews , Cast Drabs turn Quakers but to spite the Jews . But Fears and Jealousies of You we scorn , That were so true a Son of Honour born ; And since have made both Gog and Magog bleed , Act but the Demagogue , you'l do the Deed : You'l Dam and Ram proud Antichrist to Hell ; But force him first to work one Miracle . He that with four hard words , and one grave Nod , Turns and insipid Wafer into God ; Were You a Dough-bak'd DUKE , with less ado , To Prince of Wales may Transubstantiate You. Do You but say't , we'll swear that You are so , And rather kiss your Hand than kiss his Toe : Resolv'd , resolv'd it must not be gainsaid ; Faith we'll believe your Mother was a Maid . Why should you think Ambition any Crime ? We'll make you Duke of Venice in good time : Or , if You scruple to Usurp the Crown , Having once rais'd Us , You may then fit down : You or your Friends shall have the foremost place ; Perhaps we'll join Sir A -- st -- ng with your Grace : Whither You Reign or He , 'tis much at one , Great Alexander's dear Hephestion . But when you come to reap these goodly Fruits , Sweet Sir , Remember these our humble suits . First , Let these Lordly Bishops go to pot ; 'Tis plain their Lordship's all are in the PLOT ; They hold none Lawful Heirs , but Lawfully begotten . Our Commonwealth's a Castle in the Air , If we still Pray for KING in Common-Prayer . These Paltry Scholars , blast them with one Breath , Or they'l Rhime Your Grace and Us to Death . Then Oh Brave We ! then Hei for our good Town ! Then up go We when Wit and Sense go down . FINIS . 