The Contriving Lover : Or , The Fortunate Mistake . With the Old Woman's Journey to Heaven up the Chimney [ in ] a Hand-Basket . Together with her Dreadful Downfall from th [ e ] Chimney-Top to the Chimney-Corner . To the Tune of , I often for my Jenny strove , etc Licensed according to Order . ( 1 ) A Rich Old Miser of Renown , Who dwelled within a Country Town , He had a Daughter young and fair , As lively and as brisk as Air ; A Spark had god so far in Favour , that they oftentimes had been Kissing and Clasping , Dying Gasping , Lovers , you know what I mean . ( 2 ) The Miser thought the Youth too Wild , And not a Match fit for his Child ; He fearing what had pass'd before , Forewarn'd him coming any more : Further to prevent their meeting , and contrivance , out of door He did command her , to her Chamber , and there Lock'd her up secure . ( 3 ) When this sad News her Lover knew , He greatly discontented grew ; Resolving by some means , that he His loving Dame again wou'd see : Knowing the Chimney of her Chamber , he god on the Old Dads Housetop , A Letter bearing , words so 'ndearing , he did down the Chimney drop . ( 4 ) Desiring that she would next Night Take care to keep her Candle light , For he intended then by stealth , To visit her that way himself . This kind News did so surprise her , and such Joys to her impart , Thoughts of possessing , such a Blessing , much reviv'd her drooping heart . ( 5 ) The Night ensuing quickly came , When he resolv'd to see his Dame , He then desir'd a trusty Friend , That he would his assistance lend . In a Basket he was let down , his fair Prize for to obtain , Giving him Order , if the Cord stir , for to pluck him up again . ( 6 ) When down into the Room he came , He welcom'd was by his fair Dame ; Their eager passion to content , They Kissed , and into Bed they wen Eager to possess the blessing , fears and cares were soon destroy'd , Loving Caresses , and Embraces , by these Lovers were enjoy'd . ( 7 ) The Miser and his Wife lay near , Who did the Telltale Bed-Cords hear ; The Old Woman in a heavy plighted , Cry'd , Husband rise and strike a Light , Somebody's god to Bed with our Daughter , for I hear the Bed-cords crack : The Miser amazed , soon was raised , and into the Room did pack . ( 8 ) They hearing the Old Miser rise , Which did the Lovers both surprise ; The Daughter , in a thousand fears , Whips out of Bed , and falls to Prayers ; Begging God to bless her Father , who she thought was best of Men ; Begging his Thriving , and his living to the Age of Methusalem . ( 9 ) He hearing what his Daughter said , Return'd again and went to Bed ; And call'd his Wife and ill'tongu'd Beast , Who did so base a thing sugges The Old Woman lay a while and listen'd , being not well satisfy'd ; They possessing , of their blessing , then she herd again , she cry'd . ( 10 ) Then slyly up god the Old Dame , And into her Daughters Room she came , She happen'd to stumble at a Stool , Did into th' Lovers Basket fallen : Up was drawn the poor Old Woman , who in the Basket screaming lay , To the top he drew her , down again threw her while his Friend escap'd away . Printed for R. Kell , at the Blue Anchor in Pye-Corner . 1690. The Contriving Lover : Or , The Fortunate Mistake . With the Old Woman's Journey to Heaven up the Chimney [ in ] a Hand-Basket . Together with her Dreadful Downfall from th [ e ] Chimney-Top to the Chimney-Corner . To the Tune of , I often for my Jenny strove , etc Licensed according to Order . ( 1 ) A Rich Old Miser of Renown , Who dwelled within a Country Town , He had a Daughter young and fair , As lively and as brisk as Air ; A Spark had god so far in Favour , that they oftentimes had been Kissing and Clasping , Dying Gasping , Lovers , you know what I mean . ( 2 ) The Miser thought the Youth too Wild , And not a Match fit for his Child ; He fearing what had pass'd before , Forewarn'd him coming any more : Further to prevent their meeting , and contrivance , out of door He did command her , to her Chamber , and there Lock'd her up secure . ( 3 ) When this sad News her Lover knew , He greatly discontented grew ; Resolving by some means , that he His loving Dame again wou'd see : Knowing the Chimney of her Chamber , he god on the Old Dads Housetop , A Letter bearing , words so 'ndearing , he did down the Chimney drop . ( 4 ) Desiring that she would next Night Take care to keep her Candle light , For he intended then by stealth , To visit her that way himself . This kind News did so surprise her , and such Joys to her impart , Thoughts of possessing , such a Blessing , much reviv'd her drooping heart . ( 5 ) The Night ensuing quickly came , When he resolv'd to see his Dame , He then desir'd a trusty Friend , That he would his assistance lend . In a Basket he was let down , his fair Prize for to obtain , Giving him Order , if the Cord stir , for to pluck him up again . ( 6 ) When down into the Room he came , He welcom'd was by his fair Dame ; Their eager passion to content , They Kissed , and into Bed they wen Eager to possess the blessing , fears and cares were soon destroy'd , Loving Caresses , and Embraces , by these Lovers were enjoy'd . ( 7 ) The Miser and his Wife lay near , Who did the Telltale Bed-Cords hear ; The Old Woman in a heavy plighted , Cry'd , Husband rise and strike a Light , Somebody's god to Bed with our Daughter , for I hear the Bed-cords crack : The Miser amazed , soon was raised , and into the Room did pack . ( 8 ) They hearing the Old Miser rise , Which did the Lovers both surprise ; The Daughter , in a thousand fears , Whips out of Bed , and falls to Prayers ; Begging God to bless her Father , who she thought was best of Men ; Begging his Thriving , and his living to the Age of Methusalem . ( 9 ) He hearing what his Daughter said , Return'd again and went to Bed ; And call'd his Wife and ill'tongu'd Beast , Who did so base a thing sugges The Old Woman lay a while and listen'd , being not well satisfy'd ; They possessing , of their blessing , then she herd again , she cry'd . ( 10 ) Then slyly up god the Old Dame , And into her Daughters Room she came , She happen'd to stumble at a Stool , Did into th' Lovers Basket fallen : Up was drawn the poor Old Woman , who in the Basket screaming lay , To the top he drew her , down again threw her while his Friend escap'd away . Printed for R. Kell , at the Blue Anchor in Pye-Corner . 1690. The Contriving Lover : Or , The Fortunate Mistake . With the Old Woman's Journey to Heaven up the Chimney [ in ] a Hand-Basket . Together with her Dreadful Downfall from th [ e ] Chimney-Top to the Chimney-Corner . To the Tune of , I often for my Jenny strove , etc Licensed according to Order . ( 1 ) A Rich Old Miser of Renown , Who dwelled within a Country Town , He had a Daughter young and fair , As lively and as brisk as Air ; A Spark had god so far in Favour , that they oftentimes had been Kissing and Clasping , Dying Gasping , Lovers , you know what I mean . ( 2 ) The Miser thought the Youth too Wild , And not a Match fit for his Child ; He fearing what had pass'd before , Forewarn'd him coming any more : Further to prevent their meeting , and contrivance , out of door He did command her , to her Chamber , and there Lock'd her up secure . ( 3 ) When this sad News her Lover knew , He greatly discontented grew ; Resolving by some means , that he His loving Dame again wou'd see : Knowing the Chimney of her Chamber , he god on the Old Dads Housetop , A Letter bearing , words so 'ndearing , he did down the Chimney drop . ( 4 ) Desiring that she would next Night Take care to keep her Candle light , For he intended then by stealth , To visit her that way himself . This kind News did so surprise her , and such Joys to her impart , Thoughts of possessing , such a Blessing , much reviv'd her drooping heart . ( 5 ) The Night ensuing quickly came , When he resolv'd to see his Dame , He then desir'd a trusty Friend , That he would his assistance lend . In a Basket he was let down , his fair Prize for to obtain , Giving him Order , if the Cord stir , for to pluck him up again . ( 6 ) When down into the Room he came , He welcom'd was by his fair Dame ; Their eager passion to content , They Kissed , and into Bed they wen Eager to possess the blessing , fears and cares were soon destroy'd , Loving Caresses , and Embraces , by these Lovers were enjoy'd . ( 7 ) The Miser and his Wife lay near , Who did the Telltale Bed-Cords hear ; The Old Woman in a heavy plighted , Cry'd , Husband rise and strike a Light , Somebody's god to Bed with our Daughter , for I hear the Bed-cords crack : The Miser amazed , soon was raised , and into the Room did pack . ( 8 ) They hearing the Old Miser rise , Which did the Lovers both surprise ; The Daughter , in a thousand fears , Whips out of Bed , and falls to Prayers ; Begging God to bless her Father , who she thought was best of Men ; Begging his Thriving , and his living to the Age of Methusalem . ( 9 ) He hearing what his Daughter said , Return'd again and went to Bed ; And call'd his Wife and ill'tongu'd Beast , Who did so base a thing sugges The Old Woman lay a while and listen'd , being not well satisfy'd ; They possessing , of their blessing , then she herd again , she cry'd . ( 10 ) Then slyly up god the Old Dame , And into her Daughters Room she came , She happen'd to stumble at a Stool , Did into th' Lovers Basket fallen : Up was drawn the poor Old Woman , who in the Basket screaming lay , To the top he drew her , down again threw her while his Friend escap'd away . Printed for R. Kell , at the Blue Anchor in Pye-Corner . 1690. The Contriving Lover : Or , The Fortunate Mistake . With the Old Woman's Journey to Heaven up the Chimney [ in ] a Hand-Basket . Together with her Dreadful Downfall from th [ e ] Chimney-Top to the Chimney-Corner . To the Tune of , I often for my Jenny strove , etc Licensed according to Order . ( 1 ) A Rich Old Miser of Renown , Who dwelled within a Country Town , He had a Daughter young and fair , As lively and as brisk as Air ; A Spark had god so far in Favour , that they oftentimes had been Kissing and Clasping , Dying Gasping , Lovers , you know what I mean . ( 2 ) The Miser thought the Youth too Wild , And not a Match fit for his Child ; He fearing what had pass'd before , Forewarn'd him coming any more : Further to prevent their meeting , and contrivance , out of door He did command her , to her Chamber , and there Lock'd her up secure . ( 3 ) When this sad News her Lover knew , He greatly discontented grew ; Resolving by some means , that he His loving Dame again wou'd see : Knowing the Chimney of her Chamber , he god on the Old Dads Housetop , A Letter bearing , words so 'ndearing , he did down the Chimney drop . ( 4 ) Desiring that she would next Night Take care to keep her Candle light , For he intended then by stealth , To visit her that way himself . This kind News did so surprise her , and such Joys to her impart , Thoughts of possessing , such a Blessing , much reviv'd her drooping heart . ( 5 ) The Night ensuing quickly came , When he resolv'd to see his Dame , He then desir'd a trusty Friend , That he would his assistance lend . In a Basket he was let down , his fair Prize for to obtain , Giving him Order , if the Cord stir , for to pluck him up again . ( 6 ) When down into the Room he came , He welcom'd was by his fair Dame ; Their eager passion to content , They Kissed , and into Bed they wen Eager to possess the blessing , fears and cares were soon destroy'd , Loving Caresses , and Embraces , by these Lovers were enjoy'd . ( 7 ) The Miser and his Wife lay near , Who did the Telltale Bed-Cords hear ; The Old Woman in a heavy plighted , Cry'd , Husband rise and strike a Light , Somebody's god to Bed with our Daughter , for I hear the Bed-cords crack : The Miser amazed , soon was raised , and into the Room did pack . ( 8 ) They hearing the Old Miser rise , Which did the Lovers both surprise ; The Daughter , in a thousand fears , Whips out of Bed , and falls to Prayers ; Begging God to bless her Father , who she thought was best of Men ; Begging his Thriving , and his living to the Age of Methusalem . ( 9 ) He hearing what his Daughter said , Return'd again and went to Bed ; And call'd his Wife and ill'tongu'd Beast , Who did so base a thing sugges The Old Woman lay a while and listen'd , being not well satisfy'd ; They possessing , of their blessing , then she herd again , she cry'd . ( 10 ) Then slyly up god the Old Dame , And into her Daughters Room she came , She happen'd to stumble at a Stool , Did into th' Lovers Basket fallen : Up was drawn the poor Old Woman , who in the Basket screaming lay , To the top he drew her , down again threw her while his Friend escap'd away . Printed for R. Kell , at the Blue Anchor in Pye-Corner . 1690. 