The Courtly Triumph , or and Excellent new Song , upon the Goronation of K. William and Q. marry Which was splen - didly celebrated on the 11th of April 1689 : To the Tune of cannons roar . Found the Trumpet , beatrice the Drum Boys the golden Age is come , The true fame of Christendome , is William and Queen Marry ; Who by Providence is crowned ; Let their Actions be renowned , While their royal Healths go round , in Glasses of Canary . Protestants has cause to pray , That they may the Sceptre sway , Purging Popery away , and Romish Usurpation , He that came to take our part , While we felt Romes fatal smart , Let him reign in every heart , through all this Land and Nation , Let him reign in every heart , Now he is our Crowned King , Under whose protecting Wing , Every Soul may sweetly sing , without Romes Molestation , For we now have lived to see , This Land purged from Popery , And the Royal Dignity , of Williams great Coronation , Thousands of Subject's did flock there And no cost nor Charge did spare : To behold the royal peer , in their renowned Station , From the the Noble to the Mean , Joy in every Face was seen , When our gracious King and Queen , was at their coronanion . From the Palace all proclaim Royal dignity and Fame , By the smiling Crowds that came , In each degree and Station , Noble Lords and Ladies gay , Decked in costly rich array , Came to celebrate that day , of Williams great Coronation , What was ever more complete , How like moving Angels sweet . Did they gently pass the street , to Grace his consummation , The great courts in Europe fair , Never could with this compare , 'Twas as if they all were there , at William's great coronation . Those that see the Princely Train , Had not power for to refrain , Wishing them a happy Reign , without dissimulation , While the music soft and sweet , Did their hearty wishes meet Thus the day we did compleat' of Williams great coronation' We rejoice who lately mourn'd , Tears are unto blessings turn'd , None but Papists are concerned , of this great Alteration , Heavens bless'd this great design , By a Power most Divine , Conduits freely run with Wine , at Williams great coronation . He that might have live'd at ease , Crossed the raging roaring Seas , For Religious Liberties , in Protestant profession ; While he does our Spirits cheer , Talbot he shall quake for fear , When he shall the Tidings hear , of Williams great coronation . FINIS . The Courtly Triumph , or and Excellent new Song , upon the Goronation of K. William and Q. marry Which was splen - didly celebrated on the 11th of April 1689 : To the Tune of cannons roar . Found the Trumpet , beatrice the Drum Boys the golden Age is come , The true fame of Christendome , is William and Queen Marry ; Who by Providence is crowned ; Let their Actions be renowned , While their royal Healths go round , in Glasses of Canary . Protestants has cause to pray , That they may the Sceptre sway , Purging Popery away , and Romish Usurpation , He that came to take our part , While we felt Romes fatal smart , Let him reign in every heart , through all this Land and Nation , Let him reign in every heart , Now he is our Crowned King , Under whose protecting Wing , Every Soul may sweetly sing , without Romes Molestation , For we now have lived to see , This Land purged from Popery , And the Royal Dignity , of Williams great Coronation , Thousands of Subject's did flock there And no cost nor Charge did spare : To behold the royal peer , in their renowned Station , From the the Noble to the Mean , Joy in every Face was seen , When our gracious King and Queen , was at their coronanion . From the Palace all proclaim Royal dignity and Fame , By the smiling Crowds that came , In each degree and Station , Noble Lords and Ladies gay , Decked in costly rich array , Came to celebrate that day , of Williams great Coronation , What was ever more complete , How like moving Angels sweet . Did they gently pass the street , to Grace his consummation , The great courts in Europe fair , Never could with this compare , 'Twas as if they all were there , at William's great coronation . Those that see the Princely Train , Had not power for to refrain , Wishing them a happy Reign , without dissimulation , While the music soft and sweet , Did their hearty wishes meet Thus the day we did compleat' of Williams great coronation' We rejoice who lately mourn'd , Tears are unto blessings turn'd , None but Papists are concerned , of this great Alteration , Heavens bless'd this great design , By a Power most Divine , Conduits freely run with Wine , at Williams great coronation . He that might have live'd at ease , Crossed the raging roaring Seas , For Religious Liberties , in Protestant profession ; While he does our Spirits cheer , Talbot he shall quake for fear , When he shall the Tidings hear , of Williams great coronation . FINIS . 