THE Protestant FATHER's ADVICE TO HIS AMBITIOUS SON . To the Tune of , State and Ambition . STate and Ambition , alas , will deceive you , there's no solid Joy but in Blessings above ; Of all Comforts here , Heaven soon will bereave you , your Estates and your Bags it will shortly remove ; But he that inherits a Portion of Grace , he may lie down in Peace and take his sweet rest , If after this life his Footsteps you'll Trace , you will find that with Saints and with Angels he's blessed . His Portion is lasting , his Pleasures are certain , his Joys are unmix , and his Blessings are sure ; When the comforts of Earth are all fading & parting , his Peace and his Pleasures shall ever endure : His Labours shall meet with a Kingdom and Crown , his Glory and Joy shall never have end ; When the Sun , Moon and Stars shall all tumble down , with glorious Arch-Angels his time he shall spend . Oh! then let us mount our Hearts up to Heaven , let our Souls be rouz'd up above this dull Earth ; In Sion our Sins shall all be Forgiven , it's there , only there we can have our true Mirth : The World , alas , at best is a Bubble , a Shadow , a Dream , a Thing of no worth ; At best , it breeds Vexation and Trouble , and Sorrow , and Misery often brings forth . Then live such a Life as you wou'd wish dying , a Life of Religion , of Truth and of Zeal , For your Time it has Wings and you'll find it still flying , 'twill suddenly post you to Woe or to Weal : O! happp's that Man , thrice happy is he , whose end and whose aim are at Blessings above ; The Beauty of Sion he shortly shall see , and still be surrounded with heavenly Love . What heavenly Raptures and Anthems are sound-ing in Ears of the Saints and the Angels in rest ? Love , kindness and sweetness in Heaven's abounding , unspeakable Joy is attending the Blessed ; Lute , Timbrel and Harp are warbling out Praise , and filling the Heaven with glorious Delight , And the Blessed Son of Man with his beauteous Rays , adorns all his Saints makes them glorious and bright . Since Heaven's so glorious , and Earth's such a trouble , it's madness and nonsense to die unprepar'd ; The Richest have found the whole Globe but a bubble , they that great Lands & great Fortune's have shared ; No Joy that is real the World can allow . no Comfort , no Pleasure , no Mirth nor Content ; Then why to this Wealth do Men foolishly bow ? and why are our days so sordidly Spent ? LONDON : Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pie-corner . THE Protestant FATHER's ADVICE TO HIS AMBITIOUS SON . To the Tune of , State and Ambition . STate and Ambition , alas , will deceive you , there's no solid Joy but in Blessings above ; Of all Comforts here , Heaven soon will bereave you , your Estates and your Bags it will shortly remove ; But he that inherits a Portion of Grace , he may lie down in Peace and take his sweet rest , If after this life his Footsteps you'll Trace , you will find that with Saints and with Angels he's blessed . His Portion is lasting , his Pleasures are certain , his Joys are unmix , and his Blessings are sure ; When the comforts of Earth are all fading & parting , his Peace and his Pleasures shall ever endure : His Labours shall meet with a Kingdom and Crown , his Glory and Joy shall never have end ; When the Sun , Moon and Stars shall all tumble down , with glorious Arch-Angels his time he shall spend . Oh! then let us mount our Hearts up to Heaven , let our Souls be rouz'd up above this dull Earth ; In Sion our Sins shall all be Forgiven , it's there , only there we can have our true Mirth : The World , alas , at best is a Bubble , a Shadow , a Dream , a Thing of no worth ; At best , it breeds Vexation and Trouble , and Sorrow , and Misery often brings forth . Then live such a Life as you wou'd wish dying , a Life of Religion , of Truth and of Zeal , For your Time it has Wings and you'll find it still flying , 'twill suddenly post you to Woe or to Weal : O! happp's that Man , thrice happy is he , whose end and whose aim are at Blessings above ; The Beauty of Sion he shortly shall see , and still be surrounded with heavenly Love . What heavenly Raptures and Anthems are sound-ing in Ears of the Saints and the Angels in rest ? Love , kindness and sweetness in Heaven's abounding , unspeakable Joy is attending the Blessed ; Lute , Timbrel and Harp are warbling out Praise , and filling the Heaven with glorious Delight , And the Blessed Son of Man with his beauteous Rays , adorns all his Saints makes them glorious and bright . Since Heaven's so glorious , and Earth's such a trouble , it's madness and nonsense to die unprepar'd ; The Richest have found the whole Globe but a bubble , they that great Lands & great Fortune's have shared ; No Joy that is real the World can allow . no Comfort , no Pleasure , no Mirth nor Content ; Then why to this Wealth do Men foolishly bow ? and why are our days so sordidly Spent ? LONDON : Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pie-corner . 