THE Jovial Maypole Dancers : OR , The Merry Morris . The Tune is , Top and top gallant , etc ROwland and Roger , with Bridget and Mary , William and Robert , with Susan and Sarah : And round round the May-Pole , they dance and skip it , The Baggpipes they roar , and the Youngsters they trip it . Bridget she simper'd , and Rowland he kissed her , And Susan she laughed , till she almost bepissed her : And round round the May-Pole , they dance and skip it , The Baggpipes , etc Bridget had Roger , fast hold by the Jacket , And Roger had Bridget as fast by the Plack And round round the May-Pole , they dance , etc Susan she clasped her William by th' middle , And William he all to beclaw'd her Bumfiddle : And round round the May-Pole , they dance and they skip it , The Baggpipes they roar , and the Youngsters they trip it . Roger told Mary , that she was his Honey , And swore his Chops water'd , for her Troninony : And round round the May pole , they dance , etc Mary she simper'd , at Rogers Relation , And Roger perceiv'd that she pitty'd his passion : And round round the Maypole , they dance , etc Robert and Sarah did foot it so featly , That all the Beholders , did swear they danc'd neatly : And round round the May-Pole , they dance , etc The Dancers they sweat , and the Piper was weary , They threw him a Groat , and away they did hurry : Then at the next Alehouse , with Cake and stew'd Pruin They treated their Women and fell to their Wooing . Then with choice Songs , of the Oldest Collections , They Riggled themselves , in their Ladies affections : They sung and they roar'd , till the Landlord did swear , Their Charms were so strong , they would turn all his Beer Ale and stew'd Pruins , and Plum-Cake together , Now some say Tobacco , but I know not whither ; The Women were sick , the Reckoning disputing , The Men fell to fighting , the Women to Muting . In the midst of this hurry , appears a long Pole , And a greasy old Victualler , a Man of Control ; Who commanded the Peace , and to part and not grumble Each Lad took his Lass , and so home they did tumble . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . THE Jovial Maypole Dancers : OR , The Merry Morris . The Tune is , Top and top gallant , etc ROwland and Roger , with Bridget and Mary , William and Robert , with Susan and Sarah : And round round the May-Pole , they dance and skip it , The Baggpipes they roar , and the Youngsters they trip it . Bridget she simper'd , and Rowland he kissed her , And Susan she laughed , till she almost bepissed her : And round round the May-Pole , they dance and skip it , The Baggpipes , etc Bridget had Roger , fast hold by the Jacket , And Roger had Bridget as fast by the Plack And round round the May-Pole , they dance , etc Susan she clasped her William by th' middle , And William he all to beclaw'd her Bumfiddle : And round round the May-Pole , they dance and they skip it , The Baggpipes they roar , and the Youngsters they trip it . Roger told Mary , that she was his Honey , And swore his Chops water'd , for her Troninony : And round round the May pole , they dance , etc Mary she simper'd , at Rogers Relation , And Roger perceiv'd that she pitty'd his passion : And round round the Maypole , they dance , etc Robert and Sarah did foot it so featly , That all the Beholders , did swear they danc'd neatly : And round round the May-Pole , they dance , etc The Dancers they sweat , and the Piper was weary , They threw him a Groat , and away they did hurry : Then at the next Alehouse , with Cake and stew'd Pruin They treated their Women and fell to their Wooing . Then with choice Songs , of the Oldest Collections , They Riggled themselves , in their Ladies affections : They sung and they roar'd , till the Landlord did swear , Their Charms were so strong , they would turn all his Beer Ale and stew'd Pruins , and Plum-Cake together , Now some say Tobacco , but I know not whither ; The Women were sick , the Reckoning disputing , The Men fell to fighting , the Women to Muting . In the midst of this hurry , appears a long Pole , And a greasy old Victualler , a Man of Control ; Who commanded the Peace , and to part and not grumble Each Lad took his Lass , and so home they did tumble . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . THE Jovial Maypole Dancers : OR , The Merry Morris . The Tune is , Top and top gallant , etc ROwland and Roger , with Bridget and Mary , William and Robert , with Susan and Sarah : And round round the May-Pole , they dance and skip it , The Baggpipes they roar , and the Youngsters they trip it . Bridget she simper'd , and Rowland he kissed her , And Susan she laughed , till she almost bepissed her : And round round the May-Pole , they dance and skip it , The Baggpipes , etc Bridget had Roger , fast hold by the Jacket , And Roger had Bridget as fast by the Plack And round round the May-Pole , they dance , etc Susan she clasped her William by th' middle , And William he all to beclaw'd her Bumfiddle : And round round the May-Pole , they dance and they skip it , The Baggpipes they roar , and the Youngsters they trip it . Roger told Mary , that she was his Honey , And swore his Chops water'd , for her Troninony : And round round the May pole , they dance , etc Mary she simper'd , at Rogers Relation , And Roger perceiv'd that she pitty'd his passion : And round round the Maypole , they dance , etc Robert and Sarah did foot it so featly , That all the Beholders , did swear they danc'd neatly : And round round the May-Pole , they dance , etc The Dancers they sweat , and the Piper was weary , They threw him a Groat , and away they did hurry : Then at the next Alehouse , with Cake and stew'd Pruin They treated their Women and fell to their Wooing . Then with choice Songs , of the Oldest Collections , They Riggled themselves , in their Ladies affections : They sung and they roar'd , till the Landlord did swear , Their Charms were so strong , they would turn all his Beer Ale and stew'd Pruins , and Plum-Cake together , Now some say Tobacco , but I know not whither ; The Women were sick , the Reckoning disputing , The Men fell to fighting , the Women to Muting . In the midst of this hurry , appears a long Pole , And a greasy old Victualler , a Man of Control ; Who commanded the Peace , and to part and not grumble Each Lad took his Lass , and so home they did tumble . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . THE Jovial Maypole Dancers : OR , The Merry Morris . The Tune is , Top and top gallant , etc ROwland and Roger , with Bridget and Mary , William and Robert , with Susan and Sarah : And round round the May-Pole , they dance and skip it , The Baggpipes they roar , and the Youngsters they trip it . Bridget she simper'd , and Rowland he kissed her , And Susan she laughed , till she almost bepissed her : And round round the May-Pole , they dance and skip it , The Baggpipes , etc Bridget had Roger , fast hold by the Jacket , And Roger had Bridget as fast by the Plack And round round the May-Pole , they dance , etc Susan she clasped her William by th' middle , And William he all to beclaw'd her Bumfiddle : And round round the May-Pole , they dance and they skip it , The Baggpipes they roar , and the Youngsters they trip it . Roger told Mary , that she was his Honey , And swore his Chops water'd , for her Troninony : And round round the May pole , they dance , etc Mary she simper'd , at Rogers Relation , And Roger perceiv'd that she pitty'd his passion : And round round the Maypole , they dance , etc Robert and Sarah did foot it so featly , That all the Beholders , did swear they danc'd neatly : And round round the May-Pole , they dance , etc The Dancers they sweat , and the Piper was weary , They threw him a Groat , and away they did hurry : Then at the next Alehouse , with Cake and stew'd Pruin They treated their Women and fell to their Wooing . Then with choice Songs , of the Oldest Collections , They Riggled themselves , in their Ladies affections : They sung and they roar'd , till the Landlord did swear , Their Charms were so strong , they would turn all his Beer Ale and stew'd Pruins , and Plum-Cake together , Now some say Tobacco , but I know not whither ; The Women were sick , the Reckoning disputing , The Men fell to fighting , the Women to Muting . In the midst of this hurry , appears a long Pole , And a greasy old Victualler , a Man of Control ; Who commanded the Peace , and to part and not grumble Each Lad took his Lass , and so home they did tumble . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . 