( 1 ) Robin Hood's Progress to Nottingham . Where he met with fifteen Foresters all on a row , And he desired of them some News to know ; And with cross grain'd words they did him thwart , For which at last he made them for to smart . To the Tune of , ROBIN HOOD . RObin Hood he was a tall Young Man , derry derry down , And fifteen winter's old , And Robin Hood he was a proper youngman , Of courage stout and bold : heigh down derry derry down . Robin Hood he would unto Nottingham , derry , etc With the General for to Dine , There was he aware of fifteen Foresters , And a drinking beer , ale , and wine , hey down , etc What news , what news ? said bold Robin Hood derry , etc What news fain wouldst thou know ? Our King hath provided a shooting match , And I'm ready with my bow , heigh down , etc We hold it in scorn , said the fifteen Foresters , derry , etc That ever a Boy so young , Should bear a bow before our king , That's not able to draw one string : heigh down , etc I'll hold you twenty marks , said bold Robin Hood , derry , etc By the leave of our Lady , That I'll hit the mark and hundred rod , And I'll cause one heart to die : heigh down , etc We'll hold you twenty marks , then said the foresters , derry , etc By the leave of our Lady , Thou hitt'st not the mark of and hundred rod , Nor causest one heart to die ; heigh down , etc Robin Hood he bent his noble bow , derry , etc And a broad arrow he let fly , He hit the mark and hundred rod , And he caused one heart to die : heigh down , etc Some said he break ribs one or two , derry derry down , And some said he brake three ; The arrow in the heart would not abide , But it glanced in two or three : heigh down derry derry down . The heart did skip and the heart did leap , derry derry down , And the heart lay on the ground , The wager is mine , said bold Robin Hood , If it were for a thousand pound : heigh down derry derry down . The wager's none of thine , then said the Foresters , derry , etc Although thou be'st in haste ? Take up thy bow and get thee hence , lest we thy sides do baste : heigh down , etc Robin Hood he took up his noble bow , derry , etc And his broad arrows all amain , And Robin he laugh'd and began to smile , As he went over the Plain : heigh down , etc Then Robin Hood he bent up his noble bow , derry , etc And his broad arrows he let fly , Till fourteen of these fifteen foresters , Upon the ground did lie : heigh down , etc He that this Quarrel first began , derry , etc Went tripping over the plain , But Robin Hood he bent his noble bow , And he fetched him back again , heigh down , etc You said I was no Archer , said Robin Hood , derry , etc But say so now again : With that he sent another arrow , Which split his head in twain : heigh down , etc You have found me and Archer , said Robin Hood , derry , etc Which will make your wives to wring , And wish that you ne'er had spoke the word That I could not draw one string : heigh down , etc The people that lived in fair Nottingham , derry , etc Came running out amain , Supposing to have taken bold Robin Hood , With the Foresters that were slave ; heigh down , etc Some lost legs , and some lost arms , derry , etc And some did loose their blood ; But Robin Hood he took up his noble bow , And is gone to the merry green wood : heigh down , etc They carry'd these foresters to fair Notting-ham , derry derry down , As many there did know , They dig'd them graves in their Churchyards And they buried them all on a row : heigh down derry derry down . Printed by and for A. Milbourn , and sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner & London-bridge . ( 1 ) Robin Hood's Progress to Nottingham . Where he met with fifteen Foresters all on a row , And he desired of them some News to know ; And with cross grain'd words they did him thwart , For which at last he made them for to smart . To the Tune of , ROBIN HOOD . RObin Hood he was a tall Young Man , derry derry down , And fifteen winter's old , And Robin Hood he was a proper youngman , Of courage stout and bold : heigh down derry derry down . Robin Hood he would unto Nottingham , derry , etc With the General for to Dine , There was he aware of fifteen Foresters , And a drinking beer , ale , and wine , hey down , etc What news , what news ? said bold Robin Hood derry , etc What news fain wouldst thou know ? Our King hath provided a shooting match , And I'm ready with my bow , heigh down , etc We hold it in scorn , said the fifteen Foresters , derry , etc That ever a Boy so young , Should bear a bow before our king , That's not able to draw one string : heigh down , etc I'll hold you twenty marks , said bold Robin Hood , derry , etc By the leave of our Lady , That I'll hit the mark and hundred rod , And I'll cause one heart to die : heigh down , etc We'll hold you twenty marks , then said the foresters , derry , etc By the leave of our Lady , Thou hitt'st not the mark of and hundred rod , Nor causest one heart to die ; heigh down , etc Robin Hood he bent his noble bow , derry , etc And a broad arrow he let fly , He hit the mark and hundred rod , And he caused one heart to die : heigh down , etc Some said he break ribs one or two , derry derry down , And some said he brake three ; The arrow in the heart would not abide , But it glanced in two or three : heigh down derry derry down . The heart did skip and the heart did leap , derry derry down , And the heart lay on the ground , The wager is mine , said bold Robin Hood , If it were for a thousand pound : heigh down derry derry down . The wager's none of thine , then said the Foresters , derry , etc Although thou be'st in haste ? Take up thy bow and get thee hence , lest we thy sides do baste : heigh down , etc Robin Hood he took up his noble bow , derry , etc And his broad arrows all amain , And Robin he laugh'd and began to smile , As he went over the Plain : heigh down , etc Then Robin Hood he bent up his noble bow , derry , etc And his broad arrows he let fly , Till fourteen of these fifteen foresters , Upon the ground did lie : heigh down , etc He that this Quarrel first began , derry , etc Went tripping over the plain , But Robin Hood he bent his noble bow , And he fetched him back again , heigh down , etc You said I was no Archer , said Robin Hood , derry , etc But say so now again : With that he sent another arrow , Which split his head in twain : heigh down , etc You have found me and Archer , said Robin Hood , derry , etc Which will make your wives to wring , And wish that you ne'er had spoke the word That I could not draw one string : heigh down , etc The people that lived in fair Nottingham , derry , etc Came running out amain , Supposing to have taken bold Robin Hood , With the Foresters that were slave ; heigh down , etc Some lost legs , and some lost arms , derry , etc And some did loose their blood ; But Robin Hood he took up his noble bow , And is gone to the merry green wood : heigh down , etc They carry'd these foresters to fair Notting-ham , derry derry down , As many there did know , They dig'd them graves in their Churchyards And they buried them all on a row : heigh down derry derry down . Printed by and for A. Milbourn , and sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner & London-bridge . ( 1 ) Robin Hood's Progress to Nottingham . Where he met with fifteen Foresters all on a row , And he desired of them some News to know ; And with cross grain'd words they did him thwart , For which at last he made them for to smart . To the Tune of , ROBIN HOOD . RObin Hood he was a tall Young Man , derry derry down , And fifteen winter's old , And Robin Hood he was a proper youngman , Of courage stout and bold : heigh down derry derry down . Robin Hood he would unto Nottingham , derry , etc With the General for to Dine , There was he aware of fifteen Foresters , And a drinking beer , ale , and wine , hey down , etc What news , what news ? said bold Robin Hood derry , etc What news fain wouldst thou know ? Our King hath provided a shooting match , And I'm ready with my bow , heigh down , etc We hold it in scorn , said the fifteen Foresters , derry , etc That ever a Boy so young , Should bear a bow before our king , That's not able to draw one string : heigh down , etc I'll hold you twenty marks , said bold Robin Hood , derry , etc By the leave of our Lady , That I'll hit the mark and hundred rod , And I'll cause one heart to die : heigh down , etc We'll hold you twenty marks , then said the foresters , derry , etc By the leave of our Lady , Thou hitt'st not the mark of and hundred rod , Nor causest one heart to die ; heigh down , etc Robin Hood he bent his noble bow , derry , etc And a broad arrow he let fly , He hit the mark and hundred rod , And he caused one heart to die : heigh down , etc Some said he break ribs one or two , derry derry down , And some said he brake three ; The arrow in the heart would not abide , But it glanced in two or three : heigh down derry derry down . The heart did skip and the heart did leap , derry derry down , And the heart lay on the ground , The wager is mine , said bold Robin Hood , If it were for a thousand pound : heigh down derry derry down . The wager's none of thine , then said the Foresters , derry , etc Although thou be'st in haste ? Take up thy bow and get thee hence , lest we thy sides do baste : heigh down , etc Robin Hood he took up his noble bow , derry , etc And his broad arrows all amain , And Robin he laugh'd and began to smile , As he went over the Plain : heigh down , etc Then Robin Hood he bent up his noble bow , derry , etc And his broad arrows he let fly , Till fourteen of these fifteen foresters , Upon the ground did lie : heigh down , etc He that this Quarrel first began , derry , etc Went tripping over the plain , But Robin Hood he bent his noble bow , And he fetched him back again , heigh down , etc You said I was no Archer , said Robin Hood , derry , etc But say so now again : With that he sent another arrow , Which split his head in twain : heigh down , etc You have found me and Archer , said Robin Hood , derry , etc Which will make your wives to wring , And wish that you ne'er had spoke the word That I could not draw one string : heigh down , etc The people that lived in fair Nottingham , derry , etc Came running out amain , Supposing to have taken bold Robin Hood , With the Foresters that were slave ; heigh down , etc Some lost legs , and some lost arms , derry , etc And some did loose their blood ; But Robin Hood he took up his noble bow , And is gone to the merry green wood : heigh down , etc They carry'd these foresters to fair Notting-ham , derry derry down , As many there did know , They dig'd them graves in their Churchyards And they buried them all on a row : heigh down derry derry down . Printed by and for A. Milbourn , and sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner & London-bridge . ( 1 ) Robin Hood's Progress to Nottingham . Where he met with fifteen Foresters all on a row , And he desired of them some News to know ; And with cross grain'd words they did him thwart , For which at last he made them for to smart . To the Tune of , ROBIN HOOD . RObin Hood he was a tall Young Man , derry derry down , And fifteen winter's old , And Robin Hood he was a proper youngman , Of courage stout and bold : heigh down derry derry down . Robin Hood he would unto Nottingham , derry , etc With the General for to Dine , There was he aware of fifteen Foresters , And a drinking beer , ale , and wine , hey down , etc What news , what news ? said bold Robin Hood derry , etc What news fain wouldst thou know ? Our King hath provided a shooting match , And I'm ready with my bow , heigh down , etc We hold it in scorn , said the fifteen Foresters , derry , etc That ever a Boy so young , Should bear a bow before our king , That's not able to draw one string : heigh down , etc I'll hold you twenty marks , said bold Robin Hood , derry , etc By the leave of our Lady , That I'll hit the mark and hundred rod , And I'll cause one heart to die : heigh down , etc We'll hold you twenty marks , then said the foresters , derry , etc By the leave of our Lady , Thou hitt'st not the mark of and hundred rod , Nor causest one heart to die ; heigh down , etc Robin Hood he bent his noble bow , derry , etc And a broad arrow he let fly , He hit the mark and hundred rod , And he caused one heart to die : heigh down , etc Some said he break ribs one or two , derry derry down , And some said he brake three ; The arrow in the heart would not abide , But it glanced in two or three : heigh down derry derry down . The heart did skip and the heart did leap , derry derry down , And the heart lay on the ground , The wager is mine , said bold Robin Hood , If it were for a thousand pound : heigh down derry derry down . The wager's none of thine , then said the Foresters , derry , etc Although thou be'st in haste ? Take up thy bow and get thee hence , lest we thy sides do baste : heigh down , etc Robin Hood he took up his noble bow , derry , etc And his broad arrows all amain , And Robin he laugh'd and began to smile , As he went over the Plain : heigh down , etc Then Robin Hood he bent up his noble bow , derry , etc And his broad arrows he let fly , Till fourteen of these fifteen foresters , Upon the ground did lie : heigh down , etc He that this Quarrel first began , derry , etc Went tripping over the plain , But Robin Hood he bent his noble bow , And he fetched him back again , heigh down , etc You said I was no Archer , said Robin Hood , derry , etc But say so now again : With that he sent another arrow , Which split his head in twain : heigh down , etc You have found me and Archer , said Robin Hood , derry , etc Which will make your wives to wring , And wish that you ne'er had spoke the word That I could not draw one string : heigh down , etc The people that lived in fair Nottingham , derry , etc Came running out amain , Supposing to have taken bold Robin Hood , With the Foresters that were slave ; heigh down , etc Some lost legs , and some lost arms , derry , etc And some did loose their blood ; But Robin Hood he took up his noble bow , And is gone to the merry green wood : heigh down , etc They carry'd these foresters to fair Notting-ham , derry derry down , As many there did know , They dig'd them graves in their Churchyards And they buried them all on a row : heigh down derry derry down . Printed by and for A. Milbourn , and sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner & London-bridge . 