Cupids Conques OR , Will the Shepherd , and fair Kate of the Green ; both United together in Pure LOVE . When Damsels Fair does thus Ensnare , And win their Lovers heart , Thus with a Frown can run him down . Then Cupid takes his Part. To the Tune of , As I went forth to take the Air : Or , My dearest dear and I must part . This may be Printed , R.L.S. NOw am I tossed on waves of Love , here like a Ship that's under Sail , No kind entreaties will not move my Love to send one pleasant Gale . She is and Angel in mine Eye , and Beauty flows in e'ry vein , Yet I lie wounded fatally and by the Dart of her Disdain . The lustre of her Beauty might , hath kindled such a secret flame Within my breast , that day and night , I needs must call upon her Name . Fair Katee , Katee too unkind , why am I Banished in Exile , If thou wilt ease a grieved mind , then send me here a gentle smil [ e ] Was she as kind as she was Fair , she soon would send me some relief , And ease my mind of grief and care , and vanish all the Clouds of grief . But yet alas , it is in vain , my Love she evermore defies , Though I in sorrow here complain , year she revolv'd to Tyrannise . Assist me Cupid with thy aid , and let me not be overthrown , Do thou her gentle heart invade , when she is silent all alone . When her Enchanting eyes does close , and all her senses are at rest , When she is in her Night repose , then seize the Closet of her breast . Then Cupid took his Dart in hand , not fearing then to make her yield , He did not long disputing stand e're he subdu'd and wone the field . When Katee fown'd her heart betray'd , and yet no creature could she see , She like a Pensive Lover said , what sudden change is wrought in me . Then many sighs and tears she spent , it sorrow for her Dearest dear , Her yielding heart did then relent , sweet William Oh wou'd thou wertenberg here . Sure pride did oversway my heart , causing Ambition so to Reign , But since I feel Loves fatal smart , for sweet William I do complain . Now when it plainly did appear , that she in sorrows did condole , This joyful tidings to his ear , revived then his fainting Soul. The vail of grief and heaviness , no longer seemed to remain , No tongue was able to express the joys of her beloved Swain . He then Embrac't her in his arms , and joyfully they did complete The most endeared pleasant charms , with vows and tender kisses sweet . Thus many fair expressions passed , and Katee vowing thus did say , As long as ever life does last , i'le be as constant as the day . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guilt-Spur-Street , without Newgate . Cupids Conques OR , Will the Shepherd , and fair Kate of the Green ; both United together in Pure LOVE . When Damsels Fair does thus Ensnare , And win their Lovers heart , Thus with a Frown can run him down . Then Cupid takes his Part. To the Tune of , As I went forth to take the Air : Or , My dearest dear and I must part . This may be Printed , R.L.S. NOw am I tossed on waves of Love , here like a Ship that's under Sail , No kind entreaties will not move my Love to send one pleasant Gale . She is and Angel in mine Eye , and Beauty flows in e'ry vein , Yet I lie wounded fatally and by the Dart of her Disdain . The lustre of her Beauty might , hath kindled such a secret flame Within my breast , that day and night , I needs must call upon her Name . Fair Katee , Katee too unkind , why am I Banished in Exile , If thou wilt ease a grieved mind , then send me here a gentle smil [ e ] Was she as kind as she was Fair , she soon would send me some relief , And ease my mind of grief and care , and vanish all the Clouds of grief . But yet alas , it is in vain , my Love she evermore defies , Though I in sorrow here complain , year she revolv'd to Tyrannise . Assist me Cupid with thy aid , and let me not be overthrown , Do thou her gentle heart invade , when she is silent all alone . When her Enchanting eyes does close , and all her senses are at rest , When she is in her Night repose , then seize the Closet of her breast . Then Cupid took his Dart in hand , not fearing then to make her yield , He did not long disputing stand e're he subdu'd and wone the field . When Katee fown'd her heart betray'd , and yet no creature could she see , She like a Pensive Lover said , what sudden change is wrought in me . Then many sighs and tears she spent , it sorrow for her Dearest dear , Her yielding heart did then relent , sweet William Oh wou'd thou wertenberg here . Sure pride did oversway my heart , causing Ambition so to Reign , But since I feel Loves fatal smart , for sweet William I do complain . Now when it plainly did appear , that she in sorrows did condole , This joyful tidings to his ear , revived then his fainting Soul. The vail of grief and heaviness , no longer seemed to remain , No tongue was able to express the joys of her beloved Swain . He then Embrac't her in his arms , and joyfully they did complete The most endeared pleasant charms , with vows and tender kisses sweet . Thus many fair expressions passed , and Katee vowing thus did say , As long as ever life does last , i'le be as constant as the day . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guilt-Spur-Street , without Newgate . 