THE Woman Outwitted : OR , THE Weaver's Wife cunningly catch'd in a Trap , by her Husband , who sold her for ten Pounds , and sent her to Virginny . To and excellent new Tune . NOt far from hence , there dwelled , and honest Man a Weaver , He had a Wife she was witty and fai [ r ] , but her Wit it did deceive her ; She was a Grain too light , she calls him Fool and Ninny ; Which made the Man then often say , I'll go unto Virginny . Altho' he hard did work , he ne'er could live in quiet , She said her Clothing was too base , so was her homely Diet ; Tho' nothing she did want , as he could buy for Money , Which made the Man then often say , I'll go unto Virginny . She lov'd a lusty Lad , and vow'd she'd love him ever , At last her Husband found a Trick these loving Mates to sever : Your notes , quoth he , I'll quickly change , that now so sweetly sing you ; Unto a Merchant straight he went that sailed to Virginny : He coming then unto the Ship , Of Women you are lacking , And I have one that I can spare , and her I will send packing : The Times are very hard , I'll fell my Wife for Money , She is good Merchandise you know , when you come to Virginny . If she be young , bring her on board , and I will entertain her ; But tell to me the lowest price , for I must be some Gainer . Ten Pound he answered , I cannot bait one penny ; She is good Merchandise you know when you come to Virginny . Then he came home unto his Wife , and said that he was packing ; This joyful news reviv'd her mind , and set her Heart a leaping ; And smiling to herself , she said , Then farewell Goodman Ninny , My Love with me shall merry me when you are at Virginny . One thing I do desire of thee , to see me , my Dear , take shipping . Ay , that I will , my Love , said she , and seem [ ' ] worser to fallen a weeping ; A bottle of Strong-waters good I will bestow upon thee , For fear that you should be Seasick a sailing to Virginny . Then come into the Ship , the Captain bid theem welcome , He led them into his Cabin , whereas such Guess came seldom : He stepped forth unto her Husband , and paid him down the Money , Who straight took Boat and row'd on shor [ e ] and sent her unto Virginny . But when she saw that he was gone , and that she there was stayed , She bitterly did wail and weep , and said she was betray'd ; Take me , said she , with you , I'll never more offend thee , He cry'd , farewell sweet Wife , adieu , God send you to Virginny . Then presently they hoist up Sail , and had good Wind and Weather , And seven long weeks they were at Sea , before that they came thither ; He for a Maiden sold her there , for fifty pounds in Money , And she another Husband had when she came to Virginny . They being parted thus , so many Leagues asunder , He carries Money in his purse , there's none to keep him under , But governs all [ a ] tO home , and with his Friends lives merry ; Now many one does title him , a Merchant of Verginny . London : Printed by and for W.O. and are to be sold by C. Bates , in Pie-corner . THE Woman Outwitted : OR , THE Weaver's Wife cunningly catch'd in a Trap , by her Husband , who sold her for ten Pounds , and sent her to Virginny . To and excellent new Tune . NOt far from hence , there dwelled , and honest Man a Weaver , He had a Wife she was witty and fai [ r ] , but her Wit it did deceive her ; She was a Grain too light , she calls him Fool and Ninny ; Which made the Man then often say , I'll go unto Virginny . Altho' he hard did work , he ne'er could live in quiet , She said her Clothing was too base , so was her homely Diet ; Tho' nothing she did want , as he could buy for Money , Which made the Man then often say , I'll go unto Virginny . She lov'd a lusty Lad , and vow'd she'd love him ever , At last her Husband found a Trick these loving Mates to sever : Your notes , quoth he , I'll quickly change , that now so sweetly sing you ; Unto a Merchant straight he went that sailed to Virginny : He coming then unto the Ship , Of Women you are lacking , And I have one that I can spare , and her I will send packing : The Times are very hard , I'll fell my Wife for Money , She is good Merchandise you know , when you come to Virginny . If she be young , bring her on board , and I will entertain her ; But tell to me the lowest price , for I must be some Gainer . Ten Pound he answered , I cannot bait one penny ; She is good Merchandise you know when you come to Virginny . Then he came home unto his Wife , and said that he was packing ; This joyful news reviv'd her mind , and set her Heart a leaping ; And smiling to herself , she said , Then farewell Goodman Ninny , My Love with me shall merry me when you are at Virginny . One thing I do desire of thee , to see me , my Dear , take shipping . Ay , that I will , my Love , said she , and seem [ ' ] worser to fallen a weeping ; A bottle of Strong-waters good I will bestow upon thee , For fear that you should be Seasick a sailing to Virginny . Then come into the Ship , the Captain bid theem welcome , He led them into his Cabin , whereas such Guess came seldom : He stepped forth unto her Husband , and paid him down the Money , Who straight took Boat and row'd on shor [ e ] and sent her unto Virginny . But when she saw that he was gone , and that she there was stayed , She bitterly did wail and weep , and said she was betray'd ; Take me , said she , with you , I'll never more offend thee , He cry'd , farewell sweet Wife , adieu , God send you to Virginny . Then presently they hoist up Sail , and had good Wind and Weather , And seven long weeks they were at Sea , before that they came thither ; He for a Maiden sold her there , for fifty pounds in Money , And she another Husband had when she came to Virginny . They being parted thus , so many Leagues asunder , He carries Money in his purse , there's none to keep him under , But governs all [ a ] tO home , and with his Friends lives merry ; Now many one does title him , a Merchant of Verginny . London : Printed by and for W.O. and are to be sold by C. Bates , in Pie-corner . 