A Morning's Ramble : OR , Islington Wells Burlesqt . SAted with Love and Wine last Night , The Joys that yield us most Delight . I took my Leave , and stole to Bed , But Rose this Morn with Aching-Head . To ease my Pain , and take the Air , I did to Islington Repair ; Where every Whore , and every Rogue , Meet at the Wells so much in Vogue : Resolving with myself to stay , And drive and Hour or two away . I entered in , and viewed the Place , With every squeamish Breeding Face ; Of City Wives , who thither come , While their poor Cuckolds wait at Home . Hoping the Springs may do them Good , To Purge their Veins , and clear their Blood . When they alas have no Design , Only to tipple off their Wine : And treat those Brawny Lads they Hire , To do the Drudgery they require . But walking on , I chanced to see A pretty piece of Comedy . A Spark in Gown and Slippers stood , Courting a Wench who'd newly Spew'd : Madam I Grieve , or I'me a Turk , To see the Waters upward Work . And fear your Stomach is too Cold , Since Purging Streams you cannot hold . Take my Advice if you are ill , To enter in , and take a Gill Of cooling Nants , that may support The weakness of your Stomachs For And Faith and Troth I'le Treat you freely , With that which I am sure will Heal you . This offer was no sooner made , But being Mistress of her Trade , She soon accepts ; when of a sudden She shook and Quak'd like any Pudden . The reason strait I could not tell , But soon perciev'd her Guts Rebel : And that which made her Spew before , Now through her Tail Work't three times more . With that she Curs't the fatal Hour , And trudg'd away to Secret Bower . In hope's when once she had done her Stool , Back to return and catch the Fool. But powerful Waters Work't so fast , She thought she should have Purg'd her Last . And e're she reach't the place design'd , As Cotton of his Dido feign'd , A Yellow Aromatic Matter , Dropped down her Heels comix't with Water . When this I'de seen , away I stray'd , And met a Quack in Plush array'd , With Crouds of People at his Heels , Like a Scotch Meeting in the Fields . With Looks Demure he made a stand , Taking his Hat into his Hand ; And to the People thus held forth , My Friends did you but know the worth , The valve of these English Spaws , With nothing else you'd fill your Maws . So Medicinal , and so good , 'Tis better for you than your Food . At which a general Hum went round , That made the Neighbouring Fields Resound . The Doctor when the noise was done , Made Reverend Scrape , and thus went on , If Barren Womb does want specific , To make her Fruitful and Prolific ; These Waters will effect the Cure In nine Months time you may be sure . They ease the Gout and also Claps , Beyond the danger of Relapse . People may talk of Epsom Wells , Or Tunbridge Springs which most Excels . I'le tell you by my ten years practice Plainly what the matter of fact is . Those are but good for one Disease , To all Distempers this gives Ease . But in the midst of this Oration A Roguish Cheat had fixed his Station , Close by the Learned Doctors side Whose Pocketts both were well Suppli'd . And in a trice he stole a way The ready Cash he'd gain'd that Day . I had no sooner left this Place , But walking on with gentle pace , And Musing Thoughts that oft do Clog us , I step'd into the Women's Boghouse : Where four or five together sat , Like Hunted Hares upon the Squat . But strait endeavouring to retire , They flew upon me with such Ire ; Threatening my Carcase down to fling , And make me savour worse than Ling. With much ado I scap'd the Danger , And fled like Lightning from their Anger : Resolving when I had reached the Door , To see those Shitten Wells no more . London , Printed by George Croom , for the Author . 1684. A Morning's Ramble : OR , Islington Wells Burlesqt . SAted with Love and Wine last Night , The Joys that yield us most Delight . I took my Leave , and stole to Bed , But Rose this Morn with Aching-Head . To ease my Pain , and take the Air , I did to Islington Repair ; Where every Whore , and every Rogue , Meet at the Wells so much in Vogue : Resolving with myself to stay , And drive and Hour or two away . I entered in , and viewed the Place , With every squeamish Breeding Face ; Of City Wives , who thither come , While their poor Cuckolds wait at Home . Hoping the Springs may do them Good , To Purge their Veins , and clear their Blood . When they alas have no Design , Only to tipple off their Wine : And treat those Brawny Lads they Hire , To do the Drudgery they require . But walking on , I chanced to see A pretty piece of Comedy . A Spark in Gown and Slippers stood , Courting a Wench who'd newly Spew'd : Madam I Grieve , or I'me a Turk , To see the Waters upward Work . And fear your Stomach is too Cold , Since Purging Streams you cannot hold . Take my Advice if you are ill , To enter in , and take a Gill Of cooling Nants , that may support The weakness of your Stomachs For And Faith and Troth I'le Treat you freely , With that which I am sure will Heal you . This offer was no sooner made , But being Mistress of her Trade , She soon accepts ; when of a sudden She shook and Quak'd like any Pudden . The reason strait I could not tell , But soon perciev'd her Guts Rebel : And that which made her Spew before , Now through her Tail Work't three times more . With that she Curs't the fatal Hour , And trudg'd away to Secret Bower . In hope's when once she had done her Stool , Back to return and catch the Fool. But powerful Waters Work't so fast , She thought she should have Purg'd her Last . And e're she reach't the place design'd , As Cotton of his Dido feign'd , A Yellow Aromatic Matter , Dropped down her Heels comix't with Water . When this I'de seen , away I stray'd , And met a Quack in Plush array'd , With Crouds of People at his Heels , Like a Scotch Meeting in the Fields . With Looks Demure he made a stand , Taking his Hat into his Hand ; And to the People thus held forth , My Friends did you but know the worth , The valve of these English Spaws , With nothing else you'd fill your Maws . So Medicinal , and so good , 'Tis better for you than your Food . At which a general Hum went round , That made the Neighbouring Fields Resound . The Doctor when the noise was done , Made Reverend Scrape , and thus went on , If Barren Womb does want specific , To make her Fruitful and Prolific ; These Waters will effect the Cure In nine Months time you may be sure . They ease the Gout and also Claps , Beyond the danger of Relapse . People may talk of Epsom Wells , Or Tunbridge Springs which most Excels . I'le tell you by my ten years practice Plainly what the matter of fact is . Those are but good for one Disease , To all Distempers this gives Ease . But in the midst of this Oration A Roguish Cheat had fixed his Station , Close by the Learned Doctors side Whose Pocketts both were well Suppli'd . And in a trice he stole a way The ready Cash he'd gain'd that Day . I had no sooner left this Place , But walking on with gentle pace , And Musing Thoughts that oft do Clog us , I step'd into the Women's Boghouse : Where four or five together sat , Like Hunted Hares upon the Squat . But strait endeavouring to retire , They flew upon me with such Ire ; Threatening my Carcase down to fling , And make me savour worse than Ling. With much ado I scap'd the Danger , And fled like Lightning from their Anger : Resolving when I had reached the Door , To see those Shitten Wells no more . London , Printed by George Croom , for the Author . 1684. 