THE GOODHURST Garland . In THREE PARTS . PART I . A Sailor courted a Farmer's Daughter , whose Living was in the wild of Kent , But mark , I pray , what follow'd after , He waited long e'er she gave Consent . By constant courting , and strange reporting , Strange Things concerning the Ocean wide , Said he , my Sweating , at this bless'd Meeting , Oh give Consent to be my Bride . I must acknowledge I do adore thee , with all the tender Respects of Love ; None ever conquer'd my Heart before thee , whom I admire , and prize above The richest Jewel ; then be not cruel , But lay that angry Frown aside . And my dear Sweating , etc She said , a Sailor I don't admire ; because they travel to foreign Parts . The more our Company they desire , the more they leave us with aching Hearts . And we lament with sad Vexation , wherefore I beg you'll be satisfy'd . But my dear Sweating , etc Be not disturb'd at that vain Notion ; for I'll not often afflict thee so : Once more I count to sail the Ocean ; because , my Love , I'm oblig'd to go ; For to serve the Nation , in this my Station , which e'er 'tis long I will lay aside . But my dear Sweating , etc After the Death of my loving Mother I shall be bless'd with a fair Estate ; And thee , dear Jewel , above all other , I have made Choice of to be my Mate . Let me but gain thee , and I'll maintain thee , with Joy and Pleasure on every Side . And now my Sweating , etc Tho' I look like a private Sailor , yet ne'ertheless I declare , my Dear , My Father was a Merchant-Taylor , and left me Sevenscore Pounds a Year . A fair Beginning ; Silks , Lace and Linen , for thee , my Jewel , I will provide . And now my Sweating , etc When once I come to the Possession of my Inheritance , never fear , But I'll account it best Discretion , in staying at Home with you , my Dear . With Peace and Pleasure , in mid'st of Treasure , taking Leave of the Ocean wide . And now my Sweating , etc When he had told her this pleasing Story , she had no Power to say him nay ; Thinking herself in the Height of Glory , she to the Sailor thus did say , Thou'st gain'd my Favour and Love forever , therefore , Dearest , be satisfy'd . But my dear , etc Quoth he , my Promise shall not be broken , as long as I have a Day to live ; And take this Ring as a faithful Token , which as a faithful Pledge I give . I'll wed thee fairly , and love thee dearly , when I return from the Ocean wide . To thee , dear , etc PART II UNto his Mother it was reported , before he could get on Board , That he a Farmer's Daughter courted , whose Parents could not afford To give a Portion . At this strange Notion his Mother to him in a Passion run ; Saying , forsake her , if wife you make her , I'll never own you to be my Son. What , will you take one with never a Penny , a Farmer's Daughter , as I am told ; Tho' you have god the Choice of many , both Birth , and Breeding , and Store of Gold . In London City , methinks 'tis Pity my Riches should thus to Ruin run . I pray , forsake her , etc There's Mrs. Susan , of charming Beauty , who has Five Hundred Pound , I know : I charge you , therefore , upon your Duty , that you a wooing to her go . Please you your Mother , and quit the other ; why should my treasure to Ruin go ? I pray , forsake her , etc You may have Nancy , William's Cousin , a youthful Damsel , of Beauty brigh Nay , I could mention at least a Dozen who in your Company take Delight . Cannot these please you ? does Madness seize you ? How ! Are you willing to be undone ? I pray , forsake her , if wife you make her , I'll never own you to be my Son. What makes you in a Passion , Mother ? I needs must own you're come too late : I love my Jewel above all other who can be brought , altho' ne'er so great ; For she's a Jewel , a Fig for Riches , she has my kind Affections wone ; I'll ne'er forsake her , but a wife make her , tho' you disown me , etc I ever honour'd my tender Parents ; and this I hope that I can prove ; Then do not threaten to be at Variance , because I'd marry the girl I love . Altho' you flout , abhor , and hate me , I'll finish what I so well begun ; I'll ne'er forsake her , but a wife make her , tho' you disown me , etc Fair youthful Beauty's are often winning , and Men's found Hearts are soon betray'd . Dear Mother , think of your beginning , my father took you a Servant-Maid . Then don't despise her , I mean to raise her , as my Father you before has done ; I'll ne'er forsake her , but my wife make her , tho' you disown me , etc These eight long Years I've sail'd the Ocean , and then for Love to her did go : I never ask'd after her Fortune , she may have Riches for ought I know ; But have or have not , she is my Lot , I joy to think her Love I've wone ; I'll ne'er forsake her , but my wife make her , tho' you disown me , etc The Farmer's Daughter I've been courting , tho' I should wed her out of Hand : You can [ ? ] hinder me of my Fortune , as being Heir to my Father's Land. When I that Blessing shall have in possessing , I will never travel , as I have done ; With her I'll tarry , and soon will marry , tho' you disown me , etc The Sailor's Mother , like one distracted , she smote her Breast , and tore her Hair : Saying , since he hath such Love contracted , she'd never be in his Presence more , He said , dear Mdther , your Passion smother , since I cannot from my Promise run ; I'll ne'er forsake her , but a wife make her , tho' you disown me to be your Son. PART III . THE Farmer hearing of this Confusion , And that his Daughter's was slighted so By his rash Mother , then in Conclusion he let this jolly Sailor know , That if he'd tarry at home and marry , a spacious Farm he'd give him free ; For Plouging , Sowing , Reaping , Mowing . he had no Child in the world but she . The noble Sailor soon consented , to quit the troubled Ocean wide : Her Friends and he were well contented , she should in Pomp to his Mother's ride With rich Attires , like Lords and Squires , they made a tearing and splendid Show . He told his Mother , he'd brought another : the Farmer's Daughter she did not know . among a thousand of charming Faces , sure the like of her you ne'er did know ; Her Garb was Satin , with rich Laces , and round her Neck a Chain of Gold . Transparent Beauty . My Son thy Duty thou hast observ'd , I needs must say : Still as she view'd her , she did conclude her , for to be no less than a Lady gay . Next Day as soon as they were marry'd , his Mother said , with a cheerful Voice , I'm glad all Things are so fairly carry'd . I never lik'd your Farmer's Choice . It would have been your Ruin , and your undoing . if you had took her , I make bold to say , Come , Love and Treasure brings Joy and Pleasure ; I am glad you wedded a Lady gay . With that the brave old Farmer told her , this Lady sprung from the painful Plough ; Altho' in Silks you do behold her , yet what can you say against her now ? So make no Fraction , nor cause Distraction , but love them both , as they may agree ; And do not harm her , as I am a Farmer , and have no other Child but she . That very Minute upon the Table out of a Bag he forthwith did pour Two Hundred Guineas , and said , I am able for to give my Daughter as many more . Which pleas'd the Mother , above all other , said she , I'm glad the Knot is ty'd : When first he sought her , I never thought her for to be so beautiful a Bride . Nothing but Joy was there between them , and the Music play'd such a cheerful Found , You would have laugh'd had you seen but the old wife trotting the Cheshire-Round . The Farmer's Treasure brought Joy and Pleasure all Grief and Sorrow they bid adieu : His Mother kiss'd her , and often bless'd her , you see what Silver and Gold can do . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow Church-Yard , London . THE GOODHURST Garland . In THREE PARTS . PART I . A Sailor courted a Farmer's Daughter , whose Living was in the wild of Kent , But mark , I pray , what follow'd after , He waited long e'er she gave Consent . By constant courting , and strange reporting , Strange Things concerning the Ocean wide , Said he , my Sweating , at this bless'd Meeting , Oh give Consent to be my Bride . I must acknowledge I do adore thee , with all the tender Respects of Love ; None ever conquer'd my Heart before thee , whom I admire , and prize above The richest Jewel ; then be not cruel , But lay that angry Frown aside . And my dear Sweating , etc She said , a Sailor I don't admire ; because they travel to foreign Parts . The more our Company they desire , the more they leave us with aching Hearts . And we lament with sad Vexation , wherefore I beg you'll be satisfy'd . But my dear Sweating , etc Be not disturb'd at that vain Notion ; for I'll not often afflict thee so : Once more I count to sail the Ocean ; because , my Love , I'm oblig'd to go ; For to serve the Nation , in this my Station , which e'er 'tis long I will lay aside . But my dear Sweating , etc After the Death of my loving Mother I shall be bless'd with a fair Estate ; And thee , dear Jewel , above all other , I have made Choice of to be my Mate . Let me but gain thee , and I'll maintain thee , with Joy and Pleasure on every Side . And now my Sweating , etc Tho' I look like a private Sailor , yet ne'ertheless I declare , my Dear , My Father was a Merchant-Taylor , and left me Sevenscore Pounds a Year . A fair Beginning ; Silks , Lace and Linen , for thee , my Jewel , I will provide . And now my Sweating , etc When once I come to the Possession of my Inheritance , never fear , But I'll account it best Discretion , in staying at Home with you , my Dear . With Peace and Pleasure , in mid'st of Treasure , taking Leave of the Ocean wide . And now my Sweating , etc When he had told her this pleasing Story , she had no Power to say him nay ; Thinking herself in the Height of Glory , she to the Sailor thus did say , Thou'st gain'd my Favour and Love forever , therefore , Dearest , be satisfy'd . But my dear , etc Quoth he , my Promise shall not be broken , as long as I have a Day to live ; And take this Ring as a faithful Token , which as a faithful Pledge I give . I'll wed thee fairly , and love thee dearly , when I return from the Ocean wide . To thee , dear , etc PART II UNto his Mother it was reported , before he could get on Board , That he a Farmer's Daughter courted , whose Parents could not afford To give a Portion . At this strange Notion his Mother to him in a Passion run ; Saying , forsake her , if wife you make her , I'll never own you to be my Son. What , will you take one with never a Penny , a Farmer's Daughter , as I am told ; Tho' you have god the Choice of many , both Birth , and Breeding , and Store of Gold . In London City , methinks 'tis Pity my Riches should thus to Ruin run . I pray , forsake her , etc There's Mrs. Susan , of charming Beauty , who has Five Hundred Pound , I know : I charge you , therefore , upon your Duty , that you a wooing to her go . Please you your Mother , and quit the other ; why should my treasure to Ruin go ? I pray , forsake her , etc You may have Nancy , William's Cousin , a youthful Damsel , of Beauty brigh Nay , I could mention at least a Dozen who in your Company take Delight . Cannot these please you ? does Madness seize you ? How ! Are you willing to be undone ? I pray , forsake her , if wife you make her , I'll never own you to be my Son. What makes you in a Passion , Mother ? I needs must own you're come too late : I love my Jewel above all other who can be brought , altho' ne'er so great ; For she's a Jewel , a Fig for Riches , she has my kind Affections wone ; I'll ne'er forsake her , but a wife make her , tho' you disown me , etc I ever honour'd my tender Parents ; and this I hope that I can prove ; Then do not threaten to be at Variance , because I'd marry the girl I love . Altho' you flout , abhor , and hate me , I'll finish what I so well begun ; I'll ne'er forsake her , but a wife make her , tho' you disown me , etc Fair youthful Beauty's are often winning , and Men's found Hearts are soon betray'd . Dear Mother , think of your beginning , my father took you a Servant-Maid . Then don't despise her , I mean to raise her , as my Father you before has done ; I'll ne'er forsake her , but my wife make her , tho' you disown me , etc These eight long Years I've sail'd the Ocean , and then for Love to her did go : I never ask'd after her Fortune , she may have Riches for ought I know ; But have or have not , she is my Lot , I joy to think her Love I've wone ; I'll ne'er forsake her , but my wife make her , tho' you disown me , etc The Farmer's Daughter I've been courting , tho' I should wed her out of Hand : You can [ ? ] hinder me of my Fortune , as being Heir to my Father's Land. When I that Blessing shall have in possessing , I will never travel , as I have done ; With her I'll tarry , and soon will marry , tho' you disown me , etc The Sailor's Mother , like one distracted , she smote her Breast , and tore her Hair : Saying , since he hath such Love contracted , she'd never be in his Presence more , He said , dear Mdther , your Passion smother , since I cannot from my Promise run ; I'll ne'er forsake her , but a wife make her , tho' you disown me to be your Son. PART III . THE Farmer hearing of this Confusion , And that his Daughter's was slighted so By his rash Mother , then in Conclusion he let this jolly Sailor know , That if he'd tarry at home and marry , a spacious Farm he'd give him free ; For Plouging , Sowing , Reaping , Mowing . he had no Child in the world but she . The noble Sailor soon consented , to quit the troubled Ocean wide : Her Friends and he were well contented , she should in Pomp to his Mother's ride With rich Attires , like Lords and Squires , they made a tearing and splendid Show . He told his Mother , he'd brought another : the Farmer's Daughter she did not know . among a thousand of charming Faces , sure the like of her you ne'er did know ; Her Garb was Satin , with rich Laces , and round her Neck a Chain of Gold . Transparent Beauty . My Son thy Duty thou hast observ'd , I needs must say : Still as she view'd her , she did conclude her , for to be no less than a Lady gay . Next Day as soon as they were marry'd , his Mother said , with a cheerful Voice , I'm glad all Things are so fairly carry'd . I never lik'd your Farmer's Choice . It would have been your Ruin , and your undoing . if you had took her , I make bold to say , Come , Love and Treasure brings Joy and Pleasure ; I am glad you wedded a Lady gay . With that the brave old Farmer told her , this Lady sprung from the painful Plough ; Altho' in Silks you do behold her , yet what can you say against her now ? So make no Fraction , nor cause Distraction , but love them both , as they may agree ; And do not harm her , as I am a Farmer , and have no other Child but she . That very Minute upon the Table out of a Bag he forthwith did pour Two Hundred Guineas , and said , I am able for to give my Daughter as many more . Which pleas'd the Mother , above all other , said she , I'm glad the Knot is ty'd : When first he sought her , I never thought her for to be so beautiful a Bride . Nothing but Joy was there between them , and the Music play'd such a cheerful Found , You would have laugh'd had you seen but the old wife trotting the Cheshire-Round . The Farmer's Treasure brought Joy and Pleasure all Grief and Sorrow they bid adieu : His Mother kiss'd her , and often bless'd her , you see what Silver and Gold can do . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow Church-Yard , London . 