New BALLAD I . NOW Britain , now hold up thy Head , Thy Foes are in Disgrace ; And Harry , who not long since said , No Whig should keep his Place , May sighs and sob , and follow Bob , Well dreading what's to come ; French Wine he lov'd , but always mov [ ? ] Against good Brunswick Mum . II But we're convinc'd by our late Peace , There's Poison in French Wine : We saw ourselves in desperate Case , And all our Strength decline . But Heaven sent for to prevent Those Ills that were to come : And show'd our Cure was only sure In good right Brunswick Mum . III . Now this spruce Liquour will revive Our Merchant's drooping Hearts , And make our Manufactures thrive Abroad in Foreign Parts . The Parliament with one Consent . Shall every Trickster doom : For Bourbon's Pay no more can sway , Since we drink Brunswick Mum . IV. The Popish Priests Te Deum sing For the young Chevalier : Tho' Lewis should proclaim him King , Yet we need nothing fear . His Friends are out , then who can doubt Of happy Times to come : For Conquering JOHN , to France well known Drinks deep of Brunswick Mum . V. The Catalans will be reliev'd , Who fight for Liberty : Their Fate , long , honest Men has griev'd , But could not set them free : Bob and Harry made all miscarry , Who for Relief did come ; For French Pistoles had brib'd their Souls To banish Brunswick Mum . VI . The Jacobite poor scribbling Crew , Who wrote for the Pretender ; The Monitor and Abel too Their Pensions must surrender . Th' Examiner's Care no more shall dare To threaten what's to come ; For to assuage their Popish Rage , We'll give them Brunswick Mum . VII . Now , now , true Protestants rejoice , Stand by your Laws and King ; Now you've proclaim'd the Nation's Choice , Let traitorous Rebels swing : Let Royal George the Papists scourge ; To England quickly come : His Health till then , let honest Men , Drink all in Brunswick Mum . New BALLAD I . NOW Britain , now hold up thy Head , Thy Foes are in Disgrace ; And Harry , who not long since said , No Whig should keep his Place , May sighs and sob , and follow Bob , Well dreading what's to come ; French Wine he lov'd , but always mov [ ? ] Against good Brunswick Mum . II But we're convinc'd by our late Peace , There's Poison in French Wine : We saw ourselves in desperate Case , And all our Strength decline . But Heaven sent for to prevent Those Ills that were to come : And show'd our Cure was only sure In good right Brunswick Mum . III . Now this spruce Liquour will revive Our Merchant's drooping Hearts , And make our Manufactures thrive Abroad in Foreign Parts . The Parliament with one Consent . Shall every Trickster doom : For Bourbon's Pay no more can sway , Since we drink Brunswick Mum . IV. The Popish Priests Te Deum sing For the young Chevalier : Tho' Lewis should proclaim him King , Yet we need nothing fear . His Friends are out , then who can doubt Of happy Times to come : For Conquering JOHN , to France well known Drinks deep of Brunswick Mum . V. The Catalans will be reliev'd , Who fight for Liberty : Their Fate , long , honest Men has griev'd , But could not set them free : Bob and Harry made all miscarry , Who for Relief did come ; For French Pistoles had brib'd their Souls To banish Brunswick Mum . VI . The Jacobite poor scribbling Crew , Who wrote for the Pretender ; The Monitor and Abel too Their Pensions must surrender . Th' Examiner's Care no more shall dare To threaten what's to come ; For to assuage their Popish Rage , We'll give them Brunswick Mum . VII . Now , now , true Protestants rejoice , Stand by your Laws and King ; Now you've proclaim'd the Nation's Choice , Let traitorous Rebels swing : Let Royal George the Papists scourge ; To England quickly come : His Health till then , let honest Men , Drink all in Brunswick Mum . 