THE Jacobites Exultation Upon their conceiv'd hope's of the Present PLOT . I . NOW , now the Stubborn Whigs may Rot , Their Cause is quite undone , We have at last contriv'd a Plot , Exceeding Forty One . We'll make the Bigots all believe , If they would happy be , They must Mack Ninny's Right retrieve ; Then high Boys up go we . II From Pulpit tall our Priest shall bawl , What wonders have been done , How Whigs the Father did Enthral , And how they serv'd the Son. For though the giddy Vulgar Rout , No difference can see , We'll impudently face it out ; Then high Boys up go we . III . Though we our Duty have forgotten , To testify our Zeal , We'll swear King Will . into Plot , Against the Commonweal . The Dutch and He do both combine , That way to set us free , But we'll restore the Scottish Line ; Then high Boys up go we . IV. No cost and labour we'll refuse , For Valiant Jemmy's Right , We'll Flatter , Lie , Collogue , Accuse , And any thing but Fight . We'll swear Dissenters hate the King , And English Monarchy , Though to the Throne they did him bring ; Then high Boys up go we . V. Our Matters so we'll bring about , They shall no more complain , And as we lately Preach'd him out , We'll Pray him in again . We'll make our Pulpit ring aloud Of Truth and Loyalty , With this Device we'll shame the Crowd ; Then high Boys up go we . VI . Our Prayers and Tears we all do know With Orange did prevail , To cut the Ocean's stormy Brow , With twice three hundred Sail . And as they serv'd to bring him o're , To set the Nation free , So they'l bring James to his old Shore ; And high Boys up go we . VII . Our Holy Primate in his Den , Lies close as Mouse in Cheese , To each Petition cries Amen , For such good Days as these . When rambling James again shall come , What wonder will it be , That he who's pawn'd his Soul to Room Should set God's People free . VIII . Thus do the Holy Brotherhood , Their Villainies maintain , To Treason Invocate the God They every Day profane . Then since they're grown so vile and lewd , And there's no hope's they'll mend , The Dee'l himself take all the Brood , Henceforth World without end . FINIS THE Jacobites Exultation Upon their conceiv'd hope's of the Present PLOT . I . NOW , now the Stubborn Whigs may Rot , Their Cause is quite undone , We have at last contriv'd a Plot , Exceeding Forty One . We'll make the Bigots all believe , If they would happy be , They must Mack Ninny's Right retrieve ; Then high Boys up go we . II From Pulpit tall our Priest shall bawl , What wonders have been done , How Whigs the Father did Enthral , And how they serv'd the Son. For though the giddy Vulgar Rout , No difference can see , We'll impudently face it out ; Then high Boys up go we . III . Though we our Duty have forgotten , To testify our Zeal , We'll swear King Will . into Plot , Against the Commonweal . The Dutch and He do both combine , That way to set us free , But we'll restore the Scottish Line ; Then high Boys up go we . IV. No cost and labour we'll refuse , For Valiant Jemmy's Right , We'll Flatter , Lie , Collogue , Accuse , And any thing but Fight . We'll swear Dissenters hate the King , And English Monarchy , Though to the Throne they did him bring ; Then high Boys up go we . V. Our Matters so we'll bring about , They shall no more complain , And as we lately Preach'd him out , We'll Pray him in again . We'll make our Pulpit ring aloud Of Truth and Loyalty , With this Device we'll shame the Crowd ; Then high Boys up go we . VI . Our Prayers and Tears we all do know With Orange did prevail , To cut the Ocean's stormy Brow , With twice three hundred Sail . And as they serv'd to bring him o're , To set the Nation free , So they'l bring James to his old Shore ; And high Boys up go we . VII . Our Holy Primate in his Den , Lies close as Mouse in Cheese , To each Petition cries Amen , For such good Days as these . When rambling James again shall come , What wonder will it be , That he who's pawn'd his Soul to Room Should set God's People free . VIII . Thus do the Holy Brotherhood , Their Villainies maintain , To Treason Invocate the God They every Day profane . Then since they're grown so vile and lewd , And there's no hope's they'll mend , The Dee'l himself take all the Brood , Henceforth World without end . FINIS 