The Tories Triumph On the NEWS of The Pretender's Expedition to Switzerland , alias England . Being a New Song to a merry Old Tune , made in the Year 1641. reviv'd in 1683. and lately perform'd at the Bell - Tavern in W --------- r . I . NOW , now the Whigs shall all go down , The Tories up and ride : These Genuins Sons of C --- and Cr --- n On both shall get astride . We'll damn those stiff Republicans , As low as low may be , And whip and spur , we'll seize the Reins : And then , Heigh Boys ! up go we . II We'll broach our Tubs , and Principles Of October's Passive Growth ; And till our Clubs and Bottles fail , Will stand and fallen by both . With these we'll rout their boasted Cause Of Legal Liberty : Pretend the Church to break the Laws , And then , Heigh Boys ! up go we . III . Their Meeting-Houses we will gut , And then , as we were wont , We'll swear 'twas a Fanatic Plot , And the Rogues themselves have done't . With French and Papists we will join , To show our Loyalty ; Set Perkin up with Right Divine , And then , Heigh Boys ! up go we . IV. We'll send our Fool the Country round , His way for to prepare , With Trumpet , Pipe , and Flag and Drum , Like Cavalcade of Bear : The Church's Danger to advance , Though in such a Tool as he , Will serve till better come from France , And then , Heigh Boys ! up go we . V. We'll pray and curse , address and swear , Pro-Con-the Revolution , With Hanover , confound the Heir Of Passive-Institution . The Legal Right to weaken thus , Our Interest 'twill be ; For Perkin then comes next in course , And then , Heigh Boys ! up go we . VI . To bring this blessed Change about , We'll jumble and confound Whig-Politicks , and Credit rout , And so the Wheels go round : Till having run our Rope's full reach , With Mirth and merry Glee , We find 'twill hold , as well as stretch , And then , Heigh Boys ! up go we . Printed in the Year M.DCC.XI . The Tories Triumph On the NEWS of The Pretender's Expedition to Switzerland , alias England . Being a New Song to a merry Old Tune , made in the Year 1641. reviv'd in 1683. and lately perform'd at the Bell - Tavern in W --------- r . I . NOW , now the Whigs shall all go down , The Tories up and ride : These Genuins Sons of C --- and Cr --- n On both shall get astride . We'll damn those stiff Republicans , As low as low may be , And whip and spur , we'll seize the Reins : And then , Heigh Boys ! up go we . II We'll broach our Tubs , and Principles Of October's Passive Growth ; And till our Clubs and Bottles fail , Will stand and fallen by both . With these we'll rout their boasted Cause Of Legal Liberty : Pretend the Church to break the Laws , And then , Heigh Boys ! up go we . III . Their Meeting-Houses we will gut , And then , as we were wont , We'll swear 'twas a Fanatic Plot , And the Rogues themselves have done't . With French and Papists we will join , To show our Loyalty ; Set Perkin up with Right Divine , And then , Heigh Boys ! up go we . IV. We'll send our Fool the Country round , His way for to prepare , With Trumpet , Pipe , and Flag and Drum , Like Cavalcade of Bear : The Church's Danger to advance , Though in such a Tool as he , Will serve till better come from France , And then , Heigh Boys ! up go we . V. We'll pray and curse , address and swear , Pro-Con-the Revolution , With Hanover , confound the Heir Of Passive-Institution . The Legal Right to weaken thus , Our Interest 'twill be ; For Perkin then comes next in course , And then , Heigh Boys ! up go we . VI . To bring this blessed Change about , We'll jumble and confound Whig-Politicks , and Credit rout , And so the Wheels go round : Till having run our Rope's full reach , With Mirth and merry Glee , We find 'twill hold , as well as stretch , And then , Heigh Boys ! up go we . Printed in the Year M.DCC.XI . 