The Saylors departure from his dearest Love , Wishing that still ( to him ) she'd constant prove . She ( in the Second Part ) does thus reply , E'er she'd from him depart , she'll choose to die . To a New Tune of , Adieu my pretty One . NOw I am bound to the Seas , and from my love must part , May ought my dear displease , that lies so near my hear Nor mourn my sweet for me , to perturbate thy mind , Since there no help can be , I must leave thee behind . Remember me on shore , as I thee on the main , So keep my love in store , till I return again . Poor Sailors must endure the storms of Boreas blast , Of Life no man is sure , while Seas raging las But when the Storms are o'er , that wind and tide serves well , We hast to kiss the shore , where our true lovers dwell : Remember , etc When we are landed there , and come to greet our Friends , Strange wonders we declare , how God us safe defends , Then Love ( if thou please ) pray still for my success , And prosperous Gale at Seas to shield us from distress , Remember , etc Our shipping shall be built , without the help of Tree , The hardest flint shall melt , e'er I prove false to thee . And though I be inforc'd to part thy Company , My love bides indivorc'd , and shall do till I die . Remember , etc The fire shall freeze by kind , the Snow shall flaming burn , The Rain shall turn to Wind , or e'er my love return : Young men and maidens all , that live in England wide , To witness I you call , how firm my love shall bide . Remember , etc The mountains high shall fallen , beneath the Valleys deep , E'er I prove false at all , my promise so I'll keep : And if I hold not true , to thee my gentle Dove , Let not my Eyes e'er view Earth , Air and Heaven above . Remember , etc The Fish shall seem to fly , yea , Birds to Fish turn , The Sea be ever dry , and fire cease to burn : When I prove false to thee , shall these things come to pass , But that will never be , nor so ever was . Remember , etc Let not deluding tongue , bereave me of my love , Nor ( sweet ) do me such wrong , lest it my death should prove . Thou seest I must away , our Ship lies under sail , And time for none will stay , God send's a happy Gale . Remember me on shore , as I thee on the main , So keep my Love in store , till I return again . Her Answer . MUst thou depart my dear , and leave me thus alone , 'Twill cost me many a tear , though to thee it be unknown : But be assur'd I'll pray , unto the powers Divine , To prosper thee the way , where fate shall now design : While I remember thee on shore , and keep my love in store , Do thou the like to me , on Sea , or on the shore . O till thou dost return from off the Ocean main , Full often I shall mourn in a lamenting strain , And when fierce Winds arise , or but contrary blow , My sighs and watery eyes shall sympathise thy woe , Then I'll remember , etc Each hour shall seem to me , in length ( at least ) a Year : Till thy return again , my joys are filled with fear , For on the Sea I know what sundry dangers be , Rocks , Sands and many a Foe , from which Lord keep thee free . Thus I'll remember , etc I would I might but sail , through surging Seas with thee , My heart would never fail , while thou art near to me : Or that I could but hear thy voice , I should be well , But thou'lt not be so near , to hear or see thy Nell , Yet I'll , etc Though loath we be to part , yet since it seems we must To Sea , bear thou my heart with whom it's put in trust , And thine with me let rest , till thou return'st again ; And each be doubly blessed , by making one of twain . So I'll remember , etc Meanwhile , my only joy , I'll kiss thee lovingly ; Our hope's does time destroy , would I could him deny : But time will comfort bring , though we are at time crossed ; And Winter finds a Spring , restored what seemed lost . Yet I'll , etc Man. Farewell my love , farewell , ten thousands times adieu , My witty pretty Nell , till my return to you . Maid . Farewell to thee sweetheart , that now to Sea art gone , With that great grief I part , to Lovers best 'tis known : Yet I'll remember thee , etc FINIS . Printed for G. Conyers at the Golden Ring on Ludgate-Hill . The Saylors departure from his dearest Love , Wishing that still ( to him ) she'd constant prove . She ( in the Second Part ) does thus reply , E'er she'd from him depart , she'll choose to die . To a New Tune of , Adieu my pretty One . NOw I am bound to the Seas , and from my love must part , May ought my dear displease , that lies so near my hear Nor mourn my sweet for me , to perturbate thy mind , Since there no help can be , I must leave thee behind . Remember me on shore , as I thee on the main , So keep my love in store , till I return again . Poor Sailors must endure the storms of Boreas blast , Of Life no man is sure , while Seas raging las But when the Storms are o'er , that wind and tide serves well , We hast to kiss the shore , where our true lovers dwell : Remember , etc When we are landed there , and come to greet our Friends , Strange wonders we declare , how God us safe defends , Then Love ( if thou please ) pray still for my success , And prosperous Gale at Seas to shield us from distress , Remember , etc Our shipping shall be built , without the help of Tree , The hardest flint shall melt , e'er I prove false to thee . And though I be inforc'd to part thy Company , My love bides indivorc'd , and shall do till I die . Remember , etc The fire shall freeze by kind , the Snow shall flaming burn , The Rain shall turn to Wind , or e'er my love return : Young men and maidens all , that live in England wide , To witness I you call , how firm my love shall bide . Remember , etc The mountains high shall fallen , beneath the Valleys deep , E'er I prove false at all , my promise so I'll keep : And if I hold not true , to thee my gentle Dove , Let not my Eyes e'er view Earth , Air and Heaven above . Remember , etc The Fish shall seem to fly , yea , Birds to Fish turn , The Sea be ever dry , and fire cease to burn : When I prove false to thee , shall these things come to pass , But that will never be , nor so ever was . Remember , etc Let not deluding tongue , bereave me of my love , Nor ( sweet ) do me such wrong , lest it my death should prove . Thou seest I must away , our Ship lies under sail , And time for none will stay , God send's a happy Gale . Remember me on shore , as I thee on the main , So keep my Love in store , till I return again . Her Answer . MUst thou depart my dear , and leave me thus alone , 'Twill cost me many a tear , though to thee it be unknown : But be assur'd I'll pray , unto the powers Divine , To prosper thee the way , where fate shall now design : While I remember thee on shore , and keep my love in store , Do thou the like to me , on Sea , or on the shore . O till thou dost return from off the Ocean main , Full often I shall mourn in a lamenting strain , And when fierce Winds arise , or but contrary blow , My sighs and watery eyes shall sympathise thy woe , Then I'll remember , etc Each hour shall seem to me , in length ( at least ) a Year : Till thy return again , my joys are filled with fear , For on the Sea I know what sundry dangers be , Rocks , Sands and many a Foe , from which Lord keep thee free . Thus I'll remember , etc I would I might but sail , through surging Seas with thee , My heart would never fail , while thou art near to me : Or that I could but hear thy voice , I should be well , But thou'lt not be so near , to hear or see thy Nell , Yet I'll , etc Though loath we be to part , yet since it seems we must To Sea , bear thou my heart with whom it's put in trust , And thine with me let rest , till thou return'st again ; And each be doubly blessed , by making one of twain . So I'll remember , etc Meanwhile , my only joy , I'll kiss thee lovingly ; Our hope's does time destroy , would I could him deny : But time will comfort bring , though we are at time crossed ; And Winter finds a Spring , restored what seemed lost . Yet I'll , etc Man. Farewell my love , farewell , ten thousands times adieu , My witty pretty Nell , till my return to you . Maid . Farewell to thee sweetheart , that now to Sea art gone , With that great grief I part , to Lovers best 'tis known : Yet I'll remember thee , etc FINIS . Printed for G. Conyers at the Golden Ring on Ludgate-Hill . 