THE Faithful Inflamed Lover . OR , The true Admirer of Beauty . Being and Account of a Worthy Squire that Married a Farmers Daughter . This Beauteous Maid his heart betray'd , he lov'd her not for Store ; He sought not one for Wealth alone , he had enough before . To the Tune of , Over Hills and high Mountains . NOw my dearest sweet Jewel , I am come for to prove Whither you can be cruel , or obedient to love : I acquaint you this hour with the pains I endure , Love , it lies in thy power , for to Kill or to Cure . Ever sleeping and waking , still my thoughts is on thee , But it proves my hearts-breaking , when I perfectly see , That you give a denial , though my love it is true , Yet I vow to be Loyal , I can love none but you . In my slumber I fancy that I have in my Arms , My most beautiful Nancy , this my senses alarms : Love , I then am contented , with a mere Golden Dream , But I wake more tormented , in a far worse extreme . O that I might enjoy thee , of a blessing I share , There is none shall annoy thee , I will tender my Dear ; In my arms thee i'le nourish , where I will thee enfold , And in Silks thou shalt flourish , love , Imbroider'd with Gold . I will Crown thee with pleasure , now my amorous Girl , And endue thee with Treasure , to adorn thee with Pearl ; Being wounded with Beauty , now my Dear I adore , Love , it is but my Duty , were it twenty times more . The Maidens Reply . PRay attend to the Sequel , and be ruled by me , There is many more equal to your birth and degree : It is not my desire , as I freely relate , In the least , to aspire , or strive to be Great . Though you me do admire , when you call me your dear , Should I grant your desire , I have reason to fear ; Being lowly descended , your Relations will frown , While they are thus offended , I shall then be run down . For your proffer I care not , then I pray Sir be mute , Nay , to venture I dare not , 'tis a dangerous sui Many covetous Parents , as 'tis known to be true , They have set them at variance , and divided them too . The Man. 'Tis a trial to Patience , while you are so severe , Tell me not of Relations , I adore thee my dear ; Then a promise i'le make thee , so that thou shalt be sure , I will never forsake thee , now while life does endure . When she found he was Loyal , then the Damsel did yield , Making no more denial , thus he conquer'd the field ; Then they both were united , in true love to dwell , And the Parents invited . so the matter went well . This may be printed , R.P. Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Gilded Spur-Street , without Newgate . THE Faithful Inflamed Lover . OR , The true Admirer of Beauty . Being and Account of a Worthy Squire that Married a Farmers Daughter . This Beauteous Maid his heart betray'd , he lov'd her not for Store ; He sought not one for Wealth alone , he had enough before . To the Tune of , Over Hills and high Mountains . NOw my dearest sweet Jewel , I am come for to prove Whither you can be cruel , or obedient to love : I acquaint you this hour with the pains I endure , Love , it lies in thy power , for to Kill or to Cure . Ever sleeping and waking , still my thoughts is on thee , But it proves my hearts-breaking , when I perfectly see , That you give a denial , though my love it is true , Yet I vow to be Loyal , I can love none but you . In my slumber I fancy that I have in my Arms , My most beautiful Nancy , this my senses alarms : Love , I then am contented , with a mere Golden Dream , But I wake more tormented , in a far worse extreme . O that I might enjoy thee , of a blessing I share , There is none shall annoy thee , I will tender my Dear ; In my arms thee i'le nourish , where I will thee enfold , And in Silks thou shalt flourish , love , Imbroider'd with Gold . I will Crown thee with pleasure , now my amorous Girl , And endue thee with Treasure , to adorn thee with Pearl ; Being wounded with Beauty , now my Dear I adore , Love , it is but my Duty , were it twenty times more . The Maidens Reply . PRay attend to the Sequel , and be ruled by me , There is many more equal to your birth and degree : It is not my desire , as I freely relate , In the least , to aspire , or strive to be Great . Though you me do admire , when you call me your dear , Should I grant your desire , I have reason to fear ; Being lowly descended , your Relations will frown , While they are thus offended , I shall then be run down . For your proffer I care not , then I pray Sir be mute , Nay , to venture I dare not , 'tis a dangerous sui Many covetous Parents , as 'tis known to be true , They have set them at variance , and divided them too . The Man. 'Tis a trial to Patience , while you are so severe , Tell me not of Relations , I adore thee my dear ; Then a promise i'le make thee , so that thou shalt be sure , I will never forsake thee , now while life does endure . When she found he was Loyal , then the Damsel did yield , Making no more denial , thus he conquer'd the field ; Then they both were united , in true love to dwell , And the Parents invited . so the matter went well . This may be printed , R.P. Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Gilded Spur-Street , without Newgate . 