Oxford and Mortimer's VINDICATION : Or , Another New SONG , In ANSWER to Credit Restor'd . To the Tune , Come prithee , HORACE , hold up thy Head. 1. NOw High-Church rejoice at this turn of the State , Which rescu'd from V ------ s the Nation ; From the Year before this we ever may date , The Glory of new Reformation . 2. The Bank we don't valve so much as the M ------ r , Who for the late Ministry stickled , 'Tis Int'rest enough when High-Church now dare Scorn R ------ s in sauciness pickled . 3. The Faction you talk of was made by the Wh --- gs , Whose Deeds extrinsic were ever ; And tho' a Pit for the Church each Fanatic digs , Its Downfall here will be never . 4. We know of no Hogs , except S --- m the S --- , Which at present disgruntles the Nation , Sacheverell we thank for the most happy Lot Of having this Administration . 5. Our Statesmen with vigilent Care do their best To bring the War to a Conclusion ; The Taxes they raise , will soon make us blessed , To the Low-Fliers speedy Confusion . 6. In the two Million Lott'ry no Person's compell'd To venture by Force ( Sir ) a shilling , For the Government being not arbitrary held , Each subject may do as he's willing . 7. Now Accounts will be better made than before , When thirty five Millions was wanting ; For the Low-Church shall finger our Money no more , Nor will we be fool'd by their Canting . 8. Great Oxford and Mortimer Loyalty shows Unto Her Majesty triple ; And he who not to Her Allegiance owes , May he quickly go to the WORSER --- l. 9. The Door is now open'd , and not shut at all , As when you hatched strange Factions , So timely the Court ordained your Fallen , As seeing your horrid Transactions . 10. Earl Rivers his Duty has Loyally done , For Anne our Faith's true Defender ; Whose Right both Succession and Parliament own , In spite of the foolish Pretender . 11. Ne'er fear but our Rulers so watchful will be , That Perkin , that Son of a W ------ e , Sir , They'll stretch at full length on the Tripple-Tree , Whene'er he comes here ashore , Sir . 12. Had Peterbrough still been in Spain , his bright Sword Wou'd Anjou make cry Peccavi ; And his Valour , none questions , might bravely afford Good Conduct too in our Navy . 13. Our Trade in the South-Seas will bring us in Gain , Most pleasing unto the Nation ; And what still add Glory to th' auspicious Reign , 'Twill better our Navigation . 14. Our Seamen , wherever they be , do not fear Their Pay , for Pay they don't grumble ; And when the starv'd Squadrons of Lewis appear , To fight the French Dogs they don't mumble . 15. The Schemes which of late were by Oxford contriv'd , And still his great Wisdom's pursuing , Show plainly both Church and State are long-liv'd , For Britain this Good he is doing . 16. As for the Examiner we do not care , He's and Author as factious as Tutchin , Or Daniel the Foe , who'll Loyalty dare , To have a Blot in his Scutcheon . 17. Not public or private is there any Debt , But what Her Majesty payeth , So for her long Life , to reign over us , Each Subject heartily prayeth . 18. Our National Debts will be all clear'd in Time , Without going to any Stockjobbers , Who not only here , but in a different Climb , Are look'd on worse than Robbers . 19. So doubting not of quelling old Lewis and Spain , Which to Charles by our Arms will be given ; To Anne our good Soverign sing , Vive la Reine , Whose Fame do's echo to Heaven . LONDON , Printed , and Sold by the Booksellers of London and Westminster . 1711. Oxford and Mortimer's VINDICATION : Or , Another New SONG , In ANSWER to Credit Restor'd . To the Tune , Come prithee , HORACE , hold up thy Head. 1. NOw High-Church rejoice at this turn of the State , Which rescu'd from V ------ s the Nation ; From the Year before this we ever may date , The Glory of new Reformation . 2. The Bank we don't valve so much as the M ------ r , Who for the late Ministry stickled , 'Tis Int'rest enough when High-Church now dare Scorn R ------ s in sauciness pickled . 3. The Faction you talk of was made by the Wh --- gs , Whose Deeds extrinsic were ever ; And tho' a Pit for the Church each Fanatic digs , Its Downfall here will be never . 4. We know of no Hogs , except S --- m the S --- , Which at present disgruntles the Nation , Sacheverell we thank for the most happy Lot Of having this Administration . 5. Our Statesmen with vigilent Care do their best To bring the War to a Conclusion ; The Taxes they raise , will soon make us blessed , To the Low-Fliers speedy Confusion . 6. In the two Million Lott'ry no Person's compell'd To venture by Force ( Sir ) a shilling , For the Government being not arbitrary held , Each subject may do as he's willing . 7. Now Accounts will be better made than before , When thirty five Millions was wanting ; For the Low-Church shall finger our Money no more , Nor will we be fool'd by their Canting . 8. Great Oxford and Mortimer Loyalty shows Unto Her Majesty triple ; And he who not to Her Allegiance owes , May he quickly go to the WORSER --- l. 9. The Door is now open'd , and not shut at all , As when you hatched strange Factions , So timely the Court ordained your Fallen , As seeing your horrid Transactions . 10. Earl Rivers his Duty has Loyally done , For Anne our Faith's true Defender ; Whose Right both Succession and Parliament own , In spite of the foolish Pretender . 11. Ne'er fear but our Rulers so watchful will be , That Perkin , that Son of a W ------ e , Sir , They'll stretch at full length on the Tripple-Tree , Whene'er he comes here ashore , Sir . 12. Had Peterbrough still been in Spain , his bright Sword Wou'd Anjou make cry Peccavi ; And his Valour , none questions , might bravely afford Good Conduct too in our Navy . 13. Our Trade in the South-Seas will bring us in Gain , Most pleasing unto the Nation ; And what still add Glory to th' auspicious Reign , 'Twill better our Navigation . 14. Our Seamen , wherever they be , do not fear Their Pay , for Pay they don't grumble ; And when the starv'd Squadrons of Lewis appear , To fight the French Dogs they don't mumble . 15. The Schemes which of late were by Oxford contriv'd , And still his great Wisdom's pursuing , Show plainly both Church and State are long-liv'd , For Britain this Good he is doing . 16. As for the Examiner we do not care , He's and Author as factious as Tutchin , Or Daniel the Foe , who'll Loyalty dare , To have a Blot in his Scutcheon . 17. Not public or private is there any Debt , But what Her Majesty payeth , So for her long Life , to reign over us , Each Subject heartily prayeth . 18. Our National Debts will be all clear'd in Time , Without going to any Stockjobbers , Who not only here , but in a different Climb , Are look'd on worse than Robbers . 19. So doubting not of quelling old Lewis and Spain , Which to Charles by our Arms will be given ; To Anne our good Soverign sing , Vive la Reine , Whose Fame do's echo to Heaven . LONDON , Printed , and Sold by the Booksellers of London and Westminster . 1711. 