THE GLORIOUS YEAR . By J.P. To the Tune of Now , now comes on the Glorious Year . NOW , now is come the Glorious Year , When State-Betrayers only fear , And Britain's Sons in Smiles appear , While boundless Blessings wait her : For Royal GEORGE is on the Throne , Before the Nation's quite undone , Then , Lads , where-e're you see a Frown , Besure you see a Traitor . Not that a smiling Aspect can For certain prove and honest Man , Since those have Looks at most Command , Who act the vilest Part still . Did not L. Ox ----- worser smooth his Face , And laugh , as if in no Disgrace ; Yet believe me Friend 'tis all Grimace , To keep the Foe in Heart still . Nay , with design to play this Game , The baffled Wretch to Greenwich came , ( As if out of place , so free from Blame ; ) But let no Britain wonder : For Fate its Order thus has laid , Whom it destroys , it first makes mad , Or a vile Blasphemer never had , Thus fac'd the rolling Thunder . His Friends indeed believ'd the Cheat , And fancy'd still to keep their State , As if a King would make them great , Who wish'd him never able : Or was it Satyr-like design'd To intimate the Monarch blind , Not wisely knowing Foe from Friend , Like Doctor Bungey's Rabble . But he has took away the Doubt , For Townsend's in , and Gambol out , And the whole French Party's put to Rout By a Hand that right dispenses . Nor passed in Silence let it be , That Justice now once more can see , And in Conclusion , happily We all may find Five Senses . Now let all honest Britons join , And drink with grateful Hearts , as mine , To him who form'd the great Design , And sav'd us by his Merit . But who's this mighty , mighty he , Name Hallifax , and I'll agree , Who favour has found in our Deity , And been our Guardian Spirit . A Health to all , whom of his Grace , The King has chosen to put in place , To save Britannia and her Raze , From Dangers that beset her : Those that were in , did act so ill , To change for worse required Skill ; But GEORGE has made it harder still To change these for the better . THE GLORIOUS YEAR . By J.P. To the Tune of Now , now comes on the Glorious Year . NOW , now is come the Glorious Year , When State-Betrayers only fear , And Britain's Sons in Smiles appear , While boundless Blessings wait her : For Royal GEORGE is on the Throne , Before the Nation's quite undone , Then , Lads , where-e're you see a Frown , Besure you see a Traitor . Not that a smiling Aspect can For certain prove and honest Man , Since those have Looks at most Command , Who act the vilest Part still . Did not L. Ox ----- worser smooth his Face , And laugh , as if in no Disgrace ; Yet believe me Friend 'tis all Grimace , To keep the Foe in Heart still . Nay , with design to play this Game , The baffled Wretch to Greenwich came , ( As if out of place , so free from Blame ; ) But let no Britain wonder : For Fate its Order thus has laid , Whom it destroys , it first makes mad , Or a vile Blasphemer never had , Thus fac'd the rolling Thunder . His Friends indeed believ'd the Cheat , And fancy'd still to keep their State , As if a King would make them great , Who wish'd him never able : Or was it Satyr-like design'd To intimate the Monarch blind , Not wisely knowing Foe from Friend , Like Doctor Bungey's Rabble . But he has took away the Doubt , For Townsend's in , and Gambol out , And the whole French Party's put to Rout By a Hand that right dispenses . Nor passed in Silence let it be , That Justice now once more can see , And in Conclusion , happily We all may find Five Senses . Now let all honest Britons join , And drink with grateful Hearts , as mine , To him who form'd the great Design , And sav'd us by his Merit . But who's this mighty , mighty he , Name Hallifax , and I'll agree , Who favour has found in our Deity , And been our Guardian Spirit . A Health to all , whom of his Grace , The King has chosen to put in place , To save Britannia and her Raze , From Dangers that beset her : Those that were in , did act so ill , To change for worse required Skill ; But GEORGE has made it harder still To change these for the better . 