Protestant Unity , The best Policy to defeat Popery , and all its Bloody Practices . OR , Englands Happiness under such a Blessing . A Pleasant New SONG . Would England ever blessed and happy be , It must be done by perfect Unity , Let Protestants in all things then agree . Then Rome shall fallen like Lightning from the Sky , And all her plots shall soon Expire and Die , While we do prosper , and her Rage defy . To the Tune of , Now now the Fight's done , etc NOw Plots upon Plots makes the Jesuits smile Who do think our Nation at last to beguile ; While Divisions grow rife , and Crowding come in While Schismatics Clamour and rail at the since Which themselves have contriv'd , for here it is plain They were wheeling the Kingdoms to Forty again . While thus we'r divided , the Pope has his will , And thinks that at last he his Coffers shall fill ; With Protestant Plunder to make him amends , For the infinite store that he yearly expends To raise War and Bloodshed , and to carry on His private designs , to the Devil best known . For he's his Grand Counselor , who so oft try'd The way for to Conquer , is first to divide ; For England United , not Room , no nor Hell , Have the power for to shake , nor once for to quell : Our selves are the causers still of all our woe , While Protestants Protestants , seek to o're-throw . Read but the Scriptures , and there you will find , A Kingdom divided could never yet stand ; Then let all those whose Brains they did fume , With the heats of Sedition , or have dar'd to presume To think ill of their King , let them do so no more , But a pardon of mercy , and goodness implore . Which will grieve to the heart our Blood-seeking foe , Who for this hundred years has sought our Woe By Plots and devices , then let us agree , Let Presbyter yield unto just Monarchy ; Beneath whose Protection they happy may Live , And stiff-neck'd Baptists their Errors retrieve . When a King that's so gracious does over us reign , What good man has reason or cause to complain ? No there's none , for all such may happily live , And enjoy peace and plenty which Heaven does give : By Union our Church so firm founded will stand , That in vain all her foes then against her may band . Let Religious Cavels that late have been bred , All cease that the feet they may join with the head ; And cordially let each his Loyalty prove , By striving to conquer each other in Love : And let kind Union Alleigeance create , That the King and his Kingdoms may ever be great . Then shall proud France no more dare to frown , lest our bold Armies should take her pride down ; We conquering Ensigns to Room might extend , If each man was faithful and true to his friend ; There to unhive the old Pope and his Crew , And led them in Triumph New London to view . The object of Envy at which they still aim , And wish that once more they cou'd see it in Flame ; But in vain they might wish if once we agree , To support the great Throne of true Majesty : To Maugre all Christendom , as we have done , When by strict Union the Nation was one . Then let each Sect their pretences lay down , And to him submit that does wear Englands Crown ; And let us like Brothers in strict Amity , To root out the Pope and his Agents agree : That the Nations may happy remain and be blessed , While we are of plenty and pleasure possessed . Then that proud Monarch passed doubt we might awe , Who undertakes to give Christendom Law ; And live in safety in spite of the Power Of that Scarlet Whore who does seek to devour Our Lives and our Fortune's , to which we make way , When our King and his Laws we dare disobey . On such weak pretences as are not worth name Then who but your selves have you reason to blame ? If Popery thrives and the upper-hand get , While murmuring against a good King you do si Under whose Reign you so happy might be , Then cease such Division , and let us agree . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . Protestant Unity , The best Policy to defeat Popery , and all its Bloody Practices . OR , Englands Happiness under such a Blessing . A Pleasant New SONG . Would England ever blessed and happy be , It must be done by perfect Unity , Let Protestants in all things then agree . Then Rome shall fallen like Lightning from the Sky , And all her plots shall soon Expire and Die , While we do prosper , and her Rage defy . To the Tune of , Now now the Fight's done , etc NOw Plots upon Plots makes the Jesuits smile Who do think our Nation at last to beguile ; While Divisions grow rife , and Crowding come in While Schismatics Clamour and rail at the since Which themselves have contriv'd , for here it is plain They were wheeling the Kingdoms to Forty again . While thus we'r divided , the Pope has his will , And thinks that at last he his Coffers shall fill ; With Protestant Plunder to make him amends , For the infinite store that he yearly expends To raise War and Bloodshed , and to carry on His private designs , to the Devil best known . For he's his Grand Counselor , who so oft try'd The way for to Conquer , is first to divide ; For England United , not Room , no nor Hell , Have the power for to shake , nor once for to quell : Our selves are the causers still of all our woe , While Protestants Protestants , seek to o're-throw . Read but the Scriptures , and there you will find , A Kingdom divided could never yet stand ; Then let all those whose Brains they did fume , With the heats of Sedition , or have dar'd to presume To think ill of their King , let them do so no more , But a pardon of mercy , and goodness implore . Which will grieve to the heart our Blood-seeking foe , Who for this hundred years has sought our Woe By Plots and devices , then let us agree , Let Presbyter yield unto just Monarchy ; Beneath whose Protection they happy may Live , And stiff-neck'd Baptists their Errors retrieve . When a King that's so gracious does over us reign , What good man has reason or cause to complain ? No there's none , for all such may happily live , And enjoy peace and plenty which Heaven does give : By Union our Church so firm founded will stand , That in vain all her foes then against her may band . Let Religious Cavels that late have been bred , All cease that the feet they may join with the head ; And cordially let each his Loyalty prove , By striving to conquer each other in Love : And let kind Union Alleigeance create , That the King and his Kingdoms may ever be great . Then shall proud France no more dare to frown , lest our bold Armies should take her pride down ; We conquering Ensigns to Room might extend , If each man was faithful and true to his friend ; There to unhive the old Pope and his Crew , And led them in Triumph New London to view . The object of Envy at which they still aim , And wish that once more they cou'd see it in Flame ; But in vain they might wish if once we agree , To support the great Throne of true Majesty : To Maugre all Christendom , as we have done , When by strict Union the Nation was one . Then let each Sect their pretences lay down , And to him submit that does wear Englands Crown ; And let us like Brothers in strict Amity , To root out the Pope and his Agents agree : That the Nations may happy remain and be blessed , While we are of plenty and pleasure possessed . Then that proud Monarch passed doubt we might awe , Who undertakes to give Christendom Law ; And live in safety in spite of the Power Of that Scarlet Whore who does seek to devour Our Lives and our Fortune's , to which we make way , When our King and his Laws we dare disobey . On such weak pretences as are not worth name Then who but your selves have you reason to blame ? If Popery thrives and the upper-hand get , While murmuring against a good King you do si Under whose Reign you so happy might be , Then cease such Division , and let us agree . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 