The Children in the Wood . OR , THE Norfolk Gentleman's Last Will and Testament . I can by no means join in opinion with those who believe this song written on the murder of King Edward V. and his brother in the tower . Richard III . was succeeded by his inveterate foe , King Henry VII . whose descendants have ever since swayed the sceptre ; and a poet need not have had recourse to fiction to have recorded his story . He might safely have nam the tyrant , and had it been shortly after his reign , it would have been a compliment to the sovereign . The blaeker King Richard appeared , the more the nation thought themselves obliged to their great deliv [ e ] rer Henry . They have but one plea then left , which is , This Old Ballad may perhaps have been wrote in the reign of Richard ; but I can assure them , from the little knowledge I have of Old Songs , That it was not wrote of a hundred years after his death ; and I am apt to think the poet had some private story in view , and no pub - lick one , I dare swear . NOW ponder well , you parents dear , these words that I shall write : A doleful story you shall hear , in time brought forth to lig [ h ] tO . A gentleman of good account in Norfolk dwelled of late , Whose worser [ i ] worser in honour far surmount most men of his estate Soar sick he was , and like to die , no help his life could save . His wife by him as sick did lie , and both possess'd one grave . No love between these two was lost , Each was to the other kind . In love they liv'd , in love they dy'd , And left two babes behind . The one a fine and pretty boy , not passing five years old ; The other a girl more young than he , and fram'd in beauty's mould . The father left his little son , as plainly does appear , When he to perfect age should come , three hundred pounds a year . And to his little daughter Jane six hundred pounds in gold , To be paid on the marriage day , which might not be controul'd : But if these children chanc'd to die , ere they to age should come , Their uncle should possess their wealth ; for so the will did run . Now brother , said the dying man , look to my children dear ; Be kind unto my boy and girl , no friend else have they here . To God and you I recommend my children dear this day ; But little time we have , be sure , within this world to stay . You must be father and mother both and uncle all in one : God knows what will become of them , when we are dead and gone . With that bespoke the mother dear , Oh! brother kind , quoth she , You are the man must bring our babes to wealth or misery . If you do keep them carefully , then God will you reward ; But if you otherwise should deal , God will your deeds regard . With lips as cold as any stone they kiss'd their children small : God bless you both , our Children dear . Then down the tears did fallen . These speeches then the brother spoke to this sick couple there : The keeping of your children small , sweet sister , do not fear . God never prosper me nor mine , nor ought else that I have , If I do wrong your children dear , when you are laid in grave . The parents being dead and gone , the children home he takes , And brings them strait unto his house , where much of them he makes . He had not kept these pretty babes a twelvemonth and a day , But for their wealth he did devise to take their lives away . He bargain'd with two ruffians strong , which were of furious mood , That they should take these children , and slay them in a wood Then told his wife , and all he had , he did the children send , For to be brought up in fair London , with one that was his friend . Away then went these pretty babes , rejoicing at that tide , Rejoicing with a merry mood , they should on horseback ride . They prate and prattle pleasantly , as they road on the way , To those that should their butchers be , and work their lives decay . So that the pretty speech they made , made murderers hearts relent . And they which undertook the deed , full sorely did repent . Yet one of them , more hard of heart , did vow to do his charge , Because the wretch who hired him had paid him very large . The other won't hereto agree , so here they fell to strife ; With one another they did fight about the children's life . And he that was of mildest mood did slay the other there , Within and unfrequented wood , while babes did quake for fear . He took the children by the hand , while tears stood in their eyes , And bid them straightway follow him , and look they d [ i ] worser not cry . And two long miles he led them thus , while they for bre [ a ] worser complain . Stay here , quoth he , I'll bring you bred , when I come back again . These pretty babes went hand in hand , and wander'd up and down ; But never more d [ i ] worser see the man approaching from the town . Their pretty lips with blackberries were all besmear'd and dy'd ; And when they saw the darksome night , they sat them down and cry'd . Thus wander'd these two pretty babes , till death did end their grief ; In one another's arms they dy'd , as babes wanting relief . No burial these pretty babes of any man receives , Till Robin-red-breasts painfully did cover them with leaves . And now the heavy wrath of God upon their uncle fell ; Yea frightful fiends did haunt his house , his conscience felt and hell . His barns were fir'd , his goods consum'd , his lands were barren made , His cattle dy'd within the field , and nothing with him stay'd . And in a voyage to Portugal two of his sons did die . And to conclude , himself was brought to want and misery He pawn'd and mortgaged his land , ere seven years came about . So now at length this wicked deed by this means was found out . The fellow that did take in hand the children for to kill , Was for a murder judg'd to die , as was God's blessed will , He did confess the very truth , the which is here express'd Their uncle dy'd , when he for debt did long in Prison rest . You that executors be made , and overseers eke , Of children that be fatherless , and infants mild and meek . Take you example by this thing , and yield to each his right , Lest God for such like cruelty your wicked minds requite . Printed in Bow-church yard ; where Old and New Ballads are better printed than elsewhere The Children in the Wood . OR , THE Norfolk Gentleman's Last Will and Testament . I can by no means join in opinion with those who believe this song written on the murder of King Edward V. and his brother in the tower . Richard III . was succeeded by his inveterate foe , King Henry VII . whose descendants have ever since swayed the sceptre ; and a poet need not have had recourse to fiction to have recorded his story . He might safely have nam the tyrant , and had it been shortly after his reign , it would have been a compliment to the sovereign . The blaeker King Richard appeared , the more the nation thought themselves obliged to their great deliv [ e ] rer Henry . They have but one plea then left , which is , This Old Ballad may perhaps have been wrote in the reign of Richard ; but I can assure them , from the little knowledge I have of Old Songs , That it was not wrote of a hundred years after his death ; and I am apt to think the poet had some private story in view , and no pub - lick one , I dare swear . NOW ponder well , you parents dear , these words that I shall write : A doleful story you shall hear , in time brought forth to lig [ h ] tO . A gentleman of good account in Norfolk dwelled of late , Whose worser [ i ] worser in honour far surmount most men of his estate Soar sick he was , and like to die , no help his life could save . His wife by him as sick did lie , and both possess'd one grave . No love between these two was lost , Each was to the other kind . In love they liv'd , in love they dy'd , And left two babes behind . The one a fine and pretty boy , not passing five years old ; The other a girl more young than he , and fram'd in beauty's mould . The father left his little son , as plainly does appear , When he to perfect age should come , three hundred pounds a year . And to his little daughter Jane six hundred pounds in gold , To be paid on the marriage day , which might not be controul'd : But if these children chanc'd to die , ere they to age should come , Their uncle should possess their wealth ; for so the will did run . Now brother , said the dying man , look to my children dear ; Be kind unto my boy and girl , no friend else have they here . To God and you I recommend my children dear this day ; But little time we have , be sure , within this world to stay . You must be father and mother both and uncle all in one : God knows what will become of them , when we are dead and gone . With that bespoke the mother dear , Oh! brother kind , quoth she , You are the man must bring our babes to wealth or misery . If you do keep them carefully , then God will you reward ; But if you otherwise should deal , God will your deeds regard . With lips as cold as any stone they kiss'd their children small : God bless you both , our Children dear . Then down the tears did fallen . These speeches then the brother spoke to this sick couple there : The keeping of your children small , sweet sister , do not fear . God never prosper me nor mine , nor ought else that I have , If I do wrong your children dear , when you are laid in grave . The parents being dead and gone , the children home he takes , And brings them strait unto his house , where much of them he makes . He had not kept these pretty babes a twelvemonth and a day , But for their wealth he did devise to take their lives away . He bargain'd with two ruffians strong , which were of furious mood , That they should take these children , and slay them in a wood Then told his wife , and all he had , he did the children send , For to be brought up in fair London , with one that was his friend . Away then went these pretty babes , rejoicing at that tide , Rejoicing with a merry mood , they should on horseback ride . They prate and prattle pleasantly , as they road on the way , To those that should their butchers be , and work their lives decay . So that the pretty speech they made , made murderers hearts relent . And they which undertook the deed , full sorely did repent . Yet one of them , more hard of heart , did vow to do his charge , Because the wretch who hired him had paid him very large . The other won't hereto agree , so here they fell to strife ; With one another they did fight about the children's life . And he that was of mildest mood did slay the other there , Within and unfrequented wood , while babes did quake for fear . He took the children by the hand , while tears stood in their eyes , And bid them straightway follow him , and look they d [ i ] worser not cry . And two long miles he led them thus , while they for bre [ a ] worser complain . Stay here , quoth he , I'll bring you bred , when I come back again . These pretty babes went hand in hand , and wander'd up and down ; But never more d [ i ] worser see the man approaching from the town . Their pretty lips with blackberries were all besmear'd and dy'd ; And when they saw the darksome night , they sat them down and cry'd . Thus wander'd these two pretty babes , till death did end their grief ; In one another's arms they dy'd , as babes wanting relief . No burial these pretty babes of any man receives , Till Robin-red-breasts painfully did cover them with leaves . And now the heavy wrath of God upon their uncle fell ; Yea frightful fiends did haunt his house , his conscience felt and hell . His barns were fir'd , his goods consum'd , his lands were barren made , His cattle dy'd within the field , and nothing with him stay'd . And in a voyage to Portugal two of his sons did die . And to conclude , himself was brought to want and misery He pawn'd and mortgaged his land , ere seven years came about . So now at length this wicked deed by this means was found out . The fellow that did take in hand the children for to kill , Was for a murder judg'd to die , as was God's blessed will , He did confess the very truth , the which is here express'd Their uncle dy'd , when he for debt did long in Prison rest . You that executors be made , and overseers eke , Of children that be fatherless , and infants mild and meek . Take you example by this thing , and yield to each his right , Lest God for such like cruelty your wicked minds requite . Printed in Bow-church yard ; where Old and New Ballads are better printed than elsewhere 