CUPIDS revenge . The Captive Lover once god free Did triumph in his liberty , But storming Cupids mighty power , He did his freedom soon devour . Tune , Now , now the Fight's done . NOw , now you blind boy I you clearly deny , With your Arts & your Darts that you often let fly , For my Heart is mine own , and so shall be sure , Since your wounds ( Lovers say ) will admit of no cure ; But a fig for your Bow , I your tricks now despise , And I mind not the charms of the Fair Ladies eyes . Those Doters I hate , who are wone with a smile , While the Heart nothing means but such Fools to beguile And when a hand kiss can such influence have , Then the Lady she thinks Cupids power is brave ; Thus men e're they think on't are caught in a snare , But of these idle folly's i'le still have a care . But in time that is past I was subject to love , And a smile from my dear like a heaven did prove , While the pains of a frown to me known too well , Did seem like the torments of bottomless Hell ; But since from those dangees i'me happy and free , I think there's no man can be more bless'd than me . When in Bed I lay for want of my dear , My Heart was oppressed with sorrow and fear lest another should lock my dear Love in his Arms , Whose eyes did appear like continual charms : But now I disdain what I once did admire , For my reason hath quenched the blinking boys fire . And now in my freedom so happy I am That I pity the man that is touch'd with the flame , For whilst I was under his Fetters and Chains I ne'r could be free from the worst of all pains ; But the more I did fawn she the more did me slight Till at last I did bid my fair Lady goodnight . And at peace I was long till a great sudden change Possessed my mind , which to me seemed strange , And I fell in a great and a sudden Relapse , Which was worse by half than the twenty first Claps ; For twenty fair Ladies I courted before Ne'r made me so much for to cringe and adore . BUt see how the Boy did perplex me full soar , For saying I would not his power adore , Again I was catch't by the glance of and eye And punish't , because I did Cupid defy : So all in a moment my joys they did fly , And I doting wretch left in Captivity . My Fetters are stronger then I can endure , And too late o ! too late I do wish for a cure , 'Tis but just with the Boy me thus to afflict , Since his power and Laws I did once contradic And now become subject unto him again Which adds to my sorrow , increases my pain . Then never despise nor contemn that great power Who can in a moment your freedom devour , And wrap you in Chains never more to be free , But left in the confines of Captivity , For now to my sorrow I find and do know There is strength in his Quiver and power in his Bow. Now had I ten Millions of Guinies to give , I'de part with them all at my freedom to live , But I find 'tis in vain such things for to wish , Since his traps do appear like a Net to a Fish , Who once being taken shall never get free , And so I poor wretch find it will be with me . Oh! Cupid forbear me for while I do live I will to thy power great attributes give , And after this time will account them unwise , Who are too fool hardy , and Cupid despise : No mortal is able my pains to endure , But wither must die or soon look for a cure . And now 'tis too late I would feign thee implore , Who once never thought thee again to adore , But too soon I was caught , and too late I lament , Disowning thy power , for which I Repen But in these dying words as I stretch forth my Arms , I nothing acknowledge like Cupids strong charms . Printed for F. Coal . T. Vere . J. Wright , J. Clark . W. Thackery ; T. Passenger , CUPIDS revenge . The Captive Lover once god free Did triumph in his liberty , But storming Cupids mighty power , He did his freedom soon devour . Tune , Now , now the Fight's done . NOw , now you blind boy I you clearly deny , With your Arts & your Darts that you often let fly , For my Heart is mine own , and so shall be sure , Since your wounds ( Lovers say ) will admit of no cure ; But a fig for your Bow , I your tricks now despise , And I mind not the charms of the Fair Ladies eyes . Those Doters I hate , who are wone with a smile , While the Heart nothing means but such Fools to beguile And when a hand kiss can such influence have , Then the Lady she thinks Cupids power is brave ; Thus men e're they think on't are caught in a snare , But of these idle folly's i'le still have a care . But in time that is past I was subject to love , And a smile from my dear like a heaven did prove , While the pains of a frown to me known too well , Did seem like the torments of bottomless Hell ; But since from those dangees i'me happy and free , I think there's no man can be more bless'd than me . When in Bed I lay for want of my dear , My Heart was oppressed with sorrow and fear lest another should lock my dear Love in his Arms , Whose eyes did appear like continual charms : But now I disdain what I once did admire , For my reason hath quenched the blinking boys fire . And now in my freedom so happy I am That I pity the man that is touch'd with the flame , For whilst I was under his Fetters and Chains I ne'r could be free from the worst of all pains ; But the more I did fawn she the more did me slight Till at last I did bid my fair Lady goodnight . And at peace I was long till a great sudden change Possessed my mind , which to me seemed strange , And I fell in a great and a sudden Relapse , Which was worse by half than the twenty first Claps ; For twenty fair Ladies I courted before Ne'r made me so much for to cringe and adore . BUt see how the Boy did perplex me full soar , For saying I would not his power adore , Again I was catch't by the glance of and eye And punish't , because I did Cupid defy : So all in a moment my joys they did fly , And I doting wretch left in Captivity . My Fetters are stronger then I can endure , And too late o ! too late I do wish for a cure , 'Tis but just with the Boy me thus to afflict , Since his power and Laws I did once contradic And now become subject unto him again Which adds to my sorrow , increases my pain . Then never despise nor contemn that great power Who can in a moment your freedom devour , And wrap you in Chains never more to be free , But left in the confines of Captivity , For now to my sorrow I find and do know There is strength in his Quiver and power in his Bow. Now had I ten Millions of Guinies to give , I'de part with them all at my freedom to live , But I find 'tis in vain such things for to wish , Since his traps do appear like a Net to a Fish , Who once being taken shall never get free , And so I poor wretch find it will be with me . Oh! Cupid forbear me for while I do live I will to thy power great attributes give , And after this time will account them unwise , Who are too fool hardy , and Cupid despise : No mortal is able my pains to endure , But wither must die or soon look for a cure . And now 'tis too late I would feign thee implore , Who once never thought thee again to adore , But too soon I was caught , and too late I lament , Disowning thy power , for which I Repen But in these dying words as I stretch forth my Arms , I nothing acknowledge like Cupids strong charms . Printed for F. Coal . T. Vere . J. Wright , J. Clark . W. Thackery ; T. Passenger , 