The Children in the Wood : OR , THE Norfolk Gentleman's LAST WILL and TESTAMENT . NOW ponder well , you parents dear , These words which I shall write ; A doleful story you shall hear , In time brought forth to light . A gentleman of good account In Norfolk dwelled of late , Who did in honour far surmount Most men of his estate . Soar sick he was , and like to die , No help his life could save ; His wife by him as sick did lie , And both possessed one grave . No love between these two was lost , Each was to th' other kind . In love they liv'd , in love they dy'd , And left two babes behind . The one a fine and pretty boy , Not passing five years old ; And the other a girl , more young than he And fram'd in beauty's mould . The father left his little son , As plainly does appear , When he to perfect age should come , Three hundred pounds a year . And to his little daughter Jane , Six hundred pounds in gold , To be paid on the marriage day , which might not be controul'd . But if these children chanc'd to die , Ere they to age should come , Their uncle should possess their wealth : For so the will did run . Now , brother , said the dying man , Look to my children dear ; Be kind unto my boy and girl , No friend else have they here . To God and you I recommend My children dear this day . But little time we have , 'tis sure , within this world to stay . You must be father and mother both , And uncle all in one : God knows what will become of them , when we are dead and gone . And thus bespoke the mother dear , Oh! brother kind , quoth she , You are the man must bring our babes To wealth or misery . And if you keep them carefully , Then God will you reward ; But if you otherwise should deal , God will your deeds regard . With lips as cold as any stone , They kiss'd their children small : God bless you both , our children dear . Then down the tears did fallen . These speeches then the brother spoke , To this sick couple there : The keeping of your children dear , Dear sister , do not fear . God never prosper me nor mine , Nor ought else that I have , If I do wrong your children dear , When you are laid in grave . The parents being dead and gone , The children home he takes , And brings them strait unto his house , where much of them he makes , He had not kept these pretty babes A twelvemonth and a day , But for their wealth he did devise To take their lives away . He bargain'd with two ruffians strong , who were of furious mood , That they should take these children , And slay them in a wood . Then told his wife , and all he had , He did the children send , For to be brought up in fair London , By one that was their friend . Away then went these pretty babes , Rejoicing at that tide , Rejoicing with a merry mood , They should on horseback ride . They prate and prattle pleasantly , As they road on the way , To those that should their butchers be , And work their lives decay . So that the pretty speech they made , Made murderers hearts relent , And they who undertook the deed , Full sorely did repent . Yet one of them , most hard of heart , Did vow to do his charge , Because the wretch that hired him Had paid him very large . The other won't hereto agree ; So here they fell to strife , And then together they did fight About the children's life . And he that was of mildest mood Did slay the other there , Within and unfrequented wood , while babes did quake for fear . He took the children by the hand , while tears stood in their eyes , And bid them straightway follow him , And see they did not cry . And two long miles he led them then , while they for bred complain . Stay here , quoth he , I'll bring you bred , when I come back again . These pretty babes went hand-in-hand , And wander'd up and down ; But never more did see the man , Approaching from the town . Their pretty lips with blackberries were all besmear'd and dy'd ; And when they saw the darksome night , they sat them down and cry'd . Thus wander'd these two babes , Till death did end their grief , In one another's arms they dy'd , As babes wanting relief . No burial these two pretty babes Of any man receives , Till Robin-red-breasts painfully Did cover them with leaves . And now the heavy wrath of God Upon their children fell : Yea , frightful fiends did haunt his house , His conscience felt and hell . His barns were fir'd , his house consum'd , His lands were barren made ; His cattle dy'd within the field , And nothing with him stay'd . And in a voyage to Portugal , Two of his sons did die : And , to conclude , himself was brought To want and misery . He pawn'd and mortgaged his land , Ere seven years were out . So now , at length , this wiched deed By this means was found out . The fellow that did take in hand The children for to kill , Was for a murder judg'd to die , As was God's blessed will . He did confess the very truth , The which is here express'd . Their uncle dy'd , where he for debt Did long in prison rest . You that executors be made , And overseers eke , Of children that be fatherless , And infants mild and meek ; Take you example by this thing , And yield to each his right , Lest God for suchlike cruelty Your wicked minds requite . Printed and Sold in Bow Church Yard . The Children in the Wood : OR , THE Norfolk Gentleman's LAST WILL and TESTAMENT . NOW ponder well , you parents dear , These words which I shall write ; A doleful story you shall hear , In time brought forth to light . A gentleman of good account In Norfolk dwelled of late , Who did in honour far surmount Most men of his estate . Soar sick he was , and like to die , No help his life could save ; His wife by him as sick did lie , And both possessed one grave . No love between these two was lost , Each was to th' other kind . In love they liv'd , in love they dy'd , And left two babes behind . The one a fine and pretty boy , Not passing five years old ; And the other a girl , more young than he And fram'd in beauty's mould . The father left his little son , As plainly does appear , When he to perfect age should come , Three hundred pounds a year . And to his little daughter Jane , Six hundred pounds in gold , To be paid on the marriage day , which might not be controul'd . But if these children chanc'd to die , Ere they to age should come , Their uncle should possess their wealth : For so the will did run . Now , brother , said the dying man , Look to my children dear ; Be kind unto my boy and girl , No friend else have they here . To God and you I recommend My children dear this day . But little time we have , 'tis sure , within this world to stay . You must be father and mother both , And uncle all in one : God knows what will become of them , when we are dead and gone . And thus bespoke the mother dear , Oh! brother kind , quoth she , You are the man must bring our babes To wealth or misery . And if you keep them carefully , Then God will you reward ; But if you otherwise should deal , God will your deeds regard . With lips as cold as any stone , They kiss'd their children small : God bless you both , our children dear . Then down the tears did fallen . These speeches then the brother spoke , To this sick couple there : The keeping of your children dear , Dear sister , do not fear . God never prosper me nor mine , Nor ought else that I have , If I do wrong your children dear , When you are laid in grave . The parents being dead and gone , The children home he takes , And brings them strait unto his house , where much of them he makes , He had not kept these pretty babes A twelvemonth and a day , But for their wealth he did devise To take their lives away . He bargain'd with two ruffians strong , who were of furious mood , That they should take these children , And slay them in a wood . Then told his wife , and all he had , He did the children send , For to be brought up in fair London , By one that was their friend . Away then went these pretty babes , Rejoicing at that tide , Rejoicing with a merry mood , They should on horseback ride . They prate and prattle pleasantly , As they road on the way , To those that should their butchers be , And work their lives decay . So that the pretty speech they made , Made murderers hearts relent , And they who undertook the deed , Full sorely did repent . Yet one of them , most hard of heart , Did vow to do his charge , Because the wretch that hired him Had paid him very large . The other won't hereto agree ; So here they fell to strife , And then together they did fight About the children's life . And he that was of mildest mood Did slay the other there , Within and unfrequented wood , while babes did quake for fear . He took the children by the hand , while tears stood in their eyes , And bid them straightway follow him , And see they did not cry . And two long miles he led them then , while they for bred complain . Stay here , quoth he , I'll bring you bred , when I come back again . These pretty babes went hand-in-hand , And wander'd up and down ; But never more did see the man , Approaching from the town . Their pretty lips with blackberries were all besmear'd and dy'd ; And when they saw the darksome night , they sat them down and cry'd . Thus wander'd these two babes , Till death did end their grief , In one another's arms they dy'd , As babes wanting relief . No burial these two pretty babes Of any man receives , Till Robin-red-breasts painfully Did cover them with leaves . And now the heavy wrath of God Upon their children fell : Yea , frightful fiends did haunt his house , His conscience felt and hell . His barns were fir'd , his house consum'd , His lands were barren made ; His cattle dy'd within the field , And nothing with him stay'd . And in a voyage to Portugal , Two of his sons did die : And , to conclude , himself was brought To want and misery . He pawn'd and mortgaged his land , Ere seven years were out . So now , at length , this wiched deed By this means was found out . The fellow that did take in hand The children for to kill , Was for a murder judg'd to die , As was God's blessed will . He did confess the very truth , The which is here express'd . Their uncle dy'd , where he for debt Did long in prison rest . You that executors be made , And overseers eke , Of children that be fatherless , And infants mild and meek ; Take you example by this thing , And yield to each his right , Lest God for suchlike cruelty Your wicked minds requite . Printed and Sold in Bow Church Yard . 