The Norfolk Gentleman his last Will and Testament . Who Committed the Keeping of his Children to his own Brother , who dealt most wickedly with them , and how God plagued him for it . To the Tune of , Rogero . NOw ponder well you Parents dear , these words which I shall write , A doleful Story you shall hear , in time brought forth to ligh A Gentleman of good account , in Norfolk dwelled of late , Whose wealth and riches did surmount most men of his Estate . Soar Sick he was and like to die , no help that he could have , His wife by him as sick did lie , and both possessed one Grave : No Love between these two was lost , each was to other kind , In love they liv'd in love they died , and left two Babes behind . The one a fine and pretty Boy , not passing three years old , The other a Girl more young than he , and made of Beauty's mould : The father left his little Son , as plainly does appear , When he to perfect age should come , three hundred pounds a year . And to his little Daughter Jane , two hundred pound in Gold , To be paid down on Marriage-day , which might not be controul'd ; But if the Children chance to die , e're they to age should come , Their Uncle should possess their wealth , for so the will did run . Now Brother ( said the dying man ) look to my Children dear , Be good unto my Boy and Girl , no Friends else I have here : To God and you I do commend my Children night and day , A little while besure we have within this world to stay . You must be father and mother both , and Uncle all in one , God knows what will become of them , when I am dead and gone : With that bespoke their Mother dear , Oh Brother kind , quoth she , You are the man must bring my Babes to wealth or misery . If you do keep them carefully , then God will you reward , If otherwise you seem to deal , God will your deeds regard : With Lips as cold as any stone , he kissed the Children small , God bless you both my Children dear , with that the tears did fallen . These speeches then their Brother spoke to this sick couple there , The keeping of your Children dear , sweet Sister do not fear : God never prosper me nor mine , not ought else that I have , If I do wrong your Children dear , when you are laid in Grave . Their Parents being dead and gone , the Children home he takes , And brings them home unto his House , and much of them he makes . He had not kept these pretty Babes , a twelvemonth and a day , But for their wealth he did devise to make them both away . He bargain'd with two Ruffians rude , which were of furious mood , That they should take the Children young , and slay them in a Wood ; And told his Wife , and all he had , he did the Children send To be brought up in fair London , with one that was his Friend . AWay then with these pretty babes , rejoicing at that tide , Rejoicing with a merry mind , they should on Cockhorse ride : They prate and prattle pleasantly : as they road on the way , To those that should their Butchers be , and work their Lives decay . So that the pretty speech they had , made Murderers hearts relent , And they that took the Deed to do , full soar they did repen Yet one of them more hard of heart , did vow to do his charge , Because the wretch that hired him , had paid him very large . The other would not agree thereto , so here they fell at strife , with one another they did fight , about the Children's life : and he that was of mildest mood , did slay the other there , within and unfrequented wood , where Babes did quake for fear . He took the Children by the hand , when tears stood in their Eye , and bade them come and go with him , and look they did not cry : and two long Miles he led them thus , while they for Bred complain , Stay here , quoth he , i'le bring you bred , when I do come again . These pretty Babes with hand in hand , went wandering up and down , But never more they saw the man , approaching from the Town : Their pretty Lips with blackberries , were all besmear'd and dy'd , and when they saw the darksome night , they sat them down and cry'd . Thus wandered these two pretty Babes , till Death did end their grief ; In one another's arms they dy'd , as Babes wanting relief : No burial these pretty Babes of any man receives , Till Robin-Red-Breast painfully , did cover them with leaves . And now the heavy wrath of God , upon their Uncle fell , Yea fearful Fiends did haunt his house , his conscience felt and Hell : His barns were fired , his goods consum'd , his Lands were barren made , His cattle dy'd within the field , and nothing with him stayed . And in the voyage to Portugal , two of his Sons did die , And to conclude , himself was brought unto much misery : He pawn'd and morgag'd all his Land , ere seven years came about , And now at length this wicked act did by this means come out . The fellow that did take in hand , these Children for to kill , Was for a Robbery judg'd to die , as was God's blessed will : Who did confess the very truth , the which is here expressed , Their Uncle dy'd while he for debt did long in Prison rest . All you that be Executors made , and overseers eke , Of Children that be fatherless , and infants mild and meek : Take you example by this thing , and yield to each his right , lest God with such like misery , your wicked minds requite . Printed for Alex. Milbourn at the Stationers-Arms in Green-Arbor-Court in the Little Old-Baily . The Norfolk Gentleman his last Will and Testament . Who Committed the Keeping of his Children to his own Brother , who dealt most wickedly with them , and how God plagued him for it . To the Tune of , Rogero . NOw ponder well you Parents dear , these words which I shall write , A doleful Story you shall hear , in time brought forth to ligh A Gentleman of good account , in Norfolk dwelled of late , Whose wealth and riches did surmount most men of his Estate . Soar Sick he was and like to die , no help that he could have , His wife by him as sick did lie , and both possessed one Grave : No Love between these two was lost , each was to other kind , In love they liv'd in love they died , and left two Babes behind . The one a fine and pretty Boy , not passing three years old , The other a Girl more young than he , and made of Beauty's mould : The father left his little Son , as plainly does appear , When he to perfect age should come , three hundred pounds a year . And to his little Daughter Jane , two hundred pound in Gold , To be paid down on Marriage-day , which might not be controul'd ; But if the Children chance to die , e're they to age should come , Their Uncle should possess their wealth , for so the will did run . Now Brother ( said the dying man ) look to my Children dear , Be good unto my Boy and Girl , no Friends else I have here : To God and you I do commend my Children night and day , A little while besure we have within this world to stay . You must be father and mother both , and Uncle all in one , God knows what will become of them , when I am dead and gone : With that bespoke their Mother dear , Oh Brother kind , quoth she , You are the man must bring my Babes to wealth or misery . If you do keep them carefully , then God will you reward , If otherwise you seem to deal , God will your deeds regard : With Lips as cold as any stone , he kissed the Children small , God bless you both my Children dear , with that the tears did fallen . These speeches then their Brother spoke to this sick couple there , The keeping of your Children dear , sweet Sister do not fear : God never prosper me nor mine , not ought else that I have , If I do wrong your Children dear , when you are laid in Grave . Their Parents being dead and gone , the Children home he takes , And brings them home unto his House , and much of them he makes . He had not kept these pretty Babes , a twelvemonth and a day , But for their wealth he did devise to make them both away . He bargain'd with two Ruffians rude , which were of furious mood , That they should take the Children young , and slay them in a Wood ; And told his Wife , and all he had , he did the Children send To be brought up in fair London , with one that was his Friend . AWay then with these pretty babes , rejoicing at that tide , Rejoicing with a merry mind , they should on Cockhorse ride : They prate and prattle pleasantly : as they road on the way , To those that should their Butchers be , and work their Lives decay . So that the pretty speech they had , made Murderers hearts relent , And they that took the Deed to do , full soar they did repen Yet one of them more hard of heart , did vow to do his charge , Because the wretch that hired him , had paid him very large . The other would not agree thereto , so here they fell at strife , with one another they did fight , about the Children's life : and he that was of mildest mood , did slay the other there , within and unfrequented wood , where Babes did quake for fear . He took the Children by the hand , when tears stood in their Eye , and bade them come and go with him , and look they did not cry : and two long Miles he led them thus , while they for Bred complain , Stay here , quoth he , i'le bring you bred , when I do come again . These pretty Babes with hand in hand , went wandering up and down , But never more they saw the man , approaching from the Town : Their pretty Lips with blackberries , were all besmear'd and dy'd , and when they saw the darksome night , they sat them down and cry'd . Thus wandered these two pretty Babes , till Death did end their grief ; In one another's arms they dy'd , as Babes wanting relief : No burial these pretty Babes of any man receives , Till Robin-Red-Breast painfully , did cover them with leaves . And now the heavy wrath of God , upon their Uncle fell , Yea fearful Fiends did haunt his house , his conscience felt and Hell : His barns were fired , his goods consum'd , his Lands were barren made , His cattle dy'd within the field , and nothing with him stayed . And in the voyage to Portugal , two of his Sons did die , And to conclude , himself was brought unto much misery : He pawn'd and morgag'd all his Land , ere seven years came about , And now at length this wicked act did by this means come out . The fellow that did take in hand , these Children for to kill , Was for a Robbery judg'd to die , as was God's blessed will : Who did confess the very truth , the which is here expressed , Their Uncle dy'd while he for debt did long in Prison rest . All you that be Executors made , and overseers eke , Of Children that be fatherless , and infants mild and meek : Take you example by this thing , and yield to each his right , lest God with such like misery , your wicked minds requite . Printed for Alex. Milbourn at the Stationers-Arms in Green-Arbor-Court in the Little Old-Baily . 