R THE Barbarous UNCLE , BEING A True Relation of one Esq ; Solmes of Beverly in Yorkshire , who dying , left and only Daughter , of about Two Years of Age , to the Care of his Brother , who for Covetousness of the Child's Estate of Three hundred Pounds a Year , endeavour'd to Starve it to death in a hollow Tree in a Wood ; where it was found alive and preserv'd by a Gentleman and his Man , as they were Hunting there the next day . With the manner of his Apprehension , Examination and Com-mitment to York Goal , in order to be Try'd and Punish'd for the same . To the Tune of , Forgive me if your Looks I thought . I. A Wealthy Squire in the North , Who left and Infant-Daughter All his Estate , of mighty Worth ; But mark what followed after : As he lay on his Dying Bed , He called his Brother to him , And unto him these Words he said : I from the World am going . 2. Therefore , Dear Brother , take my Child , Which is both Young and Tender , And for my Sake be Kind and Mild , And faithfully defend Her : Three Hundred Pound a Year I leave , To bring Her up in Fashion , I hope you will not Her deceive , But use Her with Compassion . 3. To which the Brother then replied ; I'll sooner suffer Torture , Than ever become a wicked Cuide , Or wrong your Only Daughter . The Father then did seem content , And like a Lamb expired ; As thinking nothing could prevent What he had thus desired . 4. The Father being dead and gone , The Uncle then contrived To make the Child's Estate his own , And of its Life deprive i A wicked Thought came in his Head ; And thus concludes to serve i He takes it up out of the Bed , And then resolves to Starve it . 5. With wicked Mind into a Wood He then the Infant carries ; And though he would not shed Her Blood , Yet there alive he Burries Within a Hollow Oaken Tree , He stopped the Mouth from Crying , That none might hear , and come to see How the poor Child was dying . 6. Then gave he out the Child was dead , And did pretend some Sorrow ; And caused the Shape in Wax be made , To bury on the Morrow : Some Mourning too he bought beside , All to avoid Suspicion : But yet alas ! this would not hide The Gilded of his Commission . 7. For happy Fate , and Providence Did keep the Child from Dying , Whose chiefest Guard was Innocence , On which is best relying : For when the Breath was almost spent , A Gentleman did spy Her , As he and's Man a Hunting went , And so approached nigh Her. 8. He took the wronged Infant Home , And to his Lady gave it ; ( Quoth he ) This Child from fatal Doom I happily did save it , Therefore I'll keep it as my own , Since I have none beside i Though such a thing is seldom known , I will support and guide it . 9. But as the Lady and her Spouse , Did to their Neighbours show it , A Woman came into the House That presently did know it ; And soon discovered all the Cheat The Uncle had intended , To get the poor young Child's Estate , Who promised to defend it . 10. The wicked Uncle being seized And charged with his Transgression , His Mind and Conscience was so teaseed , He made a full Confession : The Justice sent him to the Jail , Where he is closely guarded ; And next Assizes will not fail Of being well Rewarded . London : Printed and Sold by H. Hills , in B [ lac ] k-Fryars near the Waterside , 1706. R THE Barbarous UNCLE , BEING A True Relation of one Esq ; Solmes of Beverly in Yorkshire , who dying , left and only Daughter , of about Two Years of Age , to the Care of his Brother , who for Covetousness of the Child's Estate of Three hundred Pounds a Year , endeavour'd to Starve it to death in a hollow Tree in a Wood ; where it was found alive and preserv'd by a Gentleman and his Man , as they were Hunting there the next day . With the manner of his Apprehension , Examination and Com-mitment to York Goal , in order to be Try'd and Punish'd for the same . To the Tune of , Forgive me if your Looks I thought . I. A Wealthy Squire in the North , Who left and Infant-Daughter All his Estate , of mighty Worth ; But mark what followed after : As he lay on his Dying Bed , He called his Brother to him , And unto him these Words he said : I from the World am going . 2. Therefore , Dear Brother , take my Child , Which is both Young and Tender , And for my Sake be Kind and Mild , And faithfully defend Her : Three Hundred Pound a Year I leave , To bring Her up in Fashion , I hope you will not Her deceive , But use Her with Compassion . 3. To which the Brother then replied ; I'll sooner suffer Torture , Than ever become a wicked Cuide , Or wrong your Only Daughter . The Father then did seem content , And like a Lamb expired ; As thinking nothing could prevent What he had thus desired . 4. The Father being dead and gone , The Uncle then contrived To make the Child's Estate his own , And of its Life deprive i A wicked Thought came in his Head ; And thus concludes to serve i He takes it up out of the Bed , And then resolves to Starve it . 5. With wicked Mind into a Wood He then the Infant carries ; And though he would not shed Her Blood , Yet there alive he Burries Within a Hollow Oaken Tree , He stopped the Mouth from Crying , That none might hear , and come to see How the poor Child was dying . 6. Then gave he out the Child was dead , And did pretend some Sorrow ; And caused the Shape in Wax be made , To bury on the Morrow : Some Mourning too he bought beside , All to avoid Suspicion : But yet alas ! this would not hide The Gilded of his Commission . 7. For happy Fate , and Providence Did keep the Child from Dying , Whose chiefest Guard was Innocence , On which is best relying : For when the Breath was almost spent , A Gentleman did spy Her , As he and's Man a Hunting went , And so approached nigh Her. 8. He took the wronged Infant Home , And to his Lady gave it ; ( Quoth he ) This Child from fatal Doom I happily did save it , Therefore I'll keep it as my own , Since I have none beside i Though such a thing is seldom known , I will support and guide it . 9. But as the Lady and her Spouse , Did to their Neighbours show it , A Woman came into the House That presently did know it ; And soon discovered all the Cheat The Uncle had intended , To get the poor young Child's Estate , Who promised to defend it . 10. The wicked Uncle being seized And charged with his Transgression , His Mind and Conscience was so teaseed , He made a full Confession : The Justice sent him to the Jail , Where he is closely guarded ; And next Assizes will not fail Of being well Rewarded . London : Printed and Sold by H. Hills , in B [ lac ] k-Fryars near the Waterside , 1706. 