A WARNING for Married Women . Being and Example of Mrs. Jane Reynolds ( a West-country Woman ) born near Plimouth , who having plighted her Troth to a Seaman , was afterwards married to a Carpenter , and at last carried away by a Spirit , the manner how shall presently be recited . To a west-country Tune , call'd , The fair Maid of Bristol : or , John True . THere dwelled a fair Maid in the West , of worthy birth and fame , Near unto Plimouth stately town , Jane Reynolds was her name . This damsel dearly was belov'd , by many a proper youth : And what of her is to be said , is known for very truth : Among the rest a Seaman brave unto her a wooing came , A comely proper youth he was , James Harris call'd by name . The maid and young man was agreed , as time did them allow , And to each other secretly they made a solemn vow . That they would ever faithful be , while Heaven afforded life , He was to be her Husband kind , and she his faithful Wife . A day appointed was also , when they were to be married , But before these things were brought to pass , matters were strangely carried . All you that faithful Lovers be , give ear and harken well , And what of them became at last I will directly tell : The young man he was pressed to Sea , and forced was to go , His Sweetheart she must stay behind whither she would or no . And after he was from her gone , she three years for him stayed , Expecting of his coming home , and kept herself a maid . At last news came that he was dead within a Foreign Land , And how that he was buried , she well did understand . For whose sweet sake the maiden she lamented many a day : And never was she known at all the wanton for to play . A Carpenter that liv'd hard by , when he herd of the same , Like as the other had done before , to her a wooing came . But when that he had gain'd her love , they married were with speed , And four years space ( being man and wife ) they lovingly agreed . Three pretty children in this time , this lovely couple had , Which made their father's heart rejoice , and mother wondrous glad . But as occasion serv'd one time , the good man took his way Some three days journey from his Home , intending not to stay . But while that he was gone away , a spirit in the night , Came to the window to his wife , and did her sorely fright . Which Spirit spoke like to a man , and unto her did say : My dear and only love , quoth he , prepare and come away . James Harris is my name , quoth he , whom thou didst love so dear , And I have travell'd for thy sake , at least this seven year . And now I am return'd again , to take thee to my wife , And thou with me shalt go to Sea , to end all further strife . O tempt me not , sweet James ( quoth she ) with thee away to go , If I should leave my children small , alas , what would they do ? My husband is a Carpenter , a Carpenter of great fame , I would not for five hundred pounds that he should know the same . I might have had a King's Daughter , and she would have married me , But I forsook her golden crown , and for the love of thee . 'Therefore if thou'lt thy hubsand forsake , and thy children three also , 'I will forgive thee what is past , 'if thou wilt with me go . If I forsake my husband and my little children three , What means hast thou to bring me to , if I should go with thee ? 'I have seven ships upon the sea , 'when they are come to Land , 'Both Mariners and Merchandise 'shall be at thy command . The ship wherein my love shall sail , is glorious to behold , The sails shall be of finest silk , and the mast of shining gold . When he had told her these fair tails , to love him she began , Because he was in humane shape , much like unto a man . And so together away they went , from off the English shore , And since that time the woman kind , was never seen no more . But when her Husband he came home , and found his Wife was gone , And left her three sweet pretty Babes within the house alone . He beatrice his breast , he tore his hair , the tears fell from his eyes , And in the open Streets he run , with heavy doleful cries . And in this sad distracted case , he hang'd himself for woe , Upon a Tree , near to the place , the truth of all is so . The children now are fatherless , and left without a Guide , But yet no doubt the heavenly Powers will for them well provide . London : Printed for A.M.W.O. and T. Thackeray , in Duck-Lane . A WARNING for Married Women . Being and Example of Mrs. Jane Reynolds ( a West-country Woman ) born near Plimouth , who having plighted her Troth to a Seaman , was afterwards married to a Carpenter , and at last carried away by a Spirit , the manner how shall presently be recited . To a west-country Tune , call'd , The fair Maid of Bristol : or , John True . THere dwelled a fair Maid in the West , of worthy birth and fame , Near unto Plimouth stately town , Jane Reynolds was her name . This damsel dearly was belov'd , by many a proper youth : And what of her is to be said , is known for very truth : Among the rest a Seaman brave unto her a wooing came , A comely proper youth he was , James Harris call'd by name . The maid and young man was agreed , as time did them allow , And to each other secretly they made a solemn vow . That they would ever faithful be , while Heaven afforded life , He was to be her Husband kind , and she his faithful Wife . A day appointed was also , when they were to be married , But before these things were brought to pass , matters were strangely carried . All you that faithful Lovers be , give ear and harken well , And what of them became at last I will directly tell : The young man he was pressed to Sea , and forced was to go , His Sweetheart she must stay behind whither she would or no . And after he was from her gone , she three years for him stayed , Expecting of his coming home , and kept herself a maid . At last news came that he was dead within a Foreign Land , And how that he was buried , she well did understand . For whose sweet sake the maiden she lamented many a day : And never was she known at all the wanton for to play . A Carpenter that liv'd hard by , when he herd of the same , Like as the other had done before , to her a wooing came . But when that he had gain'd her love , they married were with speed , And four years space ( being man and wife ) they lovingly agreed . Three pretty children in this time , this lovely couple had , Which made their father's heart rejoice , and mother wondrous glad . But as occasion serv'd one time , the good man took his way Some three days journey from his Home , intending not to stay . But while that he was gone away , a spirit in the night , Came to the window to his wife , and did her sorely fright . Which Spirit spoke like to a man , and unto her did say : My dear and only love , quoth he , prepare and come away . James Harris is my name , quoth he , whom thou didst love so dear , And I have travell'd for thy sake , at least this seven year . And now I am return'd again , to take thee to my wife , And thou with me shalt go to Sea , to end all further strife . O tempt me not , sweet James ( quoth she ) with thee away to go , If I should leave my children small , alas , what would they do ? My husband is a Carpenter , a Carpenter of great fame , I would not for five hundred pounds that he should know the same . I might have had a King's Daughter , and she would have married me , But I forsook her golden crown , and for the love of thee . 'Therefore if thou'lt thy hubsand forsake , and thy children three also , 'I will forgive thee what is past , 'if thou wilt with me go . If I forsake my husband and my little children three , What means hast thou to bring me to , if I should go with thee ? 'I have seven ships upon the sea , 'when they are come to Land , 'Both Mariners and Merchandise 'shall be at thy command . The ship wherein my love shall sail , is glorious to behold , The sails shall be of finest silk , and the mast of shining gold . When he had told her these fair tails , to love him she began , Because he was in humane shape , much like unto a man . And so together away they went , from off the English shore , And since that time the woman kind , was never seen no more . But when her Husband he came home , and found his Wife was gone , And left her three sweet pretty Babes within the house alone . He beatrice his breast , he tore his hair , the tears fell from his eyes , And in the open Streets he run , with heavy doleful cries . And in this sad distracted case , he hang'd himself for woe , Upon a Tree , near to the place , the truth of all is so . The children now are fatherless , and left without a Guide , But yet no doubt the heavenly Powers will for them well provide . London : Printed for A.M.W.O. and T. Thackeray , in Duck-Lane . 