The Forsaken Lover : OR , The Dismal Overthrow of young Molly , who was god with Child by Stout Robin , who afterwards Married to a Rich Lady . Tune of Dry Bred shall be my Food . SEE how the Wheels of fickle Fortune , That turns round and Conquers me , Young Men's Love is at no certain , As by Experience you may see . I that was a Damsel well approved , of fine Wit and Quality , Wonder why was I beloved in all young Men's good Company . Robin was a Man so witty , that he made Trials e'ery Day , Still fain he would be doing , but I often said him nay . With that he drew his Golden Rape [ r ] vowing for to end his Life , If I did not yield unto him , for to be his Wedded Wife . O hold your hand , sweet Robin , for I will become your Friend , Murder not your self by Stabbing , by which you'll make a final end . All things for a Housewife I am fitting , beside I will frame myself unto Reading , Sowing , Spinning , Nitting , and suchwise many thus I can do . Beside I will make you rare Bonelaces , and draw Pictures to the very Life , And make soft Masks for Ladies Faces , why should I not be your Wife ? I do still endeavour , and are willing , if it was then for my very Life , For to spend a Groat and save one Shilling , because I fain would be your Wife . But harken now what happen'd after , before e'er three Months was come and gone , Robin match'd with a Rich Man's Daughter , then poor I was left alone . With that my Father frown'd , my Mother chides me , and all my Friends Laugh me to scorn , But alas what will betide me when I have a young Infant born ? The very thoughts moves me with pity , which do's my heart then mollify , For to be a Man so witty , and for which poor Soul I die . Printed for H. Green , on London Bridge . The Forsaken Lover : OR , The Dismal Overthrow of young Molly , who was god with Child by Stout Robin , who afterwards Married to a Rich Lady . Tune of Dry Bred shall be my Food . SEE how the Wheels of fickle Fortune , That turns round and Conquers me , Young Men's Love is at no certain , As by Experience you may see . I that was a Damsel well approved , of fine Wit and Quality , Wonder why was I beloved in all young Men's good Company . Robin was a Man so witty , that he made Trials e'ery Day , Still fain he would be doing , but I often said him nay . With that he drew his Golden Rape [ r ] vowing for to end his Life , If I did not yield unto him , for to be his Wedded Wife . O hold your hand , sweet Robin , for I will become your Friend , Murder not your self by Stabbing , by which you'll make a final end . All things for a Housewife I am fitting , beside I will frame myself unto Reading , Sowing , Spinning , Nitting , and suchwise many thus I can do . Beside I will make you rare Bonelaces , and draw Pictures to the very Life , And make soft Masks for Ladies Faces , why should I not be your Wife ? I do still endeavour , and are willing , if it was then for my very Life , For to spend a Groat and save one Shilling , because I fain would be your Wife . But harken now what happen'd after , before e'er three Months was come and gone , Robin match'd with a Rich Man's Daughter , then poor I was left alone . With that my Father frown'd , my Mother chides me , and all my Friends Laugh me to scorn , But alas what will betide me when I have a young Infant born ? The very thoughts moves me with pity , which do's my heart then mollify , For to be a Man so witty , and for which poor Soul I die . Printed for H. Green , on London Bridge . The Forsaken Lover : OR , The Dismal Overthrow of young Molly , who was god with Child by Stout Robin , who afterwards Married to a Rich Lady . Tune of Dry Bred shall be my Food . SEE how the Wheels of fickle Fortune , That turns round and Conquers me , Young Men's Love is at no certain , As by Experience you may see . I that was a Damsel well approved , of fine Wit and Quality , Wonder why was I beloved in all young Men's good Company . Robin was a Man so witty , that he made Trials e'ery Day , Still fain he would be doing , but I often said him nay . With that he drew his Golden Rape [ r ] vowing for to end his Life , If I did not yield unto him , for to be his Wedded Wife . O hold your hand , sweet Robin , for I will become your Friend , Murder not your self by Stabbing , by which you'll make a final end . All things for a Housewife I am fitting , beside I will frame myself unto Reading , Sowing , Spinning , Nitting , and suchwise many thus I can do . Beside I will make you rare Bonelaces , and draw Pictures to the very Life , And make soft Masks for Ladies Faces , why should I not be your Wife ? I do still endeavour , and are willing , if it was then for my very Life , For to spend a Groat and save one Shilling , because I fain would be your Wife . But harken now what happen'd after , before e'er three Months was come and gone , Robin match'd with a Rich Man's Daughter , then poor I was left alone . With that my Father frown'd , my Mother chides me , and all my Friends Laugh me to scorn , But alas what will betide me when I have a young Infant born ? The very thoughts moves me with pity , which do's my heart then mollify , For to be a Man so witty , and for which poor Soul I die . Printed for H. Green , on London Bridge . The Forsaken Lover : OR , The Dismal Overthrow of young Molly , who was god with Child by Stout Robin , who afterwards Married to a Rich Lady . Tune of Dry Bred shall be my Food . SEE how the Wheels of fickle Fortune , That turns round and Conquers me , Young Men's Love is at no certain , As by Experience you may see . I that was a Damsel well approved , of fine Wit and Quality , Wonder why was I beloved in all young Men's good Company . Robin was a Man so witty , that he made Trials e'ery Day , Still fain he would be doing , but I often said him nay . With that he drew his Golden Rape [ r ] vowing for to end his Life , If I did not yield unto him , for to be his Wedded Wife . O hold your hand , sweet Robin , for I will become your Friend , Murder not your self by Stabbing , by which you'll make a final end . All things for a Housewife I am fitting , beside I will frame myself unto Reading , Sowing , Spinning , Nitting , and suchwise many thus I can do . Beside I will make you rare Bonelaces , and draw Pictures to the very Life , And make soft Masks for Ladies Faces , why should I not be your Wife ? I do still endeavour , and are willing , if it was then for my very Life , For to spend a Groat and save one Shilling , because I fain would be your Wife . But harken now what happen'd after , before e'er three Months was come and gone , Robin match'd with a Rich Man's Daughter , then poor I was left alone . With that my Father frown'd , my Mother chides me , and all my Friends Laugh me to scorn , But alas what will betide me when I have a young Infant born ? The very thoughts moves me with pity , which do's my heart then mollify , For to be a Man so witty , and for which poor Soul I die . Printed for H. Green , on London Bridge . 