Prattle your pleasure , ( under the ROSE . ) THere is and old Proverb , which all the world knows , Anything may be spoke , so't be under the Rose , Then now let us speak ; while we are in the hint , Of the State of the Land , and th'enormities in't . Under the rose be it spoke , there's a number of knaves , More then ever were known in a stock before ; But I hope that their mischiefs have digg'd their own graves , And wee'l never trust Knaves for their sakes any more . Under the Rose , etc the Citie's and Ass , So long to the public to let their Gold run , To keep the King out , but 'ts now come to pass , I am sure they will loose , whosoever has won : Under the Rose , etc there's a company of men , Train Bans they are call'd , a pox confound'm . And when they are waiting at Westminster Hall , May their Wives be made whores , and begotten with child all . Under , etc there's a damn'd Committee , Sits in Hell ( Goldsmiths Hall ) in the midst of the City , Only to sequester the poor Cavaliers , The Devil take their souls , and the Hangman their ears . Under the Rose be it spoke , if you do not repent Of that horrible since , your pure Parliament , Pray stay till Sir Thomas does bring in the King , Then Derrick may chance have them all in a string . Under the Rose be't spoke , let the Synod now leave To wrest the whole Scripture poor souls to deceive , For all they have spoke , or taught , will never save 'em , Unless they will leave that fault , Hell's sure to have 'm . Mr. Finis Mr , An. Dom. 1647. Prattle your pleasure , ( under the ROSE . ) THere is and old Proverb , which all the world knows , Anything may be spoke , so't be under the Rose , Then now let us speak ; while we are in the hint , Of the State of the Land , and th'enormities in't . Under the rose be it spoke , there's a number of knaves , More then ever were known in a stock before ; But I hope that their mischiefs have digg'd their own graves , And wee'l never trust Knaves for their sakes any more . Under the Rose , etc the Citie's and Ass , So long to the public to let their Gold run , To keep the King out , but 'ts now come to pass , I am sure they will loose , whosoever has won : Under the Rose , etc there's a company of men , Train Bans they are call'd , a pox confound'm . And when they are waiting at Westminster Hall , May their Wives be made whores , and begotten with child all . Under , etc there's a damn'd Committee , Sits in Hell ( Goldsmiths Hall ) in the midst of the City , Only to sequester the poor Cavaliers , The Devil take their souls , and the Hangman their ears . Under the Rose be it spoke , if you do not repent Of that horrible since , your pure Parliament , Pray stay till Sir Thomas does bring in the King , Then Derrick may chance have them all in a string . Under the Rose be't spoke , let the Synod now leave To wrest the whole Scripture poor souls to deceive , For all they have spoke , or taught , will never save 'em , Unless they will leave that fault , Hell's sure to have 'm . Mr. Finis Mr , An. Dom. 1647. 