The horrid Popish PLOT HAPPILY DISCOVER'D : OR , The English Protestants Remembrancer . A POEM on the Never-to-be-forgotten POWDER-TREASON , And late Burning of several Cartloads of Popish Books at the Royal Exchange . WElcome blessed day ! that happily didst save Our Church and Nation from a threatened Grave : A Day ! must never Marks of Honour want , While there survives one grateful Protestant ; But in our Calendar shall stand inrol'd , Through every Age , with Characters of Gold . As once proud Haman with a curs'd Decree , Had signed God's peoples General Destiny , So cruel Factors now of Hell and ROME , Resolved on England's universal Doom . But Heaven's bright Eye Reveal'd the Hellish PLOT , Which had it prosper'd , boldly might have shot At the Celestial Throne , put out the Sun , And made the World back to its Chaos run . Though deep as Hell they laid the Black Design , Fate blasts their Projects with a Countermine : And then the desperate Undertakers be , Like Haman , sentenc'd to the fatal Tree . Thus Pharaoh perish'd , Israel scap'd free . And shall such Mercies ever be forgotten ? No , no , --- Were we so thankless , they would not Permit it ; whose new Treasons still we see , Revive their Old ones to our Memory . The Cockatrice on the same Eggs does brood ; Rebellion's Venom is their natural Food . Rome's Founder by a Wolf ( 'tis said ) was nurs'd , And with his Brother's blood her Walls at first He cemented : whence ever since we find Her Off spring of a Ravenous , Bloody kind . Long since with Temporal Arms , and Flags unfurled , She Tyranny over Conquer'd Nations hurled ; And now with Spiritual Thraldom grasps the World . Sooner the AEthiop may blanch his skin , And Devils cease from tempting Men to since ; Sooner shall Darkness dwell in the Suns beams , And Tybur mix with our Thames purer Streams , Than the sly Jesuit his old Arts will leave , Or cursed Nets of Treason cease to weave . But now behold ! methinks a gallant Sighed , Doctrines of Darkness yonder brought to ligh Boonfires in Earnest ! where Rome's Pamphlets fry , And Popish Authors pass their Purgat'ry . Unto the Fire their Books most justly came , Which first were wrote to set us in a Flame . As in the Air the burning Papers flew , We might , in Emblem , that Religion view : Which makes a while a glorious glittering Blaze , And with gay Pomp inviteth Fools to gaze ; Pretends directly towards Heaven to fly On Wings of flaming Love and Charity : But wait a while , approach a little nigher , Its Glory fades , grows faint , and does Expire . What at first view appear'd so warm and bright , Like painted Fires , yields neither Heat , nor Light , But Gross and Earthly down it comes again , And with its Blackness , where't does touch , does stain . Was it for this the Monk in his dark Cell , With Nitrous Earth , and Brimstone stolen from Hell , First composed Gunpowder , that it might be The future Engine of their Butchery ? At one sad stroke to Massacre a Land , And make them fallen , whom Heaven ordained to stand ? Or could the bold , but silly Traitors hope , Great Britain er'e would Truckle to the Pope ? Erect and Lofty still her Genius stands , And defies all their Heads , and all their Hands . Nor shall their Strength or Policy ever reach Our Ruin , if our Crimes open not the Breach . Still we are safe , till our Transgression merits The dreadful Reformation from such spirits . They dig in vain , nor need our Nation fear Dark Lanthorns , while Gods Candlesticks are here . 'The Purple Whore may lay her Mantle by , 'Until our Sins are of a Scarlet Die . Lord ! may they never to that Bulk proceed , Nor fester so within , that we should need Italian Horseleeches to make us Bleed . May Revived London never more become The Priests Burnt-offering to Insulting Room . With Guarding Mercies still our Sovereign tender , And be thou His , as He's thy Faiths Defender . FINIS . LICENSED , Nov. 2. 1678. LONDON . Printed for R.G. 1678. The horrid Popish PLOT HAPPILY DISCOVER'D : OR , The English Protestants Remembrancer . A POEM on the Never-to-be-forgotten POWDER-TREASON , And late Burning of several Cartloads of Popish Books at the Royal Exchange . WElcome blessed day ! that happily didst save Our Church and Nation from a threatened Grave : A Day ! must never Marks of Honour want , While there survives one grateful Protestant ; But in our Calendar shall stand inrol'd , Through every Age , with Characters of Gold . As once proud Haman with a curs'd Decree , Had signed God's peoples General Destiny , So cruel Factors now of Hell and ROME , Resolved on England's universal Doom . But Heaven's bright Eye Reveal'd the Hellish PLOT , Which had it prosper'd , boldly might have shot At the Celestial Throne , put out the Sun , And made the World back to its Chaos run . Though deep as Hell they laid the Black Design , Fate blasts their Projects with a Countermine : And then the desperate Undertakers be , Like Haman , sentenc'd to the fatal Tree . Thus Pharaoh perish'd , Israel scap'd free . And shall such Mercies ever be forgotten ? No , no , --- Were we so thankless , they would not Permit it ; whose new Treasons still we see , Revive their Old ones to our Memory . The Cockatrice on the same Eggs does brood ; Rebellion's Venom is their natural Food . Rome's Founder by a Wolf ( 'tis said ) was nurs'd , And with his Brother's blood her Walls at first He cemented : whence ever since we find Her Off spring of a Ravenous , Bloody kind . Long since with Temporal Arms , and Flags unfurled , She Tyranny over Conquer'd Nations hurled ; And now with Spiritual Thraldom grasps the World . Sooner the AEthiop may blanch his skin , And Devils cease from tempting Men to since ; Sooner shall Darkness dwell in the Suns beams , And Tybur mix with our Thames purer Streams , Than the sly Jesuit his old Arts will leave , Or cursed Nets of Treason cease to weave . But now behold ! methinks a gallant Sighed , Doctrines of Darkness yonder brought to ligh Boonfires in Earnest ! where Rome's Pamphlets fry , And Popish Authors pass their Purgat'ry . Unto the Fire their Books most justly came , Which first were wrote to set us in a Flame . As in the Air the burning Papers flew , We might , in Emblem , that Religion view : Which makes a while a glorious glittering Blaze , And with gay Pomp inviteth Fools to gaze ; Pretends directly towards Heaven to fly On Wings of flaming Love and Charity : But wait a while , approach a little nigher , Its Glory fades , grows faint , and does Expire . What at first view appear'd so warm and bright , Like painted Fires , yields neither Heat , nor Light , But Gross and Earthly down it comes again , And with its Blackness , where't does touch , does stain . Was it for this the Monk in his dark Cell , With Nitrous Earth , and Brimstone stolen from Hell , First composed Gunpowder , that it might be The future Engine of their Butchery ? At one sad stroke to Massacre a Land , And make them fallen , whom Heaven ordained to stand ? Or could the bold , but silly Traitors hope , Great Britain er'e would Truckle to the Pope ? Erect and Lofty still her Genius stands , And defies all their Heads , and all their Hands . Nor shall their Strength or Policy ever reach Our Ruin , if our Crimes open not the Breach . Still we are safe , till our Transgression merits The dreadful Reformation from such spirits . They dig in vain , nor need our Nation fear Dark Lanthorns , while Gods Candlesticks are here . 'The Purple Whore may lay her Mantle by , 'Until our Sins are of a Scarlet Die . Lord ! may they never to that Bulk proceed , Nor fester so within , that we should need Italian Horseleeches to make us Bleed . May Revived London never more become The Priests Burnt-offering to Insulting Room . With Guarding Mercies still our Sovereign tender , And be thou His , as He's thy Faiths Defender . FINIS . LICENSED , Nov. 2. 1678. LONDON . Printed for R.G. 1678. 