You'll never get her up , Or , Love in a Tree . Being a pleasant new Song , showing how a Maid was god with Child , without lying with a Man. To the Tune of Buggering Oats prepare thy Neck . A Week ago as I did walk When it was almost twilight Near to the Cage in St. Jameses Park , Appeared to my eyesight , I their espied a Soldier gay That was both brisk and airy , But could not tell by any way What might his business there be . When I came nearer I perceived He had a Wench before him He shuved her up against a Tree As if that he was boring : I stayed a while and laugh'd at For I had god a cup Sir , And cry'd pray turn her Face about Or you'l never get her up Sir . The Soldier then replied to me , Is it so strange and Object To see a Soldier at his Post Beget the King a Subject , He handled then his Arms so well , And called me incompoop too : And said i'll neither turn her round , Nor strive to get her up joe . With that his match he bravely cock'd Presented and gave Fire , She opened to the right and left Disdaining to retire , The Bullets they did fly about And boldly he did venture , He with consent of both the sides The Sally Port did enter . At every motion of his Breast The Bandeleirs did rattle , And every toss went too and from Did represent a Battle , The Bird-Cage it was hard at hand And every Bird did chatter , The Crane , the Vulture and the Crow Cried Soldier now have at her . The Soldier he did win the Field His Sword he so well handed , He had much ado to make her yield That he should be disbanded , And now the loving Combats over No longer she could tarry , And she went off with all the Spoil I wish her never miscarry . But in short time this handsome Maid Her Belly swell'd up higher And she did seriously affirm No Man lay , with or by her , Therefore the neighbours all conclude Some wanton Fellow by night Had stolen away her Maidenhead When she did sleep at twilight . Her Mistress sometime call'd her Whore , And said she'd not believe her , The skilful Doctors all conclude A Tympany did grieve her , But then she Soldier came again To have the other round bout By what he speak in merry mood The Riddle all was found out . The Maid brought forth a pretty Youth As ever eye did see joy , And all the Neighbours there in truth Call it the Greenwood Tree Boy , You Maidens that are kind and free Walk to the Park by twilight . And take a Touch oath Greenwood Tree It's good to clear your eyesight . Let this to young men warning be For they do often wild go . How they help Maids to climb the Tree , For fear they do with Child go Though you ith Gravy Gap will play And take thereof a sup Sir , Yet turn her Face the other way Or you'll never get her up Sir . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pye-Corner . You'll never get her up , Or , Love in a Tree . Being a pleasant new Song , showing how a Maid was god with Child , without lying with a Man. To the Tune of Buggering Oats prepare thy Neck . A Week ago as I did walk When it was almost twilight Near to the Cage in St. Jameses Park , Appeared to my eyesight , I their espied a Soldier gay That was both brisk and airy , But could not tell by any way What might his business there be . When I came nearer I perceived He had a Wench before him He shuved her up against a Tree As if that he was boring : I stayed a while and laugh'd at For I had god a cup Sir , And cry'd pray turn her Face about Or you'l never get her up Sir . The Soldier then replied to me , Is it so strange and Object To see a Soldier at his Post Beget the King a Subject , He handled then his Arms so well , And called me incompoop too : And said i'll neither turn her round , Nor strive to get her up joe . With that his match he bravely cock'd Presented and gave Fire , She opened to the right and left Disdaining to retire , The Bullets they did fly about And boldly he did venture , He with consent of both the sides The Sally Port did enter . At every motion of his Breast The Bandeleirs did rattle , And every toss went too and from Did represent a Battle , The Bird-Cage it was hard at hand And every Bird did chatter , The Crane , the Vulture and the Crow Cried Soldier now have at her . The Soldier he did win the Field His Sword he so well handed , He had much ado to make her yield That he should be disbanded , And now the loving Combats over No longer she could tarry , And she went off with all the Spoil I wish her never miscarry . But in short time this handsome Maid Her Belly swell'd up higher And she did seriously affirm No Man lay , with or by her , Therefore the neighbours all conclude Some wanton Fellow by night Had stolen away her Maidenhead When she did sleep at twilight . Her Mistress sometime call'd her Whore , And said she'd not believe her , The skilful Doctors all conclude A Tympany did grieve her , But then she Soldier came again To have the other round bout By what he speak in merry mood The Riddle all was found out . The Maid brought forth a pretty Youth As ever eye did see joy , And all the Neighbours there in truth Call it the Greenwood Tree Boy , You Maidens that are kind and free Walk to the Park by twilight . And take a Touch oath Greenwood Tree It's good to clear your eyesight . Let this to young men warning be For they do often wild go . How they help Maids to climb the Tree , For fear they do with Child go Though you ith Gravy Gap will play And take thereof a sup Sir , Yet turn her Face the other way Or you'll never get her up Sir . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pye-Corner . 