The Contented CUCKOLD : OR , The Fortunate FUMBLER . Being a Brief Relation of a Young Spark , who Married with a Beautiful Maiden , and on the Wedding-Day , received the Sum of 500 l. as her Portion , with promise of as much more at the Birth of her first Child , but he being Insufficient to perform , resolved to Hire his Neighbour Robin the Miller , to help him out at a dead lift . Tune of , Ladies of London . This may be Printed . R.P. THere was a Beautiful Damsel of late , whom many young Men did admire , One above all of a worthy Estate came to her , and love did require : Soon he obtain'd this amorous Maid , and all things was decently carry'd , Five hundred pounds to her Portion was paid , the very day that she was Marry'd . This being paid , and all over and done , her Father to show himself Noble , Said , at the Birth of a Daughter or Son , This Portion I promise to double : Therefore I say make much of your Bride , till then I will still be your Debtor ; Yet Seven Years he did lie by her side , poor Soul she was never the better . There was no hope's of and Heir being born , therefore he was much discontented , All his old Cronies did laugh him to scorn , alas ! he was daily tormented , Some they would say , were you worth your Ears , you ne'r would have bauk't such a Beauty , For to lie by her full seven long Years , and not perform Family Duty . True , he would stroke her and make a strange ron nay , kiss her , and call her his Honey , But something else must be done without doubt , e're he has the rest of the Money : Many a Sighs alas ! she let fly , I here am debar'd of all pleasure , Had ever Maid such hard fortune as I , I weep and lament out of measure . Then was he troubled to see her so sad , for why , she no longer could wave it ; If any help in the World can be had , my Dearest , said he , thou shalt have it ; For as I am a right-honest Man , you know I was never unwilling , But yet I can do no more then I can , you ne'r wanted Killing and Billing . There is a lusty lad lives at the Mill , who I have a fancy to hire , Be [ i ] ng a man of much practice and Skill , I am sure he will grant your desire : Then will thy joys and blessings abound , when as he has made thee a Mother ; Before I will lose the Five Hundred Pound , I'le give the one half for the other . Yet I will get him as cheap as I can , I think it is nothing but reason : He is I tell you a right honest Man , and knows how to do things in season : Now it shall be no longer deterr'd , I'le go to this Robin my Neighbour , With me I think he will not stand too hard , I'le give him Ten Pound for his labour . He shall be sworn our Counsel to keep , and not make the Country acquainted , Then what he Sovus I do reckon to Reap , sweet Wife let the time be appointed : And he in private shall come and go , then though you lie often together , There is no Creature alive need to know , but that I am still the right Father . FINIS . Printed for J. Back , at the Black-Boy on London-Bridge , near the Draw-Bridge . The Contented CUCKOLD : OR , The Fortunate FUMBLER . Being a Brief Relation of a Young Spark , who Married with a Beautiful Maiden , and on the Wedding-Day , received the Sum of 500 l. as her Portion , with promise of as much more at the Birth of her first Child , but he being Insufficient to perform , resolved to Hire his Neighbour Robin the Miller , to help him out at a dead lift . Tune of , Ladies of London . This may be Printed . R.P. THere was a Beautiful Damsel of late , whom many young Men did admire , One above all of a worthy Estate came to her , and love did require : Soon he obtain'd this amorous Maid , and all things was decently carry'd , Five hundred pounds to her Portion was paid , the very day that she was Marry'd . This being paid , and all over and done , her Father to show himself Noble , Said , at the Birth of a Daughter or Son , This Portion I promise to double : Therefore I say make much of your Bride , till then I will still be your Debtor ; Yet Seven Years he did lie by her side , poor Soul she was never the better . There was no hope's of and Heir being born , therefore he was much discontented , All his old Cronies did laugh him to scorn , alas ! he was daily tormented , Some they would say , were you worth your Ears , you ne'r would have bauk't such a Beauty , For to lie by her full seven long Years , and not perform Family Duty . True , he would stroke her and make a strange ron nay , kiss her , and call her his Honey , But something else must be done without doubt , e're he has the rest of the Money : Many a Sighs alas ! she let fly , I here am debar'd of all pleasure , Had ever Maid such hard fortune as I , I weep and lament out of measure . Then was he troubled to see her so sad , for why , she no longer could wave it ; If any help in the World can be had , my Dearest , said he , thou shalt have it ; For as I am a right-honest Man , you know I was never unwilling , But yet I can do no more then I can , you ne'r wanted Killing and Billing . There is a lusty lad lives at the Mill , who I have a fancy to hire , Be [ i ] ng a man of much practice and Skill , I am sure he will grant your desire : Then will thy joys and blessings abound , when as he has made thee a Mother ; Before I will lose the Five Hundred Pound , I'le give the one half for the other . Yet I will get him as cheap as I can , I think it is nothing but reason : He is I tell you a right honest Man , and knows how to do things in season : Now it shall be no longer deterr'd , I'le go to this Robin my Neighbour , With me I think he will not stand too hard , I'le give him Ten Pound for his labour . He shall be sworn our Counsel to keep , and not make the Country acquainted , Then what he Sovus I do reckon to Reap , sweet Wife let the time be appointed : And he in private shall come and go , then though you lie often together , There is no Creature alive need to know , but that I am still the right Father . FINIS . Printed for J. Back , at the Black-Boy on London-Bridge , near the Draw-Bridge . 