THE COURAGEOUS SEAMENS LOYAL HEALTH . Or , and Answer to Dub , a dub , a dub , etc To the Tune of The Granadeers Loyal Health . This may be Printed , R.P. SHall the Granadeer-Boys Proclaim Their Loyalty to the Royal Train , And we who belong to the Ocean Main , now forget our Loyalty ? No , no , it never never shall be said , That we who uphold now the National Trade , Was ever yet , or will be afraid of the greatest Forces by Sea ; Against all those that dare inhance , Our Courage we will soon advance , We never feared the Power of France , like Hero's we will Fight For Royal James , whom we adore , Our thundering Cannons they shall roar , We'll Chase them to the very Shore , that dare to oppose his right . ONce our Enemies bold extremes , Was Conquered by our Princely Royal James , He roused them up from their Drowsy Dreams , then with many a fair Broadside ; Making a thundering noble noise , A Harmony for your Warlike Boys , Lifted them up with a thousand Joys , when we vanquished all their Pride . Our Enemies did then look pale , We through and through their Fleet did Sail , Our Bullets flew as thick as Hail , which proved their fatal bane : We gave them many a heavy stroke , And filled their Fleet with Flame and Smoke , Sure , sure they never will provoke him to anger now again . Now a Bowl of Punch , Boys , we'll make , To Drink for Royal James his sake , Who never feared to make them quake , that Dare to invade the Land ; He was the Glory of all our Pride , In Battle upon the Main Ocean wide , With whom our Courage and Valour was tried , and under his great command ; Now since our Gracious Prince is Crowned , Boys , let his Royal Health go round , With bent knees upon the Ground , and to all his Princely Train ; Courageous Seamen bold and stout , We'll Drink his Royal Health about , And when the Liquour is all out , Boys , wash then and fill again . When our Captain he calls us , then We'll quit ourselves like most undaunted Men , Never , never is there one in ten , But what will express their joy . Let the Granadeers Guard at home , While we on the Marvel Main do room , Where Neptune himself does fret and foam , we valve not the annoy : With more than ordinary Delight , We Blow the Ocean Day and Night , To bring home Bacchus here to Fight , he's worthy to be preferred : For why most Noble Hearts of Gold , He'll make them scorn to be controlled , And when they are both faint and cold , he'll cheer them upon their Guard . Printed for J. Back , [ at ] the Black-Boy , on London-bridge . THE COURAGEOUS SEAMENS LOYAL HEALTH . Or , and Answer to Dub , a dub , a dub , etc To the Tune of The Granadeers Loyal Health . This may be Printed , R.P. SHall the Granadeer-Boys Proclaim Their Loyalty to the Royal Train , And we who belong to the Ocean Main , now forget our Loyalty ? No , no , it never never shall be said , That we who uphold now the National Trade , Was ever yet , or will be afraid of the greatest Forces by Sea ; Against all those that dare inhance , Our Courage we will soon advance , We never feared the Power of France , like Hero's we will Fight For Royal James , whom we adore , Our thundering Cannons they shall roar , We'll Chase them to the very Shore , that dare to oppose his right . ONce our Enemies bold extremes , Was Conquered by our Princely Royal James , He roused them up from their Drowsy Dreams , then with many a fair Broadside ; Making a thundering noble noise , A Harmony for your Warlike Boys , Lifted them up with a thousand Joys , when we vanquished all their Pride . Our Enemies did then look pale , We through and through their Fleet did Sail , Our Bullets flew as thick as Hail , which proved their fatal bane : We gave them many a heavy stroke , And filled their Fleet with Flame and Smoke , Sure , sure they never will provoke him to anger now again . Now a Bowl of Punch , Boys , we'll make , To Drink for Royal James his sake , Who never feared to make them quake , that Dare to invade the Land ; He was the Glory of all our Pride , In Battle upon the Main Ocean wide , With whom our Courage and Valour was tried , and under his great command ; Now since our Gracious Prince is Crowned , Boys , let his Royal Health go round , With bent knees upon the Ground , and to all his Princely Train ; Courageous Seamen bold and stout , We'll Drink his Royal Health about , And when the Liquour is all out , Boys , wash then and fill again . When our Captain he calls us , then We'll quit ourselves like most undaunted Men , Never , never is there one in ten , But what will express their joy . Let the Granadeers Guard at home , While we on the Marvel Main do room , Where Neptune himself does fret and foam , we valve not the annoy : With more than ordinary Delight , We Blow the Ocean Day and Night , To bring home Bacchus here to Fight , he's worthy to be preferred : For why most Noble Hearts of Gold , He'll make them scorn to be controlled , And when they are both faint and cold , he'll cheer them upon their Guard . Printed for J. Back , [ at ] the Black-Boy , on London-bridge . 