Scotch Moggy's Misfortune : TOGETHER With her cheerful Hops , that Shakum Guie will bury his Wife , and then make Moggy a happy Mother . To and Excellent New Tune . Licensed according to Order . SHakum Guie has got a Wife , And he is a weary of his Life : The day will come that she will die , And Shakum Guie will marry me : Would , would , Robin quoth she , Would , would , Robin quoth she , Would , would , would , Robin quoth she , Kind Robin loves me . My Father left me a good Stock , Full Forty Weathers in a Flock , With Geese , Ducks , Hens , and a fighting Cock Kind Robin for thee : Would , would , Robin quoth she , Would , would , Robin quoth she , Would , would , would , Robin quoth she , Kind obin loves me . My Mother sent me to the Well , Better she had gone her fell , Robin guard my Belly swell , Kind Robin he loves me ; Would , would , would , etc Robin he chash me about the stack , Robin laid me on my Back , Robin he made my Rump to crack , Kind Robin loves me , Would , would , would , etc Robin he took me by the Tale , Over the Ditch he made me fallen ; Robin ruffled my Falale , Kind Robin loves me ; Would , would , would , etc My Mammy she gave unto me Forty Marks as thou shalt see , And I will give it awe to thee , Kind Robin quoth she , Would , would , would , etc Ginn I was married to a Laird , I should neither Spin nor Carded , But fill the Cup , serve to Laird , The day that I was married ; Would , would , would , etc Robin , Robin let me be , Till I have god my Nurse's Fee , And I will drink it awe with thee , In geud Scotch Yale and Brandy , Would , would , would , etc Robin is o'er the Water gane , It will be long ere he come home ; On Saturday we'll give up our Names , And Sunday we'll be married , Would , would , Robin quoth she , Would , would , Robin quoth she , Would , would , Robin quoth she , Kind Robin I am for thee . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . Scotch Moggy's Misfortune : TOGETHER With her cheerful Hops , that Shakum Guie will bury his Wife , and then make Moggy a happy Mother . To and Excellent New Tune . Licensed according to Order . SHakum Guie has got a Wife , And he is a weary of his Life : The day will come that she will die , And Shakum Guie will marry me : Would , would , Robin quoth she , Would , would , Robin quoth she , Would , would , would , Robin quoth she , Kind Robin loves me . My Father left me a good Stock , Full Forty Weathers in a Flock , With Geese , Ducks , Hens , and a fighting Cock Kind Robin for thee : Would , would , Robin quoth she , Would , would , Robin quoth she , Would , would , would , Robin quoth she , Kind obin loves me . My Mother sent me to the Well , Better she had gone her fell , Robin guard my Belly swell , Kind Robin he loves me ; Would , would , would , etc Robin he chash me about the stack , Robin laid me on my Back , Robin he made my Rump to crack , Kind Robin loves me , Would , would , would , etc Robin he took me by the Tale , Over the Ditch he made me fallen ; Robin ruffled my Falale , Kind Robin loves me ; Would , would , would , etc My Mammy she gave unto me Forty Marks as thou shalt see , And I will give it awe to thee , Kind Robin quoth she , Would , would , would , etc Ginn I was married to a Laird , I should neither Spin nor Carded , But fill the Cup , serve to Laird , The day that I was married ; Would , would , would , etc Robin , Robin let me be , Till I have god my Nurse's Fee , And I will drink it awe with thee , In geud Scotch Yale and Brandy , Would , would , would , etc Robin is o'er the Water gane , It will be long ere he come home ; On Saturday we'll give up our Names , And Sunday we'll be married , Would , would , Robin quoth she , Would , would , Robin quoth she , Would , would , Robin quoth she , Kind Robin I am for thee . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . Scotch Moggy's Misfortune : TOGETHER With her cheerful Hops , that Shakum Guie will bury his Wife , and then make Moggy a happy Mother . To and Excellent New Tune . Licensed according to Order . SHakum Guie has got a Wife , And he is a weary of his Life : The day will come that she will die , And Shakum Guie will marry me : Would , would , Robin quoth she , Would , would , Robin quoth she , Would , would , would , Robin quoth she , Kind Robin loves me . My Father left me a good Stock , Full Forty Weathers in a Flock , With Geese , Ducks , Hens , and a fighting Cock Kind Robin for thee : Would , would , Robin quoth she , Would , would , Robin quoth she , Would , would , would , Robin quoth she , Kind obin loves me . My Mother sent me to the Well , Better she had gone her fell , Robin guard my Belly swell , Kind Robin he loves me ; Would , would , would , etc Robin he chash me about the stack , Robin laid me on my Back , Robin he made my Rump to crack , Kind Robin loves me , Would , would , would , etc Robin he took me by the Tale , Over the Ditch he made me fallen ; Robin ruffled my Falale , Kind Robin loves me ; Would , would , would , etc My Mammy she gave unto me Forty Marks as thou shalt see , And I will give it awe to thee , Kind Robin quoth she , Would , would , would , etc Ginn I was married to a Laird , I should neither Spin nor Carded , But fill the Cup , serve to Laird , The day that I was married ; Would , would , would , etc Robin , Robin let me be , Till I have god my Nurse's Fee , And I will drink it awe with thee , In geud Scotch Yale and Brandy , Would , would , would , etc Robin is o'er the Water gane , It will be long ere he come home ; On Saturday we'll give up our Names , And Sunday we'll be married , Would , would , Robin quoth she , Would , would , Robin quoth she , Would , would , Robin quoth she , Kind Robin I am for thee . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . Scotch Moggy's Misfortune : TOGETHER With her cheerful Hops , that Shakum Guie will bury his Wife , and then make Moggy a happy Mother . To and Excellent New Tune . Licensed according to Order . SHakum Guie has got a Wife , And he is a weary of his Life : The day will come that she will die , And Shakum Guie will marry me : Would , would , Robin quoth she , Would , would , Robin quoth she , Would , would , would , Robin quoth she , Kind Robin loves me . My Father left me a good Stock , Full Forty Weathers in a Flock , With Geese , Ducks , Hens , and a fighting Cock Kind Robin for thee : Would , would , Robin quoth she , Would , would , Robin quoth she , Would , would , would , Robin quoth she , Kind obin loves me . My Mother sent me to the Well , Better she had gone her fell , Robin guard my Belly swell , Kind Robin he loves me ; Would , would , would , etc Robin he chash me about the stack , Robin laid me on my Back , Robin he made my Rump to crack , Kind Robin loves me , Would , would , would , etc Robin he took me by the Tale , Over the Ditch he made me fallen ; Robin ruffled my Falale , Kind Robin loves me ; Would , would , would , etc My Mammy she gave unto me Forty Marks as thou shalt see , And I will give it awe to thee , Kind Robin quoth she , Would , would , would , etc Ginn I was married to a Laird , I should neither Spin nor Carded , But fill the Cup , serve to Laird , The day that I was married ; Would , would , would , etc Robin , Robin let me be , Till I have god my Nurse's Fee , And I will drink it awe with thee , In geud Scotch Yale and Brandy , Would , would , would , etc Robin is o'er the Water gane , It will be long ere he come home ; On Saturday we'll give up our Names , And Sunday we'll be married , Would , would , Robin quoth she , Would , would , Robin quoth she , Would , would , Robin quoth she , Kind Robin I am for thee . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 