THE COBLER's Golden Prize : OR , THE Translator turn'd Gentleman , By the help of a Hundred and Fifty Guineas , which he god from a Confectio - ner , who imploy'd him to secure it under a Step near the Cellar-window . To the Tune of , The Coventry 'Squire . Licensed according to Order . THere was a Cobbler lived of late , here in the City , as I am told , Tho' he had but a slender Estate , yet at the length he revel'd in Gold ; Then pray attend to what I send , for here I the Story relate in brief , The Cobbler [ ' ] s Treasure , and joy out of measure , did fill a Confectioner's Heart with grief . Who had it seems more Guineas than Wit , as by the sequel here you shall find ; Therefore the Cobbler Treasure did get , Fortune she prov'd miraculous kind To this poor Craft , he smil'd , he laugh'd , so soon as her Favours he did behold ; For his leather Breeches , he lined with Riches , a delicate parcel of shining Gold . Tho' he had us'd the Cobbling Trade , many long Years , yet still he was Poor ; But at the length a Frolic was played , the which did soon replenish his Store ; A lucky Cast there came at last to this jolly Cobbler poor and old ; Which made him far greater than any Translater , his Pockets was furnish'd with shining Gold . Guineas was the Confectioner's pride , and lest the Thieves his Coffers shou'd rob , Under a Step the same he wou'd hide ; this help'd the Gentle-craft to a job : Then pray draw near and you shall hear , the politic Cobler's story told ; He thought it not reason to shut up in Prison , a hundred and fifty Guineas of Gold . Now as one day he sat in his Stall , against the rich Confectioner's Door , Who to poor Crispin straightways did call , saying , I here have hoarded great store Of Guineas bright , my Heart's delight , then nail it up fast , and take special hold . Luke thought it a pity , that here in the City , while Money was scarce , they should hide their Gold . Master ( quoth he ) these Nails will not do , they are two short , your Gold will be lost . Say'st thou me so , then as I am true , I will have more whatever they cost . Away ran he ; old Crispin see the Coast it was clear , and then he made bold To take out his Riches , and stop in his Breeches , then nail'd up the Step without any Gold . Then with the Gold he run to his Wife , into her Lap the same he did throw , Saying , My Love , the joy of my Life , now in our Silks and Satins we'll g [ oh ] I'll leave my Stall and Pegging-awl , why should I fit Cobbling in the cold , Since we are possessing this glittering Bl [ essing ] we never before had such store of Gold . His loving Wife amaz'd at the sighed , cou'd not tell what at first to reply ; The Guineas they appeared so bright , but at the length she said , Let us buy Some Food with speed , that we may feed , thou shalt not set Cobbling in the Cold We'll keep a good Table so long as we're [ able ] for this is a delicate Sum of Gold . Now when the Crispins herd of his Fam [ e ] every one strait shut up his Stall ; Thus from their Bulks and Garrets they [ came ] he made a Feast , and treated them all ; Brave jovial Souls , with flowing Bowls were merry ; yet , nevertheless , behold A woeful Disaster , at length came his Ma [ ster ] who seiz'd upon him for the sum of Gold [ . ] But he deny'd the Matter of Fact , crying aloud , No Guineas he saw , Yet to a Justice strait he was pack'd , thus they proceeded according to Law : The Master rail'd , yet Lycia was bail'd , and thus I the Story in brief have told Now when it is ended , by me 'tis intend [ worser ] to show how the Cobbler shams the Gold [ . ] London : Printed for J. Shooter . THE COBLER's Golden Prize : OR , THE Translator turn'd Gentleman , By the help of a Hundred and Fifty Guineas , which he god from a Confectio - ner , who imploy'd him to secure it under a Step near the Cellar-window . To the Tune of , The Coventry 'Squire . Licensed according to Order . THere was a Cobbler lived of late , here in the City , as I am told , Tho' he had but a slender Estate , yet at the length he revel'd in Gold ; Then pray attend to what I send , for here I the Story relate in brief , The Cobbler [ ' ] s Treasure , and joy out of measure , did fill a Confectioner's Heart with grief . Who had it seems more Guineas than Wit , as by the sequel here you shall find ; Therefore the Cobbler Treasure did get , Fortune she prov'd miraculous kind To this poor Craft , he smil'd , he laugh'd , so soon as her Favours he did behold ; For his leather Breeches , he lined with Riches , a delicate parcel of shining Gold . Tho' he had us'd the Cobbling Trade , many long Years , yet still he was Poor ; But at the length a Frolic was played , the which did soon replenish his Store ; A lucky Cast there came at last to this jolly Cobbler poor and old ; Which made him far greater than any Translater , his Pockets was furnish'd with shining Gold . Guineas was the Confectioner's pride , and lest the Thieves his Coffers shou'd rob , Under a Step the same he wou'd hide ; this help'd the Gentle-craft to a job : Then pray draw near and you shall hear , the politic Cobler's story told ; He thought it not reason to shut up in Prison , a hundred and fifty Guineas of Gold . Now as one day he sat in his Stall , against the rich Confectioner's Door , Who to poor Crispin straightways did call , saying , I here have hoarded great store Of Guineas bright , my Heart's delight , then nail it up fast , and take special hold . Luke thought it a pity , that here in the City , while Money was scarce , they should hide their Gold . Master ( quoth he ) these Nails will not do , they are two short , your Gold will be lost . Say'st thou me so , then as I am true , I will have more whatever they cost . Away ran he ; old Crispin see the Coast it was clear , and then he made bold To take out his Riches , and stop in his Breeches , then nail'd up the Step without any Gold . Then with the Gold he run to his Wife , into her Lap the same he did throw , Saying , My Love , the joy of my Life , now in our Silks and Satins we'll g [ oh ] I'll leave my Stall and Pegging-awl , why should I fit Cobbling in the cold , Since we are possessing this glittering Bl [ essing ] we never before had such store of Gold . His loving Wife amaz'd at the sighed , cou'd not tell what at first to reply ; The Guineas they appeared so bright , but at the length she said , Let us buy Some Food with speed , that we may feed , thou shalt not set Cobbling in the Cold We'll keep a good Table so long as we're [ able ] for this is a delicate Sum of Gold . Now when the Crispins herd of his Fam [ e ] every one strait shut up his Stall ; Thus from their Bulks and Garrets they [ came ] he made a Feast , and treated them all ; Brave jovial Souls , with flowing Bowls were merry ; yet , nevertheless , behold A woeful Disaster , at length came his Ma [ ster ] who seiz'd upon him for the sum of Gold [ . ] But he deny'd the Matter of Fact , crying aloud , No Guineas he saw , Yet to a Justice strait he was pack'd , thus they proceeded according to Law : The Master rail'd , yet Lycia was bail'd , and thus I the Story in brief have told Now when it is ended , by me 'tis intend [ worser ] to show how the Cobbler shams the Gold [ . ] London : Printed for J. Shooter . 