Shepherd ADONIS ; OR , The Contented LOVERS . SHepherd Adonis , being weary of his sport , Return'd to the woods where he us'd to resort , He let fallen his crook , and he laid himself down , He envy'd no Monarch , he wish'd for no Crown . He drank of the brook , eat the fruit of the tree , Enjoying himself , from all care was free : He valu'd no nymph , was she ever so fair , No pride nor ambition had he , nor no care . But as it fell out in one evening clear , A charming sweet voice he chanced to hear ; He stood like a stone , not one foot could he move , He knew not what ail'd him , but fear'd it was Love . The nymph she beheld him with a Modest grace , Seeing something appear she disguised her face ; She disguised her face , and to him did say , How now , Mr. Shepherd , how came you this way ? The Shepherd reply'd , and to her he said , I ne'er was surpriz'd at the sighed of a maid ; When first I beheld thee from all care I was free , But now I'm a captive my dearest to thee . O shepherd , Oh shepherd , leave not your free state . For love will entangle you in sorrow that's great , And distract your brain , that you ne'er can have rest , Then incline not to love , for as yet you are blessed . Fair nymph of the wood , and thou charmer of Man , Thy beauty's so great that I can't it withstand ; Then pity my case , and yield me some joy , Oh pity , Oh pity a young wounded boy . The nymph she reply'd with a languishing look , Saying , Shepherd , alas , my way I mistook ; Or you had never known me , or I who you were , For now I do pity you , I do declare . Then fit thee down by me , thou beauteous nymph , And let me enjoy thy sweet person , not glimpse Of thy beauty celestial , so charming and fair , They beauty indeed is beyond all compare . O don't prove my downfall ! why will you , Oh why , Will you let your shepherd thus languishing lie ? If you grant me not love , all the world can't me save , Tho' once I did slight you , 'twill bring me to the grave With that poor Adonis let fallen some few tears , His face looked pale , which discover'd his cares : The nymph looked read , and blushing did cry , Oh no , sweet Adonis , for me you shan't die . Then take your Shepherdess , I'll be no more coy , In love let us live , and each other enjoy ; In groves that are pleasant , under trees that are high , In love let us live , and in love let us die . This answer reviv'd poor Adonis's heart . His troubles were fled , and he felt no more smart ; The nymph she receiv'd him with looks most kind , And from her shepherd she comfort did find . Then close he embrac'd her , and soft laid her down , The sky was their tester , their bed was the ground : He folded her so soft within his found arms , Her face and her features discover'd her charms . As charming as Venus was , when she was took Along with brave Mars , when the God at them look , Yet this nymph and this shepherd most beautiful fair , Like the light of the sunbeams so charming were , Thus in sweet enjoyment , free from care and strife , This happy couple do live a sweet life : No wars , nor no battles , no rumours they see , In peace , in great comfort , in pleasure they be . Among the sweet groves thus they pleasant do live , And nothing do want but what nature does give ; It is there , it is there , it is there they do keep Their quiet , contented and sweet harmless sheep . All the day near to fountains and rivers they rove , All night they return to the peaceable grove ; And thus in the day as well as the night , They live in great pleasure , in Joy , and delight . One sings with her voice , t'other plays with his flute , While one is employ'd , the other stands Mute ; They look at each other so charming and sweet , Sometime interposing their lips they do Meet . Thus charming , thus loving , they led a sweet life , So free from all care , and so void of all strife : If therefore all of you contentment would find , Like this happy couple be loving and kind . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office , in Aldermary Church-Yard , Bow-Lane , LONDON . Shepherd ADONIS ; OR , The Contented LOVERS . SHepherd Adonis , being weary of his sport , Return'd to the woods where he us'd to resort , He let fallen his crook , and he laid himself down , He envy'd no Monarch , he wish'd for no Crown . He drank of the brook , eat the fruit of the tree , Enjoying himself , from all care was free : He valu'd no nymph , was she ever so fair , No pride nor ambition had he , nor no care . But as it fell out in one evening clear , A charming sweet voice he chanced to hear ; He stood like a stone , not one foot could he move , He knew not what ail'd him , but fear'd it was Love . The nymph she beheld him with a Modest grace , Seeing something appear she disguised her face ; She disguised her face , and to him did say , How now , Mr. Shepherd , how came you this way ? The Shepherd reply'd , and to her he said , I ne'er was surpriz'd at the sighed of a maid ; When first I beheld thee from all care I was free , But now I'm a captive my dearest to thee . O shepherd , Oh shepherd , leave not your free state . For love will entangle you in sorrow that's great , And distract your brain , that you ne'er can have rest , Then incline not to love , for as yet you are blessed . Fair nymph of the wood , and thou charmer of Man , Thy beauty's so great that I can't it withstand ; Then pity my case , and yield me some joy , Oh pity , Oh pity a young wounded boy . The nymph she reply'd with a languishing look , Saying , Shepherd , alas , my way I mistook ; Or you had never known me , or I who you were , For now I do pity you , I do declare . Then fit thee down by me , thou beauteous nymph , And let me enjoy thy sweet person , not glimpse Of thy beauty celestial , so charming and fair , They beauty indeed is beyond all compare . O don't prove my downfall ! why will you , Oh why , Will you let your shepherd thus languishing lie ? If you grant me not love , all the world can't me save , Tho' once I did slight you , 'twill bring me to the grave With that poor Adonis let fallen some few tears , His face looked pale , which discover'd his cares : The nymph looked read , and blushing did cry , Oh no , sweet Adonis , for me you shan't die . Then take your Shepherdess , I'll be no more coy , In love let us live , and each other enjoy ; In groves that are pleasant , under trees that are high , In love let us live , and in love let us die . This answer reviv'd poor Adonis's heart . His troubles were fled , and he felt no more smart ; The nymph she receiv'd him with looks most kind , And from her shepherd she comfort did find . Then close he embrac'd her , and soft laid her down , The sky was their tester , their bed was the ground : He folded her so soft within his found arms , Her face and her features discover'd her charms . As charming as Venus was , when she was took Along with brave Mars , when the God at them look , Yet this nymph and this shepherd most beautiful fair , Like the light of the sunbeams so charming were , Thus in sweet enjoyment , free from care and strife , This happy couple do live a sweet life : No wars , nor no battles , no rumours they see , In peace , in great comfort , in pleasure they be . Among the sweet groves thus they pleasant do live , And nothing do want but what nature does give ; It is there , it is there , it is there they do keep Their quiet , contented and sweet harmless sheep . All the day near to fountains and rivers they rove , All night they return to the peaceable grove ; And thus in the day as well as the night , They live in great pleasure , in Joy , and delight . One sings with her voice , t'other plays with his flute , While one is employ'd , the other stands Mute ; They look at each other so charming and sweet , Sometime interposing their lips they do Meet . Thus charming , thus loving , they led a sweet life , So free from all care , and so void of all strife : If therefore all of you contentment would find , Like this happy couple be loving and kind . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office , in Aldermary Church-Yard , Bow-Lane , LONDON . 