The Spanish LADY's LOVE To and English SAILOR . WILL you hear of a Spanish lady , How she wooed and Englishman ? Garments gay and rich as may be , Decked with jewels she had on . Of a comely countenance , And grace was she ; By birth and parentage Of high degree . As his prisoner there he kept her , In his hands her life did lie ; Cupid's bans did them faster , By the liking of and eye . In his courteous company Was all her joy ; To favour him in any thing She was not coy . But at length their came commandment For to set all ladies free , With their jewels still adorned , None to do them injury . Then said this lady mild , Full woe is me ! Oh! let me still enjoy My kind captivity . Gallant captain , take some pity On a woman in distress ; Leave me not within this city For to die in heaviness . They have set , this present day , My body free ; But my heart in prison still Remains with thee . Why shouldst thou , fair lady , love me ? Whom thou knowest thy country's foe . Thy fair words make me suspect thee , Serpents lurk where flowers grow . All the harm I wish on thee , Most courageous knight , I wish the same on me May fully light . Blessed be the time and season When you came on Spanish ground . If that you may our foes be termed Gentle foes we have you found . With our city you have wone Our hearts each one . Then to your country bear away What is your own . Rest you still , you gallant lady , Rest you still , and weep no more . Of fair flowers you have plenty , Spain does yield you wondrous store . Spaniards fraught with jealousy We most often find , But Englishman throughout the world Are counted kind . Leave me not under a Spaniard ; Thou alone enjoyest my heart ; I am loving young , and tender , Love is likewise my desert . Still to court thee day and night My mind is pressed , The wife of every Englishman Is surely blessed . It would be a shame , great lady , For to bear a woman hence : English Solciers never carry Any such without offence . I will quickly change myself , And if it be so , And like a page will follow thee , Wheresoever you go . I have neither gold nor silver , For to maintain you in this case , And to travel is great charges , Which you know , in every place . My chains and jewels every one Shall be thy own . And eke ten thousand pounds in gold Which lies unknown . On the seas are many dangers , Many storms do there arise , Which will be to the ladies fatal , And force the tears from their eyes . Well , in troth , I shall endure The utmost extremity ; For I could find in my heart to loose My life for thee . Courteous lady , leave this folly , Here comes all that breeds this strife , I in England have already A sweet woman to my wife . I will not falsify my vow , For gold nor gain , Nor yet for all the fairest dams Which are in Spain . Oh! how happy is that woman Who enjoys so true a friend ? Many days I pray God send her , Thus of my suit I make and end . On my knees I do pardon crave For this , my offence ; Which love and true affection Did the first commence . Comment me to that gallant lady , Bear to her this chain of gold , With these bracelets , for a token Grieving that I was so bold . All these jewels in like sort Take thou with thee ; For they are fitting for thy wife , But not for me . I will spend my days in prayer , Love and all his laws defy : In a nunnery I will shroud me , Far from any company . But ere my prayers have and end , Be thou sure of this , To pray for thee and thy lady I will not miss . Thus farewell , thou gallant captain , Farewell to my heart's content . Count no Spanish lady wanton , Though on thee my heart was bent All joy and prosperity Remain with thee . The like thereof fallen to thy share , Most gallant lady . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow-Church Yard , London . The Spanish LADY's LOVE To and English SAILOR . WILL you hear of a Spanish lady , How she wooed and Englishman ? Garments gay and rich as may be , Decked with jewels she had on . Of a comely countenance , And grace was she ; By birth and parentage Of high degree . As his prisoner there he kept her , In his hands her life did lie ; Cupid's bans did them faster , By the liking of and eye . In his courteous company Was all her joy ; To favour him in any thing She was not coy . But at length their came commandment For to set all ladies free , With their jewels still adorned , None to do them injury . Then said this lady mild , Full woe is me ! Oh! let me still enjoy My kind captivity . Gallant captain , take some pity On a woman in distress ; Leave me not within this city For to die in heaviness . They have set , this present day , My body free ; But my heart in prison still Remains with thee . Why shouldst thou , fair lady , love me ? Whom thou knowest thy country's foe . Thy fair words make me suspect thee , Serpents lurk where flowers grow . All the harm I wish on thee , Most courageous knight , I wish the same on me May fully light . Blessed be the time and season When you came on Spanish ground . If that you may our foes be termed Gentle foes we have you found . With our city you have wone Our hearts each one . Then to your country bear away What is your own . Rest you still , you gallant lady , Rest you still , and weep no more . Of fair flowers you have plenty , Spain does yield you wondrous store . Spaniards fraught with jealousy We most often find , But Englishman throughout the world Are counted kind . Leave me not under a Spaniard ; Thou alone enjoyest my heart ; I am loving young , and tender , Love is likewise my desert . Still to court thee day and night My mind is pressed , The wife of every Englishman Is surely blessed . It would be a shame , great lady , For to bear a woman hence : English Solciers never carry Any such without offence . I will quickly change myself , And if it be so , And like a page will follow thee , Wheresoever you go . I have neither gold nor silver , For to maintain you in this case , And to travel is great charges , Which you know , in every place . My chains and jewels every one Shall be thy own . And eke ten thousand pounds in gold Which lies unknown . On the seas are many dangers , Many storms do there arise , Which will be to the ladies fatal , And force the tears from their eyes . Well , in troth , I shall endure The utmost extremity ; For I could find in my heart to loose My life for thee . Courteous lady , leave this folly , Here comes all that breeds this strife , I in England have already A sweet woman to my wife . I will not falsify my vow , For gold nor gain , Nor yet for all the fairest dams Which are in Spain . Oh! how happy is that woman Who enjoys so true a friend ? Many days I pray God send her , Thus of my suit I make and end . On my knees I do pardon crave For this , my offence ; Which love and true affection Did the first commence . Comment me to that gallant lady , Bear to her this chain of gold , With these bracelets , for a token Grieving that I was so bold . All these jewels in like sort Take thou with thee ; For they are fitting for thy wife , But not for me . I will spend my days in prayer , Love and all his laws defy : In a nunnery I will shroud me , Far from any company . But ere my prayers have and end , Be thou sure of this , To pray for thee and thy lady I will not miss . Thus farewell , thou gallant captain , Farewell to my heart's content . Count no Spanish lady wanton , Though on thee my heart was bent All joy and prosperity Remain with thee . The like thereof fallen to thy share , Most gallant lady . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow-Church Yard , London . 