The SPANISH LADY's Love To and ENGLISH CAPTAIN . WILL you hear of a Spanish lady , How she loved and Englishman , Garments gay and rich as may be , Decked with jewels she had on : Of a comely countenance And grace was she ; By birth and parentage Of high degree . As his prisoner there he kept her , In his hands her life did lie : Cupid's bans did tie her faster , By the linking of and eye . In his courteous company Was all her joy , To favour him in anything , She was not coy , But at length there came commandment , For to set all lady's free With their jewels still adorned , None to do them injury . Then said this lady mild , Full woe is me : Oh! let me still enjoy My kind captivity . Gallant captain , take some pity , On a woman in distress , Leave me not within this city , For to die in heaviness . They have set , this present day , My body free ; But my heart in prison still Remains with thee . Why shouldst thou , fair lady , love me , Whom thou knowest thy country's foe : Thy fair words make me suspect thee , Serpents lie where flowers grow All the harm I think on thee , Most courageous knight , I wish the same on me : May fully light . Blessed be the time and season , When you came on Spanish ground , If that you may our soes be termed , Gentle foes we have you found . With our city , you have wone Our hearts each one , Then to your country bear away What is your own . Rest you still you gallant lady Rest you still , and weep no more ; Of fair flowers you have plenty , Spain does yield you wondrous store . Spaniards fraught with jealousy , We often find , But Englishmen , throughout the world , Are counted kind . Leave me not under a Spaniard , Thou alone enjoyest my heart ; I am loving , young , and tender , Love is likewise my desert Still to court thee night and day My mind is pressed , The wife of every Englishman is surely blessed . It would be a shame , fair lady , For to bear a woman hence , English soldiers never carry Any such without offence . I will quickly change myself , If it be so , And like a page will follow thee , Where ever you go . I have neither gold nor silver , For to mainttin you in this case , And to travel is great charges , Which you know , in every place , My chains and jewels every one , Shall be thy own , And eke ten thousand pounds in gold , Which lies unknown , On the seas are many dangers , Many storms do there arise , Which will be to ladies fatal And force the tears from their eyes , Well , in truth I shall endure , The utmost extremity ; For I could find in my heart , to loose My Life for thee . Courteous lady , leave this folly , Here comes all that breeds this strife I in England have already A sweet woman to my wife I would not falsify my vow , For gold nor gain . Nor yet for all the fairest dams That are in Spain . Oh! how happy is the woman , Who enjoys so true a friend ; Many days I pray God send her ; So of my suit I make and end ; On my knees I pardon crave For my offence , Which love and true affection Did first commence , Commend me to that gallant lady , Bear to her this chain of gold , With these bracelets , for a token , Grieving that I was so bold : All my jewels in like sort , Take thou with thee , For they are fitting for thy wife , But not for me . I will spend my days in prayer , Love and all its laws defy ; In some nunnery I will shroud me , Far from any company . But ever my prayers have and end , Be sure of this , To pray for thee and thy lady I will not miss . Thus farewell , thou gallant captain , Farewell to my heart's content ; Count not Spanish ladies wanton , Though to thee my heart was bent . All joy and true prosperity Remain with thee . The like thereof fallen to thy share , Most fair lady . Printed and Sold by J. BUTLER , High Street , Worcester . The SPANISH LADY's Love To and ENGLISH CAPTAIN . WILL you hear of a Spanish lady , How she loved and Englishman , Garments gay and rich as may be , Decked with jewels she had on : Of a comely countenance And grace was she ; By birth and parentage Of high degree . As his prisoner there he kept her , In his hands her life did lie : Cupid's bans did tie her faster , By the linking of and eye . In his courteous company Was all her joy , To favour him in anything , She was not coy , But at length there came commandment , For to set all lady's free With their jewels still adorned , None to do them injury . Then said this lady mild , Full woe is me : Oh! let me still enjoy My kind captivity . Gallant captain , take some pity , On a woman in distress , Leave me not within this city , For to die in heaviness . They have set , this present day , My body free ; But my heart in prison still Remains with thee . Why shouldst thou , fair lady , love me , Whom thou knowest thy country's foe : Thy fair words make me suspect thee , Serpents lie where flowers grow All the harm I think on thee , Most courageous knight , I wish the same on me : May fully light . Blessed be the time and season , When you came on Spanish ground , If that you may our soes be termed , Gentle foes we have you found . With our city , you have wone Our hearts each one , Then to your country bear away What is your own . Rest you still you gallant lady Rest you still , and weep no more ; Of fair flowers you have plenty , Spain does yield you wondrous store . Spaniards fraught with jealousy , We often find , But Englishmen , throughout the world , Are counted kind . Leave me not under a Spaniard , Thou alone enjoyest my heart ; I am loving , young , and tender , Love is likewise my desert Still to court thee night and day My mind is pressed , The wife of every Englishman is surely blessed . It would be a shame , fair lady , For to bear a woman hence , English soldiers never carry Any such without offence . I will quickly change myself , If it be so , And like a page will follow thee , Where ever you go . I have neither gold nor silver , For to mainttin you in this case , And to travel is great charges , Which you know , in every place , My chains and jewels every one , Shall be thy own , And eke ten thousand pounds in gold , Which lies unknown , On the seas are many dangers , Many storms do there arise , Which will be to ladies fatal And force the tears from their eyes , Well , in truth I shall endure , The utmost extremity ; For I could find in my heart , to loose My Life for thee . Courteous lady , leave this folly , Here comes all that breeds this strife I in England have already A sweet woman to my wife I would not falsify my vow , For gold nor gain . Nor yet for all the fairest dams That are in Spain . Oh! how happy is the woman , Who enjoys so true a friend ; Many days I pray God send her ; So of my suit I make and end ; On my knees I pardon crave For my offence , Which love and true affection Did first commence , Commend me to that gallant lady , Bear to her this chain of gold , With these bracelets , for a token , Grieving that I was so bold : All my jewels in like sort , Take thou with thee , For they are fitting for thy wife , But not for me . I will spend my days in prayer , Love and all its laws defy ; In some nunnery I will shroud me , Far from any company . But ever my prayers have and end , Be sure of this , To pray for thee and thy lady I will not miss . Thus farewell , thou gallant captain , Farewell to my heart's content ; Count not Spanish ladies wanton , Though to thee my heart was bent . All joy and true prosperity Remain with thee . The like thereof fallen to thy share , Most fair lady . Printed and Sold by J. BUTLER , High Street , Worcester . 