The Spanish LADY's Love . To a pleasant new Tune , etc Licensed and Entered according to Order . WIll you hear a Spanish Lady , how she wooed and English Man , Garments gay as rich as may be , bedekt with jewels had she on ; Of a comely countenance and grace was she ; Both by birth and parentage of high degree . As his prisoner there he kept her , in his hands her life did lie ; Cupid's bans did tie them faster by the liking of and eye : In his courteous company was all her joy ; To favour him in any thing she was not coy . But at last there came commandment for to set all Ladies free , With their jewels still adorned , none to do them injury . O then said this Lady gay , Full woe is me ; Oh let me still sustain this kind captivity . Gallant Captain , take some pity on a woman in distress ; Lead me not within this city , for to die in heaviness ; Thou hast set this present day my body free , But my heart in prison still remains with thee . How shouldst thou , fair Lady , love whom thou knowest thy Country ? Thy fair words make me suspect thee , serpents lie where flowers grow . All the harm I think on thee , most courteous Knight , God grant upon my head the same may fully light . Blessed be the time and season that thou came on Spanish ground ; If you may our foes be termed , gentle foes we have you found : With our City you have wone our hearts each one , Then to your Country bear away that is your own . Rest you still , most gallant Lady , rest you still and weep no more , Of fair flowers you have plenty , Spain does yield you wondrous store . Spaniards fraught with jealousy we oft do find , But English Men throughout the world are counted kind . Leave me not unto a Spaniard , thou alone enjoyest my heart , I am lovely , young and tender , love is likewise my desar Still to save thee day and night , my mind is pressed ; The wife of every English Man is counted blessed . It would be a shame fair Lady , for to bear a woman hence , English soldiers never carry any such without offence . I will quickly change myself , if it be so , And like a page will follow thee where ever thou go . I have neither gold nor silver to maintain thee in this case , And to travel is great charges , as you know in every place . My chains and jewels every one shall be thy own , And eke and hundred pound in gold , that lies unknown . On the seas are many dangers , many storms do there arise , Which will be to Ladies dreadful , and force tears from watery eyes . Well in worth I shall endure extremely , For I could find in heart to loose my life for thee . Courteous Lady , leave this folly , here romes all that breeds the strife , I in England have already a sweet woman to my wife ; I will not falsify my vow for gold nor gain , Nor yet for all the fairest Dams that live in Spain . O how happy is that woman that enjoys so true a friend , Many happy days God send her , and of my suit i'll make and end : On my knees I pardon crave for my offence , Which love and true affection did first commence : Commend me to that gallant Lady , bear to her this chain of gold , With these bracelets for a token , grieving that I was so bold ; All my jewels in like sort take thou with thee , For they are fitting for thy wife , but not for me . I will spend my days in prayer , love and all her laws defy , In a Nunnery I will shrewed me , far from any company : But ever my prayer have and end , be sure of this , To pray for thee and for thy love , I will not miss . Thus farewell most gallant Captain , farewell to my heart's content ; Count not Spanish Ladies wanton , though to thee my mind was ben Joy and true prosperity remain with thee The like fallen unto thy share , most fair Lady . Printed by and for W.O. for A.M. and sold by J. Conyers in Leicester-field . The Spanish LADY's Love . To a pleasant new Tune , etc Licensed and Entered according to Order . WIll you hear a Spanish Lady , how she wooed and English Man , Garments gay as rich as may be , bedekt with jewels had she on ; Of a comely countenance and grace was she ; Both by birth and parentage of high degree . As his prisoner there he kept her , in his hands her life did lie ; Cupid's bans did tie them faster by the liking of and eye : In his courteous company was all her joy ; To favour him in any thing she was not coy . But at last there came commandment for to set all Ladies free , With their jewels still adorned , none to do them injury . O then said this Lady gay , Full woe is me ; Oh let me still sustain this kind captivity . Gallant Captain , take some pity on a woman in distress ; Lead me not within this city , for to die in heaviness ; Thou hast set this present day my body free , But my heart in prison still remains with thee . How shouldst thou , fair Lady , love whom thou knowest thy Country ? Thy fair words make me suspect thee , serpents lie where flowers grow . All the harm I think on thee , most courteous Knight , God grant upon my head the same may fully light . Blessed be the time and season that thou came on Spanish ground ; If you may our foes be termed , gentle foes we have you found : With our City you have wone our hearts each one , Then to your Country bear away that is your own . Rest you still , most gallant Lady , rest you still and weep no more , Of fair flowers you have plenty , Spain does yield you wondrous store . Spaniards fraught with jealousy we oft do find , But English Men throughout the world are counted kind . Leave me not unto a Spaniard , thou alone enjoyest my heart , I am lovely , young and tender , love is likewise my desar Still to save thee day and night , my mind is pressed ; The wife of every English Man is counted blessed . It would be a shame fair Lady , for to bear a woman hence , English soldiers never carry any such without offence . I will quickly change myself , if it be so , And like a page will follow thee where ever thou go . I have neither gold nor silver to maintain thee in this case , And to travel is great charges , as you know in every place . My chains and jewels every one shall be thy own , And eke and hundred pound in gold , that lies unknown . On the seas are many dangers , many storms do there arise , Which will be to Ladies dreadful , and force tears from watery eyes . Well in worth I shall endure extremely , For I could find in heart to loose my life for thee . Courteous Lady , leave this folly , here romes all that breeds the strife , I in England have already a sweet woman to my wife ; I will not falsify my vow for gold nor gain , Nor yet for all the fairest Dams that live in Spain . O how happy is that woman that enjoys so true a friend , Many happy days God send her , and of my suit i'll make and end : On my knees I pardon crave for my offence , Which love and true affection did first commence : Commend me to that gallant Lady , bear to her this chain of gold , With these bracelets for a token , grieving that I was so bold ; All my jewels in like sort take thou with thee , For they are fitting for thy wife , but not for me . I will spend my days in prayer , love and all her laws defy , In a Nunnery I will shrewed me , far from any company : But ever my prayer have and end , be sure of this , To pray for thee and for thy love , I will not miss . Thus farewell most gallant Captain , farewell to my heart's content ; Count not Spanish Ladies wanton , though to thee my mind was ben Joy and true prosperity remain with thee The like fallen unto thy share , most fair Lady . Printed by and for W.O. for A.M. and sold by J. Conyers in Leicester-field . 