The True Pattern of Loyalty : Being , The Happy Agreement Betwixt William & Susan , Or , The Young Squire's Conquest over the Beauteous Damsel . This Damsel dear , her Love did cheer when ceased to be coy , She gave consent , now true content , is what they both enjoy . To the Tune of , Charon make haste ; etc WIlliam and Susan they happily meeting , straight they sat down by a Rivers side , Where I discover'd these true Lovers greeting Susan , said he , wilt thou be my Bride , : Why should we any longer tarry , let us in perfect love agree , Here I protest if I ever Marry , I will have none in the world but thee . I will endue thee with Jewels and treasure , always maintain thee both neat and brave , There is no Lady enjoys greater pleasure , thou shalt have what thy whole heart can crave : Prithee my dearest doe but try me , for I delight in Loyalty , Grant me the blessing , and don't deny me , sure I love none in the World but thee . NOthing but true love alone I require , do not torment me with any frown , I will adorn thee with costly attire , there is no Lady in London Town That shall be able to Outvie thee : never was Man more kind and free , Jewels and other rich Jemms i'le buy thee , for I love none in the World but thee . William i'de have you to leave of your Wooing , I have another true love in store , Why should you thus run on the Rock of Ruin , is there not many young Beauty's more ? Dearest though there be ne'r so many , this is but small content to me , If that I ever do marry any , it shall be none in the World but thee . For thee i'le engage in the sharpest Duel , e're any person shall me abuse , Thus in the taking away my dear Jewel , as long as I have a life to loose : I am unworthy of thy favour , if I should then a Coward be , Lose thee , my dearest , Oh die I had rather for I love none in the world but thee . Said she , you have made here a large relation , how you will venture for me the field , Nay likewise in what a most noble station , you would maintain me , would I but yield , Yet you may happen to deceive me , youngmen are often false we see , Susan said he , if thou wilt believe me , I love no Creature alive but thee : Dearest I am thy unfeigned pretender ; what I was first I am still the same , All that I have I will freely surrender , to thee , or else I was much to blame : Sure I can ne'r be so ungrateful , as to return a frown on thee There is nothing that I hold so hateful , than to be found in disloyalty . The Maidens Reply . Love , I no longer can stop your proceeding , this with a trembling voice she said My heart is wounded , which now does lie bleeding , of me you have surely a conquest made : Love is a soft and gentle fire , which does compel me to agree , Thou art the man whom I much admire ; now I love none in the World but thee . Never was crea [ tO ] ure adorn'd with more graces , then his dear darling who was not coy , And the young Squire with tender Embraces , in the sweet Raptures of Love and joy , The which is far beyond expressing , my loyal lover then said she , No one but thee shall enjoy the blessing . now I love none in the World but thee . FINIS . This may be Printed , R.P. Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-Glass on London-Bridge . The True Pattern of Loyalty : Being , The Happy Agreement Betwixt William & Susan , Or , The Young Squire's Conquest over the Beauteous Damsel . This Damsel dear , her Love did cheer when ceased to be coy , She gave consent , now true content , is what they both enjoy . To the Tune of , Charon make haste ; etc WIlliam and Susan they happily meeting , straight they sat down by a Rivers side , Where I discover'd these true Lovers greeting Susan , said he , wilt thou be my Bride , : Why should we any longer tarry , let us in perfect love agree , Here I protest if I ever Marry , I will have none in the world but thee . I will endue thee with Jewels and treasure , always maintain thee both neat and brave , There is no Lady enjoys greater pleasure , thou shalt have what thy whole heart can crave : Prithee my dearest doe but try me , for I delight in Loyalty , Grant me the blessing , and don't deny me , sure I love none in the World but thee . NOthing but true love alone I require , do not torment me with any frown , I will adorn thee with costly attire , there is no Lady in London Town That shall be able to Outvie thee : never was Man more kind and free , Jewels and other rich Jemms i'le buy thee , for I love none in the World but thee . William i'de have you to leave of your Wooing , I have another true love in store , Why should you thus run on the Rock of Ruin , is there not many young Beauty's more ? Dearest though there be ne'r so many , this is but small content to me , If that I ever do marry any , it shall be none in the World but thee . For thee i'le engage in the sharpest Duel , e're any person shall me abuse , Thus in the taking away my dear Jewel , as long as I have a life to loose : I am unworthy of thy favour , if I should then a Coward be , Lose thee , my dearest , Oh die I had rather for I love none in the world but thee . Said she , you have made here a large relation , how you will venture for me the field , Nay likewise in what a most noble station , you would maintain me , would I but yield , Yet you may happen to deceive me , youngmen are often false we see , Susan said he , if thou wilt believe me , I love no Creature alive but thee : Dearest I am thy unfeigned pretender ; what I was first I am still the same , All that I have I will freely surrender , to thee , or else I was much to blame : Sure I can ne'r be so ungrateful , as to return a frown on thee There is nothing that I hold so hateful , than to be found in disloyalty . The Maidens Reply . Love , I no longer can stop your proceeding , this with a trembling voice she said My heart is wounded , which now does lie bleeding , of me you have surely a conquest made : Love is a soft and gentle fire , which does compel me to agree , Thou art the man whom I much admire ; now I love none in the World but thee . Never was crea [ tO ] ure adorn'd with more graces , then his dear darling who was not coy , And the young Squire with tender Embraces , in the sweet Raptures of Love and joy , The which is far beyond expressing , my loyal lover then said she , No one but thee shall enjoy the blessing . now I love none in the World but thee . FINIS . This may be Printed , R.P. Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-Glass on London-Bridge . 