THE Wondered Praise of Money , Or And account of the many Evils that attend the ill Use thereof . Money when Us'd and not Abus'd , will do Men good we know ; But when they shall consume it all , it proves their overthrow . Tune of , You Ladies of London . This may be Printed , R. P. WIll you know why the old Misers adore their Coffers of ill-gotten Treasure ? Always a gripping and grinding the Poor , until he has Wealth out of measure : 'Cause he has nothing else he can trust , he seldom is found any Spender ; But in his troubles away to his Chest , thus Money is all his defender . He that is with a great plenty possessed , how ought he to honour and prize it ? Being a thing that is much in request , and there is but few that despise i For there is none can live without it , 'tis counted more sweeter than Honey , For if a Man should have ne'r so m [ u ] changed Wit , he cannot buy Land without M [ oh ] n [ e ] y . Mind but the Story , which here I have Pen'd , and then you will find the Conclusion , Money that many times proves a Man's Friend , as often it makes a Confusion : Yet when a Man shall meet with a Foe , whose looks are as sour as Sorrel , And shall supply him with many a dry blow , this Money will end all the Quarrel . For when the Duel is over and passed , and both are resolv'd to be Merry , Then to the Tavern that [ e ] y hurry at last , where over a Glass of Canary , Love they unite , the anger's forgotten , their Hearts are as light as a Feather , But it was Money that paid the shot , which brought them so loving together . SOme that have Money will Traverse the Law , for good they will never be doing , But labour always to keep Men in awe , ne'r pleased with nothing but Ruin : Passionate Men will trouble increase , for Malice is always in actium , Money that oftentimes makes the Peace , as often does cause a Distraction . Some Men they will be with Money high flown , as having not Wisdom to use it , Then it were better they never had none , then have it and highly abuse i For when a Man meets one that is fair , who calls him her Joy and her Honey , He may be cunningly catched in a Snare , and all for the sake of his Money . But the true valve will further appear , then hath in this present Relation , Soldiers for Money will Fight without fear , and vanquish the Foes of the Nation : Like Loyal Souls , they scorn for to fly , therefore we have cause to adore them , Give that [ e ] m but Money they'l Fight till they die , or cut down and clear all before them . Thus having told you what money can do , and likewise the Evils attend it , Yet among Soldiers there is but a few , but that will willingly spend i Each with his Lass then seldom is sad , but many fine Nick-nacks affords her , 'Cause too much Money will make a Man Mad , each hates to be counted a hoarder . Money we find is a delicate thing , by every Person require [ ' ] worser , Therefore my Customers , if you will bring this , then I have what I desir'd ; Every one which is in this Throng , if kindnesses you will show any , P [ r ] ay now be willing to buy this New Song , the Price of it is but a Penny . FINIS . Printed for P. Bro [ oh ] ksby ; at the Golden-Ball in Py [ e ] - Corner , near West-Smithfield . THE Wondered Praise of Money , Or And account of the many Evils that attend the ill Use thereof . Money when Us'd and not Abus'd , will do Men good we know ; But when they shall consume it all , it proves their overthrow . Tune of , You Ladies of London . This may be Printed , R. P. WIll you know why the old Misers adore their Coffers of ill-gotten Treasure ? Always a gripping and grinding the Poor , until he has Wealth out of measure : 'Cause he has nothing else he can trust , he seldom is found any Spender ; But in his troubles away to his Chest , thus Money is all his defender . He that is with a great plenty possessed , how ought he to honour and prize it ? Being a thing that is much in request , and there is but few that despise i For there is none can live without it , 'tis counted more sweeter than Honey , For if a Man should have ne'r so m [ u ] changed Wit , he cannot buy Land without M [ oh ] n [ e ] y . Mind but the Story , which here I have Pen'd , and then you will find the Conclusion , Money that many times proves a Man's Friend , as often it makes a Confusion : Yet when a Man shall meet with a Foe , whose looks are as sour as Sorrel , And shall supply him with many a dry blow , this Money will end all the Quarrel . For when the Duel is over and passed , and both are resolv'd to be Merry , Then to the Tavern that [ e ] y hurry at last , where over a Glass of Canary , Love they unite , the anger's forgotten , their Hearts are as light as a Feather , But it was Money that paid the shot , which brought them so loving together . SOme that have Money will Traverse the Law , for good they will never be doing , But labour always to keep Men in awe , ne'r pleased with nothing but Ruin : Passionate Men will trouble increase , for Malice is always in actium , Money that oftentimes makes the Peace , as often does cause a Distraction . Some Men they will be with Money high flown , as having not Wisdom to use it , Then it were better they never had none , then have it and highly abuse i For when a Man meets one that is fair , who calls him her Joy and her Honey , He may be cunningly catched in a Snare , and all for the sake of his Money . But the true valve will further appear , then hath in this present Relation , Soldiers for Money will Fight without fear , and vanquish the Foes of the Nation : Like Loyal Souls , they scorn for to fly , therefore we have cause to adore them , Give that [ e ] m but Money they'l Fight till they die , or cut down and clear all before them . Thus having told you what money can do , and likewise the Evils attend it , Yet among Soldiers there is but a few , but that will willingly spend i Each with his Lass then seldom is sad , but many fine Nick-nacks affords her , 'Cause too much Money will make a Man Mad , each hates to be counted a hoarder . Money we find is a delicate thing , by every Person require [ ' ] worser , Therefore my Customers , if you will bring this , then I have what I desir'd ; Every one which is in this Throng , if kindnesses you will show any , P [ r ] ay now be willing to buy this New Song , the Price of it is but a Penny . FINIS . Printed for P. Bro [ oh ] ksby ; at the Golden-Ball in Py [ e ] - Corner , near West-Smithfield . 