Toms-Son his Repetition to his Wife ; Bewailing his present state . To the Tune of , Young JEMMY . Will you hear of Tom'sons Dream ? then take you care no further ; To me it once did seem Godfrey himself did Murder : This Story I did boldly tell , and some thereof did hear ; Now Liberty I bid farewell , What Course now shall I Steer ( 2 ) For this I went to Goal , which grievously did vex me , I now go under Bail , which sorely does perplex me : My two great Friends Farewell and Pain , once put me in good cheer , But now they do denied again , What course then shall I steer ? ( 3 ) Then Farewell Farewell now , I see thy Friends have left thee , Thou to thy Fate must bow , of Joys I have bereft thee : I wish that thou couldst quit thyself , or I my self could clear , I fear it will impair my Health , Oh what course shall I steer ? ( 4 ) That Noble Loyal heart , the Duke of Monmouth called , The world knows his Desert , whom some would have Enthralled : In spite of all their wicked Deeds , himself he still keeps clear , But now with Gilded my heart it bleeds , And what course shall I steer ? ( 5 ) Thrice Worthy Shaftsbury , hath been too much abused , Sir Robert Cleyton he , by me hath been misused : The Chamberlain of London too , whose Candor seems clear , With many of the Honest Crew , Now what course shall I steer ? There's many a Worthy Knight , within great Londons City , In Loyalty delight , and it's the more the pity That they should be by Knaves Aspersed , whose Actions are so clear , My Fault can never be Reversed , Oh what course shall I steer ? ( 6 ) A Synod may be called of Loyal-hearted Nobles , Once for their Worth Installed , who grieve to see our Troubles : They for their gracious Sovereign King , will venture Lives most dear , To punishment Offenders bring , Then what course shall I steer ? ( 7 ) O would that I had been a Stranger to these Stories , He's doubly Gilded of since , who in Transgression glories : And happy's he who sleeps in peace , whose Conscience is most clear , For now my Sorrows do increase , And what course shall I steer ? FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Rainbow , between St. Andrews Church and David's-Inn , in Holborn . Toms-Son his Repetition to his Wife ; Bewailing his present state . To the Tune of , Young JEMMY . Will you hear of Tom'sons Dream ? then take you care no further ; To me it once did seem Godfrey himself did Murder : This Story I did boldly tell , and some thereof did hear ; Now Liberty I bid farewell , What Course now shall I Steer ( 2 ) For this I went to Goal , which grievously did vex me , I now go under Bail , which sorely does perplex me : My two great Friends Farewell and Pain , once put me in good cheer , But now they do denied again , What course then shall I steer ? ( 3 ) Then Farewell Farewell now , I see thy Friends have left thee , Thou to thy Fate must bow , of Joys I have bereft thee : I wish that thou couldst quit thyself , or I my self could clear , I fear it will impair my Health , Oh what course shall I steer ? ( 4 ) That Noble Loyal heart , the Duke of Monmouth called , The world knows his Desert , whom some would have Enthralled : In spite of all their wicked Deeds , himself he still keeps clear , But now with Gilded my heart it bleeds , And what course shall I steer ? ( 5 ) Thrice Worthy Shaftsbury , hath been too much abused , Sir Robert Cleyton he , by me hath been misused : The Chamberlain of London too , whose Candor seems clear , With many of the Honest Crew , Now what course shall I steer ? There's many a Worthy Knight , within great Londons City , In Loyalty delight , and it's the more the pity That they should be by Knaves Aspersed , whose Actions are so clear , My Fault can never be Reversed , Oh what course shall I steer ? ( 6 ) A Synod may be called of Loyal-hearted Nobles , Once for their Worth Installed , who grieve to see our Troubles : They for their gracious Sovereign King , will venture Lives most dear , To punishment Offenders bring , Then what course shall I steer ? ( 7 ) O would that I had been a Stranger to these Stories , He's doubly Gilded of since , who in Transgression glories : And happy's he who sleeps in peace , whose Conscience is most clear , For now my Sorrows do increase , And what course shall I steer ? FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Rainbow , between St. Andrews Church and David's-Inn , in Holborn . 