THEPEDLAR : BEING And Excellent New SONG . To the Old Tune of King John , and the Abbot of Canterbury . I . you Lads and you Lasses that live in Great Britain , I'll tell you a Story , that never was writ on ; 'Tis of a F ------ PEDLAR , a Pedlar I Sing , Sent over to bubble us , by the F --- K ------ Derry down , down , heigh derry down . II His Errand , I trow , is to do a small Job , To make a fine Figure to dazzle the Mob ; But this let me tell him , if once his Coin fail , They'll Curse him and his Master , for one Pot of Ale . Derry down , etc III . Give Ear then a while to a List of his Ware , Which , like a true Tradesman , he'll Fell you full dear ; For by fatal Experience , we may have been taught , The F ------ part with nothing , but what's dearly bought . Derry down , etc IV. Then first he has dainty choice Burgundy Wine , Next , store of Rich Garments to make you look Fine ; Thus they first make us Drunk , then our Pockets they pick , You confounded F ---- Dogs , have you god that Whores trick ? Derry down , etc V. Fine cases for Tooth-picks , his Highness brought over , And curious wrought Tweezers just landed at Dover . Then Snuff-Boxes lined with the Chevalier's Face , That all his true Vassals may know his good Grace . Derry down , etc VI . But what transports of Joy in our Eyes wou'd appear , Oh! Cou'd we but see the Original here ? What crowding , what running , what riding from far ? I mean , were his Head fix'd 'on Temple-Bar ? Derry down , etc VII . Next delicate Swords , all Inlaid with Gold ; But 'tis only the Handles , as I have been told , For Marlborough taught 'em in Nine dismal Years , That true English Blades were far better than theirs . Derry down , etc VIII . Then come my bold Britons , be Merry and Wise , And since you can beatrice 'em , their Offers despise : For shou'd we not bravely these Baubles refuse , Next Year they will offer us their Wooden Shoes . Derry down , etc IX . O Liberty ! Liberty ! thou art too dear , For Britons to part with , through Folly or Fear . Then make not your Conscience a specious Pretence , To part with that Jewel , which is its Defence . Derry Down , etc X. But drink off a Bumper to Glorious Queen ANNE , And he that won't Pledge it , is no Honest Man. Then fill up one more to the HANOVER Line , And a Fig for the Popish Pretender's Design . Derry down , etc Sold by J. Baker , in Pater-Noster-Row , Price 2 worser . THEPEDLAR : BEING And Excellent New SONG . To the Old Tune of King John , and the Abbot of Canterbury . I . you Lads and you Lasses that live in Great Britain , I'll tell you a Story , that never was writ on ; 'Tis of a F ------ PEDLAR , a Pedlar I Sing , Sent over to bubble us , by the F --- K ------ Derry down , down , heigh derry down . II His Errand , I trow , is to do a small Job , To make a fine Figure to dazzle the Mob ; But this let me tell him , if once his Coin fail , They'll Curse him and his Master , for one Pot of Ale . Derry down , etc III . Give Ear then a while to a List of his Ware , Which , like a true Tradesman , he'll Fell you full dear ; For by fatal Experience , we may have been taught , The F ------ part with nothing , but what's dearly bought . Derry down , etc IV. Then first he has dainty choice Burgundy Wine , Next , store of Rich Garments to make you look Fine ; Thus they first make us Drunk , then our Pockets they pick , You confounded F ---- Dogs , have you god that Whores trick ? Derry down , etc V. Fine cases for Tooth-picks , his Highness brought over , And curious wrought Tweezers just landed at Dover . Then Snuff-Boxes lined with the Chevalier's Face , That all his true Vassals may know his good Grace . Derry down , etc VI . But what transports of Joy in our Eyes wou'd appear , Oh! Cou'd we but see the Original here ? What crowding , what running , what riding from far ? I mean , were his Head fix'd 'on Temple-Bar ? Derry down , etc VII . Next delicate Swords , all Inlaid with Gold ; But 'tis only the Handles , as I have been told , For Marlborough taught 'em in Nine dismal Years , That true English Blades were far better than theirs . Derry down , etc VIII . Then come my bold Britons , be Merry and Wise , And since you can beatrice 'em , their Offers despise : For shou'd we not bravely these Baubles refuse , Next Year they will offer us their Wooden Shoes . Derry down , etc IX . O Liberty ! Liberty ! thou art too dear , For Britons to part with , through Folly or Fear . Then make not your Conscience a specious Pretence , To part with that Jewel , which is its Defence . Derry Down , etc X. But drink off a Bumper to Glorious Queen ANNE , And he that won't Pledge it , is no Honest Man. Then fill up one more to the HANOVER Line , And a Fig for the Popish Pretender's Design . Derry down , etc Sold by J. Baker , in Pater-Noster-Row , Price 2 worser . 