A NEW BALLAD upon the Land-Bank : Or , Credit Restored . To the Tune of All for Love and no Money . WOuld any Man of common sense Grudge to spend his Eighteen pence , At the Rose in Covent-Garden , ( Where Neck Spalden was Church-Warden ) To see a Mountebank show Tricts , With Tom Speed's Notes and Hasle-sticks . He'll turn your Money into Wood , Then make and Act that 'tis as good Within six pounds as 'twas before : But why just six pounds , and no more Nor less ? why ( Z ------ ds and Bl ------ worser ! ) Cause this came first into his Head , Or else Seven , Nine , or Eight , Or Cinque or Quater had been the Rate . Then see him send this Talley With Tom Speed's Note to Grocers-Alley , ( For Sons of Women never married To place of Birth ( by Law ) are carried ) Where you shall see this 94 Shrink to 50 in and hour . Grocers-Hall brings all to Par , Here first and last all equal are : Grocers-Hall is a Level , Where little C ------ per will fell as well As tall and trusty Sir J ------ n E ------ well . Whatever Tailors throw in Hell , Serves to make or mend , or fell For Cucumbers or Cabbage ; So riffle , raffle , Chepuer-Baggage , Pro's or Con's , hic , hec , or hoc , Fell all alike in Common stock . It is not safe for Trained-Bands To let lie in Tradesmen's hands ( Whom we have bilked ) such Weapons , As Boys at Shrove-tide throw at Capons : These may be us'd to arm the Weavers , Or serve the Prentices for Cleavers . And if the Rabble cann't come at Sticks , They may take these for Cat-sticks . Therefore the second day of April Owners of Talleys at your Peril , Bring them into Grocers-Hall , Or not have them paid at all . Well nicked for Time ! first skipped ( I warrant ) lest this should prove a foolish Erran But Fools sent the first day ( by Command Sir ) Take time to the second to bring and Answer . So the thing is laid right in the Cum and the Quando , The Fools are employ'd by a Continuando . Then for a Reward To S ------ ck and W ------ rd For giving Talleys Houseroom , Here follows the Law Made by our Bashaw , Sprung up as quick as a Mushroom . You must know ( forsooth ) The whole Faith and Trorh Of our Mortgaged Nation , Was bound up in Conscience From granting a License , Or making a Creation Of any other Bank , Tho' this was a Hank The Lawmakers never thought on : It's no matter for that , He'll show it as pat , To be denied by Not-one . The word THE in a Name By Law is the same As if 'twere said a Sole-Bank , As A. by himself A. Set before B.A.N.K. Signifies a whole Bank . But H ------ ley and F ------ ley Non-obstante this Sole With intent to damn the House of Commons , brought in A Bill full of since , But when 'twas passed , a Deus of One Souz or Penny Of New Mill'd Money ( Before the same was Coined ) They brought to the 'Chequer But they Talk all by Letter , And gave their Opinions signed . A Pl --- gue o' G --- worser worser --- m 'em For Sons of Moab and Ammon , What d' think they said to us ? That Ten per Cent. Was a fair Discoun And what'd think they did to us ? Not a Man to be found That would stand bound For Two-Millions and a half ; Bullies and Hectors , Poor Dogs and Projectors , How should they have Pelf . To give 40 per Cent. To have Money lent On Talleys in our own Bank , Is cheaper by far Than to have them at Par , By setting up a Land Bank . The Land Bank was part Of Jacobites Art , This I said , and so I'll have it , And to make it more clear , I did ( I know where ) Produce a Plot-Affidavit . For when I cast a Spell , And pretend to foretell A thing within my one reach , Then bring it about , ( Which is easy to do it ) I pass both for Statesman and Witch . I'll have a Law made , None shall set up the Trade To borrow or lend Money , But they are at Grocers-Shop , Who are at a Full-stop , And neither pay all nor any . And this will raise Credit , For they'd pay if they had it And what can you have more , ( Sir ) Then I'll send them Sticks , To give their Creditors licks , And beatrice them out of Door , ( Sir ) No Bank , nor Bank-Bills , Nor Paper nor Quills , Like theirs shall be used , And this will requite 'em ( Or else we will Knight 'em ) For having been abused . To give Notes for Money , Without paying any , Let any Folks else if they dare ( Sir ) To know 'em in kind , Before or behind , Is Penal as bug --- king a Mare , ( Sir . ) To draw 'em or paint 'em , Or follow or ape 'em , Shall be a since against the State , To sue 'em or strike 'em , Or do anything like 'em , Shall send you into Newgate . But when all this is done , This shan't overrun Our Bills on the Capitation , But that they may ride Aside or astride , And trot it all over the Nation . We've talked with some Men , And we'll talk to 'em again , To be our Undertakers , And if they won't discount 'em , At Ten Pounds per Centum , Wee'll try to fell 'em by the Hawkers . But the Clause of Exclusion Hath a plain Allusion , By no other Bank is only meant a Land One , Land is the WORSER --- l , From whence comes all evil , It they that fired London . It they called for Light A little before Night , To find Faults with their Fellow-members But we know the Plot , Could they Candles have god , They'd burned the House to Embers . They hinder our Votes , And Soldiers New Coats , For the Tallies on the Salt-Act , For which they offered Ninety , Are now proffered for Fifty , And this is matter of Fact . If we don't knock 'em down , We can ne're hold our own , Cause theirs is grounded on Reason , But whoever talks sense About Credit or Pence , I would have hang'd for Treason . Therefore let Will --- m L --- and Make the Kingdom bound To the Bank of England by Indenture To serve Apprentice , And fast when Lent is , For eleven Years adventure . K --- g , C --- ns , and L --- ds , Shall be bound by their Words To stand by and defend this Woodpile , With Life and Member , And fresh Would [ s ] le Timber , In case the other should fail . I gave 'em their Lesson , At opening the Session , To ask no Questions about it , But do as I bid 'em , And Vote as I'd have them , The Project is mine , ( if I hit i [ tO ] . ) What a Negative Law , To bind up the Paw Of Legislative Powers ( Sir ) This is such a Jest , And so like the rest , That sure it must be yours ( Sir . ) And mark what I say , Stake down and Ill lay , A hundred pound Talley to 94 pound ( Sir ) This will do no good , But you're god in a Wood , And will run yourself aground ( Sir . ) A NEW BALLAD upon the Land-Bank : Or , Credit Restored . To the Tune of All for Love and no Money . WOuld any Man of common sense Grudge to spend his Eighteen pence , At the Rose in Covent-Garden , ( Where Neck Spalden was Church-Warden ) To see a Mountebank show Tricts , With Tom Speed's Notes and Hasle-sticks . He'll turn your Money into Wood , Then make and Act that 'tis as good Within six pounds as 'twas before : But why just six pounds , and no more Nor less ? why ( Z ------ ds and Bl ------ worser ! ) Cause this came first into his Head , Or else Seven , Nine , or Eight , Or Cinque or Quater had been the Rate . Then see him send this Talley With Tom Speed's Note to Grocers-Alley , ( For Sons of Women never married To place of Birth ( by Law ) are carried ) Where you shall see this 94 Shrink to 50 in and hour . Grocers-Hall brings all to Par , Here first and last all equal are : Grocers-Hall is a Level , Where little C ------ per will fell as well As tall and trusty Sir J ------ n E ------ well . Whatever Tailors throw in Hell , Serves to make or mend , or fell For Cucumbers or Cabbage ; So riffle , raffle , Chepuer-Baggage , Pro's or Con's , hic , hec , or hoc , Fell all alike in Common stock . It is not safe for Trained-Bands To let lie in Tradesmen's hands ( Whom we have bilked ) such Weapons , As Boys at Shrove-tide throw at Capons : These may be us'd to arm the Weavers , Or serve the Prentices for Cleavers . And if the Rabble cann't come at Sticks , They may take these for Cat-sticks . Therefore the second day of April Owners of Talleys at your Peril , Bring them into Grocers-Hall , Or not have them paid at all . Well nicked for Time ! first skipped ( I warrant ) lest this should prove a foolish Erran But Fools sent the first day ( by Command Sir ) Take time to the second to bring and Answer . So the thing is laid right in the Cum and the Quando , The Fools are employ'd by a Continuando . Then for a Reward To S ------ ck and W ------ rd For giving Talleys Houseroom , Here follows the Law Made by our Bashaw , Sprung up as quick as a Mushroom . You must know ( forsooth ) The whole Faith and Trorh Of our Mortgaged Nation , Was bound up in Conscience From granting a License , Or making a Creation Of any other Bank , Tho' this was a Hank The Lawmakers never thought on : It's no matter for that , He'll show it as pat , To be denied by Not-one . The word THE in a Name By Law is the same As if 'twere said a Sole-Bank , As A. by himself A. Set before B.A.N.K. Signifies a whole Bank . But H ------ ley and F ------ ley Non-obstante this Sole With intent to damn the House of Commons , brought in A Bill full of since , But when 'twas passed , a Deus of One Souz or Penny Of New Mill'd Money ( Before the same was Coined ) They brought to the 'Chequer But they Talk all by Letter , And gave their Opinions signed . A Pl --- gue o' G --- worser worser --- m 'em For Sons of Moab and Ammon , What d' think they said to us ? That Ten per Cent. Was a fair Discoun And what'd think they did to us ? Not a Man to be found That would stand bound For Two-Millions and a half ; Bullies and Hectors , Poor Dogs and Projectors , How should they have Pelf . To give 40 per Cent. To have Money lent On Talleys in our own Bank , Is cheaper by far Than to have them at Par , By setting up a Land Bank . The Land Bank was part Of Jacobites Art , This I said , and so I'll have it , And to make it more clear , I did ( I know where ) Produce a Plot-Affidavit . For when I cast a Spell , And pretend to foretell A thing within my one reach , Then bring it about , ( Which is easy to do it ) I pass both for Statesman and Witch . I'll have a Law made , None shall set up the Trade To borrow or lend Money , But they are at Grocers-Shop , Who are at a Full-stop , And neither pay all nor any . And this will raise Credit , For they'd pay if they had it And what can you have more , ( Sir ) Then I'll send them Sticks , To give their Creditors licks , And beatrice them out of Door , ( Sir ) No Bank , nor Bank-Bills , Nor Paper nor Quills , Like theirs shall be used , And this will requite 'em ( Or else we will Knight 'em ) For having been abused . To give Notes for Money , Without paying any , Let any Folks else if they dare ( Sir ) To know 'em in kind , Before or behind , Is Penal as bug --- king a Mare , ( Sir . ) To draw 'em or paint 'em , Or follow or ape 'em , Shall be a since against the State , To sue 'em or strike 'em , Or do anything like 'em , Shall send you into Newgate . But when all this is done , This shan't overrun Our Bills on the Capitation , But that they may ride Aside or astride , And trot it all over the Nation . We've talked with some Men , And we'll talk to 'em again , To be our Undertakers , And if they won't discount 'em , At Ten Pounds per Centum , Wee'll try to fell 'em by the Hawkers . But the Clause of Exclusion Hath a plain Allusion , By no other Bank is only meant a Land One , Land is the WORSER --- l , From whence comes all evil , It they that fired London . It they called for Light A little before Night , To find Faults with their Fellow-members But we know the Plot , Could they Candles have god , They'd burned the House to Embers . They hinder our Votes , And Soldiers New Coats , For the Tallies on the Salt-Act , For which they offered Ninety , Are now proffered for Fifty , And this is matter of Fact . If we don't knock 'em down , We can ne're hold our own , Cause theirs is grounded on Reason , But whoever talks sense About Credit or Pence , I would have hang'd for Treason . Therefore let Will --- m L --- and Make the Kingdom bound To the Bank of England by Indenture To serve Apprentice , And fast when Lent is , For eleven Years adventure . K --- g , C --- ns , and L --- ds , Shall be bound by their Words To stand by and defend this Woodpile , With Life and Member , And fresh Would [ s ] le Timber , In case the other should fail . I gave 'em their Lesson , At opening the Session , To ask no Questions about it , But do as I bid 'em , And Vote as I'd have them , The Project is mine , ( if I hit i [ tO ] . ) What a Negative Law , To bind up the Paw Of Legislative Powers ( Sir ) This is such a Jest , And so like the rest , That sure it must be yours ( Sir . ) And mark what I say , Stake down and Ill lay , A hundred pound Talley to 94 pound ( Sir ) This will do no good , But you're god in a Wood , And will run yourself aground ( Sir . ) 