And excellent New Playhouse SONG , Called , The Bonny Milk-Maid , To and Excellent New Tune . you Nymph's and Sylvian Gods , That love green Fields and woods , when Springs newly blown , herself does adorn With Flowers and blooming Buds , come sing in the praise , while Flocks do graze In yonder pleasant Vale , of those that choose their sleep to loose , and in cold Dews , with clouted shoes , Do carry the Milking Pail . The Goddess of the morn With blushes they adorn , and take the fresh Air , while Linnets prepare A Consort on each green thorn : the Blackbird and Thrush on every bush , And the charming Nightingale , in merry vain their throats do strain , go entertain the jolly train That carry the milking Pail . When cold bleak Winds do roar , And Flowers can spring no more , the fields that were seen so pleasant and green , By Winter all Candid o'er , o how the town Lass looks with her white face , And her lips of deadly pale , but it is not so with those that go thro' Frost and Snow , with Cheeks that glow , To carry the milking pail . The Miss of Courtly mould , Adorn'd with Pearl and Gold , with washes and paint , her skin does so taint . She's weather'd before she's old , while she in Comode puts on a Cartload , And with Cushions plumps her tail , what joys are found in Russet Gown , young , plump and round , and sweet and found , That carry the milking Pail . The Girls of Venus Game That ventures health and fame , in practising feats with Colds and with Heats , Make Lovers go blind and lame , if men were so wise to valve the prize Of the Wares most fit for Sale , what store of Beaus would daub their clothes , to save a Nose , by following those That carry the milking Pail . The Country Lad is free From fears and jealousy , when upon the Green he is often seen , With his Lass upon his knee , with Kisses most sweet , he does her greet , And swears she'll ne'er grow stale , while the London Lass , in e'ery place , with her brazen face , despises the grace Of those with the Milking Pail . Printed by and for A.M. And excellent New Playhouse SONG , Called , The Bonny Milk-Maid , To and Excellent New Tune . you Nymph's and Sylvian Gods , That love green Fields and woods , when Springs newly blown , herself does adorn With Flowers and blooming Buds , come sing in the praise , while Flocks do graze In yonder pleasant Vale , of those that choose their sleep to loose , and in cold Dews , with clouted shoes , Do carry the Milking Pail . The Goddess of the morn With blushes they adorn , and take the fresh Air , while Linnets prepare A Consort on each green thorn : the Blackbird and Thrush on every bush , And the charming Nightingale , in merry vain their throats do strain , go entertain the jolly train That carry the milking Pail . When cold bleak Winds do roar , And Flowers can spring no more , the fields that were seen so pleasant and green , By Winter all Candid o'er , o how the town Lass looks with her white face , And her lips of deadly pale , but it is not so with those that go thro' Frost and Snow , with Cheeks that glow , To carry the milking pail . The Miss of Courtly mould , Adorn'd with Pearl and Gold , with washes and paint , her skin does so taint . She's weather'd before she's old , while she in Comode puts on a Cartload , And with Cushions plumps her tail , what joys are found in Russet Gown , young , plump and round , and sweet and found , That carry the milking Pail . The Girls of Venus Game That ventures health and fame , in practising feats with Colds and with Heats , Make Lovers go blind and lame , if men were so wise to valve the prize Of the Wares most fit for Sale , what store of Beaus would daub their clothes , to save a Nose , by following those That carry the milking Pail . The Country Lad is free From fears and jealousy , when upon the Green he is often seen , With his Lass upon his knee , with Kisses most sweet , he does her greet , And swears she'll ne'er grow stale , while the London Lass , in e'ery place , with her brazen face , despises the grace Of those with the Milking Pail . Printed by and for A.M. 