THE Lady ISABELLA's Tragedy ; Or , The Step Mother's Cruelty . THere was a Lord of worthy fame , And a hunting he would ride , Attended with a noble train Of Gentry by his side ; And while he did in chase remain , To see both sport and play , His Lady went as she did feign Unto the church to pray . The Lord he had a daughter fair , Whose beauty shone so bright , She was belov'd both far and near , By many Lord and Knigh Fair Isabella she was call'd , A creature fair was she , She was her father's only Joy , As after you shall see : But her cruel Step Mother , Did envy her so much , That day by day she sought her life , Her malice it was such . She bargain'd with the Master Cook To take her life away , And calling of her daughter dear , She thus to her did say : Go home sweet daughter I thee pray , Go hasten presently , And tell unto the Master Cook These words that I tell thee . Go bid him dress for dinner strait , The fair and milkwhite doe , Which in the Park do shine so bright , There's none so fair a show . The Lady fearing of no harm , Obey'd her Mother's will , And presently she hasted home , Her mind for to fulfil . She strait into the kitchen went , Her message for to tell , And there she spy'd the Master Cook , Who did with malice swell : Now Master Cook it must be so , Do that which I thee tell ; You needs must dress the milk white doe , And that you know full well . Then strait his bloody cruel hands He on the Lady laid , Who quivering and shaking stands , While thus to her he said , Thou art the doe that I must dress , See here behold my knife , For it is pointed presently To rid thee of thy life . O then cries out the scullion boy , As loud as loud might be , Oh save her life good master cook , And make your pies of me : For heavens sake do not murder My mistress with that knife : You know she is her father's Joy , For Christ's sake save her life : I will not save her life said he , Nor make my pies of thee , And if you do this deed betray , Thy butcher I will be . Now when this Lord he did come home . For to set down to eat , He called for his daughter dear , To come and carve his meat , Into some nunnery she is gone , Your daughter now forgotten ; Then solemnly he made a vow , Before the company , That he would neither eat nor drink , Before he did her see . O then bespoke the skullion boy , With a voice both loud and high , If that you would your daughter see , Good sir , cut up the pie ; Wherein her flesh is minced small , And parched with the fire , All caused by her Step Mother , Who did her death desire . And cursed be the Master Cook , Oh cursed may he be , I proffered him my own heart's blood , From death to set her free . Then all in black this Lord did mourn , And for his daughter's sake , He judg'd the cruel Step Mother , For to be burned at stake . Likewise he judg'd the Master Cook In boiling oil to stand , And made the simple scullion boy , The heir to all his land . Their LAMENTATION . NOW when the wicked Master Cook Beheld his death draw near , And that by friends he was forsook , He pour'd forth many a tear , Saying , The Lady whom I serv'd , Prompted me to this deed , And as a death I have deserv'd , 'Tis coming on with speed . I must confess these hands of mine , Did kill the innocent , When her dear breath she did resign , My heart did not relent . This said , into the boiling oil , He then forthwith was cast , And then within a little time The mother went at last From prison to the burning stake , And as she passed along , She did sad lamentation make Unto the numerous throng . These were the selfsame words she said The daughter of my Lord , I doom'd to death , the laws I broke , And shall have my reward . Then to the burning stake they ty'd The worst of all Step-Dames , And then according to the Law , She fairly dy'd in flames . Now let that [ e ] ir death's a warning be , To all that hear this Song , And thus I end my Tragedy , The Duke he mourned long . THE Lady ISABELLA's Tragedy ; Or , The Step Mother's Cruelty . THere was a Lord of worthy fame , And a hunting he would ride , Attended with a noble train Of Gentry by his side ; And while he did in chase remain , To see both sport and play , His Lady went as she did feign Unto the church to pray . The Lord he had a daughter fair , Whose beauty shone so bright , She was belov'd both far and near , By many Lord and Knigh Fair Isabella she was call'd , A creature fair was she , She was her father's only Joy , As after you shall see : But her cruel Step Mother , Did envy her so much , That day by day she sought her life , Her malice it was such . She bargain'd with the Master Cook To take her life away , And calling of her daughter dear , She thus to her did say : Go home sweet daughter I thee pray , Go hasten presently , And tell unto the Master Cook These words that I tell thee . Go bid him dress for dinner strait , The fair and milkwhite doe , Which in the Park do shine so bright , There's none so fair a show . The Lady fearing of no harm , Obey'd her Mother's will , And presently she hasted home , Her mind for to fulfil . She strait into the kitchen went , Her message for to tell , And there she spy'd the Master Cook , Who did with malice swell : Now Master Cook it must be so , Do that which I thee tell ; You needs must dress the milk white doe , And that you know full well . Then strait his bloody cruel hands He on the Lady laid , Who quivering and shaking stands , While thus to her he said , Thou art the doe that I must dress , See here behold my knife , For it is pointed presently To rid thee of thy life . O then cries out the scullion boy , As loud as loud might be , Oh save her life good master cook , And make your pies of me : For heavens sake do not murder My mistress with that knife : You know she is her father's Joy , For Christ's sake save her life : I will not save her life said he , Nor make my pies of thee , And if you do this deed betray , Thy butcher I will be . Now when this Lord he did come home . For to set down to eat , He called for his daughter dear , To come and carve his meat , Into some nunnery she is gone , Your daughter now forgotten ; Then solemnly he made a vow , Before the company , That he would neither eat nor drink , Before he did her see . O then bespoke the skullion boy , With a voice both loud and high , If that you would your daughter see , Good sir , cut up the pie ; Wherein her flesh is minced small , And parched with the fire , All caused by her Step Mother , Who did her death desire . And cursed be the Master Cook , Oh cursed may he be , I proffered him my own heart's blood , From death to set her free . Then all in black this Lord did mourn , And for his daughter's sake , He judg'd the cruel Step Mother , For to be burned at stake . Likewise he judg'd the Master Cook In boiling oil to stand , And made the simple scullion boy , The heir to all his land . Their LAMENTATION . NOW when the wicked Master Cook Beheld his death draw near , And that by friends he was forsook , He pour'd forth many a tear , Saying , The Lady whom I serv'd , Prompted me to this deed , And as a death I have deserv'd , 'Tis coming on with speed . I must confess these hands of mine , Did kill the innocent , When her dear breath she did resign , My heart did not relent . This said , into the boiling oil , He then forthwith was cast , And then within a little time The mother went at last From prison to the burning stake , And as she passed along , She did sad lamentation make Unto the numerous throng . These were the selfsame words she said The daughter of my Lord , I doom'd to death , the laws I broke , And shall have my reward . Then to the burning stake they ty'd The worst of all Step-Dames , And then according to the Law , She fairly dy'd in flames . Now let that [ e ] ir death's a warning be , To all that hear this Song , And thus I end my Tragedy , The Duke he mourned long . 