The Weaver turn'd Devil : OR , A New Copy of VERSES , ON A Baker in Spitle-Fields , who was Frighted by a Weaver in the shape of a Devil . Showing how the Baker went to Arrest the Weaver , for some Money which he owed him for Bred . To the Tune of , the Royal Forester YOU Bakers of England both Country and City , Come listen a while now unto this new ditty ; For it's one of your own Brother trade , Was mumpt by a Spittle-Weaver this said . This Weaver being poor and his charge being grea He had much ado to get bred for to eat ; There was a rich Baker , who lived the next door , Who happened to let him run into his Score . This Baker was rich yet was greedy for more , Extorting two pence in each Peck of the Score ; And by this ill means god great store of pelf , Not caring who Starved so he throve himself . This poor Weaver full forty Shillings had run , And for then to grumble the Baker begun , Telling of him then that he would trust no more ; Excpt he would reckon and pay his old Score . It being at a time when that Trading was dead , Alas quoth this Weaver you cannot be pay [ ' ] worser , Until better times and our trading does mend , If so long you'l stay I will count you my friend . With that then th' Baker begun for to storm , Dost thou think that this now will pay for my Corn ; And likewise for grinding and bolting it too , No , no Mr. Weaver this never will do . My Money I'll have now without more delay ; But one bore Week longer I mean for to stay , And if in that time thou dost not it me bring , thy bones in a Goal I will certainly fling . the Weaver went home with a sorrowful heart , And unto his Wife then his grief did impart , telling of her then what the Baker had said , Crying he will ruin us I am afraid . Now when the whole Story his Wife she had herd , She went to the Baker being likewise afraid , Entreating of him to have patience to stay , And when the times mended she surely would pay . the Baker reply'd its in vain for to talk , For if on next Munday your Husband does balk , And does not the Money to me tender down , I'll certainly Rest him by Tuesday at noon . this poor Woman went with a great deal of care , Her sorrows being more then she knew how to bear , And try'd all the friends that ever she could make , to see if some part of it down he would take . ten Shillings before Munday she had raised , Her Husband being thankful the heavens he praised , And then to the Baker with a joyful Heart , He went and desir'd him to take that in part . the Baker with a frown wish'd that he might never thrive And likewise the Devil might fetch him alive , If he did not pay him it all that same night , He'd rest him next morning before it was light . the Weaver went home his Wife ask'd what news , the Money I carried he did it refuse , And swears if he has it not all this same night , H'le Rest me in the morning as soon as this light . So therefore the Money I pray do you take , For I my own home for a while will forsake , Until I have raised him the full and whole sum , And then to my Family home I will come . FINIS . London , Printed for T. C. near Spitle-Fields , 1701. The Weaver turn'd Devil : OR , A New Copy of VERSES , ON A Baker in Spitle-Fields , who was Frighted by a Weaver in the shape of a Devil . Showing how the Baker went to Arrest the Weaver , for some Money which he owed him for Bred . To the Tune of , the Royal Forester YOU Bakers of England both Country and City , Come listen a while now unto this new ditty ; For it's one of your own Brother trade , Was mumpt by a Spittle-Weaver this said . This Weaver being poor and his charge being grea He had much ado to get bred for to eat ; There was a rich Baker , who lived the next door , Who happened to let him run into his Score . This Baker was rich yet was greedy for more , Extorting two pence in each Peck of the Score ; And by this ill means god great store of pelf , Not caring who Starved so he throve himself . This poor Weaver full forty Shillings had run , And for then to grumble the Baker begun , Telling of him then that he would trust no more ; Excpt he would reckon and pay his old Score . It being at a time when that Trading was dead , Alas quoth this Weaver you cannot be pay [ ' ] worser , Until better times and our trading does mend , If so long you'l stay I will count you my friend . With that then th' Baker begun for to storm , Dost thou think that this now will pay for my Corn ; And likewise for grinding and bolting it too , No , no Mr. Weaver this never will do . My Money I'll have now without more delay ; But one bore Week longer I mean for to stay , And if in that time thou dost not it me bring , thy bones in a Goal I will certainly fling . the Weaver went home with a sorrowful heart , And unto his Wife then his grief did impart , telling of her then what the Baker had said , Crying he will ruin us I am afraid . Now when the whole Story his Wife she had herd , She went to the Baker being likewise afraid , Entreating of him to have patience to stay , And when the times mended she surely would pay . the Baker reply'd its in vain for to talk , For if on next Munday your Husband does balk , And does not the Money to me tender down , I'll certainly Rest him by Tuesday at noon . this poor Woman went with a great deal of care , Her sorrows being more then she knew how to bear , And try'd all the friends that ever she could make , to see if some part of it down he would take . ten Shillings before Munday she had raised , Her Husband being thankful the heavens he praised , And then to the Baker with a joyful Heart , He went and desir'd him to take that in part . the Baker with a frown wish'd that he might never thrive And likewise the Devil might fetch him alive , If he did not pay him it all that same night , He'd rest him next morning before it was light . the Weaver went home his Wife ask'd what news , the Money I carried he did it refuse , And swears if he has it not all this same night , H'le Rest me in the morning as soon as this light . So therefore the Money I pray do you take , For I my own home for a while will forsake , Until I have raised him the full and whole sum , And then to my Family home I will come . FINIS . London , Printed for T. C. near Spitle-Fields , 1701. 