And Excellent New Play-House Song , Call'd THE BONNY MILK-MAIDS . To and Excellent New Tune much in Request . you Nimpth and Silvian Gods , That loves Green Fields and Woods When Spring's newly blown , Her self does adorn , With Flowers and blooming Buds , Come sing in the praise , ( While Flocks do graze In yonder pleasant Vale ) Of those that choose , Their sleep to lose , And in cold Dews with clouted shoes , Do carry the Milking Pail The Goddess of the Morn , With blushes they adorn , And take the fresh Air , While Linnets prepare , A Consort on each green Thorn , The Blackbird and Trush , On every bush , And the charming Nightingale , In merry vein , Their throats do strain , To entertain The jolly Train , That carry the Milking-Pail . When cold black Winds do roar And Flowers can spring no more , The Fields that were seen , So pleasant and Green , By Winter all Candid o're O how the Town Lass , Look's with her white face , And her Lips of a deadly pale , But it is not so With those that go . Thro' Frost and Snow , With Cheeks that glow , To carry the Milking Pale . The Miss of courtly mould , Adorn'd with Pearl and Gold With Washes and Paint , Her Skin does so taint , She's weather'd before she's old , While she in commode , Puts on a Cartload , & with cushions plumps her tail , What joys are found , In Russet Gown , Young , plump , and round , And sweet and found , That carry the Milking Pail The Girls of Venus Game That ventures Health and Fame , In practising feats , With colds and with heats , Make Lovers go blind and lame , If men were so Wise , To valve the prize , Of the Wares most fit for Sale , What store of Beaus , Would daubt their clothes , To save a Nose , By following those , That carry the Milking Pail . The Country Lad is free , From fear and Jealousy , When upon the Green , He is often seen With his lass upon his knee , With Kisses most sweet He does her Treat , & swears she shall ne'er grow stale , While the London Lass , In e'ery Place , With her brazen Face , Despises the Grace , Of those with the Milking Pail . And Excellent New Play-House Song , Call'd THE BONNY MILK-MAIDS . To and Excellent New Tune much in Request . you Nimpth and Silvian Gods , That loves Green Fields and Woods When Spring's newly blown , Her self does adorn , With Flowers and blooming Buds , Come sing in the praise , ( While Flocks do graze In yonder pleasant Vale ) Of those that choose , Their sleep to lose , And in cold Dews with clouted shoes , Do carry the Milking Pail The Goddess of the Morn , With blushes they adorn , And take the fresh Air , While Linnets prepare , A Consort on each green Thorn , The Blackbird and Trush , On every bush , And the charming Nightingale , In merry vein , Their throats do strain , To entertain The jolly Train , That carry the Milking-Pail . When cold black Winds do roar And Flowers can spring no more , The Fields that were seen , So pleasant and Green , By Winter all Candid o're O how the Town Lass , Look's with her white face , And her Lips of a deadly pale , But it is not so With those that go . Thro' Frost and Snow , With Cheeks that glow , To carry the Milking Pale . The Miss of courtly mould , Adorn'd with Pearl and Gold With Washes and Paint , Her Skin does so taint , She's weather'd before she's old , While she in commode , Puts on a Cartload , & with cushions plumps her tail , What joys are found , In Russet Gown , Young , plump , and round , And sweet and found , That carry the Milking Pail The Girls of Venus Game That ventures Health and Fame , In practising feats , With colds and with heats , Make Lovers go blind and lame , If men were so Wise , To valve the prize , Of the Wares most fit for Sale , What store of Beaus , Would daubt their clothes , To save a Nose , By following those , That carry the Milking Pail . The Country Lad is free , From fear and Jealousy , When upon the Green , He is often seen With his lass upon his knee , With Kisses most sweet He does her Treat , & swears she shall ne'er grow stale , While the London Lass , In e'ery Place , With her brazen Face , Despises the Grace , Of those with the Milking Pail . 