Love and Loyalty ; OR , A Letter from a Young-Man , on Board of and English Privateer , to his beloved Susan in the City of London . To the Tune of , Tender Hearts of London City . Licensed according to Order . Susan , I this Letter send thee , let not Sighs and Tears attend thee ; we are on the Coast of France , taking prizes from those Nizeys , my sweet Jewel to advance . Since we London have forsaken , Five Rich Prizes have we taken ; two of them Nantz Brandy Wine , Chests of Money , my sweet Honey , with rich Silks and Satin fine . The first Merchant's Ship we Boarded , Which great store of Wealth afforded ; we fell on most eagerly ; Search and Plunder , burst in sunder , making Chests and Cabins fly . Where the Treasure was enclosed , We want in the least opposed ; rich Embroidered Silks we found , Other Treasure , out of Measure , worth near seven thousand pound . Fortune she did still befriend us , And another Booty send us ; twice the worth of that before , Though we gain'd it , and obtain'd it , yet our Guns was forc'd to Roar . While we did both Charge and Fire , They endeavour to retire ; but the Contest was not long E'er we enter'd , bravely ventur'd , yet received but little wrong . Love , we'll plunder French and Tory For to raise great Britains Glory , and to pull proud Lewis down ; Each great spirit then will merit , double honour and renown . Dearest , when I first did leave thee , Parting with thy Love did grieve thee , But I vow'd I'd Letters send , To improve thee , for I love thee , as a true entire Friend . Love this Promise is not broken , Here I have sent thee a Token , A rich Chain and Diamond Ring , And ten times more I have in store , which I to thee in time will bring . Like a Lady thou shalt flourish , Thy poor drooping heart I'll nourish , and thy former Joys restore ; Gold and Treasure , Love and Pleasure if I live to come on shore . Love , the world shall now admire , When they see thy rich attire , like a youthful Lady Gay ; I declare it , thou shalt wear it , yet proud France for it shall pay . Dearest , though we now do sever , Yet I will be thine forever ; I prefer no one beside , E'er before thee , I adore thee , none but Death shall us divide . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . Love and Loyalty ; OR , A Letter from a Young-Man , on Board of and English Privateer , to his beloved Susan in the City of London . To the Tune of , Tender Hearts of London City . Licensed according to Order . Susan , I this Letter send thee , let not Sighs and Tears attend thee ; we are on the Coast of France , taking prizes from those Nizeys , my sweet Jewel to advance . Since we London have forsaken , Five Rich Prizes have we taken ; two of them Nantz Brandy Wine , Chests of Money , my sweet Honey , with rich Silks and Satin fine . The first Merchant's Ship we Boarded , Which great store of Wealth afforded ; we fell on most eagerly ; Search and Plunder , burst in sunder , making Chests and Cabins fly . Where the Treasure was enclosed , We want in the least opposed ; rich Embroidered Silks we found , Other Treasure , out of Measure , worth near seven thousand pound . Fortune she did still befriend us , And another Booty send us ; twice the worth of that before , Though we gain'd it , and obtain'd it , yet our Guns was forc'd to Roar . While we did both Charge and Fire , They endeavour to retire ; but the Contest was not long E'er we enter'd , bravely ventur'd , yet received but little wrong . Love , we'll plunder French and Tory For to raise great Britains Glory , and to pull proud Lewis down ; Each great spirit then will merit , double honour and renown . Dearest , when I first did leave thee , Parting with thy Love did grieve thee , But I vow'd I'd Letters send , To improve thee , for I love thee , as a true entire Friend . Love this Promise is not broken , Here I have sent thee a Token , A rich Chain and Diamond Ring , And ten times more I have in store , which I to thee in time will bring . Like a Lady thou shalt flourish , Thy poor drooping heart I'll nourish , and thy former Joys restore ; Gold and Treasure , Love and Pleasure if I live to come on shore . Love , the world shall now admire , When they see thy rich attire , like a youthful Lady Gay ; I declare it , thou shalt wear it , yet proud France for it shall pay . Dearest , though we now do sever , Yet I will be thine forever ; I prefer no one beside , E'er before thee , I adore thee , none but Death shall us divide . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 