The Cruel LAND-LORD : OR , The Fortunate Husbandman : Containing a sweet and comfortable Cordial , after sharp and sour sorrow , as you shall find by this following Ditty . To the Tune of , If Love's a sweet Passion , etc THere was a poor Man liv'd in Somersetshire , Who by his loving Wife had five Children dear ; And tho' every day he did work and take pains , Yet so great was his charge and so little his gains , That he scarce could get Bred for to fead then with all , When they did to their Father for Nourishment call . All kind of Provision was rais'd in a trice , Being forc'd and compell'd to give double the Price For our Breadcorn , and likewise all manner of Food ; From which Consideration we well may conclude , That it must be a sorrow and grief to the poor Who receive for their Work not one Penny the more . The Rich at a plentiful Table do feed , While the Poor they are ready to Perish for need ; As by woeful Experience we well understand , For there is many good Familes now in this Land , That can hardly bear up , let them do what they can , Ay , and such was the case of this honest poor Man. His Wife she fell Sick , and did languishing lie , At the end of full seventeen Weeks she did die ; In which time he could ne'er pay the Landlord his Rend , Who did threaten him daily , That he should be sent To a Prison , where he should forever remain , For without Rend he ne'er would release him again . He cry'd , Be not so Cruel , Pray Landlord forbear , You shall not loose one Penny , I'll work and take care For to pay you next Harvest ; yet this was in vain , Having bury'd his Wife , and returning again , He arrested this poor Man , and sent him to Jail , For he had not a friend that would stand for his Bayl. The cries of the Infants did ring in his Ears , And in sorrow they paid a sad tribute of Tears ; Yet this cruel Oppressor no pity would show , But to Prison the poor Man was forced to go ; While his poor little Infants did weep and bewail , Their dear Mother was Dead , and their Father in Jail . There was a poor Widow that liv'd in the Town , Who did readily proffer to part with a Crown Towards raising a Sum , the said Landlord to pay , Her example was follow'd by others next day ; So they quickly releas'd their poor Neighbour from thrall , Having somewhat to feed his poor Children withal . About five Weeks after this Actium was done , He had and one loving Cousin , a dear Sister's Son , Who did die without Issue , and made him his Heir ; Horse and Man being sent for to find him out there , For to take Possion of two Hundred a Year , Which does lie in the middle of fair Dorsetshire . Soon after he was in Possion of all , He return'd to the Town , for his Friends he did call , Who had hope him from Prison , requiting their love , But the poor honest Widow he honour'd above All the rest of his good Benefactors and Friends , For he took her to Wife for to make her amends . Some blam'd him for making that Widow his Wife , But he answer'd , saying , She saved my Life , Had it not been for her , I in Goal might have dy'd , She's deserving and worthy to be my sweet Bride ; I shall always remember her love and good will , And while life does remain I will honour her still . This cruel Oppressor which was so unkind , He began to be vexed and mad in his mind , He that had been his honest mean Tenant before , Was at last the head Landlord of his and much more ; For the cruelty acted when as his Wife dy'd , He was fearful he would prove a Thorn in his side . Whose Sorrow was evermore sharp and severe , Yet he now has no less then two Hundred a Year ; Thus we see how good Providence still does take care , Of the Poor and the Needy , then who shall despair ? Let us trust in God's Mercies tho' never so poor , It is he that in love can replenish our Store . Printed for J. Blare , at the Sign of the Looking-Glass on London-Bridge . The Cruel LAND-LORD : OR , The Fortunate Husbandman : Containing a sweet and comfortable Cordial , after sharp and sour sorrow , as you shall find by this following Ditty . To the Tune of , If Love's a sweet Passion , etc THere was a poor Man liv'd in Somersetshire , Who by his loving Wife had five Children dear ; And tho' every day he did work and take pains , Yet so great was his charge and so little his gains , That he scarce could get Bred for to fead then with all , When they did to their Father for Nourishment call . All kind of Provision was rais'd in a trice , Being forc'd and compell'd to give double the Price For our Breadcorn , and likewise all manner of Food ; From which Consideration we well may conclude , That it must be a sorrow and grief to the poor Who receive for their Work not one Penny the more . The Rich at a plentiful Table do feed , While the Poor they are ready to Perish for need ; As by woeful Experience we well understand , For there is many good Familes now in this Land , That can hardly bear up , let them do what they can , Ay , and such was the case of this honest poor Man. His Wife she fell Sick , and did languishing lie , At the end of full seventeen Weeks she did die ; In which time he could ne'er pay the Landlord his Rend , Who did threaten him daily , That he should be sent To a Prison , where he should forever remain , For without Rend he ne'er would release him again . He cry'd , Be not so Cruel , Pray Landlord forbear , You shall not loose one Penny , I'll work and take care For to pay you next Harvest ; yet this was in vain , Having bury'd his Wife , and returning again , He arrested this poor Man , and sent him to Jail , For he had not a friend that would stand for his Bayl. The cries of the Infants did ring in his Ears , And in sorrow they paid a sad tribute of Tears ; Yet this cruel Oppressor no pity would show , But to Prison the poor Man was forced to go ; While his poor little Infants did weep and bewail , Their dear Mother was Dead , and their Father in Jail . There was a poor Widow that liv'd in the Town , Who did readily proffer to part with a Crown Towards raising a Sum , the said Landlord to pay , Her example was follow'd by others next day ; So they quickly releas'd their poor Neighbour from thrall , Having somewhat to feed his poor Children withal . About five Weeks after this Actium was done , He had and one loving Cousin , a dear Sister's Son , Who did die without Issue , and made him his Heir ; Horse and Man being sent for to find him out there , For to take Possion of two Hundred a Year , Which does lie in the middle of fair Dorsetshire . Soon after he was in Possion of all , He return'd to the Town , for his Friends he did call , Who had hope him from Prison , requiting their love , But the poor honest Widow he honour'd above All the rest of his good Benefactors and Friends , For he took her to Wife for to make her amends . Some blam'd him for making that Widow his Wife , But he answer'd , saying , She saved my Life , Had it not been for her , I in Goal might have dy'd , She's deserving and worthy to be my sweet Bride ; I shall always remember her love and good will , And while life does remain I will honour her still . This cruel Oppressor which was so unkind , He began to be vexed and mad in his mind , He that had been his honest mean Tenant before , Was at last the head Landlord of his and much more ; For the cruelty acted when as his Wife dy'd , He was fearful he would prove a Thorn in his side . Whose Sorrow was evermore sharp and severe , Yet he now has no less then two Hundred a Year ; Thus we see how good Providence still does take care , Of the Poor and the Needy , then who shall despair ? Let us trust in God's Mercies tho' never so poor , It is he that in love can replenish our Store . Printed for J. Blare , at the Sign of the Looking-Glass on London-Bridge . 