A Lamentable BALLAD on the Earl of ESSEX's Death . The Tune is , Essex's last Goodnight . ALl you that cry , Oh hone , Oh hone , come now and sing , Oh hone with me , For why our Jewel is from us gone , the valiant Knight of Chivalry : Of rich and poor belov'd was he , in time and honourable Knight , When by our Laws condemn'd to die , he lately took his last good night . Count him not like to Champion , those traitorous Men of Babington , Nor like the Earl of Westmorland , by whom a number were undone : He never yet hurt Mother's Son ; his quarrel still maintains the right , Which makes the tears my face down run , when I think on his last good night . The Portugals can witness be , his Dagger at Lisbon Gate he flung , And like a Knight of Chivalry , his Chain upon the Gate he hung ; I would to God , that he would come , to fetch them back in order right , Which thing was by his honour done , yet lately took his last good night . The Frenchmen they can testify , the Town of Gourney he took in , And marched to Room immediately , not caring for his foes a pin : With Bullets then he pierc'd their skin , and made them fly from his sighs He there that time did credit win , and now hath taken his last good night . And stately Cales can witness be , then by his Proclamation right , He did command them all straightly , to have a care of Infants lives , And that none should hurt Man or Wife , which was against their right ; Therefore they pray'd for his long life , which lately took his last good night . Would God he ne'r had Ireland known , nor set one foot on Flanders ground , Then might we well injoy'd our own , where now our Jewel will not be found , Which makes our foes still abound ; trickling with salt tears in our sighed , To hear his Name in our ears to found , Lord Deverux took his last good night . Ash-wednesday , that dismal day , when he came forth his Chamber-door , Upon a Scaffold there he saw , his Headsman standing him before : His Nobles all they did deplore , shedding salt tears in his sighed , He said farewell to rich and poor , at his good-morrow and goodnight . My Lords , said he , you stand but by , to see performance of the Law , It is I that have deserv'd to die , and yield myself unto the blow ; I have deserv'd to die , I know , but ne'r against my Country's right , Nor to my Queen was ever foe , upon my death , at my goodnight . Farewell , Elizabeth , my gracious Queen , God bless thee with thy Council all ; Farewell my Knights of Chivalry ; farewell my Soldiers stout and tall ; Farewell the Commons great and small ; into the hands of Men I light , My life shall make amends for all , for Essex bids the World goodnight . Farewell dear Wife and Children three , farewell my kind and tender Son ; Comfort yourselves , mourn not for me , although your fallen be now begun , My time is come , my glass is run , comfort yourself in former light , Seeing by my fallen you are undone , your Father bids the World goodnight . Derick , thou know'st at Cales I sav'd thy life , lost for a Rape there done , As thou thyself can'st testify , thine own hand three and twenty hung , But now thou seest myself is come , by chance into thy hands I light , Strike out thy blow , that I may know , thou Essex lov'd at his good night . When England counted me a Papist , the work of Papists I defy , I ne'r worshipped Saint nor Angel in Heaven , nor the Virgin Marry , I ; But to Christ , which for my sins did die , trickling with salt tears in his sighed , Spreading my arms to God on high , Lord Jesus receive my Soul this night Printed for A.M.W.D. and T. Thank - ray , at the Angel in Duck-lane . A Lamentable BALLAD on the Earl of ESSEX's Death . The Tune is , Essex's last Goodnight . ALl you that cry , Oh hone , Oh hone , come now and sing , Oh hone with me , For why our Jewel is from us gone , the valiant Knight of Chivalry : Of rich and poor belov'd was he , in time and honourable Knight , When by our Laws condemn'd to die , he lately took his last good night . Count him not like to Champion , those traitorous Men of Babington , Nor like the Earl of Westmorland , by whom a number were undone : He never yet hurt Mother's Son ; his quarrel still maintains the right , Which makes the tears my face down run , when I think on his last good night . The Portugals can witness be , his Dagger at Lisbon Gate he flung , And like a Knight of Chivalry , his Chain upon the Gate he hung ; I would to God , that he would come , to fetch them back in order right , Which thing was by his honour done , yet lately took his last good night . The Frenchmen they can testify , the Town of Gourney he took in , And marched to Room immediately , not caring for his foes a pin : With Bullets then he pierc'd their skin , and made them fly from his sighs He there that time did credit win , and now hath taken his last good night . And stately Cales can witness be , then by his Proclamation right , He did command them all straightly , to have a care of Infants lives , And that none should hurt Man or Wife , which was against their right ; Therefore they pray'd for his long life , which lately took his last good night . Would God he ne'r had Ireland known , nor set one foot on Flanders ground , Then might we well injoy'd our own , where now our Jewel will not be found , Which makes our foes still abound ; trickling with salt tears in our sighed , To hear his Name in our ears to found , Lord Deverux took his last good night . Ash-wednesday , that dismal day , when he came forth his Chamber-door , Upon a Scaffold there he saw , his Headsman standing him before : His Nobles all they did deplore , shedding salt tears in his sighed , He said farewell to rich and poor , at his good-morrow and goodnight . My Lords , said he , you stand but by , to see performance of the Law , It is I that have deserv'd to die , and yield myself unto the blow ; I have deserv'd to die , I know , but ne'r against my Country's right , Nor to my Queen was ever foe , upon my death , at my goodnight . Farewell , Elizabeth , my gracious Queen , God bless thee with thy Council all ; Farewell my Knights of Chivalry ; farewell my Soldiers stout and tall ; Farewell the Commons great and small ; into the hands of Men I light , My life shall make amends for all , for Essex bids the World goodnight . Farewell dear Wife and Children three , farewell my kind and tender Son ; Comfort yourselves , mourn not for me , although your fallen be now begun , My time is come , my glass is run , comfort yourself in former light , Seeing by my fallen you are undone , your Father bids the World goodnight . Derick , thou know'st at Cales I sav'd thy life , lost for a Rape there done , As thou thyself can'st testify , thine own hand three and twenty hung , But now thou seest myself is come , by chance into thy hands I light , Strike out thy blow , that I may know , thou Essex lov'd at his good night . When England counted me a Papist , the work of Papists I defy , I ne'r worshipped Saint nor Angel in Heaven , nor the Virgin Marry , I ; But to Christ , which for my sins did die , trickling with salt tears in his sighed , Spreading my arms to God on high , Lord Jesus receive my Soul this night Printed for A.M.W.D. and T. Thank - ray , at the Angel in Duck-lane . 