The Beautiful SHEPHERDESS of ARCADIA : A new Pastoral Song of a courteous young Knight , and a supposed Shepherd's Daughter of Arcadia , in Peloponnesus . To the Tune of , The Shepherd's Daughter , etc THere was a Shepherd's Daughter came tripping on the way , And there she met a courteous Knight , which caused her to stay : Sing trang dildo lee . Good-morrow to you beauteous Maid , these words pronounced he , Oh I shall die this day , he said , if I've not my wi [ l ] l of thee : Sing trang , etc The Lord forbid , the Maid reply'd , that such a thing should be , That ever such a courteous Knight should die for love of me : Sing trang , etc He took her about the middle so small , and laid her on the plain , And after he had god his will , he took her up again : Sing trang , etc Now you have had your will , kind Sir , and put my body to shame , Even as you are a courteous Knight , tell me what is your name ? Sing trang , etc Some do call me Jack , Sweetheart , and some do call me John , But when I come to the King's fair court , they call me Sweet William : Sing trang , etc He set his foot into the stirrup , and away then he did ride ; She tucked her girdle about her middle , and ran close by his side : Sing trang , etc But when she came to the broad water , she set her breast and swam , And when she was god out again , she took her heels and ran : Sing trang , etc He never was the courteous Knight to say , Fair Maid will you ride ? Nor she was never so loving a Maid to say , Sir Knight abide : Sing trang , etc When she came to the King's fair court , she knocked at the ring , So ready was the King himself to let this fair Maid in : Sing trang , etc O Christ save you , my gracious Liege , your body Christ save and see , You have a Knight within your court this day hath robbed me : Sing trang , etc What hath he robbed thee of , Sweetheart , of purple or of pall ? Or hath he took thy gay gold ring from off thy finger small ? Sing trang , etc He hath not robbed me , my Liege , of purple or of pall , But he hath god my maidenhead , which grieves me worst of all : Sing trang , etc Now if he be a bachelor his body i'll give to thee , But if he be a married man high hanged shall he be : Sing trang , etc He called down his merry men all by one , by two and by three ; Sweet William us'd to be the first , but now the last comes he : Sing trang , etc He brought her down full forty pound ty'd up within a glove , Fair Maid , I give the same to thee , and seek another love : Sing trang , etc O , i'll have none of your gold , she said , nor i'll have none of your fee , But I must have your fair body , the King hath given me : Sing trang , etc Sweet William ran and fetched her then five hundred pound in gold , Saying , Fair Maid take this to thee , thy fault will never be told : Sing trang , etc 'Tis not thy gold that shall me tempt , these words then answered she ; But I must have your own body , so the King hath granted me : Sing trang , etc Would I had drank the fair water , when I did drink the wine , That ever any Shepherd's Daughter should be a fair Lady of mine : Sing trang dildo lee . Would I had drank the puddle water , when I did drink the ale , That ever any Shepherd's Daughter should have told me such a tale : Sing trang , etc A Shepherd's Daughter as I was , you might have let me be , I'd ne'r a come to the King's fair court to have crav'd any love of thee : Sing trang , etc He set her on a milkwhite steed , and himself upon a grey , He hung a bugle about his neck , and so they road away : Sing trang , etc But when they came unto the place where marriage-rites was done , She prov'd herself a Duke's Daughter , and he but a Squire's Son : Sing trang , etc Now you have married me , Sir Knight , your pleasures will be free ; If you make me Lady of one good town , i'll make thee Lord of three : Sing trang etc Accursed be the gold , he said , if thou hadst not been true , That should a parted thee from me , to have chang'd thee for a new : Sing trang , etc Their hearts being so linked fast , and joined hand in hand , He had both purse and person too , and all at his command : Sing trang dildo lee . Licens'd and Enter'd according to Order . London : Printed for A.M. W.O. and T. Thac - keray , at the sign of the Angel in Duck-lane . The Beautiful SHEPHERDESS of ARCADIA : A new Pastoral Song of a courteous young Knight , and a supposed Shepherd's Daughter of Arcadia , in Peloponnesus . To the Tune of , The Shepherd's Daughter , etc THere was a Shepherd's Daughter came tripping on the way , And there she met a courteous Knight , which caused her to stay : Sing trang dildo lee . Good-morrow to you beauteous Maid , these words pronounced he , Oh I shall die this day , he said , if I've not my wi [ l ] l of thee : Sing trang , etc The Lord forbid , the Maid reply'd , that such a thing should be , That ever such a courteous Knight should die for love of me : Sing trang , etc He took her about the middle so small , and laid her on the plain , And after he had god his will , he took her up again : Sing trang , etc Now you have had your will , kind Sir , and put my body to shame , Even as you are a courteous Knight , tell me what is your name ? Sing trang , etc Some do call me Jack , Sweetheart , and some do call me John , But when I come to the King's fair court , they call me Sweet William : Sing trang , etc He set his foot into the stirrup , and away then he did ride ; She tucked her girdle about her middle , and ran close by his side : Sing trang , etc But when she came to the broad water , she set her breast and swam , And when she was god out again , she took her heels and ran : Sing trang , etc He never was the courteous Knight to say , Fair Maid will you ride ? Nor she was never so loving a Maid to say , Sir Knight abide : Sing trang , etc When she came to the King's fair court , she knocked at the ring , So ready was the King himself to let this fair Maid in : Sing trang , etc O Christ save you , my gracious Liege , your body Christ save and see , You have a Knight within your court this day hath robbed me : Sing trang , etc What hath he robbed thee of , Sweetheart , of purple or of pall ? Or hath he took thy gay gold ring from off thy finger small ? Sing trang , etc He hath not robbed me , my Liege , of purple or of pall , But he hath god my maidenhead , which grieves me worst of all : Sing trang , etc Now if he be a bachelor his body i'll give to thee , But if he be a married man high hanged shall he be : Sing trang , etc He called down his merry men all by one , by two and by three ; Sweet William us'd to be the first , but now the last comes he : Sing trang , etc He brought her down full forty pound ty'd up within a glove , Fair Maid , I give the same to thee , and seek another love : Sing trang , etc O , i'll have none of your gold , she said , nor i'll have none of your fee , But I must have your fair body , the King hath given me : Sing trang , etc Sweet William ran and fetched her then five hundred pound in gold , Saying , Fair Maid take this to thee , thy fault will never be told : Sing trang , etc 'Tis not thy gold that shall me tempt , these words then answered she ; But I must have your own body , so the King hath granted me : Sing trang , etc Would I had drank the fair water , when I did drink the wine , That ever any Shepherd's Daughter should be a fair Lady of mine : Sing trang dildo lee . Would I had drank the puddle water , when I did drink the ale , That ever any Shepherd's Daughter should have told me such a tale : Sing trang , etc A Shepherd's Daughter as I was , you might have let me be , I'd ne'r a come to the King's fair court to have crav'd any love of thee : Sing trang , etc He set her on a milkwhite steed , and himself upon a grey , He hung a bugle about his neck , and so they road away : Sing trang , etc But when they came unto the place where marriage-rites was done , She prov'd herself a Duke's Daughter , and he but a Squire's Son : Sing trang , etc Now you have married me , Sir Knight , your pleasures will be free ; If you make me Lady of one good town , i'll make thee Lord of three : Sing trang etc Accursed be the gold , he said , if thou hadst not been true , That should a parted thee from me , to have chang'd thee for a new : Sing trang , etc Their hearts being so linked fast , and joined hand in hand , He had both purse and person too , and all at his command : Sing trang dildo lee . Licens'd and Enter'd according to Order . London : Printed for A.M. W.O. and T. Thac - keray , at the sign of the Angel in Duck-lane . 