And Excellent Ballad of the Mercers Son of Midhurst , And the Clothiers Daughter of Guilford . To the Tune of , Dainty come thou to me . THere was a Wealthy man , in Sussex he did dwell , A Mercer by his Trade , as many yet can tell : He had a Youthful Son whom fancy did so move , He cried night and Day , Alack I die for love . Alack I die for Love , beauty disdains me , The Clothiers Daughter dear , works my extremity : She hath my heart in hold . that did most cruel prove , Thus cry'd he night and day , Alack , etc Alack I die for Love , fortune so soar does frown , The jewel of my heart , dwells in Guilford Town : There lives the lamp of life , for whom this pain I prove , Fair Phillis pity me , Alack , etc Alack I die for love , and can no comfort find , The Clothiers Daughter dear , bears too high a mind : Sweet beauty's Paragon , fair Venus silver Dove , Fair Phillis pity me , Alack , etc Alack I die for Love , while thou dost laugh and smile , Let not thy pleasure be , true Love for to beguile : My life lies in your hand , then as it does behove , Slay not the Mercers Son , Alack , etc If that my beauty bright , does grieve thy heart ( quoth she ) Then let the Mercers Son , turn still his face from me : I do no man disdain , nor can I cruel prove , My heart must still say nay , Where my heart cannot love . Where my heart cannot love , lovers all must I shun , The Clothiers Daughter thus , answered the Mercers Son : I bear no lofy mind , yet pity cannot move , My mind to fancy him , where , etc Where my heart cannot love , I must his love deny , Although I laugh and smile , yet falsehood I defy : Thou art too found a man , life danger thus to prove , I'le not wed good friend John , where my heart cannot love . What good can there befall , to that new married Wife , Where goods and wealth is small want causeth deadly strife : But where is wealth at will , experience oft does prove , Though love at first is small , yet goods increases love . Yet goods increases love , and I will never wed , But were the Key of Gold opens the door to Bed : For she may merry be , what chance soever hap , Where bags of money comes tumbling within her lap . Tumpling within her lap , while she her Gold does tell , With such a husband Sir , I do delight to dwell , Were he young , were he old , deform'd or fair in show , My pleasure still should be , where pleasure still does flow . Where pleasure still does flow , is that your mind ( quoth he ) My Father will bestow as much as comes to thee : Hadst thou five hundred pound , five hundred more beside , My Father will bestow : If thou wilt be my Bride . If thou wilt be my Bride , thus much I understand , My Father will give me , his house and eke his Land ; So while that he does live , with us he may remain , What says my hearts delight , is this a bargain plain ? This is a bargain plain , ( quoth she ) I am content , So he perform this thing , I give thee my consent , And I will merry be , my mind shall not remove , Thou shalt be my sweetheart , i'le be thy own true love . I'le be thy own true love , then make no more delay , I greatly long to see our marriage happy day . To Midhurst in all haste , goes the Mercers Son , He told his Father dear , his true love he had wone . The old man hearing this , conveyed out of hand , Assurance to his Son , of all his house and Land , When he had done this deed , he wept most bitterly , Saying , my dearest Son , thou must be good to me : Well worth two hundred pound , this morning was I known , But the Clothes of my back now nothing is my own : And all this I have done , dear Son to pleasure thee , Think on thy Father's love , and deal thou well with me , Dear Father ( quoth the Son ) if I do not do so , God pour upon my head , hight vengeance , grief and woe , The youngman wedded was , to his fair lovely Bride , But wondrous grief , and woe : thereof there did betide . As after you shall hear , in the old men Complaint , A tale of greater grief , cannot your heart attaint A warning by this thing , all men may understand , Lest they do come to live , under their Children's hand . FINIS . And Excellent Ballad of the Mercers Son of Midhurst , And the Clothiers Daughter of Guilford . To the Tune of , Dainty come thou to me . THere was a Wealthy man , in Sussex he did dwell , A Mercer by his Trade , as many yet can tell : He had a Youthful Son whom fancy did so move , He cried night and Day , Alack I die for love . Alack I die for Love , beauty disdains me , The Clothiers Daughter dear , works my extremity : She hath my heart in hold . that did most cruel prove , Thus cry'd he night and day , Alack , etc Alack I die for Love , fortune so soar does frown , The jewel of my heart , dwells in Guilford Town : There lives the lamp of life , for whom this pain I prove , Fair Phillis pity me , Alack , etc Alack I die for love , and can no comfort find , The Clothiers Daughter dear , bears too high a mind : Sweet beauty's Paragon , fair Venus silver Dove , Fair Phillis pity me , Alack , etc Alack I die for Love , while thou dost laugh and smile , Let not thy pleasure be , true Love for to beguile : My life lies in your hand , then as it does behove , Slay not the Mercers Son , Alack , etc If that my beauty bright , does grieve thy heart ( quoth she ) Then let the Mercers Son , turn still his face from me : I do no man disdain , nor can I cruel prove , My heart must still say nay , Where my heart cannot love . Where my heart cannot love , lovers all must I shun , The Clothiers Daughter thus , answered the Mercers Son : I bear no lofy mind , yet pity cannot move , My mind to fancy him , where , etc Where my heart cannot love , I must his love deny , Although I laugh and smile , yet falsehood I defy : Thou art too found a man , life danger thus to prove , I'le not wed good friend John , where my heart cannot love . What good can there befall , to that new married Wife , Where goods and wealth is small want causeth deadly strife : But where is wealth at will , experience oft does prove , Though love at first is small , yet goods increases love . Yet goods increases love , and I will never wed , But were the Key of Gold opens the door to Bed : For she may merry be , what chance soever hap , Where bags of money comes tumbling within her lap . Tumpling within her lap , while she her Gold does tell , With such a husband Sir , I do delight to dwell , Were he young , were he old , deform'd or fair in show , My pleasure still should be , where pleasure still does flow . Where pleasure still does flow , is that your mind ( quoth he ) My Father will bestow as much as comes to thee : Hadst thou five hundred pound , five hundred more beside , My Father will bestow : If thou wilt be my Bride . If thou wilt be my Bride , thus much I understand , My Father will give me , his house and eke his Land ; So while that he does live , with us he may remain , What says my hearts delight , is this a bargain plain ? This is a bargain plain , ( quoth she ) I am content , So he perform this thing , I give thee my consent , And I will merry be , my mind shall not remove , Thou shalt be my sweetheart , i'le be thy own true love . I'le be thy own true love , then make no more delay , I greatly long to see our marriage happy day . To Midhurst in all haste , goes the Mercers Son , He told his Father dear , his true love he had wone . The old man hearing this , conveyed out of hand , Assurance to his Son , of all his house and Land , When he had done this deed , he wept most bitterly , Saying , my dearest Son , thou must be good to me : Well worth two hundred pound , this morning was I known , But the Clothes of my back now nothing is my own : And all this I have done , dear Son to pleasure thee , Think on thy Father's love , and deal thou well with me , Dear Father ( quoth the Son ) if I do not do so , God pour upon my head , hight vengeance , grief and woe , The youngman wedded was , to his fair lovely Bride , But wondrous grief , and woe : thereof there did betide . As after you shall hear , in the old men Complaint , A tale of greater grief , cannot your heart attaint A warning by this thing , all men may understand , Lest they do come to live , under their Children's hand . FINIS . 