Poor Tom the Taylor His Lamentation . Giving and Account how he picked up a Miss near the Maypole in the Strand , and also how he handed her to the Fair . where he treated her very generously , but according to the old proverb , sweet meat must have sour sauce , for while he was safe a snoring in Bed she very dexterously picked his pocket , leaving him to pay the Reckoning , without ever a penny in his purse , This unfortunate disaster may well be a warning to all the Tailors in or about London to forsake their old accustomed tricks , setting poor Tom before them as and example . To the Tune of , Daniel Cooper . TOm the Taylor near the Strand , he met a pretty Creature . He kindly took her by the hand , and vow'd that he would treat her , He was kind and gave her wine , a Glass of good Canary ; She was fair as might compare , and Tom was brisk and airy . When Tommy he did court his miss , he called her his honey , But she would not admit a kiss , before she saw his money : But when she did behold his coin , she was well contented , Every penny shall be mine , thy Pockets shall be emptied . She array'd in Flower'd silks , and in costly Laces , With a skin as white as milk , these was sweet embraces : She called him her only joy , and vow'd she'd ne'r deceive him , As long as he had e're a Groat , she would never leave him . Straight they were convey'd to bed , he fell soon a snoring , Then a trick came in her head , to fit him for his whoring : By slight of hand she picked his Purse , and what did follow after , She left him all the shot to pay , like a cunning sharper . When the morning day appear'd he had never missed her , And rousing up he turn'd about , hoping to have kissed her : But when he found that she was gone , O how he then lamented , He cried out he was undone , he found his pocket emptied . The Taylor he god out of Bed , he was soar discontented , He tore the hair from off his head , it seems he thus lamented : In that his rage he curs'd the time , when that he first beheld her , For she had fun'd him of his Coin , O then he could have kill'd her . The Drawer he came up indeed , with this discourse ensuing , Come pay me down my shot with speed , or it shall prove your ruin : The Drawer with such kind of words , began for to afflict him , He call'd him whoreson Cuckolds bird , and down the Stairs he kicked him . The poor distressed Taylor looked , as if he would have died , And then he fell upon his knees , and wrung his hands and cried : But yet his tears would not prevail , they would not thus dismiss him , But they did ferret him about , that the Taylor he bepissed him . The Taylor see himself beset , by those that stood about him , Which caused him to chafe and fret , to see how they did flout him : He striped off his Coat and Cloak , and they from him did take it , And then they turn'd him out of doors a little more then Naked . You Tailors all that keeps a Miss , and deals so much in Courting , They'l give to you a Judas kiss , if you delight in Sporting : You see poor Tommy of your trade , by Whoring was abused , Which made him make a solemn vow that he no more would use it . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgat Poor Tom the Taylor His Lamentation . Giving and Account how he picked up a Miss near the Maypole in the Strand , and also how he handed her to the Fair . where he treated her very generously , but according to the old proverb , sweet meat must have sour sauce , for while he was safe a snoring in Bed she very dexterously picked his pocket , leaving him to pay the Reckoning , without ever a penny in his purse , This unfortunate disaster may well be a warning to all the Tailors in or about London to forsake their old accustomed tricks , setting poor Tom before them as and example . To the Tune of , Daniel Cooper . TOm the Taylor near the Strand , he met a pretty Creature . He kindly took her by the hand , and vow'd that he would treat her , He was kind and gave her wine , a Glass of good Canary ; She was fair as might compare , and Tom was brisk and airy . When Tommy he did court his miss , he called her his honey , But she would not admit a kiss , before she saw his money : But when she did behold his coin , she was well contented , Every penny shall be mine , thy Pockets shall be emptied . She array'd in Flower'd silks , and in costly Laces , With a skin as white as milk , these was sweet embraces : She called him her only joy , and vow'd she'd ne'r deceive him , As long as he had e're a Groat , she would never leave him . Straight they were convey'd to bed , he fell soon a snoring , Then a trick came in her head , to fit him for his whoring : By slight of hand she picked his Purse , and what did follow after , She left him all the shot to pay , like a cunning sharper . When the morning day appear'd he had never missed her , And rousing up he turn'd about , hoping to have kissed her : But when he found that she was gone , O how he then lamented , He cried out he was undone , he found his pocket emptied . The Taylor he god out of Bed , he was soar discontented , He tore the hair from off his head , it seems he thus lamented : In that his rage he curs'd the time , when that he first beheld her , For she had fun'd him of his Coin , O then he could have kill'd her . The Drawer he came up indeed , with this discourse ensuing , Come pay me down my shot with speed , or it shall prove your ruin : The Drawer with such kind of words , began for to afflict him , He call'd him whoreson Cuckolds bird , and down the Stairs he kicked him . The poor distressed Taylor looked , as if he would have died , And then he fell upon his knees , and wrung his hands and cried : But yet his tears would not prevail , they would not thus dismiss him , But they did ferret him about , that the Taylor he bepissed him . The Taylor see himself beset , by those that stood about him , Which caused him to chafe and fret , to see how they did flout him : He striped off his Coat and Cloak , and they from him did take it , And then they turn'd him out of doors a little more then Naked . You Tailors all that keeps a Miss , and deals so much in Courting , They'l give to you a Judas kiss , if you delight in Sporting : You see poor Tommy of your trade , by Whoring was abused , Which made him make a solemn vow that he no more would use it . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgat Poor Tom the Taylor His Lamentation . Giving and Account how he picked up a Miss near the Maypole in the Strand , and also how he handed her to the Fair . where he treated her very generously , but according to the old proverb , sweet meat must have sour sauce , for while he was safe a snoring in Bed she very dexterously picked his pocket , leaving him to pay the Reckoning , without ever a penny in his purse , This unfortunate disaster may well be a warning to all the Tailors in or about London to forsake their old accustomed tricks , setting poor Tom before them as and example . To the Tune of , Daniel Cooper . TOm the Taylor near the Strand , he met a pretty Creature . He kindly took her by the hand , and vow'd that he would treat her , He was kind and gave her wine , a Glass of good Canary ; She was fair as might compare , and Tom was brisk and airy . When Tommy he did court his miss , he called her his honey , But she would not admit a kiss , before she saw his money : But when she did behold his coin , she was well contented , Every penny shall be mine , thy Pockets shall be emptied . She array'd in Flower'd silks , and in costly Laces , With a skin as white as milk , these was sweet embraces : She called him her only joy , and vow'd she'd ne'r deceive him , As long as he had e're a Groat , she would never leave him . Straight they were convey'd to bed , he fell soon a snoring , Then a trick came in her head , to fit him for his whoring : By slight of hand she picked his Purse , and what did follow after , She left him all the shot to pay , like a cunning sharper . When the morning day appear'd he had never missed her , And rousing up he turn'd about , hoping to have kissed her : But when he found that she was gone , O how he then lamented , He cried out he was undone , he found his pocket emptied . The Taylor he god out of Bed , he was soar discontented , He tore the hair from off his head , it seems he thus lamented : In that his rage he curs'd the time , when that he first beheld her , For she had fun'd him of his Coin , O then he could have kill'd her . The Drawer he came up indeed , with this discourse ensuing , Come pay me down my shot with speed , or it shall prove your ruin : The Drawer with such kind of words , began for to afflict him , He call'd him whoreson Cuckolds bird , and down the Stairs he kicked him . The poor distressed Taylor looked , as if he would have died , And then he fell upon his knees , and wrung his hands and cried : But yet his tears would not prevail , they would not thus dismiss him , But they did ferret him about , that the Taylor he bepissed him . The Taylor see himself beset , by those that stood about him , Which caused him to chafe and fret , to see how they did flout him : He striped off his Coat and Cloak , and they from him did take it , And then they turn'd him out of doors a little more then Naked . You Tailors all that keeps a Miss , and deals so much in Courting , They'l give to you a Judas kiss , if you delight in Sporting : You see poor Tommy of your trade , by Whoring was abused , Which made him make a solemn vow that he no more would use it . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgat Poor Tom the Taylor His Lamentation . Giving and Account how he picked up a Miss near the Maypole in the Strand , and also how he handed her to the Fair . where he treated her very generously , but according to the old proverb , sweet meat must have sour sauce , for while he was safe a snoring in Bed she very dexterously picked his pocket , leaving him to pay the Reckoning , without ever a penny in his purse , This unfortunate disaster may well be a warning to all the Tailors in or about London to forsake their old accustomed tricks , setting poor Tom before them as and example . To the Tune of , Daniel Cooper . TOm the Taylor near the Strand , he met a pretty Creature . He kindly took her by the hand , and vow'd that he would treat her , He was kind and gave her wine , a Glass of good Canary ; She was fair as might compare , and Tom was brisk and airy . When Tommy he did court his miss , he called her his honey , But she would not admit a kiss , before she saw his money : But when she did behold his coin , she was well contented , Every penny shall be mine , thy Pockets shall be emptied . She array'd in Flower'd silks , and in costly Laces , With a skin as white as milk , these was sweet embraces : She called him her only joy , and vow'd she'd ne'r deceive him , As long as he had e're a Groat , she would never leave him . Straight they were convey'd to bed , he fell soon a snoring , Then a trick came in her head , to fit him for his whoring : By slight of hand she picked his Purse , and what did follow after , She left him all the shot to pay , like a cunning sharper . When the morning day appear'd he had never missed her , And rousing up he turn'd about , hoping to have kissed her : But when he found that she was gone , O how he then lamented , He cried out he was undone , he found his pocket emptied . The Taylor he god out of Bed , he was soar discontented , He tore the hair from off his head , it seems he thus lamented : In that his rage he curs'd the time , when that he first beheld her , For she had fun'd him of his Coin , O then he could have kill'd her . The Drawer he came up indeed , with this discourse ensuing , Come pay me down my shot with speed , or it shall prove your ruin : The Drawer with such kind of words , began for to afflict him , He call'd him whoreson Cuckolds bird , and down the Stairs he kicked him . The poor distressed Taylor looked , as if he would have died , And then he fell upon his knees , and wrung his hands and cried : But yet his tears would not prevail , they would not thus dismiss him , But they did ferret him about , that the Taylor he bepissed him . The Taylor see himself beset , by those that stood about him , Which caused him to chafe and fret , to see how they did flout him : He striped off his Coat and Cloak , and they from him did take it , And then they turn'd him out of doors a little more then Naked . You Tailors all that keeps a Miss , and deals so much in Courting , They'l give to you a Judas kiss , if you delight in Sporting : You see poor Tommy of your trade , by Whoring was abused , Which made him make a solemn vow that he no more would use it . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgat 