The Doting Old DAD , OR , The Unequal Match betwixt a Rich Muckworm of Fourscore and Ten , and a Young Lass scarce Nineteen . When Dads thus Old , whose Blood is cold , young Damsels seeks to Wed ; For their neglect , they may expect Horns grafted on their Head. To the Tune of , All Trades . This may be Printed , R.P. THere was a young Damsel of late , was Woo'd by a Dad very Old , He had a right worthy Estate , beside store of Silver and Gold : His Service he proffer'd her then , yet he was as pale as a Ghost , He being full Fourscore and Ten , and she was but Nineteen at mos But ever when he drew nigh , the Damsel would straight reply ; I'le never have you , for what can you do ? O fie upon Fumblers , fie . Although I am wrinkled and Lean , yet I will be loving to thee , And deck thee as fine as a Queen , if thou wilt be Marry'd to me : Both Silver and Gold I have store , and yet though thy Portion is small , If I had a thousand times more , yet you shou'd be Mistress of all : But ever when he drew nigh , the Damsel would straight Reply , I'le never have you , for what can you do ? O fie upon Fumblers , fie . I tell thee my amorous Girl , if that thou wilt be but my Bride , I'le give thee Rich Jewels and Pearl , and twenty new Nick-knacks beside : A Tower and Topknot so fine , a Mask and a delicate Fan ; Oh tell me now wilt thou be mine , endeavour to love and Old Man : But ever when he , etc He proffer'd her still to advance her , but thus with Discretion , said she , You [ ' ] re Old enough to be my Grandsir , and therefore no Husband for me : For when I behold your bald Pate , and straggling Hairs white and grey , Oh then at a sorrowful rate , I weeping and sighing , shall say : Oh what a hard Fortune have I , though Marry'd , a Maiden must die ; The more is my grief , I see no relief , Oh fie upon Fumblers , fie . Now hearing the Damsels intent , and finding he could not prevail , Away to her Mother he went , and told her a pitiful Tale : Your Daughter she is in a rage , and all my kind proffers won't heed , Beside , she despises my Age , which ought to be Honour'd indeed : For when to her I draw nigh , she makes this strange Reply ; I'le never have you , for what can you do ? O fie upon Fumblers , fie . She straight for her Daughter did send , before the Old Man went away , In duty she straight did attend , to hear what her Mother would say : My Daughter , you well understand , that he has good Treasure enough , In Money , nay , Cattle and Land , with abundance of good Householdstuff : Then Daughter tell me but why , you will not freely comply ? Said she , he is Old , his Blood it is cold , Oh fie upon Fumblers , fie . Her Mother did hear her therefore , she straightway did call her aside , You know he has Riches great store , and therefore you must be his Bride : And as for the pleasure of Youth , if he can't get Daughter or Son , Believe me , I'de have you , in truth , do e'ne as your Mother has done : For when my Old Dad would deny , to yield me a daily supply , I still had a Friend my Will to attend , for fie upon Fumblers , fie . Thus you may your sorrows relieve , although and Old Fumblers Wife , It is easy to make him believe you love him as dear as your life : You need not his Jealousy dread , if that you will make but each night A Cordial , and put him to Bed , then kiss with a Gallant all nigh For Daughter , I cannot deny , but Wives may want a supply , Which if it be so , abroad we must go , for fie upon Fumblers , fie . The Damsel she gave her Consent , and they the next morning was Wed , The day was in Merriment spent , at length they did hurry to Bed : And then said the Feeble Old Man , thy Fancy I'de willingly feed , But can do no more than I can , accept of the Will for the Deed In Bed he Grunting does lie , which makes her often Reply , I still am a Maid , and shall be , she said , Oh fie upon Fumblers , fie . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Sign of the Golden-Ball , near the Hospital - Gate , in West-Smithfield . The Doting Old DAD , OR , The Unequal Match betwixt a Rich Muckworm of Fourscore and Ten , and a Young Lass scarce Nineteen . When Dads thus Old , whose Blood is cold , young Damsels seeks to Wed ; For their neglect , they may expect Horns grafted on their Head. To the Tune of , All Trades . This may be Printed , R.P. THere was a young Damsel of late , was Woo'd by a Dad very Old , He had a right worthy Estate , beside store of Silver and Gold : His Service he proffer'd her then , yet he was as pale as a Ghost , He being full Fourscore and Ten , and she was but Nineteen at mos But ever when he drew nigh , the Damsel would straight reply ; I'le never have you , for what can you do ? O fie upon Fumblers , fie . Although I am wrinkled and Lean , yet I will be loving to thee , And deck thee as fine as a Queen , if thou wilt be Marry'd to me : Both Silver and Gold I have store , and yet though thy Portion is small , If I had a thousand times more , yet you shou'd be Mistress of all : But ever when he drew nigh , the Damsel would straight Reply , I'le never have you , for what can you do ? O fie upon Fumblers , fie . I tell thee my amorous Girl , if that thou wilt be but my Bride , I'le give thee Rich Jewels and Pearl , and twenty new Nick-knacks beside : A Tower and Topknot so fine , a Mask and a delicate Fan ; Oh tell me now wilt thou be mine , endeavour to love and Old Man : But ever when he , etc He proffer'd her still to advance her , but thus with Discretion , said she , You [ ' ] re Old enough to be my Grandsir , and therefore no Husband for me : For when I behold your bald Pate , and straggling Hairs white and grey , Oh then at a sorrowful rate , I weeping and sighing , shall say : Oh what a hard Fortune have I , though Marry'd , a Maiden must die ; The more is my grief , I see no relief , Oh fie upon Fumblers , fie . Now hearing the Damsels intent , and finding he could not prevail , Away to her Mother he went , and told her a pitiful Tale : Your Daughter she is in a rage , and all my kind proffers won't heed , Beside , she despises my Age , which ought to be Honour'd indeed : For when to her I draw nigh , she makes this strange Reply ; I'le never have you , for what can you do ? O fie upon Fumblers , fie . She straight for her Daughter did send , before the Old Man went away , In duty she straight did attend , to hear what her Mother would say : My Daughter , you well understand , that he has good Treasure enough , In Money , nay , Cattle and Land , with abundance of good Householdstuff : Then Daughter tell me but why , you will not freely comply ? Said she , he is Old , his Blood it is cold , Oh fie upon Fumblers , fie . Her Mother did hear her therefore , she straightway did call her aside , You know he has Riches great store , and therefore you must be his Bride : And as for the pleasure of Youth , if he can't get Daughter or Son , Believe me , I'de have you , in truth , do e'ne as your Mother has done : For when my Old Dad would deny , to yield me a daily supply , I still had a Friend my Will to attend , for fie upon Fumblers , fie . Thus you may your sorrows relieve , although and Old Fumblers Wife , It is easy to make him believe you love him as dear as your life : You need not his Jealousy dread , if that you will make but each night A Cordial , and put him to Bed , then kiss with a Gallant all nigh For Daughter , I cannot deny , but Wives may want a supply , Which if it be so , abroad we must go , for fie upon Fumblers , fie . The Damsel she gave her Consent , and they the next morning was Wed , The day was in Merriment spent , at length they did hurry to Bed : And then said the Feeble Old Man , thy Fancy I'de willingly feed , But can do no more than I can , accept of the Will for the Deed In Bed he Grunting does lie , which makes her often Reply , I still am a Maid , and shall be , she said , Oh fie upon Fumblers , fie . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Sign of the Golden-Ball , near the Hospital - Gate , in West-Smithfield . 