THE Covetous MOTHER : OR , The terrible Overthrow of the Two LOYAL LOVERS . You that these woeful Tidings hear , Surely your Hearts will bleed , Who can forbear to shed a Tear , When they these Liens shall read . THere was a wealthy young 'Squire , whom a fair Damsel did love ; Nay , and it was so entire , nothing his Fancy could move : She born of ordinary Parents , when his Friends they did know , They strove to set them at Variance , proving their sad Overthrow . Son , said the indulgent Mother , I pray you now listen to me , I have consider'd another most suitable to your Degree ; That you may rise to Promotion , she is both Virtuous and Fair , Two thousand Pounds to her Portion , therefore your Folly forbear . Mother , those Charms do inflame me , which in my Dear I behold ; Therefore , I pray , do not blame me , for True Love is better than Gold Might I have Wealth out of Measure , nothing can my Mind remove , I'll never Marry for Treasure , give me the Creature I love . I can maintain her like a Lady , she whom I do much adore , I have god Riches already , what need I covet for more ? If you give me not one Penny , I have five Hundred a Year ; Now if I Marry with any , it shall be Nanny my Dear . Son , if your Love is so rooted , that from her you cannot part , By me it shan't be disputed , take her with all my whole Hear But she in that was deceitful , as by this Ditty you'll find ; Never was Actium more hateful , malice remain'd in her Mind . Strait she repair'd to the Creature , vowing to send her away ; But with a Smile she did meet her , saying , Dear Daughter , this Day We will go buy your Attire , everything I will provide , 'Tis my unfeigned Desire that you should be my Son's Bride . Thus was the Matter contriv'd , just as his Mother would have ; Then to a Captain , in private , she sold her for to be a Slave . She from Old England did send her , fill'd with much Sorrow and Woe , There was no Soul to defend her , but she was compelled to go . When her Intention was over , then she return'd to her Son ; Freely to him did discover presently , what she had done ; When he herd what she had acted , his Rapier he strait pulled forth , Raving like one quite distracted , crying , you have ruin'd us both . Then on the Point of his Rapier he did immediately fallen ; His Life did go out like a Taper , this was the Ruin of all : His Mother more than uncivil , was of a covetous Mind ; Money , the Root of all Evil , caus'd this Confusion , we find . Now does his Mother , with weeping , weary out many a Day , While her dear Son he lies sleeping low in a Bed of cold Clay : This is a sad Desolation ; she who he much did adore , Now is sent far from the Nation , where she will ne'er see him more . THE Covetous MOTHER : OR , The terrible Overthrow of the Two LOYAL LOVERS . You that these woeful Tidings hear , Surely your Hearts will bleed , Who can forbear to shed a Tear , When they these Liens shall read . THere was a wealthy young 'Squire , whom a fair Damsel did love ; Nay , and it was so entire , nothing his Fancy could move : She born of ordinary Parents , when his Friends they did know , They strove to set them at Variance , proving their sad Overthrow . Son , said the indulgent Mother , I pray you now listen to me , I have consider'd another most suitable to your Degree ; That you may rise to Promotion , she is both Virtuous and Fair , Two thousand Pounds to her Portion , therefore your Folly forbear . Mother , those Charms do inflame me , which in my Dear I behold ; Therefore , I pray , do not blame me , for True Love is better than Gold Might I have Wealth out of Measure , nothing can my Mind remove , I'll never Marry for Treasure , give me the Creature I love . I can maintain her like a Lady , she whom I do much adore , I have god Riches already , what need I covet for more ? If you give me not one Penny , I have five Hundred a Year ; Now if I Marry with any , it shall be Nanny my Dear . Son , if your Love is so rooted , that from her you cannot part , By me it shan't be disputed , take her with all my whole Hear But she in that was deceitful , as by this Ditty you'll find ; Never was Actium more hateful , malice remain'd in her Mind . Strait she repair'd to the Creature , vowing to send her away ; But with a Smile she did meet her , saying , Dear Daughter , this Day We will go buy your Attire , everything I will provide , 'Tis my unfeigned Desire that you should be my Son's Bride . Thus was the Matter contriv'd , just as his Mother would have ; Then to a Captain , in private , she sold her for to be a Slave . She from Old England did send her , fill'd with much Sorrow and Woe , There was no Soul to defend her , but she was compelled to go . When her Intention was over , then she return'd to her Son ; Freely to him did discover presently , what she had done ; When he herd what she had acted , his Rapier he strait pulled forth , Raving like one quite distracted , crying , you have ruin'd us both . Then on the Point of his Rapier he did immediately fallen ; His Life did go out like a Taper , this was the Ruin of all : His Mother more than uncivil , was of a covetous Mind ; Money , the Root of all Evil , caus'd this Confusion , we find . Now does his Mother , with weeping , weary out many a Day , While her dear Son he lies sleeping low in a Bed of cold Clay : This is a sad Desolation ; she who he much did adore , Now is sent far from the Nation , where she will ne'er see him more . 