The Disloyal Favourite OR , The unfortunate States-Man . Who seeks by found desire for to Climb May chance to catch a fallen before his time For Fortune is as fickle , as the Wind , To him that bears a proud ambious mind . Tune of , Sawny will ne'r be my Love again . TOmmy was a Lord of high renown , And he was Rais'd from a low degree , He had Command or'e every Town ; there was never a one so great as he : But he like and ungrateful wretch , did set his Conscience on the Stretch , And now is afraid of Squire Catch , For Tommy will ne'r be belov'd again . When he was Young and a lively Lad , he had strange Projects in his Pate , He thought that Honour was to be had , and that it was fine to be high in State : Which made him up to the Court to come to try his Friends , both all and some , He god them to swallow a Sugar Plumb . But Tommy will ne'r be belov'd again . He took delight , to be made a Knight for that he counted a lucky step . Thought he if I , can rise so high perhaps the next time I may leap , Such fancy's harboured in his breast , that he could hardly take his rest , Since that Ambition was his guest , But Tommy will ne'r be belov'd again . He came to be , both High and Great and Lord it over all the rest , His betters sat on a lower seat , while he was placed with the bes Which made him so with Honour swell , where his breech hung , he could not tell , He thought that all things happened well , But Tommy will ne'r be belov'd again . The second Part , to the same Tune . WHat he could ask , was granted straight , or any thing he did require He like a Suitor need not wait , for he had all at his desire , Brave stately buildings and good Ground , with pleasant Groves to walk a round , Beside Ten hundred thousand Pound . But Tommy will ne'r be belov'd again . O was not Tommy a very Fool , that he could not contented be , When Riches thus did upon him roll , but he must greater strive to be : By means which were so indirect that no ones power could him Protect , But all good men did him reject For Tommy will ne'r be belov'd again . He Silks and Satins might a worn , and rid in Pomp most sumptuously , Though now he is become a scorn , to persons all , of each degree : It's wished that he had dy'd at Nurse , and never liv'd to bear the Purse , Which made the Nation fare the worse . For Tommy will ne'r be belov'd again . While he was great and high in power , his friends he highly did advance . But now he hath cause to curse the hour that ever he was concern'd with France . He studied mischief and what not and was ( some say ) concern'd in the Plot , Which may at last , make him go to t'h Pot. For Tommy will ne'r be belov'd again . Now from the top of Honours great , poor Tommy he is headlong cast , He now hath time his brains to beatrice , for fear he come to be nub'd at last , His friends do daily from him shrink , although he us'd to give them chink , Like Polecats they begin now to stink . For Tommy will ne'r be belov'd again . Alack poor Tommy pity 'twas , that e'r thou liv'd to see this day , Thy golden days are gone and passed , and thou art feft to sing welladay . If thou dost live to be great again , be sure from Treachery refrain , For Honour is apt to take a stain . And Tommy will ne'r be belov'd again . Thus have you herd great Tommy's Case , and how he was a man of power . But yet I would not take his place , although it were in a spacious Tower . For Justice is so brave a thing , who wrongs his country and his King , will hardly escape w , thought a swing . And Tommy will ne'r be belov'd again . Then let all Loyal Subject's pray that God our Sovereign still may bless , and so preserve him night and day , in health and all true happiness : That Justice may take place with those who are their King and country's foes and will not Triachery disclose . Though Tommy shall ne'r be belov'd again . London Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . The Disloyal Favourite OR , The unfortunate States-Man . Who seeks by found desire for to Climb May chance to catch a fallen before his time For Fortune is as fickle , as the Wind , To him that bears a proud ambious mind . Tune of , Sawny will ne'r be my Love again . TOmmy was a Lord of high renown , And he was Rais'd from a low degree , He had Command or'e every Town ; there was never a one so great as he : But he like and ungrateful wretch , did set his Conscience on the Stretch , And now is afraid of Squire Catch , For Tommy will ne'r be belov'd again . When he was Young and a lively Lad , he had strange Projects in his Pate , He thought that Honour was to be had , and that it was fine to be high in State : Which made him up to the Court to come to try his Friends , both all and some , He god them to swallow a Sugar Plumb . But Tommy will ne'r be belov'd again . He took delight , to be made a Knight for that he counted a lucky step . Thought he if I , can rise so high perhaps the next time I may leap , Such fancy's harboured in his breast , that he could hardly take his rest , Since that Ambition was his guest , But Tommy will ne'r be belov'd again . He came to be , both High and Great and Lord it over all the rest , His betters sat on a lower seat , while he was placed with the bes Which made him so with Honour swell , where his breech hung , he could not tell , He thought that all things happened well , But Tommy will ne'r be belov'd again . The second Part , to the same Tune . WHat he could ask , was granted straight , or any thing he did require He like a Suitor need not wait , for he had all at his desire , Brave stately buildings and good Ground , with pleasant Groves to walk a round , Beside Ten hundred thousand Pound . But Tommy will ne'r be belov'd again . O was not Tommy a very Fool , that he could not contented be , When Riches thus did upon him roll , but he must greater strive to be : By means which were so indirect that no ones power could him Protect , But all good men did him reject For Tommy will ne'r be belov'd again . He Silks and Satins might a worn , and rid in Pomp most sumptuously , Though now he is become a scorn , to persons all , of each degree : It's wished that he had dy'd at Nurse , and never liv'd to bear the Purse , Which made the Nation fare the worse . For Tommy will ne'r be belov'd again . While he was great and high in power , his friends he highly did advance . But now he hath cause to curse the hour that ever he was concern'd with France . He studied mischief and what not and was ( some say ) concern'd in the Plot , Which may at last , make him go to t'h Pot. For Tommy will ne'r be belov'd again . Now from the top of Honours great , poor Tommy he is headlong cast , He now hath time his brains to beatrice , for fear he come to be nub'd at last , His friends do daily from him shrink , although he us'd to give them chink , Like Polecats they begin now to stink . For Tommy will ne'r be belov'd again . Alack poor Tommy pity 'twas , that e'r thou liv'd to see this day , Thy golden days are gone and passed , and thou art feft to sing welladay . If thou dost live to be great again , be sure from Treachery refrain , For Honour is apt to take a stain . And Tommy will ne'r be belov'd again . Thus have you herd great Tommy's Case , and how he was a man of power . But yet I would not take his place , although it were in a spacious Tower . For Justice is so brave a thing , who wrongs his country and his King , will hardly escape w , thought a swing . And Tommy will ne'r be belov'd again . Then let all Loyal Subject's pray that God our Sovereign still may bless , and so preserve him night and day , in health and all true happiness : That Justice may take place with those who are their King and country's foes and will not Triachery disclose . Though Tommy shall ne'r be belov'd again . London Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . 