The Faithful Lovers : OR , Tommy and Bettys Declarations . To the Tune of , Tender Hearts of London City . TOmmy and his Love were walking , To each other thus a talking , when he did to her declare ; None so pretty was as Betty , Betty was his only dear . Dearest Betty do believe me , That I never will deceive thee , thou shalt be my only care ; None so pretty as my Betty , Betty was his only dear . Whatsoever I am doing , Still my heart is Betty owing , Betty is so Sweet and Fair , None so Pretty and so witty , Betty was his only dear . When my Comrades they are Drinking , I am still of Betty thinking , sometime almost dead with fear , But my Betty is so Pretty , she shall be my only dear . Whensoe're I have the Honour , For to cast my eyes upon her , she does look so Charming fair , And so pretty , and so witty , that she always is my dear . Tell me then my pretty Sweating , If you like this way of Greeting , or if Tommy must despair , Dearest Betty , you are pretty , still let Tommy be your dear . Answer me my pretty Creature , Thou that art the pride of Nature , thou so much beyond compare , Say my pretty lovely Betty , shall poor Tommy be thy dear ? Her Answer . WOULD ! quoth she , and look'd amazed , While upon his eyes she gazed , can you think I am unkind ? No , I love you , none above you , and will never change my mind . I have not a woman's nature , To be found of every Creature , or to altar with the wind ; No , I love you , none above you , and will never change my mind . Tommy is my only Treasure , All my joy , and all my Pleasure , where I have my heart confin'd ; And I love him , none above him , and will never change my mind . All that Fortune can do to me , Tho' a Lord should come to woo me , yet my Tommy he should find , That I love him , none above him , and will never change my mind . But if Tommy do mistrust me , Tho' my inward grief do burst me , when you no occasion find , Tho' I love you , none above you , that perhaps may change my mind . No , quoth he , my only jewel , I will never be so cruel , to mistrust were to despair , For I love thee , none above thee , thou shalt be my only dear . Then for to prevent miscarriage , They perfixt a day of Marriage , where their Friends together were , All contented , none lamented , true love makes a happy pair . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , in Pye-Corner , near West-Smithfield . The Faithful Lovers : OR , Tommy and Bettys Declarations . To the Tune of , Tender Hearts of London City . TOmmy and his Love were walking , To each other thus a talking , when he did to her declare ; None so pretty was as Betty , Betty was his only dear . Dearest Betty do believe me , That I never will deceive thee , thou shalt be my only care ; None so pretty as my Betty , Betty was his only dear . Whatsoever I am doing , Still my heart is Betty owing , Betty is so Sweet and Fair , None so Pretty and so witty , Betty was his only dear . When my Comrades they are Drinking , I am still of Betty thinking , sometime almost dead with fear , But my Betty is so Pretty , she shall be my only dear . Whensoe're I have the Honour , For to cast my eyes upon her , she does look so Charming fair , And so pretty , and so witty , that she always is my dear . Tell me then my pretty Sweating , If you like this way of Greeting , or if Tommy must despair , Dearest Betty , you are pretty , still let Tommy be your dear . Answer me my pretty Creature , Thou that art the pride of Nature , thou so much beyond compare , Say my pretty lovely Betty , shall poor Tommy be thy dear ? Her Answer . WOULD ! quoth she , and look'd amazed , While upon his eyes she gazed , can you think I am unkind ? No , I love you , none above you , and will never change my mind . I have not a woman's nature , To be found of every Creature , or to altar with the wind ; No , I love you , none above you , and will never change my mind . Tommy is my only Treasure , All my joy , and all my Pleasure , where I have my heart confin'd ; And I love him , none above him , and will never change my mind . All that Fortune can do to me , Tho' a Lord should come to woo me , yet my Tommy he should find , That I love him , none above him , and will never change my mind . But if Tommy do mistrust me , Tho' my inward grief do burst me , when you no occasion find , Tho' I love you , none above you , that perhaps may change my mind . No , quoth he , my only jewel , I will never be so cruel , to mistrust were to despair , For I love thee , none above thee , thou shalt be my only dear . Then for to prevent miscarriage , They perfixt a day of Marriage , where their Friends together were , All contented , none lamented , true love makes a happy pair . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , in Pye-Corner , near West-Smithfield . 