The LONDON CUCKOLD : OR , And Ancient Citizens-Head well fitted with a Flourishing pair of Fashionable Horns , by his Buxom young Wife , who was well back'd by a Coltish-Spark , in the time of her Hus - bans Absence at the Campaign on Hounslow-Heath . Tune of , Oh Mother Roger , etc This may be Printed , R. P. A Tradesman hearing of the Story , of the Army and Campaign , Long'd for to behold the Glory , and he went to view the same ; On his Brown-Bay Tit he god , and away does bravely trot , Left behind his witty Wife , Whom he lov'd as dear as life , But while my Tradesman took the Air , there came a Colt and Backed his Mare . It was a Gallant with white Feather , and a Coat with Golden Lace : Hearing of her Fame came thither , and supply'd her Husbands place . Little thought the careless Man , of the Game that then began , Thinking not to be beguiled , By his Wife so sweet and mild , But while the Tradesman took the Air , there came a Colt that backed his Mare . When he came home She gave him Kisses , and Sack-Posset very good : Candles too , she never misses , for they warm , and heat the Blood . Such things will Create desire , and new kindle Cupid's Fire . These things made him kiss his Wife , And to call her Love and Life , But while ( alas ) he took the Air , a wanton Colt had back't his Mare . The good man soon found something budding , which did put him to great pain : And as he was eating Pudding , to his Wife he did complain . Wife , said he , I am not well , ( what I ail'd I cannot tell ) But my Forehead feels like Bone , 'Tis as hard as any stone . By Jove , quoth she , and this fair morn , Husband , Husband , 'tis a Horn . A Horn , quoth he , pray hold your prating , ( for I Vow you make me quake , ) If it be , 'tis of your making , Oh dear ! how my Head does ache , I am in a woeful case , something , something sprouts apace . Love ( said She ) then know your doom , One lay with me in your Room , For while you rid to take the Air , there came a Colt that back't your Mare . The Duce ( quoth he ) take you for Witches , can't a man ride out a Mile ; But some fellow with fine Breeches , must new Saddle you the while . Husbands , Husband , for your joy , you shall have a thumping Boy , Come , come peace , and have more wit , Oh! I feel a qualmish Fit , I find , I find , I am with Child , pray my Dear , be kind and mild . With Child , do you say , ( you arrant Hussie , I ne'r god it ; is it true ? 'Tis ( quoth she ) you were so busy , I was loath to trouble you . You love Business as your Life , but ne'r mind to kiss your Wife , You leave me to lie alone , All night long to sighs and moan , And therefore when you took the Air , there came a Colt that back't your Mare . It was a Youth in Gaudy Jacket , that appear'd most brisk and fine , Kissed me , pressed me , teaz'd my Placket , made me blush like Claret-wine : But at last I did obey , what young Woman could say nay ? To this Gallant I did yield , And the Warrior wone the Field , For while you ( Husband ) took the Air , this same Youngster back't your Mare . Oh! let true Patience be my Balsom , since I know my wretched Fate , Prating like a Fool is fulsome , silence Cures the Horned pate . Should I blow my Trumpet out , I should raise the Rabble-rout , Have the Boys about my Ears , And endure their Flouts and Jears . But for hereafter i'le take care , that no Colt shall back my Mare . Printed J. Back , on London-Bridge , near the Draw-Bridge . The LONDON CUCKOLD : OR , And Ancient Citizens-Head well fitted with a Flourishing pair of Fashionable Horns , by his Buxom young Wife , who was well back'd by a Coltish-Spark , in the time of her Hus - bans Absence at the Campaign on Hounslow-Heath . Tune of , Oh Mother Roger , etc This may be Printed , R. P. A Tradesman hearing of the Story , of the Army and Campaign , Long'd for to behold the Glory , and he went to view the same ; On his Brown-Bay Tit he god , and away does bravely trot , Left behind his witty Wife , Whom he lov'd as dear as life , But while my Tradesman took the Air , there came a Colt and Backed his Mare . It was a Gallant with white Feather , and a Coat with Golden Lace : Hearing of her Fame came thither , and supply'd her Husbands place . Little thought the careless Man , of the Game that then began , Thinking not to be beguiled , By his Wife so sweet and mild , But while the Tradesman took the Air , there came a Colt that backed his Mare . When he came home She gave him Kisses , and Sack-Posset very good : Candles too , she never misses , for they warm , and heat the Blood . Such things will Create desire , and new kindle Cupid's Fire . These things made him kiss his Wife , And to call her Love and Life , But while ( alas ) he took the Air , a wanton Colt had back't his Mare . The good man soon found something budding , which did put him to great pain : And as he was eating Pudding , to his Wife he did complain . Wife , said he , I am not well , ( what I ail'd I cannot tell ) But my Forehead feels like Bone , 'Tis as hard as any stone . By Jove , quoth she , and this fair morn , Husband , Husband , 'tis a Horn . A Horn , quoth he , pray hold your prating , ( for I Vow you make me quake , ) If it be , 'tis of your making , Oh dear ! how my Head does ache , I am in a woeful case , something , something sprouts apace . Love ( said She ) then know your doom , One lay with me in your Room , For while you rid to take the Air , there came a Colt that back't your Mare . The Duce ( quoth he ) take you for Witches , can't a man ride out a Mile ; But some fellow with fine Breeches , must new Saddle you the while . Husbands , Husband , for your joy , you shall have a thumping Boy , Come , come peace , and have more wit , Oh! I feel a qualmish Fit , I find , I find , I am with Child , pray my Dear , be kind and mild . With Child , do you say , ( you arrant Hussie , I ne'r god it ; is it true ? 'Tis ( quoth she ) you were so busy , I was loath to trouble you . You love Business as your Life , but ne'r mind to kiss your Wife , You leave me to lie alone , All night long to sighs and moan , And therefore when you took the Air , there came a Colt that back't your Mare . It was a Youth in Gaudy Jacket , that appear'd most brisk and fine , Kissed me , pressed me , teaz'd my Placket , made me blush like Claret-wine : But at last I did obey , what young Woman could say nay ? To this Gallant I did yield , And the Warrior wone the Field , For while you ( Husband ) took the Air , this same Youngster back't your Mare . Oh! let true Patience be my Balsom , since I know my wretched Fate , Prating like a Fool is fulsome , silence Cures the Horned pate . Should I blow my Trumpet out , I should raise the Rabble-rout , Have the Boys about my Ears , And endure their Flouts and Jears . But for hereafter i'le take care , that no Colt shall back my Mare . Printed J. Back , on London-Bridge , near the Draw-Bridge . 