The Crafty MISS ; Or , And Exciseman well fitted . Being a true Relation of and Exciseman , who lately in the County of Kent had received the sum of Fourscore pounds , and lighting into the company of a Crafty Miss , who gave him the Choose for it all ; and riding away with his Gelding , left in the stead a Mare which she had stole ; for which Mare he was Arraigned , and narrowly escaped the penalty of the Law : Which may be a sufficient warning to all Excise-men far and near , to amend their lives , to hate a Miss , and love their Wives . To the Tune of , Moggies Jealousy . THere was and Exciseman so fine road into the County of Kent , And there he received much Coin , for that very business he wen He met with a jolly brave Miss , her beauty was fair to behold , But she gave him a Judas kiss , and shew'd him a trick for his Gold . She road on a bonny brave Mare , he road on a Gelding also , He whispered a Word in her ear , straightway to and Inn they did go : He was of a pretty condition , ht call'd her his Joy and his Life ; And then without any suspicion , they passed for Husband and Wife . They set up the Mare and the Gelding , and call'd for a Supper with speed , Their Wine it was presently fill'd in , and lovingly then they agreed : Oh then they were heartily merry , their joys did begin to abound , They drank up full brimmers of Sherry and the Glass it went merrily round . He had not the sighed of his folly , found Love had so blinded his eyes , Oh then he was heartily jolly , he thought he had got a prize : Then while they most lovingly greeted , he thought he was certainly blessed , But ne'r was Exciseman so cheated ; Oh now comes the Cream of the jest . He pull'd out a Purse full of Gold , which he had receiv'd for Excise , And said to his Landlord , behold , keep this till the morning we rise ; His Miss she did call him her Honey , and straight to embracing they fallen , But her mind still ran on the Money , to give him the Choose for it all ; And while he was snoring & sleeping , she thought it no time to delay , But giving the Landlord a meeting , Oh thus unto him she did say : My Husband he has not the power to rise , although it be day , Yet he hath appointed and hour to pay all this Money away . The time does begin to expire , then prithee now Saddle his Steed , And Landlord I do you desire to fetch me the Money with speed . The Innkeeper he did believe it , and fetched her the fourscore pound , And she was as glad to receive it , she neither spar'd horseflesh nor ground But when the Exciseman did awaken and found that his Miss she was fled , And seeing himself thus forsaken , while he had been sleeping in bed ; Oh then he rapped and thunder'd , he was in a Choleric heat , His Pockets was pillag'd & plunder'd , he found he had met with a Cheat . The Landlord the Chamber did enter , and bowing himself to the ground ; Sir , have you forgotten where you sent her to pay in the fourscore pound ? The Landlord no sooner had said it , but then he was daunted straightway , But yet for the sake of his credit , Oh never a word he would say . But then he was freetting and petting , he had ne'r a penny of Coal , His Miss road away with his Gelding , and left him a Mare she had stole : For which they did soon apprehend him , in sorrow he then did complain , For they to a Prison did send him , where he did till Sizes remain . And there he was 'raign'd at the bar , beside all the Money he lost . O now you Excise-men beware , you see in your Courting you're cros The Bill it had like to been found , because he had call'd her his Wife , It cost him many a pound , and had like to have cost him his life . This was in Rochester City , the truth you may certainly find , The people afforded no pity , but said he was serv'd in his kind : But now the Exciseman is sorry that ever he met with this Jade , For sure she had learned her lurry , she lacked but a stock to her Trade . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guilt-spur street . The Crafty MISS ; Or , And Exciseman well fitted . Being a true Relation of and Exciseman , who lately in the County of Kent had received the sum of Fourscore pounds , and lighting into the company of a Crafty Miss , who gave him the Choose for it all ; and riding away with his Gelding , left in the stead a Mare which she had stole ; for which Mare he was Arraigned , and narrowly escaped the penalty of the Law : Which may be a sufficient warning to all Excise-men far and near , to amend their lives , to hate a Miss , and love their Wives . To the Tune of , Moggies Jealousy . THere was and Exciseman so fine road into the County of Kent , And there he received much Coin , for that very business he wen He met with a jolly brave Miss , her beauty was fair to behold , But she gave him a Judas kiss , and shew'd him a trick for his Gold . She road on a bonny brave Mare , he road on a Gelding also , He whispered a Word in her ear , straightway to and Inn they did go : He was of a pretty condition , ht call'd her his Joy and his Life ; And then without any suspicion , they passed for Husband and Wife . They set up the Mare and the Gelding , and call'd for a Supper with speed , Their Wine it was presently fill'd in , and lovingly then they agreed : Oh then they were heartily merry , their joys did begin to abound , They drank up full brimmers of Sherry and the Glass it went merrily round . He had not the sighed of his folly , found Love had so blinded his eyes , Oh then he was heartily jolly , he thought he had got a prize : Then while they most lovingly greeted , he thought he was certainly blessed , But ne'r was Exciseman so cheated ; Oh now comes the Cream of the jest . He pull'd out a Purse full of Gold , which he had receiv'd for Excise , And said to his Landlord , behold , keep this till the morning we rise ; His Miss she did call him her Honey , and straight to embracing they fallen , But her mind still ran on the Money , to give him the Choose for it all ; And while he was snoring & sleeping , she thought it no time to delay , But giving the Landlord a meeting , Oh thus unto him she did say : My Husband he has not the power to rise , although it be day , Yet he hath appointed and hour to pay all this Money away . The time does begin to expire , then prithee now Saddle his Steed , And Landlord I do you desire to fetch me the Money with speed . The Innkeeper he did believe it , and fetched her the fourscore pound , And she was as glad to receive it , she neither spar'd horseflesh nor ground But when the Exciseman did awaken and found that his Miss she was fled , And seeing himself thus forsaken , while he had been sleeping in bed ; Oh then he rapped and thunder'd , he was in a Choleric heat , His Pockets was pillag'd & plunder'd , he found he had met with a Cheat . The Landlord the Chamber did enter , and bowing himself to the ground ; Sir , have you forgotten where you sent her to pay in the fourscore pound ? The Landlord no sooner had said it , but then he was daunted straightway , But yet for the sake of his credit , Oh never a word he would say . But then he was freetting and petting , he had ne'r a penny of Coal , His Miss road away with his Gelding , and left him a Mare she had stole : For which they did soon apprehend him , in sorrow he then did complain , For they to a Prison did send him , where he did till Sizes remain . And there he was 'raign'd at the bar , beside all the Money he lost . O now you Excise-men beware , you see in your Courting you're cros The Bill it had like to been found , because he had call'd her his Wife , It cost him many a pound , and had like to have cost him his life . This was in Rochester City , the truth you may certainly find , The people afforded no pity , but said he was serv'd in his kind : But now the Exciseman is sorry that ever he met with this Jade , For sure she had learned her lurry , she lacked but a stock to her Trade . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guilt-spur street . 