( 1 ) ( I ) A Congratulation OF THE Protestant-Joyner TO Anthony King of Poland , Upon his Arrival in the Lower World Joyner . Welcome , my Lord , unto these Stygian Plains ; Welcome unto a Land where Discord reigns : This is a Land Your Lordship will approve , From whence these States hope you will never remove ; Welcome to These , as to the States above . From Them I'm come , and this blessed News I bring , Discord is dead and they have chosen You KING . Pride , Envy , Malice , Hell would soon decay , Should Peace appear , and Discord fade away . Anth. Thanks Friend , whoever thou art , for this blessed News ; The Name of King I hate , yet can't refuse ; I wish some other Name they would confer . Joyn. What think You then , my Lord , of Emperor Anth. Spoke like a Roman Soul ; who , though they hate The Name of Kings , yet Emperors create . Joyn. Or , if these please not , what if You should be Dubbed of Mankind Plenipotentiary ? Anth. Spoke like a Non-con's Soul , that very Name Does all my Vitals heat , and sets my Soul on flame . A Let ( 2 ) Let me embrace , and hug thee in my Arms ; That Hogen-mogen word is full of Charms : There's Beauty in't , that leads my Soul away , And I must follow , though I go astray , Joyn. What means my Lord by that recanting Speech ? To go astray implies You've made some breach . Anth. The observation of it does imply You have been bold i'th' world as well as I . Joyn. It's true , my Lord , I aimed at mighty Things , To Subvert Kingdoms , and to Murder Kings ; To teach the Nation to be Picts once more , And die their Skins with their own crimson Gore : That is the truest stain , that never will out ; Witness His Father , murdered by the Rout. Anth. That's the dead-bone , which ( touching ) bleeds anew ; And that's the cause I did the Son pursue : Like Cataline , our Mischiefs are not sure ; But by effecting greater to secure . Joyn. But since i'th' world Your Taper does not shine , Like Damocles though Presbyterians dine ; The Sword of Justice trembles over their head , And hangs secured but by one single Thread ; There needs no Atrapos to cut the String , One blast of Treason more against their KING , Does all the Vengeance on their own heads bring . Anth. You seem a Convert now ; Prithee declare , What is your Name ? From whence , and what you were ? Joyn. My Lord , survey this Face , and You will find ( With a small recollecting of Your mind ) What my Profession was , and what's my Name , By whom employed , from whence , and what I am . Anth. I seriously observe you , but can't tell , You are so altered since you came to Hell ; But guess you are a Man of no great Fame ; Nor ever had , until of late , a Name : A Name , I mean , that does deserve Renown For Murder , or for striking at the Crown . Joyn. Small Shrubs , my Lord , may tall as Cedars grow ; What was John Leyden and Massanello ? What was Wat Tyler and Jack Straw of late ? And our prodigious Oliver's great Fate , That made all Europe shake ? To such a height I might have rose ; but Fortune owed a spite , And struck it home just in the neck of Time ; And for a Throne , I did a Gallows climb . My Lord , you sure may know me now ; --------- Anth. I do ; Your Name is College , and I pity you . But ( 3 ) But prithee tell me , for I fain would know , In all my journey hither , to and from , I could not spy one glimmering light of Heaven ; For all was dark , but what from hence was given , Only some Link-bois Skeletons did ply I'th' way , with Lights most dreadful to the eye . What is the reason ? For I've herd men tell Strange Stories , and that viewing Heaven is Hell , And not enjoyed ; Prithee what shall I do ? I'ld give a world that happy place to view . Joyn. The reason is , You did in Holland die ; A place that to the Centre lies so nigh , That you're no sooner dead , but you are here ; It is a shorter cut by half a year : It lies so low and sunk so deep in the Sea , It wants the use oF the Primum Mobile . Had you in England stayed , and died as I , You might have clipped the Air , and reached the Sky . Anth. But since I'm forced into this dark abided , Describe the pleasures of that blessed Road : I fancy that some pleasure will ensue , To hear that told which I shall never view . Joyn. No sooner was my Soul discharged of Clay , But up it sprang , and pinioned quick its way ; I passed the Orbs , with wonder and delight , And wa'n't took notice of in all my flight ; At last , on Heavens Battlements I stayed , And all that bright Imperian round surveyed ; Observed how the Primum Mobile did fly Ten thousand times more swifter than the Eye : The vast Expance did all with Glory shine , And every thing I saw was all Divine ; A Gate of Pearl did on my right hand stand , And Peter , ( as I guess , by the Keys in's hand ) Who oped the door , and all pure Souls received . I thought to enter too , but was deceived . Anth. What happiness to those blessed Souls was given ! Who'd plague their King and Country to loose Heaven ! Joyn. He took me by the hand , and turned me round ; Bid me avaunt , for that was holy Ground : Yonder's your Road ; down there the Angels fell , And so must you . At which I struck at Hell ; For in a moment ( so quick was my Fate ! ) My Head was dashed against Hells Irongate , ( Which then was shut ) A wonder to the Crowd ! Open the door ! I boldly yauled aloud : A Thundering Voice I herd ; From whence ? From who D'ye come ? I strait replied I came from Yond ; I ( 4 ) I am a Joiner by my Trade , and come To fit and Wainscot up his Lordship's Room . At which the Gates flew open , I entered in , Swept clean the Room of all things there but since ; She must remain , and your Companion be , Forever , and to vast Eternity . Anth. I'm mad ! I rave ! The Vulture gnaws my Breast ! I would repose , but it's in vain to rest . No rest is here ! My scorching Entrails burn ! And all my Guts to horrid Snakes do turn ! O , cursed Fate ! that I should die so soon , When all my Treasons scarce did reach their Noon ! Oh! had I but a little longer stood , I would have made the Nation flow with Blood : But I am dead ; yet still I must Rebel , And add more Flames unto the Flames of Hell ; I'll make grim Pluto tremble in his Throne , And all the Subterranean Empire groan ; I'll make they drink again the bitter Cup , And undermine their Hell , and blow they up . With that he foamed at mouth , hung out his Tongue , ( At which a horrid ugly Scorpion hung ; ) His Eyes so hight did glow , made Fiends admire ; And burned so fierce , as Hell itself cried Fire : But a shagged Fiend appeared , and in a trice Hurled his hight Soul into a Hell of Ice ; Where may each Traitor , that their KINGS control , Find this Estate entailed upon their Soul. FINIS . LONDON : Printed for N. Thompson , Anno Dom. 1683. ( 1 ) ( I ) A Congratulation OF THE Protestant-Joyner TO Anthony King of Poland , Upon his Arrival in the Lower World Joyner . Welcome , my Lord , unto these Stygian Plains ; Welcome unto a Land where Discord reigns : This is a Land Your Lordship will approve , From whence these States hope you will never remove ; Welcome to These , as to the States above . From Them I'm come , and this blessed News I bring , Discord is dead and they have chosen You KING . Pride , Envy , Malice , Hell would soon decay , Should Peace appear , and Discord fade away . Anth. Thanks Friend , whoever thou art , for this blessed News ; The Name of King I hate , yet can't refuse ; I wish some other Name they would confer . Joyn. What think You then , my Lord , of Emperor Anth. Spoke like a Roman Soul ; who , though they hate The Name of Kings , yet Emperors create . Joyn. Or , if these please not , what if You should be Dubbed of Mankind Plenipotentiary ? Anth. Spoke like a Non-con's Soul , that very Name Does all my Vitals heat , and sets my Soul on flame . A Let ( 2 ) Let me embrace , and hug thee in my Arms ; That Hogen-mogen word is full of Charms : There's Beauty in't , that leads my Soul away , And I must follow , though I go astray , Joyn. What means my Lord by that recanting Speech ? To go astray implies You've made some breach . Anth. The observation of it does imply You have been bold i'th' world as well as I . Joyn. It's true , my Lord , I aimed at mighty Things , To Subvert Kingdoms , and to Murder Kings ; To teach the Nation to be Picts once more , And die their Skins with their own crimson Gore : That is the truest stain , that never will out ; Witness His Father , murdered by the Rout. Anth. That's the dead-bone , which ( touching ) bleeds anew ; And that's the cause I did the Son pursue : Like Cataline , our Mischiefs are not sure ; But by effecting greater to secure . Joyn. But since i'th' world Your Taper does not shine , Like Damocles though Presbyterians dine ; The Sword of Justice trembles over their head , And hangs secured but by one single Thread ; There needs no Atrapos to cut the String , One blast of Treason more against their KING , Does all the Vengeance on their own heads bring . Anth. You seem a Convert now ; Prithee declare , What is your Name ? From whence , and what you were ? Joyn. My Lord , survey this Face , and You will find ( With a small recollecting of Your mind ) What my Profession was , and what's my Name , By whom employed , from whence , and what I am . Anth. I seriously observe you , but can't tell , You are so altered since you came to Hell ; But guess you are a Man of no great Fame ; Nor ever had , until of late , a Name : A Name , I mean , that does deserve Renown For Murder , or for striking at the Crown . Joyn. Small Shrubs , my Lord , may tall as Cedars grow ; What was John Leyden and Massanello ? What was Wat Tyler and Jack Straw of late ? And our prodigious Oliver's great Fate , That made all Europe shake ? To such a height I might have rose ; but Fortune owed a spite , And struck it home just in the neck of Time ; And for a Throne , I did a Gallows climb . My Lord , you sure may know me now ; --------- Anth. I do ; Your Name is College , and I pity you . But ( 3 ) But prithee tell me , for I fain would know , In all my journey hither , to and from , I could not spy one glimmering light of Heaven ; For all was dark , but what from hence was given , Only some Link-bois Skeletons did ply I'th' way , with Lights most dreadful to the eye . What is the reason ? For I've herd men tell Strange Stories , and that viewing Heaven is Hell , And not enjoyed ; Prithee what shall I do ? I'ld give a world that happy place to view . Joyn. The reason is , You did in Holland die ; A place that to the Centre lies so nigh , That you're no sooner dead , but you are here ; It is a shorter cut by half a year : It lies so low and sunk so deep in the Sea , It wants the use oF the Primum Mobile . Had you in England stayed , and died as I , You might have clipped the Air , and reached the Sky . Anth. But since I'm forced into this dark abided , Describe the pleasures of that blessed Road : I fancy that some pleasure will ensue , To hear that told which I shall never view . Joyn. No sooner was my Soul discharged of Clay , But up it sprang , and pinioned quick its way ; I passed the Orbs , with wonder and delight , And wa'n't took notice of in all my flight ; At last , on Heavens Battlements I stayed , And all that bright Imperian round surveyed ; Observed how the Primum Mobile did fly Ten thousand times more swifter than the Eye : The vast Expance did all with Glory shine , And every thing I saw was all Divine ; A Gate of Pearl did on my right hand stand , And Peter , ( as I guess , by the Keys in's hand ) Who oped the door , and all pure Souls received . I thought to enter too , but was deceived . Anth. What happiness to those blessed Souls was given ! Who'd plague their King and Country to loose Heaven ! Joyn. He took me by the hand , and turned me round ; Bid me avaunt , for that was holy Ground : Yonder's your Road ; down there the Angels fell , And so must you . At which I struck at Hell ; For in a moment ( so quick was my Fate ! ) My Head was dashed against Hells Irongate , ( Which then was shut ) A wonder to the Crowd ! Open the door ! I boldly yauled aloud : A Thundering Voice I herd ; From whence ? From who D'ye come ? I strait replied I came from Yond ; I ( 4 ) I am a Joiner by my Trade , and come To fit and Wainscot up his Lordship's Room . At which the Gates flew open , I entered in , Swept clean the Room of all things there but since ; She must remain , and your Companion be , Forever , and to vast Eternity . Anth. I'm mad ! I rave ! The Vulture gnaws my Breast ! I would repose , but it's in vain to rest . No rest is here ! My scorching Entrails burn ! And all my Guts to horrid Snakes do turn ! O , cursed Fate ! that I should die so soon , When all my Treasons scarce did reach their Noon ! Oh! had I but a little longer stood , I would have made the Nation flow with Blood : But I am dead ; yet still I must Rebel , And add more Flames unto the Flames of Hell ; I'll make grim Pluto tremble in his Throne , And all the Subterranean Empire groan ; I'll make they drink again the bitter Cup , And undermine their Hell , and blow they up . With that he foamed at mouth , hung out his Tongue , ( At which a horrid ugly Scorpion hung ; ) His Eyes so hight did glow , made Fiends admire ; And burned so fierce , as Hell itself cried Fire : But a shagged Fiend appeared , and in a trice Hurled his hight Soul into a Hell of Ice ; Where may each Traitor , that their KINGS control , Find this Estate entailed upon their Soul. FINIS . LONDON : Printed for N. Thompson , Anno Dom. 1683. 