TOBIAS Observation ; A Youngman came unto a fair , by chance he met his true Love there Said he , sweetheart thou art welcome here , invited her to drink some Beer , But in the end prov'd ne'r the near , as in this Song it will appear . Tune of , The Country Farmer . By Tobias Bowne . This may be Printed , R. P. THere was a Youngman who lately expressed his love to a Damsel that liv'd in the West ; and thus he began his mind to declare said he , thou art welcome unto this Fair I have a great mind with thee to talk , come pray let us to the Tavern walk I'll do thee no harm thou needest not fear , for Faring i'le give thee one flagon of Beer . prey how does your Father and Mother at home , they were well this morning then answered Joan Said he if you please to walk with me we will be as merry as merry may be : To tell thee the truth I do love the dear , yet I am so doubtful my mind to declare For fear what I ask you should me deny and then for your Love I shall surely die I hope you will not offended be though I make so bold to speak unto thee , For night nor day I can take no rest , for Love that lies harbour'd within my Breast And thou art she that canst ease my pain , then grant me love for love again : Give me some kind answer my heart to ease , and let me not languish in Loves disease . The Maids Answer . Good Sir , I do fancy you jeer at me , your Riches and mine will never agree , For I am a poor men daughter its known I work for my Living abroad & at home Sometime I'me at whom to spinning of Yarn and sometime abroad to reaping of Corn Sometime in the Field to milk the Cow I get what I have by the sweat of my brow . I live as well contented as any Maid can , what need I entangle my self with a Man , I walk where I please at my own command I need not say shall I , pray shall I husband , Now I have my self to guide and to rule , in marrying some people have played the Fool : Methinks it is troublesome to be a Nurse , when children are froward & husbands are worse Yet for your Love I have no cause to deny sure you deserve one that is better then I For you have a good estate of your own And I am a poor men Daughter it's known , Yet I am content , with what little I have , Perhaps if I marry I may be a Slave , Therefore I'le beware how I marry in haste , for fear I have cause to repent at the last . The men Answer . O prithee my dearest take pity on me , no one in the World , I fancy but thee , And do not abuse me for loving thee dear , I'le willingly tarry for thee one whole year Nothing shall be wanting thy mind to fulfil so thou wilt but grant me thy Love & good Wil But if thou deny me and Love thou hast none , then surely thy heart is as hard as a Stone . Sweetheart prithee tell me , I know you well can whither you do fancy another youngman Pray pardon my boldness in asking so far , or to any other engaged you are , My dearest resolve me if you'l be so be kind , that will be great ease to my troubled mind , But if from all other Men thou art free , I shall live in hope's that my Bride thou wilt be . The Maids Answer . Good sir , you pretend a great deal of good will yet I am not ready your mind to fulfil , For I have no fancy to be made a Wife nor ne'r was concern'd with no man in my Life And for to live single it is my delight and so honest youngman I wish you good night , Pray by your leave let me pass by you youngman for now it is high time for me to be gone . The men Answer . And must thou begone and no longer wilt stay then I wish I had not a seen thee this day , For now I am troubled with doubt and with fear because I am slighted for loving so dear Youngmen I advice you where ever you be If Cupid do hit you , then think upon me , Although you Love dearly yet never declare , unto any Damsel the Love that you bore . And so having ended I wish you all well each youngman & maid to the place where you dwell But yet I would have you one penny bestow & that is the price of this Ballad you know You know it is good to learn Children to Read , it's fit for a Youngman to sing to a Maid It is good for pastime on each holy day , and here be the Ballads come buy them away . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . TOBIAS Observation ; A Youngman came unto a fair , by chance he met his true Love there Said he , sweetheart thou art welcome here , invited her to drink some Beer , But in the end prov'd ne'r the near , as in this Song it will appear . Tune of , The Country Farmer . By Tobias Bowne . This may be Printed , R. P. THere was a Youngman who lately expressed his love to a Damsel that liv'd in the West ; and thus he began his mind to declare said he , thou art welcome unto this Fair I have a great mind with thee to talk , come pray let us to the Tavern walk I'll do thee no harm thou needest not fear , for Faring i'le give thee one flagon of Beer . prey how does your Father and Mother at home , they were well this morning then answered Joan Said he if you please to walk with me we will be as merry as merry may be : To tell thee the truth I do love the dear , yet I am so doubtful my mind to declare For fear what I ask you should me deny and then for your Love I shall surely die I hope you will not offended be though I make so bold to speak unto thee , For night nor day I can take no rest , for Love that lies harbour'd within my Breast And thou art she that canst ease my pain , then grant me love for love again : Give me some kind answer my heart to ease , and let me not languish in Loves disease . The Maids Answer . Good Sir , I do fancy you jeer at me , your Riches and mine will never agree , For I am a poor men daughter its known I work for my Living abroad & at home Sometime I'me at whom to spinning of Yarn and sometime abroad to reaping of Corn Sometime in the Field to milk the Cow I get what I have by the sweat of my brow . I live as well contented as any Maid can , what need I entangle my self with a Man , I walk where I please at my own command I need not say shall I , pray shall I husband , Now I have my self to guide and to rule , in marrying some people have played the Fool : Methinks it is troublesome to be a Nurse , when children are froward & husbands are worse Yet for your Love I have no cause to deny sure you deserve one that is better then I For you have a good estate of your own And I am a poor men Daughter it's known , Yet I am content , with what little I have , Perhaps if I marry I may be a Slave , Therefore I'le beware how I marry in haste , for fear I have cause to repent at the last . The men Answer . O prithee my dearest take pity on me , no one in the World , I fancy but thee , And do not abuse me for loving thee dear , I'le willingly tarry for thee one whole year Nothing shall be wanting thy mind to fulfil so thou wilt but grant me thy Love & good Wil But if thou deny me and Love thou hast none , then surely thy heart is as hard as a Stone . Sweetheart prithee tell me , I know you well can whither you do fancy another youngman Pray pardon my boldness in asking so far , or to any other engaged you are , My dearest resolve me if you'l be so be kind , that will be great ease to my troubled mind , But if from all other Men thou art free , I shall live in hope's that my Bride thou wilt be . The Maids Answer . Good sir , you pretend a great deal of good will yet I am not ready your mind to fulfil , For I have no fancy to be made a Wife nor ne'r was concern'd with no man in my Life And for to live single it is my delight and so honest youngman I wish you good night , Pray by your leave let me pass by you youngman for now it is high time for me to be gone . The men Answer . And must thou begone and no longer wilt stay then I wish I had not a seen thee this day , For now I am troubled with doubt and with fear because I am slighted for loving so dear Youngmen I advice you where ever you be If Cupid do hit you , then think upon me , Although you Love dearly yet never declare , unto any Damsel the Love that you bore . And so having ended I wish you all well each youngman & maid to the place where you dwell But yet I would have you one penny bestow & that is the price of this Ballad you know You know it is good to learn Children to Read , it's fit for a Youngman to sing to a Maid It is good for pastime on each holy day , and here be the Ballads come buy them away . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . TOBIAS Observation ; A Youngman came unto a fair , by chance he met his true Love there Said he , sweetheart thou art welcome here , invited her to drink some Beer , But in the end prov'd ne'r the near , as in this Song it will appear . Tune of , The Country Farmer . By Tobias Bowne . This may be Printed , R. P. THere was a Youngman who lately expressed his love to a Damsel that liv'd in the West ; and thus he began his mind to declare said he , thou art welcome unto this Fair I have a great mind with thee to talk , come pray let us to the Tavern walk I'll do thee no harm thou needest not fear , for Faring i'le give thee one flagon of Beer . prey how does your Father and Mother at home , they were well this morning then answered Joan Said he if you please to walk with me we will be as merry as merry may be : To tell thee the truth I do love the dear , yet I am so doubtful my mind to declare For fear what I ask you should me deny and then for your Love I shall surely die I hope you will not offended be though I make so bold to speak unto thee , For night nor day I can take no rest , for Love that lies harbour'd within my Breast And thou art she that canst ease my pain , then grant me love for love again : Give me some kind answer my heart to ease , and let me not languish in Loves disease . The Maids Answer . Good Sir , I do fancy you jeer at me , your Riches and mine will never agree , For I am a poor men daughter its known I work for my Living abroad & at home Sometime I'me at whom to spinning of Yarn and sometime abroad to reaping of Corn Sometime in the Field to milk the Cow I get what I have by the sweat of my brow . I live as well contented as any Maid can , what need I entangle my self with a Man , I walk where I please at my own command I need not say shall I , pray shall I husband , Now I have my self to guide and to rule , in marrying some people have played the Fool : Methinks it is troublesome to be a Nurse , when children are froward & husbands are worse Yet for your Love I have no cause to deny sure you deserve one that is better then I For you have a good estate of your own And I am a poor men Daughter it's known , Yet I am content , with what little I have , Perhaps if I marry I may be a Slave , Therefore I'le beware how I marry in haste , for fear I have cause to repent at the last . The men Answer . O prithee my dearest take pity on me , no one in the World , I fancy but thee , And do not abuse me for loving thee dear , I'le willingly tarry for thee one whole year Nothing shall be wanting thy mind to fulfil so thou wilt but grant me thy Love & good Wil But if thou deny me and Love thou hast none , then surely thy heart is as hard as a Stone . Sweetheart prithee tell me , I know you well can whither you do fancy another youngman Pray pardon my boldness in asking so far , or to any other engaged you are , My dearest resolve me if you'l be so be kind , that will be great ease to my troubled mind , But if from all other Men thou art free , I shall live in hope's that my Bride thou wilt be . The Maids Answer . Good sir , you pretend a great deal of good will yet I am not ready your mind to fulfil , For I have no fancy to be made a Wife nor ne'r was concern'd with no man in my Life And for to live single it is my delight and so honest youngman I wish you good night , Pray by your leave let me pass by you youngman for now it is high time for me to be gone . The men Answer . And must thou begone and no longer wilt stay then I wish I had not a seen thee this day , For now I am troubled with doubt and with fear because I am slighted for loving so dear Youngmen I advice you where ever you be If Cupid do hit you , then think upon me , Although you Love dearly yet never declare , unto any Damsel the Love that you bore . And so having ended I wish you all well each youngman & maid to the place where you dwell But yet I would have you one penny bestow & that is the price of this Ballad you know You know it is good to learn Children to Read , it's fit for a Youngman to sing to a Maid It is good for pastime on each holy day , and here be the Ballads come buy them away . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . TOBIAS Observation ; A Youngman came unto a fair , by chance he met his true Love there Said he , sweetheart thou art welcome here , invited her to drink some Beer , But in the end prov'd ne'r the near , as in this Song it will appear . Tune of , The Country Farmer . By Tobias Bowne . This may be Printed , R. P. THere was a Youngman who lately expressed his love to a Damsel that liv'd in the West ; and thus he began his mind to declare said he , thou art welcome unto this Fair I have a great mind with thee to talk , come pray let us to the Tavern walk I'll do thee no harm thou needest not fear , for Faring i'le give thee one flagon of Beer . prey how does your Father and Mother at home , they were well this morning then answered Joan Said he if you please to walk with me we will be as merry as merry may be : To tell thee the truth I do love the dear , yet I am so doubtful my mind to declare For fear what I ask you should me deny and then for your Love I shall surely die I hope you will not offended be though I make so bold to speak unto thee , For night nor day I can take no rest , for Love that lies harbour'd within my Breast And thou art she that canst ease my pain , then grant me love for love again : Give me some kind answer my heart to ease , and let me not languish in Loves disease . The Maids Answer . Good Sir , I do fancy you jeer at me , your Riches and mine will never agree , For I am a poor men daughter its known I work for my Living abroad & at home Sometime I'me at whom to spinning of Yarn and sometime abroad to reaping of Corn Sometime in the Field to milk the Cow I get what I have by the sweat of my brow . I live as well contented as any Maid can , what need I entangle my self with a Man , I walk where I please at my own command I need not say shall I , pray shall I husband , Now I have my self to guide and to rule , in marrying some people have played the Fool : Methinks it is troublesome to be a Nurse , when children are froward & husbands are worse Yet for your Love I have no cause to deny sure you deserve one that is better then I For you have a good estate of your own And I am a poor men Daughter it's known , Yet I am content , with what little I have , Perhaps if I marry I may be a Slave , Therefore I'le beware how I marry in haste , for fear I have cause to repent at the last . The men Answer . O prithee my dearest take pity on me , no one in the World , I fancy but thee , And do not abuse me for loving thee dear , I'le willingly tarry for thee one whole year Nothing shall be wanting thy mind to fulfil so thou wilt but grant me thy Love & good Wil But if thou deny me and Love thou hast none , then surely thy heart is as hard as a Stone . Sweetheart prithee tell me , I know you well can whither you do fancy another youngman Pray pardon my boldness in asking so far , or to any other engaged you are , My dearest resolve me if you'l be so be kind , that will be great ease to my troubled mind , But if from all other Men thou art free , I shall live in hope's that my Bride thou wilt be . The Maids Answer . Good sir , you pretend a great deal of good will yet I am not ready your mind to fulfil , For I have no fancy to be made a Wife nor ne'r was concern'd with no man in my Life And for to live single it is my delight and so honest youngman I wish you good night , Pray by your leave let me pass by you youngman for now it is high time for me to be gone . The men Answer . And must thou begone and no longer wilt stay then I wish I had not a seen thee this day , For now I am troubled with doubt and with fear because I am slighted for loving so dear Youngmen I advice you where ever you be If Cupid do hit you , then think upon me , Although you Love dearly yet never declare , unto any Damsel the Love that you bore . And so having ended I wish you all well each youngman & maid to the place where you dwell But yet I would have you one penny bestow & that is the price of this Ballad you know You know it is good to learn Children to Read , it's fit for a Youngman to sing to a Maid It is good for pastime on each holy day , and here be the Ballads come buy them away . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . 