A most Godly and Comfortable Ballad of the Glorious Resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ , how he Triumphed over Death , Hell , and since , whereby we are certainly persuaded of our Rising again from the Dead . The Tune is , Rogero . WHat faithless , froward , sinful Man , so far from grace is fled , That does not in his heart believe the rising of the WORSER [ e ] ad ; Or why do wicked Mortal Men their lives so vainly frame , That being dead , they do suppose they shall not rise again . For why if that the dead indeed , which now consuming lies , Shall not by God be raised again , then Christ did never rise ; And if so be our Saviour sweet , did not rise from the Death , Our Preaching is of no effect , and vain our hope on Earth . If Christ rose not again , I say , then are we yet in since , And they that fallen asleep in him , no part of joy shall win : Of all the Creatures living , then , which God on Earth did frame , Most wretched are the states of Men which spend their days in vain . But Christ is risen up from Death , as it was right and meet , And thereby trod down Death and Hell , and since , under his feet ; And that the same to simple Men , the plainer might appear , The glorious rising of the Lord , his Word declareth clear . When he within the Grave was laid , the Jews did watchmen set , Left by his friends his Corpse from thence should secretly be see A mighty Stone likewise they did on his Sepulchre role , And all for fear his body should away from thence be stole . BUt in the dead time of the Night , a m [ i ] ghty Earthquake came , The which did shake both Sea and Land , and all within the same : And then the Angel of the Lord came down from Heaven so high , And rolled away the mighty Stone which on the ground did lie . His face did shine like flaming fire , his Clothes were white as Snow , Which put the watchmen in great fear , who ran away for woe ; And told unto the High Priest plain , what I do now rehearse , Who hired them for Money straight , that they would hold their peace . And say , quoth he , his Servants came , whom he sometime did keep , And secretly stole him away , while you were fast asleep : And if that Herod hear thereof , we will persuade him so , That you shall find no hurt at all , where ever you do go . But faithful Mary Magdalen , and James her Brother too , They brought great store of Ointment as Jesus were wont to do : Who rose up early in the Morn before that it was day , The body of the Lord anoint , in Grace whereas he lay . And when unto the Grave they came , they were in wondrous fear , They saw a Youngman in the same , but Christ they saw not there : Then said the Angel unto them , why are you so afraid ? The Lord whom you do seek , I know , is risen up , he said . Then went these Women both away , who told these tidings than To John and Peter , who in haste to the Sepulchre ran ; Who found it as the Woman said , and then away did go ; But Marry stayed weeping still , whose tears declared her woe . Who looking down into the Grave , two Angels there did see ; Quoth they , Why weeps this Woman so , even for my Lord , quoth she : And turning then herself about , as she stood weeping so , The Lord was standing at her back , but him she did not know . Why does this Woman weep , he said , whom seekest thou in this place ? She thought it had the Gardener been , and thus me shows her case ; If thou hast born him hence , she said , then tell me where he is , And for to fetch him back again , be sure I will not miss . What Marry ! then our Saviour said , dost thou lament for me ; Oh Master livest thou again , my Soul does joy in thee ; Oh Marry , touch me not , he said , ever I have been above Even with my God , the only God , and Father whom we love . And oftentimes did Christ appear , to his Disciples all ; Yet Thomas would not it believe , his Faith it was so small , Except that he might thrust his hand into the wound so wide , And put his finger where the Spear did pierce his tender side . Then Christ which knew all secrets , to them again came he , Who said to Thomas , here I am , as plainly thou mayest see : See here the hands which nails did pierce and holes are in my side ; And be not faithless , Oh thou Man , for whom these pains I ' bide . Thus sundry times Christ showed himself , when he did rise again , And then ascended into Heaven , in Glory for to Reign : Where he prepares a place for those whom he shall raise likewise , To live with him in Heavenly bliss , above the lofty Skies . printed for W. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck-lane . A most Godly and Comfortable Ballad of the Glorious Resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ , how he Triumphed over Death , Hell , and since , whereby we are certainly persuaded of our Rising again from the Dead . The Tune is , Rogero . WHat faithless , froward , sinful Man , so far from grace is fled , That does not in his heart believe the rising of the WORSER [ e ] ad ; Or why do wicked Mortal Men their lives so vainly frame , That being dead , they do suppose they shall not rise again . For why if that the dead indeed , which now consuming lies , Shall not by God be raised again , then Christ did never rise ; And if so be our Saviour sweet , did not rise from the Death , Our Preaching is of no effect , and vain our hope on Earth . If Christ rose not again , I say , then are we yet in since , And they that fallen asleep in him , no part of joy shall win : Of all the Creatures living , then , which God on Earth did frame , Most wretched are the states of Men which spend their days in vain . But Christ is risen up from Death , as it was right and meet , And thereby trod down Death and Hell , and since , under his feet ; And that the same to simple Men , the plainer might appear , The glorious rising of the Lord , his Word declareth clear . When he within the Grave was laid , the Jews did watchmen set , Left by his friends his Corpse from thence should secretly be see A mighty Stone likewise they did on his Sepulchre role , And all for fear his body should away from thence be stole . BUt in the dead time of the Night , a m [ i ] ghty Earthquake came , The which did shake both Sea and Land , and all within the same : And then the Angel of the Lord came down from Heaven so high , And rolled away the mighty Stone which on the ground did lie . His face did shine like flaming fire , his Clothes were white as Snow , Which put the watchmen in great fear , who ran away for woe ; And told unto the High Priest plain , what I do now rehearse , Who hired them for Money straight , that they would hold their peace . And say , quoth he , his Servants came , whom he sometime did keep , And secretly stole him away , while you were fast asleep : And if that Herod hear thereof , we will persuade him so , That you shall find no hurt at all , where ever you do go . But faithful Mary Magdalen , and James her Brother too , They brought great store of Ointment as Jesus were wont to do : Who rose up early in the Morn before that it was day , The body of the Lord anoint , in Grace whereas he lay . And when unto the Grave they came , they were in wondrous fear , They saw a Youngman in the same , but Christ they saw not there : Then said the Angel unto them , why are you so afraid ? The Lord whom you do seek , I know , is risen up , he said . Then went these Women both away , who told these tidings than To John and Peter , who in haste to the Sepulchre ran ; Who found it as the Woman said , and then away did go ; But Marry stayed weeping still , whose tears declared her woe . Who looking down into the Grave , two Angels there did see ; Quoth they , Why weeps this Woman so , even for my Lord , quoth she : And turning then herself about , as she stood weeping so , The Lord was standing at her back , but him she did not know . Why does this Woman weep , he said , whom seekest thou in this place ? She thought it had the Gardener been , and thus me shows her case ; If thou hast born him hence , she said , then tell me where he is , And for to fetch him back again , be sure I will not miss . What Marry ! then our Saviour said , dost thou lament for me ; Oh Master livest thou again , my Soul does joy in thee ; Oh Marry , touch me not , he said , ever I have been above Even with my God , the only God , and Father whom we love . And oftentimes did Christ appear , to his Disciples all ; Yet Thomas would not it believe , his Faith it was so small , Except that he might thrust his hand into the wound so wide , And put his finger where the Spear did pierce his tender side . Then Christ which knew all secrets , to them again came he , Who said to Thomas , here I am , as plainly thou mayest see : See here the hands which nails did pierce and holes are in my side ; And be not faithless , Oh thou Man , for whom these pains I ' bide . Thus sundry times Christ showed himself , when he did rise again , And then ascended into Heaven , in Glory for to Reign : Where he prepares a place for those whom he shall raise likewise , To live with him in Heavenly bliss , above the lofty Skies . printed for W. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck-lane . 