THE French King's ADVICE To the Late HIGHFLYING M -- b-rs . To the Tune of Lillibullero . WELL played , my dear Friends , ( for the Catholic Cause ) To Imprison the Aylesbury-Men , and the Laws : What should Whigs do with Votes to oppose such as You , To the Right-Line , and Lewis , so Faithful and True . Hang Law and Liberty , Damn Law and Liberty ; Make Law and Liberty truckle to You : It's Your Tory-Priviledge , My French-Prerogative , All Law and Liberty quite to Subdue . You may Seize their Old Rights , without Shadow of Wrong , Who of his have deprived your Jemmy so long : Your Electors would all be your Kings , if You'd let they ; But our Wooden-Shooes will far better fit ' em . Hang Law and Liberty , etc Shall the Q --- n and the L --- ds your Pretensions deride To cut of those Votes , that would set You aside ? By hook or by crook , do but you get the Purse , The Q ------ n and the L ------ ds must Submit , or do worse . Hang Law and Liberty , etc Tell the People , it's all for Them , and the Churnh ; ( Though when You're god in , You shall leave they in the Lurch : ) Learn they this , and theyll swallow Transubstantiation ; Then mount their Blind Faith , and ride the tame Nation . Hang Law and Liberty , etc You must stick at not Lying , or Swearing whatever ; Kiss Doll , and hug Dick , and Treat they as never : You must Flatter and Bribe to the height for their Votes ; First fallen at their Feet , then fly at their Throats . Hang Law and Liberty , etc Here's my Purse for to answer your Charges and Pains , And to bind your Electors in French Golden Chains : When once they are Bound , you can make they Obey ; Or show they to Newgate and Tyburn the Way . Hang Law and Liberty , etc The Occasional-Bill you must stiffly defend , Swear it does both the Church , and the Meetings befriend : By this Way we overthrew the Cursed Edict of Nantz , And drove to the Union , which now blesses France . Hang Law and Liberty , etc Tell the sheepish Dissenters , They without any Care May depend for their Safety on God , and their Prayer : Or if thrown out of Places , and thrown into Jays , 'Twill but speed they to Heaven with forwarder Gales . Hang Law and Liberty , etc If Whigs would refuse You , refuse they their Poll : And the Frenchisyed Mayor , who shall dare to Control ? But if some will to Law , like the Alesbury-Men , You must lay they in Jail , and their Council again . Hang Law and Liberty , etc If You get but this Choice once happily over , The Q --- n , L -- ds , and Mob will be quite out of door : You shall model the Rights of the Voters , and then Always You. or your Friends , be the Parliament-Men . Hang Law and Liberty , etc But what if You make this to be their Last Choice ? Should Btutes ( in their Carriage and Sense ) have a Voice ? Why not set up at once for Eternal Dictators , And put into Practice what is in your Nature's ? Hang Law and Liberty , etc When You've Paid for their Votes , You may honestly Seize they So of Trouble and Care in their Choosing you'll ease they : Their own Money Tacked to a well-framed Bill Shall Un-Queen , and Un-Lord , and bow all to Your Will . Hang Law and Liberty , etc Then Room and HIGH-Church we'll entirely Unite ; For Laud and L'Estrange make the Difference slight ; Should Abby-Lands go , we'll make their Estates To Pay for it , who will not drive on at our Rates . Hang Law and Liberty , etc We'll bring in Young Jemmy , and raise his Arrears By Plunder , and Taxes on all Mutineers : Low-Church , and Dissenters that will not Comply , Shall be Fined , Whipped Imprisoned , Starved , Banished and Die . Hang Law and Liberty , etc French , Scots , Irish Arms shall together Combine With Brave English Jacks no Restore the Right-Line : In a New Triple-League , France , Britain , and Spain , Over all the known World shall Absolute reign . Hang Law and Liberty , etc Your Jemmy shall Places and Honours bestow , Which to my fast Friends for his Throne he will owe ; And shall make they descend , as the Crown which he wears , In Despite of all Claims to You and Your Heirs . Hang Law and Liberty , Damn Law and Liberty ; Make Law and Liberty truckle to You : It's Your Tory-Priviledge , My French-Prerogative , All Law and Liberty quite to Subdue . MDCCV . THE French King's ADVICE To the Late HIGHFLYING M -- b-rs . To the Tune of Lillibullero . WELL played , my dear Friends , ( for the Catholic Cause ) To Imprison the Aylesbury-Men , and the Laws : What should Whigs do with Votes to oppose such as You , To the Right-Line , and Lewis , so Faithful and True . Hang Law and Liberty , Damn Law and Liberty ; Make Law and Liberty truckle to You : It's Your Tory-Priviledge , My French-Prerogative , All Law and Liberty quite to Subdue . You may Seize their Old Rights , without Shadow of Wrong , Who of his have deprived your Jemmy so long : Your Electors would all be your Kings , if You'd let they ; But our Wooden-Shooes will far better fit ' em . Hang Law and Liberty , etc Shall the Q --- n and the L --- ds your Pretensions deride To cut of those Votes , that would set You aside ? By hook or by crook , do but you get the Purse , The Q ------ n and the L ------ ds must Submit , or do worse . Hang Law and Liberty , etc Tell the People , it's all for Them , and the Churnh ; ( Though when You're god in , You shall leave they in the Lurch : ) Learn they this , and theyll swallow Transubstantiation ; Then mount their Blind Faith , and ride the tame Nation . Hang Law and Liberty , etc You must stick at not Lying , or Swearing whatever ; Kiss Doll , and hug Dick , and Treat they as never : You must Flatter and Bribe to the height for their Votes ; First fallen at their Feet , then fly at their Throats . Hang Law and Liberty , etc Here's my Purse for to answer your Charges and Pains , And to bind your Electors in French Golden Chains : When once they are Bound , you can make they Obey ; Or show they to Newgate and Tyburn the Way . Hang Law and Liberty , etc The Occasional-Bill you must stiffly defend , Swear it does both the Church , and the Meetings befriend : By this Way we overthrew the Cursed Edict of Nantz , And drove to the Union , which now blesses France . Hang Law and Liberty , etc Tell the sheepish Dissenters , They without any Care May depend for their Safety on God , and their Prayer : Or if thrown out of Places , and thrown into Jays , 'Twill but speed they to Heaven with forwarder Gales . Hang Law and Liberty , etc If Whigs would refuse You , refuse they their Poll : And the Frenchisyed Mayor , who shall dare to Control ? But if some will to Law , like the Alesbury-Men , You must lay they in Jail , and their Council again . Hang Law and Liberty , etc If You get but this Choice once happily over , The Q --- n , L -- ds , and Mob will be quite out of door : You shall model the Rights of the Voters , and then Always You. or your Friends , be the Parliament-Men . Hang Law and Liberty , etc But what if You make this to be their Last Choice ? Should Btutes ( in their Carriage and Sense ) have a Voice ? Why not set up at once for Eternal Dictators , And put into Practice what is in your Nature's ? Hang Law and Liberty , etc When You've Paid for their Votes , You may honestly Seize they So of Trouble and Care in their Choosing you'll ease they : Their own Money Tacked to a well-framed Bill Shall Un-Queen , and Un-Lord , and bow all to Your Will . Hang Law and Liberty , etc Then Room and HIGH-Church we'll entirely Unite ; For Laud and L'Estrange make the Difference slight ; Should Abby-Lands go , we'll make their Estates To Pay for it , who will not drive on at our Rates . Hang Law and Liberty , etc We'll bring in Young Jemmy , and raise his Arrears By Plunder , and Taxes on all Mutineers : Low-Church , and Dissenters that will not Comply , Shall be Fined , Whipped Imprisoned , Starved , Banished and Die . Hang Law and Liberty , etc French , Scots , Irish Arms shall together Combine With Brave English Jacks no Restore the Right-Line : In a New Triple-League , France , Britain , and Spain , Over all the known World shall Absolute reign . Hang Law and Liberty , etc Your Jemmy shall Places and Honours bestow , Which to my fast Friends for his Throne he will owe ; And shall make they descend , as the Crown which he wears , In Despite of all Claims to You and Your Heirs . Hang Law and Liberty , Damn Law and Liberty ; Make Law and Liberty truckle to You : It's Your Tory-Priviledge , My French-Prerogative , All Law and Liberty quite to Subdue . MDCCV . 