The KING enjoys His own again : To be joyfully sung with its own proper sweet Tune , WHat Booker can prognosticat [ e ] ? or speak of our Kingdoms present state ? I think myself to be as wise , as he that most looks in the Skies : My skill goes beyond the depths of the Pond . or Rivers in the greatest Rain ; By the which I can tell , that all things will be well , when the King comes home in peace again . There is no Astrologer then I say can search more deep in this than I , To give a reason from the Stars , what causeth peace or civil Wars : The Man in the Moon , may wear out his Shoes , in running after Charles his Wain : But all to no end for the times they will mend , when the King comes home in peace again . Though for a time you see White Hall with Cob webs hanging over the Wall ; Instead of Silk , and Silver brave , as formerly it used to have ; In every Room , the sweet perfume , delightful for that Princely Train ; The which you shall see , when the time it shall be that the King comes home in peace again . Full fourtie years the Royal Crown , hath been his father's and his own , And I am sure there's none but he would [ tO ] h right to that Sovereignty ; Then who better may the Sceptre sway , than he that hath such right to reign ; The hope's of your peace , for the wars wili then cease , when the King comes home in peace again . Till then upon Ararats hill my hope's shall cast her Anchor still , Until I see some peaceful Dove bring home the branch which I do love ; Still will I wait till the waters abate , which most distu [ r ] bs my troubled Brain , For I'll never rejoice , till I hear the voice , that the King comes home in peace again . Oxford and Cambridge shall agree crowned with honour and dignity , Learned men shall then take place , and bid men silenced with disgrace , They'll know it was then but a shameful strain , that hath so long disturbed their Brain . For I c [ a ] n surely tell that all things will be well when the King comes home in peace again . Church-Government shall settled be , and then I hope we shall agree , Without their help , whose high-brain zeal , have long disturbed our Common well ; Agreed out of date , and Cobblers that do prate , of Wars that still disturb their brain , The which you shall see , when the time it shall be that the King comes home in peace again . Though many men are much in debt , and many Shops are to be se A golden time is drawing near , Men shall take Shops to hold their Ware : And then all our Trade shall flourish alamode , the which ere long we shall obtain ; By the which I can tell that all things will be well when the King comes home in peace again . Maidens shall enjoy their Mates , and honest men their lost Estates ; Women shall have what they do lack , their Husbands who are coming back . When the Wars have and end then I and my friend all Subject's freedom shall obtain ; By the which I can tell , all things will be well when we enjoy sweet peace again . Though people now walk in great fear alongst the Country everywhere : Thieves shall then tremble at the Law , and Justice still keep them in awe ; The Frenches shall flee with their treachery , and all the Kings foes most shamefully , The which you shall see when the time it shall be that the King comes home in peace again . The Parliament must willing be , that all the world may plainly see , How they do labour still for peace , that now these bloody Wars may cease : For they will gladly spend their Lives , to defend the King in all his right to reign , So then I can tell all things will be well , when we enjoy sweet peace again . When all these things to pass shall come , then farewell Musket , Pike and Drum , The Lamb shall with the Lion feed , which were a happy time indeed : Oh let us all pray , we may see the day . that peace may govern in his Name : For then I can tell all things will be well . when the King comes home in peace again . FINIS . The KING enjoys His own again : To be joyfully sung with its own proper sweet Tune , WHat Booker can prognosticat [ e ] ? or speak of our Kingdoms present state ? I think myself to be as wise , as he that most looks in the Skies : My skill goes beyond the depths of the Pond . or Rivers in the greatest Rain ; By the which I can tell , that all things will be well , when the King comes home in peace again . There is no Astrologer then I say can search more deep in this than I , To give a reason from the Stars , what causeth peace or civil Wars : The Man in the Moon , may wear out his Shoes , in running after Charles his Wain : But all to no end for the times they will mend , when the King comes home in peace again . Though for a time you see White Hall with Cob webs hanging over the Wall ; Instead of Silk , and Silver brave , as formerly it used to have ; In every Room , the sweet perfume , delightful for that Princely Train ; The which you shall see , when the time it shall be that the King comes home in peace again . Full fourtie years the Royal Crown , hath been his father's and his own , And I am sure there's none but he would [ tO ] h right to that Sovereignty ; Then who better may the Sceptre sway , than he that hath such right to reign ; The hope's of your peace , for the wars wili then cease , when the King comes home in peace again . Till then upon Ararats hill my hope's shall cast her Anchor still , Until I see some peaceful Dove bring home the branch which I do love ; Still will I wait till the waters abate , which most distu [ r ] bs my troubled Brain , For I'll never rejoice , till I hear the voice , that the King comes home in peace again . Oxford and Cambridge shall agree crowned with honour and dignity , Learned men shall then take place , and bid men silenced with disgrace , They'll know it was then but a shameful strain , that hath so long disturbed their Brain . For I c [ a ] n surely tell that all things will be well when the King comes home in peace again . Church-Government shall settled be , and then I hope we shall agree , Without their help , whose high-brain zeal , have long disturbed our Common well ; Agreed out of date , and Cobblers that do prate , of Wars that still disturb their brain , The which you shall see , when the time it shall be that the King comes home in peace again . Though many men are much in debt , and many Shops are to be se A golden time is drawing near , Men shall take Shops to hold their Ware : And then all our Trade shall flourish alamode , the which ere long we shall obtain ; By the which I can tell that all things will be well when the King comes home in peace again . Maidens shall enjoy their Mates , and honest men their lost Estates ; Women shall have what they do lack , their Husbands who are coming back . When the Wars have and end then I and my friend all Subject's freedom shall obtain ; By the which I can tell , all things will be well when we enjoy sweet peace again . Though people now walk in great fear alongst the Country everywhere : Thieves shall then tremble at the Law , and Justice still keep them in awe ; The Frenches shall flee with their treachery , and all the Kings foes most shamefully , The which you shall see when the time it shall be that the King comes home in peace again . The Parliament must willing be , that all the world may plainly see , How they do labour still for peace , that now these bloody Wars may cease : For they will gladly spend their Lives , to defend the King in all his right to reign , So then I can tell all things will be well , when we enjoy sweet peace again . When all these things to pass shall come , then farewell Musket , Pike and Drum , The Lamb shall with the Lion feed , which were a happy time indeed : Oh let us all pray , we may see the day . that peace may govern in his Name : For then I can tell all things will be well . when the King comes home in peace again . FINIS . 