The Two Loyal LOVERS , Sweet William and Coy Susan . William in Love but Susan was Coy , And would not yield at first to be his Joy , But at last to rid him out of pain , She granted to him Love for Love again . To the Tune of , Let Ceasar live long . Licensed according to Order . WEll met my sweet Susan , whom I do adore , I have not beheld thee this twelvemonth & more , I never expected to see thee again , Ah! how can you slight me with scorn and disdain ? Love wast thou but loyal , I happy should be , For every moment my thoughts is on thee . My Love is entire to Susan my dear , But who would a thought to have met with thee here ? Sure Fortune afforded a favour in this , To send thee my Jewel , let every Kiss Create a desire more happy to be , For every moment , etc In thee my sweet Creature I place my delight , For thou art adorned with Beauty so bright , That none can excel thee since thou art so fair , Be kind and not cruel , for woeful despair , May ruin thy Lover , whose sorrow you see , For every moment , etc There's many a Damsel would fain be my Bride , Young Nelly , and Nancy , and Sarah beside , Nay Prudence , and Dolly , likewise honest Joan , All these I must tell you , for me make their moan , But I am thy Captive and cannot be free . Since every moment my thoughts are on thee . The Second Part , to the same Tune . I pray you be quiet sweet William , she said , I am not a weary of living a Maid : For Housekeeping is chargeable , Rend it is dear , I do not intend to be Married this year . Take this for and answer , and keep your self free , And let not your fancy be fixed on me . For should we be Married , we soon may enlarge Our grief , with our sorrows , our trouble and charge , Beside I must tell you , it's not for a day , A Month , nor a Year , but for ever and aye : Therefore be advised , and keep your self free , And let not your fancy , etc Let none of those Jealousies trouble my Dear , For I will provide for thee , Love , do not fear , I daily will by my industrious care , Provide for my Jewel , no labour I'll spare : Then prithee de loving and let us agree , For every moment , etc And though it is true , we may have no great store , Yet if we can keep but the Wolf from the door , With what I do earn , for I'll carefully save , And doing of this love , what more would we have ? But to live in love , and likewise Unity , For all my delights are now fixed on thee . Now when he had told her his honest intent , She could not deny him , but gave her consen Their love in abundance they freely revealed , Though once she denied him , at length she did yield To be his most tender and dear loving Spouse , With many sweet Kisses they sealed their Vows . FINIS . Printed for J. Blare , at the Sign of the Looking - Glass , on London-Bridge . The Two Loyal LOVERS , Sweet William and Coy Susan . William in Love but Susan was Coy , And would not yield at first to be his Joy , But at last to rid him out of pain , She granted to him Love for Love again . To the Tune of , Let Ceasar live long . Licensed according to Order . WEll met my sweet Susan , whom I do adore , I have not beheld thee this twelvemonth & more , I never expected to see thee again , Ah! how can you slight me with scorn and disdain ? Love wast thou but loyal , I happy should be , For every moment my thoughts is on thee . My Love is entire to Susan my dear , But who would a thought to have met with thee here ? Sure Fortune afforded a favour in this , To send thee my Jewel , let every Kiss Create a desire more happy to be , For every moment , etc In thee my sweet Creature I place my delight , For thou art adorned with Beauty so bright , That none can excel thee since thou art so fair , Be kind and not cruel , for woeful despair , May ruin thy Lover , whose sorrow you see , For every moment , etc There's many a Damsel would fain be my Bride , Young Nelly , and Nancy , and Sarah beside , Nay Prudence , and Dolly , likewise honest Joan , All these I must tell you , for me make their moan , But I am thy Captive and cannot be free . Since every moment my thoughts are on thee . The Second Part , to the same Tune . I pray you be quiet sweet William , she said , I am not a weary of living a Maid : For Housekeeping is chargeable , Rend it is dear , I do not intend to be Married this year . Take this for and answer , and keep your self free , And let not your fancy be fixed on me . For should we be Married , we soon may enlarge Our grief , with our sorrows , our trouble and charge , Beside I must tell you , it's not for a day , A Month , nor a Year , but for ever and aye : Therefore be advised , and keep your self free , And let not your fancy , etc Let none of those Jealousies trouble my Dear , For I will provide for thee , Love , do not fear , I daily will by my industrious care , Provide for my Jewel , no labour I'll spare : Then prithee de loving and let us agree , For every moment , etc And though it is true , we may have no great store , Yet if we can keep but the Wolf from the door , With what I do earn , for I'll carefully save , And doing of this love , what more would we have ? But to live in love , and likewise Unity , For all my delights are now fixed on thee . Now when he had told her his honest intent , She could not deny him , but gave her consen Their love in abundance they freely revealed , Though once she denied him , at length she did yield To be his most tender and dear loving Spouse , With many sweet Kisses they sealed their Vows . FINIS . Printed for J. Blare , at the Sign of the Looking - Glass , on London-Bridge . 