[ 1 ] A SATYR AGAINST MANKIND . Written by a Person of HONOUR . WEre I , who to my cost , already am , One of those strange , prodigious creatures Man ; A Spirit free , to choose for my own share , What sort of Flesh and Blood I pleased to wear , I'ld be a Dog , a Monkey or a Bear : Or any thing , but that vain Animal , Who is so proud of being rational . His Senses are too gross ; and he'll contrive A sixth , to contradict the other five : And before certain Instinct , will prefer Reason , which Fifty times for one does err . Reason , and Ignis fatuus of the mind , Which leaves the Light of mature Sense behind . Pathless , and dangerous , wandr'ing ways , it takes , Through errors fenny Bogs , and Thorny Brakes : Whilst the misguided follower thinks , with pain , Mountains of Whimsies , heaped in his own brain ; Stumbling from thought , to thought , falls headlong down Into doubts boundless Sea , where like to drown , Books bear him up a while , and make him try To swim with Bladders of Philosophy : In hope's still to overtake the skipping Light , The Vapour dances , in his Dazzling sighed , Till spent , it leaves him to Eternal night . Then Old Age , and Experience , hand in hand , Leads him to Death , makes him to understand , After a search so painful , and so long , That all his Life , he has been in the wrong . A Huddled [ 2 ] Huddled in Dirt , the reasoning Engine lies , Who was so proud , so witty , and so wise : Pride drew him in , as Cheats their Bubbles catch , And made him venture , to be made a wretch : His Wisdom did his happiness destroy , Aiming to know , what World he should enjoy . And Wit was all his frivolous pretence , Of pleasing others at his own expense . For Wits are treated just like Common Whores ; First they ; re enjoyed , and then kicked out of doors . [ That ] e pleasure past , a threatening doubt remains , That frights the enjoyer with succeeding pains . Women , and men of Wit , are dangerous Tools , And ever fatal to admiring Fools , Pleasure allures , and when the fops escape , It's not that they're beloved , but fortunate ; And therefore what they fear , at heart they hate . But now methinks some formal Baud and Beard , Takes me to Task ; Come on Sir , I'm prepared : Then by your favour , anything that's writ Against this gibing , gingling knack , called Wit , Likes me abundantly , but you'll take care Upon this point , not to be too severe , Perhaps my Muse were fitter for this part , For I profess , I can be very smart On Wit , which I abhor with all my hear I long to lash it , in some sharp Essay , But your grand indiscretion bids me stay , And turns my Tide of Ink , another way . What rage foments , in your degenerate mind , To make you rail at reason , and mankind ? Blessed Glorious man , to whom alone kind Heaven And Everlasting Soul hath freely given : Whom his great Maker took such care to make , That from himself he did the Image take , And this fair frame in shining reason dressed , To dignify his Nature above Beast . Reason , ( by whose aspiring influence , We take a flight beyond material sense , ) Dives into Mysteries , then soaring pierce The flaming limits of the Universe , Search Heaven and Hell , find out what's acted there , And give the World true ground of hope and fear . Hold mighty man I cry ; all this we know , From the pathetic pen of Ingelo , From Patricks Pilgrim , Sibbs Soliloquies , And it's this very Reason I despise , This supernatural gift , that makes a mite , Think he's the Image of the Infinite ; Comparing his short life , void of all rest , To the Eternal , and the ever blessed , This busy pushing stirrer up of doubt , That frames deep mysteries , then finds them out , Filling [ 3 ] Filling with Frantic crouds , of thinking Fools , The Reverend Bedlams , Colleges and Schools , Born on whose wings , each heavy Sot can pierce The Limits of the boundless Universe : So Charming Ointments make and old Witch fly , And bear a crippled Carcase through the Sky . It's the exalted poor , whose business lies In Nonsense and Impossibilities : This made a Whimsical Philosopher , Before the spacious World his Tubb prefer : And we have many modern Coxcombs , who Retire to think , because they have nought to do . But thoughts were given for actions Government ; Where actium ceases , thought's impertinent Our Sphere of actium is life's happiness , And he that thinks beyond , thinks like and ass . Thus while against false reasoning I inveigh , I own right reason , which I would obey ; That reason , which distinguishes which sense , And gives us rules of good and ill from thence : That bounds desires , with a reforming will , To keep them more in vogue , and not to kill : Your Reason hinders ; mine helps to enjoy , Renewing Appetites , yours would destroy . My Reason is my friend , yours is a Chea Hunger calls out , my Reason bids me eat ; Perversely yours , your Appetite does mock : This asks for food , that answers what's a Clock . This plain distinction , Sir , your doubt secures : It's not true Reason I despise , but yours . Thus , I think Reason righted ; But for man , I'll never recant , defend him if you can . For all his Pride , and his Philosophy , It's evident Beasts are , in their own Degree , As Wise at least , and Better far , than he . Those Creatures are the wisest , who attain By surest means , the ends at which they aim . If therefore Jowler finds , and kills , the Hares Better than man supplies Committee Chairs ; Though one's a Statesman , the other but a Hound ; Jowler in Justice , will be wiser found . You see how far men Wisdom here extends : Look next if Human Nature makes amends ; Whose principles are most Generous and Just ; And to whose morals , you would sooner trus Be Judge yourself , I'll bring it to the Test , Which is the basest Creature , Man , or Beas Birds feed on Birds , Beasts on each other prey ; But salvage Man alone , does Man Betray . Prest by Necessity , they kill for food ; Man undoes man , to do himself not good . With Teeth , and Claws , by Nature armed , they Hunt , Nature's allowance , to supply their wan [ 4 ] But man with Smiles , Embraces , Friendships , Praise , Inhumanly , his fellows life betrays , With voluntary pains , works his distress ; Not through Necessity , but Wantonness . For hunger , or for love they bite or tear , While wretched man is still in arms for fear For fear he arms , and is of arms afraid : From fear , to fear , successively betrayed . Base fear , the source , whence his best passion came , His boasted Honour , and his dear bought Fame : [ ? ] st of Power , to which he's such a slave , And for the which alone , he dares be brave : To which his various projects are designed , Which makes him Generous , Affable and Kind : For which he takes such pains to be thought wise , And scrues his actions , in a forced disguise : Leads a most tedious life , in misery , Under laborious , mean Hypocrisy . Look to the Bottom of his vast design , Wherein man's Wisdom , Power and Glory join ; The Good he acts , the Ill he does endure , It's all from fear , to make himself secure . Merely for safety , after fame they thirst , For all men would be Cowards if they durs And honesty's against all common sense , Must men be Knaves , it's in their own defence , Mankind's dishonest ; if you think if fair , among known Cheats , to play upon the square , You'll be undone . Nor can weak Truth , your reputation save ; The Knaves will all agree to call you Knave . Wronged shall he live , insulted over , oppressed , Who dares be lesser Villain , than the rest . Thus here you see , what Human Nature craves , Most men are Cowards , all men should be Knaves . The Difference lies , as far as I can see , Not in the thing itself , but the Degree : And all the subject matter of Debate , Is only who's a Knave , of the first Rate . FINIS . [ 1 ] A SATYR AGAINST MANKIND . Written by a Person of HONOUR . WEre I , who to my cost , already am , One of those strange , prodigious creatures Man ; A Spirit free , to choose for my own share , What sort of Flesh and Blood I pleased to wear , I'ld be a Dog , a Monkey or a Bear : Or any thing , but that vain Animal , Who is so proud of being rational . His Senses are too gross ; and he'll contrive A sixth , to contradict the other five : And before certain Instinct , will prefer Reason , which Fifty times for one does err . Reason , and Ignis fatuus of the mind , Which leaves the Light of mature Sense behind . Pathless , and dangerous , wandr'ing ways , it takes , Through errors fenny Bogs , and Thorny Brakes : Whilst the misguided follower thinks , with pain , Mountains of Whimsies , heaped in his own brain ; Stumbling from thought , to thought , falls headlong down Into doubts boundless Sea , where like to drown , Books bear him up a while , and make him try To swim with Bladders of Philosophy : In hope's still to overtake the skipping Light , The Vapour dances , in his Dazzling sighed , Till spent , it leaves him to Eternal night . Then Old Age , and Experience , hand in hand , Leads him to Death , makes him to understand , After a search so painful , and so long , That all his Life , he has been in the wrong . A Huddled [ 2 ] Huddled in Dirt , the reasoning Engine lies , Who was so proud , so witty , and so wise : Pride drew him in , as Cheats their Bubbles catch , And made him venture , to be made a wretch : His Wisdom did his happiness destroy , Aiming to know , what World he should enjoy . And Wit was all his frivolous pretence , Of pleasing others at his own expense . For Wits are treated just like Common Whores ; First they ; re enjoyed , and then kicked out of doors . [ That ] e pleasure past , a threatening doubt remains , That frights the enjoyer with succeeding pains . Women , and men of Wit , are dangerous Tools , And ever fatal to admiring Fools , Pleasure allures , and when the fops escape , It's not that they're beloved , but fortunate ; And therefore what they fear , at heart they hate . But now methinks some formal Baud and Beard , Takes me to Task ; Come on Sir , I'm prepared : Then by your favour , anything that's writ Against this gibing , gingling knack , called Wit , Likes me abundantly , but you'll take care Upon this point , not to be too severe , Perhaps my Muse were fitter for this part , For I profess , I can be very smart On Wit , which I abhor with all my hear I long to lash it , in some sharp Essay , But your grand indiscretion bids me stay , And turns my Tide of Ink , another way . What rage foments , in your degenerate mind , To make you rail at reason , and mankind ? Blessed Glorious man , to whom alone kind Heaven And Everlasting Soul hath freely given : Whom his great Maker took such care to make , That from himself he did the Image take , And this fair frame in shining reason dressed , To dignify his Nature above Beast . Reason , ( by whose aspiring influence , We take a flight beyond material sense , ) Dives into Mysteries , then soaring pierce The flaming limits of the Universe , Search Heaven and Hell , find out what's acted there , And give the World true ground of hope and fear . Hold mighty man I cry ; all this we know , From the pathetic pen of Ingelo , From Patricks Pilgrim , Sibbs Soliloquies , And it's this very Reason I despise , This supernatural gift , that makes a mite , Think he's the Image of the Infinite ; Comparing his short life , void of all rest , To the Eternal , and the ever blessed , This busy pushing stirrer up of doubt , That frames deep mysteries , then finds them out , Filling [ 3 ] Filling with Frantic crouds , of thinking Fools , The Reverend Bedlams , Colleges and Schools , Born on whose wings , each heavy Sot can pierce The Limits of the boundless Universe : So Charming Ointments make and old Witch fly , And bear a crippled Carcase through the Sky . It's the exalted poor , whose business lies In Nonsense and Impossibilities : This made a Whimsical Philosopher , Before the spacious World his Tubb prefer : And we have many modern Coxcombs , who Retire to think , because they have nought to do . But thoughts were given for actions Government ; Where actium ceases , thought's impertinent Our Sphere of actium is life's happiness , And he that thinks beyond , thinks like and ass . Thus while against false reasoning I inveigh , I own right reason , which I would obey ; That reason , which distinguishes which sense , And gives us rules of good and ill from thence : That bounds desires , with a reforming will , To keep them more in vogue , and not to kill : Your Reason hinders ; mine helps to enjoy , Renewing Appetites , yours would destroy . My Reason is my friend , yours is a Chea Hunger calls out , my Reason bids me eat ; Perversely yours , your Appetite does mock : This asks for food , that answers what's a Clock . This plain distinction , Sir , your doubt secures : It's not true Reason I despise , but yours . Thus , I think Reason righted ; But for man , I'll never recant , defend him if you can . For all his Pride , and his Philosophy , It's evident Beasts are , in their own Degree , As Wise at least , and Better far , than he . Those Creatures are the wisest , who attain By surest means , the ends at which they aim . If therefore Jowler finds , and kills , the Hares Better than man supplies Committee Chairs ; Though one's a Statesman , the other but a Hound ; Jowler in Justice , will be wiser found . You see how far men Wisdom here extends : Look next if Human Nature makes amends ; Whose principles are most Generous and Just ; And to whose morals , you would sooner trus Be Judge yourself , I'll bring it to the Test , Which is the basest Creature , Man , or Beas Birds feed on Birds , Beasts on each other prey ; But salvage Man alone , does Man Betray . Prest by Necessity , they kill for food ; Man undoes man , to do himself not good . With Teeth , and Claws , by Nature armed , they Hunt , Nature's allowance , to supply their wan [ 4 ] But man with Smiles , Embraces , Friendships , Praise , Inhumanly , his fellows life betrays , With voluntary pains , works his distress ; Not through Necessity , but Wantonness . For hunger , or for love they bite or tear , While wretched man is still in arms for fear For fear he arms , and is of arms afraid : From fear , to fear , successively betrayed . Base fear , the source , whence his best passion came , His boasted Honour , and his dear bought Fame : [ ? ] st of Power , to which he's such a slave , And for the which alone , he dares be brave : To which his various projects are designed , Which makes him Generous , Affable and Kind : For which he takes such pains to be thought wise , And scrues his actions , in a forced disguise : Leads a most tedious life , in misery , Under laborious , mean Hypocrisy . Look to the Bottom of his vast design , Wherein man's Wisdom , Power and Glory join ; The Good he acts , the Ill he does endure , It's all from fear , to make himself secure . Merely for safety , after fame they thirst , For all men would be Cowards if they durs And honesty's against all common sense , Must men be Knaves , it's in their own defence , Mankind's dishonest ; if you think if fair , among known Cheats , to play upon the square , You'll be undone . Nor can weak Truth , your reputation save ; The Knaves will all agree to call you Knave . Wronged shall he live , insulted over , oppressed , Who dares be lesser Villain , than the rest . Thus here you see , what Human Nature craves , Most men are Cowards , all men should be Knaves . The Difference lies , as far as I can see , Not in the thing itself , but the Degree : And all the subject matter of Debate , Is only who's a Knave , of the first Rate . FINIS . 