THE Farmers Son of Devonshire : BEING The Valiant Coronet's Return from Flanders , who endeavoured to persuade his Brother Jack to forsake the Blow , and to take up Arms the next Spring ; which he refu - sed to do , because he was loath to leave his sweet Wife Joan. Tune of Mary live long Licensed according to Order . WEll met Brother Jack , I have been in Flanders , With valiant Commanders , And am return'd back to England again , Where a while I shall stay , And shall then march away ; I'm and Officer now ; Go with me dear Brother , Go with me dear Brother , and lay by the Blow . I tell thee Old Boy , The Son of a Farmer In glittering Armour , May kill and destroy , as many proud French , As a ' Squire or Knight , Having Courage to fight , then Valiantly go In Arms like a Soldier , In Arms like a Soldier , to face the proud Foe . But , dear Brother Will . you are a vine Vellow , and talk mighty Mellow , But what if they kill thy poor Brother Jack , By the Pounce of a Gun , If they shou'd I'm undone , and ruined quite , You know that I never , You know that I never , had Courage to fight . If you will advance in Arms like a Soldier , the Nation's Upholder , A fortunate Chance your Portion may be : All that goes are not slave , You may return again , with Victory here , There's no Men but Cowards , There's no Men but Cowards , are subject to fear . Each timorous Soul , when Trumpets are sounding , and Cannons rebounding , He fears no control , nor Death in the least , When the Smoke do's arise , And darkens the Skies , we fallen on amain ; That Trophies of Honour , That Trophies of Honour , in Field we may gain . King William you know , in heat of the Battle , when Guns they do rattle , He venters also , then what shall we fear , When and Army is led By a Crowned Royal Head , it baffles all fear , And makes Soldiers fire , And makes Soldiers fire , from the Front to the Rear . JACK's Answer . The King , I confess , he labours by power , the French to devour ; Let P [ r ] ovidence bless his conquering Arms : I wou'd do the same [ e ] thing , If I were to be King , and make the French groan , Till then loving Brother , Till then , loving Brother , pray let me alone . The Enemies Men with Horror will fill me , perhaps they may kill me , And where am I then ? this runs in my mind ; Should I chance to be Lame , Will the Trophies of Fame keep me from sad Groans , A Fig for that Honour , A Fig for that Honour , which brings broken Bones . Such Honour I scorn , I'ld rather be Mowing , nay , Plowing or Sowing , Or threshing of Corn , at home in a Barn , Then to leave Joan my Wife , And to lose my sweet Life , in Peace let me dwell ; I am not for fighting , I am not for fighting , so Brother Farewell . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Gilt-spur-street , without Newgate . THE Farmers Son of Devonshire : BEING The Valiant Coronet's Return from Flanders , who endeavoured to persuade his Brother Jack to forsake the Blow , and to take up Arms the next Spring ; which he refu - sed to do , because he was loath to leave his sweet Wife Joan. Tune of Mary live long Licensed according to Order . WEll met Brother Jack , I have been in Flanders , With valiant Commanders , And am return'd back to England again , Where a while I shall stay , And shall then march away ; I'm and Officer now ; Go with me dear Brother , Go with me dear Brother , and lay by the Blow . I tell thee Old Boy , The Son of a Farmer In glittering Armour , May kill and destroy , as many proud French , As a ' Squire or Knight , Having Courage to fight , then Valiantly go In Arms like a Soldier , In Arms like a Soldier , to face the proud Foe . But , dear Brother Will . you are a vine Vellow , and talk mighty Mellow , But what if they kill thy poor Brother Jack , By the Pounce of a Gun , If they shou'd I'm undone , and ruined quite , You know that I never , You know that I never , had Courage to fight . If you will advance in Arms like a Soldier , the Nation's Upholder , A fortunate Chance your Portion may be : All that goes are not slave , You may return again , with Victory here , There's no Men but Cowards , There's no Men but Cowards , are subject to fear . Each timorous Soul , when Trumpets are sounding , and Cannons rebounding , He fears no control , nor Death in the least , When the Smoke do's arise , And darkens the Skies , we fallen on amain ; That Trophies of Honour , That Trophies of Honour , in Field we may gain . King William you know , in heat of the Battle , when Guns they do rattle , He venters also , then what shall we fear , When and Army is led By a Crowned Royal Head , it baffles all fear , And makes Soldiers fire , And makes Soldiers fire , from the Front to the Rear . JACK's Answer . The King , I confess , he labours by power , the French to devour ; Let P [ r ] ovidence bless his conquering Arms : I wou'd do the same [ e ] thing , If I were to be King , and make the French groan , Till then loving Brother , Till then , loving Brother , pray let me alone . The Enemies Men with Horror will fill me , perhaps they may kill me , And where am I then ? this runs in my mind ; Should I chance to be Lame , Will the Trophies of Fame keep me from sad Groans , A Fig for that Honour , A Fig for that Honour , which brings broken Bones . Such Honour I scorn , I'ld rather be Mowing , nay , Plowing or Sowing , Or threshing of Corn , at home in a Barn , Then to leave Joan my Wife , And to lose my sweet Life , in Peace let me dwell ; I am not for fighting , I am not for fighting , so Brother Farewell . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Gilt-spur-street , without Newgate . THE Farmers Son of Devonshire : BEING The Valiant Coronet's Return from Flanders , who endeavoured to persuade his Brother Jack to forsake the Blow , and to take up Arms the next Spring ; which he refu - sed to do , because he was loath to leave his sweet Wife Joan. Tune of Mary live long Licensed according to Order . WEll met Brother Jack , I have been in Flanders , With valiant Commanders , And am return'd back to England again , Where a while I shall stay , And shall then march away ; I'm and Officer now ; Go with me dear Brother , Go with me dear Brother , and lay by the Blow . I tell thee Old Boy , The Son of a Farmer In glittering Armour , May kill and destroy , as many proud French , As a ' Squire or Knight , Having Courage to fight , then Valiantly go In Arms like a Soldier , In Arms like a Soldier , to face the proud Foe . But , dear Brother Will . you are a vine Vellow , and talk mighty Mellow , But what if they kill thy poor Brother Jack , By the Pounce of a Gun , If they shou'd I'm undone , and ruined quite , You know that I never , You know that I never , had Courage to fight . If you will advance in Arms like a Soldier , the Nation's Upholder , A fortunate Chance your Portion may be : All that goes are not slave , You may return again , with Victory here , There's no Men but Cowards , There's no Men but Cowards , are subject to fear . Each timorous Soul , when Trumpets are sounding , and Cannons rebounding , He fears no control , nor Death in the least , When the Smoke do's arise , And darkens the Skies , we fallen on amain ; That Trophies of Honour , That Trophies of Honour , in Field we may gain . King William you know , in heat of the Battle , when Guns they do rattle , He venters also , then what shall we fear , When and Army is led By a Crowned Royal Head , it baffles all fear , And makes Soldiers fire , And makes Soldiers fire , from the Front to the Rear . JACK's Answer . The King , I confess , he labours by power , the French to devour ; Let P [ r ] ovidence bless his conquering Arms : I wou'd do the same [ e ] thing , If I were to be King , and make the French groan , Till then loving Brother , Till then , loving Brother , pray let me alone . The Enemies Men with Horror will fill me , perhaps they may kill me , And where am I then ? this runs in my mind ; Should I chance to be Lame , Will the Trophies of Fame keep me from sad Groans , A Fig for that Honour , A Fig for that Honour , which brings broken Bones . Such Honour I scorn , I'ld rather be Mowing , nay , Plowing or Sowing , Or threshing of Corn , at home in a Barn , Then to leave Joan my Wife , And to lose my sweet Life , in Peace let me dwell ; I am not for fighting , I am not for fighting , so Brother Farewell . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Gilt-spur-street , without Newgate . THE Farmers Son of Devonshire : BEING The Valiant Coronet's Return from Flanders , who endeavoured to persuade his Brother Jack to forsake the Blow , and to take up Arms the next Spring ; which he refu - sed to do , because he was loath to leave his sweet Wife Joan. Tune of Mary live long Licensed according to Order . WEll met Brother Jack , I have been in Flanders , With valiant Commanders , And am return'd back to England again , Where a while I shall stay , And shall then march away ; I'm and Officer now ; Go with me dear Brother , Go with me dear Brother , and lay by the Blow . I tell thee Old Boy , The Son of a Farmer In glittering Armour , May kill and destroy , as many proud French , As a ' Squire or Knight , Having Courage to fight , then Valiantly go In Arms like a Soldier , In Arms like a Soldier , to face the proud Foe . But , dear Brother Will . you are a vine Vellow , and talk mighty Mellow , But what if they kill thy poor Brother Jack , By the Pounce of a Gun , If they shou'd I'm undone , and ruined quite , You know that I never , You know that I never , had Courage to fight . If you will advance in Arms like a Soldier , the Nation's Upholder , A fortunate Chance your Portion may be : All that goes are not slave , You may return again , with Victory here , There's no Men but Cowards , There's no Men but Cowards , are subject to fear . Each timorous Soul , when Trumpets are sounding , and Cannons rebounding , He fears no control , nor Death in the least , When the Smoke do's arise , And darkens the Skies , we fallen on amain ; That Trophies of Honour , That Trophies of Honour , in Field we may gain . King William you know , in heat of the Battle , when Guns they do rattle , He venters also , then what shall we fear , When and Army is led By a Crowned Royal Head , it baffles all fear , And makes Soldiers fire , And makes Soldiers fire , from the Front to the Rear . JACK's Answer . The King , I confess , he labours by power , the French to devour ; Let P [ r ] ovidence bless his conquering Arms : I wou'd do the same [ e ] thing , If I were to be King , and make the French groan , Till then loving Brother , Till then , loving Brother , pray let me alone . The Enemies Men with Horror will fill me , perhaps they may kill me , And where am I then ? this runs in my mind ; Should I chance to be Lame , Will the Trophies of Fame keep me from sad Groans , A Fig for that Honour , A Fig for that Honour , which brings broken Bones . Such Honour I scorn , I'ld rather be Mowing , nay , Plowing or Sowing , Or threshing of Corn , at home in a Barn , Then to leave Joan my Wife , And to lose my sweet Life , in Peace let me dwell ; I am not for fighting , I am not for fighting , so Brother Farewell . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Gilt-spur-street , without Newgate . 