The West-Country DIALOGUE : OR , A Pleasant Ditty between Anniseed-Robin the Milller , and his Brother Jack the Ploughman , concerning Joan , poor Robin's unkind Lover . To the Tune of , Oh folly , desperate Folly , etc Licensed according to Order . Robin . WEll met my loving Brother Jack , mind what I shall say to thee , My Mother tells me that I lack a Woman to wait on me : She tells me I'm big enough now for a Wife , And therefore must altar my Bachelor's life ; But I am afraid of care , trouble , and strife : Oh Charges , Family-charges , makes me afraid to wed , Jack . It's like you are loath to take a Bride , because that the Times are hard , Pray cast such careful thoughts aside , and never such things regard : For if you can live now when every thing's dear , Why then Brother Robin , I'll make it appear , In times of full Plenty much Moneys you'll clear O marry , prithee now marry , Joan is a pretty Girl . Robin . I am not sure that honest Joan , will marry with me I swear ; For she to such a height is grown , that if I by chance come there , And proffer to kiss her , she'll turn her about , And then with her Fists she'll batter my snout , Till blood from the same came trickling ou Oh marry , if I should marry , How will she serve me then ? Jack . It's like you did not compliment , and give her a kind Embrace ; But like some clownish Booby went with Hat hanging over your Face ; And it may be , your Shoes and your Stockings untied , You looked like a Lover that wanted a Bride ; For some such like Reason she liquored your hide . O Robin Aniseed Robin , is it the truth or no ? Robin . Believe me as I am a Man , true Breeding I there expressed ; And as you know full well I can , I went in Apparel dressed . My Grandfather's Hat , and my Calve's-leather-cloaths , Then into her presence I merrily goes , And made her a Congee quite down to my Toes ; yet Joaney angry Joaney kicked me about the Room , Jack . You should have told her what you had , to bring a young Woman to ; This would have made her Heart full glad , without any more ado With Kisses thou shouldst have said , If thou'lt be mine , Why then all my Capons , my Turkeys , and swine , And every thing else that I have should be thine : Then Robin , Anniseed-Robin , you would have gained her Love . Robin . I was not wanting to declare , my Riches to her at Large , And how I was my Father's , Heir , sure I could maintain a charge , And told her , that I had a Cow , and a Calf , And something likewise that would make her to laugh , As large , and as long as a Constables Staff : yet Joaney , Passionate Joaney , kicked me about the Floor . Jack . Go try your Fortune once again , and never be daunted so ; Her love you may at length obtain , for Lasses are coy you know : But after a while they surrender and yield , For Love is a thing cannot be concealed , And you may be Lord of the conquering Field , then Robin , tickle her Robin , she will at last be thine . Robin . To take your Council I'll not fail , but to her I'll go once more , I'll give her Custards , Cakes and Ale , which I did not do before ; I'll spend a whole Shilling , and when it is done If she will not love me as sure as a Gun , I'll call her young Whore , and away I will run : so leave her , utterly leave her , never come there again , Printed for P. Brooksby , in Pie-corner The West-Country DIALOGUE : OR , A Pleasant Ditty between Anniseed-Robin the Milller , and his Brother Jack the Ploughman , concerning Joan , poor Robin's unkind Lover . To the Tune of , Oh folly , desperate Folly , etc Licensed according to Order . Robin . WEll met my loving Brother Jack , mind what I shall say to thee , My Mother tells me that I lack a Woman to wait on me : She tells me I'm big enough now for a Wife , And therefore must altar my Bachelor's life ; But I am afraid of care , trouble , and strife : Oh Charges , Family-charges , makes me afraid to wed , Jack . It's like you are loath to take a Bride , because that the Times are hard , Pray cast such careful thoughts aside , and never such things regard : For if you can live now when every thing's dear , Why then Brother Robin , I'll make it appear , In times of full Plenty much Moneys you'll clear O marry , prithee now marry , Joan is a pretty Girl . Robin . I am not sure that honest Joan , will marry with me I swear ; For she to such a height is grown , that if I by chance come there , And proffer to kiss her , she'll turn her about , And then with her Fists she'll batter my snout , Till blood from the same came trickling ou Oh marry , if I should marry , How will she serve me then ? Jack . It's like you did not compliment , and give her a kind Embrace ; But like some clownish Booby went with Hat hanging over your Face ; And it may be , your Shoes and your Stockings untied , You looked like a Lover that wanted a Bride ; For some such like Reason she liquored your hide . O Robin Aniseed Robin , is it the truth or no ? Robin . Believe me as I am a Man , true Breeding I there expressed ; And as you know full well I can , I went in Apparel dressed . My Grandfather's Hat , and my Calve's-leather-cloaths , Then into her presence I merrily goes , And made her a Congee quite down to my Toes ; yet Joaney angry Joaney kicked me about the Room , Jack . You should have told her what you had , to bring a young Woman to ; This would have made her Heart full glad , without any more ado With Kisses thou shouldst have said , If thou'lt be mine , Why then all my Capons , my Turkeys , and swine , And every thing else that I have should be thine : Then Robin , Anniseed-Robin , you would have gained her Love . Robin . I was not wanting to declare , my Riches to her at Large , And how I was my Father's , Heir , sure I could maintain a charge , And told her , that I had a Cow , and a Calf , And something likewise that would make her to laugh , As large , and as long as a Constables Staff : yet Joaney , Passionate Joaney , kicked me about the Floor . Jack . Go try your Fortune once again , and never be daunted so ; Her love you may at length obtain , for Lasses are coy you know : But after a while they surrender and yield , For Love is a thing cannot be concealed , And you may be Lord of the conquering Field , then Robin , tickle her Robin , she will at last be thine . Robin . To take your Council I'll not fail , but to her I'll go once more , I'll give her Custards , Cakes and Ale , which I did not do before ; I'll spend a whole Shilling , and when it is done If she will not love me as sure as a Gun , I'll call her young Whore , and away I will run : so leave her , utterly leave her , never come there again , Printed for P. Brooksby , in Pie-corner 