IRELANDS Complaint of the Armies hypocrisy . With his Excellencies entering unconquer'd LONDON : In a Discourse between two friends Donatus and Perigrin . With the slighting of the Communicable Line . Donat. WEll met friend Perigrin , from whence cam'st thou , Perig . From wretched Ireland , I landed now ; Donat. How stands the state of that distressed Nation , Perig . 'Tis almost lost , a powerful inundation Hath overwhelm'd it in a Sea of woe ? And I am hither come to let you know How much they thank you for each fast and prayer In their behalf , if they could live by air Without the help of money or of men , They would requite your breath with breath again . Donat. We have been ever ready to relieve them In words not having other aid to give them . Perig . 'Tis true indeed , but give me leave to tell you Words are to weak to fill and empty belly Donat. We meant our Army should their loss restore Perig . When the Steed's stolen , yowl shut the stable door . Donat. The trumpet sounds , stand by my friend here's one , Whose conquest must through London streets be known . Perig . Who's this that comes in triumph , is the war Donat. Now finished . 'Tis that famous Conqueror Sir Thomas Fairfax , Whose victorious hand Makes England stoop to his supreme command , Perig . Is he a King or Pope , or can there be Another that dares own supremacy , Donat. He is neither King nor Pope , yet he is one That alters government , puls Bishops down , And Elders to , the hated Presbyters , Seem now as odious as the Bishops were . He sets up a new light which does arise Beyond the apprehension of weak eyes For these are a peculiar people grown , A real Priesthood , these are they alone Which are of all believers , truly sainted And every preaching soldier is acquainted With Jesus Christ , who offers grace to all Yet none may come unless the Father call , Who fills them with the Spirit in such measure That they may fallen , and rise at their own pleasure . Repentance is a superstitious thing And 'tis as frivolous to have a King , One musters legions of foul crimes within And makes discovery of each secret since : The other does not bear the sword in vain Whereby he should his Regal power maintain , It was not given him to be a scourge To good men , but the wicked land to purge From cruel humours , which they understand Who wrested it by force out of his hand , Not knowing who resisteth power shall Procure themselves damnation sad withal , The Kings word is with power , then who may Tax him with what he please to do or say : Suppose the King were wicked is it fit To tell him so , Gods Word does not permit Such insolence , but does enforce us rather To yield obedience to our Kingly Father But now that holy Writ is of no force , Our government is chang'd from bad to worse . Perig . prey what became of that strict Covenant , Betwixt the Brothers and your Parliament . Donat. ( Alas ) they made so many Oaths before , And broke them all , 'tis but one trespass more , They'll add yet to the former , for where since Aboundeth most , there grace must needs begin , Perig . But do your Londoners not blush to see A plain discovery of their perjury . How shall a stranger trust their word or oath When for advantage they will forfeit both ? Donat. Know they have trusted in so many gods , Which in the end will prove revengeful rods For whosoever does too much rely One any humane help , does deify The means , wherein they trust to find redress , Sees none but God can free us in distress : Poor England was oppressed , and therefore went To seek deliverance in a Parliament The which pretended a true Reformation ; Which was begun with a deep Protestation : But Oaths are words , and words are all but wind , Soon after they themselves in Cov'nant bind , To aid the Parliament against their King ; And to that end they Plate and Money bring Wherewith great Forts and Bulwarks were erected The while poor Ireland was quite neglected , The tithe of what they one their Rampiers spend Might free some thousand wretched souls , and end Their cruel sufferings , but 'tis too late , Pray God their fallen prove not proud Englands fate . Perig . But when this conquering Army had subdued , The King and that malignant multitude , They might have gone and set that Nation free , And there be crown'd with glorious victory . Donat. Why , these are they , which are our faiths directors , To seek out Heaven , these are our Kings protectors . Whose meaning is to fix him on his Throne , In time , but first they will be paid their own Areares , nor do they purpose to disband While all the Law remaineth in their hand , The States are as unwilling to restore The power they have usurp'd six years or more , Beside some inward guilt does whisper this And tells them they have done some things amiss , And if they should be lesser , then they are There is a retribution day I fear , Wherein they shall be summon'd to make good By satisfaction those sad streams of blood The which by their commission was exhausted , And those huge sums of money vainly wasted , The Londoners have now the only cause , ( Who must be subject to new Lords , new Laws ) To fetch their King , but they were overruled , And now begin to fear they have been fooled Betwixt Sir Thomas , and the Parliament ; Nor do they now their doings well resent . The Forts and Guards are in the Armies power , And so is the Militia and the Tower : And yet the King remains no better still Then a poor pris'ner to the Armies will . And thus we see no comfort can be given But what proceeds from the great King of Heaven , Who does men extremity foresee , By which he works his opportunity : And will I hope , when things are at the worst , Restore them better then they were at first . Nulla dies sine linea . Or the Slighting of the Works . ANd must the hedge be pulled down ? Of this blessed Reformation ? And may the Maids to Islington , Pass free without invasion ? Now ( Noddles ) to your Cells again Breeds vermin to be idle : Black Tom will teach you another strain , Hee'l make yond champ the bridle . And heigh let us sing , and the bells merry ring The King of the Line is abolished Edwards is sped , the Birds they are fled The Cage must be demolished . Home Sutlers to your holes again Pack to your nasty allies : Your Summer-houses long enough dYou've had , go try your talleys . The Excize-man frighted quite away , Butchers you need not prize them ; You need not lift sheep o're the Works , For fear they should Excise them . And heigh ? Manwring is fast enough in hold , A sad and true presagement That against the old decrepit Line There was some strong engagement . You Citizens you need not fear While you are in your quarter : Your Journeymen should ware for ware With your Madonna's barter . And heigh let us sing , and the Bells merry ring , The King of the Line is abolish Edward is sped , the Birds they are fled , The Cage must be demolished . FINIS . IRELANDS Complaint of the Armies hypocrisy . With his Excellencies entering unconquer'd LONDON : In a Discourse between two friends Donatus and Perigrin . With the slighting of the Communicable Line . Donat. WEll met friend Perigrin , from whence cam'st thou , Perig . From wretched Ireland , I landed now ; Donat. How stands the state of that distressed Nation , Perig . 'Tis almost lost , a powerful inundation Hath overwhelm'd it in a Sea of woe ? And I am hither come to let you know How much they thank you for each fast and prayer In their behalf , if they could live by air Without the help of money or of men , They would requite your breath with breath again . Donat. We have been ever ready to relieve them In words not having other aid to give them . Perig . 'Tis true indeed , but give me leave to tell you Words are to weak to fill and empty belly Donat. We meant our Army should their loss restore Perig . When the Steed's stolen , yowl shut the stable door . Donat. The trumpet sounds , stand by my friend here's one , Whose conquest must through London streets be known . Perig . Who's this that comes in triumph , is the war Donat. Now finished . 'Tis that famous Conqueror Sir Thomas Fairfax , Whose victorious hand Makes England stoop to his supreme command , Perig . Is he a King or Pope , or can there be Another that dares own supremacy , Donat. He is neither King nor Pope , yet he is one That alters government , puls Bishops down , And Elders to , the hated Presbyters , Seem now as odious as the Bishops were . He sets up a new light which does arise Beyond the apprehension of weak eyes For these are a peculiar people grown , A real Priesthood , these are they alone Which are of all believers , truly sainted And every preaching soldier is acquainted With Jesus Christ , who offers grace to all Yet none may come unless the Father call , Who fills them with the Spirit in such measure That they may fallen , and rise at their own pleasure . Repentance is a superstitious thing And 'tis as frivolous to have a King , One musters legions of foul crimes within And makes discovery of each secret since : The other does not bear the sword in vain Whereby he should his Regal power maintain , It was not given him to be a scourge To good men , but the wicked land to purge From cruel humours , which they understand Who wrested it by force out of his hand , Not knowing who resisteth power shall Procure themselves damnation sad withal , The Kings word is with power , then who may Tax him with what he please to do or say : Suppose the King were wicked is it fit To tell him so , Gods Word does not permit Such insolence , but does enforce us rather To yield obedience to our Kingly Father But now that holy Writ is of no force , Our government is chang'd from bad to worse . Perig . prey what became of that strict Covenant , Betwixt the Brothers and your Parliament . Donat. ( Alas ) they made so many Oaths before , And broke them all , 'tis but one trespass more , They'll add yet to the former , for where since Aboundeth most , there grace must needs begin , Perig . But do your Londoners not blush to see A plain discovery of their perjury . How shall a stranger trust their word or oath When for advantage they will forfeit both ? Donat. Know they have trusted in so many gods , Which in the end will prove revengeful rods For whosoever does too much rely One any humane help , does deify The means , wherein they trust to find redress , Sees none but God can free us in distress : Poor England was oppressed , and therefore went To seek deliverance in a Parliament The which pretended a true Reformation ; Which was begun with a deep Protestation : But Oaths are words , and words are all but wind , Soon after they themselves in Cov'nant bind , To aid the Parliament against their King ; And to that end they Plate and Money bring Wherewith great Forts and Bulwarks were erected The while poor Ireland was quite neglected , The tithe of what they one their Rampiers spend Might free some thousand wretched souls , and end Their cruel sufferings , but 'tis too late , Pray God their fallen prove not proud Englands fate . Perig . But when this conquering Army had subdued , The King and that malignant multitude , They might have gone and set that Nation free , And there be crown'd with glorious victory . Donat. Why , these are they , which are our faiths directors , To seek out Heaven , these are our Kings protectors . Whose meaning is to fix him on his Throne , In time , but first they will be paid their own Areares , nor do they purpose to disband While all the Law remaineth in their hand , The States are as unwilling to restore The power they have usurp'd six years or more , Beside some inward guilt does whisper this And tells them they have done some things amiss , And if they should be lesser , then they are There is a retribution day I fear , Wherein they shall be summon'd to make good By satisfaction those sad streams of blood The which by their commission was exhausted , And those huge sums of money vainly wasted , The Londoners have now the only cause , ( Who must be subject to new Lords , new Laws ) To fetch their King , but they were overruled , And now begin to fear they have been fooled Betwixt Sir Thomas , and the Parliament ; Nor do they now their doings well resent . The Forts and Guards are in the Armies power , And so is the Militia and the Tower : And yet the King remains no better still Then a poor pris'ner to the Armies will . And thus we see no comfort can be given But what proceeds from the great King of Heaven , Who does men extremity foresee , By which he works his opportunity : And will I hope , when things are at the worst , Restore them better then they were at first . Nulla dies sine linea . Or the Slighting of the Works . ANd must the hedge be pulled down ? Of this blessed Reformation ? And may the Maids to Islington , Pass free without invasion ? Now ( Noddles ) to your Cells again Breeds vermin to be idle : Black Tom will teach you another strain , Hee'l make yond champ the bridle . And heigh let us sing , and the bells merry ring The King of the Line is abolished Edwards is sped , the Birds they are fled The Cage must be demolished . Home Sutlers to your holes again Pack to your nasty allies : Your Summer-houses long enough dYou've had , go try your talleys . The Excize-man frighted quite away , Butchers you need not prize them ; You need not lift sheep o're the Works , For fear they should Excise them . And heigh ? Manwring is fast enough in hold , A sad and true presagement That against the old decrepit Line There was some strong engagement . You Citizens you need not fear While you are in your quarter : Your Journeymen should ware for ware With your Madonna's barter . And heigh let us sing , and the Bells merry ring , The King of the Line is abolish Edward is sped , the Birds they are fled , The Cage must be demolished . FINIS . 