ENGLAND's Surprise ; OR , The French King's Joy for the Duke of Marlborough's being turned out of Favour . To the Tune of , Now now comes on the Glorious Year . WHat News is this flys up and down , Of M --- h , that Warrior of Renown ? His glorious Sun's eclipsed at Noon , which lately shined most splended : All round Britannia's most spacious Isle , His Foes did dread , and his Friends did smile , French Politics he oft beguiled , and chiefly him they dreaded . A valiant Hero in the Field , When he his warlike Sword did wield , He made proud Lewis's Forces yield , as Captives to his Glory ; And Conq'rer was where ever he came ; His Conduct , Valour , Might and Fame , Did signalise his awful Name , and eke record his Story . It is a Task would tedious grow , All his heroic Deeds to show , And how he made the French to know , that Mars could never exceed him In great Achievements there of late , Where Victories did on him wait , And Thousands of them met their Fate , each trembling Soul did dread him . In the famous Hogstet Fight was tried , His noble Actions too , beside , And Schellemburg could well decide his Valour , which gave Wonder : With great amazement all was filled , To see the slaughtered Foes lie killed ; At Ramellies French Blood he spilled , and at Lisle , like dreadful Thunder , His Cannons Balls did fly and roar , So that for Mercy they implored , And did surrender all their Store , not able to resist him : In many valorous Fights since then , He did return Victorious , when Fresh Laurels crowned him , and each Pen proclaimed him still the Victor . A Warrior great all will allow , Yet some Defects appears now ; But what it is there is but few can very well conjecture : No question but our Senate good , Just Reasons have why they withstood His Motives , and find no Man could be wholly without Blemish . Though of late in Triumph here he came , And splendedly was entertained , While Fame's loud Trumpet did proclaim him Champion of Great Britain : The noble Warrior seems to grieve , That he the Toils of War must leave ; Yet it's high time the Sword to sheath , since ANNA thinks it fitting . It's certain he's from Favour fell , All worldly Pomp is soon expelled , It's fit all Subject's Homage yield , and pay all due Submission : But France , it seems , does boasting say , This is to them a joyful Day ; They for his Downfall loud do pray ; and breaking his Commission . Lewis le Grand does rant and roar , For all his Gout , old Agues and Sores , Is Marlbro ' out ? I wish no more ; Begar , now Lads never fear them : My aged Heart is void of Care , I am brisker than I was by far , Now Britain's , now come if you dare ; Begar , we'll peace-meal tear them . And thus , it seems , he does rejoice , Thinking we have no noble Choice ; But Britain yields Heroic Boys , with Eugene great , to maul them : Yet still we hope , and with the best , Our Marborough may be still carest , While bounteous ANNA's Royal Breast , his Faults will pardon all Boys . Printed for J. Nickolson , near West-Smithfield . ENGLAND's Surprise ; OR , The French King's Joy for the Duke of Marlborough's being turned out of Favour . To the Tune of , Now now comes on the Glorious Year . WHat News is this flys up and down , Of M --- h , that Warrior of Renown ? His glorious Sun's eclipsed at Noon , which lately shined most splended : All round Britannia's most spacious Isle , His Foes did dread , and his Friends did smile , French Politics he oft beguiled , and chiefly him they dreaded . A valiant Hero in the Field , When he his warlike Sword did wield , He made proud Lewis's Forces yield , as Captives to his Glory ; And Conq'rer was where ever he came ; His Conduct , Valour , Might and Fame , Did signalise his awful Name , and eke record his Story . It is a Task would tedious grow , All his heroic Deeds to show , And how he made the French to know , that Mars could never exceed him In great Achievements there of late , Where Victories did on him wait , And Thousands of them met their Fate , each trembling Soul did dread him . In the famous Hogstet Fight was tried , His noble Actions too , beside , And Schellemburg could well decide his Valour , which gave Wonder : With great amazement all was filled , To see the slaughtered Foes lie killed ; At Ramellies French Blood he spilled , and at Lisle , like dreadful Thunder , His Cannons Balls did fly and roar , So that for Mercy they implored , And did surrender all their Store , not able to resist him : In many valorous Fights since then , He did return Victorious , when Fresh Laurels crowned him , and each Pen proclaimed him still the Victor . A Warrior great all will allow , Yet some Defects appears now ; But what it is there is but few can very well conjecture : No question but our Senate good , Just Reasons have why they withstood His Motives , and find no Man could be wholly without Blemish . Though of late in Triumph here he came , And splendedly was entertained , While Fame's loud Trumpet did proclaim him Champion of Great Britain : The noble Warrior seems to grieve , That he the Toils of War must leave ; Yet it's high time the Sword to sheath , since ANNA thinks it fitting . It's certain he's from Favour fell , All worldly Pomp is soon expelled , It's fit all Subject's Homage yield , and pay all due Submission : But France , it seems , does boasting say , This is to them a joyful Day ; They for his Downfall loud do pray ; and breaking his Commission . Lewis le Grand does rant and roar , For all his Gout , old Agues and Sores , Is Marlbro ' out ? I wish no more ; Begar , now Lads never fear them : My aged Heart is void of Care , I am brisker than I was by far , Now Britain's , now come if you dare ; Begar , we'll peace-meal tear them . And thus , it seems , he does rejoice , Thinking we have no noble Choice ; But Britain yields Heroic Boys , with Eugene great , to maul them : Yet still we hope , and with the best , Our Marborough may be still carest , While bounteous ANNA's Royal Breast , his Faults will pardon all Boys . Printed for J. Nickolson , near West-Smithfield . 