TO HIS Royal Highness , AT HIS Happy Return FROM SCOTLAND . Written by a Person of Quality . WHen all the Glories of Triumphant Room , Seem'd Sick to death , likely to be o'recome By a Barbarian Sword ; one Man was found T' rebate its Edge and heal his Country's Wound . But theirs were Foreign Foes . Our ravenous breed ( Those crawling Insects in our Bowels bred , ) Like their Egyptian Predecessors , swarm : The Reble Dust does with the Vermin Arm , Threatening again , if Heav'n don't interpose , A second Ax , to make Kings glorious . In vain , with patience , did we long endure ; In vain from Senates , have we sought our cure . But what will and aspiring Senate hear , When Factious Zeal and City Bags appear , With Wapping Reformades and Tilted Peer : But Godlike Charles , letting Alpheus lose , With timely Care cleans'd the Augean-House ; Yet Spite and Venom through the Limbs are spread , The Monster struggles though 't has lost its Head ; Serpents retain their Stings when they are dead : And and associated immortal Tail Does once more the Imperial Crown assail , And what even They did not in Council dare , Expects its Birth from a Sham Court of War : For the World hath not such obedient things As Whigs , except to God , Bishops and Kings . Yet , Royal Sir , the Genius of our Isle , Lifts his pain'd Head , and welcomes with a smile Your Your blessed Return . No more , says he , no more Shall I my Albion's Misery's deplore , When the two heav'nly Brother's shine so bright , No dread of Tempests from those Sons of night . Go on , great Prince , in all thy ways approve A Subject's Duty in a Brother's Love , Until thy Piety expose with Shame All the Suborn'd Blasphemers of thy Fame . Redeem the injur'd Muses from the Stains Of such who think strong Lines can hide weak Brains , Claiming Apollo's Chair ; as if to Lie , Were Fancy ; or to Rail , were Poetry . A Spurious Raze , who Wit and Sense disown , Nor Gold , nor Laurel , will such Temples Crown . Next , Sir , your dearest Consort does command And humble Off'ring from each Loyal hand ; But where the beauteous Theme's so heav'nly bright , It is much easier to Adore , than Write . 'Tis not for Poets to discourse of Eyes , Have made and Heroes heart their Sacrifice : Words are too narrow to describe such light , Or speak my Duteous Joys for the blessed sighed ; For Sovereign Beauty like the Ark does stand , 'Tis death to touch , unless with hallowed hand . Here a retiring Reverence is due , They could have conquer'd World's that conquer'd you . It is enough , good Heavens ! We welcome home , The Hope of Kingdoms , in her fruitful Womb. For if when time shall Sacred Charles remove , ( Long , long , be it first ! ) to the blessed Seats above , Our black dy'd Sins should cause the mourning Throne To be unblest with Issue of his Own ; What could the miserable Breach repair , But Piteous Heav'n and this Illustrious Pair . Heaven , who declares in Wonders so Divine Care of Succession , in the rightful Line ; That it protects you with a guardian hand From Whiggish Leman's both of Sea and Land. Your gen'rous Heart the mighty Debt does know , Which you your God and Godlike Brother owe . But , Sir , the Church of England's in distress , The Spouse once more driv'n to the Wilderness , With joy she thinks she may her Doctrines own , By what her Sons have in your Service done . If steady Faith , to Monarchs can approve , Such , which , nor Storms nor Int'rest could remove , She begs your Care , and fain would hope your Love . FINIS . London : Printed for W. Davis . 1682. TO HIS Royal Highness , AT HIS Happy Return FROM SCOTLAND . Written by a Person of Quality . WHen all the Glories of Triumphant Room , Seem'd Sick to death , likely to be o'recome By a Barbarian Sword ; one Man was found T' rebate its Edge and heal his Country's Wound . But theirs were Foreign Foes . Our ravenous breed ( Those crawling Insects in our Bowels bred , ) Like their Egyptian Predecessors , swarm : The Reble Dust does with the Vermin Arm , Threatening again , if Heav'n don't interpose , A second Ax , to make Kings glorious . In vain , with patience , did we long endure ; In vain from Senates , have we sought our cure . But what will and aspiring Senate hear , When Factious Zeal and City Bags appear , With Wapping Reformades and Tilted Peer : But Godlike Charles , letting Alpheus lose , With timely Care cleans'd the Augean-House ; Yet Spite and Venom through the Limbs are spread , The Monster struggles though 't has lost its Head ; Serpents retain their Stings when they are dead : And and associated immortal Tail Does once more the Imperial Crown assail , And what even They did not in Council dare , Expects its Birth from a Sham Court of War : For the World hath not such obedient things As Whigs , except to God , Bishops and Kings . Yet , Royal Sir , the Genius of our Isle , Lifts his pain'd Head , and welcomes with a smile Your Your blessed Return . No more , says he , no more Shall I my Albion's Misery's deplore , When the two heav'nly Brother's shine so bright , No dread of Tempests from those Sons of night . Go on , great Prince , in all thy ways approve A Subject's Duty in a Brother's Love , Until thy Piety expose with Shame All the Suborn'd Blasphemers of thy Fame . Redeem the injur'd Muses from the Stains Of such who think strong Lines can hide weak Brains , Claiming Apollo's Chair ; as if to Lie , Were Fancy ; or to Rail , were Poetry . A Spurious Raze , who Wit and Sense disown , Nor Gold , nor Laurel , will such Temples Crown . Next , Sir , your dearest Consort does command And humble Off'ring from each Loyal hand ; But where the beauteous Theme's so heav'nly bright , It is much easier to Adore , than Write . 'Tis not for Poets to discourse of Eyes , Have made and Heroes heart their Sacrifice : Words are too narrow to describe such light , Or speak my Duteous Joys for the blessed sighed ; For Sovereign Beauty like the Ark does stand , 'Tis death to touch , unless with hallowed hand . Here a retiring Reverence is due , They could have conquer'd World's that conquer'd you . It is enough , good Heavens ! We welcome home , The Hope of Kingdoms , in her fruitful Womb. For if when time shall Sacred Charles remove , ( Long , long , be it first ! ) to the blessed Seats above , Our black dy'd Sins should cause the mourning Throne To be unblest with Issue of his Own ; What could the miserable Breach repair , But Piteous Heav'n and this Illustrious Pair . Heaven , who declares in Wonders so Divine Care of Succession , in the rightful Line ; That it protects you with a guardian hand From Whiggish Leman's both of Sea and Land. Your gen'rous Heart the mighty Debt does know , Which you your God and Godlike Brother owe . But , Sir , the Church of England's in distress , The Spouse once more driv'n to the Wilderness , With joy she thinks she may her Doctrines own , By what her Sons have in your Service done . If steady Faith , to Monarchs can approve , Such , which , nor Storms nor Int'rest could remove , She begs your Care , and fain would hope your Love . FINIS . London : Printed for W. Davis . 1682. 