LONDONS Warning-Peece , BEING , The Common-Prayers Complaint . WHat shall I do ; I am cast out of door , In Church , nor Chapel , I must come no more : For I am called plain Popery , by those , That by the Spirit , Prayers do compose ; Such are the men your Roundheads dote upon , That can make prayers , of and hour long : That sighs , and sob , with making many faces , And these are men , preferred in good men's places . Fie , fie , I am ashamed to see these days , Where none but such as by the Spirit prays , Regarded are ; for now adays they cry , Down all , that will not with the times comply . So impudent they are , the Church they call A den of Thieves , yea and the house of Ball : The had rather preach in Barns , in Tubs , and Stables , For there they can repeat their lies and fables : But Parliament look tooed , or else we'll come Against them and you at dreadful day of doom : You chosen were as Father's of the land , Thinking for King and Kingdom you would stand , Maintaining our Religion , as it stood In the best Reformers time , that ever were good . Established I was by Orthodox Divines , But Pim , and the rest to contrary inclines , They think they're wiser then our Father's were , And yet will cozen , lie , and cheat , and swear : But 'twas not so in that Queens days , whose fame To the world is spread , Elizabeth by name : There never was such Schisms , such sects as now , Preaching in tubs , Green , Spencer , Hunt and How . No , not so much as one man durst be seen [ To ] contradict the sayings of the Queen : [ Mu ] changed less to take up Arms for to Rebel , [ And Parlia ] meant to count this doing well ; [ N ] oh marvel it's that against me they do rise , When as they do our Gracious King despise : Yea , base Mecannicks , that do preach in tubs , Did come to the Court with swords , and staves , & clubs , And did annoy CHARLES , our most gracious King , Day after day they came ( but did not bring Petitions in their hands ) for to implore , But Brazen faced they came to White-hall door ; At which affront our King seemed discontent , And thought not little that his Parliament Should slight him so , as not to take a course With base Mechanics as did swear , nay worse , Yea , speak high Treason against our royal King , Which he did hear , yet 'twas counted nothing : His Majesty seeing himself so slighted , Abused by base Mechanics , and not righted , White hall he left , to Hampton Court he went , Being filled with sorrow , grief and discontent , To think that having reigned so long in peace , This happy Peace should now begin to cease , And Civil War among ourselves begin : Oh what and age is this we now live in , That Subject's now against their Prince must war , Yea , and themselves at first begin to jar : For they began and Army for to raise , Five members 'twas , be't spoken to their praise . Pim , he began to set it first on foot , And Stroud , and Hampden both apployed them too't , And Army must be raised , or wee're undone , The land with Popery will soon be over run , Come says Kimbolton , let's not make delay , Let's raise Ten Thousand men , and send away , Brave Essex we will make our General , And to the Soldiers we'll be liberal , Scarfs , Swords , and money then they had great store , Great heaps of money , and of Plate , nay more Then for the present they could well dispose , But what's become of all that now , God knows , The Army being raised , away they bent , To meet our Sovereign with full intent , To kill and slay all those that took his part , But yet you see it was beyond their art ; For I am sure they have been often banged , And in the end I think they will be hanged . What! take up arms against your gracious King ! This is a horrid and a Heathenish thing . Stay , cry you mercy : CHARLES is no longer King , King Pim it is , the Roundheads would have him : Their Zeal is set all on a burning fire , That none a happy Union does desire : See how the rage of this great factious crew , Are bent against kingdoms three , all to undo , Such plunderings , and such pillaging , nay stay , Is thieving , though Malignant carried away : One robs another , for to make himself , And hoards in bags and trunks this cursed pelf . Well Londoners , Let no more money go , Be now a friend to CHARLES , and not a foe , [ For ] esee how he does prosper in his way , [ Scarce ] once in twice that you have god the day Brave Bristolls taken , [ Gl ] ocester now is shaking , Gainsbrough forsaken , Exceter is quaking : We'll now submit , and join at last for peace , That this unhappy Civil War may cease : Then CHARLES too's Crown may be received with joy So we'll triumph , and sing , Vive la roy . O Yes , Oh yes , Oh yes . If any man have found Law in a Declaration , That strayed from Westminster after a strange fashion , Since the Fifteenth of November 'twas not seen in this Nation : Let him bring news unto Pim , he shall have thanks in a Narration . O Yes , Oh yes , Oh yes . If any man hath found Sir John Hotham , or shall , Who hath lost himself in the keeping of Hull , And now strayed away , by and Order that's Null , If the Parliament will not have him , his Majesty will . God save the King . O yes . O yes , Oh yes , If any man hath lost any money or plate , There was a great deal took up at Gulid-Hall of late , Let them show the marks on iT , now it's melted , abate Only the keeping , and by Public Faith you shall ha'te . God save the King let's all sing . LONDONS SACRIFICE , WIll nothing serve ? will nothing else suffice For Englands Peace ? No other Sacrifice ? Isaack's demanded : Isaack is deni'de , Our Righteous Abra'ms they will not confide : Though prompted by their own Endeavour came , To rescue Zealous Isaack with a Ram , If neither Isaack nor the Ram can do , The Devil take both , Ram , and Isaack too . Finis . YORKE , Printed by STEPHEN BUCKLEY . 1643. LONDONS Warning-Peece , BEING , The Common-Prayers Complaint . WHat shall I do ; I am cast out of door , In Church , nor Chapel , I must come no more : For I am called plain Popery , by those , That by the Spirit , Prayers do compose ; Such are the men your Roundheads dote upon , That can make prayers , of and hour long : That sighs , and sob , with making many faces , And these are men , preferred in good men's places . Fie , fie , I am ashamed to see these days , Where none but such as by the Spirit prays , Regarded are ; for now adays they cry , Down all , that will not with the times comply . So impudent they are , the Church they call A den of Thieves , yea and the house of Ball : The had rather preach in Barns , in Tubs , and Stables , For there they can repeat their lies and fables : But Parliament look tooed , or else we'll come Against them and you at dreadful day of doom : You chosen were as Father's of the land , Thinking for King and Kingdom you would stand , Maintaining our Religion , as it stood In the best Reformers time , that ever were good . Established I was by Orthodox Divines , But Pim , and the rest to contrary inclines , They think they're wiser then our Father's were , And yet will cozen , lie , and cheat , and swear : But 'twas not so in that Queens days , whose fame To the world is spread , Elizabeth by name : There never was such Schisms , such sects as now , Preaching in tubs , Green , Spencer , Hunt and How . No , not so much as one man durst be seen [ To ] contradict the sayings of the Queen : [ Mu ] changed less to take up Arms for to Rebel , [ And Parlia ] meant to count this doing well ; [ N ] oh marvel it's that against me they do rise , When as they do our Gracious King despise : Yea , base Mecannicks , that do preach in tubs , Did come to the Court with swords , and staves , & clubs , And did annoy CHARLES , our most gracious King , Day after day they came ( but did not bring Petitions in their hands ) for to implore , But Brazen faced they came to White-hall door ; At which affront our King seemed discontent , And thought not little that his Parliament Should slight him so , as not to take a course With base Mechanics as did swear , nay worse , Yea , speak high Treason against our royal King , Which he did hear , yet 'twas counted nothing : His Majesty seeing himself so slighted , Abused by base Mechanics , and not righted , White hall he left , to Hampton Court he went , Being filled with sorrow , grief and discontent , To think that having reigned so long in peace , This happy Peace should now begin to cease , And Civil War among ourselves begin : Oh what and age is this we now live in , That Subject's now against their Prince must war , Yea , and themselves at first begin to jar : For they began and Army for to raise , Five members 'twas , be't spoken to their praise . Pim , he began to set it first on foot , And Stroud , and Hampden both apployed them too't , And Army must be raised , or wee're undone , The land with Popery will soon be over run , Come says Kimbolton , let's not make delay , Let's raise Ten Thousand men , and send away , Brave Essex we will make our General , And to the Soldiers we'll be liberal , Scarfs , Swords , and money then they had great store , Great heaps of money , and of Plate , nay more Then for the present they could well dispose , But what's become of all that now , God knows , The Army being raised , away they bent , To meet our Sovereign with full intent , To kill and slay all those that took his part , But yet you see it was beyond their art ; For I am sure they have been often banged , And in the end I think they will be hanged . What! take up arms against your gracious King ! This is a horrid and a Heathenish thing . Stay , cry you mercy : CHARLES is no longer King , King Pim it is , the Roundheads would have him : Their Zeal is set all on a burning fire , That none a happy Union does desire : See how the rage of this great factious crew , Are bent against kingdoms three , all to undo , Such plunderings , and such pillaging , nay stay , Is thieving , though Malignant carried away : One robs another , for to make himself , And hoards in bags and trunks this cursed pelf . Well Londoners , Let no more money go , Be now a friend to CHARLES , and not a foe , [ For ] esee how he does prosper in his way , [ Scarce ] once in twice that you have god the day Brave Bristolls taken , [ Gl ] ocester now is shaking , Gainsbrough forsaken , Exceter is quaking : We'll now submit , and join at last for peace , That this unhappy Civil War may cease : Then CHARLES too's Crown may be received with joy So we'll triumph , and sing , Vive la roy . O Yes , Oh yes , Oh yes . If any man have found Law in a Declaration , That strayed from Westminster after a strange fashion , Since the Fifteenth of November 'twas not seen in this Nation : Let him bring news unto Pim , he shall have thanks in a Narration . O Yes , Oh yes , Oh yes . If any man hath found Sir John Hotham , or shall , Who hath lost himself in the keeping of Hull , And now strayed away , by and Order that's Null , If the Parliament will not have him , his Majesty will . God save the King . O yes . O yes , Oh yes , If any man hath lost any money or plate , There was a great deal took up at Gulid-Hall of late , Let them show the marks on iT , now it's melted , abate Only the keeping , and by Public Faith you shall ha'te . God save the King let's all sing . LONDONS SACRIFICE , WIll nothing serve ? will nothing else suffice For Englands Peace ? No other Sacrifice ? Isaack's demanded : Isaack is deni'de , Our Righteous Abra'ms they will not confide : Though prompted by their own Endeavour came , To rescue Zealous Isaack with a Ram , If neither Isaack nor the Ram can do , The Devil take both , Ram , and Isaack too . Finis . YORKE , Printed by STEPHEN BUCKLEY . 1643. 