The COUNTRY Lawyers Maid JOAN , Containing her Languishing Lamentation for want of a Man , which at length she met with , being her Master's Man Mark . Tune of Turn Coat of the Times . Licensed according to Order . YOu Bachelors all attend , And stand a poor Maidens Friend , My Sorrows to you I send , In order to let you know My passionate grief and woe , And what I do undergo : In languishing sort I lie , Here ready to sighs and die , The Grief I sustain , for want of a Man , There's nobody knows but I . There's my young Sister Kate , She's Marry'd I hear of late Unto a young Sparkish Mate ; But I poor honest Joan , Must languish and lie alone , Not any regards my moan : In sorrowful sort I cry , Here ready with grief to die , What pain I endure for want of a Man , There's nobody knows but I . I Think I have Beauty bright , Young Bachelors to delight , I wonder that they should slight Such amorous Charms as mine , And suffer me to repine , My Life I shall soon resign : For languishing here I lie , Oh ready this Day to die , The Grief I sustain , for want of a Man , There's nobody knows but I . I commonly do repair To every Wake and Fair , Dressed up in my Powder'd Hair , My Beauty still to adorn , And yet I am held in scorn , Ah! would I had ne'r been born ; For languishing here I lie , And ready this Day to die , The Grief I sustain , for want of a Man , There's nobody knows but I Young Robin the Millers Son , When he had my Favour wone , He did to another run ; Thus hurry'd me to Despair , As knowing the grief and care Was greater than I could bear , For languishing did I lie , I'll tell you dear Friends , for why ? The Grief I sustain , for want of a Man , There's nobody knows but I . Were Husbands to be sold , And I had as much bright Gold , As ever my Lap could hold ; Nay , if I had ten times more , I'd freely part with that store , I tell you , dear Friends , before I languishing thus would lie , A Husband , in troth , I'd buy , The Grief I sustain , for want of a Man , There's nobody knows but I A Husband I dearly lack , Tho' he be a Collier black , Or Pedlar with his Pack , That travels the Nationwide , 'Tis all one to me , she cry'd , I'd willingly be a Bride : For languishing here I lie , Nay ready this Day to die , The Grief I sustain , for want of a Man , There's nobody knows but I . At length came lusty Mark , A Country Lawyers Clark , And tickl'd her in the dark ; He litt on the very Vein , The place of her grief and pain , And cause [ ' ] worser her to laugh amain : And merrily did reply , Oh this is the Death I'd die , What Grief I endur'd for want of a Man , There's nobody knew but I Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . The COUNTRY Lawyers Maid JOAN , Containing her Languishing Lamentation for want of a Man , which at length she met with , being her Master's Man Mark . Tune of Turn Coat of the Times . Licensed according to Order . YOu Bachelors all attend , And stand a poor Maidens Friend , My Sorrows to you I send , In order to let you know My passionate grief and woe , And what I do undergo : In languishing sort I lie , Here ready to sighs and die , The Grief I sustain , for want of a Man , There's nobody knows but I . There's my young Sister Kate , She's Marry'd I hear of late Unto a young Sparkish Mate ; But I poor honest Joan , Must languish and lie alone , Not any regards my moan : In sorrowful sort I cry , Here ready with grief to die , What pain I endure for want of a Man , There's nobody knows but I . I Think I have Beauty bright , Young Bachelors to delight , I wonder that they should slight Such amorous Charms as mine , And suffer me to repine , My Life I shall soon resign : For languishing here I lie , Oh ready this Day to die , The Grief I sustain , for want of a Man , There's nobody knows but I . I commonly do repair To every Wake and Fair , Dressed up in my Powder'd Hair , My Beauty still to adorn , And yet I am held in scorn , Ah! would I had ne'r been born ; For languishing here I lie , And ready this Day to die , The Grief I sustain , for want of a Man , There's nobody knows but I Young Robin the Millers Son , When he had my Favour wone , He did to another run ; Thus hurry'd me to Despair , As knowing the grief and care Was greater than I could bear , For languishing did I lie , I'll tell you dear Friends , for why ? The Grief I sustain , for want of a Man , There's nobody knows but I . Were Husbands to be sold , And I had as much bright Gold , As ever my Lap could hold ; Nay , if I had ten times more , I'd freely part with that store , I tell you , dear Friends , before I languishing thus would lie , A Husband , in troth , I'd buy , The Grief I sustain , for want of a Man , There's nobody knows but I A Husband I dearly lack , Tho' he be a Collier black , Or Pedlar with his Pack , That travels the Nationwide , 'Tis all one to me , she cry'd , I'd willingly be a Bride : For languishing here I lie , Nay ready this Day to die , The Grief I sustain , for want of a Man , There's nobody knows but I . At length came lusty Mark , A Country Lawyers Clark , And tickl'd her in the dark ; He litt on the very Vein , The place of her grief and pain , And cause [ ' ] worser her to laugh amain : And merrily did reply , Oh this is the Death I'd die , What Grief I endur'd for want of a Man , There's nobody knew but I Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . The COUNTRY Lawyers Maid JOAN , Containing her Languishing Lamentation for want of a Man , which at length she met with , being her Master's Man Mark . Tune of Turn Coat of the Times . Licensed according to Order . YOu Bachelors all attend , And stand a poor Maidens Friend , My Sorrows to you I send , In order to let you know My passionate grief and woe , And what I do undergo : In languishing sort I lie , Here ready to sighs and die , The Grief I sustain , for want of a Man , There's nobody knows but I . There's my young Sister Kate , She's Marry'd I hear of late Unto a young Sparkish Mate ; But I poor honest Joan , Must languish and lie alone , Not any regards my moan : In sorrowful sort I cry , Here ready with grief to die , What pain I endure for want of a Man , There's nobody knows but I . I Think I have Beauty bright , Young Bachelors to delight , I wonder that they should slight Such amorous Charms as mine , And suffer me to repine , My Life I shall soon resign : For languishing here I lie , Oh ready this Day to die , The Grief I sustain , for want of a Man , There's nobody knows but I . I commonly do repair To every Wake and Fair , Dressed up in my Powder'd Hair , My Beauty still to adorn , And yet I am held in scorn , Ah! would I had ne'r been born ; For languishing here I lie , And ready this Day to die , The Grief I sustain , for want of a Man , There's nobody knows but I Young Robin the Millers Son , When he had my Favour wone , He did to another run ; Thus hurry'd me to Despair , As knowing the grief and care Was greater than I could bear , For languishing did I lie , I'll tell you dear Friends , for why ? The Grief I sustain , for want of a Man , There's nobody knows but I . Were Husbands to be sold , And I had as much bright Gold , As ever my Lap could hold ; Nay , if I had ten times more , I'd freely part with that store , I tell you , dear Friends , before I languishing thus would lie , A Husband , in troth , I'd buy , The Grief I sustain , for want of a Man , There's nobody knows but I A Husband I dearly lack , Tho' he be a Collier black , Or Pedlar with his Pack , That travels the Nationwide , 'Tis all one to me , she cry'd , I'd willingly be a Bride : For languishing here I lie , Nay ready this Day to die , The Grief I sustain , for want of a Man , There's nobody knows but I . At length came lusty Mark , A Country Lawyers Clark , And tickl'd her in the dark ; He litt on the very Vein , The place of her grief and pain , And cause [ ' ] worser her to laugh amain : And merrily did reply , Oh this is the Death I'd die , What Grief I endur'd for want of a Man , There's nobody knew but I Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . The COUNTRY Lawyers Maid JOAN , Containing her Languishing Lamentation for want of a Man , which at length she met with , being her Master's Man Mark . Tune of Turn Coat of the Times . Licensed according to Order . YOu Bachelors all attend , And stand a poor Maidens Friend , My Sorrows to you I send , In order to let you know My passionate grief and woe , And what I do undergo : In languishing sort I lie , Here ready to sighs and die , The Grief I sustain , for want of a Man , There's nobody knows but I . There's my young Sister Kate , She's Marry'd I hear of late Unto a young Sparkish Mate ; But I poor honest Joan , Must languish and lie alone , Not any regards my moan : In sorrowful sort I cry , Here ready with grief to die , What pain I endure for want of a Man , There's nobody knows but I . I Think I have Beauty bright , Young Bachelors to delight , I wonder that they should slight Such amorous Charms as mine , And suffer me to repine , My Life I shall soon resign : For languishing here I lie , Oh ready this Day to die , The Grief I sustain , for want of a Man , There's nobody knows but I . I commonly do repair To every Wake and Fair , Dressed up in my Powder'd Hair , My Beauty still to adorn , And yet I am held in scorn , Ah! would I had ne'r been born ; For languishing here I lie , And ready this Day to die , The Grief I sustain , for want of a Man , There's nobody knows but I Young Robin the Millers Son , When he had my Favour wone , He did to another run ; Thus hurry'd me to Despair , As knowing the grief and care Was greater than I could bear , For languishing did I lie , I'll tell you dear Friends , for why ? The Grief I sustain , for want of a Man , There's nobody knows but I . Were Husbands to be sold , And I had as much bright Gold , As ever my Lap could hold ; Nay , if I had ten times more , I'd freely part with that store , I tell you , dear Friends , before I languishing thus would lie , A Husband , in troth , I'd buy , The Grief I sustain , for want of a Man , There's nobody knows but I A Husband I dearly lack , Tho' he be a Collier black , Or Pedlar with his Pack , That travels the Nationwide , 'Tis all one to me , she cry'd , I'd willingly be a Bride : For languishing here I lie , Nay ready this Day to die , The Grief I sustain , for want of a Man , There's nobody knows but I . At length came lusty Mark , A Country Lawyers Clark , And tickl'd her in the dark ; He litt on the very Vein , The place of her grief and pain , And cause [ ' ] worser her to laugh amain : And merrily did reply , Oh this is the Death I'd die , What Grief I endur'd for want of a Man , There's nobody knew but I Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 