Troynovant must not be Burned . Or , and exhortative to the City to pre - serve themselves . WHat is there none that will the City right ? Was all their story by fierce Vulcans spite . Burned in Ben. Johnsons study ; Let us rake , And from those Ashes new-lived , sparkles take . Not to consume our Troy , ( as * he did Room , Who made him Music of his Cities doom : ) Rather such strains shall start from our struck lyre Which shall built up our Thebes , not set on fire . Such a bright Beam we'll dart ; that shall renew Your Ancestors , and bring their Acts to view . Acts that were lost , like his Eurydice , Which we'll reduce by Orphan Melody : Acts , that your Senators cloth will deeplier die , And make them Scarlet now with infamy . When that their Purple shall upbraid the cloth , Now spoiled , and eaten by a Politic Moth , ( Vermin at Westminster , ) whom you have nursed , Until your selves are starved ; yet thei'le not burst . See how the Bull-chins hang oth' Kingdoms breasts , While she lank Milcher looks like Pharaos beasts . Transparent ; and her squeezed udders flop , Like the dried driver of a schoole-boys Top. Was the brave dagger in your Arms for this ? Was it for yielding up your Liberties ? Was it for patient , modest siting still ? And let the Rebel Act what his proud will Had once presumed ? No : It was given to show , To after-age the Honour of that Blow . That dagger still so famous on Record , Which did engage unto it a double sword . That of the Kings , and Majors , and did advance , Upon its Point the Cap of Maintenance . Look up to that brave Trojans ; and yowl ' stagger , Your ' bold invaders , if you draw that dagger . Look in your Chronicles , and read what fears , You were put in by the first * Levellers . A silly , Lousy , undigested Throng , Who thought to have taken the Kingdom with * a song . Which these base Rebels , the true brood of those , But not so learned , do pursue in Prose . Shall such a sort of Rascals the State awe ? Worse then those were , who are not worth a straw . Shall these in Triumph ride throw the glazed streets ? When you may smell from Windsor by their feet . Shall these on Palfries through the City ride ? Who Crosse-legge sat till now , and never a stride . Shall these the Honour of and Nation merit ? And say they took once London by the spirit . And have a Name , only renowned in story , * For burning London , to the good Lords glory . * Nero . * Given for suppressing Wyats Re - bellion . * Jack Straw & Cades Rebelli - on suppressed by the City . * When Adam Dug and E - vispan , who was then the Gen - tleman . * Crumwells words ; What if it were for the glory of God this city were burned . Shall these profane the Sceptre , as it were A goodly Hoppe-pole made for Oliver . And shall the horse of state by Pocky hands , Be led and be at Martins fowl commands . And go as Gingerly as he ; shall Vane , ( Old perjured Vane ) swear away CHARLES his Reign . As he did Straffords head . To make his Babies Sucking Independents , Lords of Raby . Shall Mildmay that same Precious Knave , cause known ? A Thief for Jewels , steal away the Crown . Or Chaloner that speeching Atheist , think , That the Kings fame is murdered by his Ink . And because these could a * Declaration Compose , Compose too and abused Nation . We rise ( you Imposters ) as on a May day ; The Ills of the base Houses to display . To pull them down , or send you thence , who fit , And contrive Plagues . and pay your selves for it . Give the Pale Speaker tother thousand Pound , If he can Vote CHARLES his deposing round . ( This is their work ) ye shall be guarded , yes , But from the Palace to your destinies . You shall not longer by your Arts detain us , We rise up all as Crispin and Crispianus . Or like the Bechams bold : you Vote down Plays . That we may ' not know the valour of those days . Because your snifling worships want lets see , No Plays , we'll now go Act the Tragady . And though you lately cleansed , for your own sakes , The Privies , we'll purge , you the Kingdoms lake's . Never such noisome excrement did fit , Chosen sure , when that the Country was at shit . Whose stink so rank upon our nostril grows , As Atkins were sole gossip to the House . Foh you State Farmers ! Let your own despair , Drive you away ; That we may cleanse the air . And make it fit for Caesars Nose again , If that the Royal Nose will ever deign , To be so never such Polecats : We now bring Hemp for you Rebels , Nosegays for the King . * These foure the complliers of the scande - lus Declarati - on against the King . Epiphonoma . When Nero thnatned Rome with glorious Fire The news was next , the Tyrant did expire . Go Oliver , thy malice not prevails . Thou hast two enemies , London and Wales . And both in thy sure ruins hope to laugh , Wales be thy Tomb , London thy Epitaph . FINIS . Troynovant must not be Burned . Or , and exhortative to the City to pre - serve themselves . WHat is there none that will the City right ? Was all their story by fierce Vulcans spite . Burned in Ben. Johnsons study ; Let us rake , And from those Ashes new-lived , sparkles take . Not to consume our Troy , ( as * he did Room , Who made him Music of his Cities doom : ) Rather such strains shall start from our struck lyre Which shall built up our Thebes , not set on fire . Such a bright Beam we'll dart ; that shall renew Your Ancestors , and bring their Acts to view . Acts that were lost , like his Eurydice , Which we'll reduce by Orphan Melody : Acts , that your Senators cloth will deeplier die , And make them Scarlet now with infamy . When that their Purple shall upbraid the cloth , Now spoiled , and eaten by a Politic Moth , ( Vermin at Westminster , ) whom you have nursed , Until your selves are starved ; yet thei'le not burst . See how the Bull-chins hang oth' Kingdoms breasts , While she lank Milcher looks like Pharaos beasts . Transparent ; and her squeezed udders flop , Like the dried driver of a schoole-boys Top. Was the brave dagger in your Arms for this ? Was it for yielding up your Liberties ? Was it for patient , modest siting still ? And let the Rebel Act what his proud will Had once presumed ? No : It was given to show , To after-age the Honour of that Blow . That dagger still so famous on Record , Which did engage unto it a double sword . That of the Kings , and Majors , and did advance , Upon its Point the Cap of Maintenance . Look up to that brave Trojans ; and yowl ' stagger , Your ' bold invaders , if you draw that dagger . Look in your Chronicles , and read what fears , You were put in by the first * Levellers . A silly , Lousy , undigested Throng , Who thought to have taken the Kingdom with * a song . Which these base Rebels , the true brood of those , But not so learned , do pursue in Prose . Shall such a sort of Rascals the State awe ? Worse then those were , who are not worth a straw . Shall these in Triumph ride throw the glazed streets ? When you may smell from Windsor by their feet . Shall these on Palfries through the City ride ? Who Crosse-legge sat till now , and never a stride . Shall these the Honour of and Nation merit ? And say they took once London by the spirit . And have a Name , only renowned in story , * For burning London , to the good Lords glory . * Nero . * Given for suppressing Wyats Re - bellion . * Jack Straw & Cades Rebelli - on suppressed by the City . * When Adam Dug and E - vispan , who was then the Gen - tleman . * Crumwells words ; What if it were for the glory of God this city were burned . Shall these profane the Sceptre , as it were A goodly Hoppe-pole made for Oliver . And shall the horse of state by Pocky hands , Be led and be at Martins fowl commands . And go as Gingerly as he ; shall Vane , ( Old perjured Vane ) swear away CHARLES his Reign . As he did Straffords head . To make his Babies Sucking Independents , Lords of Raby . Shall Mildmay that same Precious Knave , cause known ? A Thief for Jewels , steal away the Crown . Or Chaloner that speeching Atheist , think , That the Kings fame is murdered by his Ink . And because these could a * Declaration Compose , Compose too and abused Nation . We rise ( you Imposters ) as on a May day ; The Ills of the base Houses to display . To pull them down , or send you thence , who fit , And contrive Plagues . and pay your selves for it . Give the Pale Speaker tother thousand Pound , If he can Vote CHARLES his deposing round . ( This is their work ) ye shall be guarded , yes , But from the Palace to your destinies . You shall not longer by your Arts detain us , We rise up all as Crispin and Crispianus . Or like the Bechams bold : you Vote down Plays . That we may ' not know the valour of those days . Because your snifling worships want lets see , No Plays , we'll now go Act the Tragady . And though you lately cleansed , for your own sakes , The Privies , we'll purge , you the Kingdoms lake's . Never such noisome excrement did fit , Chosen sure , when that the Country was at shit . Whose stink so rank upon our nostril grows , As Atkins were sole gossip to the House . Foh you State Farmers ! Let your own despair , Drive you away ; That we may cleanse the air . And make it fit for Caesars Nose again , If that the Royal Nose will ever deign , To be so never such Polecats : We now bring Hemp for you Rebels , Nosegays for the King . * These foure the complliers of the scande - lus Declarati - on against the King . Epiphonoma . When Nero thnatned Rome with glorious Fire The news was next , the Tyrant did expire . Go Oliver , thy malice not prevails . Thou hast two enemies , London and Wales . And both in thy sure ruins hope to laugh , Wales be thy Tomb , London thy Epitaph . FINIS . 