CELIAS Answer TO The LOVER'S Complaint . To the same Tune . WHat is this I hear still by all I do meet , A complaint against Celia is Sung in the street , Where she scornful is made , and cruel does prove To Strephon who is with Celia in Love . Nay likewise they say for Love he will die , Unless that his Celia to Love does comply , He further complains that my hearts made of stone , And yet he'l have Celia , or else he'l have none . And since I must give him and Answer indeed , I'll speak from my Heart as I am a true Maid , He Courted me long , and I slighted him still , Though it not perhaps for any ill will . But caution did make me to use him like one , That came as a visit and so to be gone , Though he often would sighs , then his Eyes they would dart Which many a time I felt at my heart . But men are deceitful which made me still shy , What their tongue often speaks , yet their hearts gives the lie And few there are found of Men to be true , Which made me always be scornful to you . For daily I see that young Maidens are wronged , By Bachelors with their fine flatter Tongue . They swear they do love till they've gained their desire , Which when once possessed then soon they retire . Thus Men being false causes me to beware , lest I by such Men should be drawn in a snare , As thousands there be that by young men's undone , In believing what's said by a lying Tongue . But if that I thought that young Strephon was true , And would love in earnest I would do so too , I mean not for time , but forever and ay , I am not for love that holds but a day . Therefore if you come with intent for to wed , Near fear but a loving kind Wife may be had , I love you this true , I declare on my life , And happy should be if I once were your wife . O what i'st I say , I have here told my mind , O now I am ruined if Strephon's unkind , My love I cant hide , but must let the world know , This Strephon I love though I tortured him so . If he now should leave me for what I have done , Then for love of him I distracted shall run , O why did I use him so cruel before , When at the same time I did him adore . Now come lovely Strephon my Heart is thy own , With grief I have herd all thy sorrow and moan , And if you will wed , then this I will say , Since Strephon consents then to morrow's the day . Printed for Charles Barnet . CELIAS Answer TO The LOVER'S Complaint . To the same Tune . WHat is this I hear still by all I do meet , A complaint against Celia is Sung in the street , Where she scornful is made , and cruel does prove To Strephon who is with Celia in Love . Nay likewise they say for Love he will die , Unless that his Celia to Love does comply , He further complains that my hearts made of stone , And yet he'l have Celia , or else he'l have none . And since I must give him and Answer indeed , I'll speak from my Heart as I am a true Maid , He Courted me long , and I slighted him still , Though it not perhaps for any ill will . But caution did make me to use him like one , That came as a visit and so to be gone , Though he often would sighs , then his Eyes they would dart Which many a time I felt at my heart . But men are deceitful which made me still shy , What their tongue often speaks , yet their hearts gives the lie And few there are found of Men to be true , Which made me always be scornful to you . For daily I see that young Maidens are wronged , By Bachelors with their fine flatter Tongue . They swear they do love till they've gained their desire , Which when once possessed then soon they retire . Thus Men being false causes me to beware , lest I by such Men should be drawn in a snare , As thousands there be that by young men's undone , In believing what's said by a lying Tongue . But if that I thought that young Strephon was true , And would love in earnest I would do so too , I mean not for time , but forever and ay , I am not for love that holds but a day . Therefore if you come with intent for to wed , Near fear but a loving kind Wife may be had , I love you this true , I declare on my life , And happy should be if I once were your wife . O what i'st I say , I have here told my mind , O now I am ruined if Strephon's unkind , My love I cant hide , but must let the world know , This Strephon I love though I tortured him so . If he now should leave me for what I have done , Then for love of him I distracted shall run , O why did I use him so cruel before , When at the same time I did him adore . Now come lovely Strephon my Heart is thy own , With grief I have herd all thy sorrow and moan , And if you will wed , then this I will say , Since Strephon consents then to morrow's the day . Printed for Charles Barnet . 