A LAMENTABLE BALLAD OF FAIR ROSAMOND , Concubine to Henry 2nd . Who was put to death by Queen Eleanor , in the famous Bower of Wood - stock , near Oxford . To the Tune of Flying Fame . WHEN as King Henry ruled the land , The second of the name ; Beside the Queen he dearly loved , A fair and comely dame ; Most peerless was her beauty found , Her favours and her face , A sweeter creature in this world , Could never Prince embrace . Her pretty locks like threads of gold , Appeared to each man's sighed , Her comely eyes , like orient pearls , Did cast a glorirous light ; The blood within her crystal cheeks , Did such a colour drive , As if the lily and the rose , For mastership did strive . Fair Rosamond , fair Rosamond , Her name was called so , To whom dame Eleanor our queen , Was known a deadly foe ; The king therefore for her defence ; Against the furious queen , At Woodstock built a pretty bower , The like was never seen . Most curiously that bower was built ; Of stone and timber strong , And hundred and fifty doors , Did to this bower belong ; And they so cunningly contrived , With turnings round about . That none but with a clue of thread ; Could enter in and out . And for his love and lady's sake , That was so fair and bright , The keeping of this bower he gave , Unto a gallant knight ; But fortune that does often frown ; Where it before did smile , The king's delight the lady's joy , Full soon she did beguile . For the king's most ungracious son , Whom he did high advance , Against his father waged war ; Within the realms of France . But yet before our comely king , The English had forsook , Of Rosomond his lady fair . His farewell thus he took . My Rosamond my only rose , That pleases best my eye , The fairest flower in all the world , To delight my fancy , The flower of my affected heart , Whose sweetness does excel , My royal rose a thousand times , I bid thee now farewell . For I must leave my fairest flower , My sweetest rose a space , And cross the seas to famous France , Proud rebels to abase . But yet my rose besure thou shall , My coming shortly see , And in my heart when hence I am , I'll bear my rose with me . When Rosamond , that lady bright , Did hear that king say so , The sorrow of her grieved heart , Her outward looks did show , And from her clear and crystal eyes , The tears gushed out apace , Which like the silver pearled due , Ran down her comely face . Her lips like to the coral read , Did wax both wan and pale , And for the sorrow she conceived , Her vital spirits did fail . And falling down all in a swoon , Before King Henry's face , Full often within his princely arms , Her body did embrace . And twenty times with watery eyes , He kissed her tender cheek ; Until he had revived again , Her senses mild and meek ; Why grieves my sweetest rose ? The king would often say , Because , quoth she , to bloody wars , My lord must pass away ; But since your grace in foreign parts Among your foes unkind , Must go to hazard life and limb , Why should I stay behind ? Nay , farther , let me like a page , Thy sword and target bear , That on my breast thy blows may light , That would offend you there . O let me in your royal tent , Prepare your bed at night , And sweet baths refresh you , At your return from fight ; So I your presence may enjoy , No toil I will refuse , But wanting you my life is death , Which does true love abuse . Content thyself my dear , quoth he , Thy rest at home shall be , In England's sweet and pleasant soil , For travel fits not thee ; Fair ladies brook no bloody wars , Sweet peace their pleasure breed , The nourisher of heart's content , Which fancy first did feed . My rose shall rest in Woodstock bower , With music's sweet delight , While I among the piercing pikes , Against my foes do fight , My rose in robes of pearl and gold , With diamonds richly dressed , Shall dance the calliards of my love , While my foes lie oppressed , And you Sir Thomas , whom I trust , To be my love's defence , Be careful of the gallant rose , When I am parted hence , And therewithal he fetched a sighs , As though his heart would break , And fair Rosamond for very grief , One word she could not speak . And at their parting they well might , In heart be grieved soar , After that day fair Rosamond , The king did see no more : For when his grace had passed the seas , And into France was gone , Queen Eleanor with envious heart , To Woodstock came anon , And forth she calls this trusty knight , Who kept this curious bower , Who with a clew of twined thread , Came from this famous flower . And when they had wounded him , The queen this thread did get , And went were lady Rosamond , Was like and angel se But when the queen with steadfast eye , Beheld her beauteous face , She was amazed in her mind , At her exceeding grace ; Cast of from thee those robes she said , That rich and costly be , And drink thou this deadly drought , Which I have brought to thee . But presently upon her knees , Sweet Rosamond did fallen , And pardon of the queen she craved , For her offences all ; Take pity on my youthful years , Fair Rosamond did cry , And let me not with poison strong , Enforced be to die , I will renounce my sinful life , And in some cloister hide , Or else be banished if you please , To range the world so wide , And for the fault that I have done , Though I was forced thereto , Preserve my life and punish me , As you think good to do . And with these words her lily hands , She wrung full often there , And down along her comely face , Proceeded many a tear ; But nothing could this furious queen , Wherewith appeased be , The cup of deadly poison strong , As she kneeled on her knee . She gave this comely dame to drink , Who took it in her hand , And from her bended knee arose , And on her feet did stand ; And casting up her eyes to heaven , She did for mercy call , And drinking up the poison strong , Her life she lost withal . And when that death in every limb , Had done her gaeatest spite , Her greatest foes did there confess , She was a glorious white ; Her body then they did entomb , When life was fled away , At Woodstock near to Oxford , town , As may be seen this day . Printed and Sold by J. Pitts , No. 14 , Great St. Andrew Street , Seven Dials . - Price One Penny . A LAMENTABLE BALLAD OF FAIR ROSAMOND , Concubine to Henry 2nd . Who was put to death by Queen Eleanor , in the famous Bower of Wood - stock , near Oxford . To the Tune of Flying Fame . WHEN as King Henry ruled the land , The second of the name ; Beside the Queen he dearly loved , A fair and comely dame ; Most peerless was her beauty found , Her favours and her face , A sweeter creature in this world , Could never Prince embrace . Her pretty locks like threads of gold , Appeared to each man's sighed , Her comely eyes , like orient pearls , Did cast a glorirous light ; The blood within her crystal cheeks , Did such a colour drive , As if the lily and the rose , For mastership did strive . Fair Rosamond , fair Rosamond , Her name was called so , To whom dame Eleanor our queen , Was known a deadly foe ; The king therefore for her defence ; Against the furious queen , At Woodstock built a pretty bower , The like was never seen . Most curiously that bower was built ; Of stone and timber strong , And hundred and fifty doors , Did to this bower belong ; And they so cunningly contrived , With turnings round about . That none but with a clue of thread ; Could enter in and out . And for his love and lady's sake , That was so fair and bright , The keeping of this bower he gave , Unto a gallant knight ; But fortune that does often frown ; Where it before did smile , The king's delight the lady's joy , Full soon she did beguile . For the king's most ungracious son , Whom he did high advance , Against his father waged war ; Within the realms of France . But yet before our comely king , The English had forsook , Of Rosomond his lady fair . His farewell thus he took . My Rosamond my only rose , That pleases best my eye , The fairest flower in all the world , To delight my fancy , The flower of my affected heart , Whose sweetness does excel , My royal rose a thousand times , I bid thee now farewell . For I must leave my fairest flower , My sweetest rose a space , And cross the seas to famous France , Proud rebels to abase . But yet my rose besure thou shall , My coming shortly see , And in my heart when hence I am , I'll bear my rose with me . When Rosamond , that lady bright , Did hear that king say so , The sorrow of her grieved heart , Her outward looks did show , And from her clear and crystal eyes , The tears gushed out apace , Which like the silver pearled due , Ran down her comely face . Her lips like to the coral read , Did wax both wan and pale , And for the sorrow she conceived , Her vital spirits did fail . And falling down all in a swoon , Before King Henry's face , Full often within his princely arms , Her body did embrace . And twenty times with watery eyes , He kissed her tender cheek ; Until he had revived again , Her senses mild and meek ; Why grieves my sweetest rose ? The king would often say , Because , quoth she , to bloody wars , My lord must pass away ; But since your grace in foreign parts Among your foes unkind , Must go to hazard life and limb , Why should I stay behind ? Nay , farther , let me like a page , Thy sword and target bear , That on my breast thy blows may light , That would offend you there . O let me in your royal tent , Prepare your bed at night , And sweet baths refresh you , At your return from fight ; So I your presence may enjoy , No toil I will refuse , But wanting you my life is death , Which does true love abuse . Content thyself my dear , quoth he , Thy rest at home shall be , In England's sweet and pleasant soil , For travel fits not thee ; Fair ladies brook no bloody wars , Sweet peace their pleasure breed , The nourisher of heart's content , Which fancy first did feed . My rose shall rest in Woodstock bower , With music's sweet delight , While I among the piercing pikes , Against my foes do fight , My rose in robes of pearl and gold , With diamonds richly dressed , Shall dance the calliards of my love , While my foes lie oppressed , And you Sir Thomas , whom I trust , To be my love's defence , Be careful of the gallant rose , When I am parted hence , And therewithal he fetched a sighs , As though his heart would break , And fair Rosamond for very grief , One word she could not speak . And at their parting they well might , In heart be grieved soar , After that day fair Rosamond , The king did see no more : For when his grace had passed the seas , And into France was gone , Queen Eleanor with envious heart , To Woodstock came anon , And forth she calls this trusty knight , Who kept this curious bower , Who with a clew of twined thread , Came from this famous flower . And when they had wounded him , The queen this thread did get , And went were lady Rosamond , Was like and angel se But when the queen with steadfast eye , Beheld her beauteous face , She was amazed in her mind , At her exceeding grace ; Cast of from thee those robes she said , That rich and costly be , And drink thou this deadly drought , Which I have brought to thee . But presently upon her knees , Sweet Rosamond did fallen , And pardon of the queen she craved , For her offences all ; Take pity on my youthful years , Fair Rosamond did cry , And let me not with poison strong , Enforced be to die , I will renounce my sinful life , And in some cloister hide , Or else be banished if you please , To range the world so wide , And for the fault that I have done , Though I was forced thereto , Preserve my life and punish me , As you think good to do . And with these words her lily hands , She wrung full often there , And down along her comely face , Proceeded many a tear ; But nothing could this furious queen , Wherewith appeased be , The cup of deadly poison strong , As she kneeled on her knee . She gave this comely dame to drink , Who took it in her hand , And from her bended knee arose , And on her feet did stand ; And casting up her eyes to heaven , She did for mercy call , And drinking up the poison strong , Her life she lost withal . And when that death in every limb , Had done her gaeatest spite , Her greatest foes did there confess , She was a glorious white ; Her body then they did entomb , When life was fled away , At Woodstock near to Oxford , town , As may be seen this day . Printed and Sold by J. Pitts , No. 14 , Great St. Andrew Street , Seven Dials . - Price One Penny . A LAMENTABLE BALLAD OF FAIR ROSAMOND , Concubine to Henry 2nd . Who was put to death by Queen Eleanor , in the famous Bower of Wood - stock , near Oxford . To the Tune of Flying Fame . WHEN as King Henry rul'd the land , The second of the name ; Beside the Queen he dearly lov'd , A fair and comely dame ; Most peerless was her beauty found , Her favours and her face , A sweeter creature in this world , Could never Prince embrace . Her pretty locks like threads of gold , Appear'd to each man's sighed , Her comely eyes , like orient pearls , Did cast a glorirous light ; The blood within her crystal cheeks , Did such a colour drive , As if the lily and the rose , For mastership did strive . Fair Rosamond , fair Rosamond , Her name was call'd so , To whom dame Eleanor our queen , Was known a deadly foe ; The king therefore for her defence ; Against the furious queen , At Woodstock built a pretty bow'r , The like was never seen . Most curiously that bow'r was built ; Of stone and timber strong , And hundred and fifty doors , Did to this bow'r belong ; And they so cunningly contriv'd , With turnings round about . That none but with a clue of thread ; Could enter in and out . And for his love and lady's sake , That was so fair and bright , The keeping of this bow'r he gave , Unto a gallant knight ; But fortune that does often frown ; Where it before did smile , The king's delight the lady's joy , Full soon she did beguile . For the king's most ungracious son , Whom he did high advance , Against his father waged war ; Within the realms of France . But yet before our comely king , The English had forsook , Of Rosomond his lady fair . His farewell thus he took . My Rosamond my only rose , That pleases best my eye , The fairest flow'r in all the world , To delight my fancy , The flow'r of my affected heart , Whose sweetness does excel , My royal rose a thousand times , I bid thee now farewell . For I must leave my fairest flow'r , My sweetest rose a space , And cross the seas to famous France , Proud rebels to abase . But yet my rose besure thou shall , My coming shortly see , And in my heart when hence I am , I'll bear my rose with me . When Rosamond , that lady bright , Did hear that king say so , The sorrow of her grieved heart , Her outward looks did show , And from her clear and crystal eyes , The tears gush'd out apace , Which like the silver pearled due , Ran down her comely face . Her lips like to the coral read , Did wax both wan and pale , And for the sorrow she conceiv'd , Her vital spirits did fail . And falling down all in a swoon , Before King Henry's face , Full often within his princely arms , Her body did embrace . And twenty times with watery eyes , He kiss'd her tender cheek ; Until he had reviv'd again , Her senses mild and meek ; Why grieves my sweetest rose ? The king would often say , Because , quoth she , to bloody wars , My lord must pass away ; But since your grace in foreign parts Among your foes unkind , Must go to hazard life and limb , Why should I stay behind ? Nay , farther , let me like a page , Thy sword and target bear , That on my breast thy blows may light , That would offend you there . O let me in your royal tent , Prepare your bed at night , And sweet baths refresh you , At your return from fight ; So I your presence may enjoy , No toil I will refuse , But wanting you my life is death , Which does true love abuse . Content thyself my dear , quoth he , Thy rest at home shall be , In England's sweet and pleasant soil , For travel fits not thee ; Fair ladies brook no bloody wars , Sweet peace their pleasure breed , The nourisher of heart's content , Which fancy first did feed . My rose shall rest in Woodstock bow'r , With music's sweet delight , While I among the piercing pikes , Against my foes do fight , My rose in robes of pearl and gold , With diamonds richly dressed , Shall dance the calliards of my love , While my foes lie oppress'd , And you Sir Thomas , whom I trust , To be my love's defence , Be careful of the gallant rose , When I am parted hence , And therewithal he fetch'd a sighs , As though his heart would break , And fair Rosamond for very grief , One word she could not speak . And at their parting they well might , In heart be grieved soar , After that day fair Rosamond , The king did see no more : For when his grace had pass'd the seas , And into France was gone , Queen Eleanor with envious heart , To Woodstock came anon , And forth she calls this trusty knight , Who kept this curious bow'r , Who with a clew of twined thread , Came from this famous flower . And when they had wounded him , The queen this thread did get , And went were lady Rosamond , Was like and angel se But when the queen with steadfast eye , Beheld her beauteous face , She was amazed in her mind , At her exceeding grace ; Cast of from thee those robes she said , That rich and costly be , And drink thou this deadly drought , Which I have brought to thee . But presently upon her knees , Sweet Rosamond did fallen , And pardon of the queen she crav'd , For her offences all ; Take pity on my youthful years , Fair Rosamond did cry , And let me not with poison strong , Enforc'd be to die , I will renounce my sinful life , And in some cloister hide , Or else be banish'd if you please , To range the world so wide , And for the fault that I have done , Tho' I was forc'd thereto , Preserve my life and punish me , As you think good to do . And with these words her lily hands , She wrung full often there , And down along her comely face , Proceeded many a tear ; But nothing could this furious queen , Wherewith appeased be , The cup of deadly poison strong , As she kneel'd on her knee . She gave this comely dame to drink , Who took it in her hand , And from her bended knee arose , And on her feet did stand ; And casting up her eyes to heaven , She did for mercy call , And drinking up the poison strong , Her life she lost withal . And when that death in every limb , Had done her gaeatest spite , Her greatest foes did there confess , She was a glorious white ; Her body then they did entomb , When life was fled away , At Woodstock near to Oxford , town , As may be seen this day . Printed and Sold by J. Pitts , No. 14 , Great St. Andrew Street , Seven Dials . - Price One Penny . A LAMENTABLE BALLAD OF FAIR ROSAMOND , Concubine to Henry 2nd . Who was put to death by Queen Eleanor , in the famous Bower of Wood - stock , near Oxford . To the Tune of Flying Fame . WHEN as King Henry rul'd the land , The second of the name ; Beside the Queen he dearly lov'd , A fair and comely dame ; Most peerless was her beauty found , Her favours and her face , A sweeter creature in this world , Could never Prince embrace . Her pretty locks like threads of gold , Appear'd to each man's sighed , Her comely eyes , like orient pearls , Did cast a glorirous light ; The blood within her crystal cheeks , Did such a colour drive , As if the lily and the rose , For mastership did strive . Fair Rosamond , fair Rosamond , Her name was call'd so , To whom dame Eleanor our queen , Was known a deadly foe ; The king therefore for her defence ; Against the furious queen , At Woodstock built a pretty bow'r , The like was never seen . Most curiously that bow'r was built ; Of stone and timber strong , And hundred and fifty doors , Did to this bow'r belong ; And they so cunningly contriv'd , With turnings round about . That none but with a clue of thread ; Could enter in and out . And for his love and lady's sake , That was so fair and bright , The keeping of this bow'r he gave , Unto a gallant knight ; But fortune that does often frown ; Where it before did smile , The king's delight the lady's joy , Full soon she did beguile . For the king's most ungracious son , Whom he did high advance , Against his father waged war ; Within the realms of France . But yet before our comely king , The English had forsook , Of Rosomond his lady fair . His farewell thus he took . My Rosamond my only rose , That pleases best my eye , The fairest flow'r in all the world , To delight my fancy , The flow'r of my affected heart , Whose sweetness does excel , My royal rose a thousand times , I bid thee now farewell . For I must leave my fairest flow'r , My sweetest rose a space , And cross the seas to famous France , Proud rebels to abase . But yet my rose besure thou shall , My coming shortly see , And in my heart when hence I am , I'll bear my rose with me . When Rosamond , that lady bright , Did hear that king say so , The sorrow of her grieved heart , Her outward looks did show , And from her clear and crystal eyes , The tears gush'd out apace , Which like the silver pearled due , Ran down her comely face . Her lips like to the coral read , Did wax both wan and pale , And for the sorrow she conceiv'd , Her vital spirits did fail . And falling down all in a swoon , Before King Henry's face , Full often within his princely arms , Her body did embrace . And twenty times with watery eyes , He kiss'd her tender cheek ; Until he had reviv'd again , Her senses mild and meek ; Why grieves my sweetest rose ? The king would often say , Because , quoth she , to bloody wars , My lord must pass away ; But since your grace in foreign parts Among your foes unkind , Must go to hazard life and limb , Why should I stay behind ? Nay , farther , let me like a page , Thy sword and target bear , That on my breast thy blows may light , That would offend you there . O let me in your royal tent , Prepare your bed at night , And sweet baths refresh you , At your return from fight ; So I your presence may enjoy , No toil I will refuse , But wanting you my life is death , Which does true love abuse . Content thyself my dear , quoth he , Thy rest at home shall be , In England's sweet and pleasant soil , For travel fits not thee ; Fair ladies brook no bloody wars , Sweet peace their pleasure breed , The nourisher of heart's content , Which fancy first did feed . My rose shall rest in Woodstock bow'r , With music's sweet delight , While I among the piercing pikes , Against my foes do fight , My rose in robes of pearl and gold , With diamonds richly dressed , Shall dance the calliards of my love , While my foes lie oppress'd , And you Sir Thomas , whom I trust , To be my love's defence , Be careful of the gallant rose , When I am parted hence , And therewithal he fetch'd a sighs , As though his heart would break , And fair Rosamond for very grief , One word she could not speak . And at their parting they well might , In heart be grieved soar , After that day fair Rosamond , The king did see no more : For when his grace had pass'd the seas , And into France was gone , Queen Eleanor with envious heart , To Woodstock came anon , And forth she calls this trusty knight , Who kept this curious bow'r , Who with a clew of twined thread , Came from this famous flower . And when they had wounded him , The queen this thread did get , And went were lady Rosamond , Was like and angel se But when the queen with steadfast eye , Beheld her beauteous face , She was amazed in her mind , At her exceeding grace ; Cast of from thee those robes she said , That rich and costly be , And drink thou this deadly drought , Which I have brought to thee . But presently upon her knees , Sweet Rosamond did fallen , And pardon of the queen she crav'd , For her offences all ; Take pity on my youthful years , Fair Rosamond did cry , And let me not with poison strong , Enforc'd be to die , I will renounce my sinful life , And in some cloister hide , Or else be banish'd if you please , To range the world so wide , And for the fault that I have done , Tho' I was forc'd thereto , Preserve my life and punish me , As you think good to do . And with these words her lily hands , She wrung full often there , And down along her comely face , Proceeded many a tear ; But nothing could this furious queen , Wherewith appeased be , The cup of deadly poison strong , As she kneel'd on her knee . She gave this comely dame to drink , Who took it in her hand , And from her bended knee arose , And on her feet did stand ; And casting up her eyes to heaven , She did for mercy call , And drinking up the poison strong , Her life she lost withal . And when that death in every limb , Had done her gaeatest spite , Her greatest foes did there confess , She was a glorious white ; Her body then they did entomb , When life was fled away , At Woodstock near to Oxford , town , As may be seen this day . Printed and Sold by J. Pitts , No. 14 , Great St. Andrew Street , Seven Dials . - Price One Penny . 