The Wandering JEW : OR , The Shoemaker of Jerusalem , Who lived when our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ was Crumb - cified , and appointed by Him to live until his Coming a - gain . Tune , The Lady's Fallen , etc Licens'd and Enter'd . WHen as in fair Jerusalem our Saviour Christ did live , [ A ] and for the Sins of all the World his own dear Life did give ; The wicked Jews , with Scoffs and Scorns , did daily him molest , That never till he left his Life , our Saviour could not rest . [ R ] epent therefore , Oh England ! Repent , while you have space ; [ A ] and do not ( like this wicked Jew ) despise God's proffered Grace . When they had crown'd his Head with Thorns , and scourg'd him to Disgrace , In scornful sort they led him forth unto his Dying-place ; Where thousand thousands in the Street , beheld him pass along , Yet not one gentle Heart was there , that pitty'd this his Wrong . Repent therefore , Oh England ! Repent , while you have space ; And do not ( like this wicked Jew ) despise God's proffered Grace Both Old and Young reviled him , as in the Street he went ; And nothing found but churlish Taunts , by every One's consen His own dear Cross he boar himself , ( a Burden far too Great ! ) Which made him , in the Street , to faint with Blood and Water-sweat . Being weary , thus he sought for Rest , to ease his burdened Soul , Upon a Stone ; the which , a Wretch did churlishly control , And said , Away , thou King of Jews , thou shalt not rest thee here ; Pass on , thy Execution-place , thou seest , now draws near . And thereupon he thrust him thence ; at which our Saviour said , I sure will Rest ; but thou shalt Walk , and have no Journey stay'd . With that , this cursed Shoemaker , for offering Christ this Wrong , Left Wife and Children , House and all , and went from thence along : Where after he had seen the Blood of Jesus Christ thus shed , And to the Cross his Body nail'd , away with speed he fled , Without returning back again unto his Dwelling-place ; And wanders up and down the World , a Runagate most base . No Resting could he find at all , no Ease or Heart's Content , No House , not Home , no Dwelling-place ; but wandering forth he went , From Town to Town , in Foreign Lands , with grieved Conscience still , Repenting for the hanious Gilded of his forepassed Ill. Thus , after some few Ages past , in wandering up and down , He much again desired to see Jerusalem's Renown : But finding it all quite destroy'd , he wandered thence with Woe , Our Saviou's Words , which he had spoke , to verify and show : [ I'll Rest , said he , but thou shalt Walk ; ] so does this wandering Jew , From place to place , but cannot stay , for seeing Countries new : Declaring still the Power of Him , whereas he comes or goes ; And of all things done in the East , since Christ his Death , he shows . The World he hath still compassed round , and seen those Nations strange , That hearing of the Name of Christ , their Idol Gods do change ; To whom he hath told wondrous things , of Times forepast and gone ; And to the Princes of the World declares his Cause of Moan : Desiring still to be dissolv'd , and yield his mortal Breath ; But if the Lord hath thus decreed , he shall not yet see Death , For neither looks he O [ ld ] or Young , but as he did those Times , When Christ did suffer on the Cross , for mortal Sinners Crimes . He passed many a Foreign Land , Arabia , AEgypt , Affrica , Grecia , Syria , and Great Thrace , and through all Hungaria , Where Paul and Peter preached Christ , those blessed Apostles dear , Where he had told our Saviour's Word in Countries far and near . And lately in Bohemia , with many a Germane Town ; And now in Flanders ( as 'tis thought ) he wanders up and down : Where learned Men with him confer of those his lingering Days , And wondering much to hear him tell his Journeys and his Ways . If People give this Jew and Alms , the most that he will take , Is not above a Groat a time , which he for Jesus sake Will kindly give unto the Poor , and thereof make no spare ; Affirming still that Jesus Christ of him had daily Care . He was not seen to laugh or smile , but weep and make great moan , Lamenting still his Misery's , and Days forepast and gone . If he hear any one Blaspheme , or take God's Name in vain ; He tells them that they Crucify our Saviour Christ again . If thou hadst seen grim Death , says he , as these mine Eyes have done , Ten thousand thousand times would you his Torment think upon ; And suffer for His sake all pain , all Torments , and all Woes . These are his Words , and this his Life whereas he comes or goes . London : Printed by and for W.O. and sold by the Booksellers of London . The Wandering JEW : OR , The Shoemaker of Jerusalem , Who lived when our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ was Crumb - cified , and appointed by Him to live until his Coming a - gain . Tune , The Lady's Fallen , etc Licens'd and Enter'd . WHen as in fair Jerusalem our Saviour Christ did live , [ A ] and for the Sins of all the World his own dear Life did give ; The wicked Jews , with Scoffs and Scorns , did daily him molest , That never till he left his Life , our Saviour could not rest . [ R ] epent therefore , Oh England ! Repent , while you have space ; [ A ] and do not ( like this wicked Jew ) despise God's proffered Grace . When they had crown'd his Head with Thorns , and scourg'd him to Disgrace , In scornful sort they led him forth unto his Dying-place ; Where thousand thousands in the Street , beheld him pass along , Yet not one gentle Heart was there , that pitty'd this his Wrong . Repent therefore , Oh England ! Repent , while you have space ; And do not ( like this wicked Jew ) despise God's proffered Grace Both Old and Young reviled him , as in the Street he went ; And nothing found but churlish Taunts , by every One's consen His own dear Cross he boar himself , ( a Burden far too Great ! ) Which made him , in the Street , to faint with Blood and Water-sweat . Being weary , thus he sought for Rest , to ease his burdened Soul , Upon a Stone ; the which , a Wretch did churlishly control , And said , Away , thou King of Jews , thou shalt not rest thee here ; Pass on , thy Execution-place , thou seest , now draws near . And thereupon he thrust him thence ; at which our Saviour said , I sure will Rest ; but thou shalt Walk , and have no Journey stay'd . With that , this cursed Shoemaker , for offering Christ this Wrong , Left Wife and Children , House and all , and went from thence along : Where after he had seen the Blood of Jesus Christ thus shed , And to the Cross his Body nail'd , away with speed he fled , Without returning back again unto his Dwelling-place ; And wanders up and down the World , a Runagate most base . No Resting could he find at all , no Ease or Heart's Content , No House , not Home , no Dwelling-place ; but wandering forth he went , From Town to Town , in Foreign Lands , with grieved Conscience still , Repenting for the hanious Gilded of his forepassed Ill. Thus , after some few Ages past , in wandering up and down , He much again desired to see Jerusalem's Renown : But finding it all quite destroy'd , he wandered thence with Woe , Our Saviou's Words , which he had spoke , to verify and show : [ I'll Rest , said he , but thou shalt Walk ; ] so does this wandering Jew , From place to place , but cannot stay , for seeing Countries new : Declaring still the Power of Him , whereas he comes or goes ; And of all things done in the East , since Christ his Death , he shows . The World he hath still compassed round , and seen those Nations strange , That hearing of the Name of Christ , their Idol Gods do change ; To whom he hath told wondrous things , of Times forepast and gone ; And to the Princes of the World declares his Cause of Moan : Desiring still to be dissolv'd , and yield his mortal Breath ; But if the Lord hath thus decreed , he shall not yet see Death , For neither looks he O [ ld ] or Young , but as he did those Times , When Christ did suffer on the Cross , for mortal Sinners Crimes . He passed many a Foreign Land , Arabia , AEgypt , Affrica , Grecia , Syria , and Great Thrace , and through all Hungaria , Where Paul and Peter preached Christ , those blessed Apostles dear , Where he had told our Saviour's Word in Countries far and near . And lately in Bohemia , with many a Germane Town ; And now in Flanders ( as 'tis thought ) he wanders up and down : Where learned Men with him confer of those his lingering Days , And wondering much to hear him tell his Journeys and his Ways . If People give this Jew and Alms , the most that he will take , Is not above a Groat a time , which he for Jesus sake Will kindly give unto the Poor , and thereof make no spare ; Affirming still that Jesus Christ of him had daily Care . He was not seen to laugh or smile , but weep and make great moan , Lamenting still his Misery's , and Days forepast and gone . If he hear any one Blaspheme , or take God's Name in vain ; He tells them that they Crucify our Saviour Christ again . If thou hadst seen grim Death , says he , as these mine Eyes have done , Ten thousand thousand times would you his Torment think upon ; And suffer for His sake all pain , all Torments , and all Woes . These are his Words , and this his Life whereas he comes or goes . London : Printed by and for W.O. and sold by the Booksellers of London . The Wandering JEW : OR , The Shoemaker of Jerusalem , Who lived when our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ was Crumb - cified , and appointed by Him to live until his Coming a - gain . Tune , The Lady's Fallen , etc Licens'd and Enter'd . WHen as in fair Jerusalem our Saviour Christ did live , [ A ] and for the Sins of all the World his own dear Life did give ; The wicked Jews , with Scoffs and Scorns , did daily him molest , That never till he left his Life , our Saviour could not rest . [ R ] epent therefore , Oh England ! Repent , while you have space ; [ A ] and do not ( like this wicked Jew ) despise God's proffered Grace . When they had crown'd his Head with Thorns , and scourg'd him to Disgrace , In scornful sort they led him forth unto his Dying-place ; Where thousand thousands in the Street , beheld him pass along , Yet not one gentle Heart was there , that pitty'd this his Wrong . Repent therefore , Oh England ! Repent , while you have space ; And do not ( like this wicked Jew ) despise God's proffered Grace Both Old and Young reviled him , as in the Street he went ; And nothing found but churlish Taunts , by every One's consen His own dear Cross he boar himself , ( a Burden far too Great ! ) Which made him , in the Street , to faint with Blood and Water-sweat . Being weary , thus he sought for Rest , to ease his burdened Soul , Upon a Stone ; the which , a Wretch did churlishly control , And said , Away , thou King of Jews , thou shalt not rest thee here ; Pass on , thy Execution-place , thou seest , now draws near . And thereupon he thrust him thence ; at which our Saviour said , I sure will Rest ; but thou shalt Walk , and have no Journey stay'd . With that , this cursed Shoemaker , for offering Christ this Wrong , Left Wife and Children , House and all , and went from thence along : Where after he had seen the Blood of Jesus Christ thus shed , And to the Cross his Body nail'd , away with speed he fled , Without returning back again unto his Dwelling-place ; And wanders up and down the World , a Runagate most base . No Resting could he find at all , no Ease or Heart's Content , No House , not Home , no Dwelling-place ; but wandering forth he went , From Town to Town , in Foreign Lands , with grieved Conscience still , Repenting for the hanious Gilded of his forepassed Ill. Thus , after some few Ages past , in wandering up and down , He much again desired to see Jerusalem's Renown : But finding it all quite destroy'd , he wandered thence with Woe , Our Saviou's Words , which he had spoke , to verify and show : [ I'll Rest , said he , but thou shalt Walk ; ] so does this wandering Jew , From place to place , but cannot stay , for seeing Countries new : Declaring still the Power of Him , whereas he comes or goes ; And of all things done in the East , since Christ his Death , he shows . The World he hath still compassed round , and seen those Nations strange , That hearing of the Name of Christ , their Idol Gods do change ; To whom he hath told wondrous things , of Times forepast and gone ; And to the Princes of the World declares his Cause of Moan : Desiring still to be dissolv'd , and yield his mortal Breath ; But if the Lord hath thus decreed , he shall not yet see Death , For neither looks he O [ ld ] or Young , but as he did those Times , When Christ did suffer on the Cross , for mortal Sinners Crimes . He passed many a Foreign Land , Arabia , AEgypt , Affrica , Grecia , Syria , and Great Thrace , and through all Hungaria , Where Paul and Peter preached Christ , those blessed Apostles dear , Where he had told our Saviour's Word in Countries far and near . And lately in Bohemia , with many a Germane Town ; And now in Flanders ( as 'tis thought ) he wanders up and down : Where learned Men with him confer of those his lingering Days , And wondering much to hear him tell his Journeys and his Ways . If People give this Jew and Alms , the most that he will take , Is not above a Groat a time , which he for Jesus sake Will kindly give unto the Poor , and thereof make no spare ; Affirming still that Jesus Christ of him had daily Care . He was not seen to laugh or smile , but weep and make great moan , Lamenting still his Misery's , and Days forepast and gone . If he hear any one Blaspheme , or take God's Name in vain ; He tells them that they Crucify our Saviour Christ again . If thou hadst seen grim Death , says he , as these mine Eyes have done , Ten thousand thousand times would you his Torment think upon ; And suffer for His sake all pain , all Torments , and all Woes . These are his Words , and this his Life whereas he comes or goes . London : Printed by and for W.O. and sold by the Booksellers of London . The Wandering JEW : OR , The Shoemaker of Jerusalem , Who lived when our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ was Crumb - cified , and appointed by Him to live until his Coming a - gain . Tune , The Lady's Fallen , etc Licens'd and Enter'd . WHen as in fair Jerusalem our Saviour Christ did live , [ A ] and for the Sins of all the World his own dear Life did give ; The wicked Jews , with Scoffs and Scorns , did daily him molest , That never till he left his Life , our Saviour could not rest . [ R ] epent therefore , Oh England ! Repent , while you have space ; [ A ] and do not ( like this wicked Jew ) despise God's proffered Grace . When they had crown'd his Head with Thorns , and scourg'd him to Disgrace , In scornful sort they led him forth unto his Dying-place ; Where thousand thousands in the Street , beheld him pass along , Yet not one gentle Heart was there , that pitty'd this his Wrong . Repent therefore , Oh England ! Repent , while you have space ; And do not ( like this wicked Jew ) despise God's proffered Grace Both Old and Young reviled him , as in the Street he went ; And nothing found but churlish Taunts , by every One's consen His own dear Cross he boar himself , ( a Burden far too Great ! ) Which made him , in the Street , to faint with Blood and Water-sweat . Being weary , thus he sought for Rest , to ease his burdened Soul , Upon a Stone ; the which , a Wretch did churlishly control , And said , Away , thou King of Jews , thou shalt not rest thee here ; Pass on , thy Execution-place , thou seest , now draws near . And thereupon he thrust him thence ; at which our Saviour said , I sure will Rest ; but thou shalt Walk , and have no Journey stay'd . With that , this cursed Shoemaker , for offering Christ this Wrong , Left Wife and Children , House and all , and went from thence along : Where after he had seen the Blood of Jesus Christ thus shed , And to the Cross his Body nail'd , away with speed he fled , Without returning back again unto his Dwelling-place ; And wanders up and down the World , a Runagate most base . No Resting could he find at all , no Ease or Heart's Content , No House , not Home , no Dwelling-place ; but wandering forth he went , From Town to Town , in Foreign Lands , with grieved Conscience still , Repenting for the hanious Gilded of his forepassed Ill. Thus , after some few Ages past , in wandering up and down , He much again desired to see Jerusalem's Renown : But finding it all quite destroy'd , he wandered thence with Woe , Our Saviou's Words , which he had spoke , to verify and show : [ I'll Rest , said he , but thou shalt Walk ; ] so does this wandering Jew , From place to place , but cannot stay , for seeing Countries new : Declaring still the Power of Him , whereas he comes or goes ; And of all things done in the East , since Christ his Death , he shows . The World he hath still compassed round , and seen those Nations strange , That hearing of the Name of Christ , their Idol Gods do change ; To whom he hath told wondrous things , of Times forepast and gone ; And to the Princes of the World declares his Cause of Moan : Desiring still to be dissolv'd , and yield his mortal Breath ; But if the Lord hath thus decreed , he shall not yet see Death , For neither looks he O [ ld ] or Young , but as he did those Times , When Christ did suffer on the Cross , for mortal Sinners Crimes . He passed many a Foreign Land , Arabia , AEgypt , Affrica , Grecia , Syria , and Great Thrace , and through all Hungaria , Where Paul and Peter preached Christ , those blessed Apostles dear , Where he had told our Saviour's Word in Countries far and near . And lately in Bohemia , with many a Germane Town ; And now in Flanders ( as 'tis thought ) he wanders up and down : Where learned Men with him confer of those his lingering Days , And wondering much to hear him tell his Journeys and his Ways . If People give this Jew and Alms , the most that he will take , Is not above a Groat a time , which he for Jesus sake Will kindly give unto the Poor , and thereof make no spare ; Affirming still that Jesus Christ of him had daily Care . He was not seen to laugh or smile , but weep and make great moan , Lamenting still his Misery's , and Days forepast and gone . If he hear any one Blaspheme , or take God's Name in vain ; He tells them that they Crucify our Saviour Christ again . If thou hadst seen grim Death , says he , as these mine Eyes have done , Ten thousand thousand times would you his Torment think upon ; And suffer for His sake all pain , all Torments , and all Woes . These are his Words , and this his Life whereas he comes or goes . London : Printed by and for W.O. and sold by the Booksellers of London . 