Bateman's Tragedy YOU gallant dams so finely fram'd , Of beauty's chiefest mould , And you that trip it up and down , Like lambs in cupid's fold , Here is a lesson to be learn'd , A lesson in my mind , For such as do prove false in love , And bear a falser mind . Not far from Nottingham of late , In Clifton as we hear , There liv'd a rich and comely maid , For beauty without peer . Her cheeks were like the crimson rose , Yet as you may perceive , The fairest faee and falsest heart , The soonest will deceive . This beauteous dame she was belov'd , By many in that place , For many sought in marriage bed , Her body to embrace . At last a handsome proper youth , Young Bateman call'd by name , Hoping to make her a married wife , Unto this maiden came . Such love and liking there was found , That he from all the rest , Had stole away this maiden's heart , And she did love him best . Then plighted promise secretly , Did pass between these two , That nothing could but death itself , This true love's knot undo . He broke a piece of gold in twain , One half to her he gave , The other as a pledge said he , I for myself will have . If I do break my vows said he , While I remain alive , Ne'er may a thing I take in hand , Ever be seen to thrive . This passed on for two months space , And then this maid began , To settle love and liking then , Upon another man . One Jermain , who a widower was , Needs must her husband be , Because he was of greater worth , And better in degree , Her vows and promise lately made , To Bateman she deny'd , And in despite of him and his She utterly defy'd . Well then , quoth he , if it be so , That you will me forsake , And like a false and forsworn wretch , Another husband take , Thou shalt not live one quiet hour , For I will surely have , Thee , either when alive or dead , When I am laid in grave . Thy faithless mind thou shalt repent , Therefore be well assur'd , When for thy sake , thou harden'd wretch , What torments I endur'd . But mark how Bateman died for love , And finished his life , That very day she married were , And made old Jermain's wife , For with a strangling cord , good wot , Great moan was made , therefore He hang'd himself in desperate sort , Before the bride's own door . Whereat such sorrow pierc'd her heart , And troubl'd soar her mind , That she could never after thar , One day of comfort find . For wheresoever she did go , Her fancy did surprise , Young Bateman's pale and ghastly ghost , Appear'd before her eyes . When she in bed one night did lay , Within her husband's arms , In hope's thereby to sleep and rest , And be secure from harms . Great cries and grievous groans she herd , A voice that sometime said , Oh thou art she that I must have , I will not be deny'd . But then she being big with child , Was for the infant's sake , Preserved from the spirit's power , No vengeance could it take . The babe unborn did safely keep , As God appointed so , It's mother's body from the fiend , Which sought her overthrow . But being of her burden eas'd , And fairly brought to bed , Her care and grief began anew , And inward sorrow bred . Of most her friends she did entreat , Desiring them to stay . Out of the bed , quoth she , this night , I shall be torn away . Hence comes the spirit of love , With pale and ghastly face , Who till he bears me hence away , Will not depart this place . Alive or dead I am his right , And me he'll surely have , In spite of me and all the world , What I by promise gave . O watch with me , this night , I beg , But see you do not sleep , No longer than you keep awake , My body you can keep , They promised to do their best , Yet nothing could suffice , At middle of the night to keep , Soft slumber from their eyes . So being fallen fast asleep , To them unknown which way , The child bed woman that very night , From thence was born away . And to what place no creature knew , Nor to this day can tell . As strange a thing as ever yet , In any age befell . You maidens that desire to love , And would good husbands choose , To him that you by vow do love , By no means do refuse . Bateman's Tragedy YOU gallant dams so finely fram'd , Of beauty's chiefest mould , And you that trip it up and down , Like lambs in cupid's fold , Here is a lesson to be learn'd , A lesson in my mind , For such as do prove false in love , And bear a falser mind . Not far from Nottingham of late , In Clifton as we hear , There liv'd a rich and comely maid , For beauty without peer . Her cheeks were like the crimson rose , Yet as you may perceive , The fairest faee and falsest heart , The soonest will deceive . This beauteous dame she was belov'd , By many in that place , For many sought in marriage bed , Her body to embrace . At last a handsome proper youth , Young Bateman call'd by name , Hoping to make her a married wife , Unto this maiden came . Such love and liking there was found , That he from all the rest , Had stole away this maiden's heart , And she did love him best . Then plighted promise secretly , Did pass between these two , That nothing could but death itself , This true love's knot undo . He broke a piece of gold in twain , One half to her he gave , The other as a pledge said he , I for myself will have . If I do break my vows said he , While I remain alive , Ne'er may a thing I take in hand , Ever be seen to thrive . This passed on for two months space , And then this maid began , To settle love and liking then , Upon another man . One Jermain , who a widower was , Needs must her husband be , Because he was of greater worth , And better in degree , Her vows and promise lately made , To Bateman she deny'd , And in despite of him and his She utterly defy'd . Well then , quoth he , if it be so , That you will me forsake , And like a false and forsworn wretch , Another husband take , Thou shalt not live one quiet hour , For I will surely have , Thee , either when alive or dead , When I am laid in grave . Thy faithless mind thou shalt repent , Therefore be well assur'd , When for thy sake , thou harden'd wretch , What torments I endur'd . But mark how Bateman died for love , And finished his life , That very day she married were , And made old Jermain's wife , For with a strangling cord , good wot , Great moan was made , therefore He hang'd himself in desperate sort , Before the bride's own door . Whereat such sorrow pierc'd her heart , And troubl'd soar her mind , That she could never after thar , One day of comfort find . For wheresoever she did go , Her fancy did surprise , Young Bateman's pale and ghastly ghost , Appear'd before her eyes . When she in bed one night did lay , Within her husband's arms , In hope's thereby to sleep and rest , And be secure from harms . Great cries and grievous groans she herd , A voice that sometime said , Oh thou art she that I must have , I will not be deny'd . But then she being big with child , Was for the infant's sake , Preserved from the spirit's power , No vengeance could it take . The babe unborn did safely keep , As God appointed so , It's mother's body from the fiend , Which sought her overthrow . But being of her burden eas'd , And fairly brought to bed , Her care and grief began anew , And inward sorrow bred . Of most her friends she did entreat , Desiring them to stay . Out of the bed , quoth she , this night , I shall be torn away . Hence comes the spirit of love , With pale and ghastly face , Who till he bears me hence away , Will not depart this place . Alive or dead I am his right , And me he'll surely have , In spite of me and all the world , What I by promise gave . O watch with me , this night , I beg , But see you do not sleep , No longer than you keep awake , My body you can keep , They promised to do their best , Yet nothing could suffice , At middle of the night to keep , Soft slumber from their eyes . So being fallen fast asleep , To them unknown which way , The child bed woman that very night , From thence was born away . And to what place no creature knew , Nor to this day can tell . As strange a thing as ever yet , In any age befell . You maidens that desire to love , And would good husbands choose , To him that you by vow do love , By no means do refuse . 