Coridon and Parthenia , The Languishing Shepherd made Happy . Or , Faithful Love rewarded . Being a most Pleasant and Delectable New Play Song . Here mournful Love is turn'd into Delight , To this we a Chaste amorist Invite ; Where Charming beauty rules its powr's like Death , To Save or Murder with the selfsame breath : The Noble Swain , whose Youthful Love hath wone So many Mymphs , by Love was here undone : Languishing faint , on the Gold Ground he lies , Until the Sunshine of Parthenia's Eyes Dissolv'd the Cloud that did benight his bliss , And turn'd his Torments into Paradise . To the Tune of , When busy Fame . WHen busy Fame o're all the Plain , Parthenia's Praises rung , And on the Oaten Pipe each Swain ; her matchless Beauty's Sung : The envious Nymphs were forc'd to yield , she had the sweetest face , No Emulor'd Disputes were held , but for the Second place , Young Coridon whose stubborn heart , no Beauty's e're could move , But smil'd at Cupids Bow and Dart , and brave the God of Love : He'd view this Nymph , and pleas'd at first , such silent Charms to see , With wonder gaz'd , then sigh'd and Cursed , his Curiosity . CRying alas , I am undone , so Powerful are her eyes , Those kiiling Charms prevail'd above , and all my thoughts surprise : In coolest shades fierce favors burn , martyr'd by Love I fry , And now except Parthenia Turn , and smile on me I die . My Hood be here forever laid , and on this Ferdant Plain . Beneath this spreading Myrtle Shade , till death I must remain : My Snowy Flocks may freely stray , while here I gazing lie , And dare not move from hence away , for if I do I die . Parthenia cruel Nymph no more , turn hence that Angel face , Which Coridon must still adore , as chief of Mortal Raze : Oh! from the Groves sad Eccho's found , and say in vain I try , Nay , still augment the Fatal wound , I must Loves Martyr die . What doleful tunes 'mongst pleasant Reeds my Bleeting Flocks complain , While wolves invade them as they feed , all scater'd through the Plain : Here Chain'd by Love by cruel Love , on earth I mourning lie , And though my Couch sweet Violets prove , yet Languishing I die . While in sad strains the Winged Choir , my doleful Requies Sing And Chant how I for Love expire , unto the blooming Spring : Let purling streams likewise declare , as they run murmuring by , How for Parthenia I despair , and thus despairing die . Parthenia , Ah hark , what sad Laments are these , what mournful sounds are here : What dying Sounds my fancy sees , what sighs invade my Ear ? 'Tis this Myrtle Grove i'le seek , this sure some Lover nigh , I'le find , and to him Comfort speak , before for Love he die . O it is Coridon kind Swain , from whence proceeds your grief ? Coridon . By you I wounded here remain , 'tis you can yield relief : Conquer'd by your prevailing Charms , and by your starry eyes , For you unless you raise my Arms , a faithful Shepherd die . Parthenia . Alas poor Swain , for me I swear , by Cupid all above , You shall not languish nor despair , but first enjoy my Love : Coridon . Parthenia kind 'tis sure I dream , Oh Angel from draw nigh , Speak speak again that saving Theam , that will not let me die , Parthenia . Rise Shepherd , rise , and freely take , since thou dost constant prove , Those chaste delights , which for thy sake I have design'd in Love : Coridon . O i'm so Ravished with this voice that dangers I defy , And in Parthenia's Love rejoice , which will not let me die . Parthenia . Come , come my , Coridon , let's haste , unto yond pleasing Bower ; For Lovers should no moments waste , while joys in plenty shower : But folded in each others Arms , loves utmost Forces try ; while warbling noats augments our charms and we in pleasure die . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , in West-smithfield . Coridon and Parthenia , The Languishing Shepherd made Happy . Or , Faithful Love rewarded . Being a most Pleasant and Delectable New Play Song . Here mournful Love is turn'd into Delight , To this we a Chaste amorist Invite ; Where Charming beauty rules its powr's like Death , To Save or Murder with the selfsame breath : The Noble Swain , whose Youthful Love hath wone So many Mymphs , by Love was here undone : Languishing faint , on the Gold Ground he lies , Until the Sunshine of Parthenia's Eyes Dissolv'd the Cloud that did benight his bliss , And turn'd his Torments into Paradise . To the Tune of , When busy Fame . WHen busy Fame o're all the Plain , Parthenia's Praises rung , And on the Oaten Pipe each Swain ; her matchless Beauty's Sung : The envious Nymphs were forc'd to yield , she had the sweetest face , No Emulor'd Disputes were held , but for the Second place , Young Coridon whose stubborn heart , no Beauty's e're could move , But smil'd at Cupids Bow and Dart , and brave the God of Love : He'd view this Nymph , and pleas'd at first , such silent Charms to see , With wonder gaz'd , then sigh'd and Cursed , his Curiosity . CRying alas , I am undone , so Powerful are her eyes , Those kiiling Charms prevail'd above , and all my thoughts surprise : In coolest shades fierce favors burn , martyr'd by Love I fry , And now except Parthenia Turn , and smile on me I die . My Hood be here forever laid , and on this Ferdant Plain . Beneath this spreading Myrtle Shade , till death I must remain : My Snowy Flocks may freely stray , while here I gazing lie , And dare not move from hence away , for if I do I die . Parthenia cruel Nymph no more , turn hence that Angel face , Which Coridon must still adore , as chief of Mortal Raze : Oh! from the Groves sad Eccho's found , and say in vain I try , Nay , still augment the Fatal wound , I must Loves Martyr die . What doleful tunes 'mongst pleasant Reeds my Bleeting Flocks complain , While wolves invade them as they feed , all scater'd through the Plain : Here Chain'd by Love by cruel Love , on earth I mourning lie , And though my Couch sweet Violets prove , yet Languishing I die . While in sad strains the Winged Choir , my doleful Requies Sing And Chant how I for Love expire , unto the blooming Spring : Let purling streams likewise declare , as they run murmuring by , How for Parthenia I despair , and thus despairing die . Parthenia , Ah hark , what sad Laments are these , what mournful sounds are here : What dying Sounds my fancy sees , what sighs invade my Ear ? 'Tis this Myrtle Grove i'le seek , this sure some Lover nigh , I'le find , and to him Comfort speak , before for Love he die . O it is Coridon kind Swain , from whence proceeds your grief ? Coridon . By you I wounded here remain , 'tis you can yield relief : Conquer'd by your prevailing Charms , and by your starry eyes , For you unless you raise my Arms , a faithful Shepherd die . Parthenia . Alas poor Swain , for me I swear , by Cupid all above , You shall not languish nor despair , but first enjoy my Love : Coridon . Parthenia kind 'tis sure I dream , Oh Angel from draw nigh , Speak speak again that saving Theam , that will not let me die , Parthenia . Rise Shepherd , rise , and freely take , since thou dost constant prove , Those chaste delights , which for thy sake I have design'd in Love : Coridon . O i'm so Ravished with this voice that dangers I defy , And in Parthenia's Love rejoice , which will not let me die . Parthenia . Come , come my , Coridon , let's haste , unto yond pleasing Bower ; For Lovers should no moments waste , while joys in plenty shower : But folded in each others Arms , loves utmost Forces try ; while warbling noats augments our charms and we in pleasure die . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , in West-smithfield . 