The Wandering Young Gentlewoman ; Or , CATSKIN . YOU father's and mother's , and children also , Draw near unto me , and soon you shall know The sense of my ditty , and I dare to say , The like han't been printed thy [ s ] many a day . The subject which to you I am to relate , It is of a Squire of a vast estate : The first dear infant his wife did him bear . It was a young daughter of beauty most fair . He said to his wife , had this child been a boy , Twould have pleased me better , and increased my joy . If the next be the same sort , I do declare , Of what I am possessed she shall have no share . In twelve months time after this woman , we hear , Had another daughter of beauty most clear ; And when that he knew it was a female , In a bitter passion he presently fell . Saying , since this is of the same sort as the first , In my habitation she shall not be nurs'd ; Pray let her be sent into the Country , For where I am truly this child shall not be . With tears his dear wife unto him did say , Husband , be contented , I'll send her away . Then to the Country with speed she was sent , For to be brought up by one who was her friend . Altho' that her father he hated her so , She good education on her did bestow ; And with a gold locket and robes of the best , This slighted young female was commonly dressed . And when unto stature this damsel was grown , And found from him she had no love shown ; She cry'd , Before I will lie under his frown , I am fully resolved to range the world round : The Second Part. But now mark , good people , the cream of the jest , In what sort of manner this creature was dres With catskins she made her a robe I declare , The which for her covering she daily did wear . Her own rich attire , and jewels beside , Them up in a bundle by her they were ty'd : Then to seek her fortune she wander'd away . And when she had travel'd a cold winter's day , In the evening tide she came to a town , When at a Knight's door she then sat her down , For to rest herself , who was tired besure ; This noble Knight's Lady then came to the door . Then seeing this creature in such sort of dress , This lady unto her these words did express : Whence camest thou girl , and what would'st thou have She said , A night's rest in your stable I crave . The Lady said to her , I'll grant thy desire ; Come into the kitchen , and stand by the fire . Then she thanked the lady , and went in with haste , There she was gazed on from the biggest to the least , And being well warmed , her hunger being great , They gave her a Piece of good Food for to eat ; Then to and outhouse this creature was had , Where she with fresh straw then made her a bed . And when in the morning the daylight she saw , Her riches and jewels she hid in the straw ; And being very cold , she then bid retire , To go to the kitchen and stand by the fire . The Cook said , my Lady hath promis'd that thee Shalt be as a Scullion for to wait upon me ; And what say'st thou girl , art willing to bide ? With all my heart truly , to him she reply'd . To work with her needle she could very well , And for raising of past few could her excel : She being so handy , the Cook's heart did win , And there she was call'd by the name of Catskin . The Third Part. The Lady had a Son both comely and tall , Who oftentimes used for to be at a ball , A mile out of town , one evening-tide , To dance at this Ball away he did ride . Catskin said to his mother , pray Madam , let me Go after your son now this ball for to see ? With that in a passion this lady she grew , And struck her with the ladle , and broke it in two . And being thus served , she then god away , And with her rich garment herself did array : Then to this ball she with speed did retire . Where she danced so bravely that all did admire . The sport being done , this young squire did say , Young Lady , where do you live , tell me I pray . Her answer to him was , Sir , that will I tell . At the sign of the Broken Ladle I dwell . She being very nimble , god home first 'tis said , And with her Catskin robes she soon was array'd ; And into the Kitchen again she did go , But where she had been then none of them did know . Next night this young Squire , himself to content , To dance at this ball away again wen She said , Pray let me go this ball for to view ; Then she struck her with a skimmer , and broke it in two Then out of doors she ran full of heaviness , And with her rich garment herself soon did dress , And to this ball she ran away with speed ; Where to see her dancing all wonder'd indeed . The ball being ended , this young Squire then Said , Where is it you live ? She answer'd again , Sir , because you ask me , account I will give , At the sign of the broken skimmer I live . Being dark , then she left him , and homeward did high And with her Catskin robe was dressed presently , And into the kitchen among them she went , But where she had been they were all innocent , When the Squire came home , and found Catskin there , He was in amaze , and began for to swear , For two nights at this ball has been a lady , The sweetest of beauty's that ever I saw . She was the best dancer in all the whole place , And very much like our Catskin in the face ; Had she not been dressed in that costly degree , I should have sworn it had been Catskin boldly . Next night to this ball he did go once more ; And she asked his mother to go as before ; Who having a basin of water in her hand , She threw it on Catskin , as I understand . Shaking her wet ears out of doors she did run , And dressed herself ; when this thing she had done , To the ball once more she then went her ways . To see her fine dancing all gave her the praise . And having concluded , this young Squire he Said , From whence might you come , pray lady tell me ? Her answer was , Sir , you shall soon know the same , From the sign of the basin of water I came . Then homeward she hurry'd as fast as could be , This young Squire then was resolved to see Whereto she belonged ; then following Catskin Unto and old straw house , he saw her creep in . He said , Oh brave Catskin , I find it is thee These three nights together hath so charmed me ; Thou art the sweetest creature my eyes e'er beheld . With joy and content my heart now is fill'd . Thou art our cook's skullion , but as I shall have life , Grant me but thy love , and I will make thee my wife , And you shall have maids for to be at your call . Sir , that cannot be , I have no portion at all . Thy beauty is a portion , my joy and my dear , I prize it far better than a thousand a year ; And to have my friends-consent I have god a trick : I'll go to my bed , and I will feign myself sick . There's no one shall tend me but thee I profess ; So one day or another in thy rich dress Thou shalt be clad , and if my parents come nigh , I'll tell them 'tis for thee that sick I do lie . The Fourth Part. Having thus consulted , this couple parted . Next day this young Squire he took to his bed ; And when his dear parents this thing both perceived , For fear of his death they were heartily grieved . To tend him they sent for a nurse speedily . He said , None but Catskin my nurse then shall be . His Parents said , No son . He said , but she shall , Or else I'll have none to nurse me at all . His parents both wonder'd to hear him say thus , That no one but Catskin must then be his nurse : So then his dear parents their son to content , Up into the chamber poor Catskin they sent . Sweet cordials and other rich things were prepar'd , Which between this couple were equally shar'd ; And when all alone , they in each others arms Enjoy'd one another in love's pleasant charms . And at length , on a time , poor Catskin , 'tis said , In her rich attire she then was array'd : And when that his mother the chamber drew near , Then much like a goddess did Catskin appear . Which caused her to startle , and [ thus ] for to say , What young lady is this , son , tell me , I pray . He said , Why 'tis Catskin , for whom sick I lie , And except I have her , with speed I shall die . His mother then hasted to call up the Knight Who ran up to see this amazing great sighs He said , Is this Catskin we held in such scorn ? I ne'er saw a finer dame since I was born . The old Knight said to her , I pray thee tell me , From whence thou didst come , and of what Family ? Then who were her parents she gave them to know , And what was the cause of her wanderin The Wandering Young Gentlewoman ; Or , CATSKIN . YOU father's and mother's , and children also , Draw near unto me , and soon you shall know The sense of my ditty , and I dare to say , The like han't been printed thy [ s ] many a day . The subject which to you I am to relate , It is of a Squire of a vast estate : The first dear infant his wife did him bear . It was a young daughter of beauty most fair . He said to his wife , had this child been a boy , Twould have pleased me better , and increased my joy . If the next be the same sort , I do declare , Of what I am possessed she shall have no share . In twelve months time after this woman , we hear , Had another daughter of beauty most clear ; And when that he knew it was a female , In a bitter passion he presently fell . Saying , since this is of the same sort as the first , In my habitation she shall not be nurs'd ; Pray let her be sent into the Country , For where I am truly this child shall not be . With tears his dear wife unto him did say , Husband , be contented , I'll send her away . Then to the Country with speed she was sent , For to be brought up by one who was her friend . Altho' that her father he hated her so , She good education on her did bestow ; And with a gold locket and robes of the best , This slighted young female was commonly dressed . And when unto stature this damsel was grown , And found from him she had no love shown ; She cry'd , Before I will lie under his frown , I am fully resolved to range the world round : The Second Part. But now mark , good people , the cream of the jest , In what sort of manner this creature was dres With catskins she made her a robe I declare , The which for her covering she daily did wear . Her own rich attire , and jewels beside , Them up in a bundle by her they were ty'd : Then to seek her fortune she wander'd away . And when she had travel'd a cold winter's day , In the evening tide she came to a town , When at a Knight's door she then sat her down , For to rest herself , who was tired besure ; This noble Knight's Lady then came to the door . Then seeing this creature in such sort of dress , This lady unto her these words did express : Whence camest thou girl , and what would'st thou have She said , A night's rest in your stable I crave . The Lady said to her , I'll grant thy desire ; Come into the kitchen , and stand by the fire . Then she thanked the lady , and went in with haste , There she was gazed on from the biggest to the least , And being well warmed , her hunger being great , They gave her a Piece of good Food for to eat ; Then to and outhouse this creature was had , Where she with fresh straw then made her a bed . And when in the morning the daylight she saw , Her riches and jewels she hid in the straw ; And being very cold , she then bid retire , To go to the kitchen and stand by the fire . The Cook said , my Lady hath promis'd that thee Shalt be as a Scullion for to wait upon me ; And what say'st thou girl , art willing to bide ? With all my heart truly , to him she reply'd . To work with her needle she could very well , And for raising of past few could her excel : She being so handy , the Cook's heart did win , And there she was call'd by the name of Catskin . The Third Part. The Lady had a Son both comely and tall , Who oftentimes used for to be at a ball , A mile out of town , one evening-tide , To dance at this Ball away he did ride . Catskin said to his mother , pray Madam , let me Go after your son now this ball for to see ? With that in a passion this lady she grew , And struck her with the ladle , and broke it in two . And being thus served , she then god away , And with her rich garment herself did array : Then to this ball she with speed did retire . Where she danced so bravely that all did admire . The sport being done , this young squire did say , Young Lady , where do you live , tell me I pray . Her answer to him was , Sir , that will I tell . At the sign of the Broken Ladle I dwell . She being very nimble , god home first 'tis said , And with her Catskin robes she soon was array'd ; And into the Kitchen again she did go , But where she had been then none of them did know . Next night this young Squire , himself to content , To dance at this ball away again wen She said , Pray let me go this ball for to view ; Then she struck her with a skimmer , and broke it in two Then out of doors she ran full of heaviness , And with her rich garment herself soon did dress , And to this ball she ran away with speed ; Where to see her dancing all wonder'd indeed . The ball being ended , this young Squire then Said , Where is it you live ? She answer'd again , Sir , because you ask me , account I will give , At the sign of the broken skimmer I live . Being dark , then she left him , and homeward did high And with her Catskin robe was dressed presently , And into the kitchen among them she went , But where she had been they were all innocent , When the Squire came home , and found Catskin there , He was in amaze , and began for to swear , For two nights at this ball has been a lady , The sweetest of beauty's that ever I saw . She was the best dancer in all the whole place , And very much like our Catskin in the face ; Had she not been dressed in that costly degree , I should have sworn it had been Catskin boldly . Next night to this ball he did go once more ; And she asked his mother to go as before ; Who having a basin of water in her hand , She threw it on Catskin , as I understand . Shaking her wet ears out of doors she did run , And dressed herself ; when this thing she had done , To the ball once more she then went her ways . To see her fine dancing all gave her the praise . And having concluded , this young Squire he Said , From whence might you come , pray lady tell me ? Her answer was , Sir , you shall soon know the same , From the sign of the basin of water I came . Then homeward she hurry'd as fast as could be , This young Squire then was resolved to see Whereto she belonged ; then following Catskin Unto and old straw house , he saw her creep in . He said , Oh brave Catskin , I find it is thee These three nights together hath so charmed me ; Thou art the sweetest creature my eyes e'er beheld . With joy and content my heart now is fill'd . Thou art our cook's skullion , but as I shall have life , Grant me but thy love , and I will make thee my wife , And you shall have maids for to be at your call . Sir , that cannot be , I have no portion at all . Thy beauty is a portion , my joy and my dear , I prize it far better than a thousand a year ; And to have my friends-consent I have god a trick : I'll go to my bed , and I will feign myself sick . There's no one shall tend me but thee I profess ; So one day or another in thy rich dress Thou shalt be clad , and if my parents come nigh , I'll tell them 'tis for thee that sick I do lie . The Fourth Part. Having thus consulted , this couple parted . Next day this young Squire he took to his bed ; And when his dear parents this thing both perceived , For fear of his death they were heartily grieved . To tend him they sent for a nurse speedily . He said , None but Catskin my nurse then shall be . His Parents said , No son . He said , but she shall , Or else I'll have none to nurse me at all . His parents both wonder'd to hear him say thus , That no one but Catskin must then be his nurse : So then his dear parents their son to content , Up into the chamber poor Catskin they sent . Sweet cordials and other rich things were prepar'd , Which between this couple were equally shar'd ; And when all alone , they in each others arms Enjoy'd one another in love's pleasant charms . And at length , on a time , poor Catskin , 'tis said , In her rich attire she then was array'd : And when that his mother the chamber drew near , Then much like a goddess did Catskin appear . Which caused her to startle , and [ thus ] for to say , What young lady is this , son , tell me , I pray . He said , Why 'tis Catskin , for whom sick I lie , And except I have her , with speed I shall die . His mother then hasted to call up the Knight Who ran up to see this amazing great sighs He said , Is this Catskin we held in such scorn ? I ne'er saw a finer dame since I was born . The old Knight said to her , I pray thee tell me , From whence thou didst come , and of what Family ? Then who were her parents she gave them to know , And what was the cause of her wandering so , The young Squire cry'd , If you will save my life , Pray grant this young creature she may be my wife , His father reply'd , Thy life for to save , If you are agreed , my consent you shall have . Next day , with great triumph and joy , as we hear , There were many coaches that came far and near ; Then much like a Goddess , dressed in rich array , Catskin was marry'd to the Squire that day . For several days this great wedding did last , Where was many a topping and gallant rich guest ; And for joy the bells' rung all over the town , And bottles of Canary roll'd merrily round . When Catskin was marry'd , her fame for to raise , Who saw her modest carriage all gave her the praise . Thus her charming beauty the Squire did win , And who lives so great now as he and Catskin . The Fifth Part. Now in the fifth part I'll endeavour to show , How things with her parents and sister did go . Her mother and sister of life are bereft , And now all alone the old Squire is left . Who hearing his daughter was marry'd so brave He said , In my noddle a fancy I have . Dressed like a poor man now a journey I'll make ; And see if she on me some pity will take . Then dressed like a beggar he went to her gate , Where stood his daughter , who appear'd very grea He cry'd , Noble lady , a poor man I be , And I am now forced to crave your charity . With a blush she asked from whence that he came With that he then told her , and gave her his name . She cry'd , I am your daughter whom you slighted so ; Yet nevertheless to you some kindness I'll show . Through mercy the Lord hath provided for me : Pray father come in , and fit down , then said she . Then the best provision the house could afford . For to make him welcome was set on the board . She said , You are welcome , feed hearty , I pray ; And if you are willing , with me you shall stay So long as you live : Then he made this reply , I only am come now thy love for to try . Through mercy , my child , I am rich and not poor , I have gold and silver enough now in store ; And for this love which at thy hands I have found , For thy portion I'll give thee ten thousand good pounds . So in few days after , as we understand , This man he went home , and sold off his land , And ten thousand pounds to his daughter did give And now altogether in love they do live . g so , The young Squire cry'd , If you will save my life , Pray grant this young creature she may be my wife , His father reply'd , Thy life for to save , If you are agreed , my consent you shall have . Next day , with great triumph and joy , as we hear , There were many coaches that came far and near ; Then much like a Goddess , dressed in rich array , Catskin was marry'd to the Squire that day . For several days this great wedding did last , Where was many a topping and gallant rich guest ; And for joy the bells' rung all over the town , And bottles of Canary roll'd merrily round . When Catskin was marry'd , her fame for to raise , Who saw her modest carriage all gave her the praise . Thus her charming beauty the Squire did win , And who lives so great now as he and Catskin . The Fifth Part. Now in the fifth part I'll endeavour to show , How things with her parents and sister did go . Her mother and sister of life are bereft , And now all alone the old Squire is left . Who hearing his daughter was marry'd so brave He said , In my noddle a fancy I have . Dressed like a poor man now a journey I'll make ; And see if she on me some pity will take . Then dressed like a beggar he went to her gate , Where stood his daughter , who appear'd very grea He cry'd , Noble lady , a poor man I be , And I am now forced to crave your charity . With a blush she asked from whence that he came With that he then told her , and gave her his name . She cry'd , I am your daughter whom you slighted so ; Yet nevertheless to you some kindness I'll show . Through mercy the Lord hath provided for me : Pray father come in , and fit down , then said she . Then the best provision the house could afford . For to make him welcome was set on the board . She said , You are welcome , feed hearty , I pray ; And if you are willing , with me you shall stay So long as you live : Then he made this reply , I only am come now thy love for to try . Through mercy , my child , I am rich and not poor , I have gold and silver enough now in store ; And for this love which at thy hands I have found , For thy portion I'll give thee ten thousand good pounds . So in few days after , as we understand , This man he went home , and sold off his land , And ten thousand pounds to his daughter did give And now altogether in love they do live . The Wandering Young Gentlewoman ; Or , CATSKIN . YOU father's and mother's , and children also , Draw near unto me , and soon you shall know The sense of my ditty , and I dare to say , The like han't been printed thy [ s ] many a day . The subject which to you I am to relate , It is of a Squire of a vast estate : The first dear infant his wife did him bear . It was a young daughter of beauty most fair . He said to his wife , had this child been a boy , Twould have pleased me better , and increased my joy . If the next be the same sort , I do declare , Of what I am possessed she shall have no share . In twelve months time after this woman , we hear , Had another daughter of beauty most clear ; And when that he knew it was a female , In a bitter passion he presently fell . Saying , since this is of the same sort as the first , In my habitation she shall not be nurs'd ; Pray let her be sent into the Country , For where I am truly this child shall not be . With tears his dear wife unto him did say , Husband , be contented , I'll send her away . Then to the Country with speed she was sent , For to be brought up by one who was her friend . Altho' that her father he hated her so , She good education on her did bestow ; And with a gold locket and robes of the best , This slighted young female was commonly dressed . And when unto stature this damsel was grown , And found from him she had no love shown ; She cry'd , Before I will lie under his frown , I am fully resolved to range the world round : The Second Part. But now mark , good people , the cream of the jest , In what sort of manner this creature was dres With catskins she made her a robe I declare , The which for her covering she daily did wear . Her own rich attire , and jewels beside , Them up in a bundle by her they were ty'd : Then to seek her fortune she wander'd away . And when she had travel'd a cold winter's day , In the evening tide she came to a town , When at a Knight's door she then sat her down , For to rest herself , who was tired besure ; This noble Knight's Lady then came to the door . Then seeing this creature in such sort of dress , This lady unto her these words did express : Whence camest thou girl , and what would'st thou have She said , A night's rest in your stable I crave . The Lady said to her , I'll grant thy desire ; Come into the kitchen , and stand by the fire . Then she thanked the lady , and went in with haste , There she was gazed on from the biggest to the least , And being well warmed , her hunger being great , They gave her a Piece of good Food for to eat ; Then to and outhouse this creature was had , Where she with fresh straw then made her a bed . And when in the morning the daylight she saw , Her riches and jewels she hid in the straw ; And being very cold , she then bid retire , To go to the kitchen and stand by the fire . The Cook said , my Lady hath promis'd that thee Shalt be as a Scullion for to wait upon me ; And what say'st thou girl , art willing to bide ? With all my heart truly , to him she reply'd . To work with her needle she could very well , And for raising of past few could her excel : She being so handy , the Cook's heart did win , And there she was call'd by the name of Catskin . The Third Part. The Lady had a Son both comely and tall , Who oftentimes used for to be at a ball , A mile out of town , one evening-tide , To dance at this Ball away he did ride . Catskin said to his mother , pray Madam , let me Go after your son now this ball for to see ? With that in a passion this lady she grew , And struck her with the ladle , and broke it in two . And being thus served , she then god away , And with her rich garment herself did array : Then to this ball she with speed did retire . Where she danced so bravely that all did admire . The sport being done , this young squire did say , Young Lady , where do you live , tell me I pray . Her answer to him was , Sir , that will I tell . At the sign of the Broken Ladle I dwell . She being very nimble , god home first 'tis said , And with her Catskin robes she soon was array'd ; And into the Kitchen again she did go , But where she had been then none of them did know . Next night this young Squire , himself to content , To dance at this ball away again wen She said , Pray let me go this ball for to view ; Then she struck her with a skimmer , and broke it in two Then out of doors she ran full of heaviness , And with her rich garment herself soon did dress , And to this ball she ran away with speed ; Where to see her dancing all wonder'd indeed . The ball being ended , this young Squire then Said , Where is it you live ? She answer'd again , Sir , because you ask me , account I will give , At the sign of the broken skimmer I live . Being dark , then she left him , and homeward did high And with her Catskin robe was dressed presently , And into the kitchen among them she went , But where she had been they were all innocent , When the Squire came home , and found Catskin there , He was in amaze , and began for to swear , For two nights at this ball has been a lady , The sweetest of beauty's that ever I saw . She was the best dancer in all the whole place , And very much like our Catskin in the face ; Had she not been dressed in that costly degree , I should have sworn it had been Catskin boldly . Next night to this ball he did go once more ; And she asked his mother to go as before ; Who having a basin of water in her hand , She threw it on Catskin , as I understand . Shaking her wet ears out of doors she did run , And dressed herself ; when this thing she had done , To the ball once more she then went her ways . To see her fine dancing all gave her the praise . And having concluded , this young Squire he Said , From whence might you come , pray lady tell me ? Her answer was , Sir , you shall soon know the same , From the sign of the basin of water I came . Then homeward she hurry'd as fast as could be , This young Squire then was resolved to see Whereto she belonged ; then following Catskin Unto and old straw house , he saw her creep in . He said , Oh brave Catskin , I find it is thee These three nights together hath so charmed me ; Thou art the sweetest creature my eyes e'er beheld . With joy and content my heart now is fill'd . Thou art our cook's skullion , but as I shall have life , Grant me but thy love , and I will make thee my wife , And you shall have maids for to be at your call . Sir , that cannot be , I have no portion at all . Thy beauty is a portion , my joy and my dear , I prize it far better than a thousand a year ; And to have my friends-consent I have god a trick : I'll go to my bed , and I will feign myself sick . There's no one shall tend me but thee I profess ; So one day or another in thy rich dress Thou shalt be clad , and if my parents come nigh , I'll tell them 'tis for thee that sick I do lie . The Fourth Part. Having thus consulted , this couple parted . Next day this young Squire he took to his bed ; And when his dear parents this thing both perceived , For fear of his death they were heartily grieved . To tend him they sent for a nurse speedily . He said , None but Catskin my nurse then shall be . His Parents said , No son . He said , but she shall , Or else I'll have none to nurse me at all . His parents both wonder'd to hear him say thus , That no one but Catskin must then be his nurse : So then his dear parents their son to content , Up into the chamber poor Catskin they sent . Sweet cordials and other rich things were prepar'd , Which between this couple were equally shar'd ; And when all alone , they in each others arms Enjoy'd one another in love's pleasant charms . And at length , on a time , poor Catskin , 'tis said , In her rich attire she then was array'd : And when that his mother the chamber drew near , Then much like a goddess did Catskin appear . Which caused her to startle , and [ thus ] for to say , What young lady is this , son , tell me , I pray . He said , Why 'tis Catskin , for whom sick I lie , And except I have her , with speed I shall die . His mother then hasted to call up the Knight Who ran up to see this amazing great sighs He said , Is this Catskin we held in such scorn ? I ne'er saw a finer dame since I was born . The old Knight said to her , I pray thee tell me , From whence thou didst come , and of what Family ? Then who were her parents she gave them to know , And what was the cause of her wanderin The Wandering Young Gentlewoman ; Or , CATSKIN . YOU father's and mother's , and children also , Draw near unto me , and soon you shall know The sense of my ditty , and I dare to say , The like han't been printed thy [ s ] many a day . The subject which to you I am to relate , It is of a Squire of a vast estate : The first dear infant his wife did him bear . It was a young daughter of beauty most fair . He said to his wife , had this child been a boy , Twould have pleased me better , and increased my joy . If the next be the same sort , I do declare , Of what I am possessed she shall have no share . In twelve months time after this woman , we hear , Had another daughter of beauty most clear ; And when that he knew it was a female , In a bitter passion he presently fell . Saying , since this is of the same sort as the first , In my habitation she shall not be nurs'd ; Pray let her be sent into the Country , For where I am truly this child shall not be . With tears his dear wife unto him did say , Husband , be contented , I'll send her away . Then to the Country with speed she was sent , For to be brought up by one who was her friend . Altho' that her father he hated her so , She good education on her did bestow ; And with a gold locket and robes of the best , This slighted young female was commonly dressed . And when unto stature this damsel was grown , And found from him she had no love shown ; She cry'd , Before I will lie under his frown , I am fully resolved to range the world round : The Second Part. But now mark , good people , the cream of the jest , In what sort of manner this creature was dres With catskins she made her a robe I declare , The which for her covering she daily did wear . Her own rich attire , and jewels beside , Them up in a bundle by her they were ty'd : Then to seek her fortune she wander'd away . And when she had travel'd a cold winter's day , In the evening tide she came to a town , When at a Knight's door she then sat her down , For to rest herself , who was tired besure ; This noble Knight's Lady then came to the door . Then seeing this creature in such sort of dress , This lady unto her these words did express : Whence camest thou girl , and what would'st thou have She said , A night's rest in your stable I crave . The Lady said to her , I'll grant thy desire ; Come into the kitchen , and stand by the fire . Then she thanked the lady , and went in with haste , There she was gazed on from the biggest to the least , And being well warmed , her hunger being great , They gave her a Piece of good Food for to eat ; Then to and outhouse this creature was had , Where she with fresh straw then made her a bed . And when in the morning the daylight she saw , Her riches and jewels she hid in the straw ; And being very cold , she then bid retire , To go to the kitchen and stand by the fire . The Cook said , my Lady hath promis'd that thee Shalt be as a Scullion for to wait upon me ; And what say'st thou girl , art willing to bide ? With all my heart truly , to him she reply'd . To work with her needle she could very well , And for raising of past few could her excel : She being so handy , the Cook's heart did win , And there she was call'd by the name of Catskin . The Third Part. The Lady had a Son both comely and tall , Who oftentimes used for to be at a ball , A mile out of town , one evening-tide , To dance at this Ball away he did ride . Catskin said to his mother , pray Madam , let me Go after your son now this ball for to see ? With that in a passion this lady she grew , And struck her with the ladle , and broke it in two . And being thus served , she then god away , And with her rich garment herself did array : Then to this ball she with speed did retire . Where she danced so bravely that all did admire . The sport being done , this young squire did say , Young Lady , where do you live , tell me I pray . Her answer to him was , Sir , that will I tell . At the sign of the Broken Ladle I dwell . She being very nimble , god home first 'tis said , And with her Catskin robes she soon was array'd ; And into the Kitchen again she did go , But where she had been then none of them did know . Next night this young Squire , himself to content , To dance at this ball away again wen She said , Pray let me go this ball for to view ; Then she struck her with a skimmer , and broke it in two Then out of doors she ran full of heaviness , And with her rich garment herself soon did dress , And to this ball she ran away with speed ; Where to see her dancing all wonder'd indeed . The ball being ended , this young Squire then Said , Where is it you live ? She answer'd again , Sir , because you ask me , account I will give , At the sign of the broken skimmer I live . Being dark , then she left him , and homeward did high And with her Catskin robe was dressed presently , And into the kitchen among them she went , But where she had been they were all innocent , When the Squire came home , and found Catskin there , He was in amaze , and began for to swear , For two nights at this ball has been a lady , The sweetest of beauty's that ever I saw . She was the best dancer in all the whole place , And very much like our Catskin in the face ; Had she not been dressed in that costly degree , I should have sworn it had been Catskin boldly . Next night to this ball he did go once more ; And she asked his mother to go as before ; Who having a basin of water in her hand , She threw it on Catskin , as I understand . Shaking her wet ears out of doors she did run , And dressed herself ; when this thing she had done , To the ball once more she then went her ways . To see her fine dancing all gave her the praise . And having concluded , this young Squire he Said , From whence might you come , pray lady tell me ? Her answer was , Sir , you shall soon know the same , From the sign of the basin of water I came . Then homeward she hurry'd as fast as could be , This young Squire then was resolved to see Whereto she belonged ; then following Catskin Unto and old straw house , he saw her creep in . He said , Oh brave Catskin , I find it is thee These three nights together hath so charmed me ; Thou art the sweetest creature my eyes e'er beheld . With joy and content my heart now is fill'd . Thou art our cook's skullion , but as I shall have life , Grant me but thy love , and I will make thee my wife , And you shall have maids for to be at your call . Sir , that cannot be , I have no portion at all . Thy beauty is a portion , my joy and my dear , I prize it far better than a thousand a year ; And to have my friends-consent I have god a trick : I'll go to my bed , and I will feign myself sick . There's no one shall tend me but thee I profess ; So one day or another in thy rich dress Thou shalt be clad , and if my parents come nigh , I'll tell them 'tis for thee that sick I do lie . The Fourth Part. Having thus consulted , this couple parted . Next day this young Squire he took to his bed ; And when his dear parents this thing both perceived , For fear of his death they were heartily grieved . To tend him they sent for a nurse speedily . He said , None but Catskin my nurse then shall be . His Parents said , No son . He said , but she shall , Or else I'll have none to nurse me at all . His parents both wonder'd to hear him say thus , That no one but Catskin must then be his nurse : So then his dear parents their son to content , Up into the chamber poor Catskin they sent . Sweet cordials and other rich things were prepar'd , Which between this couple were equally shar'd ; And when all alone , they in each others arms Enjoy'd one another in love's pleasant charms . And at length , on a time , poor Catskin , 'tis said , In her rich attire she then was array'd : And when that his mother the chamber drew near , Then much like a goddess did Catskin appear . Which caused her to startle , and [ thus ] for to say , What young lady is this , son , tell me , I pray . He said , Why 'tis Catskin , for whom sick I lie , And except I have her , with speed I shall die . His mother then hasted to call up the Knight Who ran up to see this amazing great sighs He said , Is this Catskin we held in such scorn ? I ne'er saw a finer dame since I was born . The old Knight said to her , I pray thee tell me , From whence thou didst come , and of what Family ? Then who were her parents she gave them to know , And what was the cause of her wandering so , The young Squire cry'd , If you will save my life , Pray grant this young creature she may be my wife , His father reply'd , Thy life for to save , If you are agreed , my consent you shall have . Next day , with great triumph and joy , as we hear , There were many coaches that came far and near ; Then much like a Goddess , dressed in rich array , Catskin was marry'd to the Squire that day . For several days this great wedding did last , Where was many a topping and gallant rich guest ; And for joy the bells' rung all over the town , And bottles of Canary roll'd merrily round . When Catskin was marry'd , her fame for to raise , Who saw her modest carriage all gave her the praise . Thus her charming beauty the Squire did win , And who lives so great now as he and Catskin . The Fifth Part. Now in the fifth part I'll endeavour to show , How things with her parents and sister did go . Her mother and sister of life are bereft , And now all alone the old Squire is left . Who hearing his daughter was marry'd so brave He said , In my noddle a fancy I have . Dressed like a poor man now a journey I'll make ; And see if she on me some pity will take . Then dressed like a beggar he went to her gate , Where stood his daughter , who appear'd very grea He cry'd , Noble lady , a poor man I be , And I am now forced to crave your charity . With a blush she asked from whence that he came With that he then told her , and gave her his name . She cry'd , I am your daughter whom you slighted so ; Yet nevertheless to you some kindness I'll show . Through mercy the Lord hath provided for me : Pray father come in , and fit down , then said she . Then the best provision the house could afford . For to make him welcome was set on the board . She said , You are welcome , feed hearty , I pray ; And if you are willing , with me you shall stay So long as you live : Then he made this reply , I only am come now thy love for to try . Through mercy , my child , I am rich and not poor , I have gold and silver enough now in store ; And for this love which at thy hands I have found , For thy portion I'll give thee ten thousand good pounds . So in few days after , as we understand , This man he went home , and sold off his land , And ten thousand pounds to his daughter did give And now altogether in love they do live . g so , The young Squire cry'd , If you will save my life , Pray grant this young creature she may be my wife , His father reply'd , Thy life for to save , If you are agreed , my consent you shall have . Next day , with great triumph and joy , as we hear , There were many coaches that came far and near ; Then much like a Goddess , dressed in rich array , Catskin was marry'd to the Squire that day . For several days this great wedding did last , Where was many a topping and gallant rich guest ; And for joy the bells' rung all over the town , And bottles of Canary roll'd merrily round . When Catskin was marry'd , her fame for to raise , Who saw her modest carriage all gave her the praise . Thus her charming beauty the Squire did win , And who lives so great now as he and Catskin . The Fifth Part. Now in the fifth part I'll endeavour to show , How things with her parents and sister did go . Her mother and sister of life are bereft , And now all alone the old Squire is left . Who hearing his daughter was marry'd so brave He said , In my noddle a fancy I have . Dressed like a poor man now a journey I'll make ; And see if she on me some pity will take . Then dressed like a beggar he went to her gate , Where stood his daughter , who appear'd very grea He cry'd , Noble lady , a poor man I be , And I am now forced to crave your charity . With a blush she asked from whence that he came With that he then told her , and gave her his name . She cry'd , I am your daughter whom you slighted so ; Yet nevertheless to you some kindness I'll show . Through mercy the Lord hath provided for me : Pray father come in , and fit down , then said she . Then the best provision the house could afford . For to make him welcome was set on the board . She said , You are welcome , feed hearty , I pray ; And if you are willing , with me you shall stay So long as you live : Then he made this reply , I only am come now thy love for to try . Through mercy , my child , I am rich and not poor , I have gold and silver enough now in store ; And for this love which at thy hands I have found , For thy portion I'll give thee ten thousand good pounds . So in few days after , as we understand , This man he went home , and sold off his land , And ten thousand pounds to his daughter did give And now altogether in love they do live . 