NEPTUNE's Raging FURY . OR , The Gallant Seaman's SUFFERINGS . Being a Relation of their Perils and Dangers , and of the extraordina - ry Hazards they undergo in their noble Adventures . Together with their undaunted Valour , and rare Constancy in all their Ex - tremities ; and the manner of their rejoicing on Shore at their re - turn Home . [ To a pleasant new Tune . ] YOU Gentlemen of England , that live at home at ease , Full little do you think upon , the Dangers of the Seas : Give ear unto the Mariners , and they will plainly show , The Cares and Fears , when the stormy Winds do blow . All you thar will be Seamen , must bear a valiant Heart , For when you come upon the Seas , you must not think to start , Nor once to be fainthearted , in Hail , Rain or Snow , Nor to think for to shrink , when stormy Winds do blow . The bitter Storms and Tempests , poor Seamen must endure , Both Day & Night with many Fright we seldom rest secure ; Our Sleep it is disturbed , with Visions strange to know , And with Dreams on the Streams when stormy Winds do blow . In Claps of roaring Thunder , which Darkness does enforce , We often find our Ship to stray , beyond our wonted Course ; Which causeth great Distractions , and sinks our Hearts full low , 'Tis in vain to complain , when stormy Winds do blow . Sometime in Neptune's Bosom , our Ship is tossed in Waves , And every Man expecting the Sea to be their Graves ; Then up aloft she mounts , and down again so low , 'Tis with Waves , Oh with Waves , when stormy winds do blow . Then down again we fallen to Prayer with all our might and thought When refuge all does fail us , 'tis that must bear us out . To God we call for Succour , for he it is we know , That must aid us and save us , when the stormy Winds do blow . The Lawyer and the Usurer , that sits in Gowns of Fur , In Closets warm can take no harm abroad they need not stir , When Winter fierce with Cold does pierce and beats with Hail and Snow , We are sure to endure , when stormy Winds do blow . We bring home costly Merchandise and Jewels of great Price , To serve our English Gentry , with many a rare Device ; To please the English gallantry , our Pains we freely show , For we toil and we moil , when the stormy winds do blow . We sometime sail to Indies , to fetch some Spices rare , Sometime 'gain to France & Spain , for wines beyond compare ; While Gallants are Carousing , in Taverns warm we know , Then we sweep o're the deep , when stormy Winds do blow . When Tempests are blown over , and greatest Fears are past , By Weather fair and temp'rate Air , we straight lie down to rest ; But when the Billows tumble , and Waves do furious grow , Then we rouse , up we rouse when the stormy winds do blow If Enemies oppose us , when England is at Wars , With any foreign Nations , we fear not wounds nor scars , Our roaring Guns shall teach 'em our Valour for to know , While they reel in the Keel , when the stormy winds do blow . We are no cowardly Shrinkers , but true Englishmen bred , We'll play our parts like valiant Hearts and never fly for dread We'll ply our Business nimbly , where'er we come or go , With our Mates to the Straights , when the stormy winds do blow Take courage all brave Mariners , and never be dismayed , While we have bold adventures , we ne'er shall want a Trade ; Our Merchant's will employ us , to fetch them Wealth I know , Then be bold work for Gold when the stormy Winds do blow . When we return in safety wi [ tO ] h Wages for our Pains ; The Tapster and the Vintner will help to share our gains ; We'll call for Liquour roundly , and pay before we go ; Then we'll Roar on the Shore when the stormy winds do blow . LONDON : Printed by Francis Clifton . NEPTUNE's Raging FURY . OR , The Gallant Seaman's SUFFERINGS . Being a Relation of their Perils and Dangers , and of the extraordina - ry Hazards they undergo in their noble Adventures . Together with their undaunted Valour , and rare Constancy in all their Ex - tremities ; and the manner of their rejoicing on Shore at their re - turn Home . [ To a pleasant new Tune . ] YOU Gentlemen of England , that live at home at ease , Full little do you think upon , the Dangers of the Seas : Give ear unto the Mariners , and they will plainly show , The Cares and Fears , when the stormy Winds do blow . All you thar will be Seamen , must bear a valiant Heart , For when you come upon the Seas , you must not think to start , Nor once to be fainthearted , in Hail , Rain or Snow , Nor to think for to shrink , when stormy Winds do blow . The bitter Storms and Tempests , poor Seamen must endure , Both Day & Night with many Fright we seldom rest secure ; Our Sleep it is disturbed , with Visions strange to know , And with Dreams on the Streams when stormy Winds do blow . In Claps of roaring Thunder , which Darkness does enforce , We often find our Ship to stray , beyond our wonted Course ; Which causeth great Distractions , and sinks our Hearts full low , 'Tis in vain to complain , when stormy Winds do blow . Sometime in Neptune's Bosom , our Ship is tossed in Waves , And every Man expecting the Sea to be their Graves ; Then up aloft she mounts , and down again so low , 'Tis with Waves , Oh with Waves , when stormy winds do blow . Then down again we fallen to Prayer with all our might and thought When refuge all does fail us , 'tis that must bear us out . To God we call for Succour , for he it is we know , That must aid us and save us , when the stormy Winds do blow . The Lawyer and the Usurer , that sits in Gowns of Fur , In Closets warm can take no harm abroad they need not stir , When Winter fierce with Cold does pierce and beats with Hail and Snow , We are sure to endure , when stormy Winds do blow . We bring home costly Merchandise and Jewels of great Price , To serve our English Gentry , with many a rare Device ; To please the English gallantry , our Pains we freely show , For we toil and we moil , when the stormy winds do blow . We sometime sail to Indies , to fetch some Spices rare , Sometime 'gain to France & Spain , for wines beyond compare ; While Gallants are Carousing , in Taverns warm we know , Then we sweep o're the deep , when stormy Winds do blow . When Tempests are blown over , and greatest Fears are past , By Weather fair and temp'rate Air , we straight lie down to rest ; But when the Billows tumble , and Waves do furious grow , Then we rouse , up we rouse when the stormy winds do blow If Enemies oppose us , when England is at Wars , With any foreign Nations , we fear not wounds nor scars , Our roaring Guns shall teach 'em our Valour for to know , While they reel in the Keel , when the stormy winds do blow . We are no cowardly Shrinkers , but true Englishmen bred , We'll play our parts like valiant Hearts and never fly for dread We'll ply our Business nimbly , where'er we come or go , With our Mates to the Straights , when the stormy winds do blow Take courage all brave Mariners , and never be dismayed , While we have bold adventures , we ne'er shall want a Trade ; Our Merchant's will employ us , to fetch them Wealth I know , Then be bold work for Gold when the stormy Winds do blow . When we return in safety wi [ tO ] h Wages for our Pains ; The Tapster and the Vintner will help to share our gains ; We'll call for Liquour roundly , and pay before we go ; Then we'll Roar on the Shore when the stormy winds do blow . LONDON : Printed by Francis Clifton . 