The forsaken Maids Frolic OR , A Farewell to found Love , In which she does plainly and properly prove , That a flattering tongue is the ruin of Love , And therefore all you that are well in your wits , Beware of Trappans , Maids look to your Hits . The Tune is , The Knight and beggar-wench . YOu Females all give ear , To that which I shall declare and listen unto my Song , I lov'd a young man as fair To me he passed compare , my too much Love did me wrong , He often did vow and professed , that he would be true to me : But now he's forsworn I scorn for to mourn , Another's as good as he . The features of his face Did yield becoming grace , but his tongue & his heart were base : When first he began to toy , I seemed a little coy , and yet my heart leapt for joy . so frolic he was and free in coaksing and kissing of me , that had he but more me put too't , I had been as bad as he . His teeth did appear like Pearls His locks they hung down in Curls , May fetter a thousand Girls , His forehead is mounted high And whiter then Ivory , This is a brave man thought I . His lips had a very good smack , His Eyes were both bonny & black , Thought I , if I wed , For board or bed , Here's one that will hold me tack . When he about me clung You would think that and Angel sung , So musical was his Tongue , To make my heart believe He could both sighs and grieve , The Devil so tempted Eve , This flattering fawning Elf , When he had god all my pelf , And squandered my goods , He left me i'th sudds And bid me go hang myself . BUt tarry , soft and fair , More Men in the World there are why should I fallen in despair , Since my first Love is spoyl'd And I am yet undefil'd , I'll never be more beguiled . his falsehood hath set me free , and now for another I'll be , harm watch , harm catch . he's met with his match . Let him go and be hanged for me . My spirits I will advance I'le learn to sing and dance , but love now and then by chance , If any Man me will board , Though he swear by his soul & sword , I'll never believe a Word , my reason shall be my guide , my honesty be my pride , for if we grant them a kiss men think that it is , No more but get up and ride . This neither the tongue or pen Of any falsehearted men , shall flatter my faith again , Since my first Love did get My Money by sly deceit , another shall pay the debt . whatever he gives I'll take and merry my self I'll make , Her mind is amiss That really is A Lover for Conscience sake . If a Suitor do turn a Jew , And will not give Love his endue , Why should a young Wench be true If Wooing be but the Way To flatter and then betray , We'l flatter as well as they , For they that can break a vow , Teach women what they shall do If to play fast and lose Be good for the Goose , This good for the Gander too . For if a deceitful man My treasury will Trappan , I'le Coaks him again if I can , And if there be ne're a hell For Lovers that lies do tell , A Woman may do't as well , If Bachelors prove not true The Maidens may do so too . This Wit for Wit , And Hit for Hit , And this is but Quid for Q [ u ] oh . But yet the powers above Do nothing so much approve , as Loyal and constant Love , When honest intent invites And spirit with spirit unites . those Lovers have true delights , When all the deceitful Elves That cozen by twenty and twelves 'tis forty to one e're the Game be done , They shall be deceiv'd themselves . Printed for W. Whitwood at the Golden Bell at Duck-Lane End , in West-Smith-Field . The forsaken Maids Frolic OR , A Farewell to found Love , In which she does plainly and properly prove , That a flattering tongue is the ruin of Love , And therefore all you that are well in your wits , Beware of Trappans , Maids look to your Hits . The Tune is , The Knight and beggar-wench . YOu Females all give ear , To that which I shall declare and listen unto my Song , I lov'd a young man as fair To me he passed compare , my too much Love did me wrong , He often did vow and professed , that he would be true to me : But now he's forsworn I scorn for to mourn , Another's as good as he . The features of his face Did yield becoming grace , but his tongue & his heart were base : When first he began to toy , I seemed a little coy , and yet my heart leapt for joy . so frolic he was and free in coaksing and kissing of me , that had he but more me put too't , I had been as bad as he . His teeth did appear like Pearls His locks they hung down in Curls , May fetter a thousand Girls , His forehead is mounted high And whiter then Ivory , This is a brave man thought I . His lips had a very good smack , His Eyes were both bonny & black , Thought I , if I wed , For board or bed , Here's one that will hold me tack . When he about me clung You would think that and Angel sung , So musical was his Tongue , To make my heart believe He could both sighs and grieve , The Devil so tempted Eve , This flattering fawning Elf , When he had god all my pelf , And squandered my goods , He left me i'th sudds And bid me go hang myself . BUt tarry , soft and fair , More Men in the World there are why should I fallen in despair , Since my first Love is spoyl'd And I am yet undefil'd , I'll never be more beguiled . his falsehood hath set me free , and now for another I'll be , harm watch , harm catch . he's met with his match . Let him go and be hanged for me . My spirits I will advance I'le learn to sing and dance , but love now and then by chance , If any Man me will board , Though he swear by his soul & sword , I'll never believe a Word , my reason shall be my guide , my honesty be my pride , for if we grant them a kiss men think that it is , No more but get up and ride . This neither the tongue or pen Of any falsehearted men , shall flatter my faith again , Since my first Love did get My Money by sly deceit , another shall pay the debt . whatever he gives I'll take and merry my self I'll make , Her mind is amiss That really is A Lover for Conscience sake . If a Suitor do turn a Jew , And will not give Love his endue , Why should a young Wench be true If Wooing be but the Way To flatter and then betray , We'l flatter as well as they , For they that can break a vow , Teach women what they shall do If to play fast and lose Be good for the Goose , This good for the Gander too . For if a deceitful man My treasury will Trappan , I'le Coaks him again if I can , And if there be ne're a hell For Lovers that lies do tell , A Woman may do't as well , If Bachelors prove not true The Maidens may do so too . This Wit for Wit , And Hit for Hit , And this is but Quid for Q [ u ] oh . But yet the powers above Do nothing so much approve , as Loyal and constant Love , When honest intent invites And spirit with spirit unites . those Lovers have true delights , When all the deceitful Elves That cozen by twenty and twelves 'tis forty to one e're the Game be done , They shall be deceiv'd themselves . Printed for W. Whitwood at the Golden Bell at Duck-Lane End , in West-Smith-Field . The forsaken Maids Frolic OR , A Farewell to found Love , In which she does plainly and properly prove , That a flattering tongue is the ruin of Love , And therefore all you that are well in your wits , Beware of Trappans , Maids look to your Hits . The Tune is , The Knight and beggar-wench . YOu Females all give ear , To that which I shall declare and listen unto my Song , I lov'd a young man as fair To me he passed compare , my too much Love did me wrong , He often did vow and professed , that he would be true to me : But now he's forsworn I scorn for to mourn , Another's as good as he . The features of his face Did yield becoming grace , but his tongue & his heart were base : When first he began to toy , I seemed a little coy , and yet my heart leapt for joy . so frolic he was and free in coaksing and kissing of me , that had he but more me put too't , I had been as bad as he . His teeth did appear like Pearls His locks they hung down in Curls , May fetter a thousand Girls , His forehead is mounted high And whiter then Ivory , This is a brave man thought I . His lips had a very good smack , His Eyes were both bonny & black , Thought I , if I wed , For board or bed , Here's one that will hold me tack . When he about me clung You would think that and Angel sung , So musical was his Tongue , To make my heart believe He could both sighs and grieve , The Devil so tempted Eve , This flattering fawning Elf , When he had god all my pelf , And squandered my goods , He left me i'th sudds And bid me go hang myself . BUt tarry , soft and fair , More Men in the World there are why should I fallen in despair , Since my first Love is spoyl'd And I am yet undefil'd , I'll never be more beguiled . his falsehood hath set me free , and now for another I'll be , harm watch , harm catch . he's met with his match . Let him go and be hanged for me . My spirits I will advance I'le learn to sing and dance , but love now and then by chance , If any Man me will board , Though he swear by his soul & sword , I'll never believe a Word , my reason shall be my guide , my honesty be my pride , for if we grant them a kiss men think that it is , No more but get up and ride . This neither the tongue or pen Of any falsehearted men , shall flatter my faith again , Since my first Love did get My Money by sly deceit , another shall pay the debt . whatever he gives I'll take and merry my self I'll make , Her mind is amiss That really is A Lover for Conscience sake . If a Suitor do turn a Jew , And will not give Love his endue , Why should a young Wench be true If Wooing be but the Way To flatter and then betray , We'l flatter as well as they , For they that can break a vow , Teach women what they shall do If to play fast and lose Be good for the Goose , This good for the Gander too . For if a deceitful man My treasury will Trappan , I'le Coaks him again if I can , And if there be ne're a hell For Lovers that lies do tell , A Woman may do't as well , If Bachelors prove not true The Maidens may do so too . This Wit for Wit , And Hit for Hit , And this is but Quid for Q [ u ] oh . But yet the powers above Do nothing so much approve , as Loyal and constant Love , When honest intent invites And spirit with spirit unites . those Lovers have true delights , When all the deceitful Elves That cozen by twenty and twelves 'tis forty to one e're the Game be done , They shall be deceiv'd themselves . Printed for W. Whitwood at the Golden Bell at Duck-Lane End , in West-Smith-Field . The forsaken Maids Frolic OR , A Farewell to found Love , In which she does plainly and properly prove , That a flattering tongue is the ruin of Love , And therefore all you that are well in your wits , Beware of Trappans , Maids look to your Hits . The Tune is , The Knight and beggar-wench . YOu Females all give ear , To that which I shall declare and listen unto my Song , I lov'd a young man as fair To me he passed compare , my too much Love did me wrong , He often did vow and professed , that he would be true to me : But now he's forsworn I scorn for to mourn , Another's as good as he . The features of his face Did yield becoming grace , but his tongue & his heart were base : When first he began to toy , I seemed a little coy , and yet my heart leapt for joy . so frolic he was and free in coaksing and kissing of me , that had he but more me put too't , I had been as bad as he . His teeth did appear like Pearls His locks they hung down in Curls , May fetter a thousand Girls , His forehead is mounted high And whiter then Ivory , This is a brave man thought I . His lips had a very good smack , His Eyes were both bonny & black , Thought I , if I wed , For board or bed , Here's one that will hold me tack . When he about me clung You would think that and Angel sung , So musical was his Tongue , To make my heart believe He could both sighs and grieve , The Devil so tempted Eve , This flattering fawning Elf , When he had god all my pelf , And squandered my goods , He left me i'th sudds And bid me go hang myself . BUt tarry , soft and fair , More Men in the World there are why should I fallen in despair , Since my first Love is spoyl'd And I am yet undefil'd , I'll never be more beguiled . his falsehood hath set me free , and now for another I'll be , harm watch , harm catch . he's met with his match . Let him go and be hanged for me . My spirits I will advance I'le learn to sing and dance , but love now and then by chance , If any Man me will board , Though he swear by his soul & sword , I'll never believe a Word , my reason shall be my guide , my honesty be my pride , for if we grant them a kiss men think that it is , No more but get up and ride . This neither the tongue or pen Of any falsehearted men , shall flatter my faith again , Since my first Love did get My Money by sly deceit , another shall pay the debt . whatever he gives I'll take and merry my self I'll make , Her mind is amiss That really is A Lover for Conscience sake . If a Suitor do turn a Jew , And will not give Love his endue , Why should a young Wench be true If Wooing be but the Way To flatter and then betray , We'l flatter as well as they , For they that can break a vow , Teach women what they shall do If to play fast and lose Be good for the Goose , This good for the Gander too . For if a deceitful man My treasury will Trappan , I'le Coaks him again if I can , And if there be ne're a hell For Lovers that lies do tell , A Woman may do't as well , If Bachelors prove not true The Maidens may do so too . This Wit for Wit , And Hit for Hit , And this is but Quid for Q [ u ] oh . But yet the powers above Do nothing so much approve , as Loyal and constant Love , When honest intent invites And spirit with spirit unites . those Lovers have true delights , When all the deceitful Elves That cozen by twenty and twelves 'tis forty to one e're the Game be done , They shall be deceiv'd themselves . Printed for W. Whitwood at the Golden Bell at Duck-Lane End , in West-Smith-Field . 