The Female Highway Hector : OR , And Account of a Woman , who was lately arraign'd for robbing on the highway in man's apparel : Containing , A Relation of seve - ral noted Exploits which she perform'd in that bold Undertaking . To and excellent new Tune called The Rant . YOu Gallants of every Station , give ear to a Frolicsome Song ; The like was ne'er seen in the Nation , 'twas done by a Female so young . She bought her a Mare and a Bridle , a Saddle , and Pistols also , She resolved she would not be idle , for upon the Pad she did go . She Clothed her self in great Splendour , for Breeches and Sword she had on , Her Body appear'd very slender ; she show'd like a pretty Youngman . And then like a Padder so witty , she mounted with speed on her Mare ; She left all her Friends in the City , and steered her Course towards Ware . The first that she met was a Grocer was walking with Cane in his Hand , She soon to the Spark came up closer , and boldly she bid him to stand . She took from him but a Guinea , and then met a Taylor with Shears , And because the poor Rogue had no Money , she gently clipped of his Ears . The next that she met was a Tanner . for loss of his money he cry'd , And because he bald in this manner , she handsomely tanned his Hide . She road about seven-miles farther , and then a Stage-Coach she did Rob ; The Passengers all cry'd out Murder : but this was a Fifty-pound Jobb . And then she robb'd a Welsh Miller , she fac'd him and gave him the Word : Hur splutter'd , and swore hur would kill hur , if that hur had god but hur Sword . And then she came up with a Quaker , she told him , she must have his Coin : Quoth he , Thou silly Wiseacre thou shalt have no Money of mine . She show'd him a Pistol to prove him ; he told her by Yea and by Nay , That since the good Spirit did move him , she might take his Money away . And Exciseman , she then next accosted and bid him Deliver with speed ; He often of Valour had boasted , but he was a Coward indeed . She Rifled him then of his Money ; o ! this was a very rich Prize , She took from him Fourscore Guineys , which he had receiv'd for Excise . The next that she met was a Padder , well mounted upon a bay a Nag ; Oh! this made her so much the gladder , she told him she wanted a bag . He thought she would certainly fight him , prepared himself out of hand : And she was resolved to fright him , she damn'd him , and bid him to stand . He presently drew out his Rapier and bid her to stand on her guard ; But quickly away she did Caper , the Highwayman , follow'd her hard . He follow'd and soon overtook her , and searched her Breeches with speed ; And as he did well overlook her , he found her a Woman indeed ! The Highwayman stood all amazed ; but she had no cause to complain . Tho' with her he did what he pleased , he gave her the Money again . Printed for C. Bates at the White Heart in West-smithfield . The Female Highway Hector : OR , And Account of a Woman , who was lately arraign'd for robbing on the highway in man's apparel : Containing , A Relation of seve - ral noted Exploits which she perform'd in that bold Undertaking . To and excellent new Tune called The Rant . YOu Gallants of every Station , give ear to a Frolicsome Song ; The like was ne'er seen in the Nation , 'twas done by a Female so young . She bought her a Mare and a Bridle , a Saddle , and Pistols also , She resolved she would not be idle , for upon the Pad she did go . She Clothed her self in great Splendour , for Breeches and Sword she had on , Her Body appear'd very slender ; she show'd like a pretty Youngman . And then like a Padder so witty , she mounted with speed on her Mare ; She left all her Friends in the City , and steered her Course towards Ware . The first that she met was a Grocer was walking with Cane in his Hand , She soon to the Spark came up closer , and boldly she bid him to stand . She took from him but a Guinea , and then met a Taylor with Shears , And because the poor Rogue had no Money , she gently clipped of his Ears . The next that she met was a Tanner . for loss of his money he cry'd , And because he bald in this manner , she handsomely tanned his Hide . She road about seven-miles farther , and then a Stage-Coach she did Rob ; The Passengers all cry'd out Murder : but this was a Fifty-pound Jobb . And then she robb'd a Welsh Miller , she fac'd him and gave him the Word : Hur splutter'd , and swore hur would kill hur , if that hur had god but hur Sword . And then she came up with a Quaker , she told him , she must have his Coin : Quoth he , Thou silly Wiseacre thou shalt have no Money of mine . She show'd him a Pistol to prove him ; he told her by Yea and by Nay , That since the good Spirit did move him , she might take his Money away . And Exciseman , she then next accosted and bid him Deliver with speed ; He often of Valour had boasted , but he was a Coward indeed . She Rifled him then of his Money ; o ! this was a very rich Prize , She took from him Fourscore Guineys , which he had receiv'd for Excise . The next that she met was a Padder , well mounted upon a bay a Nag ; Oh! this made her so much the gladder , she told him she wanted a bag . He thought she would certainly fight him , prepared himself out of hand : And she was resolved to fright him , she damn'd him , and bid him to stand . He presently drew out his Rapier and bid her to stand on her guard ; But quickly away she did Caper , the Highwayman , follow'd her hard . He follow'd and soon overtook her , and searched her Breeches with speed ; And as he did well overlook her , he found her a Woman indeed ! The Highwayman stood all amazed ; but she had no cause to complain . Tho' with her he did what he pleased , he gave her the Money again . Printed for C. Bates at the White Heart in West-smithfield . 