The DAMOSELS Tragedy : OR , True Love in Distress . Being and account of a young Man , who Slighting a young Maiden who had fix'd her love upon him , did thereby cause her to end her days in Despair by a dreadful Dose of Poison . To the Tune of , Charon , etc This may be Printed , R. P. YOu Loyal Lovers attend to my Ditty , which with a sorrowful heart I raise , 'Tis of a Damsel , the more is the pity , who with strong Poison did end her days : Fair Elinor this Lass was nam , John the cause of all her Woe , Sighing she said , tho' I here may be blamed , No body knows what I undergo ! In my soft Breast is a secret Fire , which by the power of Love increas'd , Nothing but Death is my earnest desire , hoping there by I shall be releas For I have lost my dearest Jewel , this to my Grief , alas ! I know , My dearest Johnny , Oh why now so Cruel ! you little think what I undergo . Here do I languish by you unlamented , now my poor innocent heart's betray'd , How can you any way here be contented , when you have ruin'd a harmless Maid ? To me you have been most falsehearted , proving my final overthrow , Since from my presence you have departed , No body knows what I undergo ! Every Vein in my heart now does tingle , while I in sorrow am left alone , Many sad Sighs with my Tears I mingle , while to the world here I make my moan : Oh that I might but once behold him , then would it Expiate my Woe , But in my arms I shall never enfold him , No body knows what I undergo ! down from her eyes the tears flow'd like a fountain being surrounded with Care and Grief , And tho' her sorrows she still was recanting , there was no Creature to yield Relief : Many a bitter Sighs she giving , while her poor heart was sunk full low , Said she , I here am a weary of Living , No body knows what I undergo . In her strange Fancy ran many a Notion , before the passion of Love was passed , At length it was to prepare a sad Potion , the which bereav'd her of Life at las Then as in Torments she lay Dying , being oppressed with Grief and Woe , Wringing her hands like a Lover , and crying , No body knows what I undergo . Farewell , farewell , to my dearest for ever , I must submit to the hand of Fate , If that you here would afford me your pity , now you would find it is far too late : Then with those words she did Expire , saying , to Die I am afraid , All her Relations and Friends that was nigh her , wept for to hear the sad moan she made . Here have I given a perfect Relation , of a young Damsel that Dy'd you hear , Through her false Lovers Dissimulation , who can forbear now to shed a Tear ? True Love abused it is such a Trial , that there is few thorough it can Wade , Therefore Oh youngmen , now learn to be Loyal , think of the Sorrowful End she made . FINIS . Printed for J. Back , at the Black Boy on London - Bridge , near the Draw-Bridge . The DAMOSELS Tragedy : OR , True Love in Distress . Being and account of a young Man , who Slighting a young Maiden who had fix'd her love upon him , did thereby cause her to end her days in Despair by a dreadful Dose of Poison . To the Tune of , Charon , etc This may be Printed , R. P. YOu Loyal Lovers attend to my Ditty , which with a sorrowful heart I raise , 'Tis of a Damsel , the more is the pity , who with strong Poison did end her days : Fair Elinor this Lass was nam , John the cause of all her Woe , Sighing she said , tho' I here may be blamed , No body knows what I undergo ! In my soft Breast is a secret Fire , which by the power of Love increas'd , Nothing but Death is my earnest desire , hoping there by I shall be releas For I have lost my dearest Jewel , this to my Grief , alas ! I know , My dearest Johnny , Oh why now so Cruel ! you little think what I undergo . Here do I languish by you unlamented , now my poor innocent heart's betray'd , How can you any way here be contented , when you have ruin'd a harmless Maid ? To me you have been most falsehearted , proving my final overthrow , Since from my presence you have departed , No body knows what I undergo ! Every Vein in my heart now does tingle , while I in sorrow am left alone , Many sad Sighs with my Tears I mingle , while to the world here I make my moan : Oh that I might but once behold him , then would it Expiate my Woe , But in my arms I shall never enfold him , No body knows what I undergo ! down from her eyes the tears flow'd like a fountain being surrounded with Care and Grief , And tho' her sorrows she still was recanting , there was no Creature to yield Relief : Many a bitter Sighs she giving , while her poor heart was sunk full low , Said she , I here am a weary of Living , No body knows what I undergo . In her strange Fancy ran many a Notion , before the passion of Love was passed , At length it was to prepare a sad Potion , the which bereav'd her of Life at las Then as in Torments she lay Dying , being oppressed with Grief and Woe , Wringing her hands like a Lover , and crying , No body knows what I undergo . Farewell , farewell , to my dearest for ever , I must submit to the hand of Fate , If that you here would afford me your pity , now you would find it is far too late : Then with those words she did Expire , saying , to Die I am afraid , All her Relations and Friends that was nigh her , wept for to hear the sad moan she made . Here have I given a perfect Relation , of a young Damsel that Dy'd you hear , Through her false Lovers Dissimulation , who can forbear now to shed a Tear ? True Love abused it is such a Trial , that there is few thorough it can Wade , Therefore Oh youngmen , now learn to be Loyal , think of the Sorrowful End she made . FINIS . Printed for J. Back , at the Black Boy on London - Bridge , near the Draw-Bridge . The DAMOSELS Tragedy : OR , True Love in Distress . Being and account of a young Man , who Slighting a young Maiden who had fix'd her love upon him , did thereby cause her to end her days in Despair by a dreadful Dose of Poison . To the Tune of , Charon , etc This may be Printed , R. P. YOu Loyal Lovers attend to my Ditty , which with a sorrowful heart I raise , 'Tis of a Damsel , the more is the pity , who with strong Poison did end her days : Fair Elinor this Lass was nam , John the cause of all her Woe , Sighing she said , tho' I here may be blamed , No body knows what I undergo ! In my soft Breast is a secret Fire , which by the power of Love increas'd , Nothing but Death is my earnest desire , hoping there by I shall be releas For I have lost my dearest Jewel , this to my Grief , alas ! I know , My dearest Johnny , Oh why now so Cruel ! you little think what I undergo . Here do I languish by you unlamented , now my poor innocent heart's betray'd , How can you any way here be contented , when you have ruin'd a harmless Maid ? To me you have been most falsehearted , proving my final overthrow , Since from my presence you have departed , No body knows what I undergo ! Every Vein in my heart now does tingle , while I in sorrow am left alone , Many sad Sighs with my Tears I mingle , while to the world here I make my moan : Oh that I might but once behold him , then would it Expiate my Woe , But in my arms I shall never enfold him , No body knows what I undergo ! down from her eyes the tears flow'd like a fountain being surrounded with Care and Grief , And tho' her sorrows she still was recanting , there was no Creature to yield Relief : Many a bitter Sighs she giving , while her poor heart was sunk full low , Said she , I here am a weary of Living , No body knows what I undergo . In her strange Fancy ran many a Notion , before the passion of Love was passed , At length it was to prepare a sad Potion , the which bereav'd her of Life at las Then as in Torments she lay Dying , being oppressed with Grief and Woe , Wringing her hands like a Lover , and crying , No body knows what I undergo . Farewell , farewell , to my dearest for ever , I must submit to the hand of Fate , If that you here would afford me your pity , now you would find it is far too late : Then with those words she did Expire , saying , to Die I am afraid , All her Relations and Friends that was nigh her , wept for to hear the sad moan she made . Here have I given a perfect Relation , of a young Damsel that Dy'd you hear , Through her false Lovers Dissimulation , who can forbear now to shed a Tear ? True Love abused it is such a Trial , that there is few thorough it can Wade , Therefore Oh youngmen , now learn to be Loyal , think of the Sorrowful End she made . FINIS . Printed for J. Back , at the Black Boy on London - Bridge , near the Draw-Bridge . The DAMOSELS Tragedy : OR , True Love in Distress . Being and account of a young Man , who Slighting a young Maiden who had fix'd her love upon him , did thereby cause her to end her days in Despair by a dreadful Dose of Poison . To the Tune of , Charon , etc This may be Printed , R. P. YOu Loyal Lovers attend to my Ditty , which with a sorrowful heart I raise , 'Tis of a Damsel , the more is the pity , who with strong Poison did end her days : Fair Elinor this Lass was nam , John the cause of all her Woe , Sighing she said , tho' I here may be blamed , No body knows what I undergo ! In my soft Breast is a secret Fire , which by the power of Love increas'd , Nothing but Death is my earnest desire , hoping there by I shall be releas For I have lost my dearest Jewel , this to my Grief , alas ! I know , My dearest Johnny , Oh why now so Cruel ! you little think what I undergo . Here do I languish by you unlamented , now my poor innocent heart's betray'd , How can you any way here be contented , when you have ruin'd a harmless Maid ? To me you have been most falsehearted , proving my final overthrow , Since from my presence you have departed , No body knows what I undergo ! Every Vein in my heart now does tingle , while I in sorrow am left alone , Many sad Sighs with my Tears I mingle , while to the world here I make my moan : Oh that I might but once behold him , then would it Expiate my Woe , But in my arms I shall never enfold him , No body knows what I undergo ! down from her eyes the tears flow'd like a fountain being surrounded with Care and Grief , And tho' her sorrows she still was recanting , there was no Creature to yield Relief : Many a bitter Sighs she giving , while her poor heart was sunk full low , Said she , I here am a weary of Living , No body knows what I undergo . In her strange Fancy ran many a Notion , before the passion of Love was passed , At length it was to prepare a sad Potion , the which bereav'd her of Life at las Then as in Torments she lay Dying , being oppressed with Grief and Woe , Wringing her hands like a Lover , and crying , No body knows what I undergo . Farewell , farewell , to my dearest for ever , I must submit to the hand of Fate , If that you here would afford me your pity , now you would find it is far too late : Then with those words she did Expire , saying , to Die I am afraid , All her Relations and Friends that was nigh her , wept for to hear the sad moan she made . Here have I given a perfect Relation , of a young Damsel that Dy'd you hear , Through her false Lovers Dissimulation , who can forbear now to shed a Tear ? True Love abused it is such a Trial , that there is few thorough it can Wade , Therefore Oh youngmen , now learn to be Loyal , think of the Sorrowful End she made . FINIS . Printed for J. Back , at the Black Boy on London - Bridge , near the Draw-Bridge . 