The Complete Citizen : or The Man of Fashion . I . Would you be a Man in Fashion ? Would you led a Life Divine ? Would you be , etc Would you led , & Take a little Draw of Passion , In a lusty Dose of Wine . If the nymph has no Compassion , Vain it is to sighs and groan : Love was but put in for Fashion , Wine will do the Work alone . II Wou'd you have at your Devotion , Gown-Fop Whigs that loves to prate ? Wou'd you have , etc Gown-Fop , etc Take a Dram of Tony's Notion , in a Coffee-Dish of State : If the Poison will not warm you , take you Tea , 'twill do the thing ; There are Statesmen can inform you how to Rule without a King . III . Wou'd you then be thought most witty , wou'd you be a Man of parts ? Wou'd you be , etc wou'd you , etc Aid the Factious of the City , till your Hang'd for your Deserts : If your Vertue's not Rewarded , for the glorious thing you aim'd ; And another Saint Recorded , Ca ------ and Cu ------ both be damn'd . IV. Would you have a new Religion ? Founded on a Plot of State ? Would you , etc Founded on , etc Whisper but with Prance's Pigeon , In a dungeon through a Grate . If your soul find no impression , Murder'd Godfrey's will appear ; Though there needs no more Confession , kiss the Book , and all is clear . V. Wou'd you have a true Narration , how the City first was fir'd ; Wou'd you , etc how , etc Let the Monuments relation , prove the Man , and those they hir'd : If the Phoenix was consumed , as they say , by Popish Priggs ; All her pride was reassumed by the Ignoramus-Whigs . VI . Wou'd you have another Charter , you that should be Men of sense ? Wou'd , etc you that , etc Talk no more of Magna-Charta , but rely upon your Prince : If you can Repent sincerely , Caesar has a Godlike mind ; Purge out Factiousness severely , Caesar will be always kind . Printd for P. Brooksby , in West-smithfield , 1683. The Complete Citizen : or The Man of Fashion . I . Would you be a Man in Fashion ? Would you led a Life Divine ? Would you be , etc Would you led , & Take a little Draw of Passion , In a lusty Dose of Wine . If the nymph has no Compassion , Vain it is to sighs and groan : Love was but put in for Fashion , Wine will do the Work alone . II Wou'd you have at your Devotion , Gown-Fop Whigs that loves to prate ? Wou'd you have , etc Gown-Fop , etc Take a Dram of Tony's Notion , in a Coffee-Dish of State : If the Poison will not warm you , take you Tea , 'twill do the thing ; There are Statesmen can inform you how to Rule without a King . III . Wou'd you then be thought most witty , wou'd you be a Man of parts ? Wou'd you be , etc wou'd you , etc Aid the Factious of the City , till your Hang'd for your Deserts : If your Vertue's not Rewarded , for the glorious thing you aim'd ; And another Saint Recorded , Ca ------ and Cu ------ both be damn'd . IV. Would you have a new Religion ? Founded on a Plot of State ? Would you , etc Founded on , etc Whisper but with Prance's Pigeon , In a dungeon through a Grate . If your soul find no impression , Murder'd Godfrey's will appear ; Though there needs no more Confession , kiss the Book , and all is clear . V. Wou'd you have a true Narration , how the City first was fir'd ; Wou'd you , etc how , etc Let the Monuments relation , prove the Man , and those they hir'd : If the Phoenix was consumed , as they say , by Popish Priggs ; All her pride was reassumed by the Ignoramus-Whigs . VI . Wou'd you have another Charter , you that should be Men of sense ? Wou'd , etc you that , etc Talk no more of Magna-Charta , but rely upon your Prince : If you can Repent sincerely , Caesar has a Godlike mind ; Purge out Factiousness severely , Caesar will be always kind . Printd for P. Brooksby , in West-smithfield , 1683. [ The Complete Citizen : or The Man of Fashion . I . Would you be a Man in Fashion ? Would you led a Life Divine ? Would you be , etc Would you led , & Take a little Draw of Passion , In a lusty Dose of Wine . If the nymph has no Compassion , Vain it is to sighs and groan : Love was but ] put in for [ Fashion , ] Wine will do the Work alone . II Wou'd you have at your Devotion , Gown-Fop Whigs that loves to prate ? Wou'd you have , etc Gown-Fop , etc Take a Dram of Tony's Notion , in a Coffee-Dish of State : If the Poison will not warm you , take you Tea , 'twill do the thing ; There are Statesmen can inform you how to Rule without a King . III . Wou'd you then be thought most witty , wou'd you be a Man of parts ? Wou'd you be , etc wou'd you , etc Aid the Factious of the City , till your Hang'd for your Deserts : If your Vertue's not Rewarded , for the glorious thing you aim'd ; And another Saint Recorded , Ca ------ and Cu ------ both be damn'd . [ IV. Would you have a new Religion ? Founded on a Plot of State ? Would you , etc Founded on , etc Whisper but with Prance's Pigeon , In a dungeon through a Grate . If your soul find no impression , Murder'd Godfrey's will ] appear ; [ TO ] hough there needs no more Confession , kiss the Book , and all is clear . V. Wou'd you have a true Narration , how the City first was fir'd ; Wou'd you , etc how , etc Let the Monuments relation , prove the Man , and those they hir'd : If the Phoenix was consumed , as they say , by Popish Priggs ; All her pride was reassumed by the Ignoramus-Whigs . VI . Wou'd you have another Charter , you that should be Men of sense ? Wou'd , etc you that , etc Talk no more of Magna-Charta , but rely upon your Prince : If you can Repent sincerely , Caesar has a Godlike mind ; Purge out Factiousness severely , Caesar will be always kind . Printd for P. Brooksby , in West-smithfield , 1683. [ The Complete Citizen : or The Man of Fashion . I . Would you be a Man in Fashion ? Would you led a Life Divine ? Would you be , etc Would you led , & Take a little Draw of Passion , In a lusty Dose of Wine . If the nymph has no Compassion , Vain it is to sighs and groan : Love was but ] put in for [ Fashion , ] Wine will do the Work alone . II Wou'd you have at your Devotion , Gown-Fop Whigs that loves to prate ? Wou'd you have , etc Gown-Fop , etc Take a Dram of Tony's Notion , in a Coffee-Dish of State : If the Poison will not warm you , take you Tea , 'twill do the thing ; There are Statesmen can inform you how to Rule without a King . III . Wou'd you then be thought most witty , wou'd you be a Man of parts ? Wou'd you be , etc wou'd you , etc Aid the Factious of the City , till your Hang'd for your Deserts : If your Vertue's not Rewarded , for the glorious thing you aim'd ; And another Saint Recorded , Ca ------ and Cu ------ both be damn'd . [ IV. Would you have a new Religion ? Founded on a Plot of State ? Would you , etc Founded on , etc Whisper but with Prance's Pigeon , In a dungeon through a Grate . If your soul find no impression , Murder'd Godfrey's will ] appear ; [ TO ] hough there needs no more Confession , kiss the Book , and all is clear . V. Wou'd you have a true Narration , how the City first was fir'd ; Wou'd you , etc how , etc Let the Monuments relation , prove the Man , and those they hir'd : If the Phoenix was consumed , as they say , by Popish Priggs ; All her pride was reassumed by the Ignoramus-Whigs . VI . Wou'd you have another Charter , you that should be Men of sense ? Wou'd , etc you that , etc Talk no more of Magna-Charta , but rely upon your Prince : If you can Repent sincerely , Caesar has a Godlike mind ; Purge out Factiousness severely , Caesar will be always kind . Printd for P. Brooksby , in West-smithfield , 1683. 