The Ladies of London's Petition , OR , THEIR Humble Address to the Parliament of old Women for husbands ; Sign'd by threescore thousand Hands , and never a cracked maiden head nor Widow among them . To the Tune of , Marry live long . YOu Matrons all , With humble Submisson , We bring our Petition , For Justice we call , pray hear our Complaint For the good Marriage-state Is so run down of late by every one , That pretty young Ladies , That pretty young Ladies , do long lie alone . A Marriage one fears Because he Conjectures , The Loud-curtain-lectures , Will ring through his ears both morning and night , Yet in Taverns they'll roar , With a Noise ten times more and Bottles of Wine , Still leaving young Lasses , Still leaving young Lasses , to sighs and repine . A second wont wed For fear his fair Beauty , Should stray from her Duty , And grafted on his head a large pair of Horns ; Yet he will have in store Twenty Harlots and more : Is this not a shame ? To spend Youth and Treasure , To spend Youth and Treasure , on Girls of the Game . Another replies , He can't bear the bawling , The winning and squalling , And terrible cries of Children when young : Why the fourth cries a Wife Will destroy a Man's Life , and wast him away : These are their Excusies , These are their Excusies , for longer Delay . But yet let them know , That Ladies of Pleasure Are Wasters of Treasure , They'll bring a Man low that follows the Sport ; Nay the Docter may hap , For the curing the Clap , may pillage his Purse Of more then would pay for , Of more then would pay for three Children at Nurse . Be pleas'd to debate Our Case with Discretion , It's worse then Oppression To live at this rate , and spin out our Days ; Let and Act now be made That a Fine shall be paid by Men that refuse To Marry when twenty , To Marry when twenty , there's none we'll excuse . You well understand , That Plowing and Sowing , That Reaping and Hoing , And Tilling the Land , brings forth and Increase , So our dear Virgin-ground Would in Plenty abound , without all dispute , But while it lies fallow , But while it lies fallow , there can be no Fruit. Is it not a Shame , That hear among Christains , Not Turks nor Philistians , But Persons of Fame , and Protestans too , That should Wedlock deny , Which would yield a supply , the Land to Defend From all that oppose us , From all that oppose us , or dare to Contend ? Printed for Josiah Blare , at the Looking-Glass on London-Bridge . The Ladies of London's Petition , OR , THEIR Humble Address to the Parliament of old Women for husbands ; Sign'd by threescore thousand Hands , and never a cracked maiden head nor Widow among them . To the Tune of , Marry live long . YOu Matrons all , With humble Submisson , We bring our Petition , For Justice we call , pray hear our Complaint For the good Marriage-state Is so run down of late by every one , That pretty young Ladies , That pretty young Ladies , do long lie alone . A Marriage one fears Because he Conjectures , The Loud-curtain-lectures , Will ring through his ears both morning and night , Yet in Taverns they'll roar , With a Noise ten times more and Bottles of Wine , Still leaving young Lasses , Still leaving young Lasses , to sighs and repine . A second wont wed For fear his fair Beauty , Should stray from her Duty , And grafted on his head a large pair of Horns ; Yet he will have in store Twenty Harlots and more : Is this not a shame ? To spend Youth and Treasure , To spend Youth and Treasure , on Girls of the Game . Another replies , He can't bear the bawling , The winning and squalling , And terrible cries of Children when young : Why the fourth cries a Wife Will destroy a Man's Life , and wast him away : These are their Excusies , These are their Excusies , for longer Delay . But yet let them know , That Ladies of Pleasure Are Wasters of Treasure , They'll bring a Man low that follows the Sport ; Nay the Docter may hap , For the curing the Clap , may pillage his Purse Of more then would pay for , Of more then would pay for three Children at Nurse . Be pleas'd to debate Our Case with Discretion , It's worse then Oppression To live at this rate , and spin out our Days ; Let and Act now be made That a Fine shall be paid by Men that refuse To Marry when twenty , To Marry when twenty , there's none we'll excuse . You well understand , That Plowing and Sowing , That Reaping and Hoing , And Tilling the Land , brings forth and Increase , So our dear Virgin-ground Would in Plenty abound , without all dispute , But while it lies fallow , But while it lies fallow , there can be no Fruit. Is it not a Shame , That hear among Christains , Not Turks nor Philistians , But Persons of Fame , and Protestans too , That should Wedlock deny , Which would yield a supply , the Land to Defend From all that oppose us , From all that oppose us , or dare to Contend ? Printed for Josiah Blare , at the Looking-Glass on London-Bridge . 