The BRISTOL Bridegroom : Or , The Ship-Carpenter's Love to the Mere - chant's Daughter . YOU Loyal Lovers all draw near , a true Relation you shall hear , Of a young Couple who proved to be , a Pattern of true loyalty , A Merchant did in Bristol dwell , as many people know full well , He had a Daughter a beauty bright , in whom he placed his hearts delight , He had no child but only she , her Father loved her tenderly . Many to court her thither came , Gallants of worth Birth and Fame , Yet not withstanding all their love , a young Ship-Carpenter did prove , To be the master of her heart , she often said we'll never part , As long as life and qreath remain , your company i'll not refrain . No cursed gold nor silver bright , shall make me wrong my heart delight , Now when her Father came to know , his Daughter lov'd this young man so , He caused him to be sent to sea , to keep her from his company , Which when his Daughter came to hear , without thoughts of dread or feat , She dress'd herself in seamans hue , and after him she did pursue . Unto the Captain she did go , and said , right worthy sir 'tis so . You do want men I understand , i'm free to fight with heart and hand , The Captain straightway did reply , youngman your welcome heartily , A Guinea in her hand he gave , she passed for a seaman brave , Soon after this ship set sail , and with a fair and pleasant gale , But this ship-carpenter her dear , did little think his love so near , she then appeared for to be , a person of mean degree . With pretty fingers long and strait , she soon became the surgeons mate . PART . II IT happened so that this same ship A storming of thee Town of Diepe , She lay at anchor something nigh , where cannon Bullets they do fly , Then the first man that wounded were , was this young bold ship carpenter . When drums beatrice and trumpets found , he in his breast receiv'd a wound . Then to the surgeons care was he , brought down with speed immediately , Whereas the pretty surgeons mate , did courteoesly upon him wait , She dressed the dismal wounded part , altho' the sighed did pierce her heart . she then did use her utmost skill , to cure him with a right goodwill . she cured him in a little space , he often gazed upon her face , Surgeon said he such eyes as thine , did formerly my heart confine . If ever I live to go on shore , and she be dead whom i adort . I will thy true companion be , and ne'er forsake thy company . If she be dead thus will i do , to the female sex i'll bid adleu . And ne'er will marry for her sake , but to the seas myself betake . PART . III . THE Merchant's Daughter of Bristol who had to her love prov'd just and true When many storms were over blown , unto her love herself made known , The season of the year being passed , this ship was homeward bound at last , When into Harbour she did get , the seaman all on shore were set , But yet all the whole ships crew , was not a soul among them knew , That they a woman had so near , untlll she told it to her dear , To whom she did these words unfold , not long ago , cries she you told , Me plainly that such eyes as mine , did formerly your heart confine . Then without any more ado , into his arms she instantly flew , And cries my love thou art my own , this I have done for the alone , His heart was touch'd with joy likewise , when as the tears stood in his Eyes . He said thou hast a veliant heart , and hast perform'd true lovers part Therefore without delay , he dressed her like a lady gay . And then they wedded were with speed as formerly they had agreed . PART . IV. THEN to her father's house he went , and found him in much discontent He ask'd him for his daughter dear , which pierc'd her father's heart to hear . He with a mournful sighs reply'd , i wish she'd in her cradle died . Then might i seen my darling death , when she had yielded up her breath , But now I ne'er shall see her more , my Jewel whom i did adore . O must unhappy Man was i , to part her from your company , Had i a Kingdom now in store , nay . had I that and ten times more I'd part with it her face to see , daughter would i had died for thee . The young Man hearing what he said . replies your daughter is not dead For you within a few hours space , shall surely see your daughters face , He road as fast as he could high , and brought her home immediatel , And set her in her father's Hall . where on her bent knees she strait did fallen . Her father was wite joy possess'd , his daughter then he kiss'd and bless'd . Thrice welcome home thou art to me once more dear Jewel , from the Sea , To him the truth she did relate . and how she'd been the surgeons mate , He then did smile and was much glad , and gave them all that e'er he had , She that was seaman and surgeons mate , reserved by the hands of fate ; She now is made a lawful wife . and lives free from care and strife , Young lovers now a pattern take , when you a solemn contract make , Stand to the same what e'er betide , as did this faithful loving Bride . London Printed by L. How in Petticoat-lane The BRISTOL Bridegroom : Or , The Ship-Carpenter's Love to the Mere - chant's Daughter . YOU Loyal Lovers all draw near , a true Relation you shall hear , Of a young Couple who proved to be , a Pattern of true loyalty , A Merchant did in Bristol dwell , as many people know full well , He had a Daughter a beauty bright , in whom he placed his hearts delight , He had no child but only she , her Father loved her tenderly . Many to court her thither came , Gallants of worth Birth and Fame , Yet not withstanding all their love , a young Ship-Carpenter did prove , To be the master of her heart , she often said we'll never part , As long as life and qreath remain , your company i'll not refrain . No cursed gold nor silver bright , shall make me wrong my heart delight , Now when her Father came to know , his Daughter lov'd this young man so , He caused him to be sent to sea , to keep her from his company , Which when his Daughter came to hear , without thoughts of dread or feat , She dress'd herself in seamans hue , and after him she did pursue . Unto the Captain she did go , and said , right worthy sir 'tis so . You do want men I understand , i'm free to fight with heart and hand , The Captain straightway did reply , youngman your welcome heartily , A Guinea in her hand he gave , she passed for a seaman brave , Soon after this ship set sail , and with a fair and pleasant gale , But this ship-carpenter her dear , did little think his love so near , she then appeared for to be , a person of mean degree . With pretty fingers long and strait , she soon became the surgeons mate . PART . II IT happened so that this same ship A storming of thee Town of Diepe , She lay at anchor something nigh , where cannon Bullets they do fly , Then the first man that wounded were , was this young bold ship carpenter . When drums beatrice and trumpets found , he in his breast receiv'd a wound . Then to the surgeons care was he , brought down with speed immediately , Whereas the pretty surgeons mate , did courteoesly upon him wait , She dressed the dismal wounded part , altho' the sighed did pierce her heart . she then did use her utmost skill , to cure him with a right goodwill . she cured him in a little space , he often gazed upon her face , Surgeon said he such eyes as thine , did formerly my heart confine . If ever I live to go on shore , and she be dead whom i adort . I will thy true companion be , and ne'er forsake thy company . If she be dead thus will i do , to the female sex i'll bid adleu . And ne'er will marry for her sake , but to the seas myself betake . PART . III . THE Merchant's Daughter of Bristol who had to her love prov'd just and true When many storms were over blown , unto her love herself made known , The season of the year being passed , this ship was homeward bound at last , When into Harbour she did get , the seaman all on shore were set , But yet all the whole ships crew , was not a soul among them knew , That they a woman had so near , untlll she told it to her dear , To whom she did these words unfold , not long ago , cries she you told , Me plainly that such eyes as mine , did formerly your heart confine . Then without any more ado , into his arms she instantly flew , And cries my love thou art my own , this I have done for the alone , His heart was touch'd with joy likewise , when as the tears stood in his Eyes . He said thou hast a veliant heart , and hast perform'd true lovers part Therefore without delay , he dressed her like a lady gay . And then they wedded were with speed as formerly they had agreed . PART . IV. THEN to her father's house he went , and found him in much discontent He ask'd him for his daughter dear , which pierc'd her father's heart to hear . He with a mournful sighs reply'd , i wish she'd in her cradle died . Then might i seen my darling death , when she had yielded up her breath , But now I ne'er shall see her more , my Jewel whom i did adore . O must unhappy Man was i , to part her from your company , Had i a Kingdom now in store , nay . had I that and ten times more I'd part with it her face to see , daughter would i had died for thee . The young Man hearing what he said . replies your daughter is not dead For you within a few hours space , shall surely see your daughters face , He road as fast as he could high , and brought her home immediatel , And set her in her father's Hall . where on her bent knees she strait did fallen . Her father was wite joy possess'd , his daughter then he kiss'd and bless'd . Thrice welcome home thou art to me once more dear Jewel , from the Sea , To him the truth she did relate . and how she'd been the surgeons mate , He then did smile and was much glad , and gave them all that e'er he had , She that was seaman and surgeons mate , reserved by the hands of fate ; She now is made a lawful wife . and lives free from care and strife , Young lovers now a pattern take , when you a solemn contract make , Stand to the same what e'er betide , as did this faithful loving Bride . London Printed by L. How in Petticoat-lane 