( 249 ) FOREWARN'D , FORE-ARM'D , OR , A CAVEAT TO BATCHELORS , IN THE CHARACTER OF A BAD WOMAN . Foemineum servile genus crudele superbum , Mant. Ecl. 3. A Bad Woman ! Heav'n bless us , Sirs ! who dare Approach so near , to write her Character ? Plagues owe their Birth to her envenom'd Breath ; To see her's dangerous ; to touch her Death . All Tormets , and all Ills , at first did grow From her , and thence ( as from a Spring ) still flow . He favour'd her too much , that call'd her worse Than all th' Ingredients cramm'd into a Curse . The Bane of Mankind , Foe to Innocence , Firstborn of Hell , and Poisons Quintessence ; Creations Blot , and Nature's great'st Disgrace , The Seven Deadly Sins drawn in One Face . A Sex for Servitude by Heav'n design'd , Yet the most proud and cruel of Humane kind : Bold , flattering , found , disdainful , idle , vain , A double Tongue , false Heart , and giddy Brain ; Inconstant , gadding , tattling , simple , light , Compos'd of Rashness , Selflove , Fraud , and Spite ; Revengeful , sullen , covetous , ambitious , Always complaining , envious , superstitious ; Faithless , ungrateful , subtle , troublesome ; Contentious with her Neighbours , more at home : Who always lives in the Intemperate Zone ; For Means and Measure she'l be rul'd by none ; But chilling Frost , or scorching Dog-days proves , Mortally hates , or else too fondly loves . The Studies of her Youth are wanton Dances , Lascivious Songs , Plays , Masquerades , Romances ; These antedate her guilty , and begin To debauch her long before she's ripe for Sin. She ne're regards the Laws of Right and Just , But tramples all things to promote her Lust . The Wickedness her Strength to act denies , She by Deceit and Subtlety supplies . With seeming Modesty she baits her Hooks , Consults her Glass to frame enticing Looks , Lisps , minces , simpers , and instructs her Eyes What Glances are most charming to surprise : Her Face ( as Tavern-Bush ) bedeck'd with Toys , Our easy Youth into her Toil decoys : Her Curls , like Streamers waving , seem to court Each spritely Combatant to storm the Fort ; While naked panting Breasts too plainly show Th' insatiate Thirst that she endures below . And though in Single Life she oft be nought , Yet when at length some doting Fop sh' hath caught , And into wretched Noose of Wedlock brought , By Midwife-Rules she boldly goes to Bed , And on the Novice pawns a Maidenhead : Who starts next Morn to see her in his Arms ; She's perfect Hag , when stripped of Arts gay Charms ; The painted Roses of her Cheeks are dropped , Hunch-back's discover'd , with Pads underpropped ; He's forc'd with strong Perfumes to guard his Nose From poys'nous Whiffs of Breath , Armpits , and Toes . Ah cursed Love ! well art thou feigned Blind . His mistake's no less fatal in her Mind . Handsome , she proves a Wench ; Deform'd , a Witch ; If Poor , she makes him Beggar ; Slave , if Rich : Or if sh' affects the Name of Virtuous Woman , ( That's one who sins but seldom , is not Common ) She then takes Privilege , and thinks she may Justly rant , domineer , and disobey . Her Husband soon into Consumption case ( For Back and Purse do both together waste ) While to allay , not quench her wanton Fires , Sometime she Dildoes , sometime Stallion hires . Fine Clothes , new Fashions , Gossiping , rich Fare , And sturdy Gallants , take up all her Care . Honour she counts and empty term , no tie ; Her Zeal's Pretence ; her Study , Vanity ; Her Beauty , Paint ; her Wit , Baudery refin'd ; Her Kisses , Baits ; her Love , a Snare design'd ; Her Soul ( if she have one ) so foul and base , Hell's half asham'd it self t' afford it place . But hold ; enough . Let none be angry here , And thinks our Pen to sharp a Nib does bear : All this of a Bad Woman's understood : But prithee ( Reader ) show me One that's Good . FINIS . EDINBURGH [ ? ] ( 249 ) FOREWARN'D , FORE-ARM'D , OR , A CAVEAT TO BATCHELORS , IN THE CHARACTER OF A BAD WOMAN . Foemineum servile genus crudele superbum , Mant. Ecl. 3. A Bad Woman ! Heav'n bless us , Sirs ! who dare Approach so near , to write her Character ? Plagues owe their Birth to her envenom'd Breath ; To see her's dangerous ; to touch her Death . All Tormets , and all Ills , at first did grow From her , and thence ( as from a Spring ) still flow . He favour'd her too much , that call'd her worse Than all th' Ingredients cramm'd into a Curse . The Bane of Mankind , Foe to Innocence , Firstborn of Hell , and Poisons Quintessence ; Creations Blot , and Nature's great'st Disgrace , The Seven Deadly Sins drawn in One Face . A Sex for Servitude by Heav'n design'd , Yet the most proud and cruel of Humane kind : Bold , flattering , found , disdainful , idle , vain , A double Tongue , false Heart , and giddy Brain ; Inconstant , gadding , tattling , simple , light , Compos'd of Rashness , Selflove , Fraud , and Spite ; Revengeful , sullen , covetous , ambitious , Always complaining , envious , superstitious ; Faithless , ungrateful , subtle , troublesome ; Contentious with her Neighbours , more at home : Who always lives in the Intemperate Zone ; For Means and Measure she'l be rul'd by none ; But chilling Frost , or scorching Dog-days proves , Mortally hates , or else too fondly loves . The Studies of her Youth are wanton Dances , Lascivious Songs , Plays , Masquerades , Romances ; These antedate her guilty , and begin To debauch her long before she's ripe for Sin. She ne're regards the Laws of Right and Just , But tramples all things to promote her Lust . The Wickedness her Strength to act denies , She by Deceit and Subtlety supplies . With seeming Modesty she baits her Hooks , Consults her Glass to frame enticing Looks , Lisps , minces , simpers , and instructs her Eyes What Glances are most charming to surprise : Her Face ( as Tavern-Bush ) bedeck'd with Toys , Our easy Youth into her Toil decoys : Her Curls , like Streamers waving , seem to court Each spritely Combatant to storm the Fort ; While naked panting Breasts too plainly show Th' insatiate Thirst that she endures below . And though in Single Life she oft be nought , Yet when at length some doting Fop sh' hath caught , And into wretched Noose of Wedlock brought , By Midwife-Rules she boldly goes to Bed , And on the Novice pawns a Maidenhead : Who starts next Morn to see her in his Arms ; She's perfect Hag , when stripped of Arts gay Charms ; The painted Roses of her Cheeks are dropped , Hunch-back's discover'd , with Pads underpropped ; He's forc'd with strong Perfumes to guard his Nose From poys'nous Whiffs of Breath , Armpits , and Toes . Ah cursed Love ! well art thou feigned Blind . His mistake's no less fatal in her Mind . Handsome , she proves a Wench ; Deform'd , a Witch ; If Poor , she makes him Beggar ; Slave , if Rich : Or if sh' affects the Name of Virtuous Woman , ( That's one who sins but seldom , is not Common ) She then takes Privilege , and thinks she may Justly rant , domineer , and disobey . Her Husband soon into Consumption case ( For Back and Purse do both together waste ) While to allay , not quench her wanton Fires , Sometime she Dildoes , sometime Stallion hires . Fine Clothes , new Fashions , Gossiping , rich Fare , And sturdy Gallants , take up all her Care . Honour she counts and empty term , no tie ; Her Zeal's Pretence ; her Study , Vanity ; Her Beauty , Paint ; her Wit , Baudery refin'd ; Her Kisses , Baits ; her Love , a Snare design'd ; Her Soul ( if she have one ) so foul and base , Hell's half asham'd it self t' afford it place . But hold ; enough . Let none be angry here , And thinks our Pen to sharp a Nib does bear : All this of a Bad Woman's understood : But prithee ( Reader ) show me One that's Good . FINIS . EDINBURGH [ ? ] 