To her brown Beard . For i'le warrant the Girl he'l Love thee . This Counsel does advice all Maidens , kind , To have a care lest Cupid make them blind , Whereby to dote on Young men's fickle Love , Which their actions will unconstant prove : Husbands enough , and plenty may be had , Some very good , and some exceeding bad ; Then come fair Maids , pray pick and choose the best , And let Old Neck make use of all the rest , Tune of Sweet is the Lass , or my maidenhead will not o're load me . YOu pretty Ladies all That merrily are disposed Once again to you I call To hear what is disclosed ? It's but a jest , yet 'tis the best , And such conceits does move me , To tell you true , as you may know Which is the man does love thee . In the first place I shall you tell How you may easily find him ; Do but observe his carriage well ; Yet make though you did not mind him : Observe also how he does go , As thy fancy it does move thee , If he be fair and honest too I'l warrant thee girl he'l love thee . IF he be of nature meek and mild , Or of a carriage civil , But if he has a Girl with Child O that's and actium evil , Such a beard do not come near , Though he vows to lie above thee , But if he's one that's fair and young I'll warrant thee girl he'l love thee . But of a wanton have a care , That will both drink and swagger , He'l bring his Household poor and bore Himself will turn a Beggar : But if thoul't find one of thy mind You shall no whit disprove me , Make choice of one that near did wrong I'll warrant etc Be not afraid of a Carrot beard They'r good when they be sodden , So is a Hen that hath new laid If she be not too much trodden , Brown Hair I find is true and kind , I speak as't does behove me , But black I wis , hath a good kiss , I'll warrant etc A read Hair'd man will find a Purse To fit long on Alebenches , But yellow Hair is ten times worse , He loves to follow wenches : And for gray Hair , is full of care , Young flesh it will move thee , But he that's curl'd above the world I'll warrant etc Of sandy-Hair have a great care , For fear lest he be jealous , And of a read Nose to beware , For he does love the Alehouse : Let not a read come in thy bed , White Hair is it will move thee . But perfect brown's the best in Town , I'll warrant etc The Flaxen Hair it is very good , And of such a civil carriage , Leather beards of a scurvy mood : Join not with him in marriage : A down looked man that's pale and wan , Of all delights hee'l prove thee , Read cheery cheek is mild and meek , I'll warrant etc From others let toy praise proceed When as they do come near thee , There's some do make great shows indeed But will not love you dearly . Of such beware and have a care . I speak as't does behove me . Choose but him that is like to me , I'll warrant etc Some maidens they do soar lament Because they are forsaken . Therefore these lines I did invent That none should be mistaken So maids adieu I bid to you , Trial it is approv'd in me , Think what you will , the brown Hair still I'll warrant thee girl , hee'l love thee . Printed for P. Brooksby at the golden ball in Pye-Corner . To her brown Beard . For i'le warrant the Girl he'l Love thee . This Counsel does advice all Maidens , kind , To have a care lest Cupid make them blind , Whereby to dote on Young men's fickle Love , Which their actions will unconstant prove : Husbands enough , and plenty may be had , Some very good , and some exceeding bad ; Then come fair Maids , pray pick and choose the best , And let Old Neck make use of all the rest , Tune of Sweet is the Lass , or my maidenhead will not o're load me . YOu pretty Ladies all That merrily are disposed Once again to you I call To hear what is disclosed ? It's but a jest , yet 'tis the best , And such conceits does move me , To tell you true , as you may know Which is the man does love thee . In the first place I shall you tell How you may easily find him ; Do but observe his carriage well ; Yet make though you did not mind him : Observe also how he does go , As thy fancy it does move thee , If he be fair and honest too I'l warrant thee girl he'l love thee . IF he be of nature meek and mild , Or of a carriage civil , But if he has a Girl with Child O that's and actium evil , Such a beard do not come near , Though he vows to lie above thee , But if he's one that's fair and young I'll warrant thee girl he'l love thee . But of a wanton have a care , That will both drink and swagger , He'l bring his Household poor and bore Himself will turn a Beggar : But if thoul't find one of thy mind You shall no whit disprove me , Make choice of one that near did wrong I'll warrant etc Be not afraid of a Carrot beard They'r good when they be sodden , So is a Hen that hath new laid If she be not too much trodden , Brown Hair I find is true and kind , I speak as't does behove me , But black I wis , hath a good kiss , I'll warrant etc A read Hair'd man will find a Purse To fit long on Alebenches , But yellow Hair is ten times worse , He loves to follow wenches : And for gray Hair , is full of care , Young flesh it will move thee , But he that's curl'd above the world I'll warrant etc Of sandy-Hair have a great care , For fear lest he be jealous , And of a read Nose to beware , For he does love the Alehouse : Let not a read come in thy bed , White Hair is it will move thee . But perfect brown's the best in Town , I'll warrant etc The Flaxen Hair it is very good , And of such a civil carriage , Leather beards of a scurvy mood : Join not with him in marriage : A down looked man that's pale and wan , Of all delights hee'l prove thee , Read cheery cheek is mild and meek , I'll warrant etc From others let toy praise proceed When as they do come near thee , There's some do make great shows indeed But will not love you dearly . Of such beware and have a care . I speak as't does behove me . Choose but him that is like to me , I'll warrant etc Some maidens they do soar lament Because they are forsaken . Therefore these lines I did invent That none should be mistaken So maids adieu I bid to you , Trial it is approv'd in me , Think what you will , the brown Hair still I'll warrant thee girl , hee'l love thee . Printed for P. Brooksby at the golden ball in Pye-Corner . 