THE Crafty Maid of the Wes OR , The lusty brave Miller of the Western Parts finely trapan'd . A merry new Song to fit Youngmen and Maids . Tune of , Packingtons Pound . YOu Millers , and Tailors , & Weavers each one I'd wish you to listen unto my new Song : Here a good example I open will lay , Of a lusty brave Miller that late went astray : He out-past the Cobbler , though he was so wild , In one week to get nine wenches with Child ; Let Millers take-heed how they mischief's devise , Or deal with young wenches that's crafty & wise . This Miller was lusty , was stout , and was strong , And to many Maidens he did much wrong ; If he met with a Lass was fair to the eye , He'd have about with her , or he would know why : He'd smooth up men's wives if he see them willing , With a peck of Wheat , or else and odd shilling . Let Millers etc There dwelled a young damosel both handsome & fair , And many a Suitor to her did repair : Among all the rest this Miller would be A Suitor unto her , and her would go see : And Innkeepers servant this Maiden she was , But a Husbandman's daughter it so came to pass . Let Millers etc He put on his best clothes , and he powder'd his hair , As if he had been some Gentleman's Heir , With his boots & his spurs , & his hanger so brave , And a lusty brave Horse to carry this Knave : Thus Gentleman like from the top to the Toe Where this damosel did dwell the Miller did go . Let Millers take heed how they mischief's devise , Or deal with young wenches that's crafty & wise . The Second Part , to the same Tune . HE call'd for his Chamber or a private Room , To speak with this Maid quickly and soon : But when he espy'd her he did admire Her beauty at present set his heart on fire : All hail thou fair Virgin the Miller did cry , Grant me but your favour or else I shall die . Let Millers take heed how they mischief's devise , Or deal with young wenches that's crafty & wise . The damosel with modesty straightway reply'd , What good I can do you its ne'r be deny'd ; Why then I will tell you my fairest ( said he ) It is but to have one nights lodging with thee , No silver nor gold shall part us in twain , Beside a friend to thee I will remain : If thou dost prove true I will marry thee , Therefore my sweet Virgin take pity on me . But first I must tell you I have made and oath And now for to break it I am very loath : The first man that ever in bed to I go , He must be stark naked from top to the toe ; With all my heart honey the Miller replied , I like well thy motion , its ne'r be deny'd . Beside ( said the damosel ) three pounds in my hand I mean for to have if this bargain do stand . The money he gave her unto her desire , And all things she granted that he did require : His bed she then sheeted both handsome & brave , And finely trappan'd this cheating young knave , She mistrusted what porrage this Miller did mind , Which made the young maid to fit him in's kind . Let Millers etc She god some horse hair and chopped very small , And some Nettle-seeds to mix it withal : She dressed them and sift them and put them in bed , This was a good way to save her Maidenhead : And when she had done it away she went , And straightway fit by him as no harm she meant . Remember your promise sweet Lady , said he , Your Bed sir is ready , then strait reply'd she . So this lusty brave Miller to bed then he goes , According to his promise he dost all his clothes , His breeches , his doublet , his shirt and his hat , For he was in hope's to have a bit for his Cat , But he was deceived as it does appear , But now all the cream of the jest you shall hear . Let Millers etc Long this brave Miller in bed did not lie , But he thought that his sweetheart would come by and by , Instead of his sweetheart he rubbed his eyes His sides , back and belly , yet loath for to rise , He scratched & rubbed , his clothes tore and rend , With fretting & sweating his breath almost spent , At last out of bed he god and he swore As if the Room in pieces he'd tore . The Tapster then seeing him naked to stand , He chanced to have a Horsewhip in his hand , For pity now help the miller did cry , That I will ( said the Tapster ) anon by and by : He whipped him about the Chamber so soar Made him to bepiss all the Chamber floor , Because he perceived his actions were base , He ne'r pitied the miller , but jeer'd him to's face . The maid she laugh'd at him and thus did reply Sir I was a coming why did you not lie ? But the miller he fretted , he cursed , & he cried Must I loose my money and be punish'd beside ? You'r right enough served then straight replied she , Your money you ne'r shall have more out of me ; You'st pay for your wit , though you thought me beguile [ worser ] I have cool'd his courage for being so wild . The miller himself not answer could make , But stood like a Bull that was baited at Stake : At last in a rage away he did ride , With his back all beblister'd and so was his side ; The maid was commended for serving him so , But the miller is jeered by all that him know . Let Millers take heed etc Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Py-corner . THE Crafty Maid of the Wes OR , The lusty brave Miller of the Western Parts finely trapan'd . A merry new Song to fit Youngmen and Maids . Tune of , Packingtons Pound . YOu Millers , and Tailors , & Weavers each one I'd wish you to listen unto my new Song : Here a good example I open will lay , Of a lusty brave Miller that late went astray : He out-past the Cobbler , though he was so wild , In one week to get nine wenches with Child ; Let Millers take-heed how they mischief's devise , Or deal with young wenches that's crafty & wise . This Miller was lusty , was stout , and was strong , And to many Maidens he did much wrong ; If he met with a Lass was fair to the eye , He'd have about with her , or he would know why : He'd smooth up men's wives if he see them willing , With a peck of Wheat , or else and odd shilling . Let Millers etc There dwelled a young damosel both handsome & fair , And many a Suitor to her did repair : Among all the rest this Miller would be A Suitor unto her , and her would go see : And Innkeepers servant this Maiden she was , But a Husbandman's daughter it so came to pass . Let Millers etc He put on his best clothes , and he powder'd his hair , As if he had been some Gentleman's Heir , With his boots & his spurs , & his hanger so brave , And a lusty brave Horse to carry this Knave : Thus Gentleman like from the top to the Toe Where this damosel did dwell the Miller did go . Let Millers take heed how they mischief's devise , Or deal with young wenches that's crafty & wise . The Second Part , to the same Tune . HE call'd for his Chamber or a private Room , To speak with this Maid quickly and soon : But when he espy'd her he did admire Her beauty at present set his heart on fire : All hail thou fair Virgin the Miller did cry , Grant me but your favour or else I shall die . Let Millers take heed how they mischief's devise , Or deal with young wenches that's crafty & wise . The damosel with modesty straightway reply'd , What good I can do you its ne'r be deny'd ; Why then I will tell you my fairest ( said he ) It is but to have one nights lodging with thee , No silver nor gold shall part us in twain , Beside a friend to thee I will remain : If thou dost prove true I will marry thee , Therefore my sweet Virgin take pity on me . But first I must tell you I have made and oath And now for to break it I am very loath : The first man that ever in bed to I go , He must be stark naked from top to the toe ; With all my heart honey the Miller replied , I like well thy motion , its ne'r be deny'd . Beside ( said the damosel ) three pounds in my hand I mean for to have if this bargain do stand . The money he gave her unto her desire , And all things she granted that he did require : His bed she then sheeted both handsome & brave , And finely trappan'd this cheating young knave , She mistrusted what porrage this Miller did mind , Which made the young maid to fit him in's kind . Let Millers etc She god some horse hair and chopped very small , And some Nettle-seeds to mix it withal : She dressed them and sift them and put them in bed , This was a good way to save her Maidenhead : And when she had done it away she went , And straightway fit by him as no harm she meant . Remember your promise sweet Lady , said he , Your Bed sir is ready , then strait reply'd she . So this lusty brave Miller to bed then he goes , According to his promise he dost all his clothes , His breeches , his doublet , his shirt and his hat , For he was in hope's to have a bit for his Cat , But he was deceived as it does appear , But now all the cream of the jest you shall hear . Let Millers etc Long this brave Miller in bed did not lie , But he thought that his sweetheart would come by and by , Instead of his sweetheart he rubbed his eyes His sides , back and belly , yet loath for to rise , He scratched & rubbed , his clothes tore and rend , With fretting & sweating his breath almost spent , At last out of bed he god and he swore As if the Room in pieces he'd tore . The Tapster then seeing him naked to stand , He chanced to have a Horsewhip in his hand , For pity now help the miller did cry , That I will ( said the Tapster ) anon by and by : He whipped him about the Chamber so soar Made him to bepiss all the Chamber floor , Because he perceived his actions were base , He ne'r pitied the miller , but jeer'd him to's face . The maid she laugh'd at him and thus did reply Sir I was a coming why did you not lie ? But the miller he fretted , he cursed , & he cried Must I loose my money and be punish'd beside ? You'r right enough served then straight replied she , Your money you ne'r shall have more out of me ; You'st pay for your wit , though you thought me beguile [ worser ] I have cool'd his courage for being so wild . The miller himself not answer could make , But stood like a Bull that was baited at Stake : At last in a rage away he did ride , With his back all beblister'd and so was his side ; The maid was commended for serving him so , But the miller is jeered by all that him know . Let Millers take heed etc Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Py-corner . 