( 228 ) KILLYCHRANKIE To be sung with its own Tune . CLaverse and his Highland men , came down upon a Raw , then , Who being stout , gave many a Clout , the Lads began to claw then , With Swords and Targets in their Hands , wherewith they were not slavum then , And Clinkim Clankim on their Crowns , the Lads began to claw then . O're brink and bank , o're ditch and stank , her strake among them a then , The Butter-Box , got many knocks , their Riggans pay'd for a then ; They got their pakes , with sudden strikes , which to their grief they saw then , And double dunts upon their Rumps , the Lads began to fa then . Her skipped about , and leapt about , her flang among them a then ; The English Blades , got broken Heads , their Crowns her clave in twa then , The Durk and Door , made their last hour , such was their final fa then , They thought the Devil had been there , that gave them a such taw then . Jack Presbyter , and's Covenant' came Whigging up the Hill , then , Thought Highland Trews , would not refuse ; for to subscribe his Bill then , In Willies Name , he thought na ane would stop the Deed at a , then , But her nane fell Shock , with many a knock , cry'd , Whirry Whiggs avua , then . Sir Hugh McDow , with his Men true , came skipping o're the Brink , then , The Hogan Dutch , that feared such , they bred a horrid stink , then , The true McClain , his gate has gane , and came upon a Raw , then , None could withstand , his heavy hand , he strake with such a paw , then . O , on-o-rie , o , on o-rie ! why should we loss King James then , Oh , rigen-die , oh , rigen-die ! her brake a hims Banes , then , Fure nish , but stay a while , to speak a word or twa , then , And take a strake , upon him's neck , before him gang avua , then . Fie ! for shame , him's twa for ane , and yet her's win the day , then ; and yet her's win the day , then ; King James Read Coats , should be hang'd up , because they fled away , then , Had bent hims Brows , like Highland Trews , and made as long a stay , then , Her kept her King , that sacred thing , and Willy had gone avua , then . Now Gentlemen , and Caveleers , come join with her nane fell , then , For to root out , the Dutch Recruit , and ding hims down to Hell , then , We'll shag aff anes , for our King James , and think it no great pain , then , To set him on his Royal Throne , let each Man have his ain , then . FINIS . AND ANSWER TO KILLYCHRANKIE . To be sung with the same Tune of Killychrankie . YOu Highland men , with Tongue and Pen , what need you so to boast then , At Killiechrankie what you won , it was unto your loss then , My Lord Dundee , the best of you , into the Fields did fa then , And great Pitcurr , fell in a furr , who could not win avua then . And at Dunkell , right fast you fell , though you thought well to win then , But fie for shame , I scarce can tell , how to the Hills you ran then ; Oh fure-nish , but stay a while , to speak a word or twa then , With caket Trews , and heavy News , unto the Hills you draw then . At Crombdel hill , you god your fill , for you we did not spare then , To beatrice your Bones , till o're the stones , you ran with Buttocks bore then ; And many crack , behind your back , since sin we never saw then . Your Fools Face hath little Grace , can do no good at a then , The Buchan Lairds , like unto Cards , planted on Athol hills then , Together came , to make a sham , thinking to get their wills then , At Aberdeen , they did come in , but there they durst not stay then , Nor make attempt , for fear that hemp , at length their necks should draw then From Aberdeen , in haste they high , unto Denoter , came then , Where Earl of Marshal then did lie , a Man of worthy fame then , And General Buchan did demand , his House that they might have there , But he so bravely did defend , that they prov'd but like Knaves there . They hois'd up sail , and turn'd their tail , and straight towards the North then , And for to join , to get some Coin , from the Earl of Sieforth then , But he was wiser than they thought , and never thinks to partsua , With what he god , by his good lot , like Fools from thence their way gae . There's Frendrets Lord , and Oliphant , and Dowglass them all three there , We have bereav'd them of their holds , no more now they can do there ; And Davie Graham , thinks meikle shame , with the Earl ot Dunkel then , And turn coat Pet , looks now so bleat , himself he's like to hang then . Drumfermling drives his spur-galled Horse , and Buchan whips with wand then , Cannon like a weary Corss , follows up the Band then ; My Lord Seiforth flies from the North , unto the Court to dwell there , He's made a swear , for many Year [ he never will Rebel more . ] ( 228 ) KILLYCHRANKIE To be sung with its own Tune . CLaverse and his Highland men , came down upon a Raw , then , Who being stout , gave many a Clout , the Lads began to claw then , With Swords and Targets in their Hands , wherewith they were not slavum then , And Clinkim Clankim on their Crowns , the Lads began to claw then . O're brink and bank , o're ditch and stank , her strake among them a then , The Butter-Box , got many knocks , their Riggans pay'd for a then ; They got their pakes , with sudden strikes , which to their grief they saw then , And double dunts upon their Rumps , the Lads began to fa then . Her skipped about , and leapt about , her flang among them a then ; The English Blades , got broken Heads , their Crowns her clave in twa then , The Durk and Door , made their last hour , such was their final fa then , They thought the Devil had been there , that gave them a such taw then . Jack Presbyter , and's Covenant' came Whigging up the Hill , then , Thought Highland Trews , would not refuse ; for to subscribe his Bill then , In Willies Name , he thought na ane would stop the Deed at a , then , But her nane fell Shock , with many a knock , cry'd , Whirry Whiggs avua , then . Sir Hugh McDow , with his Men true , came skipping o're the Brink , then , The Hogan Dutch , that feared such , they bred a horrid stink , then , The true McClain , his gate has gane , and came upon a Raw , then , None could withstand , his heavy hand , he strake with such a paw , then . O , on-o-rie , o , on o-rie ! why should we loss King James then , Oh , rigen-die , oh , rigen-die ! her brake a hims Banes , then , Fure nish , but stay a while , to speak a word or twa , then , And take a strake , upon him's neck , before him gang avua , then . Fie ! for shame , him's twa for ane , and yet her's win the day , then ; and yet her's win the day , then ; King James Read Coats , should be hang'd up , because they fled away , then , Had bent hims Brows , like Highland Trews , and made as long a stay , then , Her kept her King , that sacred thing , and Willy had gone avua , then . Now Gentlemen , and Caveleers , come join with her nane fell , then , For to root out , the Dutch Recruit , and ding hims down to Hell , then , We'll shag aff anes , for our King James , and think it no great pain , then , To set him on his Royal Throne , let each Man have his ain , then . FINIS . AND ANSWER TO KILLYCHRANKIE . To be sung with the same Tune of Killychrankie . YOu Highland men , with Tongue and Pen , what need you so to boast then , At Killiechrankie what you won , it was unto your loss then , My Lord Dundee , the best of you , into the Fields did fa then , And great Pitcurr , fell in a furr , who could not win avua then . And at Dunkell , right fast you fell , though you thought well to win then , But fie for shame , I scarce can tell , how to the Hills you ran then ; Oh fure-nish , but stay a while , to speak a word or twa then , With caket Trews , and heavy News , unto the Hills you draw then . At Crombdel hill , you god your fill , for you we did not spare then , To beatrice your Bones , till o're the stones , you ran with Buttocks bore then ; And many crack , behind your back , since sin we never saw then . Your Fools Face hath little Grace , can do no good at a then , The Buchan Lairds , like unto Cards , planted on Athol hills then , Together came , to make a sham , thinking to get their wills then , At Aberdeen , they did come in , but there they durst not stay then , Nor make attempt , for fear that hemp , at length their necks should draw then From Aberdeen , in haste they high , unto Denoter , came then , Where Earl of Marshal then did lie , a Man of worthy fame then , And General Buchan did demand , his House that they might have there , But he so bravely did defend , that they prov'd but like Knaves there . They hois'd up sail , and turn'd their tail , and straight towards the North then , And for to join , to get some Coin , from the Earl of Sieforth then , But he was wiser than they thought , and never thinks to partsua , With what he god , by his good lot , like Fools from thence their way gae . There's Frendrets Lord , and Oliphant , and Dowglass them all three there , We have bereav'd them of their holds , no more now they can do there ; And Davie Graham , thinks meikle shame , with the Earl ot Dunkel then , And turn coat Pet , looks now so bleat , himself he's like to hang then . Drumfermling drives his spur-galled Horse , and Buchan whips with wand then , Cannon like a weary Corss , follows up the Band then ; My Lord Seiforth flies from the North , unto the Court to dwell there , He's made a swear , for many Year [ he never will Rebel more . ] 