( 250 ) Christs Kirk on the Green . Composed ( as is supposed ) by King James the fifth . Newly Corrected according to the Original Copy . WAs ever in Scotland herd nor seen such dancing and deray ; Neither at Faulkland on the green . nor Peebles at the play , As was of wooers as I ween ; at Christs Kirk on a day : For there came Kittie washen clean , with her new gown of grey , Full gay that day . To dance these damsels them dight , these lasses light of laits : Their gloves were of the raffal right , their shoes were of the straits . Their kirtles were of Lincoln light , well pressed with many plaits , They were so nice when men them neight they squeil'd like any gaits . Full loud that day . Of all these Maidens mild as meed , was none so gimp as Gillie : As any rose her rude was read , her lire was like the lily , But yellow , yellow was her head , and she of love so silly : Though all her kin had sworn her dead , she would have none but Willie , Alone that day . She scorned Jeck , and skripp'd at him , and murgeon'd him with mocks : He would have lov'd her , she would not let him for all his yellow locks . He cherished her , she bade go chat him , she counted not him two clocks : So shamefully his short Jack set him : his legs were like two rocks ; Or rungs that day , Tom Lutter was their Minstrel meet good Lord , how he could lance ; He play'd so shirl , and sang so sweet while Tousie took a trance . Old Lightfoot there he could foreleet , and counterfitted France , He held him like a man discreet , and up the Morris dance , He took that day . Then Steven came stepping in with stends no rink might him arrest ; Splayfoot did bob with many bends , For Masie he made request , He lap while he lay on his lends , and rising so was preast , While he did host at both the ends , for honour of the feast , And danc'd that day . Then Robin Roy began to revel , and Tousie to him drugged : Let be quoth Jack , and call'd him jevel , and by the tail him tugged . Then Kensie clicked to a kevel , God wots as they two lugged : They parted there upon a nevel : men say that hair was rugged Between them twa , With that a friend of his cry'd , Fie , and forth and arrow drew : He forged it so forcefully , the bow in flinders flew , Such was the grace of God , trow I , for had the tree been true ; Men said who knew his archery , that he had slave anew , Believe that day . A yape young man that stood him neist , soon bent his bow in ire , And etled the bairn in at the breast the bolt flew over the bire : And cry'd Fie , he had slave a priest , a mile beyond the mire : Both bow and bag from him he kiest and fled as fast as fire From flint that day . And hasty kinsman called Hary , that was and archer keen , Tied up a tackel withouten tarry , I trow the man was tien : I wot not whither his hand did vary , or his foe was his friend : But he escaped , by the might of Mary as one that nothing mean'd , But good that day . Then Lawry like a Lion lap , and soon a flain can fedder : He height to pierce him at the pape , thereon to wed a wedder ; He hit him on the wamb a wap , it bust like any bladder . He escaped so , such was his hap , his doublet was of leather Full fine that day . The buff so boisterously abaist him , that he to the earth dusht down : The other men for dead then left him , and fled out of the town , The wives came forth , and up they reft him , and found life in the lown ; Then with three routs there they rais'd him and cur'd him out of sown , From hand that day . The Miller was a manly make , to meet him , it was no mows . There durst not ten some there him take so cowed he their powes , That bushment whole about him brake and bickered him with bows , Then traitorously behind his back , they hack'd him on the howes , Behind that day . Then Hutchen with a Hazel rice , to read gan through them rummil : He muddl'd them down like any mice , he was no betty bummil . Though he was wight he was not wise with such jutors to jummil ; For from his thumb there flew a slice while he cry'd barlasummil , I'm slave this day . When that he saw his blood so read to flee might no man let him : He trow'd it had been for old feed ; he thought and bade have at him . He made his feet defend his head , the far fairer it set him : While he was passed out of their plead : they must be swift that god him Through speed that day . Two that were heads-men of the heard , they rushed on other like rams ; The other four which were unfear'd , beatrice on with barrow trams . And where their gobs were ungear'd , they god upon the gams , While that all bloody was their beard as they had worried lambs Most like that day . They girn'd and glowered all at anes , each gossip other grieved : Some striked stings , some gathered stanes , so fled , and some relieved . Their Minstrel used quiet means , that day he wisely proved ; For he came home with unbruis'd banes where fighters were mischieved , Full ill that day . With forks and flails then let they flaps , and flew together with frigs : With bougers of barns they pierc'd blue caps and of their bairns made brigs : The rare rose rudely with their raps , then rungs were laid on rigs : Their Wives came forth with cries and claps see where my liking ligs , Full low this day . The black Sutar of Braith was bowden , his wife hang at his ways His body was in bleck all browden , he girned like a ghost , Her glittering hair that was so gowden , her love fast from him laist , That for his sake he was unyowden , while he a mile was chaste , And mare that day . When they had bier'd like baited bulls , the bonfires burned like bails : They grew as meek as any mules that wearied are with mails . For these forfoughen tired fools , fell down like slaughtered flails ; Fresh men came in and hail'd their dools , and dang them down in dails , Bedeen that day . The wives then gave a hideous yell , when all these yonkiers yoked ; As fierce as flags of fire flaughts fell , frieks to the field they flocked . Then karles with clubs did others quel , on breast while blood out bocked , So rudely rang the common bel , that all the steeple rocked , For dread that day . By this Tom Tailzor was in his gear , when he herd the common bel ; He said he should make all on steer , when he came there him sell . He went to fight with such a fear , while to the ground he fell . A wife that hit him on the ear , with a great knocking mell , Felled him that day . The bridegroom brought a pint of ail , and bade the pyper drink it ; Drink it , quoth he , and it so stail , ashrew me if I think it . The Bride her maidens stood nearby , and said it was not blinked ; And Bartagasie the Bride so gay , upon him fast she winked , Full soon that day When all was done Dick with and ax came forth to fell a father . Quoth he , where are yond whoreson smaiks right now that hurt my brother ; His wife bade him , Go home , Gib Glaiks , and so did Meg his mother ; He turn'd and gave them both their paiks for he durst ding not other But them that day . FINIS . ( 250 ) Christs Kirk on the Green . Composed ( as is supposed ) by King James the fifth . Newly Corrected according to the Original Copy . WAs ever in Scotland herd nor seen such dancing and deray ; Neither at Faulkland on the green . nor Peebles at the play , As was of wooers as I ween ; at Christs Kirk on a day : For there came Kittie washen clean , with her new gown of grey , Full gay that day . To dance these damsels them dight , these lasses light of laits : Their gloves were of the raffal right , their shoes were of the straits . Their kirtles were of Lincoln light , well pressed with many plaits , They were so nice when men them neight they squeil'd like any gaits . Full loud that day . Of all these Maidens mild as meed , was none so gimp as Gillie : As any rose her rude was read , her lire was like the lily , But yellow , yellow was her head , and she of love so silly : Though all her kin had sworn her dead , she would have none but Willie , Alone that day . She scorned Jeck , and skripp'd at him , and murgeon'd him with mocks : He would have lov'd her , she would not let him for all his yellow locks . He cherished her , she bade go chat him , she counted not him two clocks : So shamefully his short Jack set him : his legs were like two rocks ; Or rungs that day , Tom Lutter was their Minstrel meet good Lord , how he could lance ; He play'd so shirl , and sang so sweet while Tousie took a trance . Old Lightfoot there he could foreleet , and counterfitted France , He held him like a man discreet , and up the Morris dance , He took that day . Then Steven came stepping in with stends no rink might him arrest ; Splayfoot did bob with many bends , For Masie he made request , He lap while he lay on his lends , and rising so was preast , While he did host at both the ends , for honour of the feast , And danc'd that day . Then Robin Roy began to revel , and Tousie to him drugged : Let be quoth Jack , and call'd him jevel , and by the tail him tugged . Then Kensie clicked to a kevel , God wots as they two lugged : They parted there upon a nevel : men say that hair was rugged Between them twa , With that a friend of his cry'd , Fie , and forth and arrow drew : He forged it so forcefully , the bow in flinders flew , Such was the grace of God , trow I , for had the tree been true ; Men said who knew his archery , that he had slave anew , Believe that day . A yape young man that stood him neist , soon bent his bow in ire , And etled the bairn in at the breast the bolt flew over the bire : And cry'd Fie , he had slave a priest , a mile beyond the mire : Both bow and bag from him he kiest and fled as fast as fire From flint that day . And hasty kinsman called Hary , that was and archer keen , Tied up a tackel withouten tarry , I trow the man was tien : I wot not whither his hand did vary , or his foe was his friend : But he escaped , by the might of Mary as one that nothing mean'd , But good that day . Then Lawry like a Lion lap , and soon a flain can fedder : He height to pierce him at the pape , thereon to wed a wedder ; He hit him on the wamb a wap , it bust like any bladder . He escaped so , such was his hap , his doublet was of leather Full fine that day . The buff so boisterously abaist him , that he to the earth dusht down : The other men for dead then left him , and fled out of the town , The wives came forth , and up they reft him , and found life in the lown ; Then with three routs there they rais'd him and cur'd him out of sown , From hand that day . The Miller was a manly make , to meet him , it was no mows . There durst not ten some there him take so cowed he their powes , That bushment whole about him brake and bickered him with bows , Then traitorously behind his back , they hack'd him on the howes , Behind that day . Then Hutchen with a Hazel rice , to read gan through them rummil : He muddl'd them down like any mice , he was no betty bummil . Though he was wight he was not wise with such jutors to jummil ; For from his thumb there flew a slice while he cry'd barlasummil , I'm slave this day . When that he saw his blood so read to flee might no man let him : He trow'd it had been for old feed ; he thought and bade have at him . He made his feet defend his head , the far fairer it set him : While he was passed out of their plead : they must be swift that god him Through speed that day . Two that were heads-men of the heard , they rushed on other like rams ; The other four which were unfear'd , beatrice on with barrow trams . And where their gobs were ungear'd , they god upon the gams , While that all bloody was their beard as they had worried lambs Most like that day . They girn'd and glowered all at anes , each gossip other grieved : Some striked stings , some gathered stanes , so fled , and some relieved . Their Minstrel used quiet means , that day he wisely proved ; For he came home with unbruis'd banes where fighters were mischieved , Full ill that day . With forks and flails then let they flaps , and flew together with frigs : With bougers of barns they pierc'd blue caps and of their bairns made brigs : The rare rose rudely with their raps , then rungs were laid on rigs : Their Wives came forth with cries and claps see where my liking ligs , Full low this day . The black Sutar of Braith was bowden , his wife hang at his ways His body was in bleck all browden , he girned like a ghost , Her glittering hair that was so gowden , her love fast from him laist , That for his sake he was unyowden , while he a mile was chaste , And mare that day . When they had bier'd like baited bulls , the bonfires burned like bails : They grew as meek as any mules that wearied are with mails . For these forfoughen tired fools , fell down like slaughtered flails ; Fresh men came in and hail'd their dools , and dang them down in dails , Bedeen that day . The wives then gave a hideous yell , when all these yonkiers yoked ; As fierce as flags of fire flaughts fell , frieks to the field they flocked . Then karles with clubs did others quel , on breast while blood out bocked , So rudely rang the common bel , that all the steeple rocked , For dread that day . By this Tom Tailzor was in his gear , when he herd the common bel ; He said he should make all on steer , when he came there him sell . He went to fight with such a fear , while to the ground he fell . A wife that hit him on the ear , with a great knocking mell , Felled him that day . The bridegroom brought a pint of ail , and bade the pyper drink it ; Drink it , quoth he , and it so stail , ashrew me if I think it . The Bride her maidens stood nearby , and said it was not blinked ; And Bartagasie the Bride so gay , upon him fast she winked , Full soon that day When all was done Dick with and ax came forth to fell a father . Quoth he , where are yond whoreson smaiks right now that hurt my brother ; His wife bade him , Go home , Gib Glaiks , and so did Meg his mother ; He turn'd and gave them both their paiks for he durst ding not other But them that day . FINIS . 