A Warning-piece to England , against Pride and Wickedness ; being the fallen of Queen Eleanor , wife to Edward the First King of England , who for her Pride and GOD's Judgments , sunk into the Ground at Charing-cross , and rose at Queen-hith . To the Tune of , Gentle and Courteous . WHen Edward was in England King , the First of all that name , Proud Elenor he made his Queen , a stately Spanish Dame : Whose wicked Life and sinful Pride , through England did excel , To dainty Dams and gallant Maids , this Queen was known full well : She was the first that did invent in Coaches brave to ride , She was the first that brought this Land to deadly since of Pride : No English Taylor here could serve to make her rich Attire , But sent for Tailors into Spain , to feed her vain desire . They brought in Fashions strange and new , with Golden Garments bright , The Farthingale and mighty Kuff , with Gowns of rich Deligh You London Dams in Spanish Pride , did flourish everywhere ; Our English Men like Woman then ; did wear long Locks of Hair . Both Man and Child both Maid and Wife , were drown'd in Pride of Spain , And thought the Spanish Tailors then our English Men did stain : Whereat the Queen did much despite , to see our English Men In Vestures clad , as brave to see as any Spaniard then . She crav'd the King , That every man that wore long Locks of Hair , Might then be cut and polled all , or shaved very near . Whereat the King did seem content , and soon thereto agreed , And first commanded that his own should then be cut with speed . And after that , to please his Queen , proclaimed through the Land , That every Man that wore long Hair , should pole him out of hand : But yet this Spaniard not content , to Woman boar a spite , And then requested of the King , against all Law and Right , That every Womankind should have their right Breast cut a way , And then with burning Irons sear'd , the blood to staunch and stay ! King Edward then perceiving well , her spite to Womankind , Devised soon by policy , and turn'd her bloody mind , He sent for burning Irons straight , all sparkling hight to see , And said , 'O Queen , come on thy way , 'I will begin with thee Which words did much displease the Queen , that Penance to begin , But asked him Pardon on her knees , who gave her Grace therein . But afterwards she chanc'd to pass along brave London streets , Whereas the Mayor of London's Wife , in stately sort she m [ ee ] ts ; With Music , Mirth and Melody , unto the Church they went , To give God Thanks that to th' L. Mayor a noble Son had sent . It grieved much this spiteful Queen , to see that anyone , Should so exceed in Mirth and Joy , except herself alone ; For which she after did devise , within her bloody mind , And practis'd still most secretly , to kill this Lady kind : Unto the Mayor of London then , she sent her Letters straight , To send his Lady to the Court , upon her Grace to wait ; But when the London Lady came before proud Elenor's face , She stripped her from her rich Array , and kept her vile and base . She sent her into Wales with speed , and kept her secret there , And us'd her still most cruelly , that ever Men did hear : She made her wash , she made her starch , she made her drudge always , She made her nurse up Children small , and labour night and day . But this contented not the Queen , but shew'd her most despite , She bound this Lady to a Post , at twelve a clock at Night ; And as poor Lady she stood bound , the Queen in angry mood , Did set two Snakes unto her Breast , that sucked away her blood . Thus died the Mayor of London's Wife , most grievous for to hear , Which made the Spaniard grow more proud , as after shall appear : The Wheat that daily made her Bred , was bolted twenty times , The Food that fed this stately Dame , was boyl'd in costly Wines ; The Water that did spring from Ground , she would not touch at all , But washed her hands with Due of Heaven , that on sweet Roses fallen ; She bath'd her body many a time in Fountains fill'd with milk And every day did change attire in costly Median Silk But coming then to London back within her Coach of Gold A Tempest strange within the Skies this Queen did there there behold : Out of which Storm she could not go but there remain'd a space Four Horses could not stir the Coach a foot out of the place . A Judgement lately sent from Heaven for shedding guiltless Blood , Upon this sinful Queen , that slew the London Lady good . King Edward then , as Wisdom willed accus'd her of that Deed , But she deny'd , and wished that God would send his Wrath with speed If that upon so vile a thing , her heart did ever think , She wished the Ground might open wide and she therein might sink . With that , at Charing-cross she sank into the Ground alive , And after rose with Life again , in London , at Queen-hith . When after that she languished full twenty days in pain , At last confessed the Lady's Blood , her guilty hand had slave ; And likewise how that by a Friar , she had a baseborn Child . Whose sinful Lustest and Wickedness . her Marriagebed defil'd , Thus have you herd the Fell of Pride , a just Reward of since , For those that will forswear themselves God's vengeance daily win ; Beware of Pride , you Courtly Dams , both Wives and Maidens all , Bear this imprinted in your mi [ n ] worser , That PRIDE must have fallen . A Warning-piece to England , against Pride and Wickedness ; being the fallen of Queen Eleanor , wife to Edward the First King of England , who for her Pride and GOD's Judgments , sunk into the Ground at Charing-cross , and rose at Queen-hith . To the Tune of , Gentle and Courteous . WHen Edward was in England King , the First of all that name , Proud Elenor he made his Queen , a stately Spanish Dame : Whose wicked Life and sinful Pride , through England did excel , To dainty Dams and gallant Maids , this Queen was known full well : She was the first that did invent in Coaches brave to ride , She was the first that brought this Land to deadly since of Pride : No English Taylor here could serve to make her rich Attire , But sent for Tailors into Spain , to feed her vain desire . They brought in Fashions strange and new , with Golden Garments bright , The Farthingale and mighty Kuff , with Gowns of rich Deligh You London Dams in Spanish Pride , did flourish everywhere ; Our English Men like Woman then ; did wear long Locks of Hair . Both Man and Child both Maid and Wife , were drown'd in Pride of Spain , And thought the Spanish Tailors then our English Men did stain : Whereat the Queen did much despite , to see our English Men In Vestures clad , as brave to see as any Spaniard then . She crav'd the King , That every man that wore long Locks of Hair , Might then be cut and polled all , or shaved very near . Whereat the King did seem content , and soon thereto agreed , And first commanded that his own should then be cut with speed . And after that , to please his Queen , proclaimed through the Land , That every Man that wore long Hair , should pole him out of hand : But yet this Spaniard not content , to Woman boar a spite , And then requested of the King , against all Law and Right , That every Womankind should have their right Breast cut a way , And then with burning Irons sear'd , the blood to staunch and stay ! King Edward then perceiving well , her spite to Womankind , Devised soon by policy , and turn'd her bloody mind , He sent for burning Irons straight , all sparkling hight to see , And said , 'O Queen , come on thy way , 'I will begin with thee Which words did much displease the Queen , that Penance to begin , But asked him Pardon on her knees , who gave her Grace therein . But afterwards she chanc'd to pass along brave London streets , Whereas the Mayor of London's Wife , in stately sort she m [ ee ] ts ; With Music , Mirth and Melody , unto the Church they went , To give God Thanks that to th' L. Mayor a noble Son had sent . It grieved much this spiteful Queen , to see that anyone , Should so exceed in Mirth and Joy , except herself alone ; For which she after did devise , within her bloody mind , And practis'd still most secretly , to kill this Lady kind : Unto the Mayor of London then , she sent her Letters straight , To send his Lady to the Court , upon her Grace to wait ; But when the London Lady came before proud Elenor's face , She stripped her from her rich Array , and kept her vile and base . She sent her into Wales with speed , and kept her secret there , And us'd her still most cruelly , that ever Men did hear : She made her wash , she made her starch , she made her drudge always , She made her nurse up Children small , and labour night and day . But this contented not the Queen , but shew'd her most despite , She bound this Lady to a Post , at twelve a clock at Night ; And as poor Lady she stood bound , the Queen in angry mood , Did set two Snakes unto her Breast , that sucked away her blood . Thus died the Mayor of London's Wife , most grievous for to hear , Which made the Spaniard grow more proud , as after shall appear : The Wheat that daily made her Bred , was bolted twenty times , The Food that fed this stately Dame , was boyl'd in costly Wines ; The Water that did spring from Ground , she would not touch at all , But washed her hands with Due of Heaven , that on sweet Roses fallen ; She bath'd her body many a time in Fountains fill'd with milk And every day did change attire in costly Median Silk But coming then to London back within her Coach of Gold A Tempest strange within the Skies this Queen did there there behold : Out of which Storm she could not go but there remain'd a space Four Horses could not stir the Coach a foot out of the place . A Judgement lately sent from Heaven for shedding guiltless Blood , Upon this sinful Queen , that slew the London Lady good . King Edward then , as Wisdom willed accus'd her of that Deed , But she deny'd , and wished that God would send his Wrath with speed If that upon so vile a thing , her heart did ever think , She wished the Ground might open wide and she therein might sink . With that , at Charing-cross she sank into the Ground alive , And after rose with Life again , in London , at Queen-hith . When after that she languished full twenty days in pain , At last confessed the Lady's Blood , her guilty hand had slave ; And likewise how that by a Friar , she had a baseborn Child . Whose sinful Lustest and Wickedness . her Marriagebed defil'd , Thus have you herd the Fell of Pride , a just Reward of since , For those that will forswear themselves God's vengeance daily win ; Beware of Pride , you Courtly Dams , both Wives and Maidens all , Bear this imprinted in your mi [ n ] worser , That PRIDE must have fallen . 