PROLOGUE TO The Duchess , On Her Return from SCOTLAND . Written by Mr. DRYDEN . WHEN Factious Rage to cruel Exile , drove The Queen of Beauty , and the Court of Love ; The Muses Droop'd , with their forsaken Arts , And the sad Cupids broke their useless Darts . Our fruitful Plains to Wilds and Deserts turn'd , Like Edens Face when banish'd Man it mourn'd : Love was no more when Loyalty was gone , The great Supporter of his Awful Throne . Love cou'd no longer after Beauty stay , But wander'd Northward to the verge of day , As if the Sun and He had lost their way . But now th' Illustrious Nymph return'd again , Brings every Grace triumphant in her Train : The wondering Nereids , though they rais'd no storm . Foreslow'd her passage to behold her from : Some cry'd a Venus , some a Thetis pass But this was not so fair , nor that so chaste . Far from her sighed flew Faction , Strife and Pride : And Envy did but look on her , and dy'd . What e'er we suffer'd from our sullen Fate , Her fight is purchas'd at and easy rate : Three Three gloomy Years against this day were se But this one mighty Sum has clear'd the Debt . Like Joseph's Dream , but with a better doom ; The Famine past , the Plenty still to come . For Her the weeping Heav'ns become serene , For Her the Ground is clad in cheerful green : For Her the Nightingales are taught to sing , And Nature has for her delay'd the Spring . The Muse resumes her long-forgotten Lays , And Love , restor'd , his Ancient Realm surveys ; Recalls our Beauty's , and revives our Plays . His Wast Dominions peoples once again , And from Her presence dates his Second Reign . But awful Charms on her fair Forehead fit , Dispensing what she never will admit . Pleasing , yet cold , like Cynthia's silver Beam , The Peoples Wonder , and the Poets Theam . Distemper'd Zeal , Sedition , canker'd Hate , No more shall vex the Church , and tear the State ; No more shall Faction civil Discords move , Or only discords of too tender love : Discord like that of Musics various parts , Discord that makes the harmony of Hearts , Discord that only this dispute shall bring , Who best shall love the Duke , and serve the King . FINIS . Printed for Jacob Tonson at the Judge's Head in Chancery-lane near Fleetstreet . 1682. PROLOGUE TO The Duchess , On Her Return from SCOTLAND . Written by Mr. DRYDEN . WHEN Factious Rage to cruel Exile , drove The Queen of Beauty , and the Court of Love ; The Muses Droop'd , with their forsaken Arts , And the sad Cupids broke their useless Darts . Our fruitful Plains to Wilds and Deserts turn'd , Like Edens Face when banish'd Man it mourn'd : Love was no more when Loyalty was gone , The great Supporter of his Awful Throne . Love cou'd no longer after Beauty stay , But wander'd Northward to the verge of day , As if the Sun and He had lost their way . But now th' Illustrious Nymph return'd again , Brings every Grace triumphant in her Train : The wondering Nereids , though they rais'd no storm . Foreslow'd her passage to behold her from : Some cry'd a Venus , some a Thetis pass But this was not so fair , nor that so chaste . Far from her sighed flew Faction , Strife and Pride : And Envy did but look on her , and dy'd . What e'er we suffer'd from our sullen Fate , Her fight is purchas'd at and easy rate : Three Three gloomy Years against this day were se But this one mighty Sum has clear'd the Debt . Like Joseph's Dream , but with a better doom ; The Famine past , the Plenty still to come . For Her the weeping Heav'ns become serene , For Her the Ground is clad in cheerful green : For Her the Nightingales are taught to sing , And Nature has for her delay'd the Spring . The Muse resumes her long-forgotten Lays , And Love , restor'd , his Ancient Realm surveys ; Recalls our Beauty's , and revives our Plays . His Wast Dominions peoples once again , And from Her presence dates his Second Reign . But awful Charms on her fair Forehead fit , Dispensing what she never will admit . Pleasing , yet cold , like Cynthia's silver Beam , The Peoples Wonder , and the Poets Theam . Distemper'd Zeal , Sedition , canker'd Hate , No more shall vex the Church , and tear the State ; No more shall Faction civil Discords move , Or only discords of too tender love : Discord like that of Musics various parts , Discord that makes the harmony of Hearts , Discord that only this dispute shall bring , Who best shall love the Duke , and serve the King . FINIS . Printed for Jacob Tonson at the Judge's Head in Chancery-lane near Fleetstreet . 1682. 