The Jolly Sailors true Description of a MAN of WAR . WHEN first on board a Man of War , We go , whither by press or enter , And alongside of our ship we come , We boldly did her venture . Such twigging then at we fresh men : There clever fellows some say ; While the buffers stand with their rattans , Crying keep down out of the gangway . Then aft upon the quarter deck . We go it being common ; Our officers examine us , to know Who and who are seamen ; There's some are seamen , some are freemen , Some one thimg , some another : Then we down below on the main-deck go , Boys after one another . Next to old Tinculo we go , For and order to get our hammocks , Then aft again and down amain , Not forgetting our stomach . The steward pens he takes our names , And tells to us our messes . But nipping there they can't forbear , For the devil them possesses . Then up again upon the deck , So briskly boys we bundle ; Since we have well secured our pack , We have no cause to grumble . Then we clap on what we have upon , Some piping , other's singing : There's hoist away , likewise be gay , Thus we make a beginning . When once our ship has god all in , And nothing now neglected , To think of sea we do begin , Our order soon expected . Then with a career we god all clear , In readiness for unmooring , Boats alongside in wind and tide , To carry the women ashore in . All hands unmoor the boatswain calls , And he pipes at every hatch-way ; If you Tom Cockswain traverse tip him , Take care he don't catch you . Fot without doubt , if he find you out You may be sure within you , Over face and eyes to your surprise , He'll harm you without mercy . The capstain is already manned , Shall we hear the boatswain hollow ? Sometime he is listening at a stand , To hear what answers follow . We have not brought to , there's such ado , While some are calling the swabbers Now heave away without delay , Boys hold on the nippers . The boatswain and his mates are piping , Crying , men have a rally : And often forward they are piking , To have a rout in the galley . What are you all about ? away with us out , To leave our victuals we abhor it ; With cuffs and knocks leave kettles and pots And the Devil cuff them for it . Heave , and in sighed men heave away From forward the boatswain is calling Heave a turn or two without delay ; Stand by the capstan for pealing . Then one and all to the cart do fallen ; We haul both strong and able ; Till presently from forward they cry , Below , stick out the cable . We cast our anchors then with speed , And nimbly pass the stoppers , Then next to fish him we proceed , Our shank painter so proper . Which we do pass securely fast , And clap well on a seizing , Our anchors be sure can't be too secure , It stands to sense and reason , When once our ship it is mored , Our swelling sails so neatly , With foretack and main-tack also , Our sheets hauled after completely . Then away we sail with a fresh gale , On a voyage or on a station , Like English hearts we'll play our parts , In defence of the Btitish nation . The best cry that we like to hear , On board , as I'm a sinner , Is when from the quarter-deck they call To the boatswain to pipe to dinner . Such crowding then among the men , Some grumble , others jangle : You're nobody there without you swear , And boldly stand the wrangle . There's green horn fellows , some on board Before never saw salt water : When come to sea , upon my word , The case with them does altar . They better know how to follow the blow , With good fat bacon and cabbage ; When seasick took , like death they look , Ready to bring up guts and garbage . When stormy winds begin to blow , Our ship is in great motion . To carry our victuals safe down below , It requires a good motion . We often fallen down the hatch-way with all , From the top to the bottom lie sprawling ; Such laughing then among the men , And loudly the butcher calling . There are snotty boys of midshipmen , Han't yet done shitting yellow ; As to their age some hardly ten , Strike many a brave fellow . Who dare not prate at any rate , Nor seem in the reast to mumble , They'll strap you still think what you will , It is but a folly to grumble . Now to conclude and make and end , In a full flowing brimmer , Let everyone drink to his friend , The bowl it seems to look thinner . We'll fill it again like sons of men , And drink bad luck to the purser , He cheat us with ease of our oatmeal & peas , Such rogues there can't be worse . The Jolly Sailors true Description of a MAN of WAR . WHEN first on board a Man of War , We go , whither by press or enter , And alongside of our ship we come , We boldly did her venture . Such twigging then at we fresh men : There clever fellows some say ; While the buffers stand with their rattans , Crying keep down out of the gangway . Then aft upon the quarter deck . We go it being common ; Our officers examine us , to know Who and who are seamen ; There's some are seamen , some are freemen , Some one thimg , some another : Then we down below on the main-deck go , Boys after one another . Next to old Tinculo we go , For and order to get our hammocks , Then aft again and down amain , Not forgetting our stomach . The steward pens he takes our names , And tells to us our messes . But nipping there they can't forbear , For the devil them possesses . Then up again upon the deck , So briskly boys we bundle ; Since we have well secured our pack , We have no cause to grumble . Then we clap on what we have upon , Some piping , other's singing : There's hoist away , likewise be gay , Thus we make a beginning . When once our ship has god all in , And nothing now neglected , To think of sea we do begin , Our order soon expected . Then with a career we god all clear , In readiness for unmooring , Boats alongside in wind and tide , To carry the women ashore in . All hands unmoor the boatswain calls , And he pipes at every hatch-way ; If you Tom Cockswain traverse tip him , Take care he don't catch you . Fot without doubt , if he find you out You may be sure within you , Over face and eyes to your surprise , He'll harm you without mercy . The capstain is already manned , Shall we hear the boatswain hollow ? Sometime he is listening at a stand , To hear what answers follow . We have not brought to , there's such ado , While some are calling the swabbers Now heave away without delay , Boys hold on the nippers . The boatswain and his mates are piping , Crying , men have a rally : And often forward they are piking , To have a rout in the galley . What are you all about ? away with us out , To leave our victuals we abhor it ; With cuffs and knocks leave kettles and pots And the Devil cuff them for it . Heave , and in sighed men heave away From forward the boatswain is calling Heave a turn or two without delay ; Stand by the capstan for pealing . Then one and all to the cart do fallen ; We haul both strong and able ; Till presently from forward they cry , Below , stick out the cable . We cast our anchors then with speed , And nimbly pass the stoppers , Then next to fish him we proceed , Our shank painter so proper . Which we do pass securely fast , And clap well on a seizing , Our anchors be sure can't be too secure , It stands to sense and reason , When once our ship it is mored , Our swelling sails so neatly , With foretack and main-tack also , Our sheets hauled after completely . Then away we sail with a fresh gale , On a voyage or on a station , Like English hearts we'll play our parts , In defence of the Btitish nation . The best cry that we like to hear , On board , as I'm a sinner , Is when from the quarter-deck they call To the boatswain to pipe to dinner . Such crowding then among the men , Some grumble , others jangle : You're nobody there without you swear , And boldly stand the wrangle . There's green horn fellows , some on board Before never saw salt water : When come to sea , upon my word , The case with them does altar . They better know how to follow the blow , With good fat bacon and cabbage ; When seasick took , like death they look , Ready to bring up guts and garbage . When stormy winds begin to blow , Our ship is in great motion . To carry our victuals safe down below , It requires a good motion . We often fallen down the hatch-way with all , From the top to the bottom lie sprawling ; Such laughing then among the men , And loudly the butcher calling . There are snotty boys of midshipmen , Han't yet done shitting yellow ; As to their age some hardly ten , Strike many a brave fellow . Who dare not prate at any rate , Nor seem in the reast to mumble , They'll strap you still think what you will , It is but a folly to grumble . Now to conclude and make and end , In a full flowing brimmer , Let everyone drink to his friend , The bowl it seems to look thinner . We'll fill it again like sons of men , And drink bad luck to the purser , He cheat us with ease of our oatmeal & peas , Such rogues there can't be worse . 