A NEW SONG Called the Jolly Sailors true descriptions , of a Man of War. WHEN first on board a Man of War , We go when Press or enter And a long-side ou , Ship we come , We boldly in her venture : Such twiging then , at we fresh Man , They're cleaver fellows some say , While the Buffers stand with their Rattans , Crying Keep down one of the Gangway , Then aft upon the Quarter Deck , We go it being common , Our Officers examine us , To know who and who are Seamen : There's some are Seamen others Freemen , Some one thing and some another , Then we down below on the main deck go , Boys after one anoth [ er ] Next to old trinkclo we go , For and order to get our hammocks , The aft gain and down amain , Mot forgetting our Stomachs ; The Steward Pens he takes our names , And tells us our mess's , but niping there they can't forbear , For the Devil them possess . Then up again upon the Deck , So briskly boys we bundle , Since we have well secured our Peck , We have no cause to grmble ; Then we clap on what we are upon , Some piping others singing , There's hist away likewise belay , thus we make a beginning . When once our Ship as god all-in , And nothing known neglected , to think of Sea we do begin , Our order soon expected ; then with a curreear we get all clear , In readiness for unmoreingi boats a long-side in wind and tide , For to carry the Women on shore in . All hands unmore the boatswain he calls , And he pipes at every hatchway , If you tom coxis travis travss tip him , take care he don't catch yea ; For without doubt if he finds you out , You may be sure within yea , Over face and eyes to you're surprise , He'll warm you without tinney . The capstone is all ready manned , Ssall we here the boatswain hollow ; Sometime he is listening at a stand , to hear what answer follows ; We have not brought to theres such a due , While some are calling the sweepers , Now heave away without delay , boys hold well on the nippers . The bootswain and his mates are piping Crying med heave a Ralley , And often forward they are pikeing , to have a rout in the Galley ; What are all we about away with us out , to leave our victuals we abhor it , With curff and knocks leave kittles & pots , And the devil curff them for it . Heave and in sighed men heave away , from forward the boatswain is calling , Heave a turn or two without delay , Stand by the capstone for pealing , then one and all to the Cat fallen we haull both strong and able , till presently from forward they cry , below stick out the cable . We cat our anchors than with speed , and nimbly pass the stopper , then next to fish him we proceed Our shankpainter so proper ; which we do pass securely fast , and clap well on a seizing , Our anchors be sure can't be to secure , It stands to sense and reason . When once our ship she is [ unmor'd ] Our swelling sails so nealthy , with foretack and main tack [ also ] Our sheets hauled aft complea [ tly . ] then away we sail with a fresh [ gale , ] On a voyage or on a station , Like English hearts we play our [ parts , ] In defence of the british nation . The best cry thaf we like to here , On board as I am a sinner , Is when from the quarter deck they call , to the boatswain to pipe to dinner ; Such scrouging then among the men , Some grumble others gangle , You're nobodp there without you can sweet [ ear , ] and boldly stand a Rrngle . Theres green horn fellows some on b [ oard ] before never see salt water , When come to sea upon my word , the case wilh them does altar , they better know how to follow the [ blow , ] with good fat bacon and cabidg , when sea took like death they look , Ready to bring up guts and gabidg . When stormy winds begins to blow Oar ship in a great [ more ] cion , to carry our victuals safe down below , It requires a good notion , very often we fallen down the hatchway wit [ h all , ] from the top to the bottom lay sprawling such laughsing then among the men , and loudly the butcher calling . Theres snottey boys of Michipmen , Has nct done shitting yellow , as to there age some hardly ten , St , ikes many a brave fellow ; When dares not prate at any rate , Nor seem in the least to mumble , they'li strap you still think what you will , It is but a folley to giumble . Now to conclude and make and end , In a full flowing brimmer , Let everyone drink to his friend , tde bowl seems to look thinner ; well fill it again like sons of men , And drin J bade luck to the Purser , they cheat us with ease of our otmeal & pea [ se ] such Rogues there can't be worse . LONDON : Printed by T. Magg , at the Sign of the Ells Foot . A NEW SONG Called the Jolly Sailors true descriptions , of a Man of War. WHEN first on board a Man of War , We go when Press or enter And a long-side ou , Ship we come , We boldly in her venture : Such twiging then , at we fresh Man , They're cleaver fellows some say , While the Buffers stand with their Rattans , Crying Keep down one of the Gangway , Then aft upon the Quarter Deck , We go it being common , Our Officers examine us , To know who and who are Seamen : There's some are Seamen others Freemen , Some one thing and some another , Then we down below on the main deck go , Boys after one anoth [ er ] Next to old trinkclo we go , For and order to get our hammocks , The aft gain and down amain , Mot forgetting our Stomachs ; The Steward Pens he takes our names , And tells us our mess's , but niping there they can't forbear , For the Devil them possess . Then up again upon the Deck , So briskly boys we bundle , Since we have well secured our Peck , We have no cause to grmble ; Then we clap on what we are upon , Some piping others singing , There's hist away likewise belay , thus we make a beginning . When once our Ship as god all-in , And nothing known neglected , to think of Sea we do begin , Our order soon expected ; then with a curreear we get all clear , In readiness for unmoreingi boats a long-side in wind and tide , For to carry the Women on shore in . All hands unmore the boatswain he calls , And he pipes at every hatchway , If you tom coxis travis travss tip him , take care he don't catch yea ; For without doubt if he finds you out , You may be sure within yea , Over face and eyes to you're surprise , He'll warm you without tinney . The capstone is all ready manned , Ssall we here the boatswain hollow ; Sometime he is listening at a stand , to hear what answer follows ; We have not brought to theres such a due , While some are calling the sweepers , Now heave away without delay , boys hold well on the nippers . The bootswain and his mates are piping Crying med heave a Ralley , And often forward they are pikeing , to have a rout in the Galley ; What are all we about away with us out , to leave our victuals we abhor it , With curff and knocks leave kittles & pots , And the devil curff them for it . Heave and in sighed men heave away , from forward the boatswain is calling , Heave a turn or two without delay , Stand by the capstone for pealing , then one and all to the Cat fallen we haull both strong and able , till presently from forward they cry , below stick out the cable . We cat our anchors than with speed , and nimbly pass the stopper , then next to fish him we proceed Our shankpainter so proper ; which we do pass securely fast , and clap well on a seizing , Our anchors be sure can't be to secure , It stands to sense and reason . When once our ship she is [ unmor'd ] Our swelling sails so nealthy , with foretack and main tack [ also ] Our sheets hauled aft complea [ tly . ] then away we sail with a fresh [ gale , ] On a voyage or on a station , Like English hearts we play our [ parts , ] In defence of the british nation . The best cry thaf we like to here , On board as I am a sinner , Is when from the quarter deck they call , to the boatswain to pipe to dinner ; Such scrouging then among the men , Some grumble others gangle , You're nobodp there without you can sweet [ ear , ] and boldly stand a Rrngle . Theres green horn fellows some on b [ oard ] before never see salt water , When come to sea upon my word , the case wilh them does altar , they better know how to follow the [ blow , ] with good fat bacon and cabidg , when sea took like death they look , Ready to bring up guts and gabidg . When stormy winds begins to blow Oar ship in a great [ more ] cion , to carry our victuals safe down below , It requires a good notion , very often we fallen down the hatchway wit [ h all , ] from the top to the bottom lay sprawling such laughsing then among the men , and loudly the butcher calling . Theres snottey boys of Michipmen , Has nct done shitting yellow , as to there age some hardly ten , St , ikes many a brave fellow ; When dares not prate at any rate , Nor seem in the least to mumble , they'li strap you still think what you will , It is but a folley to giumble . Now to conclude and make and end , In a full flowing brimmer , Let everyone drink to his friend , tde bowl seems to look thinner ; well fill it again like sons of men , And drin J bade luck to the Purser , they cheat us with ease of our otmeal & pea [ se ] such Rogues there can't be worse . LONDON : Printed by T. Magg , at the Sign of the Ells Foot . 