A True RELATION of the Death of Sir Andrew Barton , a Pyrate and Rover . WHEN Flora with her fragrant flowers , Bedecked the earth so trim and gay , And Iris with his dainty showers , Came to present the month of May , King Henry would a hunting ride ; Over the River of Thames passed he , Unto a mountain top also , Did walk some pleasures for to see . Where forty merchant's he espied , With forty sail come towards him : Who then no sooner were arrived , But on their knees did thus complain : An't please your Grace we cannot sail , Unto France a voyage to be sure , But Sir Barton he makes us quail , And robs us of our merchant's store . Vexed was the King and turning him , Said to the Lords of high degree , Have I never a Lord within my realm , Dares fetch that traitor unto me ? To him replied Charles Lord Howard , I will , my Liege , with heart and hand , If it please you grant me leave , he said , I will perform what you command . To him then spoke King Henry , I fear , my Lord , you are too young : No whit at all , my Liege , quoth he , I hope to prove in valour strong . The Scotch Knight now I vow to seek , In what place soever he be ; And bring him ashore with all might , Or into Scotland he shall carry me . A hundred men the King then said Out of my realm shall chosen be ; Beside sailors and ship-bois , For to guide a ship on the sea . Bowmen and gunners of good skill , Shall for this service chosen be ; And they at thy command and will , In all affairs shall wait on thee , Lord Howard called a gunner then ; Who was the best in all the realm ; His age was threescore years and ten , And Peter Simon was his name . My Lord called then a bowman rate , Whose active hands had gained fame ; A gentleman born in Yorkshire . And William Horsly was his name . Horsly , quoth he , I must to go to sea , For to seek a traitor with good speed : Of a hundred bowmen brave , quoth he , I have chosen thee to be their head . If you , my Lord , have chosen me , Of a hundred men to be their head , Upon the mainmast I will be hanged , If twelvescore I miss a shilling's breadth . Lord Howard then of courage bold , Went to sea with pleasant cheer , Not curbed with winter's piercing cold , Though 'twas a stormy time of year , Not long he had been on the sea , More in Days than number three ; But one Harry Hunt he there espied , A merchant of Newcastle was he . To him Lord Howard called out amain , And strictly charged him to stand ; Demanding then from whence he came , Or whence he intend to land . The merchant then made answer soon , With heavy heart and careful mind , My Lord my ship it does belong Unto Newcastle-upon-Tyne . Canst thou show me , the Lord did say , As thou didst sail by day or night , A Scotish rover on the seas , His name is Andrew Barton , Knight . At this the merchant sighed and said , With grieved mind , and wellaway , But overwell I know that wight , I was his prisoner but yesterday . As I , my Lord , did sail from France , A Bourdeaux voyage to make so far ; I met with Sir Andrew Barton , Knight , Who robbed me of my merchant ware . And much debts , god-wot , I owe , And every man does crave his own , And I am bound for London now , Of our gracious King to beg a boon . Show me him , said Lord Howard then , Let me but once the villain see , And every penny he hath from thee taken , I'll double it with Shillings three , Now , God forbid , the merchant said , I fear your aim that you will miss ; God bless you from his tyranny , For little do you think what a man he is . He is brass within , and steel without , His ship most huge , and mighty strong ; With eighteen pieces of ordinance , He carrieth on each side along . With beams for his top-castle , As being also huge and high : That neither English nor Portugal Can Sir Andrew Barton once pass by . Hard news thou shewest , then said the Lord , For to welcome angels unto the sea , But as I said , I'll bring him abroad , Or into Scotland he shall carry me . The merchant said , if you will do so , Take counsel then , I pray , withal : Let no man to his top-castle go , Nor strive to let his beams down fallen . Lend me seven pieces of ordinance then , On each side of my ship , said he : And by tomorrow , my good Lord , Again I will your Honour see . A glass I'll set as may be seen , Whither you sail by day or night , And tomorrow besure before seven , You shall meet Sir Andrew Barton , Knight . The merchant set my Lord a glass , So well apparent in his sighed ; That on the morrow as the promise was , He saw Sir Andrew Barton , Knight . The Lord then swore a mighty oath , Now by the heavens that be of might , By faith believe me , and by troth . I think he is a worthy Knight . Fetch me my lion out of hand , Says he , with rose and streamers high ; Set up withal a willow wand , That merchantlike I may pass by . That bravely did Lord Howard pass , And on and anchor rose so high ; No topsail at length he cast , But as a foe did him defy . Sir Andrew Barton seeing him . Thus scornfully for to pass by , As though he cared not a pin , For him and his company . Then called he for his men amain , Fetch back yond pedlar , now quoth he , And ere this way he comes again , I'll teach him well his courtesy . A piece of ordnance being shot , By this proud pyrate fiercely then ; Into Lord Howard's middle deck , Which cruel shot killed fourteen men . He called then Peter Simon he , Look now thy word do stand instead , For thou shalt be hanged on mainmast , If thou miss twelve score one shillings breadth . Then Peter Simon gave a shot , Which Sir Andrew muckle scare ; In at his deck it came so hight , Killed fifteen of his men of war ; Alas ! then said the pyrate stout , I am in danger now I see ; This is some Lord I greatly fear , Who is sat out to conquer me . Then Henry Hunt with rigour hight , Came bravely on the other side ; Who likewise shot in at his deck , And killed fifty of his men beside ; Then out , alas ! Sir Andrew cried , What may a man now think or say ; You merchant thief that pierces me , He was my prisoner yesterday . Then did he on Gordion call , Unto the top's castle for to go : And bid his beams he should let fallen ; For he greatly feared and overthrow . The Lord called Horsley then in haste , Look that thy word do stand instead ; For hanged thou shalt be on mainmast If thou miss twelvescore shillings breadth . Then up the mainmast swerved he , This stout and mighty Gordion ; But Horsley he most happily Shot him under the collar bone . Then called he on his nephew , and Said , sister's son , I have no more ; Three hundred pounds I will give thee , If thou wilt to the top castle go . Then stoutly he began to climb , For off the mast scorned to depar But Horsley soon prevented him , And deadly pierced him to the heart . His men being slave then up amain Did this proud pyrate climb with speed , For armour of proof he had put on , And not hint of arrows dread . Come hither Horsly , said the Lord , See thou thy arrows aim right ; Great means to thee I'll sure afford , And if thou speedest thou shalt be a Knight . Sir Andrew did climb up the tree , With right good will , and all his main ; Then upon his breast hit Horsley he , But [ tO ] the arrow did return again . Then Horsley ' spied a private place , With [ tO ] h a private eye in a secret part , His arrows swiftly flew apace , And smote Sir Andrew to the heart . Fight on , fight on , my merry men , A little I am hurt , but am not slave , I will lie down and bleed awhile , And come and fight with you again . And don't , said he , fear English rogues , And of your foes stand not in awe ; But stand fast by St. Andrew's Cross , Until you hear my whistle blow . They never did hear his whistle blow , Which made them all most soar afraid ; Then Horsley said , My Lord aboard , For now Sir Andrew Barton's dead . Thus boarded they this gallant ship , With right goodwill , and all their main , Eighteen score Scots alive in it , Beside as many more were slave . The Lord went where Sir Andrew lay , And quickly then cut off his head . I should leave England many a day , If thou wertenberg alive as thou art dead . Thus from the war Lord Howard came With much joy and triumphing ; The pyrate's head he brought along , For to present unto the King . Who briefly unto him did say , Before he well knew what was done , Where is the Knight and pyrate gay , That I myself may give the doom ? You may thank God , then said the Lord , And for men in the A True RELATION of the Death of Sir Andrew Barton , a Pyrate and Rover . WHEN Flora with her fragrant flowers , Bedecked the earth so trim and gay , And Iris with his dainty showers , Came to present the month of May , King Henry would a hunting ride ; Over the River of Thames passed he , Unto a mountain top also , Did walk some pleasures for to see . Where forty merchant's he espied , With forty sail come towards him : Who then no sooner were arrived , But on their knees did thus complain : An't please your Grace we cannot sail , Unto France a voyage to be sure , But Sir Barton he makes us quail , And robs us of our merchant's store . Vexed was the King and turning him , Said to the Lords of high degree , Have I never a Lord within my realm , Dares fetch that traitor unto me ? To him replied Charles Lord Howard , I will , my Liege , with heart and hand , If it please you grant me leave , he said , I will perform what you command . To him then spoke King Henry , I fear , my Lord , you are too young : No whit at all , my Liege , quoth he , I hope to prove in valour strong . The Scotch Knight now I vow to seek , In what place soever he be ; And bring him ashore with all might , Or into Scotland he shall carry me . A hundred men the King then said Out of my realm shall chosen be ; Beside sailors and ship-bois , For to guide a ship on the sea . Bowmen and gunners of good skill , Shall for this service chosen be ; And they at thy command and will , In all affairs shall wait on thee , Lord Howard called a gunner then ; Who was the best in all the realm ; His age was threescore years and ten , And Peter Simon was his name . My Lord called then a bowman rate , Whose active hands had gained fame ; A gentleman born in Yorkshire . And William Horsly was his name . Horsly , quoth he , I must to go to sea , For to seek a traitor with good speed : Of a hundred bowmen brave , quoth he , I have chosen thee to be their head . If you , my Lord , have chosen me , Of a hundred men to be their head , Upon the mainmast I will be hanged , If twelvescore I miss a shilling's breadth . Lord Howard then of courage bold , Went to sea with pleasant cheer , Not curbed with winter's piercing cold , Though 'twas a stormy time of year , Not long he had been on the sea , More in Days than number three ; But one Harry Hunt he there espied , A merchant of Newcastle was he . To him Lord Howard called out amain , And strictly charged him to stand ; Demanding then from whence he came , Or whence he intend to land . The merchant then made answer soon , With heavy heart and careful mind , My Lord my ship it does belong Unto Newcastle-upon-Tyne . Canst thou show me , the Lord did say , As thou didst sail by day or night , A Scotish rover on the seas , His name is Andrew Barton , Knight . At this the merchant sighed and said , With grieved mind , and wellaway , But overwell I know that wight , I was his prisoner but yesterday . As I , my Lord , did sail from France , A Bourdeaux voyage to make so far ; I met with Sir Andrew Barton , Knight , Who robbed me of my merchant ware . And much debts , god-wot , I owe , And every man does crave his own , And I am bound for London now , Of our gracious King to beg a boon . Show me him , said Lord Howard then , Let me but once the villain see , And every penny he hath from thee taken , I'll double it with Shillings three , Now , God forbid , the merchant said , I fear your aim that you will miss ; God bless you from his tyranny , For little do you think what a man he is . He is brass within , and steel without , His ship most huge , and mighty strong ; With eighteen pieces of ordinance , He carrieth on each side along . With beams for his top-castle , As being also huge and high : That neither English nor Portugal Can Sir Andrew Barton once pass by . Hard news thou shewest , then said the Lord , For to welcome angels unto the sea , But as I said , I'll bring him abroad , Or into Scotland he shall carry me . The merchant said , if you will do so , Take counsel then , I pray , withal : Let no man to his top-castle go , Nor strive to let his beams down fallen . Lend me seven pieces of ordinance then , On each side of my ship , said he : And by tomorrow , my good Lord , Again I will your Honour see . A glass I'll set as may be seen , Whither you sail by day or night , And tomorrow besure before seven , You shall meet Sir Andrew Barton , Knight . The merchant set my Lord a glass , So well apparent in his sighed ; That on the morrow as the promise was , He saw Sir Andrew Barton , Knight . The Lord then swore a mighty oath , Now by the heavens that be of might , By faith believe me , and by troth . I think he is a worthy Knight . Fetch me my lion out of hand , Says he , with rose and streamers high ; Set up withal a willow wand , That merchantlike I may pass by . That bravely did Lord Howard pass , And on and anchor rose so high ; No topsail at length he cast , But as a foe did him defy . Sir Andrew Barton seeing him . Thus scornfully for to pass by , As though he cared not a pin , For him and his company . Then called he for his men amain , Fetch back yond pedlar , now quoth he , And ere this way he comes again , I'll teach him well his courtesy . A piece of ordnance being shot , By this proud pyrate fiercely then ; Into Lord Howard's middle deck , Which cruel shot killed fourteen men . He called then Peter Simon he , Look now thy word do stand instead , For thou shalt be hanged on mainmast , If thou miss twelve score one shillings breadth . Then Peter Simon gave a shot , Which Sir Andrew muckle scare ; In at his deck it came so hight , Killed fifteen of his men of war ; Alas ! then said the pyrate stout , I am in danger now I see ; This is some Lord I greatly fear , Who is sat out to conquer me . Then Henry Hunt with rigour hight , Came bravely on the other side ; Who likewise shot in at his deck , And killed fifty of his men beside ; Then out , alas ! Sir Andrew cried , What may a man now think or say ; You merchant thief that pierces me , He was my prisoner yesterday . Then did he on Gordion call , Unto the top's castle for to go : And bid his beams he should let fallen ; For he greatly feared and overthrow . The Lord called Horsley then in haste , Look that thy word do stand instead ; For hanged thou shalt be on mainmast If thou miss twelvescore shillings breadth . Then up the mainmast swerved he , This stout and mighty Gordion ; But Horsley he most happily Shot him under the collar bone . Then called he on his nephew , and Said , sister's son , I have no more ; Three hundred pounds I will give thee , If thou wilt to the top castle go . Then stoutly he began to climb , For off the mast scorned to depar But Horsley soon prevented him , And deadly pierced him to the heart . His men being slave then up amain Did this proud pyrate climb with speed , For armour of proof he had put on , And not hint of arrows dread . Come hither Horsly , said the Lord , See thou thy arrows aim right ; Great means to thee I'll sure afford , And if thou speedest thou shalt be a Knight . Sir Andrew did climb up the tree , With right good will , and all his main ; Then upon his breast hit Horsley he , But [ tO ] the arrow did return again . Then Horsley ' spied a private place , With [ tO ] h a private eye in a secret part , His arrows swiftly flew apace , And smote Sir Andrew to the heart . Fight on , fight on , my merry men , A little I am hurt , but am not slave , I will lie down and bleed awhile , And come and fight with you again . And don't , said he , fear English rogues , And of your foes stand not in awe ; But stand fast by St. Andrew's Cross , Until you hear my whistle blow . They never did hear his whistle blow , Which made them all most soar afraid ; Then Horsley said , My Lord aboard , For now Sir Andrew Barton's dead . Thus boarded they this gallant ship , With right goodwill , and all their main , Eighteen score Scots alive in it , Beside as many more were slave . The Lord went where Sir Andrew lay , And quickly then cut off his head . I should leave England many a day , If thou wertenberg alive as thou art dead . Thus from the war Lord Howard came With much joy and triumphing ; The pyrate's head he brought along , For to present unto the King . Who briefly unto him did say , Before he well knew what was done , Where is the Knight and pyrate gay , That I myself may give the doom ? You may thank God , then said the Lord , And for men in the ship , quoth he , That we are safely come on shore , Sith you never had such and enemy That is Henry Hunt and Peter Simon , William Horsley , and Peter's son ; Therefore reward them for their pains , For they did service in their turn . To the merchant therefore the King said , In lieu of what he hath from thee taken , I'll give to thee a noble a day , Sir Andrew's whistle and his chain . To Peter Simon a crown a day . And half a crown to Peter's son ; And that was for a shot so gay , Which bravely brought Sir Andrew down . Horsley , I will make thee a Knight , And in Yorksh [ i ] re thou shalt dwell ; Lord Howard shall Lord Bury be , For this act deserveth well . Ninety pounds our Englishmen , Who in this fight did stoutly stand , And twelvepence a day to the Scots , till this Come to my brother King's highland . London , Printed and Sold at No. 4 , Aldermary Church Yard , Bow-Lane . ship , quoth he , That we are safely come on shore , Sith you never had such and enemy That is Henry Hunt and Peter Simon , William Horsley , and Peter's son ; Therefore reward them for their pains , For they did service in their turn . To the merchant therefore the King said , In lieu of what he hath from thee taken , I'll give to thee a noble a day , Sir Andrew's whistle and his chain . To Peter Simon a crown a day . And half a crown to Peter's son ; And that was for a shot so gay , Which bravely brought Sir Andrew down . Horsley , I will make thee a Knight , And in Yorksh [ i ] re thou shalt dwell ; Lord Howard shall Lord Bury be , For this act deserveth well . Ninety pounds our Englishmen , Who in this fight did stoutly stand , And twelvepence a day to the Scots , till this Come to my brother King's highland . London , Printed and Sold at No. 4 , Aldermary Church Yard , Bow-Lane . 