A True Relation of the Life and Death of Sir Andrew Barton , a Pyrate and Rover on the Seas . Tune is , Come follow my Love . WHen Flora with her fragrant flowers bedect the Earth so trim and gay , And Neptune with her dainty showers , came to present the month of May : King Henry would a Hunting ride , over the River of Thames passed he , Unto a Mountain top also , did walk some pleasure for to see . Where forty Merchant's he espy'd , with fifty sail come towards him , Who then no sooner were arriv'd , but on their knees did thus complain : An't please your Grace we cannot sail , to France no Voyage to be sure , But Sir Andrew Barton makes us quail , and robs us of our merchant ware . Vexed was the King , and turned him , said to his Lords of high degree , Have I ne'er a Lord within my Realm , dare fetch that Traitor unto me ? To him reply'd Lord Charles Howard , I will my Liege with heart and hand , If it please you grant me leave , he said , I will perform what you command . To him then speak King Henry , I fear my Lord you are too Young , No whit at all my Liege , quoth he , I hope to prove in Valour strong : The Scotish Knight I vow to seek , in what place soever he be , And bring a shore with all his might , or into Scotland he shall carry me . A hundred men the King then said , out of my Realm shall chosen be , Beside Sailors and Ship boys , to guide a great Ship on the Sea , Bowmen and Gunners of good skill , shall for this service chosen be , And they at thy command and will , in all affairs shall wait on thee . Lord Howard call'd a Gunner then , who was the best in all the Realm , His Age was three score years & ten , and Peter Simon was his name : my Lord call'd then a Bow man rare , whose active hands had gained fame ; A Gentleman born in Yorkshire , and William Horsely was his name : Horsely ( quoth he ) I must to Sea , to seek a Traitor with good speed , Of a hundred Bowmen brave , ( quoth he ) I have chosen thee to be the head . If you , my Lord , have chosen me of a hundred men to be the head , Upon the main Mast i'll Hanged be , if twelve score I miss one shillings breadth . Lord Howard then of Courage bold , went to the Seas with pleasant cheer , Not curb'd with Winteres piercing cold , though it was the stormy time of the year . Not long he had been on the Sea , no more in days than number three , But one Henry Hunt there he epy'd , a Merchant of New-castle was he , To him Lord Howard call'd out amain , and strictly charged him to stand , Demanding then from whence he came , or where he did intend to Land : The Merchant then made answer soon , with heavy heart and careful mind , my Lord , my Ship it does belong unto New-castle upon Tine , Canst thou show me , the Lord did say , as thou didst Sail by day and night , A Scotish Rover on the Sea , his name is Andrew Barton , Knigh Then the Merchant sigh'd and said , with grieved mind and well away , But overwell I know that wight , I was his Prisoner Yesterday : As I ( my Lord ) did sail from France , a Burdeaux Voyage to take so far , I met with Sir Andrew Barton thence , who Rob'd me of my merchant ware . And muckle debts God knows I owe , and every man does crave his own , And I am bound to London now , of our gracious King to beg a boon . Show me him , said Lord Howard then , let me once the Villain see , And every Penny he hath from the taken , I'll double the same with Shillings three . He is Brass within and steel without , his Ship most huge and mighty strong , With eighteen pieces of Ordnance , he carrieth on each side along : With Beams for his Top castle , as also being huge and high , That neither English nor Portugal , can Sir Andrew Barton pass by : Hard news thou shew'st , then said the Lord , to welcome Strangers to the Sea. But as I said i'll bring him a [ boar ] worser , or into Scotland he shall carry me . The merchant said if you will do so , take counsel then I pray withal , Let no man to his Top-castle go , nor strive to let his beams down fallen . Lend me seven pieces of Ordnance then , of each side of my Ship , said he , And tomorrow , my Lord , again I will your honour see . A Glass i'll set that may be seen , whither you Sail by day or night , And tomorrow besure before seven , you shall see Sir Andwew Barton Knight The merchan set my Lord a Glass , so well apparent in his sighed , That on the morrow , as his promise was , he saw Sir Andrew Barton Knight . The Lord then swore a mighty Oath , now by the Heavens that be of might , By faith believe me , and by troth , I think he is a worthy Knight . Sir Andrew Barton seeing him , thus scornfully to pass by , As though he cared not a pin , for him and all his company . Then called he his men amain , fetch back yond Pedlar , now , quoth he , And e'er this way he comes again , i'll teach him well his Courtesy . Fetch me my Lion out of hand , says the Lord , with rose & streamer high , Set up withal a willow wand , that Merchant like I may pass by . Thus bravely did Lord Howard pass . and on Anchor rise so high ; No Topsail at last he cast , but as a Foe did him defy . A piece of Ordnance soon was Shot , by this proud Pyrate fiercely then . Into Lord Howards middle Deck , which cruel Shot kill'd fourteen men . He called then Peter Simon , he , look how thy word do stand instead , For thou shalt be hanged on mainmast , if thou miss 12 score one penny breadth , Then Peter Simon gave a Shot , which did Sir Andrew much scare , In at his Deck it came so hight , kill'd fifteen of his men of war . Alas , then said the Pyrate stout , I am in danger now I see , This is some Lord I greatly fear , that is set on to Conquer me . Then Henry Hunt with rigour hight , came bravely on the other side , Who likewise shot in at his Deck , and killed fifty of his men beside : Then out alas , Sir Andrew cry'd , what may a man now think or say , Yond merchant Thief that pierces me , he was my Prisoner yesterday . Then did he on Gordian call , unto Top-castle for to go , And bid his beams he should let fallen , for I greatly fear and Overthrow . The Lord call'd Horsely now in haste , look that thy word now stand instead , For thou shalt be hanged on mainmast , if thou miss 12 score a shillings breadth . Then up mast tree swerved he , this stout and mighty Gordion ; But Horsely he most happily , Shot him under the Collar bone . Then called he on his Nephew then , said , Sisters Sons I have no more , Three hundred pound I will give thee , if thou wilt to Top-castle go . Then stoutly he began to climb , from off the mast scorn'd to depart . But Horsely soon prevented him , and deadly pierc'd him to the heart . His men being slave , then up amain did this proud Pyrate climb with speed , For Armour of proof he had put on , and did not dint of Arrows Dread . Come hither Horsely ( said the Lord ) see thou thy Arrows aim aright , Great means to thee I will afford , & if thou speed'st i'll make the a Knight . Sir Andrew did climb up the tree , with right good will and all his main , Then upon the breast hit Horsely he , till the Arrow did return again . Then Horsely spied a private place , with a perfect eye in a secret part , His Arrow swiftly slew apace , and smote Sir Andrew to the heart . Fight on , fight on , my merry men all , a little I am hurt , yet not slave , I'll but lie down and bleed a while , and come and fight with you again . They never herd his whistle blow , which made them all full soar afraid , Then Horsely said my Lord aboard . for now Sir Andrew Barton's Dead , Thus Boarded they this gallant Ship , with right good will and all their main , Eighteen score Scots alive in it , beside as many more was slave . The Lord went where Sir Andrew lay , and quickly thence Cut off his head , I should forsaked England many a day , if thou wertenberg Alive as thou art Dead : Thus from the wars Lord Howard came , with much joy and triumphing , The Pirates head he brought along , for to present unto our King . Who briefly then to him did say , before he knew well what was done , Where is the Knight and Pyrate gay , that I myself may give the Doom , You may thank God , then said the Lord , and four men in the Ship quoth he , That we are safely come ashore ; sith you never had such and Enemy . That is Henry Hunt , and Peter Simon , William Horsely and Peters Son : Therefore reward them for their pains , for they did service at their turn . To the Merchant then the King did say , in lieu of what he hath from tO A True Relation of the Life and Death of Sir Andrew Barton , a Pyrate and Rover on the Seas . Tune is , Come follow my Love . WHen Flora with her fragrant flowers bedect the Earth so trim and gay , And Neptune with her dainty showers , came to present the month of May : King Henry would a Hunting ride , over the River of Thames passed he , Unto a Mountain top also , did walk some pleasure for to see . Where forty Merchant's he espy'd , with fifty sail come towards him , Who then no sooner were arriv'd , but on their knees did thus complain : An't please your Grace we cannot sail , to France no Voyage to be sure , But Sir Andrew Barton makes us quail , and robs us of our merchant ware . Vexed was the King , and turned him , said to his Lords of high degree , Have I ne'er a Lord within my Realm , dare fetch that Traitor unto me ? To him reply'd Lord Charles Howard , I will my Liege with heart and hand , If it please you grant me leave , he said , I will perform what you command . To him then speak King Henry , I fear my Lord you are too Young , No whit at all my Liege , quoth he , I hope to prove in Valour strong : The Scotish Knight I vow to seek , in what place soever he be , And bring a shore with all his might , or into Scotland he shall carry me . A hundred men the King then said , out of my Realm shall chosen be , Beside Sailors and Ship boys , to guide a great Ship on the Sea , Bowmen and Gunners of good skill , shall for this service chosen be , And they at thy command and will , in all affairs shall wait on thee . Lord Howard call'd a Gunner then , who was the best in all the Realm , His Age was three score years & ten , and Peter Simon was his name : my Lord call'd then a Bow man rare , whose active hands had gained fame ; A Gentleman born in Yorkshire , and William Horsely was his name : Horsely ( quoth he ) I must to Sea , to seek a Traitor with good speed , Of a hundred Bowmen brave , ( quoth he ) I have chosen thee to be the head . If you , my Lord , have chosen me of a hundred men to be the head , Upon the main Mast i'll Hanged be , if twelve score I miss one shillings breadth . Lord Howard then of Courage bold , went to the Seas with pleasant cheer , Not curb'd with Winteres piercing cold , though it was the stormy time of the year . Not long he had been on the Sea , no more in days than number three , But one Henry Hunt there he epy'd , a Merchant of New-castle was he , To him Lord Howard call'd out amain , and strictly charged him to stand , Demanding then from whence he came , or where he did intend to Land : The Merchant then made answer soon , with heavy heart and careful mind , my Lord , my Ship it does belong unto New-castle upon Tine , Canst thou show me , the Lord did say , as thou didst Sail by day and night , A Scotish Rover on the Sea , his name is Andrew Barton , Knigh Then the Merchant sigh'd and said , with grieved mind and well away , But overwell I know that wight , I was his Prisoner Yesterday : As I ( my Lord ) did sail from France , a Burdeaux Voyage to take so far , I met with Sir Andrew Barton thence , who Rob'd me of my merchant ware . And muckle debts God knows I owe , and every man does crave his own , And I am bound to London now , of our gracious King to beg a boon . Show me him , said Lord Howard then , let me once the Villain see , And every Penny he hath from the taken , I'll double the same with Shillings three . He is Brass within and steel without , his Ship most huge and mighty strong , With eighteen pieces of Ordnance , he carrieth on each side along : With Beams for his Top castle , as also being huge and high , That neither English nor Portugal , can Sir Andrew Barton pass by : Hard news thou shew'st , then said the Lord , to welcome Strangers to the Sea. But as I said i'll bring him a [ boar ] worser , or into Scotland he shall carry me . The merchant said if you will do so , take counsel then I pray withal , Let no man to his Top-castle go , nor strive to let his beams down fallen . Lend me seven pieces of Ordnance then , of each side of my Ship , said he , And tomorrow , my Lord , again I will your honour see . A Glass i'll set that may be seen , whither you Sail by day or night , And tomorrow besure before seven , you shall see Sir Andwew Barton Knight The merchan set my Lord a Glass , so well apparent in his sighed , That on the morrow , as his promise was , he saw Sir Andrew Barton Knight . The Lord then swore a mighty Oath , now by the Heavens that be of might , By faith believe me , and by troth , I think he is a worthy Knight . Sir Andrew Barton seeing him , thus scornfully to pass by , As though he cared not a pin , for him and all his company . Then called he his men amain , fetch back yond Pedlar , now , quoth he , And e'er this way he comes again , i'll teach him well his Courtesy . Fetch me my Lion out of hand , says the Lord , with rose & streamer high , Set up withal a willow wand , that Merchant like I may pass by . Thus bravely did Lord Howard pass . and on Anchor rise so high ; No Topsail at last he cast , but as a Foe did him defy . A piece of Ordnance soon was Shot , by this proud Pyrate fiercely then . Into Lord Howards middle Deck , which cruel Shot kill'd fourteen men . He called then Peter Simon , he , look how thy word do stand instead , For thou shalt be hanged on mainmast , if thou miss 12 score one penny breadth , Then Peter Simon gave a Shot , which did Sir Andrew much scare , In at his Deck it came so hight , kill'd fifteen of his men of war . Alas , then said the Pyrate stout , I am in danger now I see , This is some Lord I greatly fear , that is set on to Conquer me . Then Henry Hunt with rigour hight , came bravely on the other side , Who likewise shot in at his Deck , and killed fifty of his men beside : Then out alas , Sir Andrew cry'd , what may a man now think or say , Yond merchant Thief that pierces me , he was my Prisoner yesterday . Then did he on Gordian call , unto Top-castle for to go , And bid his beams he should let fallen , for I greatly fear and Overthrow . The Lord call'd Horsely now in haste , look that thy word now stand instead , For thou shalt be hanged on mainmast , if thou miss 12 score a shillings breadth . Then up mast tree swerved he , this stout and mighty Gordion ; But Horsely he most happily , Shot him under the Collar bone . Then called he on his Nephew then , said , Sisters Sons I have no more , Three hundred pound I will give thee , if thou wilt to Top-castle go . Then stoutly he began to climb , from off the mast scorn'd to depart . But Horsely soon prevented him , and deadly pierc'd him to the heart . His men being slave , then up amain did this proud Pyrate climb with speed , For Armour of proof he had put on , and did not dint of Arrows Dread . Come hither Horsely ( said the Lord ) see thou thy Arrows aim aright , Great means to thee I will afford , & if thou speed'st i'll make the a Knight . Sir Andrew did climb up the tree , with right good will and all his main , Then upon the breast hit Horsely he , till the Arrow did return again . Then Horsely spied a private place , with a perfect eye in a secret part , His Arrow swiftly slew apace , and smote Sir Andrew to the heart . Fight on , fight on , my merry men all , a little I am hurt , yet not slave , I'll but lie down and bleed a while , and come and fight with you again . They never herd his whistle blow , which made them all full soar afraid , Then Horsely said my Lord aboard . for now Sir Andrew Barton's Dead , Thus Boarded they this gallant Ship , with right good will and all their main , Eighteen score Scots alive in it , beside as many more was slave . The Lord went where Sir Andrew lay , and quickly thence Cut off his head , I should forsaked England many a day , if thou wertenberg Alive as thou art Dead : Thus from the wars Lord Howard came , with much joy and triumphing , The Pirates head he brought along , for to present unto our King . Who briefly then to him did say , before he knew well what was done , Where is the Knight and Pyrate gay , that I myself may give the Doom , You may thank God , then said the Lord , and four men in the Ship quoth he , That we are safely come ashore ; sith you never had such and Enemy . That is Henry Hunt , and Peter Simon , William Horsely and Peters Son : Therefore reward them for their pains , for they did service at their turn . To the Merchant then the King did say , in lieu of what he hath from thee taken , I give to thee a Noble a Day , Sir Andrew's Whistle and his Chain . To Peter Simon a Crown a Day , and half a Crown a Day to Peter's Son , And that was for a shot so gay , which bravely brought Sir Andrew down Horsely I will make thee a Knight , and in Yorkshire thou shalt dwell : Lord Howard shall Earl Bury hight , for this Title he deserveth well . S [ e ] ven shillings to our English men , who in the Fight did stoutly stand , And 12 Pence a Day to the Scots , till they come to my Brother Kings high Land. Printed by and for A.M. and sold by the Booksellers of Londonhee taken , I give to thee a Noble a Day , Sir Andrew's Whistle and his Chain . To Peter Simon a Crown a Day , and half a Crown a Day to Peter's Son , And that was for a shot so gay , which bravely brought Sir Andrew down Horsely I will make thee a Knight , and in Yorkshire thou shalt dwell : Lord Howard shall Earl Bury hight , for this Title he deserveth well . S [ e ] ven shillings to our English men , who in the Fight did stoutly stand , And 12 Pence a Day to the Scots , till they come to my Brother Kings high Land. Printed by and for A.M. and sold by the Booksellers of London 