A Looking-Glass for Ladies , OR , A mirror for married-women . Lively setting forth the rare Constancy , Chastity , Patience , and purity of Penelope the Wife of Ulisses , one of the Grecian Generals , who during the Ten Years absence of her Husband at the siege of Troy , was solicited , and importun'd , by numbers of Eminent Suitors ; who attempted her chastity , and endeavoured to violate her Honour , but never could prevail . She addicted herself wholly to Charity , and good Housewifery , until her Husbands return . Which may serve as a Pattern for all Ladies , Gentlewomen , and others to Imitate her virtuous Example . With Allowance . Tune of , Queen Dido : or , Troy Town . WHen Greeks , and Trojans , fell at strife , and Lords in Armour bright were seen , When many a Gallant lost his life , about fair Hellen , beauty's queen : Ulisses , General so free , Did leave his dear Penelope . When she this woeful news did hear , that he would to the Wars of Troy , For grief she shed full many a tear , at parting from her only joy ; Her Ladies all about her came , To comfort up this Grecian Dame . Ulisses with a heavy heart , unto her then did mildly say , The time is come that we must part , my honour calls me hence away ; Yet in my absence dearest be , My constant Wife Penelope . Let me no longer live she said , then to my Lord I true remain , My Honour shall not be betrayed , until I see my love again : Forever I will constant prove , As is the harmless Turtle-Dove . Thus did they part with heavy cheer , And to the Ships his way he took ; Her tender eyes dropped many a tear , still casting many a longing look : She saw him on the Surges glide , And unto Neptune thus she cry'd . Thou God , whose power is in the Deep , and rulest in the Ocean Main ; My loving Lord in safety keep , till he return to me again : That I his person may behold , Which I esteem far more then Gold . THen straight the ships with nimble sails , were all convey'd out of her sighed , Her cruel fate she then bewails , since she had lost her hearts deligh Now shall my practice be , quoth she , True virtue and humility . My patience I will put in ure , and charity I will extend , Since for my woe , there is no cure , the helpless now I will befriend : The Widow and the Fatherless , I will relieve , when in distress . Thus she continued year by year , in doing good to every one ; Her fame was noised everywhere , to young and old the same was known : No company that she would mind , Who were to vanity inclin'd . Mean while Ulisses fought for Fame , 'Mongst Trojans hazarding his Life , Young Gallants hearing of her Name , came flocking for to tempt his Wife : For she was lovely , young , and fair , No Lady might with her compare . With costly gifts , and Jewels fine , they did endeavour her to win , With Banquets , and the choicest Wine , for to allure her unto since : Most persons were of high degree , Who courted fair Penelope . With modesty and comely grace , their Wanton Suits she did deny ; No tempting charms could ere deface her dearest Husbands memory ; But constant she did still remain , Hoping to see him once again . Her Book her daily practice was , and that she often did peruse , She seldom looked in her glass , Powder , and Paint , she did not use ; I wish all Ladies were as free From Pride , as was Penelope . She in her Needle took delight , and likewise in her Spinning-wheel , Her Maids about her , all , she taught , to use the Distaff , and the Reel : The Spiders that on Rafters Twine , Scarce Spins a thread more pure and fine . Sometime she would bewail the loss and absence of her dearest love ; Sometime she thought the Seas to cross , her fortune on the Waves to prove : I fear my Lord is slave , quoth she , He stays so from Penelope . At length the Ten years Siege of Troy did end , the flames the City burn'd , Which to the Grecians was great joy , to see the Towers to ashes turn'd ; Then came Ulisses home to see His constant Dear , Penelope . Then blame her not if she was glad , when she her Lord again had seen : Oh welcome home , my dear , she said , a long time absent you have been : The wars shall never me deprive , Of thee again while I'me alive . Young Ladies may example take , and by this Lesson they may learn , And keep this pattern for her sake , 'twixt vice and virtue to discern : And let all women strive to be , As constant as Penelope . Printed for F. Coals , TO , Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . A Looking-Glass for Ladies , OR , A mirror for married-women . Lively setting forth the rare Constancy , Chastity , Patience , and purity of Penelope the Wife of Ulisses , one of the Grecian Generals , who during the Ten Years absence of her Husband at the siege of Troy , was solicited , and importun'd , by numbers of Eminent Suitors ; who attempted her chastity , and endeavoured to violate her Honour , but never could prevail . She addicted herself wholly to Charity , and good Housewifery , until her Husbands return . Which may serve as a Pattern for all Ladies , Gentlewomen , and others to Imitate her virtuous Example . With Allowance . Tune of , Queen Dido : or , Troy Town . WHen Greeks , and Trojans , fell at strife , and Lords in Armour bright were seen , When many a Gallant lost his life , about fair Hellen , beauty's queen : Ulisses , General so free , Did leave his dear Penelope . When she this woeful news did hear , that he would to the Wars of Troy , For grief she shed full many a tear , at parting from her only joy ; Her Ladies all about her came , To comfort up this Grecian Dame . Ulisses with a heavy heart , unto her then did mildly say , The time is come that we must part , my honour calls me hence away ; Yet in my absence dearest be , My constant Wife Penelope . Let me no longer live she said , then to my Lord I true remain , My Honour shall not be betrayed , until I see my love again : Forever I will constant prove , As is the harmless Turtle-Dove . Thus did they part with heavy cheer , And to the Ships his way he took ; Her tender eyes dropped many a tear , still casting many a longing look : She saw him on the Surges glide , And unto Neptune thus she cry'd . Thou God , whose power is in the Deep , and rulest in the Ocean Main ; My loving Lord in safety keep , till he return to me again : That I his person may behold , Which I esteem far more then Gold . THen straight the ships with nimble sails , were all convey'd out of her sighed , Her cruel fate she then bewails , since she had lost her hearts deligh Now shall my practice be , quoth she , True virtue and humility . My patience I will put in ure , and charity I will extend , Since for my woe , there is no cure , the helpless now I will befriend : The Widow and the Fatherless , I will relieve , when in distress . Thus she continued year by year , in doing good to every one ; Her fame was noised everywhere , to young and old the same was known : No company that she would mind , Who were to vanity inclin'd . Mean while Ulisses fought for Fame , 'Mongst Trojans hazarding his Life , Young Gallants hearing of her Name , came flocking for to tempt his Wife : For she was lovely , young , and fair , No Lady might with her compare . With costly gifts , and Jewels fine , they did endeavour her to win , With Banquets , and the choicest Wine , for to allure her unto since : Most persons were of high degree , Who courted fair Penelope . With modesty and comely grace , their Wanton Suits she did deny ; No tempting charms could ere deface her dearest Husbands memory ; But constant she did still remain , Hoping to see him once again . Her Book her daily practice was , and that she often did peruse , She seldom looked in her glass , Powder , and Paint , she did not use ; I wish all Ladies were as free From Pride , as was Penelope . She in her Needle took delight , and likewise in her Spinning-wheel , Her Maids about her , all , she taught , to use the Distaff , and the Reel : The Spiders that on Rafters Twine , Scarce Spins a thread more pure and fine . Sometime she would bewail the loss and absence of her dearest love ; Sometime she thought the Seas to cross , her fortune on the Waves to prove : I fear my Lord is slave , quoth she , He stays so from Penelope . At length the Ten years Siege of Troy did end , the flames the City burn'd , Which to the Grecians was great joy , to see the Towers to ashes turn'd ; Then came Ulisses home to see His constant Dear , Penelope . Then blame her not if she was glad , when she her Lord again had seen : Oh welcome home , my dear , she said , a long time absent you have been : The wars shall never me deprive , Of thee again while I'me alive . Young Ladies may example take , and by this Lesson they may learn , And keep this pattern for her sake , 'twixt vice and virtue to discern : And let all women strive to be , As constant as Penelope . Printed for F. Coals , TO , Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . A Looking-Glass for Ladies , OR , A mirror for married-women . Lively setting forth the rare Constancy , Chastity , Patience , and purity of Penelope the Wife of Ulisses , one of the Grecian Generals , who during the Ten Years absence of her Husband at the siege of Troy , was solicited , and importun'd , by numbers of Eminent Suitors ; who attempted her chastity , and endeavoured to violate her Honour , but never could prevail . She addicted herself wholly to Charity , and good Housewifery , until her Husbands return . Which may serve as a Pattern for all Ladies , Gentlewomen , and others to Imitate her virtuous Example . With Allowance . Tune of , Queen Dido : or , Troy Town . WHen Greeks , and Trojans , fell at strife , and Lords in Armour bright were seen , When many a Gallant lost his life , about fair Hellen , beauty's queen : Ulisses , General so free , Did leave his dear Penelope . When she this woeful news did hear , that he would to the Wars of Troy , For grief she shed full many a tear , at parting from her only joy ; Her Ladies all about her came , To comfort up this Grecian Dame . Ulisses with a heavy heart , unto her then did mildly say , The time is come that we must part , my honour calls me hence away ; Yet in my absence dearest be , My constant Wife Penelope . Let me no longer live she said , then to my Lord I true remain , My Honour shall not be betrayed , until I see my love again : Forever I will constant prove , As is the harmless Turtle-Dove . Thus did they part with heavy cheer , And to the Ships his way he took ; Her tender eyes dropped many a tear , still casting many a longing look : She saw him on the Surges glide , And unto Neptune thus she cry'd . Thou God , whose power is in the Deep , and rulest in the Ocean Main ; My loving Lord in safety keep , till he return to me again : That I his person may behold , Which I esteem far more then Gold . THen straight the ships with nimble sails , were all convey'd out of her sighed , Her cruel fate she then bewails , since she had lost her hearts deligh Now shall my practice be , quoth she , True virtue and humility . My patience I will put in ure , and charity I will extend , Since for my woe , there is no cure , the helpless now I will befriend : The Widow and the Fatherless , I will relieve , when in distress . Thus she continued year by year , in doing good to every one ; Her fame was noised everywhere , to young and old the same was known : No company that she would mind , Who were to vanity inclin'd . Mean while Ulisses fought for Fame , 'Mongst Trojans hazarding his Life , Young Gallants hearing of her Name , came flocking for to tempt his Wife : For she was lovely , young , and fair , No Lady might with her compare . With costly gifts , and Jewels fine , they did endeavour her to win , With Banquets , and the choicest Wine , for to allure her unto since : Most persons were of high degree , Who courted fair Penelope . With modesty and comely grace , their Wanton Suits she did deny ; No tempting charms could ere deface her dearest Husbands memory ; But constant she did still remain , Hoping to see him once again . Her Book her daily practice was , and that she often did peruse , She seldom looked in her glass , Powder , and Paint , she did not use ; I wish all Ladies were as free From Pride , as was Penelope . She in her Needle took delight , and likewise in her Spinning-wheel , Her Maids about her , all , she taught , to use the Distaff , and the Reel : The Spiders that on Rafters Twine , Scarce Spins a thread more pure and fine . Sometime she would bewail the loss and absence of her dearest love ; Sometime she thought the Seas to cross , her fortune on the Waves to prove : I fear my Lord is slave , quoth she , He stays so from Penelope . At length the Ten years Siege of Troy did end , the flames the City burn'd , Which to the Grecians was great joy , to see the Towers to ashes turn'd ; Then came Ulisses home to see His constant Dear , Penelope . Then blame her not if she was glad , when she her Lord again had seen : Oh welcome home , my dear , she said , a long time absent you have been : The wars shall never me deprive , Of thee again while I'me alive . Young Ladies may example take , and by this Lesson they may learn , And keep this pattern for her sake , 'twixt vice and virtue to discern : And let all women strive to be , As constant as Penelope . Printed for F. Coals , TO , Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . A Looking-Glass for Ladies , OR , A mirror for married-women . Lively setting forth the rare Constancy , Chastity , Patience , and purity of Penelope the Wife of Ulisses , one of the Grecian Generals , who during the Ten Years absence of her Husband at the siege of Troy , was solicited , and importun'd , by numbers of Eminent Suitors ; who attempted her chastity , and endeavoured to violate her Honour , but never could prevail . She addicted herself wholly to Charity , and good Housewifery , until her Husbands return . Which may serve as a Pattern for all Ladies , Gentlewomen , and others to Imitate her virtuous Example . With Allowance . Tune of , Queen Dido : or , Troy Town . WHen Greeks , and Trojans , fell at strife , and Lords in Armour bright were seen , When many a Gallant lost his life , about fair Hellen , beauty's queen : Ulisses , General so free , Did leave his dear Penelope . When she this woeful news did hear , that he would to the Wars of Troy , For grief she shed full many a tear , at parting from her only joy ; Her Ladies all about her came , To comfort up this Grecian Dame . Ulisses with a heavy heart , unto her then did mildly say , The time is come that we must part , my honour calls me hence away ; Yet in my absence dearest be , My constant Wife Penelope . Let me no longer live she said , then to my Lord I true remain , My Honour shall not be betrayed , until I see my love again : Forever I will constant prove , As is the harmless Turtle-Dove . Thus did they part with heavy cheer , And to the Ships his way he took ; Her tender eyes dropped many a tear , still casting many a longing look : She saw him on the Surges glide , And unto Neptune thus she cry'd . Thou God , whose power is in the Deep , and rulest in the Ocean Main ; My loving Lord in safety keep , till he return to me again : That I his person may behold , Which I esteem far more then Gold . THen straight the ships with nimble sails , were all convey'd out of her sighed , Her cruel fate she then bewails , since she had lost her hearts deligh Now shall my practice be , quoth she , True virtue and humility . My patience I will put in ure , and charity I will extend , Since for my woe , there is no cure , the helpless now I will befriend : The Widow and the Fatherless , I will relieve , when in distress . Thus she continued year by year , in doing good to every one ; Her fame was noised everywhere , to young and old the same was known : No company that she would mind , Who were to vanity inclin'd . Mean while Ulisses fought for Fame , 'Mongst Trojans hazarding his Life , Young Gallants hearing of her Name , came flocking for to tempt his Wife : For she was lovely , young , and fair , No Lady might with her compare . With costly gifts , and Jewels fine , they did endeavour her to win , With Banquets , and the choicest Wine , for to allure her unto since : Most persons were of high degree , Who courted fair Penelope . With modesty and comely grace , their Wanton Suits she did deny ; No tempting charms could ere deface her dearest Husbands memory ; But constant she did still remain , Hoping to see him once again . Her Book her daily practice was , and that she often did peruse , She seldom looked in her glass , Powder , and Paint , she did not use ; I wish all Ladies were as free From Pride , as was Penelope . She in her Needle took delight , and likewise in her Spinning-wheel , Her Maids about her , all , she taught , to use the Distaff , and the Reel : The Spiders that on Rafters Twine , Scarce Spins a thread more pure and fine . Sometime she would bewail the loss and absence of her dearest love ; Sometime she thought the Seas to cross , her fortune on the Waves to prove : I fear my Lord is slave , quoth she , He stays so from Penelope . At length the Ten years Siege of Troy did end , the flames the City burn'd , Which to the Grecians was great joy , to see the Towers to ashes turn'd ; Then came Ulisses home to see His constant Dear , Penelope . Then blame her not if she was glad , when she her Lord again had seen : Oh welcome home , my dear , she said , a long time absent you have been : The wars shall never me deprive , Of thee again while I'me alive . Young Ladies may example take , and by this Lesson they may learn , And keep this pattern for her sake , 'twixt vice and virtue to discern : And let all women strive to be , As constant as Penelope . Printed for F. Coals , TO , Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 