THE Languishing Shepherd : OR , The Loss of Fair Lillia Lamented . To and excellent new Tune much in request . Licensed according to Order . I . WHen my Kids and my Lambs I treated , and to Mountains did invite , With clean Straw my Hurdle Sheated , where I might repose all nigh Then free from Care I liv'd at Pleasure , while my Lillea took her flight , I at the Loss of such a Treasure , all my other , all my other , all my other Flocks did slight . II Through the Woods and the Groves I rambled yet could never quit my fear ; Birds methought on every Bramble , whistle Lillea in my Ear ; Yet I upon my heedless Rover , never once could fix my Eye , Which makes me now so often over , Lillia , Lillia , Lillia , Lillia , Lillia , Lillia , Lillia cry . III . Many long and tedious Hours in the silent Groves I spend , Searching all the shady Bowers for my true entire Friend , Yet alas ! I cannot find her , whose sweet Charms I do adore , But am left in Grief behind her , sighing , sighing , sighing , sighing , sighing sighing evermore . IV. Never was a sweeter Creature than my pleasant charming Fair ; Could I in the Valleys meet her , then adieu to all Despair : Sorrows soon would be dispersed , like a Missed , or Morning Cloud , And a thousand Joys rehearsed , for she's Loyal , she's Loyal , just and true to what she vow'd . V. Some ill Fortune hath attended my beloved Lillia , By which means her Life is ended , or so long she'd never stay From her Love who feels the Anguish which my Heart do's now endure ; She's too good to let me languish , for her pleasant charming Beauty I am sure . VI . I have lost as great a Treasure , as the World did ever own ; Riches , Honour , Peace , and Pleasure , these all remain in her alone : Kings in Diadems may Glory , let me but her Charms behold ; Crowns I count but Transitory , Love is better , Love is better , Love is better worth than Gold . VII . Yet the Fates deny the Blessing of the fairest Beauty bright , Which is far beyond expressing all my Joys have taken fligh Sure some fatal stroke is given that has kept my Love from me , Therefore if she be not living , let me , let me , let me , let me , let me die as well as she . Printed for P. Brooksby . J. Deacon . J. Blare . J. Back . THE Languishing Shepherd : OR , The Loss of Fair Lillia Lamented . To and excellent new Tune much in request . Licensed according to Order . I . WHen my Kids and my Lambs I treated , and to Mountains did invite , With clean Straw my Hurdle Sheated , where I might repose all nigh Then free from Care I liv'd at Pleasure , while my Lillea took her flight , I at the Loss of such a Treasure , all my other , all my other , all my other Flocks did slight . II Through the Woods and the Groves I rambled yet could never quit my fear ; Birds methought on every Bramble , whistle Lillea in my Ear ; Yet I upon my heedless Rover , never once could fix my Eye , Which makes me now so often over , Lillia , Lillia , Lillia , Lillia , Lillia , Lillia , Lillia cry . III . Many long and tedious Hours in the silent Groves I spend , Searching all the shady Bowers for my true entire Friend , Yet alas ! I cannot find her , whose sweet Charms I do adore , But am left in Grief behind her , sighing , sighing , sighing , sighing , sighing sighing evermore . IV. Never was a sweeter Creature than my pleasant charming Fair ; Could I in the Valleys meet her , then adieu to all Despair : Sorrows soon would be dispersed , like a Missed , or Morning Cloud , And a thousand Joys rehearsed , for she's Loyal , she's Loyal , just and true to what she vow'd . V. Some ill Fortune hath attended my beloved Lillia , By which means her Life is ended , or so long she'd never stay From her Love who feels the Anguish which my Heart do's now endure ; She's too good to let me languish , for her pleasant charming Beauty I am sure . VI . I have lost as great a Treasure , as the World did ever own ; Riches , Honour , Peace , and Pleasure , these all remain in her alone : Kings in Diadems may Glory , let me but her Charms behold ; Crowns I count but Transitory , Love is better , Love is better , Love is better worth than Gold . VII . Yet the Fates deny the Blessing of the fairest Beauty bright , Which is far beyond expressing all my Joys have taken fligh Sure some fatal stroke is given that has kept my Love from me , Therefore if she be not living , let me , let me , let me , let me , let me die as well as she . Printed for P. Brooksby . J. Deacon . J. Blare . J. Back . THE Languishing Shepherd : OR , The Loss of Fair Lillia Lamented . To and excellent new Tune much in request . Licensed according to Order . I . WHen my Kids and my Lambs I treated , and to Mountains did invite , With clean Straw my Hurdle Sheated , where I might repose all nigh Then free from Care I liv'd at Pleasure , while my Lillea took her flight , I at the Loss of such a Treasure , all my other , all my other , all my other Flocks did slight . II Through the Woods and the Groves I rambled yet could never quit my fear ; Birds methought on every Bramble , whistle Lillea in my Ear ; Yet I upon my heedless Rover , never once could fix my Eye , Which makes me now so often over , Lillia , Lillia , Lillia , Lillia , Lillia , Lillia , Lillia cry . III . Many long and tedious Hours in the silent Groves I spend , Searching all the shady Bowers for my true entire Friend , Yet alas ! I cannot find her , whose sweet Charms I do adore , But am left in Grief behind her , sighing , sighing , sighing , sighing , sighing sighing evermore . IV. Never was a sweeter Creature than my pleasant charming Fair ; Could I in the Valleys meet her , then adieu to all Despair : Sorrows soon would be dispersed , like a Missed , or Morning Cloud , And a thousand Joys rehearsed , for she's Loyal , she's Loyal , just and true to what she vow'd . V. Some ill Fortune hath attended my beloved Lillia , By which means her Life is ended , or so long she'd never stay From her Love who feels the Anguish which my Heart do's now endure ; She's too good to let me languish , for her pleasant charming Beauty I am sure . VI . I have lost as great a Treasure , as the World did ever own ; Riches , Honour , Peace , and Pleasure , these all remain in her alone : Kings in Diadems may Glory , let me but her Charms behold ; Crowns I count but Transitory , Love is better , Love is better , Love is better worth than Gold . VII . Yet the Fates deny the Blessing of the fairest Beauty bright , Which is far beyond expressing all my Joys have taken fligh Sure some fatal stroke is given that has kept my Love from me , Therefore if she be not living , let me , let me , let me , let me , let me die as well as she . Printed for P. Brooksby . J. Deacon . J. Blare . J. Back . THE Languishing Shepherd : OR , The Loss of Fair Lillia Lamented . To and excellent new Tune much in request . Licensed according to Order . I . WHen my Kids and my Lambs I treated , and to Mountains did invite , With clean Straw my Hurdle Sheated , where I might repose all nigh Then free from Care I liv'd at Pleasure , while my Lillea took her flight , I at the Loss of such a Treasure , all my other , all my other , all my other Flocks did slight . II Through the Woods and the Groves I rambled yet could never quit my fear ; Birds methought on every Bramble , whistle Lillea in my Ear ; Yet I upon my heedless Rover , never once could fix my Eye , Which makes me now so often over , Lillia , Lillia , Lillia , Lillia , Lillia , Lillia , Lillia cry . III . Many long and tedious Hours in the silent Groves I spend , Searching all the shady Bowers for my true entire Friend , Yet alas ! I cannot find her , whose sweet Charms I do adore , But am left in Grief behind her , sighing , sighing , sighing , sighing , sighing sighing evermore . IV. Never was a sweeter Creature than my pleasant charming Fair ; Could I in the Valleys meet her , then adieu to all Despair : Sorrows soon would be dispersed , like a Missed , or Morning Cloud , And a thousand Joys rehearsed , for she's Loyal , she's Loyal , just and true to what she vow'd . V. Some ill Fortune hath attended my beloved Lillia , By which means her Life is ended , or so long she'd never stay From her Love who feels the Anguish which my Heart do's now endure ; She's too good to let me languish , for her pleasant charming Beauty I am sure . VI . I have lost as great a Treasure , as the World did ever own ; Riches , Honour , Peace , and Pleasure , these all remain in her alone : Kings in Diadems may Glory , let me but her Charms behold ; Crowns I count but Transitory , Love is better , Love is better , Love is better worth than Gold . VII . Yet the Fates deny the Blessing of the fairest Beauty bright , Which is far beyond expressing all my Joys have taken fligh Sure some fatal stroke is given that has kept my Love from me , Therefore if she be not living , let me , let me , let me , let me , let me die as well as she . Printed for P. Brooksby . J. Deacon . J. Blare . J. Back . 