A Prophetic LAMPOON , Made Anno 1659. By his Grace George Duke of Buckingham : Relating to what would happen to the GOVERNMENT under KING CHARLES II To the Tune Which nobody can deny . WHen Plate was at Pawn , and the Fob at and ebb , And the Spider might weave in our Stomachs its web , Our Stomachs as empty as Brain , Then CHARLES without Acre , made a Vow to his Maker , If e're he saw England again : I'le have a Religion , all of mine own , Whither Papist , or Protestant , shall not be known , But if it prove troublesome , I will have none . I'le have a fine Parliament , always to friend , Shall fit me with Treasure , as fast as I spend , And if they will not , they shall have and end . I'le have as good Bishops as e're made with hands , With Consciences flexible to my Commands , And if they will not , I'le have all their Lands . I'le have a fine Chancellor shall bear all the sway , But if they do murmur , I'le take him away , Yet bring him back again as soon as I may . I'le have a Privy Council shall always fit still , I'le have a fine Juncto shall do what they will , I'le have two fine Secretary's piss through a Quill . I'le have a Privy Purse without control , Shall always wink when my Revenue is stole , If any be question'd , I'le answer the whole . I'le have a New London , instead of the Old , With wide Streets , and uniform to my own Mould , And if they built too fast , I'le soon make them hold . I'le have a fine Son , in making though marr'd , Shall Reign , if not o're my Kingdoms , o're my Guard , And shall Successor be , if not to me , to Gerrard . But what'ere it cost me , I'le have a fine Whore , As Bold as Alice Pierce , as Fine as Jane Shore , And when I am weary of her , I'le have more . My Pimp I'le make my Minister Primeir , My Band shall Ambassadors send far and near , My Wench shall dispose of my Congé Deleir . I'le have a fine Pond , with a pretty Decoy , Where the Ducks and the Drakes , shall their Freedom enjoy , And in their own Language , quack Vive le Roy . FINIS . A Prophetic LAMPOON , Made Anno 1659. By his Grace George Duke of Buckingham : Relating to what would happen to the GOVERNMENT under KING CHARLES II To the Tune Which nobody can deny . WHen Plate was at Pawn , and the Fob at and ebb , And the Spider might weave in our Stomachs its web , Our Stomachs as empty as Brain , Then CHARLES without Acre , made a Vow to his Maker , If e're he saw England again : I'le have a Religion , all of mine own , Whither Papist , or Protestant , shall not be known , But if it prove troublesome , I will have none . I'le have a fine Parliament , always to friend , Shall fit me with Treasure , as fast as I spend , And if they will not , they shall have and end . I'le have as good Bishops as e're made with hands , With Consciences flexible to my Commands , And if they will not , I'le have all their Lands . I'le have a fine Chancellor shall bear all the sway , But if they do murmur , I'le take him away , Yet bring him back again as soon as I may . I'le have a Privy Council shall always fit still , I'le have a fine Juncto shall do what they will , I'le have two fine Secretary's piss through a Quill . I'le have a Privy Purse without control , Shall always wink when my Revenue is stole , If any be question'd , I'le answer the whole . I'le have a New London , instead of the Old , With wide Streets , and uniform to my own Mould , And if they built too fast , I'le soon make them hold . I'le have a fine Son , in making though marr'd , Shall Reign , if not o're my Kingdoms , o're my Guard , And shall Successor be , if not to me , to Gerrard . But what'ere it cost me , I'le have a fine Whore , As Bold as Alice Pierce , as Fine as Jane Shore , And when I am weary of her , I'le have more . My Pimp I'le make my Minister Primeir , My Band shall Ambassadors send far and near , My Wench shall dispose of my Congé Deleir . I'le have a fine Pond , with a pretty Decoy , Where the Ducks and the Drakes , shall their Freedom enjoy , And in their own Language , quack Vive le Roy . FINIS . A Prophetic LAMPOON , Made Anno 1659. By his Grace George Duke of Buckingham : Relating to what would happen to the GOVERNMENT under KING CHARLES II To the Tune Which nobody can deny . WHen Plate was at Pawn , and the Fob at and ebb , And the Spider might weave in our Stomachs its web , Our Stomachs as empty as Brain , Then CHARLES without Acre , made a Vow to his Maker , If e're he saw England again : I'le have a Religion , all of mine own , Whither Papist , or Protestant , shall not be known , But if it prove troublesome , I will have none . I'le have a fine Parliament , always to friend , Shall fit me with Treasure , as fast as I spend , And if they will not , they shall have and end . I'le have as good Bishops as e're made with hands , With Consciences flexible to my Commands , And if they will not , I'le have all their Lands . I'le have a fine Chancellor shall bear all the sway , But if they do murmur , I'le take him away , Yet bring him back again as soon as I may . I'le have a Privy Council shall always fit still , I'le have a fine Juncto shall do what they will , I'le have two fine Secretary's piss through a Quill . I'le have a Privy Purse without control , Shall always wink when my Revenue is stole , If any be question'd , I'le answer the whole . I'le have a New London , instead of the Old , With wide Streets , and uniform to my own Mould , And if they built too fast , I'le soon make them hold . I'le have a fine Son , in making though marr'd , Shall Reign , if not o're my Kingdoms , o're my Guard , And shall Successor be , if not to me , to Gerrard . But what'ere it cost me , I'le have a fine Whore , As Bold as Alice Pierce , as Fine as Jane Shore , And when I am weary of her , I'le have more . My Pimp I'le make my Minister Primeir , My Band shall Ambassadors send far and near , My Wench shall dispose of my Congé Deleir . I'le have a fine Pond , with a pretty Decoy , Where the Ducks and the Drakes , shall their Freedom enjoy , And in their own Language , quack Vive le Roy . FINIS . A Prophetic LAMPOON , Made Anno 1659. By his Grace George Duke of Buckingham : Relating to what would happen to the GOVERNMENT under KING CHARLES II To the Tune Which nobody can deny . WHen Plate was at Pawn , and the Fob at and ebb , And the Spider might weave in our Stomachs its web , Our Stomachs as empty as Brain , Then CHARLES without Acre , made a Vow to his Maker , If e're he saw England again : I'le have a Religion , all of mine own , Whither Papist , or Protestant , shall not be known , But if it prove troublesome , I will have none . I'le have a fine Parliament , always to friend , Shall fit me with Treasure , as fast as I spend , And if they will not , they shall have and end . I'le have as good Bishops as e're made with hands , With Consciences flexible to my Commands , And if they will not , I'le have all their Lands . I'le have a fine Chancellor shall bear all the sway , But if they do murmur , I'le take him away , Yet bring him back again as soon as I may . I'le have a Privy Council shall always fit still , I'le have a fine Juncto shall do what they will , I'le have two fine Secretary's piss through a Quill . I'le have a Privy Purse without control , Shall always wink when my Revenue is stole , If any be question'd , I'le answer the whole . I'le have a New London , instead of the Old , With wide Streets , and uniform to my own Mould , And if they built too fast , I'le soon make them hold . I'le have a fine Son , in making though marr'd , Shall Reign , if not o're my Kingdoms , o're my Guard , And shall Successor be , if not to me , to Gerrard . But what'ere it cost me , I'le have a fine Whore , As Bold as Alice Pierce , as Fine as Jane Shore , And when I am weary of her , I'le have more . My Pimp I'le make my Minister Primeir , My Band shall Ambassadors send far and near , My Wench shall dispose of my Congé Deleir . I'le have a fine Pond , with a pretty Decoy , Where the Ducks and the Drakes , shall their Freedom enjoy , And in their own Language , quack Vive le Roy . FINIS . 