C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 2 ) The Banishment of Poverty by his Royal Highness , J.D.A. To the Tune of the Last Goodnight . POx sa that pultron poverty , Wa worth the time that I him saw ; Since first he laid his fang on me , My self from him I dought ne're draw : His wink to me has been a Law , He hunt's me like a penny Dog , Of him I stand far greater awe , Than Puppil does of Pedagogue . The first time that he met with me , Was at a Clachan in the West . Its name I trow Kilbarchan be , Where Habies Drons blew many a blast , There we shook hands , called be his cast , And ill dead may that Custron die . For there he gripped me well fast , Where first I fell in Cautionary . Yet I had hope's to be reliev'd , And fred from that soul laidly lown : Fernier when whiggs were ill mischiev'd And forc'd to fling their weapons down ; When we chased them from Glasgow Town I with that Swinger thought to grapple , But when Indemnity came down , The laldron pow'd me by the thraple . And yet in hope's of some relief , A rode I made to Arinjrow , Where they did bravely buff my beef , And made my body black and blue : At Justice Court I them pursue , Expecting help by their reproof , Indemnity made nothing due , The WORSER - a farthing for my loof . But wishing that I wode ride east , To trote on foot I soon would tire ; My Page allowed me not a beast , I wanted gilded to pay the hire : He and I lap o're many a sire , He hooked me at Calder-cult , But lang or I won to Slyps-mire , The ragged rogue took me a Whilt , By Holin-bush and bridge of Bony , We bicker down towards Bankier , We fear'd no reavers for our money , Nor whilly wha's to grip our gear : My tatter , worser Tutor took no fear , Though we did travel in the mirk ; He thought it fit when we drew near , To filsh a forage at Falkirk . No man would open me the door , Because my Commerade stood by ; They dread full ill I was right poor , By my forecasten company , Then Cunninghame did me espy - By how and hair he hall'd me in , And swore we should not part so dry : Though I were striped to the Skin , We baid all night , but lang or day My cursed companion bade me rise ; I start up soon and took my way , He needed not to bid me twice , But what to do we did advice , In Lithgow we might not fit down , On a Scots Groat we baited thrice , And in at night to Edinburgh Town . We held the Lang gate to Leith-wind , Where poorest purses use to be ; And in the Caltown lodged sin , Fit quarters for sick company . Yet the High-town I fain would see , But that my man did me discharge . He will'd me Blackburns Ale to pry , And muff my beard it was right large . The morn I ventur'd up the Wind , And slung'd in at the Nether-bow , Thinking that Trooker for to tyne , Who does me damage what he dow , His company he does bestow , On me , to my great grief and pain ; Ere I the thrang could wrestle through , The Lown was at my heels again . I grein'd to gang on the plain stanes , To see if Commerads would me ken , We twa gade pacing there our lanes , The hungry hour 'twixt twelve and ane , When I kenned no way how to fend , My Guts rumbl'd like a Hurle-barrow , I din'd with Saints and Noble men , Ev'n sweet St. Giles , and Earl of Murray , Tykes Testament take him for his treat , I needed not my teeth to pike , Though I was in a cruel sweat , He set not by , say what I like : I call'd him Turk and traiked Tike , And wearied him with many a curse ; My bones were hard like a stone dyke , No Reg. Marie was in my purse . Kind Widow Caddel sent for me , To dine as she did oft forsooth , But ah ! alas , that would not be , Her house was o're near the Tollbooth . Yet God reward her for her love , And kindness , which I fed full found , Most ready still for my behove , Ere this hells hound took her in hand . I left my Page and stour'd to Leith , To try my credit at the wine , But foul a drible fil'd my teeth , He gripp'd me at the Coffee Sign , I sta down through the Neither Wind , My Lady Semples house was near ; To enter there was my design , Where Poverty durst ne're appear . I din'd there , but I bade not lang , My Lady fain would shelter me . But e're alas I needs must gang , And leave that comely company : Her Lad convey'd me with a key , Out through the Garden to the fields , Ere I the Links could graithlie see , My Governor was at my heels . I dought not dance to pipe or harp , I had no stock for Cards and Dice , But I fuir to Sir William Sharp , Who never made his Counsel nice : That little man he is right wise , And sharp as any brier can be , He bravely gave me his advice , How I might poison poverty . Quoth he , there grows hard by the Dyel , In Hattons Garden bright and sheen , A sovereign herb call'd Penny Royal , Whilk all the year grows fresh and green , Could you but gather fair and clean , Your business would not go backward , But let account of it be seen , From the Physicians of Exchequer . For if that Ticket you bring with you , Come back to me , you need not fear , For I some of that herb can give you , Whilk I have planted this same year : Your Page it will cause disappear , Who waits on you against your will ; To gather it I shall you lear , In my own Yard of Stonny hill . But when I dread that would not work I underthought me of a wile , How I might at my leisure lurk , My graceless Guardian to beguile : It's but my galloping a mile , Through Cannongate with little loss , Till I have Sanctuary a while Within the Girth of Abbey Closs : There I won in , and blithe was I , When to the inner Court I drew , My Governor I did defy , For joy I clapped my wings and crew . There Messengers dare not pursue , Nor with their wands men's shoulders steer There dwells distressed Lairds enew , In peace though they have little gear , There twa hours I did not tarry , Till my blessed fortune was to see A sighed sure by the mights of Marie , Of that brave Duke of Albanie . Where one blink of his Princely eye , Put that foul foondling to the flight , From me he banished poverty , And gart him take his last goodnight . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 2 ) The Banishment of Poverty by his Royal Highness , J.D.A. To the Tune of the Last Goodnight . POx sa that pultron poverty , Wa worth the time that I him saw ; Since first he laid his fang on me , My self from him I dought ne're draw : His wink to me has been a Law , He hunt's me like a penny Dog , Of him I stand far greater awe , Than Puppil does of Pedagogue . The first time that he met with me , Was at a Clachan in the West . Its name I trow Kilbarchan be , Where Habies Drons blew many a blast , There we shook hands , called be his cast , And ill dead may that Custron die . For there he gripped me well fast , Where first I fell in Cautionary . Yet I had hope's to be reliev'd , And fred from that soul laidly lown : Fernier when whiggs were ill mischiev'd And forc'd to fling their weapons down ; When we chased them from Glasgow Town I with that Swinger thought to grapple , But when Indemnity came down , The laldron pow'd me by the thraple . And yet in hope's of some relief , A rode I made to Arinjrow , Where they did bravely buff my beef , And made my body black and blue : At Justice Court I them pursue , Expecting help by their reproof , Indemnity made nothing due , The WORSER - a farthing for my loof . But wishing that I wode ride east , To trote on foot I soon would tire ; My Page allowed me not a beast , I wanted gilded to pay the hire : He and I lap o're many a sire , He hooked me at Calder-cult , But lang or I won to Slyps-mire , The ragged rogue took me a Whilt , By Holin-bush and bridge of Bony , We bicker down towards Bankier , We fear'd no reavers for our money , Nor whilly wha's to grip our gear : My tatter , worser Tutor took no fear , Though we did travel in the mirk ; He thought it fit when we drew near , To filsh a forage at Falkirk . No man would open me the door , Because my Commerade stood by ; They dread full ill I was right poor , By my forecasten company , Then Cunninghame did me espy - By how and hair he hall'd me in , And swore we should not part so dry : Though I were striped to the Skin , We baid all night , but lang or day My cursed companion bade me rise ; I start up soon and took my way , He needed not to bid me twice , But what to do we did advice , In Lithgow we might not fit down , On a Scots Groat we baited thrice , And in at night to Edinburgh Town . We held the Lang gate to Leith-wind , Where poorest purses use to be ; And in the Caltown lodged sin , Fit quarters for sick company . Yet the High-town I fain would see , But that my man did me discharge . He will'd me Blackburns Ale to pry , And muff my beard it was right large . The morn I ventur'd up the Wind , And slung'd in at the Nether-bow , Thinking that Trooker for to tyne , Who does me damage what he dow , His company he does bestow , On me , to my great grief and pain ; Ere I the thrang could wrestle through , The Lown was at my heels again . I grein'd to gang on the plain stanes , To see if Commerads would me ken , We twa gade pacing there our lanes , The hungry hour 'twixt twelve and ane , When I kenned no way how to fend , My Guts rumbl'd like a Hurle-barrow , I din'd with Saints and Noble men , Ev'n sweet St. Giles , and Earl of Murray , Tykes Testament take him for his treat , I needed not my teeth to pike , Though I was in a cruel sweat , He set not by , say what I like : I call'd him Turk and traiked Tike , And wearied him with many a curse ; My bones were hard like a stone dyke , No Reg. Marie was in my purse . Kind Widow Caddel sent for me , To dine as she did oft forsooth , But ah ! alas , that would not be , Her house was o're near the Tollbooth . Yet God reward her for her love , And kindness , which I fed full found , Most ready still for my behove , Ere this hells hound took her in hand . I left my Page and stour'd to Leith , To try my credit at the wine , But foul a drible fil'd my teeth , He gripp'd me at the Coffee Sign , I sta down through the Neither Wind , My Lady Semples house was near ; To enter there was my design , Where Poverty durst ne're appear . I din'd there , but I bade not lang , My Lady fain would shelter me . But e're alas I needs must gang , And leave that comely company : Her Lad convey'd me with a key , Out through the Garden to the fields , Ere I the Links could graithlie see , My Governor was at my heels . I dought not dance to pipe or harp , I had no stock for Cards and Dice , But I fuir to Sir William Sharp , Who never made his Counsel nice : That little man he is right wise , And sharp as any brier can be , He bravely gave me his advice , How I might poison poverty . Quoth he , there grows hard by the Dyel , In Hattons Garden bright and sheen , A sovereign herb call'd Penny Royal , Whilk all the year grows fresh and green , Could you but gather fair and clean , Your business would not go backward , But let account of it be seen , From the Physicians of Exchequer . For if that Ticket you bring with you , Come back to me , you need not fear , For I some of that herb can give you , Whilk I have planted this same year : Your Page it will cause disappear , Who waits on you against your will ; To gather it I shall you lear , In my own Yard of Stonny hill . But when I dread that would not work I underthought me of a wile , How I might at my leisure lurk , My graceless Guardian to beguile : It's but my galloping a mile , Through Cannongate with little loss , Till I have Sanctuary a while Within the Girth of Abbey Closs : There I won in , and blithe was I , When to the inner Court I drew , My Governor I did defy , For joy I clapped my wings and crew . There Messengers dare not pursue , Nor with their wands men's shoulders steer There dwells distressed Lairds enew , In peace though they have little gear , There twa hours I did not tarry , Till my blessed fortune was to see A sighed sure by the mights of Marie , Of that brave Duke of Albanie . Where one blink of his Princely eye , Put that foul foondling to the flight , From me he banished poverty , And gart him take his last goodnight . FINIS . 