C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 4 ) Christs Kirk on the Green , Composed ( as was supposed ) by King James the fifth , Newly Corrected according to the Original Copy . WAs never in Scotland herd or seen , such dancing and deray ; Neither at Faukland on the green , nor Peebles at the play , As was of Woers as I ween ; at Christs Kirk on a day : For there came Kittie washen clean , with her new Gown of Gray , Full gay that day To dance these damsels them dight , these Lasses sighs of laits . Their Gloves were of the raffal right , the [ i ] r sh [ oh ] es were of the straits Their Kirtles were o [ f ] Lincoln light , well pressed with many plaits , They were so nice when men them neigh'd they squell'd like any gaits , Full loud that day . Of all these Maidens mild as meed , was none so gimp as Gillie : As any role her rude was read , her lire was like the Lily , But yellow , yellow was her head , and she of love so silly : Though all her kin had sworn her dead she would have none but Willie . Alone that day , She scorned Jack , and scripp'd at him , and murgeon'd him with mocks : He would have lov'd her , she would not let him for all his yellow locks . He cherished her , she had go chat him , she counted him not two clocks : So shamefully his short Jack set him , his legs were like two rocks , or rungs that day . Tom Lutter was their Minstrel meet , good Lord , how he could lance : He play'd so shrill , and sang so sweet while Tousie took a trance . Old Lightfoot there he could foreleet , and counterfitted France . He held him like a man discreet , and up the Morris dance . He took that day . Then Steven came stepping in with stends , no rink might him arrest ; Splay foot did bob with many bends , for Masie he made request , He lap while he lay on his lends , and rising so was preast , While he did host at both the ends , for honour of the Feast , And danc'd that day . Then Robin Roy began to revel , and Tousie to him drugged : Let be quoth Jack , and call'd him jevel . and by the tail him rugged , Then Kensie clicked to a Kevel , God wots as they two lugged : They parted there upon a nevel : men say their hair was rugged Between them twa With that a friend of his cry'd Fie , and forth and arrow drew : He forged it so forcefully , the bow in flenders flew , Such was the Grace of God , trow I , for had the tree been true ; Men said , who knew his Archery , that he had slave anew , Believe that day . A yap young man that stood him neist , soon bent his bow in ire , And etled the bairn in at the breast the bolt flew over the bire : And cry'd Fie , he hath slave a Priest , a mile beyond the mire : Both Bow and Bag from him he keist and fled as fast as fire From flint that day . And hasty Kinsman called Hary , that was and Archer keen , Tied up a tackle without tarry , I trow the man was teen : I wot not whither his hand did vary , or his foe was his friend : But he escaped by the mights of Mary as one that nothing mean'd . But good that day . Then Lawrie like a Lion lap , and soon a flun can fedder : He height to pierce him at the pape , thereon to wed a wedder ; He hit him on the wamb a wap , it bust like any bladder . He escaped so , such was his hap , his doublet was of leather Full fine that day . The buff so boisterously abaist him , that he to the earth dusht down : The other men for dead he left him , and fled out of the Town , The wives came forth , and up they rest him , and found life in the lown ; Then with three routs there they rais'd him , and cur'd him out of sown , From hand that day . The Miller was of manly make , to meet him it was no mows : There durst not ten some there him take so cowed he their powes , That bushment whole about him brake and bickered him with bows , Then traitorously behind his back , they hoch'd him on the howes . Behind that day ; Then Hutchon with a Hazel rice , to read gan through them rummil : He muddl'd them down like any mice , he was no betty bummil . Though he was wight , he was not wise , with such jutors to jummil ; For from his thumb their flew a slice while he cry'd barlafummal , I'm slave this day . When that he saw his blood so read to flee might no man let him : He trow'd it had been for old feeds ; he thought and bad have at him . He made his feet defend his head , the far fairer it set him : While he was passed out of their plead : they must be swift that got him . Through speed that day . Two that were headsmen of the heard , They rushed on other like Rams ; The other four which were unfear'd , beatrice on with barrow Trams . And where their gobs were ungear'd , they god upon the gams , While that all bloody was their beards , as they had worried lambs Most like that day . They girn'd and glowered all at anes , each Gossip other grieved : Some striked stings , some gathered stanes , some fled , and some relieved . The Minstrels used quiet means , that day he wisely proved , For he came hame with unbruised banes , where fighters were mischieved , Full ill that day ; With forks and flails then let they flaps , and flew together with frigs : With bougers of barns they pierc'd blue caps and of their barns made brigs : The rare rose rudely with their raps , then rungs were laid on rigs : Their Wives came forth with cries and claps , see where my liking ligs , Full low that day . The black Souter of Braith was howden , his Wife hang at his ways His body was in black all browden , he girned like a ghost , Her glittering hair was so bowden , her love fast from him laist . That for his sake she was unyawden , while he a mile was chaste And more that day . When they had beir'd like baited Bulls , the bonfires burned like bails : They grew as meek as any mules That wearled are with mails . For those forfoughen tired fools , fell down like slaughtered frails ; Fresh men came in and hall'd the dools and dang them down in dails . Bedeen that day . The Wives then gave and hideous yeil , when all these yonkiers yoked , As fierce as flags of Fire flaughts fell , frieks to the field they flocked , Then carls with clubs did other quel on breast while blood out bocked , So rudely rang the common bell , that all the Steeple rocked , For dread that day . By this Tom Tailor was in his gear , when he herd the common bell ; He said he should make all on steer when he came there himself , He went to fight with such a fear , while to the ground he fell , A wife that hit him on the Ear , with a great knocking Mell , Felled him that day . The Bridegroom brought a Pint of Ale , and bade the Pyper drink it ; Drink it quoth he , and it so stail , a shrew me if I think it . The Bride her Maidens stood near by , and said it was not blinked ; And Bartagesie the Bride so gay . upon him fast she winked , Full soon that day . When all was done Dick with and Ax came forth to fell a father , Quoth he , where are you whoreson smaiks right now that hurt my brother ; His Wife bade him , Go hame , Gib Glaiks and so did Meg his Mother ; He turn'd and gave them both their paiks , for he durst ding not other But them that day . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 4 ) Christs Kirk on the Green , Composed ( as was supposed ) by King James the fifth , Newly Corrected according to the Original Copy . WAs never in Scotland herd or seen , such dancing and deray ; Neither at Faukland on the green , nor Peebles at the play , As was of Woers as I ween ; at Christs Kirk on a day : For there came Kittie washen clean , with her new Gown of Gray , Full gay that day To dance these damsels them dight , these Lasses sighs of laits . Their Gloves were of the raffal right , the [ i ] r sh [ oh ] es were of the straits Their Kirtles were o [ f ] Lincoln light , well pressed with many plaits , They were so nice when men them neigh'd they squell'd like any gaits , Full loud that day . Of all these Maidens mild as meed , was none so gimp as Gillie : As any role her rude was read , her lire was like the Lily , But yellow , yellow was her head , and she of love so silly : Though all her kin had sworn her dead she would have none but Willie . Alone that day , She scorned Jack , and scripp'd at him , and murgeon'd him with mocks : He would have lov'd her , she would not let him for all his yellow locks . He cherished her , she had go chat him , she counted him not two clocks : So shamefully his short Jack set him , his legs were like two rocks , or rungs that day . Tom Lutter was their Minstrel meet , good Lord , how he could lance : He play'd so shrill , and sang so sweet while Tousie took a trance . Old Lightfoot there he could foreleet , and counterfitted France . He held him like a man discreet , and up the Morris dance . He took that day . Then Steven came stepping in with stends , no rink might him arrest ; Splay foot did bob with many bends , for Masie he made request , He lap while he lay on his lends , and rising so was preast , While he did host at both the ends , for honour of the Feast , And danc'd that day . Then Robin Roy began to revel , and Tousie to him drugged : Let be quoth Jack , and call'd him jevel . and by the tail him rugged , Then Kensie clicked to a Kevel , God wots as they two lugged : They parted there upon a nevel : men say their hair was rugged Between them twa With that a friend of his cry'd Fie , and forth and arrow drew : He forged it so forcefully , the bow in flenders flew , Such was the Grace of God , trow I , for had the tree been true ; Men said , who knew his Archery , that he had slave anew , Believe that day . A yap young man that stood him neist , soon bent his bow in ire , And etled the bairn in at the breast the bolt flew over the bire : And cry'd Fie , he hath slave a Priest , a mile beyond the mire : Both Bow and Bag from him he keist and fled as fast as fire From flint that day . And hasty Kinsman called Hary , that was and Archer keen , Tied up a tackle without tarry , I trow the man was teen : I wot not whither his hand did vary , or his foe was his friend : But he escaped by the mights of Mary as one that nothing mean'd . But good that day . Then Lawrie like a Lion lap , and soon a flun can fedder : He height to pierce him at the pape , thereon to wed a wedder ; He hit him on the wamb a wap , it bust like any bladder . He escaped so , such was his hap , his doublet was of leather Full fine that day . The buff so boisterously abaist him , that he to the earth dusht down : The other men for dead he left him , and fled out of the Town , The wives came forth , and up they rest him , and found life in the lown ; Then with three routs there they rais'd him , and cur'd him out of sown , From hand that day . The Miller was of manly make , to meet him it was no mows : There durst not ten some there him take so cowed he their powes , That bushment whole about him brake and bickered him with bows , Then traitorously behind his back , they hoch'd him on the howes . Behind that day ; Then Hutchon with a Hazel rice , to read gan through them rummil : He muddl'd them down like any mice , he was no betty bummil . Though he was wight , he was not wise , with such jutors to jummil ; For from his thumb their flew a slice while he cry'd barlafummal , I'm slave this day . When that he saw his blood so read to flee might no man let him : He trow'd it had been for old feeds ; he thought and bad have at him . He made his feet defend his head , the far fairer it set him : While he was passed out of their plead : they must be swift that got him . Through speed that day . Two that were headsmen of the heard , They rushed on other like Rams ; The other four which were unfear'd , beatrice on with barrow Trams . And where their gobs were ungear'd , they god upon the gams , While that all bloody was their beards , as they had worried lambs Most like that day . They girn'd and glowered all at anes , each Gossip other grieved : Some striked stings , some gathered stanes , some fled , and some relieved . The Minstrels used quiet means , that day he wisely proved , For he came hame with unbruised banes , where fighters were mischieved , Full ill that day ; With forks and flails then let they flaps , and flew together with frigs : With bougers of barns they pierc'd blue caps and of their barns made brigs : The rare rose rudely with their raps , then rungs were laid on rigs : Their Wives came forth with cries and claps , see where my liking ligs , Full low that day . The black Souter of Braith was howden , his Wife hang at his ways His body was in black all browden , he girned like a ghost , Her glittering hair was so bowden , her love fast from him laist . That for his sake she was unyawden , while he a mile was chaste And more that day . When they had beir'd like baited Bulls , the bonfires burned like bails : They grew as meek as any mules That wearled are with mails . For those forfoughen tired fools , fell down like slaughtered frails ; Fresh men came in and hall'd the dools and dang them down in dails . Bedeen that day . The Wives then gave and hideous yeil , when all these yonkiers yoked , As fierce as flags of Fire flaughts fell , frieks to the field they flocked , Then carls with clubs did other quel on breast while blood out bocked , So rudely rang the common bell , that all the Steeple rocked , For dread that day . By this Tom Tailor was in his gear , when he herd the common bell ; He said he should make all on steer when he came there himself , He went to fight with such a fear , while to the ground he fell , A wife that hit him on the Ear , with a great knocking Mell , Felled him that day . The Bridegroom brought a Pint of Ale , and bade the Pyper drink it ; Drink it quoth he , and it so stail , a shrew me if I think it . The Bride her Maidens stood near by , and said it was not blinked ; And Bartagesie the Bride so gay . upon him fast she winked , Full soon that day . When all was done Dick with and Ax came forth to fell a father , Quoth he , where are you whoreson smaiks right now that hurt my brother ; His Wife bade him , Go hame , Gib Glaiks and so did Meg his Mother ; He turn'd and gave them both their paiks , for he durst ding not other But them that day . FINIS . 