The jealous Lover satisfy'd . All you that do to love pretend , Come lend and ear unto my song , And say no more than you intend , For therein you yourselves do wrong . Tune of , The gallant Youth of Gravesend . THere was in Bristol City fair a Maiden of a good degree , To whom a youngman did repair and courted her most gallantly : These were the words to her he said , Sweet if thou dost my suit deny I am undone , for i'me afraid my heart will break , and I shall die . Youngmen are now so subtle grown and play their parts so cunningly , We Maids had better lie alone , than covet for your company . Yet if I thought you would be true , as now you do pretend to me , [ A single ] life i'd bid adieu , [ and be a ] s kind as kind could be . What unto thee I do pretend , is nothing more than what I mean ; I'le prove thy true and faithful friend , a kinder soul was never seen . These were the words , to her he said : Sweet if thou dost my suit deny I am undone , for i'me afraid my heart will break and I shall die . How many men have vow'd and swore , their wanton minds for to fulfil , Then think upon their vows no more , which often prov'd to Maidens ill : Yet if I thought you would be true , as now you do pretend to me , A single life i'd bid adieu , and be as kind as kind could be . While life does in my heart remain , most loyal I to thee will prove , For here I vow and swear again that nothing shall my mind remove . These were the words , to her he said : Sweet if thou dost my suit deny I am undone , for i'm afra [ i ] worser my heart will break and I shall die . With that she took him by the hand and blushing seemed to comply , Quoth she thou now shalt understand that for thy sake i'le live and die : And now I think thou wilt be true , as thou pretendest unto me , A single life i'le bid adieu , and be as kind as kind can be . When he did hear her charming voice part with such pretty words as these , O how in heart he did rejoice , then Babies in her eyes he sees : Then lovingly to her he said , since thou dost not my love deny , I will no longer be afraid that I for love of thee shall die . No , no , we will so well agree , that thou no mor [ e ] shalt doubtful be , I'le banish all thy care and fear , and prove a faithful wife to thee : For now I think thou wilt be true , as thou pretendest unto me ; A single life I'll bid adieu , and be as kind as kind can be . The wedding-day they pitch'd upon and bravely it did solemnize , Where all things decently were done , their hearts were both a sacrifice : And lovingly to her he said , since thou dost not my love deny , I will no longer be afraid , that I for love of thee shall die . Youngmen & Maids where e're you be take pattern by this loving pair , And prove what you do seem to be , seek not each other to ensnare ; But lovingly your hearts unite , so may you ever happy be ; Those that in falseness take delight will tumble unto misery . Printed for J. Blare on London-Bridge . The jealous Lover satisfy'd . All you that do to love pretend , Come lend and ear unto my song , And say no more than you intend , For therein you yourselves do wrong . Tune of , The gallant Youth of Gravesend . THere was in Bristol City fair a Maiden of a good degree , To whom a youngman did repair and courted her most gallantly : These were the words to her he said , Sweet if thou dost my suit deny I am undone , for i'me afraid my heart will break , and I shall die . Youngmen are now so subtle grown and play their parts so cunningly , We Maids had better lie alone , than covet for your company . Yet if I thought you would be true , as now you do pretend to me , [ A single ] life i'd bid adieu , [ and be a ] s kind as kind could be . What unto thee I do pretend , is nothing more than what I mean ; I'le prove thy true and faithful friend , a kinder soul was never seen . These were the words , to her he said : Sweet if thou dost my suit deny I am undone , for i'me afraid my heart will break and I shall die . How many men have vow'd and swore , their wanton minds for to fulfil , Then think upon their vows no more , which often prov'd to Maidens ill : Yet if I thought you would be true , as now you do pretend to me , A single life i'd bid adieu , and be as kind as kind could be . While life does in my heart remain , most loyal I to thee will prove , For here I vow and swear again that nothing shall my mind remove . These were the words , to her he said : Sweet if thou dost my suit deny I am undone , for i'm afra [ i ] worser my heart will break and I shall die . With that she took him by the hand and blushing seemed to comply , Quoth she thou now shalt understand that for thy sake i'le live and die : And now I think thou wilt be true , as thou pretendest unto me , A single life i'le bid adieu , and be as kind as kind can be . When he did hear her charming voice part with such pretty words as these , O how in heart he did rejoice , then Babies in her eyes he sees : Then lovingly to her he said , since thou dost not my love deny , I will no longer be afraid that I for love of thee shall die . No , no , we will so well agree , that thou no mor [ e ] shalt doubtful be , I'le banish all thy care and fear , and prove a faithful wife to thee : For now I think thou wilt be true , as thou pretendest unto me ; A single life I'll bid adieu , and be as kind as kind can be . The wedding-day they pitch'd upon and bravely it did solemnize , Where all things decently were done , their hearts were both a sacrifice : And lovingly to her he said , since thou dost not my love deny , I will no longer be afraid , that I for love of thee shall die . Youngmen & Maids where e're you be take pattern by this loving pair , And prove what you do seem to be , seek not each other to ensnare ; But lovingly your hearts unite , so may you ever happy be ; Those that in falseness take delight will tumble unto misery . Printed for J. Blare on London-Bridge . 