The Blind Beggar of Bethnal Green ; Showing how his Daughter was Married to a Knight , and had 3,000 l. to her Portion . THIS song's of a beggar , who long lost his sighed , And had a fair daughter most pleasant and bright , And many a gallant brave suitor had she , And none was so comely as pretty Betty . And though she was of a complexion most fair , And seeing she was a poor beggar's heir , Of ancient housekeepers despised was she , Whose sons came as suitors to pretty Betty . Wherefore in great sorrow fair Betty did say , Good father and mother let me now go away , To seek out my fortune , whatever it be . This suit was granted to pretty Betty . This Betty , that was of a beauty most bright , They clad in gay russet , and late in the night From father and mother alone parted she , Who sighed and sobbed for pretty Betty . She travell'd till she came to Stamford , at Bow , Then she knew not whither or which way to go : With tears she lamented her sad destiny , So sad and so heavy was pretty Betty . She kept on her journey until it was day , And went unto Rumford along the highway , And at the Kings' arms entertained was she , So fair and well-favour'd was pretty Betty . She had not been there one month at and end , But master and mistress and all was her friend ; And every brave gallant that once did her see , Was straightway in love with pretty Betty . Great gifts they did send her of silver and gold , And in their songs their love daily they extoll'd ; Her beauty was blaz'd in every degree , So fair and so comely was pretty Betty . The young men of Rumford in her had their joy , She shew'd herself courteous , but never too coy ; And at their commandment still she would be , So fair and comely was pretty Betty . Four suitors at once unto her did go , They craved her favour , but she said , No : I would not have gentlemen marry with me , Yet ever they honour'd pretty Betty . Now one of them was a gallant young knight , And he came to her disguis'd in the night ; The second a gentleman of high degree , Who wooed and sued for pretty Betty . A merchant of London whose wealth was not small , Was then the third suitor , and proper withal ; Her master's own son the fourth man must be , Who swore he would die for pretty Betty . If that you will marry me , quoth the knight , I'll make thee a lady with joy and delight ; My heart is enthrall'd in thy beauty , Then grant me thy favour , my pretty Betty . The gentleman said , Come marry with me , In silks and in velvet my Betty shall be ; My heart lies distracted , Oh! quoth he , And grant me thy love , my dear pietty Betty . Let me be thy husband , the merchant did say , Thou shalt live in London most gallant and gay , My ships shall bring rich jewels for thee , And I will forever love pretty Betty . Then Betty she sigh'd , and thus she did say , My father and mother I mean to obey , First get their good will , and be faithful to me , And you shall enjoy your pretty Betty , To every one of them that answer she made , Therefore unto her they joyful said , This thing to fulfil we all now agree , But where dwells thy father my pretty Betty . My father , quoth she , is soon to be seen , The silly blind beggar of Bethnal Green ; That daily sits begging for charity , He is the kind father of pretty Betty . His marks and his tokens are known full well , He always is led by a dog and a bell ; A poor silly old man , God knows , it is he , Yet he is the true father of pretty Betty . Nay , nay , quoth the merchant thou art not for me , She , quoth the inholder , my wife shall not be ; I loath , said the gentleman , a beggar's degree , Therefore now fare you well , my pretty Betty . Why then , quoth the knight , happen it better or worse , I weigh not true love by the weight of the purse ; And beauty is beauty in every degree : Then welcome to me my dear pretty Betty . With thee to thy father forthwith I will go , Nay , forbear , quoth his kinsman it must not be so . A poor beggar's daughter no lady shall be : Then take thy adieu of thy pretty Betty . As soon then as it was break of day , The knight had from Rumford stole Betty away ; The young men of Rumford , so sick as may be , Road after to fetch again pretty Betty . As swift as the wind to ride they were seen , Until they came near unto Bethnal Green , And the knight alighted most courteously , They fought against him for pretty Betty . But rescue came presently over the plain , Or else the knight there for his love had been slave . The fray being ended , they straightway did see His kinsman come railing at pretty Betty . Then bespoke the blind beggar . Although I be poor , Rail not against my child at my own door ; Though she be not decked in velvet and pearl , Yet will I drop angels with thee for my girl . And then , if my gold should better her birth , And equal the gold you lay on the earth , Then neither rail you , nor gudge you to see The blind beggar's daughter a lady to be . But first I will hear , and have it well known , The gold you drop shall be all your own . With that they replied , contented we be : Then here's , quoth the beggar , for pretty Betty . With that and angel he drop'd on the ground , And drop'd in angels full three thousand pound , And oftentimes it prov'd most plain , For the gentleman's one the beggar dropp'd twain . So that the whole place whereon they did fit , With the finest gold was cover'd every whit ; The gentleman having dropped all his store , Said , beggar , hold your hand , for I have no more . Thou hast fulfiill'd thy promise aright . Then marry my girl , quoth he , to the knight ; And then , quoth he , I will throw you down And hundred pound more to buy her a gown . The gentleman all , who his treasure had seen , Admired the beggar of Bethnal Green . And those that had been her suitors before , Their tender flesh for anger they tore . Thus was the fair Betty match'd to a knight , And many a lady in others despite ; A fairer lady they never was seen , Then the beggar's daughter of Bethnal Green . But of her sumptuous marriage and feast , And what fine lords and ladies thither pressed , The second part shall set forth to your sighed , With marvellous pleasure , and wished for delight . Of a blind beggar's daughter so bright , That late was bethroth'd to a young knight , All the whole discourse therefore you may see --- But now comes the wedding of pretty Betty . IT was within a gallant place most brave , Adorned with all the cost they could have , This wedding it was kept most sumptuously , And all for the love of pretty Betty . And all kind of dainties and delicates sweet , Was brought to their banquet as it was thought meet , Patridge , plover , and venison most free , Against the brave wedding of pretty Betty . The wedding thro' England was spread by report , So that a great number thereto did resort , Of nobles and gentlemen of every degree , And all of the fame of pretty Betty . To church then away went this gallant young knight , His bride followed after like a lady bright , With troops of ladies , the like was ne'er seen , As went with sweet Betty of Bethnal Green . This wedding being solemnized then , With music performed by skilful men ; The nobles and gentlemen down at the side , Each one beholding the beautiful bride . But after the sumptuous dinner was done , To talk and reason a number begun , And of the blind beggar's daughter most bright , And what with his daughter he gave to the knight . Then spoke the nobles , Much marvel have we , This jolly blind beggar we cannot yet see My lords , quoth the bride , my father's abash'd , And would not with his presence have his state disgrac'd . The praise of a woman in question to bring , Before her own face is a flattering thing ; We think thy father's business . quoth they , Might by thy beauty be quite put away . They no sooner this pleasant word spoke , But in comes the beggar in a silken cloak ; A velvet cap and a feather had he , And now a musician , forsooth he would be . And being led in from catching of harm , He had a dainty lute under his arm , Said , please you to hear any music of me ? A song I will give you of pretty Betty . With that his lute he twanged straightway , And thereupon begun most sweetly to play ; And after a lesson was play'd two or three , He strain'd out this song most delicately . A BEGGAR's daughter did dwell on a green , Who for her beauty may well be a queen ; A blithe The Blind Beggar of Bethnal Green ; Showing how his Daughter was Married to a Knight , and had 3,000 l. to her Portion . THIS song's of a beggar , who long lost his sighed , And had a fair daughter most pleasant and bright , And many a gallant brave suitor had she , And none was so comely as pretty Betty . And though she was of a complexion most fair , And seeing she was a poor beggar's heir , Of ancient housekeepers despised was she , Whose sons came as suitors to pretty Betty . Wherefore in great sorrow fair Betty did say , Good father and mother let me now go away , To seek out my fortune , whatever it be . This suit was granted to pretty Betty . This Betty , that was of a beauty most bright , They clad in gay russet , and late in the night From father and mother alone parted she , Who sighed and sobbed for pretty Betty . She travell'd till she came to Stamford , at Bow , Then she knew not whither or which way to go : With tears she lamented her sad destiny , So sad and so heavy was pretty Betty . She kept on her journey until it was day , And went unto Rumford along the highway , And at the Kings' arms entertained was she , So fair and well-favour'd was pretty Betty . She had not been there one month at and end , But master and mistress and all was her friend ; And every brave gallant that once did her see , Was straightway in love with pretty Betty . Great gifts they did send her of silver and gold , And in their songs their love daily they extoll'd ; Her beauty was blaz'd in every degree , So fair and so comely was pretty Betty . The young men of Rumford in her had their joy , She shew'd herself courteous , but never too coy ; And at their commandment still she would be , So fair and comely was pretty Betty . Four suitors at once unto her did go , They craved her favour , but she said , No : I would not have gentlemen marry with me , Yet ever they honour'd pretty Betty . Now one of them was a gallant young knight , And he came to her disguis'd in the night ; The second a gentleman of high degree , Who wooed and sued for pretty Betty . A merchant of London whose wealth was not small , Was then the third suitor , and proper withal ; Her master's own son the fourth man must be , Who swore he would die for pretty Betty . If that you will marry me , quoth the knight , I'll make thee a lady with joy and delight ; My heart is enthrall'd in thy beauty , Then grant me thy favour , my pretty Betty . The gentleman said , Come marry with me , In silks and in velvet my Betty shall be ; My heart lies distracted , Oh! quoth he , And grant me thy love , my dear pietty Betty . Let me be thy husband , the merchant did say , Thou shalt live in London most gallant and gay , My ships shall bring rich jewels for thee , And I will forever love pretty Betty . Then Betty she sigh'd , and thus she did say , My father and mother I mean to obey , First get their good will , and be faithful to me , And you shall enjoy your pretty Betty , To every one of them that answer she made , Therefore unto her they joyful said , This thing to fulfil we all now agree , But where dwells thy father my pretty Betty . My father , quoth she , is soon to be seen , The silly blind beggar of Bethnal Green ; That daily sits begging for charity , He is the kind father of pretty Betty . His marks and his tokens are known full well , He always is led by a dog and a bell ; A poor silly old man , God knows , it is he , Yet he is the true father of pretty Betty . Nay , nay , quoth the merchant thou art not for me , She , quoth the inholder , my wife shall not be ; I loath , said the gentleman , a beggar's degree , Therefore now fare you well , my pretty Betty . Why then , quoth the knight , happen it better or worse , I weigh not true love by the weight of the purse ; And beauty is beauty in every degree : Then welcome to me my dear pretty Betty . With thee to thy father forthwith I will go , Nay , forbear , quoth his kinsman it must not be so . A poor beggar's daughter no lady shall be : Then take thy adieu of thy pretty Betty . As soon then as it was break of day , The knight had from Rumford stole Betty away ; The young men of Rumford , so sick as may be , Road after to fetch again pretty Betty . As swift as the wind to ride they were seen , Until they came near unto Bethnal Green , And the knight alighted most courteously , They fought against him for pretty Betty . But rescue came presently over the plain , Or else the knight there for his love had been slave . The fray being ended , they straightway did see His kinsman come railing at pretty Betty . Then bespoke the blind beggar . Although I be poor , Rail not against my child at my own door ; Though she be not decked in velvet and pearl , Yet will I drop angels with thee for my girl . And then , if my gold should better her birth , And equal the gold you lay on the earth , Then neither rail you , nor gudge you to see The blind beggar's daughter a lady to be . But first I will hear , and have it well known , The gold you drop shall be all your own . With that they replied , contented we be : Then here's , quoth the beggar , for pretty Betty . With that and angel he drop'd on the ground , And drop'd in angels full three thousand pound , And oftentimes it prov'd most plain , For the gentleman's one the beggar dropp'd twain . So that the whole place whereon they did fit , With the finest gold was cover'd every whit ; The gentleman having dropped all his store , Said , beggar , hold your hand , for I have no more . Thou hast fulfiill'd thy promise aright . Then marry my girl , quoth he , to the knight ; And then , quoth he , I will throw you down And hundred pound more to buy her a gown . The gentleman all , who his treasure had seen , Admired the beggar of Bethnal Green . And those that had been her suitors before , Their tender flesh for anger they tore . Thus was the fair Betty match'd to a knight , And many a lady in others despite ; A fairer lady they never was seen , Then the beggar's daughter of Bethnal Green . But of her sumptuous marriage and feast , And what fine lords and ladies thither pressed , The second part shall set forth to your sighed , With marvellous pleasure , and wished for delight . Of a blind beggar's daughter so bright , That late was bethroth'd to a young knight , All the whole discourse therefore you may see --- But now comes the wedding of pretty Betty . IT was within a gallant place most brave , Adorned with all the cost they could have , This wedding it was kept most sumptuously , And all for the love of pretty Betty . And all kind of dainties and delicates sweet , Was brought to their banquet as it was thought meet , Patridge , plover , and venison most free , Against the brave wedding of pretty Betty . The wedding thro' England was spread by report , So that a great number thereto did resort , Of nobles and gentlemen of every degree , And all of the fame of pretty Betty . To church then away went this gallant young knight , His bride followed after like a lady bright , With troops of ladies , the like was ne'er seen , As went with sweet Betty of Bethnal Green . This wedding being solemnized then , With music performed by skilful men ; The nobles and gentlemen down at the side , Each one beholding the beautiful bride . But after the sumptuous dinner was done , To talk and reason a number begun , And of the blind beggar's daughter most bright , And what with his daughter he gave to the knight . Then spoke the nobles , Much marvel have we , This jolly blind beggar we cannot yet see My lords , quoth the bride , my father's abash'd , And would not with his presence have his state disgrac'd . The praise of a woman in question to bring , Before her own face is a flattering thing ; We think thy father's business . quoth they , Might by thy beauty be quite put away . They no sooner this pleasant word spoke , But in comes the beggar in a silken cloak ; A velvet cap and a feather had he , And now a musician , forsooth he would be . And being led in from catching of harm , He had a dainty lute under his arm , Said , please you to hear any music of me ? A song I will give you of pretty Betty . With that his lute he twanged straightway , And thereupon begun most sweetly to play ; And after a lesson was play'd two or three , He strain'd out this song most delicately . A BEGGAR's daughter did dwell on a green , Who for her beauty may well be a queen ; A blithe bonny lass and dainty was she , And many one called her pretty Betty . Her father had no goods nor any lands , But begg'd for a penny all day with his hands ; And yet for her marriage gave thousands three , Yet still he hath somewhat for pretty Betty . And if anyone her birth do disdain , Her father is ready with might and main , To prove she is come of noble degree , Therefore let none flout at at my pretty Betty . With that the lords and the company round , With a hearty laughter was ready to swoon ; At last , said the lords , Full well we may see , The bride and bridegroom's beholden to thee . With that the fair bride all blushing did rise , With crystal water all in her fair eyes . Pardon my father , brave nobles , said she , That through kind affection thus dotes upon me . If this be thy father , the nobles did say , Well may he be proud of this happy day ; Yet by his countenance well may we see , His birth with his fortune could never agree . And therefore , blind beggar , to thee I do pray , And look to us then the truth thou dost say ; Thy birth and thy parentage what it be , E'en for the love thou bearest to pretty Betty . Then give me leave you gentles each one , A song more to to sing , and I'll begone , And if that I do not win a good report . Then do not give me one groat for my sport . WHEN first our king his fame did advance , And sought his title in delicate France ; In many place great perils past he , But then was not born my pretty Betty . And at those wars went over to fight , Many a brave duke , a lord , and a knight , And with them young Munford of courage so free . But then was not born my pretty Betty . And there did young Munford with a blow on his face Lose both his eyes in a very short space ; His life had been gone away with his sighed , Had not a young woman gone forth in the night . Among the said men her fancy did move , To search and to look for her own truelove ; Who seeing young Munford there gasping to die , She saved his life through charity . And then all our victuals , in beggars attire , At the hands of good people we then did require ; At last in England , as now it is seen , We came and remained in Bethnal Green . And thus we have liv'd in Fortune's despite , Though poor yet contented with humble delight . And in my old years a comfort to be , God sent me a daughter called pretty Betty . And thus the nobles , my song I do end , Hoping by the same no man to offend ; Full forty long winter's thus have I been , A silly blind beggar of Bethnal Green . Now when the company every one , Did hear the strange tale he told in his song , They were amazed as well as they may be , Both at the blind beggar and pretty Betty . With that the fair bride they did embrace , Saying you are of and honourable raze , Thy father likewise of high degree , And thou art worthy a lady to be . Thus was the feast ended with joy and delight , A happy bridegroom was made the young knight Who liv'd in great joy and felicity , With his fair lady dear pretty Betty . Printed and sold by Jennings , Water-lane , Fleet-street , London . Price One Penny . bonny lass and dainty was she , And many one called her pretty Betty . Her father had no goods nor any lands , But begg'd for a penny all day with his hands ; And yet for her marriage gave thousands three , Yet still he hath somewhat for pretty Betty . And if anyone her birth do disdain , Her father is ready with might and main , To prove she is come of noble degree , Therefore let none flout at at my pretty Betty . With that the lords and the company round , With a hearty laughter was ready to swoon ; At last , said the lords , Full well we may see , The bride and bridegroom's beholden to thee . With that the fair bride all blushing did rise , With crystal water all in her fair eyes . Pardon my father , brave nobles , said she , That through kind affection thus dotes upon me . If this be thy father , the nobles did say , Well may he be proud of this happy day ; Yet by his countenance well may we see , His birth with his fortune could never agree . And therefore , blind beggar , to thee I do pray , And look to us then the truth thou dost say ; Thy birth and thy parentage what it be , E'en for the love thou bearest to pretty Betty . Then give me leave you gentles each one , A song more to to sing , and I'll begone , And if that I do not win a good report . Then do not give me one groat for my sport . WHEN first our king his fame did advance , And sought his title in delicate France ; In many place great perils past he , But then was not born my pretty Betty . And at those wars went over to fight , Many a brave duke , a lord , and a knight , And with them young Munford of courage so free . But then was not born my pretty Betty . And there did young Munford with a blow on his face Lose both his eyes in a very short space ; His life had been gone away with his sighed , Had not a young woman gone forth in the night . Among the said men her fancy did move , To search and to look for her own truelove ; Who seeing young Munford there gasping to die , She saved his life through charity . And then all our victuals , in beggars attire , At the hands of good people we then did require ; At last in England , as now it is seen , We came and remained in Bethnal Green . And thus we have liv'd in Fortune's despite , Though poor yet contented with humble delight . And in my old years a comfort to be , God sent me a daughter called pretty Betty . And thus the nobles , my song I do end , Hoping by the same no man to offend ; Full forty long winter's thus have I been , A silly blind beggar of Bethnal Green . Now when the company every one , Did hear the strange tale he told in his song , They were amazed as well as they may be , Both at the blind beggar and pretty Betty . With that the fair bride they did embrace , Saying you are of and honourable raze , Thy father likewise of high degree , And thou art worthy a lady to be . Thus was the feast ended with joy and delight , A happy bridegroom was made the young knight Who liv'd in great joy and felicity , With his fair lady dear pretty Betty . Printed and sold by Jennings , Water-lane , Fleet-street , London . Price One Penny . 