The Noble Gallant ; Or , And Answer to Long Days of Absence , etc He all those jealous Doubts of hers removes , And now unto this fair one constant proves , He tells her he is hers , none shall possess Him , but herself , such love he does express ; He gives her all content that can be spoken , And cheers her heart , which once was almost broken ; What e're she asks she has , BEAUTY rules all , It can a Lovers heart make rise or fallen . To a pleasant New Tune : called , the Germane Princesses farewell . THink not my Dear thou shalt be absent long , My heart to thine is ty'd most firm and strong , None of thy Rivals ever shall outdo thee . They are not fit to be compar'd unto thee . What need I care for wealth it is but dross , Want of a beauty is the greater loss ; Though constancy with men is out of fashion , A Woman ought to love to show true passion . Perhaps with others I may sport and play , But what thou long'st for i'le not give away ; Thou shalt have all the pleasure I can give thee , Then fear me not , for I will never leave thee . Thou shalt not lose one smile , what I can grant My pretty wanton thou shalt never want , Thy flames I own , and dying will embrace thee , The Willow Garland never shall disgrace thee . The second Part , To the same Tune . IF all the World should dare to Laugh , and say My mind on beauty often goes astray ; Yet she that willingly affords me pleasure , Shall have at her command a Mint of treasure . I know for wit and beauty ne'r a Lass , In all the world my dearest can surpass ; One Kiss , one smile , one Hug , I then am dying , Ask what thou wilt , there can be no denying . thou needest not force thy soul , for thou hast charms Are able to resist cold death's alarm's : There can be no decay in thee I am sure , Nature's rare works for ages must endure . Thy vows I hear , thou art my hearts delight , I find no joy but when I am in thy sighed ; And this thou shalt assure thy self , I love thee No woman in my heart shall rule above thee : I know that thou art brisk , merry , and young , thou canst strike dead with thy al-charming tongue [ e ] If that to dance or sing thou dost desire , All flesh is dumb , and silently admire . I'll rest content with thee , and never more , Strange faces , nor proud looks will I adore : Be true to me , and all things I'll do for thee , But if unkind and false , then I'll abhor thee , When I behold those pretty wanton eyes , The thoughts of any other I despise : Then be not jealous , for i'le always mind thee . I [ ' ] le catch thee in my arms where e're I find thee Talk not of Death thou art not born to Die , He'l court thee when he does that face espy : Come kiss me now my Dear , & don't repent thee For naked every night I will content thee . Printed for I . H. and sold by F. Coals , T. Vere , I Wright , and I . Clarke . The Noble Gallant ; Or , And Answer to Long Days of Absence , etc He all those jealous Doubts of hers removes , And now unto this fair one constant proves , He tells her he is hers , none shall possess Him , but herself , such love he does express ; He gives her all content that can be spoken , And cheers her heart , which once was almost broken ; What e're she asks she has , BEAUTY rules all , It can a Lovers heart make rise or fallen . To a pleasant New Tune : called , the Germane Princesses farewell . THink not my Dear thou shalt be absent long , My heart to thine is ty'd most firm and strong , None of thy Rivals ever shall outdo thee . They are not fit to be compar'd unto thee . What need I care for wealth it is but dross , Want of a beauty is the greater loss ; Though constancy with men is out of fashion , A Woman ought to love to show true passion . Perhaps with others I may sport and play , But what thou long'st for i'le not give away ; Thou shalt have all the pleasure I can give thee , Then fear me not , for I will never leave thee . Thou shalt not lose one smile , what I can grant My pretty wanton thou shalt never want , Thy flames I own , and dying will embrace thee , The Willow Garland never shall disgrace thee . The second Part , To the same Tune . IF all the World should dare to Laugh , and say My mind on beauty often goes astray ; Yet she that willingly affords me pleasure , Shall have at her command a Mint of treasure . I know for wit and beauty ne'r a Lass , In all the world my dearest can surpass ; One Kiss , one smile , one Hug , I then am dying , Ask what thou wilt , there can be no denying . thou needest not force thy soul , for thou hast charms Are able to resist cold death's alarm's : There can be no decay in thee I am sure , Nature's rare works for ages must endure . Thy vows I hear , thou art my hearts delight , I find no joy but when I am in thy sighed ; And this thou shalt assure thy self , I love thee No woman in my heart shall rule above thee : I know that thou art brisk , merry , and young , thou canst strike dead with thy al-charming tongue [ e ] If that to dance or sing thou dost desire , All flesh is dumb , and silently admire . I'll rest content with thee , and never more , Strange faces , nor proud looks will I adore : Be true to me , and all things I'll do for thee , But if unkind and false , then I'll abhor thee , When I behold those pretty wanton eyes , The thoughts of any other I despise : Then be not jealous , for i'le always mind thee . I [ ' ] le catch thee in my arms where e're I find thee Talk not of Death thou art not born to Die , He'l court thee when he does that face espy : Come kiss me now my Dear , & don't repent thee For naked every night I will content thee . Printed for I . H. and sold by F. Coals , T. Vere , I Wright , and I . Clarke . 