Solomons Sentences . Being and Excellent Ditty , showing the sage Sayings and Wise Sentences of Solomon . The Tune is , Wigmore's Galliard . THose that will run a Virtuous raze , and learn the Precepts of the Sage , Those that true wisdom will embrace , and learn to live in youth and age : Let them approach hereto with speed , And to my Lessons give good heed ; For bearing well these things away , The Lord will bless them night and day My Son , said Solomon the wise , if thou true wisdom wilt obtain , Then fear the Lord that rules the skys , for so the Scriptures teaches plain : Embrace his word , and him obey , This is the chief and only way ; For they that do these things despise , Are fools to God , though worldly wise . Unto thy Father honour give , and thou shalt surely blessed be , And be obedient while you live , and to thy Mother Courteous be , Then God will send thee evermore Sufficient wealth , and treasure store : All things shall prosper in thine hand , And long thou shalt enjoy the Land. The blessing of the Father dear , does cause his Children's good success But where the Mother does appear , to curse her Children's wickedness : Their whole foundation does decay , Like withered leaves that fallen away . Then all good Christians learn by me , To love your Parents faithfully . Set not thy mind on worldly wealth , nor put thy confidence therein , For riches does consume by stealth , and Covetousness is counted since : For while thou livest on the earth , Thou art uncertain of thy death ; And when that death does stop thy wind Then thou must leave thy goods behind Be friendly unto every man , but unto few familiar be , And try thy friend if that thou can , his inward thoughts to prove & see . And if thou find him just and true , Change not and old friend for a new - For many promise much indeed , But clean forsake them in their need . If thou hast Sons , instruct them well and on thy Daughters never smile : Their wanton ways do far excel , let not affection thee beguile : With due correction love them still , And give them not their wanton will ; For if that they do stubborn grow , They will not then their duty know . Give honour to the aged sort , and to thy betters always vow , So shalt thou have a good report , for God himself does it allow , Of hateful Pride always beware , And have and Eye to after care ; Be not too wrath in anything , For that will soon repentance bring . Lend not thy goods to mighty men , whose countenance passes thy degree For they are hard to get again , as now by daily proof we see : For other men give not thy word , No further then thou canst afford ; Lest afterwards thou chance to rue , And pay the debt when it is due . With him that is a Magistrate , in any wise go not to Law , Lest thou repent the same too late , for he will hold thee still in awe : Be always wary of thy words , For spiteful words are cruel swords And look to whom thou dost impart The thoughts and secrets of thy heart Be never jealous of thy Wife , lest she therefore mischief learn , And thou thereby dost purchase strife then wisely do each thing discern . And not evil occasion give , But lovingly together live ; We see when man and wife do hate , The curse of God hangs at the Gate . On Harlots cast not thou thy mind , lest thou thereby thy self consume ; And waste thy riches with the wind , while thou in fancy fret and fume : Their foul enticements brings death And poison comes out of their breath ; Their eyes are wandering too and from , And everyone their fashions know . Praise no woman for beauty's sake , nor discommend no man ny sighed ; And with thy tongue no lying make , fulfil thy promise just and righ Be merciful unto the poor , And God will thee reward therefore ; Keep not thy Labourers wages back , And comfort such as comfort lack . Grieve not the heavy-hearted man , nor joy not at thy enemies harm ; Rebuke thy Brother friendly then , against no man use open charm : Credit not thou a Tale in haste , Lest trial make the matter waste ; And from all slander keep thy tongue , And work for age while thou art young 3 things there are that God does hate as holy Scriptures does declare ; A man too proud in Beggars state , a rich man for to lie and swear . To see and old man given to lust , These things of God are sure accursed , The lying tongue the soul does quell , But pride and lust throw down to hell . While thou art living , call for grace , thy life is like a fading flower ; Death comes stealing on apace , thou canst not know the day nor hour Thy Speeeh at all times may not last Use well the same that now thou hast ; And from repentance do not stay , Thou canst no time with death delay . If thou consider well the same , and bear these Lessons in thy mind ; And thereunto thy self do frame , great crmfort thou shalt quickly find Plant well these sayings in thy heart , And from these Precepts never start ; So shalt thou live in perfect peace , And God will bless thee with increase . FINIS . Printed for W. Thackeray , in Duck-Lane . Solomons Sentences . Being and Excellent Ditty , showing the sage Sayings and Wise Sentences of Solomon . The Tune is , Wigmore's Galliard . THose that will run a Virtuous raze , and learn the Precepts of the Sage , Those that true wisdom will embrace , and learn to live in youth and age : Let them approach hereto with speed , And to my Lessons give good heed ; For bearing well these things away , The Lord will bless them night and day My Son , said Solomon the wise , if thou true wisdom wilt obtain , Then fear the Lord that rules the skys , for so the Scriptures teaches plain : Embrace his word , and him obey , This is the chief and only way ; For they that do these things despise , Are fools to God , though worldly wise . Unto thy Father honour give , and thou shalt surely blessed be , And be obedient while you live , and to thy Mother Courteous be , Then God will send thee evermore Sufficient wealth , and treasure store : All things shall prosper in thine hand , And long thou shalt enjoy the Land. The blessing of the Father dear , does cause his Children's good success But where the Mother does appear , to curse her Children's wickedness : Their whole foundation does decay , Like withered leaves that fallen away . Then all good Christians learn by me , To love your Parents faithfully . Set not thy mind on worldly wealth , nor put thy confidence therein , For riches does consume by stealth , and Covetousness is counted since : For while thou livest on the earth , Thou art uncertain of thy death ; And when that death does stop thy wind Then thou must leave thy goods behind Be friendly unto every man , but unto few familiar be , And try thy friend if that thou can , his inward thoughts to prove & see . And if thou find him just and true , Change not and old friend for a new - For many promise much indeed , But clean forsake them in their need . If thou hast Sons , instruct them well and on thy Daughters never smile : Their wanton ways do far excel , let not affection thee beguile : With due correction love them still , And give them not their wanton will ; For if that they do stubborn grow , They will not then their duty know . Give honour to the aged sort , and to thy betters always vow , So shalt thou have a good report , for God himself does it allow , Of hateful Pride always beware , And have and Eye to after care ; Be not too wrath in anything , For that will soon repentance bring . Lend not thy goods to mighty men , whose countenance passes thy degree For they are hard to get again , as now by daily proof we see : For other men give not thy word , No further then thou canst afford ; Lest afterwards thou chance to rue , And pay the debt when it is due . With him that is a Magistrate , in any wise go not to Law , Lest thou repent the same too late , for he will hold thee still in awe : Be always wary of thy words , For spiteful words are cruel swords And look to whom thou dost impart The thoughts and secrets of thy heart Be never jealous of thy Wife , lest she therefore mischief learn , And thou thereby dost purchase strife then wisely do each thing discern . And not evil occasion give , But lovingly together live ; We see when man and wife do hate , The curse of God hangs at the Gate . On Harlots cast not thou thy mind , lest thou thereby thy self consume ; And waste thy riches with the wind , while thou in fancy fret and fume : Their foul enticements brings death And poison comes out of their breath ; Their eyes are wandering too and from , And everyone their fashions know . Praise no woman for beauty's sake , nor discommend no man ny sighed ; And with thy tongue no lying make , fulfil thy promise just and righ Be merciful unto the poor , And God will thee reward therefore ; Keep not thy Labourers wages back , And comfort such as comfort lack . Grieve not the heavy-hearted man , nor joy not at thy enemies harm ; Rebuke thy Brother friendly then , against no man use open charm : Credit not thou a Tale in haste , Lest trial make the matter waste ; And from all slander keep thy tongue , And work for age while thou art young 3 things there are that God does hate as holy Scriptures does declare ; A man too proud in Beggars state , a rich man for to lie and swear . To see and old man given to lust , These things of God are sure accursed , The lying tongue the soul does quell , But pride and lust throw down to hell . While thou art living , call for grace , thy life is like a fading flower ; Death comes stealing on apace , thou canst not know the day nor hour Thy Speeeh at all times may not last Use well the same that now thou hast ; And from repentance do not stay , Thou canst no time with death delay . If thou consider well the same , and bear these Lessons in thy mind ; And thereunto thy self do frame , great crmfort thou shalt quickly find Plant well these sayings in thy heart , And from these Precepts never start ; So shalt thou live in perfect peace , And God will bless thee with increase . FINIS . Printed for W. Thackeray , in Duck-Lane . 