The dying tears of a true Lover forsaken , Made on his Deathbed ; the hour before his Death .. The Tune is , Come live with me . THose gentle hearts that true love crave , Where true love can no harbour have , From shedding tears cannot refrain , But mourn with me that lov'd in vain Soar sick in love , soar sick in mind , Come gentle death my life unwind , For Cupids shaft and golden Bow , Now seeks my joys to overthrow . Upon my Deathbed I have pen'd , The Story of my woeful end ; Vain world behold I die , I die , Here murdered by loves cruelty : Oh Sarah Hill thou art the Wight , That turn'd my joy to sharp delight , Thou art the causer of my death , Farewell false love , farewell my breath . Be warn'd you wantons by my fallen , In love there is no truth at all ; Although in love you live untrue , There is some Maids as false as you : Her beauty dazzled so mine eyes , That in her breast my heart still lies , I lov'd her , but she lov'd not me , Wherefore behold , I die , I die . O cursed eyes , why did you gaze , Upon her fair and flattering face ? O wherefore did my eyes unfold , One fram'd of such unconstant mould : Come wrap me in my winding-sheet , And bear me sadly through the street , That from her eyes salt tears may shed , When for her sake she sees me dead . In outward show she joined hands , And vow'd to live in wedlock bans , But she unkind hath me dispis'd , And broke my heart so highly priz'd : Oh Lord what grief do I sustain , Which liv'd dispis'd , and lov'd in vain , But Lord how well are they paid , Which hap to choose a constant Maid . There is no living wight that knows , The pining pain and endless woes , That we forsaken Lovers hide , But such as have the torments try'd : I needs must yield now death does fade , Death's coming cannot be denay'd : Oh reach the Bible , pray to me , For that my souls true love shall be . Go tole my Passing-bell , dear friends , For here a Lovers journey ends : But mark what fortune she shall have , When she hath clos'd me in the Grave , I do not doubt but you shall see , Her body paid in misery : And made a laughingstock to those , Who now her great unkindness knows . You of the Gentle-craft that be , Show this kind favour unto me , That to the world this mournful Song , Be chanted sweetly you among : And some of you I do request , To bear me to my longing rest . And lay my carcase in the ground , With ringing Bells' melodious found . To my dear love then go and say , Her change of mind cast me away , Bid her hard heart so constant prove , To him that next shall be her love : With that he yielded up his life , Where death gave end to further strife : Desiring God that sits in Heaven , His lovers sins might be forgiven . Thus have you herd Hugh Hills good mind Who never proved in love unkind : But to his end continued true , Not changing old friend for a new . FINIS . The second part , to the same Tune . COme young Lasses and listen well , Unto the tale that I shall tell , For unto you I will unfold A matter worthy to be told : There was a young man lov'd me well , A Shoemaker his name Hugh Hill , His heart with love did burn amain , And I seem'd to love him again . Then were we made sure together , But I unconstant as the weather , Did him forsake , I was so nice , When in the Church were asked thrice , When that he saw I was unkind , And that I had a cruel mind , For love of me he left his life , Because I would not be his wife . I never car'd what he did say , But suffered him to pine away : And when he yielded up his breath , I quickly had forgotten his death , But in my Bed upon a time , As many things came in my mind , There smiling to myself I said , I think that I shall die a maid . Then many a Youth I thought upon , I lov'd and fancy'd many a one : I hated some , and some reserv'd , To like and love as they deserv'd : But in the midst of all my choice , I herd a lamentable voice , With Music sounding to the ear , But not to me as did appear . For when I herd what it might be And what was cause of this Melody , And at my window a voice did cry , Hugh Hill is dead , fie Sarah fie , My conscience then tormented me , Of my false heart and treachery , And evermore the voice would cry , Go pine thyself repent and die , Methought it was the voice of Hugh , Of good Hugh Hill that was so true , That was so faithful unto me , Yet used him most wickedly : Oh there he did my faults express , And I the same must needs confess , For I kill'd him with cruelty , For which I would but cannot die And since that time my heart is light , And all my body altered quite , My eyes are sunk into my head , Which makes me look like one that's dead My face that was so fresh and fine , As clear as is the Claret wine , Is now transform'd to another hue , Both grim and loathsome to the view . My skin is whither'd , my flesh is gone , And nothing left but skin and bone , And now I pine most dolefully , Wishing for death but cannot die , Therefore sweet Maids that suitors have Yield unto them that true love crave , Oh do not cast a man away , Lest you your selves go to decay . If unto you a youngman come , You are so fine you'l ne'r have none , Until your beauty fade away , You scorn most men you are so coy : Fie , fie , remember what you are , Do not refuse while you are fair , Unto your true loves be not coy , 'Tis good to take them while you may . As you be coy , so I have been , But see the misery I live in , That was it not for my souls health , I would be willing to kill myself : Therefore fair Maids amend in time , Lest that your woes be like to mine , And pray to God to end my grief , Or else to rid me of my life . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The dying tears of a true Lover forsaken , Made on his Deathbed ; the hour before his Death .. The Tune is , Come live with me . THose gentle hearts that true love crave , Where true love can no harbour have , From shedding tears cannot refrain , But mourn with me that lov'd in vain Soar sick in love , soar sick in mind , Come gentle death my life unwind , For Cupids shaft and golden Bow , Now seeks my joys to overthrow . Upon my Deathbed I have pen'd , The Story of my woeful end ; Vain world behold I die , I die , Here murdered by loves cruelty : Oh Sarah Hill thou art the Wight , That turn'd my joy to sharp delight , Thou art the causer of my death , Farewell false love , farewell my breath . Be warn'd you wantons by my fallen , In love there is no truth at all ; Although in love you live untrue , There is some Maids as false as you : Her beauty dazzled so mine eyes , That in her breast my heart still lies , I lov'd her , but she lov'd not me , Wherefore behold , I die , I die . O cursed eyes , why did you gaze , Upon her fair and flattering face ? O wherefore did my eyes unfold , One fram'd of such unconstant mould : Come wrap me in my winding-sheet , And bear me sadly through the street , That from her eyes salt tears may shed , When for her sake she sees me dead . In outward show she joined hands , And vow'd to live in wedlock bans , But she unkind hath me dispis'd , And broke my heart so highly priz'd : Oh Lord what grief do I sustain , Which liv'd dispis'd , and lov'd in vain , But Lord how well are they paid , Which hap to choose a constant Maid . There is no living wight that knows , The pining pain and endless woes , That we forsaken Lovers hide , But such as have the torments try'd : I needs must yield now death does fade , Death's coming cannot be denay'd : Oh reach the Bible , pray to me , For that my souls true love shall be . Go tole my Passing-bell , dear friends , For here a Lovers journey ends : But mark what fortune she shall have , When she hath clos'd me in the Grave , I do not doubt but you shall see , Her body paid in misery : And made a laughingstock to those , Who now her great unkindness knows . You of the Gentle-craft that be , Show this kind favour unto me , That to the world this mournful Song , Be chanted sweetly you among : And some of you I do request , To bear me to my longing rest . And lay my carcase in the ground , With ringing Bells' melodious found . To my dear love then go and say , Her change of mind cast me away , Bid her hard heart so constant prove , To him that next shall be her love : With that he yielded up his life , Where death gave end to further strife : Desiring God that sits in Heaven , His lovers sins might be forgiven . Thus have you herd Hugh Hills good mind Who never proved in love unkind : But to his end continued true , Not changing old friend for a new . FINIS . The second part , to the same Tune . COme young Lasses and listen well , Unto the tale that I shall tell , For unto you I will unfold A matter worthy to be told : There was a young man lov'd me well , A Shoemaker his name Hugh Hill , His heart with love did burn amain , And I seem'd to love him again . Then were we made sure together , But I unconstant as the weather , Did him forsake , I was so nice , When in the Church were asked thrice , When that he saw I was unkind , And that I had a cruel mind , For love of me he left his life , Because I would not be his wife . I never car'd what he did say , But suffered him to pine away : And when he yielded up his breath , I quickly had forgotten his death , But in my Bed upon a time , As many things came in my mind , There smiling to myself I said , I think that I shall die a maid . Then many a Youth I thought upon , I lov'd and fancy'd many a one : I hated some , and some reserv'd , To like and love as they deserv'd : But in the midst of all my choice , I herd a lamentable voice , With Music sounding to the ear , But not to me as did appear . For when I herd what it might be And what was cause of this Melody , And at my window a voice did cry , Hugh Hill is dead , fie Sarah fie , My conscience then tormented me , Of my false heart and treachery , And evermore the voice would cry , Go pine thyself repent and die , Methought it was the voice of Hugh , Of good Hugh Hill that was so true , That was so faithful unto me , Yet used him most wickedly : Oh there he did my faults express , And I the same must needs confess , For I kill'd him with cruelty , For which I would but cannot die And since that time my heart is light , And all my body altered quite , My eyes are sunk into my head , Which makes me look like one that's dead My face that was so fresh and fine , As clear as is the Claret wine , Is now transform'd to another hue , Both grim and loathsome to the view . My skin is whither'd , my flesh is gone , And nothing left but skin and bone , And now I pine most dolefully , Wishing for death but cannot die , Therefore sweet Maids that suitors have Yield unto them that true love crave , Oh do not cast a man away , Lest you your selves go to decay . If unto you a youngman come , You are so fine you'l ne'r have none , Until your beauty fade away , You scorn most men you are so coy : Fie , fie , remember what you are , Do not refuse while you are fair , Unto your true loves be not coy , 'Tis good to take them while you may . As you be coy , so I have been , But see the misery I live in , That was it not for my souls health , I would be willing to kill myself : Therefore fair Maids amend in time , Lest that your woes be like to mine , And pray to God to end my grief , Or else to rid me of my life . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 