The Distressed VIRGIN ; Or , The false youngman , and the constant maid , The Qualities of them both displayed . To and excellent New Tune . A Thousand times my love commend , to him that hath my heart in hold , I took him for my dearest friend , his love I more esteemed then Gold : When first my eyes did see his face , and that my ear did hear his voice , His love I freely did embrace my heart told me he was my choice . O had he still continued true , and in perfection permanent , Had he performed what was due , then had I found true hearts conten But he regardless of his vow , which he to me did make before , Hath thus in sorrow left me now , my former follies to deplore Would I had never seen those eyes , that like attractive Adamants , Did my poor heart with love surprise , the power of love some inchants : I have no power to leave his love , though with stern hate he me pursue , To him I will most constant prove , though he be faithless and untrue . I put my finger in the bush , thinking the sweetest Rose to find , I pricked my finger to the bone , but yet I left the Rose behind : If Roses be such prickling flowers they must be gathered while they be green And shs that loves and unkind love , alas she rows against the stream , Oh would he but conceive a right , the grief that I for him sustain . He could not choose but change his spite , to faithful love and leave disdain : I love to have him still in place , his too much absence makes me mourn Yet he disdains to see my face , and holds my company in scorn . It grieves my heart full soar to think : that he whom I so dearly love , Should thus with me refuse to drink , yet can my passion ne'r remove , Though he I know could w [ i ] sh my Death so great is his inveterate hate , Yet could I sooner loose my breath . then see him wrong'd in name or state . Ill hap had I to come in place , where first I saw his tempting look , As soon as I beheld his face , I Cupid's Prisoner straight was took : And never since that fatal hour have I enjoy'd a minutes rest , The thought of him is of such power , it never can forsake my breast . Then was I struck with Cupid's dart , then was my fancy captivated , Then did I vow that still my heart , should rest with him though me he hated : Then did he make a show of love , which did much more my heart inflame , But now he does perfidious prove , and gives me cause his love to blame . NAy more he made a vow to me , that I should be his wedded Wife , And he forsakes me now I see , which makes me weary of my life , I little thought what now I find , that youngmen could dissemble so Sure he is the falsest of his kind , ill hap had I to prove him so . Could any man be so hardhearted , to leave a harmless Maid in grief , From me all comfort clean is parted , unless his favour grant relief ; He is the man that bred my pain he is the man whose love alone , Must be the means to cure my pain ; or else my life will soon be gone . O faithless wretch consider well , that Heaven abhorreth perjury , Great torments are prepar'd in hell , for them that thus will swear and lie : Oh hadst thou never made a show , of love thou hadst excus'd thy blame , But thy false heart full well does know , with oaths thy perjur'd tongue did frame . That obstacle that hinders me , is that which I suspect full soar , His fruit is on some other tree , and he is seduced by some whore : Or else he hath some other Lass , perhaps like me a harmless Maid , Whom he may bring to such a pass , as I am brought by Cupids aid . O heavens forbid that any one , that bears and honest loving mind , Should thus have cause to grieve & mourn , at such a knave that shames his kind : But why should I as pasions move , with bitter words upon him rail , Whom I am ever bound to love , until my vital spirits fail . Sweet love forget my lavish tongue , if I offend in any sort , To recompense thee for the wrong , i'le always give thee good report Although to me thou art unkind , who never gave thee any cause , Yet I still resolved in my mind , never to break Cupids Laws . And if I never be thy Wife which is the thing I justly claim . I vow to led a single life , and never think on lovers game : But why speak I of life when death , does every minute claim his endue , I cannot long detain my breath , having a lover so untrue . Let all true Lovers judge aright , in what a case poor soul am I , Come gentle death and work thy spite , for now I am prepar'd to die : Oh heavens forgive my love this wrong , done unto me a Maiden pure , Who for his sake must die e're long , for long my life cannot endure Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Cl [ a ] rke . W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Distressed VIRGIN ; Or , The false youngman , and the constant maid , The Qualities of them both displayed . To and excellent New Tune . A Thousand times my love commend , to him that hath my heart in hold , I took him for my dearest friend , his love I more esteemed then Gold : When first my eyes did see his face , and that my ear did hear his voice , His love I freely did embrace my heart told me he was my choice . O had he still continued true , and in perfection permanent , Had he performed what was due , then had I found true hearts conten But he regardless of his vow , which he to me did make before , Hath thus in sorrow left me now , my former follies to deplore Would I had never seen those eyes , that like attractive Adamants , Did my poor heart with love surprise , the power of love some inchants : I have no power to leave his love , though with stern hate he me pursue , To him I will most constant prove , though he be faithless and untrue . I put my finger in the bush , thinking the sweetest Rose to find , I pricked my finger to the bone , but yet I left the Rose behind : If Roses be such prickling flowers they must be gathered while they be green And shs that loves and unkind love , alas she rows against the stream , Oh would he but conceive a right , the grief that I for him sustain . He could not choose but change his spite , to faithful love and leave disdain : I love to have him still in place , his too much absence makes me mourn Yet he disdains to see my face , and holds my company in scorn . It grieves my heart full soar to think : that he whom I so dearly love , Should thus with me refuse to drink , yet can my passion ne'r remove , Though he I know could w [ i ] sh my Death so great is his inveterate hate , Yet could I sooner loose my breath . then see him wrong'd in name or state . Ill hap had I to come in place , where first I saw his tempting look , As soon as I beheld his face , I Cupid's Prisoner straight was took : And never since that fatal hour have I enjoy'd a minutes rest , The thought of him is of such power , it never can forsake my breast . Then was I struck with Cupid's dart , then was my fancy captivated , Then did I vow that still my heart , should rest with him though me he hated : Then did he make a show of love , which did much more my heart inflame , But now he does perfidious prove , and gives me cause his love to blame . NAy more he made a vow to me , that I should be his wedded Wife , And he forsakes me now I see , which makes me weary of my life , I little thought what now I find , that youngmen could dissemble so Sure he is the falsest of his kind , ill hap had I to prove him so . Could any man be so hardhearted , to leave a harmless Maid in grief , From me all comfort clean is parted , unless his favour grant relief ; He is the man that bred my pain he is the man whose love alone , Must be the means to cure my pain ; or else my life will soon be gone . O faithless wretch consider well , that Heaven abhorreth perjury , Great torments are prepar'd in hell , for them that thus will swear and lie : Oh hadst thou never made a show , of love thou hadst excus'd thy blame , But thy false heart full well does know , with oaths thy perjur'd tongue did frame . That obstacle that hinders me , is that which I suspect full soar , His fruit is on some other tree , and he is seduced by some whore : Or else he hath some other Lass , perhaps like me a harmless Maid , Whom he may bring to such a pass , as I am brought by Cupids aid . O heavens forbid that any one , that bears and honest loving mind , Should thus have cause to grieve & mourn , at such a knave that shames his kind : But why should I as pasions move , with bitter words upon him rail , Whom I am ever bound to love , until my vital spirits fail . Sweet love forget my lavish tongue , if I offend in any sort , To recompense thee for the wrong , i'le always give thee good report Although to me thou art unkind , who never gave thee any cause , Yet I still resolved in my mind , never to break Cupids Laws . And if I never be thy Wife which is the thing I justly claim . I vow to led a single life , and never think on lovers game : But why speak I of life when death , does every minute claim his endue , I cannot long detain my breath , having a lover so untrue . Let all true Lovers judge aright , in what a case poor soul am I , Come gentle death and work thy spite , for now I am prepar'd to die : Oh heavens forgive my love this wrong , done unto me a Maiden pure , Who for his sake must die e're long , for long my life cannot endure Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Cl [ a ] rke . W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 