/ 1 Cupids Courtesy : OR , The young Gallant foil'd at his own Weapon . He scorned Cupid and his Dart , Until he felt a wounded heart . To a pleasant Northern Tune . By J. P. THrough the cool shady Woods , as I was ranging , I herd the pretty Birds notes sweetly changing Down y a Meadow side , there runs a River , A little Boy I espy'd with Bow and Quiver . Little Boy tell me why thou art here diving , Art thou some Run away , and hast no biding : I am no runaway , venus my Mother , She gave me leave to play when I came hither . Little boy go with me , and be my servant , I will take care to see , for thy preferment . If I with thee should go , Venus would chide me , And take away my Bow , and never abide me . Little Boy let me know , what's thy name termed , That thou dost wear a Bow , and ghost so armed : You may perceive the same , with often changing ; Cupid it is my name , I live by ranging . If Cupid be thy name , that shoots at Rovers , I have herd of thy fame , by wounded Lovers . Should any languish that are set on fire , By such a naked brat I much admire . IF thou dost but the least , at my Laws grumble , I'll pierce thy stubborn br [ e ] ast , and make thee humble : If I with gold [ e ] n Dart wound thee but surely : There's no Phsitians art , that e're can cure thee . Little boy with thy bow , why dost thou threaten : It is not long ago , since thou was beaten : Thy wanton mother fair , Venus will chide thee : When all thy Arrows are gone , thou mayest go hide thee . Of powerful shafts you see , I am well stored . Which makes my diety , so much adored : With one poor Arrow now , I'le make thee shiver , And bend unto my Bow , and fear my Quiver . Dear little Cupid be courteous and kindly , I know thou canst not hit but shootest blindly . Although thou callest me blind , surely i'le hit thee , That th [ oh ] u shalt quickly find , i'le not forget thee . Then little Cupid caught his Bow so nimble , And shot a fatal Shaft which made him tremble . Go tell thy Mistress dear thou canst discover What all the Passion are of a dying Lover . And now this gallant heart sorely was bleeding : And felt the greatest smart from Love proceeding : He did her help implore , whom he affected : But found that more and more , him she rejected . For Cupid with his craft quickly had chosen : And with a leaden shaft , her heart had frozen : Which caus'd this Lover more sadly to languish : And Cupids aid implore to heal his anguish . He humble pardon crav'd for his offence past , And vow'd himself a slave and to love stedfas His prayers so ardent were , while his heart panted , That Cupid lent and ear , and his suit granted . For by his present plaint , he was regarded , And his adored Saint his Love rewarded : And now they live in Joy' sweetly embracing , And left the little Boy in the woods chasing . Printed for W. Thackeray at the Angel in Duck-Lane , J . M , & A.M. / 1 Cupids Courtesy : OR , The young Gallant foil'd at his own Weapon . He scorned Cupid and his Dart , Until he felt a wounded heart . To a pleasant Northern Tune . By J. P. THrough the cool shady Woods , as I was ranging , I herd the pretty Birds notes sweetly changing Down y a Meadow side , there runs a River , A little Boy I espy'd with Bow and Quiver . Little Boy tell me why thou art here diving , Art thou some Run away , and hast no biding : I am no runaway , venus my Mother , She gave me leave to play when I came hither . Little boy go with me , and be my servant , I will take care to see , for thy preferment . If I with thee should go , Venus would chide me , And take away my Bow , and never abide me . Little Boy let me know , what's thy name termed , That thou dost wear a Bow , and ghost so armed : You may perceive the same , with often changing ; Cupid it is my name , I live by ranging . If Cupid be thy name , that shoots at Rovers , I have herd of thy fame , by wounded Lovers . Should any languish that are set on fire , By such a naked brat I much admire . IF thou dost but the least , at my Laws grumble , I'll pierce thy stubborn br [ e ] ast , and make thee humble : If I with gold [ e ] n Dart wound thee but surely : There's no Phsitians art , that e're can cure thee . Little boy with thy bow , why dost thou threaten : It is not long ago , since thou was beaten : Thy wanton mother fair , Venus will chide thee : When all thy Arrows are gone , thou mayest go hide thee . Of powerful shafts you see , I am well stored . Which makes my diety , so much adored : With one poor Arrow now , I'le make thee shiver , And bend unto my Bow , and fear my Quiver . Dear little Cupid be courteous and kindly , I know thou canst not hit but shootest blindly . Although thou callest me blind , surely i'le hit thee , That th [ oh ] u shalt quickly find , i'le not forget thee . Then little Cupid caught his Bow so nimble , And shot a fatal Shaft which made him tremble . Go tell thy Mistress dear thou canst discover What all the Passion are of a dying Lover . And now this gallant heart sorely was bleeding : And felt the greatest smart from Love proceeding : He did her help implore , whom he affected : But found that more and more , him she rejected . For Cupid with his craft quickly had chosen : And with a leaden shaft , her heart had frozen : Which caus'd this Lover more sadly to languish : And Cupids aid implore to heal his anguish . He humble pardon crav'd for his offence past , And vow'd himself a slave and to love stedfas His prayers so ardent were , while his heart panted , That Cupid lent and ear , and his suit granted . For by his present plaint , he was regarded , And his adored Saint his Love rewarded : And now they live in Joy' sweetly embracing , And left the little Boy in the woods chasing . Printed for W. Thackeray at the Angel in Duck-Lane , J . M , & A.M. / 1 Cupids Courtesy : OR , The young Gallant foil'd at his own Weapon . He scorned Cupid and his Dart , Until he felt a wounded heart . To a pleasant Northern Tune . By J. P. THrough the cool shady Woods , as I was ranging , I herd the pretty Birds notes sweetly changing Down y a Meadow side , there runs a River , A little Boy I espy'd with Bow and Quiver . Little Boy tell me why thou art here diving , Art thou some Run away , and hast no biding : I am no runaway , venus my Mother , She gave me leave to play when I came hither . Little boy go with me , and be my servant , I will take care to see , for thy preferment . If I with thee should go , Venus would chide me , And take away my Bow , and never abide me . Little Boy let me know , what's thy name termed , That thou dost wear a Bow , and ghost so armed : You may perceive the same , with often changing ; Cupid it is my name , I live by ranging . If Cupid be thy name , that shoots at Rovers , I have herd of thy fame , by wounded Lovers . Should any languish that are set on fire , By such a naked brat I much admire . IF thou dost but the least , at my Laws grumble , I'll pierce thy stubborn br [ e ] ast , and make thee humble : If I with gold [ e ] n Dart wound thee but surely : There's no Phsitians art , that e're can cure thee . Little boy with thy bow , why dost thou threaten : It is not long ago , since thou was beaten : Thy wanton mother fair , Venus will chide thee : When all thy Arrows are gone , thou mayest go hide thee . Of powerful shafts you see , I am well stored . Which makes my diety , so much adored : With one poor Arrow now , I'le make thee shiver , And bend unto my Bow , and fear my Quiver . Dear little Cupid be courteous and kindly , I know thou canst not hit but shootest blindly . Although thou callest me blind , surely i'le hit thee , That th [ oh ] u shalt quickly find , i'le not forget thee . Then little Cupid caught his Bow so nimble , And shot a fatal Shaft which made him tremble . Go tell thy Mistress dear thou canst discover What all the Passion are of a dying Lover . And now this gallant heart sorely was bleeding : And felt the greatest smart from Love proceeding : He did her help implore , whom he affected : But found that more and more , him she rejected . For Cupid with his craft quickly had chosen : And with a leaden shaft , her heart had frozen : Which caus'd this Lover more sadly to languish : And Cupids aid implore to heal his anguish . He humble pardon crav'd for his offence past , And vow'd himself a slave and to love stedfas His prayers so ardent were , while his heart panted , That Cupid lent and ear , and his suit granted . For by his present plaint , he was regarded , And his adored Saint his Love rewarded : And now they live in Joy' sweetly embracing , And left the little Boy in the woods chasing . Printed for W. Thackeray at the Angel in Duck-Lane , J . M , & A.M. / 1 Cupids Courtesy : OR , The young Gallant foil'd at his own Weapon . He scorned Cupid and his Dart , Until he felt a wounded heart . To a pleasant Northern Tune . By J. P. THrough the cool shady Woods , as I was ranging , I herd the pretty Birds notes sweetly changing Down y a Meadow side , there runs a River , A little Boy I espy'd with Bow and Quiver . Little Boy tell me why thou art here diving , Art thou some Run away , and hast no biding : I am no runaway , venus my Mother , She gave me leave to play when I came hither . Little boy go with me , and be my servant , I will take care to see , for thy preferment . If I with thee should go , Venus would chide me , And take away my Bow , and never abide me . Little Boy let me know , what's thy name termed , That thou dost wear a Bow , and ghost so armed : You may perceive the same , with often changing ; Cupid it is my name , I live by ranging . If Cupid be thy name , that shoots at Rovers , I have herd of thy fame , by wounded Lovers . Should any languish that are set on fire , By such a naked brat I much admire . IF thou dost but the least , at my Laws grumble , I'll pierce thy stubborn br [ e ] ast , and make thee humble : If I with gold [ e ] n Dart wound thee but surely : There's no Phsitians art , that e're can cure thee . Little boy with thy bow , why dost thou threaten : It is not long ago , since thou was beaten : Thy wanton mother fair , Venus will chide thee : When all thy Arrows are gone , thou mayest go hide thee . Of powerful shafts you see , I am well stored . Which makes my diety , so much adored : With one poor Arrow now , I'le make thee shiver , And bend unto my Bow , and fear my Quiver . Dear little Cupid be courteous and kindly , I know thou canst not hit but shootest blindly . Although thou callest me blind , surely i'le hit thee , That th [ oh ] u shalt quickly find , i'le not forget thee . Then little Cupid caught his Bow so nimble , And shot a fatal Shaft which made him tremble . Go tell thy Mistress dear thou canst discover What all the Passion are of a dying Lover . And now this gallant heart sorely was bleeding : And felt the greatest smart from Love proceeding : He did her help implore , whom he affected : But found that more and more , him she rejected . For Cupid with his craft quickly had chosen : And with a leaden shaft , her heart had frozen : Which caus'd this Lover more sadly to languish : And Cupids aid implore to heal his anguish . He humble pardon crav'd for his offence past , And vow'd himself a slave and to love stedfas His prayers so ardent were , while his heart panted , That Cupid lent and ear , and his suit granted . For by his present plaint , he was regarded , And his adored Saint his Love rewarded : And now they live in Joy' sweetly embracing , And left the little Boy in the woods chasing . Printed for W. Thackeray at the Angel in Duck-Lane , J . M , & A.M. 