A Warning for Swearers and Blasphemers . Showing Gods fearful Judgements against diverse for profaning his holy name by swearing . Necessary to be set up and read in every house , for the avoiding of Oaths . THou that these Lines dost either hear or read , Consider with thy self , and take good heed . Reade them , and let them never be forgotten . They do concern thy Soul , then sleight them not . Thea Fiends of hell believe there is a God , And fear and tremble at his angry Rod : They do confess his glorious Excellence , And his almighty Powers Omnipotence . But Man his choicest , and his chiefest Creature , Is so rebellious against God and Nature , That he 'gainst Heaven dares both blaspheme and swear And ( worse then Fiends ) they not believe or fear : So that the Earth does breed , feed , and retain Worse Monsters , then there does in Hell remain . If men beleev'd the word that God hath spoke , They would believe that word should never be broke . In His enacted Lawb is one Decree , That all who take his Name in vain , shall be Accounted guilty , and his fearful wrath Will hold them worthy of eternal death . Again , this said , Letc the Blasphemer die , Let him be stoned for his Blasphemy . And evil tongues , who dare to Curse adventure , Shall into Heavensd blessedness not enter . And Christ ( when on the eareth he lived here ) Forbade us thate at all we should not swear . And in th' eleventh of Deutronomony again , We are commanded , not to swear in vain . Thef Heathen to blaspheme their gods abhorr'd , Yet Christians wilfully blaspheme the Lord . Whoever to revile the gods were known , In Room , were from the Rock Tarpeius thrown . Th' Egyptians Law was , he should loose his head . Amongst Scythians , life and goods were forfeited . These grievous punishments did Pagans use Against all them that did their gods abuse . King Donalds Law in Scotland's not forgotten , Who burned them through the lip [ s ] with [ i ] rons hight . And when King Edmond here had Regal state , All Swearers he did excommunicate . And Philip King of France ( a Prince renowned ) Ordain'd that all Blasphemers should be drowned . The Emperor Maximilian did decree That all vain Swearers should beheaded be . The Earl of Flanders , Philip did ordain , Their loss of life and goods , that swore in vain . Saint Lewis the King of France , enacted there That for the first time any one did swear , Into Imprisonment one month was cast , And stand within the Pillory at last . But if the second time again they swore , One with and iron hight their tongues did boar . And who the third time in that fault did slip Were likewise bored through the underlip . For the fourth time most grievous pains belongs , He caus'd to be cut off their lips and tongues . Henry the fift of England , that good King , His Court to such conformity did bring , That every Duke should forty shillings pay For every oath he swore , without delay . Each Baron twenty , Knights or Esquires offence Paid ten : and every Yeoman twenty pence . The Boys and Pages all were whipped most fine , That durst abuse the Majesty divine . Thus Pagan Princes with sharp Laws withstood Profaning of their Gods of stone or wood . And Christian Kings and Rulers formerly , Have most severely punished Blasphemy . And shall and Heathen or and Infidel , That knows no joys of heaven , or pains of hell , More reverence to his devilish Idols show , Then we do to the true God , whom we know ? If we remember well but what we were , And what we are , we would not dare to swear . Poor trunks of Earth ; fill'd with uncertain breath , By nature , heirs to everlasting death , Most miserable wretches , most ingrate 'Gainst God , that did elect us , and create , Redeem'd , conserv'd , preserv'd , and sanctified , And gives us hope we shall be glorified ; H' hath given us being , life , sense , reason , wit , Wealth , and all things his providence thinks fi a James . b Exod. 20. c Leviticus 24. worser 1 Cor. 6.10 . e Matth. 5. f GOD himself complaineth that men blaspheme him , Esay . 52.5 . The names of blasphemy is writ upon the 10 heads of Antichrist , A - poc . 13.1 . Cursing is forbidden by [ ? ] Apostle , when [ ? ] ith , Bless , I say , and curse not . Rom. 12.14 . Our Saviour commn - death us to bless them that curse us , Matth. 5.44 . Bless them that curse you , & pray for them which hurt you , Lycia 6.28 . Accustom not thy mouth to swearing , for in it are many falls , nei - there take up for a custom the na - ming of the holy One , for thou shalt not be un - punished for such things , Ecclesiasti - cus ; 23.9 . The plague shall never go from the house of the swearer . Id. Who so swears falsely , calls the God of Truth to witness a lie . Who so swears as he thinks , may be de - ceived . Who so swears unreve - rently , dishonou - reth God . Who so swears deceitful - lie , abuseth Chri - stian fidelity . Who so swears idly , abuseth the credit of a lawful oath . Who so swears ac - customably , God will plague . And for requital we ( quite void of grace ) Curse , swear , and blaspheme him to his face . O the supernal patience of our God , That bears with man ( a sin-polluted clod ) When half such treasons 'gainst and earthly King Would many a traitor to confusion bring ! Suppose a man should take a Whelp and breed him Should stroke him , and make much of him , and feed him How will that Cur love him beyond all other : Never forsaking him to serve another . Ant if he should most disobediently Into his Master's face , or throat to fly , Sure every man that lives upon the ground , Would say , a hanging's fit for such a Hound . And worse then so many dogs are they That 'gainst their God with oaths do bark and bray , And if Repentance do not Mercy win , They'll hang in Hell like Hellhounds for their sin . Of all black crimes from Belzebub's damned treasure , This Swearing sin no profit yields , nor pleasure : Nor gains the Swearer here but Earth's vexation , With change of his salvation for damnation . It is a sin that yields us no excuse , ( For what excuse can be for Gods abuse ? ) And though our other faults by death do end , Yet Blasphemy does after death extend , For to the damned in Hell this curse is given , They for their pains blasphem'd the God of heaven . Examples on the earth have many been As late in sundry places have been seen . At Mantua two brave Ruffians in their game , Swore and blasphem'd our blessed Saviours Name , Where Gods just judgement ( full of fear and dread ) Caus'd both their eyes to drop from out their head . In Rome , a child but five years old , that swore , Was snatched up by the Devil , and seen no more . And at Ragouse , a Mariner did swear , As if he would Gods name in sunder tear , When falling overboard , was drowned and tossed , And nothing but his tongue was only lost . Remember this you sinful sons ofg Men , Think how that Christ redeem'd you from Hells den . His mercy he hath given in multitude , Requite him not with vile ingratitude : He made the Ear and Eye , and hears and sees The Swearers execrable oaths and lies . The Godhead of the Father they contemn , Against the Sons Redemption they blaspheme . The Holy Spirit grievously they grieve , And headlong into hell themselves they drive . It is in vain for mortal men to think , Gods Justice is asleep , although it wink . Or that his arm is shortened in these times , That he cannot reach home to punish crimes . O think not so , this but the Devils illusion , To draw us desperately to our confusion , Some say , that this their anger makes them swear , And oaths are out before they are aware : But being crossed with losses , and perplexed , They think no harm , but swear as being vex And some there are that swear for compliment , Make oaths their grace and speeches ornament , Their sweet Rhetorical fine Eloquence , Their Reputations only excellence . Their valour , whom the Devil does inflame T' abuse their Makers and Redeemer's Name . Think but of this , you that do God forget , Your poor excuses cannot pay this debt . Remember that our sinful souls did cost A price too great to be by swearing lost . And blessed was our last good parliament , Who made and Act for Swearers punishment , And blessed shall be each Magistrates good name , That carefully does execute the same : Those that are zealous for Gods glory here , ( No worser A Warning for Swearers and Blasphemers . Showing Gods fearful Judgements against diverse for profaning his holy name by swearing . Necessary to be set up and read in every house , for the avoiding of Oaths . THou that these Lines dost either hear or read , Consider with thy self , and take good heed . Reade them , and let them never be forgotten . They do concern thy Soul , then sleight them not . Thea Fiends of hell believe there is a God , And fear and tremble at his angry Rod : They do confess his glorious Excellence , And his almighty Powers Omnipotence . But Man his choicest , and his chiefest Creature , Is so rebellious against God and Nature , That he 'gainst Heaven dares both blaspheme and swear And ( worse then Fiends ) they not believe or fear : So that the Earth does breed , feed , and retain Worse Monsters , then there does in Hell remain . If men beleev'd the word that God hath spoke , They would believe that word should never be broke . In His enacted Lawb is one Decree , That all who take his Name in vain , shall be Accounted guilty , and his fearful wrath Will hold them worthy of eternal death . Again , this said , Letc the Blasphemer die , Let him be stoned for his Blasphemy . And evil tongues , who dare to Curse adventure , Shall into Heavensd blessedness not enter . And Christ ( when on the eareth he lived here ) Forbade us thate at all we should not swear . And in th' eleventh of Deutronomony again , We are commanded , not to swear in vain . Thef Heathen to blaspheme their gods abhorr'd , Yet Christians wilfully blaspheme the Lord . Whoever to revile the gods were known , In Room , were from the Rock Tarpeius thrown . Th' Egyptians Law was , he should loose his head . Amongst Scythians , life and goods were forfeited . These grievous punishments did Pagans use Against all them that did their gods abuse . King Donalds Law in Scotland's not forgotten , Who burned them through the lip [ s ] with [ i ] rons hight . And when King Edmond here had Regal state , All Swearers he did excommunicate . And Philip King of France ( a Prince renowned ) Ordain'd that all Blasphemers should be drowned . The Emperor Maximilian did decree That all vain Swearers should beheaded be . The Earl of Flanders , Philip did ordain , Their loss of life and goods , that swore in vain . Saint Lewis the King of France , enacted there That for the first time any one did swear , Into Imprisonment one month was cast , And stand within the Pillory at last . But if the second time again they swore , One with and iron hight their tongues did boar . And who the third time in that fault did slip Were likewise bored through the underlip . For the fourth time most grievous pains belongs , He caus'd to be cut off their lips and tongues . Henry the fift of England , that good King , His Court to such conformity did bring , That every Duke should forty shillings pay For every oath he swore , without delay . Each Baron twenty , Knights or Esquires offence Paid ten : and every Yeoman twenty pence . The Boys and Pages all were whipped most fine , That durst abuse the Majesty divine . Thus Pagan Princes with sharp Laws withstood Profaning of their Gods of stone or wood . And Christian Kings and Rulers formerly , Have most severely punished Blasphemy . And shall and Heathen or and Infidel , That knows no joys of heaven , or pains of hell , More reverence to his devilish Idols show , Then we do to the true God , whom we know ? If we remember well but what we were , And what we are , we would not dare to swear . Poor trunks of Earth ; fill'd with uncertain breath , By nature , heirs to everlasting death , Most miserable wretches , most ingrate 'Gainst God , that did elect us , and create , Redeem'd , conserv'd , preserv'd , and sanctified , And gives us hope we shall be glorified ; H' hath given us being , life , sense , reason , wit , Wealth , and all things his providence thinks fi a James . b Exod. 20. c Leviticus 24. worser 1 Cor. 6.10 . e Matth. 5. f GOD himself complaineth that men blaspheme him , Esay . 52.5 . The names of blasphemy is writ upon the 10 heads of Antichrist , A - poc . 13.1 . Cursing is forbidden by [ ? ] Apostle , when [ ? ] ith , Bless , I say , and curse not . Rom. 12.14 . Our Saviour commn - death us to bless them that curse us , Matth. 5.44 . Bless them that curse you , & pray for them which hurt you , Lycia 6.28 . Accustom not thy mouth to swearing , for in it are many falls , nei - there take up for a custom the na - ming of the holy One , for thou shalt not be un - punished for such things , Ecclesiasti - cus ; 23.9 . The plague shall never go from the house of the swearer . Id. Who so swears falsely , calls the God of Truth to witness a lie . Who so swears as he thinks , may be de - ceived . Who so swears unreve - rently , dishonou - reth God . Who so swears deceitful - lie , abuseth Chri - stian fidelity . Who so swears idly , abuseth the credit of a lawful oath . Who so swears ac - customably , God will plague . And for requital we ( quite void of grace ) Curse , swear , and blaspheme him to his face . O the supernal patience of our God , That bears with man ( a sin-polluted clod ) When half such treasons 'gainst and earthly King Would many a traitor to confusion bring ! Suppose a man should take a Whelp and breed him Should stroke him , and make much of him , and feed him How will that Cur love him beyond all other : Never forsaking him to serve another . Ant if he should most disobediently Into his Master's face , or throat to fly , Sure every man that lives upon the ground , Would say , a hanging's fit for such a Hound . And worse then so many dogs are they That 'gainst their God with oaths do bark and bray , And if Repentance do not Mercy win , They'll hang in Hell like Hellhounds for their sin . Of all black crimes from Belzebub's damned treasure , This Swearing sin no profit yields , nor pleasure : Nor gains the Swearer here but Earth's vexation , With change of his salvation for damnation . It is a sin that yields us no excuse , ( For what excuse can be for Gods abuse ? ) And though our other faults by death do end , Yet Blasphemy does after death extend , For to the damned in Hell this curse is given , They for their pains blasphem'd the God of heaven . Examples on the earth have many been As late in sundry places have been seen . At Mantua two brave Ruffians in their game , Swore and blasphem'd our blessed Saviours Name , Where Gods just judgement ( full of fear and dread ) Caus'd both their eyes to drop from out their head . In Rome , a child but five years old , that swore , Was snatched up by the Devil , and seen no more . And at Ragouse , a Mariner did swear , As if he would Gods name in sunder tear , When falling overboard , was drowned and tossed , And nothing but his tongue was only lost . Remember this you sinful sons ofg Men , Think how that Christ redeem'd you from Hells den . His mercy he hath given in multitude , Requite him not with vile ingratitude : He made the Ear and Eye , and hears and sees The Swearers execrable oaths and lies . The Godhead of the Father they contemn , Against the Sons Redemption they blaspheme . The Holy Spirit grievously they grieve , And headlong into hell themselves they drive . It is in vain for mortal men to think , Gods Justice is asleep , although it wink . Or that his arm is shortened in these times , That he cannot reach home to punish crimes . O think not so , this but the Devils illusion , To draw us desperately to our confusion , Some say , that this their anger makes them swear , And oaths are out before they are aware : But being crossed with losses , and perplexed , They think no harm , but swear as being vex And some there are that swear for compliment , Make oaths their grace and speeches ornament , Their sweet Rhetorical fine Eloquence , Their Reputations only excellence . Their valour , whom the Devil does inflame T' abuse their Makers and Redeemer's Name . Think but of this , you that do God forget , Your poor excuses cannot pay this debt . Remember that our sinful souls did cost A price too great to be by swearing lost . And blessed was our last good parliament , Who made and Act for Swearers punishment , And blessed shall be each Magistrates good name , That carefully does execute the same : Those that are zealous for Gods glory here , ( No doubt ) in heaven shall have true glory there . Which that we may have , humbly I implore Of Him that rules and reigns for evermore , The Eternal Lord of Lords , and King of Kings , Before whose Throne blessed Saints and Angels sings All power , praise , glory , majesty , thanksgiving , Ascribed be to him that's everliving . g Elfred and Eng - lish Earl , conspi - ring to put out K. Adelstanes eyes at Winchester , for - sware the treason in Saint Peters Church at Rome , and fell down dead presently . Earle Godwin mur - red Prince All - fred brother to king Edward Con - fessor , and being at dinner , the King charged him with the murder , then Godwin swore by bred , and prayed it might choke him if he were guilty , and imme - diately it choked him in the place : his lands also sunk into the sea , & are called Godwin - sands . K. Stephen forswore himself to King Henry I. and lived in con - tinuall trouble , & died in perplexity of mind . Edward 4. brake his oath , made at Yorke , that he came not with intent to seize the Kingdom , and breaking the oath , was punished with a troublesome reign , his brothers and children all ( ex - cept one ) murthe - read : and not any of his issue reign - ed after him . Ro her Mortimer , a great Peer of this land , for breaking his oath to King Edward the 2. was most ignomini - ously hanged , bo - wielded and quart - read . M. Fox in his Book of Martyrs , declares of one Ri - chard Long of Ca - lice , that forswore himself to accuse one Smith for ea - ting flesh in Lent , after which oath Long went pre - sently and drown - ed himself . One Grimwood at Hit - cham in Suffolke forswore himself , and his bowels burst out . One wi - dow Barns , for the like sin cast her self out of her window in Corn - hill , and brake her neck . Anne Have - ris forswore her self in Woodstreet for sixe pound of Tow , desiring God she sink down , which fear - fully happened : one Lea in Sunne-alley without Bishops - gate , forswore him self , & after ripped out his guts . Finis . I. T. Printed at London for Francis Couls , at the upper end of the Old Baily near Newgate . 1626. oubt ) in heaven shall have true glory there . Which that we may have , humbly I implore Of Him that rules and reigns for evermore , The Eternal Lord of Lords , and King of Kings , Before whose Throne blessed Saints and Angels sings All power , praise , glory , majesty , thanksgiving , Ascribed be to him that's everliving . g Elfred and Eng - lish Earl , conspi - ring to put out K. Adelstanes eyes at Winchester , for - sware the treason in Saint Peters Church at Rome , and fell down dead presently . Earle Godwin mur - red Prince All - fred brother to king Edward Con - fessor , and being at dinner , the King charged him with the murder , then Godwin swore by bred , and prayed it might choke him if he were guilty , and imme - diately it choked him in the place : his lands also sunk into the sea , & are called Godwin - sands . K. Stephen forswore himself to King Henry I. and lived in con - tinuall trouble , & died in perplexity of mind . Edward 4. brake his oath , made at Yorke , that he came not with intent to seize the Kingdom , and breaking the oath , was punished with a troublesome reign , his brothers and children all ( ex - cept one ) murthe - read : and not any of his issue reign - ed after him . Ro her Mortimer , a great Peer of this land , for breaking his oath to King Edward the 2. was most ignomini - ously hanged , bo - wielded and quart - read . M. Fox in his Book of Martyrs , declares of one Ri - chard Long of Ca - lice , that forswore himself to accuse one Smith for ea - ting flesh in Lent , after which oath Long went pre - sently and drown - ed himself . One Grimwood at Hit - cham in Suffolke forswore himself , and his bowels burst out . One wi - dow Barns , for the like sin cast her self out of her window in Corn - hill , and brake her neck . Anne Have - ris forswore her self in Woodstreet for sixe pound of Tow , desiring God she sink down , which fear - fully happened : one Lea in Sunne-alley without Bishops - gate , forswore him self , & after ripped out his guts . Finis . I. T. Printed at London for Francis Couls , at the upper end of the Old Baily near Newgate . 1626. A Warning for Swearers and Blasphemers . Showing Gods fearful Judgements against diverse for profaning his holy name by swearing . Necessary to be set up and read in every house , for the avoiding of Oaths . THou that these Lines dost either hear or read , Consider with thy self , and take good heed . Reade them , and let them never be forgotten . They do concern thy Soul , then sleight them not . Thea Fiends of hell believe there is a God , And fear and tremble at his angry Rod : They do confess his glorious Excellence , And his almighty Powers Omnipotence . But Man his choicest , and his chiefest Creature , Is so rebellious against God and Nature , That he 'gainst Heaven dares both blaspheme and swear And ( worse then Fiends ) they not believe or fear : So that the Earth does breed , feed , and retain Worse Monsters , then there does in Hell remain . If men beleev'd the word that God hath spoke , They would believe that word should never be broke . In His enacted Lawb is one Decree , That all who take his Name in vain , shall be Accounted guilty , and his fearful wrath Will hold them worthy of eternal death . Again , this said , Letc the Blasphemer die , Let him be stoned for his Blasphemy . And evil tongues , who dare to Curse adventure , Shall into Heavensd blessedness not enter . And Christ ( when on the eareth he lived here ) Forbade us thate at all we should not swear . And in th' eleventh of Deutronomony again , We are commanded , not to swear in vain . Thef Heathen to blaspheme their gods abhorr'd , Yet Christians wilfully blaspheme the Lord . Whoever to revile the gods were known , In Room , were from the Rock Tarpeius thrown . Th' Egyptians Law was , he should loose his head . Amongst Scythians , life and goods were forfeited . These grievous punishments did Pagans use Against all them that did their gods abuse . King Donalds Law in Scotland's not forgotten , Who burned them through the lip [ s ] with [ i ] rons hight . And when King Edmond here had Regal state , All Swearers he did excommunicate . And Philip King of France ( a Prince renowned ) Ordain'd that all Blasphemers should be drowned . The Emperor Maximilian did decree That all vain Swearers should beheaded be . The Earl of Flanders , Philip did ordain , Their loss of life and goods , that swore in vain . Saint Lewis the King of France , enacted there That for the first time any one did swear , Into Imprisonment one month was cast , And stand within the Pillory at last . But if the second time again they swore , One with and iron hight their tongues did boar . And who the third time in that fault did slip Were likewise bored through the underlip . For the fourth time most grievous pains belongs , He caus'd to be cut off their lips and tongues . Henry the fift of England , that good King , His Court to such conformity did bring , That every Duke should forty shillings pay For every oath he swore , without delay . Each Baron twenty , Knights or Esquires offence Paid ten : and every Yeoman twenty pence . The Boys and Pages all were whipped most fine , That durst abuse the Majesty divine . Thus Pagan Princes with sharp Laws withstood Profaning of their Gods of stone or wood . And Christian Kings and Rulers formerly , Have most severely punished Blasphemy . And shall and Heathen or and Infidel , That knows no joys of heaven , or pains of hell , More reverence to his devilish Idols show , Then we do to the true God , whom we know ? If we remember well but what we were , And what we are , we would not dare to swear . Poor trunks of Earth ; fill'd with uncertain breath , By nature , heirs to everlasting death , Most miserable wretches , most ingrate 'Gainst God , that did elect us , and create , Redeem'd , conserv'd , preserv'd , and sanctified , And gives us hope we shall be glorified ; H' hath given us being , life , sense , reason , wit , Wealth , and all things his providence thinks fi a James . b Exod. 20. c Leviticus 24. worser 1 Cor. 6.10 . e Matth. 5. f GOD himself complaineth that men blaspheme him , Esay . 52.5 . The names of blasphemy is writ upon the 10 heads of Antichrist , A - poc . 13.1 . Cursing is forbidden by [ ? ] Apostle , when [ ? ] ith , Bless , I say , and curse not . Rom. 12.14 . Our Saviour commn - death us to bless them that curse us , Matth. 5.44 . Bless them that curse you , & pray for them which hurt you , Lycia 6.28 . Accustom not thy mouth to swearing , for in it are many falls , nei - there take up for a custom the na - ming of the holy One , for thou shalt not be un - punished for such things , Ecclesiasti - cus ; 23.9 . The plague shall never go from the house of the swearer . Id. Who so swears falsely , calls the God of Truth to witness a lie . Who so swears as he thinks , may be de - ceived . Who so swears unreve - rently , dishonou - reth God . Who so swears deceitful - lie , abuseth Chri - stian fidelity . Who so swears idly , abuseth the credit of a lawful oath . Who so swears ac - customably , God will plague . And for requital we ( quite void of grace ) Curse , swear , and blaspheme him to his face . O the supernal patience of our God , That bears with man ( a sin-polluted clod ) When half such treasons 'gainst and earthly King Would many a traitor to confusion bring ! Suppose a man should take a Whelp and breed him Should stroke him , and make much of him , and feed him How will that Cur love him beyond all other : Never forsaking him to serve another . Ant if he should most disobediently Into his Master's face , or throat to fly , Sure every man that lives upon the ground , Would say , a hanging's fit for such a Hound . And worse then so many dogs are they That 'gainst their God with oaths do bark and bray , And if Repentance do not Mercy win , They'll hang in Hell like Hellhounds for their sin . Of all black crimes from Belzebub's damned treasure , This Swearing sin no profit yields , nor pleasure : Nor gains the Swearer here but Earth's vexation , With change of his salvation for damnation . It is a sin that yields us no excuse , ( For what excuse can be for Gods abuse ? ) And though our other faults by death do end , Yet Blasphemy does after death extend , For to the damned in Hell this curse is given , They for their pains blasphem'd the God of heaven . Examples on the earth have many been As late in sundry places have been seen . At Mantua two brave Ruffians in their game , Swore and blasphem'd our blessed Saviours Name , Where Gods just judgement ( full of fear and dread ) Caus'd both their eyes to drop from out their head . In Rome , a child but five years old , that swore , Was snatched up by the Devil , and seen no more . And at Ragouse , a Mariner did swear , As if he would Gods name in sunder tear , When falling overboard , was drowned and tossed , And nothing but his tongue was only lost . Remember this you sinful sons ofg Men , Think how that Christ redeem'd you from Hells den . His mercy he hath given in multitude , Requite him not with vile ingratitude : He made the Ear and Eye , and hears and sees The Swearers execrable oaths and lies . The Godhead of the Father they contemn , Against the Sons Redemption they blaspheme . The Holy Spirit grievously they grieve , And headlong into hell themselves they drive . It is in vain for mortal men to think , Gods Justice is asleep , although it wink . Or that his arm is shortened in these times , That he cannot reach home to punish crimes . O think not so , this but the Devils illusion , To draw us desperately to our confusion , Some say , that this their anger makes them swear , And oaths are out before they are aware : But being crossed with losses , and perplexed , They think no harm , but swear as being vex And some there are that swear for compliment , Make oaths their grace and speeches ornament , Their sweet Rhetorical fine Eloquence , Their Reputations only excellence . Their valour , whom the Devil does inflame T' abuse their Makers and Redeemer's Name . Think but of this , you that do God forget , Your poor excuses cannot pay this debt . Remember that our sinful souls did cost A price too great to be by swearing lost . And blessed was our last good parliament , Who made and Act for Swearers punishment , And blessed shall be each Magistrates good name , That carefully does execute the same : Those that are zealous for Gods glory here , ( No worser A Warning for Swearers and Blasphemers . Showing Gods fearful Judgements against diverse for profaning his holy name by swearing . Necessary to be set up and read in every house , for the avoiding of Oaths . THou that these Lines dost either hear or read , Consider with thy self , and take good heed . Reade them , and let them never be forgotten . They do concern thy Soul , then sleight them not . Thea Fiends of hell believe there is a God , And fear and tremble at his angry Rod : They do confess his glorious Excellence , And his almighty Powers Omnipotence . But Man his choicest , and his chiefest Creature , Is so rebellious against God and Nature , That he 'gainst Heaven dares both blaspheme and swear And ( worse then Fiends ) they not believe or fear : So that the Earth does breed , feed , and retain Worse Monsters , then there does in Hell remain . If men beleev'd the word that God hath spoke , They would believe that word should never be broke . In His enacted Lawb is one Decree , That all who take his Name in vain , shall be Accounted guilty , and his fearful wrath Will hold them worthy of eternal death . Again , this said , Letc the Blasphemer die , Let him be stoned for his Blasphemy . And evil tongues , who dare to Curse adventure , Shall into Heavensd blessedness not enter . And Christ ( when on the eareth he lived here ) Forbade us thate at all we should not swear . And in th' eleventh of Deutronomony again , We are commanded , not to swear in vain . Thef Heathen to blaspheme their gods abhorr'd , Yet Christians wilfully blaspheme the Lord . Whoever to revile the gods were known , In Room , were from the Rock Tarpeius thrown . Th' Egyptians Law was , he should loose his head . Amongst Scythians , life and goods were forfeited . These grievous punishments did Pagans use Against all them that did their gods abuse . King Donalds Law in Scotland's not forgotten , Who burned them through the lip [ s ] with [ i ] rons hight . And when King Edmond here had Regal state , All Swearers he did excommunicate . And Philip King of France ( a Prince renowned ) Ordain'd that all Blasphemers should be drowned . The Emperor Maximilian did decree That all vain Swearers should beheaded be . The Earl of Flanders , Philip did ordain , Their loss of life and goods , that swore in vain . Saint Lewis the King of France , enacted there That for the first time any one did swear , Into Imprisonment one month was cast , And stand within the Pillory at last . But if the second time again they swore , One with and iron hight their tongues did boar . And who the third time in that fault did slip Were likewise bored through the underlip . For the fourth time most grievous pains belongs , He caus'd to be cut off their lips and tongues . Henry the fift of England , that good King , His Court to such conformity did bring , That every Duke should forty shillings pay For every oath he swore , without delay . Each Baron twenty , Knights or Esquires offence Paid ten : and every Yeoman twenty pence . The Boys and Pages all were whipped most fine , That durst abuse the Majesty divine . Thus Pagan Princes with sharp Laws withstood Profaning of their Gods of stone or wood . And Christian Kings and Rulers formerly , Have most severely punished Blasphemy . And shall and Heathen or and Infidel , That knows no joys of heaven , or pains of hell , More reverence to his devilish Idols show , Then we do to the true God , whom we know ? If we remember well but what we were , And what we are , we would not dare to swear . Poor trunks of Earth ; fill'd with uncertain breath , By nature , heirs to everlasting death , Most miserable wretches , most ingrate 'Gainst God , that did elect us , and create , Redeem'd , conserv'd , preserv'd , and sanctified , And gives us hope we shall be glorified ; H' hath given us being , life , sense , reason , wit , Wealth , and all things his providence thinks fi a James . b Exod. 20. c Leviticus 24. worser 1 Cor. 6.10 . e Matth. 5. f GOD himself complaineth that men blaspheme him , Esay . 52.5 . The names of blasphemy is writ upon the 10 heads of Antichrist , A - poc . 13.1 . Cursing is forbidden by [ ? ] Apostle , when [ ? ] ith , Bless , I say , and curse not . Rom. 12.14 . Our Saviour commn - death us to bless them that curse us , Matth. 5.44 . Bless them that curse you , & pray for them which hurt you , Lycia 6.28 . Accustom not thy mouth to swearing , for in it are many falls , nei - there take up for a custom the na - ming of the holy One , for thou shalt not be un - punished for such things , Ecclesiasti - cus ; 23.9 . The plague shall never go from the house of the swearer . Id. Who so swears falsely , calls the God of Truth to witness a lie . Who so swears as he thinks , may be de - ceived . Who so swears unreve - rently , dishonou - reth God . Who so swears deceitful - lie , abuseth Chri - stian fidelity . Who so swears idly , abuseth the credit of a lawful oath . Who so swears ac - customably , God will plague . And for requital we ( quite void of grace ) Curse , swear , and blaspheme him to his face . O the supernal patience of our God , That bears with man ( a sin-polluted clod ) When half such treasons 'gainst and earthly King Would many a traitor to confusion bring ! Suppose a man should take a Whelp and breed him Should stroke him , and make much of him , and feed him How will that Cur love him beyond all other : Never forsaking him to serve another . Ant if he should most disobediently Into his Master's face , or throat to fly , Sure every man that lives upon the ground , Would say , a hanging's fit for such a Hound . And worse then so many dogs are they That 'gainst their God with oaths do bark and bray , And if Repentance do not Mercy win , They'll hang in Hell like Hellhounds for their sin . Of all black crimes from Belzebub's damned treasure , This Swearing sin no profit yields , nor pleasure : Nor gains the Swearer here but Earth's vexation , With change of his salvation for damnation . It is a sin that yields us no excuse , ( For what excuse can be for Gods abuse ? ) And though our other faults by death do end , Yet Blasphemy does after death extend , For to the damned in Hell this curse is given , They for their pains blasphem'd the God of heaven . Examples on the earth have many been As late in sundry places have been seen . At Mantua two brave Ruffians in their game , Swore and blasphem'd our blessed Saviours Name , Where Gods just judgement ( full of fear and dread ) Caus'd both their eyes to drop from out their head . In Rome , a child but five years old , that swore , Was snatched up by the Devil , and seen no more . And at Ragouse , a Mariner did swear , As if he would Gods name in sunder tear , When falling overboard , was drowned and tossed , And nothing but his tongue was only lost . Remember this you sinful sons ofg Men , Think how that Christ redeem'd you from Hells den . His mercy he hath given in multitude , Requite him not with vile ingratitude : He made the Ear and Eye , and hears and sees The Swearers execrable oaths and lies . The Godhead of the Father they contemn , Against the Sons Redemption they blaspheme . The Holy Spirit grievously they grieve , And headlong into hell themselves they drive . It is in vain for mortal men to think , Gods Justice is asleep , although it wink . Or that his arm is shortened in these times , That he cannot reach home to punish crimes . O think not so , this but the Devils illusion , To draw us desperately to our confusion , Some say , that this their anger makes them swear , And oaths are out before they are aware : But being crossed with losses , and perplexed , They think no harm , but swear as being vex And some there are that swear for compliment , Make oaths their grace and speeches ornament , Their sweet Rhetorical fine Eloquence , Their Reputations only excellence . Their valour , whom the Devil does inflame T' abuse their Makers and Redeemer's Name . Think but of this , you that do God forget , Your poor excuses cannot pay this debt . Remember that our sinful souls did cost A price too great to be by swearing lost . And blessed was our last good parliament , Who made and Act for Swearers punishment , And blessed shall be each Magistrates good name , That carefully does execute the same : Those that are zealous for Gods glory here , ( No doubt ) in heaven shall have true glory there . Which that we may have , humbly I implore Of Him that rules and reigns for evermore , The Eternal Lord of Lords , and King of Kings , Before whose Throne blessed Saints and Angels sings All power , praise , glory , majesty , thanksgiving , Ascribed be to him that's everliving . g Elfred and Eng - lish Earl , conspi - ring to put out K. Adelstanes eyes at Winchester , for - sware the treason in Saint Peters Church at Rome , and fell down dead presently . Earle Godwin mur - red Prince All - fred brother to king Edward Con - fessor , and being at dinner , the King charged him with the murder , then Godwin swore by bred , and prayed it might choke him if he were guilty , and imme - diately it choked him in the place : his lands also sunk into the sea , & are called Godwin - sands . K. Stephen forswore himself to King Henry I. and lived in con - tinuall trouble , & died in perplexity of mind . Edward 4. brake his oath , made at Yorke , that he came not with intent to seize the Kingdom , and breaking the oath , was punished with a troublesome reign , his brothers and children all ( ex - cept one ) murthe - read : and not any of his issue reign - ed after him . Ro her Mortimer , a great Peer of this land , for breaking his oath to King Edward the 2. was most ignomini - ously hanged , bo - wielded and quart - read . M. Fox in his Book of Martyrs , declares of one Ri - chard Long of Ca - lice , that forswore himself to accuse one Smith for ea - ting flesh in Lent , after which oath Long went pre - sently and drown - ed himself . One Grimwood at Hit - cham in Suffolke forswore himself , and his bowels burst out . One wi - dow Barns , for the like sin cast her self out of her window in Corn - hill , and brake her neck . Anne Have - ris forswore her self in Woodstreet for sixe pound of Tow , desiring God she sink down , which fear - fully happened : one Lea in Sunne-alley without Bishops - gate , forswore him self , & after ripped out his guts . Finis . I. T. Printed at London for Francis Couls , at the upper end of the Old Baily near Newgate . 1626. oubt ) in heaven shall have true glory there . Which that we may have , humbly I implore Of Him that rules and reigns for evermore , The Eternal Lord of Lords , and King of Kings , Before whose Throne blessed Saints and Angels sings All power , praise , glory , majesty , thanksgiving , Ascribed be to him that's everliving . g Elfred and Eng - lish Earl , conspi - ring to put out K. Adelstanes eyes at Winchester , for - sware the treason in Saint Peters Church at Rome , and fell down dead presently . Earle Godwin mur - red Prince All - fred brother to king Edward Con - fessor , and being at dinner , the King charged him with the murder , then Godwin swore by bred , and prayed it might choke him if he were guilty , and imme - diately it choked him in the place : his lands also sunk into the sea , & are called Godwin - sands . K. Stephen forswore himself to King Henry I. and lived in con - tinuall trouble , & died in perplexity of mind . Edward 4. brake his oath , made at Yorke , that he came not with intent to seize the Kingdom , and breaking the oath , was punished with a troublesome reign , his brothers and children all ( ex - cept one ) murthe - read : and not any of his issue reign - ed after him . Ro her Mortimer , a great Peer of this land , for breaking his oath to King Edward the 2. was most ignomini - ously hanged , bo - wielded and quart - read . M. Fox in his Book of Martyrs , declares of one Ri - chard Long of Ca - lice , that forswore himself to accuse one Smith for ea - ting flesh in Lent , after which oath Long went pre - sently and drown - ed himself . One Grimwood at Hit - cham in Suffolke forswore himself , and his bowels burst out . One wi - dow Barns , for the like sin cast her self out of her window in Corn - hill , and brake her neck . Anne Have - ris forswore her self in Woodstreet for sixe pound of Tow , desiring God she sink down , which fear - fully happened : one Lea in Sunne-alley without Bishops - gate , forswore him self , & after ripped out his guts . Finis . I. T. Printed at London for Francis Couls , at the upper end of the Old Baily near Newgate . 1626. 