Pyms Juncto . TRuth I could chide you , Sirs , why how so late ? My watch speaks eight , and not one pin o' that State As yet undone ? can such remissness fit Your active spirits , or my hellish wit ? Each step the Sun amounts to heavens crown ( While Pym commands ) must see a kingdom down . I'm sure you have spurs enough to make you run , Gilded hope's , cracked fortune's , & the ils y've done . Thus whilom seated was , great James his heir Just as you see me now i' that Kingdoms chair . There the great Seal , there Richmond , Hartford sat , There Marshal , Dorset , Bristols temperate pate , But there sat Pembrock life of loyalty , There Holland flower of fidelity . We are no less then Charles in power and state , You are our juncto now , as his of late . Here sits Kimbolton , holy Say and Seal , With Wharton , Warwick , Brooks inspired zeal : Strood , Hampden , Hollis , Haslerig , bold spirits , Fines , Martin , Ludlow , vain unmatched weights : But there Church-elder White , religious Beard , There sits abomination , statest Beard : Charles bide at Oxford thy Crown , that pretty thing We must most humbly be at London King . But what's the business of the House today ? How speaks my notes ? Commissions of Array . The ninteen Propositions to be scan'd A second time , Manchestets trained Band : Letters from Tristram , Whitcum , and from Hull , From Amsterdam , the Admiral , how full Of high concernments are we ? Sirs advice How we most warily may play our prize : I do conceive it must be our first play ( Be 't right or wrong ) by vote to damn th' Array . If ever that take footing , or advance , Farewell Militia , and our Ordinance . What will the appearance be d'ye think ? yet stay Who dares our leading votes , by votes gainsay ? Should any haughty spirits presume so far , What serves the Tower for then ? or what the bar ? But if we see the business will not bend As may be most conducing to our end By some fine way , it must be our next plot To put it off , and a new time allot And just jump for our turn : some letters shall From Whitcombe , Hotham , and our Admiral , ( Though forged in truth ) be interposed and read , To spend the time , and maze the peoples head . If the next day , we yet suspect to find Such whose just consciences can't be inclined To be made vassals , to our desperate sense It is easy to procure a conference Which shall out spin the leisure of the morn , Then weel resume the House , and so adjourn Till five at night , the moderate ( wearied thus ) Will quit their seats , and leave here none but us : There's president for that , this was the feat That plucked the Bishops from the Barons seat . This wrought good order , many & many a vote , This Art must my Disciples get by rote . But if the Accommodation chance to spring Into debate , your whole Artillery bring , And lay that fla that calm'd , my Genius starts with fear , to find i' that House too loyal hearts : Seem ( though ) we must teeth outward to comply And humbly kiss the feet of Majesty : Yet live we can't , unless , obedience dead , Nor stand elsewhere , but on the Kingdoms head . Calms proper are for guiltless sons of peace , Our vessels bear best out in troubled seas . Charles must not reign secure , while rules a Pym , The Sun if rise with us , must set with him ; You have our pleasure , which let be expressed To Pembrock , Stamford , Roberts , and the rest , Bid Essex , Piercy , and the quandam groom O' that stool await us in the painted room . Some of you subtly may in Cottens walk , Fit and allure affections by your talk ; 'Twill be a work worthy your nimblest wit , To gain the Devil and us a Proselyte : So , to your business , yet ere you be gone , Take this advice , then blessings light upon Your nimble pates , first be you sure you shroud Your dark designs in a religious cloud . Gods glory , Churches good , King head , supreme , A preaching Ministry must be your theam ; Next structure of your Babell , to be built , Must speciously be varnished o're and guilt , With liberties and property of lives And fortune , 'gainst high stretched prerogatives , And then a speech or two is fitly spent For rights and privileges of Parliament . These two well mixed you'l need no other lures To gain the people , and to make them yours : If Charles displeased , with some witty tart Message ( and justly too ) shall make you start , Saying , y' have put him to his guard , be sure You then cry loud enough , and first cry whore War rais'd against the Parliament , and great Hindrance of the Irish aid , and strong abet Unto the Rebels , then if anything You have may blast the honour of the King , Be 't never so bad , no matter from what hand , We'le vote it true , and then believe command . But on your memories I'll impose no more , You cannot miss the way when I'm before . Rise Cincua , Scilla , Marius , Graccus ghosts , And thou worst Cataline , with all thine hosts Romes greatest earthquake , and this little trunk Makes with your desperate spirits , deeply drunk : Up from your drowsy urns , the ghosts of those ( My Ancestors ) that Richard did depose . Drop fresh into my breast , my soul inspire , And strongly actuate me with your fire . That these thus mixed with my malicious gall , Mine may with theirs fully possess you all : Go , and exceed the mischiefs as much more As theirs did all ire attempts which were before Act passed example , that it may be known You copied no example but your own : And if in after times when silently We sleep , another firebrand chance to be , 'Twill be chief crown , and glory unto him To say he shap'd his plots like you and Pym. Finis . Oxford , Printed for Wil. Web. 1643. Pyms Juncto . TRuth I could chide you , Sirs , why how so late ? My watch speaks eight , and not one pin o' that State As yet undone ? can such remissness fit Your active spirits , or my hellish wit ? Each step the Sun amounts to heavens crown ( While Pym commands ) must see a kingdom down . I'm sure you have spurs enough to make you run , Gilded hope's , cracked fortune's , & the ils y've done . Thus whilom seated was , great James his heir Just as you see me now i' that Kingdoms chair . There the great Seal , there Richmond , Hartford sat , There Marshal , Dorset , Bristols temperate pate , But there sat Pembrock life of loyalty , There Holland flower of fidelity . We are no less then Charles in power and state , You are our juncto now , as his of late . Here sits Kimbolton , holy Say and Seal , With Wharton , Warwick , Brooks inspired zeal : Strood , Hampden , Hollis , Haslerig , bold spirits , Fines , Martin , Ludlow , vain unmatched weights : But there Church-elder White , religious Beard , There sits abomination , statest Beard : Charles bide at Oxford thy Crown , that pretty thing We must most humbly be at London King . But what's the business of the House today ? How speaks my notes ? Commissions of Array . The ninteen Propositions to be scan'd A second time , Manchestets trained Band : Letters from Tristram , Whitcum , and from Hull , From Amsterdam , the Admiral , how full Of high concernments are we ? Sirs advice How we most warily may play our prize : I do conceive it must be our first play ( Be 't right or wrong ) by vote to damn th' Array . If ever that take footing , or advance , Farewell Militia , and our Ordinance . What will the appearance be d'ye think ? yet stay Who dares our leading votes , by votes gainsay ? Should any haughty spirits presume so far , What serves the Tower for then ? or what the bar ? But if we see the business will not bend As may be most conducing to our end By some fine way , it must be our next plot To put it off , and a new time allot And just jump for our turn : some letters shall From Whitcombe , Hotham , and our Admiral , ( Though forged in truth ) be interposed and read , To spend the time , and maze the peoples head . If the next day , we yet suspect to find Such whose just consciences can't be inclined To be made vassals , to our desperate sense It is easy to procure a conference Which shall out spin the leisure of the morn , Then weel resume the House , and so adjourn Till five at night , the moderate ( wearied thus ) Will quit their seats , and leave here none but us : There's president for that , this was the feat That plucked the Bishops from the Barons seat . This wrought good order , many & many a vote , This Art must my Disciples get by rote . But if the Accommodation chance to spring Into debate , your whole Artillery bring , And lay that fla that calm'd , my Genius starts with fear , to find i' that House too loyal hearts : Seem ( though ) we must teeth outward to comply And humbly kiss the feet of Majesty : Yet live we can't , unless , obedience dead , Nor stand elsewhere , but on the Kingdoms head . Calms proper are for guiltless sons of peace , Our vessels bear best out in troubled seas . Charles must not reign secure , while rules a Pym , The Sun if rise with us , must set with him ; You have our pleasure , which let be expressed To Pembrock , Stamford , Roberts , and the rest , Bid Essex , Piercy , and the quandam groom O' that stool await us in the painted room . Some of you subtly may in Cottens walk , Fit and allure affections by your talk ; 'Twill be a work worthy your nimblest wit , To gain the Devil and us a Proselyte : So , to your business , yet ere you be gone , Take this advice , then blessings light upon Your nimble pates , first be you sure you shroud Your dark designs in a religious cloud . Gods glory , Churches good , King head , supreme , A preaching Ministry must be your theam ; Next structure of your Babell , to be built , Must speciously be varnished o're and guilt , With liberties and property of lives And fortune , 'gainst high stretched prerogatives , And then a speech or two is fitly spent For rights and privileges of Parliament . These two well mixed you'l need no other lures To gain the people , and to make them yours : If Charles displeased , with some witty tart Message ( and justly too ) shall make you start , Saying , y' have put him to his guard , be sure You then cry loud enough , and first cry whore War rais'd against the Parliament , and great Hindrance of the Irish aid , and strong abet Unto the Rebels , then if anything You have may blast the honour of the King , Be 't never so bad , no matter from what hand , We'le vote it true , and then believe command . But on your memories I'll impose no more , You cannot miss the way when I'm before . Rise Cincua , Scilla , Marius , Graccus ghosts , And thou worst Cataline , with all thine hosts Romes greatest earthquake , and this little trunk Makes with your desperate spirits , deeply drunk : Up from your drowsy urns , the ghosts of those ( My Ancestors ) that Richard did depose . Drop fresh into my breast , my soul inspire , And strongly actuate me with your fire . That these thus mixed with my malicious gall , Mine may with theirs fully possess you all : Go , and exceed the mischiefs as much more As theirs did all ire attempts which were before Act passed example , that it may be known You copied no example but your own : And if in after times when silently We sleep , another firebrand chance to be , 'Twill be chief crown , and glory unto him To say he shap'd his plots like you and Pym. Finis . Oxford , Printed for Wil. Web. 1643. 