Loyal Constancy ; Or , The Seamans Love-Letter : Written by John Blay on Board the Henry and Elizabeth riding at Leghorn , to his Dear Mistress Marry Foart , now living near Wapping , exhorting her to continue in her wonted love and constancy according to their mutual promises passed be - tween them , in order to their happy Union and Marriage , as soon as he shall return from this Voyage to England . Tune of , Cloris full of harmless thoughts ; Jenny Gin . The fair one let me in . TIll from Leghorn I do return , still constant to me prove ; Let none impart , or share thy heart , but only me thy love ; Let no brisk Boy thy love enjoy , or rob me of my , treasure ; But may we kiss enjoying bliss , possessed of earthly pleasure . Ah charming fair one of my heart , how wretched now am I ; Since from thee I am forc'd to part , and leave felicity : All night I lie , I sighs and groan , still thinking of the bliss ; We oft times have injoy'd alone , with smile and amorous kiss . When night grows dark , I steer my Bark , to loves long-wished for Port ; But still I find the winds unkind , I cannot reach the Fort ; Tempestuous waves my heart enslaves my troubled Bark does roll ; Nothing I see , unless't be thee , can ease my troubled soul . With serious thoughts I spend my hour , still thinking of your charms , Till sleep my drowsy sense o're-powers , and brings thee to my arms ; Where in a Dream I thee embrace , and think the world's my own , But when I wake , Oh then alas , my earthly joy is gone . With early look , when day appears , I rouse me up from sleep ; I find my Pillow strew'd with tears , your absence caus'd me weep : Thus never shall I be at ease , till like two Turtles we May still be Billing when we please , and live at liberty . Ah Marry Foart thou lovely Maid , writ in my heart most dear ; May storms and tempests me invade , when Mary is not there : Though London youths do seek the prize , to take and bore away ; Yet she that's virtuous , chaste , and wise , will own her Love John Bay. Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ball , in Wes-smithfield . Loyal Constancy ; Or , The Seamans Love-Letter : Written by John Blay on Board the Henry and Elizabeth riding at Leghorn , to his Dear Mistress Marry Foart , now living near Wapping , exhorting her to continue in her wonted love and constancy according to their mutual promises passed be - tween them , in order to their happy Union and Marriage , as soon as he shall return from this Voyage to England . Tune of , Cloris full of harmless thoughts ; Jenny Gin . The fair one let me in . TIll from Leghorn I do return , still constant to me prove ; Let none impart , or share thy heart , but only me thy love ; Let no brisk Boy thy love enjoy , or rob me of my , treasure ; But may we kiss enjoying bliss , possessed of earthly pleasure . Ah charming fair one of my heart , how wretched now am I ; Since from thee I am forc'd to part , and leave felicity : All night I lie , I sighs and groan , still thinking of the bliss ; We oft times have injoy'd alone , with smile and amorous kiss . When night grows dark , I steer my Bark , to loves long-wished for Port ; But still I find the winds unkind , I cannot reach the Fort ; Tempestuous waves my heart enslaves my troubled Bark does roll ; Nothing I see , unless't be thee , can ease my troubled soul . With serious thoughts I spend my hour , still thinking of your charms , Till sleep my drowsy sense o're-powers , and brings thee to my arms ; Where in a Dream I thee embrace , and think the world's my own , But when I wake , Oh then alas , my earthly joy is gone . With early look , when day appears , I rouse me up from sleep ; I find my Pillow strew'd with tears , your absence caus'd me weep : Thus never shall I be at ease , till like two Turtles we May still be Billing when we please , and live at liberty . Ah Marry Foart thou lovely Maid , writ in my heart most dear ; May storms and tempests me invade , when Mary is not there : Though London youths do seek the prize , to take and bore away ; Yet she that's virtuous , chaste , and wise , will own her Love John Bay. Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ball , in Wes-smithfield . 