Londons Ordinary : Or , Every man in his Humour . To a Pleasant New Tune . THrough the Royal Exchange as I walked , where Galants in Satin did shine : At midst of the day they parted away at several places to dine . The Gentry went to the Kings Head , the Nobles unto the Crown : The Knights unto the golden Fleece , and the Plowman to the Clown . The Clergy will dine at the Miter , the Vintners at the three Tons : The Usurers to the Devil will go , and the Friars unto the Nuns . The Ladies will dine at the Feathers , the Globe no Captain will scorn : The Huntsman will go to the Greyhound below , and some Townsmen to the Horn . The Plummer will dine at the Fountain , the Cooks at the holy Lamb : The Drunkards at Noon to the Man in the moon , and the Cuckolds to the Ram. The Rorers will dine at the Lion , the Watermen at the old Swan : The Bawds will to the Negro go , and the Whores to the naked Man. The Keepers will to the white Heart , the Mariners unto the Ship : The Beggars they must take their way , to the Eg shell and the Whip . The Farriers will to the Horse , the Blacksmith unto the Lock ; The Butchers to the Bull will go , and the Carmen to Bridewel-Dock . The Fishmongers unto the Dolphin , the Bakers to the Cheat Loaf : The Turners unto the Ladle will go , where they may merrily quaff . The Taylor will dine at the Sheers , the Shoemakers will to the Boot ; The Welshmen they will take their way , and dine at the sign of the Goat . THe Hosiers will dine at the Leg , the Drapers at the sign of the Brush , The Fletchers to Robin Hood will go , and the Spendthrift to beggars bush . The Pewterers to the quart pot , the Coopers will dine at the Hoop , The Cobblers to the Last will go , and the Bargemen to the Scoop . The Carpenters will dine at the Axe , the Colliars will dine at the Sack : Your Fruiterer he to the Cherrytree , good fellows no liquour will lack . The Goldsmiths to the three Cups , their money they count as dross : Your Puritan to the pewter Can , and your Papists to the Cross . The Weavers will dine at the Shuttle , the Glovers will unto the Glove : The Maidens all to the Maiden head , and true Lovers unto the Dove . The Saddlers will dine at the Saddle , the Painters to the green Dragon : The Dutchman will go to the sign of the Vrow where each man may drink his Flagon . The Chandlers will dine at the Scales , the Salters at the sign of the bag , The Porters take pain at the Labour-in-vain , and the Horse-courser to the white Nag . Thus every man in his humour , from North unto the South ; But he that hath no money in his purse , may dine at the sign of the mouth . The Swaggerers will dine at the Fencers , but those that have lost their wits , With Bedlam Tom let there be their home , and the Drum the Drummers best fits . The Cheater will dine at the Chequer , the Pickpocket at a blind Alehouse , Till taken and tried up Holbourn they ride , and make their end at the gallows . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J Wright , and J. Clarke . Londons Ordinary : Or , Every man in his Humour . To a Pleasant New Tune . THrough the Royal Exchange as I walked , where Galants in Satin did shine : At midst of the day they parted away at several places to dine . The Gentry went to the Kings Head , the Nobles unto the Crown : The Knights unto the golden Fleece , and the Plowman to the Clown . The Clergy will dine at the Miter , the Vintners at the three Tons : The Usurers to the Devil will go , and the Friars unto the Nuns . The Ladies will dine at the Feathers , the Globe no Captain will scorn : The Huntsman will go to the Greyhound below , and some Townsmen to the Horn . The Plummer will dine at the Fountain , the Cooks at the holy Lamb : The Drunkards at Noon to the Man in the moon , and the Cuckolds to the Ram. The Rorers will dine at the Lion , the Watermen at the old Swan : The Bawds will to the Negro go , and the Whores to the naked Man. The Keepers will to the white Heart , the Mariners unto the Ship : The Beggars they must take their way , to the Eg shell and the Whip . The Farriers will to the Horse , the Blacksmith unto the Lock ; The Butchers to the Bull will go , and the Carmen to Bridewel-Dock . The Fishmongers unto the Dolphin , the Bakers to the Cheat Loaf : The Turners unto the Ladle will go , where they may merrily quaff . The Taylor will dine at the Sheers , the Shoemakers will to the Boot ; The Welshmen they will take their way , and dine at the sign of the Goat . THe Hosiers will dine at the Leg , the Drapers at the sign of the Brush , The Fletchers to Robin Hood will go , and the Spendthrift to beggars bush . The Pewterers to the quart pot , the Coopers will dine at the Hoop , The Cobblers to the Last will go , and the Bargemen to the Scoop . The Carpenters will dine at the Axe , the Colliars will dine at the Sack : Your Fruiterer he to the Cherrytree , good fellows no liquour will lack . The Goldsmiths to the three Cups , their money they count as dross : Your Puritan to the pewter Can , and your Papists to the Cross . The Weavers will dine at the Shuttle , the Glovers will unto the Glove : The Maidens all to the Maiden head , and true Lovers unto the Dove . The Saddlers will dine at the Saddle , the Painters to the green Dragon : The Dutchman will go to the sign of the Vrow where each man may drink his Flagon . The Chandlers will dine at the Scales , the Salters at the sign of the bag , The Porters take pain at the Labour-in-vain , and the Horse-courser to the white Nag . Thus every man in his humour , from North unto the South ; But he that hath no money in his purse , may dine at the sign of the mouth . The Swaggerers will dine at the Fencers , but those that have lost their wits , With Bedlam Tom let there be their home , and the Drum the Drummers best fits . The Cheater will dine at the Chequer , the Pickpocket at a blind Alehouse , Till taken and tried up Holbourn they ride , and make their end at the gallows . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J Wright , and J. Clarke . Londons Ordinary : Or , Every man in his Humour . To a Pleasant New Tune . THrough the Royal Exchange as I walked , where Galants in Satin did shine : At midst of the day they parted away at several places to dine . The Gentry went to the Kings Head , the Nobles unto the Crown : The Knights unto the golden Fleece , and the Plowman to the Clown . The Clergy will dine at the Miter , the Vintners at the three Tons : The Usurers to the Devil will go , and the Friars unto the Nuns . The Ladies will dine at the Feathers , the Globe no Captain will scorn : The Huntsman will go to the Greyhound below , and some Townsmen to the Horn . The Plummer will dine at the Fountain , the Cooks at the holy Lamb : The Drunkards at Noon to the Man in the moon , and the Cuckolds to the Ram. The Rorers will dine at the Lion , the Watermen at the old Swan : The Bawds will to the Negro go , and the Whores to the naked Man. The Keepers will to the white Heart , the Mariners unto the Ship : The Beggars they must take their way , to the Eg shell and the Whip . The Farriers will to the Horse , the Blacksmith unto the Lock ; The Butchers to the Bull will go , and the Carmen to Bridewel-Dock . The Fishmongers unto the Dolphin , the Bakers to the Cheat Loaf : The Turners unto the Ladle will go , where they may merrily quaff . The Taylor will dine at the Sheers , the Shoemakers will to the Boot ; The Welshmen they will take their way , and dine at the sign of the Goat . THe Hosiers will dine at the Leg , the Drapers at the sign of the Brush , The Fletchers to Robin Hood will go , and the Spendthrift to beggars bush . The Pewterers to the quart pot , the Coopers will dine at the Hoop , The Cobblers to the Last will go , and the Bargemen to the Scoop . The Carpenters will dine at the Axe , the Colliars will dine at the Sack : Your Fruiterer he to the Cherrytree , good fellows no liquour will lack . The Goldsmiths to the three Cups , their money they count as dross : Your Puritan to the pewter Can , and your Papists to the Cross . The Weavers will dine at the Shuttle , the Glovers will unto the Glove : The Maidens all to the Maiden head , and true Lovers unto the Dove . The Saddlers will dine at the Saddle , the Painters to the green Dragon : The Dutchman will go to the sign of the Vrow where each man may drink his Flagon . The Chandlers will dine at the Scales , the Salters at the sign of the bag , The Porters take pain at the Labour-in-vain , and the Horse-courser to the white Nag . Thus every man in his humour , from North unto the South ; But he that hath no money in his purse , may dine at the sign of the mouth . The Swaggerers will dine at the Fencers , but those that have lost their wits , With Bedlam Tom let there be their home , and the Drum the Drummers best fits . The Cheater will dine at the Chequer , the Pickpocket at a blind Alehouse , Till taken and tried up Holbourn they ride , and make their end at the gallows . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J Wright , and J. Clarke . Londons Ordinary : Or , Every man in his Humour . To a Pleasant New Tune . THrough the Royal Exchange as I walked , where Galants in Satin did shine : At midst of the day they parted away at several places to dine . The Gentry went to the Kings Head , the Nobles unto the Crown : The Knights unto the golden Fleece , and the Plowman to the Clown . The Clergy will dine at the Miter , the Vintners at the three Tons : The Usurers to the Devil will go , and the Friars unto the Nuns . The Ladies will dine at the Feathers , the Globe no Captain will scorn : The Huntsman will go to the Greyhound below , and some Townsmen to the Horn . The Plummer will dine at the Fountain , the Cooks at the holy Lamb : The Drunkards at Noon to the Man in the moon , and the Cuckolds to the Ram. The Rorers will dine at the Lion , the Watermen at the old Swan : The Bawds will to the Negro go , and the Whores to the naked Man. The Keepers will to the white Heart , the Mariners unto the Ship : The Beggars they must take their way , to the Eg shell and the Whip . The Farriers will to the Horse , the Blacksmith unto the Lock ; The Butchers to the Bull will go , and the Carmen to Bridewel-Dock . The Fishmongers unto the Dolphin , the Bakers to the Cheat Loaf : The Turners unto the Ladle will go , where they may merrily quaff . The Taylor will dine at the Sheers , the Shoemakers will to the Boot ; The Welshmen they will take their way , and dine at the sign of the Goat . THe Hosiers will dine at the Leg , the Drapers at the sign of the Brush , The Fletchers to Robin Hood will go , and the Spendthrift to beggars bush . The Pewterers to the quart pot , the Coopers will dine at the Hoop , The Cobblers to the Last will go , and the Bargemen to the Scoop . The Carpenters will dine at the Axe , the Colliars will dine at the Sack : Your Fruiterer he to the Cherrytree , good fellows no liquour will lack . The Goldsmiths to the three Cups , their money they count as dross : Your Puritan to the pewter Can , and your Papists to the Cross . The Weavers will dine at the Shuttle , the Glovers will unto the Glove : The Maidens all to the Maiden head , and true Lovers unto the Dove . The Saddlers will dine at the Saddle , the Painters to the green Dragon : The Dutchman will go to the sign of the Vrow where each man may drink his Flagon . The Chandlers will dine at the Scales , the Salters at the sign of the bag , The Porters take pain at the Labour-in-vain , and the Horse-courser to the white Nag . Thus every man in his humour , from North unto the South ; But he that hath no money in his purse , may dine at the sign of the mouth . The Swaggerers will dine at the Fencers , but those that have lost their wits , With Bedlam Tom let there be their home , and the Drum the Drummers best fits . The Cheater will dine at the Chequer , the Pickpocket at a blind Alehouse , Till taken and tried up Holbourn they ride , and make their end at the gallows . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J Wright , and J. Clarke . 