THE Scotch HAY-MAKERS : OR , Crafty JOCKEY's Courtship TO Coy Jenny of Edenborough . To and excellent new Tune , much in Request . I. 'TWas within a Furlong of Edenborough Town , In the rosy time o' th' Year , when the Grass was down , Bonny Jockey , blithe and gay , said to Jenny making Hay , Let's fit a little , Dear , and prattle , 'tis a sultry Day : He long had courted the black-brow'd Maid , But Jockey was a Wag , and wou'd ne'er consent to wed ; Which made her pish and phoo , and cry it will not do , I cannot , cannot , cannot , wonnot , wonnot buckle too . II He told her Marriage was grown a mere joak , And that no one wedded now but the Scoundrel Folk . Yet , my Dear , you shou'd prevail , but I know not what I ail , I shall dream of clogs , and silly dogs , with bottles at their tails . But I'll give the Gloves , and a Bongrace to wear , And a pretty filly Foal to ride out and take the air , If thou ne'r will pish and phoo , and cry out it shall not do , I cannot , cannot , cannot , wonnot , wonnot buckle too . III . That you'll give me Trinklits , cry'd she , I believe , But ah ! what in return must your poor Jenny give , When my Maiden-treasure's gone , I must gang to London Town , And roar and rant , and patch and paint , and kiss for half a crown ; Each drunken Bully oblige for pay , And earn a hated Living and odious fulsome way : No , no , it ne'r shall do , for a Wife I'll be to you , Or I cannot , cannot , cannot , wonnot , wonnot buckle too . IV. Ne'r was I so courted in all my life before , You will stop young Jenny's Breath , if you kiss me any more ; Fie upon you Lad forbear , you'll a silly Maid ensnare By your fooling so , then let me go , or your locks I'm tear , You are uncivil , I must be coy Till wedded , there's no Loon shall my Maidenhead enjoy ; Then did she pish and phoo , and cry'd , it ne'r will do , I cannot , cannot , cannot , wonnot , wonnot buckle too . V. Sike a Lad as Jockey , young Lasses would embrace , Who can sing them pleasant Sonnets , and dances with a grace On the pleasant rural Plain ; do not then my Suit disdain , From thy charming eyes , Love , arrows flies , which renew's my pain ; Love's fresh encounter he then renew'd ; She cry'd out , Fie , Oh fie , geud faith , you's muckle rude , Then did she pish and phoo , and cry'd , it ne'er will do , I cannot , cannot , cannot , wonnot , wonnot buckle too . VI . If you mean to marry , I'm freely be your Bride , Then at pleasure you may have what is otherwise deny'd , Ne'er a Loon in all the Land , shall have me at his command , Nor my Maidenhead , until I wed , take away your hand , Or else I will cry , and rend the Sky , For I will marry'd be , or else a Maid I'll die ; Then did she pish and phoo , and cry'd , it ne'er will do , I cannot , cannot , cannot , wonnot , wonnot buckle too . LONDON : Printed for C. Bates , at the Sun and Bible in Pie-corner . THE Scotch HAY-MAKERS : OR , Crafty JOCKEY's Courtship TO Coy Jenny of Edenborough . To and excellent new Tune , much in Request . I. 'TWas within a Furlong of Edenborough Town , In the rosy time o' th' Year , when the Grass was down , Bonny Jockey , blithe and gay , said to Jenny making Hay , Let's fit a little , Dear , and prattle , 'tis a sultry Day : He long had courted the black-brow'd Maid , But Jockey was a Wag , and wou'd ne'er consent to wed ; Which made her pish and phoo , and cry it will not do , I cannot , cannot , cannot , wonnot , wonnot buckle too . II He told her Marriage was grown a mere joak , And that no one wedded now but the Scoundrel Folk . Yet , my Dear , you shou'd prevail , but I know not what I ail , I shall dream of clogs , and silly dogs , with bottles at their tails . But I'll give the Gloves , and a Bongrace to wear , And a pretty filly Foal to ride out and take the air , If thou ne'r will pish and phoo , and cry out it shall not do , I cannot , cannot , cannot , wonnot , wonnot buckle too . III . That you'll give me Trinklits , cry'd she , I believe , But ah ! what in return must your poor Jenny give , When my Maiden-treasure's gone , I must gang to London Town , And roar and rant , and patch and paint , and kiss for half a crown ; Each drunken Bully oblige for pay , And earn a hated Living and odious fulsome way : No , no , it ne'r shall do , for a Wife I'll be to you , Or I cannot , cannot , cannot , wonnot , wonnot buckle too . IV. Ne'r was I so courted in all my life before , You will stop young Jenny's Breath , if you kiss me any more ; Fie upon you Lad forbear , you'll a silly Maid ensnare By your fooling so , then let me go , or your locks I'm tear , You are uncivil , I must be coy Till wedded , there's no Loon shall my Maidenhead enjoy ; Then did she pish and phoo , and cry'd , it ne'r will do , I cannot , cannot , cannot , wonnot , wonnot buckle too . V. Sike a Lad as Jockey , young Lasses would embrace , Who can sing them pleasant Sonnets , and dances with a grace On the pleasant rural Plain ; do not then my Suit disdain , From thy charming eyes , Love , arrows flies , which renew's my pain ; Love's fresh encounter he then renew'd ; She cry'd out , Fie , Oh fie , geud faith , you's muckle rude , Then did she pish and phoo , and cry'd , it ne'er will do , I cannot , cannot , cannot , wonnot , wonnot buckle too . VI . If you mean to marry , I'm freely be your Bride , Then at pleasure you may have what is otherwise deny'd , Ne'er a Loon in all the Land , shall have me at his command , Nor my Maidenhead , until I wed , take away your hand , Or else I will cry , and rend the Sky , For I will marry'd be , or else a Maid I'll die ; Then did she pish and phoo , and cry'd , it ne'er will do , I cannot , cannot , cannot , wonnot , wonnot buckle too . LONDON : Printed for C. Bates , at the Sun and Bible in Pie-corner . THE Scotch HAY-MAKERS : OR , Crafty JOCKEY's Courtship TO Coy Jenny of Edenborough . To and excellent new Tune , much in Request . I. 'TWas within a Furlong of Edenborough Town , In the rosy time o' th' Year , when the Grass was down , Bonny Jockey , blithe and gay , said to Jenny making Hay , Let's fit a little , Dear , and prattle , 'tis a sultry Day : He long had courted the black-brow'd Maid , But Jockey was a Wag , and wou'd ne'er consent to wed ; Which made her pish and phoo , and cry it will not do , I cannot , cannot , cannot , wonnot , wonnot buckle too . II He told her Marriage was grown a mere joak , And that no one wedded now but the Scoundrel Folk . Yet , my Dear , you shou'd prevail , but I know not what I ail , I shall dream of clogs , and silly dogs , with bottles at their tails . But I'll give the Gloves , and a Bongrace to wear , And a pretty filly Foal to ride out and take the air , If thou ne'r will pish and phoo , and cry out it shall not do , I cannot , cannot , cannot , wonnot , wonnot buckle too . III . That you'll give me Trinklits , cry'd she , I believe , But ah ! what in return must your poor Jenny give , When my Maiden-treasure's gone , I must gang to London Town , And roar and rant , and patch and paint , and kiss for half a crown ; Each drunken Bully oblige for pay , And earn a hated Living and odious fulsome way : No , no , it ne'r shall do , for a Wife I'll be to you , Or I cannot , cannot , cannot , wonnot , wonnot buckle too . IV. Ne'r was I so courted in all my life before , You will stop young Jenny's Breath , if you kiss me any more ; Fie upon you Lad forbear , you'll a silly Maid ensnare By your fooling so , then let me go , or your locks I'm tear , You are uncivil , I must be coy Till wedded , there's no Loon shall my Maidenhead enjoy ; Then did she pish and phoo , and cry'd , it ne'r will do , I cannot , cannot , cannot , wonnot , wonnot buckle too . V. Sike a Lad as Jockey , young Lasses would embrace , Who can sing them pleasant Sonnets , and dances with a grace On the pleasant rural Plain ; do not then my Suit disdain , From thy charming eyes , Love , arrows flies , which renew's my pain ; Love's fresh encounter he then renew'd ; She cry'd out , Fie , Oh fie , geud faith , you's muckle rude , Then did she pish and phoo , and cry'd , it ne'er will do , I cannot , cannot , cannot , wonnot , wonnot buckle too . VI . If you mean to marry , I'm freely be your Bride , Then at pleasure you may have what is otherwise deny'd , Ne'er a Loon in all the Land , shall have me at his command , Nor my Maidenhead , until I wed , take away your hand , Or else I will cry , and rend the Sky , For I will marry'd be , or else a Maid I'll die ; Then did she pish and phoo , and cry'd , it ne'er will do , I cannot , cannot , cannot , wonnot , wonnot buckle too . LONDON : Printed for C. Bates , at the Sun and Bible in Pie-corner . THE Scotch HAY-MAKERS : OR , Crafty JOCKEY's Courtship TO Coy Jenny of Edenborough . To and excellent new Tune , much in Request . I. 'TWas within a Furlong of Edenborough Town , In the rosy time o' th' Year , when the Grass was down , Bonny Jockey , blithe and gay , said to Jenny making Hay , Let's fit a little , Dear , and prattle , 'tis a sultry Day : He long had courted the black-brow'd Maid , But Jockey was a Wag , and wou'd ne'er consent to wed ; Which made her pish and phoo , and cry it will not do , I cannot , cannot , cannot , wonnot , wonnot buckle too . II He told her Marriage was grown a mere joak , And that no one wedded now but the Scoundrel Folk . Yet , my Dear , you shou'd prevail , but I know not what I ail , I shall dream of clogs , and silly dogs , with bottles at their tails . But I'll give the Gloves , and a Bongrace to wear , And a pretty filly Foal to ride out and take the air , If thou ne'r will pish and phoo , and cry out it shall not do , I cannot , cannot , cannot , wonnot , wonnot buckle too . III . That you'll give me Trinklits , cry'd she , I believe , But ah ! what in return must your poor Jenny give , When my Maiden-treasure's gone , I must gang to London Town , And roar and rant , and patch and paint , and kiss for half a crown ; Each drunken Bully oblige for pay , And earn a hated Living and odious fulsome way : No , no , it ne'r shall do , for a Wife I'll be to you , Or I cannot , cannot , cannot , wonnot , wonnot buckle too . IV. Ne'r was I so courted in all my life before , You will stop young Jenny's Breath , if you kiss me any more ; Fie upon you Lad forbear , you'll a silly Maid ensnare By your fooling so , then let me go , or your locks I'm tear , You are uncivil , I must be coy Till wedded , there's no Loon shall my Maidenhead enjoy ; Then did she pish and phoo , and cry'd , it ne'r will do , I cannot , cannot , cannot , wonnot , wonnot buckle too . V. Sike a Lad as Jockey , young Lasses would embrace , Who can sing them pleasant Sonnets , and dances with a grace On the pleasant rural Plain ; do not then my Suit disdain , From thy charming eyes , Love , arrows flies , which renew's my pain ; Love's fresh encounter he then renew'd ; She cry'd out , Fie , Oh fie , geud faith , you's muckle rude , Then did she pish and phoo , and cry'd , it ne'er will do , I cannot , cannot , cannot , wonnot , wonnot buckle too . VI . If you mean to marry , I'm freely be your Bride , Then at pleasure you may have what is otherwise deny'd , Ne'er a Loon in all the Land , shall have me at his command , Nor my Maidenhead , until I wed , take away your hand , Or else I will cry , and rend the Sky , For I will marry'd be , or else a Maid I'll die ; Then did she pish and phoo , and cry'd , it ne'er will do , I cannot , cannot , cannot , wonnot , wonnot buckle too . LONDON : Printed for C. Bates , at the Sun and Bible in Pie-corner . 