Amintor's Answer to Parthenia's Complaint , Or , The Wronged Shepherd's Vindication . This answer to the Nymph he does return , Since that he hath more cause than she , to mourn And so against all women does complain , For having met with some who were to blame : As by this Satire you may find it when he proves that Women are more false then men . To a New Tune ; Or Sitting beyond a River side , etc With Allowance . UNder a pleasant Willow shade , Amintor sat and herd the Maid ; And unto her he did reply , O why Parthenia ! prithee tell me why You do complain so grievously , Since Men are not so false as Women be . When as in Love we use our Arts , We find you have obdurate hearts , Although at first our flames do burn , Like winter's Morning into Frost you turn . So by the Consequence you see , That Men are not so false as Women be . Why should a Man confined be , To such a piece of vanity ? Or dote upon a tempting snare , That nature hath at unawares Made fair No , cast them off , for you will see , That Men are not so false as Women be . They love they fawn , they sighs , they pray , And yet will turn to hate next day ; The more you sue , the more they shun , By which poor Shepherd's are undone : So that by Consequence you see , That Men are not so false as Women be . THey think the God of Love allows , they should be false and break their vows It is a miracle to find One of a thousand bear a constant mind : Therefore you may confess with me , That Men are not so false as women be . They'l say they love , but not tell when , They'l give a heart and tak't again : If you entreat , and sue and pray , they turn their heads & look another way : So that by consequence you see , That men are not so false as women be . If that they see you pine and die , They'l triumph in your misery , No pity lies in frown nor lile , Their wavering minds are all so full of guile . Therefore you may confess with me That men are not so false as women be . Too much experience I have had , That few are good too many bad , Though like a Skeleton you appear . A cruel Nymph shall never drop a Tear Therefore by consequence you see , That men are not so false as women be . Though Cupid bid them love again , Yet they so stupid do remain For Love they cruelty will show And scorn for to submit unto his Bow : So by the Sequel you may see , That men are not so false as women be . Then let not any Shepherd Swain , Hereafter valve their disdain , Since Oh Man is so vain a toy , We'll find some other Pastime to enjoy : For why by this you plainly see . That men are not so false as women be . Their Syren Voices i'le not hear , Nor from my eyes let fallen a tear : Now Cupids Shaft I will defy , For wounding me with Love , to make me die Since that you may confess with me . That Men are not so false as women be Thus to all Nymphs i'le bid adieu , Until I find out one that's true : Or in some Grove i'le be confin'd to cure my grief , & ease my troubled mind For now you must confess and see . That men are not so false as women be . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . Amintor's Answer to Parthenia's Complaint , Or , The Wronged Shepherd's Vindication . This answer to the Nymph he does return , Since that he hath more cause than she , to mourn And so against all women does complain , For having met with some who were to blame : As by this Satire you may find it when he proves that Women are more false then men . To a New Tune ; Or Sitting beyond a River side , etc With Allowance . UNder a pleasant Willow shade , Amintor sat and herd the Maid ; And unto her he did reply , O why Parthenia ! prithee tell me why You do complain so grievously , Since Men are not so false as Women be . When as in Love we use our Arts , We find you have obdurate hearts , Although at first our flames do burn , Like winter's Morning into Frost you turn . So by the Consequence you see , That Men are not so false as Women be . Why should a Man confined be , To such a piece of vanity ? Or dote upon a tempting snare , That nature hath at unawares Made fair No , cast them off , for you will see , That Men are not so false as Women be . They love they fawn , they sighs , they pray , And yet will turn to hate next day ; The more you sue , the more they shun , By which poor Shepherd's are undone : So that by Consequence you see , That Men are not so false as Women be . THey think the God of Love allows , they should be false and break their vows It is a miracle to find One of a thousand bear a constant mind : Therefore you may confess with me , That Men are not so false as women be . They'l say they love , but not tell when , They'l give a heart and tak't again : If you entreat , and sue and pray , they turn their heads & look another way : So that by consequence you see , That men are not so false as women be . If that they see you pine and die , They'l triumph in your misery , No pity lies in frown nor lile , Their wavering minds are all so full of guile . Therefore you may confess with me That men are not so false as women be . Too much experience I have had , That few are good too many bad , Though like a Skeleton you appear . A cruel Nymph shall never drop a Tear Therefore by consequence you see , That men are not so false as women be . Though Cupid bid them love again , Yet they so stupid do remain For Love they cruelty will show And scorn for to submit unto his Bow : So by the Sequel you may see , That men are not so false as women be . Then let not any Shepherd Swain , Hereafter valve their disdain , Since Oh Man is so vain a toy , We'll find some other Pastime to enjoy : For why by this you plainly see . That men are not so false as women be . Their Syren Voices i'le not hear , Nor from my eyes let fallen a tear : Now Cupids Shaft I will defy , For wounding me with Love , to make me die Since that you may confess with me . That Men are not so false as women be Thus to all Nymphs i'le bid adieu , Until I find out one that's true : Or in some Grove i'le be confin'd to cure my grief , & ease my troubled mind For now you must confess and see . That men are not so false as women be . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . Amintor's Answer to Parthenia's Complaint , Or , The Wronged Shepherd's Vindication . This answer to the Nymph he does return , Since that he hath more cause than she , to mourn And so against all women does complain , For having met with some who were to blame : As by this Satire you may find it when he proves that Women are more false then men . To a New Tune ; Or Sitting beyond a River side , etc With Allowance . UNder a pleasant Willow shade , Amintor sat and herd the Maid ; And unto her he did reply , O why Parthenia ! prithee tell me why You do complain so grievously , Since Men are not so false as Women be . When as in Love we use our Arts , We find you have obdurate hearts , Although at first our flames do burn , Like winter's Morning into Frost you turn . So by the Consequence you see , That Men are not so false as Women be . Why should a Man confined be , To such a piece of vanity ? Or dote upon a tempting snare , That nature hath at unawares Made fair No , cast them off , for you will see , That Men are not so false as Women be . They love they fawn , they sighs , they pray , And yet will turn to hate next day ; The more you sue , the more they shun , By which poor Shepherd's are undone : So that by Consequence you see , That Men are not so false as Women be . THey think the God of Love allows , they should be false and break their vows It is a miracle to find One of a thousand bear a constant mind : Therefore you may confess with me , That Men are not so false as women be . They'l say they love , but not tell when , They'l give a heart and tak't again : If you entreat , and sue and pray , they turn their heads & look another way : So that by consequence you see , That men are not so false as women be . If that they see you pine and die , They'l triumph in your misery , No pity lies in frown nor lile , Their wavering minds are all so full of guile . Therefore you may confess with me That men are not so false as women be . Too much experience I have had , That few are good too many bad , Though like a Skeleton you appear . A cruel Nymph shall never drop a Tear Therefore by consequence you see , That men are not so false as women be . Though Cupid bid them love again , Yet they so stupid do remain For Love they cruelty will show And scorn for to submit unto his Bow : So by the Sequel you may see , That men are not so false as women be . Then let not any Shepherd Swain , Hereafter valve their disdain , Since Oh Man is so vain a toy , We'll find some other Pastime to enjoy : For why by this you plainly see . That men are not so false as women be . Their Syren Voices i'le not hear , Nor from my eyes let fallen a tear : Now Cupids Shaft I will defy , For wounding me with Love , to make me die Since that you may confess with me . That Men are not so false as women be Thus to all Nymphs i'le bid adieu , Until I find out one that's true : Or in some Grove i'le be confin'd to cure my grief , & ease my troubled mind For now you must confess and see . That men are not so false as women be . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . Amintor's Answer to Parthenia's Complaint , Or , The Wronged Shepherd's Vindication . This answer to the Nymph he does return , Since that he hath more cause than she , to mourn And so against all women does complain , For having met with some who were to blame : As by this Satire you may find it when he proves that Women are more false then men . To a New Tune ; Or Sitting beyond a River side , etc With Allowance . UNder a pleasant Willow shade , Amintor sat and herd the Maid ; And unto her he did reply , O why Parthenia ! prithee tell me why You do complain so grievously , Since Men are not so false as Women be . When as in Love we use our Arts , We find you have obdurate hearts , Although at first our flames do burn , Like winter's Morning into Frost you turn . So by the Consequence you see , That Men are not so false as Women be . Why should a Man confined be , To such a piece of vanity ? Or dote upon a tempting snare , That nature hath at unawares Made fair No , cast them off , for you will see , That Men are not so false as Women be . They love they fawn , they sighs , they pray , And yet will turn to hate next day ; The more you sue , the more they shun , By which poor Shepherd's are undone : So that by Consequence you see , That Men are not so false as Women be . THey think the God of Love allows , they should be false and break their vows It is a miracle to find One of a thousand bear a constant mind : Therefore you may confess with me , That Men are not so false as women be . They'l say they love , but not tell when , They'l give a heart and tak't again : If you entreat , and sue and pray , they turn their heads & look another way : So that by consequence you see , That men are not so false as women be . If that they see you pine and die , They'l triumph in your misery , No pity lies in frown nor lile , Their wavering minds are all so full of guile . Therefore you may confess with me That men are not so false as women be . Too much experience I have had , That few are good too many bad , Though like a Skeleton you appear . A cruel Nymph shall never drop a Tear Therefore by consequence you see , That men are not so false as women be . Though Cupid bid them love again , Yet they so stupid do remain For Love they cruelty will show And scorn for to submit unto his Bow : So by the Sequel you may see , That men are not so false as women be . Then let not any Shepherd Swain , Hereafter valve their disdain , Since Oh Man is so vain a toy , We'll find some other Pastime to enjoy : For why by this you plainly see . That men are not so false as women be . Their Syren Voices i'le not hear , Nor from my eyes let fallen a tear : Now Cupids Shaft I will defy , For wounding me with Love , to make me die Since that you may confess with me . That Men are not so false as women be Thus to all Nymphs i'le bid adieu , Until I find out one that's true : Or in some Grove i'le be confin'd to cure my grief , & ease my troubled mind For now you must confess and see . That men are not so false as women be . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . 