Jack Had-Lands Lamentation , That sold and made away his 'State , And spent his Money early and late ; And let his Wife and Children want , Now he makes great moan and does repent ; And desires all good-fellows where e're they be , To take warning of his poverty . He was cast in Prison at that bout , His poor Wife she helped him out ; She had small reason to do that thing But true love is a gallant thing ; There is scarce a Taphouse in London town Will help a Man when he is cast down . To the Tune of , It is Old Ale that has undone me . This may be Printed , R. P. TO all Good-fellows i'le declare , To take Example and have a care . And do not spend your Means in waste , For you will repent it at the las For I myself was blind [ l ] y led , And made all away , I was so bad ; Let all I say be warn'd by me , Of drinking and bad company . I had Land and Living of my own , And a fine Estate , it was well known ; It was worth threescore pound a year , And I spent it all in Ale and Beer , My Hostess was all my delight , And I sat up swilling day and night . Let all I say , etc I never took no care at all , God knows I had a sudden fallen ; I sold my 'State then all away , To maintain the Alehouse night and day . My Wife and Children was so poor , Neighbours cry'd shame at me therefore , Let all I say , etc I would come home drunk unto my Wife , And led her such a weary life , And she would speak me then so fair , And entreat me with a lovely ca [ r ] e ; And say , good Husband be content , Alas ! you will these things repen Let all I say be warn'd by me , Of drinking and bad company . My little naked Children , they Were almost pin'd , as Neighbours say , And starv'd so soar for want of Close , I had no care of them God knows ; Now all is gone , and nothing left , I may say , farewell Dagger with dudgeon and Has Let all I say , etc I cast my self into some Debt , And was arrested then for it ; Because that I could get no Bail , They cast me in a nasty Gaile ; And there I lay from my poor Wife , She reliev'd me or I had lost my life : Let all I say , etc When I was in that misery , Ne'r and Alewife that would come to me ; For all I had spent my 'State away , I had no help of them I say : But my poor wife was my best friend , And succoured me unto the end : Let all I say , etc Then my poor wife she sought about , And she made a friend and god me out ; She sold her Wedding-Ring away , To pay my Fees without delay ; And did so rejoice at my release , And brought me home again in peace : Let all I say , etc Now all is spent I plainly see There is no help nor no remedy , But labour hard and work full soar , That money will be better then all before ; And bring it home unto my Wife , And love her as I love my life : Let all I say , etc , A man that has a state or has good means ; Ne'r use so much these tippling Queans They drown your money so very soar , And make you at the last be poor ; I am sure that I may say the same , But alas , alas , I was to blame : Let all I say , etc Let every one that goes along , Take notice of this new-made Song , And take examble now by me , That am fallen into this Poverty ; I wish that I might be the last , But alack-aday , I am not the firs Let all I say , etc So to conclude to end the strife , Let every man love his own Wife ; And save his money , and keep his store , Drink not too much to make you poor , A man that has Grace will then repent , To see his Wife and Children live in wan Let all I say , be warn'd be me , Of Drinking and lewd Company . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . Jack Had-Lands Lamentation , That sold and made away his 'State , And spent his Money early and late ; And let his Wife and Children want , Now he makes great moan and does repent ; And desires all good-fellows where e're they be , To take warning of his poverty . He was cast in Prison at that bout , His poor Wife she helped him out ; She had small reason to do that thing But true love is a gallant thing ; There is scarce a Taphouse in London town Will help a Man when he is cast down . To the Tune of , It is Old Ale that has undone me . This may be Printed , R. P. TO all Good-fellows i'le declare , To take Example and have a care . And do not spend your Means in waste , For you will repent it at the las For I myself was blind [ l ] y led , And made all away , I was so bad ; Let all I say be warn'd by me , Of drinking and bad company . I had Land and Living of my own , And a fine Estate , it was well known ; It was worth threescore pound a year , And I spent it all in Ale and Beer , My Hostess was all my delight , And I sat up swilling day and night . Let all I say , etc I never took no care at all , God knows I had a sudden fallen ; I sold my 'State then all away , To maintain the Alehouse night and day . My Wife and Children was so poor , Neighbours cry'd shame at me therefore , Let all I say , etc I would come home drunk unto my Wife , And led her such a weary life , And she would speak me then so fair , And entreat me with a lovely ca [ r ] e ; And say , good Husband be content , Alas ! you will these things repen Let all I say be warn'd by me , Of drinking and bad company . My little naked Children , they Were almost pin'd , as Neighbours say , And starv'd so soar for want of Close , I had no care of them God knows ; Now all is gone , and nothing left , I may say , farewell Dagger with dudgeon and Has Let all I say , etc I cast my self into some Debt , And was arrested then for it ; Because that I could get no Bail , They cast me in a nasty Gaile ; And there I lay from my poor Wife , She reliev'd me or I had lost my life : Let all I say , etc When I was in that misery , Ne'r and Alewife that would come to me ; For all I had spent my 'State away , I had no help of them I say : But my poor wife was my best friend , And succoured me unto the end : Let all I say , etc Then my poor wife she sought about , And she made a friend and god me out ; She sold her Wedding-Ring away , To pay my Fees without delay ; And did so rejoice at my release , And brought me home again in peace : Let all I say , etc Now all is spent I plainly see There is no help nor no remedy , But labour hard and work full soar , That money will be better then all before ; And bring it home unto my Wife , And love her as I love my life : Let all I say , etc , A man that has a state or has good means ; Ne'r use so much these tippling Queans They drown your money so very soar , And make you at the last be poor ; I am sure that I may say the same , But alas , alas , I was to blame : Let all I say , etc Let every one that goes along , Take notice of this new-made Song , And take examble now by me , That am fallen into this Poverty ; I wish that I might be the last , But alack-aday , I am not the firs Let all I say , etc So to conclude to end the strife , Let every man love his own Wife ; And save his money , and keep his store , Drink not too much to make you poor , A man that has Grace will then repent , To see his Wife and Children live in wan Let all I say , be warn'd be me , Of Drinking and lewd Company . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . 