The LAMENTATION of Mr. PAGE's WIFE of PLIMOUTH , who being forc'd to Wed him , Consented to his Murder , f [ oh ] r the Love of G. Strangwidge ; for which they suffered at Barnstable , in Devonshire . The Tune , Fortune my Foe , etc UNhappy she whom fortune hath forlorn , Despis'd of grace , that proffer'd grace did scorn , My lawless love hath luckless wrought my woe , My discontent , content did overthrow . My loathed life too late I do lament , My woeful deeds in heart I do repen A wife I was that wilful went awry , And for that fault am here prepar'd to die . In blooming years my father's greedy mind , Against my will a match for me did find , Great wealth there was , yea , gold and silver store , But yet my heart had chosen one before . Mine eyes dislik'd my father's liking quite , My heart did loath my parents found deligh My greedy mind and fancy told to me , That with his age my youth could not agree . On knees I pray'd they would not me constrain , With tears I cry'd , their purpose to refrain ; With sighs and sobs I did them often move , I might not wed whereas I could not love . But all in vain my speeches still I spent , My mother's will my wishes did prevent . Though wealthy Page possessed the outward part , George Strangwidge still was lodged in my heart . I wedded was and wrapped all in woe , Great discontent within my heart did grow ; I loath'd to live , yet liv'd in deadly strife , Because perforce I was made Page's wife . My chosen eyes could not his sighed abide , My tender youth did loath his aged side , Scant could I taste the meat whereon he fed , My legs did loath to lodge within his bed . Cause knew I none , I should despise him so , That such disdain within my heart did grow , Save only this , that fancy did me move , And told me still , George Strangwidge was my love . Lo , here began my downfall and decay , In mind I mus'd to make him straight away : I that became his discontented wife , Contented was he should be rid of life . Methinks the heavens cry vengeance for my fact , Methinks the world condemns my monstrous act , Methinks within my conscience tells me true , That for that deed hellfire is my endue . My pensive soul does sorrow for my since , For which offence my soul does bleed within , But mercy Lord , for mercy still I cry , Save thou my soul and let my body die . Well could I wish that Page enjoy'd his life , So that he had some other to his wife : But never could I wish of low or high , A longer life then see sweet Strangwidge die . O woe is me that had no greater grace , To stay till he had run out nature's raze ; My deeds I rue , but more I do repent , That to the same my Strangwidge gave consent . You parents found that greedy minded be , And seek to grafted upon the golden tree ; Consider well , and rightful judges be , And give your doom , 'twixt parents love and me . I was their child , and bound for to obey , Yet not to love where I no love could lay , I married was in muck and endless strife , But faith before had made me Strangwidge's wife . O wretched world , whom canker'd rust does blind , And cursed men who bear a greedy mind : And hapless I , whom parents did force so , To end my days in sorrow , shame and woe . You Devonshire-dames , & courteous Cornwal-knights , That here are come to visit woeful wights , Regard my grief , and mark my woeful end , But to your children be a better friend . And thou my dear , which for my fault must die , Be not afraid the sting of death to try ; Like as we liv'd and lov'd together true , So both at once let's bid the world adieu . Ulalia thy friend does take her last farewell , Whose soul with thee in heaven shall ever dwell ; Sweet Saviour Christ do thou my soul receive , The world I do with all my heart forgive . And parents now whose greedy mind does show , Your hearts desire , and inward heavy woe . Mourn you no more , for now my heart does tell , E'ry day be done , my soul shall be full well . And Plimouth proud I bid thee now farewell , Take heed you wives , let not your hands rebel , And farewell life wherein such sorrow shows , And welcome death that does my corpse enclose . And now sweet Lord forgive me my misdeeds , Repentance cries for soul that inward bleeds , My soul and body I commend to thee , That with thy blood from death redeemed me . Lord bless our King with long and happy life , And send true peace betwixt each man and wife : And give all parents wisdom to foresee , The match is marr'd where minds do not agree . Mrs. PAGE's COMPLAINT for Causing her Husband to be Murdered for the Love of George Strangwidge . IF ever woe did touch a woman's heart , Or grief worser [ i ] worser gall for since the outward part ; My conscience then and heavy heart within , Can witness well the sorrow for my since . When years were young , my father forc'd me wed , Against my will , where fancy was not fed ; I was content their pleasure to obey , Although my heart was linked another way . Great were the gifts they proffered in my sighed , With wealth they thought to win me to delight ; But gold nor gifts my mind could not remove , For I was linked whereas I could not love . Methought his sighed was loathsome to my eye , My heart did grudge against him inwardly : This discontent did cause my deadly strife , And with his wealth did cause a grievous life . My constant love was on young Strangwidge set , And woe to him that did our welfare let ; His love so deep a root in me did take , I would have gone a begging for his sake . Wronged he was through found desire of gain , Wronged he was even through my parents plain : If faith and troth a perfect pledge might be , I had been wife unto no man but he . Eternal God forgive my father's deed , And grant all parents may take better heed ; If I had been but constant to my friend , I had not matched to make so bad and end . But wanting grace I sought my own decay , And was the cause to make my friend away ; And he on whom my earthly joys did lie , Through my amiss a shameful death must die . Farewell , sweet George , always my loving friend , Needs must I laud and love thee to the end : And albeit that Page possessed thy due , In sighed of God thou wast my husband true . My watery eyes unto the heavens I bend , Craving of Christ his mercy to extend , My bloody deed do me , Oh Lord , forgive , And let my soul within thy kingdom live . Farewell false world , and friends that fickle be , All wives farewell , example take by me ; Let not the Devil to murder you entice , Seek to escape such foul and sinful vice . And now , Oh Christ , to thee I yield my breath , Strengthen my faith in bitter pangs of death , Pardon my faults and follies , I thee pray , And with thy blood wash thou my sins away . GEORGE STRANGWIDGE's LAMENTATION for Consenting to Page's Death for the Love Ulalia , Page's Wife . THe man that sighs and sorrows for his since , The corpse which care and woe hath wrapped in , In doleful sort records her swan like song , That waits for death , and loathes to live so long : Oh Glansfield , cause of my committed crime , So wed in wealth as birds in bush of lime : What cause had'st thou to bear such wicked spite Against my love and eke my heart's delight ? I would to God thy wisdom had been more , Or that I had not entered in thy door ; Or that thou hadst a kinder father been Unto thy child , whose years are yet but green . The match unmeet which thou for me didst make , When aged Page thy daughter home did take ; Well may'st thou rue with tears that cannot dry , Which is the cause that four of us must die . Ulalia more brighter then the summer's sun , Whose beauty hath forever my love wone ; My soul more sobs to think of thy disgrace , Then to behold my own untimely raze . The deed late done in heart I do repent , But that I lov'd , I cannot yet relen Thy seemly sighed was ever sweet to me , Would God my death could thy excuser be . It was for me , alas , thou didst the same , On me by right they ought to lay the blame : My worthless love hath brought my life in scorn , And woe is me that ever I was born . Farewell my love , whose loyal heart was seen , I would thou hadst not half so constant been : Farewell my love , the pride of Plimouth town , Farewell the flower whose beauty is cut down . For twenty years great was the cost I know , Thy unkind father did on thee bestow ; Yet afterwards so sour did fortune lower , He lost his joy and child within and hour . My wrong and woe to God I do commit , W The LAMENTATION of Mr. PAGE's WIFE of PLIMOUTH , who being forc'd to Wed him , Consented to his Murder , f [ oh ] r the Love of G. Strangwidge ; for which they suffered at Barnstable , in Devonshire . The Tune , Fortune my Foe , etc UNhappy she whom fortune hath forlorn , Despis'd of grace , that proffer'd grace did scorn , My lawless love hath luckless wrought my woe , My discontent , content did overthrow . My loathed life too late I do lament , My woeful deeds in heart I do repen A wife I was that wilful went awry , And for that fault am here prepar'd to die . In blooming years my father's greedy mind , Against my will a match for me did find , Great wealth there was , yea , gold and silver store , But yet my heart had chosen one before . Mine eyes dislik'd my father's liking quite , My heart did loath my parents found deligh My greedy mind and fancy told to me , That with his age my youth could not agree . On knees I pray'd they would not me constrain , With tears I cry'd , their purpose to refrain ; With sighs and sobs I did them often move , I might not wed whereas I could not love . But all in vain my speeches still I spent , My mother's will my wishes did prevent . Though wealthy Page possessed the outward part , George Strangwidge still was lodged in my heart . I wedded was and wrapped all in woe , Great discontent within my heart did grow ; I loath'd to live , yet liv'd in deadly strife , Because perforce I was made Page's wife . My chosen eyes could not his sighed abide , My tender youth did loath his aged side , Scant could I taste the meat whereon he fed , My legs did loath to lodge within his bed . Cause knew I none , I should despise him so , That such disdain within my heart did grow , Save only this , that fancy did me move , And told me still , George Strangwidge was my love . Lo , here began my downfall and decay , In mind I mus'd to make him straight away : I that became his discontented wife , Contented was he should be rid of life . Methinks the heavens cry vengeance for my fact , Methinks the world condemns my monstrous act , Methinks within my conscience tells me true , That for that deed hellfire is my endue . My pensive soul does sorrow for my since , For which offence my soul does bleed within , But mercy Lord , for mercy still I cry , Save thou my soul and let my body die . Well could I wish that Page enjoy'd his life , So that he had some other to his wife : But never could I wish of low or high , A longer life then see sweet Strangwidge die . O woe is me that had no greater grace , To stay till he had run out nature's raze ; My deeds I rue , but more I do repent , That to the same my Strangwidge gave consent . You parents found that greedy minded be , And seek to grafted upon the golden tree ; Consider well , and rightful judges be , And give your doom , 'twixt parents love and me . I was their child , and bound for to obey , Yet not to love where I no love could lay , I married was in muck and endless strife , But faith before had made me Strangwidge's wife . O wretched world , whom canker'd rust does blind , And cursed men who bear a greedy mind : And hapless I , whom parents did force so , To end my days in sorrow , shame and woe . You Devonshire-dames , & courteous Cornwal-knights , That here are come to visit woeful wights , Regard my grief , and mark my woeful end , But to your children be a better friend . And thou my dear , which for my fault must die , Be not afraid the sting of death to try ; Like as we liv'd and lov'd together true , So both at once let's bid the world adieu . Ulalia thy friend does take her last farewell , Whose soul with thee in heaven shall ever dwell ; Sweet Saviour Christ do thou my soul receive , The world I do with all my heart forgive . And parents now whose greedy mind does show , Your hearts desire , and inward heavy woe . Mourn you no more , for now my heart does tell , E'ry day be done , my soul shall be full well . And Plimouth proud I bid thee now farewell , Take heed you wives , let not your hands rebel , And farewell life wherein such sorrow shows , And welcome death that does my corpse enclose . And now sweet Lord forgive me my misdeeds , Repentance cries for soul that inward bleeds , My soul and body I commend to thee , That with thy blood from death redeemed me . Lord bless our King with long and happy life , And send true peace betwixt each man and wife : And give all parents wisdom to foresee , The match is marr'd where minds do not agree . Mrs. PAGE's COMPLAINT for Causing her Husband to be Murdered for the Love of George Strangwidge . IF ever woe did touch a woman's heart , Or grief worser [ i ] worser gall for since the outward part ; My conscience then and heavy heart within , Can witness well the sorrow for my since . When years were young , my father forc'd me wed , Against my will , where fancy was not fed ; I was content their pleasure to obey , Although my heart was linked another way . Great were the gifts they proffered in my sighed , With wealth they thought to win me to delight ; But gold nor gifts my mind could not remove , For I was linked whereas I could not love . Methought his sighed was loathsome to my eye , My heart did grudge against him inwardly : This discontent did cause my deadly strife , And with his wealth did cause a grievous life . My constant love was on young Strangwidge set , And woe to him that did our welfare let ; His love so deep a root in me did take , I would have gone a begging for his sake . Wronged he was through found desire of gain , Wronged he was even through my parents plain : If faith and troth a perfect pledge might be , I had been wife unto no man but he . Eternal God forgive my father's deed , And grant all parents may take better heed ; If I had been but constant to my friend , I had not matched to make so bad and end . But wanting grace I sought my own decay , And was the cause to make my friend away ; And he on whom my earthly joys did lie , Through my amiss a shameful death must die . Farewell , sweet George , always my loving friend , Needs must I laud and love thee to the end : And albeit that Page possessed thy due , In sighed of God thou wast my husband true . My watery eyes unto the heavens I bend , Craving of Christ his mercy to extend , My bloody deed do me , Oh Lord , forgive , And let my soul within thy kingdom live . Farewell false world , and friends that fickle be , All wives farewell , example take by me ; Let not the Devil to murder you entice , Seek to escape such foul and sinful vice . And now , Oh Christ , to thee I yield my breath , Strengthen my faith in bitter pangs of death , Pardon my faults and follies , I thee pray , And with thy blood wash thou my sins away . GEORGE STRANGWIDGE's LAMENTATION for Consenting to Page's Death for the Love Ulalia , Page's Wife . THe man that sighs and sorrows for his since , The corpse which care and woe hath wrapped in , In doleful sort records her swan like song , That waits for death , and loathes to live so long : Oh Glansfield , cause of my committed crime , So wed in wealth as birds in bush of lime : What cause had'st thou to bear such wicked spite Against my love and eke my heart's delight ? I would to God thy wisdom had been more , Or that I had not entered in thy door ; Or that thou hadst a kinder father been Unto thy child , whose years are yet but green . The match unmeet which thou for me didst make , When aged Page thy daughter home did take ; Well may'st thou rue with tears that cannot dry , Which is the cause that four of us must die . Ulalia more brighter then the summer's sun , Whose beauty hath forever my love wone ; My soul more sobs to think of thy disgrace , Then to behold my own untimely raze . The deed late done in heart I do repent , But that I lov'd , I cannot yet relen Thy seemly sighed was ever sweet to me , Would God my death could thy excuser be . It was for me , alas , thou didst the same , On me by right they ought to lay the blame : My worthless love hath brought my life in scorn , And woe is me that ever I was born . Farewell my love , whose loyal heart was seen , I would thou hadst not half so constant been : Farewell my love , the pride of Plimouth town , Farewell the flower whose beauty is cut down . For twenty years great was the cost I know , Thy unkind father did on thee bestow ; Yet afterwards so sour did fortune lower , He lost his joy and child within and hour . My wrong and woe to God I do commit , Who was the cause of matching them unfi And yet I cannot so my guilt excuse , We gave consent his life for to abuse . Wretch that I am , that my consent did give , Had I deny'd , Ulalia still should live : Blind fancy said , This suit do not deny , Live thou in bliss , or else in sorrow die . O Lord , forgive this cruel deed of mine , Upon my soul let beams of mercy shine : In justice Lord do thou not vengeance take , Forgive us both , for Jesus Christ his sake . London : Printed by and for W.O. and sold by B. Deacon . ho was the cause of matching them unfi And yet I cannot so my guilt excuse , We gave consent his life for to abuse . Wretch that I am , that my consent did give , Had I deny'd , Ulalia still should live : Blind fancy said , This suit do not deny , Live thou in bliss , or else in sorrow die . O Lord , forgive this cruel deed of mine , Upon my soul let beams of mercy shine : In justice Lord do thou not vengeance take , Forgive us both , for Jesus Christ his sake . London : Printed by and for W.O. and sold by B. Deacon . The LAMENTATION of Mr. PAGE's WIFE of PLIMOUTH , who being forc'd to Wed him , Consented to his Murder , f [ oh ] r the Love of G. Strangwidge ; for which they suffered at Barnstable , in Devonshire . The Tune , Fortune my Foe , etc UNhappy she whom fortune hath forlorn , Despis'd of grace , that proffer'd grace did scorn , My lawless love hath luckless wrought my woe , My discontent , content did overthrow . My loathed life too late I do lament , My woeful deeds in heart I do repen A wife I was that wilful went awry , And for that fault am here prepar'd to die . In blooming years my father's greedy mind , Against my will a match for me did find , Great wealth there was , yea , gold and silver store , But yet my heart had chosen one before . Mine eyes dislik'd my father's liking quite , My heart did loath my parents found deligh My greedy mind and fancy told to me , That with his age my youth could not agree . On knees I pray'd they would not me constrain , With tears I cry'd , their purpose to refrain ; With sighs and sobs I did them often move , I might not wed whereas I could not love . But all in vain my speeches still I spent , My mother's will my wishes did prevent . Though wealthy Page possessed the outward part , George Strangwidge still was lodged in my heart . I wedded was and wrapped all in woe , Great discontent within my heart did grow ; I loath'd to live , yet liv'd in deadly strife , Because perforce I was made Page's wife . My chosen eyes could not his sighed abide , My tender youth did loath his aged side , Scant could I taste the meat whereon he fed , My legs did loath to lodge within his bed . Cause knew I none , I should despise him so , That such disdain within my heart did grow , Save only this , that fancy did me move , And told me still , George Strangwidge was my love . Lo , here began my downfall and decay , In mind I mus'd to make him straight away : I that became his discontented wife , Contented was he should be rid of life . Methinks the heavens cry vengeance for my fact , Methinks the world condemns my monstrous act , Methinks within my conscience tells me true , That for that deed hellfire is my endue . My pensive soul does sorrow for my since , For which offence my soul does bleed within , But mercy Lord , for mercy still I cry , Save thou my soul and let my body die . Well could I wish that Page enjoy'd his life , So that he had some other to his wife : But never could I wish of low or high , A longer life then see sweet Strangwidge die . O woe is me that had no greater grace , To stay till he had run out nature's raze ; My deeds I rue , but more I do repent , That to the same my Strangwidge gave consent . You parents found that greedy minded be , And seek to grafted upon the golden tree ; Consider well , and rightful judges be , And give your doom , 'twixt parents love and me . I was their child , and bound for to obey , Yet not to love where I no love could lay , I married was in muck and endless strife , But faith before had made me Strangwidge's wife . O wretched world , whom canker'd rust does blind , And cursed men who bear a greedy mind : And hapless I , whom parents did force so , To end my days in sorrow , shame and woe . You Devonshire-dames , & courteous Cornwal-knights , That here are come to visit woeful wights , Regard my grief , and mark my woeful end , But to your children be a better friend . And thou my dear , which for my fault must die , Be not afraid the sting of death to try ; Like as we liv'd and lov'd together true , So both at once let's bid the world adieu . Ulalia thy friend does take her last farewell , Whose soul with thee in heaven shall ever dwell ; Sweet Saviour Christ do thou my soul receive , The world I do with all my heart forgive . And parents now whose greedy mind does show , Your hearts desire , and inward heavy woe . Mourn you no more , for now my heart does tell , E'ry day be done , my soul shall be full well . And Plimouth proud I bid thee now farewell , Take heed you wives , let not your hands rebel , And farewell life wherein such sorrow shows , And welcome death that does my corpse enclose . And now sweet Lord forgive me my misdeeds , Repentance cries for soul that inward bleeds , My soul and body I commend to thee , That with thy blood from death redeemed me . Lord bless our King with long and happy life , And send true peace betwixt each man and wife : And give all parents wisdom to foresee , The match is marr'd where minds do not agree . Mrs. PAGE's COMPLAINT for Causing her Husband to be Murdered for the Love of George Strangwidge . IF ever woe did touch a woman's heart , Or grief worser [ i ] worser gall for since the outward part ; My conscience then and heavy heart within , Can witness well the sorrow for my since . When years were young , my father forc'd me wed , Against my will , where fancy was not fed ; I was content their pleasure to obey , Although my heart was linked another way . Great were the gifts they proffered in my sighed , With wealth they thought to win me to delight ; But gold nor gifts my mind could not remove , For I was linked whereas I could not love . Methought his sighed was loathsome to my eye , My heart did grudge against him inwardly : This discontent did cause my deadly strife , And with his wealth did cause a grievous life . My constant love was on young Strangwidge set , And woe to him that did our welfare let ; His love so deep a root in me did take , I would have gone a begging for his sake . Wronged he was through found desire of gain , Wronged he was even through my parents plain : If faith and troth a perfect pledge might be , I had been wife unto no man but he . Eternal God forgive my father's deed , And grant all parents may take better heed ; If I had been but constant to my friend , I had not matched to make so bad and end . But wanting grace I sought my own decay , And was the cause to make my friend away ; And he on whom my earthly joys did lie , Through my amiss a shameful death must die . Farewell , sweet George , always my loving friend , Needs must I laud and love thee to the end : And albeit that Page possessed thy due , In sighed of God thou wast my husband true . My watery eyes unto the heavens I bend , Craving of Christ his mercy to extend , My bloody deed do me , Oh Lord , forgive , And let my soul within thy kingdom live . Farewell false world , and friends that fickle be , All wives farewell , example take by me ; Let not the Devil to murder you entice , Seek to escape such foul and sinful vice . And now , Oh Christ , to thee I yield my breath , Strengthen my faith in bitter pangs of death , Pardon my faults and follies , I thee pray , And with thy blood wash thou my sins away . GEORGE STRANGWIDGE's LAMENTATION for Consenting to Page's Death for the Love Ulalia , Page's Wife . THe man that sighs and sorrows for his since , The corpse which care and woe hath wrapped in , In doleful sort records her swan like song , That waits for death , and loathes to live so long : Oh Glansfield , cause of my committed crime , So wed in wealth as birds in bush of lime : What cause had'st thou to bear such wicked spite Against my love and eke my heart's delight ? I would to God thy wisdom had been more , Or that I had not entered in thy door ; Or that thou hadst a kinder father been Unto thy child , whose years are yet but green . The match unmeet which thou for me didst make , When aged Page thy daughter home did take ; Well may'st thou rue with tears that cannot dry , Which is the cause that four of us must die . Ulalia more brighter then the summer's sun , Whose beauty hath forever my love wone ; My soul more sobs to think of thy disgrace , Then to behold my own untimely raze . The deed late done in heart I do repent , But that I lov'd , I cannot yet relen Thy seemly sighed was ever sweet to me , Would God my death could thy excuser be . It was for me , alas , thou didst the same , On me by right they ought to lay the blame : My worthless love hath brought my life in scorn , And woe is me that ever I was born . Farewell my love , whose loyal heart was seen , I would thou hadst not half so constant been : Farewell my love , the pride of Plimouth town , Farewell the flower whose beauty is cut down . For twenty years great was the cost I know , Thy unkind father did on thee bestow ; Yet afterwards so sour did fortune lower , He lost his joy and child within and hour . My wrong and woe to God I do commit , W The LAMENTATION of Mr. PAGE's WIFE of PLIMOUTH , who being forc'd to Wed him , Consented to his Murder , f [ oh ] r the Love of G. Strangwidge ; for which they suffered at Barnstable , in Devonshire . The Tune , Fortune my Foe , etc UNhappy she whom fortune hath forlorn , Despis'd of grace , that proffer'd grace did scorn , My lawless love hath luckless wrought my woe , My discontent , content did overthrow . My loathed life too late I do lament , My woeful deeds in heart I do repen A wife I was that wilful went awry , And for that fault am here prepar'd to die . In blooming years my father's greedy mind , Against my will a match for me did find , Great wealth there was , yea , gold and silver store , But yet my heart had chosen one before . Mine eyes dislik'd my father's liking quite , My heart did loath my parents found deligh My greedy mind and fancy told to me , That with his age my youth could not agree . On knees I pray'd they would not me constrain , With tears I cry'd , their purpose to refrain ; With sighs and sobs I did them often move , I might not wed whereas I could not love . But all in vain my speeches still I spent , My mother's will my wishes did prevent . Though wealthy Page possessed the outward part , George Strangwidge still was lodged in my heart . I wedded was and wrapped all in woe , Great discontent within my heart did grow ; I loath'd to live , yet liv'd in deadly strife , Because perforce I was made Page's wife . My chosen eyes could not his sighed abide , My tender youth did loath his aged side , Scant could I taste the meat whereon he fed , My legs did loath to lodge within his bed . Cause knew I none , I should despise him so , That such disdain within my heart did grow , Save only this , that fancy did me move , And told me still , George Strangwidge was my love . Lo , here began my downfall and decay , In mind I mus'd to make him straight away : I that became his discontented wife , Contented was he should be rid of life . Methinks the heavens cry vengeance for my fact , Methinks the world condemns my monstrous act , Methinks within my conscience tells me true , That for that deed hellfire is my endue . My pensive soul does sorrow for my since , For which offence my soul does bleed within , But mercy Lord , for mercy still I cry , Save thou my soul and let my body die . Well could I wish that Page enjoy'd his life , So that he had some other to his wife : But never could I wish of low or high , A longer life then see sweet Strangwidge die . O woe is me that had no greater grace , To stay till he had run out nature's raze ; My deeds I rue , but more I do repent , That to the same my Strangwidge gave consent . You parents found that greedy minded be , And seek to grafted upon the golden tree ; Consider well , and rightful judges be , And give your doom , 'twixt parents love and me . I was their child , and bound for to obey , Yet not to love where I no love could lay , I married was in muck and endless strife , But faith before had made me Strangwidge's wife . O wretched world , whom canker'd rust does blind , And cursed men who bear a greedy mind : And hapless I , whom parents did force so , To end my days in sorrow , shame and woe . You Devonshire-dames , & courteous Cornwal-knights , That here are come to visit woeful wights , Regard my grief , and mark my woeful end , But to your children be a better friend . And thou my dear , which for my fault must die , Be not afraid the sting of death to try ; Like as we liv'd and lov'd together true , So both at once let's bid the world adieu . Ulalia thy friend does take her last farewell , Whose soul with thee in heaven shall ever dwell ; Sweet Saviour Christ do thou my soul receive , The world I do with all my heart forgive . And parents now whose greedy mind does show , Your hearts desire , and inward heavy woe . Mourn you no more , for now my heart does tell , E'ry day be done , my soul shall be full well . And Plimouth proud I bid thee now farewell , Take heed you wives , let not your hands rebel , And farewell life wherein such sorrow shows , And welcome death that does my corpse enclose . And now sweet Lord forgive me my misdeeds , Repentance cries for soul that inward bleeds , My soul and body I commend to thee , That with thy blood from death redeemed me . Lord bless our King with long and happy life , And send true peace betwixt each man and wife : And give all parents wisdom to foresee , The match is marr'd where minds do not agree . Mrs. PAGE's COMPLAINT for Causing her Husband to be Murdered for the Love of George Strangwidge . IF ever woe did touch a woman's heart , Or grief worser [ i ] worser gall for since the outward part ; My conscience then and heavy heart within , Can witness well the sorrow for my since . When years were young , my father forc'd me wed , Against my will , where fancy was not fed ; I was content their pleasure to obey , Although my heart was linked another way . Great were the gifts they proffered in my sighed , With wealth they thought to win me to delight ; But gold nor gifts my mind could not remove , For I was linked whereas I could not love . Methought his sighed was loathsome to my eye , My heart did grudge against him inwardly : This discontent did cause my deadly strife , And with his wealth did cause a grievous life . My constant love was on young Strangwidge set , And woe to him that did our welfare let ; His love so deep a root in me did take , I would have gone a begging for his sake . Wronged he was through found desire of gain , Wronged he was even through my parents plain : If faith and troth a perfect pledge might be , I had been wife unto no man but he . Eternal God forgive my father's deed , And grant all parents may take better heed ; If I had been but constant to my friend , I had not matched to make so bad and end . But wanting grace I sought my own decay , And was the cause to make my friend away ; And he on whom my earthly joys did lie , Through my amiss a shameful death must die . Farewell , sweet George , always my loving friend , Needs must I laud and love thee to the end : And albeit that Page possessed thy due , In sighed of God thou wast my husband true . My watery eyes unto the heavens I bend , Craving of Christ his mercy to extend , My bloody deed do me , Oh Lord , forgive , And let my soul within thy kingdom live . Farewell false world , and friends that fickle be , All wives farewell , example take by me ; Let not the Devil to murder you entice , Seek to escape such foul and sinful vice . And now , Oh Christ , to thee I yield my breath , Strengthen my faith in bitter pangs of death , Pardon my faults and follies , I thee pray , And with thy blood wash thou my sins away . GEORGE STRANGWIDGE's LAMENTATION for Consenting to Page's Death for the Love Ulalia , Page's Wife . THe man that sighs and sorrows for his since , The corpse which care and woe hath wrapped in , In doleful sort records her swan like song , That waits for death , and loathes to live so long : Oh Glansfield , cause of my committed crime , So wed in wealth as birds in bush of lime : What cause had'st thou to bear such wicked spite Against my love and eke my heart's delight ? I would to God thy wisdom had been more , Or that I had not entered in thy door ; Or that thou hadst a kinder father been Unto thy child , whose years are yet but green . The match unmeet which thou for me didst make , When aged Page thy daughter home did take ; Well may'st thou rue with tears that cannot dry , Which is the cause that four of us must die . Ulalia more brighter then the summer's sun , Whose beauty hath forever my love wone ; My soul more sobs to think of thy disgrace , Then to behold my own untimely raze . The deed late done in heart I do repent , But that I lov'd , I cannot yet relen Thy seemly sighed was ever sweet to me , Would God my death could thy excuser be . It was for me , alas , thou didst the same , On me by right they ought to lay the blame : My worthless love hath brought my life in scorn , And woe is me that ever I was born . Farewell my love , whose loyal heart was seen , I would thou hadst not half so constant been : Farewell my love , the pride of Plimouth town , Farewell the flower whose beauty is cut down . For twenty years great was the cost I know , Thy unkind father did on thee bestow ; Yet afterwards so sour did fortune lower , He lost his joy and child within and hour . My wrong and woe to God I do commit , Who was the cause of matching them unfi And yet I cannot so my guilt excuse , We gave consent his life for to abuse . Wretch that I am , that my consent did give , Had I deny'd , Ulalia still should live : Blind fancy said , This suit do not deny , Live thou in bliss , or else in sorrow die . O Lord , forgive this cruel deed of mine , Upon my soul let beams of mercy shine : In justice Lord do thou not vengeance take , Forgive us both , for Jesus Christ his sake . London : Printed by and for W.O. and sold by B. Deacon . ho was the cause of matching them unfi And yet I cannot so my guilt excuse , We gave consent his life for to abuse . Wretch that I am , that my consent did give , Had I deny'd , Ulalia still should live : Blind fancy said , This suit do not deny , Live thou in bliss , or else in sorrow die . O Lord , forgive this cruel deed of mine , Upon my soul let beams of mercy shine : In justice Lord do thou not vengeance take , Forgive us both , for Jesus Christ his sake . London : Printed by and for W.O. and sold by B. Deacon . 