A LETTER FROM LEWIS the Great , To JAMES the Less , His Lieutenant in IRELAND . WITH Reflections by way of ANSWER to the said LETTER , or serious Contemplations at and Un - seasonable Time . I . TO James our Lieutenant this greeting we send : As you hope to preserve us your Patron and Friend , As you trust to the virtue of us and your Wife , Who leads in your absence a dissolute life ; Now you've sold us your Land , Obey Our Command , As your Spouse does our Pego when e're it will st ----- , And what I enjoin you be sure to observe , Since you know not to Rule , I will teach you to Serve . II To reduce our new Subject's , we sent you 'tis true , But be sure take upon you no more than your due ; Submit to the Fetters yourself have put on , You've the Name of a King , but the Majesties gone . For your bold Son-in-Law , The valiant Nassaw , Who value's not your nor my self of a straw , Will neither be cullied nor bubbled like you , I've a Prospect already of what he will do . III . Let not Infant or Bedrid your pity implore , You've lost all your Kingdoms by that heretofore , A Heretics life like a Dog's I do prize , Murder all that oppose you , or 'gainst you dare rise : They were Subject's to you , Therefore make 'em rue , And either give them , or I'le give you your due : I acknowledge your folly has made me more wise , I see with my own , and not Jesuits eyes . IV. These Courses in Ireland , I charge you to steer , In the Head of your Army be sure to appear , You're a Soldier of Fortune , and fight for your pay , You know your reward , if you once run away ; Either Conquest or Death , I to you bequeathe , And therefore prepare for a Shroud or a Wreathe : So thus I commit you to one of the Two , If I see you no more he [ r ] e , I bid you adieu . A Reflecti - Reflections on the LETTER , etc To the same Tune . I . WHEN that Remnant of Royalty Jemmy the Cully , Had receiv'd this Epistle from Lewis the Bully , His Countenance chang'd , and for madness he cry'd , I've the Devil to my Friend , and his Dam to my Bride ; Sure I am the first That's in all things accursed , Nor can I determine which Plague is the worst , That of losing my Realms or the News I've receiv'd , Which from any Hand else , I cou'd ne're have believ'd . II I find they agreed when for Ireland they sent me , And if I knew how , 'tis high time to repent me ; I've abandon'd my reason to pleasure a Trull , Who has made me her Bubble , her Cuckold and Fool ; We're all in the Pit , Our designs are besh ---- tO , And hither I'm sent to recover my With If this be the fortune proud Este does bring , Wou'd I'de been a Tinker instead of a King . III . How or which way to turn me , or whither to go , By the Faith of a Jesuit I'me a Dog if I know ; For this going to War I do mortally hate , Tho' of Sieges and Battles I ever cou'd prate ; I thought I had Valour , But I find it was Choler , Tho' thirty years I have been Lewis's Scholar ; I've trac'd all his Policies , Maxims and Rules , By which I've attain'd to be chief of his Fools . IV. Had I courage to die I'de refuse to survive , I'm buried already altho' I'm alive , My Story's like that of unfortunate Jack , I've shuffled and cut till I've quite lost the Pack : He that trusts to the Pope , No better must hope , Or to Lewis or she whom that Pagan does grope : For no Monarch must ever expect a good Life , Who is rid by a Priest , or a damn'd Popish Wife . V. May Lewis succeed me in all Circumstances , His Arms unsuccessful where e're he advances , May his ill got Laurels be blasted and dry , May a Shroud be deny'd him when e're he does die ; May his Land be o'rerun , By that Champion our Son : So I'le close up with her who that mischief begun ; May the Curse of three Kingdoms forever attend her , While to WILLIAM and MARY my Crown I surrender . FINIS . A LETTER FROM LEWIS the Great , To JAMES the Less , His Lieutenant in IRELAND . WITH Reflections by way of ANSWER to the said LETTER , or serious Contemplations at and Un - seasonable Time . I . TO James our Lieutenant this greeting we send : As you hope to preserve us your Patron and Friend , As you trust to the virtue of us and your Wife , Who leads in your absence a dissolute life ; Now you've sold us your Land , Obey Our Command , As your Spouse does our Pego when e're it will st ----- , And what I enjoin you be sure to observe , Since you know not to Rule , I will teach you to Serve . II To reduce our new Subject's , we sent you 'tis true , But be sure take upon you no more than your due ; Submit to the Fetters yourself have put on , You've the Name of a King , but the Majesties gone . For your bold Son-in-Law , The valiant Nassaw , Who value's not your nor my self of a straw , Will neither be cullied nor bubbled like you , I've a Prospect already of what he will do . III . Let not Infant or Bedrid your pity implore , You've lost all your Kingdoms by that heretofore , A Heretics life like a Dog's I do prize , Murder all that oppose you , or 'gainst you dare rise : They were Subject's to you , Therefore make 'em rue , And either give them , or I'le give you your due : I acknowledge your folly has made me more wise , I see with my own , and not Jesuits eyes . IV. These Courses in Ireland , I charge you to steer , In the Head of your Army be sure to appear , You're a Soldier of Fortune , and fight for your pay , You know your reward , if you once run away ; Either Conquest or Death , I to you bequeathe , And therefore prepare for a Shroud or a Wreathe : So thus I commit you to one of the Two , If I see you no more he [ r ] e , I bid you adieu . A Reflecti - Reflections on the LETTER , etc To the same Tune . I . WHEN that Remnant of Royalty Jemmy the Cully , Had receiv'd this Epistle from Lewis the Bully , His Countenance chang'd , and for madness he cry'd , I've the Devil to my Friend , and his Dam to my Bride ; Sure I am the first That's in all things accursed , Nor can I determine which Plague is the worst , That of losing my Realms or the News I've receiv'd , Which from any Hand else , I cou'd ne're have believ'd . II I find they agreed when for Ireland they sent me , And if I knew how , 'tis high time to repent me ; I've abandon'd my reason to pleasure a Trull , Who has made me her Bubble , her Cuckold and Fool ; We're all in the Pit , Our designs are besh ---- tO , And hither I'm sent to recover my With If this be the fortune proud Este does bring , Wou'd I'de been a Tinker instead of a King . III . How or which way to turn me , or whither to go , By the Faith of a Jesuit I'me a Dog if I know ; For this going to War I do mortally hate , Tho' of Sieges and Battles I ever cou'd prate ; I thought I had Valour , But I find it was Choler , Tho' thirty years I have been Lewis's Scholar ; I've trac'd all his Policies , Maxims and Rules , By which I've attain'd to be chief of his Fools . IV. Had I courage to die I'de refuse to survive , I'm buried already altho' I'm alive , My Story's like that of unfortunate Jack , I've shuffled and cut till I've quite lost the Pack : He that trusts to the Pope , No better must hope , Or to Lewis or she whom that Pagan does grope : For no Monarch must ever expect a good Life , Who is rid by a Priest , or a damn'd Popish Wife . V. May Lewis succeed me in all Circumstances , His Arms unsuccessful where e're he advances , May his ill got Laurels be blasted and dry , May a Shroud be deny'd him when e're he does die ; May his Land be o'rerun , By that Champion our Son : So I'le close up with her who that mischief begun ; May the Curse of three Kingdoms forever attend her , While to WILLIAM and MARY my Crown I surrender . FINIS . 