( 1 ) And excellent Ballad entitled , The Wandering Prince of Troy . To the Tune of , Queen Dido . WHen Troy town for ten years wars , withstood the Greeks in manful wise , Then did their foes increase so fast , that to resist none could suffice : Wast lies those walls that was so good . And Corn now grows wheae Troy town stood . AEneas wandering Prince of Troy , when he for Land long time had sought , At length arrived with great joy , to mighty Carthage walls was brought ; Where Dido's Queen with sumptuous feast , Did entertain this wandering Guest . And as in Hall at Meat they sat , the Queen desirous news to hear : Of thy unhappy ten Years Wars , declare to me thou Trojan dear ; Thy heavy hap and chance so bad , That thou poor wandering Prince haste had . And then anon this worthy Knight ( with words demure as he could well ) Of his unhappy ten Years Wars so true a tale began tell ; With words so sweet and sighs so deep , That oft he made them all to weep . And then a thousand sighs he fetched , and every sighs brought tears amain ; That where he sat the place was wet as if he'd seen those was again : So that the Queen with truth therefore , Said , Worthy Prince enough no more . The darksome night apace grew on , and twinkling Stars it'h sky was spread , And he his doleful tale had rolled , as everyone lay in his bed ; Where they full sweetly took their Rest , Save only Didos boiling breast . This silly woman never slept ; but in her Chamber all alone , As one unhappy always kept , unto the wall she made her moan ; That she should still desire in vain , The thing that she could not obtain . And thus in grief she spent the Night , till twinkling stars from skies were fled , And Phoebus with his glimmering beams through misty clouds appeared Read ; Then tidings came to her anon , That all the Trojan Sips were gone . And then then the Queen with bloody knife ; did arm her heart as hard as stone , Yet somewhat loath to loose her life , in woeful case she made her moan ; And ruling on her careful bed , With sighs and sobs these words she said . O wretched Dido Queen , quoth she , I see thy end approaches near , For he is gone away from thee , whom thou didst love and hold so dear ; Is he then gone and passed by ? O heart prepare thy self to die . Though reason would thou shouldst forbear , to stop thy hand from bloody stroke , Yet fancy said thou shouldst not fear , who fettered thee in Cupids Yoke : Come death ( quoth she ) and end the smart , And with these words she pierct her heart . When death had pierct the tender heart of Dido Carthaginian Queen , And bloody knife did end the smart which she sustain'd in woeful teen : AEneas being shipped and gone , Whose flattery caused all her moan . Her Funeral was most costly made , and all things finished mournfully , Her body fine in mould was laid , where it consumed speedily : Her Sisters tears her tomb bestrew'd , Her Subject's grief their kindness shew'd . Then was AEneas in and Isle in Greecia , where he liv'd long space , Whereas her Sister in short time writ to him to his foul disgrace : In phrase of Letters to her mind , She told him plain he was unkind . Falsehearted wretch ( quoth she ) thou art , and treacherously thou hast betray'd Unto thy lure a gentle heart , which unto the such welcome made ; My sister dear , and Carthage joy , Whose folly wrought her dire annoy . Yet on her death bed when she lay , she prayed for thy prosperity , Beseeching God that every day might breed the great felicity : Thus by thy means I lost a friend , Heavens send the such untimely end . When he these lines , full fraught with gall , perused had , and weigh'd them right , His lofty courage then did fallen , and straight appeared in his sighed Queen Didos Ghost both grim and pale , Which made this valiant Soldier quail . AEnea ( quoth this grisly Ghosts ) my whole delight while I did live , Thee of all men I loved most , my fancy and my will did give ; For Entertainment I thee gave , Unthankfully thou digg'st my grave . Therefore prepare thy fleeting soul to wander with me in the Air , Where deadly grief shall make it howl , because of me thou took'st no care ; Delay no time , thy glass is run , Thy day is past , thy death is come . O stay a while thou lovely Spright , be not so ready to convey My soul into Eternal night , where it shall ne'er behold bright day . O do not frown ; thy angry look Hath made my breath my life forsook . But woe is me , it is in vain , and bootless is my dismal cry , Time will not be recall'd again , nor your surcease before I die : Oh let me live to make amends Unto some of thy dearest friends . But seeing thou obdurate art , and will no pity to me show , Because from thee I did depart , and left unpaid what I did owe : I must content myself to take What lot thou wilt with me partake . And like one being in a trance , a multitude of ugly Fiends About this woeful Prince did dance , no help he had of any friends , His body then they took away , And no man knew his dying day . Printed by and for A.M. and sold by the Booksellers of London . ( 1 ) And excellent Ballad entitled , The Wandering Prince of Troy . To the Tune of , Queen Dido . WHen Troy town for ten years wars , withstood the Greeks in manful wise , Then did their foes increase so fast , that to resist none could suffice : Wast lies those walls that was so good . And Corn now grows wheae Troy town stood . AEneas wandering Prince of Troy , when he for Land long time had sought , At length arrived with great joy , to mighty Carthage walls was brought ; Where Dido's Queen with sumptuous feast , Did entertain this wandering Guest . And as in Hall at Meat they sat , the Queen desirous news to hear : Of thy unhappy ten Years Wars , declare to me thou Trojan dear ; Thy heavy hap and chance so bad , That thou poor wandering Prince haste had . And then anon this worthy Knight ( with words demure as he could well ) Of his unhappy ten Years Wars so true a tale began tell ; With words so sweet and sighs so deep , That oft he made them all to weep . And then a thousand sighs he fetched , and every sighs brought tears amain ; That where he sat the place was wet as if he'd seen those was again : So that the Queen with truth therefore , Said , Worthy Prince enough no more . The darksome night apace grew on , and twinkling Stars it'h sky was spread , And he his doleful tale had rolled , as everyone lay in his bed ; Where they full sweetly took their Rest , Save only Didos boiling breast . This silly woman never slept ; but in her Chamber all alone , As one unhappy always kept , unto the wall she made her moan ; That she should still desire in vain , The thing that she could not obtain . And thus in grief she spent the Night , till twinkling stars from skies were fled , And Phoebus with his glimmering beams through misty clouds appeared Read ; Then tidings came to her anon , That all the Trojan Sips were gone . And then then the Queen with bloody knife ; did arm her heart as hard as stone , Yet somewhat loath to loose her life , in woeful case she made her moan ; And ruling on her careful bed , With sighs and sobs these words she said . O wretched Dido Queen , quoth she , I see thy end approaches near , For he is gone away from thee , whom thou didst love and hold so dear ; Is he then gone and passed by ? O heart prepare thy self to die . Though reason would thou shouldst forbear , to stop thy hand from bloody stroke , Yet fancy said thou shouldst not fear , who fettered thee in Cupids Yoke : Come death ( quoth she ) and end the smart , And with these words she pierct her heart . When death had pierct the tender heart of Dido Carthaginian Queen , And bloody knife did end the smart which she sustain'd in woeful teen : AEneas being shipped and gone , Whose flattery caused all her moan . Her Funeral was most costly made , and all things finished mournfully , Her body fine in mould was laid , where it consumed speedily : Her Sisters tears her tomb bestrew'd , Her Subject's grief their kindness shew'd . Then was AEneas in and Isle in Greecia , where he liv'd long space , Whereas her Sister in short time writ to him to his foul disgrace : In phrase of Letters to her mind , She told him plain he was unkind . Falsehearted wretch ( quoth she ) thou art , and treacherously thou hast betray'd Unto thy lure a gentle heart , which unto the such welcome made ; My sister dear , and Carthage joy , Whose folly wrought her dire annoy . Yet on her death bed when she lay , she prayed for thy prosperity , Beseeching God that every day might breed the great felicity : Thus by thy means I lost a friend , Heavens send the such untimely end . When he these lines , full fraught with gall , perused had , and weigh'd them right , His lofty courage then did fallen , and straight appeared in his sighed Queen Didos Ghost both grim and pale , Which made this valiant Soldier quail . AEnea ( quoth this grisly Ghosts ) my whole delight while I did live , Thee of all men I loved most , my fancy and my will did give ; For Entertainment I thee gave , Unthankfully thou digg'st my grave . Therefore prepare thy fleeting soul to wander with me in the Air , Where deadly grief shall make it howl , because of me thou took'st no care ; Delay no time , thy glass is run , Thy day is past , thy death is come . O stay a while thou lovely Spright , be not so ready to convey My soul into Eternal night , where it shall ne'er behold bright day . O do not frown ; thy angry look Hath made my breath my life forsook . But woe is me , it is in vain , and bootless is my dismal cry , Time will not be recall'd again , nor your surcease before I die : Oh let me live to make amends Unto some of thy dearest friends . But seeing thou obdurate art , and will no pity to me show , Because from thee I did depart , and left unpaid what I did owe : I must content myself to take What lot thou wilt with me partake . And like one being in a trance , a multitude of ugly Fiends About this woeful Prince did dance , no help he had of any friends , His body then they took away , And no man knew his dying day . Printed by and for A.M. and sold by the Booksellers of London . ( 1 ) And excellent Ballad entitled , The Wandering Prince of Troy . To the Tune of , Queen Dido . WHen Troy town for ten years wars , withstood the Greeks in manful wise , Then did their foes increase so fast , that to resist none could suffice : Wast lies those walls that was so good . And Corn now grows wheae Troy town stood . AEneas wandering Prince of Troy , when he for Land long time had sought , At length arrived with great joy , to mighty Carthage walls was brought ; Where Dido's Queen with sumptuous feast , Did entertain this wandering Guest . And as in Hall at Meat they sat , the Queen desirous news to hear : Of thy unhappy ten Years Wars , declare to me thou Trojan dear ; Thy heavy hap and chance so bad , That thou poor wandering Prince haste had . And then anon this worthy Knight ( with words demure as he could well ) Of his unhappy ten Years Wars so true a tale began tell ; With words so sweet and sighs so deep , That oft he made them all to weep . And then a thousand sighs he fetched , and every sighs brought tears amain ; That where he sat the place was wet as if he'd seen those was again : So that the Queen with truth therefore , Said , Worthy Prince enough no more . The darksome night apace grew on , and twinkling Stars it'h sky was spread , And he his doleful tale had rolled , as everyone lay in his bed ; Where they full sweetly took their Rest , Save only Didos boiling breast . This silly woman never slept ; but in her Chamber all alone , As one unhappy always kept , unto the wall she made her moan ; That she should still desire in vain , The thing that she could not obtain . And thus in grief she spent the Night , till twinkling stars from skies were fled , And Phoebus with his glimmering beams through misty clouds appeared Read ; Then tidings came to her anon , That all the Trojan Sips were gone . And then then the Queen with bloody knife ; did arm her heart as hard as stone , Yet somewhat loath to loose her life , in woeful case she made her moan ; And ruling on her careful bed , With sighs and sobs these words she said . O wretched Dido Queen , quoth she , I see thy end approaches near , For he is gone away from thee , whom thou didst love and hold so dear ; Is he then gone and passed by ? O heart prepare thy self to die . Though reason would thou shouldst forbear , to stop thy hand from bloody stroke , Yet fancy said thou shouldst not fear , who fettered thee in Cupids Yoke : Come death ( quoth she ) and end the smart , And with these words she pierct her heart . When death had pierct the tender heart of Dido Carthaginian Queen , And bloody knife did end the smart which she sustain'd in woeful teen : AEneas being shipped and gone , Whose flattery caused all her moan . Her Funeral was most costly made , and all things finished mournfully , Her body fine in mould was laid , where it consumed speedily : Her Sisters tears her tomb bestrew'd , Her Subject's grief their kindness shew'd . Then was AEneas in and Isle in Greecia , where he liv'd long space , Whereas her Sister in short time writ to him to his foul disgrace : In phrase of Letters to her mind , She told him plain he was unkind . Falsehearted wretch ( quoth she ) thou art , and treacherously thou hast betray'd Unto thy lure a gentle heart , which unto the such welcome made ; My sister dear , and Carthage joy , Whose folly wrought her dire annoy . Yet on her death bed when she lay , she prayed for thy prosperity , Beseeching God that every day might breed the great felicity : Thus by thy means I lost a friend , Heavens send the such untimely end . When he these lines , full fraught with gall , perused had , and weigh'd them right , His lofty courage then did fallen , and straight appeared in his sighed Queen Didos Ghost both grim and pale , Which made this valiant Soldier quail . AEnea ( quoth this grisly Ghosts ) my whole delight while I did live , Thee of all men I loved most , my fancy and my will did give ; For Entertainment I thee gave , Unthankfully thou digg'st my grave . Therefore prepare thy fleeting soul to wander with me in the Air , Where deadly grief shall make it howl , because of me thou took'st no care ; Delay no time , thy glass is run , Thy day is past , thy death is come . O stay a while thou lovely Spright , be not so ready to convey My soul into Eternal night , where it shall ne'er behold bright day . O do not frown ; thy angry look Hath made my breath my life forsook . But woe is me , it is in vain , and bootless is my dismal cry , Time will not be recall'd again , nor your surcease before I die : Oh let me live to make amends Unto some of thy dearest friends . But seeing thou obdurate art , and will no pity to me show , Because from thee I did depart , and left unpaid what I did owe : I must content myself to take What lot thou wilt with me partake . And like one being in a trance , a multitude of ugly Fiends About this woeful Prince did dance , no help he had of any friends , His body then they took away , And no man knew his dying day . Printed by and for A.M. and sold by the Booksellers of London . ( 1 ) And excellent Ballad entitled , The Wandering Prince of Troy . To the Tune of , Queen Dido . WHen Troy town for ten years wars , withstood the Greeks in manful wise , Then did their foes increase so fast , that to resist none could suffice : Wast lies those walls that was so good . And Corn now grows wheae Troy town stood . AEneas wandering Prince of Troy , when he for Land long time had sought , At length arrived with great joy , to mighty Carthage walls was brought ; Where Dido's Queen with sumptuous feast , Did entertain this wandering Guest . And as in Hall at Meat they sat , the Queen desirous news to hear : Of thy unhappy ten Years Wars , declare to me thou Trojan dear ; Thy heavy hap and chance so bad , That thou poor wandering Prince haste had . And then anon this worthy Knight ( with words demure as he could well ) Of his unhappy ten Years Wars so true a tale began tell ; With words so sweet and sighs so deep , That oft he made them all to weep . And then a thousand sighs he fetched , and every sighs brought tears amain ; That where he sat the place was wet as if he'd seen those was again : So that the Queen with truth therefore , Said , Worthy Prince enough no more . The darksome night apace grew on , and twinkling Stars it'h sky was spread , And he his doleful tale had rolled , as everyone lay in his bed ; Where they full sweetly took their Rest , Save only Didos boiling breast . This silly woman never slept ; but in her Chamber all alone , As one unhappy always kept , unto the wall she made her moan ; That she should still desire in vain , The thing that she could not obtain . And thus in grief she spent the Night , till twinkling stars from skies were fled , And Phoebus with his glimmering beams through misty clouds appeared Read ; Then tidings came to her anon , That all the Trojan Sips were gone . And then then the Queen with bloody knife ; did arm her heart as hard as stone , Yet somewhat loath to loose her life , in woeful case she made her moan ; And ruling on her careful bed , With sighs and sobs these words she said . O wretched Dido Queen , quoth she , I see thy end approaches near , For he is gone away from thee , whom thou didst love and hold so dear ; Is he then gone and passed by ? O heart prepare thy self to die . Though reason would thou shouldst forbear , to stop thy hand from bloody stroke , Yet fancy said thou shouldst not fear , who fettered thee in Cupids Yoke : Come death ( quoth she ) and end the smart , And with these words she pierct her heart . When death had pierct the tender heart of Dido Carthaginian Queen , And bloody knife did end the smart which she sustain'd in woeful teen : AEneas being shipped and gone , Whose flattery caused all her moan . Her Funeral was most costly made , and all things finished mournfully , Her body fine in mould was laid , where it consumed speedily : Her Sisters tears her tomb bestrew'd , Her Subject's grief their kindness shew'd . Then was AEneas in and Isle in Greecia , where he liv'd long space , Whereas her Sister in short time writ to him to his foul disgrace : In phrase of Letters to her mind , She told him plain he was unkind . Falsehearted wretch ( quoth she ) thou art , and treacherously thou hast betray'd Unto thy lure a gentle heart , which unto the such welcome made ; My sister dear , and Carthage joy , Whose folly wrought her dire annoy . Yet on her death bed when she lay , she prayed for thy prosperity , Beseeching God that every day might breed the great felicity : Thus by thy means I lost a friend , Heavens send the such untimely end . When he these lines , full fraught with gall , perused had , and weigh'd them right , His lofty courage then did fallen , and straight appeared in his sighed Queen Didos Ghost both grim and pale , Which made this valiant Soldier quail . AEnea ( quoth this grisly Ghosts ) my whole delight while I did live , Thee of all men I loved most , my fancy and my will did give ; For Entertainment I thee gave , Unthankfully thou digg'st my grave . Therefore prepare thy fleeting soul to wander with me in the Air , Where deadly grief shall make it howl , because of me thou took'st no care ; Delay no time , thy glass is run , Thy day is past , thy death is come . O stay a while thou lovely Spright , be not so ready to convey My soul into Eternal night , where it shall ne'er behold bright day . O do not frown ; thy angry look Hath made my breath my life forsook . But woe is me , it is in vain , and bootless is my dismal cry , Time will not be recall'd again , nor your surcease before I die : Oh let me live to make amends Unto some of thy dearest friends . But seeing thou obdurate art , and will no pity to me show , Because from thee I did depart , and left unpaid what I did owe : I must content myself to take What lot thou wilt with me partake . And like one being in a trance , a multitude of ugly Fiends About this woeful Prince did dance , no help he had of any friends , His body then they took away , And no man knew his dying day . Printed by and for A.M. and sold by the Booksellers of London . 