The Faithful Shepherd ; Or , The Loves of Tommy and Nanny . To a New Scotch Tune : Or , There was and a bonny young Lad , etc WHen Tommy became first a Lover , his Nanny so fir'd ev'ry part , That poor Tommy's eyes did discover the Conquest she made of his hear Ah! Nanny , quoth he , be not cruel , reverse that ill fate of your mind , Who Nature ordain'd for a jewel , should never be fair and unkind : Ah! Nanny , quoth he etc , Were all those plump smiling Graces , that delicate supple white skin , That seems to disoul in the Embraces , and would force a Senick to since : Were these my dear Nanny , bestow'd thee to keep a perverse peevish mind ; Or to bless thy dear Tommy that loves thee , ah ! never be fair and unkind : Were these , etc The hope's of those Ivory Pillows , to repose my poor head on at night , Secures me from all Fortune's Billows , or ought that can Nature affrigh There's nothing but Nanny can please me , to Nanny my Soul is confin'd , No , nothing but Nanny can case me , then Nanny dear Nanny be kind ; Ther's nothing etc In Nannys dear sighed I have anguish , which Blushes proclaim in my face , And out of her sighed I do languish , to think who possesses my place : Ah! Nanny , no more let me leave thee , but both be together confin'd , And of all my fears undeceive me , and for ever for ever be kind : Ah! Nanny , etc Ah! Nanny , you told me you lov'd me , and bid me no more to tomplain , And when I have sigh'd have reprov'd me , and kissed me , and vow'd it a Game , You told me that Fortune should never dispoyl what your Soul had design'd , That you would be Tommys forever , and forever to Tommy be kind : You told , etc Remember dear Nanny , you said it , and call'd all the Gods to attest , And blushing to think that you did it , you laid your face close to my Breas Remember how dearly I blessed you , and beg'd ne'r to altar your mind , Remember how often you kissed me , and vow'd you would always be kind : Remember how etc , But now cruel Nanny has left me , and owns me no more for her own , And of all my joys has bereft me , and turn'd all my hope's to despair : That Nanny that once had so loving : obliedging , so gentle a mind , That Nanny of all Creatures moving , Is now perjur'd , false , and unkind : That Nanny , etc What tho' my dear Nanny be cruel , and nothing her fancy can move , Yet Nanny must still be my jewel , and all that my Soul can love : Perhaps 'tis no altar of Nature , but only for Reasons Confin'd , So lovely so pretty a Creature , can never prove false and unkind . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie Corner . The Faithful Shepherd ; Or , The Loves of Tommy and Nanny . To a New Scotch Tune : Or , There was and a bonny young Lad , etc WHen Tommy became first a Lover , his Nanny so fir'd ev'ry part , That poor Tommy's eyes did discover the Conquest she made of his hear Ah! Nanny , quoth he , be not cruel , reverse that ill fate of your mind , Who Nature ordain'd for a jewel , should never be fair and unkind : Ah! Nanny , quoth he etc , Were all those plump smiling Graces , that delicate supple white skin , That seems to disoul in the Embraces , and would force a Senick to since : Were these my dear Nanny , bestow'd thee to keep a perverse peevish mind ; Or to bless thy dear Tommy that loves thee , ah ! never be fair and unkind : Were these , etc The hope's of those Ivory Pillows , to repose my poor head on at night , Secures me from all Fortune's Billows , or ought that can Nature affrigh There's nothing but Nanny can please me , to Nanny my Soul is confin'd , No , nothing but Nanny can case me , then Nanny dear Nanny be kind ; Ther's nothing etc In Nannys dear sighed I have anguish , which Blushes proclaim in my face , And out of her sighed I do languish , to think who possesses my place : Ah! Nanny , no more let me leave thee , but both be together confin'd , And of all my fears undeceive me , and for ever for ever be kind : Ah! Nanny , etc Ah! Nanny , you told me you lov'd me , and bid me no more to tomplain , And when I have sigh'd have reprov'd me , and kissed me , and vow'd it a Game , You told me that Fortune should never dispoyl what your Soul had design'd , That you would be Tommys forever , and forever to Tommy be kind : You told , etc Remember dear Nanny , you said it , and call'd all the Gods to attest , And blushing to think that you did it , you laid your face close to my Breas Remember how dearly I blessed you , and beg'd ne'r to altar your mind , Remember how often you kissed me , and vow'd you would always be kind : Remember how etc , But now cruel Nanny has left me , and owns me no more for her own , And of all my joys has bereft me , and turn'd all my hope's to despair : That Nanny that once had so loving : obliedging , so gentle a mind , That Nanny of all Creatures moving , Is now perjur'd , false , and unkind : That Nanny , etc What tho' my dear Nanny be cruel , and nothing her fancy can move , Yet Nanny must still be my jewel , and all that my Soul can love : Perhaps 'tis no altar of Nature , but only for Reasons Confin'd , So lovely so pretty a Creature , can never prove false and unkind . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie Corner . 