And Excellent BALLAD , Entitul'd : The WANDERING PRINCE of TROY . To and Excellent Tune call'd Queen Dido . etc WHen Troy-town for ten Years Wars , withstood the Greeks in manful wise , Then did their Foes increase so fast , that to resist none could suffice , Waste lies those Walls that was so good , and Corn now grows were Troy-town stood . AEneas wandering Prince of Troy , when he for Land long time had sought , At length arrived with great Joy , to mighty Carthage Walls was brought ; Where Dido Queen with sumptuous Feast , did entertain her wandering Guest . And as in Hall at Meat they sat , the Queen desirous News to hear , Of thy unhappy ten Years Wars , declare to me thou Trojan dear , Thy heavy hap and chance so bad , that thou poor wandering Prince haste had ! And then anon this worthy Knight , with Words demure as he could well , Of his unhappy ten Years Wars so true a Tale began to tell , With Words so sweet and Sighs so deep , that oft he made them all to Weep . And then a Thousand Sighs he fetched , and every Sighs brought Tears amain , That where he sat the place was wet , as if he had seen those Wars again ; So that the Queen with Truth therefore , said Worthy Prince enough no more . The darksome Night apace grew on , and twinkling Stars from the Sky was spread And he his doleful Tale and told , as everyone lay in their Bed , Where they full sweetly took their Rest , save only Dido's boiling Breast . This silly Woman never slept , but in her Chamber all alone , As one unhappy always kept , unto the Wall she made her Moan That she should still desire in vain , the Thing that she could not obtain . And thus in Grief she spent the Night , till twinkling Stars from the Skies were fl [ ed ] And Phoebus with his glittering Beams , thro' misty Clouds appeared read , Then Tidings came to her anon , that all the Trojan Ships were gone . And then the Queen with bloody Knife did arm her Heart as hard as Stone , Yet somewhat loath to lose her Life , in woeful Case she made her moan And rolling on her careful Bed , with sighs and sobs these Words she said . O wretched Dido ! Queen quoth she , I see thy End approaches near , For is he gone away from thee , whom thou didst love and hold so dear ; Is he then gone and passed by ? O Heart prepare thyself to die . Tho' Reason would thou should'st forbear , to stop thy Hand from bloody Stroke , Yet Fancy said , thou should'st not fear , who fetter'd three in Cupid's Yoke , Come Death said she , and end the smart , and with these Words she pierc'd her Heart . When Death had pierc'd the tender Heart , of Dido Carthaginian Queen , And bloody Knife did end the Smart , which she sustain'd in woeful teen , AEneas being shipped and gone , whose Flattery caused all her Moan . Her Funeral most costly made , and all Things finish'd mournfully , Her Body fine in Mould was laid , where it consumed speedily ; Her Sister's Tears her Tomb bestrew'd , her Subject's Grief their Kindness shew'd . Then was AEneas in and Isle , in Greece where he lived long space , Whereas her Sister in short Time , writ to him to his soul Disgrace ; In phrase of Letter to her Mind , she told him plain he was unkind . Falsehearted Wretch quoth she thou art , and treacherously thou hast betray'd . Unto thy Lure a gentle Heart , who unto thee such welcome made , My Sister dear and Carthage Joy , whose Folly wrought her dire Annoy . Yet on her Deathbed when she lay , she pray'd for thy Prosperity . Beseeching God that every Day , might breed thee more Felicity , Thus by thy Means I lost a Friend , Heavens send thee and untimely End. When he these Lines full fraught with Gall , perused had , and weigh'd them right , His lofty Courage then did fallen , and strait appear'd in his Sighed , Queen Dido's Ghost both grim and pale , which made this valiant Soldier quail . AEneas quoth this grisly Ghost , my whole Delight while I did live , Thee of all Men I loved most , my Fancy and my Will did give ; For Entertainment I thee gave , unthankfully thou dig'st my Grave . Therefore prepare thy fleeting Soul ; to wander with me in the Air , Where deadly Grief shall make it howl , because of me thou took'st no Care : Delay no Time thy Glass is run thy Day is passed thy Death is come . O stay a while thou lovely Sprite , be not so ready to convey My Soul into eternal Light where it shall ne'er behold bright Day ; Oh do not frown ! thy angry Look , hath made my Breach my Life forsook . But woe is me ! it is in vain , and bootless is my dismal Cry , Time will not be recalled again , nor you suffice before I die , Oh let me live to make amends , unto some of thy dearest Friends . But seeing thou obdurate art , and will no Pity to me show , Because from thee I did depart , and left unpaid what I did owe , I must content myself to take , What Lot thou wilt with me partake . And like one being in a Trance , a Multitude of ugly Fiends About this woeful Prince did dance , no Help he had of any Friends ; His Body then they took away ; and no Man knew his Dying-Day . LONDON : Printed by R. Gamble , near the Midt . And Excellent BALLAD , Entitul'd : The WANDERING PRINCE of TROY . To and Excellent Tune call'd Queen Dido . etc WHen Troy-town for ten Years Wars , withstood the Greeks in manful wise , Then did their Foes increase so fast , that to resist none could suffice , Waste lies those Walls that was so good , and Corn now grows were Troy-town stood . AEneas wandering Prince of Troy , when he for Land long time had sought , At length arrived with great Joy , to mighty Carthage Walls was brought ; Where Dido Queen with sumptuous Feast , did entertain her wandering Guest . And as in Hall at Meat they sat , the Queen desirous News to hear , Of thy unhappy ten Years Wars , declare to me thou Trojan dear , Thy heavy hap and chance so bad , that thou poor wandering Prince haste had ! And then anon this worthy Knight , with Words demure as he could well , Of his unhappy ten Years Wars so true a Tale began to tell , With Words so sweet and Sighs so deep , that oft he made them all to Weep . And then a Thousand Sighs he fetched , and every Sighs brought Tears amain , That where he sat the place was wet , as if he had seen those Wars again ; So that the Queen with Truth therefore , said Worthy Prince enough no more . The darksome Night apace grew on , and twinkling Stars from the Sky was spread And he his doleful Tale and told , as everyone lay in their Bed , Where they full sweetly took their Rest , save only Dido's boiling Breast . This silly Woman never slept , but in her Chamber all alone , As one unhappy always kept , unto the Wall she made her Moan That she should still desire in vain , the Thing that she could not obtain . And thus in Grief she spent the Night , till twinkling Stars from the Skies were fl [ ed ] And Phoebus with his glittering Beams , thro' misty Clouds appeared read , Then Tidings came to her anon , that all the Trojan Ships were gone . And then the Queen with bloody Knife did arm her Heart as hard as Stone , Yet somewhat loath to lose her Life , in woeful Case she made her moan And rolling on her careful Bed , with sighs and sobs these Words she said . O wretched Dido ! Queen quoth she , I see thy End approaches near , For is he gone away from thee , whom thou didst love and hold so dear ; Is he then gone and passed by ? O Heart prepare thyself to die . Tho' Reason would thou should'st forbear , to stop thy Hand from bloody Stroke , Yet Fancy said , thou should'st not fear , who fetter'd three in Cupid's Yoke , Come Death said she , and end the smart , and with these Words she pierc'd her Heart . When Death had pierc'd the tender Heart , of Dido Carthaginian Queen , And bloody Knife did end the Smart , which she sustain'd in woeful teen , AEneas being shipped and gone , whose Flattery caused all her Moan . Her Funeral most costly made , and all Things finish'd mournfully , Her Body fine in Mould was laid , where it consumed speedily ; Her Sister's Tears her Tomb bestrew'd , her Subject's Grief their Kindness shew'd . Then was AEneas in and Isle , in Greece where he lived long space , Whereas her Sister in short Time , writ to him to his soul Disgrace ; In phrase of Letter to her Mind , she told him plain he was unkind . Falsehearted Wretch quoth she thou art , and treacherously thou hast betray'd . Unto thy Lure a gentle Heart , who unto thee such welcome made , My Sister dear and Carthage Joy , whose Folly wrought her dire Annoy . Yet on her Deathbed when she lay , she pray'd for thy Prosperity . Beseeching God that every Day , might breed thee more Felicity , Thus by thy Means I lost a Friend , Heavens send thee and untimely End. When he these Lines full fraught with Gall , perused had , and weigh'd them right , His lofty Courage then did fallen , and strait appear'd in his Sighed , Queen Dido's Ghost both grim and pale , which made this valiant Soldier quail . AEneas quoth this grisly Ghost , my whole Delight while I did live , Thee of all Men I loved most , my Fancy and my Will did give ; For Entertainment I thee gave , unthankfully thou dig'st my Grave . Therefore prepare thy fleeting Soul ; to wander with me in the Air , Where deadly Grief shall make it howl , because of me thou took'st no Care : Delay no Time thy Glass is run thy Day is passed thy Death is come . O stay a while thou lovely Sprite , be not so ready to convey My Soul into eternal Light where it shall ne'er behold bright Day ; Oh do not frown ! thy angry Look , hath made my Breach my Life forsook . But woe is me ! it is in vain , and bootless is my dismal Cry , Time will not be recalled again , nor you suffice before I die , Oh let me live to make amends , unto some of thy dearest Friends . But seeing thou obdurate art , and will no Pity to me show , Because from thee I did depart , and left unpaid what I did owe , I must content myself to take , What Lot thou wilt with me partake . And like one being in a Trance , a Multitude of ugly Fiends About this woeful Prince did dance , no Help he had of any Friends ; His Body then they took away ; and no Man knew his Dying-Day . LONDON : Printed by R. Gamble , near the Midt . 