BONNY DUNDEE , OR , Jockey's Deliverence , Being His Valiant Escape from DUNDEE , And the Parson's Daughter , whom he had mow'd . To and Excellent tune , called , Bonny Dundee . Licensed according to Order WHere got'st thou the Haver-mill Bonack , blind booby canst thou not see , I'm god it out of the Scotchman's wallet , as he lig loosing him under a tree , Come fill me my cup , come fill me my can , Come saddle my horse and call up my man , Come open the gates and let me go free , And show me the way unto bonny Dundee . For I have neither Robbed nor Stole , nor have I done any perjury ; But I have got a fair maid with Child , the Ministers Daughter of bonny Dundee : Come fill me my cup , come fill me my can , Come saddle my horse and call up my man , Come open the gates and let me go free , for i'm gang no more unto bonny Dundee . Altho' i'm got her maidenhead , gued faith i'm have left her mine own in lieu , For when at her Daddys i'm gan to bed , i'm mow'd her without any more to do , I'm cuddle her close , and gave her a kiss , Pray tell me now where is the harm of this : Then open the gates and let me go free , For i'm gan no more unto bonny Dundee . All Scotland never afforded a lass , so bonny and blithe as Jenny my dear , i'm gave her a gown of green on the grass , but now i'm no longer must tarry here : Then saddle my nag , thats bonny and gay , For now it is time to gan hence away : then open the gates and let me go free , shes ken me no more unto bonny Dundee . In liberty still I reckon to Reign , for why , I have done no honest man wrong , The parson may take his daughter again , for she'll be a Mammy before it is long , And have a Young lad or a lass of my breed ; I'm think I have done a generous deed : then open the gates and let me go free , for i'm gan no more unto bonny Dundee . Since Jenny , the fair , was willingly kind , and came to my arms with ready good will , A token of love i'm leave her behind , thus have I requited her kindness still , Tho' Jenny the fair I often have mov'd , Another may reap the harvest I sow'd , then open the gates and let me go free , shes ken me no more unto bonny Dundee . Her Daddy would have me make her my Bride but have , and to hold I never could endure , From bonny Dundee this day I will ride , it being a place not safe and secure , Then Jenny farewell my joy and my dear , With sword in my hand the passage i'm clear , then open the gates and let me go free , for i'm gan no more unto bonny Dundee . My father is a muckle good leard , my mother lady bonny and gay , then while I have skill to handle a sword , the parsons Request i'm never obey , then Sawny , my man be thou of my mind , in bonny Dundee we'se not be confin'd , the gates we will force to set ourselves free , and never come more unto bonny Dundee . then Sawny reply'd : i'm never refuse to fight for a leard so valiant and bold , While I have a drop of blood for to loose , ere any sike loon shall keep us in hold : this sword in my hand i'm valiantly wield , and fight by your side to Kill or be Kill'd . for forcing the gates and set ourselves free ; And so I bid adieu to bonny Dundee . With swords ready drawn they rid to the gate , where being deni'd and entrance thro' the master and man they fought at that rate , that some ran away and others they slew , thus Jockey the leard , and Sawny his man , they valiantly fought , as High-landers can , in spite of the loons they set themselves free And so bid adieu unto bonny Dundee . Printed for C. Bates at the Sun and Bible in Pie-corner . BONNY DUNDEE , OR , Jockey's Deliverence , Being His Valiant Escape from DUNDEE , And the Parson's Daughter , whom he had mow'd . To and Excellent tune , called , Bonny Dundee . Licensed according to Order WHere got'st thou the Haver-mill Bonack , blind booby canst thou not see , I'm god it out of the Scotchman's wallet , as he lig loosing him under a tree , Come fill me my cup , come fill me my can , Come saddle my horse and call up my man , Come open the gates and let me go free , And show me the way unto bonny Dundee . For I have neither Robbed nor Stole , nor have I done any perjury ; But I have got a fair maid with Child , the Ministers Daughter of bonny Dundee : Come fill me my cup , come fill me my can , Come saddle my horse and call up my man , Come open the gates and let me go free , for i'm gang no more unto bonny Dundee . Altho' i'm got her maidenhead , gued faith i'm have left her mine own in lieu , For when at her Daddys i'm gan to bed , i'm mow'd her without any more to do , I'm cuddle her close , and gave her a kiss , Pray tell me now where is the harm of this : Then open the gates and let me go free , For i'm gan no more unto bonny Dundee . All Scotland never afforded a lass , so bonny and blithe as Jenny my dear , i'm gave her a gown of green on the grass , but now i'm no longer must tarry here : Then saddle my nag , thats bonny and gay , For now it is time to gan hence away : then open the gates and let me go free , shes ken me no more unto bonny Dundee . In liberty still I reckon to Reign , for why , I have done no honest man wrong , The parson may take his daughter again , for she'll be a Mammy before it is long , And have a Young lad or a lass of my breed ; I'm think I have done a generous deed : then open the gates and let me go free , for i'm gan no more unto bonny Dundee . Since Jenny , the fair , was willingly kind , and came to my arms with ready good will , A token of love i'm leave her behind , thus have I requited her kindness still , Tho' Jenny the fair I often have mov'd , Another may reap the harvest I sow'd , then open the gates and let me go free , shes ken me no more unto bonny Dundee . Her Daddy would have me make her my Bride but have , and to hold I never could endure , From bonny Dundee this day I will ride , it being a place not safe and secure , Then Jenny farewell my joy and my dear , With sword in my hand the passage i'm clear , then open the gates and let me go free , for i'm gan no more unto bonny Dundee . My father is a muckle good leard , my mother lady bonny and gay , then while I have skill to handle a sword , the parsons Request i'm never obey , then Sawny , my man be thou of my mind , in bonny Dundee we'se not be confin'd , the gates we will force to set ourselves free , and never come more unto bonny Dundee . then Sawny reply'd : i'm never refuse to fight for a leard so valiant and bold , While I have a drop of blood for to loose , ere any sike loon shall keep us in hold : this sword in my hand i'm valiantly wield , and fight by your side to Kill or be Kill'd . for forcing the gates and set ourselves free ; And so I bid adieu to bonny Dundee . With swords ready drawn they rid to the gate , where being deni'd and entrance thro' the master and man they fought at that rate , that some ran away and others they slew , thus Jockey the leard , and Sawny his man , they valiantly fought , as High-landers can , in spite of the loons they set themselves free And so bid adieu unto bonny Dundee . Printed for C. Bates at the Sun and Bible in Pie-corner . BONNY DUNDEE , OR , Jockey's Deliverence , Being His Valiant Escape from DUNDEE , And the Parson's Daughter , whom he had mow'd . To and Excellent tune , called , Bonny Dundee . Licensed according to Order WHere got'st thou the Haver-mill Bonack , blind booby canst thou not see , I'm god it out of the Scotchman's wallet , as he lig loosing him under a tree , Come fill me my cup , come fill me my can , Come saddle my horse and call up my man , Come open the gates and let me go free , And show me the way unto bonny Dundee . For I have neither Robbed nor Stole , nor have I done any perjury ; But I have got a fair maid with Child , the Ministers Daughter of bonny Dundee : Come fill me my cup , come fill me my can , Come saddle my horse and call up my man , Come open the gates and let me go free , for i'm gang no more unto bonny Dundee . Altho' i'm got her maidenhead , gued faith i'm have left her mine own in lieu , For when at her Daddys i'm gan to bed , i'm mow'd her without any more to do , I'm cuddle her close , and gave her a kiss , Pray tell me now where is the harm of this : Then open the gates and let me go free , For i'm gan no more unto bonny Dundee . All Scotland never afforded a lass , so bonny and blithe as Jenny my dear , i'm gave her a gown of green on the grass , but now i'm no longer must tarry here : Then saddle my nag , thats bonny and gay , For now it is time to gan hence away : then open the gates and let me go free , shes ken me no more unto bonny Dundee . In liberty still I reckon to Reign , for why , I have done no honest man wrong , The parson may take his daughter again , for she'll be a Mammy before it is long , And have a Young lad or a lass of my breed ; I'm think I have done a generous deed : then open the gates and let me go free , for i'm gan no more unto bonny Dundee . Since Jenny , the fair , was willingly kind , and came to my arms with ready good will , A token of love i'm leave her behind , thus have I requited her kindness still , Tho' Jenny the fair I often have mov'd , Another may reap the harvest I sow'd , then open the gates and let me go free , shes ken me no more unto bonny Dundee . Her Daddy would have me make her my Bride but have , and to hold I never could endure , From bonny Dundee this day I will ride , it being a place not safe and secure , Then Jenny farewell my joy and my dear , With sword in my hand the passage i'm clear , then open the gates and let me go free , for i'm gan no more unto bonny Dundee . My father is a muckle good leard , my mother lady bonny and gay , then while I have skill to handle a sword , the parsons Request i'm never obey , then Sawny , my man be thou of my mind , in bonny Dundee we'se not be confin'd , the gates we will force to set ourselves free , and never come more unto bonny Dundee . then Sawny reply'd : i'm never refuse to fight for a leard so valiant and bold , While I have a drop of blood for to loose , ere any sike loon shall keep us in hold : this sword in my hand i'm valiantly wield , and fight by your side to Kill or be Kill'd . for forcing the gates and set ourselves free ; And so I bid adieu to bonny Dundee . With swords ready drawn they rid to the gate , where being deni'd and entrance thro' the master and man they fought at that rate , that some ran away and others they slew , thus Jockey the leard , and Sawny his man , they valiantly fought , as High-landers can , in spite of the loons they set themselves free And so bid adieu unto bonny Dundee . Printed for C. Bates at the Sun and Bible in Pie-corner . BONNY DUNDEE , OR , Jockey's Deliverence , Being His Valiant Escape from DUNDEE , And the Parson's Daughter , whom he had mow'd . To and Excellent tune , called , Bonny Dundee . Licensed according to Order WHere got'st thou the Haver-mill Bonack , blind booby canst thou not see , I'm god it out of the Scotchman's wallet , as he lig loosing him under a tree , Come fill me my cup , come fill me my can , Come saddle my horse and call up my man , Come open the gates and let me go free , And show me the way unto bonny Dundee . For I have neither Robbed nor Stole , nor have I done any perjury ; But I have got a fair maid with Child , the Ministers Daughter of bonny Dundee : Come fill me my cup , come fill me my can , Come saddle my horse and call up my man , Come open the gates and let me go free , for i'm gang no more unto bonny Dundee . Altho' i'm got her maidenhead , gued faith i'm have left her mine own in lieu , For when at her Daddys i'm gan to bed , i'm mow'd her without any more to do , I'm cuddle her close , and gave her a kiss , Pray tell me now where is the harm of this : Then open the gates and let me go free , For i'm gan no more unto bonny Dundee . All Scotland never afforded a lass , so bonny and blithe as Jenny my dear , i'm gave her a gown of green on the grass , but now i'm no longer must tarry here : Then saddle my nag , thats bonny and gay , For now it is time to gan hence away : then open the gates and let me go free , shes ken me no more unto bonny Dundee . In liberty still I reckon to Reign , for why , I have done no honest man wrong , The parson may take his daughter again , for she'll be a Mammy before it is long , And have a Young lad or a lass of my breed ; I'm think I have done a generous deed : then open the gates and let me go free , for i'm gan no more unto bonny Dundee . Since Jenny , the fair , was willingly kind , and came to my arms with ready good will , A token of love i'm leave her behind , thus have I requited her kindness still , Tho' Jenny the fair I often have mov'd , Another may reap the harvest I sow'd , then open the gates and let me go free , shes ken me no more unto bonny Dundee . Her Daddy would have me make her my Bride but have , and to hold I never could endure , From bonny Dundee this day I will ride , it being a place not safe and secure , Then Jenny farewell my joy and my dear , With sword in my hand the passage i'm clear , then open the gates and let me go free , for i'm gan no more unto bonny Dundee . My father is a muckle good leard , my mother lady bonny and gay , then while I have skill to handle a sword , the parsons Request i'm never obey , then Sawny , my man be thou of my mind , in bonny Dundee we'se not be confin'd , the gates we will force to set ourselves free , and never come more unto bonny Dundee . then Sawny reply'd : i'm never refuse to fight for a leard so valiant and bold , While I have a drop of blood for to loose , ere any sike loon shall keep us in hold : this sword in my hand i'm valiantly wield , and fight by your side to Kill or be Kill'd . for forcing the gates and set ourselves free ; And so I bid adieu to bonny Dundee . With swords ready drawn they rid to the gate , where being deni'd and entrance thro' the master and man they fought at that rate , that some ran away and others they slew , thus Jockey the leard , and Sawny his man , they valiantly fought , as High-landers can , in spite of the loons they set themselves free And so bid adieu unto bonny Dundee . Printed for C. Bates at the Sun and Bible in Pie-corner . 