THE TRAGICK-COMEDY OF TITUS OATES , Who sometime went under the Notion of The Salamanca Doctor ; Who being Convicted of PERJURY And several other Crimes , at the Kings-Bench-Bar , Westminster , May 16.1685 . had his Sentence to Stand in the Pillory , to be Whip'd at the Carts Arse , and to be sent back to Prison . WHet all your Wits , and Antidote your Eyes , Before you hazard here to play this Prize ; Or gaze ( like Eagles ) on a Show so rare , No time brought forth and Object yet so fair ; Lo ! here's the Bug-Bear-Rampant of the PLOT , Which Whig on Tory ( in a Shamm ) Begotten ; Here Alamode the Guardian of the Land In a New-fashion'd Pulpit now does stand ; The Tub's o're-whelm'd , and all the Hoops are flung , And Deput-Jack he peeps out through the Bung. Barcochab's here , the Star of Englands Sky , Decipher'd now The Son of PERJURY ; Th' AEgyptan-Cow , the Oaten-blasted Blade , Which hath ( these several Years ) eat up our Trade ; The States Anatomist , the Church Confusion , Who Dream'd a Plot , and Swore it was a Vision ; A Doctor who Degree did ne'r Commence , A Rhetoritian that spoke never Sense ; Like Proteus he still changes to the time , His Pulse and Temper suits with any Climb ; His Birth's equivocal , by Generation Seditions By-Blow , Loyaltys privation ; A Linsey-Woolsey Emp'rick of the State , That hugs the Church , and knocks it o're the Pate . He stands in state , and well becomes his station , Using a Truckling-Stool for Recreation : Now should he , in contempt of Peter's Chair , Leap from the Pillory to the Three-leg'd Mare , And with Empedocles desire to be But Canoniz'd and Oaten-Deity , He would spring up ( but that he is a Sot ) A Mandrake , to conceive another PLOT . His Crime no Man can balance with a Curse , For still the Hydra does deserve a worse : Then let him live a Minotaur of Men , Like Hircocervus Couchant in his Den ; The Monument of Mischief , and of since , To spread no farther than the Sooterkin Of old Sedition , set before our Eye , As Buoy and Beacon unto Loyalty ; Yet at the Wheels of Fortune let him Dance A Jig of Penance that can make him Prance ; Resenting all his Errors ( though in vain ) With fruitless wishes calling Time again ; His Face is Brass , his Breech no Rod will feel , And who knows but his Back is made of Steel ; His Soul is proof , perhaps his Body may Be made of Mettle harder than the Clay ; Then put him to the touch , make Titus roar , The Chase is turn'd , now he's Son of a W --- Then conjure him with Eggs and Kennel-Dirt , And Contradictions that his Mouth did squirt ; To tell his Name , we'l Christian him once yet , And mould and Agnoun which can with him fit ; He is no Doctor , for by horrid Lies He cures Sedition , only Tinkerwise . He is no Papist , for he ne'r had Merit , Nor yet a Quaker , for he hath no Spirit . He is no Protestant , for want of Grace , To keep him from a falsifying face . He is no Turk , for always ( like a Swine ) He lov'd to wallow in a Tub of Wine . No name can fit him , therefore let him b [ ee ] The grumbling Ghost of Old Presbytery . London , Printed by J.M. and Published by Randal Taylor , MDCLXXXV . THE TRAGICK-COMEDY OF TITUS OATES , Who sometime went under the Notion of The Salamanca Doctor ; Who being Convicted of PERJURY And several other Crimes , at the Kings-Bench-Bar , Westminster , May 16.1685 . had his Sentence to Stand in the Pillory , to be Whip'd at the Carts Arse , and to be sent back to Prison . WHet all your Wits , and Antidote your Eyes , Before you hazard here to play this Prize ; Or gaze ( like Eagles ) on a Show so rare , No time brought forth and Object yet so fair ; Lo ! here's the Bug-Bear-Rampant of the PLOT , Which Whig on Tory ( in a Shamm ) Begotten ; Here Alamode the Guardian of the Land In a New-fashion'd Pulpit now does stand ; The Tub's o're-whelm'd , and all the Hoops are flung , And Deput-Jack he peeps out through the Bung. Barcochab's here , the Star of Englands Sky , Decipher'd now The Son of PERJURY ; Th' AEgyptan-Cow , the Oaten-blasted Blade , Which hath ( these several Years ) eat up our Trade ; The States Anatomist , the Church Confusion , Who Dream'd a Plot , and Swore it was a Vision ; A Doctor who Degree did ne'r Commence , A Rhetoritian that spoke never Sense ; Like Proteus he still changes to the time , His Pulse and Temper suits with any Climb ; His Birth's equivocal , by Generation Seditions By-Blow , Loyaltys privation ; A Linsey-Woolsey Emp'rick of the State , That hugs the Church , and knocks it o're the Pate . He stands in state , and well becomes his station , Using a Truckling-Stool for Recreation : Now should he , in contempt of Peter's Chair , Leap from the Pillory to the Three-leg'd Mare , And with Empedocles desire to be But Canoniz'd and Oaten-Deity , He would spring up ( but that he is a Sot ) A Mandrake , to conceive another PLOT . His Crime no Man can balance with a Curse , For still the Hydra does deserve a worse : Then let him live a Minotaur of Men , Like Hircocervus Couchant in his Den ; The Monument of Mischief , and of since , To spread no farther than the Sooterkin Of old Sedition , set before our Eye , As Buoy and Beacon unto Loyalty ; Yet at the Wheels of Fortune let him Dance A Jig of Penance that can make him Prance ; Resenting all his Errors ( though in vain ) With fruitless wishes calling Time again ; His Face is Brass , his Breech no Rod will feel , And who knows but his Back is made of Steel ; His Soul is proof , perhaps his Body may Be made of Mettle harder than the Clay ; Then put him to the touch , make Titus roar , The Chase is turn'd , now he's Son of a W --- Then conjure him with Eggs and Kennel-Dirt , And Contradictions that his Mouth did squirt ; To tell his Name , we'l Christian him once yet , And mould and Agnoun which can with him fit ; He is no Doctor , for by horrid Lies He cures Sedition , only Tinkerwise . He is no Papist , for he ne'r had Merit , Nor yet a Quaker , for he hath no Spirit . He is no Protestant , for want of Grace , To keep him from a falsifying face . He is no Turk , for always ( like a Swine ) He lov'd to wallow in a Tub of Wine . No name can fit him , therefore let him b [ ee ] The grumbling Ghost of Old Presbytery . London , Printed by J.M. and Published by Randal Taylor , MDCLXXXV . THE TRAGICK-COMEDY OF TITUS OATES , Who sometime went under the Notion of The Salamanca Doctor ; Who being Convicted of PERJURY And several other Crimes , at the Kings-Bench-Bar , Westminster , May 16.1685 . had his Sentence to Stand in the Pillory , to be Whip'd at the Carts Arse , and to be sent back to Prison . WHet all your Wits , and Antidote your Eyes , Before you hazard here to play this Prize ; Or gaze ( like Eagles ) on a Show so rare , No time brought forth and Object yet so fair ; Lo ! here's the Bug-Bear-Rampant of the PLOT , Which Whig on Tory ( in a Shamm ) Begotten ; Here Alamode the Guardian of the Land In a New-fashion'd Pulpit now does stand ; The Tub's o're-whelm'd , and all the Hoops are flung , And Deput-Jack he peeps out through the Bung. Barcochab's here , the Star of Englands Sky , Decipher'd now The Son of PERJURY ; Th' AEgyptan-Cow , the Oaten-blasted Blade , Which hath ( these several Years ) eat up our Trade ; The States Anatomist , the Church Confusion , Who Dream'd a Plot , and Swore it was a Vision ; A Doctor who Degree did ne'r Commence , A Rhetoritian that spoke never Sense ; Like Proteus he still changes to the time , His Pulse and Temper suits with any Climb ; His Birth's equivocal , by Generation Seditions By-Blow , Loyaltys privation ; A Linsey-Woolsey Emp'rick of the State , That hugs the Church , and knocks it o're the Pate . He stands in state , and well becomes his station , Using a Truckling-Stool for Recreation : Now should he , in contempt of Peter's Chair , Leap from the Pillory to the Three-leg'd Mare , And with Empedocles desire to be But Canoniz'd and Oaten-Deity , He would spring up ( but that he is a Sot ) A Mandrake , to conceive another PLOT . His Crime no Man can balance with a Curse , For still the Hydra does deserve a worse : Then let him live a Minotaur of Men , Like Hircocervus Couchant in his Den ; The Monument of Mischief , and of since , To spread no farther than the Sooterkin Of old Sedition , set before our Eye , As Buoy and Beacon unto Loyalty ; Yet at the Wheels of Fortune let him Dance A Jig of Penance that can make him Prance ; Resenting all his Errors ( though in vain ) With fruitless wishes calling Time again ; His Face is Brass , his Breech no Rod will feel , And who knows but his Back is made of Steel ; His Soul is proof , perhaps his Body may Be made of Mettle harder than the Clay ; Then put him to the touch , make Titus roar , The Chase is turn'd , now he's Son of a W --- Then conjure him with Eggs and Kennel-Dirt , And Contradictions that his Mouth did squirt ; To tell his Name , we'l Christian him once yet , And mould and Agnoun which can with him fit ; He is no Doctor , for by horrid Lies He cures Sedition , only Tinkerwise . He is no Papist , for he ne'r had Merit , Nor yet a Quaker , for he hath no Spirit . He is no Protestant , for want of Grace , To keep him from a falsifying face . He is no Turk , for always ( like a Swine ) He lov'd to wallow in a Tub of Wine . No name can fit him , therefore let him b [ ee ] The grumbling Ghost of Old Presbytery . London , Printed by J.M. and Published by Randal Taylor , MDCLXXXV . THE TRAGICK-COMEDY OF TITUS OATES , Who sometime went under the Notion of The Salamanca Doctor ; Who being Convicted of PERJURY And several other Crimes , at the Kings-Bench-Bar , Westminster , May 16.1685 . had his Sentence to Stand in the Pillory , to be Whip'd at the Carts Arse , and to be sent back to Prison . WHet all your Wits , and Antidote your Eyes , Before you hazard here to play this Prize ; Or gaze ( like Eagles ) on a Show so rare , No time brought forth and Object yet so fair ; Lo ! here's the Bug-Bear-Rampant of the PLOT , Which Whig on Tory ( in a Shamm ) Begotten ; Here Alamode the Guardian of the Land In a New-fashion'd Pulpit now does stand ; The Tub's o're-whelm'd , and all the Hoops are flung , And Deput-Jack he peeps out through the Bung. Barcochab's here , the Star of Englands Sky , Decipher'd now The Son of PERJURY ; Th' AEgyptan-Cow , the Oaten-blasted Blade , Which hath ( these several Years ) eat up our Trade ; The States Anatomist , the Church Confusion , Who Dream'd a Plot , and Swore it was a Vision ; A Doctor who Degree did ne'r Commence , A Rhetoritian that spoke never Sense ; Like Proteus he still changes to the time , His Pulse and Temper suits with any Climb ; His Birth's equivocal , by Generation Seditions By-Blow , Loyaltys privation ; A Linsey-Woolsey Emp'rick of the State , That hugs the Church , and knocks it o're the Pate . He stands in state , and well becomes his station , Using a Truckling-Stool for Recreation : Now should he , in contempt of Peter's Chair , Leap from the Pillory to the Three-leg'd Mare , And with Empedocles desire to be But Canoniz'd and Oaten-Deity , He would spring up ( but that he is a Sot ) A Mandrake , to conceive another PLOT . His Crime no Man can balance with a Curse , For still the Hydra does deserve a worse : Then let him live a Minotaur of Men , Like Hircocervus Couchant in his Den ; The Monument of Mischief , and of since , To spread no farther than the Sooterkin Of old Sedition , set before our Eye , As Buoy and Beacon unto Loyalty ; Yet at the Wheels of Fortune let him Dance A Jig of Penance that can make him Prance ; Resenting all his Errors ( though in vain ) With fruitless wishes calling Time again ; His Face is Brass , his Breech no Rod will feel , And who knows but his Back is made of Steel ; His Soul is proof , perhaps his Body may Be made of Mettle harder than the Clay ; Then put him to the touch , make Titus roar , The Chase is turn'd , now he's Son of a W --- Then conjure him with Eggs and Kennel-Dirt , And Contradictions that his Mouth did squirt ; To tell his Name , we'l Christian him once yet , And mould and Agnoun which can with him fit ; He is no Doctor , for by horrid Lies He cures Sedition , only Tinkerwise . He is no Papist , for he ne'r had Merit , Nor yet a Quaker , for he hath no Spirit . He is no Protestant , for want of Grace , To keep him from a falsifying face . He is no Turk , for always ( like a Swine ) He lov'd to wallow in a Tub of Wine . No name can fit him , therefore let him b [ ee ] The grumbling Ghost of Old Presbytery . London , Printed by J.M. and Published by Randal Taylor , MDCLXXXV . THE TRAGICK-COMEDY OF TITUS OATES , Who sometime went under the Notion of The Salamanca Doctor ; Who being Convicted of PERJURY And several other Crimes , at the Kings-Bench-Bar , Westminster , May 16.1685 . had his Sentence to Stand in the Pillory , to be Whip'd at the Carts Arse , and to be sent back to Prison . WHet all your Wits , and Antidote your Eyes , Before you hazard here to play this Prize ; Or gaze ( like Eagles ) on a Show so rare , No time brought forth and Object yet so fair ; Lo ! here's the Bug-Bear-Rampant of the PLOT , Which Whig on Tory ( in a Shamm ) Begotten ; Here Alamode the Guardian of the Land In a New-fashion'd Pulpit now does stand ; The Tub's o're-whelm'd , and all the Hoops are flung , And Deput-Jack he peeps out through the Bung. Barcochab's here , the Star of Englands Sky , Decipher'd now The Son of PERJURY ; Th' AEgyptan-Cow , the Oaten-blasted Blade , Which hath ( these several Years ) eat up our Trade ; The States Anatomist , the Church Confusion , Who Dream'd a Plot , and Swore it was a Vision ; A Doctor who Degree did ne'r Commence , A Rhetoritian that spoke never Sense ; Like Proteus he still changes to the time , His Pulse and Temper suits with any Climb ; His Birth's equivocal , by Generation Seditions By-Blow , Loyaltys privation ; A Linsey-Woolsey Emp'rick of the State , That hugs the Church , and knocks it o're the Pate . He stands in state , and well becomes his station , Using a Truckling-Stool for Recreation : Now should he , in contempt of Peter's Chair , Leap from the Pillory to the Three-leg'd Mare , And with Empedocles desire to be But Canoniz'd and Oaten-Deity , He would spring up ( but that he is a Sot ) A Mandrake , to conceive another PLOT . His Crime no Man can balance with a Curse , For still the Hydra does deserve a worse : Then let him live a Minotaur of Men , Like Hircocervus Couchant in his Den ; The Monument of Mischief , and of since , To spread no farther than the Sooterkin Of old Sedition , set before our Eye , As Buoy and Beacon unto Loyalty ; Yet at the Wheels of Fortune let him Dance A Jig of Penance that can make him Prance ; Resenting all his Errors ( though in vain ) With fruitless wishes calling Time again ; His Face is Brass , his Breech no Rod will feel , And who knows but his Back is made of Steel ; His Soul is proof , perhaps his Body may Be made of Mettle harder than the Clay ; Then put him to the touch , make Titus roar , The Chase is turn'd , now he's Son of a W --- Then conjure him with Eggs and Kennel-Dirt , And Contradictions that his Mouth did squirt ; To tell his Name , we'l Christian him once yet , And mould and Agnoun which can with him fit ; He is no Doctor , for by horrid Lies He cures Sedition , only Tinkerwise . He is no Papist , for he ne'r had Merit , Nor yet a Quaker , for he hath no Spirit . He is no Protestant , for want of Grace , To keep him from a falsifying face . He is no Turk , for always ( like a Swine ) He lov'd to wallow in a Tub of Wine . No name can fit him , therefore let him b [ ee ] The grumbling Ghost of Old Presbytery . London , Printed by J.M. and Published by Randal Taylor , MDCLXXXV . THE TRAGICK-COMEDY OF TITUS OATES , Who sometime went under the Notion of The Salamanca Doctor ; Who being Convicted of PERJURY And several other Crimes , at the Kings-Bench-Bar , Westminster , May 16.1685 . had his Sentence to Stand in the Pillory , to be Whip'd at the Carts Arse , and to be sent back to Prison . WHet all your Wits , and Antidote your Eyes , Before you hazard here to play this Prize ; Or gaze ( like Eagles ) on a Show so rare , No time brought forth and Object yet so fair ; Lo ! here's the Bug-Bear-Rampant of the PLOT , Which Whig on Tory ( in a Shamm ) Begotten ; Here Alamode the Guardian of the Land In a New-fashion'd Pulpit now does stand ; The Tub's o're-whelm'd , and all the Hoops are flung , And Deput-Jack he peeps out through the Bung. Barcochab's here , the Star of Englands Sky , Decipher'd now The Son of PERJURY ; Th' AEgyptan-Cow , the Oaten-blasted Blade , Which hath ( these several Years ) eat up our Trade ; The States Anatomist , the Church Confusion , Who Dream'd a Plot , and Swore it was a Vision ; A Doctor who Degree did ne'r Commence , A Rhetoritian that spoke never Sense ; Like Proteus he still changes to the time , His Pulse and Temper suits with any Climb ; His Birth's equivocal , by Generation Seditions By-Blow , Loyaltys privation ; A Linsey-Woolsey Emp'rick of the State , That hugs the Church , and knocks it o're the Pate . He stands in state , and well becomes his station , Using a Truckling-Stool for Recreation : Now should he , in contempt of Peter's Chair , Leap from the Pillory to the Three-leg'd Mare , And with Empedocles desire to be But Canoniz'd and Oaten-Deity , He would spring up ( but that he is a Sot ) A Mandrake , to conceive another PLOT . His Crime no Man can balance with a Curse , For still the Hydra does deserve a worse : Then let him live a Minotaur of Men , Like Hircocervus Couchant in his Den ; The Monument of Mischief , and of since , To spread no farther than the Sooterkin Of old Sedition , set before our Eye , As Buoy and Beacon unto Loyalty ; Yet at the Wheels of Fortune let him Dance A Jig of Penance that can make him Prance ; Resenting all his Errors ( though in vain ) With fruitless wishes calling Time again ; His Face is Brass , his Breech no Rod will feel , And who knows but his Back is made of Steel ; His Soul is proof , perhaps his Body may Be made of Mettle harder than the Clay ; Then put him to the touch , make Titus roar , The Chase is turn'd , now he's Son of a W --- Then conjure him with Eggs and Kennel-Dirt , And Contradictions that his Mouth did squirt ; To tell his Name , we'l Christian him once yet , And mould and Agnoun which can with him fit ; He is no Doctor , for by horrid Lies He cures Sedition , only Tinkerwise . He is no Papist , for he ne'r had Merit , Nor yet a Quaker , for he hath no Spirit . He is no Protestant , for want of Grace , To keep him from a falsifying face . He is no Turk , for always ( like a Swine ) He lov'd to wallow in a Tub of Wine . No name can fit him , therefore let him b [ ee ] The grumbling Ghost of Old Presbytery . London , Printed by J.M. and Published by Randal Taylor , MDCLXXXV . 