( 1 ) To his ROYAL HIGHNES The DUKE , upon his Arrival . WHen you , Great Sir , began to disappear , All Loyal Hearts invaded were with Fear , Hope , only in Scotch Rebels liv'd , who knew , Our Courage and our Conduct fled in you . Pirates and Rebels jointly did Command , Turks prey'd on all by Sea , and Scots by Land. The Turks ! who ne're so insolent were grown T'approach our Brittish-Coasts , till you were gone . Though what the Algerines first tempted forth , Was that which mov'd their Brothers in the North . Both saw we were forsaken by that Hand , Which had with equal Glory once maintain'd Our Flag at Sea , our Sceptre on the Land. Brave Causes both , worthy the Sword alone Of CHARLES his Brother , and the MARTYRS Son. What Force is able with that Arm to fight Which pleads a Martyrs Vows , a Sov'raigns Right ? Now had you left your Brother's Rule , the Land And passed those Seas which once You did Command ; Beyond our English Bounds , those Bounds that were To our poor Isle , none to your Arms appear ; Where once your Sword was drawn , your Course you bend , Your Sword must still beyond Our Rule extend . Flanders at once does Peace and You receive , While Foes our Peace disturb , and Traffic grieve . Yet these alas ! like some ill Omens were , But Harbingers of our approaching Fear . For He , in whom we all and Interest crave . A Brother's You , we those of Subjects have ; Whose mighty Soul could not be well contain'd Within his own Dominions on the Land Descends , the Ocean and his Ships to view , Which oft engage him in deep Thoughts of You. On your Employment musing , and your Charge , Wishes in vain , a Subject's Soul so Large . Fit for the Steerage of so fast a Fleet , Or near him at the Helm on Land to fit ; Who next the Throne might shine in silent Peace , Or in loud Wars , might Thunder on the Seas . But finding none , He feels the loss though late Of such a Limb new sever'd from the State . The first Prince of the Blood now from him gone , Unguarded on the Right-hand left the Throne . For none in Deeds so Great , or Birth so High His Place in Arms or Councils may supply : None may of Right ascend , they may invade , For Princes of the Blood are Born , not Made . T'enjoy their Titles and possess their Lot None ever are Elected , but Begotten . Wanting his sole Support in all his Care , His Stay in Peace , and his chief Strength in War. A On ( 2 ) On whom , the King still in the first place lean'd , And next the King , on whom we all depend . Unsafe in Rule , uneasy in his Mind , tossed like the Sea , which labours with the wind . His Hope's at length , He to Despair resigns , Decays in Vigour , and in Health declines . Soon as the fatal News once reach'd your Ear , Urg [ ' ] worser with a Brother's Zeal , and Subject's Care , You fly with such like haste as Angels move On all the wings of Duty , and of Love . Angels and You alike Employment have To succour Kings , and distres'd Nations save . The Foreign Shore , which when you did arrive Met you in Show , your Vessel to Receive . Removing now , lest by its guilty Stay , It might be thought your Voyage to delay : Does in Appearance awfully Recede And seems in Duty from your Vessel fled ; Which proud to bear him for her single Load , Who still whole Fleets and Armies led abroad . All Opposition does , like You , despise ; And labour'd by the Waves , still higher rise , No danger can be great enough for Fear Where Caesars Brother , and his Fortune are . His high extraction , and his happy Fate The proud Sails swell , and Vessel elevate . While to the winds her Canvas wings ere Spread , The lazy winds you chide , for want of speed ; And with impatience their Delays control , For winds , compar'd to wing'd Desires , are dull . Your Thoughts alas ! preventing them , before Your Voyage had dispatch't and reached the Shore . Nor Landed on the Shore , do you proceed With more Solemnity , or with less speed ; With such Dispatch arriving at the Court You ev'n Fame prevent , and outfly Report As swift , yet not less silent then , the light , Of which we hear no News , till 'tis in sighed . Me thinks I see the Royal Brother's meet , Their Souls and Bodies in Embraces knit . While in the Union of their Arms is seen , The closer Union of their Hearts within How they embrac , and in th' embraces melt , Cannot reported be , it must be felt . While Joys too mighty for their Tongues arise , And flow out in th' expressions of their Eyes . Such pow'rful Transports for which words we want Which when we imitate , we best shall pa [ i ] nt . Can we who see this , stand unmov [ ' ] worser ? Can we Who see th' embraces of the Brother's , be , If their Example , or our Duty bind , To the unfaithful , or ourselves unkind ? Ah no! let us in Love our strife employ , And never weep henceforth , but Tears of Joy . FINIS . ( 1 ) To his ROYAL HIGHNES The DUKE , upon his Arrival . WHen you , Great Sir , began to disappear , All Loyal Hearts invaded were with Fear , Hope , only in Scotch Rebels liv'd , who knew , Our Courage and our Conduct fled in you . Pirates and Rebels jointly did Command , Turks prey'd on all by Sea , and Scots by Land. The Turks ! who ne're so insolent were grown T'approach our Brittish-Coasts , till you were gone . Though what the Algerines first tempted forth , Was that which mov'd their Brothers in the North . Both saw we were forsaken by that Hand , Which had with equal Glory once maintain'd Our Flag at Sea , our Sceptre on the Land. Brave Causes both , worthy the Sword alone Of CHARLES his Brother , and the MARTYRS Son. What Force is able with that Arm to fight Which pleads a Martyrs Vows , a Sov'raigns Right ? Now had you left your Brother's Rule , the Land And passed those Seas which once You did Command ; Beyond our English Bounds , those Bounds that were To our poor Isle , none to your Arms appear ; Where once your Sword was drawn , your Course you bend , Your Sword must still beyond Our Rule extend . Flanders at once does Peace and You receive , While Foes our Peace disturb , and Traffic grieve . Yet these alas ! like some ill Omens were , But Harbingers of our approaching Fear . For He , in whom we all and Interest crave . A Brother's You , we those of Subjects have ; Whose mighty Soul could not be well contain'd Within his own Dominions on the Land Descends , the Ocean and his Ships to view , Which oft engage him in deep Thoughts of You. On your Employment musing , and your Charge , Wishes in vain , a Subject's Soul so Large . Fit for the Steerage of so fast a Fleet , Or near him at the Helm on Land to fit ; Who next the Throne might shine in silent Peace , Or in loud Wars , might Thunder on the Seas . But finding none , He feels the loss though late Of such a Limb new sever'd from the State . The first Prince of the Blood now from him gone , Unguarded on the Right-hand left the Throne . For none in Deeds so Great , or Birth so High His Place in Arms or Councils may supply : None may of Right ascend , they may invade , For Princes of the Blood are Born , not Made . T'enjoy their Titles and possess their Lot None ever are Elected , but Begotten . Wanting his sole Support in all his Care , His Stay in Peace , and his chief Strength in War. A On ( 2 ) On whom , the King still in the first place lean'd , And next the King , on whom we all depend . Unsafe in Rule , uneasy in his Mind , tossed like the Sea , which labours with the wind . His Hope's at length , He to Despair resigns , Decays in Vigour , and in Health declines . Soon as the fatal News once reach'd your Ear , Urg [ ' ] worser with a Brother's Zeal , and Subject's Care , You fly with such like haste as Angels move On all the wings of Duty , and of Love . Angels and You alike Employment have To succour Kings , and distres'd Nations save . The Foreign Shore , which when you did arrive Met you in Show , your Vessel to Receive . Removing now , lest by its guilty Stay , It might be thought your Voyage to delay : Does in Appearance awfully Recede And seems in Duty from your Vessel fled ; Which proud to bear him for her single Load , Who still whole Fleets and Armies led abroad . All Opposition does , like You , despise ; And labour'd by the Waves , still higher rise , No danger can be great enough for Fear Where Caesars Brother , and his Fortune are . His high extraction , and his happy Fate The proud Sails swell , and Vessel elevate . While to the winds her Canvas wings ere Spread , The lazy winds you chide , for want of speed ; And with impatience their Delays control , For winds , compar'd to wing'd Desires , are dull . Your Thoughts alas ! preventing them , before Your Voyage had dispatch't and reached the Shore . Nor Landed on the Shore , do you proceed With more Solemnity , or with less speed ; With such Dispatch arriving at the Court You ev'n Fame prevent , and outfly Report As swift , yet not less silent then , the light , Of which we hear no News , till 'tis in sighed . Me thinks I see the Royal Brother's meet , Their Souls and Bodies in Embraces knit . While in the Union of their Arms is seen , The closer Union of their Hearts within How they embrac , and in th' embraces melt , Cannot reported be , it must be felt . While Joys too mighty for their Tongues arise , And flow out in th' expressions of their Eyes . Such pow'rful Transports for which words we want Which when we imitate , we best shall pa [ i ] nt . Can we who see this , stand unmov [ ' ] worser ? Can we Who see th' embraces of the Brother's , be , If their Example , or our Duty bind , To the unfaithful , or ourselves unkind ? Ah no! let us in Love our strife employ , And never weep henceforth , but Tears of Joy . FINIS . 