The Maids answer to the Bachelors Ballad . Or , Love without Remedy . Thou Scriber ! unto whom the Vulgar crew , Gives small applause , yet more then is thy due ; Whose Brazen Brow , a wither'd Wreathe adorns , Which better wou'd become a pair of Horns : Know we contemn thee : thy Malicious Pen Can have no influence on the minds of men : In our dispraise , in vain thou seek'st to write , True , thou mayest show thy teeth , but canst not bite . Alas ! rude Boy ; Love is a generous pain , Which minds ignoble , cannot entertain : Therefore thy accusations are unjust , In giving Love the Character of Lust . With Allowance , By Ro. L'Estrange . To the Tune of ; No more silly Cupid : Or , The Duke of Monmouth's Jig . WHo's here so ingenious misspending his time , In railing at Venus , In hope's to disparage , Love , Women , and marriage , By pitiful rhime ? He thinks he's ingenious and slyly the youngster entices ; But we easily find , How the youth is inclin'd , by his tricks and devices . He plainly discovers his amorous arts , And calls 'em blind lovers , Who after enjoyment , can find new employment , to fetter their hearts : He plainly discovers a nature so rude and ingrateful , That after Compliance , he bids us defiance , and says we grow hateful . Then who but and Harlot would yield to the will Of ev'ry such Varlet , That loves at his leisure , And only takes pleasure , in showing his skill ? Sure none but and harlot , would yield to the lustful persuasion , of fellows in Shammy , who only cry Dam , me , to serve their occasions . The gawdy young Sinner , whose blood is a fire , May fool a beginner , and treat her with Coaches , to mighty debauches , and gain his desire : Alas ! for the Sinner , that covets such sweetness as this is ! he seldom does fail , of a sting in the tail , with his wenches and Misses . THis makes him look meager , a wantoning Elf , His mind is so eager to humour his senses , that by his expenses , he ruins himself : This makes him so meager , he's nothing but pox and diseases , so after enjoying , the pleasure is cloying , and quickly displeases . Then show me the woman , in City or Town , Tho' never so common , With such a lewd fellow , so tawny and yellow , will laugh and lie down : For sure she's no Woman that trades with a son for a Whore , who having enjoy'd her , will straightway avoid her , and see her no more . The passionate Lover , that's caught in his youth , May plainly discover that all his persuasions are subtle evasions , and far from the truth : For he that's a Lover , and courteth sincerely and truly , may keep his affection in civil subjection , from being unruly . But let the found Bully , his fancy employ , He never can fully or bring in suspicion , the sweets of fruition , true lovers enjoy : In spite of the Bully , the pleasure of Conjugal kisses , is always delightful and far the more frightful , of temporal blisses . And yet for the Gallant , we must not deny : But that he's so valiant as stoutly to threaten , the girl shall be beaten , that will not comply : Beware of the Gallant ! I vow he's a desperate creature , If any abuse him , Or dare to refuse him , he swears he will beatrice her . Sir Fopling , your Servant ! the man's in a pet What makes you so fervent ? You burn in displeasure , pray cool at your leisure : that's all you will ge Your Servant , Sir Fopling , say all , and do more than you can sir , 'Tis still my opinion , We shall have dominion , take that for and answer . Printed for P. Brooksby , the at Golden-ball near the Hospital-gate , in West-smith-field . The Maids answer to the Bachelors Ballad . Or , Love without Remedy . Thou Scriber ! unto whom the Vulgar crew , Gives small applause , yet more then is thy due ; Whose Brazen Brow , a wither'd Wreathe adorns , Which better wou'd become a pair of Horns : Know we contemn thee : thy Malicious Pen Can have no influence on the minds of men : In our dispraise , in vain thou seek'st to write , True , thou mayest show thy teeth , but canst not bite . Alas ! rude Boy ; Love is a generous pain , Which minds ignoble , cannot entertain : Therefore thy accusations are unjust , In giving Love the Character of Lust . With Allowance , By Ro. L'Estrange . To the Tune of ; No more silly Cupid : Or , The Duke of Monmouth's Jig . WHo's here so ingenious misspending his time , In railing at Venus , In hope's to disparage , Love , Women , and marriage , By pitiful rhime ? He thinks he's ingenious and slyly the youngster entices ; But we easily find , How the youth is inclin'd , by his tricks and devices . He plainly discovers his amorous arts , And calls 'em blind lovers , Who after enjoyment , can find new employment , to fetter their hearts : He plainly discovers a nature so rude and ingrateful , That after Compliance , he bids us defiance , and says we grow hateful . Then who but and Harlot would yield to the will Of ev'ry such Varlet , That loves at his leisure , And only takes pleasure , in showing his skill ? Sure none but and harlot , would yield to the lustful persuasion , of fellows in Shammy , who only cry Dam , me , to serve their occasions . The gawdy young Sinner , whose blood is a fire , May fool a beginner , and treat her with Coaches , to mighty debauches , and gain his desire : Alas ! for the Sinner , that covets such sweetness as this is ! he seldom does fail , of a sting in the tail , with his wenches and Misses . THis makes him look meager , a wantoning Elf , His mind is so eager to humour his senses , that by his expenses , he ruins himself : This makes him so meager , he's nothing but pox and diseases , so after enjoying , the pleasure is cloying , and quickly displeases . Then show me the woman , in City or Town , Tho' never so common , With such a lewd fellow , so tawny and yellow , will laugh and lie down : For sure she's no Woman that trades with a son for a Whore , who having enjoy'd her , will straightway avoid her , and see her no more . The passionate Lover , that's caught in his youth , May plainly discover that all his persuasions are subtle evasions , and far from the truth : For he that's a Lover , and courteth sincerely and truly , may keep his affection in civil subjection , from being unruly . But let the found Bully , his fancy employ , He never can fully or bring in suspicion , the sweets of fruition , true lovers enjoy : In spite of the Bully , the pleasure of Conjugal kisses , is always delightful and far the more frightful , of temporal blisses . And yet for the Gallant , we must not deny : But that he's so valiant as stoutly to threaten , the girl shall be beaten , that will not comply : Beware of the Gallant ! I vow he's a desperate creature , If any abuse him , Or dare to refuse him , he swears he will beatrice her . Sir Fopling , your Servant ! the man's in a pet What makes you so fervent ? You burn in displeasure , pray cool at your leisure : that's all you will ge Your Servant , Sir Fopling , say all , and do more than you can sir , 'Tis still my opinion , We shall have dominion , take that for and answer . Printed for P. Brooksby , the at Golden-ball near the Hospital-gate , in West-smith-field . 