A New BALLAD , To the Tune of , Good People give ear , while a Story I tell , Of Twenty black Tradesmen were brought up in Hell , etc Or , Packington's Pound . TO our once Loyal Town , is lately come down , Such and Hodgepodge of Benchers , as never wore Gown : Saints , fit for the Legend of Romes Pseudo-Martyrs , Who have Pawn'd th' Old Religion , to Purchase New Charters ; To promote Public Faith , they are zealously bent , And Bugger Geneva , to Fructify Trent . When Satan was squeamish , and long'd for a Dainty , The Pope Fricasseed him this new Four-and-twenty . ( 2 ) The first a State-Jocky , bred up of a Groom , 'Twixt a Colchester-Mare , and a Stallion of Rome : He Cants when at Hollet's , on Hopkins his Metre , And drops Pater-Nosters with Lowick and Petre : Thus he Banters Non-Cons with Profane Masquerade , And Quacks on the Gospel to force a lost Trade . When Satan was squeamish , etc ( 3 ) The next Cacafugo , once a Captain of Peace , At the sighed of cold Iron he melts in his grease ; Yet he looks Indignation , and huffs like a Hector ; He Whores like and Abbot , and Drinks like a Rector . St. The third Nicodemus , a Seeker by Night ; The fourth Father Whitebread , who Halts for new Light . When Satan was squeamish , etc ( 4 ) B. & A. The fifth and the sixth , two precise Renegades ; The one Jack of Diamonds , and the other of Spades : For Orphans and Widows , they beautify Cloisters , And swallow their Houses , as a Barnacle Oysters ; But no Dish so fit , when his Holiness treats , As and * Oleopodrido of Zealots and Cheats . When Satan was squeamish , etc * A great Italian Dish . ( 5 ) M. Next formal Sir Foplin , who often has slunk , With a Tester at Rose's to Purchase a Punk ; But if Porter or Carman be possessed of his Doxy , He adopts his kind Hostess her Spiritual Proxy . Thus a Puritan Lecher ( though with a lewd Slut ) May solace the Spirit , while the Flesh goes to Rut. When Satan was squeamish , etc ( 6 ) Lo here * Gog and Magog at once represent The Profane Carnaval , and Idolatrous Lent ; Both Teckelites true , as were ' Titus and Eustace ; The Guts of good Manners , and Garbage of Justice : But nothing more proper to vacuate Laws , Than the Mouth of Rebellion , and Rump of the Cause . When Satan was squeamish , etc * Fat St. Lean Jeff. ' Oats and Comins in the Plot . ( 7 ) C. Advance Ruffling Dick to supply the next place , Who on a bad Matter oft shams a worse Face : When the Algerine Caper has boarded his Frigate , He can fawn like a Floater , and cringe like a Bigot . Well the Good natur'd Wittal may wink at his Fate , Since he that Cornutes him has Bugger'd the State . When Satan was squeamish , etc ( 8 ) Wee'll refer young Tertullus t' a Bill of Review , Lest he shou'd Repeal what he never yet knew : His Worship wee'll leave to his new Breviaries , 'Till One Miserere's worth Ten Avemaries ; For a Janus-like Convert , who in Faith interlopes , Like a Cordelier-Fryar , must be sav'd by his Ropes . When Satan was squeamish , and long'd for a Dainty , The Pope Fricasseed him this new Four-and-twenty . A New BALLAD , To the Tune of , Good People give ear , while a Story I tell , Of Twenty black Tradesmen were brought up in Hell , etc Or , Packington's Pound . TO our once Loyal Town , is lately come down , Such and Hodgepodge of Benchers , as never wore Gown : Saints , fit for the Legend of Romes Pseudo-Martyrs , Who have Pawn'd th' Old Religion , to Purchase New Charters ; To promote Public Faith , they are zealously bent , And Bugger Geneva , to Fructify Trent . When Satan was squeamish , and long'd for a Dainty , The Pope Fricasseed him this new Four-and-twenty . ( 2 ) The first a State-Jocky , bred up of a Groom , 'Twixt a Colchester-Mare , and a Stallion of Rome : He Cants when at Hollet's , on Hopkins his Metre , And drops Pater-Nosters with Lowick and Petre : Thus he Banters Non-Cons with Profane Masquerade , And Quacks on the Gospel to force a lost Trade . When Satan was squeamish , etc ( 3 ) The next Cacafugo , once a Captain of Peace , At the sighed of cold Iron he melts in his grease ; Yet he looks Indignation , and huffs like a Hector ; He Whores like and Abbot , and Drinks like a Rector . St. The third Nicodemus , a Seeker by Night ; The fourth Father Whitebread , who Halts for new Light . When Satan was squeamish , etc ( 4 ) B. & A. The fifth and the sixth , two precise Renegades ; The one Jack of Diamonds , and the other of Spades : For Orphans and Widows , they beautify Cloisters , And swallow their Houses , as a Barnacle Oysters ; But no Dish so fit , when his Holiness treats , As and * Oleopodrido of Zealots and Cheats . When Satan was squeamish , etc * A great Italian Dish . ( 5 ) M. Next formal Sir Foplin , who often has slunk , With a Tester at Rose's to Purchase a Punk ; But if Porter or Carman be possessed of his Doxy , He adopts his kind Hostess her Spiritual Proxy . Thus a Puritan Lecher ( though with a lewd Slut ) May solace the Spirit , while the Flesh goes to Rut. When Satan was squeamish , etc ( 6 ) Lo here * Gog and Magog at once represent The Profane Carnaval , and Idolatrous Lent ; Both Teckelites true , as were ' Titus and Eustace ; The Guts of good Manners , and Garbage of Justice : But nothing more proper to vacuate Laws , Than the Mouth of Rebellion , and Rump of the Cause . When Satan was squeamish , etc * Fat St. Lean Jeff. ' Oats and Comins in the Plot . ( 7 ) C. Advance Ruffling Dick to supply the next place , Who on a bad Matter oft shams a worse Face : When the Algerine Caper has boarded his Frigate , He can fawn like a Floater , and cringe like a Bigot . Well the Good natur'd Wittal may wink at his Fate , Since he that Cornutes him has Bugger'd the State . When Satan was squeamish , etc ( 8 ) Wee'll refer young Tertullus t' a Bill of Review , Lest he shou'd Repeal what he never yet knew : His Worship wee'll leave to his new Breviaries , 'Till One Miserere's worth Ten Avemaries ; For a Janus-like Convert , who in Faith interlopes , Like a Cordelier-Fryar , must be sav'd by his Ropes . When Satan was squeamish , and long'd for a Dainty , The Pope Fricasseed him this new Four-and-twenty . A New BALLAD , To the Tune of , Good People give ear , while a Story I tell , Of Twenty black Tradesmen were brought up in Hell , etc Or , Packington's Pound . TO our once Loyal Town , is lately come down , Such and Hodgepodge of Benchers , as never wore Gown : Saints , fit for the Legend of Romes Pseudo-Martyrs , Who have Pawn'd th' Old Religion , to Purchase New Charters ; To promote Public Faith , they are zealously bent , And Bugger Geneva , to Fructify Trent . When Satan was squeamish , and long'd for a Dainty , The Pope Fricasseed him this new Four-and-twenty . ( 2 ) The first a State-Jocky , bred up of a Groom , 'Twixt a Colchester-Mare , and a Stallion of Rome : He Cants when at Hollet's , on Hopkins his Metre , And drops Pater-Nosters with Lowick and Petre : Thus he Banters Non-Cons with Profane Masquerade , And Quacks on the Gospel to force a lost Trade . When Satan was squeamish , etc ( 3 ) The next Cacafugo , once a Captain of Peace , At the sighed of cold Iron he melts in his grease ; Yet he looks Indignation , and huffs like a Hector ; He Whores like and Abbot , and Drinks like a Rector . St. The third Nicodemus , a Seeker by Night ; The fourth Father Whitebread , who Halts for new Light . When Satan was squeamish , etc ( 4 ) B. & A. The fifth and the sixth , two precise Renegades ; The one Jack of Diamonds , and the other of Spades : For Orphans and Widows , they beautify Cloisters , And swallow their Houses , as a Barnacle Oysters ; But no Dish so fit , when his Holiness treats , As and * Oleopodrido of Zealots and Cheats . When Satan was squeamish , etc * A great Italian Dish . ( 5 ) M. Next formal Sir Foplin , who often has slunk , With a Tester at Rose's to Purchase a Punk ; But if Porter or Carman be possessed of his Doxy , He adopts his kind Hostess her Spiritual Proxy . Thus a Puritan Lecher ( though with a lewd Slut ) May solace the Spirit , while the Flesh goes to Rut. When Satan was squeamish , etc ( 6 ) Lo here * Gog and Magog at once represent The Profane Carnaval , and Idolatrous Lent ; Both Teckelites true , as were ' Titus and Eustace ; The Guts of good Manners , and Garbage of Justice : But nothing more proper to vacuate Laws , Than the Mouth of Rebellion , and Rump of the Cause . When Satan was squeamish , etc * Fat St. Lean Jeff. ' Oats and Comins in the Plot . ( 7 ) C. Advance Ruffling Dick to supply the next place , Who on a bad Matter oft shams a worse Face : When the Algerine Caper has boarded his Frigate , He can fawn like a Floater , and cringe like a Bigot . Well the Good natur'd Wittal may wink at his Fate , Since he that Cornutes him has Bugger'd the State . When Satan was squeamish , etc ( 8 ) Wee'll refer young Tertullus t' a Bill of Review , Lest he shou'd Repeal what he never yet knew : His Worship wee'll leave to his new Breviaries , 'Till One Miserere's worth Ten Avemaries ; For a Janus-like Convert , who in Faith interlopes , Like a Cordelier-Fryar , must be sav'd by his Ropes . When Satan was squeamish , and long'd for a Dainty , The Pope Fricasseed him this new Four-and-twenty . A New BALLAD , To the Tune of , Good People give ear , while a Story I tell , Of Twenty black Tradesmen were brought up in Hell , etc Or , Packington's Pound . TO our once Loyal Town , is lately come down , Such and Hodgepodge of Benchers , as never wore Gown : Saints , fit for the Legend of Romes Pseudo-Martyrs , Who have Pawn'd th' Old Religion , to Purchase New Charters ; To promote Public Faith , they are zealously bent , And Bugger Geneva , to Fructify Trent . When Satan was squeamish , and long'd for a Dainty , The Pope Fricasseed him this new Four-and-twenty . ( 2 ) The first a State-Jocky , bred up of a Groom , 'Twixt a Colchester-Mare , and a Stallion of Rome : He Cants when at Hollet's , on Hopkins his Metre , And drops Pater-Nosters with Lowick and Petre : Thus he Banters Non-Cons with Profane Masquerade , And Quacks on the Gospel to force a lost Trade . When Satan was squeamish , etc ( 3 ) The next Cacafugo , once a Captain of Peace , At the sighed of cold Iron he melts in his grease ; Yet he looks Indignation , and huffs like a Hector ; He Whores like and Abbot , and Drinks like a Rector . St. The third Nicodemus , a Seeker by Night ; The fourth Father Whitebread , who Halts for new Light . When Satan was squeamish , etc ( 4 ) B. & A. The fifth and the sixth , two precise Renegades ; The one Jack of Diamonds , and the other of Spades : For Orphans and Widows , they beautify Cloisters , And swallow their Houses , as a Barnacle Oysters ; But no Dish so fit , when his Holiness treats , As and * Oleopodrido of Zealots and Cheats . When Satan was squeamish , etc * A great Italian Dish . ( 5 ) M. Next formal Sir Foplin , who often has slunk , With a Tester at Rose's to Purchase a Punk ; But if Porter or Carman be possessed of his Doxy , He adopts his kind Hostess her Spiritual Proxy . Thus a Puritan Lecher ( though with a lewd Slut ) May solace the Spirit , while the Flesh goes to Rut. When Satan was squeamish , etc ( 6 ) Lo here * Gog and Magog at once represent The Profane Carnaval , and Idolatrous Lent ; Both Teckelites true , as were ' Titus and Eustace ; The Guts of good Manners , and Garbage of Justice : But nothing more proper to vacuate Laws , Than the Mouth of Rebellion , and Rump of the Cause . When Satan was squeamish , etc * Fat St. Lean Jeff. ' Oats and Comins in the Plot . ( 7 ) C. Advance Ruffling Dick to supply the next place , Who on a bad Matter oft shams a worse Face : When the Algerine Caper has boarded his Frigate , He can fawn like a Floater , and cringe like a Bigot . Well the Good natur'd Wittal may wink at his Fate , Since he that Cornutes him has Bugger'd the State . When Satan was squeamish , etc ( 8 ) Wee'll refer young Tertullus t' a Bill of Review , Lest he shou'd Repeal what he never yet knew : His Worship wee'll leave to his new Breviaries , 'Till One Miserere's worth Ten Avemaries ; For a Janus-like Convert , who in Faith interlopes , Like a Cordelier-Fryar , must be sav'd by his Ropes . When Satan was squeamish , and long'd for a Dainty , The Pope Fricasseed him this new Four-and-twenty . 