C : RB . I.262 ( 005 ) CHRISTS KIR [ K ] ON THE GREEN . Composed ( as is supposed [ ) ] by King JAMES the fifth . WAs never in Scotland herd nor seen such dancing nor deray , Neither at Faulkland on the green , nor Peebles at the play , As was ( of wooers as I ween ) at Christs-Kirk on a day : For there came Kittie washen clean , in her new gown of grey so gay that day . To dance these Damosels them dight , these Lasses light of laits ; Their gloves were of the Raffall right , their shoes were of the straits : Their kirtles were of Lincoln light , well pressed with many plaits , They were so nice when men them neight , they squiel'd like any gaits , full loud that day . Of all these maidens mild as meed , was none so gimp as Gillie : As any rose her rude was read , her lyre was like the Lily ; But yellow , yellow was her head , and she of love so silly , Though all her kin had sworn her dead , she would have none but Willie , alone that day . She scorned Jock , and skripped at him and murgeon'd him with mocks , He would have lov'd her , she would not let him , for all his yellow locks ; He cherished her , she bade go chat him : she counted him not two clocks , So shamefully his short Jack set him , his legs were like two rocks , or rungs that day . Tom Luter was their Minstrel meet , good Lord , how he could lance , He play'd so shrill , and sang so sweet , while Tousie took a trance . Old Lightfoot there he could forleet , and counterfitted France . He held him like a man discreet , and up the Morris dance he took that day . Then Steven came stepping in with stends , no rink might him arrest , Splayfoot did bab with many bends , for Masie he made request . He lap while he lay on his lends , and rising so was preast While he did host at both the ends , for honour of the feast , and dance that day . Then Robin Roy began to revel , and Towsie to him drugged : Let be ( quoth Jock ) and call'd him J [ evil ] and by the tail him tugged . Then Kensie clicked to a kevell , God wots if they two lugged : They parted there upon a nevell , men say , that hair was rugged between them twa . With that a friend of his cry'd Fie , and forth and arrow drew , He forged it so forcefully , the bow in flinders flew . Such was the grace of God , trow I ; for had the tree been true , Men said , who knew his archery , that he had slave anew believe that day . A yape youngman , that stood him niest , soon bent his bow in ire , And etled the bairn in at the breast , the bolt flew ov'r the byre , And cry'd , Fie , he had slave a Priest , a mile beyond the mire : Both bow and bag from him he kiest , and fled as fast as fire from flint that day . And hasty kinsman , called Hary , that was and archer keen , Tied up a tackell withouten tarry , I trow the man was tien . I wot not whither his hand did vary or his foe was his friend , But he escaped by the might of Mary , as one that nothing mean'd but good that day . Then Lawrie like a Lion lap , and soon a slave can fedder : He height to pierce him at the pape , thereon to wed a wedder : He hit him on the womb a wap , it busst like any bladder , He soaped so , such was his hap , his doublet was of leather full fine that day . The buss so boisterously abaist him that he to th'earth dusht down , The other man for dead then left him , and fled out of the town . The wives came forth , and up they rest him , and found life in the lown , Then with three routs there they rais'd him , and cured him out of swoon from hand that day . The Miller was of manly make , to meet with him it was no mows , There durst not ten some there him take , so cowed he their powes ; The Bushment whole about him brake , and bickered him with bows , Then traitorously behind his back they hacked him on the howes behind that day . Then Hutchen , with and hazel rice , to read gan through them rummill , He muddled them down like any mice , he w [ a ] s no betty bummil : Though he was wight , he was not wise with such Jutors to jummil , For from his thumb there flew a flyce , while he cry'd barla fummil , I'm slave this day . When that he saw his blood was read , to fly might no man let him : He trow'd it had been for old feed , he thought , and bade have at him : He made his feet defend his head , the far fairer it set him : While he was passed out of their plead , they must be swift that god him through speed that day . Two that were heads-men of the heard they rushed on other like rams : The other four which were unfear'd beatrice on with barrow trams . And where their gobs were ungear'd , they god upon the gams , While that all blood burn was their beard as they had worried lambs most like that day . They girn'd and glowered all at anes , each Gossip other grieved , Some striked stings , some gathered stanes , some fled , and some relieved . Their Minstrel used quiet means , that day he wisely proved : For he came home with unbirs'd banes , where fighters were mischieved full ill that day . With forks and flails then let they flaps , and flew together with frigs : With bougers of barns they pierc't blue caps , while of their bairns they made brigs . The rear rose rudely with their raps , then rungs were laid on rigs : The wives came forth with cries and claps , see where my liking ligs full low this day . The black Sutar of Braith was bowden , his wife hung by his ways His body was in bleck all browden , he girned like a ghost , Her glittering hair that was so gowden her love fast for him laist , That for his sake he was unyouden , while he a mile was chaste and more that day . When they had bier'd like baited bulls , the bonfires burned like bails , They grew as meek as any Mules , that wearied are with mails : For these forsoughten tired fools fell down like slaughtered slails , Fresh men came in and hail'd their dools , and dang them down in dails bedeen that day . The wives then gave a hideous yell , when all these younkiers yoked , As fierce as flags of fire-Aaughts fell fricks to the field they flocked : Then Katles with clubs did other quell on breast while blood out bocked , So rudely rang the common Bell , that all the Steeple rocked for dread that day . By this Tom Tailyour was in his gear when he herd the common Bell , He said he should make them all on steer when he came their him fell : He went to fight with such a fear , while to the ground he fell , A wife that hit him on the ear , with a great knocking mell , felled him that day The Bridegroom brought a pint of ail and bade the Pyper drink i Drink it ( said he ) and it so stale , ashrew me if I think it , The Bride her Maidens stood near by , and said it was not blinked And Bartagasie the Bride so gay upon him fast she winked full soon that day . When all was done Dick with and ax came forth to fell a father , Quoth he , where are yond whoorson smaiks right now that hurt my brother ? His wife bade him , go home , Gib glaiks , and so did Meg his mother : He turn'd and gave them both their paiks , for he durst ding not other but them that day . FINIS . C : RB . I.262 ( 005 ) CHRISTS KIR [ K ] ON THE GREEN . Composed ( as is supposed [ ) ] by King JAMES the fifth . WAs never in Scotland herd nor seen such dancing nor deray , Neither at Faulkland on the green , nor Peebles at the play , As was ( of wooers as I ween ) at Christs-Kirk on a day : For there came Kittie washen clean , in her new gown of grey so gay that day . To dance these Damosels them dight , these Lasses light of laits ; Their gloves were of the Raffall right , their shoes were of the straits : Their kirtles were of Lincoln light , well pressed with many plaits , They were so nice when men them neight , they squiel'd like any gaits , full loud that day . Of all these maidens mild as meed , was none so gimp as Gillie : As any rose her rude was read , her lyre was like the Lily ; But yellow , yellow was her head , and she of love so silly , Though all her kin had sworn her dead , she would have none but Willie , alone that day . She scorned Jock , and skripped at him and murgeon'd him with mocks , He would have lov'd her , she would not let him , for all his yellow locks ; He cherished her , she bade go chat him : she counted him not two clocks , So shamefully his short Jack set him , his legs were like two rocks , or rungs that day . Tom Luter was their Minstrel meet , good Lord , how he could lance , He play'd so shrill , and sang so sweet , while Tousie took a trance . Old Lightfoot there he could forleet , and counterfitted France . He held him like a man discreet , and up the Morris dance he took that day . Then Steven came stepping in with stends , no rink might him arrest , Splayfoot did bab with many bends , for Masie he made request . He lap while he lay on his lends , and rising so was preast While he did host at both the ends , for honour of the feast , and dance that day . Then Robin Roy began to revel , and Towsie to him drugged : Let be ( quoth Jock ) and call'd him J [ evil ] and by the tail him tugged . Then Kensie clicked to a kevell , God wots if they two lugged : They parted there upon a nevell , men say , that hair was rugged between them twa . With that a friend of his cry'd Fie , and forth and arrow drew , He forged it so forcefully , the bow in flinders flew . Such was the grace of God , trow I ; for had the tree been true , Men said , who knew his archery , that he had slave anew believe that day . A yape youngman , that stood him niest , soon bent his bow in ire , And etled the bairn in at the breast , the bolt flew ov'r the byre , And cry'd , Fie , he had slave a Priest , a mile beyond the mire : Both bow and bag from him he kiest , and fled as fast as fire from flint that day . And hasty kinsman , called Hary , that was and archer keen , Tied up a tackell withouten tarry , I trow the man was tien . I wot not whither his hand did vary or his foe was his friend , But he escaped by the might of Mary , as one that nothing mean'd but good that day . Then Lawrie like a Lion lap , and soon a slave can fedder : He height to pierce him at the pape , thereon to wed a wedder : He hit him on the womb a wap , it busst like any bladder , He soaped so , such was his hap , his doublet was of leather full fine that day . The buss so boisterously abaist him that he to th'earth dusht down , The other man for dead then left him , and fled out of the town . The wives came forth , and up they rest him , and found life in the lown , Then with three routs there they rais'd him , and cured him out of swoon from hand that day . The Miller was of manly make , to meet with him it was no mows , There durst not ten some there him take , so cowed he their powes ; The Bushment whole about him brake , and bickered him with bows , Then traitorously behind his back they hacked him on the howes behind that day . Then Hutchen , with and hazel rice , to read gan through them rummill , He muddled them down like any mice , he w [ a ] s no betty bummil : Though he was wight , he was not wise with such Jutors to jummil , For from his thumb there flew a flyce , while he cry'd barla fummil , I'm slave this day . When that he saw his blood was read , to fly might no man let him : He trow'd it had been for old feed , he thought , and bade have at him : He made his feet defend his head , the far fairer it set him : While he was passed out of their plead , they must be swift that god him through speed that day . Two that were heads-men of the heard they rushed on other like rams : The other four which were unfear'd beatrice on with barrow trams . And where their gobs were ungear'd , they god upon the gams , While that all blood burn was their beard as they had worried lambs most like that day . They girn'd and glowered all at anes , each Gossip other grieved , Some striked stings , some gathered stanes , some fled , and some relieved . Their Minstrel used quiet means , that day he wisely proved : For he came home with unbirs'd banes , where fighters were mischieved full ill that day . With forks and flails then let they flaps , and flew together with frigs : With bougers of barns they pierc't blue caps , while of their bairns they made brigs . The rear rose rudely with their raps , then rungs were laid on rigs : The wives came forth with cries and claps , see where my liking ligs full low this day . The black Sutar of Braith was bowden , his wife hung by his ways His body was in bleck all browden , he girned like a ghost , Her glittering hair that was so gowden her love fast for him laist , That for his sake he was unyouden , while he a mile was chaste and more that day . When they had bier'd like baited bulls , the bonfires burned like bails , They grew as meek as any Mules , that wearied are with mails : For these forsoughten tired fools fell down like slaughtered slails , Fresh men came in and hail'd their dools , and dang them down in dails bedeen that day . The wives then gave a hideous yell , when all these younkiers yoked , As fierce as flags of fire-Aaughts fell fricks to the field they flocked : Then Katles with clubs did other quell on breast while blood out bocked , So rudely rang the common Bell , that all the Steeple rocked for dread that day . By this Tom Tailyour was in his gear when he herd the common Bell , He said he should make them all on steer when he came their him fell : He went to fight with such a fear , while to the ground he fell , A wife that hit him on the ear , with a great knocking mell , felled him that day The Bridegroom brought a pint of ail and bade the Pyper drink i Drink it ( said he ) and it so stale , ashrew me if I think it , The Bride her Maidens stood near by , and said it was not blinked And Bartagasie the Bride so gay upon him fast she winked full soon that day . When all was done Dick with and ax came forth to fell a father , Quoth he , where are yond whoorson smaiks right now that hurt my brother ? His wife bade him , go home , Gib glaiks , and so did Meg his mother : He turn'd and gave them both their paiks , for he durst ding not other but them that day . FINIS . 