The Wanton Vintner , AND The Subtle Damosel , Being and Account of a Young Blade who needs would be dabbling with his Maid Ser - vant , to which she seemed to agree , but went directly and informed her Mistress , who resolved to prove the truth of this matter her own self ; so away she went to the place appointed , being the Vault , but her Husband in the mean time sent a - neither to toy with his Maid , so by his own contrivance he Hornified his own pate , his wife in the dark supposing it to be her own Husband . To the Tune of , The Doubting Virgin . YOu that are with Jests Delighted , come give ear a while to me , You shall hear of one requited , according to his Lechery : A Vintner gallant , brisk and Valiant , had a fair and comely Maid , He did endeavour to deceive her , so on a time to her he said . Come my Damsel fair and pretty , thou art Beauteous in my eye , And thou art exceeding witty , I do long with thee to lie : But she deny'd , and him defi'd , and seemed loath to him to yield , But in the end , did Love pretend , by which he thought he'd wone the field . The Maid was honest , just , and Civil , and abhor'd his base intent , He was deluded by the Devil , but she unto her Mistress wen And told her all , was to befall , at which she seem'd to be inrag'd , But her passion , was a rash one , and could not quickly be asswag'd . The house of Office , the Maid told her , was the place where they should meet , The good wife then did grow more bolder , and resolved for to see' In discontent , she thither went , her husbands folly to find out , Where it is said , he with his maid , had bargained to have a bout . This maidens beauty was bewitching , but mark the bravest jest of all , Some were drinking in his Kitchen , and did for a Reckoning call : Away went he immediately , and like and inconsiderate Blade , Did there relate , and simply prate , how he had bargain'd with his maid . And to the Company declared , if any of them did desire , His maid to him she should be spared , which set one youngsters heart on fire : Away went he , most hastily , and there he found the Vintners Wife The maid he thought , for whom he sought , which bred much discontent and strife . But yet he verily believed , it was the maid and none but she , But this the Vintner sorely grieved , when he knew it certainly : Near to the fire , he did admire , his honest servant there to see , But little thought , that he had wrought , his future shame , and infamy . Where is your mistress quoth the master and began to be afraid , Half mistrusting the disaster , of which himself the ground had laid : But them he watched , and so he catched , them both together coming out , The gallant he undoubtedly , with his dear Wife had had a bout . But o ! how simply he did look then , when this sighed he chanc'd to see , The man he see was much mistook then , which did vex him heartily : Oh he did fret , but yet the net which he had for his Servant laid , His forehead Crown'd , at which he frown but was not this a subtle maid . Thus you may see , who digs a hold , thinking to cause another's fallen , In their own net sometime do get , let this be warning to you all : Your honest wives , love as your lives , and by them set a mighty store , It brings but Shame , unto your name , ever to meddle with a whore . FINIS . Printed for Josiah Blare , Book-Seller at Looking-Glass , in the New-Buildings on London-Bridge . The Wanton Vintner , AND The Subtle Damosel , Being and Account of a Young Blade who needs would be dabbling with his Maid Ser - vant , to which she seemed to agree , but went directly and informed her Mistress , who resolved to prove the truth of this matter her own self ; so away she went to the place appointed , being the Vault , but her Husband in the mean time sent a - neither to toy with his Maid , so by his own contrivance he Hornified his own pate , his wife in the dark supposing it to be her own Husband . To the Tune of , The Doubting Virgin . YOu that are with Jests Delighted , come give ear a while to me , You shall hear of one requited , according to his Lechery : A Vintner gallant , brisk and Valiant , had a fair and comely Maid , He did endeavour to deceive her , so on a time to her he said . Come my Damsel fair and pretty , thou art Beauteous in my eye , And thou art exceeding witty , I do long with thee to lie : But she deny'd , and him defi'd , and seemed loath to him to yield , But in the end , did Love pretend , by which he thought he'd wone the field . The Maid was honest , just , and Civil , and abhor'd his base intent , He was deluded by the Devil , but she unto her Mistress wen And told her all , was to befall , at which she seem'd to be inrag'd , But her passion , was a rash one , and could not quickly be asswag'd . The house of Office , the Maid told her , was the place where they should meet , The good wife then did grow more bolder , and resolved for to see' In discontent , she thither went , her husbands folly to find out , Where it is said , he with his maid , had bargained to have a bout . This maidens beauty was bewitching , but mark the bravest jest of all , Some were drinking in his Kitchen , and did for a Reckoning call : Away went he immediately , and like and inconsiderate Blade , Did there relate , and simply prate , how he had bargain'd with his maid . And to the Company declared , if any of them did desire , His maid to him she should be spared , which set one youngsters heart on fire : Away went he , most hastily , and there he found the Vintners Wife The maid he thought , for whom he sought , which bred much discontent and strife . But yet he verily believed , it was the maid and none but she , But this the Vintner sorely grieved , when he knew it certainly : Near to the fire , he did admire , his honest servant there to see , But little thought , that he had wrought , his future shame , and infamy . Where is your mistress quoth the master and began to be afraid , Half mistrusting the disaster , of which himself the ground had laid : But them he watched , and so he catched , them both together coming out , The gallant he undoubtedly , with his dear Wife had had a bout . But o ! how simply he did look then , when this sighed he chanc'd to see , The man he see was much mistook then , which did vex him heartily : Oh he did fret , but yet the net which he had for his Servant laid , His forehead Crown'd , at which he frown but was not this a subtle maid . Thus you may see , who digs a hold , thinking to cause another's fallen , In their own net sometime do get , let this be warning to you all : Your honest wives , love as your lives , and by them set a mighty store , It brings but Shame , unto your name , ever to meddle with a whore . FINIS . Printed for Josiah Blare , Book-Seller at Looking-Glass , in the New-Buildings on London-Bridge . 