The LADY's Garland . A Virtuous young lady ingenious and fair , A nobleman's daughter , whose name I forbear To mention , but now I will speak in brief , The sum of her trouble , her sorrow and grief . And how she was suddenly struck with a dart , Which pass'd thro' her breast , to her innocent heart , So that it oblig'd her to make grievous moan , When set in her chamber or closet alone . The man whom she fancied , nothing did know , How this youthful lady admir'd him so ; And so her grief was the stronger we find , Because she could not discover her mind . For being one night at a dancing or ball , She saw this young gentleman proper and tall ; Whose gallant deportment so pleased her eye , As she thought none did his person out vie . The more she endeavour [ ' ] worser her love to withdraw , The more she was wounded , perfection she saw In him , as he danc [ ' ] worser with the ladies that night , Her soul to his breast took a passionate flight Now when they had ended this comical mirth , She privately asked concerning his birth . It was told her and Oxfordshire gentleman's son , Who many a brave noble actium had done . This added a second new flame to her love , She earnestly begg'd of the powers above , To find out a way it might be reveal'd , For said she , I die , if 'tis longer conceal'd . By excellent fortune she had her request , For this noble gallant above all the rest , Did wait on her home , where to tell in brief , From sighs he discover'd the cause of her grief . He found by her sighs and languishing eyes , That he was the man she did valve and prize : Wherefore he did promise to come the next day , That he to her beauty a visit might pay . According to promise next morning he came , For true love had kindled and amorous flame Of earnest desire ; he courted her still , And soon he obtained the lady's goodwill . Now his whole study was how to convey This amorous charming young lady away ; To finish the joys which so sudden begun , Who gains a fair lady , great hazards must run . PART II They walk'd in the garden under the trees , She shew'd him how he might come with ease . Said she I can meet you when all are at rest , And with thee I'll go , as I hope to be blessed . No one but my waiting-maid of it shall know , I love her , and therefore she with me shall go . With many soft kisses these lovers agreed , In this great adventure that night to proceed . The long wish'd for hour at last did arrive , The m [ a ] id and the lady both did contrive To p [ a ] ck up her garments so rich and so gay ; And so with her lover she posted away . They up to the city of London did ride , Where all things convenient he soon did provide , For wedding this lady of fame and renown Which done , they tarried three weeks in the town . To solace themselves in raptures of bliss . The mean time her honoured parents did miss Her , and sent man and horse both far and near . But they of their daughter no tidings did hear . Her parents , friends and relations likewise Believ'd she was taken by sudden surprise , To wed her , and bed her at some idle rate , Thereby to inherit her father's estate . Some said , this must be with her consent ; Because that with her the waiting-maid went . With that , said her father , in passion and wrath , If with her consent , I will punish them both . The family was in distraction we find , Her father and mother disturbed in mind ; Her father and mother did bitterly mourn , And wish'd for this beautiful lady's return . PART III . When here in this city sometime thsy had stay'd , The lady unto her husband thus said , We'll try if my father will be reconcil'd , Perhaps they may pardon their innocent child . He gave his consent , and posted away , And came to her father and mother , when they Were fitting together with friends in the hall . For pardon then both on their knees they did call . The father did storm with and angry brow , I'll grant you no pardon , but here I do vow , I'll send him to prison , and you will confine , I'll teach him to marry a daughter of mine . Dear honoured father , the lady reply'd , My husband you have but small reason to chide , What faults are committed , impute them to me , And let my dear innocent husband go free . Are you , forsooth , madam , so able to bear The weight of my anger ? well , well , I declare You shall have one share , and he have the rest . No manner of pity I'll show I protest . Her lily-white hands she with sorrow did wring , Still crying , you powers , why did you bring My innocent husband to ruin and shame . When none in the world , but me was to blame . It is but a folly your fate to bewail , This minute I'll send him strong guarded to goal ; And you to your chamber , where both shall remain , And never shall see one another again . Why are you resolved to part man and wife ? Alas ! I as freely can part with my life ; As to part with my jewel , my love let me have , Altho' in a prison , a dungeon , or cave . She could not oblige them the least to relent , For strait to a prison her dear love was sent . And she to her chamber was hurry'd likewise , To put forth her sorrow with watery eyes . Her parents appointed a servant to wait Upon her , with diet both early and late . One that wat ill natur'd , no other was she , Poor creature , admitted or suffer'd to see . To think of her jewel no rest could she take , But still in her chamber she wep [ tO ] for his sake , For to think on his , and her sorrowful doom , At length and infant did spring in her womb . With melting expressions of her great grief , She [ w ] ent to her father for speedy relief , Declaring tha [ tO ] she was wi [ tO ] h child by her dear , But still he continued sharp and severe A length when the time of her travel drew nigh , Her parents afforded a slender supply , Of nourishment just in the time of distress But there was no freedom for her ne'ertheless . Then being delivered of a young son . Her parents sent for it . Their will must be done . She kiss'd it at parting a thousand times o'er , And said with a sighs , I shall see thee no more . PART IV. They sent for a nurse , who the child did receive , And made the charming creature believe , By tokens and signs it was murther'd indeed , To show they would have no more of the breed . They brought back the mantle spotted with blood , And put before her , her eyes with a flood Of tears like a fountain , did run down amain , She said , my innocent infant is slave . The father in prison , the infant destroy'd , The mother in sorrow , who never enjoy'd One minute of comfort , since I return'd home , Oh! why are my parents so highly concern'd ? What can be the reason they hold him in scorn ? He's handsome , discreet , and a gentleman born ; Strait , comely , and proper in every limb , My heart in my body , lies bleeding for him . He nothing enjoys for my sake , but his chains : For still in a prison of grief he remains ; Because he did wed with a noble degree . I weep when I think what he suffers for me . While she in her chamber did weep and lament , Her father one morning a messenger sent , To bring her before him , without more delay , Clothed in apparel most costly and gay . Now when to her honoured father she came , S [ a ] id he , I have found out a person of fame , With whom you shall wed ; he'll make you his bride , Oh! do not afflict me , dear father , she cry'd . I'm marry'd already , the more is my grief ; Debarr'd of all pleasure , deny'd of relief ; Imprison'd and slighted with scorn and disdain ; No lady had ever such cause to complain . You said , I dishonoured your family ; By wedding a man that was meaner than me . But it would be worse , if I should contrive To marry another while he is alive . But was you to bring me the greatest on earth , The son of a powerful monarch by birth . I'd mind him no more than any mean slave ; The dearest of husbands in prison I have Dear daughter , this day we'll admit you to dine , With all our relations . A banquet of wine I now have provided to pleasure my friends . That's but a small kindness to make me amends , For all the sorrow that I have gone through ; Alas ! my poor innocent infant they slew ; My husband's imprison'd , my grief's manifold : How can I be merry , when he is in hold ? These words of his daughter made him to relent , Therefore for her husband he presently sen And clothed him then in sumptuous array , And every fault was forgiven that day . Her parents and friends were all The LADY's Garland . A Virtuous young lady ingenious and fair , A nobleman's daughter , whose name I forbear To mention , but now I will speak in brief , The sum of her trouble , her sorrow and grief . And how she was suddenly struck with a dart , Which pass'd thro' her breast , to her innocent heart , So that it oblig'd her to make grievous moan , When set in her chamber or closet alone . The man whom she fancied , nothing did know , How this youthful lady admir'd him so ; And so her grief was the stronger we find , Because she could not discover her mind . For being one night at a dancing or ball , She saw this young gentleman proper and tall ; Whose gallant deportment so pleased her eye , As she thought none did his person out vie . The more she endeavour [ ' ] worser her love to withdraw , The more she was wounded , perfection she saw In him , as he danc [ ' ] worser with the ladies that night , Her soul to his breast took a passionate flight Now when they had ended this comical mirth , She privately asked concerning his birth . It was told her and Oxfordshire gentleman's son , Who many a brave noble actium had done . This added a second new flame to her love , She earnestly begg'd of the powers above , To find out a way it might be reveal'd , For said she , I die , if 'tis longer conceal'd . By excellent fortune she had her request , For this noble gallant above all the rest , Did wait on her home , where to tell in brief , From sighs he discover'd the cause of her grief . He found by her sighs and languishing eyes , That he was the man she did valve and prize : Wherefore he did promise to come the next day , That he to her beauty a visit might pay . According to promise next morning he came , For true love had kindled and amorous flame Of earnest desire ; he courted her still , And soon he obtained the lady's goodwill . Now his whole study was how to convey This amorous charming young lady away ; To finish the joys which so sudden begun , Who gains a fair lady , great hazards must run . PART II They walk'd in the garden under the trees , She shew'd him how he might come with ease . Said she I can meet you when all are at rest , And with thee I'll go , as I hope to be blessed . No one but my waiting-maid of it shall know , I love her , and therefore she with me shall go . With many soft kisses these lovers agreed , In this great adventure that night to proceed . The long wish'd for hour at last did arrive , The m [ a ] id and the lady both did contrive To p [ a ] ck up her garments so rich and so gay ; And so with her lover she posted away . They up to the city of London did ride , Where all things convenient he soon did provide , For wedding this lady of fame and renown Which done , they tarried three weeks in the town . To solace themselves in raptures of bliss . The mean time her honoured parents did miss Her , and sent man and horse both far and near . But they of their daughter no tidings did hear . Her parents , friends and relations likewise Believ'd she was taken by sudden surprise , To wed her , and bed her at some idle rate , Thereby to inherit her father's estate . Some said , this must be with her consent ; Because that with her the waiting-maid went . With that , said her father , in passion and wrath , If with her consent , I will punish them both . The family was in distraction we find , Her father and mother disturbed in mind ; Her father and mother did bitterly mourn , And wish'd for this beautiful lady's return . PART III . When here in this city sometime thsy had stay'd , The lady unto her husband thus said , We'll try if my father will be reconcil'd , Perhaps they may pardon their innocent child . He gave his consent , and posted away , And came to her father and mother , when they Were fitting together with friends in the hall . For pardon then both on their knees they did call . The father did storm with and angry brow , I'll grant you no pardon , but here I do vow , I'll send him to prison , and you will confine , I'll teach him to marry a daughter of mine . Dear honoured father , the lady reply'd , My husband you have but small reason to chide , What faults are committed , impute them to me , And let my dear innocent husband go free . Are you , forsooth , madam , so able to bear The weight of my anger ? well , well , I declare You shall have one share , and he have the rest . No manner of pity I'll show I protest . Her lily-white hands she with sorrow did wring , Still crying , you powers , why did you bring My innocent husband to ruin and shame . When none in the world , but me was to blame . It is but a folly your fate to bewail , This minute I'll send him strong guarded to goal ; And you to your chamber , where both shall remain , And never shall see one another again . Why are you resolved to part man and wife ? Alas ! I as freely can part with my life ; As to part with my jewel , my love let me have , Altho' in a prison , a dungeon , or cave . She could not oblige them the least to relent , For strait to a prison her dear love was sent . And she to her chamber was hurry'd likewise , To put forth her sorrow with watery eyes . Her parents appointed a servant to wait Upon her , with diet both early and late . One that wat ill natur'd , no other was she , Poor creature , admitted or suffer'd to see . To think of her jewel no rest could she take , But still in her chamber she wep [ tO ] for his sake , For to think on his , and her sorrowful doom , At length and infant did spring in her womb . With melting expressions of her great grief , She [ w ] ent to her father for speedy relief , Declaring tha [ tO ] she was wi [ tO ] h child by her dear , But still he continued sharp and severe A length when the time of her travel drew nigh , Her parents afforded a slender supply , Of nourishment just in the time of distress But there was no freedom for her ne'ertheless . Then being delivered of a young son . Her parents sent for it . Their will must be done . She kiss'd it at parting a thousand times o'er , And said with a sighs , I shall see thee no more . PART IV. They sent for a nurse , who the child did receive , And made the charming creature believe , By tokens and signs it was murther'd indeed , To show they would have no more of the breed . They brought back the mantle spotted with blood , And put before her , her eyes with a flood Of tears like a fountain , did run down amain , She said , my innocent infant is slave . The father in prison , the infant destroy'd , The mother in sorrow , who never enjoy'd One minute of comfort , since I return'd home , Oh! why are my parents so highly concern'd ? What can be the reason they hold him in scorn ? He's handsome , discreet , and a gentleman born ; Strait , comely , and proper in every limb , My heart in my body , lies bleeding for him . He nothing enjoys for my sake , but his chains : For still in a prison of grief he remains ; Because he did wed with a noble degree . I weep when I think what he suffers for me . While she in her chamber did weep and lament , Her father one morning a messenger sent , To bring her before him , without more delay , Clothed in apparel most costly and gay . Now when to her honoured father she came , S [ a ] id he , I have found out a person of fame , With whom you shall wed ; he'll make you his bride , Oh! do not afflict me , dear father , she cry'd . I'm marry'd already , the more is my grief ; Debarr'd of all pleasure , deny'd of relief ; Imprison'd and slighted with scorn and disdain ; No lady had ever such cause to complain . You said , I dishonoured your family ; By wedding a man that was meaner than me . But it would be worse , if I should contrive To marry another while he is alive . But was you to bring me the greatest on earth , The son of a powerful monarch by birth . I'd mind him no more than any mean slave ; The dearest of husbands in prison I have Dear daughter , this day we'll admit you to dine , With all our relations . A banquet of wine I now have provided to pleasure my friends . That's but a small kindness to make me amends , For all the sorrow that I have gone through ; Alas ! my poor innocent infant they slew ; My husband's imprison'd , my grief's manifold : How can I be merry , when he is in hold ? These words of his daughter made him to relent , Therefore for her husband he presently sen And clothed him then in sumptuous array , And every fault was forgiven that day . Her parents and friends were all reconcil'd . The nurse too was there , and deliver'd the child Unto the young lady , whose comforts were more , Than had been for the space of twelvemonths before . Her husband appear'd with so noble a grace , That every lady that was in the place Did take much delight to speak in his praise , And wish'd them to live to see prosperous days . A Squire spoke up with and audible voice , And said to her father , Ne'er grieve at the choice . For he is descended , as we understand , By kiss mother's side , from a peer of the land . Nay , much more he said to his honour and fame , Her friends were well pleased , thro' joy they proclaim To set forth their glory , which still does abound Throughout all the neighbouring villages round . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow-Church-Yard , London . l reconcil'd . The nurse too was there , and deliver'd the child Unto the young lady , whose comforts were more , Than had been for the space of twelvemonths before . Her husband appear'd with so noble a grace , That every lady that was in the place Did take much delight to speak in his praise , And wish'd them to live to see prosperous days . A Squire spoke up with and audible voice , And said to her father , Ne'er grieve at the choice . For he is descended , as we understand , By kiss mother's side , from a peer of the land . Nay , much more he said to his honour and fame , Her friends were well pleased , thro' joy they proclaim To set forth their glory , which still does abound Throughout all the neighbouring villages round . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow-Church-Yard , London . 