A New SONG , called The Lover's Tragedy ; OR , PARENTS Cruelty . To the Tune of , Charon make haste and Carry me Over . A Virgin fam'd for her Virtue and Beauty , Who by her Parents was greatly lov'd , To whom she paid all obedience and duty , never observing to be reprov'd : A lovely Youth of Reputation having her features view'd , Was struck with so much love and admiration , nothing his thoughts of her could exclude . He to her oft did his Passion discover , but her consent he could not obtain : She answer'd , she'd not admit of a Lover , lest he her Parents good will could gain : He to prevail , us'd all endeavours for to obtain her Friend's consent , But by no means could procure their favour , which fill'd his heart full of discontent . He had made many a fair proprosition , But what he offer'd they still deny'd : At last he in a despairing condition , thus on his Bed to himself he cry'd : Pity my wrongs you Am'rous Powers , hear a distressed Lover complain , Who upon Earth has but very few hours , thus to endure a Nymphs disdain . Punish her Parents ( you Gods ) for refusing a heart so loving , so just and true , which they deserve for severely misusing , to be tormented as bad by you ; But may the Nymph , so fair and cruel , every Worldly Bliss enjoy , Sure if the languish I lie in she knew well , she with a smile would my care destroy . At last he grew to so weak a condition , that there was nothing could yield relief , Saving the Virgin who was his Physician , on whom he call'd to redress his Grief . Farewell , O cruel Nymph , he cry'd , I now to Elizium must repair ! Then gave a sighs or two , and so he dy'd , and thus he was cured of all his care . To the fair Virgin this News was soon carried , which Message struck her with great surprise ; She vowing to see him e'er he was Buried , whom she had slave with her killing Eyes . To's House she fled with expedition , as if by Cupids Wings convey'd , Asking at door in a sobbing Condition , which was the Room where his Corpse was lay'd . She to the Chamber was quickly conducted , where in a Shroud on his Bed he lay , Which sighed so on her unkindness reflected that made her found in the Room away : Many there came to her assistance , and to her sev'ral things apply'd , But Death against them all made such resistance , that by the Corpse of her Love she dy'd . When this sad News came to her Parents , both in a heavy distraction were , Running like mad People , crying and staring , for the sad loss of their Daughter fair : Tho' they prevented their being Marry'd while they were living by their care , Yet in one Grave they together were Wedded , this was the end of this lovely Pair . FINIS . This may be Printed , R.P. Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . A New SONG , called The Lover's Tragedy ; OR , PARENTS Cruelty . To the Tune of , Charon make haste and Carry me Over . A Virgin fam'd for her Virtue and Beauty , Who by her Parents was greatly lov'd , To whom she paid all obedience and duty , never observing to be reprov'd : A lovely Youth of Reputation having her features view'd , Was struck with so much love and admiration , nothing his thoughts of her could exclude . He to her oft did his Passion discover , but her consent he could not obtain : She answer'd , she'd not admit of a Lover , lest he her Parents good will could gain : He to prevail , us'd all endeavours for to obtain her Friend's consent , But by no means could procure their favour , which fill'd his heart full of discontent . He had made many a fair proprosition , But what he offer'd they still deny'd : At last he in a despairing condition , thus on his Bed to himself he cry'd : Pity my wrongs you Am'rous Powers , hear a distressed Lover complain , Who upon Earth has but very few hours , thus to endure a Nymphs disdain . Punish her Parents ( you Gods ) for refusing a heart so loving , so just and true , which they deserve for severely misusing , to be tormented as bad by you ; But may the Nymph , so fair and cruel , every Worldly Bliss enjoy , Sure if the languish I lie in she knew well , she with a smile would my care destroy . At last he grew to so weak a condition , that there was nothing could yield relief , Saving the Virgin who was his Physician , on whom he call'd to redress his Grief . Farewell , O cruel Nymph , he cry'd , I now to Elizium must repair ! Then gave a sighs or two , and so he dy'd , and thus he was cured of all his care . To the fair Virgin this News was soon carried , which Message struck her with great surprise ; She vowing to see him e'er he was Buried , whom she had slave with her killing Eyes . To's House she fled with expedition , as if by Cupids Wings convey'd , Asking at door in a sobbing Condition , which was the Room where his Corpse was lay'd . She to the Chamber was quickly conducted , where in a Shroud on his Bed he lay , Which sighed so on her unkindness reflected that made her found in the Room away : Many there came to her assistance , and to her sev'ral things apply'd , But Death against them all made such resistance , that by the Corpse of her Love she dy'd . When this sad News came to her Parents , both in a heavy distraction were , Running like mad People , crying and staring , for the sad loss of their Daughter fair : Tho' they prevented their being Marry'd while they were living by their care , Yet in one Grave they together were Wedded , this was the end of this lovely Pair . FINIS . This may be Printed , R.P. Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . 