AND ANSWER TO THE MANTUAN , OR , False Character , lately wrote against WOMANKIND Muliere bona omnia comprehenduntur . A Virtuous Woman , Oh you Gods ! who dare Presume to speak or write her Character ? Or what Pot-Poet dare attempt to vex By cursed Libels this so glorious Sex ? A Sex that was by Heav'ns Decrees design'd To be ( and is ) the best of Human kind . For Woman has a virtue that's sublime , Above the Battery of Fate or Time . And in this Sex there certain Rays are found , Which not one Grace can make , but all compound . In wit , modesty , and virtuous deeds , This most Divine Celestial Sex exceeds . A beauty also , not to Art in Debt , Rather agreeable , Divine , than great . And Eye likewise , wherein at once do meet The beams of truest kindness , and of wit . The fairest Tulips , and the Rose o'th Bush , To draw the Tincture from her Lip and Blush . And undissembled modest Innocence , Apt not to give , nor yet to take offence . A Face that's modest , charming , and serene , A sober , virtuous , and yet lively meen . As many Diamonds together lie , And dart one lustre to amaze the Eye ; So Woman is that bright Etherial Ray , Which many Stars does in one Light display : For in her Face she captives modesty , Which is completed in Divinity . Her very glances set all Hearts on Fire , And check them if they should too much aspire . If she but smile , no Painter e're would take Another object , when he'd Mercy make . And Heav'n such splendour hath to her allow'd , That no damn'd Mantuan can her Beauty cloud . That if she frown , none would but fancy then Justice descended there to punish Men . Nay , her common looks , I'm asham'd to call One single Grace , they are compos'd of all : And if we Mortals could the Doctrine reach , Her very Eyes and looks do Language teach . Her Soul's the Image of the Deity , That still preserves in Native purity : Which Men can neither threat'n nor allure , Nor by their dev'lish Characters obscure . The Innocence that in her Heart does dwell , Angels themselves can only parallel . Such constancy of modest witty Law Guides all her Actions , that all Men may draw From her own Soul the noblest precedent , Of the most safe , wise , virtuous Government . Oh! I must think the rest , for who can write , Or into words confine what's infinite ? For striving to describe quite to the end Of her , that all the World does comprehend , Is a most wild Ambition ; so for me To draw her Picture , is flat Lunacy . But yet by what's here writ , the World may see I am the first drew Truth to Poetry . FINIS . LONDON , Printed in the Year 1679. AND ANSWER TO THE MANTUAN , OR , False Character , lately wrote against WOMANKIND Muliere bona omnia comprehenduntur . A Virtuous Woman , Oh you Gods ! who dare Presume to speak or write her Character ? Or what Pot-Poet dare attempt to vex By cursed Libels this so glorious Sex ? A Sex that was by Heav'ns Decrees design'd To be ( and is ) the best of Human kind . For Woman has a virtue that's sublime , Above the Battery of Fate or Time . And in this Sex there certain Rays are found , Which not one Grace can make , but all compound . In wit , modesty , and virtuous deeds , This most Divine Celestial Sex exceeds . A beauty also , not to Art in Debt , Rather agreeable , Divine , than great . And Eye likewise , wherein at once do meet The beams of truest kindness , and of wit . The fairest Tulips , and the Rose o'th Bush , To draw the Tincture from her Lip and Blush . And undissembled modest Innocence , Apt not to give , nor yet to take offence . A Face that's modest , charming , and serene , A sober , virtuous , and yet lively meen . As many Diamonds together lie , And dart one lustre to amaze the Eye ; So Woman is that bright Etherial Ray , Which many Stars does in one Light display : For in her Face she captives modesty , Which is completed in Divinity . Her very glances set all Hearts on Fire , And check them if they should too much aspire . If she but smile , no Painter e're would take Another object , when he'd Mercy make . And Heav'n such splendour hath to her allow'd , That no damn'd Mantuan can her Beauty cloud . That if she frown , none would but fancy then Justice descended there to punish Men . Nay , her common looks , I'm asham'd to call One single Grace , they are compos'd of all : And if we Mortals could the Doctrine reach , Her very Eyes and looks do Language teach . Her Soul's the Image of the Deity , That still preserves in Native purity : Which Men can neither threat'n nor allure , Nor by their dev'lish Characters obscure . The Innocence that in her Heart does dwell , Angels themselves can only parallel . Such constancy of modest witty Law Guides all her Actions , that all Men may draw From her own Soul the noblest precedent , Of the most safe , wise , virtuous Government . Oh! I must think the rest , for who can write , Or into words confine what's infinite ? For striving to describe quite to the end Of her , that all the World does comprehend , Is a most wild Ambition ; so for me To draw her Picture , is flat Lunacy . But yet by what's here writ , the World may see I am the first drew Truth to Poetry . FINIS . LONDON , Printed in the Year 1679. 