The Boon Companion : OR , The Merry Loyal Boys of SUFFOLK's JOVITL HEALTH . To the Tune of , Found Boy . Licensed according to Order . WE are the bold Suffolk boon reveling Boys , Who fill both the Taverns and Alehouse with noise ; For the Liquour of life we do dearly adore , When the Bottles are empty then we'll thunder for more For to make our hearts cheerful we'll merrily sing , With a rousing full bumper to Cesar our King . We'll rise with the morning , keep pace with the sun , We'll begin with a gallon and end with a tun , For there's nothing like drinking to cheer up the soul , Then about with a bumper , a cherishing bowl ; All the cares of the World are but madness you know , We will drown them in Rivers where Nector does flow . [ B ] e nimble brave Tapster , and bring us more beer , Let no honest good fellows fit lazily here , Here's a bumper to him that is true to his friend , And there's more money god than we ever shall spend Therefore bring us a paper of excellent Fogo , That we here may perfume the whole house with a hogo [ I ] n matters of State we will ne'er be concern'd , We're a pack of boon fellows who only have learn'd Here the true way of drinking , and that is our pride , [ TO ] herefore let it come in like a full flowing tide , [ And ] worser let them go to War that takes pleasure therein , [ We ] do think it more safe to sleep in a whole skin . Tho' the French they were landed , as some have recounted , And tho' they had a hundred large Cannons all mounted , Likewise Lewis of France for to head these fine Fellows , [ Y ] et the devil a foot would we stir from the Alehouse , [ B ] ut we'd eace man be arm'd with a pipe and a pot , Thus we'd smother and drown the Monsieur on the spot . If Monsieur should venture to come on this shore , From the Alehouse & Tavern our bombs they should roar While our smoke from the windows like vapours shall fly Or a thick misty cloud shall darken the sky ; Thus we'd stand to our drink like each man to his gun , And it is not the French that should make us to run . Thus we are good subject's and friends to the Crown , In letting good bumpers go merrily down ; And a new sort of Custom we constantly raise , For the smoking his Nose e'ery good fellow pays , Thus our smoking does cause the King's custom to rise , And the fuddling advances the Royal Excise , We needs must acknowledge we take no delight For to go to the Wars there to quarrel and fight , We had rather in love stay at home with our Wives , And let them go that never did valve their lives , Yet we'll drink a full bumper now merrily round , A good Health to the King with our knees to the ground . Here's a Health to true hearts that are honest and just , Who was never unfaithful nor false to their trust , Such as those we admire above any other , I hope you will pledge this good health honest brother , it is better for us to fit honestly sotting , Than to live to be hang'd for Cabelling and Plotting . London , Printed for C. Barnet , 1696. The Boon Companion : OR , The Merry Loyal Boys of SUFFOLK's JOVITL HEALTH . To the Tune of , Found Boy . Licensed according to Order . WE are the bold Suffolk boon reveling Boys , Who fill both the Taverns and Alehouse with noise ; For the Liquour of life we do dearly adore , When the Bottles are empty then we'll thunder for more For to make our hearts cheerful we'll merrily sing , With a rousing full bumper to Cesar our King . We'll rise with the morning , keep pace with the sun , We'll begin with a gallon and end with a tun , For there's nothing like drinking to cheer up the soul , Then about with a bumper , a cherishing bowl ; All the cares of the World are but madness you know , We will drown them in Rivers where Nector does flow . [ B ] e nimble brave Tapster , and bring us more beer , Let no honest good fellows fit lazily here , Here's a bumper to him that is true to his friend , And there's more money god than we ever shall spend Therefore bring us a paper of excellent Fogo , That we here may perfume the whole house with a hogo [ I ] n matters of State we will ne'er be concern'd , We're a pack of boon fellows who only have learn'd Here the true way of drinking , and that is our pride , [ TO ] herefore let it come in like a full flowing tide , [ And ] worser let them go to War that takes pleasure therein , [ We ] do think it more safe to sleep in a whole skin . Tho' the French they were landed , as some have recounted , And tho' they had a hundred large Cannons all mounted , Likewise Lewis of France for to head these fine Fellows , [ Y ] et the devil a foot would we stir from the Alehouse , [ B ] ut we'd eace man be arm'd with a pipe and a pot , Thus we'd smother and drown the Monsieur on the spot . If Monsieur should venture to come on this shore , From the Alehouse & Tavern our bombs they should roar While our smoke from the windows like vapours shall fly Or a thick misty cloud shall darken the sky ; Thus we'd stand to our drink like each man to his gun , And it is not the French that should make us to run . Thus we are good subject's and friends to the Crown , In letting good bumpers go merrily down ; And a new sort of Custom we constantly raise , For the smoking his Nose e'ery good fellow pays , Thus our smoking does cause the King's custom to rise , And the fuddling advances the Royal Excise , We needs must acknowledge we take no delight For to go to the Wars there to quarrel and fight , We had rather in love stay at home with our Wives , And let them go that never did valve their lives , Yet we'll drink a full bumper now merrily round , A good Health to the King with our knees to the ground . Here's a Health to true hearts that are honest and just , Who was never unfaithful nor false to their trust , Such as those we admire above any other , I hope you will pledge this good health honest brother , it is better for us to fit honestly sotting , Than to live to be hang'd for Cabelling and Plotting . London , Printed for C. Barnet , 1696. 