The Wanton Virgins Frighten'd with the spy's Downfall from the Tree Top to the Pond Bottom ; OR THE Old Man strangely Surprised and Bugbear'd by the Black Bandeliers and Buff Coats . YOU that delight in a jocular song , Come listen unto me a while sir , I will engage you shall not tarry long , Before it will make you to smile sir . Near to the town there liv'd and old man , Had three pretty maids to his daughters , Of whom I shall tell such a story anon , Will tickle your fancy with laughter . The old man he had in his garden a pond , 'Twas in fine summer weather . The daughters one night , they were all found To go and bathe in it together . Which they all agreed , but happan'd to be , Espy'd by a youth in the house , sir , Who god in the garden , & climb'd up a tree And there lay as still as a mouse , sir . The branch where he sat it hung over the pond . And each puff of wind made it totter ; Pleas'd with the thoughts he fit so abscond , And see them go into the water . When the old man was safe in his bed , The daughters then to the pond went , sir , One to the other two laughing she said , As high as our breasts we'll venture . Upon the tender green grass they sat down , And they all were of delicate feature ? Each pull'd off her petticoats , smock , and gown , No sighed could ever be sweeter . Into the pond then they dabbling went , So clean that they needed no washing , But they were all so unluckily bent , Like boys they began to be dashing . If any should chance to see us says one , They'd think we were guilty of evils , And from the sighed of us would quickly run , To avoid so many white devils . This put the youth into such a merry pin , He let go his hold thro' laughter , And as it fell out , he fell tumbling in , And Scar'd them all out of the water . The old man by this time a noise had herd , And rose out of bed in a fright , sir , And came to the door with a rusty old sword There stood in a posture to fight , sir . The daughters they all came tumbling in , And over their dad they did blunder ? Who cry'd out aloud , mercy good gentlemen And thought they were thieves come to plunder . The noise by this time the neighbourhood hears , Who came with long clubs to assist him : He said , three sturdy rogues ran up stairs , He dar'd by no means to resist' em , For they were clothed all in buff , He see as they shov'd in their shoulders , And black bandeliers hung before like a ruff Which made him think they were soldiers . The virgins their clothes in the garden had left , And keys of their trunks in their pocket , To put on the sheet they were fain to make shift , Their chest they could not unlock it . At last ventur'd up these valiant men , Tho' arm'd with courage undaunted , But took them for spirits and run back again , And swore that the house it was haunted . As they retreated the young men they met , Come shivering in at the door , sir , Who look'd like a rat his clothes dripping wet , No rogue that was pump'd could look worse . All were amazed to see him come in , And ask'd of him what was the matter ? He told them the story where he had been , Which made them burst into a laughter . Quoth the old dad , I was in a huff , And recken'd to cut them asunder , Thinking they had been three soldiers in buff And came there to rifle and plunder . But they are my daughters whom I do adore , All frighted from private diversion . Therefore I'll put up my rusty old sword , For why should I be in a passion . Printed and sold by J Pits No. 14 , Great St Andrew Street , Seven Dials . LONDON . Where may be had the grertest Assortment of Collections , Patters , etc etc Price . One Prnny . The Wanton Virgins Frighten'd with the spy's Downfall from the Tree Top to the Pond Bottom ; OR THE Old Man strangely Surprised and Bugbear'd by the Black Bandeliers and Buff Coats . YOU that delight in a jocular song , Come listen unto me a while sir , I will engage you shall not tarry long , Before it will make you to smile sir . Near to the town there liv'd and old man , Had three pretty maids to his daughters , Of whom I shall tell such a story anon , Will tickle your fancy with laughter . The old man he had in his garden a pond , 'Twas in fine summer weather . The daughters one night , they were all found To go and bathe in it together . Which they all agreed , but happan'd to be , Espy'd by a youth in the house , sir , Who god in the garden , & climb'd up a tree And there lay as still as a mouse , sir . The branch where he sat it hung over the pond . And each puff of wind made it totter ; Pleas'd with the thoughts he fit so abscond , And see them go into the water . When the old man was safe in his bed , The daughters then to the pond went , sir , One to the other two laughing she said , As high as our breasts we'll venture . Upon the tender green grass they sat down , And they all were of delicate feature ? Each pull'd off her petticoats , smock , and gown , No sighed could ever be sweeter . Into the pond then they dabbling went , So clean that they needed no washing , But they were all so unluckily bent , Like boys they began to be dashing . If any should chance to see us says one , They'd think we were guilty of evils , And from the sighed of us would quickly run , To avoid so many white devils . This put the youth into such a merry pin , He let go his hold thro' laughter , And as it fell out , he fell tumbling in , And Scar'd them all out of the water . The old man by this time a noise had herd , And rose out of bed in a fright , sir , And came to the door with a rusty old sword There stood in a posture to fight , sir . The daughters they all came tumbling in , And over their dad they did blunder ? Who cry'd out aloud , mercy good gentlemen And thought they were thieves come to plunder . The noise by this time the neighbourhood hears , Who came with long clubs to assist him : He said , three sturdy rogues ran up stairs , He dar'd by no means to resist' em , For they were clothed all in buff , He see as they shov'd in their shoulders , And black bandeliers hung before like a ruff Which made him think they were soldiers . The virgins their clothes in the garden had left , And keys of their trunks in their pocket , To put on the sheet they were fain to make shift , Their chest they could not unlock it . At last ventur'd up these valiant men , Tho' arm'd with courage undaunted , But took them for spirits and run back again , And swore that the house it was haunted . As they retreated the young men they met , Come shivering in at the door , sir , Who look'd like a rat his clothes dripping wet , No rogue that was pump'd could look worse . All were amazed to see him come in , And ask'd of him what was the matter ? He told them the story where he had been , Which made them burst into a laughter . Quoth the old dad , I was in a huff , And recken'd to cut them asunder , Thinking they had been three soldiers in buff And came there to rifle and plunder . But they are my daughters whom I do adore , All frighted from private diversion . Therefore I'll put up my rusty old sword , For why should I be in a passion . Printed and sold by J Pits No. 14 , Great St Andrew Street , Seven Dials . LONDON . Where may be had the grertest Assortment of Collections , Patters , etc etc Price . One Prnny . 