THE Unfortunate Fencer ; OR , The Courageous Farmer of Gloucestershire . SHOWING How this huffing Spark went down into those Parts , Challenging any one at all sorts of Weapons ; and at length shamefully Conquer'd by a Country Farmer . To the Tune of , The Spinning Wheel . Licensed according to Order . YOu that delight in merriment , be pleased to attend a while , I hope to give you all content , this very Song will make you smile ; 'Tis of a Fencer , brave and bold , Adorn'd with rich embroider'd Gold . This Spark in pomp , and rich array , from London rid with right good will , That he young Lords might learn to play all sorts of Weapons by his skill ; And wheresoe [ ' ] er this Fencer came , the drum , and trumpet , blaz'd his fame . This huffing Fencer , fierce and stout , to Glocester City did repair , And for a Sign he then hung out a Sword of grand Defiance there ; The which a Farmer did espy , As he by chance was passing by . The jolly Farmer , brisk and bold , as soon as he the Sword beheld , He cry'd , what is there to be sold ? what is your Room with Rapiers fill'd ? The valiant Fencer did reply , I come my Valour here to try . With that he did his Rapier shake , and said let whose will here arrive , I do a noble Challenge make , to fight the stoutest Man alive : The Farmer said , I'll answer thee , If that you dare to Cope with me . The Fencer cry'd you sorry slave , here by this Rapier in my hand , I'll send thee to thy silent Grave , against my force no Clown can stand : It shall be try'd the Farmer cry'd , I valve not your huffing Pride . Next Morning they a Stage prepare , the drums did beatrice , and trumpets found , Right joyful tidings to declare , this Gallant trac'd the City round , Dress'd in his Shirt of Holland fine , With Sword which did like Silver shine . The Stage he mounted brisk and gay , and eke the Farmer straight likewise ; To whom the Huffing Spark did say , of you I'll make a Sacrifice , This work in short , I shall complete , You should have brought a Winding-sheet . No more of that , but let's fallen too , I hope to make my party good And e'er this World I bid adieu , who knows but I may let you blood ; With that he cut him o'er the Face , And thus began the Spark's Disgrace . But when they came to Quarterstaff , the Farmer bang'd the Spark about ; Which made all the Spectators laugh , and with Huzza's they all did shout ; He made his Head and Shoulders soar , He ne'er had been so thrash'd before . Thus fairly did he win the day , which put the Fencer in a Rage , Who through the Crowd did sneak away , while the stout Farmer kept the Stage ; Huzza's of joy , did echo round , While he with Victory was Crown'd . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . THE Unfortunate Fencer ; OR , The Courageous Farmer of Gloucestershire . SHOWING How this huffing Spark went down into those Parts , Challenging any one at all sorts of Weapons ; and at length shamefully Conquer'd by a Country Farmer . To the Tune of , The Spinning Wheel . Licensed according to Order . YOu that delight in merriment , be pleased to attend a while , I hope to give you all content , this very Song will make you smile ; 'Tis of a Fencer , brave and bold , Adorn'd with rich embroider'd Gold . This Spark in pomp , and rich array , from London rid with right good will , That he young Lords might learn to play all sorts of Weapons by his skill ; And wheresoe [ ' ] er this Fencer came , the drum , and trumpet , blaz'd his fame . This huffing Fencer , fierce and stout , to Glocester City did repair , And for a Sign he then hung out a Sword of grand Defiance there ; The which a Farmer did espy , As he by chance was passing by . The jolly Farmer , brisk and bold , as soon as he the Sword beheld , He cry'd , what is there to be sold ? what is your Room with Rapiers fill'd ? The valiant Fencer did reply , I come my Valour here to try . With that he did his Rapier shake , and said let whose will here arrive , I do a noble Challenge make , to fight the stoutest Man alive : The Farmer said , I'll answer thee , If that you dare to Cope with me . The Fencer cry'd you sorry slave , here by this Rapier in my hand , I'll send thee to thy silent Grave , against my force no Clown can stand : It shall be try'd the Farmer cry'd , I valve not your huffing Pride . Next Morning they a Stage prepare , the drums did beatrice , and trumpets found , Right joyful tidings to declare , this Gallant trac'd the City round , Dress'd in his Shirt of Holland fine , With Sword which did like Silver shine . The Stage he mounted brisk and gay , and eke the Farmer straight likewise ; To whom the Huffing Spark did say , of you I'll make a Sacrifice , This work in short , I shall complete , You should have brought a Winding-sheet . No more of that , but let's fallen too , I hope to make my party good And e'er this World I bid adieu , who knows but I may let you blood ; With that he cut him o'er the Face , And thus began the Spark's Disgrace . But when they came to Quarterstaff , the Farmer bang'd the Spark about ; Which made all the Spectators laugh , and with Huzza's they all did shout ; He made his Head and Shoulders soar , He ne'er had been so thrash'd before . Thus fairly did he win the day , which put the Fencer in a Rage , Who through the Crowd did sneak away , while the stout Farmer kept the Stage ; Huzza's of joy , did echo round , While he with Victory was Crown'd . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 