The Wandering SHEPHERDESS . YOU that do know what to true love belong , I'll tell you a story that lately was done : At Oxford a merchant's fair daughter did dwell , Who for wit and beauty did others excel . A noble young 'squire that lived hard by , Upon this young creature did soon cast and eye ; And for to court her he thus did begin : Thou fairest of creatures that ever was seen , Do not be so cruel , but yield unto me , For without your love there's no comfort for me . And now give consent for to be my bride , Or else I am ruin'd for ever , he cry'd . The lady with innocent smiles did reply , 'Tis pity so godlike a creature should die , When 'tis in my power your life to save , So now I grant the thing that you crave . With eager embraces he flew to her arms , And said , Thou hast ten thousand charms , Which invite great monarchs to fallen at your feet ; But I've god the prize , and my joys I'll complete . First ask my father's consent she did say , For I must ever his pleasure obey : My honoured parents I mean to please , For fear the Heavens be with us displeas'd . Then strait to her father the 'squire did go , And the whole matter he gave him to know . Her father was pleased he should be his son , And said , If she loves him it soon shall be done . All things were agreed on , the time was se But now as soon as this couple was met , This perjured villain the innocent fair He with false delusions began to ensnare . With modesty she unto him did say , Sir . do not my honour thus strive to betray . This is not true love , but lust you do mean , Better had it been if I ne'er had you seen . It will not be long ere I shall be your bride ; Then seek not my ruin , she to him reply'd . O talk not of ruin , thou pride of my life , May Heaven forsake me if thou'rt not my wife . With many persuasions his will he obtain'd , And then her bright person he soon disdain'd ; For strait up to London this villain did come , Leaving his jewel in sorrow to mourn . Her parents wonder'd the 'squire ne'er came , Asking their daughter the cause of the same . She said , Honour'd father , the cause I don't know , But men they are fickle , and so let him go . Tho' she to her parents did not seem surpriz'd , When she was alone the tears from her eyes Like fountains would run ; crying , Worst of men , For your sake I will trust no man again . But I will wander thro' valleys and groves , Be witness , Heaven , how false is my love ! And still I must love him do all that I can , I must be a slave unto this perjur'd man . Rich jewels and treasure she did provide ; Saying , Now I will wander whate'er me betide ; And if my troubled heart does find any rest , To live in a cottage I'd think myself blessed . So then from her parents away she did go , Poor soul ! with a heart full of sorrow and woe . Thro' lonesome fields and woods she did high , Then she a small cottage at length did espy . It was a poor shepherd that in it did dwell , Seeing the lady set down in his cell , He welcom'd her in , and said , Sweet lady fair , Pray what cruel fortune has driven you here ? Then into his cottage the lady did go , His wife unto her great kindness did show . When she with the shepherd some time had been , Her riches and jewels she gave unto them . And said , Of this matter let no one know , And to keep the sheep in the valleys I'll go . The Wandering-Shepherdess you can me call . Unfortunate love the cause of my fallen . A rich suit of green embroider'd ware , With a garland of flowers had this lady fair , To shade off the sun from her beauty clear , To her sheep in the valleys she did repair . When two long years were finish'd and gone , The 'squire to Oxford strait did return . Her parents accus'd him of wrouging their child . He said , She was fickle and false as the wind . But now , said her father , I fear she is dead , So we can add nothing to what we have said . But sure she was honest and virtuous to all , And you are the man that caused her fallen . Now we will leave her parents to mourn , And unto the Shepherdess let us return . Who was the talk of folks far and near . At length her lover the same came to hear . He must see this beauty whatever betide . Then he god his coach , and away he did ride ; And just as bright Phoebus was going down , He came to the valleys where she lay alone . The lambs were sporting in innocent sort , And she was pleased with their harmless sport . Her fine silver hair sweet breezes did wave , On a bank of sweet lilies she carelessly laid . O Gods ! said the 'squre , sure she's divine , But if she is mortal , o ! let her be mine . He little thought it was her love so true , Men so much admire each beauty they view . The charming Shepherdess turning her eyes , Soon did know him to her great surprise . But yet who she was he did not know . At length to her cottage she homeward did go . He follow'd her home , saying , Sweet fair , Pity a lover that is in despair ; For by the glance of your charming eyes , My lovesick heart is fill'd with surprise . Sir , you seem a person of noble degree , And I a poor shepherdess now as you see . Talk not , sweet creature , thy charms are so sweet , Will cause the great monarch to fallen at thy feet . The shepherdess then invited him in , But now afresh her sorrows do begin . The garland of flowers being took from her head , He knew 'twas his love he thought had been dead . His lovesick heart he soon did abate , But he unto her no notice did take . Quoth he to himself , Since it is thee , I ere tomorrow your butcher will be . They parted that night next morning to meet In the sweet pasture where she kept her sheep . And the next morning , just as the sun rose , This perjured wretch to the shepherdess goes . No one being there he unto her did say , Come , madam , and strip off that gaudy array ; As I am come so far and harlot to see , I am resolved your butcher to be . Canst thou be so cruel , she to him did say , My innocent life thus to take away ? What harm , my dear jewel , have I done to thee ? The crime it was yours in deluding of me . Vile strumpet , dost thou presume for to prate ? Come , yield to my sword , for no longer I'll wait . She to him for mercy did bitterly cry , But the hardhearted wretch had no mercy . But finding with him she could not prevail , Oh Heaven ! said she , since all flesh is frail , Pardon my crimes , which are many , she cries . Now , traitor , I'm ready for your sacrifice . She open'd her breast , far whiter than snow . He pierc'd her heart while the crimson did flow . Her body he threw in a river near , And thus dy'd the beauty of fair Oxfordshire : Then home he returned , and when he came there He wander'd about like a man in despair . No rest night or day he ever could find , The sweet Shepherdess ran so in his mind . Within four days he took to his bed , The doctor he gave him over , it is said . When he found his dying hour was come , He sent for her father , and told what was done . Then in a sad sort he yielded up his breath , Her father said , I'm the unhappiest on earth . Then he sought the body of his daughter dear , Who in sumptuous manner was bury'd , we hear . Within a little time her father did die . Now let each take warning by this tragedy . And , maidens , beware of men's flattering tongue For if you consent you are surely undone . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow-Church-Yard , London . The Wandering SHEPHERDESS . YOU that do know what to true love belong , I'll tell you a story that lately was done : At Oxford a merchant's fair daughter did dwell , Who for wit and beauty did others excel . A noble young 'squire that lived hard by , Upon this young creature did soon cast and eye ; And for to court her he thus did begin : Thou fairest of creatures that ever was seen , Do not be so cruel , but yield unto me , For without your love there's no comfort for me . And now give consent for to be my bride , Or else I am ruin'd for ever , he cry'd . The lady with innocent smiles did reply , 'Tis pity so godlike a creature should die , When 'tis in my power your life to save , So now I grant the thing that you crave . With eager embraces he flew to her arms , And said , Thou hast ten thousand charms , Which invite great monarchs to fallen at your feet ; But I've god the prize , and my joys I'll complete . First ask my father's consent she did say , For I must ever his pleasure obey : My honoured parents I mean to please , For fear the Heavens be with us displeas'd . Then strait to her father the 'squire did go , And the whole matter he gave him to know . Her father was pleased he should be his son , And said , If she loves him it soon shall be done . All things were agreed on , the time was se But now as soon as this couple was met , This perjured villain the innocent fair He with false delusions began to ensnare . With modesty she unto him did say , Sir . do not my honour thus strive to betray . This is not true love , but lust you do mean , Better had it been if I ne'er had you seen . It will not be long ere I shall be your bride ; Then seek not my ruin , she to him reply'd . O talk not of ruin , thou pride of my life , May Heaven forsake me if thou'rt not my wife . With many persuasions his will he obtain'd , And then her bright person he soon disdain'd ; For strait up to London this villain did come , Leaving his jewel in sorrow to mourn . Her parents wonder'd the 'squire ne'er came , Asking their daughter the cause of the same . She said , Honour'd father , the cause I don't know , But men they are fickle , and so let him go . Tho' she to her parents did not seem surpriz'd , When she was alone the tears from her eyes Like fountains would run ; crying , Worst of men , For your sake I will trust no man again . But I will wander thro' valleys and groves , Be witness , Heaven , how false is my love ! And still I must love him do all that I can , I must be a slave unto this perjur'd man . Rich jewels and treasure she did provide ; Saying , Now I will wander whate'er me betide ; And if my troubled heart does find any rest , To live in a cottage I'd think myself blessed . So then from her parents away she did go , Poor soul ! with a heart full of sorrow and woe . Thro' lonesome fields and woods she did high , Then she a small cottage at length did espy . It was a poor shepherd that in it did dwell , Seeing the lady set down in his cell , He welcom'd her in , and said , Sweet lady fair , Pray what cruel fortune has driven you here ? Then into his cottage the lady did go , His wife unto her great kindness did show . When she with the shepherd some time had been , Her riches and jewels she gave unto them . And said , Of this matter let no one know , And to keep the sheep in the valleys I'll go . The Wandering-Shepherdess you can me call . Unfortunate love the cause of my fallen . A rich suit of green embroider'd ware , With a garland of flowers had this lady fair , To shade off the sun from her beauty clear , To her sheep in the valleys she did repair . When two long years were finish'd and gone , The 'squire to Oxford strait did return . Her parents accus'd him of wrouging their child . He said , She was fickle and false as the wind . But now , said her father , I fear she is dead , So we can add nothing to what we have said . But sure she was honest and virtuous to all , And you are the man that caused her fallen . Now we will leave her parents to mourn , And unto the Shepherdess let us return . Who was the talk of folks far and near . At length her lover the same came to hear . He must see this beauty whatever betide . Then he god his coach , and away he did ride ; And just as bright Phoebus was going down , He came to the valleys where she lay alone . The lambs were sporting in innocent sort , And she was pleased with their harmless sport . Her fine silver hair sweet breezes did wave , On a bank of sweet lilies she carelessly laid . O Gods ! said the 'squre , sure she's divine , But if she is mortal , o ! let her be mine . He little thought it was her love so true , Men so much admire each beauty they view . The charming Shepherdess turning her eyes , Soon did know him to her great surprise . But yet who she was he did not know . At length to her cottage she homeward did go . He follow'd her home , saying , Sweet fair , Pity a lover that is in despair ; For by the glance of your charming eyes , My lovesick heart is fill'd with surprise . Sir , you seem a person of noble degree , And I a poor shepherdess now as you see . Talk not , sweet creature , thy charms are so sweet , Will cause the great monarch to fallen at thy feet . The shepherdess then invited him in , But now afresh her sorrows do begin . The garland of flowers being took from her head , He knew 'twas his love he thought had been dead . His lovesick heart he soon did abate , But he unto her no notice did take . Quoth he to himself , Since it is thee , I ere tomorrow your butcher will be . They parted that night next morning to meet In the sweet pasture where she kept her sheep . And the next morning , just as the sun rose , This perjured wretch to the shepherdess goes . No one being there he unto her did say , Come , madam , and strip off that gaudy array ; As I am come so far and harlot to see , I am resolved your butcher to be . Canst thou be so cruel , she to him did say , My innocent life thus to take away ? What harm , my dear jewel , have I done to thee ? The crime it was yours in deluding of me . Vile strumpet , dost thou presume for to prate ? Come , yield to my sword , for no longer I'll wait . She to him for mercy did bitterly cry , But the hardhearted wretch had no mercy . But finding with him she could not prevail , Oh Heaven ! said she , since all flesh is frail , Pardon my crimes , which are many , she cries . Now , traitor , I'm ready for your sacrifice . She open'd her breast , far whiter than snow . He pierc'd her heart while the crimson did flow . Her body he threw in a river near , And thus dy'd the beauty of fair Oxfordshire : Then home he returned , and when he came there He wander'd about like a man in despair . No rest night or day he ever could find , The sweet Shepherdess ran so in his mind . Within four days he took to his bed , The doctor he gave him over , it is said . When he found his dying hour was come , He sent for her father , and told what was done . Then in a sad sort he yielded up his breath , Her father said , I'm the unhappiest on earth . Then he sought the body of his daughter dear , Who in sumptuous manner was bury'd , we hear . Within a little time her father did die . Now let each take warning by this tragedy . And , maidens , beware of men's flattering tongue For if you consent you are surely undone . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow-Church-Yard , London . 