THE Valiant Weaver : Or , The London Prentices most Sad and Dreadful Come - plaint against the French , by reason they underrate their Works : To which is added the Shoemakers , Glovers , Tailors , and Hatmakers Complaint . To the Tune of , A Fig for France and Holland too . YOu Weavers all I pray give ear , A Story true I will declare , Our Master's they do much repine , Saying the French them undermine , And gets their Trade away from them , Are not our English silly men , For to employ , or stand in fear , Or be afraid of proud Monsieur . Our Weaving Trade is grown so dead , We scarcely can get us Bred , Our hungry Bellies for to fill , Because the French are grown so ill , In selling their work at and under price , Which makes the tears run from our Eyes . And Weavers all may curse their fates , Because the French work underrates . Have we not cause for to complain , To serve seven years and all in vain , Because of these falsehearted men , I wish they were at France again , By reason our work we cannot fell , By them we are ruin'd , 'tis known full well . And Weavers all may curse their fates , Because the French work underrates . Shoemakers they Monsieur may curse , They say their Trade is grown the worse , Glovers and Tailors , all in vain , Against Monsieur they soar complain , But they at last I hope may find The English to them be unkind . You Tradesmen all , etc The English them they do employ , Their own Natives they much annoy , I think they are then silly men , For to concern with them again , Since that they know they are not friends , But only for their self-ends . You Tradesmen all , etc They that have a charge to keep , Have nothing to do but only sleep , Because Monsieur hath god the Trade , They'll ruin us we are half afraid . Come let us cast all sorrow away , We hope to see some better days . I charge you all ne're stand in fear , Nor be afraid of proud Monsieur . Now to conclude , I'll make and end , Hoping all these times will mend , In the mean time your business mind , And to yourselves be sure be kind ; And never more then curse your fates , Then for your works keep up your rates . I charge you all ne're stand in fear , Nor be afraid of proud Monsieur . LONDON , Printed for Elizabeth Bever : And are to be Sold by Absalon Cham - berlain . 1685. THE Valiant Weaver : Or , The London Prentices most Sad and Dreadful Come - plaint against the French , by reason they underrate their Works : To which is added the Shoemakers , Glovers , Tailors , and Hatmakers Complaint . To the Tune of , A Fig for France and Holland too . YOu Weavers all I pray give ear , A Story true I will declare , Our Master's they do much repine , Saying the French them undermine , And gets their Trade away from them , Are not our English silly men , For to employ , or stand in fear , Or be afraid of proud Monsieur . Our Weaving Trade is grown so dead , We scarcely can get us Bred , Our hungry Bellies for to fill , Because the French are grown so ill , In selling their work at and under price , Which makes the tears run from our Eyes . And Weavers all may curse their fates , Because the French work underrates . Have we not cause for to complain , To serve seven years and all in vain , Because of these falsehearted men , I wish they were at France again , By reason our work we cannot fell , By them we are ruin'd , 'tis known full well . And Weavers all may curse their fates , Because the French work underrates . Shoemakers they Monsieur may curse , They say their Trade is grown the worse , Glovers and Tailors , all in vain , Against Monsieur they soar complain , But they at last I hope may find The English to them be unkind . You Tradesmen all , etc The English them they do employ , Their own Natives they much annoy , I think they are then silly men , For to concern with them again , Since that they know they are not friends , But only for their self-ends . You Tradesmen all , etc They that have a charge to keep , Have nothing to do but only sleep , Because Monsieur hath god the Trade , They'll ruin us we are half afraid . Come let us cast all sorrow away , We hope to see some better days . I charge you all ne're stand in fear , Nor be afraid of proud Monsieur . Now to conclude , I'll make and end , Hoping all these times will mend , In the mean time your business mind , And to yourselves be sure be kind ; And never more then curse your fates , Then for your works keep up your rates . I charge you all ne're stand in fear , Nor be afraid of proud Monsieur . LONDON , Printed for Elizabeth Bever : And are to be Sold by Absalon Cham - berlain . 1685. THE Valiant Weaver : Or , The London Prentices most Sad and Dreadful Come - plaint against the French , by reason they underrate their Works : To which is added the Shoemakers , Glovers , Tailors , and Hatmakers Complaint . To the Tune of , A Fig for France and Holland too . YOu Weavers all I pray give ear , A Story true I will declare , Our Master's they do much repine , Saying the French them undermine , And gets their Trade away from them , Are not our English silly men , For to employ , or stand in fear , Or be afraid of proud Monsieur . Our Weaving Trade is grown so dead , We scarcely can get us Bred , Our hungry Bellies for to fill , Because the French are grown so ill , In selling their work at and under price , Which makes the tears run from our Eyes . And Weavers all may curse their fates , Because the French work underrates . Have we not cause for to complain , To serve seven years and all in vain , Because of these falsehearted men , I wish they were at France again , By reason our work we cannot fell , By them we are ruin'd , 'tis known full well . And Weavers all may curse their fates , Because the French work underrates . Shoemakers they Monsieur may curse , They say their Trade is grown the worse , Glovers and Tailors , all in vain , Against Monsieur they soar complain , But they at last I hope may find The English to them be unkind . You Tradesmen all , etc The English them they do employ , Their own Natives they much annoy , I think they are then silly men , For to concern with them again , Since that they know they are not friends , But only for their self-ends . You Tradesmen all , etc They that have a charge to keep , Have nothing to do but only sleep , Because Monsieur hath god the Trade , They'll ruin us we are half afraid . Come let us cast all sorrow away , We hope to see some better days . I charge you all ne're stand in fear , Nor be afraid of proud Monsieur . Now to conclude , I'll make and end , Hoping all these times will mend , In the mean time your business mind , And to yourselves be sure be kind ; And never more then curse your fates , Then for your works keep up your rates . I charge you all ne're stand in fear , Nor be afraid of proud Monsieur . LONDON , Printed for Elizabeth Bever : And are to be Sold by Absalon Cham - berlain . 1685. THE Valiant Weaver : Or , The London Prentices most Sad and Dreadful Come - plaint against the French , by reason they underrate their Works : To which is added the Shoemakers , Glovers , Tailors , and Hatmakers Complaint . To the Tune of , A Fig for France and Holland too . YOu Weavers all I pray give ear , A Story true I will declare , Our Master's they do much repine , Saying the French them undermine , And gets their Trade away from them , Are not our English silly men , For to employ , or stand in fear , Or be afraid of proud Monsieur . Our Weaving Trade is grown so dead , We scarcely can get us Bred , Our hungry Bellies for to fill , Because the French are grown so ill , In selling their work at and under price , Which makes the tears run from our Eyes . And Weavers all may curse their fates , Because the French work underrates . Have we not cause for to complain , To serve seven years and all in vain , Because of these falsehearted men , I wish they were at France again , By reason our work we cannot fell , By them we are ruin'd , 'tis known full well . And Weavers all may curse their fates , Because the French work underrates . Shoemakers they Monsieur may curse , They say their Trade is grown the worse , Glovers and Tailors , all in vain , Against Monsieur they soar complain , But they at last I hope may find The English to them be unkind . You Tradesmen all , etc The English them they do employ , Their own Natives they much annoy , I think they are then silly men , For to concern with them again , Since that they know they are not friends , But only for their self-ends . You Tradesmen all , etc They that have a charge to keep , Have nothing to do but only sleep , Because Monsieur hath god the Trade , They'll ruin us we are half afraid . Come let us cast all sorrow away , We hope to see some better days . I charge you all ne're stand in fear , Nor be afraid of proud Monsieur . Now to conclude , I'll make and end , Hoping all these times will mend , In the mean time your business mind , And to yourselves be sure be kind ; And never more then curse your fates , Then for your works keep up your rates . I charge you all ne're stand in fear , Nor be afraid of proud Monsieur . LONDON , Printed for Elizabeth Bever : And are to be Sold by Absalon Cham - berlain . 1685. 