THE Victualar's Wives Kindness TO THE Jolly Horse-Courser . Who would not turn her Husband's new Lodger out of door in his Absence , but Entertained him for his dear sake . Tune of , The Baffled Knight . Licensed according to Order . YOu Victualers all I pray attend , here is a New Pleasant Ditty , Which I in Merriment have penn'd , 'tis wondered true and pretty . In Hosier-lane , as I am told , a woman of your Profession , She was afraid of taking cold , therefore 'twas her discretion . To get a Friend to keep her warm , why should a young wife lie wishing ? In this there could be no great harm , her Husband was gone a Fishing . A Customer he was , I say , then why should a Husband mind it , Beside , he shew'd him first the way , for fear that he should not find it . This was a Horse-Courser by Trade , a man that is brisk and ready , There could not be a bolder Blade , to lie with a sweet Landlady . 'Tis like you'd have me tell you how , he happen'd to gain her Favour , Why this I will resolve you now , no manner of Coin he gave her . By chance he did a Lodging lack , and being thus disappointed , Her Husband laid him at his back , and so they came first acquainted . Sometime he sat up late to drink , he being with drink delighted , But he alas ! did little think , that he should be thus invited . But coming there a night or two , and being wet winter weather , I faith they made no more adue , but lovingly Pigg'd together . But here comes all the plague and strife , which made her good Husband brangle , He had left the Lodger with his wife , while he went abroad to Angle . Her Husband slaid till twelve or more , 'till Customers was departed , What must she turn him out of door ? she could not be so hard hearted . To Bed they went without delay , the woman and this Horse-Courser , But what they did I will not say , they tell me he did not force her . At first her Husband let him lie , who knew that his mind would waver ! How could he think she should deny a Person so small a Favour . Beside , poor heart , she did not know , what her Honest Man intended , Thought she , if I should let him go , perhaps he may be offended . It was her duty , love and care , she thought of no evil actium , Yet her dear man does curse and swear , and makes a most sad distraction . But wherefore does he make this din , Oh let him leave off his swearing , He has his loving wife again , she's never the worse for wearing . Printed for James Bissel , at the Bible and Harp , near the Hospital-Gate , in West-Smithfield . THE Victualar's Wives Kindness TO THE Jolly Horse-Courser . Who would not turn her Husband's new Lodger out of door in his Absence , but Entertained him for his dear sake . Tune of , The Baffled Knight . Licensed according to Order . YOu Victualers all I pray attend , here is a New Pleasant Ditty , Which I in Merriment have penn'd , 'tis wondered true and pretty . In Hosier-lane , as I am told , a woman of your Profession , She was afraid of taking cold , therefore 'twas her discretion . To get a Friend to keep her warm , why should a young wife lie wishing ? In this there could be no great harm , her Husband was gone a Fishing . A Customer he was , I say , then why should a Husband mind it , Beside , he shew'd him first the way , for fear that he should not find it . This was a Horse-Courser by Trade , a man that is brisk and ready , There could not be a bolder Blade , to lie with a sweet Landlady . 'Tis like you'd have me tell you how , he happen'd to gain her Favour , Why this I will resolve you now , no manner of Coin he gave her . By chance he did a Lodging lack , and being thus disappointed , Her Husband laid him at his back , and so they came first acquainted . Sometime he sat up late to drink , he being with drink delighted , But he alas ! did little think , that he should be thus invited . But coming there a night or two , and being wet winter weather , I faith they made no more adue , but lovingly Pigg'd together . But here comes all the plague and strife , which made her good Husband brangle , He had left the Lodger with his wife , while he went abroad to Angle . Her Husband slaid till twelve or more , 'till Customers was departed , What must she turn him out of door ? she could not be so hard hearted . To Bed they went without delay , the woman and this Horse-Courser , But what they did I will not say , they tell me he did not force her . At first her Husband let him lie , who knew that his mind would waver ! How could he think she should deny a Person so small a Favour . Beside , poor heart , she did not know , what her Honest Man intended , Thought she , if I should let him go , perhaps he may be offended . It was her duty , love and care , she thought of no evil actium , Yet her dear man does curse and swear , and makes a most sad distraction . But wherefore does he make this din , Oh let him leave off his swearing , He has his loving wife again , she's never the worse for wearing . Printed for James Bissel , at the Bible and Harp , near the Hospital-Gate , in West-Smithfield . 