THE Countries' Advice To the Late Duke of Monmouth , And Those in Rebellion with Him . This may be Printed . R.L.S. June 30. I . YOU , who the gazing World did once admire , And You , who were extoll'd and prais'd by all ; You , who each sighing Virgin did desire , And You , who once we might Great Monmouth call ; Wherefore do you against our Peace conspire , And in a bloody War our Land enthral ? Thus Lucifer aspiring to be Great , Was thrown from Heav'n to his Infernal Seat . II When to Great CHARLES's Arms you did return , ( Not of your fore-committed Crimes to tell , ) How did that Sacred Prince's Bosom burn , In hope's you from your former Ills had fell ! But , o ! too much Indulgence makes us mourn , And sighs , instead of Joy , our Bosoms swell . Thus Mercy freely given is abus'd , And Pardon'd Rebels for Sham-Princes us'd . III . Weigh with your self the Fallen of Absalom , Let His Example teach You to be wise ; ( He justly had a Rebels Martyrdom , And climb'd a Tree , 'cause he'd a mind to rise . ) Just Heav'n in Thunder will with Vengeance come , And on your Head avenge your Treacheries . Think on the guiltless Blood you hourly spill , Where Brother Brother , Father Son does kill . IV. In vain ( alas ! ) Rebellious Arms you use , In vain you mighty Preparations make , And but in vain our Monarch you abuse , And skulking round about poor Women take ; In vain you your Rebellion would excuse , By saying 'tis for pure Religions sake . What your Religion is , I cannot tell , But Protestants ( I'm sure ) can ne're Rebel . V. Though V. Though with your weak Pretences you delude , And bring in some who're Traitors in Despair , A wretched , hopeless , gaping Multitude , Whose desp'rate Souls know neither sonse nor care ; Yet all in vain your Treasons are pursu'd , Your Stratagems but weak and feeble are ; For the Almighty has his Angels spread , To guard our Sacred Lawful Monarchs Head. VI . What show of Right , what Law can you pretend , To justify this bold , this bloody Deed ? What is't you'd have ? wherefore do you contend , That thus you make the shaking Country bleed ? Is this our Liberties ? Are you our Friend ? Dear Liberties , and a fast Friend indeed . Our Souls at Liberty you set ; our Wives , Our Goods , and Children , perish with our Lives . VII . When on Ambitions Wings you first were tossed , And the cursed Faction did your mind invite , They spar'd no Time , no Labour , nor no cost , To puff you up with a supposed Righ But , 'cause you shou'd not in your Pride be lost , Your Royal Father clear'd your misted sighed , Who ( Wise as Just , and Powerful as Great ) Declar'd you to be ILLEGITIMATE . VIII . And you deluded Souls that are engag'd In Arms against your Just and Lawful Prince , Consult the grounds on which this War is wag'd , Call back your Reason , and alarm your Sense , That this sad bloody Conflict be asswag'd , In which you ne're can hope for recompense . Ask God forgiveness , your wrong'd Sov'reign greet , And lay your Arms at His Imperial Feet . IX . Good God! that ever People thus should be Into such base , unnat'ral Wars betray'd , Under the old sham-tale of LIBERTY , Which at that very time they do invade , When we before had all things just and free , Nor any fear , or cause to be afraid : Now Treason , Murder , Rape , and Massacre , Must the blessed Title of RELIGION bear . X. But if you will not now be wise in time , And choose Repentance e're it be late , May you with speed be punish'd for your Crime , And meet the scourge of your deserved Fate ; And for your Head , who wou'd to Empire climb Upon the Ashes of a ruin'd State , Since neither Pardon , nor a Princes Love , Can the sweet Bait of Mighty Crowns remove , Let him unpity'd in a Dungeon lie , Till with Despair and Envy he shall die . London : Printed by T. M. ( for the Author ) in the Year 1685. THE Countries' Advice To the Late Duke of Monmouth , And Those in Rebellion with Him . This may be Printed . R.L.S. June 30. I . YOU , who the gazing World did once admire , And You , who were extoll'd and prais'd by all ; You , who each sighing Virgin did desire , And You , who once we might Great Monmouth call ; Wherefore do you against our Peace conspire , And in a bloody War our Land enthral ? Thus Lucifer aspiring to be Great , Was thrown from Heav'n to his Infernal Seat . II When to Great CHARLES's Arms you did return , ( Not of your fore-committed Crimes to tell , ) How did that Sacred Prince's Bosom burn , In hope's you from your former Ills had fell ! But , o ! too much Indulgence makes us mourn , And sighs , instead of Joy , our Bosoms swell . Thus Mercy freely given is abus'd , And Pardon'd Rebels for Sham-Princes us'd . III . Weigh with your self the Fallen of Absalom , Let His Example teach You to be wise ; ( He justly had a Rebels Martyrdom , And climb'd a Tree , 'cause he'd a mind to rise . ) Just Heav'n in Thunder will with Vengeance come , And on your Head avenge your Treacheries . Think on the guiltless Blood you hourly spill , Where Brother Brother , Father Son does kill . IV. In vain ( alas ! ) Rebellious Arms you use , In vain you mighty Preparations make , And but in vain our Monarch you abuse , And skulking round about poor Women take ; In vain you your Rebellion would excuse , By saying 'tis for pure Religions sake . What your Religion is , I cannot tell , But Protestants ( I'm sure ) can ne're Rebel . V. Though V. Though with your weak Pretences you delude , And bring in some who're Traitors in Despair , A wretched , hopeless , gaping Multitude , Whose desp'rate Souls know neither sonse nor care ; Yet all in vain your Treasons are pursu'd , Your Stratagems but weak and feeble are ; For the Almighty has his Angels spread , To guard our Sacred Lawful Monarchs Head. VI . What show of Right , what Law can you pretend , To justify this bold , this bloody Deed ? What is't you'd have ? wherefore do you contend , That thus you make the shaking Country bleed ? Is this our Liberties ? Are you our Friend ? Dear Liberties , and a fast Friend indeed . Our Souls at Liberty you set ; our Wives , Our Goods , and Children , perish with our Lives . VII . When on Ambitions Wings you first were tossed , And the cursed Faction did your mind invite , They spar'd no Time , no Labour , nor no cost , To puff you up with a supposed Righ But , 'cause you shou'd not in your Pride be lost , Your Royal Father clear'd your misted sighed , Who ( Wise as Just , and Powerful as Great ) Declar'd you to be ILLEGITIMATE . VIII . And you deluded Souls that are engag'd In Arms against your Just and Lawful Prince , Consult the grounds on which this War is wag'd , Call back your Reason , and alarm your Sense , That this sad bloody Conflict be asswag'd , In which you ne're can hope for recompense . Ask God forgiveness , your wrong'd Sov'reign greet , And lay your Arms at His Imperial Feet . IX . Good God! that ever People thus should be Into such base , unnat'ral Wars betray'd , Under the old sham-tale of LIBERTY , Which at that very time they do invade , When we before had all things just and free , Nor any fear , or cause to be afraid : Now Treason , Murder , Rape , and Massacre , Must the blessed Title of RELIGION bear . X. But if you will not now be wise in time , And choose Repentance e're it be late , May you with speed be punish'd for your Crime , And meet the scourge of your deserved Fate ; And for your Head , who wou'd to Empire climb Upon the Ashes of a ruin'd State , Since neither Pardon , nor a Princes Love , Can the sweet Bait of Mighty Crowns remove , Let him unpity'd in a Dungeon lie , Till with Despair and Envy he shall die . London : Printed by T. M. ( for the Author ) in the Year 1685. 