The Virgins Tragedy : Or the Faithful Maiden , and the Faithless Young man . Being a true Relation how a young man living in Westminster , fell in Love with a Maid which had Two hundred pounds to her portion , several promises passed betwixt them , and their Love continued for the space of two years , at the end whereof , he appointed a day for marriage , but the day being come , he most disloyally cast her off and forsook her ; whose unkindness struck so deep to the maidens heart , that she fell into swooning and distracted Fits , and so miserably languished for a fortnights time , & then died . Desiring on her Deathbed in the presence of several Neighbours , that her Parents and Rela - tions would cause her unfortunate Tragedy to be put into Print , which is here done to fulfil the Will of the Dead : by her brother . Tune is Ginny Gin Or , fare one let me in . YOung Gallants all and Ladies fair , and Lovers every where Mark well this truth which I declare , which may concern you near , Regard your vows and promises which you in Love do bind , Or else be sure that in this World small comfort you will find . Remember Batemans faithless friend , How she did prove untrue ; And for reward had in the end her just deserved due : For in the night out of her bed , she carried was away But to what place it was not known nor is not to this day . But to the story now in hand with grief I must relate The downfall of a maiden fair brought to untimely fate ; Occasioned by a faithless wretch who did her Love disdain As you may by the sequel find the same for to be plain . A Young man late in Westminster a man of little fame Did with this maiden fallen in love at least pretend the same : Two hundred pounds of good estate this girl for Portion had . And but a Tailor he was of and inferior trade . WIth vows & protestations great this Maid he did allure Still promising that to the end his Love it should endure : Quoth he my dear and only joy thou needs it not to fear That e'r I will unconstant prove since that I love thee dear . The Maiden fair being but young scarce fifteen pears of age Believing of his tempting tongue in Love she did engage : She freely gave him hand and heart , not dreading any ill ; But that he would requite her for't and yield the like good will . For two years space thus did they Live in Love and friendship pure Which made poor Isabel believe it always would endure ; At length a day appointed was their Nuptials to attend When at that time it came to pass he prov'd a faithless friend . For why he basely cast her off denying all was passed At which she fell into a swoon which made her friends agas No help that ever did her good they used more or less But from that time she languished in woe and deep distress . Where ever she that wretch did see bereft her of her Love 'Tis said she swooned presently his sighed her heart did move : At length into distracted fits she violently fell And raved in her frenxy mood most fearfully to tell . Her friends about her they did flock to see her in that case And Neighbours all did pity her who e'r came in that place : And thus about a fortnights time it cannot be denied But she endured misery and in conclusion died . This said that she before her death did give him a Release Therefore we trust assuredly her soul is now at peace : What guilt upon his conscience lies best to himself is known How ere the world may clearly see the truth that here is shown This may a warning be to all young Lovers every one That they do not unconstant prove who e'r they pitch upon : Their Oaths and Protestations the Lord does hear and see And at the last he will reward them all assuredly . The maids Epitaph . Here within this silent shade Lies the body of a maid Who dy'd for Love , and bid adieu Because her Lover prov'd untrue London Printed for J. Conyers at the Black Raven in Duck-lane . The Virgins Tragedy : Or the Faithful Maiden , and the Faithless Young man . Being a true Relation how a young man living in Westminster , fell in Love with a Maid which had Two hundred pounds to her portion , several promises passed betwixt them , and their Love continued for the space of two years , at the end whereof , he appointed a day for marriage , but the day being come , he most disloyally cast her off and forsook her ; whose unkindness struck so deep to the maidens heart , that she fell into swooning and distracted Fits , and so miserably languished for a fortnights time , & then died . Desiring on her Deathbed in the presence of several Neighbours , that her Parents and Rela - tions would cause her unfortunate Tragedy to be put into Print , which is here done to fulfil the Will of the Dead : by her brother . Tune is Ginny Gin Or , fare one let me in . YOung Gallants all and Ladies fair , and Lovers every where Mark well this truth which I declare , which may concern you near , Regard your vows and promises which you in Love do bind , Or else be sure that in this World small comfort you will find . Remember Batemans faithless friend , How she did prove untrue ; And for reward had in the end her just deserved due : For in the night out of her bed , she carried was away But to what place it was not known nor is not to this day . But to the story now in hand with grief I must relate The downfall of a maiden fair brought to untimely fate ; Occasioned by a faithless wretch who did her Love disdain As you may by the sequel find the same for to be plain . A Young man late in Westminster a man of little fame Did with this maiden fallen in love at least pretend the same : Two hundred pounds of good estate this girl for Portion had . And but a Tailor he was of and inferior trade . WIth vows & protestations great this Maid he did allure Still promising that to the end his Love it should endure : Quoth he my dear and only joy thou needs it not to fear That e'r I will unconstant prove since that I love thee dear . The Maiden fair being but young scarce fifteen pears of age Believing of his tempting tongue in Love she did engage : She freely gave him hand and heart , not dreading any ill ; But that he would requite her for't and yield the like good will . For two years space thus did they Live in Love and friendship pure Which made poor Isabel believe it always would endure ; At length a day appointed was their Nuptials to attend When at that time it came to pass he prov'd a faithless friend . For why he basely cast her off denying all was passed At which she fell into a swoon which made her friends agas No help that ever did her good they used more or less But from that time she languished in woe and deep distress . Where ever she that wretch did see bereft her of her Love 'Tis said she swooned presently his sighed her heart did move : At length into distracted fits she violently fell And raved in her frenxy mood most fearfully to tell . Her friends about her they did flock to see her in that case And Neighbours all did pity her who e'r came in that place : And thus about a fortnights time it cannot be denied But she endured misery and in conclusion died . This said that she before her death did give him a Release Therefore we trust assuredly her soul is now at peace : What guilt upon his conscience lies best to himself is known How ere the world may clearly see the truth that here is shown This may a warning be to all young Lovers every one That they do not unconstant prove who e'r they pitch upon : Their Oaths and Protestations the Lord does hear and see And at the last he will reward them all assuredly . The maids Epitaph . Here within this silent shade Lies the body of a maid Who dy'd for Love , and bid adieu Because her Lover prov'd untrue London Printed for J. Conyers at the Black Raven in Duck-lane . 