The English Fortune-Teller . Being a brief direction how to shun all strife , A brief instruction how to choose a wife ; Whereby a man may led a happy life : It shows difference in women's qualities , By colour of their hair , both face and eyes , The Tune is , Ragged and Torn . etc YOu youngmen that want skill in wooing and if you desire to be wed , Take counsel of me in your doing for fear that you should be misled , Do not my kind proffer refuse , for it will never you deceive : 'Twill show what women to choose , and what creature you'd best for to leave , But chiefly i'd wish you beware , of a wench with a rolling eye : For she that will cozen and swear , will also dissemble and lie . I'th first place I do you advice , take one not too high nor too low , But according to your own size , that you may her qualities know , Take one not too young nor too old , nor one that's too fat nor to lean ; 'Tis a bad thing to meet with a scold , 'tis a worse thing to meet with a Quean . But chiefly , etc Take one that is not too proud , nor one that's a dirty foul slut , The one may babble too loud , the other may poison the gut , 'Tis better to wed and honest maid . although she be never so poor , Then to wed a rich Gossip 'tis said , if afterwards she should turn whore . But if chiefly , etc A widow whose wealth does surmount , if that you do marry for gain , Shee'l call you to double account , and your pleasures will turn to your pain : Beside she is apt to be jealous , which is the forerunner of strife : As good to be hang'd at the Gallows , as marry with such a cross wife . But chiefly , etc And now in the second place I am purposed for to recite , My skill in Physiognomy , wherein I will show you a ligh By 'th colour of hair on the head , or else by the favour or face , You may know with whom for to wed ; and who you were best to embrace . But chiefly , etc The man that will choose him a mate , by colour of Hair or complexion , Must choose many ways intricate , lest he be brought under subjection , He must view both her forehead and brow , her Cheeks , Eyes , Nose , and her Chin. GOod Cupid those things does allow , when you first to woo her begin . But chiefly , etc All is not gold which Glisters , nor is it all led that looks dull . Fair Venus the chief of the Sisters , made Vulcan her husband a Gull , So many times beautiful Lasses , will jeer their poor husbands in scorn , And cunningly break all their Glasses , and make them drink out of the Horn . But chiefly , etc She that hath her hair of bright yellow , and traces the wyers of Gold , If she meet with some pretty fellow , her husband may chance to be Cuckold ; And she that by nature's compos'd , of round Cherry Cheeks and read hair , If she be pink-ey'd and long nos'd , believe me this dangerous ware . But chiefly , etc The brown hair with witty discourse , but commonly for her own ends ; I like her a great deal the worse , because shee'l dissemble with her friends . A Wench with and ash coloured face , her actions are often uncivil ; Her tongue will her husband disgrace , just like the second She-devil . But chiefly , etc The bonny Wench with the black-brow , o she is a good one indeed : For she will be true to her vow : I would we had more of her breed : And thus I have told you my mind , concerning Physiognomy , I mean no wrong to women kind , I swear by my honesty . Lest I should some female offend , I'le lay by my pen and rest , What ever in this Ditty is pen'd , let young men take where they love best . Yet thus much i'le speak , in regard , and i'le maintain my words in a trice . Some women may well be compar'd , to the best chance or worst of the Dice , Suppose a youngman goes to Dice , and do venture his goods and his store , If he can throw Cinque or a Size , the games his own for evermore : But if that his fortune be crossed , that he throws but a Dewce or and Ace , His goods and his substance is lost , and hee's left in a pitiful case . Suppose in like case , if a Lad , can get him a provident wife , His fortune can never be bad , he's made all the days of his life : But if that dame-fortune do frown , that his wife and he cannot agree , He is quite for ever cast down , by woeful experience we see . And now noble Young men adieu , remember the words which I say : This songs like to prove to be true , then buy it and bear it away . London Printed for W. Thackerary , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . The English Fortune-Teller . Being a brief direction how to shun all strife , A brief instruction how to choose a wife ; Whereby a man may led a happy life : It shows difference in women's qualities , By colour of their hair , both face and eyes , The Tune is , Ragged and Torn . etc YOu youngmen that want skill in wooing and if you desire to be wed , Take counsel of me in your doing for fear that you should be misled , Do not my kind proffer refuse , for it will never you deceive : 'Twill show what women to choose , and what creature you'd best for to leave , But chiefly i'd wish you beware , of a wench with a rolling eye : For she that will cozen and swear , will also dissemble and lie . I'th first place I do you advice , take one not too high nor too low , But according to your own size , that you may her qualities know , Take one not too young nor too old , nor one that's too fat nor to lean ; 'Tis a bad thing to meet with a scold , 'tis a worse thing to meet with a Quean . But chiefly , etc Take one that is not too proud , nor one that's a dirty foul slut , The one may babble too loud , the other may poison the gut , 'Tis better to wed and honest maid . although she be never so poor , Then to wed a rich Gossip 'tis said , if afterwards she should turn whore . But if chiefly , etc A widow whose wealth does surmount , if that you do marry for gain , Shee'l call you to double account , and your pleasures will turn to your pain : Beside she is apt to be jealous , which is the forerunner of strife : As good to be hang'd at the Gallows , as marry with such a cross wife . But chiefly , etc And now in the second place I am purposed for to recite , My skill in Physiognomy , wherein I will show you a ligh By 'th colour of hair on the head , or else by the favour or face , You may know with whom for to wed ; and who you were best to embrace . But chiefly , etc The man that will choose him a mate , by colour of Hair or complexion , Must choose many ways intricate , lest he be brought under subjection , He must view both her forehead and brow , her Cheeks , Eyes , Nose , and her Chin. GOod Cupid those things does allow , when you first to woo her begin . But chiefly , etc All is not gold which Glisters , nor is it all led that looks dull . Fair Venus the chief of the Sisters , made Vulcan her husband a Gull , So many times beautiful Lasses , will jeer their poor husbands in scorn , And cunningly break all their Glasses , and make them drink out of the Horn . But chiefly , etc She that hath her hair of bright yellow , and traces the wyers of Gold , If she meet with some pretty fellow , her husband may chance to be Cuckold ; And she that by nature's compos'd , of round Cherry Cheeks and read hair , If she be pink-ey'd and long nos'd , believe me this dangerous ware . But chiefly , etc The brown hair with witty discourse , but commonly for her own ends ; I like her a great deal the worse , because shee'l dissemble with her friends . A Wench with and ash coloured face , her actions are often uncivil ; Her tongue will her husband disgrace , just like the second She-devil . But chiefly , etc The bonny Wench with the black-brow , o she is a good one indeed : For she will be true to her vow : I would we had more of her breed : And thus I have told you my mind , concerning Physiognomy , I mean no wrong to women kind , I swear by my honesty . Lest I should some female offend , I'le lay by my pen and rest , What ever in this Ditty is pen'd , let young men take where they love best . Yet thus much i'le speak , in regard , and i'le maintain my words in a trice . Some women may well be compar'd , to the best chance or worst of the Dice , Suppose a youngman goes to Dice , and do venture his goods and his store , If he can throw Cinque or a Size , the games his own for evermore : But if that his fortune be crossed , that he throws but a Dewce or and Ace , His goods and his substance is lost , and hee's left in a pitiful case . Suppose in like case , if a Lad , can get him a provident wife , His fortune can never be bad , he's made all the days of his life : But if that dame-fortune do frown , that his wife and he cannot agree , He is quite for ever cast down , by woeful experience we see . And now noble Young men adieu , remember the words which I say : This songs like to prove to be true , then buy it and bear it away . London Printed for W. Thackerary , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . 