The Loyal Maids good Counsel to all her Fellow-Maids . To be careful of wanton Youngmen , They'll promise they love you again and again : But if they get their will of you before you are wed You may look a new sweetheart and a new Maidenhead : And believe no false youngmen that will dissemble and lie , Lest they send you away with salt Tears in your Eye . To the Tune of , Come hither my own sweet Duck . This may be Printed , R. P. YOung Maidens I pray you be careful , and harken then unto me , And be sure to keep your Maidenhead when in Company that you be ; For Youngmen are so falsehearted , as many do's plainly see , They'll sware and lie and give you fine Words , they'll deceive you if it may be , And only to bring you to their Bow , for to fulfil their will : I pray young Maidens be wise in this , for good Counsel means no ill . They'll make you believe that they love you , to draw your hearts away , When it is nothing else but to prove you , for to show you Venus play : And when you have yielded to their Will oftentimes it ne'er comes to good , They'r as false as Judas , so many are ill if it be rightly understood : But only to bring you to their Bow , for to fulfil their Will : I pray young Maidens be wise in this , for good Counsel means no ill . The second part to the same Tune . They will have you to the Beer and Wine , and there Money they will not spare , But there is a thing above your knee , but of that take special Care , Or else you may be overthrown : the sport it will move them so , Then you may curse the time you kept Company : all this is true you know , And only to bring you to their Bow , etc They'll vow in your ear , and to you will swear , there shall never be no strife , And tell you you are there Love and their Dear , and they'll make you their one sweet Wife : When all are lies that some men devise , they'll undo you and away they will go ; Be careful of this when they slaver and kiss , found Love it is false you do know : And only to bring , etc They'll wake you all night for their own delight , and keep you you cannot sleep , And many will seek to do you a spite to bring bobbing and hey ho to me And if they can bring there purpose about then they will desire no more , Then he will be gone like a false hearted Man , and brag on't he has made you a Whore : And only to bring you to their Bow , There is many a Maid has been served so , both in London and the Country too ; When a falsehearted Lover a Maiden does woe , then all the skill he can show he will do : But now pretty Maidens be rul'd by a fool , when she proffers such kindness , I say , And give them mock for mock , let them not come under your Smock , if they do they will show you some play . And only to bring you to their Bow , It is very hard for a Maiden to trust some Young men's Constancy , They are so cunning and so unjust as the World do's plainly see ; They strive to make a Maid a Mother before they will make her their Wife , He is but a Knave , if he were my own Brother , to destroy a poor Maid so with grief , When they seek for to bring them to their Bow , Content your selves , now pretty Maids , in closing up the same , There is many thousands of honest Youngmen of Credit and in good Fame , If you can choose among those Men , and let the worse sort then stay , But have a care of your Maidenhead keep it till your Wedding-day : Some will strive to bring you to their Bow , She was a Maid that did set out this Song , she was thirty before she was Wed , She had great care of every one , to save her Maidenhead . At last their came and honest Man and made her his own dear Wife : If she had yielded to some that came before she had been undone all the days of her life : Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . The Loyal Maids good Counsel to all her Fellow-Maids . To be careful of wanton Youngmen , They'll promise they love you again and again : But if they get their will of you before you are wed You may look a new sweetheart and a new Maidenhead : And believe no false youngmen that will dissemble and lie , Lest they send you away with salt Tears in your Eye . To the Tune of , Come hither my own sweet Duck . This may be Printed , R. P. YOung Maidens I pray you be careful , and harken then unto me , And be sure to keep your Maidenhead when in Company that you be ; For Youngmen are so falsehearted , as many do's plainly see , They'll sware and lie and give you fine Words , they'll deceive you if it may be , And only to bring you to their Bow , for to fulfil their will : I pray young Maidens be wise in this , for good Counsel means no ill . They'll make you believe that they love you , to draw your hearts away , When it is nothing else but to prove you , for to show you Venus play : And when you have yielded to their Will oftentimes it ne'er comes to good , They'r as false as Judas , so many are ill if it be rightly understood : But only to bring you to their Bow , for to fulfil their Will : I pray young Maidens be wise in this , for good Counsel means no ill . The second part to the same Tune . They will have you to the Beer and Wine , and there Money they will not spare , But there is a thing above your knee , but of that take special Care , Or else you may be overthrown : the sport it will move them so , Then you may curse the time you kept Company : all this is true you know , And only to bring you to their Bow , etc They'll vow in your ear , and to you will swear , there shall never be no strife , And tell you you are there Love and their Dear , and they'll make you their one sweet Wife : When all are lies that some men devise , they'll undo you and away they will go ; Be careful of this when they slaver and kiss , found Love it is false you do know : And only to bring , etc They'll wake you all night for their own delight , and keep you you cannot sleep , And many will seek to do you a spite to bring bobbing and hey ho to me And if they can bring there purpose about then they will desire no more , Then he will be gone like a false hearted Man , and brag on't he has made you a Whore : And only to bring you to their Bow , There is many a Maid has been served so , both in London and the Country too ; When a falsehearted Lover a Maiden does woe , then all the skill he can show he will do : But now pretty Maidens be rul'd by a fool , when she proffers such kindness , I say , And give them mock for mock , let them not come under your Smock , if they do they will show you some play . And only to bring you to their Bow , It is very hard for a Maiden to trust some Young men's Constancy , They are so cunning and so unjust as the World do's plainly see ; They strive to make a Maid a Mother before they will make her their Wife , He is but a Knave , if he were my own Brother , to destroy a poor Maid so with grief , When they seek for to bring them to their Bow , Content your selves , now pretty Maids , in closing up the same , There is many thousands of honest Youngmen of Credit and in good Fame , If you can choose among those Men , and let the worse sort then stay , But have a care of your Maidenhead keep it till your Wedding-day : Some will strive to bring you to their Bow , She was a Maid that did set out this Song , she was thirty before she was Wed , She had great care of every one , to save her Maidenhead . At last their came and honest Man and made her his own dear Wife : If she had yielded to some that came before she had been undone all the days of her life : Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . 