NORTHAMPTONSHIRE TRAGEDY . YOUNG lovers lend and ear I'm sure you'll shed a tear When you the same shall hear which I unfold , 'Twill make your heart to bleed when farther I proceed , A damsel's story true as ever was told . In fair Northamptonshire as I to you declare , There lived two noblemen of vast estates , Each had a daughter dear as for truth we hear , But yet alas ! unhappy was their fates . One was of a beauteous mould the other as its told , Was much deformed and inferior too , The other a beauty clear but you soon shall hear , Her craftiness did this lady soon undo . A noble knight of fame to court this beauty came , Protesting if she would not grant his love , He was quite ruined no comfort day or night Oh ease me of my pain you powers above . Why did this lovely fair my tender heart ensnare ? O Cupid let your tender arrows fly , And wound her heart as mine and make her be as kind , For if she will not love for her I die . At last we find he to her told his mind , Who courteously to him that [ i ] s answer made , Your suit I must deny kind sir I tell you why , I think I am too young as yet to wed . But lovely maid said he can you thus cruel be , Let not those charming eyes such darts let fly , Oh cure a lovesick heart and ease me of my smart , Or else for you my dearest love I die . Sir tell me not of love you may inconstant prove , I know such things they are often found , My years they are yet too green I am not yet fifteen , I'm sure I do not know what love does mean . Thus night and day would he with this lady be , At last she did consent to be his bride , First ask my father pray let him appoint the day , And if he's willing I'm satisfied . O charming found I hear that you will be my dear , Thou beauteous goddess whom I adore , Since you're constant at last now my sorrows are past , Instead of grief I have comfort in store . He to her father went and asked his consent , Immediately he to him thus did say , She is too young indeed it must be thus agreed , If that you have her you for her must stay . With all my heart he cried if she is my bride , I do not mind for her how long I stay , This she I do adore and shall for evermore , With kisses sweet heigh passed the time away . OBSERVE the second part how he did her betray , Her heart he stole away and then defiled , Her lovely body too and proved her overthrow , For alas ! by him she did prove with child . Soon as he knew the same he left the lovely dame , And to her neighbour a courting did go , Tho' crooked and deformed for her this beauty scorn'd , Which caused her lovely eyes with tears to flow . Letters she oft did send with expressions kind , Saying what do you mean dear love I pray , That you from me fly and will not come nigh , Oh cruel man my heart thus to betray . No answer she receiv'd from her love indeed , At length unto the coachman she did say , Dear John one thing I crave I'll make you fine and brave , If you'll my council keep and not betray . This diamond ring so bright bear it to the gallant knight , Brave Stanford that sweet name it does bear , Also this letter pray give it him to day , Or else my heart in pieces I must tear , The coachman was amazed and on his lady gazed , Unto the perjured knight away he went , His message did declare --- Go tell your lady fair , To come to her this day was my intent . Soon as he come he approach'd the room , The charming lady's bloom like roses sweet , Her crimson cheeks forsook e'er a word she spoke , In a swoon she dropped down at his feet . He strove her to revive and finding her alive , What means your grief I beg now let me hear , Her lily hands she wrung it a deluding tongue , Oh pity me for my sweet infant dear ! Its striving in my womb perform your promise come , Blast not my honour bide my shame I pray , Look on the ring I beg think on the oath you made , Which you swore to me night and day . With countenance most grim he at her cast the ring , Think not vile wretch thy case I deplore , No more thy face I'll see no more send f [ or ] me , I will not own a bastard or a whore . Good people do but think what grief she underwent , To hear this purjured creature thus degrade , Her charms unto her face who did her thus disgrace , Whose flattery at her heart he betrayed . At last her father dear beheld his daughter fair , With sorrow overflowed to her he said , What ails my daughter dear do pray let me hear , The reason I must know this very day . I am very ill she cried let me not be denied , One thing that I desire dear father pray , That I do take the air may to my aunt's repair , If not my father's will must be obeyed . HER father did consent she to her aunt was sent , Her coach to attend her also , Her aunt did quickly spy wherein her grief did lie , And the truth he quickly then did know . Her aunt was just and good her best friend she stood , At last the time was come this lady fair , Must delivered be a lovely son had she , Which was much cause to her of grief and bore . As she delivered were she called the coachman there , To heaven made him swear for to be true , Here take these guineas bright go to the false knight , And give to him the rings and letter to . Soon to the knight he went and gave the things she sent , Who opened the same it did unfold , When he read the same a treacherous laugh did frame , Saying I wonder at this strumpet bold . Me of her son to tell I wish they were in hell , I think it would be well if they were there , Go tell her what I say and come no more I pray , So then in pieces the letter he did tear . He to the lady came and to her told the same , Oh creature most profane my infant dear , May rest in heaven high while thy sad soul does fry , In cruel torment where you wish we were . In bitter grief she lay tormented night and day , At length her infant died by her side , This made her grief more and more she kiss'd o'er and o'er , My father I will see what e'er betide . At length she weary grew I'll to my father go , Dear aunt I pray let none my secret know , So farewell she cried let heaven be your guide , I'll seek for him that proved my overthrow . She to her father came who did her entertain , Most lovingly saying my daughter dear , I'm glad to see you well strange news I have to tell , Your love is married this day I do declare . She seemed discontent and from her father went , You furies now come strike into my brain , Some project that I may him see , And let me be revenged for this disdain . Her lover as we hear did each day repair , To take the air within a silent grove , To take the air read some diverting play , He'd fit and let his wandering fancy rove . She understood the same and calling to her man , And smiling unto [ h ] im she thus did say , Stanford as I do hear does to a grove repair , A project's come in my head this day . I'll get a friar's dress a visit I protest , I am resolved to him to pay , And crave his charity while he does look on me , I'm sure to speak to him I'll find a way . The dress she did prepare with things fit and rare , Her coachman ready in the afternoon , Drove down a narrow lane behind the grove it came , Now stop said she you'll see the fancy soon . Out of the coach she came the friar's dress put on , And when she had disguis'd herself all o'er , A curious basket tine she round her arm did twine , Then went his charity to implore . Most noble knight so brave your charity I crave , I hope you will me relieve before you go , Yes that I will said he but pray now let me see , Methinks I something of that voice do know . She by his side did stand and took him by the hand , And with the other out a pistol drew , And let it off with speed to do this wicked deed , The bullet went to his body thro' and thro' . He fell down dead indeed she stripped off the friar's weed , Now Stanford worthy friend 'tis I , Have done the bloody deed caused thy heart to bleed , Now thou art rewarded for thy treachery . She cast her friar's weed over her head with speed , Her ceachman saw the thing she had done , He trembled every limb and straightway took her in , And then like lightning home he drove . But as he drove along the coach did overturn , A most unhappy doom this lady she , Her arm she broke in two the coachman's leg also , In misery they lay all the afternoon , The fir [ s ] tO that saw them there was a servant we hear . Of the murdered knight a coming there , To NORTHAMPTONSHIRE TRAGEDY . YOUNG lovers lend and ear I'm sure you'll shed a tear When you the same shall hear which I unfold , 'Twill make your heart to bleed when farther I proceed , A damsel's story true as ever was told . In fair Northamptonshire as I to you declare , There lived two noblemen of vast estates , Each had a daughter dear as for truth we hear , But yet alas ! unhappy was their fates . One was of a beauteous mould the other as its told , Was much deformed and inferior too , The other a beauty clear but you soon shall hear , Her craftiness did this lady soon undo . A noble knight of fame to court this beauty came , Protesting if she would not grant his love , He was quite ruined no comfort day or night Oh ease me of my pain you powers above . Why did this lovely fair my tender heart ensnare ? O Cupid let your tender arrows fly , And wound her heart as mine and make her be as kind , For if she will not love for her I die . At last we find he to her told his mind , Who courteously to him that [ i ] s answer made , Your suit I must deny kind sir I tell you why , I think I am too young as yet to wed . But lovely maid said he can you thus cruel be , Let not those charming eyes such darts let fly , Oh cure a lovesick heart and ease me of my smart , Or else for you my dearest love I die . Sir tell me not of love you may inconstant prove , I know such things they are often found , My years they are yet too green I am not yet fifteen , I'm sure I do not know what love does mean . Thus night and day would he with this lady be , At last she did consent to be his bride , First ask my father pray let him appoint the day , And if he's willing I'm satisfied . O charming found I hear that you will be my dear , Thou beauteous goddess whom I adore , Since you're constant at last now my sorrows are past , Instead of grief I have comfort in store . He to her father went and asked his consent , Immediately he to him thus did say , She is too young indeed it must be thus agreed , If that you have her you for her must stay . With all my heart he cried if she is my bride , I do not mind for her how long I stay , This she I do adore and shall for evermore , With kisses sweet heigh passed the time away . OBSERVE the second part how he did her betray , Her heart he stole away and then defiled , Her lovely body too and proved her overthrow , For alas ! by him she did prove with child . Soon as he knew the same he left the lovely dame , And to her neighbour a courting did go , Tho' crooked and deformed for her this beauty scorn'd , Which caused her lovely eyes with tears to flow . Letters she oft did send with expressions kind , Saying what do you mean dear love I pray , That you from me fly and will not come nigh , Oh cruel man my heart thus to betray . No answer she receiv'd from her love indeed , At length unto the coachman she did say , Dear John one thing I crave I'll make you fine and brave , If you'll my council keep and not betray . This diamond ring so bright bear it to the gallant knight , Brave Stanford that sweet name it does bear , Also this letter pray give it him to day , Or else my heart in pieces I must tear , The coachman was amazed and on his lady gazed , Unto the perjured knight away he went , His message did declare --- Go tell your lady fair , To come to her this day was my intent . Soon as he come he approach'd the room , The charming lady's bloom like roses sweet , Her crimson cheeks forsook e'er a word she spoke , In a swoon she dropped down at his feet . He strove her to revive and finding her alive , What means your grief I beg now let me hear , Her lily hands she wrung it a deluding tongue , Oh pity me for my sweet infant dear ! Its striving in my womb perform your promise come , Blast not my honour bide my shame I pray , Look on the ring I beg think on the oath you made , Which you swore to me night and day . With countenance most grim he at her cast the ring , Think not vile wretch thy case I deplore , No more thy face I'll see no more send f [ or ] me , I will not own a bastard or a whore . Good people do but think what grief she underwent , To hear this purjured creature thus degrade , Her charms unto her face who did her thus disgrace , Whose flattery at her heart he betrayed . At last her father dear beheld his daughter fair , With sorrow overflowed to her he said , What ails my daughter dear do pray let me hear , The reason I must know this very day . I am very ill she cried let me not be denied , One thing that I desire dear father pray , That I do take the air may to my aunt's repair , If not my father's will must be obeyed . HER father did consent she to her aunt was sent , Her coach to attend her also , Her aunt did quickly spy wherein her grief did lie , And the truth he quickly then did know . Her aunt was just and good her best friend she stood , At last the time was come this lady fair , Must delivered be a lovely son had she , Which was much cause to her of grief and bore . As she delivered were she called the coachman there , To heaven made him swear for to be true , Here take these guineas bright go to the false knight , And give to him the rings and letter to . Soon to the knight he went and gave the things she sent , Who opened the same it did unfold , When he read the same a treacherous laugh did frame , Saying I wonder at this strumpet bold . Me of her son to tell I wish they were in hell , I think it would be well if they were there , Go tell her what I say and come no more I pray , So then in pieces the letter he did tear . He to the lady came and to her told the same , Oh creature most profane my infant dear , May rest in heaven high while thy sad soul does fry , In cruel torment where you wish we were . In bitter grief she lay tormented night and day , At length her infant died by her side , This made her grief more and more she kiss'd o'er and o'er , My father I will see what e'er betide . At length she weary grew I'll to my father go , Dear aunt I pray let none my secret know , So farewell she cried let heaven be your guide , I'll seek for him that proved my overthrow . She to her father came who did her entertain , Most lovingly saying my daughter dear , I'm glad to see you well strange news I have to tell , Your love is married this day I do declare . She seemed discontent and from her father went , You furies now come strike into my brain , Some project that I may him see , And let me be revenged for this disdain . Her lover as we hear did each day repair , To take the air within a silent grove , To take the air read some diverting play , He'd fit and let his wandering fancy rove . She understood the same and calling to her man , And smiling unto [ h ] im she thus did say , Stanford as I do hear does to a grove repair , A project's come in my head this day . I'll get a friar's dress a visit I protest , I am resolved to him to pay , And crave his charity while he does look on me , I'm sure to speak to him I'll find a way . The dress she did prepare with things fit and rare , Her coachman ready in the afternoon , Drove down a narrow lane behind the grove it came , Now stop said she you'll see the fancy soon . Out of the coach she came the friar's dress put on , And when she had disguis'd herself all o'er , A curious basket tine she round her arm did twine , Then went his charity to implore . Most noble knight so brave your charity I crave , I hope you will me relieve before you go , Yes that I will said he but pray now let me see , Methinks I something of that voice do know . She by his side did stand and took him by the hand , And with the other out a pistol drew , And let it off with speed to do this wicked deed , The bullet went to his body thro' and thro' . He fell down dead indeed she stripped off the friar's weed , Now Stanford worthy friend 'tis I , Have done the bloody deed caused thy heart to bleed , Now thou art rewarded for thy treachery . She cast her friar's weed over her head with speed , Her ceachman saw the thing she had done , He trembled every limb and straightway took her in , And then like lightning home he drove . But as he drove along the coach did overturn , A most unhappy doom this lady she , Her arm she broke in two the coachman's leg also , In misery they lay all the afternoon , The fir [ s ] tO that saw them there was a servant we hear . Of the murdered knight a coming there , To fetch his master dear seeing this lady fair , Had by some false traitors heen misus'd . Then turning back again he found his master slave , So going home to tell this fatal hews , And that there were thought this lady fair , Carried them to her father I declare . The lady of this knight unto her boar a spite , And had her apprehended out of hand , She did confess the deed and soon told with speed , And the whole truth she let them understand . She was condemn'd to die her father's gold did fly , Like chaff before the wind her life to save , It would not save her life for the knight's cruel wife , She said her life her life is all I crave . The fatal day was come she must receive her doom , When thousands went to hear what she did say , When she came to the tree both old and young said she , Now a warning take by me this very day . FIRST parents have a care if e'er your children dear , Think fit to marry do not them deny , For fear that love at last should their glory blast , As may be seen by my sad destiny . Next maidens all beware and have a special care , Of men's deceitful tongues that flattering train , For if you do consent to your great discontent , When they have you betrayed they will you disdain . Likewise false men I say beware how you betray , Poor innocents it may be your ruin , When love does turn to hate the malice is so great , That your destruction does your fancy prove . As for example I poor wretched soul must die , The deed I don't deny for I [ di ] worser kill , The man I lov'd so dear who scorn'd my beauty fair , For one that was deformed , but yet I still Unto the world must own my heart is with him gone , Oh welcome death come execute I pray , The tragic part perform . O Lord I come I come , Oh Lord receive my soul that's gone astray . After she spoke the hangman fix'd the rope , The cart it drew away the earth it shook , The cries they were so great that the people did make , When this lady fair the world forsook . Printed and Sold by J. Pitts , 14 , Great St. Andrew Street , Seven Dials . fetch his master dear seeing this lady fair , Had by some false traitors heen misus'd . Then turning back again he found his master slave , So going home to tell this fatal hews , And that there were thought this lady fair , Carried them to her father I declare . The lady of this knight unto her boar a spite , And had her apprehended out of hand , She did confess the deed and soon told with speed , And the whole truth she let them understand . She was condemn'd to die her father's gold did fly , Like chaff before the wind her life to save , It would not save her life for the knight's cruel wife , She said her life her life is all I crave . The fatal day was come she must receive her doom , When thousands went to hear what she did say , When she came to the tree both old and young said she , Now a warning take by me this very day . FIRST parents have a care if e'er your children dear , Think fit to marry do not them deny , For fear that love at last should their glory blast , As may be seen by my sad destiny . Next maidens all beware and have a special care , Of men's deceitful tongues that flattering train , For if you do consent to your great discontent , When they have you betrayed they will you disdain . Likewise false men I say beware how you betray , Poor innocents it may be your ruin , When love does turn to hate the malice is so great , That your destruction does your fancy prove . As for example I poor wretched soul must die , The deed I don't deny for I [ di ] worser kill , The man I lov'd so dear who scorn'd my beauty fair , For one that was deformed , but yet I still Unto the world must own my heart is with him gone , Oh welcome death come execute I pray , The tragic part perform . O Lord I come I come , Oh Lord receive my soul that's gone astray . After she spoke the hangman fix'd the rope , The cart it drew away the earth it shook , The cries they were so great that the people did make , When this lady fair the world forsook . Printed and Sold by J. Pitts , 14 , Great St. Andrew Street , Seven Dials . 