C : RB . I.262 ( 008 ) THE Kings Majesties Love TO LONDON . MY dearest City , and my native place , To see sad tears run down thy beauteous face , Makes Me and mine , to mourn , lament , and weep , Does cause me wake , when I should fallen asleep ; As I am King , my Love to thee is more Then Seas have Water , and the Earth hath Shore : My love shall never fail to thee or thine , But for thy sake , as far as Sun does shine My Navy and my Forces shall seek out Thy foreign Foes , and seek the World about ; I'le scour the Main , I'le make the Ocean dry , And thy proud foes shall at thy Footstool lie : In this distress , Oh London ! thou shalt see , Great Britains King thy only Friend to be ; Trust to it London , for as I am King , I will thy Foes unto subjection bring ; And cause them at thy Footstool for to lie , Because they wrong thee in thy misery : Oh London , London , if thou wilt obey My just command , I never shall say nay To anything that's right , or thou'lt require , Thou'st have thy will , thy grant , or thy desire ; My Cordial love is more then thou dost know , If thou'lt obey , if thou'lt subjection owe To me thy King , I'le make the World to see , Thou shalt loose nothing by obeying me ; Though on my Foes I usually do frown , And with my might I tumble them all down ; And will all those who commonly arise In open Arms ; and those who do despise My Government will not subjection yield , But seeks to fight me in the open Field ; Or by false treachery do me annoy , If they seek my life , I shall those destroy : My chiefest City , I do much lament , Thy grief , thy sorrow , and thy discontent , Thy tears , thy mournings , and thy sad condition , And for thy cause I daily do Petition My Gracious God , to take his hand away , And suffer not his Angel for to slay , Or thee or thine , or suffer thee to stand , Within the reach of his destroying hand ; But to remove his judgements , and to spare My only City , for which I so care : My Royal City , and my Native place , My Metropolitan hath spoil'd her face ; Her eyes with weeping are sunk in her head , And she lies now , much like to one that's dead : What good thy King , Oh London ! can thee doe , He will doo't for thee , yea , and that soon too ; The daily prayers of great Britains King , Will cause a Heavenly Dove , to London bring And Olive leaf ; whereby to signify That thou and thine shall live , you shall not die : LONDONS MODEST ANSWER . Rejoice Oh London ! in thy King , Who to thy City does such comfort bring : His Purse , his Prayers , and his Princely Deeds , He does thee send , to staunch thy Wound that bleeds . MOST Sovereign Lord , my good and gracious King , What Joy , what Comfort , does your sweet words bring ? How they revive my soul , and do me cheer , Expels my sorrows and drive back my fear ; But what am I , poor London , what am I ? That Britains King , the flour of Majesty , Should look upon me with such care and pity , A poor distressed and unworthy City ? 'Tis his free grace , and heavenly disposition , That at Gods Throne he daily does Petition For me and mine , that God would us restore , To perfect health , and drive death from my door ; Oh gracious Prince , how am I bound to pray , For your good Grace , and how bound to obey Your sacred Person , and your just command , Your Acts , your Statutes , and not to withstand Your Will and Pleasure ; but while I do live , I will subjection to your Highness give ? If God be pleas'd to lengthen out my days , I will not only Speak , but Write your praise ; And all the Nations this day under Sun , Shall fully know what Englands King hath done To Londons City ; when Gods hand did lie Most heavy on her in her misery : How Wine and Oil he pours in her wound , How with his prayers he seeks to set her found ; How he does comfort her amid her grief , How to the poor he sends great relief ; What comfortable words from him proceeds , What Royal virtue , grace , and goodly deeds . O happy London , in so good a King , That in thy misery's such comfort bring , In thy afflictions he should look upon Thy wants , and woes when all thy friends are gone : While London stands , her King she will obey , And for his Majesty will daily pray ; She never more will heave a single hand , His sacred pleasure she will not withstand ; But will obedience and subjection give , Unto Authority while she does live ; Live , live , Oh London , live , and do not die , Thy King's thy friend now in thy misery : The King , the King , of Kings does daily pray , That God would turn his heavy hand away From me and mine , and in my great distress Would comfort send , and with his graces bless : What City in the World hath such a Prince ? Not one example can be shown e're since The World's creation ; who did so provide For his poor Subject's , who must needs have di'd : Yea , thousands at this day had been in grave , Who are alive in health whom he did save : And under God by his rich means did cure , In health among us Lord let him endure . London , Printed by John Best , at the sign of the Three Crowns in Giltspur-Street . 1665. C : RB . I.262 ( 008 ) THE Kings Majesties Love TO LONDON . MY dearest City , and my native place , To see sad tears run down thy beauteous face , Makes Me and mine , to mourn , lament , and weep , Does cause me wake , when I should fallen asleep ; As I am King , my Love to thee is more Then Seas have Water , and the Earth hath Shore : My love shall never fail to thee or thine , But for thy sake , as far as Sun does shine My Navy and my Forces shall seek out Thy foreign Foes , and seek the World about ; I'le scour the Main , I'le make the Ocean dry , And thy proud foes shall at thy Footstool lie : In this distress , Oh London ! thou shalt see , Great Britains King thy only Friend to be ; Trust to it London , for as I am King , I will thy Foes unto subjection bring ; And cause them at thy Footstool for to lie , Because they wrong thee in thy misery : Oh London , London , if thou wilt obey My just command , I never shall say nay To anything that's right , or thou'lt require , Thou'st have thy will , thy grant , or thy desire ; My Cordial love is more then thou dost know , If thou'lt obey , if thou'lt subjection owe To me thy King , I'le make the World to see , Thou shalt loose nothing by obeying me ; Though on my Foes I usually do frown , And with my might I tumble them all down ; And will all those who commonly arise In open Arms ; and those who do despise My Government will not subjection yield , But seeks to fight me in the open Field ; Or by false treachery do me annoy , If they seek my life , I shall those destroy : My chiefest City , I do much lament , Thy grief , thy sorrow , and thy discontent , Thy tears , thy mournings , and thy sad condition , And for thy cause I daily do Petition My Gracious God , to take his hand away , And suffer not his Angel for to slay , Or thee or thine , or suffer thee to stand , Within the reach of his destroying hand ; But to remove his judgements , and to spare My only City , for which I so care : My Royal City , and my Native place , My Metropolitan hath spoil'd her face ; Her eyes with weeping are sunk in her head , And she lies now , much like to one that's dead : What good thy King , Oh London ! can thee doe , He will doo't for thee , yea , and that soon too ; The daily prayers of great Britains King , Will cause a Heavenly Dove , to London bring And Olive leaf ; whereby to signify That thou and thine shall live , you shall not die : LONDONS MODEST ANSWER . Rejoice Oh London ! in thy King , Who to thy City does such comfort bring : His Purse , his Prayers , and his Princely Deeds , He does thee send , to staunch thy Wound that bleeds . MOST Sovereign Lord , my good and gracious King , What Joy , what Comfort , does your sweet words bring ? How they revive my soul , and do me cheer , Expels my sorrows and drive back my fear ; But what am I , poor London , what am I ? That Britains King , the flour of Majesty , Should look upon me with such care and pity , A poor distressed and unworthy City ? 'Tis his free grace , and heavenly disposition , That at Gods Throne he daily does Petition For me and mine , that God would us restore , To perfect health , and drive death from my door ; Oh gracious Prince , how am I bound to pray , For your good Grace , and how bound to obey Your sacred Person , and your just command , Your Acts , your Statutes , and not to withstand Your Will and Pleasure ; but while I do live , I will subjection to your Highness give ? If God be pleas'd to lengthen out my days , I will not only Speak , but Write your praise ; And all the Nations this day under Sun , Shall fully know what Englands King hath done To Londons City ; when Gods hand did lie Most heavy on her in her misery : How Wine and Oil he pours in her wound , How with his prayers he seeks to set her found ; How he does comfort her amid her grief , How to the poor he sends great relief ; What comfortable words from him proceeds , What Royal virtue , grace , and goodly deeds . O happy London , in so good a King , That in thy misery's such comfort bring , In thy afflictions he should look upon Thy wants , and woes when all thy friends are gone : While London stands , her King she will obey , And for his Majesty will daily pray ; She never more will heave a single hand , His sacred pleasure she will not withstand ; But will obedience and subjection give , Unto Authority while she does live ; Live , live , Oh London , live , and do not die , Thy King's thy friend now in thy misery : The King , the King , of Kings does daily pray , That God would turn his heavy hand away From me and mine , and in my great distress Would comfort send , and with his graces bless : What City in the World hath such a Prince ? Not one example can be shown e're since The World's creation ; who did so provide For his poor Subject's , who must needs have di'd : Yea , thousands at this day had been in grave , Who are alive in health whom he did save : And under God by his rich means did cure , In health among us Lord let him endure . London , Printed by John Best , at the sign of the Three Crowns in Giltspur-Street . 1665. 