C : RB . I.262 ( 023 ) COCKABENDIE Loves not me . A NEW SONG Much in Request . Sung with its proper Tune . WHat care I for Cockabendie , Cockabendie loves not me , Once I loved Cockabendie , but he said he car'd not by ; Then I think I was not slow , for I bang'd him back again , With a slighting Word or two call'd him Riggling with one S ---- Cockabendie is a Rogue , he loves not the Lasses well , He is not worth a worn Brog , tho' I lov'd him well my fell ; And altho' Love's sighed be dim , and he thinks I do not see , I care not a straw for him no more than he cares for me . After thee now Cockabendie I will ne'er believe a Man ; For thou hast beguiled me , and hast done the worst thou can : Thou hast ta'en what thou ne'r gave , and thought it but a wanton sport , Thy fair Words did me deceive , falsely thou has gain'd the Fort. I came to see Cockabendie when he said he was not well ; I ask'd him what Pains had he , he said , It was all for my fell ; But I found the Rogue beguile , for it was and arrant Lie ; I am now in great exile , Cockabendie loves not me . FINIS : C : RB . I.262 ( 023 ) COCKABENDIE Loves not me . A NEW SONG Much in Request . Sung with its proper Tune . WHat care I for Cockabendie , Cockabendie loves not me , Once I loved Cockabendie , but he said he car'd not by ; Then I think I was not slow , for I bang'd him back again , With a slighting Word or two call'd him Riggling with one S ---- Cockabendie is a Rogue , he loves not the Lasses well , He is not worth a worn Brog , tho' I lov'd him well my fell ; And altho' Love's sighed be dim , and he thinks I do not see , I care not a straw for him no more than he cares for me . After thee now Cockabendie I will ne'er believe a Man ; For thou hast beguiled me , and hast done the worst thou can : Thou hast ta'en what thou ne'r gave , and thought it but a wanton sport , Thy fair Words did me deceive , falsely thou has gain'd the Fort. I came to see Cockabendie when he said he was not well ; I ask'd him what Pains had he , he said , It was all for my fell ; But I found the Rogue beguile , for it was and arrant Lie ; I am now in great exile , Cockabendie loves not me . FINIS : 