C : RB . I.262 ( 026 ) EPITHALAMIUM On the Auspicious Match , betwixt the Right Honourable . The Earl of WIGTOUN And the truly Virtuous Lady MARGARET LINDSAY Daughter to the Right Honourable , The Earl of BALCARROS . NOW is the Time the Origin of Light , Does equally divide our Day from Night . When the Musicians of the Air do sing Melodious Notes to welcome in the Spring When each of them do choose their proper Mate , And Bill , and Hug , and closely Copulate , More through the Force of Love than Phoebus Heat , This is the time when Hymen choos'd to join This Worthy pair , and to make one of twain ; They're both descended of and Ancient Raze Which a long train of Noble Worthies Grace , Both in the Flower of Age , and Venus Spring , Are equally adorn'd in every thing ; He is a stately Personage and fair , Endeu'd with each Accomplishment that's Rare , Of nature , or Refined Literature , Her very name insinuats her praise , She is a Pearl indeed , and of great Price She's Frugal , Chaste , and Beauteous and Wise , Like the Wise Merchant in the Gospel He Hath found the Pearl and hid Treasury , Which in true Computation is far more Then all the Riches on the Eastern shoor , And in Requital does himself Bequeathe , A greater prize then either India hath ; The Conquest's Equal , Equal is the prize , The acquisition's a sweet Paradise On either side , it does surpass my Skill T'express the pleasure that they both shall feel , When he and she in Hymens name shall bow , And pay to each the duty that they owe . A . B.C : RB . I.262 ( 026 ) EPITHALAMIUM On the Auspicious Match , betwixt the Right Honourable . The Earl of WIGTOUN And the truly Virtuous Lady MARGARET LINDSAY Daughter to the Right Honourable , The Earl of BALCARROS . NOW is the Time the Origin of Light , Does equally divide our Day from Night . When the Musicians of the Air do sing Melodious Notes to welcome in the Spring When each of them do choose their proper Mate , And Bill , and Hug , and closely Copulate , More through the Force of Love than Phoebus Heat , This is the time when Hymen choos'd to join This Worthy pair , and to make one of twain ; They're both descended of and Ancient Raze Which a long train of Noble Worthies Grace , Both in the Flower of Age , and Venus Spring , Are equally adorn'd in every thing ; He is a stately Personage and fair , Endeu'd with each Accomplishment that's Rare , Of nature , or Refined Literature , Her very name insinuats her praise , She is a Pearl indeed , and of great Price She's Frugal , Chaste , and Beauteous and Wise , Like the Wise Merchant in the Gospel He Hath found the Pearl and hid Treasury , Which in true Computation is far more Then all the Riches on the Eastern shoor , And in Requital does himself Bequeathe , A greater prize then either India hath ; The Conquest's Equal , Equal is the prize , The acquisition's a sweet Paradise On either side , it does surpass my Skill T'express the pleasure that they both shall feel , When he and she in Hymens name shall bow , And pay to each the duty that they owe . A.B. 