C : RB . I.262 ( 018 ) THE Queen of the Milk-women ; OR , AND ELEGY Occasion'd by the Death of , Mrs. E.G. Who departed this life on Thursday Morning October 6th . 1698. As also a full and true Account how she lies in State , and Threescore Milk-women in Mourning for her . COme you Lasses and Maids , Who pursue Milking Trades , With your Pails on your Heads strait appear , While I mourn the sad fallen , Of the Chief of you All , And the best too as much as I hear . She's Dead , let each pour On her Corpse a Milk shower , To preserve and to moisten her Clay : That a Person so just , May'nt too soon turn to Dust , Or too soon be to Vermin a Prey . Ah! how when alive , She grac'd those who survive , Who admir'd at the Qualities in her , How She look'd like a Lady , When She Danc'd upon May Day , With her Green Hat and Flanders lace-Pinner . But her Maidens may boast Of her Charity most , And her goodness in giving 'em Liquour : For Lord how She'd Swill , And give each of'm her fill To make 'em more speedy and quicker : Both Distiller and Host , May lament that she's lost , For she was their Friend certain and fast , And a Boon Companion , As cheerful as any one While the Quartern and Bottle did last . She had other good virtues , Which she show'd to all parties , As not dashing her new Milk with water , And she took as great pleasure In fair , and full Measure , As the rest of her Trade do in shorter . These uncommon deserts , May make all True Hearts , To conclude that she dy'd well and Godly ; For if she had not , Took up her full Pot , Her death would have look'd very Oddly . But now Threescore Trapes , Are in black Cloth , and Crapes , As and Argument that she dy'd well . I mean well to pass , For wise man nor Ass , Any more of her Exit can tell . She serv'd Queen , her Mistress late of , and in distress , And I must needs say this to her Honour , Tho' Her Money was good , As no doubt a Queen's shou'd She had many a fair Coach-Wheel upon her As she serv'd High and Great , She Lies now in State , By Rich and by Poor to be seen , With Milk she supply'd The Queen Dowager's Bride , And of Milk-Women she Dy'd the Queen . C : RB . I.262 ( 018 ) THE Queen of the Milk-women ; OR , AND ELEGY Occasion'd by the Death of , Mrs. E.G. Who departed this life on Thursday Morning October 6th . 1698. As also a full and true Account how she lies in State , and Threescore Milk-women in Mourning for her . COme you Lasses and Maids , Who pursue Milking Trades , With your Pails on your Heads strait appear , While I mourn the sad fallen , Of the Chief of you All , And the best too as much as I hear . She's Dead , let each pour On her Corpse a Milk shower , To preserve and to moisten her Clay : That a Person so just , May'nt too soon turn to Dust , Or too soon be to Vermin a Prey . Ah! how when alive , She grac'd those who survive , Who admir'd at the Qualities in her , How She look'd like a Lady , When She Danc'd upon May Day , With her Green Hat and Flanders lace-Pinner . But her Maidens may boast Of her Charity most , And her goodness in giving 'em Liquour : For Lord how She'd Swill , And give each of'm her fill To make 'em more speedy and quicker : Both Distiller and Host , May lament that she's lost , For she was their Friend certain and fast , And a Boon Companion , As cheerful as any one While the Quartern and Bottle did last . She had other good virtues , Which she show'd to all parties , As not dashing her new Milk with water , And she took as great pleasure In fair , and full Measure , As the rest of her Trade do in shorter . These uncommon deserts , May make all True Hearts , To conclude that she dy'd well and Godly ; For if she had not , Took up her full Pot , Her death would have look'd very Oddly . But now Threescore Trapes , Are in black Cloth , and Crapes , As and Argument that she dy'd well . I mean well to pass , For wise man nor Ass , Any more of her Exit can tell . She serv'd Queen , her Mistress late of , and in distress , And I must needs say this to her Honour , Tho' Her Money was good , As no doubt a Queen's shou'd She had many a fair Coach-Wheel upon her As she serv'd High and Great , She Lies now in State , By Rich and by Poor to be seen , With Milk she supply'd The Queen Dowager's Bride , And of Milk-Women she Dy'd the Queen . 