C : RB . I.262 ( 020 ) GILDEROY MY Love he was as brave a Man as ever Scotland bred , Descended from a Highland Clan , a Kater to his Trade : No woman then or woman , or kind had ever greater Joy , Than we two when we lodg'd alone , I and my Gilderoy . 2 First when I and my Love met , with Joy he did me crown , He gave me a new Petticoat , and then a Tartan Gown : No Woman then , etc 3 Gilderoy was a bonny Boy when he went to the Glen , He had silk Stockens on his Legs , and Roses in his Shoes : No Woman then , etc 4 When Gilderoy went to the Wood he ofttimes catch'd the Fat , Into the Desert as he went , scarce ten durst beldecat , But if he were as stout as Wallace wight , and tall as Dalmahoy , He'd never miss to get a Clout from my Love Gilderoy . 5 When Gilderoy and I was young , we was brought up together , And we were scarce seven Years old , when the one did love the other ; Our Father's and our Mother's both , they thought of us great joy , And long'd to see the Wedding-day 'twixt me and Gilderoy . 6 Till it fell once upon a time they catch'd him like a Thief , And ty'd his Hands behind his Back , which was to me great grief ; Three Gallons large of Iscobee , they drank to my Love's Foy , And in to Edinburgh they have ta'en my gallant Gilderoy . 7 Pox upon your English Laws , that hangs a Man for Gear , Either for catching Cow or Ewe , or stealing Horse or Mare ; Had not their Laws been so strict , I'd never lost my Joy ; But now he's gone whom I love best , I mean my Gilderoy . 8 And now he is in Edinburgh Town , 'twas long e're I came there , They hanged him upon a Pin , and he wagged in the Air : His Relics they were more esteem'd , than Scanderbeg at Troy ; I never love to see the Face [ that gaz'd on ] Gilderoy . C : RB . I.262 ( 020 ) GILDEROY MY Love he was as brave a Man as ever Scotland bred , Descended from a Highland Clan , a Kater to his Trade : No woman then or woman , or kind had ever greater Joy , Than we two when we lodg'd alone , I and my Gilderoy . 2 First when I and my Love met , with Joy he did me crown , He gave me a new Petticoat , and then a Tartan Gown : No Woman then , etc 3 Gilderoy was a bonny Boy when he went to the Glen , He had silk Stockens on his Legs , and Roses in his Shoes : No Woman then , etc 4 When Gilderoy went to the Wood he ofttimes catch'd the Fat , Into the Desert as he went , scarce ten durst beldecat , But if he were as stout as Wallace wight , and tall as Dalmahoy , He'd never miss to get a Clout from my Love Gilderoy . 5 When Gilderoy and I was young , we was brought up together , And we were scarce seven Years old , when the one did love the other ; Our Father's and our Mother's both , they thought of us great joy , And long'd to see the Wedding-day 'twixt me and Gilderoy . 6 Till it fell once upon a time they catch'd him like a Thief , And ty'd his Hands behind his Back , which was to me great grief ; Three Gallons large of Iscobee , they drank to my Love's Foy , And in to Edinburgh they have ta'en my gallant Gilderoy . 7 Pox upon your English Laws , that hangs a Man for Gear , Either for catching Cow or Ewe , or stealing Horse or Mare ; Had not their Laws been so strict , I'd never lost my Joy ; But now he's gone whom I love best , I mean my Gilderoy . 8 And now he is in Edinburgh Town , 'twas long e're I came there , They hanged him upon a Pin , and he wagged in the Air : His Relics they were more esteem'd , than Scanderbeg at Troy ; I never love to see the Face [ that gaz'd on ] Gilderoy . 