C : RB . I.262 ( 015 ) On his Royal Highness's Return THey who oppose your Right unto the Crown , Would , had they pow'r , pull Monarchy quite down : 'Tis not , so qualifi'd they would have one Of this , or that Religion , on the Throne ; No , no , we know their minds , they would have none . The men that lately kept from Charles his endue , Now promise fair to disinherit you ; They who explode your Right , to make us slaves , Are not Presumptive , but Apparent Knaves : By our Dissensions they would smooth their way , And from Contenders hope to snatch the Prey . But such men seldom in the end can boast , They threaten loud , but still their Cause is lost In such affairs , they'll find it to their cost . Still the old Cheat , Religion is the cry , And made the Ram to batter Monarchy ; 'Cause they deserve , they fear the smarting Rod , And most Religiously distrust their God . Envy at Regal Sway , ( Ah it is sad ) And Zeal misguided made those Bill-men mad : These took rash measures , and did ill advice ; But without jealousy or wrong surmise , The future will prove Loyal , Calm , and Wise . To us it cannot but assurance bring , That a good Man can make as good a King . Factious design , and damn'd Plebeian rage , Does to no mean degree distract the Age , While Grand Disturbers , private lie in wait . And watch the tott'ring of our settled State . But can we be such Sheep , such careless Elves , Not to beware the Wolves among ourselves ? Those Beasts of Prey , that lurk in a disguise , That wear our skins ; 'tis there our danger lies : Against their Brother-Wolves they raise the cry , 'Cause their Addresses are not half so sly . A Papist seems a Papist to our sighed , But our Fanatic , 'cause he would not fright , Daubs o'er the Devil like a Child of Light . But Ah! great Sir , where you should still Command , You , like a Stranger , visit your own Land ; You for a moment Tantalize our sighed , Then , like the absent Sun , you give us nigh But 'tis the ready way , we must confess , To make us know and prize our happiness ; While all do suffer , for the faulty few , England must loose it self in losing you . But to Great Britain come ------ May you in highest splendour live , and be Happy and safe , Great Sir , in One of Three . Sir , may your Right no otherwise prove vain , Than by the length of our Great CHARLES his Reign . We cannot , Sir , but prove a happy Nation ; One bliss enjoy'd , another in expectation . There but remains this great Truth in the close , Your Virtue 'nd Courage , Sir , the whole World knows , And y' are born for Conquest o'er your Foes . FINIS . C : RB . I.262 ( 015 ) On his Royal Highness's Return THey who oppose your Right unto the Crown , Would , had they pow'r , pull Monarchy quite down : 'Tis not , so qualifi'd they would have one Of this , or that Religion , on the Throne ; No , no , we know their minds , they would have none . The men that lately kept from Charles his endue , Now promise fair to disinherit you ; They who explode your Right , to make us slaves , Are not Presumptive , but Apparent Knaves : By our Dissensions they would smooth their way , And from Contenders hope to snatch the Prey . But such men seldom in the end can boast , They threaten loud , but still their Cause is lost In such affairs , they'll find it to their cost . Still the old Cheat , Religion is the cry , And made the Ram to batter Monarchy ; 'Cause they deserve , they fear the smarting Rod , And most Religiously distrust their God . Envy at Regal Sway , ( Ah it is sad ) And Zeal misguided made those Bill-men mad : These took rash measures , and did ill advice ; But without jealousy or wrong surmise , The future will prove Loyal , Calm , and Wise . To us it cannot but assurance bring , That a good Man can make as good a King . Factious design , and damn'd Plebeian rage , Does to no mean degree distract the Age , While Grand Disturbers , private lie in wait . And watch the tott'ring of our settled State . But can we be such Sheep , such careless Elves , Not to beware the Wolves among ourselves ? Those Beasts of Prey , that lurk in a disguise , That wear our skins ; 'tis there our danger lies : Against their Brother-Wolves they raise the cry , 'Cause their Addresses are not half so sly . A Papist seems a Papist to our sighed , But our Fanatic , 'cause he would not fright , Daubs o'er the Devil like a Child of Light . But Ah! great Sir , where you should still Command , You , like a Stranger , visit your own Land ; You for a moment Tantalize our sighed , Then , like the absent Sun , you give us nigh But 'tis the ready way , we must confess , To make us know and prize our happiness ; While all do suffer , for the faulty few , England must loose it self in losing you . But to Great Britain come ------ May you in highest splendour live , and be Happy and safe , Great Sir , in One of Three . Sir , may your Right no otherwise prove vain , Than by the length of our Great CHARLES his Reign . We cannot , Sir , but prove a happy Nation ; One bliss enjoy'd , another in expectation . There but remains this great Truth in the close , Your Virtue 'nd Courage , Sir , the whole World knows , And y' are born for Conquest o'er your Foes . FINIS . 