C : RB . I.262 ( 031 ) A DISCOURSE BETWEEN LAW AND CONSCIENCE When they were both Banished from PARLIAMENT . In the first Parliament of K : James the Seventh . LAW to CONSCIENCE . HOW now , my Lord , how is it so , That thus in sable-weed you go ? what means this sudden alreration , That you have lost your Veneration , And due Benevolence that you owe Unto your Country , now brought low ? In yonder Court you ought to fit , A Freeborn Member ye're of it , And well acquainted with the Laws , Go and Defend your Ancient Cause . Conscience Reply , ALace said Conscience well you wit , In yonder Court I dar not fit , Unless that I betray my Right , And dictat Laws against my light , Your Parliament it looks awry , For I sat in it yesterday , And Voted never a Vote but an , And they against me did exclaim , With lusty words both high and big , They swore that Conscience was a whig , For him they have no veneration , Cause banish him out of the Nation ; And prayed the Clark to word it better , Then to put Conscience in a Letter , To send unto his Majesty , Who bears a mortal feed at me ; For treason , which they say , I thought , Into the year fortie eight , For which I wandered too and from , Even since the year sixty two , That I was banished from the Court , By Lords and Earls of great report , Though I should famish starve and die , Yet none of them would harbour me , I rapped rudely at their Got , But never entrance could get , I knocked and challeng'd as I can , Yet non recev'd a banished man , The little shelter that I found , Was in the Presbyterians ground , Yet many of them me soar abus'd , And most untenderly me us'd , Some took Bonds , some took the Test , Some to the Kirk were sorely pressed , Some with their course untender walk , Some with their proud unseemly talk , Some with their giddy wild opinions , Would banish me from these dominions , And now since they have serv'd me so , To foreign Lands I think to go , To see what residence I find , Pray Brother Law , what us your mind ? Laws Answer . ALace ! my Lord , how can I hear , Your dollourous and heavy cheer , When your afflicted , I do mourn , We both upon one wheel do turn , If Conscience once do loose the Van , Law is a broken bankrupt man , When conscience turns like weathercock : , Then they will cut the Nazeren Locck , My strength lies in the Penal Laws , Cut they off these , well loose the cause , Our honours both in this does stand , A Dum Man yet won never Land , We will be trusty to our Nation , And humble suit is my intent , That we may fit in Parliament . Conscience Reply . My Brother Law where is your wits , Think you of us they will permit , To fit in court who thus have us'd us , And formerly hath thus abus'd us , Should I my wrongs denominate , Or could my grief demonstrate , What I have suffer'd would appear ; From them above this twenty year , It's long since they me cauteriz'd , But now they have me stigmatiz'd : And for to make me hold my peace , They put hight iron upon my face , Like Collilian they will me make , Some suffer'd shipwreck for my sake , How can you think that such men mind Our Laws , and Conscience to befriend Or ever give a free consent ; That we should fit in Parliament , My dearest Brother then I pray , Tthat you may not retard away . Laws Answer . ALace ! my Lord , will you be gone , Then I may mourning go alone , If Noble Conscience leave the Land , Who then will Popery withstand , For Law will prove a broken Reed , When Conscience goes in Pilgrim's weed , You Protestants may be a gaest , And may prepair you for a blast , When Law and Conscience are abus'd : And worse then broken Merchands us'd , In Abay's they will shelter find , But none to us will prove so kind , But yet I humbly do you pray , My dearest Lord go not away ; To yonder Parliament address , Some friend you have will entercess , Themselves , what you and for your plead , Some place at Court may yet be had . Conscience Reply MY Brother , I would be content , T' regain my place in Parliament , But for these men they'l never grant it , A pick at me they never wanted , I know there's severals to pretend , For to propose me as their end , But let them once be contradicted , They'l look as if they were convicted , If but one Lord should them control , They'le swear it was and Hyperbole , Like as I often have it found , Pretended friends give many a wound , Have always falsely prov'd to me ; Farewell Brother , farewell you Laws Answer . MY dearest Lord , my Counsel take , Not for my own but Country's sake , If you desert these Courts and go , To foreign Lands and live them so , They will establish with their hand , That Popery shall overspread the Land , Once more I humhly you entreat ; And begs this favour I may get , To signify you are content , To supplicate the Parliament . Conscience Replies . WEll Brother Law , I am content , To supplicat the Parliament , And your to blame Brother not I , If they shall raise the HU and CRY , Come let us join with Veneration , For to present this supplication , For to Vot freely for thee Laws , Your Country , and your Ancient Cause . The humble Address of Conscience and Law , To the house of Parliament . MY Lords , and Gentlemen , here lies Two Objects lie before your eyes , Conscience and Law two Nobles born To whom the Country once was sworn , But now deferred as you see , By horred perjur'd Treachery , Yet we're content to pardon that , And humbly here to supplicat , You would be pleas'd to permit , Us in the Parliament to Fit , To serve our Country and our Cause , And to defend the Penal Laws ; My Lord , our Loyalty you know , Some further proof we mind to show , We shall Vot nothing but whats good , Our wrong is great to be gainstood , My Lord Commissioner , if your Grace , Would harken to our words of peace , We would you teach , how you should be True to your King , your vows and Me And my Lord Chancellor we would crave That Popish tenets you would leave , The Ancient Faith you would embrace , Else you will ne're condol our case . And you Lord Bishops , where you fit , We little trust to your commit , You who betrayed our Ancient Cause , You would take off the Pennal Laws , Conscience nor Law you'l never defend , What ever truths you do pretend ; I know once Us two the lov'd dear , But we're forsaken for a Kings ear ; And for obeying men command , You are thrust from the Holy Land. You honourable house of Commons all , For your assistance we do call , Keep Law and Conscience in the Land , And against Popery stoutly stand , If you refuse so just a thing , Then know I am , repute a King , And I will exercise my Law , On you when you can not withdraw , And make you were you better fellows , Like Judas run unto the Gallows ! Or else like Spira to discover Your knavery all the World over ; , And for the mischief you have acted , My terrors make you go distracted , My Sceptre over you I'le Sway. In Time and in Eternity . This to your wisdom we commend , And on your Answer we Attend . FINISC : RB . I.262 ( 031 ) A DISCOURSE BETWEEN LAW AND CONSCIENCE When they were both Banished from PARLIAMENT . In the first Parliament of K : James the Seventh . LAW to CONSCIENCE . HOW now , my Lord , how is it so , That thus in sable-weed you go ? what means this sudden alreration , That you have lost your Veneration , And due Benevolence that you owe Unto your Country , now brought low ? In yonder Court you ought to fit , A Freeborn Member ye're of it , And well acquainted with the Laws , Go and Defend your Ancient Cause . Conscience Reply , ALace said Conscience well you wit , In yonder Court I dar not fit , Unless that I betray my Right , And dictat Laws against my light , Your Parliament it looks awry , For I sat in it yesterday , And Voted never a Vote but an , And they against me did exclaim , With lusty words both high and big , They swore that Conscience was a whig , For him they have no veneration , Cause banish him out of the Nation ; And prayed the Clark to word it better , Then to put Conscience in a Letter , To send unto his Majesty , Who bears a mortal feed at me ; For treason , which they say , I thought , Into the year fortie eight , For which I wandered too and from , Even since the year sixty two , That I was banished from the Court , By Lords and Earls of great report , Though I should famish starve and die , Yet none of them would harbour me , I rapped rudely at their Got , But never entrance could get , I knocked and challeng'd as I can , Yet non recev'd a banished man , The little shelter that I found , Was in the Presbyterians ground , Yet many of them me soar abus'd , And most untenderly me us'd , Some took Bonds , some took the Test , Some to the Kirk were sorely pressed , Some with their course untender walk , Some with their proud unseemly talk , Some with their giddy wild opinions , Would banish me from these dominions , And now since they have serv'd me so , To foreign Lands I think to go , To see what residence I find , Pray Brother Law , what us your mind ? Laws Answer . ALace ! my Lord , how can I hear , Your dollourous and heavy cheer , When your afflicted , I do mourn , We both upon one wheel do turn , If Conscience once do loose the Van , Law is a broken bankrupt man , When conscience turns like weathercock : , Then they will cut the Nazeren Locck , My strength lies in the Penal Laws , Cut they off these , well loose the cause , Our honours both in this does stand , A Dum Man yet won never Land , We will be trusty to our Nation , And humble suit is my intent , That we may fit in Parliament . Conscience Reply . My Brother Law where is your wits , Think you of us they will permit , To fit in court who thus have us'd us , And formerly hath thus abus'd us , Should I my wrongs denominate , Or could my grief demonstrate , What I have suffer'd would appear ; From them above this twenty year , It's long since they me cauteriz'd , But now they have me stigmatiz'd : And for to make me hold my peace , They put hight iron upon my face , Like Collilian they will me make , Some suffer'd shipwreck for my sake , How can you think that such men mind Our Laws , and Conscience to befriend Or ever give a free consent ; That we should fit in Parliament , My dearest Brother then I pray , Tthat you may not retard away . Laws Answer . ALace ! my Lord , will you be gone , Then I may mourning go alone , If Noble Conscience leave the Land , Who then will Popery withstand , For Law will prove a broken Reed , When Conscience goes in Pilgrim's weed , You Protestants may be a gaest , And may prepair you for a blast , When Law and Conscience are abus'd : And worse then broken Merchands us'd , In Abay's they will shelter find , But none to us will prove so kind , But yet I humbly do you pray , My dearest Lord go not away ; To yonder Parliament address , Some friend you have will entercess , Themselves , what you and for your plead , Some place at Court may yet be had . Conscience Reply MY Brother , I would be content , T' regain my place in Parliament , But for these men they'l never grant it , A pick at me they never wanted , I know there's severals to pretend , For to propose me as their end , But let them once be contradicted , They'l look as if they were convicted , If but one Lord should them control , They'le swear it was and Hyperbole , Like as I often have it found , Pretended friends give many a wound , Have always falsely prov'd to me ; Farewell Brother , farewell you Laws Answer . MY dearest Lord , my Counsel take , Not for my own but Country's sake , If you desert these Courts and go , To foreign Lands and live them so , They will establish with their hand , That Popery shall overspread the Land , Once more I humhly you entreat ; And begs this favour I may get , To signify you are content , To supplicate the Parliament . Conscience Replies . WEll Brother Law , I am content , To supplicat the Parliament , And your to blame Brother not I , If they shall raise the HU and CRY , Come let us join with Veneration , For to present this supplication , For to Vot freely for thee Laws , Your Country , and your Ancient Cause . The humble Address of Conscience and Law , To the house of Parliament . MY Lords , and Gentlemen , here lies Two Objects lie before your eyes , Conscience and Law two Nobles born To whom the Country once was sworn , But now deferred as you see , By horred perjur'd Treachery , Yet we're content to pardon that , And humbly here to supplicat , You would be pleas'd to permit , Us in the Parliament to Fit , To serve our Country and our Cause , And to defend the Penal Laws ; My Lord , our Loyalty you know , Some further proof we mind to show , We shall Vot nothing but whats good , Our wrong is great to be gainstood , My Lord Commissioner , if your Grace , Would harken to our words of peace , We would you teach , how you should be True to your King , your vows and Me And my Lord Chancellor we would crave That Popish tenets you would leave , The Ancient Faith you would embrace , Else you will ne're condol our case . And you Lord Bishops , where you fit , We little trust to your commit , You who betrayed our Ancient Cause , You would take off the Pennal Laws , Conscience nor Law you'l never defend , What ever truths you do pretend ; I know once Us two the lov'd dear , But we're forsaken for a Kings ear ; And for obeying men command , You are thrust from the Holy Land. You honourable house of Commons all , For your assistance we do call , Keep Law and Conscience in the Land , And against Popery stoutly stand , If you refuse so just a thing , Then know I am , repute a King , And I will exercise my Law , On you when you can not withdraw , And make you were you better fellows , Like Judas run unto the Gallows ! Or else like Spira to discover Your knavery all the World over ; , And for the mischief you have acted , My terrors make you go distracted , My Sceptre over you I'le Sway. In Time and in Eternity . This to your wisdom we commend , And on your Answer we Attend . FINIS 