C : RB . I.262 ( 034 ) THE COUNTRY MAN . s . MANs CASE UNCASED Or , The Plain-Dealers Prayer for a Registry . AND is the Bill Committed , Heaven be prais'd , So let all true and loyal English say ; This to the highest pitch their hope's have rais'd , Of being happy in and honest way : Thanks to our worthy Patriots , Be their Name Ever Recorded in the Book of Fame . Nor can they be forgotten , our Children shall Proclaim them bless'd , when they look back and see How bad Men brought their Father's into thrall ; Plunging them headlong into misery . ------ When Egypts Locust made them Egypts Slaves , Betraying all their Fortune's unto Knaves . Then 'twas in vain for them to Blow or Sow , To rise up early , or to lie down late , When none his dear-bought Pennyworth did know , But like and Almanac that's out of Date Their Purchase prov'd ; a Prior Mortgage shall Eject the Cullied Buyer out of all . This was the fate most commonly of those That trusted to Conveyance , Oath , or Deed ; For by the Law the Fox no Title knows , Nor did the way of Banking better speed , To them who did with Paper-Credit meet ; Their Bags were made their Moneys Winding-sheet . Such was the madness of that madder Age , Men stood amazed , knew not what to do , If by Complaint they thought their grief t' assuage , 'Twas but increas'd , and often laughed at too ; Nor did their loss and misery stop here , They'r Jail'd at last for buying Wit so dear . This made the Money-monger hide his Gold , For want of Credit , that might Currant run , Lest he might share in others fate , when old ; Therefore resolves it shall not see the Sun. This quickly brought Consumption to all Trade , And many a thousand Bankrupt was made . Whence Beggary ensu'd in every place , To every Parish did a Charge become , And others desperate , devoid of Grace , Anticipate their Life , the Gallows some : Nor could you step without your Doors but see Objects of pity , Souls in misery . Hither we have digressed from the way We first were in , to let you understand How we by folly have been led astray , Or madness rather throughout the Land : What does remain , is , e're it be too late , To find a Mean , which may amend our fate . This in the judgement of all sober Men , Will be this long desired Registry , Upon whose Fund none can be cheated when They trade , or trust on that Security : Which if it pass as it is now committed , The Just are double blessed , the Knaves outwitted . To tell the Nature of this Project here , Is but to hold a Candle to the Sun ; Since 'tis to admiration done elsewhere , By such and Author never yet outdone ; Whose public Spirit , fo [ r ] [ ? ] Country's [ ? ] The Jaws of Death and E [ n ] vy hath withstood . In the Book call'd Eng - land's Im - provement by [ Sea ] and Land [ ? ] Year , 1698. Yet for to gratify those honest minds Who never saw that Book , 'tis fit from hence Some satisfaction they in part do find ; Both of its Use , and of its Consequence : The want of which , hath been the Traders bane , So being had will set them right again . First in abundance 'twill increase all Trade ; The Rich , the Poor , will all be gainers by it ; Witness our Neighbours who have trial made , There's not a Man that can , or will deny i For he that does the Town of Taunton know , Is well convinced that in Fact 'tis so . ------ Their Mannor-Lands under a Registry , Not only hath advanc'd them , but hath made Plenty of Money , which their wants supply , The very Life and Sinews of all Trade , By which their Poor are by their Labours fed , Not one that's fit to work that asks Bred . If this be so , as so in truth it is , - What's the Obstruction 'tis not so elsewhere ? Is it because Men love to do amiss , Or does old Custom plead a Habit there ? Neither's of force to keep them down , would rise , But rather Ignorance hath shut their Eyes . Then be persuaded , try for once Conclusion , Dare to be honest , 'tis best Policy ; All other Projects have [ e ] but wrought Confusion , Affix your Lands but in a Registry : This honest Credit answer will your End , Sooner , and cheaper than the Scribblers Friend . This brings out all the Money unemployed , Which now in Corners hoarded up does lie ; The Borrower shall never be denied , If he have ought within the Registry : For none will keep his Money in his Chest When 'twill be safer here , with Interest . The very Servants will their Wages bring , Which they most dearly earn , but can't augment ; And 'midst their greatest drudgery will sing , When they have Lodg'd it to their hearts content . Both John and Joan will lay up all they may , Where't may be doubled 'gainst a Rainy-day . Nor is that all , when once abroad 'tis talk'd , That Margery and Nell have here a Stock ; They then will pass for Housewives , Money'd Folk , And Sweethearts will apace unto them flock ; Whence they may pick and choose , and Husbands take , Will love them dearly for their Moneys sake . But above all , from hence will flow a Bank Of Lumber-Credit , will the Tradesman raise ; Whose Art and Study's only for a Rank Of Egypts Taskers , they do wear the Baize [ ? ] urs , and the Artist's gains Are only Bred and Water for his pains . This they pretend , because they bear a stock , Which the poor Tradesman can by no means do , Nor never shall he by your bit and knock , When all his profit does redound to you . But here's a Salve that cure will this Soar , He shall have Money on't to pay his Score . The honest Farmer also here will find Relief and Credit when the Market's dull , His Landlord may be needy , or unkind , His Rend is wanting , though his Barns are full . Money he hath not , fell to loss he's loath , Engage it here , and so 'twill answer both . This will prevent the Lawless Massy Bill , Pretending Law , though in a Tyrants hand , And keep us quiet soar against their will , Who swarm like Flesh-Flies all about the Land : A sort of Vermin haunting every Village , That do their Food from Country People pillage . The Widow also , and the Fatherless , Whose Fortune's often left i'th hands of trust , By his default are oft made Pennyless ; And then poor Souls they all a-begging must . Thus e're the good Man's cold within his Grave , His Children's ruin'd by this Trustee Knave . The Registry will hinder this abuse Done to poor Infants when their Friends are gone , If but inserted here unto their use , 'Twill be secured unto every one . Hark , and be wise , you tender Father's all , Prevent the Cheats may on your Children fallen . Here could I add above and hundred more That would be happy by this honest Deed For every one I nam there's a score Would find relief and comfort at their need : Defending thousands from the Prisons ill , And with cheap Bred the hungry Bellies fill . Therefore in brief acquit your selves like those True English-men who Virtue did embrace , No longer be a Prey unto your Foes , But let them know you'r of that Noble Raze That scorn such Actions might dishonour bring Unto themselves , their Country , or their King . Now to conclude , let all of loyal mind Humbly beseech the King and Parliament , That of their goodness they would be so kind To pass this Act our Ruins may prevent , Grant England may a Registry but have , None need to fear the double-dealing Knave . LONDON , Printed in the Year , 1678. And are to be sold by John Oliver in the Old-Baily , over against the George near Ludgate . C : RB . I.262 ( 034 ) THE COUNTRY MAN . s . MANs CASE UNCASED Or , The Plain-Dealers Prayer for a Registry . AND is the Bill Committed , Heaven be prais'd , So let all true and loyal English say ; This to the highest pitch their hope's have rais'd , Of being happy in and honest way : Thanks to our worthy Patriots , Be their Name Ever Recorded in the Book of Fame . Nor can they be forgotten , our Children shall Proclaim them bless'd , when they look back and see How bad Men brought their Father's into thrall ; Plunging them headlong into misery . ------ When Egypts Locust made them Egypts Slaves , Betraying all their Fortune's unto Knaves . Then 'twas in vain for them to Blow or Sow , To rise up early , or to lie down late , When none his dear-bought Pennyworth did know , But like and Almanac that's out of Date Their Purchase prov'd ; a Prior Mortgage shall Eject the Cullied Buyer out of all . This was the fate most commonly of those That trusted to Conveyance , Oath , or Deed ; For by the Law the Fox no Title knows , Nor did the way of Banking better speed , To them who did with Paper-Credit meet ; Their Bags were made their Moneys Winding-sheet . Such was the madness of that madder Age , Men stood amazed , knew not what to do , If by Complaint they thought their grief t' assuage , 'Twas but increas'd , and often laughed at too ; Nor did their loss and misery stop here , They'r Jail'd at last for buying Wit so dear . This made the Money-monger hide his Gold , For want of Credit , that might Currant run , Lest he might share in others fate , when old ; Therefore resolves it shall not see the Sun. This quickly brought Consumption to all Trade , And many a thousand Bankrupt was made . Whence Beggary ensu'd in every place , To every Parish did a Charge become , And others desperate , devoid of Grace , Anticipate their Life , the Gallows some : Nor could you step without your Doors but see Objects of pity , Souls in misery . Hither we have digressed from the way We first were in , to let you understand How we by folly have been led astray , Or madness rather throughout the Land : What does remain , is , e're it be too late , To find a Mean , which may amend our fate . This in the judgement of all sober Men , Will be this long desired Registry , Upon whose Fund none can be cheated when They trade , or trust on that Security : Which if it pass as it is now committed , The Just are double blessed , the Knaves outwitted . To tell the Nature of this Project here , Is but to hold a Candle to the Sun ; Since 'tis to admiration done elsewhere , By such and Author never yet outdone ; Whose public Spirit , fo [ r ] [ ? ] Country's [ ? ] The Jaws of Death and E [ n ] vy hath withstood . In the Book call'd Eng - land's Im - provement by [ Sea ] and Land [ ? ] Year , 1698. Yet for to gratify those honest minds Who never saw that Book , 'tis fit from hence Some satisfaction they in part do find ; Both of its Use , and of its Consequence : The want of which , hath been the Traders bane , So being had will set them right again . First in abundance 'twill increase all Trade ; The Rich , the Poor , will all be gainers by it ; Witness our Neighbours who have trial made , There's not a Man that can , or will deny i For he that does the Town of Taunton know , Is well convinced that in Fact 'tis so . ------ Their Mannor-Lands under a Registry , Not only hath advanc'd them , but hath made Plenty of Money , which their wants supply , The very Life and Sinews of all Trade , By which their Poor are by their Labours fed , Not one that's fit to work that asks Bred . If this be so , as so in truth it is , - What's the Obstruction 'tis not so elsewhere ? Is it because Men love to do amiss , Or does old Custom plead a Habit there ? Neither's of force to keep them down , would rise , But rather Ignorance hath shut their Eyes . Then be persuaded , try for once Conclusion , Dare to be honest , 'tis best Policy ; All other Projects have [ e ] but wrought Confusion , Affix your Lands but in a Registry : This honest Credit answer will your End , Sooner , and cheaper than the Scribblers Friend . This brings out all the Money unemployed , Which now in Corners hoarded up does lie ; The Borrower shall never be denied , If he have ought within the Registry : For none will keep his Money in his Chest When 'twill be safer here , with Interest . The very Servants will their Wages bring , Which they most dearly earn , but can't augment ; And 'midst their greatest drudgery will sing , When they have Lodg'd it to their hearts content . Both John and Joan will lay up all they may , Where't may be doubled 'gainst a Rainy-day . Nor is that all , when once abroad 'tis talk'd , That Margery and Nell have here a Stock ; They then will pass for Housewives , Money'd Folk , And Sweethearts will apace unto them flock ; Whence they may pick and choose , and Husbands take , Will love them dearly for their Moneys sake . But above all , from hence will flow a Bank Of Lumber-Credit , will the Tradesman raise ; Whose Art and Study's only for a Rank Of Egypts Taskers , they do wear the Baize [ ? ] urs , and the Artist's gains Are only Bred and Water for his pains . This they pretend , because they bear a stock , Which the poor Tradesman can by no means do , Nor never shall he by your bit and knock , When all his profit does redound to you . But here's a Salve that cure will this Soar , He shall have Money on't to pay his Score . The honest Farmer also here will find Relief and Credit when the Market's dull , His Landlord may be needy , or unkind , His Rend is wanting , though his Barns are full . Money he hath not , fell to loss he's loath , Engage it here , and so 'twill answer both . This will prevent the Lawless Massy Bill , Pretending Law , though in a Tyrants hand , And keep us quiet soar against their will , Who swarm like Flesh-Flies all about the Land : A sort of Vermin haunting every Village , That do their Food from Country People pillage . The Widow also , and the Fatherless , Whose Fortune's often left i'th hands of trust , By his default are oft made Pennyless ; And then poor Souls they all a-begging must . Thus e're the good Man's cold within his Grave , His Children's ruin'd by this Trustee Knave . The Registry will hinder this abuse Done to poor Infants when their Friends are gone , If but inserted here unto their use , 'Twill be secured unto every one . Hark , and be wise , you tender Father's all , Prevent the Cheats may on your Children fallen . Here could I add above and hundred more That would be happy by this honest Deed For every one I nam there's a score Would find relief and comfort at their need : Defending thousands from the Prisons ill , And with cheap Bred the hungry Bellies fill . Therefore in brief acquit your selves like those True English-men who Virtue did embrace , No longer be a Prey unto your Foes , But let them know you'r of that Noble Raze That scorn such Actions might dishonour bring Unto themselves , their Country , or their King . Now to conclude , let all of loyal mind Humbly beseech the King and Parliament , That of their goodness they would be so kind To pass this Act our Ruins may prevent , Grant England may a Registry but have , None need to fear the double-dealing Knave . LONDON , Printed in the Year , 1678. And are to be sold by John Oliver in the Old-Baily , over against the George near Ludgate . 