C : RB . I.262 ( 054 ) The true way of The Bonny BROOKED LASSIE . To its own proper Tune . DOwn by a Meadow green , I chanc'd to meet my Dear , She appeared like a Queen Fill'd me with Joy and Fear , Her Face was like the Sun When a Rising we him see , And yet this bonny Lassie's now blue beneath the Eye . Her Hair was like a Crow , Her Breasts ( like Ivory ) Her beating Heart caus'd go Like Surges in the Sea ; She trembled as she stood , Her Eyes shin'd bright on me , But yet this bonny Lassie she's blue beneath the Eye , We silent were a while , Only our Eyes did move , But e're we walk'd a Mile , My Sp'rits were rag'd with Love , I grasp'd her in my Arms , Said , fit down , Sweet , by me , Which makes my bonny Lassie be blue beneath the Eye . Transported and embrac'd , I fondly did her Kiss , Her Tongue with Love so lac'd Cou'd say no more but this , My dear , let me alone Till once we Marri'd be , Or else you'l make your Lassie grow blue beneath the Eye . I bid her take no Fear For we shou'd marri'd be . And that I'd make 't my care To do it speedily . But crush'd were these our Hope's For I must go to Sea. And leave my Brooked Lassie though blue beneath the Eye . The leaving her behind , She fears will cause her Shame , But to be call'd Unkind Shall never stain my Name , For no sooner I'm return'd Than marri'd I shall be To the bonny brooked Lassie that's blue beneath the Eye : Tho'm absent from my Love , She shall Reign in my Heart , Command it ne'er to move , Nor from her to depar No Queen shall it engage , Nor a Slave to any be , But the bonny brooked Lassie that's blue beneath the Eye . Yet Fate is most unkind , To part my Love and me ; Must Affection thus confin'd Be split by destiny ? Oh! grievous Tragic Change , That now I cannot see My bonny brooked Lassie that's blue beneath the Eye . FINIS . C : RB . I.262 ( 054 ) The true way of The Bonny BROOKED LASSIE . To its own proper Tune . DOwn by a Meadow green , I chanc'd to meet my Dear , She appeared like a Queen Fill'd me with Joy and Fear , Her Face was like the Sun When a Rising we him see , And yet this bonny Lassie's now blue beneath the Eye . Her Hair was like a Crow , Her Breasts ( like Ivory ) Her beating Heart caus'd go Like Surges in the Sea ; She trembled as she stood , Her Eyes shin'd bright on me , But yet this bonny Lassie she's blue beneath the Eye , We silent were a while , Only our Eyes did move , But e're we walk'd a Mile , My Sp'rits were rag'd with Love , I grasp'd her in my Arms , Said , fit down , Sweet , by me , Which makes my bonny Lassie be blue beneath the Eye . Transported and embrac'd , I fondly did her Kiss , Her Tongue with Love so lac'd Cou'd say no more but this , My dear , let me alone Till once we Marri'd be , Or else you'l make your Lassie grow blue beneath the Eye . I bid her take no Fear For we shou'd marri'd be . And that I'd make 't my care To do it speedily . But crush'd were these our Hope's For I must go to Sea. And leave my Brooked Lassie though blue beneath the Eye . The leaving her behind , She fears will cause her Shame , But to be call'd Unkind Shall never stain my Name , For no sooner I'm return'd Than marri'd I shall be To the bonny brooked Lassie that's blue beneath the Eye : Tho'm absent from my Love , She shall Reign in my Heart , Command it ne'er to move , Nor from her to depar No Queen shall it engage , Nor a Slave to any be , But the bonny brooked Lassie that's blue beneath the Eye . Yet Fate is most unkind , To part my Love and me ; Must Affection thus confin'd Be split by destiny ? Oh! grievous Tragic Change , That now I cannot see My bonny brooked Lassie that's blue beneath the Eye . FINIS . 