C : RB . I.262 ( 043 ) TO HIS MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTY WILLIAM King of Great-Brittain , & The Humble Address of the Regimented CAMERONIAN PRESBYTERIANS Lying at MONTROSE , and Adjacent Cities in ANGUS . December 12th . 1689. REligious Sir , whom GOD does call and choose , On Earth His great Lieutenants place to use ; We bless that Night , which did bring forth that Morn , Wherein 'twas said , There is a Man Child born , Of so much Valour and renoun'd Esteem , Who shall from Bondage Britains Isle redeem : O! Happy time wherein we now can say , ( Although we be benorth the River Tay ) Which Place , Great Sir , of all Your great Dominions , Does hate us most , and all of our Opinions ; For there the Gospel never shined bright , They loved Darkness , greatly hated Light ; They mock Religion , and True Gospel Preachers , Painful Pastor's , and Religious Teachers ; And also , Sir , we dare be bold to say , The Devil reigneth there , until this day ; They love not you , who is their Roval HERO But cleave to James , that Cruel Bloody Nero . E [ ? ] Great Sir , some Angus Lairds , [ ? ] worser , they [ ? ] and Ale , These are their Principles , this is their Zeal . O! Happy time , we say , when we can boast , For all their Circuits , and the Highland Host ! For all their Tests , and Bonds of Regulation , Which were so grievous to this Ancient Nation ; Yet some of us our Garments keeped clean , And free of spots , you know , Sir , what we mean . Sir , we have seen the day , when James did reign , They would our Brothers to the Scafford bring , And Torture them alive , like Mallefactors . Or , in some Murdering Stratagim , great Actors Would fix their Heads up in the Marcat Places , A Curse come down their Bloody Murdering Faces . Again , Great Sir , we ever will incline , To Register the Fatal Eighty Nine : In which the LORD hath you our King appointed , And since , Great Sir , you are the LORD's Anointed ; HE hath wrought wondrous Works to bring you in , Employ your strength against that Man of since ; Crush his Designs , confound their Popisle Plots , Believe them not , although they turn their Coats . Of you , Great Sir , the Prophets have foretold , In latter times , and in the days of Old ; Great Britains King shall yet Religious be , And shall demolish Grove , and each green Tree , In which your Priors , did their Homage give To Stocks , and Stones , and things which do not live ! And while you Fight against JEHOVAH's Foes , And still in him your Confidence repose , He'll be your Shield and Buckler in the War , And when your Enemies approach afar ; At sighed of you , they'l turn their back and yield . Because the LORD for you does fight the Field ; But yet , Great Sir , if you shall turn aside , And in his Statutes shall not firm abide ; We must be bold , to tell you from our Heart ; That soon or sin the LORD will make you smart ; And this hath very frequently been seen , In many Lands upon both King and Queen : This good Advice ( we hope ) will be no Treason , It's back'd with Scripture , and the height of Reason . Nixt , Sir , we hope by your Heroic Hand , Shall be reduc'd , our broken * Neighbouring Land : We hope to see your great Parade advance , And fix your Camp into the Heart of France : We hope to see you Scall the Walls of Rome , And give the Man of since his Fatal Doom ; And we ourselves shall in your presence be , And Celebrate that strange Catastrophe . Some Men that are our Enemies and yours , Say , That we'll not obey Superior Powers ; But yet , Great Sir , we'll make them understand , Before themselves , we'll notice your Command . A [ ? ] e , Great Sir [ ? ] will [ ? ] [ ? ] through the Wizorn , Great Sir , some in the Army , and the State , If they by any means could know their Fate , They would lend in their Strength , you to Dethrone , And set a Popish Tyrant thereupon : But Blessed be GOD , it is not in their Station , To know the Secrets of Predestination : They do pretend their King was thrust away , And that he god not fair impartial play ! Which is right true , for if the Law had been Put in its force , against him and his Queen , Ere now they had been both in Purgatory , Through which Catholic Souls do enter Glory ! Likewise , Great Sir , before the Throne shall be Possess'd by any Papists , such as he , Our Blood shall run like Clyds enraged Streams , And Phoebus throw our Body send his Beams . Great Sir , we thank you , Prelacy is gone , Under that Yoke , our Land did sadly groan , They have Oppressed us , and all our Friends , They strove to break our Conscience and our Means , And some of us they did not leave a Cock , Nor in our Yard a growing green Kelstock . And now , Great Sir , in and unusual manner , We Fight under a Regal British Banner ; We are your Servants , and will spend our Blood , Upon the Quarrel , while the Cause is good ; We'll go through all the World at your Command , We hope , Great Sir , You'l give Us Pay in hand . GREAT SIR , We close , hoping You will remember , We're in the North , and now it is December ; Our Clothes are thin , our Purses are right bore , To bide these two , Great Sir , it is right fare . And also , Sir , we lie among our Foes , Giv [ ? ] [ a ] and Subscribed , at Montrose . * Ireland . FINIS C : RB . I.262 ( 043 ) TO HIS MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTY WILLIAM King of Great-Brittain , & The Humble Address of the Regimented CAMERONIAN PRESBYTERIANS Lying at MONTROSE , and Adjacent Cities in ANGUS . December 12th . 1689. REligious Sir , whom GOD does call and choose , On Earth His great Lieutenants place to use ; We bless that Night , which did bring forth that Morn , Wherein 'twas said , There is a Man Child born , Of so much Valour and renoun'd Esteem , Who shall from Bondage Britains Isle redeem : O! Happy time wherein we now can say , ( Although we be benorth the River Tay ) Which Place , Great Sir , of all Your great Dominions , Does hate us most , and all of our Opinions ; For there the Gospel never shined bright , They loved Darkness , greatly hated Light ; They mock Religion , and True Gospel Preachers , Painful Pastor's , and Religious Teachers ; And also , Sir , we dare be bold to say , The Devil reigneth there , until this day ; They love not you , who is their Roval HERO But cleave to James , that Cruel Bloody Nero . E [ ? ] Great Sir , some Angus Lairds , [ ? ] worser , they [ ? ] and Ale , These are their Principles , this is their Zeal . O! Happy time , we say , when we can boast , For all their Circuits , and the Highland Host ! For all their Tests , and Bonds of Regulation , Which were so grievous to this Ancient Nation ; Yet some of us our Garments keeped clean , And free of spots , you know , Sir , what we mean . Sir , we have seen the day , when James did reign , They would our Brothers to the Scafford bring , And Torture them alive , like Mallefactors . Or , in some Murdering Stratagim , great Actors Would fix their Heads up in the Marcat Places , A Curse come down their Bloody Murdering Faces . Again , Great Sir , we ever will incline , To Register the Fatal Eighty Nine : In which the LORD hath you our King appointed , And since , Great Sir , you are the LORD's Anointed ; HE hath wrought wondrous Works to bring you in , Employ your strength against that Man of since ; Crush his Designs , confound their Popisle Plots , Believe them not , although they turn their Coats . Of you , Great Sir , the Prophets have foretold , In latter times , and in the days of Old ; Great Britains King shall yet Religious be , And shall demolish Grove , and each green Tree , In which your Priors , did their Homage give To Stocks , and Stones , and things which do not live ! And while you Fight against JEHOVAH's Foes , And still in him your Confidence repose , He'll be your Shield and Buckler in the War , And when your Enemies approach afar ; At sighed of you , they'l turn their back and yield . Because the LORD for you does fight the Field ; But yet , Great Sir , if you shall turn aside , And in his Statutes shall not firm abide ; We must be bold , to tell you from our Heart ; That soon or sin the LORD will make you smart ; And this hath very frequently been seen , In many Lands upon both King and Queen : This good Advice ( we hope ) will be no Treason , It's back'd with Scripture , and the height of Reason . Nixt , Sir , we hope by your Heroic Hand , Shall be reduc'd , our broken * Neighbouring Land : We hope to see your great Parade advance , And fix your Camp into the Heart of France : We hope to see you Scall the Walls of Rome , And give the Man of since his Fatal Doom ; And we ourselves shall in your presence be , And Celebrate that strange Catastrophe . Some Men that are our Enemies and yours , Say , That we'll not obey Superior Powers ; But yet , Great Sir , we'll make them understand , Before themselves , we'll notice your Command . A [ ? ] e , Great Sir [ ? ] will [ ? ] [ ? ] through the Wizorn , Great Sir , some in the Army , and the State , If they by any means could know their Fate , They would lend in their Strength , you to Dethrone , And set a Popish Tyrant thereupon : But Blessed be GOD , it is not in their Station , To know the Secrets of Predestination : They do pretend their King was thrust away , And that he god not fair impartial play ! Which is right true , for if the Law had been Put in its force , against him and his Queen , Ere now they had been both in Purgatory , Through which Catholic Souls do enter Glory ! Likewise , Great Sir , before the Throne shall be Possess'd by any Papists , such as he , Our Blood shall run like Clyds enraged Streams , And Phoebus throw our Body send his Beams . Great Sir , we thank you , Prelacy is gone , Under that Yoke , our Land did sadly groan , They have Oppressed us , and all our Friends , They strove to break our Conscience and our Means , And some of us they did not leave a Cock , Nor in our Yard a growing green Kelstock . And now , Great Sir , in and unusual manner , We Fight under a Regal British Banner ; We are your Servants , and will spend our Blood , Upon the Quarrel , while the Cause is good ; We'll go through all the World at your Command , We hope , Great Sir , You'l give Us Pay in hand . GREAT SIR , We close , hoping You will remember , We're in the North , and now it is December ; Our Clothes are thin , our Purses are right bore , To bide these two , Great Sir , it is right fare . And also , Sir , we lie among our Foes , Giv [ ? ] [ a ] and Subscribed , at Montrose . * Ireland . FINIS 