C : RB . I.262 ( 082 ) Valiant Jockey , OR The Maiden Warrior , Being a Valiant Ladies Resolution to fight in Field ; by the side of Jockey her Entire Love ; With his answer to it To and excellent New Tune . VAliant Jockey's march'd away , To fight the foe , with great Makcay ; Leaving me poor Soul , Alas ! forlorn , To curl the hour I e'er was born : But I swear I'le follow too , And dearest Jockey's fate pursue , Near him be to guard his precious Life , Never Scot had sik a loyal wife : Sword I'le wear I'le cut my hair , Tann my cheeks that once were thought so fair , In Soldiers weed to him I'le speed Never fik a Trooper crossed the Tweed Trumpet found a Victory , I'le kill my self the next Dundee . Loves raging fate does all agree , To do some Glorious act by me : Great Bellona take my part , Fame and Honour guard my heart , That for brave Old Scotland s good , Some brave actium may deserve my blood : Nought shall appear of Famale fear , Fighting by his side I love so dear ; All the world shall own , that ne're was known Sik a pretty lass this thousand year , Now in Noble Armour bright I with Courageous heart will fight , Fear of death shall ne're my courage stain , King William's Rights I will maintain : For the Glory of our Sex , We all the Ribles will perplex ; And let them find that Women kind , Sometime wenture with a Warlike mind : Age of old , our fame has told , Therefore I will never be controal'd ; By friend or foe , I'le freely go , Never was a Trooper armed so . I'le a Helmet then put on , Armed like a valint Warlike man , Plataeae of Steel stall guard my back and Breast , Carrabines and Pistols I'le protest , In my hand I'le cock and prime , Now and for ever is the time : While I thus am mounted Cap-a-pee , Warlik thunder shall my Music be , Let smoke arise and dim the Skies While we do pursue the Warlike prize ; Laurels shall Crown with true renown , The victory in City , Court and Town . Mars the God of War shall led , The Army that will fight and bleed , E're our Foes shall hope to win the day , Therefore let us march with-speed away ; Hark! I hear the Trumpets found , We shall all be with Conquest crown'd ; Let the Rebels brag and boast , Death in Nriumph shall ride through the host Glory and fame shall then proclaim , The actions of a valiant warlike Dame ; If foes draw nigh , I'le scorn to flee , With my dearest Love I'le live and die . JOCKEY's Answer . HAst thou such a valiant heart , To fight and take the Nations part , By the side of Jockey thy deliyht , For to put the Enemy to the flight ? I thy courage must commend , Yet like a true entire friend , I would have thee stay at home , said he , For the wart are most unfit for thee , Moggy you are youthful and fair , Therefore can thy tender nature bear The skrichs and cries which fills the skies , As the Enemy we do surprise ? Love , said he , the loud Alarms In midst of night to Arms to Arms , Will it not affrighten thee my dear , Should you such a suden Alarm hear , And before the break of day , Many a valiant Soldier may , Lie in streams of reeking purple gore Therefore Moggie whom I do adore , Should'st thou be slave and I remain , It would fill my heart with much pain , She did reply , happy am I If I in the Bed of Honour die . FINIS . C : RB . I.262 ( 082 ) Valiant Jockey , OR The Maiden Warrior , Being a Valiant Ladies Resolution to fight in Field ; by the side of Jockey her Entire Love ; With his answer to it To and excellent New Tune . VAliant Jockey's march'd away , To fight the foe , with great Makcay ; Leaving me poor Soul , Alas ! forlorn , To curl the hour I e'er was born : But I swear I'le follow too , And dearest Jockey's fate pursue , Near him be to guard his precious Life , Never Scot had sik a loyal wife : Sword I'le wear I'le cut my hair , Tann my cheeks that once were thought so fair , In Soldiers weed to him I'le speed Never fik a Trooper crossed the Tweed Trumpet found a Victory , I'le kill my self the next Dundee . Loves raging fate does all agree , To do some Glorious act by me : Great Bellona take my part , Fame and Honour guard my heart , That for brave Old Scotland s good , Some brave actium may deserve my blood : Nought shall appear of Famale fear , Fighting by his side I love so dear ; All the world shall own , that ne're was known Sik a pretty lass this thousand year , Now in Noble Armour bright I with Courageous heart will fight , Fear of death shall ne're my courage stain , King William's Rights I will maintain : For the Glory of our Sex , We all the Ribles will perplex ; And let them find that Women kind , Sometime wenture with a Warlike mind : Age of old , our fame has told , Therefore I will never be controal'd ; By friend or foe , I'le freely go , Never was a Trooper armed so . I'le a Helmet then put on , Armed like a valint Warlike man , Plataeae of Steel stall guard my back and Breast , Carrabines and Pistols I'le protest , In my hand I'le cock and prime , Now and for ever is the time : While I thus am mounted Cap-a-pee , Warlik thunder shall my Music be , Let smoke arise and dim the Skies While we do pursue the Warlike prize ; Laurels shall Crown with true renown , The victory in City , Court and Town . Mars the God of War shall led , The Army that will fight and bleed , E're our Foes shall hope to win the day , Therefore let us march with-speed away ; Hark! I hear the Trumpets found , We shall all be with Conquest crown'd ; Let the Rebels brag and boast , Death in Nriumph shall ride through the host Glory and fame shall then proclaim , The actions of a valiant warlike Dame ; If foes draw nigh , I'le scorn to flee , With my dearest Love I'le live and die . JOCKEY's Answer . HAst thou such a valiant heart , To fight and take the Nations part , By the side of Jockey thy deliyht , For to put the Enemy to the flight ? I thy courage must commend , Yet like a true entire friend , I would have thee stay at home , said he , For the wart are most unfit for thee , Moggy you are youthful and fair , Therefore can thy tender nature bear The skrichs and cries which fills the skies , As the Enemy we do surprise ? Love , said he , the loud Alarms In midst of night to Arms to Arms , Will it not affrighten thee my dear , Should you such a suden Alarm hear , And before the break of day , Many a valiant Soldier may , Lie in streams of reeking purple gore Therefore Moggie whom I do adore , Should'st thou be slave and I remain , It would fill my heart with much pain , She did reply , happy am I If I in the Bed of Honour die . FINIS . 