C : RB . I.262 ( 084 ) The new way of JOCKY Blithe and Gay , A Song much in Request To and Excellent new Tune . Blithe Jockey young and gay , Is all my hearts delight , He's all my talk by Day , And in my Dreams by night . If from the Lad I be , It's Winter then with me ; But when he's with me here , 'Tis Summer all the year . When Jockey and I did meat First in the shady Groves Humbly he did me greet , And sweetly talked of Love . You are the Lass said he , That stole my heart from me , Now ease me of my pain , And do not me disdain . I'm blithe when Jockey comes , Sad when he gangs away . 'Tis night when Jockey glooms , But when he smiles 'tis day . Where're we meet I pant , I Colour Sighs and Fant ; What Lass that would be kind , Can better tell her mind . He was a Bony Lad As ever I did see , He made my Heart so glad , When first he Courted me , I could not well deny , But soon I did comply . So Jockey promised me , That he would faithful be . Jockey did promise me , That he would still be true , But to my grief I fear , He hath bid me adue ; Jockey and I did play , And pass the time away , But now he's false foresworn , Hath left me here to Mourn . Now Jockey hath a Love , That is more rich than I , He does so cruel prove , To shun my Company ; And if I chance for to meet My Jockey in the Street , He will not stop nor stay , But Proudly goes his way . My heart is like to break , Since he is so unkind , What course now shall I take , To ease my troubled mind ; I sighs , I sob , I Mourn , I daily Rage and Burn ; But yet this Cruel he , Laughs at my Misery . Once in a Month he sends A Letter unto me , Swearing he still intends To Love me Heartily ; But when I come in place , And do behold his face ; He does not notice take , Which makes my heart to break . Sometime when Jockey Smils , I think he's true to me , But of him I'm beguil'd , By his false Flattery ; But when he frowns on me , No Comfort can I see ; Let him be false or kink , He still is in my mind . FINIS . C : RB . I.262 ( 084 ) The new way of JOCKY Blithe and Gay , A Song much in Request To and Excellent new Tune . Blithe Jockey young and gay , Is all my hearts delight , He's all my talk by Day , And in my Dreams by night . If from the Lad I be , It's Winter then with me ; But when he's with me here , 'Tis Summer all the year . When Jockey and I did meat First in the shady Groves Humbly he did me greet , And sweetly talked of Love . You are the Lass said he , That stole my heart from me , Now ease me of my pain , And do not me disdain . I'm blithe when Jockey comes , Sad when he gangs away . 'Tis night when Jockey glooms , But when he smiles 'tis day . Where're we meet I pant , I Colour Sighs and Fant ; What Lass that would be kind , Can better tell her mind . He was a Bony Lad As ever I did see , He made my Heart so glad , When first he Courted me , I could not well deny , But soon I did comply . So Jockey promised me , That he would faithful be . Jockey did promise me , That he would still be true , But to my grief I fear , He hath bid me adue ; Jockey and I did play , And pass the time away , But now he's false foresworn , Hath left me here to Mourn . Now Jockey hath a Love , That is more rich than I , He does so cruel prove , To shun my Company ; And if I chance for to meet My Jockey in the Street , He will not stop nor stay , But Proudly goes his way . My heart is like to break , Since he is so unkind , What course now shall I take , To ease my troubled mind ; I sighs , I sob , I Mourn , I daily Rage and Burn ; But yet this Cruel he , Laughs at my Misery . Once in a Month he sends A Letter unto me , Swearing he still intends To Love me Heartily ; But when I come in place , And do behold his face ; He does not notice take , Which makes my heart to break . Sometime when Jockey Smils , I think he's true to me , But of him I'm beguil'd , By his false Flattery ; But when he frowns on me , No Comfort can I see ; Let him be false or kink , He still is in my mind . FINIS . 