C : RB . I.262 ( 064 ) JOHN ARMSTRONGS LAST FAREWEL . Declaring how he and his Eight-scoremen fought a bloody Battle at Edinburgh . To the Tune of , Fare thou well bonny Gilded Knock Hall . IS their never a Man in all Scotland , from the highest state to the lowest degree , That can show himself before the King , the World's so full of Treachery ? Yea ther's a Man in Westmerland , and John Armstrong they do him call , He barn not Lands nor Rends coming in , yet he keeps eight score men in his Hall . He hath Horse and harness for them all , and goodly Steeds that be milk white ; With their goodly Belts about their Necks , with Hats and Feathers all alike . The King he wrote a lovely Letter with his own hand right tenderly , And sent it to John Armstrong , to come and speak with him speedily . When John he looked the Letter upon , then he was as blithe as a Bird on a Tree , I was never before a King in my Life , my Father , my Grand Father nor none of us three But seeing we must go before the King , O! we will go most valiantly , You shall every one have a Velvet Cap , laid on with Golden Laces three . And you shall every one have a Scarlet Cloak , laid on with Silver Laces five , With your Golden Belts about your Necks , with Hats , brave Feathers all alike : But when John he went from Knock-Hal , the Wind it blue hard , and soar it did rain : Now fare thee well brave Gilded Knock-Hal , I fear I shall never see thee again . Now John he is to Edinburgh gone , and his eight score men so gallantly : And every one of them on a milk white Steed , with their bucklers and swords hanging down to the Knee , But when John came the King before with his eight score men so gallant to see , The King he moved his Bonnet to him , he thought he had been a King as well as He. O Pardon , Pardon , my Sovereign Liege , pardon for my eight score of Men and Me ; For my Name is John Armstrong , and a Subject of yours , my Liege , said he Away with thee , thou false Traitor , no pardon I will grant to thee ; But tomorrow before eight of the Clock , I will hang thy eight score men and thee O how John looked over his left Shoulder , and to his merry men thus said ; I have asked Grace at a graceless face , no pardon there is for you and me . Then John pul'd out a Nute-brown Sword , and it was made of the metal so free ; Had not the King moved his foot as he did , John had taken his head from his fair Body . Come follow me my merry men all , we will scorn one foot for to flee ; It shall never be said we hung like Dogs , no , we'l fight it out courageously Then they fought on like Champions bold , for their hearts were sturdy stout and free , Till they had killed all the Kings good Guard , there was none left alive but only three . But then arose up all Edinburgh , they rose up by thousands three ; And a Cowardly Man came John behind , and run him thorrow the fair Body ; Said John , fight on my merry Men all , I am a little hurt , but am not slave ; I will lay me down for to bleed a while , then I'l rise and fight with you again . Then they fought on like mad men all , till many a man lay dead on the plain For they were resolved before they would yield that every man should there be slave . So there they fought courageously , till most of them lay dead there and slave , But little Musgrove that was his Foot Page , with his bonny Grissel god away unran .. But when he came up to Gilt-knock-hal , the Lady spied him presently ; What new , what news , thou little Foot Page , what news from thy Master and his company My news is bade , Lady , he said , which I do bring , as you may see ; My Master John Armstrong is slave , and all his gallant company . Yet thou art welcome home my bonny Grissel , full oft hast thou fed at the Corn and Hay ; But now thou shalt be feed with Bred and wine and thy sides shall be spurred no more I say O then bespoke his little Son , as he did fit on the Nurse's knee , If ever I live for to be a Man , my Father's Death revenged shall be FINIS . C : RB . I.262 ( 064 ) JOHN ARMSTRONGS LAST FAREWEL . Declaring how he and his Eight-scoremen fought a bloody Battle at Edinburgh . To the Tune of , Fare thou well bonny Gilded Knock Hall . IS their never a Man in all Scotland , from the highest state to the lowest degree , That can show himself before the King , the World's so full of Treachery ? Yea ther's a Man in Westmerland , and John Armstrong they do him call , He barn not Lands nor Rends coming in , yet he keeps eight score men in his Hall . He hath Horse and harness for them all , and goodly Steeds that be milk white ; With their goodly Belts about their Necks , with Hats and Feathers all alike . The King he wrote a lovely Letter with his own hand right tenderly , And sent it to John Armstrong , to come and speak with him speedily . When John he looked the Letter upon , then he was as blithe as a Bird on a Tree , I was never before a King in my Life , my Father , my Grand Father nor none of us three But seeing we must go before the King , O! we will go most valiantly , You shall every one have a Velvet Cap , laid on with Golden Laces three . And you shall every one have a Scarlet Cloak , laid on with Silver Laces five , With your Golden Belts about your Necks , with Hats , brave Feathers all alike : But when John he went from Knock-Hal , the Wind it blue hard , and soar it did rain : Now fare thee well brave Gilded Knock-Hal , I fear I shall never see thee again . Now John he is to Edinburgh gone , and his eight score men so gallantly : And every one of them on a milk white Steed , with their bucklers and swords hanging down to the Knee , But when John came the King before with his eight score men so gallant to see , The King he moved his Bonnet to him , he thought he had been a King as well as He. O Pardon , Pardon , my Sovereign Liege , pardon for my eight score of Men and Me ; For my Name is John Armstrong , and a Subject of yours , my Liege , said he Away with thee , thou false Traitor , no pardon I will grant to thee ; But tomorrow before eight of the Clock , I will hang thy eight score men and thee O how John looked over his left Shoulder , and to his merry men thus said ; I have asked Grace at a graceless face , no pardon there is for you and me . Then John pul'd out a Nute-brown Sword , and it was made of the metal so free ; Had not the King moved his foot as he did , John had taken his head from his fair Body . Come follow me my merry men all , we will scorn one foot for to flee ; It shall never be said we hung like Dogs , no , we'l fight it out courageously Then they fought on like Champions bold , for their hearts were sturdy stout and free , Till they had killed all the Kings good Guard , there was none left alive but only three . But then arose up all Edinburgh , they rose up by thousands three ; And a Cowardly Man came John behind , and run him thorrow the fair Body ; Said John , fight on my merry Men all , I am a little hurt , but am not slave ; I will lay me down for to bleed a while , then I'l rise and fight with you again . Then they fought on like mad men all , till many a man lay dead on the plain For they were resolved before they would yield that every man should there be slave . So there they fought courageously , till most of them lay dead there and slave , But little Musgrove that was his Foot Page , with his bonny Grissel god away unran .. But when he came up to Gilt-knock-hal , the Lady spied him presently ; What new , what news , thou little Foot Page , what news from thy Master and his company My news is bade , Lady , he said , which I do bring , as you may see ; My Master John Armstrong is slave , and all his gallant company . Yet thou art welcome home my bonny Grissel , full oft hast thou fed at the Corn and Hay ; But now thou shalt be feed with Bred and wine and thy sides shall be spurred no more I say O then bespoke his little Son , as he did fit on the Nurse's knee , If ever I live for to be a Man , my Father's Death revenged shall be FINIS . 