C : RB . I.262 ( 083 ) And EPITHALAMIUM On the Jovial NUPTIALS Of Capt. JAMES DONALDSON GAZETTEER And OBSERVATOR : With the Meritorious Lady Mrs. JEAN REID , alias Mrs. SCOT . IN Compensation of your Vademecum , It seems now to be alias tecum , Than when you call'd us Shamout Whores or going masked out of Doors In saying we're more excellent , Than those you strive most to content , One sure has put you out of Pine , Since you pretend to be Divine , By fetching of a long Narration , Of your Pamphlet from the Creation : Until this time that State Affairs Helps you a good hitch up the Stairs , Else surely you had made no stop Before this time to catch a Rop , Had you not god some of Eves seed , To make you comfortably Feed . For which you own her the best thing , Gives Satisfaction , when wanting , Philosophy and Mathematic ; Has made you somewhat hipostatick . Since your Fair Lady Mistress Scot , Does condescend unto a Sot ; For bowing down so low's her feet , With demonstrations most unmeet . Owning her the principal cause Of your Liberties and Laws . Reckning't your chiefest happiness , And means of Temporal Blessedness . To be charm'd , with her embraces , And admit within her Laces . Whose Sex , or intrinsic worth , Deserves esteem , because your Birth , Of her you hold , why she'l support , Him others scorn'd with to resort . Without her you cann't live alone , She's your pearl and precious stone . Whom if you want your Misery , Would be recorded in History , Those you call'd weak , you'l chance find strong When your compell'd to sing that song . That by experience you saw , The weakness of your Humane awe . And your consumed by Woman , Although you seem a haughty Man ; Who would reap that you ne're did sow , You may drive Cart , or heard a Cow . And with a Slut take as much pleasure , As those have Ladies and great Treasure . For with a Clown a Country Lass , Into the Dark may as well pass , As the finest Lady can , With Noble or with Gentleman . Composed by a Lady of Honour . C : RB . I.262 ( 083 ) And EPITHALAMIUM On the Jovial NUPTIALS Of Capt. JAMES DONALDSON GAZETTEER And OBSERVATOR : With the Meritorious Lady Mrs. JEAN REID , alias Mrs. SCOT . IN Compensation of your Vademecum , It seems now to be alias tecum , Than when you call'd us Shamout Whores or going masked out of Doors In saying we're more excellent , Than those you strive most to content , One sure has put you out of Pine , Since you pretend to be Divine , By fetching of a long Narration , Of your Pamphlet from the Creation : Until this time that State Affairs Helps you a good hitch up the Stairs , Else surely you had made no stop Before this time to catch a Rop , Had you not god some of Eves seed , To make you comfortably Feed . For which you own her the best thing , Gives Satisfaction , when wanting , Philosophy and Mathematic ; Has made you somewhat hipostatick . Since your Fair Lady Mistress Scot , Does condescend unto a Sot ; For bowing down so low's her feet , With demonstrations most unmeet . Owning her the principal cause Of your Liberties and Laws . Reckning't your chiefest happiness , And means of Temporal Blessedness . To be charm'd , with her embraces , And admit within her Laces . Whose Sex , or intrinsic worth , Deserves esteem , because your Birth , Of her you hold , why she'l support , Him others scorn'd with to resort . Without her you cann't live alone , She's your pearl and precious stone . Whom if you want your Misery , Would be recorded in History , Those you call'd weak , you'l chance find strong When your compell'd to sing that song . That by experience you saw , The weakness of your Humane awe . And your consumed by Woman , Although you seem a haughty Man ; Who would reap that you ne're did sow , You may drive Cart , or heard a Cow . And with a Slut take as much pleasure , As those have Ladies and great Treasure . For with a Clown a Country Lass , Into the Dark may as well pass , As the finest Lady can , With Noble or with Gentleman . Composed by a Lady of Honour . 