C : RB . I.262 ( 095 ) The new way of Love is the cause of my Mourning , To it's own Proper Tune . I WHEN Strephon the heart of fair Iris possessed , 'mongst all the young shepherd's she lov'd him best No Swain in a Mistress so fully was blessed , For he was both her friend and her lover : Long did he court her affection in vain , Till at length soft Compassion triumph'd o're disdain That she herd all his sighs , and she felt all his pain Then the Swain found the art how to move her . Heavens did both their Souls inspire Then with and equal fire Both had but one desire Both hearts were burning O then my dear Iris I little did fear Love would be the Cause of my mourning . 2 Iris the Sprightly the witty and gay , Whose charms all bewitching and fragrant like May Will ever blooming and never decay ; Was all my delight and my pleasure : She return'd all my vows , and so kind she did prove , Each smile and each glance increased our love , And taught how I might the dear minutes improve I envied no Monarch his treasure . But o alas that cursed fate , Hath chang'd her mind of late , Her love is turn'd to hate , And I forlorn . Like and innocent Turtle , thats left by its mate Do remain in sad anguish and Scorn . 3 Since Iris condemns me and will not allow To hear the defence of a lover so true , To any new beauty I'le scorn e're to bow What I lov'd once will charm me for ever Though my vows and my sighs are return'd with disdain I'le suffer her Martyr , and never complain : My Souls so fast lock'd and in love with its chain No new beauty has power to discover , And now banish'd from her sighed And rob'd of all delight , I'le take a longsome flight Without e're returning . And Concealing her name , to the World I'se proclaim That Love's been the cause of my mourning . FINISC : RB . I.262 ( 095 ) The new way of Love is the cause of my Mourning , To it's own Proper Tune . I WHEN Strephon the heart of fair Iris possessed , 'mongst all the young shepherd's she lov'd him best No Swain in a Mistress so fully was blessed , For he was both her friend and her lover : Long did he court her affection in vain , Till at length soft Compassion triumph'd o're disdain That she herd all his sighs , and she felt all his pain Then the Swain found the art how to move her . Heavens did both their Souls inspire Then with and equal fire Both had but one desire Both hearts were burning O then my dear Iris I little did fear Love would be the Cause of my mourning . 2 Iris the Sprightly the witty and gay , Whose charms all bewitching and fragrant like May Will ever blooming and never decay ; Was all my delight and my pleasure : She return'd all my vows , and so kind she did prove , Each smile and each glance increased our love , And taught how I might the dear minutes improve I envied no Monarch his treasure . But o alas that cursed fate , Hath chang'd her mind of late , Her love is turn'd to hate , And I forlorn . Like and innocent Turtle , thats left by its mate Do remain in sad anguish and Scorn . 3 Since Iris condemns me and will not allow To hear the defence of a lover so true , To any new beauty I'le scorn e're to bow What I lov'd once will charm me for ever Though my vows and my sighs are return'd with disdain I'le suffer her Martyr , and never complain : My Souls so fast lock'd and in love with its chain No new beauty has power to discover , And now banish'd from her sighed And rob'd of all delight , I'le take a longsome flight Without e're returning . And Concealing her name , to the World I'se proclaim That Love's been the cause of my mourning . FINISC : RB . I.262 ( 095 ) The new way of Love is the cause of my Mourning , To it's own Proper Tune . I WHEN Strephon the heart of fair Iris possessed , 'mongst all the young shepherd's she lov'd him best No Swain in a Mistress so fully was blessed , For he was both her friend and her lover : Long did he court her affection in vain , Till at length soft Compassion triumph'd o're disdain That she herd all his sighs , and she felt all his pain Then the Swain found the art how to move her . Heavens did both their Souls inspire Then with and equal fire Both had but one desire Both hearts were burning O then my dear Iris I little did fear Love would be the Cause of my mourning . 2 Iris the Sprightly the witty and gay , Whose charms all bewitching and fragrant like May Will ever blooming and never decay ; Was all my delight and my pleasure : She return'd all my vows , and so kind she did prove , Each smile and each glance increased our love , And taught how I might the dear minutes improve I envied no Monarch his treasure . But o alas that cursed fate , Hath chang'd her mind of late , Her love is turn'd to hate , And I forlorn . Like and innocent Turtle , thats left by its mate Do remain in sad anguish and Scorn . 3 Since Iris condemns me and will not allow To hear the defence of a lover so true , To any new beauty I'le scorn e're to bow What I lov'd once will charm me for ever Though my vows and my sighs are return'd with disdain I'le suffer her Martyr , and never complain : My Souls so fast lock'd and in love with its chain No new beauty has power to discover , And now banish'd from her sighed And rob'd of all delight , I'le take a longsome flight Without e're returning . And Concealing her name , to the World I'se proclaim That Love's been the cause of my mourning . FINISC : RB . I.262 ( 095 ) The new way of Love is the cause of my Mourning , To it's own Proper Tune . I WHEN Strephon the heart of fair Iris possessed , 'mongst all the young shepherd's she lov'd him best No Swain in a Mistress so fully was blessed , For he was both her friend and her lover : Long did he court her affection in vain , Till at length soft Compassion triumph'd o're disdain That she herd all his sighs , and she felt all his pain Then the Swain found the art how to move her . Heavens did both their Souls inspire Then with and equal fire Both had but one desire Both hearts were burning O then my dear Iris I little did fear Love would be the Cause of my mourning . 2 Iris the Sprightly the witty and gay , Whose charms all bewitching and fragrant like May Will ever blooming and never decay ; Was all my delight and my pleasure : She return'd all my vows , and so kind she did prove , Each smile and each glance increased our love , And taught how I might the dear minutes improve I envied no Monarch his treasure . But o alas that cursed fate , Hath chang'd her mind of late , Her love is turn'd to hate , And I forlorn . Like and innocent Turtle , thats left by its mate Do remain in sad anguish and Scorn . 3 Since Iris condemns me and will not allow To hear the defence of a lover so true , To any new beauty I'le scorn e're to bow What I lov'd once will charm me for ever Though my vows and my sighs are return'd with disdain I'le suffer her Martyr , and never complain : My Souls so fast lock'd and in love with its chain No new beauty has power to discover , And now banish'd from her sighed And rob'd of all delight , I'le take a longsome flight Without e're returning . And Concealing her name , to the World I'se proclaim That Love's been the cause of my mourning . FINIS 