The Amorous LADY's GARLAND ; Or , The Handsome BUTCHER of St. James's Market . YOung men and pretty maidens , be pleas'd to lend any ear , 'Tis of a charming lady that lov'd a young man dear ; She was a merchant's daughter , of beauty fair and clear . And he a handsome butcher . this lady lov'd him dear . As thro' St. James's market , this lady she did go , She saw this charming butcher , attir'd like a beaux ; Young Cupid let his arrow fly , while gazing thus she stood : The butcher being brisk and gay , and in a pleasant mood ; He took her by the charming hand , saying , madam , what d'ye buy , The best of ware I have god , the lady did then reply , The meat you have is fresh and good , and charming to behold ; But something else I'd have , if I could purchase it with gold . What is it ? beauteous lady , I pray now let me hear ; Altho' my ware it is so good , It is not very dear . The lady smil'd to hear him thus merrily to talk , And then unto St James's this couple soon did walk . And then to break her troubled mind , the lady did begin : Kind sir [ , ] I hope you'll pardon me , for love's tormenting sting . Has pierc'd my [ tO ] endear heart in twain ; this you that I adore . I am a merchant's daughter bright , and have gold and silver store . And can'st thou love a butcher thou charming beauty bright ? O gods ! that brought this creatute this day unto my sighed [ . ] Unite us both in happiness , let me enjoy the fair ; Sweet lady come into my arms , and never more despair . With that I did presume to kiss her ruby lips so sweet , And then we promis'd each other , next morning we would meet . According to our promise it was likewise perform'd , And with happy nuptial rites , this lady was adorn'd . She had a trusty servant , who all the matter knew , Who solemnly protested , to us she would prove true . And in the dead of night she brought me to my dear , To revel in the bay of love , with my own charming fair . We kept the matter secret , 'till twenty weeks were passed , My charming creature did begin to thicken in the waist . Her mother she did spy the same , and told her husband dear , Saying , alas ! she is with child , she's ruined I fear . So sending for her daughter , thus unto her did say , Tell us with whom thou hast been fooling , Oh daughter dear we pray , For we perceive thou art with child , let me the father know , We'll make him curse the very time he served our daughter so . My maid and I to market went , to them she did reply ; You bid me buy what ware was good , you cannot it sieny ; There was a handsome butcher , I lik'd his ware so well , Of it I made a hear [ tO ] y meal , that made my belly swell . You are a handsome lady , her father then did say , And as for mrs . Betty [ , ] come quit my service , pray , But firs [ tO ] go fetch the butcher , 'ere I' [ l ] l thy wages pay , I'll make the rogue to marry her , so Betty went her way . And going to the butcher , she unto him did say , Come throw away your knife and steel , this minute come away , And anser for the deed you have done , my master he does swear , He'll make you for to marry my charming Lady fair . He soon came to her father , the old man thus began , --- I pray what sort of meat was that you sold my daughter , when You made her belly swell at such a dismal rate ; Indeed young man it was not well , and you shall suffer for't Here , take the harlot quite away , and marry her with speed , One farthing of her portion , she shall not have indeed . Why then I will not have her , the butcher did reply ; With that the daughter hung her head , and strait began to cry So then the mother she did say , dear husband now forbear , We will give her portion if that she married were . No , I will have the money down , 'ere I to church do go . The old man sigh'd and shook his head , well , since it must be so , Seven thousand pounds I'll give her , but thus it must be done , The minister shall come here , fear you from her should run . He having god the money , he fell upon his knees , Likewise the youthful Lady , saying , Fathe , if you please . To grant to us your blessing , we are already wed : Her aged father wept for joy , their grief soon vanished . He blessed his son and daughter , And said , rise children dear , And strait he settled on them both five hundred pounds a year . So lovers all , you plainly see ; what Cupid he can do ; There's nothing like those lovers that constant are and true . Blame not my charming creature , because she courted Me ; This being leap-year the maidens fair , to court indeed are free . Worcester : Printed by J. Butler , High Street ; and sold by J. Grundy , Goose Lane . The Amorous LADY's GARLAND ; Or , The Handsome BUTCHER of St. James's Market . YOung men and pretty maidens , be pleas'd to lend any ear , 'Tis of a charming lady that lov'd a young man dear ; She was a merchant's daughter , of beauty fair and clear . And he a handsome butcher . this lady lov'd him dear . As thro' St. James's market , this lady she did go , She saw this charming butcher , attir'd like a beaux ; Young Cupid let his arrow fly , while gazing thus she stood : The butcher being brisk and gay , and in a pleasant mood ; He took her by the charming hand , saying , madam , what d'ye buy , The best of ware I have god , the lady did then reply , The meat you have is fresh and good , and charming to behold ; But something else I'd have , if I could purchase it with gold . What is it ? beauteous lady , I pray now let me hear ; Altho' my ware it is so good , It is not very dear . The lady smil'd to hear him thus merrily to talk , And then unto St James's this couple soon did walk . And then to break her troubled mind , the lady did begin : Kind sir [ , ] I hope you'll pardon me , for love's tormenting sting . Has pierc'd my [ tO ] endear heart in twain ; this you that I adore . I am a merchant's daughter bright , and have gold and silver store . And can'st thou love a butcher thou charming beauty bright ? O gods ! that brought this creatute this day unto my sighed [ . ] Unite us both in happiness , let me enjoy the fair ; Sweet lady come into my arms , and never more despair . With that I did presume to kiss her ruby lips so sweet , And then we promis'd each other , next morning we would meet . According to our promise it was likewise perform'd , And with happy nuptial rites , this lady was adorn'd . She had a trusty servant , who all the matter knew , Who solemnly protested , to us she would prove true . And in the dead of night she brought me to my dear , To revel in the bay of love , with my own charming fair . We kept the matter secret , 'till twenty weeks were passed , My charming creature did begin to thicken in the waist . Her mother she did spy the same , and told her husband dear , Saying , alas ! she is with child , she's ruined I fear . So sending for her daughter , thus unto her did say , Tell us with whom thou hast been fooling , Oh daughter dear we pray , For we perceive thou art with child , let me the father know , We'll make him curse the very time he served our daughter so . My maid and I to market went , to them she did reply ; You bid me buy what ware was good , you cannot it sieny ; There was a handsome butcher , I lik'd his ware so well , Of it I made a hear [ tO ] y meal , that made my belly swell . You are a handsome lady , her father then did say , And as for mrs . Betty [ , ] come quit my service , pray , But firs [ tO ] go fetch the butcher , 'ere I' [ l ] l thy wages pay , I'll make the rogue to marry her , so Betty went her way . And going to the butcher , she unto him did say , Come throw away your knife and steel , this minute come away , And anser for the deed you have done , my master he does swear , He'll make you for to marry my charming Lady fair . He soon came to her father , the old man thus began , --- I pray what sort of meat was that you sold my daughter , when You made her belly swell at such a dismal rate ; Indeed young man it was not well , and you shall suffer for't Here , take the harlot quite away , and marry her with speed , One farthing of her portion , she shall not have indeed . Why then I will not have her , the butcher did reply ; With that the daughter hung her head , and strait began to cry So then the mother she did say , dear husband now forbear , We will give her portion if that she married were . No , I will have the money down , 'ere I to church do go . The old man sigh'd and shook his head , well , since it must be so , Seven thousand pounds I'll give her , but thus it must be done , The minister shall come here , fear you from her should run . He having god the money , he fell upon his knees , Likewise the youthful Lady , saying , Fathe , if you please . To grant to us your blessing , we are already wed : Her aged father wept for joy , their grief soon vanished . He blessed his son and daughter , And said , rise children dear , And strait he settled on them both five hundred pounds a year . So lovers all , you plainly see ; what Cupid he can do ; There's nothing like those lovers that constant are and true . Blame not my charming creature , because she courted Me ; This being leap-year the maidens fair , to court indeed are free . Worcester : Printed by J. Butler , High Street ; and sold by J. Grundy , Goose Lane . 