The Woman's Victory : OR , The Conceited Cuckold cudgel'd into good Qualities , By his fair and virtuous Wife . To the Tune of , The Languishing Swain , etc YOung marry'd Women , pray attend To these few lines which I have penn'd , So will you clearly understand , How I obtain'd the upper-hand , Of my harsh Husband , most unkind , Who was to cruelty enclin'd , As by the sequel you shall hear , No Mortal e're was so severe . My birth and education shows , I was not qualify'd for blows ; Yet I so many did receive , That night and day my soul did grieve . My Parents had no Child but I , Therefore their care continually , Was still to have me marry'd well ; Yet under Fortune's frowns I fell . A wretched Miser marry'd me , Whose age was threesore years and three , And I no more than seventeen ; Would I his face had never seen . Before we long had marry'd been , This aged Miser did begin To have some jealous thoughts of me , And then began my misery . When I abroad with him did go , Perhaps to see a Friend , or so , If any Man saluted me , It strait encreas'd his jealousy . And then at night when we come home , He would with rage and fury foam , Nay , likewise kick and spurn me too , While my poor limbs were black and blue . I wonder'd at the cause of this , Or what he found so far amiss , Which should create such hateful strife , For I was weary of my life . At length I found the mischief bred Within his aged jealous head , And thereupon I found a way , His rage and malice to allay . Soon after this , we went one night To reap the pleasures of delight , Among some Friends in merriment , The which did cause much discontent . A Squire drank a glass to me , I pledg'd the Youth in modesty , Thinking no harm , yet ne'ertheless , He did my sides and shoulders dress . His bitter blows I could not bear , Therefore next morning , I declare , Wile he was sleeping fast in bed , I with a ladle broke his head . With that he starts and stares about , I stood courageous , fierce and stout , Crying , I'll never be your Slave ; With that another bang I gave . He with a cudgel run at me , I took a club as well as he , Crying , I am resolv'd to try Who shall be Master you or I . I gave him not a minute's rest , But round the room the Rogue I dressed , At length I brought him to his knees , Henceforth I'll never you displease . This was his cry , still o're and o're : Quoth I , Will you be jealous more ? No , no , I wont , sweet loving Wife , If thou'lt be pleas'd to spare my life . Pray keep your word , I then reply'd , Or else , adsfoot , I'll thrash your hide ; You must not think that I'll be fool'd , Or in the least be over-rul'd . Thus I my Husband did subdue , I'faith I made him buckle too , Now ever since the truth to tell , With him I live exceeding well . He never offers now to fight , But calls me love and hearts delight ; Thus , loving Neighbours , you may see , I cur'd him of his jealousy . London : Printed for J. Deacon , at the sign of the Angel , in Guilt-spur-street . The Woman's Victory : OR , The Conceited Cuckold cudgel'd into good Qualities , By his fair and virtuous Wife . To the Tune of , The Languishing Swain , etc YOung marry'd Women , pray attend To these few lines which I have penn'd , So will you clearly understand , How I obtain'd the upper-hand , Of my harsh Husband , most unkind , Who was to cruelty enclin'd , As by the sequel you shall hear , No Mortal e're was so severe . My birth and education shows , I was not qualify'd for blows ; Yet I so many did receive , That night and day my soul did grieve . My Parents had no Child but I , Therefore their care continually , Was still to have me marry'd well ; Yet under Fortune's frowns I fell . A wretched Miser marry'd me , Whose age was threesore years and three , And I no more than seventeen ; Would I his face had never seen . Before we long had marry'd been , This aged Miser did begin To have some jealous thoughts of me , And then began my misery . When I abroad with him did go , Perhaps to see a Friend , or so , If any Man saluted me , It strait encreas'd his jealousy . And then at night when we come home , He would with rage and fury foam , Nay , likewise kick and spurn me too , While my poor limbs were black and blue . I wonder'd at the cause of this , Or what he found so far amiss , Which should create such hateful strife , For I was weary of my life . At length I found the mischief bred Within his aged jealous head , And thereupon I found a way , His rage and malice to allay . Soon after this , we went one night To reap the pleasures of delight , Among some Friends in merriment , The which did cause much discontent . A Squire drank a glass to me , I pledg'd the Youth in modesty , Thinking no harm , yet ne'ertheless , He did my sides and shoulders dress . His bitter blows I could not bear , Therefore next morning , I declare , Wile he was sleeping fast in bed , I with a ladle broke his head . With that he starts and stares about , I stood courageous , fierce and stout , Crying , I'll never be your Slave ; With that another bang I gave . He with a cudgel run at me , I took a club as well as he , Crying , I am resolv'd to try Who shall be Master you or I . I gave him not a minute's rest , But round the room the Rogue I dressed , At length I brought him to his knees , Henceforth I'll never you displease . This was his cry , still o're and o're : Quoth I , Will you be jealous more ? No , no , I wont , sweet loving Wife , If thou'lt be pleas'd to spare my life . Pray keep your word , I then reply'd , Or else , adsfoot , I'll thrash your hide ; You must not think that I'll be fool'd , Or in the least be over-rul'd . Thus I my Husband did subdue , I'faith I made him buckle too , Now ever since the truth to tell , With him I live exceeding well . He never offers now to fight , But calls me love and hearts delight ; Thus , loving Neighbours , you may see , I cur'd him of his jealousy . London : Printed for J. Deacon , at the sign of the Angel , in Guilt-spur-street . 