C : RB . I.262 ( 096 ) FANCIES FRREEDOM WHom have I chosen to my love , and no more I crave , And I not having whom I love , what do I receive ? Riches and Honour both , are but misery , When the Mind is not fulfill'd and Fancy is not free . Contentment yields the greatest joy , none can it deny , And I not having whom I love , what content have I ? Restraint does take away , what in love might be , Since true love ceases to be love , and Fancy is not free . Have not the Birds of the Air , freedom at their will , For to choose their own true Mate and all their thoughts fulfil ? Why then , should I then , who reasonable be , Be thus oppressed with my love , and have not Fancy free ? Does not the languishing of spirits often procure our Death ? And Melancholy fits of Love , extinguish lovers breath ? How then but in sadness and mourning can I be : When my love is bounded in , and Fancy is not free ? The eye gives object to the love , when that it is crossed , It turns to mourning weeping Tears , lamenting what is los The eye does mourn , the heart does burn and dwines exceedingly : Which puts a perjod to my life and makes my Fancy die . 'Twixt those extremes of jeopardy does my affection lie : Life bids me stay , love to employ , but restrant bid be die . 'Twixt flames I burn , and on my urn my ashes you shall see , That I did live because I lov'd , and had not Fancy free . The Young Man's Reply . WHen I by Fancy first did move , I made that endless choice , With Protestations for to prove , most constant in all noise . My whole Engine I did incline ( that all the World might see ) To have my Love unite to thine , and make my Fancy free . Heavens hath decreed that thus my smart be plung'd in loves desire : And blind Cupid with his dart , hath set my heart on fire : No crosses , nor losses , shall ever altar me , Nor yet no worldly wishes shall make my Fancy die . I valve nothing that I know , to that choice I did make For which I gladly undergo all crosses for her sake : Then present or absent she still my Love shall be , Which only can give me content , and set my Fancy free . Another Reply . FAncies freedom's good indeed , but fools we must debar , For their fantastic Female Sex , does still at reason scar , For their unsolid brainsick wits ; love such variety . That reason cannot them permit , to have their Fancy free . Birds that are loyal in their mind when that they do confer , They match according to their kind , and so they do not err : The Female Sex are worse than those , loves infidelity , That reason cannot them permit , to have their Fancy free . The heart of Man's entirely bent , without deceit or craft , And when of Love it gets the stamp it holds fast the shaft , But Women's heart two doors they have and let these darts outfly , That no Man weep much thereat should they have Fancy free . Loves cries contentment is a bless , and when the same you have , When you have got which you list , yet have you more to crave . Even that which is your bliss tonight tomorrow makes you die And so your life is endless strife should you have Fancy free . FINIS . C : RB . I.262 ( 096 ) FANCIES FRREEDOM WHom have I chosen to my love , and no more I crave , And I not having whom I love , what do I receive ? Riches and Honour both , are but misery , When the Mind is not fulfill'd and Fancy is not free . Contentment yields the greatest joy , none can it deny , And I not having whom I love , what content have I ? Restraint does take away , what in love might be , Since true love ceases to be love , and Fancy is not free . Have not the Birds of the Air , freedom at their will , For to choose their own true Mate and all their thoughts fulfil ? Why then , should I then , who reasonable be , Be thus oppressed with my love , and have not Fancy free ? Does not the languishing of spirits often procure our Death ? And Melancholy fits of Love , extinguish lovers breath ? How then but in sadness and mourning can I be : When my love is bounded in , and Fancy is not free ? The eye gives object to the love , when that it is crossed , It turns to mourning weeping Tears , lamenting what is los The eye does mourn , the heart does burn and dwines exceedingly : Which puts a perjod to my life and makes my Fancy die . 'Twixt those extremes of jeopardy does my affection lie : Life bids me stay , love to employ , but restrant bid be die . 'Twixt flames I burn , and on my urn my ashes you shall see , That I did live because I lov'd , and had not Fancy free . The Young Man's Reply . WHen I by Fancy first did move , I made that endless choice , With Protestations for to prove , most constant in all noise . My whole Engine I did incline ( that all the World might see ) To have my Love unite to thine , and make my Fancy free . Heavens hath decreed that thus my smart be plung'd in loves desire : And blind Cupid with his dart , hath set my heart on fire : No crosses , nor losses , shall ever altar me , Nor yet no worldly wishes shall make my Fancy die . I valve nothing that I know , to that choice I did make For which I gladly undergo all crosses for her sake : Then present or absent she still my Love shall be , Which only can give me content , and set my Fancy free . Another Reply . FAncies freedom's good indeed , but fools we must debar , For their fantastic Female Sex , does still at reason scar , For their unsolid brainsick wits ; love such variety . That reason cannot them permit , to have their Fancy free . Birds that are loyal in their mind when that they do confer , They match according to their kind , and so they do not err : The Female Sex are worse than those , loves infidelity , That reason cannot them permit , to have their Fancy free . The heart of Man's entirely bent , without deceit or craft , And when of Love it gets the stamp it holds fast the shaft , But Women's heart two doors they have and let these darts outfly , That no Man weep much thereat should they have Fancy free . Loves cries contentment is a bless , and when the same you have , When you have got which you list , yet have you more to crave . Even that which is your bliss tonight tomorrow makes you die And so your life is endless strife should you have Fancy free . FINIS . 