The West-Country Lawyer : OR , The Witty Maid's Good Fortune ; Who wisely maintain'd her Virginity against the golden Assaults of the Lawyer , who at length married her to her Hearts Content . To the Tune of , The Baffled Knight . Licensed according to Order . A Youthful Lawyer fine and gay , was riding unto the City , Who met a Damsel on the way right beautiful , fair , and witty . Good morrow then , the Lawyer cry'd , I prithee where art thou going ? Quoth she , to yonder Meadows side , my Father is there a mowing . Straight from his Horse he did alight , and as he was going to her , The Maid immediately took flight , for fear that he would undo her . But he run like a nimble Deer , until he did overtake her ; And then he whisper'd in her Ear , a Lady he'd surely make her . If he might but enjoy the bliss a minute or two of Pleasure ; Then as a Pledge I'll give thee this , a handful of Golden Treasure . Said she , I valve not your Gold , and therefore I pray be civil , My Maiden head shall ne'er be sold for Money , the Root of Evil. I'd sooner be a Plough-man's Bride , and fit at my Wheel a spinning : Than be a Lawyer's Jilt , she cry'd , to live by the Trade of Sinning . Tush [ , ] said the Lawyer , Be not coy , Let's fallen to our Love's Embraces A silken Gown thou shalt enjoy , with Bracelet , Rings and Laces . Your silken Gown I do disdain , although I have mean Relation , I am resolved to maintain my innocent Reputation . If thou wilt but to London go , I'll honour thee like a Lady : But still the Damsel answer'd no , I am happy enough already . You talk of Glory , State and Fame , and how I shall be attended ; But , Sir , I am not for your Game , so let the Discourse be ended . Pray save your Breath and Money too , I like not your way of Wooing , There is too many such as you that brings the young Maids to ruin . I'll keep my pure Virginity , till Marriage is my Pleasure ; For , Sir , said she , 'tis more to me than missions of Gold and Treasure . He found her so discreet and wise , in every ready Answer , That he her Charms did highly prize , and vow'd he wou'd soon advance her . Unto her Parents he did go , where he did their Love require : Then was she cloath'd from Top to Toe in costly rich Attire . Next day the Gordian Knot was ty'd , and many was at the Marriage ; When she appear'd and Angel bright , for Beauty and comely Carriage . You Lasses all , I pray you mind , to whom I have told this Story ; Be careful that you an't too kind , for fear you should blast your Glory . Had she been soon to Folly led , and for a small Spell consented ; She might have lost her Maidenhead , and when it was gone , lamented . But now she is a Lawyer's Wife , her Husband do's dearly love her ; So that she leads a happy Life , there's few in the Town above her . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel , in Gilt-spur-street . The West-Country Lawyer : OR , The Witty Maid's Good Fortune ; Who wisely maintain'd her Virginity against the golden Assaults of the Lawyer , who at length married her to her Hearts Content . To the Tune of , The Baffled Knight . Licensed according to Order . A Youthful Lawyer fine and gay , was riding unto the City , Who met a Damsel on the way right beautiful , fair , and witty . Good morrow then , the Lawyer cry'd , I prithee where art thou going ? Quoth she , to yonder Meadows side , my Father is there a mowing . Straight from his Horse he did alight , and as he was going to her , The Maid immediately took flight , for fear that he would undo her . But he run like a nimble Deer , until he did overtake her ; And then he whisper'd in her Ear , a Lady he'd surely make her . If he might but enjoy the bliss a minute or two of Pleasure ; Then as a Pledge I'll give thee this , a handful of Golden Treasure . Said she , I valve not your Gold , and therefore I pray be civil , My Maiden head shall ne'er be sold for Money , the Root of Evil. I'd sooner be a Plough-man's Bride , and fit at my Wheel a spinning : Than be a Lawyer's Jilt , she cry'd , to live by the Trade of Sinning . Tush [ , ] said the Lawyer , Be not coy , Let's fallen to our Love's Embraces A silken Gown thou shalt enjoy , with Bracelet , Rings and Laces . Your silken Gown I do disdain , although I have mean Relation , I am resolved to maintain my innocent Reputation . If thou wilt but to London go , I'll honour thee like a Lady : But still the Damsel answer'd no , I am happy enough already . You talk of Glory , State and Fame , and how I shall be attended ; But , Sir , I am not for your Game , so let the Discourse be ended . Pray save your Breath and Money too , I like not your way of Wooing , There is too many such as you that brings the young Maids to ruin . I'll keep my pure Virginity , till Marriage is my Pleasure ; For , Sir , said she , 'tis more to me than missions of Gold and Treasure . He found her so discreet and wise , in every ready Answer , That he her Charms did highly prize , and vow'd he wou'd soon advance her . Unto her Parents he did go , where he did their Love require : Then was she cloath'd from Top to Toe in costly rich Attire . Next day the Gordian Knot was ty'd , and many was at the Marriage ; When she appear'd and Angel bright , for Beauty and comely Carriage . You Lasses all , I pray you mind , to whom I have told this Story ; Be careful that you an't too kind , for fear you should blast your Glory . Had she been soon to Folly led , and for a small Spell consented ; She might have lost her Maidenhead , and when it was gone , lamented . But now she is a Lawyer's Wife , her Husband do's dearly love her ; So that she leads a happy Life , there's few in the Town above her . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel , in Gilt-spur-street . 