C : RB . I.262 ( 102 ) A DIALOGUE Between Ald John M'clatchy , and Young Willie Would , about the Marriage of his Daughter Maggy M'clatchy . To and Excellent New Tune . THE Meal was dear short shine , When they were Married together ; Ann Maggy she was in her prime , When Willy made Courtship till her . Twa Pistols Charg'd be-guess , To give the Courtier a Shot , Ann sine came ben the Lass , we Swats drawn frae the But He first spears at the Goodman , Ann sine at Jean her Mither , Gin ye'll gi'e us a bit Land , We'll Buckle our selves together . Old Man. My Daughter you shall ha'e I'll gi'e you her be the Hann , But we my Wife I man quat Gin I quat we my Lann ; But your Tocher shall be good , I'll ne'er gang nen the meek , The Lass been in her Snood , And Cromy that kens the Stake ; we and ald Bedding o' Clea's , Was left me by my Mither , They're geet-black o're we fleas You may H-dle in them together . Young-Man . A Bargain it shall be , But you man mend your Hann , Ann think on Modesty ; Gin ye'll no' quat we your Lann , We are but young you ken , Ann now we're gaen together , A House is But and Ben , Ann Cromie she wants her Fadder ; The Bairns are coming on , Ann they'll cry on there Mither , We ha'e neither Pot nor Pan , But four bair Legs together . Old Man. Thou shall ha'e Tocher aneugh , Ann that thou need not fear , Twa good stilts to the Pleugh , Ann thou thy self man steer ; Thou'st ha'e twa good ald pocks , That was enst made of the Tweel , The teen to had the Groats , The tither to had the Meal : we and ald Kissed made o' wans I'll give thee to thy Coffer , we eiken woody bans , And that may had your Tocher . Young-Man . Consider now Goodman , I ha'e but barrow'd geer , The Beast that I Ride on , Is Sanny Wilson's Mere ; But as soon as I gan heem , I'll take me to my Cuts , The Saddle is nean of my ain , Ann these are barraw'd Boots , The Clock is Geordie Wat's , That gars me look so Cruss , Fie fill us a Cog o'Swats We'll make ne mare toomrouss . Old-Man . Thou art and onest Lad , For telling me so plain , I Married when little I had , Of Gear that was my ain ; Good-sooth if it be se , The Bride she man come forth , Tho' a the gear she has , It is but little worth ; A Briddle it shall be , Se spear at Jean her Mither , Content am I , quoth she , Fie gar the Lass come hither ; The Bride lap in to the Bed , Ann the Bridegroom ged till her The Fiddler crap in to the mids Ann they H-dled altogether . FINIS . C : RB . I.262 ( 102 ) A DIALOGUE Between Ald John M'clatchy , and Young Willie Would , about the Marriage of his Daughter Maggy M'clatchy . To and Excellent New Tune . THE Meal was dear short shine , When they were Married together ; Ann Maggy she was in her prime , When Willy made Courtship till her . Twa Pistols Charg'd be-guess , To give the Courtier a Shot , Ann sine came ben the Lass , we Swats drawn frae the But He first spears at the Goodman , Ann sine at Jean her Mither , Gin ye'll gi'e us a bit Land , We'll Buckle our selves together . Old Man. My Daughter you shall ha'e I'll gi'e you her be the Hann , But we my Wife I man quat Gin I quat we my Lann ; But your Tocher shall be good , I'll ne'er gang nen the meek , The Lass been in her Snood , And Cromy that kens the Stake ; we and ald Bedding o' Clea's , Was left me by my Mither , They're geet-black o're we fleas You may H-dle in them together . Young-Man . A Bargain it shall be , But you man mend your Hann , Ann think on Modesty ; Gin ye'll no' quat we your Lann , We are but young you ken , Ann now we're gaen together , A House is But and Ben , Ann Cromie she wants her Fadder ; The Bairns are coming on , Ann they'll cry on there Mither , We ha'e neither Pot nor Pan , But four bair Legs together . Old Man. Thou shall ha'e Tocher aneugh , Ann that thou need not fear , Twa good stilts to the Pleugh , Ann thou thy self man steer ; Thou'st ha'e twa good ald pocks , That was enst made of the Tweel , The teen to had the Groats , The tither to had the Meal : we and ald Kissed made o' wans I'll give thee to thy Coffer , we eiken woody bans , And that may had your Tocher . Young-Man . Consider now Goodman , I ha'e but barrow'd geer , The Beast that I Ride on , Is Sanny Wilson's Mere ; But as soon as I gan heem , I'll take me to my Cuts , The Saddle is nean of my ain , Ann these are barraw'd Boots , The Clock is Geordie Wat's , That gars me look so Cruss , Fie fill us a Cog o'Swats We'll make ne mare toomrouss . Old-Man . Thou art and onest Lad , For telling me so plain , I Married when little I had , Of Gear that was my ain ; Good-sooth if it be se , The Bride she man come forth , Tho' a the gear she has , It is but little worth ; A Briddle it shall be , Se spear at Jean her Mither , Content am I , quoth she , Fie gar the Lass come hither ; The Bride lap in to the Bed , Ann the Bridegroom ged till her The Fiddler crap in to the mids Ann they H-dled altogether . FINIS . C : RB . I.262 ( 102 ) A DIALOGUE Between Ald John M'clatchy , and Young Willie Would , about the Marriage of his Daughter Maggy M'clatchy . To and Excellent New Tune . THE Meal was dear short shine , When they were Married together ; Ann Maggy she was in her prime , When Willy made Courtship till her . Twa Pistols Charg'd be-guess , To give the Courtier a Shot , Ann sine came ben the Lass , we Swats drawn frae the But He first spears at the Goodman , Ann sine at Jean her Mither , Gin ye'll gi'e us a bit Land , We'll Buckle our selves together . Old Man. My Daughter you shall ha'e I'll gi'e you her be the Hann , But we my Wife I man quat Gin I quat we my Lann ; But your Tocher shall be good , I'll ne'er gang nen the meek , The Lass been in her Snood , And Cromy that kens the Stake ; we and ald Bedding o' Clea's , Was left me by my Mither , They're geet-black o're we fleas You may H-dle in them together . Young-Man . A Bargain it shall be , But you man mend your Hann , Ann think on Modesty ; Gin ye'll no' quat we your Lann , We are but young you ken , Ann now we're gaen together , A House is But and Ben , Ann Cromie she wants her Fadder ; The Bairns are coming on , Ann they'll cry on there Mither , We ha'e neither Pot nor Pan , But four bair Legs together . Old Man. Thou shall ha'e Tocher aneugh , Ann that thou need not fear , Twa good stilts to the Pleugh , Ann thou thy self man steer ; Thou'st ha'e twa good ald pocks , That was enst made of the Tweel , The teen to had the Groats , The tither to had the Meal : we and ald Kissed made o' wans I'll give thee to thy Coffer , we eiken woody bans , And that may had your Tocher . Young-Man . Consider now Goodman , I ha'e but barrow'd geer , The Beast that I Ride on , Is Sanny Wilson's Mere ; But as soon as I gan heem , I'll take me to my Cuts , The Saddle is nean of my ain , Ann these are barraw'd Boots , The Clock is Geordie Wat's , That gars me look so Cruss , Fie fill us a Cog o'Swats We'll make ne mare toomrouss . Old-Man . Thou art and onest Lad , For telling me so plain , I Married when little I had , Of Gear that was my ain ; Good-sooth if it be se , The Bride she man come forth , Tho' a the gear she has , It is but little worth ; A Briddle it shall be , Se spear at Jean her Mither , Content am I , quoth she , Fie gar the Lass come hither ; The Bride lap in to the Bed , Ann the Bridegroom ged till her The Fiddler crap in to the mids Ann they H-dled altogether . FINIS . C : RB . I.262 ( 102 ) A DIALOGUE Between Ald John M'clatchy , and Young Willie Would , about the Marriage of his Daughter Maggy M'clatchy . To and Excellent New Tune . THE Meal was dear short shine , When they were Married together ; Ann Maggy she was in her prime , When Willy made Courtship till her . Twa Pistols Charg'd be-guess , To give the Courtier a Shot , Ann sine came ben the Lass , we Swats drawn frae the But He first spears at the Goodman , Ann sine at Jean her Mither , Gin ye'll gi'e us a bit Land , We'll Buckle our selves together . Old Man. My Daughter you shall ha'e I'll gi'e you her be the Hann , But we my Wife I man quat Gin I quat we my Lann ; But your Tocher shall be good , I'll ne'er gang nen the meek , The Lass been in her Snood , And Cromy that kens the Stake ; we and ald Bedding o' Clea's , Was left me by my Mither , They're geet-black o're we fleas You may H-dle in them together . Young-Man . A Bargain it shall be , But you man mend your Hann , Ann think on Modesty ; Gin ye'll no' quat we your Lann , We are but young you ken , Ann now we're gaen together , A House is But and Ben , Ann Cromie she wants her Fadder ; The Bairns are coming on , Ann they'll cry on there Mither , We ha'e neither Pot nor Pan , But four bair Legs together . Old Man. Thou shall ha'e Tocher aneugh , Ann that thou need not fear , Twa good stilts to the Pleugh , Ann thou thy self man steer ; Thou'st ha'e twa good ald pocks , That was enst made of the Tweel , The teen to had the Groats , The tither to had the Meal : we and ald Kissed made o' wans I'll give thee to thy Coffer , we eiken woody bans , And that may had your Tocher . Young-Man . Consider now Goodman , I ha'e but barrow'd geer , The Beast that I Ride on , Is Sanny Wilson's Mere ; But as soon as I gan heem , I'll take me to my Cuts , The Saddle is nean of my ain , Ann these are barraw'd Boots , The Clock is Geordie Wat's , That gars me look so Cruss , Fie fill us a Cog o'Swats We'll make ne mare toomrouss . Old-Man . Thou art and onest Lad , For telling me so plain , I Married when little I had , Of Gear that was my ain ; Good-sooth if it be se , The Bride she man come forth , Tho' a the gear she has , It is but little worth ; A Briddle it shall be , Se spear at Jean her Mither , Content am I , quoth she , Fie gar the Lass come hither ; The Bride lap in to the Bed , Ann the Bridegroom ged till her The Fiddler crap in to the mids Ann they H-dled altogether . FINIS . 