C : RB . I.262 ( 114 ) THE LOYAL BRITISH FIGHTING IN FLANDERS Or , A NEW SONG , Made by a Protestant Centinel of the British Forces To and excellent new Tune much in Request . 1 AS I was at a merry Meeting , being in a merry vein ; Where I herd a Soldier singing , true blue will never stain . 2 I have been in France and Flanders where I've seen great numbers slave ; Colonels , Captains , chief Commanders , true blue will never stain . 3 Last Summer it was dirty weather we march'd through Corn with all our train We march'd and fought two days together , true blue will never stain . 4 We at Walcot had a Battle , for five hours it did remain ; The British made their Guns to rattle true blue will never stain . 5 Little else but Smoke and Fire , cou'd we see all round the Plain , Yet we made the French retire , true blue will never stain . 6 At Charleroy our Cannons roar'd , and our Bullets flew amain : We laid the French men in their gore , true blue shall never stain . 7 Not a Soldier feared dying ; though some Thousands there lay slave , Shot as thick as hail was flying , true blue will never stain . 8 At length some of our men was wounded ay , and some other was slave : This at all we never valu'd , true blue will never stain . 9 Under the Surgeons hand we tarry'd [ till our wounds was heal'd again : ] Brave British hearts were carry'd true blue will never stain . 10 My Captain was a Prisoner taken , and our Lieutenant Colonel slave , Yet we'd ne're fight against our Conscience , true blue will never stain . 11 He that strikes , he may be stricken ; he that fights he may be slave : He that's beaten is not eaten , true blue will never stain . 12 While we in a Land of Strangers , did in Camp of Field remain ; We were still beset with dangers , true blue will never stain . 13 'Tis the Wars that we delight in , and a Cowards Name disdain : British Boys the best for fighting true blue will never stain . 14 Let not one despise a Souldler , for he does our Rights maintain , Proving still the Lands upholder , true blue will never stain . 15 Thus we've been all Europe over , Britains Honour to maintain , And now we're set ashore at Dover , true blue will never stain . 16 For the King and Queen of Britain , if we need we'l fight again : The meanwhile Boys , lets be merry , true blue will never stain . FINISC : RB . I.262 ( 114 ) THE LOYAL BRITISH FIGHTING IN FLANDERS Or , A NEW SONG , Made by a Protestant Centinel of the British Forces To and excellent new Tune much in Request . 1 AS I was at a merry Meeting , being in a merry vein ; Where I herd a Soldier singing , true blue will never stain . 2 I have been in France and Flanders where I've seen great numbers slave ; Colonels , Captains , chief Commanders , true blue will never stain . 3 Last Summer it was dirty weather we march'd through Corn with all our train We march'd and fought two days together , true blue will never stain . 4 We at Walcot had a Battle , for five hours it did remain ; The British made their Guns to rattle true blue will never stain . 5 Little else but Smoke and Fire , cou'd we see all round the Plain , Yet we made the French retire , true blue will never stain . 6 At Charleroy our Cannons roar'd , and our Bullets flew amain : We laid the French men in their gore , true blue shall never stain . 7 Not a Soldier feared dying ; though some Thousands there lay slave , Shot as thick as hail was flying , true blue will never stain . 8 At length some of our men was wounded ay , and some other was slave : This at all we never valu'd , true blue will never stain . 9 Under the Surgeons hand we tarry'd [ till our wounds was heal'd again : ] Brave British hearts were carry'd true blue will never stain . 10 My Captain was a Prisoner taken , and our Lieutenant Colonel slave , Yet we'd ne're fight against our Conscience , true blue will never stain . 11 He that strikes , he may be stricken ; he that fights he may be slave : He that's beaten is not eaten , true blue will never stain . 12 While we in a Land of Strangers , did in Camp of Field remain ; We were still beset with dangers , true blue will never stain . 13 'Tis the Wars that we delight in , and a Cowards Name disdain : British Boys the best for fighting true blue will never stain . 14 Let not one despise a Souldler , for he does our Rights maintain , Proving still the Lands upholder , true blue will never stain . 15 Thus we've been all Europe over , Britains Honour to maintain , And now we're set ashore at Dover , true blue will never stain . 16 For the King and Queen of Britain , if we need we'l fight again : The meanwhile Boys , lets be merry , true blue will never stain . FINIS 