C : RB . I.262 ( 117 ) The Caping-Trade . To and excellent new Tune Come all brave Boys of the Caping Trade , This stately Vessel we'll invade , We'll pin her Cargo to her Load , No Quarters we'l afford her , But standing stiff and still good Fate , Although our Seas be sail'd of late , Come Helm a Lee and low your Top , I ll lay my Life I ll board her . The first attempt may prove in vain , Though it be neither shame nor stain , The brave may loss as well as gain , We'll do it with bravado's , We'l turn about and undertake To board her under quarter Deck With blunder bush and ported pick ; And with two hand granado's . I have been at the Caping Trade , And Foreign blood I oft have shed , But it is true that in old was said , True Honour's god by danger , I'll stay at home put up my pike . No prizes more Will to me stick For a stately Vessel's beatrice me back I'm sure's was in all England . Declining days comes on a pace . How dare I look my Enemy in the Face , Since I came off with such Disgrace , And all for lake of powder , Mine Ammunition's spent and gone ; A little gun scarce half foot long , Two little Balls not well worth one . So I am no mor for boarding . cheer up anon you're mad to think ; That you are in danger for to sink , But with Broadside close to her clink Deal thumps and turn all over , Your Blind may spleit upon her Starn , If you receive no greater Harm , A cup of brandy your heart being Warm , Will soon that loss recover . All you that caping take in hand , See that your Mainmast straight do stand , Your Soldiers all at your command , to fire at once make ready , Stand to it then for ever more , See that your faults be not before , Style first a gun to the cabbine door , Faint Heart near won fair Lady . FINIS : C : RB . I.262 ( 117 ) The Caping-Trade . To and excellent new Tune Come all brave Boys of the Caping Trade , This stately Vessel we'll invade , We'll pin her Cargo to her Load , No Quarters we'l afford her , But standing stiff and still good Fate , Although our Seas be sail'd of late , Come Helm a Lee and low your Top , I ll lay my Life I ll board her . The first attempt may prove in vain , Though it be neither shame nor stain , The brave may loss as well as gain , We'll do it with bravado's , We'l turn about and undertake To board her under quarter Deck With blunder bush and ported pick ; And with two hand granado's . I have been at the Caping Trade , And Foreign blood I oft have shed , But it is true that in old was said , True Honour's god by danger , I'll stay at home put up my pike . No prizes more Will to me stick For a stately Vessel's beatrice me back I'm sure's was in all England . Declining days comes on a pace . How dare I look my Enemy in the Face , Since I came off with such Disgrace , And all for lake of powder , Mine Ammunition's spent and gone ; A little gun scarce half foot long , Two little Balls not well worth one . So I am no mor for boarding . cheer up anon you're mad to think ; That you are in danger for to sink , But with Broadside close to her clink Deal thumps and turn all over , Your Blind may spleit upon her Starn , If you receive no greater Harm , A cup of brandy your heart being Warm , Will soon that loss recover . All you that caping take in hand , See that your Mainmast straight do stand , Your Soldiers all at your command , to fire at once make ready , Stand to it then for ever more , See that your faults be not before , Style first a gun to the cabbine door , Faint Heart near won fair Lady . FINIS : C : RB . I.262 ( 117 ) The Caping-Trade . To and excellent new Tune COme all brave Boys of the Caping Trade , This stately Vessel we'll invade , We'll pin her Cargo to her Load , No Quarters we'l afford her , But standing stiff and still good Fate , Although our Seas be sail'd of late , Come Helm a Lee and low your Top , I ll lay my Life I ll board her . The first attempt may prove in vain , Though it be neither shame nor stain , The brave may loss as well as gain , We'll do it with bravado's , We'l turn about and undertake To board her under quarter Deck With blunder bush and ported pick ; And with two hand granado's . I have been at the Caping Trade , And Foreign blood I oft have shed , But it is true that in old was said , True Honour's god by danger , I'll stay at home put up my pike . No prizes more Will to me stick For a stately Vessel's beatrice me back I'm sure's was in all England . Declining days comes on a pace . How dare I look my Enemy in the Face , Since I came off with such Disgrace , And all for lake of powder , Mine Ammunition's spent and gone ; A little gun scarce half foot long , Two little Balls not well worth one . So I am no mor for boarding . cheer up anon you're mad to think ; That you are in danger for to sink , But with Broadside close to her clink Deal thumps and turn all over , Your Blind may spleit upon her Starn , If you receive no greater Harm , A cup of brandy your heart being Warm , Will soon that loss recover . All you that caping take in hand , See that your Mainmast straight do stand , Your Soldiers all at your command , to fire at once make ready , Stand to it then for ever more , See that your faults be not before , Style first a gun to the cabbine door , Faint Heart near won fair Lady . FINIS : C : RB . I.262 ( 117 ) The Caping-Trade . To and excellent new Tune COme all brave Boys of the Caping Trade , This stately Vessel we'll invade , We'll pin her Cargo to her Load , No Quarters we'l afford her , But standing stiff and still good Fate , Although our Seas be sail'd of late , Come Helm a Lee and low your Top , I ll lay my Life I ll board her . The first attempt may prove in vain , Though it be neither shame nor stain , The brave may loss as well as gain , We'll do it with bravado's , We'l turn about and undertake To board her under quarter Deck With blunder bush and ported pick ; And with two hand granado's . I have been at the Caping Trade , And Foreign blood I oft have shed , But it is true that in old was said , True Honour's god by danger , I'll stay at home put up my pike . No prizes more Will to me stick For a stately Vessel's beatrice me back I'm sure's was in all England . Declining days comes on a pace . How dare I look my Enemy in the Face , Since I came off with such Disgrace , And all for lake of powder , Mine Ammunition's spent and gone ; A little gun scarce half foot long , Two little Balls not well worth one . So I am no mor for boarding . cheer up anon you're mad to think ; That you are in danger for to sink , But with Broadside close to her clink Deal thumps and turn all over , Your Blind may spleit upon her Starn , If you receive no greater Harm , A cup of brandy your heart being Warm , Will soon that loss recover . All you that caping take in hand , See that your Mainmast straight do stand , Your Soldiers all at your command , to fire at once make ready , Stand to it then for ever more , See that your faults be not before , Style first a gun to the cabbine door , Faint Heart near won fair Lady . FINIS : 