C : RB . I.262 ( 118 ) A delectable new Ballad ; ENTITLED [ LEA ] DERHAUGHS and YAROW To its own proper Tune WHen Phebus bright the Azure Sky : with golden rays enlighteneth , These things sublunar he espies , Herbs , Trees and Plants , he quick'neth Among all those he makes his choice and gladly goes he thorough , With radiant beams , and silver streams , through Leader-haughs and Yarow . When Aries the day and night in equal length divides , Old frosty Saturn takes the flight no longer he abideth : Then Flora Queen with Mantle green , casts off her deadly sorrow , And vows to dwell with Ceres fell in Leader-haughs and Yarow . Pan playing with his Oaten reed , with Shepherd's him attending , Does here resort their Flocks to feed the Hills and Haughs commending ; With Bottle , Bag , and Staff with Knag , and all Singing good morrow ; They swear no fields more pleasure yields than Leader-haughs and Yarow . One House there stands on Leader side surmounting my descriving with ease rooms rare , and windows clear like Dedalus contriving . Men passing by doe often say , In South it hath no marrow ; It stands as fair on Leader side , as New work does on Yarow . A mile below who lifts to ride , they'll hear the Mavis singing ; Into St. Leonard's Banks she'l bide , sweet Birks her head over hinging : The Lintwhite loud , and Progne proud with tender throats and narrow Into St. Leonards Banks do sing as sweetly as in Yarow , The Lapwing lilteth over the Lee with nimble wings she sporteth , But vows she'l not come near the tree where Philomel resorteth . By break of day the Lark can say , I'll bid you all good marrow I'll yout and yell for I may dwell In Leader-haughs and Yarow Park Wanton walls and Wooden Clough The East and Wester Mainses The Forest of Lawder's fair enough , the Corns are good in Blainsties ; Where Oats are fine and sold by kind . that if you search all thorough Mearns , Buchan , Mar , none better are than Leader-haughs and Yarow . In Burn-Milm-Bogg and Whit shed shaws . the fearful Hare she haunteth ; Bridge-haugh and Broad wood shell she knaws to the Chapel-wood frequenteth Yet When she irks , to Kidslie Birks she tons and sighs for sorrow . That she should leave sweet Leaderhaughs and cannot win to Yarow , What sweeter music would you hear than Hounds and Beigles crying ? The Hare waits not but flees for fear . their hard pursuits defying But yet her strength it fails as length , no beilding can she borrow At Haggs Cleckmas nor Sorlesfield but longs to be at Yarow For Rack wood Ringwood , Rival , Aimer still thinking for to view her Over dubb and dyke over feugh and syke she'l run the fields all thorough ? Yet ends her days in Leader haughs , and bids farewell to Yarow Thou Eastlingtoun and Colding-knows where Homes had once commanding , And Drygrange With thy milk white Ewes betwixt Tweed and Leader standing The birds that flees through Read Path trees and Gladswood banks all thorough May chant and sing sweet Leader-haughs and the bonny banks of Yarow But Burn cannot his grief assuage while as his days endureth To see the changes of this Age , which day and time procureth . For many a place stands in hard case where Burns was blithe besorrow With Homes that dwelled on Leader side and Scots that dwelled in Yarow The Words of Burn the Violer WHat ? shall my Violent silent be , or leave her wonted scriding ? But choice some sadder Eulogy , no sports and mirds deriding It must be fain with lower strain than it was wont besorrow To found the Praise of Leader haughs and the bonny banks of Yarow But floods have overflown the banks , the greenish haughs disgracing And Trees in Woods grow thin in ranks about the fields defacing For Waters waxes woods does wained more if I could for sorrow In rural Verse I could rehearse of Leaderhaughs and Yarow But sighs and sobs o'rsets my breath : before saltish Tears forth sending , All things Sublunar here on Earth are subject to and ending So must my song though somewhat long yet late at Even and Morrow I'll sighs and sing sweet Leader haughs and the bonny banks of Yarow . Hic terminus hoeret . FINIS . C : RB . I.262 ( 118 ) A delectable new Ballad ; ENTITLED [ LEA ] DERHAUGHS and YAROW To its own proper Tune WHen Phebus bright the Azure Sky : with golden rays enlighteneth , These things sublunar he espies , Herbs , Trees and Plants , he quick'neth Among all those he makes his choice and gladly goes he thorough , With radiant beams , and silver streams , through Leader-haughs and Yarow . When Aries the day and night in equal length divides , Old frosty Saturn takes the flight no longer he abideth : Then Flora Queen with Mantle green , casts off her deadly sorrow , And vows to dwell with Ceres fell in Leader-haughs and Yarow . Pan playing with his Oaten reed , with Shepherd's him attending , Does here resort their Flocks to feed the Hills and Haughs commending ; With Bottle , Bag , and Staff with Knag , and all Singing good morrow ; They swear no fields more pleasure yields than Leader-haughs and Yarow . One House there stands on Leader side surmounting my descriving with ease rooms rare , and windows clear like Dedalus contriving . Men passing by doe often say , In South it hath no marrow ; It stands as fair on Leader side , as New work does on Yarow . A mile below who lifts to ride , they'll hear the Mavis singing ; Into St. Leonard's Banks she'l bide , sweet Birks her head over hinging : The Lintwhite loud , and Progne proud with tender throats and narrow Into St. Leonards Banks do sing as sweetly as in Yarow , The Lapwing lilteth over the Lee with nimble wings she sporteth , But vows she'l not come near the tree where Philomel resorteth . By break of day the Lark can say , I'll bid you all good marrow I'll yout and yell for I may dwell In Leader-haughs and Yarow Park Wanton walls and Wooden Clough The East and Wester Mainses The Forest of Lawder's fair enough , the Corns are good in Blainsties ; Where Oats are fine and sold by kind . that if you search all thorough Mearns , Buchan , Mar , none better are than Leader-haughs and Yarow . In Burn-Milm-Bogg and Whit shed shaws . the fearful Hare she haunteth ; Bridge-haugh and Broad wood shell she knaws to the Chapel-wood frequenteth Yet When she irks , to Kidslie Birks she tons and sighs for sorrow . That she should leave sweet Leaderhaughs and cannot win to Yarow , What sweeter music would you hear than Hounds and Beigles crying ? The Hare waits not but flees for fear . their hard pursuits defying But yet her strength it fails as length , no beilding can she borrow At Haggs Cleckmas nor Sorlesfield but longs to be at Yarow For Rack wood Ringwood , Rival , Aimer still thinking for to view her Over dubb and dyke over feugh and syke she'l run the fields all thorough ? Yet ends her days in Leader haughs , and bids farewell to Yarow Thou Eastlingtoun and Colding-knows where Homes had once commanding , And Drygrange With thy milk white Ewes betwixt Tweed and Leader standing The birds that flees through Read Path trees and Gladswood banks all thorough May chant and sing sweet Leader-haughs and the bonny banks of Yarow But Burn cannot his grief assuage while as his days endureth To see the changes of this Age , which day and time procureth . For many a place stands in hard case where Burns was blithe besorrow With Homes that dwelled on Leader side and Scots that dwelled in Yarow The Words of Burn the Violer WHat ? shall my Violent silent be , or leave her wonted scriding ? But choice some sadder Eulogy , no sports and mirds deriding It must be fain with lower strain than it was wont besorrow To found the Praise of Leader haughs and the bonny banks of Yarow But floods have overflown the banks , the greenish haughs disgracing And Trees in Woods grow thin in ranks about the fields defacing For Waters waxes woods does wained more if I could for sorrow In rural Verse I could rehearse of Leaderhaughs and Yarow But sighs and sobs o'rsets my breath : before saltish Tears forth sending , All things Sublunar here on Earth are subject to and ending So must my song though somewhat long yet late at Even and Morrow I'll sighs and sing sweet Leader haughs and the bonny banks of Yarow . Hic terminus hoeret . FINIS . 