C : RB . I.262 ( 116 ) THE MILKING PAIL To and Excellent new Tune . you Nymhs and Silvian'' Gods , that love green Fields and Woods , When Spring newly born , her self does adorn , with flowers and blooming Buds , Come singing the praise , while flocks do graze in yonder pleasant Vale , Or those that choose , their sleep to loose , And in cold Dews , with clouted shoes , To carry the Milking pail . The Goddess of the Morn , With Blushes they adorn , Do take the fresh Air , while Linnks prepare a Consort on each green Thorn : The Black bird and Thrush in every Bush and the Charming Nightingale , Who in a merry vain , their Throats do strain To entertain the jolly Train , That carry the Milking pail . When cold black Winds do Roar , And Flowers will spring no more , The Fields that was seen so pleasant and green , with Winter are all candi'd o're , But how the Town Lass with her white Face , and her Lips of deadly pale ; But it is not so with those that go , Through frost and snow , with cheeks that glow And carry the Milking pail . The Miss of Courtly mould , Adorn'd with Pearl and Gold , With Washes & Paint , her skin does so Taint , That she's wither'd before she's old , While she in Commod , puts on a Cart load and with Cushions plumps her Tail , What joys are found in Rushy ground , Young plump & round , and sweet and found , That carry the Milking pail . the Girls of Venus Game That ventures health and Fame , In practicing Feats with Cold and with Heats , Makes Lovers go blind and lame ; If Men were so wise , to valve the prize , Of the Wares most fit for sale , What store of Beaus will dob their Clothes To save a Nose by following those , Who carry the Milking pail . The Country Lad is free , From Fears and Jealousy , While upon the Green , he is often seen With his Lassie on his Knee , With Kisses most sweet , he does her so treat , and swears she'l ne're grow Stale ; But the London Lass in every place , With brazen face , despises the G [ raze ] [ That carries the Milking pail ] AND ANSWER TO THE MILKING-PAIL , To the same Tune , THE Country Damsels boast , That they are admir'd most , Yet nevertheless , the Truth to express , Rich London shall rule the Roast , 'Tis very well known , Kate , Bridget , and Joan , Are rusty , course , and brown , With Loads they bear through scorching Air , Thus I declare , they can't compare With Lasses of London Town . There's many a Milk Lass , Is tumbl'd on the Grass , Both Morning and Night , in pleasant delight , And often it comes to pass , Their Bellies do swell , then Nancie and Nell , Poor Creatures do look down , With grief and woe , their Eyes do flow , At length we know , for Maids they go , When ever they come to Town . When Luna is in the full , Those innocent Milk maids will Endeavour to make some willing mistake , And commonly stroke the Bull ; They'l frolic and play as well upon Hay , As on soft Beds of Down , They know 'tis true , Kate , Joan , and Pren , And smiling Sue , will all outdo The Lasses of London Town . They feed upon salted Swine ; Which makes them the more en [ ? ] ne , To follow the spor But we near the Court Have delicate Dishes fine , Most pleasant and sweet , which when we have eat We lodge on Beds of Down , To take our ease , rise when we please ; Such things as these , always agrees With Lasses of London Town . There's many a Noble Knight ; Has honoured a Beauty bright , And made her his own , tho' wealth she had none Pray who has these Charms of might ? No Butter Milk maid , that follow the Trade Of kissing every Clown ; But such as they , who ev'ry day ; In Rich Array , their Plumes display , Young Lasses of London Town : What Honour did e're assail The Country Milking pail : What spark can devote , his fancy to dote On Dorothy's Dragle-tail , When beautiful charms , may lodge in his arms , Of she that cannot frown Not Milking-pales , but spritely Girls ; That deck'd with Pearls , for Knights & Earls , [ Young Lasses of London Town ] C : RB . I.262 ( 116 ) THE MILKING PAIL To and Excellent new Tune . you Nymhs and Silvian'' Gods , that love green Fields and Woods , When Spring newly born , her self does adorn , with flowers and blooming Buds , Come singing the praise , while flocks do graze in yonder pleasant Vale , Or those that choose , their sleep to loose , And in cold Dews , with clouted shoes , To carry the Milking pail . The Goddess of the Morn , With Blushes they adorn , Do take the fresh Air , while Linnks prepare a Consort on each green Thorn : The Black bird and Thrush in every Bush and the Charming Nightingale , Who in a merry vain , their Throats do strain To entertain the jolly Train , That carry the Milking pail . When cold black Winds do Roar , And Flowers will spring no more , The Fields that was seen so pleasant and green , with Winter are all candi'd o're , But how the Town Lass with her white Face , and her Lips of deadly pale ; But it is not so with those that go , Through frost and snow , with cheeks that glow And carry the Milking pail . The Miss of Courtly mould , Adorn'd with Pearl and Gold , With Washes & Paint , her skin does so Taint , That she's wither'd before she's old , While she in Commod , puts on a Cart load and with Cushions plumps her Tail , What joys are found in Rushy ground , Young plump & round , and sweet and found , That carry the Milking pail . the Girls of Venus Game That ventures health and Fame , In practicing Feats with Cold and with Heats , Makes Lovers go blind and lame ; If Men were so wise , to valve the prize , Of the Wares most fit for sale , What store of Beaus will dob their Clothes To save a Nose by following those , Who carry the Milking pail . The Country Lad is free , From Fears and Jealousy , While upon the Green , he is often seen With his Lassie on his Knee , With Kisses most sweet , he does her so treat , and swears she'l ne're grow Stale ; But the London Lass in every place , With brazen face , despises the G [ raze ] [ That carries the Milking pail ] AND ANSWER TO THE MILKING-PAIL , To the same Tune , THE Country Damsels boast , That they are admir'd most , Yet nevertheless , the Truth to express , Rich London shall rule the Roast , 'Tis very well known , Kate , Bridget , and Joan , Are rusty , course , and brown , With Loads they bear through scorching Air , Thus I declare , they can't compare With Lasses of London Town . There's many a Milk Lass , Is tumbl'd on the Grass , Both Morning and Night , in pleasant delight , And often it comes to pass , Their Bellies do swell , then Nancie and Nell , Poor Creatures do look down , With grief and woe , their Eyes do flow , At length we know , for Maids they go , When ever they come to Town . When Luna is in the full , Those innocent Milk maids will Endeavour to make some willing mistake , And commonly stroke the Bull ; They'l frolic and play as well upon Hay , As on soft Beds of Down , They know 'tis true , Kate , Joan , and Pren , And smiling Sue , will all outdo The Lasses of London Town . They feed upon salted Swine ; Which makes them the more en [ ? ] ne , To follow the spor But we near the Court Have delicate Dishes fine , Most pleasant and sweet , which when we have eat We lodge on Beds of Down , To take our ease , rise when we please ; Such things as these , always agrees With Lasses of London Town . There's many a Noble Knight ; Has honoured a Beauty bright , And made her his own , tho' wealth she had none Pray who has these Charms of might ? No Butter Milk maid , that follow the Trade Of kissing every Clown ; But such as they , who ev'ry day ; In Rich Array , their Plumes display , Young Lasses of London Town : What Honour did e're assail The Country Milking pail : What spark can devote , his fancy to dote On Dorothy's Dragle-tail , When beautiful charms , may lodge in his arms , Of she that cannot frown Not Milking-pales , but spritely Girls ; That deck'd with Pearls , for Knights & Earls , [ Young Lasses of London Town ] 