C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 9 ) The LASSES of KINGHORN . Tune of Clavers and his Highland Men . ALl Gentlemen and Cavaliers that does delight in sport , Come here and listen to my Song , for it shall be but shor And I'le tell you as brave a Jest , as ever you did hear : The Lasses of Kinghorn Town put our Officers in fear . 2 It fell upon a Wednesday the Month of February , Some of the brave Commanders came to Kinghorn Ferry , Having with them a Chapman Lad , a Prisoner they had ta'en , The Tide was spent e're they came there , and to the Town the're gane . 3. And as they went along the street the Chapman made his Moan . He wrang his hands and said , alas , that ever he was born ; For I'm a silly poor Pedlar , from me they ta'en my Pack , Of all my seven years gathering they left me not a plack , 4. But yet with this they'r not content . nor will they pass me so , But I must be a Soger , to Flanders I must go . To Flanders I must go ? a Soger for to be . But I will die e're I come there , I'll be so siek at sea . 5. The Women were much moved to hear him make his Moan . And some of them most courteously unto the Captain's gone , Desiring him of Charity that he would let him gang But he answered them disdainfully , he'd rather see him hang . 9. The women were much moved , and took this as a flight , Said he should be relieved in spite of all their Migh They gathered right hastily , and forth into a row , With Bleeching Knocks Harrow-Bills I wot they were not slow . 7. The Captains they went back again , and out their swords did draw , The women then they leugh at them , of that they stood not awe ; But then on them they throng'd so fast unto the ground them dang , And took the Swords out of their hands , and soundly did them bang . 8 The Captains they god up again , and longer durst not bide , For little of their Valour I'm sure was seen that tide : The women they charg'd furiously , till that they made them run With Bleeching-Knocks and Harrow Bills but neither Sword nor Gun. 9 The Women they charg'd furiously , ran down the Brae like fire , They made the Captains stand in awe , and yield to their desire : The first was Captain Wilson , with a Rung in her hand , She made the Captain stand in awe , and yield to her Command . 10. The next was Major Stenson and her sister also , Give me the Pedler's Pack again e're that you further go She took the Segeant by the breast , she threw him on his back ? Lieutenant Birrel hastily took up the Chapmans Pack . 11. But out came Colonel Turnbul , that honest Widow Wife , She asked at her Comrades . what meaned all this strife ? They've ta'en a silly poor Pedlar , and will not let him go : She answered them courageously faith it shall not be so . 12. She took a Knock into her hand , of Bleeching she is good , She caus'd the Segeant stagger in the place where he stood . And in her hand in his Pocket and out the Purse did draw , Gave him a clink out o'er the Crown . avua you Rogue avua 13 The Sailors they leugh heartily for to behold the sport , To see the Captains run away for shelter to the Boam But up spoke General Paterson . she spoke with Counsel good , And she desir'd to found retreat , for she would have no Blood . 14 For we've god the Pedlars Pack & Purse and this is all had he , Had it not been for King William's sake , we'd drown'd them in the Sea. The Captains then they were right glad , when that this News they herd , Desir'd the Seamen hoist their Sails and not longer to bide . 15. For we have all been Sogers more then this duzen of years , And all the Battles we were at , we were never in such Fears , Oh fie on you for Sogers that ever you took pay , The Lasses of Kinghorn Town they made you run away ! FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 9 ) The LASSES of KINGHORN . Tune of Clavers and his Highland Men . ALl Gentlemen and Cavaliers that does delight in sport , Come here and listen to my Song , for it shall be but shor And I'le tell you as brave a Jest , as ever you did hear : The Lasses of Kinghorn Town put our Officers in fear . 2 It fell upon a Wednesday the Month of February , Some of the brave Commanders came to Kinghorn Ferry , Having with them a Chapman Lad , a Prisoner they had ta'en , The Tide was spent e're they came there , and to the Town the're gane . 3. And as they went along the street the Chapman made his Moan . He wrang his hands and said , alas , that ever he was born ; For I'm a silly poor Pedlar , from me they ta'en my Pack , Of all my seven years gathering they left me not a plack , 4. But yet with this they'r not content . nor will they pass me so , But I must be a Soger , to Flanders I must go . To Flanders I must go ? a Soger for to be . But I will die e're I come there , I'll be so siek at sea . 5. The Women were much moved to hear him make his Moan . And some of them most courteously unto the Captain's gone , Desiring him of Charity that he would let him gang But he answered them disdainfully , he'd rather see him hang . 9. The women were much moved , and took this as a flight , Said he should be relieved in spite of all their Migh They gathered right hastily , and forth into a row , With Bleeching Knocks Harrow-Bills I wot they were not slow . 7. The Captains they went back again , and out their swords did draw , The women then they leugh at them , of that they stood not awe ; But then on them they throng'd so fast unto the ground them dang , And took the Swords out of their hands , and soundly did them bang . 8 The Captains they god up again , and longer durst not bide , For little of their Valour I'm sure was seen that tide : The women they charg'd furiously , till that they made them run With Bleeching-Knocks and Harrow Bills but neither Sword nor Gun. 9 The Women they charg'd furiously , ran down the Brae like fire , They made the Captains stand in awe , and yield to their desire : The first was Captain Wilson , with a Rung in her hand , She made the Captain stand in awe , and yield to her Command . 10. The next was Major Stenson and her sister also , Give me the Pedler's Pack again e're that you further go She took the Segeant by the breast , she threw him on his back ? Lieutenant Birrel hastily took up the Chapmans Pack . 11. But out came Colonel Turnbul , that honest Widow Wife , She asked at her Comrades . what meaned all this strife ? They've ta'en a silly poor Pedlar , and will not let him go : She answered them courageously faith it shall not be so . 12. She took a Knock into her hand , of Bleeching she is good , She caus'd the Segeant stagger in the place where he stood . And in her hand in his Pocket and out the Purse did draw , Gave him a clink out o'er the Crown . avua you Rogue avua 13 The Sailors they leugh heartily for to behold the sport , To see the Captains run away for shelter to the Boam But up spoke General Paterson . she spoke with Counsel good , And she desir'd to found retreat , for she would have no Blood . 14 For we've god the Pedlars Pack & Purse and this is all had he , Had it not been for King William's sake , we'd drown'd them in the Sea. The Captains then they were right glad , when that this News they herd , Desir'd the Seamen hoist their Sails and not longer to bide . 15. For we have all been Sogers more then this duzen of years , And all the Battles we were at , we were never in such Fears , Oh fie on you for Sogers that ever you took pay , The Lasses of Kinghorn Town they made you run away ! FINIS . 