C : RB . I.262 ( 123 ) A proper new Ballad ; Entitled , The gallant GRAHAMES To its own proper Tune , I will away , and I will not stay , etc BEtrayed me , how can this be , even by day light upon a day . We met Prince Charles our Royal King , and all the Grahames in their array : They were well dressed in Armour keen upon the pleasant Banks of Tay Before a King they might be seen the gallant Grahames in their array . I have no Gold I have no Land. nor have I pearl nor precious stone , But I will fell my silken sneed to see the Grahames but well come home . To speak of those Grahames I think it best they're men among good Company , Into the Lands where we did walk they're Lords into the South Country , They won the praise in Wallace days , for the Summer Flower did never spring As the gallant Grahames in Armour clear did then appear before their King . At the Goukhead we set our Camps , our Leagure down there for to stay ; Upon a dainty Summer's day we road our white Horse and our Grey : For they were then in Armour sheen , as Gold shines on a Summer's day , The gallant Grahames were assembled there before King Charles his Majesty . I'll crown them night , I'll crown them day , and above great Lords of high degree : For all the Lords that I have seen the Grahames are the bravest Company , As I came by the Bunches park , I herd my true Loves Sister's Son , We loused our Cannons on every side , even for the honour of our King . Our false Commanders hath betrayed our Prince and send him to his Enemy , By a Nobleman to Cromwel then , so I care not what they do to me , For he strives to subdue the Land , and over England to be King : Fair Scotland by him to be governed , and over the Nations for to reign . They have betrayed our Noble prince , and banished him from his Royal Crown , But the gallant Grahames have taken in hand for to command that Traitor Lown . Now Dalgatie was stout and bold courageous in high degree : But the Cavileers they were all sold , and young Harthill a Caveleer too , Nathaniel Gordon , both stout and keen , Newtoun Gordon , bird alone ; Upon the Green he might be seen , for a braver Face was never born , A braver man was never born neither in Kent nor Christendom : To fight now for his Royal King , Lord give his Enemies their doom . At Coble-heugh where we did advance , our Parliament there for to stay : But our Nobles then were banished off at Glen-Yla then where we took the way , Glen proson , where we Rendezvoused , to Glen shy we marched , both night and day , And of Bredalbine we took the Town , and met the Campbels in array . Ten thousand men in Armour strong did meet the gallant Grahames to play , At Inverlochie where they began , and about two Thousand Men were they . And though their number did far exceed the gallant Grahames upon that day : Yet their hearts were true , they did not fear to meet the Campbells in their deray ; For the Gordons then did give a wheel to face the Campbells upon that day , Who from their Friends fled far aback , unto their Enemies for ever and ay Gallant Montrose then that Chiftain bold , courageous in high degree ; Did for his King fight valiantly , the Lord preserve his Majesty . Now fare you well you Innerdale , Lord Keith and kindred I bid adieu , And I will away , and I will not stay to some uncouth Land that I never knew . To wear the blue I think it best , by any colour that I see , Cheer up your hearts brave Cavileers , for the Grahames are gone to Germanie . To France and Flanders where they did advance , and Germanie who gave them fame : For my Lord Aboyn is to the Sea , young Huntly is his noble name , He went to France for his Royal King King Charles then and above degree . We'll give the honour to the noble Grahames for they are a brave Company : Montrose then our Chiftain bold . to Scotland free is come again : For to redeem fair Scotlands Land , the pleasant , gallant , worthy Grahame . At the Water of Eusdale they did begin , and fought a Battle to and end ; Where there was killed for our noble King two thousand of our Danish men Sir Gilbert Menzies , and of high degree , the Kings Barron bold was born : For a brave Cavileer was he , but now into the glore he's gone ; The Kings Banner in his hand he bore , for he was a brave valiant man : Betrayed he was upon a night by Colonel Hacket and Strachan then , Woe to thee Colonel Hacket now , and Strachan ill death may thou die : For you have betrayed our valiant Grahame who was true to his Majesty . The Laird of Ashen hath catched Montrose , and had him on to Edinburgh Town : And from his Body has taken his Head , and quartered him upon a Tron . Now Huntley's gone that samen way , Prince Charles also , our Royal King , Hath suffered death for our poor Nation , our mourning fears can never be done . Our gallant young King is now come home Prince Charles the second and above degree . The Lord send peace into his time , and God preserve his Majesty . Now fare you well you Innerdale , Keith and kin that you may well ken , For I would fell my silken sneed , to see the gallant Grahames come hame : Since Wallace days that we began , Sir John the Grahame did bear the gree , For the honour of our Royal King , the Lord prrserve his Majesty : For all the Lords in fair Scotland , from the highest to the lowest degree , The noble Grahame is to be praised , so God preserve Charles's Majesty . FINIS . C : RB . I.262 ( 123 ) A proper new Ballad ; Entitled , The gallant GRAHAMES To its own proper Tune , I will away , and I will not stay , etc BEtrayed me , how can this be , even by day light upon a day . We met Prince Charles our Royal King , and all the Grahames in their array : They were well dressed in Armour keen upon the pleasant Banks of Tay Before a King they might be seen the gallant Grahames in their array . I have no Gold I have no Land. nor have I pearl nor precious stone , But I will fell my silken sneed to see the Grahames but well come home . To speak of those Grahames I think it best they're men among good Company , Into the Lands where we did walk they're Lords into the South Country , They won the praise in Wallace days , for the Summer Flower did never spring As the gallant Grahames in Armour clear did then appear before their King . At the Goukhead we set our Camps , our Leagure down there for to stay ; Upon a dainty Summer's day we road our white Horse and our Grey : For they were then in Armour sheen , as Gold shines on a Summer's day , The gallant Grahames were assembled there before King Charles his Majesty . I'll crown them night , I'll crown them day , and above great Lords of high degree : For all the Lords that I have seen the Grahames are the bravest Company , As I came by the Bunches park , I herd my true Loves Sister's Son , We loused our Cannons on every side , even for the honour of our King . Our false Commanders hath betrayed our Prince and send him to his Enemy , By a Nobleman to Cromwel then , so I care not what they do to me , For he strives to subdue the Land , and over England to be King : Fair Scotland by him to be governed , and over the Nations for to reign . They have betrayed our Noble prince , and banished him from his Royal Crown , But the gallant Grahames have taken in hand for to command that Traitor Lown . Now Dalgatie was stout and bold courageous in high degree : But the Cavileers they were all sold , and young Harthill a Caveleer too , Nathaniel Gordon , both stout and keen , Newtoun Gordon , bird alone ; Upon the Green he might be seen , for a braver Face was never born , A braver man was never born neither in Kent nor Christendom : To fight now for his Royal King , Lord give his Enemies their doom . At Coble-heugh where we did advance , our Parliament there for to stay : But our Nobles then were banished off at Glen-Yla then where we took the way , Glen proson , where we Rendezvoused , to Glen shy we marched , both night and day , And of Bredalbine we took the Town , and met the Campbels in array . Ten thousand men in Armour strong did meet the gallant Grahames to play , At Inverlochie where they began , and about two Thousand Men were they . And though their number did far exceed the gallant Grahames upon that day : Yet their hearts were true , they did not fear to meet the Campbells in their deray ; For the Gordons then did give a wheel to face the Campbells upon that day , Who from their Friends fled far aback , unto their Enemies for ever and ay Gallant Montrose then that Chiftain bold , courageous in high degree ; Did for his King fight valiantly , the Lord preserve his Majesty . Now fare you well you Innerdale , Lord Keith and kindred I bid adieu , And I will away , and I will not stay to some uncouth Land that I never knew . To wear the blue I think it best , by any colour that I see , Cheer up your hearts brave Cavileers , for the Grahames are gone to Germanie . To France and Flanders where they did advance , and Germanie who gave them fame : For my Lord Aboyn is to the Sea , young Huntly is his noble name , He went to France for his Royal King King Charles then and above degree . We'll give the honour to the noble Grahames for they are a brave Company : Montrose then our Chiftain bold . to Scotland free is come again : For to redeem fair Scotlands Land , the pleasant , gallant , worthy Grahame . At the Water of Eusdale they did begin , and fought a Battle to and end ; Where there was killed for our noble King two thousand of our Danish men Sir Gilbert Menzies , and of high degree , the Kings Barron bold was born : For a brave Cavileer was he , but now into the glore he's gone ; The Kings Banner in his hand he bore , for he was a brave valiant man : Betrayed he was upon a night by Colonel Hacket and Strachan then , Woe to thee Colonel Hacket now , and Strachan ill death may thou die : For you have betrayed our valiant Grahame who was true to his Majesty . The Laird of Ashen hath catched Montrose , and had him on to Edinburgh Town : And from his Body has taken his Head , and quartered him upon a Tron . Now Huntley's gone that samen way , Prince Charles also , our Royal King , Hath suffered death for our poor Nation , our mourning fears can never be done . Our gallant young King is now come home Prince Charles the second and above degree . The Lord send peace into his time , and God preserve his Majesty . Now fare you well you Innerdale , Keith and kin that you may well ken , For I would fell my silken sneed , to see the gallant Grahames come hame : Since Wallace days that we began , Sir John the Grahame did bear the gree , For the honour of our Royal King , the Lord prrserve his Majesty : For all the Lords in fair Scotland , from the highest to the lowest degree , The noble Grahame is to be praised , so God preserve Charles's Majesty . FINIS . 