C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 8 ) And Excellent New Ballad , Concerning a Bridegroom and his Bride who were lately Married at Borrowstounness , giving a full and true Account of their Behaviour , and of the Bridegrooms running away from the Bride the same Night , without Bedding with her . To the Tune of the Raze of Sherriff-muir . NOw If you'l but stay , I'll tell you the Way , It's how the Bridegroom ran awa-Ma [ n ] , His Name is John Dinmure he call'd his Bride limmer , His Living is at Ravenshaw Man , And he ran , and she ran , and she ran , and he ran , And from the Brid he's run awa-Man . A Wooing he's gone where Money is none , But from the Lass he's gone awa-Man . The Lass she did dwell near to the Syar Well Indeed she's the best of the twa-Man . And he ran and she ran , etc Her Name's Isabel Davie he play'd her the shavie , For Greed of the Money he's avua Man. The Lass has taken Sorrow for want of her Marrow , Because he's quite from her awa-Man , And he ran , and she ran , etc And Hundred Pound the Wooing began , Which was the best Bargain of a Man , The Money he'll have the Bride does nor crave , Which makes him for to withdra-Man . And he ran , and she ran , etc In a Fourthnight short they have made up the Sport In Case that he should withdra-Man , To Church she is hied to hear her self Cry'd , She thought her self surest of a-Man , And he ran , and she ran , etc But herd you e're such a Sport how the Reader forgotten To Proclaim them when it was his sa-Man , The Bell Man came in the Afternoon . And cry'd them out before them a-Man : And he ran and she ran , etc In her Brithel Ev'n he call'd her gly'd Queen , He would not come near her at a-Man , But to her he sent , to tell his Heart was not bent , He would not come near her at a-Man , And he ran and she ran , etc The Day it was set the People was met , They were both plenty and bra-Man ; In the Church she did stand upon his Right Hand , Which was not the Fashion at a-Man , And he ran and she ran , etc The Best-man in haste he was but a Beast , By the Right Hand he led her awa-Man , And as they came by , the People did cry , You led not the Bride right at a -- Man. And he ran , and she ran , etc The People fell plenty , the Meat it fell empty ; There's Nothing to give them at a -- Man , A Shilling they've taken for a piked Bane , Which was the best Profit of a -- Man ; And he ran , and she ran , While the Collops they fry'd the People they cry'd , Is there Nothing to give us at a - Man ? Jean Shaw she cry'd' Oh! Give me a little Broth , My Money is ready to draw -- Man. And he ran , and she ran , etc Then the Bridegroom took to flight , & on Shore he did light The Soldiers upon him did draw -- Man : The Women about they gave a great Shout , To see the Bridegroom get a Fa -- Man. And he ran , and she ran , etc Says Isabel M'nab , with her sleeked Gab , My Dear , why did you withdraw -- Man ? Come here and be kind , and tell me you Mind ; The Sheets and the Blankets are bram -- Man. And he ran , and she ran , etc Come here and fit down , let none in the Town , Be talking that you ran avua - Man ; For I'm sure on the Morn , it would be a Scorn , To hear the Bridegroom ran avua -- Man. And he ran , and she ran , etc Through Dirt and through Read they trail'd him to Bed. The Bride was the blythest of a -- Man : The Bride was so byth , her Shirt she did rive , And over her Head did it draw -- Man. And he ran , and she ran , etc But the Bride lay forlorn , until the next Morn , He would not consent to it at a -- Man ; But we'll have't in Record , how he roared on the Shore And how from his Bride ran avua -- Man. And he ran , and she ran , etc The Bridegroom on Demand he gave me his Hand , He would pay the Music full bram -- Man. Says he , As I live , the Money I'll give , To Morrow I'll pay you for a -- Man. And he ran , and she ran , and she ran , & he ran , And from the Bride he ran avua -- Man. FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 8 ) And Excellent New Ballad , Concerning a Bridegroom and his Bride who were lately Married at Borrowstounness , giving a full and true Account of their Behaviour , and of the Bridegrooms running away from the Bride the same Night , without Bedding with her . To the Tune of the Raze of Sherriff-muir . NOw If you'l but stay , I'll tell you the Way , It's how the Bridegroom ran awa-Ma [ n ] , His Name is John Dinmure he call'd his Bride limmer , His Living is at Ravenshaw Man , And he ran , and she ran , and she ran , and he ran , And from the Brid he's run awa-Man . A Wooing he's gone where Money is none , But from the Lass he's gone awa-Man . The Lass she did dwell near to the Syar Well Indeed she's the best of the twa-Man . And he ran and she ran , etc Her Name's Isabel Davie he play'd her the shavie , For Greed of the Money he's avua Man. The Lass has taken Sorrow for want of her Marrow , Because he's quite from her awa-Man , And he ran , and she ran , etc And Hundred Pound the Wooing began , Which was the best Bargain of a Man , The Money he'll have the Bride does nor crave , Which makes him for to withdra-Man . And he ran , and she ran , etc In a Fourthnight short they have made up the Sport In Case that he should withdra-Man , To Church she is hied to hear her self Cry'd , She thought her self surest of a-Man , And he ran , and she ran , etc But herd you e're such a Sport how the Reader forgotten To Proclaim them when it was his sa-Man , The Bell Man came in the Afternoon . And cry'd them out before them a-Man : And he ran and she ran , etc In her Brithel Ev'n he call'd her gly'd Queen , He would not come near her at a-Man , But to her he sent , to tell his Heart was not bent , He would not come near her at a-Man , And he ran and she ran , etc The Day it was set the People was met , They were both plenty and bra-Man ; In the Church she did stand upon his Right Hand , Which was not the Fashion at a-Man , And he ran and she ran , etc The Best-man in haste he was but a Beast , By the Right Hand he led her awa-Man , And as they came by , the People did cry , You led not the Bride right at a -- Man. And he ran , and she ran , etc The People fell plenty , the Meat it fell empty ; There's Nothing to give them at a -- Man , A Shilling they've taken for a piked Bane , Which was the best Profit of a -- Man ; And he ran , and she ran , While the Collops they fry'd the People they cry'd , Is there Nothing to give us at a - Man ? Jean Shaw she cry'd' Oh! Give me a little Broth , My Money is ready to draw -- Man. And he ran , and she ran , etc Then the Bridegroom took to flight , & on Shore he did light The Soldiers upon him did draw -- Man : The Women about they gave a great Shout , To see the Bridegroom get a Fa -- Man. And he ran , and she ran , etc Says Isabel M'nab , with her sleeked Gab , My Dear , why did you withdraw -- Man ? Come here and be kind , and tell me you Mind ; The Sheets and the Blankets are bram -- Man. And he ran , and she ran , etc Come here and fit down , let none in the Town , Be talking that you ran avua - Man ; For I'm sure on the Morn , it would be a Scorn , To hear the Bridegroom ran avua -- Man. And he ran , and she ran , etc Through Dirt and through Read they trail'd him to Bed. The Bride was the blythest of a -- Man : The Bride was so byth , her Shirt she did rive , And over her Head did it draw -- Man. And he ran , and she ran , etc But the Bride lay forlorn , until the next Morn , He would not consent to it at a -- Man ; But we'll have't in Record , how he roared on the Shore And how from his Bride ran avua -- Man. And he ran , and she ran , etc The Bridegroom on Demand he gave me his Hand , He would pay the Music full bram -- Man. Says he , As I live , the Money I'll give , To Morrow I'll pay you for a -- Man. And he ran , and she ran , and she ran , & he ran , And from the Bride he ran avua -- Man. FINIS . 