C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 10 ) The Widows Rant , Or a Wedding-Song , upon Widow Jackson in Borthuicks-Closs . Composed by one of her own SEXES . 1. ALL you Wives in this Town Thats moved for your Men , And you that puts on Mourning deep When they are dead for them ; 2. And cryeth Oh my dear Since thou art from me gone , To no Man else I'll Wedded be But live single alone . 3. Detain your selves from sobs , And harken to my call , I'le tell you of a Chaste Widow The Honour of you all ; 4. It does not much exceed A Month or five weeks space , Since she put on her mourning Weed And fiegned her face ; 5. And so her Neighbour said , When she was Mourning soar , You are a Widow now indeed And woe is us therefore . 6. Said she hold you your peace And be not troubled soar , For though my man be freely dead ; I am even as before ; 7. For when he was alive Although he lay me near , Nevertheless a Widow I Have been more then ten year . 8. But Notwith standing she For him hath taken such care , That sleep and rest is freely gone From her both late and air . 9. For which she did complain Unto the Pastor then , Because that for her Husbands death She was grieved with pain . 10. But yet her Neighbours dreads That she her self did fain , And say s it was but Tam auld's Fleas That made her seek the Men . 11. It's likewise said by some , That her Man's gan again , And others say that by his Grips They are sting to the Bayne . 12. But whither its because That she hath him forgotten , That he is going through the Closs , This truly I know not . 13. Or if it be because , That she hath her Bed Clothed , With covrings , and with other things , Which he hath wholly loathed . 14. Or if it be indeed , Because that she does spend , The Money on Beads , Kalls , and Rings , By which his Son should fend . 15. Or if in fine it be , That Ale raising their Brain , Makes them see three , where there's but two Determine if you can . 16. Nevertheless she hath A remedy procur'd , By which she may be freed from Fleas , And of their sting procur'd . 17. By finding out a Man , That of such things had Skill , As killing Fleas , and healing stings , Which tempted her most ill . 18. But as some ones does Judge He plasters did apply , Before that he was Graduate , Fearing that she should die . 19. But least that you should doubt Of whom I have thus Rim'd I'le tell you Name , and Surname both , That I may ease your mind . 20. She is a Lusty Wife , and thinks her self no dross , Her Name's call'd Nansie Cruckshanks , She lives in Borthuicks-Closs . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 10 ) The Widows Rant , Or a Wedding-Song , upon Widow Jackson in Borthuicks-Closs . Composed by one of her own SEXES . 1. ALL you Wives in this Town Thats moved for your Men , And you that puts on Mourning deep When they are dead for them ; 2. And cryeth Oh my dear Since thou art from me gone , To no Man else I'll Wedded be But live single alone . 3. Detain your selves from sobs , And harken to my call , I'le tell you of a Chaste Widow The Honour of you all ; 4. It does not much exceed A Month or five weeks space , Since she put on her mourning Weed And fiegned her face ; 5. And so her Neighbour said , When she was Mourning soar , You are a Widow now indeed And woe is us therefore . 6. Said she hold you your peace And be not troubled soar , For though my man be freely dead ; I am even as before ; 7. For when he was alive Although he lay me near , Nevertheless a Widow I Have been more then ten year . 8. But Notwith standing she For him hath taken such care , That sleep and rest is freely gone From her both late and air . 9. For which she did complain Unto the Pastor then , Because that for her Husbands death She was grieved with pain . 10. But yet her Neighbours dreads That she her self did fain , And say s it was but Tam auld's Fleas That made her seek the Men . 11. It's likewise said by some , That her Man's gan again , And others say that by his Grips They are sting to the Bayne . 12. But whither its because That she hath him forgotten , That he is going through the Closs , This truly I know not . 13. Or if it be because , That she hath her Bed Clothed , With covrings , and with other things , Which he hath wholly loathed . 14. Or if it be indeed , Because that she does spend , The Money on Beads , Kalls , and Rings , By which his Son should fend . 15. Or if in fine it be , That Ale raising their Brain , Makes them see three , where there's but two Determine if you can . 16. Nevertheless she hath A remedy procur'd , By which she may be freed from Fleas , And of their sting procur'd . 17. By finding out a Man , That of such things had Skill , As killing Fleas , and healing stings , Which tempted her most ill . 18. But as some ones does Judge He plasters did apply , Before that he was Graduate , Fearing that she should die . 19. But least that you should doubt Of whom I have thus Rim'd I'le tell you Name , and Surname both , That I may ease your mind . 20. She is a Lusty Wife , and thinks her self no dross , Her Name's call'd Nansie Cruckshanks , She lives in Borthuicks-Closs . FINIS . 