C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 14 ) The whole Mape of men Life . Or A true description of the uncertainty of Man's frail Life , State and Ending : very useful for all people in these Times . To be sung with the Tune of , I am but Young and Growing . GOd great me Lord for to begin , men life to try loadened with since : How weak and frail our lives we spend And never thinks upon our end . The golden world is past and gone , Before this age the flood was kown , And since the Flood in Noah's time , The Silver Age were in her prime . Then Men were wondrous wight and strong For in that Age men lived long ; As Abraham , Methusalem , and Noah Which God's most holy word does show Daniel foretold this Letter Age , And Pens it forth in Words most sage ; The world from Silver is turn'd to Brass From Brass to Iron shall they pass . And then from Dross to Dust and Clay , Worse and worse from day to day ; They shall grow weak and not endure Our lives unconstant and unsure , Conceiv'd in since , and iniquity , Born we are to misery , Subject to gripping Grief and Pain , In Care and Woe we do remain . Sickness and sorrow still we find , Diseas'd in Body , Distressed in Mind , Plung'd in this Gulf , , and lack of Lust , Forgetting we must come to Dust. Some remember seldom or never , That from this life we must dissever , And when no longer they can live , Cries Lord Jesus our sins relive . O Man in thy prosperity , weigh with thy self adversity , Remembr Man what thou hast been , And what thou hast herd , known , or seen , Were thou a King or Emperor , Or yet a bloody Conqueror ; A Noble , or Ignoble , of what dgree , Gentle or Semple , we must all die . A Viscount , Baron , or a Laird , A Duke , a Marquis , or a Lord ; A Gentleman , or a Squyr by Birth , The poorest Beggar that lives on Earth : Ther's no respect of persons had , With Death who kills both good and bad The proud , the meek , the sick , the whole In Mould consumed must be all . Throughout the whole Circle of Earh's Glob , Every place is his abided , He is no Segeant takes no Fee , No Gifts no Bribes , will set thee free . No pleading , playing , or yet request ; will ransom thee , if he arres Our Bodies in the Grave must lie , Our Souls to Heaven or Hell must high : Surely our sins then are forgiven , Or then be depos'd of Heaven ; But if we be hurl'd down to Hell , Our Pangs and Plagues , no tongue can tell Then have a care and good heed take ; That thou thy filthy sins forsake , Pleasures are vain we daily see , Remember then that thou must die , Live you to thirty or fourty three , Fifty is the most and then we die ; Though in Years we wax , yet do we wain And to Childishness returns again : Perhaps grows blind or deaff , Weak , crooked , or lame , yea on the Earth We can hardly either stand or go , Such misery man's born unto . Learn not to live , but learn to die , And think thy ending day draws n [ ? ] e , Remember death but do not fear , Most sure it is , we're srangers here . Death is to us a Messenger , And when he comes he will not spare ; The Rich , the Poor , the Youngs nor Old , Must all perforce consume in Mould . Wertenberg thou so wise as Solomon , Or yet had the strength of Sampsons The carved work , or Cresus store , Or Lazarus-like to live so poor ; Or Dives like , to trust in wealth , Found fool thou dost deceive thy self , Trust in the Lord , for Mercy cry , Remember man that thou must die ; How soon , how sudden , where , and when ? It is unknown to mortal men ; Whither by night , or yet by day , When Death does come there's no delay But fast away we all must pass , Like fading flowers , and withering grass Pilgrim's all remain we here , Heaven is our home , God send us there Now since we know sure what we are . Let us Repentance then prepare Here is no present help for us . But our dear Saviour of Bliss . Forgive us Lord , who art above , And love us with thy tender Love ; That we thy Servants still may be , To serve Thee to Eternity . FINIS : C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 14 ) The whole Mape of men Life . Or A true description of the uncertainty of Man's frail Life , State and Ending : very useful for all people in these Times . To be sung with the Tune of , I am but Young and Growing . GOd great me Lord for to begin , men life to try loadened with since : How weak and frail our lives we spend And never thinks upon our end . The golden world is past and gone , Before this age the flood was kown , And since the Flood in Noah's time , The Silver Age were in her prime . Then Men were wondrous wight and strong For in that Age men lived long ; As Abraham , Methusalem , and Noah Which God's most holy word does show Daniel foretold this Letter Age , And Pens it forth in Words most sage ; The world from Silver is turn'd to Brass From Brass to Iron shall they pass . And then from Dross to Dust and Clay , Worse and worse from day to day ; They shall grow weak and not endure Our lives unconstant and unsure , Conceiv'd in since , and iniquity , Born we are to misery , Subject to gripping Grief and Pain , In Care and Woe we do remain . Sickness and sorrow still we find , Diseas'd in Body , Distressed in Mind , Plung'd in this Gulf , , and lack of Lust , Forgetting we must come to Dust. Some remember seldom or never , That from this life we must dissever , And when no longer they can live , Cries Lord Jesus our sins relive . O Man in thy prosperity , weigh with thy self adversity , Remembr Man what thou hast been , And what thou hast herd , known , or seen , Were thou a King or Emperor , Or yet a bloody Conqueror ; A Noble , or Ignoble , of what dgree , Gentle or Semple , we must all die . A Viscount , Baron , or a Laird , A Duke , a Marquis , or a Lord ; A Gentleman , or a Squyr by Birth , The poorest Beggar that lives on Earth : Ther's no respect of persons had , With Death who kills both good and bad The proud , the meek , the sick , the whole In Mould consumed must be all . Throughout the whole Circle of Earh's Glob , Every place is his abided , He is no Segeant takes no Fee , No Gifts no Bribes , will set thee free . No pleading , playing , or yet request ; will ransom thee , if he arres Our Bodies in the Grave must lie , Our Souls to Heaven or Hell must high : Surely our sins then are forgiven , Or then be depos'd of Heaven ; But if we be hurl'd down to Hell , Our Pangs and Plagues , no tongue can tell Then have a care and good heed take ; That thou thy filthy sins forsake , Pleasures are vain we daily see , Remember then that thou must die , Live you to thirty or fourty three , Fifty is the most and then we die ; Though in Years we wax , yet do we wain And to Childishness returns again : Perhaps grows blind or deaff , Weak , crooked , or lame , yea on the Earth We can hardly either stand or go , Such misery man's born unto . Learn not to live , but learn to die , And think thy ending day draws n [ ? ] e , Remember death but do not fear , Most sure it is , we're srangers here . Death is to us a Messenger , And when he comes he will not spare ; The Rich , the Poor , the Youngs nor Old , Must all perforce consume in Mould . Wertenberg thou so wise as Solomon , Or yet had the strength of Sampsons The carved work , or Cresus store , Or Lazarus-like to live so poor ; Or Dives like , to trust in wealth , Found fool thou dost deceive thy self , Trust in the Lord , for Mercy cry , Remember man that thou must die ; How soon , how sudden , where , and when ? It is unknown to mortal men ; Whither by night , or yet by day , When Death does come there's no delay But fast away we all must pass , Like fading flowers , and withering grass Pilgrim's all remain we here , Heaven is our home , God send us there Now since we know sure what we are . Let us Repentance then prepare Here is no present help for us . But our dear Saviour of Bliss . Forgive us Lord , who art above , And love us with thy tender Love ; That we thy Servants still may be , To serve Thee to Eternity . FINIS : 