C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 15 ) JOHN OF LANDWART'S DREAM UPON THE HIGH-COCK-UPPS : Or his Sentments of the vain Apparel of the Female Sex , which he told his Wife . ( And he might as well have told all the Town Hens , ) To its own proper Tune . TO Edinburgh Town where he did come once , At first blink he espied some ones , Who high upon their Snout did wear things , And at their Luges he saw Gould Ear rings ? At which the man was so amazed , He in their Faces stair'd and gazed ? All what they wore tied well he notes , How they had Frienges at their Coats , All which he to his Wife rehearses And then he writes these following Verses , AS I came up the gate the streen , Of Gamphral Gackies I saw a whien , And you may guess for what they green Although I do not speak it . I warrant you may keen my meaning , And what's the thing would staunch their greening Together they their Heads were leaning , and up together briked . Full loud they clink'd their Iron ClapPers , Their bram Tails babbed all with tatters , And ilk ane to another Patters , wha Megg where has thou been ? Ilk ane was to another rittling , They laugh as you had been them kitling , It may be some of them bear a Little-ane , I seen as light a green Some in their Luges I think had Rings , They flightard all as they had Wings , Their Ribands Scarfs and other things , about them fast did flitter ; About their Tails were many Frienges , And Oh , now ! what a Becks and Beings , And ay their Tails the Gasie cleanges , when they trail throw a gutter What means sike Tapees with side Tails ? That through the dubbs and Gutters trails , And ov' the Myres and Middings sails , to gang with Shoulders bore ? Yea some doe gang with musled Faces , And on their Heads the lave wears Laces , With bonny Wallies on other places , what pox would you have more ? The Fiends in their high coble-horn : I guess for what they so adorn , Its e'en that they may get their corn , frasome Tied sturdy , Fellew : Who'le trime their Bargains till a mite . In him they will take great delight , Alth [ ? ] his Skin be not so white . but something collour'd yellow . I vo [ ? ] these Giglats are gane glaked , Than [ ? ] gangs so with their Shoulders naked , Fie ! put them in a Hurly hacket ? and huie them down to Leith : Pake you their Hurdice with a Rung , Upon their Rigging gar it bung , Gar you them fast till they grow clung , they'll not need pike their Teith . More speech of Ladies I'll forbear , For I'lle get little thanks I fear , When this my Rhyme comes to this ear , for what I've said already : Therefore to Servant lasses , I My decent speech will now apply , Their whole Deportment I'le survey , therefore adieu my Lady . OUr Servant Lasses in borrustowns , Pox hate the half of them is Luns , Though on their Arss they get bram Gowns , and Purling on their Heads : We cannot ken them by the Lady , Tho' both their Minie and their Dadie , For want of Food to starve be ready , they may not want their Beads . And Purling as brod's both their Loves , Their Rings , their Glakries , and their Gloves , And dantie Pantons on their Hoves , with all their other gear : Your Tapster-Lasses are so vain , Our Country Lads they do disdain , She'll swear and vow will she him brain , if he but come her near . Shame fa that Pride that comes of nought , I'm sure that Gentries is dear bought , They have nothing but what they soughtr and begg'd from Door to Door Sham fa sike stinking saucy pride , The De'll himself cannot abide , And is not she a bonny Bride , a Bagger and a Whore ! Yea , when some of their Parents comes , ( With leave they all turned their Bums , And look on him like stinking Rums , if he some Bodles beg . From Gentlemen , where they do gather , She'll say Go hence Tike in a Tadder , She'll not let wit that he's her Father , though she's his Daughter Megg . And Lanwart Maggie the Buyer that moucks , You will not trow how well she looks , When she comes out among the Foks , with all her Goggels on , With Purling bram , call'd Mazarine , All hinging down about her eyes , She thinks the Lads will come full so on , and follow her anon . Her Plaiding Coat as rude's a Rose ? On her white Legs her dainty Hose , In her black Shoes full neat she goes , When she comes to the Casie : A dainty waste-Coat on her back , Her Lining Apron as whit as chalk , Then with her Nigbbours she will talk , that are both gay and gasie . A sin Stuff Tail then she will have , And Lining Cuffs and all the lave , A Collerbodie and that right brave . a Glove but and a Glove : Then you may see beneath her Chin On her white Baan , a Broatch of Tin , The posy of't is like you'le find , Thou's A my ain my Love , Hold , hold , good Friend , I pray you bide , For I forgotten she had a played , Her Bonniawallies all to hide , and keep her from the rain . When this our Lasses are well dressed , Come to the Fair with all their best , Bide still a we and see the rest , all coming in a train . Then Jock and Tam , and money mae , To Megg and Jenny they will gae , Into a Alehouse they'll them hae , and that withouten let Or else their Plaids shall pay for a , So wickedly they'll drug and dram , Till they at length will come avua , and to the Alehouse get . When down about the Board they'r set , A pint of good Ale they will get , Where with their Throats must all be wa that they may speak the better Then they a talking fallen believe , At once ye'll ay hear four or five , but in this case I'll no more dyve , but Ale do gang like Water . but bide a we before they gang , The flags and Kisses them among , Might be the subject of a Sang , if I had time to dyte i More of this matter I'll forbear , And let them drink their Ale and beer , For you yourselves see , that I here , have no more room to write it . FINISC : Ry. III . a.10 ( 15 ) JOHN OF LANDWART'S DREAM UPON THE HIGH-COCK-UPPS : Or his Sentments of the vain Apparel of the Female Sex , which he told his Wife . ( And he might as well have told all the Town Hens , ) To its own proper Tune . TO Edinburgh Town where he did come once , At first blink he espied some ones , Who high upon their Snout did wear things , And at their Luges he saw Gould Ear rings ? At which the man was so amazed , He in their Faces stair'd and gazed ? All what they wore tied well he notes , How they had Frienges at their Coats , All which he to his Wife rehearses And then he writes these following Verses , AS I came up the gate the streen , Of Gamphral Gackies I saw a whien , And you may guess for what they green Although I do not speak it . I warrant you may keen my meaning , And what's the thing would staunch their greening Together they their Heads were leaning , and up together briked . Full loud they clink'd their Iron ClapPers , Their bram Tails babbed all with tatters , And ilk ane to another Patters , wha Megg where has thou been ? Ilk ane was to another rittling , They laugh as you had been them kitling , It may be some of them bear a Little-ane , I seen as light a green Some in their Luges I think had Rings , They flightard all as they had Wings , Their Ribands Scarfs and other things , about them fast did flitter ; About their Tails were many Frienges , And Oh , now ! what a Becks and Beings , And ay their Tails the Gasie cleanges , when they trail throw a gutter What means sike Tapees with side Tails ? That through the dubbs and Gutters trails , And ov' the Myres and Middings sails , to gang with Shoulders bore ? Yea some doe gang with musled Faces , And on their Heads the lave wears Laces , With bonny Wallies on other places , what pox would you have more ? The Fiends in their high coble-horn : I guess for what they so adorn , Its e'en that they may get their corn , frasome Tied sturdy , Fellew : Who'le trime their Bargains till a mite . In him they will take great delight , Alth [ ? ] his Skin be not so white . but something collour'd yellow . I vo [ ? ] these Giglats are gane glaked , Than [ ? ] gangs so with their Shoulders naked , Fie ! put them in a Hurly hacket ? and huie them down to Leith : Pake you their Hurdice with a Rung , Upon their Rigging gar it bung , Gar you them fast till they grow clung , they'll not need pike their Teith . More speech of Ladies I'll forbear , For I'lle get little thanks I fear , When this my Rhyme comes to this ear , for what I've said already : Therefore to Servant lasses , I My decent speech will now apply , Their whole Deportment I'le survey , therefore adieu my Lady . OUr Servant Lasses in borrustowns , Pox hate the half of them is Luns , Though on their Arss they get bram Gowns , and Purling on their Heads : We cannot ken them by the Lady , Tho' both their Minie and their Dadie , For want of Food to starve be ready , they may not want their Beads . And Purling as brod's both their Loves , Their Rings , their Glakries , and their Gloves , And dantie Pantons on their Hoves , with all their other gear : Your Tapster-Lasses are so vain , Our Country Lads they do disdain , She'll swear and vow will she him brain , if he but come her near . Shame fa that Pride that comes of nought , I'm sure that Gentries is dear bought , They have nothing but what they soughtr and begg'd from Door to Door Sham fa sike stinking saucy pride , The De'll himself cannot abide , And is not she a bonny Bride , a Bagger and a Whore ! Yea , when some of their Parents comes , ( With leave they all turned their Bums , And look on him like stinking Rums , if he some Bodles beg . From Gentlemen , where they do gather , She'll say Go hence Tike in a Tadder , She'll not let wit that he's her Father , though she's his Daughter Megg . And Lanwart Maggie the Buyer that moucks , You will not trow how well she looks , When she comes out among the Foks , with all her Goggels on , With Purling bram , call'd Mazarine , All hinging down about her eyes , She thinks the Lads will come full so on , and follow her anon . Her Plaiding Coat as rude's a Rose ? On her white Legs her dainty Hose , In her black Shoes full neat she goes , When she comes to the Casie : A dainty waste-Coat on her back , Her Lining Apron as whit as chalk , Then with her Nigbbours she will talk , that are both gay and gasie . A sin Stuff Tail then she will have , And Lining Cuffs and all the lave , A Collerbodie and that right brave . a Glove but and a Glove : Then you may see beneath her Chin On her white Baan , a Broatch of Tin , The posy of't is like you'le find , Thou's A my ain my Love , Hold , hold , good Friend , I pray you bide , For I forgotten she had a played , Her Bonniawallies all to hide , and keep her from the rain . When this our Lasses are well dressed , Come to the Fair with all their best , Bide still a we and see the rest , all coming in a train . Then Jock and Tam , and money mae , To Megg and Jenny they will gae , Into a Alehouse they'll them hae , and that withouten let Or else their Plaids shall pay for a , So wickedly they'll drug and dram , Till they at length will come avua , and to the Alehouse get . When down about the Board they'r set , A pint of good Ale they will get , Where with their Throats must all be wa that they may speak the better Then they a talking fallen believe , At once ye'll ay hear four or five , but in this case I'll no more dyve , but Ale do gang like Water . but bide a we before they gang , The flags and Kisses them among , Might be the subject of a Sang , if I had time to dyte i More of this matter I'll forbear , And let them drink their Ale and beer , For you yourselves see , that I here , have no more room to write it . FINIS 