C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 124 ) The pretended Prince of Wales's New Exercise of the SCOTCH Lang Gone . Taken Care on your Fell , Sir , noow . JEen your Speun Hand to your Lang Gone . Hod him up , Sir . Hod him doown the Speun Seed , hod him down noow . Opin your Kittle , Sir . Opin you Kittle wi' the Baw of your Speun Thumb . Handle your Deuste Box. Caused the Black Sawt int' your Kittle , Sir . Hod up your Lang Gone . Blaw off your Lose Deuste , [ au Mukle Blawste , Mon. Hod your Lang Gone doown to your Cogue Seed . Handle your Deuste-Box , Sir . Taken his Bonnit in your Teeth . Poo her hinder End awaw Mon. Caused your Black Sawt int' her Wem , Sir . Caused a Cogle intull her Wem . Taken the Lunt from your Bonnit . Stop it in her Moo . Grip your Lang Woned . Lug him owte . Hod him up , Sir . Short'n't to a Waw-bitanent your Reeght Pop. Stuck it in her Moo . Wood it doown in the Deel's Naume , Mon. Lug out your Lang Woned , Sir . Short'n't in you Speun Hand anent your Reeght Pop. Your Lang Woned intull its Hoose now . Hod up your Lang Gone , Sir . Band doown your Goose-Crag , and hod him owte . Sat him to your Shouder . Lat flee in the Deel's Naume , Mon. Hod up your Lang Gone , and hod him doown to the Cogue Seed awe together . Your Speun Hand to your Mukle Whuniard , Sir . Lug owte your Mukle Whuniard . Stop your Mukle Whuniard intull the Moo of your Lang Gone . Hod up your Lang Gone . Hod him up at me , Sir . Doown wi' your Lang Gone . To the Speun Hand down wi' your Lang Gone . Stell to the Speun Hand doown wi' him ageen , Sir . To the Speun Hand , yet Mon , doown wi' you Lang Gone . Noow at me , doown wi' him ageen . Sat your Fauce where your Aurse stands , and be domn'd t' you . Noow at me , doow wi' him ageen . Noow to the Cogue Hand doown wi' your Lang Gone . To John-a-Groats Hoose Mon , doown wi' your Lang Gone . To John-a-Groats Peas-Stauck , doown wi' your Lang Gone . Noow at me , doown wi' him ageen , Sir . Ha' you forgotten Mon what I toud you ? Put your Fauce where your Aurse stands , and be Domn'd t' you . Noow at me , hod him up and hod him doown to the Cogue Seed awe together Your Speun Hand to your Mukle Whuniard , Sir . Lug owte your Mukle Whuniard . Your Mukle Whuniard intull his Hoose noow . Take your Lang Gone to your Speun Feut , Sir . Down wi' t' doown to Gods coad Grunt Mon. Lat ge your Lang Gone . Upaw together . To the Speun Hand aboot , Sir . Gang your waw in the Deel's Naume t' you . Noow run awe in snarl ageen Bonee Lodds . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 124 ) The pretended Prince of Wales's New Exercise of the SCOTCH Lang Gone . Taken Care on your Fell , Sir , noow . JEen your Speun Hand to your Lang Gone . Hod him up , Sir . Hod him doown the Speun Seed , hod him down noow . Opin your Kittle , Sir . Opin you Kittle wi' the Baw of your Speun Thumb . Handle your Deuste Box. Caused the Black Sawt int' your Kittle , Sir . Hod up your Lang Gone . Blaw off your Lose Deuste , [ au Mukle Blawste , Mon. Hod your Lang Gone doown to your Cogue Seed . Handle your Deuste-Box , Sir . Taken his Bonnit in your Teeth . Poo her hinder End awaw Mon. Caused your Black Sawt int' her Wem , Sir . Caused a Cogle intull her Wem . Taken the Lunt from your Bonnit . Stop it in her Moo . Grip your Lang Woned . Lug him owte . Hod him up , Sir . Short'n't to a Waw-bitanent your Reeght Pop. Stuck it in her Moo . Wood it doown in the Deel's Naume , Mon. Lug out your Lang Woned , Sir . Short'n't in you Speun Hand anent your Reeght Pop. Your Lang Woned intull its Hoose now . Hod up your Lang Gone , Sir . Band doown your Goose-Crag , and hod him owte . Sat him to your Shouder . Lat flee in the Deel's Naume , Mon. Hod up your Lang Gone , and hod him doown to the Cogue Seed awe together . Your Speun Hand to your Mukle Whuniard , Sir . Lug owte your Mukle Whuniard . Stop your Mukle Whuniard intull the Moo of your Lang Gone . Hod up your Lang Gone . Hod him up at me , Sir . Doown wi' your Lang Gone . To the Speun Hand down wi' your Lang Gone . Stell to the Speun Hand doown wi' him ageen , Sir . To the Speun Hand , yet Mon , doown wi' you Lang Gone . Noow at me , doown wi' him ageen . Sat your Fauce where your Aurse stands , and be domn'd t' you . Noow at me , doow wi' him ageen . Noow to the Cogue Hand doown wi' your Lang Gone . To John-a-Groats Hoose Mon , doown wi' your Lang Gone . To John-a-Groats Peas-Stauck , doown wi' your Lang Gone . Noow at me , doown wi' him ageen , Sir . Ha' you forgotten Mon what I toud you ? Put your Fauce where your Aurse stands , and be Domn'd t' you . Noow at me , hod him up and hod him doown to the Cogue Seed awe together Your Speun Hand to your Mukle Whuniard , Sir . Lug owte your Mukle Whuniard . Your Mukle Whuniard intull his Hoose noow . Take your Lang Gone to your Speun Feut , Sir . Down wi' t' doown to Gods coad Grunt Mon. Lat ge your Lang Gone . Upaw together . To the Speun Hand aboot , Sir . Gang your waw in the Deel's Naume t' you . Noow run awe in snarl ageen Bonee Lodds . FINIS . 