C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 12 ) A delectable new Ballad , Entitled Leader Haughs and Yarow . To its own proper Tune . WHen Phaebus bright , the Azure-skies with golden rays enlighteneth , These things sublunar he espies ; Herbs , Trees , and Plants he quick'neth Among all those he makes his choice and gladly goes he thorough , With radiant beams and silver streams , through Leader-Haughs and Yarow , When Aries the day and night , in equal length divides ; Old frosty Saturn [ tO ] akes the flight no longer he abideth : Then Flora Queen , with Mantle green casts off her former sorrow , And vows to dwell with Caeres fell in Leader-Haughs and Yarow . Pan Playing on his Oaten Reed , with Shepherd's him attending , Does here resort their flocks to feed , the Hills and Haughs commending : With bottle , bag , and staff with knag , and all singing Good morrow , They swear no Fields more pleasure yields than Leader-Haughs and Yarow . One house there stands on Leader side surmounting my descryving : With Ease-rooms rair , and windows fair like Daedalus contriving : Men passing by doe often say in South it has no marrow : It stands as fair on Leader side as New-work does on Yarow . A mile below , who list to ride , they'l hear the Mavis singing . Into St. Leonards bank she'l bide , sweet Birks her head o'r-hinging : The Lintwhite loud , and Progne proud , with tender throats and narrow , Into St. Leonards bank do sing , as sweetly as in Yarow . The Lapwing lilteth o're the Lee , with nibble wings she sporteth , But vows she'l not come near the Tree , where Philomel resorteth : By break of day , the Lark can say , I'le bid you all good morrow , I'le yout and yell , for I may dwell In Leader-Haughs and Yarow . Park Wanton walls and Wooden . cleugh , the East and Wester Mainses , The Forest of Lawder's fair enough , the Corns are good in Blanslies : Where Oats are fine , and sold by kind , that if you search all thorough Mearns , Buchan , Mar , none better are , then Leader-Haughs and Yarow . In Burn milne-bog , and Whiteslead Shaws the fearful Hare she hunts , Bridge-haugh and Broad-wood-shiel she knaws to the Chapel-wood frequenteth Yet when she irks , to Kainslie birks , she runs and sighs for sorrow , That she should leave sweet Leader-haughs and cannot win to Yarow . What sweeter Music would you hear , then hounds and beigls crying ; The hare waits not , but flees for fear , their hard pursuit defying : But yet her strength it fails at length , no bielding can she borrow , At Hogs , Clackmay , nor Sorlesfield , but longs to be at Yarow . For Rockwood , Ringwood , Reva , Almer , still thinking for to view her , But Oh to fail [ her strength begins , ] no cunning can re [ scue her : ] O'r dub and dike , o'r seugh and syke , she'l run the fields all thorough , Yet ends her days in Leader-haughs and bids farewell to Yarow . Thou Erslington and Coldon-Knowes , where Hume had once commanding ; And Dry-grange with thy milk white ewes 'twixt Tweed and Leader standing : The birds that flees through Red-path trees and Gladswood banks all thorough , May chant and sing sweet Leader-haughs and the bony banks of Yarow . But Burn cannot his grief assuage , while as his days endureth , To see the changes of this age , which day and time procureth : For many a place stands in hard case , where Burns were blithe besorrow , With Humes that dwelled on Leader side , and Scots that dwelled in Yarow . The Words of Bur [ n ] The Violer . WHat ? shall my Violent silent be , or leave her wonted scriding ? But choice some sadder Elegy , not sports and mirds deriding : It must be fain with lower strain , then it was wont besorrow , To found the praise of Leader-haughs , and the bony banks of Yarow . But floods hath overflown the banks , the greenish Haughs disgracing , And trees in woods grows thin in ranks , about the fields defacing : For waters waxes , woods does wind more , if could for sorrow , In rurul verse , I could rehearse , of Leader-haughs and Yarow . But sighs and sobs o'rsets my breath , sorry saltish tears forth sending , All things sublunar here on earth , are subject to and ending : So must my song , though somewhat long , yet late at even and morrow , I'le sing , and sing , sweet Leader-Haughs , and the bony banks of Yarow . Hic terminus hae [ rest . ] FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 12 ) A delectable new Ballad , Entitled Leader Haughs and Yarow . To its own proper Tune . WHen Phaebus bright , the Azure-skies with golden rays enlighteneth , These things sublunar he espies ; Herbs , Trees , and Plants he quick'neth Among all those he makes his choice and gladly goes he thorough , With radiant beams and silver streams , through Leader-Haughs and Yarow , When Aries the day and night , in equal length divides ; Old frosty Saturn [ tO ] akes the flight no longer he abideth : Then Flora Queen , with Mantle green casts off her former sorrow , And vows to dwell with Caeres fell in Leader-Haughs and Yarow . Pan Playing on his Oaten Reed , with Shepherd's him attending , Does here resort their flocks to feed , the Hills and Haughs commending : With bottle , bag , and staff with knag , and all singing Good morrow , They swear no Fields more pleasure yields than Leader-Haughs and Yarow . One house there stands on Leader side surmounting my descryving : With Ease-rooms rair , and windows fair like Daedalus contriving : Men passing by doe often say in South it has no marrow : It stands as fair on Leader side as New-work does on Yarow . A mile below , who list to ride , they'l hear the Mavis singing . Into St. Leonards bank she'l bide , sweet Birks her head o'r-hinging : The Lintwhite loud , and Progne proud , with tender throats and narrow , Into St. Leonards bank do sing , as sweetly as in Yarow . The Lapwing lilteth o're the Lee , with nibble wings she sporteth , But vows she'l not come near the Tree , where Philomel resorteth : By break of day , the Lark can say , I'le bid you all good morrow , I'le yout and yell , for I may dwell In Leader-Haughs and Yarow . Park Wanton walls and Wooden . cleugh , the East and Wester Mainses , The Forest of Lawder's fair enough , the Corns are good in Blanslies : Where Oats are fine , and sold by kind , that if you search all thorough Mearns , Buchan , Mar , none better are , then Leader-Haughs and Yarow . In Burn milne-bog , and Whiteslead Shaws the fearful Hare she hunts , Bridge-haugh and Broad-wood-shiel she knaws to the Chapel-wood frequenteth Yet when she irks , to Kainslie birks , she runs and sighs for sorrow , That she should leave sweet Leader-haughs and cannot win to Yarow . What sweeter Music would you hear , then hounds and beigls crying ; The hare waits not , but flees for fear , their hard pursuit defying : But yet her strength it fails at length , no bielding can she borrow , At Hogs , Clackmay , nor Sorlesfield , but longs to be at Yarow . For Rockwood , Ringwood , Reva , Almer , still thinking for to view her , But Oh to fail [ her strength begins , ] no cunning can re [ scue her : ] O'r dub and dike , o'r seugh and syke , she'l run the fields all thorough , Yet ends her days in Leader-haughs and bids farewell to Yarow . Thou Erslington and Coldon-Knowes , where Hume had once commanding ; And Dry-grange with thy milk white ewes 'twixt Tweed and Leader standing : The birds that flees through Red-path trees and Gladswood banks all thorough , May chant and sing sweet Leader-haughs and the bony banks of Yarow . But Burn cannot his grief assuage , while as his days endureth , To see the changes of this age , which day and time procureth : For many a place stands in hard case , where Burns were blithe besorrow , With Humes that dwelled on Leader side , and Scots that dwelled in Yarow . The Words of Bur [ n ] The Violer . WHat ? shall my Violent silent be , or leave her wonted scriding ? But choice some sadder Elegy , not sports and mirds deriding : It must be fain with lower strain , then it was wont besorrow , To found the praise of Leader-haughs , and the bony banks of Yarow . But floods hath overflown the banks , the greenish Haughs disgracing , And trees in woods grows thin in ranks , about the fields defacing : For waters waxes , woods does wind more , if could for sorrow , In rurul verse , I could rehearse , of Leader-haughs and Yarow . But sighs and sobs o'rsets my breath , sorry saltish tears forth sending , All things sublunar here on earth , are subject to and ending : So must my song , though somewhat long , yet late at even and morrow , I'le sing , and sing , sweet Leader-Haughs , and the bony banks of Yarow . Hic terminus hae [ rest . ] FINIS . 