C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 120 ) THE PRESBYTERY . A SATYR . Turba gravis paci placidoque inimico quieti . AS Alexanders hastened death did bring Each of his Captains to be made a King , Even so our Bishops ruins did prefer Unto a Bishopric each Presbyter ; But the same dangers from their league arise , As ever did from th'others enmities ; Yet here they differ , th'other did advance By their own worth , these by their ignorance ; Th'other were great before , these till their reign Did first begin , were scarcely known for men ; Th'other were fit to govern , so are these , As fit as Milk-Maids to wear Harnesses : Fine souls indeed ! curdled of stench and dust , Born for to break poor Chambermaids that rust For want of use , fine motly Prester-Johns , Old Pharises in new Editions ; Young Blew-cap Jesuites , Religions Daws , A Junto of Reformed Loyola's ; Good Pulpit-Mountebankes , who with one breath Can either Quack a Spiritual Cure , or Death ; Antipodes of Room , who though their feet Seem contrary , yet in one Centre meet ; Spruce Christian Muftyes , but that Muftyes be Continued , these a sever'd quantity , Who out of many Beads one Bracelet rise , And ( if they be not hang'd up ) make a noise ; Most holy Gegawes , which make Elders dance , But you are struck by Scotch Musicians ; Rattles of th'Gospel , which so active be , That deafen all the better Harmony : Dodona's Grove , or whatsoever Knocks Will say , yo' are nothing else but vocal blocks , And yet from every trunk we almost see , Arise and Evangelic Mercurie ; Things , which in nothing but their lies come near The nature of the name they seem to bear ; Serious Jack-Puddings of Religion , The Antimasque of Reformation ; The Phosphors of new light , those spots that run ( To stop , not clear the light ) amid the Sun ; Geneva Friars , they ( with submission ) lie , That say we'ave rooted out all Popery ; Their Capes preserve it , only that their hope's , Aspire unto plurality of Popes : That which poor Canterbury never professed , Is now made good by every Parish-Priest , Brave times indeed ! 'las whither are we hurl'd ? What universal madness shakes the world ? What is all space so empty , earth must come , And mount aloft to fill a Vacuum ? Are our ears charm'd , that now all sounds displease , But a Scotch Bagpipe ? 'las what days are these ! Wolsey might be a Deacon , and here con A farther lesson of Ambition : Nay , Machiavel , if he were now alive , Would he but change Religion , might thrive ; Religion ! 'las it is a crazy frame , And somewhat like the Synod , only name , Which like the great Mogores renowned sway , The most are pleas'd to mention , none obey , Which like some glorious City ruined long , Do's only live in Paper and the Tongue . Religion , which a blind man well might call Immense , but one that's deaf , not find at all , That which the world does generally disguise , That stamp by which all knavery currant is ; Art thou thy self , great Nymph ? or else do some Deflower thee , nay force thee away from home , And make thee do their drudgery ? O spleen , Couldst thou but rise as some lungs stretch'd would been , Thou mightest boil out more hight , then ere one brother Could to pronounce damnation on another . Erected snakes , could but my anger now So far degenerate as stoop to you , How could I thrash you and abuse you worse , Then you your selves can a rich Poet curse , Worse then you censure Usurers , when you look On the lank reckonings of and Easter Book : Alas , how could I daub you , worse then ere Hicks did his English Concordance besmear ; Or a hight Monk could with mouth-engines work Strange executions against the Turke ? But I'll be still , a Country Maior can soon Quaff all these vapours of Religion ; What ? quaff them say you ; yes , they cannot be Surcharg'd with too much Schoole-Divinitie ; They do not feed on Father's , them they hate , Both as a hard and undigested meat ; Nay , those that know them , intimately say , They cannot Conjure by the Kabbala : Nay , most oth' Patriarchs would be to seek , To tell their new confession in Greek ; But they who want all weapons , will not strike , But each prove a Rhetorical Vandike , Worse then the running o'th'raines , which fence Tells only evil in the consequence ; But this will be when th'King their Sermons hears , When Lesly reads , and Pryn regains his ears , When Edwards , that destroying Amurath , His Inquisitionary Swords shall sheath That puny Hercules , who fiercely sweats , To slay the Monsters he himself begets ; The English Cadmus , whose most conquering pen Sows Dragons teeth to raise up armed men , Who like the Maid to the great Victor sent , Makes poison now become his nourishment , Who lest the growing Sectaries should not live , Beats them like Walnut Trees to make them thrive , That Church Lycurgus , who to stop the sins Of waste and drunkenness , cut down the Vines , That venerable son of fury , that Makes modesty quite excommunicate , Which in the Classic Ordinance must come in , As numbered for the fix and thirtieth sin , By him you know the Brotherhood , this one In time may make a Brotherhood alone : But they are Planets that at distance run , And Vines looks like the picture of the Sun. FINIS . Printed in the Year , 16 [ ? ] C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 120 ) THE PRESBYTERY . A SATYR . Turba gravis paci placidoque inimico quieti . AS Alexanders hastened death did bring Each of his Captains to be made a King , Even so our Bishops ruins did prefer Unto a Bishopric each Presbyter ; But the same dangers from their league arise , As ever did from th'others enmities ; Yet here they differ , th'other did advance By their own worth , these by their ignorance ; Th'other were great before , these till their reign Did first begin , were scarcely known for men ; Th'other were fit to govern , so are these , As fit as Milk-Maids to wear Harnesses : Fine souls indeed ! curdled of stench and dust , Born for to break poor Chambermaids that rust For want of use , fine motly Prester-Johns , Old Pharises in new Editions ; Young Blew-cap Jesuites , Religions Daws , A Junto of Reformed Loyola's ; Good Pulpit-Mountebankes , who with one breath Can either Quack a Spiritual Cure , or Death ; Antipodes of Room , who though their feet Seem contrary , yet in one Centre meet ; Spruce Christian Muftyes , but that Muftyes be Continued , these a sever'd quantity , Who out of many Beads one Bracelet rise , And ( if they be not hang'd up ) make a noise ; Most holy Gegawes , which make Elders dance , But you are struck by Scotch Musicians ; Rattles of th'Gospel , which so active be , That deafen all the better Harmony : Dodona's Grove , or whatsoever Knocks Will say , yo' are nothing else but vocal blocks , And yet from every trunk we almost see , Arise and Evangelic Mercurie ; Things , which in nothing but their lies come near The nature of the name they seem to bear ; Serious Jack-Puddings of Religion , The Antimasque of Reformation ; The Phosphors of new light , those spots that run ( To stop , not clear the light ) amid the Sun ; Geneva Friars , they ( with submission ) lie , That say we'ave rooted out all Popery ; Their Capes preserve it , only that their hope's , Aspire unto plurality of Popes : That which poor Canterbury never professed , Is now made good by every Parish-Priest , Brave times indeed ! 'las whither are we hurl'd ? What universal madness shakes the world ? What is all space so empty , earth must come , And mount aloft to fill a Vacuum ? Are our ears charm'd , that now all sounds displease , But a Scotch Bagpipe ? 'las what days are these ! Wolsey might be a Deacon , and here con A farther lesson of Ambition : Nay , Machiavel , if he were now alive , Would he but change Religion , might thrive ; Religion ! 'las it is a crazy frame , And somewhat like the Synod , only name , Which like the great Mogores renowned sway , The most are pleas'd to mention , none obey , Which like some glorious City ruined long , Do's only live in Paper and the Tongue . Religion , which a blind man well might call Immense , but one that's deaf , not find at all , That which the world does generally disguise , That stamp by which all knavery currant is ; Art thou thy self , great Nymph ? or else do some Deflower thee , nay force thee away from home , And make thee do their drudgery ? O spleen , Couldst thou but rise as some lungs stretch'd would been , Thou mightest boil out more hight , then ere one brother Could to pronounce damnation on another . Erected snakes , could but my anger now So far degenerate as stoop to you , How could I thrash you and abuse you worse , Then you your selves can a rich Poet curse , Worse then you censure Usurers , when you look On the lank reckonings of and Easter Book : Alas , how could I daub you , worse then ere Hicks did his English Concordance besmear ; Or a hight Monk could with mouth-engines work Strange executions against the Turke ? But I'll be still , a Country Maior can soon Quaff all these vapours of Religion ; What ? quaff them say you ; yes , they cannot be Surcharg'd with too much Schoole-Divinitie ; They do not feed on Father's , them they hate , Both as a hard and undigested meat ; Nay , those that know them , intimately say , They cannot Conjure by the Kabbala : Nay , most oth' Patriarchs would be to seek , To tell their new confession in Greek ; But they who want all weapons , will not strike , But each prove a Rhetorical Vandike , Worse then the running o'th'raines , which fence Tells only evil in the consequence ; But this will be when th'King their Sermons hears , When Lesly reads , and Pryn regains his ears , When Edwards , that destroying Amurath , His Inquisitionary Swords shall sheath That puny Hercules , who fiercely sweats , To slay the Monsters he himself begets ; The English Cadmus , whose most conquering pen Sows Dragons teeth to raise up armed men , Who like the Maid to the great Victor sent , Makes poison now become his nourishment , Who lest the growing Sectaries should not live , Beats them like Walnut Trees to make them thrive , That Church Lycurgus , who to stop the sins Of waste and drunkenness , cut down the Vines , That venerable son of fury , that Makes modesty quite excommunicate , Which in the Classic Ordinance must come in , As numbered for the fix and thirtieth sin , By him you know the Brotherhood , this one In time may make a Brotherhood alone : But they are Planets that at distance run , And Vines looks like the picture of the Sun. FINIS . Printed in the Year , 16 [ ? ] 