C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 18 ) And Excellent New Ballad . He's or'e the Hills and far away , To its Own Proper Tune . I Must o're Lands and Seas repass , Face Summer's Suns & Winter's glass , Rude Hurry Cames I must endure , Never wake , nor Sleep , nor rest Secure , Where Savage Moors makes their abided And Humane Foot have never trodden ; There I perhaps whose years must stay While she I love is far away . Where Savage Moors make their abided , And Humane foot have never trodden . There I perhaps whole years must stay , While she I love is far away . But I will leave my Heart behind , With her that was to me so kind , And if I stand , or if I fallen , She'l keep it fast and so save all . Should Goddesses the Gil [ ? ] require , I'le not give Ear to their Desire . My Dearest Love I'le not betray , Though she from me be far away . Should Goddesses , etc Oft to allay my Killing Smart , If she give me Heart for Heart , Should I be toss'd from shore to shore , Where Tempests rage and Billows roar ? Should I in lowly Woods remain , Where Might and Honour ne're reign ? Where no Eye ne're saw he day , I will not think her far away Should I in lowly Woods , etc Thus I will still where e're she be , Afford my cheerful Company ; In the dark she will prove a Light , In Pleasures add to may Delight , In Grief my Sorrow she will cure , In Danger from base Fear secure ; Thus with my Soul she'l ever stay , Though from my Eye she's far away . In Grief , etc And if Fate heerken to my Prayers , She'l hasten home to quench my Tears Then on the Wings of Love I'le fly ; As Cupids Arrows through the Sky ; No Power shall e're Severe us more , Should Malice split and Envy roar , Should all the Gods my words gainsay She ne're more shall be far away , No Power shall , etc Hold , rash tongue ; thou dos blaspheme , What hath been once may be again . The Angry Gods may Change her heart And Wound it with another Dart ; Another Object her may move Or she perchance may cease to love . Then thou must needs with Sorrow say I with her not farthter away ; Another Object , etc No no , she is as True as Fair ; She'l never cease for me to care , Her Soul's Unspotted as her Face , No Fraud can dwell with so much Grace , But if she must Unconstant prove , If she must ones forebear to Love , Strike me with thunder , Heav'ns I pray Ere farther I wish her away , But if she must ; etc For sure th could resovle to Die , And to thee Shades below to Fly ; I could encounter Fire and Sword , And all the Plagues Earth can afford I'd choose to suffer any thing That Misery or Death can bring , Before I Live to see the Day When she must farther be away , I [ ' ] worser choose to suffer any thing , That Misery or Death can bring , Before I live to see the day , When she must farther be away . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 18 ) And Excellent New Ballad . He's or'e the Hills and far away , To its Own Proper Tune . I Must o're Lands and Seas repass , Face Summer's Suns & Winter's glass , Rude Hurry Cames I must endure , Never wake , nor Sleep , nor rest Secure , Where Savage Moors makes their abided And Humane Foot have never trodden ; There I perhaps whose years must stay While she I love is far away . Where Savage Moors make their abided , And Humane foot have never trodden . There I perhaps whole years must stay , While she I love is far away . But I will leave my Heart behind , With her that was to me so kind , And if I stand , or if I fallen , She'l keep it fast and so save all . Should Goddesses the Gil [ ? ] require , I'le not give Ear to their Desire . My Dearest Love I'le not betray , Though she from me be far away . Should Goddesses , etc Oft to allay my Killing Smart , If she give me Heart for Heart , Should I be toss'd from shore to shore , Where Tempests rage and Billows roar ? Should I in lowly Woods remain , Where Might and Honour ne're reign ? Where no Eye ne're saw he day , I will not think her far away Should I in lowly Woods , etc Thus I will still where e're she be , Afford my cheerful Company ; In the dark she will prove a Light , In Pleasures add to may Delight , In Grief my Sorrow she will cure , In Danger from base Fear secure ; Thus with my Soul she'l ever stay , Though from my Eye she's far away . In Grief , etc And if Fate heerken to my Prayers , She'l hasten home to quench my Tears Then on the Wings of Love I'le fly ; As Cupids Arrows through the Sky ; No Power shall e're Severe us more , Should Malice split and Envy roar , Should all the Gods my words gainsay She ne're more shall be far away , No Power shall , etc Hold , rash tongue ; thou dos blaspheme , What hath been once may be again . The Angry Gods may Change her heart And Wound it with another Dart ; Another Object her may move Or she perchance may cease to love . Then thou must needs with Sorrow say I with her not farthter away ; Another Object , etc No no , she is as True as Fair ; She'l never cease for me to care , Her Soul's Unspotted as her Face , No Fraud can dwell with so much Grace , But if she must Unconstant prove , If she must ones forebear to Love , Strike me with thunder , Heav'ns I pray Ere farther I wish her away , But if she must ; etc For sure th could resovle to Die , And to thee Shades below to Fly ; I could encounter Fire and Sword , And all the Plagues Earth can afford I'd choose to suffer any thing That Misery or Death can bring , Before I Live to see the Day When she must farther be away , I [ ' ] worser choose to suffer any thing , That Misery or Death can bring , Before I live to see the day , When she must farther be away . FINIS . 