C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 21 ) A PRETTY NEW SONG Of NANCIES Unkindness to her LOVER . To its own proper Tune : True Love is a Tormenting Pain . As I was a ranging yond Forest of Fancies , With the nine Muses attending me , Into a Bour I spied beautiful Nancie , Sadly bemoaning her Destiny ; Saying Alas ! Where shall I wander , Where to find out my own dear Swain , Patience of Sorrow in heart I lay under , True love is a Tormenting pain . But when I consider the promise I made him , That I would ever be Just and True , But now since I find I have betray'd him , This does my a Sorrows fresh renew , Every Night instead of Sleeping , Tears I do shed like showers of Rain , My heart would break if it were not for weeping True Love is a Tormenting pain . We for many long years have been parted , Never expecting to behold him more , But since I found that I was false hearted , As for to slight him and leave him o're . I to forget him do my endeavour , But now I find it is all in vain , Here in my breast is a violent Fire , True Love is a Tormenting Pain . Its not my sad sighs and sorrowful ditty , That ever did yet prevail with thee , Because I was so void and want of all Pity , As to endeavour to Torment thee , But now my poor heart will soon be broken , Here I can no longer remain , Sad sighs and sorrow and grief is a token , True Love is such a Tormenting pain . But Oh that kind Cupid would yield me this favour As to let one of his Arrows Fly , Into his bosom that from me did sever , Let him be wounded as well as I . Then would he pity my condition , And with much speed return again , Be but so kind as grant my Petition , True Love is such a Tormenting pain . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 21 ) A PRETTY NEW SONG Of NANCIES Unkindness to her LOVER . To its own proper Tune : True Love is a Tormenting Pain . As I was a ranging yond Forest of Fancies , With the nine Muses attending me , Into a Bour I spied beautiful Nancie , Sadly bemoaning her Destiny ; Saying Alas ! Where shall I wander , Where to find out my own dear Swain , Patience of Sorrow in heart I lay under , True love is a Tormenting pain . But when I consider the promise I made him , That I would ever be Just and True , But now since I find I have betray'd him , This does my a Sorrows fresh renew , Every Night instead of Sleeping , Tears I do shed like showers of Rain , My heart would break if it were not for weeping True Love is a Tormenting pain . We for many long years have been parted , Never expecting to behold him more , But since I found that I was false hearted , As for to slight him and leave him o're . I to forget him do my endeavour , But now I find it is all in vain , Here in my breast is a violent Fire , True Love is a Tormenting Pain . Its not my sad sighs and sorrowful ditty , That ever did yet prevail with thee , Because I was so void and want of all Pity , As to endeavour to Torment thee , But now my poor heart will soon be broken , Here I can no longer remain , Sad sighs and sorrow and grief is a token , True Love is such a Tormenting pain . But Oh that kind Cupid would yield me this favour As to let one of his Arrows Fly , Into his bosom that from me did sever , Let him be wounded as well as I . Then would he pity my condition , And with much speed return again , Be but so kind as grant my Petition , True Love is such a Tormenting pain . FINIS . 