C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 119 ) AND Excellent new Ballad Entitled , My Love she is the Ringleader To the Tune of , My Love's a handsome shoe - maker . ALL the who do desire to write , Upon a Lady's comely Feature , Come help me now for to indite , Upon a well deserving Creature , Whose like is not in all this Land , Nor know I any can besteaded her , Of all the Maids of our Country , My Love she is the Ringleader . If Diana were to dance around , The Trojan walls , they'd found for joy ? Or Queen Helen whom Paris found Who Caus'd the overthrow of Troy : If Juno were among them set Or Venus fair as Poets dread her Or Pallas that Goddess of wit . My Love she is the Ring-Leader She's resolute as Lucretia , She's comely as renowned Esther , She's constant as Tirentia , She is more shining than Silvester , She's virtuous as Penelope , My Tongue and Pen shall ay besteaded her , Of all the Maids of our Country , My Love she is the Ringleader . Had Hector or Achilles seen her , She would have saved them both from killing Leander would not drowned been But to behold her would been willing , Mars he would a wooing go , If he had known to be a Speeder , Neptune and all the Gods do know , My Love to be the Ringleader . Her equal's seldom to be seen Diana seems the way to give her , Variana that Arabian Queen Strives from the wind and rain to free her The Muses of Parnassus hill Confess their banks did never breed her , The stately Nymphs of Helicon , Of all my Love's the Ring leader . To Sidney and the rest that pass , For Noble writers of Romances She might be their looking Glasses , To heighten and enlarge their Fancies For she is like a gallant Book , And he that has the Skill to read her , Will say when on her he does look , That my Dear Love is the Ringleader . Had Horace seen her questionless , He would have judged it his duty , In lofty verses to express , Her charming admirable Beauty Mixed with the Lily and the Rose She's stately like unto the Cedar When she to Kirk or Mercat goes , Among them she's the Ring leader Now to conclude my simple Rhyme , None worthy to be likened unto her , She is the Glory of her Time Who gets her leaves none such behind her A virtuous fair and comely Maid I pray the Gods from ill may free her , In Inverrary she is well known , My love to be the Ringleader FINIS . THE SECOND PART OF THE Ring Leader Nature hath strain'd her outmost skill , To paint my Love the fairest Creature The Way to know her if you will , Is by her matcheless comely Feature , First when I did behold her Face , I stood amazed and did wonder , She did behave with such a Grace , I blessed my self that I had found her , My Heart was ravish'd with Delight , To see her Virtue and her Beauty , My muse bade me fit down and write , My Mind first bade me pay my duty , Unto her Rosey Lips and fine , I bowed my Knee and did adore her , If Cesars Gold had all been mine , I would not stop but given it for her . He might count himself a happy Wight That could enjoy her Love and favour , He might had comfort day and night Her breath it had so sweet a favour : Like Violet or Cinnamon , I could not choice but dearly love her , But alase I may fit down and groan , For there's nought I can do can move her I courted her with compliments , Which I had form'd in the best Fashion Some two or three days before I went For to express my love sick passion , She did reply with modesty My Arguments could not allure her , I thought some better Man than I , Had found a way for to secure her , Like ships at Sea with contrar Winds , Drive sometimes here and sometime thither , 'Twixt hope and fear I could not find , A way to guide and steer the Rither , To condescend to my Demands , Her thoughts they aim'd a little higher , To one who had both Rends and Lands , She would not suffer me come nigh her , But it may be Time will make her Tame I'll lay obscure a little longer , And hide myself from flying Fame , Until I make my Party stronger , And then I'le hazard to advance , In open Fields once more to try her , With all my might and power perchance My importunities may play her . Although the World should never know , That ever I boar such Affection , Unto a Maid that slights me so I'le strive to make a new Election , On one whose looks are not so high And yet in nothing is behind her I may be sick , but I shall not die For all the Love I bear unto her . FINIS . Printed by John Reid in Pearson's Closs a little above the Cross , 1720. C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 119 ) AND Excellent new Ballad Entitled , My Love she is the Ringleader To the Tune of , My Love's a handsome shoe - maker . ALL the who do desire to write , Upon a Lady's comely Feature , Come help me now for to indite , Upon a well deserving Creature , Whose like is not in all this Land , Nor know I any can besteaded her , Of all the Maids of our Country , My Love she is the Ringleader . If Diana were to dance around , The Trojan walls , they'd found for joy ? Or Queen Helen whom Paris found Who Caus'd the overthrow of Troy : If Juno were among them set Or Venus fair as Poets dread her Or Pallas that Goddess of wit . My Love she is the Ring-Leader She's resolute as Lucretia , She's comely as renowned Esther , She's constant as Tirentia , She is more shining than Silvester , She's virtuous as Penelope , My Tongue and Pen shall ay besteaded her , Of all the Maids of our Country , My Love she is the Ringleader . Had Hector or Achilles seen her , She would have saved them both from killing Leander would not drowned been But to behold her would been willing , Mars he would a wooing go , If he had known to be a Speeder , Neptune and all the Gods do know , My Love to be the Ringleader . Her equal's seldom to be seen Diana seems the way to give her , Variana that Arabian Queen Strives from the wind and rain to free her The Muses of Parnassus hill Confess their banks did never breed her , The stately Nymphs of Helicon , Of all my Love's the Ring leader . To Sidney and the rest that pass , For Noble writers of Romances She might be their looking Glasses , To heighten and enlarge their Fancies For she is like a gallant Book , And he that has the Skill to read her , Will say when on her he does look , That my Dear Love is the Ringleader . Had Horace seen her questionless , He would have judged it his duty , In lofty verses to express , Her charming admirable Beauty Mixed with the Lily and the Rose She's stately like unto the Cedar When she to Kirk or Mercat goes , Among them she's the Ring leader Now to conclude my simple Rhyme , None worthy to be likened unto her , She is the Glory of her Time Who gets her leaves none such behind her A virtuous fair and comely Maid I pray the Gods from ill may free her , In Inverrary she is well known , My love to be the Ringleader FINIS . THE SECOND PART OF THE Ring Leader Nature hath strain'd her outmost skill , To paint my Love the fairest Creature The Way to know her if you will , Is by her matcheless comely Feature , First when I did behold her Face , I stood amazed and did wonder , She did behave with such a Grace , I blessed my self that I had found her , My Heart was ravish'd with Delight , To see her Virtue and her Beauty , My muse bade me fit down and write , My Mind first bade me pay my duty , Unto her Rosey Lips and fine , I bowed my Knee and did adore her , If Cesars Gold had all been mine , I would not stop but given it for her . He might count himself a happy Wight That could enjoy her Love and favour , He might had comfort day and night Her breath it had so sweet a favour : Like Violet or Cinnamon , I could not choice but dearly love her , But alase I may fit down and groan , For there's nought I can do can move her I courted her with compliments , Which I had form'd in the best Fashion Some two or three days before I went For to express my love sick passion , She did reply with modesty My Arguments could not allure her , I thought some better Man than I , Had found a way for to secure her , Like ships at Sea with contrar Winds , Drive sometimes here and sometime thither , 'Twixt hope and fear I could not find , A way to guide and steer the Rither , To condescend to my Demands , Her thoughts they aim'd a little higher , To one who had both Rends and Lands , She would not suffer me come nigh her , But it may be Time will make her Tame I'll lay obscure a little longer , And hide myself from flying Fame , Until I make my Party stronger , And then I'le hazard to advance , In open Fields once more to try her , With all my might and power perchance My importunities may play her . Although the World should never know , That ever I boar such Affection , Unto a Maid that slights me so I'le strive to make a new Election , On one whose looks are not so high And yet in nothing is behind her I may be sick , but I shall not die For all the Love I bear unto her . FINIS . Printed by John Reid in Pearson's Closs a little above the Cross , 1720. 