C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 17 ) THE LIFE and DEATH OF THE Piper of Kilbarchan , OR The Epitaph of Habbie Simpson Who on his Dron boar bonny Flags He made his Cheeks as read as Crimson , And babbed when he blew his Bags , KIlbarchan now may say alas ! For she hath lost her game and grace : Both Trixie and the Maiden-trace But what remeed ? For no man can supply his place Hab Simpson's dead , Now who shall play the day it daws , Or hunt's up when the Cock he craws ; Or who can for our Kirk-towns Cause stand us instead ? On Bagpipes now nobody blaws , Sen Habbi's dead . Or who shall cause our Shearers shear ? Who will bend up the Brags of weir ? Bring in the Bells' , or good play Meir , In time of need Hab Simpson could what need you speir , But now he's dead . So kindly to his Neighbours neist , At Beltan and Saint Barchan's Feast , He blew and then held up his Breast , As he were weid , But now we need not him arreist ? For Habbie's dead . At Fairs he play'd before the Spearmen All gaily graithed in their Gear-men Steel Bonnets , Jacts and Swords so clear then Like any Bead , Now who will play before such weirmen Sen Habbie's dead . At Clark-plays when he wont to come His pipe play'd trimly to the Drum : Like Bikes of Bees he gart it bum , And tun'd his Reed : Now all our pipers may sing dumb Sen Habbie's dead . And at Horseraces many a day , Before the Black , the Brown and Grey , He gart his pipe when he did play , Both skirl and scried : Now all such pastim's quite away Sen Habbbie's dead . He counted was a wail'd wighr Man , And fiercely at Foot-baill he ran . At every Game the gree he won , For pith and speed ? The like of Habbie was not then , But now he's dead . And than beside his valiant Acts , At Bridles he won many placks He babbed ay behind Folks Backs , And shook his Head , Now we want many merry Ctacks , Sen Habbie's dead . He was convoyer of the Bride , With Kittock hanging at his side , About the Kirk he thought a pride , The Ring to led ? But now she may go but a Guide ? For Habbie's dead . So well's he keeped his Decorum , And all the steps of Whip meg moru [ m , ] He slew a Man , and wo's me for him , and bore the feed . But yet the man won Hame before him [ m ] and was not dead . Ay when he play'd the Lasses leugh , To see him toothless , old and teuch ? He won his pipe beside Barheugh Withouten dread ? which after won him Gear enough But now he's dead . Alas ! for him my heart is sare , For of his Springs I god a Share , At every play , Raze , Feast and Fair But guile or Greed ? We need not look for piping more , Sen Habbie's dead . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 17 ) THE LIFE and DEATH OF THE Piper of Kilbarchan , OR The Epitaph of Habbie Simpson Who on his Dron boar bonny Flags He made his Cheeks as read as Crimson , And babbed when he blew his Bags , KIlbarchan now may say alas ! For she hath lost her game and grace : Both Trixie and the Maiden-trace But what remeed ? For no man can supply his place Hab Simpson's dead , Now who shall play the day it daws , Or hunt's up when the Cock he craws ; Or who can for our Kirk-towns Cause stand us instead ? On Bagpipes now nobody blaws , Sen Habbi's dead . Or who shall cause our Shearers shear ? Who will bend up the Brags of weir ? Bring in the Bells' , or good play Meir , In time of need Hab Simpson could what need you speir , But now he's dead . So kindly to his Neighbours neist , At Beltan and Saint Barchan's Feast , He blew and then held up his Breast , As he were weid , But now we need not him arreist ? For Habbie's dead . At Fairs he play'd before the Spearmen All gaily graithed in their Gear-men Steel Bonnets , Jacts and Swords so clear then Like any Bead , Now who will play before such weirmen Sen Habbie's dead . At Clark-plays when he wont to come His pipe play'd trimly to the Drum : Like Bikes of Bees he gart it bum , And tun'd his Reed : Now all our pipers may sing dumb Sen Habbie's dead . And at Horseraces many a day , Before the Black , the Brown and Grey , He gart his pipe when he did play , Both skirl and scried : Now all such pastim's quite away Sen Habbbie's dead . He counted was a wail'd wighr Man , And fiercely at Foot-baill he ran . At every Game the gree he won , For pith and speed ? The like of Habbie was not then , But now he's dead . And than beside his valiant Acts , At Bridles he won many placks He babbed ay behind Folks Backs , And shook his Head , Now we want many merry Ctacks , Sen Habbie's dead . He was convoyer of the Bride , With Kittock hanging at his side , About the Kirk he thought a pride , The Ring to led ? But now she may go but a Guide ? For Habbie's dead . So well's he keeped his Decorum , And all the steps of Whip meg moru [ m , ] He slew a Man , and wo's me for him , and bore the feed . But yet the man won Hame before him [ m ] and was not dead . Ay when he play'd the Lasses leugh , To see him toothless , old and teuch ? He won his pipe beside Barheugh Withouten dread ? which after won him Gear enough But now he's dead . Alas ! for him my heart is sare , For of his Springs I god a Share , At every play , Raze , Feast and Fair But guile or Greed ? We need not look for piping more , Sen Habbie's dead . FINIS . 