C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 19 ) The Knights of the Horn Order Address to the Fruit Maids of Edinburgh . THIS Nations Sins are many fold , And Scotland has no name , Since Honours cast in a new Mould , And Chastities a Stain . How Man and Women did behave , I'le tell you Sir's the manner , When Wallace and the Bruce did live , And I was a Dame of Honour . The Country to all men was Dear , who pities our Condition , No Rogue his Conscience durst Gain Swear , No Lady's Kiss'd at Random , The Horn Order were not made . Each one kept in his manner , And no Equivolents were pay'd , When I was a Dame of Honour . From Bannockburn our Hero's came , Could not fit with a Flewit , But as a Broad just so at Home . When first they Durst stand to it , These Champions did never Fight , As Cowards do now in Armour , Plain Dealing was the Scots Delight . When I was a Dame of Honour . Cockhold was then a Scurvy Name , Good LORD who could Abide it , No Man durst play another's Game , But did rake pains to Hide it , The Cannongate knew no Cabals , Of Knights of the Horn Order , And Lights were never put out at Balls , When I was a Dame of Honour . The Fruit Maids Casting up their Limes , Were things unknown to use , We Ladays then thought shame , to since ; It Cost some pains unto us , We wore no Ribbands on our This . No Smoke lest on our Shoulders , We keeped close by our first Ties , When I was Dame of Honour . Our Gallants needed no Supplies , But such as was their pleasure They did think Contra Radacie , Could and no strength to Leisure , Cockholds no Braodie Possits god , At least in Solemn manner , What was done , man knew it not , When I was a Dame of Honour . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 19 ) The Knights of the Horn Order Address to the Fruit Maids of Edinburgh . THIS Nations Sins are many fold , And Scotland has no name , Since Honours cast in a new Mould , And Chastities a Stain . How Man and Women did behave , I'le tell you Sir's the manner , When Wallace and the Bruce did live , And I was a Dame of Honour . The Country to all men was Dear , who pities our Condition , No Rogue his Conscience durst Gain Swear , No Lady's Kiss'd at Random , The Horn Order were not made . Each one kept in his manner , And no Equivolents were pay'd , When I was a Dame of Honour . From Bannockburn our Hero's came , Could not fit with a Flewit , But as a Broad just so at Home . When first they Durst stand to it , These Champions did never Fight , As Cowards do now in Armour , Plain Dealing was the Scots Delight . When I was a Dame of Honour . Cockhold was then a Scurvy Name , Good LORD who could Abide it , No Man durst play another's Game , But did rake pains to Hide it , The Cannongate knew no Cabals , Of Knights of the Horn Order , And Lights were never put out at Balls , When I was a Dame of Honour . The Fruit Maids Casting up their Limes , Were things unknown to use , We Ladays then thought shame , to since ; It Cost some pains unto us , We wore no Ribbands on our This . No Smoke lest on our Shoulders , We keeped close by our first Ties , When I was Dame of Honour . Our Gallants needed no Supplies , But such as was their pleasure They did think Contra Radacie , Could and no strength to Leisure , Cockholds no Braodie Possits god , At least in Solemn manner , What was done , man knew it not , When I was a Dame of Honour . 