C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 25 ) And account of the Life and Bloody Death of William Lawries Dog To the Tune of , the Ladies Daughter , William Lawrie had a Dog , which he with meikle care , Did train , teach , and bring him up , And breeding did not spare First he began to hunt the Hens , And then because he saw It pleas'd his Master , he began , To try the Sheep with a Then Sandy Marshal's sheep drew near Because of winter Storm And Willie Lawrie hunt's his Dog , Thinking to do no harm The Dog then running mirrily At last did grip a Sheep , And turn'd him over & held him fast Which made his master weep Alas ! said he , this knaving Dog , In's youth has god a trick Instead of Hunting worries Sheep To get their Blood to lick . It seems my Dog hath surely seen , My name Father some time , Preparing Dinner for his Folk To make them quickly dine . The Dog then went unto the Hill That some what he might spy He found a Sheep , that fast a sleep , Upon the Ground did lie , The Hogie on Craighersie stands And he beholding sees The Dog and Sheep together fast Then he begins and cries . Then Hogie said , I will away , Unto the place I will , Go tell my Master how that he Does guide the Wester-hill , The Order was cause bring the man and Dog into the place , And if he Guilty were , he should Be hang'd before his face . Then Robert Staker Officer Sent out his awful word Then Lawrie and his Dog in haste , Came trotting thitherward . The Justice he Pursued the Cause A Court was called in haste , Of wise and understanding Men To end this Plea at last . There was six weighty heads of wit That set upon the Size , They did ordain the Dog to hing , Or else a Ransom twice . Then Lawrie he stood up and said I Caution for him will , In spite of all that are his foes Though they should lie their fill . But Lawries tricks are so well known To all men that buy Sheep , That we will not his word believe Say to us what he like Then Sentence being passed at which The Dempster he did cry Gar take the Dog and hold him fast , That he may quickly die . John Hutton he the Dog did gripp And held him by the Neck , And Kirkhall with a weighty Ax Gives him a deadly Stroke , Then Sandy Drysdale as I think To the Dog proved a friend With and Ax another stroke Upon the Ear did hind , The Pear Tree , may Sandie thank For he the Dog did bear , He made a Grave and laid him in And covered him with care So this most trusty Dog is Dead What can there more be said For Lawries loss is very much his worth is very great . Then Willie Lawrie wrang his hands And said what will I do I fear my Wife will troubled be And all my Servants too . I lost a Cow cost twenty Pound . For her I did not grieve , In such a sort as for my Dog , Who comfort did me give . My dear Wife , keep up your heart A Dog I'le have in hest To lick the Pot , and hunt the Hens And run at any Beast . A Mastive Dog I cannot keep Because I am not able , To keep such Guests about my hand , And feed beneath my Table . I'le to my Master write a Line , And cause him search and see To get a Dog to me in haste Suppose he should him buy ; If I had paid the Shepherd's Sheep That he of me did crave , I wot me Dog had not been kill'd but liv'd among the leave . Henry Breadyells bears the blame , Of William Lawries Dog , And so the Scorn and charge of him lies heavy on his head . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 25 ) And account of the Life and Bloody Death of William Lawries Dog To the Tune of , the Ladies Daughter , William Lawrie had a Dog , which he with meikle care , Did train , teach , and bring him up , And breeding did not spare First he began to hunt the Hens , And then because he saw It pleas'd his Master , he began , To try the Sheep with a Then Sandy Marshal's sheep drew near Because of winter Storm And Willie Lawrie hunt's his Dog , Thinking to do no harm The Dog then running mirrily At last did grip a Sheep , And turn'd him over & held him fast Which made his master weep Alas ! said he , this knaving Dog , In's youth has god a trick Instead of Hunting worries Sheep To get their Blood to lick . It seems my Dog hath surely seen , My name Father some time , Preparing Dinner for his Folk To make them quickly dine . The Dog then went unto the Hill That some what he might spy He found a Sheep , that fast a sleep , Upon the Ground did lie , The Hogie on Craighersie stands And he beholding sees The Dog and Sheep together fast Then he begins and cries . Then Hogie said , I will away , Unto the place I will , Go tell my Master how that he Does guide the Wester-hill , The Order was cause bring the man and Dog into the place , And if he Guilty were , he should Be hang'd before his face . Then Robert Staker Officer Sent out his awful word Then Lawrie and his Dog in haste , Came trotting thitherward . The Justice he Pursued the Cause A Court was called in haste , Of wise and understanding Men To end this Plea at last . There was six weighty heads of wit That set upon the Size , They did ordain the Dog to hing , Or else a Ransom twice . Then Lawrie he stood up and said I Caution for him will , In spite of all that are his foes Though they should lie their fill . But Lawries tricks are so well known To all men that buy Sheep , That we will not his word believe Say to us what he like Then Sentence being passed at which The Dempster he did cry Gar take the Dog and hold him fast , That he may quickly die . John Hutton he the Dog did gripp And held him by the Neck , And Kirkhall with a weighty Ax Gives him a deadly Stroke , Then Sandy Drysdale as I think To the Dog proved a friend With and Ax another stroke Upon the Ear did hind , The Pear Tree , may Sandie thank For he the Dog did bear , He made a Grave and laid him in And covered him with care So this most trusty Dog is Dead What can there more be said For Lawries loss is very much his worth is very great . Then Willie Lawrie wrang his hands And said what will I do I fear my Wife will troubled be And all my Servants too . I lost a Cow cost twenty Pound . For her I did not grieve , In such a sort as for my Dog , Who comfort did me give . My dear Wife , keep up your heart A Dog I'le have in hest To lick the Pot , and hunt the Hens And run at any Beast . A Mastive Dog I cannot keep Because I am not able , To keep such Guests about my hand , And feed beneath my Table . I'le to my Master write a Line , And cause him search and see To get a Dog to me in haste Suppose he should him buy ; If I had paid the Shepherd's Sheep That he of me did crave , I wot me Dog had not been kill'd but liv'd among the leave . Henry Breadyells bears the blame , Of William Lawries Dog , And so the Scorn and charge of him lies heavy on his head . FINIS . 