C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 27 ) The Mother of Jealousy OR The Husband's Lament , that he should part with his Wife by Reason of her Jealousy of him . To the Tune of Wo's my Heart that we should sinder . I WHen my dearest Dear did first appear , I bless'd the time that I had found her : Her Beauty did my Heart inchear , But now alas we two must sinder ! 2 Her lovely Person pierc'd my Heart , For truly there were none beyond her . But now great Grief does make me smart To think my Dear and I most sinder . 3 My raging Mind could never rest , Till I in Marriage-Bonds had join'd her : But now with Grief I'm soar oppressed , To think my Dear and I must sinder . 4 I lov'd her well , she lov'd me once ; But I thought still she should be kinder : But woe be to false Jealousy , Which makes my Dear and me to sinder ! 5 O falsely often she judg'd me , And all my Power could not her hinder ! But God himself does know I'm free , But yet alas ! we two must sinder . 6 Oh woe be to that wretched Fate , For all our Pleasures thou didst hinder , And thou betwixt us two made Debate Which caus'd us doolfully to sinder ! 7 So that if I'd the World wide And all that is the Heav'ns under , I would give all for my Abided , But all's in vain , for we must sinder . 8 Alas that Nothing can prevail , Or yet my Journey none can hinder ! This sad Parting I cannot feel , And wo's my heart that we should sinder ! 9 My Love to her it was most strong , But Jealousy hath brought it under , And in her Breast hath lurked long , Which causeth us alas ! to sinder . 10 For me on Earth there is no Rest , For sad's the Gate I have to wander . For if I stay I'm soar oppressed , And wo's my Heart that we should sinder ! 11 My Children small me soar do grieve , They are the Cause me long do hinder ; But yet alas ! I must be gone , I'm glad to die before we sinder . 12 O now if that my lovely Wife , Would unto me become yet kinder And let not Jealousy make Strife ! I think it might my Journey hinder . 13 Alas there is no help for me ! But from all Pleasures I must wander . My Dear she will have no Pity , Alas no Help but we must sinder ! 14 Lord , be a Husband to my dear Wife , And a Father to my Children kinder , Than ever I could been in Life . Farewell , my Dear , for we must sinder . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 27 ) The Mother of Jealousy OR The Husband's Lament , that he should part with his Wife by Reason of her Jealousy of him . To the Tune of Wo's my Heart that we should sinder . I WHen my dearest Dear did first appear , I bless'd the time that I had found her : Her Beauty did my Heart inchear , But now alas we two must sinder ! 2 Her lovely Person pierc'd my Heart , For truly there were none beyond her . But now great Grief does make me smart To think my Dear and I most sinder . 3 My raging Mind could never rest , Till I in Marriage-Bonds had join'd her : But now with Grief I'm soar oppressed , To think my Dear and I must sinder . 4 I lov'd her well , she lov'd me once ; But I thought still she should be kinder : But woe be to false Jealousy , Which makes my Dear and me to sinder ! 5 O falsely often she judg'd me , And all my Power could not her hinder ! But God himself does know I'm free , But yet alas ! we two must sinder . 6 Oh woe be to that wretched Fate , For all our Pleasures thou didst hinder , And thou betwixt us two made Debate Which caus'd us doolfully to sinder ! 7 So that if I'd the World wide And all that is the Heav'ns under , I would give all for my Abided , But all's in vain , for we must sinder . 8 Alas that Nothing can prevail , Or yet my Journey none can hinder ! This sad Parting I cannot feel , And wo's my heart that we should sinder ! 9 My Love to her it was most strong , But Jealousy hath brought it under , And in her Breast hath lurked long , Which causeth us alas ! to sinder . 10 For me on Earth there is no Rest , For sad's the Gate I have to wander . For if I stay I'm soar oppressed , And wo's my Heart that we should sinder ! 11 My Children small me soar do grieve , They are the Cause me long do hinder ; But yet alas ! I must be gone , I'm glad to die before we sinder . 12 O now if that my lovely Wife , Would unto me become yet kinder And let not Jealousy make Strife ! I think it might my Journey hinder . 13 Alas there is no help for me ! But from all Pleasures I must wander . My Dear she will have no Pity , Alas no Help but we must sinder ! 14 Lord , be a Husband to my dear Wife , And a Father to my Children kinder , Than ever I could been in Life . Farewell , my Dear , for we must sinder . FINIS . 