C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 30 ) And excellent new Play-House Song ; called , the bonny Gray-ey'd Morn ; OR , Jockey rouz'd with Love . To and excellent new Tune . THe bonny Gray-ey'd Morn began for to peep when Jockey rouz'd with Love came blithely on ; And I who wishing lay depriv'd of Sleep , abhor'd the lazy Hours that slow did run . But meikle were my Joy's , when in my View I from the Window spy'd my only Dear : I took the Wings of Love and to him flew , for I had fancy'd all my Heaven was there . Upon my Bosom Jockey laid his Head , and sighing told me pretty Tales of Love My yielding Heart , at every Word he said , did flutter up and down , and strangely move : He sighing , kiss'd my hand , and vow'd and swore , that I had o'er his Heart a Conquest gain'd . Then blushing begg'd , that I would grant him more which he alas ! too soon , too soon obtain'd . Nor that I do repent , I did comply ; but this I needs must own , my yielding Heart Was quickly overcome by Jockie's Eye , which gave a deeper Wound than Cupids dart , His Cheeks were Cherry read , his Lips the same , his Tongue so many Charms could still express : That every word he said did raise new Flames , and kindled , kindled Fire in my Breast . My Jockey does a thousand Ways beside , express hims [ e ] lf in tender Love to me : With Arms about my Waste , he sighing cry'd , o give me thy Consent or I must die , Then with a gentle Kiss does beg again , that his poor wounded H [ e ] art I would but cure , Nor thinking that I felt his Lovesick Pain , for alas ! 'twas his , 'twas his before . And now ! I could no longer hide my Pain , but let my dearest Jockey know my Heart . O , how he hugg'd me in his Arms again ! and ev'ry Kiss he gave did ease my Smart ; Then vowing o'er and o'er betwixt each Kiss , he constant would remain while Life did last ; Now tell me Lovers ; where's the Hurt of this , for to enjoy , when that the Knot's ty'd fast ? FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 30 ) And excellent new Play-House Song ; called , the bonny Gray-ey'd Morn ; OR , Jockey rouz'd with Love . To and excellent new Tune . THe bonny Gray-ey'd Morn began for to peep when Jockey rouz'd with Love came blithely on ; And I who wishing lay depriv'd of Sleep , abhor'd the lazy Hours that slow did run . But meikle were my Joy's , when in my View I from the Window spy'd my only Dear : I took the Wings of Love and to him flew , for I had fancy'd all my Heaven was there . Upon my Bosom Jockey laid his Head , and sighing told me pretty Tales of Love My yielding Heart , at every Word he said , did flutter up and down , and strangely move : He sighing , kiss'd my hand , and vow'd and swore , that I had o'er his Heart a Conquest gain'd . Then blushing begg'd , that I would grant him more which he alas ! too soon , too soon obtain'd . Nor that I do repent , I did comply ; but this I needs must own , my yielding Heart Was quickly overcome by Jockie's Eye , which gave a deeper Wound than Cupids dart , His Cheeks were Cherry read , his Lips the same , his Tongue so many Charms could still express : That every word he said did raise new Flames , and kindled , kindled Fire in my Breast . My Jockey does a thousand Ways beside , express hims [ e ] lf in tender Love to me : With Arms about my Waste , he sighing cry'd , o give me thy Consent or I must die , Then with a gentle Kiss does beg again , that his poor wounded H [ e ] art I would but cure , Nor thinking that I felt his Lovesick Pain , for alas ! 'twas his , 'twas his before . And now ! I could no longer hide my Pain , but let my dearest Jockey know my Heart . O , how he hugg'd me in his Arms again ! and ev'ry Kiss he gave did ease my Smart ; Then vowing o'er and o'er betwixt each Kiss , he constant would remain while Life did last ; Now tell me Lovers ; where's the Hurt of this , for to enjoy , when that the Knot's ty'd fast ? FINIS . 