C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 26 ) And Excellent New SONG , Entitled , Valiant Jockey His LADIEs Resolution . To be sung to its own proper Tune . VAliant Jockie's march'd away , To fight a Battle with great Mackay ; Leaving me poor Soul alas ! forlorn , To curse the hour that ever I was born But I swear I'll follow too , And dearest Jockie's Fate pursue ; Near him be , to guard his precious Life , Never Scot had such a Loyal Wife . Sword I'le wear , I'le cut my hair ; Taken my Cheeks that was so fair ; In Soldiers weed to him I'le speed , Never such a Trooper crossed the Tweide . Trumpet found the victory , Sure I'le be kil'd , the nixt Dundee ; Loves raging Fate does all agree , To do some glorious act for me : Great Bellonia take my part , Fame and honour guard my Heart ; That for poor old Scotlands good , Some brave Actium may deserve my blood Nought shall appear , from all Fame I fear , Fighting by his side I lov'd so dear ; All the World shall own that ne're was known Such a Loyal Lass this Thousand year . Now in Noble Armour bright , I with courageous Heart will fight ; Fear of death shall ne're my courage stain , Our King's Right I will maintain : For the glory of our Sex , We all our Rebels shall perplex , And let them find that Women kind , Sometime venture with a warlike mind , Age of old , our Fame has told , Therefore I shall never be controul'd ; By Friend , or Foe , I'le freely go ; Never was a Trooper Armed so . I shall a helmet then put on , Armed like a valiant warlike Man ; Plats of steel shall guard my Back and Breast , Carabines and Pistols I'le protest , In my Hand , I'le cock and prime , Now and forever is the time ; While I am mounted thus Cappa pi ; Warlike Thunder shall my Music be : Let smoke arise and dim the Skies , While we pursue the warlike prize ; Lauralls shall us crown , with true renown , The Victory , in City , Court and Town . Mars the God of war shall led Our Army , that shall fight and Bleed ; Or e're our Foes shall hope to win the day , Therefore let us march with speed away Hark , I hear the Trumpets found , We shall be all with Conquests Crown'd ; Let all my Foes brag and boast , Victory and Triumph shall ride through the Host Glory and Fame shall then proclaim The Actions of a warlik valiant Dame ; If Foes draw nigh , I'le scorn't to Fly , But with my dearest Love I'le live and die . FINISC : Ry. III . a.10 ( 26 ) And Excellent New SONG , Entitled , Valiant Jockey His LADIEs Resolution . To be sung to its own proper Tune . VAliant Jockie's march'd away , To fight a Battle with great Mackay ; Leaving me poor Soul alas ! forlorn , To curse the hour that ever I was born But I swear I'll follow too , And dearest Jockie's Fate pursue ; Near him be , to guard his precious Life , Never Scot had such a Loyal Wife . Sword I'le wear , I'le cut my hair ; Taken my Cheeks that was so fair ; In Soldiers weed to him I'le speed , Never such a Trooper crossed the Tweide . Trumpet found the victory , Sure I'le be kil'd , the nixt Dundee ; Loves raging Fate does all agree , To do some glorious act for me : Great Bellonia take my part , Fame and honour guard my Heart ; That for poor old Scotlands good , Some brave Actium may deserve my blood Nought shall appear , from all Fame I fear , Fighting by his side I lov'd so dear ; All the World shall own that ne're was known Such a Loyal Lass this Thousand year . Now in Noble Armour bright , I with courageous Heart will fight ; Fear of death shall ne're my courage stain , Our King's Right I will maintain : For the glory of our Sex , We all our Rebels shall perplex , And let them find that Women kind , Sometime venture with a warlike mind , Age of old , our Fame has told , Therefore I shall never be controul'd ; By Friend , or Foe , I'le freely go ; Never was a Trooper Armed so . I shall a helmet then put on , Armed like a valiant warlike Man ; Plats of steel shall guard my Back and Breast , Carabines and Pistols I'le protest , In my Hand , I'le cock and prime , Now and forever is the time ; While I am mounted thus Cappa pi ; Warlike Thunder shall my Music be : Let smoke arise and dim the Skies , While we pursue the warlike prize ; Lauralls shall us crown , with true renown , The Victory , in City , Court and Town . Mars the God of war shall led Our Army , that shall fight and Bleed ; Or e're our Foes shall hope to win the day , Therefore let us march with speed away Hark , I hear the Trumpets found , We shall be all with Conquests Crown'd ; Let all my Foes brag and boast , Victory and Triumph shall ride through the Host Glory and Fame shall then proclaim The Actions of a warlik valiant Dame ; If Foes draw nigh , I'le scorn't to Fly , But with my dearest Love I'le live and die . FINIS 