C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 31 ) Bonny Dundee . I who was once a day Courted by many , Now am most scornfully Slighted by thee ; Others some reason had , thou ner'e had any , Returning with Disdain my Court [ ? ] sie : Slave to Affection and thy sweet Complexion , Thus far I have been but no longer shall be ; A rash Election , goes not by Direction , Of the weak Feminine Amorous we . Madam your Modesty hath been too ridged , In putting such mistakes betwixt you and me , You know that in Nature our Sex are obliged , To give the first Onset when Objects we see ; But thy unparallel'd Virtue , Birth , Beauty , In such a measure surpasses my Degree , That with a sad Heart I deem it my duty , Far from such needless Presumptions to flee . Did not my Modesty plead me a Lover , When Fortune bless'd me with thy Company ; Did not my Blushes a Passion discover , When thou was absent , yet talking of thee ; Did not I Court thee although against Nature , What greater symptoms of Love can there be , So be thou no longer and unsensible Creature , But freely venture , and welcome to me . Through all Regions to fly I'll dare venture , Sure Cupid will lend me wings to follow thee ; Yea like a Pilgrim I'll round the Earth's Centure , Or like Leander I'll hazard the Sea : Silent Loves scorching Flames long I endured , What greater Torment than this can there be , All this I have suffered , nay more when assured , My dearest Soul , that my Love's welcome to thee . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 31 ) Bonny Dundee . I who was once a day Courted by many , Now am most scornfully Slighted by thee ; Others some reason had , thou ner'e had any , Returning with Disdain my Court [ ? ] sie : Slave to Affection and thy sweet Complexion , Thus far I have been but no longer shall be ; A rash Election , goes not by Direction , Of the weak Feminine Amorous we . Madam your Modesty hath been too ridged , In putting such mistakes betwixt you and me , You know that in Nature our Sex are obliged , To give the first Onset when Objects we see ; But thy unparallel'd Virtue , Birth , Beauty , In such a measure surpasses my Degree , That with a sad Heart I deem it my duty , Far from such needless Presumptions to flee . Did not my Modesty plead me a Lover , When Fortune bless'd me with thy Company ; Did not my Blushes a Passion discover , When thou was absent , yet talking of thee ; Did not I Court thee although against Nature , What greater symptoms of Love can there be , So be thou no longer and unsensible Creature , But freely venture , and welcome to me . Through all Regions to fly I'll dare venture , Sure Cupid will lend me wings to follow thee ; Yea like a Pilgrim I'll round the Earth's Centure , Or like Leander I'll hazard the Sea : Silent Loves scorching Flames long I endured , What greater Torment than this can there be , All this I have suffered , nay more when assured , My dearest Soul , that my Love's welcome to thee . FINIS . 