C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 34 ) I'LE NEVER LOVE THEE MORE To be Sung with its pleasant New Tune . MY Dear and only Love I pray , that little World of thee ; Be Govern'd by no other sway , but purest Monarchy : For if Confusion have a part , which virtuous Souls abhor ; I'le call a Synod in mine Heart , and never love thee more . As Alexander I will Reign , and I will Reign alone ; My thoughts did ever yet disdain , a Rival on my Throne : He either fears his Fate too much , or his Deserts are small ; That dares not put it to the Touch , to gain or loose at all . But I will Reign and Govern still . and always give the Law ; And have each Subject at my will , and all to stand in aw : But 'gainst my Batteries if I find , thou kick or vex me soar ; As that thou set me up a Blind , I'le never Love thee more . And in the Empire of thy heart , where I should sollie be ; If others do pretend a part , or dares to share with me : Or Committees if thou erect , and go on such a score ; I'le laugh and smile at thy neglect , and never Love thee more . But if thou will prove faithful then , and constant in thy word ; I'le make thee Glorious by my Pen , and Famous by my Sword : I'le serve thee in such Noble ways , was ne're yet herd before ; I'le crown and deck thy head with bays , and Love thee more and more . The Second Part. MY Dear and only Love take heed . how thou thy self dispose ; Let not all longing Lovers feed , upon such looks as those : I'le Marble-wall thee round about , my self shall be the Door ; And if thy heart chance to slide ou I'le never Love thee more . Let not thy Oaths like Volies shot , make any Breach at all ; Nor smoothness of their Language Plot , which wait to scale the Wall : Nor balls of wildfire Love consume , the Shrine which I adore ; For if such smoke about thee foam , I'le never Love thee more . I know thy Virtues be too strong , to suffer by surprise ; If that thou slights their Love so long , their Siege at last will rise : And leave thee Conqueror in thy Health and state thou was before ; And if thou prove a Commonwealth , I'le never Love thee more . But if by fraud or by deceit , thy Heart to ruin come ; I'le found no Trumpet as I wont nor March by Took of Drum : But hold my Drum like Achans Cup , [ ? ] I'le do with thee as Nero did , when he set Room on fire ; Not only all Relief forbid , But to a Hill retire ; And scorn to shed a Tear to save , thy Spirit grown so poor ; But laugh and smile thee to thy Grave , and never Love thee more . Then shall my Heart beset by thine , but in far different case , For mine was true so was not thine , but looked like Janus Face : Thy Beauty shin'd at first so bright , and woe is me therefore ; That e're I found thy Love so bright , that I could love no more . My Heart shall with the Sun be fixed , for Constancy most strange ; And thine shall with the Moon be next , delighting ay in change : For as thou waves with every Wind , and Sails through every Shore ; And leaves my constant Heart behind , how can I Love thee more . Yet for the Love I bore thee once , lest that thy Name should die ; A Monument of Marble Stone , the Truth shall testify ; That every Pilgrim passing by , may pity and deplore ; And sighing , read the Reason why I cannot Love thee more . The Golden Laws of Love shall be , upon these Pillars hung ; A Single Heart , a Simple Eye , a True and Constant Tongue : Let no Man for more Loves pretend , then he hath Hearts in store ; True Love begun will never end , love one and love no more . And when all Gallants leads about , this Monument to view ; It's written both within and out , thou'rt Treacherous I trow : Then in a Passion they shall pause , and thusly sighing soar ; Alace he had too just a Cause , never to Love thee more . And when the tracing Gods do Face , from East and West do flee ; They shall Record it to thy shame , how thou hast loved me : And how in odds our Love's been such as few hath been before ; Thou lov'd too many , ay too much , that I can Love no more . The misty Mounts , the smoking Lake's , the Rocks resounding Echo : The whistling winds , the woods that shake shall all with me sing heigh ho : The tossing Seas , the tumbling Boats , tears dropping from each Oar , Shall tune with me their Turtle Notes , I'le never Love thee more . Yet as the Turtle chaste and true , her Fellow so regrates , And daily sighs for her Adieu , that ne're renews her Notes : But though thy Faith was never fast , which grieves me wondrous soar ; [ ? ] shall live in Love so Chaste , [ ? ] C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 34 ) I'LE NEVER LOVE THEE MORE To be Sung with its pleasant New Tune . MY Dear and only Love I pray , that little World of thee ; Be Govern'd by no other sway , but purest Monarchy : For if Confusion have a part , which virtuous Souls abhor ; I'le call a Synod in mine Heart , and never love thee more . As Alexander I will Reign , and I will Reign alone ; My thoughts did ever yet disdain , a Rival on my Throne : He either fears his Fate too much , or his Deserts are small ; That dares not put it to the Touch , to gain or loose at all . But I will Reign and Govern still . and always give the Law ; And have each Subject at my will , and all to stand in aw : But 'gainst my Batteries if I find , thou kick or vex me soar ; As that thou set me up a Blind , I'le never Love thee more . And in the Empire of thy heart , where I should sollie be ; If others do pretend a part , or dares to share with me : Or Committees if thou erect , and go on such a score ; I'le laugh and smile at thy neglect , and never Love thee more . But if thou will prove faithful then , and constant in thy word ; I'le make thee Glorious by my Pen , and Famous by my Sword : I'le serve thee in such Noble ways , was ne're yet herd before ; I'le crown and deck thy head with bays , and Love thee more and more . The Second Part. MY Dear and only Love take heed . how thou thy self dispose ; Let not all longing Lovers feed , upon such looks as those : I'le Marble-wall thee round about , my self shall be the Door ; And if thy heart chance to slide ou I'le never Love thee more . Let not thy Oaths like Volies shot , make any Breach at all ; Nor smoothness of their Language Plot , which wait to scale the Wall : Nor balls of wildfire Love consume , the Shrine which I adore ; For if such smoke about thee foam , I'le never Love thee more . I know thy Virtues be too strong , to suffer by surprise ; If that thou slights their Love so long , their Siege at last will rise : And leave thee Conqueror in thy Health and state thou was before ; And if thou prove a Commonwealth , I'le never Love thee more . But if by fraud or by deceit , thy Heart to ruin come ; I'le found no Trumpet as I wont nor March by Took of Drum : But hold my Drum like Achans Cup , [ ? ] I'le do with thee as Nero did , when he set Room on fire ; Not only all Relief forbid , But to a Hill retire ; And scorn to shed a Tear to save , thy Spirit grown so poor ; But laugh and smile thee to thy Grave , and never Love thee more . Then shall my Heart beset by thine , but in far different case , For mine was true so was not thine , but looked like Janus Face : Thy Beauty shin'd at first so bright , and woe is me therefore ; That e're I found thy Love so bright , that I could love no more . My Heart shall with the Sun be fixed , for Constancy most strange ; And thine shall with the Moon be next , delighting ay in change : For as thou waves with every Wind , and Sails through every Shore ; And leaves my constant Heart behind , how can I Love thee more . Yet for the Love I bore thee once , lest that thy Name should die ; A Monument of Marble Stone , the Truth shall testify ; That every Pilgrim passing by , may pity and deplore ; And sighing , read the Reason why I cannot Love thee more . The Golden Laws of Love shall be , upon these Pillars hung ; A Single Heart , a Simple Eye , a True and Constant Tongue : Let no Man for more Loves pretend , then he hath Hearts in store ; True Love begun will never end , love one and love no more . And when all Gallants leads about , this Monument to view ; It's written both within and out , thou'rt Treacherous I trow : Then in a Passion they shall pause , and thusly sighing soar ; Alace he had too just a Cause , never to Love thee more . And when the tracing Gods do Face , from East and West do flee ; They shall Record it to thy shame , how thou hast loved me : And how in odds our Love's been such as few hath been before ; Thou lov'd too many , ay too much , that I can Love no more . The misty Mounts , the smoking Lake's , the Rocks resounding Echo : The whistling winds , the woods that shake shall all with me sing heigh ho : The tossing Seas , the tumbling Boats , tears dropping from each Oar , Shall tune with me their Turtle Notes , I'le never Love thee more . Yet as the Turtle chaste and true , her Fellow so regrates , And daily sighs for her Adieu , that ne're renews her Notes : But though thy Faith was never fast , which grieves me wondrous soar ; [ ? ] shall live in Love so Chaste , [ ? ] 