C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 45 ) BONNY LIZIE BALIE . A New SONG very much in Request , IT fell about the Lambmass Tide When the Leaves were fresh & green , Lizie Bailie is to Gartartain to see her Sister Jean . She had not been in Gartartain , even but a little while , Till Luck and Fortune happen'd her , and she went to the Isle , And when she went into the Isle , She met with Duncan Grahame , So bravely as he courted her , and he convey'd her hame : My bonny Lizie Bailie I'll row thee in my Pladie , If thou will go along with me and be my Highland Lady . If I would go along with thee I think I were not Wise , For I cannot milk Cow nor Ewe , nor yet can I speak Erse . Hold thy Tongue bonny Lizie Bailie , and hold thy Tongue , said he . For any thing that thou does lack My Dear I'll learn thee . She would not have a Lowland Laird he wears the h [ i ] gh-heel'd Shoes . [ ? ] he will Ma [ ? ] ry [ ? ] Graham ats [ ? ] or Dunc [ and ] wears his Trews : She would not have a Gentleman . a Farmer in Kilsyth , But she would have the Highland-man , he lives into Monteith : She would not have the Lowland man , nor yet the English Laddie . But she would have the Highland man , to row her in his Pladie . He took her by the milkwhite han [ worser ] and he convoy'd her hame , And still she thought both Night and Day on bonny Duncan Grahame O bonny Duncan Grahame why should you me miscarry For if you have a love for me we'll meet at Castle carry . As I came in by Dennie Bridge , and by the Holland-Bush , My Mother took from me my Clothes my Rings ay and my Purse , Hold your Tongue my Mother Dear , for that I do not care ; For I will go with Duncan Grahame tho' I should ne'r get more : For first when I met Duncan Grahame I met with meikle Joy , And many Pretty Highland Men was there at my Convoy . And he is gone through the Muir , and she is through Glen , Oh bonny Lizie Bailie when will we meet again . Shame light on these Lodger-heads that lives in Castle carry , That let away the bonny Lass the Highland Man to Marry , Oh bonny Lizie stay at home , thy Mother cannot want thee , For any thing that thou does lack my Dear I'll cause get thee . I would not give my Duncan Grahame for all my Father's Land. Although he had three Lairdships more and all at my Command . Now She's cast off her silken Gowns that she wear'd in the Lowland . And she's up to the Highland Hills to wear Gowns of Tartain . And she's cast off her high heel'd shoes was made of the gilded Leather , And she's up to Gillecrankie to go among the Heather . And she's cast off her high-heel'd Shoes and put on a pair of laigh ones . [ A ] n [ worser ] she's away with Duncan Grahame to go among the Brachans . O my bonny Lizie Bailie thy Mother cannot want thee And if thou go with Duncan Grahame thou'll be a Gillecrankie . Hold your Tongue my Mother dear , and folly let thee be , Should not I fancy Duncan Grahame when Duncan fancies me : [ H ] old your Tongue my Father dear and folly let thee be , [ ? ] I will go with Duncan Grahame before all the Men I see ; W [ h ] oh is it that's done this Turn ? who has done this Deed ? A Minister it's Father she says , lives at that [ e ] Rugh-burn-bridge . A Minister Daughter he says , [ ? ] Minister for Mister . O hold your Tongue my Father dear he Married first my Sister . O fair you well my Daughter dear , [ ? ] dearly as I lov'd thee , Since thou wilt go to Duncan Grahame my bonny Lizie Bailie : Oh fare you well my Father dear , a [ ? ] so my Sister Betty ; Oh fare you well my Mother dear I leave you all completely . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 45 ) BONNY LIZIE BALIE . A New SONG very much in Request , IT fell about the Lambmass Tide When the Leaves were fresh & green , Lizie Bailie is to Gartartain to see her Sister Jean . She had not been in Gartartain , even but a little while , Till Luck and Fortune happen'd her , and she went to the Isle , And when she went into the Isle , She met with Duncan Grahame , So bravely as he courted her , and he convey'd her hame : My bonny Lizie Bailie I'll row thee in my Pladie , If thou will go along with me and be my Highland Lady . If I would go along with thee I think I were not Wise , For I cannot milk Cow nor Ewe , nor yet can I speak Erse . Hold thy Tongue bonny Lizie Bailie , and hold thy Tongue , said he . For any thing that thou does lack My Dear I'll learn thee . She would not have a Lowland Laird he wears the h [ i ] gh-heel'd Shoes . [ ? ] he will Ma [ ? ] ry [ ? ] Graham ats [ ? ] or Dunc [ and ] wears his Trews : She would not have a Gentleman . a Farmer in Kilsyth , But she would have the Highland-man , he lives into Monteith : She would not have the Lowland man , nor yet the English Laddie . But she would have the Highland man , to row her in his Pladie . He took her by the milkwhite han [ worser ] and he convoy'd her hame , And still she thought both Night and Day on bonny Duncan Grahame O bonny Duncan Grahame why should you me miscarry For if you have a love for me we'll meet at Castle carry . As I came in by Dennie Bridge , and by the Holland-Bush , My Mother took from me my Clothes my Rings ay and my Purse , Hold your Tongue my Mother Dear , for that I do not care ; For I will go with Duncan Grahame tho' I should ne'r get more : For first when I met Duncan Grahame I met with meikle Joy , And many Pretty Highland Men was there at my Convoy . And he is gone through the Muir , and she is through Glen , Oh bonny Lizie Bailie when will we meet again . Shame light on these Lodger-heads that lives in Castle carry , That let away the bonny Lass the Highland Man to Marry , Oh bonny Lizie stay at home , thy Mother cannot want thee , For any thing that thou does lack my Dear I'll cause get thee . I would not give my Duncan Grahame for all my Father's Land. Although he had three Lairdships more and all at my Command . Now She's cast off her silken Gowns that she wear'd in the Lowland . And she's up to the Highland Hills to wear Gowns of Tartain . And she's cast off her high heel'd shoes was made of the gilded Leather , And she's up to Gillecrankie to go among the Heather . And she's cast off her high-heel'd Shoes and put on a pair of laigh ones . [ A ] n [ worser ] she's away with Duncan Grahame to go among the Brachans . O my bonny Lizie Bailie thy Mother cannot want thee And if thou go with Duncan Grahame thou'll be a Gillecrankie . Hold your Tongue my Mother dear , and folly let thee be , Should not I fancy Duncan Grahame when Duncan fancies me : [ H ] old your Tongue my Father dear and folly let thee be , [ ? ] I will go with Duncan Grahame before all the Men I see ; W [ h ] oh is it that's done this Turn ? who has done this Deed ? A Minister it's Father she says , lives at that [ e ] Rugh-burn-bridge . A Minister Daughter he says , [ ? ] Minister for Mister . O hold your Tongue my Father dear he Married first my Sister . O fair you well my Daughter dear , [ ? ] dearly as I lov'd thee , Since thou wilt go to Duncan Grahame my bonny Lizie Bailie : Oh fare you well my Father dear , a [ ? ] so my Sister Betty ; Oh fare you well my Mother dear I leave you all completely . FINIS . 