C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 47 ) And Excellent SONG ENTITLED Fie gar rub her o're with Strae . And Italian Canzone ( of seven hundred Years standing ) imitated in braid Scots . ( 1 ) GIN you meet a bonny Lassie Gie her a Kiss and let her gae , But if she be a dirty Hussy , Fie gar rub her o're with Strae . Fie gar rub her , fie gar rub her . Fie gar rub her o're with Strae . But if she be a bonny Lassie , Give her a Kiss and let her gae . [ ( 2 ) ] Be sure you dinna quat the Grip , Of ilka Joy when you are young , Before old Age your Vitals nip , And lay you twafald o're a Rung . Fie gar rub her , fie gar rub her , fie gar rub her , o're with Strae , But if she be a bonny Lassrie , give her a Kiss and let her gae . ( 3 ) Sweet Youths a blithe and hartsom Time , then Lads and Lasses while it's May Gae pow the Gowan in it's Prime , before it wither and Decay , Fie gar rub her , fie gar rub her , fie gar rub her o're with Strae . But if she be a bonny Lassie , give her a Kiss and let her gae . ( 4 ) Watch the fast Minutes of Delight , When Jeany speaks beneath her Breath And Kisses laying a the Wit On you if she kepp only Skath , Fie gar rub her , fie gar rub her Fie gar rub her o're with Strae , But if she be a bony Lassie give her a Kiss and ler her gae . ( 5 ) Hath ye're ill bred , she'll smiling say , ye'll worry me you greedy Rook , Sin frae your Arms she'll rin away , and hide her self in some dark No [ k ] Fie gar rub her , fie gar rub her , fie gar rub he o're with Strae , But if she be a bonny Lassie . give her a Kiss and let her [ gae . ] ( 6 ) Her Laugh will led you to the Place , Where lys the Happiness you want , And plainly tells you to your Face , Nineteen Naysays are haff a Grant . Fie gar rub her , fie gar rub her , fie gar rub her o're with Strae , But if she be a bonny Lassie , Give her a Kiss and let her gae , ( 7 ) Now to her heaving Bosom cling , and sweetly toolie for a Kiss . Frae her fair Finger whop a Ring , as Taken of a future Bless . Fie gar rub her , fie gar rub her , fie gar rub her o're with Strae , But if she be a bonny Lassie , give her a Kiss and let her gae , ( 8 ) These Bennisons I'm very sure , are of the God's Indulgent Grant , Then Surrly Carls , whished forbear , to Plague us with your whining Cant. Fie gar rub her , fie gar rub her , fie gar rub her o're with Strae , But if she be a bonny Lassie , Give her a Kiss and let her gae . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 47 ) And Excellent SONG ENTITLED Fie gar rub her o're with Strae . And Italian Canzone ( of seven hundred Years standing ) imitated in braid Scots . ( 1 ) GIN you meet a bonny Lassie Gie her a Kiss and let her gae , But if she be a dirty Hussy , Fie gar rub her o're with Strae . Fie gar rub her , fie gar rub her . Fie gar rub her o're with Strae . But if she be a bonny Lassie , Give her a Kiss and let her gae . [ ( 2 ) ] Be sure you dinna quat the Grip , Of ilka Joy when you are young , Before old Age your Vitals nip , And lay you twafald o're a Rung . Fie gar rub her , fie gar rub her , fie gar rub her , o're with Strae , But if she be a bonny Lassrie , give her a Kiss and let her gae . ( 3 ) Sweet Youths a blithe and hartsom Time , then Lads and Lasses while it's May Gae pow the Gowan in it's Prime , before it wither and Decay , Fie gar rub her , fie gar rub her , fie gar rub her o're with Strae . But if she be a bonny Lassie , give her a Kiss and let her gae . ( 4 ) Watch the fast Minutes of Delight , When Jeany speaks beneath her Breath And Kisses laying a the Wit On you if she kepp only Skath , Fie gar rub her , fie gar rub her Fie gar rub her o're with Strae , But if she be a bony Lassie give her a Kiss and ler her gae . ( 5 ) Hath ye're ill bred , she'll smiling say , ye'll worry me you greedy Rook , Sin frae your Arms she'll rin away , and hide her self in some dark No [ k ] Fie gar rub her , fie gar rub her , fie gar rub he o're with Strae , But if she be a bonny Lassie . give her a Kiss and let her [ gae . ] ( 6 ) Her Laugh will led you to the Place , Where lys the Happiness you want , And plainly tells you to your Face , Nineteen Naysays are haff a Grant . Fie gar rub her , fie gar rub her , fie gar rub her o're with Strae , But if she be a bonny Lassie , Give her a Kiss and let her gae , ( 7 ) Now to her heaving Bosom cling , and sweetly toolie for a Kiss . Frae her fair Finger whop a Ring , as Taken of a future Bless . Fie gar rub her , fie gar rub her , fie gar rub her o're with Strae , But if she be a bonny Lassie , give her a Kiss and let her gae , ( 8 ) These Bennisons I'm very sure , are of the God's Indulgent Grant , Then Surrly Carls , whished forbear , to Plague us with your whining Cant. Fie gar rub her , fie gar rub her , fie gar rub her o're with Strae , But if she be a bonny Lassie , Give her a Kiss and let her gae . FINIS . 