C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 48 ) THE Royal Shepherd's Happy Life . To the Tune of , The Yellow-hair'd Laddie : Or , Jenney Milking the Ewes , ( 1 ) HOw sweet was the time when we keeped our Flocks In Shades of the Mountains , and Coverts of Rocks ? How sweet were our Nights ? how pleasant our Days ? When we sing till we slept , and pip'd when we raise . ( 2 ) Green Turf was our Bed , and for Breakfast we did The Acorn , and Earthnut , and Salad provide : We drank others Healths in the murmuring Stream , And chanted our Notes to Phillis her Name , ( 3 ) How Glorious was I , when dress'd by thy Hands , With a Crown made of Laurel , and Bays of green Wands ; With a Robe made of Rushes , and a Sword of the same . No Caesar more happy , triumphing in Fame . ( 4 ) My Hook was my Sceptre , my Club was my Sword ; My Scrip was my purse ; these laid on the Board I presided in Council , o're my Loyal Band ; My Sergeants and Macers were still at Command . ( 5 ) And thou my sweet Princess , how lovely's they Grace ? Thy Mantle of Cyprus , and Gown of the Grass ; Thy Bracelets of Dazies , with the Buds of the Rose ; Never Nymph was so charming among her proud shows . ( 6 ) We kissed , embraced , and never had done , From rising to setting , and rising of Sun : If the day had been a Year , we never had pain : Call back the sweet time , dear Phillis again . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 48 ) THE Royal Shepherd's Happy Life . To the Tune of , The Yellow-hair'd Laddie : Or , Jenney Milking the Ewes , ( 1 ) HOw sweet was the time when we keeped our Flocks In Shades of the Mountains , and Coverts of Rocks ? How sweet were our Nights ? how pleasant our Days ? When we sing till we slept , and pip'd when we raise . ( 2 ) Green Turf was our Bed , and for Breakfast we did The Acorn , and Earthnut , and Salad provide : We drank others Healths in the murmuring Stream , And chanted our Notes to Phillis her Name , ( 3 ) How Glorious was I , when dress'd by thy Hands , With a Crown made of Laurel , and Bays of green Wands ; With a Robe made of Rushes , and a Sword of the same . No Caesar more happy , triumphing in Fame . ( 4 ) My Hook was my Sceptre , my Club was my Sword ; My Scrip was my purse ; these laid on the Board I presided in Council , o're my Loyal Band ; My Sergeants and Macers were still at Command . ( 5 ) And thou my sweet Princess , how lovely's they Grace ? Thy Mantle of Cyprus , and Gown of the Grass ; Thy Bracelets of Dazies , with the Buds of the Rose ; Never Nymph was so charming among her proud shows . ( 6 ) We kissed , embraced , and never had done , From rising to setting , and rising of Sun : If the day had been a Year , we never had pain : Call back the sweet time , dear Phillis again . FINIS . 