C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 51 ) R Hope farewell , Adieu to all pleasure , OR Silvia's Matchless Cruelty . To the Tune of , Hail great Sir , etc HOPE farewell , adieu to all Pleasure , No Torment so great as Love in despair : Sylvia frowns , my Endeavours to please her , And laughs at those pains she makes me to bear . Life's my disease , and there's no Cure , But death's cruel dart that must set me at ease ; But when I'm no more , Oh then may she grieve , For him , who while living , she would never relieve . In the World so charming a Creature ( my Fancy tells me ) I never beheld ; Splendid Grace is Love in each Feature , That with Loves Raptures I strangely am fill'd : Here I lie slave with darts of Disdain , While Sylvia's hard heart will not pity my pain : But let her know , for all her great hate , That she may repent it when it is too late . Can you be so desperate cruel , As , for your sake to let death be my doom ? Love is like unquenchible Feuel , In which all my Glory and Life will consume : Still you despise my sorrowful cries , And over your Lover does here tyrannise ; But when kind Death shall once set me free , You may be Rewarded for your Cruelty . When the World shall read this sad Story , Which here I write with a trembling Quill , Showing how you have blasted my Glory , Oh! will they not count you a Tyrant still ? Then let me find my Silvia more kind , To comfort and cherish my troubled mind . For if I go to the Shades below , 'Tis you are the Causer of my Overthrow . Oh! my Grief is never lamented , By she whom I so dearly adore : With her Frowns I am daily tormented , No Creature for Love e're suffered more : Cupid's keen dart hath wounded her heart , I never , no never did feel greater smar Here a poor slave one smile he does crave , Or else you will send him to his silent Grave . In your Charms I daily delighted , And ever thought you my Heaven to be : Yet by you I am evermore slighted , And now you make a poor Martyr of me . Wont you therefore your Captive restore , Who sues for your Love , and desires no more ? You may be sure what Pains I endure , And 'tis in your power either to kill or cure . In a sad and sorrowful Ditty , With sighs and tears I send forth my moan ; Yet my fair one affords me no pity , But lets me languish to death all alone : This very day now I must away , Both heart and spirit with Life does decay . More than Untrue , dear Sylvia , was you , And therefore farewell , all the World adieu . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 51 ) R Hope farewell , Adieu to all pleasure , OR Silvia's Matchless Cruelty . To the Tune of , Hail great Sir , etc HOPE farewell , adieu to all Pleasure , No Torment so great as Love in despair : Sylvia frowns , my Endeavours to please her , And laughs at those pains she makes me to bear . Life's my disease , and there's no Cure , But death's cruel dart that must set me at ease ; But when I'm no more , Oh then may she grieve , For him , who while living , she would never relieve . In the World so charming a Creature ( my Fancy tells me ) I never beheld ; Splendid Grace is Love in each Feature , That with Loves Raptures I strangely am fill'd : Here I lie slave with darts of Disdain , While Sylvia's hard heart will not pity my pain : But let her know , for all her great hate , That she may repent it when it is too late . Can you be so desperate cruel , As , for your sake to let death be my doom ? Love is like unquenchible Feuel , In which all my Glory and Life will consume : Still you despise my sorrowful cries , And over your Lover does here tyrannise ; But when kind Death shall once set me free , You may be Rewarded for your Cruelty . When the World shall read this sad Story , Which here I write with a trembling Quill , Showing how you have blasted my Glory , Oh! will they not count you a Tyrant still ? Then let me find my Silvia more kind , To comfort and cherish my troubled mind . For if I go to the Shades below , 'Tis you are the Causer of my Overthrow . Oh! my Grief is never lamented , By she whom I so dearly adore : With her Frowns I am daily tormented , No Creature for Love e're suffered more : Cupid's keen dart hath wounded her heart , I never , no never did feel greater smar Here a poor slave one smile he does crave , Or else you will send him to his silent Grave . In your Charms I daily delighted , And ever thought you my Heaven to be : Yet by you I am evermore slighted , And now you make a poor Martyr of me . Wont you therefore your Captive restore , Who sues for your Love , and desires no more ? You may be sure what Pains I endure , And 'tis in your power either to kill or cure . In a sad and sorrowful Ditty , With sighs and tears I send forth my moan ; Yet my fair one affords me no pity , But lets me languish to death all alone : This very day now I must away , Both heart and spirit with Life does decay . More than Untrue , dear Sylvia , was you , And therefore farewell , all the World adieu . 