C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 44 ) THE COALIER LASSIE A NEW SONG To it's own proper Tune . THe Coalier had a Daughter , And she is wondrous bonny ; But if your had once brought her To a true sense of Joy , Although she struggle for a while yet you'll wone about her , If once her Heart you can beguile you'll never go without her . Although at first she may deny , yet you must pursue her : Her Modesty will make her cry , your Rudeness will undo her . But with a forward brisk Address unto the point intended ; First you must Kiss & then Caress , and so the Matter's ended . This was the method that I us'd while she was denying ; And ay the more that she refus'd the more I was applying : Till the Key of her Virginity to me she did deliver ; Tho' I like not the Affinity to receive it was clever . How happy then's the Landwart Laird that is the Coaliers Master For he may speak a word with her when she lies down to rest her . And when her Father's at his Kaill , and from his hand not missed her : I'll warrant you she'll never fail to thank the Lad last kissed her . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 44 ) THE COALIER LASSIE A NEW SONG To it's own proper Tune . THe Coalier had a Daughter , And she is wondrous bonny ; But if your had once brought her To a true sense of Joy , Although she struggle for a while yet you'll wone about her , If once her Heart you can beguile you'll never go without her . Although at first she may deny , yet you must pursue her : Her Modesty will make her cry , your Rudeness will undo her . But with a forward brisk Address unto the point intended ; First you must Kiss & then Caress , and so the Matter's ended . This was the method that I us'd while she was denying ; And ay the more that she refus'd the more I was applying : Till the Key of her Virginity to me she did deliver ; Tho' I like not the Affinity to receive it was clever . How happy then's the Landwart Laird that is the Coaliers Master For he may speak a word with her when she lies down to rest her . And when her Father's at his Kaill , and from his hand not missed her : I'll warrant you she'll never fail to thank the Lad last kissed her . FINIS . 