C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 58 ) A CHROMLETS LILT . Since all thy vows , false Maid are blown to air : And my poor heart betray'd , to sad despair , Into some Wilderness My griefs I will express , And thy hard heartedness , Oh cruel fate . Have I not graved our loves on every tree ; In yonder warden Grove , though false thou be : Was there not a solemn Oath Plighted betwixt us both , Thou thy faith , I my truth , real to be . Some gloomy place I'le find , some doleful shade , Where neither Sun nor wind , ne're entrance had : Into that hollow Cave , Myself I will down leave , For that thing I do crave , call'd Constanie . Wild Fruits shall be my meat , I'le drink the spring : The earth shall be my seat for covering . I'le have the starry sky , My Corpse to Canopy , Till my Soul from me fly , to Heavens King . I'le have no funeral fire , no teers for me , No Grave doe I desire , no Obsequy : The courteous Redbreast he , With leaves shall cover me , And sing my Elegy , with reuthful voice . And when I soulless am , I'le visit thee : Oh thou obdured Dame ! whose cruelty Hast kill'd the kindest heart , E're pierc'd with Cupids dart , No grief my soul shall part from loving thee . Her Reply . HE whom I most affect , does me disdain : His causeless disrespect makes me complain : Wherefore I'le me address Into some Wilderness , Where unheard I'le express my anxious pain . Did we not both conjure , by Stygian lake ; That Sacred Oath most pure the gods did take . That we should both prove true You to me , I to you . By that most solemn Vow we both did make . But thou perfidiously didst violate , Thy promise made to me , to my regrate : For all the great respect , Wherewith I thee affect , Is pay'd with such neglec love's turn'd to hate . What Tyrant e're could hatch , though inhumane , A torturing rack and match to this my pain ; Oh Barbarous cruelty , That I for loving thee Should basely murdered be , by thy disdain . I'le go find out a Cell where light ne're shin'd , There I'le resolve to dwell , And be confin'd , Until it pleases thee , With love to pity me , Forsake thy cruelty , and prove more kind . In that dark voult I'le call for Bats and Owls , The Starthoul worst of all prodigious fowls ; Shall be my mate by day , By night with her I'le stay , In dark and uncouth way , amongst wandering souls . And in that strange Exile , I'le thee arrest , among those monsters vile , to be my gues Until that thou relent , And thy hard heart repent , Freely to give consent to my request . No cloth shall deck my skin , no raiment sof But haircloth rough and thin , that's comely wrought ; No bed will I lie on , My pillow shall be stone , Each accent prove a groan , repeated oft . No dainty dish I'le eat , compss'd by art , No sauces for my meat , sweet , sour , or tairt . My food shall be wild fruits , Green herbs and unboiled Roots , Such as poor Hermit's foods in wild deserts . All solace , mirth and game , I will despise , A doleful mourning then , with watering eyes , Shall be my music found , Till all the Hills resound , And fill the Valleys round with piteous cries . Yet for all this , I'le not abandon thee ; Nor altar in a jot , my first degree : But in despite of Fate , Thy griefs to aggravate , I'le love thee though thou hate , until I die . Another Reply . ALL my desires are past , sadly I groan : Oh all my hope's are past , pity my moan . I'le to some quiet Grove , Where I shall clearly prove , That I am wrong'd by love , Oh cruel Fate . Deplorable is my state , still more and more : I'm subject to cruel Fate , I mourn therefore . Yet I'le be constant still , Let fortune frown as't will , Heavens keep him from all ill , whom I adore , Grief adds unto Grief , each day I die . I can find no relief , where shall I fly ? I'le to some desert place , Where none shall see my face , There I'le bewail my case until I die . Sillent I'le be a while , hoping the best , Fortune perhaps may smile , and send me rest . I will expect the end , And on my Fates attend The gods some help will send to one distressed . I'le go a harmitage , for I do see , Nought in this present age , but misery . There none will me molest . I will not be oppressed , But will find quiet rest , until I die . Vain hope's I bid adieu , for they're not sure : Farewell now Fortune true , for I'me secure : Far from the frowns of Fate , And undeserved hate , Far better of my state , then was before . Finis . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 58 ) A CHROMLETS LILT . Since all thy vows , false Maid are blown to air : And my poor heart betray'd , to sad despair , Into some Wilderness My griefs I will express , And thy hard heartedness , Oh cruel fate . Have I not graved our loves on every tree ; In yonder warden Grove , though false thou be : Was there not a solemn Oath Plighted betwixt us both , Thou thy faith , I my truth , real to be . Some gloomy place I'le find , some doleful shade , Where neither Sun nor wind , ne're entrance had : Into that hollow Cave , Myself I will down leave , For that thing I do crave , call'd Constanie . Wild Fruits shall be my meat , I'le drink the spring : The earth shall be my seat for covering . I'le have the starry sky , My Corpse to Canopy , Till my Soul from me fly , to Heavens King . I'le have no funeral fire , no teers for me , No Grave doe I desire , no Obsequy : The courteous Redbreast he , With leaves shall cover me , And sing my Elegy , with reuthful voice . And when I soulless am , I'le visit thee : Oh thou obdured Dame ! whose cruelty Hast kill'd the kindest heart , E're pierc'd with Cupids dart , No grief my soul shall part from loving thee . Her Reply . HE whom I most affect , does me disdain : His causeless disrespect makes me complain : Wherefore I'le me address Into some Wilderness , Where unheard I'le express my anxious pain . Did we not both conjure , by Stygian lake ; That Sacred Oath most pure the gods did take . That we should both prove true You to me , I to you . By that most solemn Vow we both did make . But thou perfidiously didst violate , Thy promise made to me , to my regrate : For all the great respect , Wherewith I thee affect , Is pay'd with such neglec love's turn'd to hate . What Tyrant e're could hatch , though inhumane , A torturing rack and match to this my pain ; Oh Barbarous cruelty , That I for loving thee Should basely murdered be , by thy disdain . I'le go find out a Cell where light ne're shin'd , There I'le resolve to dwell , And be confin'd , Until it pleases thee , With love to pity me , Forsake thy cruelty , and prove more kind . In that dark voult I'le call for Bats and Owls , The Starthoul worst of all prodigious fowls ; Shall be my mate by day , By night with her I'le stay , In dark and uncouth way , amongst wandering souls . And in that strange Exile , I'le thee arrest , among those monsters vile , to be my gues Until that thou relent , And thy hard heart repent , Freely to give consent to my request . No cloth shall deck my skin , no raiment sof But haircloth rough and thin , that's comely wrought ; No bed will I lie on , My pillow shall be stone , Each accent prove a groan , repeated oft . No dainty dish I'le eat , compss'd by art , No sauces for my meat , sweet , sour , or tairt . My food shall be wild fruits , Green herbs and unboiled Roots , Such as poor Hermit's foods in wild deserts . All solace , mirth and game , I will despise , A doleful mourning then , with watering eyes , Shall be my music found , Till all the Hills resound , And fill the Valleys round with piteous cries . Yet for all this , I'le not abandon thee ; Nor altar in a jot , my first degree : But in despite of Fate , Thy griefs to aggravate , I'le love thee though thou hate , until I die . Another Reply . ALL my desires are past , sadly I groan : Oh all my hope's are past , pity my moan . I'le to some quiet Grove , Where I shall clearly prove , That I am wrong'd by love , Oh cruel Fate . Deplorable is my state , still more and more : I'm subject to cruel Fate , I mourn therefore . Yet I'le be constant still , Let fortune frown as't will , Heavens keep him from all ill , whom I adore , Grief adds unto Grief , each day I die . I can find no relief , where shall I fly ? I'le to some desert place , Where none shall see my face , There I'le bewail my case until I die . Sillent I'le be a while , hoping the best , Fortune perhaps may smile , and send me rest . I will expect the end , And on my Fates attend The gods some help will send to one distressed . I'le go a harmitage , for I do see , Nought in this present age , but misery . There none will me molest . I will not be oppressed , But will find quiet rest , until I die . Vain hope's I bid adieu , for they're not sure : Farewell now Fortune true , for I'me secure : Far from the frowns of Fate , And undeserved hate , Far better of my state , then was before . Finis . 