C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 53 ) Rb In came Jonnie Paterson Louping like a Lady , OR , The Soldiers Reel . To its own proper Tune . IT fell about the Month of April into the time of Lentran , There were three old Sogers , and they fell to the talking . They talked up , they talked down , till they came to the Border , We'll take a Pint of this small Beer ; before that we go further . And they sat down at the Sun set , sat till the Cocks were Crawing , They bred a strife among themselves , who of them should pay the Lawing . If you be Sogers to your Trade , or to your Occupation ; You's pay your Beer before you go , or else you's find me Caution . Before I find you Caution , for such a simple Sum , You and I'll the Battle try , before the Moon go down . And in came Jonnie Paterson louping like a Lady , The first thing he god in his hand , it was and Eelock spadie , He lap about , he strake about , he strake with such a bensil , He gave the good man over the Crown , goodman take that for Hansill . In came Maggie Davidson was louping like a Lassie ; She said Good man your in the wrong , or else your very saucy . Ye's get Kail and Cudpock , well bruilied on a Brander , Twenty Pints of good strong Ale well mixed with Corriander . The Corriander was so strong , it leap into their brows Sir , Before the morn at Sun rising , they herd some other news Sir . The Killing scrik'd , the Codline mourn'd , the Haddocks made great dool , We'll go no more to Ferry Town to see the Sogers Reel . FINISC : Ry. III . a.10 ( 53 ) Rb In came Jonnie Paterson Louping like a Lady , OR , The Soldiers Reel . To its own proper Tune . IT fell about the Month of April into the time of Lentran , There were three old Sogers , and they fell to the talking . They talked up , they talked down , till they came to the Border , We'll take a Pint of this small Beer ; before that we go further . And they sat down at the Sun set , sat till the Cocks were Crawing , They bred a strife among themselves , who of them should pay the Lawing . If you be Sogers to your Trade , or to your Occupation ; You's pay your Beer before you go , or else you's find me Caution . Before I find you Caution , for such a simple Sum , You and I'll the Battle try , before the Moon go down . And in came Jonnie Paterson louping like a Lady , The first thing he god in his hand , it was and Eelock spadie , He lap about , he strake about , he strake with such a bensil , He gave the good man over the Crown , goodman take that for Hansill . In came Maggie Davidson was louping like a Lassie ; She said Good man your in the wrong , or else your very saucy . Ye's get Kail and Cudpock , well bruilied on a Brander , Twenty Pints of good strong Ale well mixed with Corriander . The Corriander was so strong , it leap into their brows Sir , Before the morn at Sun rising , they herd some other news Sir . The Killing scrik'd , the Codline mourn'd , the Haddocks made great dool , We'll go no more to Ferry Town to see the Sogers Reel . FINIS 