C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 56 ) RB ARTHUR'S-SEAT Shall be my BED , etc OR , LOVE IN DESPAIR A New Song much in Request , Sung with own proper Tune . COme lay me soft , and draw me near , and lay thy white hand over me , For I am starving in the cold , and thou art bound to cover me . O! cover me in my Distress , and help me in my Misery , For I do wake when I should sleep , all for the love of my Dearie . My Rends they are but very small for to maintain my Love withal ; But with my Labour and my Pain , I will maintain my Love with them . O Arthur's Seat shall be my Bed , and the Sheets shall never be fil'd for me St. Anthony's well shall be my Drink , since my true Love's forsaken me . Should I be bound that may go free ? should I Love them that Loves not me ? I'le rather travel into Spain , where I'le get love for love again . And I'le cast off my Robs of Black , and will put on the Robs of Blue ? And I will to some other Land , till I see my Love will on me rue . It's not the Cold that makes me cry , nor is't the Weet that wearies me ? Nor is't the Frost that freezes fell : but I love a Lad , and I dare not tell . O Faith is gone , and Truth is pass and my true Love's forsaken me , If all be true that I hear say , I'le mourn until the day I die . Oh! if I had ne're been born , than to have dy'd when I was young , Then I had never wet my Cheeks , for the Love of any Woman's Son. O , o ! if my young Babe were born , and set upon the Nurse's Knee , And I my self were dead and gone , for a Maid again I'le never be . Martinmass wind when wilt thou blow , and blow the green leafs off the Tree , O! gentle Death when wilt thou come ; for of my Life I am weary . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 56 ) RB ARTHUR'S-SEAT Shall be my BED , etc OR , LOVE IN DESPAIR A New Song much in Request , Sung with own proper Tune . COme lay me soft , and draw me near , and lay thy white hand over me , For I am starving in the cold , and thou art bound to cover me . O! cover me in my Distress , and help me in my Misery , For I do wake when I should sleep , all for the love of my Dearie . My Rends they are but very small for to maintain my Love withal ; But with my Labour and my Pain , I will maintain my Love with them . O Arthur's Seat shall be my Bed , and the Sheets shall never be fil'd for me St. Anthony's well shall be my Drink , since my true Love's forsaken me . Should I be bound that may go free ? should I Love them that Loves not me ? I'le rather travel into Spain , where I'le get love for love again . And I'le cast off my Robs of Black , and will put on the Robs of Blue ? And I will to some other Land , till I see my Love will on me rue . It's not the Cold that makes me cry , nor is't the Weet that wearies me ? Nor is't the Frost that freezes fell : but I love a Lad , and I dare not tell . O Faith is gone , and Truth is pass and my true Love's forsaken me , If all be true that I hear say , I'le mourn until the day I die . Oh! if I had ne're been born , than to have dy'd when I was young , Then I had never wet my Cheeks , for the Love of any Woman's Son. O , o ! if my young Babe were born , and set upon the Nurse's Knee , And I my self were dead and gone , for a Maid again I'le never be . Martinmass wind when wilt thou blow , and blow the green leafs off the Tree , O! gentle Death when wilt thou come ; for of my Life I am weary . FINIS . 