C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 56 ) RA THE LIGGAR LADY , OR , THE LADIES LOVE TO A SOLDIER . To the Tune , of Mount the Baggage , etc I Will away , and I will not tarry , I will away with a Sojor Laddy ; I'le mount my Baggage and make it ready , I will away with a Sojor Laddy ; I'll mount my Baggage and make it ready , Come well , come woe , I'le be a Sojors Lady . In Camps , or Duels , Fights I will be ready , On behind , and be his Liggar Lady ; In cold Nights , I'le lay me down beside him , And I'le make my Petticoat a Tent to hide him , I'le mount my Baggage and make it ready , Come well , come woe , I [ ' ] le be a Sojors Lady . In England , France , Germany and Holland , In Flanders , Spain , Italy and Polland ; Ther's nothing stay me , Bloody Wars , or Fighting , I will away with him whom I delight in ; I'le mount my Baggage and make it ready , Come well , come woe , I'le be a Sojors Lady . In the mid'st of Battles , where the Guns do blatter , The Cannons roar , and the Swords do clatter ; I will not fear , nor shall my Courage fail me , Though Horse and Foot , and dead men lie before me ? I'le mount my Baggage and make it ready , Come well , come woe , I'le be a Sojors Lady . When our Camps are set , and in the Fields are Trenched I'le wait on him , and see his Wounds be Paunced ? If Linnens lack , I in my smoke will wrap him , And I'le make my Pitticoat a Quilt to hap him ; I'le mount my Baggage and make it ready , Come well , come woe , I'le be a Sojors Lady . In Men's Attire I'le dress myself in order , With a Baver Hat well Lac'd about the Border ? A Scarlet Coat , and Vest laid o're with Laces , Sure I shall be a Honour to all Lasses ; I'le mount my Baggage and make it ready , Come well , come woe , I'le be a Sojors-Lady . With a Scarlet Coat , and a Cap and Feather . My Shield and Buckler , Musket on my shoulder ; My Bandiliers , and Knap sack as a Cadie , I will away with a Sojor Laddy ; I'le mount my Baggage and make it ready , I will away with a Sojor-Laddy . Sure if we die , we shall die in Honour , Fighting for Love under our Princes Banner ; In heart in hand , well through the World together , Till Death us part there's nothing shall us sunder , I'le mount my Baggage , and make it ready , In spite of Fate I'le be a Sojors-Lady . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 56 ) RA THE LIGGAR LADY , OR , THE LADIES LOVE TO A SOLDIER . To the Tune , of Mount the Baggage , etc I Will away , and I will not tarry , I will away with a Sojor Laddy ; I'le mount my Baggage and make it ready , I will away with a Sojor Laddy ; I'll mount my Baggage and make it ready , Come well , come woe , I'le be a Sojors Lady . In Camps , or Duels , Fights I will be ready , On behind , and be his Liggar Lady ; In cold Nights , I'le lay me down beside him , And I'le make my Petticoat a Tent to hide him , I'le mount my Baggage and make it ready , Come well , come woe , I [ ' ] le be a Sojors Lady . In England , France , Germany and Holland , In Flanders , Spain , Italy and Polland ; Ther's nothing stay me , Bloody Wars , or Fighting , I will away with him whom I delight in ; I'le mount my Baggage and make it ready , Come well , come woe , I'le be a Sojors Lady . In the mid'st of Battles , where the Guns do blatter , The Cannons roar , and the Swords do clatter ; I will not fear , nor shall my Courage fail me , Though Horse and Foot , and dead men lie before me ? I'le mount my Baggage and make it ready , Come well , come woe , I'le be a Sojors Lady . When our Camps are set , and in the Fields are Trenched I'le wait on him , and see his Wounds be Paunced ? If Linnens lack , I in my smoke will wrap him , And I'le make my Pitticoat a Quilt to hap him ; I'le mount my Baggage and make it ready , Come well , come woe , I'le be a Sojors Lady . In Men's Attire I'le dress myself in order , With a Baver Hat well Lac'd about the Border ? A Scarlet Coat , and Vest laid o're with Laces , Sure I shall be a Honour to all Lasses ; I'le mount my Baggage and make it ready , Come well , come woe , I'le be a Sojors-Lady . With a Scarlet Coat , and a Cap and Feather . My Shield and Buckler , Musket on my shoulder ; My Bandiliers , and Knap sack as a Cadie , I will away with a Sojor Laddy ; I'le mount my Baggage and make it ready , I will away with a Sojor-Laddy . Sure if we die , we shall die in Honour , Fighting for Love under our Princes Banner ; In heart in hand , well through the World together , Till Death us part there's nothing shall us sunder , I'le mount my Baggage , and make it ready , In spite of Fate I'le be a Sojors-Lady . FINIS . 