C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 52 ) AND Excellent New Song lately composed ENTITLED , The New way of Pittcathly Well . Or , The Gentleman's Love to his Mistress . To the Tune of , Pollwarth on the Green . ( 1 ] ONE Morning as I walk't In the gay Time of the Year When Sporting Nymphs do Frisk abo [ ut ] To drink the Water clear , Among'st the rest I spied a Nymph , Whose Beauty did excel , The Crowd of Nymphs that now resor [ tO ] , The fam'd Pittcathly Well . [ 2 ) With Dying Looks I veiw'd her ; And could not shun , but say , Pray make me your Physician , She blushing said me Nay . I ask't at her , to take a Walk , She fear'd we would be seen , Well take a walk in Woods or Groves In our Pitcathly Green . ( 3 ) Our striving much at last , Kind Nature took my Part , We Walk't by Neptun's pleasant Streams Till Jeanny wone my Heart . Were I Sole Monarch of the Glob , I'd give it all to thee : For all the Maids about the Well , My Jeanny bears the Gree. ( 4 ) When I come home at Noon , Refreshed with Country Air , Each courts his Mistaess up and down And I my Jannie fair . We danc'd right kind upon the Green , And All sing merrily : Pittcathly Well invits you All , Come here good Company . ( 5 ) When I go Home at Night , With Love and care oppressed , My Jeanies Image still presents , And Robes me of my Rest , I Dream of her my Souls Delight , Whose Air and graceful mean . Makes her envy'd by all the Nymphs In our Pittcatthly Green . ( 6 ) Oh were I but so blessed ! as freely call the mine , I'de treat thee in my Father's House . With Country Cheer that's fine And if there be no Downy Beds , I'le chosen a place unseen , Where Young Swans do often Shape , There Nymphs a gown of Green . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 52 ) AND Excellent New Song lately composed ENTITLED , The New way of Pittcathly Well . Or , The Gentleman's Love to his Mistress . To the Tune of , Pollwarth on the Green . ( 1 ] ONE Morning as I walk't In the gay Time of the Year When Sporting Nymphs do Frisk abo [ ut ] To drink the Water clear , Among'st the rest I spied a Nymph , Whose Beauty did excel , The Crowd of Nymphs that now resor [ tO ] , The fam'd Pittcathly Well . [ 2 ) With Dying Looks I veiw'd her ; And could not shun , but say , Pray make me your Physician , She blushing said me Nay . I ask't at her , to take a Walk , She fear'd we would be seen , Well take a walk in Woods or Groves In our Pitcathly Green . ( 3 ) Our striving much at last , Kind Nature took my Part , We Walk't by Neptun's pleasant Streams Till Jeanny wone my Heart . Were I Sole Monarch of the Glob , I'd give it all to thee : For all the Maids about the Well , My Jeanny bears the Gree. ( 4 ) When I come home at Noon , Refreshed with Country Air , Each courts his Mistaess up and down And I my Jannie fair . We danc'd right kind upon the Green , And All sing merrily : Pittcathly Well invits you All , Come here good Company . ( 5 ) When I go Home at Night , With Love and care oppressed , My Jeanies Image still presents , And Robes me of my Rest , I Dream of her my Souls Delight , Whose Air and graceful mean . Makes her envy'd by all the Nymphs In our Pittcatthly Green . ( 6 ) Oh were I but so blessed ! as freely call the mine , I'de treat thee in my Father's House . With Country Cheer that's fine And if there be no Downy Beds , I'le chosen a place unseen , Where Young Swans do often Shape , There Nymphs a gown of Green . FINIS . 