C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 53 ) Ra A Rare new Ballad , Entitled My Husband has no Courage in Him To it's own proper Tune . INTO a morning as I went abroad , even for to see the Flowers a springing , In every bush there sat a Bird , changing their notes were sweetly singing ; Casting my eye when I did espy a maiden fair , and her hands a wringing , She often cried , and still replied , my Husband has no Courage in him . At night when I go to my Bed , thinking to get some Venus sporting , No sleep at all goes in my head , my Husband lies by me a Snorting ; Yet often times I tickle him ; he cannot choice , but know my meaning , And with my heels I rub his shins , Yet I can put no courage in him . My husband he is a tall young man , he is a lad both fair and proper , With a handsome leg and well made foot who gallantly can wield a raper ; He can caper , dance , and sing ; which makes the Ladies dearly love him ; But yet he wants the chiefest thing , my Husband has no courage in him . All sorts of diets I do provide , because I do so dearly love him But yet he wants the chiefest thing , my Husband has no courage in him . All sorts of diets I do provide , from slumbering sleep for to awake him ; Yolks of Eggs , and Ringo roots , yet I can put no courage in him . Oyster pies and Marrow bones , etc And if he do not mend in time , I swear I'le wait no longer on him ; Hoping his Neighbours will be so kind , as to make a Cuckold of him . All you young Maids that Husbands want , take heed to me before you wed him ; lest you should sing along with me , my Husband has no courage in him . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 53 ) Ra A Rare new Ballad , Entitled My Husband has no Courage in Him To it's own proper Tune . INTO a morning as I went abroad , even for to see the Flowers a springing , In every bush there sat a Bird , changing their notes were sweetly singing ; Casting my eye when I did espy a maiden fair , and her hands a wringing , She often cried , and still replied , my Husband has no Courage in him . At night when I go to my Bed , thinking to get some Venus sporting , No sleep at all goes in my head , my Husband lies by me a Snorting ; Yet often times I tickle him ; he cannot choice , but know my meaning , And with my heels I rub his shins , Yet I can put no courage in him . My husband he is a tall young man , he is a lad both fair and proper , With a handsome leg and well made foot who gallantly can wield a raper ; He can caper , dance , and sing ; which makes the Ladies dearly love him ; But yet he wants the chiefest thing , my Husband has no courage in him . All sorts of diets I do provide , because I do so dearly love him But yet he wants the chiefest thing , my Husband has no courage in him . All sorts of diets I do provide , from slumbering sleep for to awake him ; Yolks of Eggs , and Ringo roots , yet I can put no courage in him . Oyster pies and Marrow bones , etc And if he do not mend in time , I swear I'le wait no longer on him ; Hoping his Neighbours will be so kind , as to make a Cuckold of him . All you young Maids that Husbands want , take heed to me before you wed him ; lest you should sing along with me , my Husband has no courage in him . FINIS . 