C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 67 ) a Come sweet Lass OR Loves invitation To a New Tune . COME Sweet Lass , it's bonny Weather let's together Come sweet Lass , let's trip it on the Grass : Every where , poor Jockey seeks his Dear , Unless that she appear , he sees no Beauty there . Hark the Crowd , the Mirth invites us and delights us Hark the Crowd , the Piper plays aloud , Where all day , the Lasses sport and play ; And every one are gay but I when ye're away . But my Smart it was for Meggie not for Peggie , Whose hard Heart , will not kind Lovers part , Whil'st I seek all Corners for her sake ; Yet will not partake my Love , though Heart should break . There came Kate , who sung so finely talked Divinely , Out of date , because of Pelafle Kate she's afraid , the Girls no more a Maid , But sure she's been betray'd and lost her Maidens-head . Jenny bright , with little Francis skips and dances By this light , its a very pretty sighed , She is a Lass , can tumble on the Grass , Look Sandy in the Face who brought all these to pass . FINISC : Ry. III . a.10 ( 67 ) a Come sweet Lass OR Loves invitation To a New Tune . COME Sweet Lass , it's bonny Weather let's together Come sweet Lass , let's trip it on the Grass : Every where , poor Jockey seeks his Dear , Unless that she appear , he sees no Beauty there . Hark the Crowd , the Mirth invites us and delights us Hark the Crowd , the Piper plays aloud , Where all day , the Lasses sport and play ; And every one are gay but I when ye're away . But my Smart it was for Meggie not for Peggie , Whose hard Heart , will not kind Lovers part , Whil'st I seek all Corners for her sake ; Yet will not partake my Love , though Heart should break . There came Kate , who sung so finely talked Divinely , Out of date , because of Pelafle Kate she's afraid , the Girls no more a Maid , But sure she's been betray'd and lost her Maidens-head . Jenny bright , with little Francis skips and dances By this light , its a very pretty sighed , She is a Lass , can tumble on the Grass , Look Sandy in the Face who brought all these to pass . FINIS 