C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 62 ) Fie on the WARS that hurri'd WILLIE from me . And excellent New Song , Much in request . FIE on the Wars that hurri'd Willie from me , Who to love me just had Sworn ; They made him Captive sure to undo me ; Wo's me he will ne're return . A Thousand Lowns abroad will fight him ; He from Thousands ne'er will run : Day and Night I did entreat him To stay safe from Sword and Gun , I used alluring Graces With meikle found Embraces Now Sighing : then Crying . Tears drooping fallen , But had he my soft Arms. Preferr'd to Wars Alarms : My Soul grows Mad , Its soar oppressed and sad , I fear in my Fit , I had granted all . I wash'd and painted , to make me look provoking Snares that told me would catch the Man : And on my Head high Commodes had cocking , Which made me look as tall again For a new gown I paid much Money , Which with Gold Flowers abroad did shine : My love well might think me Gay and Bonny , No Scots Lass was e'er so fine : My Petticoat was spotted , Earings too , with Freinges knotted , Lac'd Shoes , silk Hoes garten'd o're the Knee But o the fatal thought , To Willie these were nought , But I'le ride to the Town And riffle with dragoon And the silly Lown might have plunder'd me : FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 62 ) Fie on the WARS that hurri'd WILLIE from me . And excellent New Song , Much in request . FIE on the Wars that hurri'd Willie from me , Who to love me just had Sworn ; They made him Captive sure to undo me ; Wo's me he will ne're return . A Thousand Lowns abroad will fight him ; He from Thousands ne'er will run : Day and Night I did entreat him To stay safe from Sword and Gun , I used alluring Graces With meikle found Embraces Now Sighing : then Crying . Tears drooping fallen , But had he my soft Arms. Preferr'd to Wars Alarms : My Soul grows Mad , Its soar oppressed and sad , I fear in my Fit , I had granted all . I wash'd and painted , to make me look provoking Snares that told me would catch the Man : And on my Head high Commodes had cocking , Which made me look as tall again For a new gown I paid much Money , Which with Gold Flowers abroad did shine : My love well might think me Gay and Bonny , No Scots Lass was e'er so fine : My Petticoat was spotted , Earings too , with Freinges knotted , Lac'd Shoes , silk Hoes garten'd o're the Knee But o the fatal thought , To Willie these were nought , But I'le ride to the Town And riffle with dragoon And the silly Lown might have plunder'd me : FINIS . 