C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 67 ) b Sweet is the Lass that loves me . A young men Resolution to prove constant to his Sweet heart . To the Tune of , Omnia vincit Amor , THe Damask Rose or Lily fair , the Couslip and the Pansie , With my true Love cannot compare , for beauty nor for fancy : The fairest Dame she does excel in all the World that may be : Which makes me thus her praise tell , so sweets the Lass that loves me , When first I saw her comely face , I much admir'd her beauty , And in my heart I did intend to proffer her all duty ; Which willingly she did accept , so kind and loving was she : Which makes me , sing in each respect , So sweet's the Lass that loves me . Bright Cynthia in her richest Rabs , my Love does much resemble . Whose beauteous Beams such Rays afford as makes my heart to tremble , Her inward parts I much desire , her outward are so comely , Her Virtues all men does admire , So sweet's the Lass that loves me : Her face so fair , her parts so rare , are passed imagination , All men admire where she abroad does go for recreation , But she is chaste as she is fair , which to her fancy moves me , Her beauty is without compare , So sweet's the Lass that loves me , Diana and her Virgin Nymphs , that haunts the Woody Valleys Free from reasort of play and sport , and with no Mankind dallies , Are not so chaste , as is my love . no creature can disprove me , But rather help to bear a part , And swear she's sweet that loves me . Now to conclude , I ever wish she may enjoy high pleasure , And evermore have riches store , wanting no earthly Treasure , But while that she and I do live no creature e're shall move me , Nor altar once my mind from her , So sweet's the Lass that loves me . FINIS C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 67 ) b Sweet is the Lass that loves me . A young men Resolution to prove constant to his Sweet heart . To the Tune of , Omnia vincit Amor , THe Damask Rose or Lily fair , the Couslip and the Pansie , With my true Love cannot compare , for beauty nor for fancy : The fairest Dame she does excel in all the World that may be : Which makes me thus her praise tell , so sweets the Lass that loves me , When first I saw her comely face , I much admir'd her beauty , And in my heart I did intend to proffer her all duty ; Which willingly she did accept , so kind and loving was she : Which makes me , sing in each respect , So sweet's the Lass that loves me . Bright Cynthia in her richest Rabs , my Love does much resemble . Whose beauteous Beams such Rays afford as makes my heart to tremble , Her inward parts I much desire , her outward are so comely , Her Virtues all men does admire , So sweet's the Lass that loves me : Her face so fair , her parts so rare , are passed imagination , All men admire where she abroad does go for recreation , But she is chaste as she is fair , which to her fancy moves me , Her beauty is without compare , So sweet's the Lass that loves me , Diana and her Virgin Nymphs , that haunts the Woody Valleys Free from reasort of play and sport , and with no Mankind dallies , Are not so chaste , as is my love . no creature can disprove me , But rather help to bear a part , And swear she's sweet that loves me . Now to conclude , I ever wish she may enjoy high pleasure , And evermore have riches store , wanting no earthly Treasure , But while that she and I do live no creature e're shall move me , Nor altar once my mind from her , So sweet's the Lass that loves me . FINIS 