C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 68 ) A NEW SONG of Mallinger , OR , The Female-Dear-Joy tricked of her Maiden-Head . To a New Irish Tune . AS I went to Mallinger Fair with my Barrel of Bear , I met with young Peggie , who's Beauty was clear . Ratting a rew Ratting a Rew re rew re-rew re-rew , Rating a Rew re-rew re-rew re-rew , Fa re-rew re-rew re-reen Fa re rew re rew re-reen , Hay bew Hoi baen , Ratting a rew . Her Eyes they were black , and her Face it was clear ; Her Lips was like Correll , and white was her hair . Ratting a rew , etc Her Voice sounded sweetly as she went along , For she was singing a delicate Song . Ratting a rew , etc Sweet Peggie said I , your Beauty's so bright , And your Voice is so sweet , makes me wish for delight . Ratting a rew , etc My Dearest said I , let me kiss your white hand , And all that I have shall be at your Command . Ratting a rew , etc Dear Peggie said I , to the Tavern let us go , A Bottle of Wine I will on thee bestow . Ratting a rew , etc I will give thee fine Rigging and toping to wear , And a pair of new gloves at Mallinger Fair . Ratting a rew , etc The more I did Court her , the more she was shey ; Till at length I resolved a Trick for to try . Ratting a rew , etc Then I gave her a Kiss , and well pleased was she , And for to go with me she straight did agree : Ratting a rew , etc Alas my Dear Peggie why are you so unkind , For we shall be Married when the WORSER ------ goes blind . Ratting a rew , etc The sweetest Delight that is under the Sun , Is to lie by the Barrel and see the Tap run . Ratting a rew , etc But when we had Drunken two Bottles of Wine , I found my Dear Mistress both Loving and Kind . Ratting a rew , etc I tipped her a Wenk , and backward she fell , And twenty weeks after her Belly did swell . Ratting a rew , etc And twenty weeks after she sat down and cry'd , It's this I have got by strydling so wide . Ratting a Rew , Ratting a Rew re rew re-rew re-rew , Ratting a Rew re-rew re rew re-rew , Fa re rew re rew re-reen , Fa re rew re-rew re reen , Hay bew Hoi baen ; Ratting a Rew . FINIS C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 68 ) A NEW SONG of Mallinger , OR , The Female-Dear-Joy tricked of her Maiden-Head . To a New Irish Tune . AS I went to Mallinger Fair with my Barrel of Bear , I met with young Peggie , who's Beauty was clear . Ratting a rew Ratting a Rew re rew re-rew re-rew , Rating a Rew re-rew re-rew re-rew , Fa re-rew re-rew re-reen Fa re rew re rew re-reen , Hay bew Hoi baen , Ratting a rew . Her Eyes they were black , and her Face it was clear ; Her Lips was like Correll , and white was her hair . Ratting a rew , etc Her Voice sounded sweetly as she went along , For she was singing a delicate Song . Ratting a rew , etc Sweet Peggie said I , your Beauty's so bright , And your Voice is so sweet , makes me wish for delight . Ratting a rew , etc My Dearest said I , let me kiss your white hand , And all that I have shall be at your Command . Ratting a rew , etc Dear Peggie said I , to the Tavern let us go , A Bottle of Wine I will on thee bestow . Ratting a rew , etc I will give thee fine Rigging and toping to wear , And a pair of new gloves at Mallinger Fair . Ratting a rew , etc The more I did Court her , the more she was shey ; Till at length I resolved a Trick for to try . Ratting a rew , etc Then I gave her a Kiss , and well pleased was she , And for to go with me she straight did agree : Ratting a rew , etc Alas my Dear Peggie why are you so unkind , For we shall be Married when the WORSER ------ goes blind . Ratting a rew , etc The sweetest Delight that is under the Sun , Is to lie by the Barrel and see the Tap run . Ratting a rew , etc But when we had Drunken two Bottles of Wine , I found my Dear Mistress both Loving and Kind . Ratting a rew , etc I tipped her a Wenk , and backward she fell , And twenty weeks after her Belly did swell . Ratting a rew , etc And twenty weeks after she sat down and cry'd , It's this I have got by strydling so wide . Ratting a Rew , Ratting a Rew re rew re-rew re-rew , Ratting a Rew re-rew re rew re-rew , Fa re rew re rew re-reen , Fa re rew re-rew re reen , Hay bew Hoi baen ; Ratting a Rew . FINIS 