C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 77 ) R - - - - - - P - - - - - 's Complaint of his hard Fate , OR THE Town Officer's Lament for the Loss of his Coat . To the Tune of the bonny Boat Man. ( I ) I Pray draw near and you shall hear For what I lost my Coat Man , It was my Lenity , and not Invy , Nor Rigitness I wot Man , The Poor I spar'd , I never car'd To Prison them a jot Man , I've Paid their Sum in Money down Tho' this Revard I god Man. ( 2 ) I was well lov'd by many one tho' this was my hard Lot Man , For Favour show'n , as is well known Tho' I have lost my Coat Man By that same Man , whose Conscience can not stain me with a Blot Man , If the Truth he chus'd , who me abus'd tho' I valve him not a jot Man. ( 3 ) I gave great Favour to this Man , and sav'd his House from Pounding Three several Times the Expense I paid , until there was and ending , Betwixt him and his Creditor which was right Fair I wot Man , But I wish nee'r one do so as I in ease they loose their Coat Man. ( 4 ) To the Council Chamber I did go thinking to be excus'd Man , At my Baillies Hand who serv'd me so who positively me refus'd Man. Altho' the Circumstance I told , would be most hard with me than By no means he would give Consent to return my Coat to me Man. ( 5 ) I was Born and Bred in Edinburgh as very well is known Man. I've been Abroad these many Years but came Home to seek my own Man , Of which I have been greatly wrong'd which makes my Heart full soar Man But if I could obtain my own , I'd seek the Coat no more Man. ( 6 ) My Brothers of the spotted Train , be coution'd now by me Man , Favour none of any Rank of high or low Degree Man. The Thanks you'l have as I have god as you may plainly see then , A small Complaint will loose your Coat as they have done by me Man. FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 77 ) R - - - - - - P - - - - - 's Complaint of his hard Fate , OR THE Town Officer's Lament for the Loss of his Coat . To the Tune of the bonny Boat Man. ( I ) I Pray draw near and you shall hear For what I lost my Coat Man , It was my Lenity , and not Invy , Nor Rigitness I wot Man , The Poor I spar'd , I never car'd To Prison them a jot Man , I've Paid their Sum in Money down Tho' this Revard I god Man. ( 2 ) I was well lov'd by many one tho' this was my hard Lot Man , For Favour show'n , as is well known Tho' I have lost my Coat Man By that same Man , whose Conscience can not stain me with a Blot Man , If the Truth he chus'd , who me abus'd tho' I valve him not a jot Man. ( 3 ) I gave great Favour to this Man , and sav'd his House from Pounding Three several Times the Expense I paid , until there was and ending , Betwixt him and his Creditor which was right Fair I wot Man , But I wish nee'r one do so as I in ease they loose their Coat Man. ( 4 ) To the Council Chamber I did go thinking to be excus'd Man , At my Baillies Hand who serv'd me so who positively me refus'd Man. Altho' the Circumstance I told , would be most hard with me than By no means he would give Consent to return my Coat to me Man. ( 5 ) I was Born and Bred in Edinburgh as very well is known Man. I've been Abroad these many Years but came Home to seek my own Man , Of which I have been greatly wrong'd which makes my Heart full soar Man But if I could obtain my own , I'd seek the Coat no more Man. ( 6 ) My Brothers of the spotted Train , be coution'd now by me Man , Favour none of any Rank of high or low Degree Man. The Thanks you'l have as I have god as you may plainly see then , A small Complaint will loose your Coat as they have done by me Man. FINIS . 