C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 73 ) John Highland-Man's Remarks . WHen her nain shell to Edinburgh went she pe saw pony tings , She many pony Lasses saw , that flutter'd a wit wings , Tat town apout teire shouters hang as plack as only flay , And rattle a like Onion Skins , and pha pe pra put tea , Wit pra high tapons on teir heads , shust like her Lords Coach Mare , And pony tings some in teir Lug's hat hinging town se clear And pony Preakens on teir Ners as pony as might pe , Wit tartles rount apout to tail like a Colt's Mane hat she Teir Cowns pehint teir Ners tid trail tey pe se pra and syd , Not like her nain Coot Wives at hame tat scarce her pottocks hide , And some had rount apout teir Necks Cat Skins see praly trest , Se proun as her Toug Pati's tail and Kirchifes o'te pest Plack pony Kleath tat e'er she saw and some had white ones too : To tean pe plack like her pan ners , te other whit's a tow . And she pe saw too pony Men , and vaw put tea pe pra Wit high crown'd ponets on teir Head te pest tat e'r she saw , Wit curl'd lang heir town to teir pelts se very syd tid trail And knots hang own pehint teir ners shust like Toug Pati's tail And pony puttons on teir Coats , tat glitter't a' like cless , Teir Trews pe gir't apout to knee and wider at te ners Ten her nain True ; and teir prougs hat high Clogs penea teir heel , Shust like the upper muckle end of her nain shell's Snuff Mill , And she saw money pra House tere as heit as heit may pe Like great Rocks in her nain Glenco or in Glencra or Gri And money taintie wide wintows pe up and town teir side Like Mill Toors in her nain Country tey pe se pra and wide In stead a Ruches tey pe thick'd wit stones se pra and plew Teir wintows stick wit tings se clear her nain shell cout se trow And her shell yet saw better tings tat on four wheels pe born , Shust like great muckle Ambrie beds , nail'd like her Powter Horn , Or Targ with taintie nails see clear , shust like a clear scour'd Pan , And taintie Lasses sitting in't , and a pra Shentle Man , Te Horse tat true this four Wheel cart , pe great and plack as coal Her nain shel's good Grey Mare at hame pe shyt tem's put a Foal Te wheels pe whirlt and ran as fast , phan te great Horses true , Her nain shell taught not run see fast put phat hat wings to flew . Phile her shell saw sic taintie tings she pe stand still to look Pe tink her shell of no ill ting ; put e'er she wist , te nook Of a coal cathers krill took her pe pon to pack a tunch , Mi turnt and said , hum , phat teil now you filthy rustic clunch ? Phat are you plind you shyten rogue ? you pe se undescreet , That Shentle Men cannot pestand , pe pon te Kings high street . Phile she pe flyt with this Coal Man , in sic a range besputter ; A Slead came py pehint her Ners and dang her in te guter : Pe she got up a four wheel cart came hurling py pedeen , Te Man's lang whip tat sat pefore't made crak apout her eyn , And hat her lug's wit sick a phisk till a her eyn tid water . She taught it was not time to stand to Argument te matter , Put her shell run in at Closs head , to keep her shell frea skeit , She had not weel gone two else tere , till her nain shell tid get A tish of water poured town apout her nain shell's Lug's , Petract put it was scalding her , vile stinking filthy jugs : Tat Herring hat peen sotten in or other stinking fish . Me wist not phat to say or too for her nain shell coult wish To muckle Tell hat tene tem all her nain shell never tid meet Wit sick a yoking since she was a Month old Cock pards hight . For lang street as far as tween Glen Fudrich and Genstouse , And wide as tween Teg McCrae's Yard and Tonald Tearlech's house , Was all caan full of Shentle Foulk , as full as it cout crowd ; Some running up some running town and some tat stane still stood , There comes a range of four wheel carts tokether in a string , Some pe caan up some pe caan town and some of tem town ting , Te Kail Wives Creels wit a teir Trade , and paggage tey hat tere Next comes a trift of Coals men's horse like Cows caan to a Fair , Or like a trift of Bord'ring Cows some times her shell has seen Prought off the Lowland phigs , yea she has at such plunterings peen : And yonter comes tere two wheel Carts pe rumbling all attens . Some load with Parles some wit Trees and some wit dirt and stanes , Tere comes a Range of Oyster Wives , and some pe crying Sand , Some crying Fish , some crying Coal , and some wit Salt in hand ; Wit twenty hunter tings peside , her nain shell cannot mine ; Put on ting she cannot forget and she saw ten times nine She tainty pony Lasses saw upon a Parrow born Tat hat upon teir Snouts tid weir a taintie Coblo-horn Wit lang Lug's hanging town each side , all woven as a Net , And in teir little Ambrie Pox full lordly are tey set Her shell taught it great pity was tat sick pra Lass pe Cripple , Her shell could wish to lie wit such though she should get a Riple , Put phan her shell was caan to Leit she saw pe pon a Tree Some men pe hing and wit te Wind , tey wagged wantonly , She speart , for phat tes men hang tere ? tey said for stealing Gear . Hum , phat ? her shell she taught is now pe three tays too long here . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 73 ) John Highland-Man's Remarks . WHen her nain shell to Edinburgh went she pe saw pony tings , She many pony Lasses saw , that flutter'd a wit wings , Tat town apout teire shouters hang as plack as only flay , And rattle a like Onion Skins , and pha pe pra put tea , Wit pra high tapons on teir heads , shust like her Lords Coach Mare , And pony tings some in teir Lug's hat hinging town se clear And pony Preakens on teir Ners as pony as might pe , Wit tartles rount apout to tail like a Colt's Mane hat she Teir Cowns pehint teir Ners tid trail tey pe se pra and syd , Not like her nain Coot Wives at hame tat scarce her pottocks hide , And some had rount apout teir Necks Cat Skins see praly trest , Se proun as her Toug Pati's tail and Kirchifes o'te pest Plack pony Kleath tat e'er she saw and some had white ones too : To tean pe plack like her pan ners , te other whit's a tow . And she pe saw too pony Men , and vaw put tea pe pra Wit high crown'd ponets on teir Head te pest tat e'r she saw , Wit curl'd lang heir town to teir pelts se very syd tid trail And knots hang own pehint teir ners shust like Toug Pati's tail And pony puttons on teir Coats , tat glitter't a' like cless , Teir Trews pe gir't apout to knee and wider at te ners Ten her nain True ; and teir prougs hat high Clogs penea teir heel , Shust like the upper muckle end of her nain shell's Snuff Mill , And she saw money pra House tere as heit as heit may pe Like great Rocks in her nain Glenco or in Glencra or Gri And money taintie wide wintows pe up and town teir side Like Mill Toors in her nain Country tey pe se pra and wide In stead a Ruches tey pe thick'd wit stones se pra and plew Teir wintows stick wit tings se clear her nain shell cout se trow And her shell yet saw better tings tat on four wheels pe born , Shust like great muckle Ambrie beds , nail'd like her Powter Horn , Or Targ with taintie nails see clear , shust like a clear scour'd Pan , And taintie Lasses sitting in't , and a pra Shentle Man , Te Horse tat true this four Wheel cart , pe great and plack as coal Her nain shel's good Grey Mare at hame pe shyt tem's put a Foal Te wheels pe whirlt and ran as fast , phan te great Horses true , Her nain shell taught not run see fast put phat hat wings to flew . Phile her shell saw sic taintie tings she pe stand still to look Pe tink her shell of no ill ting ; put e'er she wist , te nook Of a coal cathers krill took her pe pon to pack a tunch , Mi turnt and said , hum , phat teil now you filthy rustic clunch ? Phat are you plind you shyten rogue ? you pe se undescreet , That Shentle Men cannot pestand , pe pon te Kings high street . Phile she pe flyt with this Coal Man , in sic a range besputter ; A Slead came py pehint her Ners and dang her in te guter : Pe she got up a four wheel cart came hurling py pedeen , Te Man's lang whip tat sat pefore't made crak apout her eyn , And hat her lug's wit sick a phisk till a her eyn tid water . She taught it was not time to stand to Argument te matter , Put her shell run in at Closs head , to keep her shell frea skeit , She had not weel gone two else tere , till her nain shell tid get A tish of water poured town apout her nain shell's Lug's , Petract put it was scalding her , vile stinking filthy jugs : Tat Herring hat peen sotten in or other stinking fish . Me wist not phat to say or too for her nain shell coult wish To muckle Tell hat tene tem all her nain shell never tid meet Wit sick a yoking since she was a Month old Cock pards hight . For lang street as far as tween Glen Fudrich and Genstouse , And wide as tween Teg McCrae's Yard and Tonald Tearlech's house , Was all caan full of Shentle Foulk , as full as it cout crowd ; Some running up some running town and some tat stane still stood , There comes a range of four wheel carts tokether in a string , Some pe caan up some pe caan town and some of tem town ting , Te Kail Wives Creels wit a teir Trade , and paggage tey hat tere Next comes a trift of Coals men's horse like Cows caan to a Fair , Or like a trift of Bord'ring Cows some times her shell has seen Prought off the Lowland phigs , yea she has at such plunterings peen : And yonter comes tere two wheel Carts pe rumbling all attens . Some load with Parles some wit Trees and some wit dirt and stanes , Tere comes a Range of Oyster Wives , and some pe crying Sand , Some crying Fish , some crying Coal , and some wit Salt in hand ; Wit twenty hunter tings peside , her nain shell cannot mine ; Put on ting she cannot forget and she saw ten times nine She tainty pony Lasses saw upon a Parrow born Tat hat upon teir Snouts tid weir a taintie Coblo-horn Wit lang Lug's hanging town each side , all woven as a Net , And in teir little Ambrie Pox full lordly are tey set Her shell taught it great pity was tat sick pra Lass pe Cripple , Her shell could wish to lie wit such though she should get a Riple , Put phan her shell was caan to Leit she saw pe pon a Tree Some men pe hing and wit te Wind , tey wagged wantonly , She speart , for phat tes men hang tere ? tey said for stealing Gear . Hum , phat ? her shell she taught is now pe three tays too long here . FINIS . 