C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 74 ) And Answer to the Assembly of Bumbees . AS snarling Momus sung descenting Bees , That in Assemblies sat to civilize , A wand'ring Wasp who lately lost his Sting , By soaring higher then he'd Strength of Wing . The nine Seraphic struck the sacred Lyre , And thus broke Silence with a Divine Air , Amaz'd you Gods , may this terrestical Dome , Fly to its Chaos and resign its From , May Man no Matters know , save what's mere Chance , Or Meteors Measure in the vast Expanse , Ere they acknowledge one Eternal Three , Of equal Substance , and the same Degree , Which sometime since a daring factious Drone Deny'd , and thereby did demean the Son , Glorying to grasp at what he cou'd not gain , And meaning further than he durst explain . Thus Vice was vernish'd , when the very Bees That should be Cautious were contriving Pleasant , And sought all Opportunities , to show Weak Wasp the wond'rous Worth and Wit of you , Wildly inferring that infamous Creed Of yours , but Labour would procure you Bred , Nor could their Speeches silveriz'd Escape , To gain you Credit in a Clergy Scap : But seurlous Pamphlets must applaud the Crime , To prove how glorious you'd appear in Ryhme ; Where , had the Author been as wise as old ; He on the contrar would from Conscience told , How you was hir'd with Honey to do harm ; The very worst Wasp in a Winter Swarm , Industrious e're to do redoubel'd Ills , Which made a zealous Webster wave all else , To wait this Wasp , who wilfully impressed Black Heresy in ev'ry Bumbees Breast , Till trap'd by Truth , he turns the counter Part , And feigns Obedience foreign to his Heart , A happy Change , hear me you humming Cleg , May this Impression ever with you bide ; But ah not long when learn'd Webster die , A Check to all erroneous idle Bees , This Wasp relapses , and's again arrign'd , For Bum Blasphemous Babbels he maintain'd , And was held forth by all the Humdrum Scribes . ( Who of him makes a Master-bee for Bribes , ) As one entirely innocent and free , From Faults that's fattal , but a feather'd be , While better's branded with the Name of Bums , 'Cause none of blust'ring Bellial's Bastard Sons ; But since perhaps it was the Author's Aim , That we thus read the Revery of his Theme , Madder for milder Divine Bees for Drones , Let's cease since Heaven has shut his Mouth for once . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 74 ) And Answer to the Assembly of Bumbees . AS snarling Momus sung descenting Bees , That in Assemblies sat to civilize , A wand'ring Wasp who lately lost his Sting , By soaring higher then he'd Strength of Wing . The nine Seraphic struck the sacred Lyre , And thus broke Silence with a Divine Air , Amaz'd you Gods , may this terrestical Dome , Fly to its Chaos and resign its From , May Man no Matters know , save what's mere Chance , Or Meteors Measure in the vast Expanse , Ere they acknowledge one Eternal Three , Of equal Substance , and the same Degree , Which sometime since a daring factious Drone Deny'd , and thereby did demean the Son , Glorying to grasp at what he cou'd not gain , And meaning further than he durst explain . Thus Vice was vernish'd , when the very Bees That should be Cautious were contriving Pleasant , And sought all Opportunities , to show Weak Wasp the wond'rous Worth and Wit of you , Wildly inferring that infamous Creed Of yours , but Labour would procure you Bred , Nor could their Speeches silveriz'd Escape , To gain you Credit in a Clergy Scap : But seurlous Pamphlets must applaud the Crime , To prove how glorious you'd appear in Ryhme ; Where , had the Author been as wise as old ; He on the contrar would from Conscience told , How you was hir'd with Honey to do harm ; The very worst Wasp in a Winter Swarm , Industrious e're to do redoubel'd Ills , Which made a zealous Webster wave all else , To wait this Wasp , who wilfully impressed Black Heresy in ev'ry Bumbees Breast , Till trap'd by Truth , he turns the counter Part , And feigns Obedience foreign to his Heart , A happy Change , hear me you humming Cleg , May this Impression ever with you bide ; But ah not long when learn'd Webster die , A Check to all erroneous idle Bees , This Wasp relapses , and's again arrign'd , For Bum Blasphemous Babbels he maintain'd , And was held forth by all the Humdrum Scribes . ( Who of him makes a Master-bee for Bribes , ) As one entirely innocent and free , From Faults that's fattal , but a feather'd be , While better's branded with the Name of Bums , 'Cause none of blust'ring Bellial's Bastard Sons ; But since perhaps it was the Author's Aim , That we thus read the Revery of his Theme , Madder for milder Divine Bees for Drones , Let's cease since Heaven has shut his Mouth for once . FINIS . 