C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 75 ) ( May 8th , [ 1725 ] ) To the Worshipful , Cordners of the West-Port , A humble PETITION is enter'd in Court For Apprentice Boys , who would fain take a Drink , Be blithe like their Master's , but want ready Clink . you Sons of Old Crispian , a Saint and a King , When taking your Bottle and eating your Ling , ' As merry as Greeks o're a Pint and a Gill , With the best of Good-Fellows , honest old Deacon Hill ; * Remember , that wee're the same Flesh and Blood , Tho' we have not a Bit , and are chawing the Cud. For tho' we are young and raw mouth'd Beginners , We may live like yourselves , to be old drunken Sinners . On this solemn Occasion , after choosing your Deacon ; You'l Generous prove , the Apprentices reckon ; For on a Feast-Day , we resolve not to fast Tho' we first pawn our Aul , and then hast to our Last . When Lads of the Trade in Company mingle , Can they Bend-Leather chaw or lick a cold Lingle : Encourage the Trade , when your all met together , Refresh our Soles , and wet the Upper-Leather : So we humbly request , like kind hearted Men , You'l send us a hearty Charity ben : And we shall all Pray while our Judgements abides , May you never wear Horns , and never want Hides . 'The Entertainment of the Incorporation was Dry-Fish . * Deacon Hill's House , the Place of Enrertainment . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 75 ) ( May 8th , [ 1725 ] ) To the Worshipful , Cordners of the West-Port , A humble PETITION is enter'd in Court For Apprentice Boys , who would fain take a Drink , Be blithe like their Master's , but want ready Clink . you Sons of Old Crispian , a Saint and a King , When taking your Bottle and eating your Ling , ' As merry as Greeks o're a Pint and a Gill , With the best of Good-Fellows , honest old Deacon Hill ; * Remember , that wee're the same Flesh and Blood , Tho' we have not a Bit , and are chawing the Cud. For tho' we are young and raw mouth'd Beginners , We may live like yourselves , to be old drunken Sinners . On this solemn Occasion , after choosing your Deacon ; You'l Generous prove , the Apprentices reckon ; For on a Feast-Day , we resolve not to fast Tho' we first pawn our Aul , and then hast to our Last . When Lads of the Trade in Company mingle , Can they Bend-Leather chaw or lick a cold Lingle : Encourage the Trade , when your all met together , Refresh our Soles , and wet the Upper-Leather : So we humbly request , like kind hearted Men , You'l send us a hearty Charity ben : And we shall all Pray while our Judgements abides , May you never wear Horns , and never want Hides . 'The Entertainment of the Incorporation was Dry-Fish . * Deacon Hill's House , the Place of Enrertainment . 