C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 78 ) TO THE Praise of the Weavers GIVING AND Account of their behaviour at a Wedding in Elgin of Murray . to it's own proper Tune 1. O Vow was there ever seen , So many Weavers stout and keen With Cluted Coats and riven Shoes at Geordie Malice Brithel . 2. All the foul Weavers in a roe , unto the Church they did all go And they had words and blows also at Geordie Melice Brithel . 3. For when they came the Church within then and ill Strife they did begin , Which did make many Weavers Rin from Geordie Malice Brithel . 4 The foul Weavers , for State did strive , at one another they did rive ; Says James Lie , let me never Thrive but I shall leave your Brithel . 6 Bold Gordie stroke , With a good Rung Gart some of the Weavers flisk Dung , He gart a men Teeth , cut through his Tongue at Geordie Malice Brithel 7 Tam Cook bade them make less din , else he would give them a pay'd Skin , But yet and old Wife gart him rin , from Geordie Malice Brithel . 8 then meikle Meg came in with speed , and Strake a Weaver on the Head , And with her Rock she dang him dead at Geordie Malice Brithel . 9 Then all the Weavers strack about , and there was skeath that day no doubt Some of their een was Picked out at Gordie Malice Brithel . 10 The Minister came in at last , and angry look on them did cast Then Geordie Malice did Rin fast that he might be first Married . 11 But Geordie Malice with disgrace , was put out of the Marriage Dase , And the other Man did get the Place at Geordie Malice Brithel . 12 But all the Weavers tarried unril Gordie was married , But long or night miscarried at Geordie Malice Brithel . 13 When George god his Bride by the Hand the weavers would no longer stand , But away went all the foul Band to Convoy Geordie Malice , 14 To the Brithel House went they all and for Meat and Drink did they call But yet their Money was but small at Geordie Malice Brithel . 15 When they were all set down to Meat like hungry Hounds they did all eat , But they took all at a small Rate , at Geordie Malice Brithel . 16 They were such a gluttonous pack that they eat till their Guts did crack And both their Ends together spoke at Geordie Malice Brithel 17 Then Geordie Malice Swore and Oath that they had supped all his Broth , And drunken all his Drink for nought that was made for the Brithel . 18 Then all the Weavers they spoke out , your Money George you need not doubt Each one shall pay a share about until we clear our Lawin . 19 Deacon Purse paid a ba bye . and there was a plack got from three Says Geordie Malice pox take me if such Sums as this will pay me , 20 O wo's me for old John Scot because he would not pay a Groat They dang his Teeth into his Throat at Geordie Malice Brithel . 21 Then James Chalmers seeing that , took the Tap-tree out of the Fat , 22 And strake the Weavers where they sat at Geordie Malice Brithel . Then dentie Deavie left his Seat , to run away he thought it meet , But woes me he wanted Feet to Run from Geordie's Brithel . 23 Geordie Gordon with his long Gamon he came out to call up a Men For to eat both Bred and Salmond at Geordie Malice Brithel . 24 Maggie Purse with her Meikle Mon she eat so fast that she grew fow , She wished that she were Home to Spew from Geordie Malice Brithel . 25 Deacon Culback with his black Hat , he swore to work them meillle wrack They behav'd so ill the Grize pack at Geordie Malice Brithal . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 78 ) TO THE Praise of the Weavers GIVING AND Account of their behaviour at a Wedding in Elgin of Murray . to it's own proper Tune 1. O Vow was there ever seen , So many Weavers stout and keen With Cluted Coats and riven Shoes at Geordie Malice Brithel . 2. All the foul Weavers in a roe , unto the Church they did all go And they had words and blows also at Geordie Melice Brithel . 3. For when they came the Church within then and ill Strife they did begin , Which did make many Weavers Rin from Geordie Malice Brithel . 4 The foul Weavers , for State did strive , at one another they did rive ; Says James Lie , let me never Thrive but I shall leave your Brithel . 6 Bold Gordie stroke , With a good Rung Gart some of the Weavers flisk Dung , He gart a men Teeth , cut through his Tongue at Geordie Malice Brithel 7 Tam Cook bade them make less din , else he would give them a pay'd Skin , But yet and old Wife gart him rin , from Geordie Malice Brithel . 8 then meikle Meg came in with speed , and Strake a Weaver on the Head , And with her Rock she dang him dead at Geordie Malice Brithel . 9 Then all the Weavers strack about , and there was skeath that day no doubt Some of their een was Picked out at Gordie Malice Brithel . 10 The Minister came in at last , and angry look on them did cast Then Geordie Malice did Rin fast that he might be first Married . 11 But Geordie Malice with disgrace , was put out of the Marriage Dase , And the other Man did get the Place at Geordie Malice Brithel . 12 But all the Weavers tarried unril Gordie was married , But long or night miscarried at Geordie Malice Brithel . 13 When George god his Bride by the Hand the weavers would no longer stand , But away went all the foul Band to Convoy Geordie Malice , 14 To the Brithel House went they all and for Meat and Drink did they call But yet their Money was but small at Geordie Malice Brithel . 15 When they were all set down to Meat like hungry Hounds they did all eat , But they took all at a small Rate , at Geordie Malice Brithel . 16 They were such a gluttonous pack that they eat till their Guts did crack And both their Ends together spoke at Geordie Malice Brithel 17 Then Geordie Malice Swore and Oath that they had supped all his Broth , And drunken all his Drink for nought that was made for the Brithel . 18 Then all the Weavers they spoke out , your Money George you need not doubt Each one shall pay a share about until we clear our Lawin . 19 Deacon Purse paid a ba bye . and there was a plack got from three Says Geordie Malice pox take me if such Sums as this will pay me , 20 O wo's me for old John Scot because he would not pay a Groat They dang his Teeth into his Throat at Geordie Malice Brithel . 21 Then James Chalmers seeing that , took the Tap-tree out of the Fat , 22 And strake the Weavers where they sat at Geordie Malice Brithel . Then dentie Deavie left his Seat , to run away he thought it meet , But woes me he wanted Feet to Run from Geordie's Brithel . 23 Geordie Gordon with his long Gamon he came out to call up a Men For to eat both Bred and Salmond at Geordie Malice Brithel . 24 Maggie Purse with her Meikle Mon she eat so fast that she grew fow , She wished that she were Home to Spew from Geordie Malice Brithel . 25 Deacon Culback with his black Hat , he swore to work them meillle wrack They behav'd so ill the Grize pack at Geordie Malice Brithal . 