C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 82 ) And Excellent new Ballad , entitled , The Four drunken Wives that live at Belsiehil . To the Tune of The Four drunken Maidens at the Nether-bow . 1 AT Noble Hags , we will begin , because he is a Knight , He sets his Lands to David Corpse , because he has good Righ Because he has good Right , I say , to you I tell this Tale , There four drunken Wives , that live at Belsiehil . 2 Noble Hags says to the Wives , Will you go join your Placks ? And by my Sooth , and that we will , and we'll lie by our Rocks ; And we'll lie by our Rocks , and we'll have another Gill. There four drunken Wives , that live at Belsiehil . 3 Noble Hags says to the Wives , I fear ye'll all be fow . No by my Truth , quoth the Wife , your Tale shall not be true : Before that we be fow , we'll have the other Gill : There four drunken Wives , that live at Belsiehil . 4 The eastmost House in Belsiehil , James Hepburn's call'd by Name , I wot the Wife was traveling , that Day the Land was tean . They sent for Magie Weir , would had her with good Will ; But she has god a we Soap Drink , she could not come them till . 5 Little Gavin says to his Wife , My bonny Magie rise . James Hepburn's Folk they have been here , ofter nor once or twice : James Hepburn's Folk they have been here and you told me not the Tale , Oh dear Gavin , I do now fear , That you must go your fell . 6 And what can I do Magie , when I am to then gean , You know I cannot dress the Wife , nor yet can handle the Bairn : I may then cut a we Bit Cheese , as much as serve my fell . And there four drunken Wives , that live at Belsiehil . 7 They went to Margaret Hunter's , they drank her Bots all dry ; And they came to Jean Marwood , her Brandy for to try : If that your Brandy it be good , we'll have another Gill : And there four drunken Wives , that live at Belsiehil . 8 They went to Marg'ret Hamilton's lives west among the Bent , And there they god their Dinner free , beside the Thing they spent . Their Lawing it was half a Crown ; I wot they were not dear . Or all the Wives of Belsiehil , Mege Hamilton bears Gree 9 Out then comes Jean Marwood , and says to James Jack , There four and twenty Guinea's , tied in my Sark Lap. Out came Margaret Hamilton , and says to Piper [ ? ] The WORSER --- la ma's in my Sark Lap , and that I wot right well . FINIS . Newly corrected and amended by Thomas Rutherfoord , Gover - nor in Colingtoun Paper-Mill : Edinburgh , Printed and sold by John Reid in Peason's Closs , North-side of the Stree a little above the Cross , 1710. C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 82 ) And Excellent new Ballad , entitled , The Four drunken Wives that live at Belsiehil . To the Tune of The Four drunken Maidens at the Nether-bow . 1 AT Noble Hags , we will begin , because he is a Knight , He sets his Lands to David Corpse , because he has good Righ Because he has good Right , I say , to you I tell this Tale , There four drunken Wives , that live at Belsiehil . 2 Noble Hags says to the Wives , Will you go join your Placks ? And by my Sooth , and that we will , and we'll lie by our Rocks ; And we'll lie by our Rocks , and we'll have another Gill. There four drunken Wives , that live at Belsiehil . 3 Noble Hags says to the Wives , I fear ye'll all be fow . No by my Truth , quoth the Wife , your Tale shall not be true : Before that we be fow , we'll have the other Gill : There four drunken Wives , that live at Belsiehil . 4 The eastmost House in Belsiehil , James Hepburn's call'd by Name , I wot the Wife was traveling , that Day the Land was tean . They sent for Magie Weir , would had her with good Will ; But she has god a we Soap Drink , she could not come them till . 5 Little Gavin says to his Wife , My bonny Magie rise . James Hepburn's Folk they have been here , ofter nor once or twice : James Hepburn's Folk they have been here and you told me not the Tale , Oh dear Gavin , I do now fear , That you must go your fell . 6 And what can I do Magie , when I am to then gean , You know I cannot dress the Wife , nor yet can handle the Bairn : I may then cut a we Bit Cheese , as much as serve my fell . And there four drunken Wives , that live at Belsiehil . 7 They went to Margaret Hunter's , they drank her Bots all dry ; And they came to Jean Marwood , her Brandy for to try : If that your Brandy it be good , we'll have another Gill : And there four drunken Wives , that live at Belsiehil . 8 They went to Marg'ret Hamilton's lives west among the Bent , And there they god their Dinner free , beside the Thing they spent . Their Lawing it was half a Crown ; I wot they were not dear . Or all the Wives of Belsiehil , Mege Hamilton bears Gree 9 Out then comes Jean Marwood , and says to James Jack , There four and twenty Guinea's , tied in my Sark Lap. Out came Margaret Hamilton , and says to Piper [ ? ] The WORSER --- la ma's in my Sark Lap , and that I wot right well . FINIS . Newly corrected and amended by Thomas Rutherfoord , Gover - nor in Colingtoun Paper-Mill : Edinburgh , Printed and sold by John Reid in Peason's Closs , North-side of the Stree a little above the Cross , 1710. 