C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 83 ) TRADE'S RELEASE : OR , Courage to the SCOTCH-INDIAN-COMPANY . Being and Excellent New BALLAD ; To the Tune of , The Turks are all Confounded . 1. COme , rouse up your Heads , Come rouse up anon ! Think of the Wisdom of old Solomon , And heartily Join with our own Paterson , To fetch Home INDIAN Treasures : Solomon sent a far for Gold , Let us do now as he did of old , Wait but three Years for a Hundredfold Of Riches and all Pleasures . 2. His Throne with Gold was overlaid , He hundreds of Shields and Targets had Of beaten Gold , and ( as is said ) Gold Vessels all for Drinking : Cedars he made as the Sycamore-Tree , Silver as Stones abounding to be , And TRADE from all Encumbrance free ; For Reason rul'd his thinking . 3. So the wisdom of our Parliament Have jointly agreed , with a very good Intent , By their ACT together with th' Royal Assent , To free TRADE from Taxation : Now since our Freedom they did restore , We'll quickly visit the Indian-Shoar , And thence return with such Cargoes of Over As must enrich this Nation . 4. Saint-Andrew's Flag then without delay We'll over all the World display ; We'll many a River , Crick and Bay Find out by Navigation ; In which our selves we'll soon Invest , As having never been Possessed By any that can in the least Pretend Preoccupation . 5. And as choice of Plantations abroad we can find ; To our Undertaking e'en Nature seems kind , In having our Nation dispos'd and design'd For TRADE , by its situation : For to Portus-Salutis from our Habour at Leith , And round by the Lewis till you come to Roseneath There are store of good Bays , where free from all skaith Our Shipping may ne'r miss a station . 6. And now while that matter runs fresh in my Head , Let us think of our own Home-Subjects of Trade ; Rare Fishings of all sorts , all-North from the Tweed , And plenty of Corns and Provision , Our fine Manufactures of Woolen and Thread , Our Salt , Coals , Marble ; our Iron and Led ; Pray then what should ail us , but to Thrive with all speed , If we banish all Seeds of Division . 7. No River by Nature was ever brought forth , From the East to the West or the South to the North , More adapted to Trade than our Clyde and our Forth , When both shall in one be united : We'll make both the INDIES pay Tribute to Clyde , From whence ve'll diffuse it upon our Forth's side , And many more Things which never were try'd , May at Home to our Trading be fitted . 8. Then come along Lads then , Come , come , come , Why should we [ l ] onger thus linger at home ? While extending [ tO ] he bounds of Christendom Must be Crown'd with Riches and Glory : But to carry our noble Achievement on , Our Purses and Strength we must all Join in One , We must never remember the Distinction Of Papist , Whig , or Tory. 9. Since by Nature and Law we are equally free , Wherever true Merit is found , let it be Rewarded most nobly in every Degree , Without regard to Compactions : Let Vice and Oppression be clothed with shame , Let brave Undertakings our Breasts all inflame , Let Liberty , Property , Religion and Fame Be mainly the Scope of our Actions . 10. For if ever great things to do we propose , We must cherish our Friends , and vanquish our Foes By Rules of Justice ; but scorn to impose Such Tricks as now are in Fashion : By regular steps we'll bravely advance Till the Trade of all EUROPE to us we enhance ; Then adieu to the blust'ring Grandeur of FRANCE Or any imperious Nation . 11. To SCOTLAND'S just and never-dying Fame , We'll in ASIA , AFRICA and AMERICA proclaim Liberty ! Liberty ! nay , to the shame Of all that went before us ; Wherever we Plant , TRADE shall be free , In three Years time , I plainly foresee , GOD BLESS THE SCOTTISH-COMPANY Shall be the Indian-Chorus . 12. No Brawl , no Murmur , no Complaint , No Cause of any Discontent , Where Patersonian-Government Shall once commence a Footing ; His wholesome Laws being publish'd there , Shall harmless keep their Goods and Gear , And free their Persons from all Fear Of Thummikin or Booting . 13. The Muscovite , Tartar , Turk , and the Pope , The Sophi , Mogul , and Morocco , I hope , To the Charm of our Laws must yield and give up , Their absolute Sway and Dominions : Then the Spainjards , and French , and Portugueze , Venetians and Dutch , and Genoese , And th' English themselves perhaps may please To altar their narrow Opinions . 14. The Gospel in the INDIES we'll propagate , But not by such Ways as attempted of Late , By Jesuits-Guile , nor vain pompous State , Nor bloody Inquisition . There's one way more yet left for Us , A way Divine and Glorious , Which can not fail ; and that is thus : By Peace , Love , and Contrition . 15. Then Sawny , and Johnny , and Jemmy , and all , Whose Names are Enrol'd in the INDIAN-HALL , Prepare and be ready to answer the Call Of our brave Sea-Commanders : Come follow me quickly , our Admiral is gone On board of SAINT-ANDREW , I've herd a Gun , You belong to the NEPTUN , and I to the SUN , We'l try who dare withstand us . 16. We'll truckle no longer to Friend or to Foe , But be ev'ry one's Friend that to Us will be so ; We'll built our Success wherever we go , On the Justice of our Undertaking : May evil betide them that evil do think ; Mean while ( pray-thee Sawny ) forget not to Drink , Bon-voyage to Our FLEET , I'm resolved to skink , One Brimmer or Two at our parting . 17. Now Malice and Envy are rampant with Rage , To see Us so frankly our Purses engage , Beyond Expectation ; from which they presage , In TRADE some strange Revolution : Since by LAW to suppress Us , none well dare move , Gross Lies and new Stories they daily improve , As hoping by such to make our Minds rove , But we'll show them a firm Resolution . 18. Should our Neighbours still offer , in stead of their Aid To crush our Adventurers , ( as it is said ) Or send Us more Coxcombs in grave Masquerade To sow and nourish Sedition : May they never thereafter taste Pudding or Beef , May Poverty seize their Traders in chief , May they labour in Straights , and beg our Relief , Till we pity at last their Condition . 19. And if any unnatural Son of a Scot , Has basely against Us engaged to Plot , May he live in Disgrace , and at last may his Lot Be to dance aloft in a Halter ; Let his Offspring beg both Abroad and at Home , May the Curse of their Parent pronounce their Doom , May they never be cherish'd wherever they come , With either Food or Shelter . 20. May the Plague , and the Pox , and the Gravel , & Gout , Seize them all over within and without , May they never find Ease till their Candle go out , Who labour to destroy Us. Let nothing disturb Us , come let Us go on , And mind the Business which now we're upon ; If JEHOVAH be for Us , tho' but he alone , Who is't that can annoy Us ? 21. Tho' Calumny , Malice , and Envy combine , To strike at the Root of this noble Design , Yet bravely to push it , we'll never decline , in spite of all Banter or Bully : Come the Work is near ended that well is begun , Here's a Cup of Success to the RISING-SUN , If any refuse it all over the Town , May he soundly be kick'd for a Cully . 22. We'll Statues of Brass and Pyramides raise , We'll drink to the Health , and sing to the Praise , Of our Nobles and Worthies , who made no delays Our TRADE to free from Disaster : Now that those who support it may scorn to relent , That such as would crush it may've Cause to repent , That Lies may not sully what's honestly meant , Is the Prayer of your Poetaster . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 83 ) TRADE'S RELEASE : OR , Courage to the SCOTCH-INDIAN-COMPANY . Being and Excellent New BALLAD ; To the Tune of , The Turks are all Confounded . 1. COme , rouse up your Heads , Come rouse up anon ! Think of the Wisdom of old Solomon , And heartily Join with our own Paterson , To fetch Home INDIAN Treasures : Solomon sent a far for Gold , Let us do now as he did of old , Wait but three Years for a Hundredfold Of Riches and all Pleasures . 2. His Throne with Gold was overlaid , He hundreds of Shields and Targets had Of beaten Gold , and ( as is said ) Gold Vessels all for Drinking : Cedars he made as the Sycamore-Tree , Silver as Stones abounding to be , And TRADE from all Encumbrance free ; For Reason rul'd his thinking . 3. So the wisdom of our Parliament Have jointly agreed , with a very good Intent , By their ACT together with th' Royal Assent , To free TRADE from Taxation : Now since our Freedom they did restore , We'll quickly visit the Indian-Shoar , And thence return with such Cargoes of Over As must enrich this Nation . 4. Saint-Andrew's Flag then without delay We'll over all the World display ; We'll many a River , Crick and Bay Find out by Navigation ; In which our selves we'll soon Invest , As having never been Possessed By any that can in the least Pretend Preoccupation . 5. And as choice of Plantations abroad we can find ; To our Undertaking e'en Nature seems kind , In having our Nation dispos'd and design'd For TRADE , by its situation : For to Portus-Salutis from our Habour at Leith , And round by the Lewis till you come to Roseneath There are store of good Bays , where free from all skaith Our Shipping may ne'r miss a station . 6. And now while that matter runs fresh in my Head , Let us think of our own Home-Subjects of Trade ; Rare Fishings of all sorts , all-North from the Tweed , And plenty of Corns and Provision , Our fine Manufactures of Woolen and Thread , Our Salt , Coals , Marble ; our Iron and Led ; Pray then what should ail us , but to Thrive with all speed , If we banish all Seeds of Division . 7. No River by Nature was ever brought forth , From the East to the West or the South to the North , More adapted to Trade than our Clyde and our Forth , When both shall in one be united : We'll make both the INDIES pay Tribute to Clyde , From whence ve'll diffuse it upon our Forth's side , And many more Things which never were try'd , May at Home to our Trading be fitted . 8. Then come along Lads then , Come , come , come , Why should we [ l ] onger thus linger at home ? While extending [ tO ] he bounds of Christendom Must be Crown'd with Riches and Glory : But to carry our noble Achievement on , Our Purses and Strength we must all Join in One , We must never remember the Distinction Of Papist , Whig , or Tory. 9. Since by Nature and Law we are equally free , Wherever true Merit is found , let it be Rewarded most nobly in every Degree , Without regard to Compactions : Let Vice and Oppression be clothed with shame , Let brave Undertakings our Breasts all inflame , Let Liberty , Property , Religion and Fame Be mainly the Scope of our Actions . 10. For if ever great things to do we propose , We must cherish our Friends , and vanquish our Foes By Rules of Justice ; but scorn to impose Such Tricks as now are in Fashion : By regular steps we'll bravely advance Till the Trade of all EUROPE to us we enhance ; Then adieu to the blust'ring Grandeur of FRANCE Or any imperious Nation . 11. To SCOTLAND'S just and never-dying Fame , We'll in ASIA , AFRICA and AMERICA proclaim Liberty ! Liberty ! nay , to the shame Of all that went before us ; Wherever we Plant , TRADE shall be free , In three Years time , I plainly foresee , GOD BLESS THE SCOTTISH-COMPANY Shall be the Indian-Chorus . 12. No Brawl , no Murmur , no Complaint , No Cause of any Discontent , Where Patersonian-Government Shall once commence a Footing ; His wholesome Laws being publish'd there , Shall harmless keep their Goods and Gear , And free their Persons from all Fear Of Thummikin or Booting . 13. The Muscovite , Tartar , Turk , and the Pope , The Sophi , Mogul , and Morocco , I hope , To the Charm of our Laws must yield and give up , Their absolute Sway and Dominions : Then the Spainjards , and French , and Portugueze , Venetians and Dutch , and Genoese , And th' English themselves perhaps may please To altar their narrow Opinions . 14. The Gospel in the INDIES we'll propagate , But not by such Ways as attempted of Late , By Jesuits-Guile , nor vain pompous State , Nor bloody Inquisition . There's one way more yet left for Us , A way Divine and Glorious , Which can not fail ; and that is thus : By Peace , Love , and Contrition . 15. Then Sawny , and Johnny , and Jemmy , and all , Whose Names are Enrol'd in the INDIAN-HALL , Prepare and be ready to answer the Call Of our brave Sea-Commanders : Come follow me quickly , our Admiral is gone On board of SAINT-ANDREW , I've herd a Gun , You belong to the NEPTUN , and I to the SUN , We'l try who dare withstand us . 16. We'll truckle no longer to Friend or to Foe , But be ev'ry one's Friend that to Us will be so ; We'll built our Success wherever we go , On the Justice of our Undertaking : May evil betide them that evil do think ; Mean while ( pray-thee Sawny ) forget not to Drink , Bon-voyage to Our FLEET , I'm resolved to skink , One Brimmer or Two at our parting . 17. Now Malice and Envy are rampant with Rage , To see Us so frankly our Purses engage , Beyond Expectation ; from which they presage , In TRADE some strange Revolution : Since by LAW to suppress Us , none well dare move , Gross Lies and new Stories they daily improve , As hoping by such to make our Minds rove , But we'll show them a firm Resolution . 18. Should our Neighbours still offer , in stead of their Aid To crush our Adventurers , ( as it is said ) Or send Us more Coxcombs in grave Masquerade To sow and nourish Sedition : May they never thereafter taste Pudding or Beef , May Poverty seize their Traders in chief , May they labour in Straights , and beg our Relief , Till we pity at last their Condition . 19. And if any unnatural Son of a Scot , Has basely against Us engaged to Plot , May he live in Disgrace , and at last may his Lot Be to dance aloft in a Halter ; Let his Offspring beg both Abroad and at Home , May the Curse of their Parent pronounce their Doom , May they never be cherish'd wherever they come , With either Food or Shelter . 20. May the Plague , and the Pox , and the Gravel , & Gout , Seize them all over within and without , May they never find Ease till their Candle go out , Who labour to destroy Us. Let nothing disturb Us , come let Us go on , And mind the Business which now we're upon ; If JEHOVAH be for Us , tho' but he alone , Who is't that can annoy Us ? 21. Tho' Calumny , Malice , and Envy combine , To strike at the Root of this noble Design , Yet bravely to push it , we'll never decline , in spite of all Banter or Bully : Come the Work is near ended that well is begun , Here's a Cup of Success to the RISING-SUN , If any refuse it all over the Town , May he soundly be kick'd for a Cully . 22. We'll Statues of Brass and Pyramides raise , We'll drink to the Health , and sing to the Praise , Of our Nobles and Worthies , who made no delays Our TRADE to free from Disaster : Now that those who support it may scorn to relent , That such as would crush it may've Cause to repent , That Lies may not sully what's honestly meant , Is the Prayer of your Poetaster . FINIS . 