C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 87 ) HIS GRACE The Great Duke of ARGYL'S Welcome to SCOTLAND OR THE Scots Mens great JOY and Edinburghs great Glory , for the safe Arrival of that Nobel Peer , with his Royal Consort , etc To the Tune of the Drums and the Trumpets Commands me from Shore . SCOTLAND Rejoice , with a cheerful Smile and Drink a full Glass to the Duke of ARGYLE He Feights for our Church and Cause to maintain , The Clouds is dispel'd he's in Scotland again . with Fa la la la fa la la la fa la la la la la la la la 2 For Conduct and Courage , ther's few can Excel , The Noble bold Champion the Duke of ARGYLE , In hight firy Battles where Thousands were slave , Let Scotland rejoice since he's safe come again . Fa , la , etc 3 Tho' some at Court 'gainst him was for a while , The great Noble Pillar JOHN Duke of ARGYLE , Let all Scotland Sing , since that Noble Swain Is come in great Friendship to Scotland again . Fa la , etc 4 All true Hearted Scots Men where ever you dwell You owe Love to his Grace , the great Duke of Argyle , Who under GOD sav'd our Nation from Sword , Fire & Splain Now let us rejoice he's in Scotland again . Fa , la , etc 5 Old Albion's Pillar , he evermore will , He'll Fight for our Nation with Victory still , Therefore since he's come let us Uza in main , Since our Valiant Bold General is in Scotland again . Fa la , etc 6 Tho' some in our Nation they glad were that he , Was quite out of Favour but now you do see , That Lawrals of Fame on his Brow now do smile The Valiant brave Champion the Duke of ARGYLE . Fa. la , etc 7 Among all the Campbels , give me leave to say , Unto this great Campbel , they all must give way , With wit and great Wisdom , he Conducts with skill Our Valiant bold General the Duke of ARGYLE . Fa , la , etc November one Thousand seven Hundred Fifteen , On the Shirriff-mure his bold Courage was seen . Not fearing his great Noble Blood for to spill , So valiantly fought the great Duke of ARGYLE . Fa la , etc 9 In Flanders and Spain he still vanquished his Foes , With undaunted Courage and right hardy Blows ; While Bullets were flying about him like Hail ; His Foes ran before the stout Duke of ARGYLE . Fa la etc 10 When's Grace went couqu'ring our Foes into France There he went wi' George our most excellent Prince ; Like Hero's bold they together did go , Conqu'ring all their proud Blood thirsty Foe . Fa la etc 11 And now since come home there is none dare withstand What Argyle thinks fit & the Prince does command For they're both of one Mind and soon they'l cause The with'ring Thirstle bloom more fine than the Rose Fa la etc 12 Let all Loyal Scotsmen since Englands the Rose , Look down on the Thirstle , and Valiantly Rouse . Pray Stand by old Albion your Rights to Maintain , Since the Valiant ARGYL's in Scotland again , Fa la , etc 13 Old Albion he loves for it's his Design , To stand by our Nation our Rights to maintain , He n're will deceive us , but stand for us still . The Valiant brave CAMPBEL the Duke of Argyle Fa la , etc 14 Now since that he loves us let's all take a Fill , A health to the valiant brave Duke of ARGYLE , Wishing loog Life and happiness he may obtain Since his heroic Grace is in Scotland again , Fa , la , etc FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 87 ) HIS GRACE The Great Duke of ARGYL'S Welcome to SCOTLAND OR THE Scots Mens great JOY and Edinburghs great Glory , for the safe Arrival of that Nobel Peer , with his Royal Consort , etc To the Tune of the Drums and the Trumpets Commands me from Shore . SCOTLAND Rejoice , with a cheerful Smile and Drink a full Glass to the Duke of ARGYLE He Feights for our Church and Cause to maintain , The Clouds is dispel'd he's in Scotland again . with Fa la la la fa la la la fa la la la la la la la la 2 For Conduct and Courage , ther's few can Excel , The Noble bold Champion the Duke of ARGYLE , In hight firy Battles where Thousands were slave , Let Scotland rejoice since he's safe come again . Fa , la , etc 3 Tho' some at Court 'gainst him was for a while , The great Noble Pillar JOHN Duke of ARGYLE , Let all Scotland Sing , since that Noble Swain Is come in great Friendship to Scotland again . Fa la , etc 4 All true Hearted Scots Men where ever you dwell You owe Love to his Grace , the great Duke of Argyle , Who under GOD sav'd our Nation from Sword , Fire & Splain Now let us rejoice he's in Scotland again . Fa , la , etc 5 Old Albion's Pillar , he evermore will , He'll Fight for our Nation with Victory still , Therefore since he's come let us Uza in main , Since our Valiant Bold General is in Scotland again . Fa la , etc 6 Tho' some in our Nation they glad were that he , Was quite out of Favour but now you do see , That Lawrals of Fame on his Brow now do smile The Valiant brave Champion the Duke of ARGYLE . Fa. la , etc 7 Among all the Campbels , give me leave to say , Unto this great Campbel , they all must give way , With wit and great Wisdom , he Conducts with skill Our Valiant bold General the Duke of ARGYLE . Fa , la , etc November one Thousand seven Hundred Fifteen , On the Shirriff-mure his bold Courage was seen . Not fearing his great Noble Blood for to spill , So valiantly fought the great Duke of ARGYLE . Fa la , etc 9 In Flanders and Spain he still vanquished his Foes , With undaunted Courage and right hardy Blows ; While Bullets were flying about him like Hail ; His Foes ran before the stout Duke of ARGYLE . Fa la etc 10 When's Grace went couqu'ring our Foes into France There he went wi' George our most excellent Prince ; Like Hero's bold they together did go , Conqu'ring all their proud Blood thirsty Foe . Fa la etc 11 And now since come home there is none dare withstand What Argyle thinks fit & the Prince does command For they're both of one Mind and soon they'l cause The with'ring Thirstle bloom more fine than the Rose Fa la etc 12 Let all Loyal Scotsmen since Englands the Rose , Look down on the Thirstle , and Valiantly Rouse . Pray Stand by old Albion your Rights to Maintain , Since the Valiant ARGYL's in Scotland again , Fa la , etc 13 Old Albion he loves for it's his Design , To stand by our Nation our Rights to maintain , He n're will deceive us , but stand for us still . The Valiant brave CAMPBEL the Duke of Argyle Fa la , etc 14 Now since that he loves us let's all take a Fill , A health to the valiant brave Duke of ARGYLE , Wishing loog Life and happiness he may obtain Since his heroic Grace is in Scotland again , Fa , la , etc FINIS . 