C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 81 ) ELEGY , On the much to be lamented Death of James Whetty Taylor and Free-Man in the Pattaraw who departed this Life Ap - prile the 5th , 1720 about the 69. of his Age . With a Caution to his Successors . AND has Old Death that Bloody Knave , Brought Honest Whettie to his Grave ? Not in our Power his Life to save , we're at a Loss . For now he's laid into his Grave , A Plack the worse . This Whettie was a Taylor bred , Who Honestly employed his Trade , And Sober Liv'd on what he had , A Civil Goass . Whom Death into the Grave has laid , A Plack the worse . Now who is there will Undertake , The Lords of Session's Gowns to Make ? I fear their Judgement is but Weak , It would them Cross . He's Dead I'm Sorry for his Sake , A Plack the worse . He Civilly did go his Rounds , Throw Upper and the Lower Bounds , Locallity sought in the Founds , And was not Crossed . In Grave now lies by Death his Wounds , A Plack the worse . Now who this Money in will gather , Or dare encounter Maggie Lauther ? Sure I know not except a Teather , Or Armed Force He's Dead she smote might been her Father , A Plack the worse . At Penny-Weddings who'le take Care , Small Maces equally to share , And give the Young-Folk Profit there , It's to our Loss , For Death hath catched him in his Snare , A Plack the worse . Foul fallen you Death , could you not gather ? And Seiz'd the Witches out of Calder , And serv'd thy Turn , and gone no further ; But to our Loss . Taken him away left Maggie Lauther , A Plack the worse . A Sober and and Honest Man , None did deny it neither can ; For if they did they would him wrong , I do not Flatter , There is no doubt it's now with him A Plack the better . A Caution to his Brothers of Trade . BEsure when that you undertake , the Session Gowns and does them make , Take a good Price that's no ill thought , They will not Judge not plead for nought . A Caution to Penny-Wedding Keepers . WHen you to Penny-Weddings get to many folk make little Meat , Set down the Maces in good Order , Tho' not well Dressed will serve the further , This is the only way and manner , To make Young-Folks to be the Gainer . A Caution to the Locallity Gatherers . LOcallity when you seek in , Tho' disappointed make no Dine ; And when the Wives in Child Bed be , Take Cheese and Bred and let them free , Sick Folk or those with Age Decay'd , Take nothing from ; make others Pay'd . And when you come to Maggie Lauther Stand at the Door and come no further ; If you go in I'm sure you'l feel , She'l beatrice your back and play the Di'el . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 81 ) ELEGY , On the much to be lamented Death of James Whetty Taylor and Free-Man in the Pattaraw who departed this Life Ap - prile the 5th , 1720 about the 69. of his Age . With a Caution to his Successors . AND has Old Death that Bloody Knave , Brought Honest Whettie to his Grave ? Not in our Power his Life to save , we're at a Loss . For now he's laid into his Grave , A Plack the worse . This Whettie was a Taylor bred , Who Honestly employed his Trade , And Sober Liv'd on what he had , A Civil Goass . Whom Death into the Grave has laid , A Plack the worse . Now who is there will Undertake , The Lords of Session's Gowns to Make ? I fear their Judgement is but Weak , It would them Cross . He's Dead I'm Sorry for his Sake , A Plack the worse . He Civilly did go his Rounds , Throw Upper and the Lower Bounds , Locallity sought in the Founds , And was not Crossed . In Grave now lies by Death his Wounds , A Plack the worse . Now who this Money in will gather , Or dare encounter Maggie Lauther ? Sure I know not except a Teather , Or Armed Force He's Dead she smote might been her Father , A Plack the worse . At Penny-Weddings who'le take Care , Small Maces equally to share , And give the Young-Folk Profit there , It's to our Loss , For Death hath catched him in his Snare , A Plack the worse . Foul fallen you Death , could you not gather ? And Seiz'd the Witches out of Calder , And serv'd thy Turn , and gone no further ; But to our Loss . Taken him away left Maggie Lauther , A Plack the worse . A Sober and and Honest Man , None did deny it neither can ; For if they did they would him wrong , I do not Flatter , There is no doubt it's now with him A Plack the better . A Caution to his Brothers of Trade . BEsure when that you undertake , the Session Gowns and does them make , Take a good Price that's no ill thought , They will not Judge not plead for nought . A Caution to Penny-Wedding Keepers . WHen you to Penny-Weddings get to many folk make little Meat , Set down the Maces in good Order , Tho' not well Dressed will serve the further , This is the only way and manner , To make Young-Folks to be the Gainer . A Caution to the Locallity Gatherers . LOcallity when you seek in , Tho' disappointed make no Dine ; And when the Wives in Child Bed be , Take Cheese and Bred and let them free , Sick Folk or those with Age Decay'd , Take nothing from ; make others Pay'd . And when you come to Maggie Lauther Stand at the Door and come no further ; If you go in I'm sure you'l feel , She'l beatrice your back and play the Di'el . 