C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 91 ) R A Confession and Lamentation : recommended to Mr. Madder to subscribe before his Death that thereby he may Appease his Country Men's wrath thats hight against him for his unaccount - able Hardness , sAY , To the Tune of , Captain JOHNSTONS Lament . MY Country Men come here I'le tell What now I must Confess , You've cal'd me Rogue these many days It's true I am no less : I'm Rogue to GOD to you and all With whom I had to do , Except to these my fellow Rogues ? Green and his wicked Crew . I many offers had from GOD Of peace , whil'st in this Land. But I alace in stead of these , Embrac'd the Dev'ls command : I hatted GOD and all his Like , As clearly may appear , By many things , but more by this , For which I'm fast kept here . I cannot all my Sins rehearse , Too many to be told , But 'gainst my Country what I've done I clearly will unfold ? It does me irk to think how long The same I have conceal'd But yet I'm glad ; that now I see My heart at length does yield , I from my Yeuth-upward did hate my Countries Poverty . Although I know Its only Spring Is Her pure Honesty . To England therefore I did go To wone Money to spend , I wone , and spent much , GOD know's how ? For which I make this end . To DRUMMOND's Murder , I was keen , Although I was a SCOT . When English some for Mercy cry'd , I cruelly cried , Not I In fine , we Murder'd , all the Crew , A most Nottorious Crime ! Wherefore in suffering Punishments , The cruelest should be mine . I did GOD'S Deputes here revile : Thinking them to Outbrav , A Hineous since I do confess for which I pardon crave . First from my Gracious GOD 'gainst whom I dreadfully have Sin'd , And then from them , from whom I have full pardon for to find . I might confess , more dreadful Sins committed by my hand , But that I think these I have told , do most concern this Land Let then my other Sins by GOD Be pardoned I pray , And let these only Ones by you , Be freely passed by . Think not . that I my Life do seek . Or do the same desire ; I think my life well spent if it Appease my Countries' Ire , I only Beg while Justice does My Life most justly crave You to our GOD in my behalf Some Tears and Prayers may give , My Country Men hiss not at me . In this my Misery Neither my Person , but my Crime , And practises hate you : What e're I've done I surely am A SCOTS Man truly Born . Tho' at this time by my desert I Justly am forlorn . To ev'ry SCOT that this does come I this advice commend . That He his Country don't deny For any Selfish end . Or Sure the Just GOD shall pursue With such reward as Mine . And then be sure he shall Repent , When it is Out of Time . FINISC : Ry. III . a.10 ( 91 ) R A Confession and Lamentation : recommended to Mr. Madder to subscribe before his Death that thereby he may Appease his Country Men's wrath thats hight against him for his unaccount - able Hardness , sAY , To the Tune of , Captain JOHNSTONS Lament . MY Country Men come here I'le tell What now I must Confess , You've cal'd me Rogue these many days It's true I am no less : I'm Rogue to GOD to you and all With whom I had to do , Except to these my fellow Rogues ? Green and his wicked Crew . I many offers had from GOD Of peace , whil'st in this Land. But I alace in stead of these , Embrac'd the Dev'ls command : I hatted GOD and all his Like , As clearly may appear , By many things , but more by this , For which I'm fast kept here . I cannot all my Sins rehearse , Too many to be told , But 'gainst my Country what I've done I clearly will unfold ? It does me irk to think how long The same I have conceal'd But yet I'm glad ; that now I see My heart at length does yield , I from my Yeuth-upward did hate my Countries Poverty . Although I know Its only Spring Is Her pure Honesty . To England therefore I did go To wone Money to spend , I wone , and spent much , GOD know's how ? For which I make this end . To DRUMMOND's Murder , I was keen , Although I was a SCOT . When English some for Mercy cry'd , I cruelly cried , Not I In fine , we Murder'd , all the Crew , A most Nottorious Crime ! Wherefore in suffering Punishments , The cruelest should be mine . I did GOD'S Deputes here revile : Thinking them to Outbrav , A Hineous since I do confess for which I pardon crave . First from my Gracious GOD 'gainst whom I dreadfully have Sin'd , And then from them , from whom I have full pardon for to find . I might confess , more dreadful Sins committed by my hand , But that I think these I have told , do most concern this Land Let then my other Sins by GOD Be pardoned I pray , And let these only Ones by you , Be freely passed by . Think not . that I my Life do seek . Or do the same desire ; I think my life well spent if it Appease my Countries' Ire , I only Beg while Justice does My Life most justly crave You to our GOD in my behalf Some Tears and Prayers may give , My Country Men hiss not at me . In this my Misery Neither my Person , but my Crime , And practises hate you : What e're I've done I surely am A SCOTS Man truly Born . Tho' at this time by my desert I Justly am forlorn . To ev'ry SCOT that this does come I this advice commend . That He his Country don't deny For any Selfish end . Or Sure the Just GOD shall pursue With such reward as Mine . And then be sure he shall Repent , When it is Out of Time . FINIS 