C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 94 ) A LECTURE to the LADIES , By a disobliged Admirer of the Fair Sex. SATAN , to ruin Mankind in the Root , The universal Queen , betray'd with Fruit ; A single Apple forfeits Adam's Crown ; The Curse of GOD went with the Apple down . E'er since , that Sex , tho' fair , with charming Shapes , Are Sodom's Apples , and Gommorrah's Grapes ; They have the Apple's ruddy Cheek and Skin : But ah ! the Serpent hides himself within . Was't not enough to taste the damning Tree , But you must guzzle down that cursed Tea ; A Plant which in the Devil's Garden grew , By which a second Time he poisons you . It's numerous Trains of Mischief who can tell ; Tea hath dispatch'd a thousand Souls to Hell . From whence does starting of the Nerves proceed ? Whence comes the paraletick Hand and Head ? Whence does our Sloth and Idleness arise ? What hatches all our Calumnies and Lies ? What makes backbiting to be Alamode ? What spreads our lewd lascivious Songs abroad ? What makes our Pride and Poverty increase ? What busks the Ladies in the Harlot's Dress ? What makes the Toliet overspread with Cards ? What makes our Daughters Whores , and ruins Lairds ? What keeps the Whig and Tory in a Battle ? What dwindles down good Sense to tittle tattle ? What makes young Miss lisp Oaths with English Air ? What makes the Matron loll in Elbow-Chair ; Forget her BIBLE for her China Ware ? What blows the Coal , and kindles all our Strife ? What gives a Husband Horns , and damns the Wife ? If whence these Mallieures flow , you do not see , Believe my Word , The Fountainhead is TEA . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 94 ) A LECTURE to the LADIES , By a disobliged Admirer of the Fair Sex. SATAN , to ruin Mankind in the Root , The universal Queen , betray'd with Fruit ; A single Apple forfeits Adam's Crown ; The Curse of GOD went with the Apple down . E'er since , that Sex , tho' fair , with charming Shapes , Are Sodom's Apples , and Gommorrah's Grapes ; They have the Apple's ruddy Cheek and Skin : But ah ! the Serpent hides himself within . Was't not enough to taste the damning Tree , But you must guzzle down that cursed Tea ; A Plant which in the Devil's Garden grew , By which a second Time he poisons you . It's numerous Trains of Mischief who can tell ; Tea hath dispatch'd a thousand Souls to Hell . From whence does starting of the Nerves proceed ? Whence comes the paraletick Hand and Head ? Whence does our Sloth and Idleness arise ? What hatches all our Calumnies and Lies ? What makes backbiting to be Alamode ? What spreads our lewd lascivious Songs abroad ? What makes our Pride and Poverty increase ? What busks the Ladies in the Harlot's Dress ? What makes the Toliet overspread with Cards ? What makes our Daughters Whores , and ruins Lairds ? What keeps the Whig and Tory in a Battle ? What dwindles down good Sense to tittle tattle ? What makes young Miss lisp Oaths with English Air ? What makes the Matron loll in Elbow-Chair ; Forget her BIBLE for her China Ware ? What blows the Coal , and kindles all our Strife ? What gives a Husband Horns , and damns the Wife ? If whence these Mallieures flow , you do not see , Believe my Word , The Fountainhead is TEA . 