C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 95 ) USURER . To the Tune of , Such a parcel a Rogues in a Nation . By a Cabal of Young LADIES . O Happy Time ! 'Tis no more a Crime T' impose Cheat and Rake for the Pelf now . With Freedom and Ease That at any rate Squeeze The Poor to Enrich my dear Self now . Coin is so scarce , And yields such a Price , Whatever I do ask they will give it ; Fourty per Cent. Beside Annual rend , I must have for each Sixpence , believe it . Our DARIEN-Plot , And wise Govern'd-State Have so Banish'd the Root of all Evil ; Made it so Scant , That all it do want , And gladly wou'd tick't even with the Devil . Peers are so vain With Liveries and Train , What Incomes they have , they do Squander ; Upstarts get a Title , To help away their Little That they're all driv'n to me ; then's no wonder . My Purse is at Call Both to Great and Small And their Strait is the Rule of the Bargain ; If Credit's at stake What I please , I take ; Once they're fix'd , let them go Complain then . Some wise Heads smile Thinks this lasts short while Since I'm reached both by Law and Decision . I've found a Trick That they can't me Neck ; So I mock all their Threats and Derision . Beaues of the Town Do all cry me down , Swears this Trade's not for me but a Scoundrel ; In spite of Fate , I'le make and Estate , Though in end I should Barter Heav'n for Hell . Thus sings a Knight , Well known by his Sighed , Far more by his Genteel Occupation ; Which is all he can , Like a Hater of Man , To Enrich by the Straits of the Nation . What can a Lass , Make of such and Ass , Both hated o' GOD and scoff'd by Mankind now ; Who's pleased with hell , Provided he'll tell Each Day Loads of Cash though he's purblind now . Our Sex do Agree , When the Knight we see To treat him with a general Hiss then ; All mock his Suit , As and Usurer Brute , And bid him his old Mother go Kiss then . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 95 ) USURER . To the Tune of , Such a parcel a Rogues in a Nation . By a Cabal of Young LADIES . O Happy Time ! 'Tis no more a Crime T' impose Cheat and Rake for the Pelf now . With Freedom and Ease That at any rate Squeeze The Poor to Enrich my dear Self now . Coin is so scarce , And yields such a Price , Whatever I do ask they will give it ; Fourty per Cent. Beside Annual rend , I must have for each Sixpence , believe it . Our DARIEN-Plot , And wise Govern'd-State Have so Banish'd the Root of all Evil ; Made it so Scant , That all it do want , And gladly wou'd tick't even with the Devil . Peers are so vain With Liveries and Train , What Incomes they have , they do Squander ; Upstarts get a Title , To help away their Little That they're all driv'n to me ; then's no wonder . My Purse is at Call Both to Great and Small And their Strait is the Rule of the Bargain ; If Credit's at stake What I please , I take ; Once they're fix'd , let them go Complain then . Some wise Heads smile Thinks this lasts short while Since I'm reached both by Law and Decision . I've found a Trick That they can't me Neck ; So I mock all their Threats and Derision . Beaues of the Town Do all cry me down , Swears this Trade's not for me but a Scoundrel ; In spite of Fate , I'le make and Estate , Though in end I should Barter Heav'n for Hell . Thus sings a Knight , Well known by his Sighed , Far more by his Genteel Occupation ; Which is all he can , Like a Hater of Man , To Enrich by the Straits of the Nation . What can a Lass , Make of such and Ass , Both hated o' GOD and scoff'd by Mankind now ; Who's pleased with hell , Provided he'll tell Each Day Loads of Cash though he's purblind now . Our Sex do Agree , When the Knight we see To treat him with a general Hiss then ; All mock his Suit , As and Usurer Brute , And bid him his old Mother go Kiss then . 