C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 90 ) Wedding Song , ON The Marraige of John Brown , Merchant in Holland , and Mar - garet Hepburn , Daughter to the Laird of Banfoot , Solemnized 28 of July 1714. THE Beauty new of Edinburgh Town , She's Chang'd her Colour into Brown , After it's so long Preservation , Shes like to pass out of this Nation , That she may Learn the Holland Fashion ; To Eat her Butter with Garleik , And so become a Lazy Freik , By mixing Bear with Brandy Wine , Makes Young Pigs grow ill Favour'd Swine And Eat their own Flesh when they Dine , In Sheives of Bred with Powdered Porck Until they Swim above like Cork . So that a Bairfoot must be best ; To Equalise all of that Nest , Where the Ruters and the Veits , Came to be Cut into Bits , Magie had better kept at Home , Than thither gone and Bairfoot come Again , when she's not worth a Plack , And her Brown turned is to Black , Like those who Suitors were to her , Who are grown mad and knows not where , To find their Fancy till Return , They see their old Jo Magie Hepburne , Come Home again and Change her Hew , Of Rid and White from Brown to Blue . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 90 ) Wedding Song , ON The Marraige of John Brown , Merchant in Holland , and Mar - garet Hepburn , Daughter to the Laird of Banfoot , Solemnized 28 of July 1714. THE Beauty new of Edinburgh Town , She's Chang'd her Colour into Brown , After it's so long Preservation , Shes like to pass out of this Nation , That she may Learn the Holland Fashion ; To Eat her Butter with Garleik , And so become a Lazy Freik , By mixing Bear with Brandy Wine , Makes Young Pigs grow ill Favour'd Swine And Eat their own Flesh when they Dine , In Sheives of Bred with Powdered Porck Until they Swim above like Cork . So that a Bairfoot must be best ; To Equalise all of that Nest , Where the Ruters and the Veits , Came to be Cut into Bits , Magie had better kept at Home , Than thither gone and Bairfoot come Again , when she's not worth a Plack , And her Brown turned is to Black , Like those who Suitors were to her , Who are grown mad and knows not where , To find their Fancy till Return , They see their old Jo Magie Hepburne , Come Home again and Change her Hew , Of Rid and White from Brown to Blue . 