C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 101 ) The Life and History OF ROBERT the RAVEN . Peers , Gentlemen , give Audience , To Fable ta'en from Common Sense . THE British Birds of late call'd over , A Grand Fowl bred up at H ----- r , Exalted him to great Renown , Deck'd with a rich Imperial Crown ; He swore he would maintain their Cause , Religion , Liberties and Laws . This Eagle then he did create Rob Raven Minister of State . Full twenty Years Rob rul'd the Roast , Enhanc'd , dispos'd each gainful Post . Misled the Council of the Nation , Invented many a new Taxation , Advanc'd , degraded at his Pleasure , Plunder'd the public Stock and Treasure . Corrupting ministerial Tools , Made Havoc of the Nation's Spoils . His blund'ring Treaties did advance The Pow'r and Trade of Rival France . Our Pow'r , Wealth , Trade did quite decay , To Spanish Vultures made a Prey . No more the French Cock stood in Awe , O'er the Young Eagle he did craw . Her Int'rest Rob did quite betray To many rav'ning Birds of Prey , Who pluck'd her Wings , and held her down , Despoil'd of her Imperial Crown . True British Birds did long lament , Made many a heavy loud Complaint ; Our Nation brought to great disgrace . At last Rob yielded up his Place . Of all our Product , Trade , and Toil , This Raven wears the golden Spoil ; He's black and fat , immensely rich , And still the Eagle does bewitch ; Tho' he be rav'nous , most unclean , He lurks and rules behind the Screen . That Grievances may be redress'd , Peers , choose a Hawk of a good Nest , Of Birth , and Worth , and Metal keen , To drive Rob from behind the Screen ; Even such a Nest , as is most clean , Dalkeith , Redbraes , or Aberdeen . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 101 ) The Life and History OF ROBERT the RAVEN . Peers , Gentlemen , give Audience , To Fable ta'en from Common Sense . THE British Birds of late call'd over , A Grand Fowl bred up at H ----- r , Exalted him to great Renown , Deck'd with a rich Imperial Crown ; He swore he would maintain their Cause , Religion , Liberties and Laws . This Eagle then he did create Rob Raven Minister of State . Full twenty Years Rob rul'd the Roast , Enhanc'd , dispos'd each gainful Post . Misled the Council of the Nation , Invented many a new Taxation , Advanc'd , degraded at his Pleasure , Plunder'd the public Stock and Treasure . Corrupting ministerial Tools , Made Havoc of the Nation's Spoils . His blund'ring Treaties did advance The Pow'r and Trade of Rival France . Our Pow'r , Wealth , Trade did quite decay , To Spanish Vultures made a Prey . No more the French Cock stood in Awe , O'er the Young Eagle he did craw . Her Int'rest Rob did quite betray To many rav'ning Birds of Prey , Who pluck'd her Wings , and held her down , Despoil'd of her Imperial Crown . True British Birds did long lament , Made many a heavy loud Complaint ; Our Nation brought to great disgrace . At last Rob yielded up his Place . Of all our Product , Trade , and Toil , This Raven wears the golden Spoil ; He's black and fat , immensely rich , And still the Eagle does bewitch ; Tho' he be rav'nous , most unclean , He lurks and rules behind the Screen . That Grievances may be redress'd , Peers , choose a Hawk of a good Nest , Of Birth , and Worth , and Metal keen , To drive Rob from behind the Screen ; Even such a Nest , as is most clean , Dalkeith , Redbraes , or Aberdeen . 