C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 102 ) GRAY's ELLEGIE WITH HIS Own Conceity ANSWER . 1 AND has ald Death e'n come at last and of his Craft ge'n Grey a cast , Without Respect to Aull or last For ought I hear , Tho' he were Dead ther's no much lost Nay find a Tear . 2 His Parents I did ken fow' well , indeed was better nor himself , But for a Truth I cannot tell How old was he , E'n ask his Meed-wife Jannie Beell , She winny Lie . 3 With Willie Mathew he was bred , a purpose for to learn a Trade , But a the Wives in the Moor side , Had little Peace , But now into his Grave he's laid That crossed their Fate . 4 Oh But he was a cruel Knave , skull Davie's Dog and a the leave They were not sure and Hour to live , nor half O that , He Chaste , he Stand , he sought no leave To beatrice their Back . 5 He left Monross his Native Land , and Betty too I understand , With ne'r a Penny in her Hand Nor Credit had , Ther's no great Miss tho' Death command This roving Blade . 6 This Grey he had a virtuous Wife , was careful of him all his Life , Poor Woman she had mikle Grief ay while he Liv'd , But now of Sorrow , Sturt and Strife She's e'n reliev'd 7 A Right good Shoe he cou'd a made , But very careless O' his Trade , Oh mikle ado poor Bettie had To make him Wirk , This lazy Loun in Grave is laid There let him Lurk , 8 When he would to the Alehouse tour there he would clash and drink and Hour , He nee'r forgotten you may be sure The News to read , Nor did he let the Ale grow Sour , That's true indeed . 9 Forsooth he was a jelly Goose , the Tippony about did toss , And with good Fellows took his Doss of Ale you ken . But now the Ale-Wives at a loss Fin care O' them . 10 For Honnest Betty money a Day , has wish't that a their Bungs were dry , But wou'd you ken the Reason why , He stay'd our Lang And this did Cross Poor Betty ay . when she was Thrang 1 WHAT Raskal's this dar be so bold , me for to Hector so and Scold That thinks my faillings to unfold Which does me grieve For I am neither Dead nor Old , But we your Leave . 2 Is Louden Folks sick Fools think you , will they go Thirty Miles and three , To ask the Dead how old I be , That's Jannie Beell , That she can neither Speak nor Lie , They ken fow well . 3 It's true I unto Mathew went , to learn a Trade was my Intent , But Wives more cross then Dogs in Lent it's there did dwell , To make them gree much Time I spent Themselves can tell . 4 How cou'd I be a cruel Knave , to Davie's Dog and a the lave They eat our Hides which did us grieve or they were Tan'd To Thieves I'm sure if Justice give , They should be Hang'd 5 I pray you Sir how do you ken , what Money in her Purse was then Be careful ay folks Name to stain Out fie for Shame , Let Charity with you remain look ay at Hame , 6 It's true I have a Virtuous Wife loves me as she do's her Life , Sure you would give her no Relief Gin I were Dead , No Farthel nor a Penny Loaf . Nay Fiend a Head. 7 It is well kenned into this Town , that I can make a pair of Shoes , Although you say I make but and , And does discrave , Me as Give I were dead and gone , whose yet alive 8 I do not think it with my Pen , to answer Nonsense Line by Line , Nor do I yet the Roason ken , What ailse the lown It's Time when I am Dead and gone for to begin . 9 My Elegy it for to make , such balder dash to undertake Indeed I'm sorry for your sake You silly Fool , It shows your Judgement is but wake To redicoll 10 Me with Sour Ale , or this and that , dry Bungs long Staying , I ken not what , It's a but Nonsense well I what You should be whang'd , I do not wallow you a Plack . E'n go be hang'd . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 102 ) GRAY's ELLEGIE WITH HIS Own Conceity ANSWER . 1 AND has ald Death e'n come at last and of his Craft ge'n Grey a cast , Without Respect to Aull or last For ought I hear , Tho' he were Dead ther's no much lost Nay find a Tear . 2 His Parents I did ken fow' well , indeed was better nor himself , But for a Truth I cannot tell How old was he , E'n ask his Meed-wife Jannie Beell , She winny Lie . 3 With Willie Mathew he was bred , a purpose for to learn a Trade , But a the Wives in the Moor side , Had little Peace , But now into his Grave he's laid That crossed their Fate . 4 Oh But he was a cruel Knave , skull Davie's Dog and a the leave They were not sure and Hour to live , nor half O that , He Chaste , he Stand , he sought no leave To beatrice their Back . 5 He left Monross his Native Land , and Betty too I understand , With ne'r a Penny in her Hand Nor Credit had , Ther's no great Miss tho' Death command This roving Blade . 6 This Grey he had a virtuous Wife , was careful of him all his Life , Poor Woman she had mikle Grief ay while he Liv'd , But now of Sorrow , Sturt and Strife She's e'n reliev'd 7 A Right good Shoe he cou'd a made , But very careless O' his Trade , Oh mikle ado poor Bettie had To make him Wirk , This lazy Loun in Grave is laid There let him Lurk , 8 When he would to the Alehouse tour there he would clash and drink and Hour , He nee'r forgotten you may be sure The News to read , Nor did he let the Ale grow Sour , That's true indeed . 9 Forsooth he was a jelly Goose , the Tippony about did toss , And with good Fellows took his Doss of Ale you ken . But now the Ale-Wives at a loss Fin care O' them . 10 For Honnest Betty money a Day , has wish't that a their Bungs were dry , But wou'd you ken the Reason why , He stay'd our Lang And this did Cross Poor Betty ay . when she was Thrang 1 WHAT Raskal's this dar be so bold , me for to Hector so and Scold That thinks my faillings to unfold Which does me grieve For I am neither Dead nor Old , But we your Leave . 2 Is Louden Folks sick Fools think you , will they go Thirty Miles and three , To ask the Dead how old I be , That's Jannie Beell , That she can neither Speak nor Lie , They ken fow well . 3 It's true I unto Mathew went , to learn a Trade was my Intent , But Wives more cross then Dogs in Lent it's there did dwell , To make them gree much Time I spent Themselves can tell . 4 How cou'd I be a cruel Knave , to Davie's Dog and a the lave They eat our Hides which did us grieve or they were Tan'd To Thieves I'm sure if Justice give , They should be Hang'd 5 I pray you Sir how do you ken , what Money in her Purse was then Be careful ay folks Name to stain Out fie for Shame , Let Charity with you remain look ay at Hame , 6 It's true I have a Virtuous Wife loves me as she do's her Life , Sure you would give her no Relief Gin I were Dead , No Farthel nor a Penny Loaf . Nay Fiend a Head. 7 It is well kenned into this Town , that I can make a pair of Shoes , Although you say I make but and , And does discrave , Me as Give I were dead and gone , whose yet alive 8 I do not think it with my Pen , to answer Nonsense Line by Line , Nor do I yet the Roason ken , What ailse the lown It's Time when I am Dead and gone for to begin . 9 My Elegy it for to make , such balder dash to undertake Indeed I'm sorry for your sake You silly Fool , It shows your Judgement is but wake To redicoll 10 Me with Sour Ale , or this and that , dry Bungs long Staying , I ken not what , It's a but Nonsense well I what You should be whang'd , I do not wallow you a Plack . E'n go be hang'd . 