C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 106 ) A LETTER FROM Doctor Dalgleish to his Patient Mrs. McLeod , and her Answer . MLeod , you vild Adulterous Jad , Think you my Service is so bad , That you think shame to ca' me Master You filthy Drunken Warld's Waster , Mrs. ye're come to be a Patien To the best Doctor in this Nation , And if that you his Name would kno' Into this Town he's Lord Provo , So Mrs. tell me your Disease , And in short Time I will you ease . McLeod . John I'll tell you without e're frolic , I'm troubled with a Horn Colic , So if Relief you dinam send me , I believe the Colic , it will end me , Likewise my Neck is turned Yockie , Can you Cure that you Devl's Buckie . John. Yes by my Faith and that I can , As well as any Mortal Man , For I'm a Doctor ev'n as good , As ever was since Noah's Flood , For I took never one in Hand , But what I cur'd in this Land , Except it was I'll hanged Megg , Whom I am sure , I did well fleg , Let your Disease be what it will , You Whore , I have both Art and Skill , If it fallen , you ha'e the Pox , Of my fam'd Pills yes get a Box , Or if that you be for the Floe , A Box of Mercury ye's get too . McLeod . Doctor a Folks says that y'll wrang me , For you'r Main Cure it is to hang me . John. Mrs. upo' my Faith and Truth , For to Hang you I would be loath . McLeod . John y're nought but a cheating Carlie , For if you cou'd , you'd hang me fairly , I soon may get a better Spoks-man , Than him that is the City's Locks-man . John. Mrs I pray , let be your Canting , For your harsh Language , I'm not wanting . McLeod . John you're nathing but a Fumbler , And at your Trade a perfect Bumbler , For you late and wi' Life avua , My Sister Megg in Fisherae . John. At this the Doctor stood bumbaz'd , And he upon his Patient Gaz'd . And Ca'd her base B --- h Whore and Limmer , And said when she came to his Timber , That he twa Hours would gar her Hing , And more into a well Crish't String . There you shall hing till you be dead , And your two Eyes turn in you'r Head. FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 106 ) A LETTER FROM Doctor Dalgleish to his Patient Mrs. McLeod , and her Answer . MLeod , you vild Adulterous Jad , Think you my Service is so bad , That you think shame to ca' me Master You filthy Drunken Warld's Waster , Mrs. ye're come to be a Patien To the best Doctor in this Nation , And if that you his Name would kno' Into this Town he's Lord Provo , So Mrs. tell me your Disease , And in short Time I will you ease . McLeod . John I'll tell you without e're frolic , I'm troubled with a Horn Colic , So if Relief you dinam send me , I believe the Colic , it will end me , Likewise my Neck is turned Yockie , Can you Cure that you Devl's Buckie . John. Yes by my Faith and that I can , As well as any Mortal Man , For I'm a Doctor ev'n as good , As ever was since Noah's Flood , For I took never one in Hand , But what I cur'd in this Land , Except it was I'll hanged Megg , Whom I am sure , I did well fleg , Let your Disease be what it will , You Whore , I have both Art and Skill , If it fallen , you ha'e the Pox , Of my fam'd Pills yes get a Box , Or if that you be for the Floe , A Box of Mercury ye's get too . McLeod . Doctor a Folks says that y'll wrang me , For you'r Main Cure it is to hang me . John. Mrs. upo' my Faith and Truth , For to Hang you I would be loath . McLeod . John y're nought but a cheating Carlie , For if you cou'd , you'd hang me fairly , I soon may get a better Spoks-man , Than him that is the City's Locks-man . John. Mrs I pray , let be your Canting , For your harsh Language , I'm not wanting . McLeod . John you're nathing but a Fumbler , And at your Trade a perfect Bumbler , For you late and wi' Life avua , My Sister Megg in Fisherae . John. At this the Doctor stood bumbaz'd , And he upon his Patient Gaz'd . And Ca'd her base B --- h Whore and Limmer , And said when she came to his Timber , That he twa Hours would gar her Hing , And more into a well Crish't String . There you shall hing till you be dead , And your two Eyes turn in you'r Head. FINIS . 