C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 116 ) THE LADY's ANSWER , TO THE Sev'ral little Satires ON THE HOOP'D PETTICOATS . PRovock'd at length by such unhuman Spite , Such sordid Stuff , we're now compell'd to write ; And who'd contain , when some so void of Sense , Attempt to ridicule that sacred Fence ; For we contriv'd the Hoop to interpose 'Twixt us and these confounded Creatures Beaux : And rather choose these huge unwieldy Tails , Than the too near Incroachments of the Males . But they enrag'd and griev'd at such restraint , A Thousand Things in vain , to fright us ven See how ( say one ) these little Mountains move , Each moulded in the Shape of Suggar Loaves ; As if they meant to have it understood , They're something more than common Flesh and Blood . Bless me ! ( another ) what a swinging Tail ! Heav'ns ! how the Ladies mountainlike now sail ! Faith ! Hoops would be good Winter Quarters John ; If they were not too near the Torrid Zone . Others again maliciously enfold , And swear the Hoop's a Lover's lurking Hold . But some lewd Beaux , affecting zealous Rage , Affirm it does portend a wanton Age ; Since , notwithstanding Nature's Store behind , Engines must be contriv'd to gather Wind. Good GOD ! cou'd any here such horrid Spite ; Such hurtful Cunning , and forbear to write ? Yet ( tho' your Wigs of such and antique Size , And Hats that seem design'd for Hercules , Tho' Kapers , Snuff-box-air , pedantic Brains , Are rare materials for Satyric Strains ; And tho' invited by a prosperous Gale , To quite the Shore and lose the eager Sail ) Since we design to heighten your Restraint , ( Which seems to be the greatest Punishment ) And make the Hoops much larger than before , For mere Revenge , we'll trouble with no more : But , if again you venture anywhere , To ridicule , by Jove we will not spare . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 116 ) THE LADY's ANSWER , TO THE Sev'ral little Satires ON THE HOOP'D PETTICOATS . PRovock'd at length by such unhuman Spite , Such sordid Stuff , we're now compell'd to write ; And who'd contain , when some so void of Sense , Attempt to ridicule that sacred Fence ; For we contriv'd the Hoop to interpose 'Twixt us and these confounded Creatures Beaux : And rather choose these huge unwieldy Tails , Than the too near Incroachments of the Males . But they enrag'd and griev'd at such restraint , A Thousand Things in vain , to fright us ven See how ( say one ) these little Mountains move , Each moulded in the Shape of Suggar Loaves ; As if they meant to have it understood , They're something more than common Flesh and Blood . Bless me ! ( another ) what a swinging Tail ! Heav'ns ! how the Ladies mountainlike now sail ! Faith ! Hoops would be good Winter Quarters John ; If they were not too near the Torrid Zone . Others again maliciously enfold , And swear the Hoop's a Lover's lurking Hold . But some lewd Beaux , affecting zealous Rage , Affirm it does portend a wanton Age ; Since , notwithstanding Nature's Store behind , Engines must be contriv'd to gather Wind. Good GOD ! cou'd any here such horrid Spite ; Such hurtful Cunning , and forbear to write ? Yet ( tho' your Wigs of such and antique Size , And Hats that seem design'd for Hercules , Tho' Kapers , Snuff-box-air , pedantic Brains , Are rare materials for Satyric Strains ; And tho' invited by a prosperous Gale , To quite the Shore and lose the eager Sail ) Since we design to heighten your Restraint , ( Which seems to be the greatest Punishment ) And make the Hoops much larger than before , For mere Revenge , we'll trouble with no more : But , if again you venture anywhere , To ridicule , by Jove we will not spare . FINIS . 