C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 109 ) AND ACCOUNT OF The Life and Actions of Mrs. McLeod . Nemo sine crimine vivit . SInce nought can satisfy the Wrath , Of these my Foes , but only Death , Before that I the World leave , My Confession ye's get , I do believe ; It would be tedious to narrate , Each single since I did create , Because that they seem to be more , Than Sand that is on the Sea Shore ; That since in which I had mayest Skill , It was to counterfeit a Bill , Yea , many one I counterfeit , When very few did know of it . For , or quite run out , was the Bill , The Money I had ready still : So continually , this Life liv'd I , For the which Cause I'm now to die . If that I rightly do conceive , My second since was to deceive , For I had trafeking in a Ware , Which helped to bring them in my Snare , Glass , Brandy , Wine , also Timber , To a' sic Wares I played the Limber . My main drift was , folks to defraud , Of Good I even being void . The third since , I am very sure , It was with Men to play the Whore , And now I plainly will you tell , I did not always whore my fell , Indeed sometime the Pimp I played , Then I tell you from what's been said , Them that's a Whore is while a Thief , Thus I in Wickedness was brief . That I did cheat , whore , steal , and lie , And did drink up Iniquity , As e're the Ox , did drink Water , For which at length I'm found a fater . This is come from my Hand express , And all that's here I do confess , Likewise I do desire all them , That forges Bills in others Name , For to leave off , or then Expect , As well's me , to hing by the Neck . And I now plainly do you tell , It is the patent way to Hell . Likewise all you that plays the Whore , Take this Advice from me , for sure , That tho' I've been a wicked Woman , Mind I you tell the Time is coming , If you don't leave your way of since , And that cursed way in which you'r in Your End like mine , may come to be , For to be hanged on a Tree . For I tell you , Shame always must , Attend all ungoverned Lust . Them that their Neighbour do defraud , Of Goodness seems for to be void , For tho' that I confess my fell , And to my Shame I do it tell , That a' my way was that I liv'd . For I with Cheets and Thieves coneiv'd . Till I by Justice was pursu'd , And to be hanged was allowed . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 109 ) AND ACCOUNT OF The Life and Actions of Mrs. McLeod . Nemo sine crimine vivit . SInce nought can satisfy the Wrath , Of these my Foes , but only Death , Before that I the World leave , My Confession ye's get , I do believe ; It would be tedious to narrate , Each single since I did create , Because that they seem to be more , Than Sand that is on the Sea Shore ; That since in which I had mayest Skill , It was to counterfeit a Bill , Yea , many one I counterfeit , When very few did know of it . For , or quite run out , was the Bill , The Money I had ready still : So continually , this Life liv'd I , For the which Cause I'm now to die . If that I rightly do conceive , My second since was to deceive , For I had trafeking in a Ware , Which helped to bring them in my Snare , Glass , Brandy , Wine , also Timber , To a' sic Wares I played the Limber . My main drift was , folks to defraud , Of Good I even being void . The third since , I am very sure , It was with Men to play the Whore , And now I plainly will you tell , I did not always whore my fell , Indeed sometime the Pimp I played , Then I tell you from what's been said , Them that's a Whore is while a Thief , Thus I in Wickedness was brief . That I did cheat , whore , steal , and lie , And did drink up Iniquity , As e're the Ox , did drink Water , For which at length I'm found a fater . This is come from my Hand express , And all that's here I do confess , Likewise I do desire all them , That forges Bills in others Name , For to leave off , or then Expect , As well's me , to hing by the Neck . And I now plainly do you tell , It is the patent way to Hell . Likewise all you that plays the Whore , Take this Advice from me , for sure , That tho' I've been a wicked Woman , Mind I you tell the Time is coming , If you don't leave your way of since , And that cursed way in which you'r in Your End like mine , may come to be , For to be hanged on a Tree . For I tell you , Shame always must , Attend all ungoverned Lust . Them that their Neighbour do defraud , Of Goodness seems for to be void , For tho' that I confess my fell , And to my Shame I do it tell , That a' my way was that I liv'd . For I with Cheets and Thieves coneiv'd . Till I by Justice was pursu'd , And to be hanged was allowed . FINIS . 