C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 110 ) AND ELEGY On the never to be lamented Death of Mirs . McLeod , who was Execute on Wednesday the 8th of March , 1727. O Curs'd Atropus , thou cancard Wife , I wonder what aild thee to draw thy Knife , And in such Fury , for to take the Life of honest Lucky , Wha was and ne're bred Stirt nor Strife , You de'ils Bucky . ( 2 ) I'm very sure that you did wrong her , In sending John Dalglish to hang her , You might have let her leave some langer , Maybe she'd mended But John out o're the Lader dang her , Thus she Life ended . ( 3 ) The World kens she was a Whore , A Cheet , a Liar and evil Doer , And like a Falk'ner with his Lure , She did entice , Many and honest Man I'm sure , To be her Prize . ( 4 ) Mourn for her , you that Sisters be , Into the Trade of Venery , Groan , Greet and Roar until you die , Cause Megg is dead , Who at our Trade boar off the Gree , As clean's a Beed . ( 5 ) Let Tears from a' Eyes be distil'd . And let our Hearts with Grief be fill'd , To think , that Megg herself has kill'd , wi' her an Hands , Because that she was so well skill'd , In forging Bans , ( 6 ) Let us who Cheets or plays the Knave , Mourn for poor Megg as well's the Leave , Or yet our Neighbour's does deceive , Like Cheeting Li'rs , Follow poor Megg unto her Grave , In the Grayfri'rs . ( 7 ) I grant that she does go avua , From Gallows to the Surgeons Ha' To be desect among them a' That's Surgeon Lads , We'll follow her , all in a Raw , Cheets , Thieves and Bads . ( 8 ) Because , when that she was alive , She thieflick Shifts did ay contrive , All honest Men for to deprive , Of their good Name , For which Cause John , did poor Megg drive , To her lang Hame . ( 9 ) Sae proudly she went up the Town , wi' Shivirings white and Satin Gown , And John Dalglish that Hangman Lown , walking behind her , Then when the Bow they both went down , She bade him mind her . ( 10 ) And Swore to John upon her Life , That she without e're Stirt or Strife , Would leave her Cleas unto his Wife , To busk on Sunday . Because of them she is not riff , wi' that a Jundy , ( 11 ) John did gi' Megg out o're the Ledder , Till she did swing into his Tedder , And as tender Hearted as a Father , And so discreet , Or he would hurt her Neck , he'd rather , Draw down her Feet . ( 12 ) Now when that she is dead and gane , And stiff and cauld as any Stane , I'm sure they'l none for her make Main , Save Brother Curry , Who down the Bow by John , will be drawn , In Tow to worry . Her EPITAPH , EIther into the Surgeons ha' Or else in the Gray-Friars , Lyes an , who John in's Tow did draw , Queen of Whores , Cheet and Liars . Wha in her Life bred meikle Strife , Few can her Life commend , For them that lives a bad Life . Always the same dos End. FINIS , C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 110 ) AND ELEGY On the never to be lamented Death of Mirs . McLeod , who was Execute on Wednesday the 8th of March , 1727. O Curs'd Atropus , thou cancard Wife , I wonder what aild thee to draw thy Knife , And in such Fury , for to take the Life of honest Lucky , Wha was and ne're bred Stirt nor Strife , You de'ils Bucky . ( 2 ) I'm very sure that you did wrong her , In sending John Dalglish to hang her , You might have let her leave some langer , Maybe she'd mended But John out o're the Lader dang her , Thus she Life ended . ( 3 ) The World kens she was a Whore , A Cheet , a Liar and evil Doer , And like a Falk'ner with his Lure , She did entice , Many and honest Man I'm sure , To be her Prize . ( 4 ) Mourn for her , you that Sisters be , Into the Trade of Venery , Groan , Greet and Roar until you die , Cause Megg is dead , Who at our Trade boar off the Gree , As clean's a Beed . ( 5 ) Let Tears from a' Eyes be distil'd . And let our Hearts with Grief be fill'd , To think , that Megg herself has kill'd , wi' her an Hands , Because that she was so well skill'd , In forging Bans , ( 6 ) Let us who Cheets or plays the Knave , Mourn for poor Megg as well's the Leave , Or yet our Neighbour's does deceive , Like Cheeting Li'rs , Follow poor Megg unto her Grave , In the Grayfri'rs . ( 7 ) I grant that she does go avua , From Gallows to the Surgeons Ha' To be desect among them a' That's Surgeon Lads , We'll follow her , all in a Raw , Cheets , Thieves and Bads . ( 8 ) Because , when that she was alive , She thieflick Shifts did ay contrive , All honest Men for to deprive , Of their good Name , For which Cause John , did poor Megg drive , To her lang Hame . ( 9 ) Sae proudly she went up the Town , wi' Shivirings white and Satin Gown , And John Dalglish that Hangman Lown , walking behind her , Then when the Bow they both went down , She bade him mind her . ( 10 ) And Swore to John upon her Life , That she without e're Stirt or Strife , Would leave her Cleas unto his Wife , To busk on Sunday . Because of them she is not riff , wi' that a Jundy , ( 11 ) John did gi' Megg out o're the Ledder , Till she did swing into his Tedder , And as tender Hearted as a Father , And so discreet , Or he would hurt her Neck , he'd rather , Draw down her Feet . ( 12 ) Now when that she is dead and gane , And stiff and cauld as any Stane , I'm sure they'l none for her make Main , Save Brother Curry , Who down the Bow by John , will be drawn , In Tow to worry . Her EPITAPH , EIther into the Surgeons ha' Or else in the Gray-Friars , Lyes an , who John in's Tow did draw , Queen of Whores , Cheet and Liars . Wha in her Life bred meikle Strife , Few can her Life commend , For them that lives a bad Life . Always the same dos End. FINIS , 