C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 118 ) The New Way of BONNY JEAN . ( 1 ) The Nymph . LOves fairest Youth , in blooming May , Stood Musing by a River Side , Where the Bright Goddess of the Day , Had deck'd the Plain in Glorious Pride : Then Laurels green crown'd bonny Jean , And secret Flames bred Constancy ; Almighty Jove soon from above , Fix'd Love's sweet Passion in her Eye . ( 2 ) God Cupid and his Golden Rays , With Speed towards the Fountain drew ; He at a Distance views the Blaze ; And hope's to make it change its Hew : Then Whispers fast with Glances past , And Raptures flew their Breasts between , A trembling Air did seize the Fair , And stop'd the Course of bonny Jean . ( 3 ) The Wreaths of Gold about her Neck , Did with a splendid Lustre Shine , The Crystal Streams seem'd to reflect Her Beauty that appear'd Divine : Love's Murmurs sweet was there complete , And Fancy was supply'd by Art ; They pop'd for Day prolong'd its Ray , And quiter'd in the Female's Heart . ( 4 ) Hyperion with Golden Care , Did from the Eastern Ocean move , And blustering Mars , that God of War , In Glistering Arms approach'd the Grove : Then Pallas wife did first advice , Who best affects the Charmer's Love , If Mars , or he Apollo be , Fit to compet with powerful Jove . ( 5 ) Still Cupid seem'd to fear no Harm ; He stricks the Charmer to the Heart , And gives her Beauty and Alarm , To raise and act a Lover's Par With killing Eyes to Mar she flys , And sets the Warlike God apart , She leaves the Grove to follow Love , And thanks kind Cupid for the Dart. ( 6 ) No more she'll hover o're the Plains , Or view the Water's empty Sholds , No more she'll use among the Swains ; That bears a Sway in Cupid's Folds ; Her Eye's a Lamp to Venus Camp , Where soft perfuming Flames do burn The Robs of Green dispis'd by Jean , Are only fit for those that mourn . FINIS . Edinburgh , Printed by John Reid in Pearson's Closs , 1719. C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 118 ) The New Way of BONNY JEAN . ( 1 ) The Nymph . LOves fairest Youth , in blooming May , Stood Musing by a River Side , Where the Bright Goddess of the Day , Had deck'd the Plain in Glorious Pride : Then Laurels green crown'd bonny Jean , And secret Flames bred Constancy ; Almighty Jove soon from above , Fix'd Love's sweet Passion in her Eye . ( 2 ) God Cupid and his Golden Rays , With Speed towards the Fountain drew ; He at a Distance views the Blaze ; And hope's to make it change its Hew : Then Whispers fast with Glances past , And Raptures flew their Breasts between , A trembling Air did seize the Fair , And stop'd the Course of bonny Jean . ( 3 ) The Wreaths of Gold about her Neck , Did with a splendid Lustre Shine , The Crystal Streams seem'd to reflect Her Beauty that appear'd Divine : Love's Murmurs sweet was there complete , And Fancy was supply'd by Art ; They pop'd for Day prolong'd its Ray , And quiter'd in the Female's Heart . ( 4 ) Hyperion with Golden Care , Did from the Eastern Ocean move , And blustering Mars , that God of War , In Glistering Arms approach'd the Grove : Then Pallas wife did first advice , Who best affects the Charmer's Love , If Mars , or he Apollo be , Fit to compet with powerful Jove . ( 5 ) Still Cupid seem'd to fear no Harm ; He stricks the Charmer to the Heart , And gives her Beauty and Alarm , To raise and act a Lover's Par With killing Eyes to Mar she flys , And sets the Warlike God apart , She leaves the Grove to follow Love , And thanks kind Cupid for the Dart. ( 6 ) No more she'll hover o're the Plains , Or view the Water's empty Sholds , No more she'll use among the Swains ; That bears a Sway in Cupid's Folds ; Her Eye's a Lamp to Venus Camp , Where soft perfuming Flames do burn The Robs of Green dispis'd by Jean , Are only fit for those that mourn . FINIS . Edinburgh , Printed by John Reid in Pearson's Closs , 1719. 