The Frantic LOVER : Or , The Wandering Young-Man . With Grief and Care he is oppressed , no Comfort can he find ; In Nights he is disturb'd of Rest , Caus'd by his Love unkind . To and Excellent New Play-House Tune . This may be Printed , R.P. YOu are so fair and cruel too , I am amaz'd what I shall do to purchase my desire ; Sometime your eyes does me invite . But when I enter you kill me quite , and the more increase my fire . Long I have lov'd , and am abus'd , And when I offer , I am refus'd , can any suffer more ? Be coy , be cruel , do your worst Though for your sake I am accursed , I must and will adore . Was you as kind , as sweet and fair , No creature could with thee compare , to love I am inclin'd ; But yet I understand and see , That you're resolv'd to torture me , Oh are you not unkind ? Can you forget the vow you made , When as in solemn sort you said , I was your only joy : Yet now you will no favour show , But prove my final overthrow , and would my life destroy . Sometime in dreams I do behold Your tresses like fair threads of gold , likewise your beauty bright ; But when I waken from my rest , And find that I am dispossessed , it proves my ruin quite . When first I did thy beauty see , Oh then thou didst appear to be and Angel in my eye : Like lambs together we did play , But now thine heart is drawn away tell me the reason why ? Was I not only just and true , Pray let me here be try'd by you , then what may be the cause That you unworthily forsake Your love and like a tyrant break , the bonds of Cupids Laws . What grief of heart do I endure ? 'Tis the alone can kill or cure , send me one gentle smile ; Or else I through the world will range , For why my Love can never change , Oh do not me revile . For sure I am , my Love is true , Where e're I range i'll honour you , in sounding forth thy praise ; If I may not enjoy the Bliss , Bestow on me a parting kiss , I'll wander out my days . Her ANSWER . AM I so fair and cruel too , As has reported been by you ? 'tis false , pray don't revile : In one you seem to flatter me , Then charge me with much cruelty , where is your love the while . You tell me that you loved long , And through me have received wrong prey is this false or true ? When did the darts of my disdain , Give any reason to complain ? I will be judg'd by you . When first to me you did make Suit , If then I held you in dispute , was this disloyalty ? I must confess it would be brave , If young men could but ask and have , maids soon would slighted be . 'Tis not the mode for maids to woo , Yet when we find Men just and true , then , then we often yield : This is no more then modesty , But he that would have more of me , shall never win the field . But if thy Heart so Loyal be , As not to fancy none but me , in all the world beside : Then I will willingly comply , In loyal Love to live and die whatever may betide . I'le make it all my study still , To be obedient to thy will , true blessings to restore : Here in my arms I'll the enfold , And prize the more then all the Gold , on the rich Indian Shore . The moan you made my heart did move , Thou shalt not wander from thy Love , whom you so much adore : And therefore now no more repine , Take Hand and Heart , I will be thine , what canst thou wish for more ? FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate . The Frantic LOVER : Or , The Wandering Young-Man . With Grief and Care he is oppressed , no Comfort can he find ; In Nights he is disturb'd of Rest , Caus'd by his Love unkind . To and Excellent New Play-House Tune . This may be Printed , R.P. YOu are so fair and cruel too , I am amaz'd what I shall do to purchase my desire ; Sometime your eyes does me invite . But when I enter you kill me quite , and the more increase my fire . Long I have lov'd , and am abus'd , And when I offer , I am refus'd , can any suffer more ? Be coy , be cruel , do your worst Though for your sake I am accursed , I must and will adore . Was you as kind , as sweet and fair , No creature could with thee compare , to love I am inclin'd ; But yet I understand and see , That you're resolv'd to torture me , Oh are you not unkind ? Can you forget the vow you made , When as in solemn sort you said , I was your only joy : Yet now you will no favour show , But prove my final overthrow , and would my life destroy . Sometime in dreams I do behold Your tresses like fair threads of gold , likewise your beauty bright ; But when I waken from my rest , And find that I am dispossessed , it proves my ruin quite . When first I did thy beauty see , Oh then thou didst appear to be and Angel in my eye : Like lambs together we did play , But now thine heart is drawn away tell me the reason why ? Was I not only just and true , Pray let me here be try'd by you , then what may be the cause That you unworthily forsake Your love and like a tyrant break , the bonds of Cupids Laws . What grief of heart do I endure ? 'Tis the alone can kill or cure , send me one gentle smile ; Or else I through the world will range , For why my Love can never change , Oh do not me revile . For sure I am , my Love is true , Where e're I range i'll honour you , in sounding forth thy praise ; If I may not enjoy the Bliss , Bestow on me a parting kiss , I'll wander out my days . Her ANSWER . AM I so fair and cruel too , As has reported been by you ? 'tis false , pray don't revile : In one you seem to flatter me , Then charge me with much cruelty , where is your love the while . You tell me that you loved long , And through me have received wrong prey is this false or true ? When did the darts of my disdain , Give any reason to complain ? I will be judg'd by you . When first to me you did make Suit , If then I held you in dispute , was this disloyalty ? I must confess it would be brave , If young men could but ask and have , maids soon would slighted be . 'Tis not the mode for maids to woo , Yet when we find Men just and true , then , then we often yield : This is no more then modesty , But he that would have more of me , shall never win the field . But if thy Heart so Loyal be , As not to fancy none but me , in all the world beside : Then I will willingly comply , In loyal Love to live and die whatever may betide . I'le make it all my study still , To be obedient to thy will , true blessings to restore : Here in my arms I'll the enfold , And prize the more then all the Gold , on the rich Indian Shore . The moan you made my heart did move , Thou shalt not wander from thy Love , whom you so much adore : And therefore now no more repine , Take Hand and Heart , I will be thine , what canst thou wish for more ? FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate . 