C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 117 ) V AND EXCELLENT NEW SONG ENTITLED , The Distracted Sailor , OR , His Courtship to Mally his perjured Lover . To and Excellent New Tune , much in Request . O ! how pleasant are Young Lovers , When their Courtships first begin , And their faces oft discovers , The great pleasures they are in ; When one seems to like the other , Hand in hand these lovers move , What sweet kisses they do smother And they prattle tales of Love . Just so Billy the Sailor Courted Mally , and she was as kind , For they had often kiss'd and sported , A [ and ] [ b ] oath per [ s ] waded were in mind , She consented for to have [ ? ] He made Vows to her again , He wou'd Wed if she'd not leave him , When he did return from Spain Then a piece of Gold was broken , And each other took a part , And these words by her was spoken , Billy thou hast wone my heart . May the Heavens bless you thither , And your safe return again , Mally's your alone for ever , When you do return from Spain . Arm in arm they kis'd each other , And repeated Vows did make , Ever to love one another , But said Billy my heart does ache , lest in absence you should leave me , Then my heart will burst in twain , Curse on Mally if I deceive thee , But will wait till thou com'st from Spain . Billy a Gold'n Locket gave her , And beg'd of her to be true , Mally reply'd as I'm a Sinner , I will ne'er be false to you . Then they parted with Eyes weeping And he sail'd away for Spain , For two Years he's been a missing , But is now return'd again . Several Letters he had sent her , From Portugale and Spanish shore With Tokens hoping wou'd content her Until England he came o're , But no answer he received , Till with Admiral Leak he came , Then his heart was sorely grieved , Oh! that I had stay'd in Spain . For he found his sweet Heart Marry'd And he cursed false Lovers all , Since his Mally now was carry'd , By her Husband to Black wall , He cry'd out then in Vexation , Now [ ? ] and I'll find , Where wild Beasts have more Compassion , Then deluding Women kind . But alas , he's soar tormented , And cries out I am undone , For my Soul is discontented , And I shall distracted run , Mally's tall and has deceiv'd me , Oh! you Furies why d'ye stay , Of my Torment soon relieve me , Take my wretched Life away . Now he rends his Clothes asunder , And into distractions run , In Bedlam to all Peoples wonder , This distracted Sailors gone , There in Links of Iron Chained , And in Straw alone does lie , Against Mally he exclaimed , For her wretched Perjury . Day and Night his Chains he rattles , As if Bedlam he'd pull down , Come my Sailors think of battles , And of Boaming Spanish Towns , Ho lo you Sir bedlam Porter , Bring false Mally here again , I will ram her in a Mortar And will shoot her into Spain . FINIS . C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 117 ) V AND EXCELLENT NEW SONG ENTITLED , The Distracted Sailor , OR , His Courtship to Mally his perjured Lover . To and Excellent New Tune , much in Request . O ! how pleasant are Young Lovers , When their Courtships first begin , And their faces oft discovers , The great pleasures they are in ; When one seems to like the other , Hand in hand these lovers move , What sweet kisses they do smother And they prattle tales of Love . Just so Billy the Sailor Courted Mally , and she was as kind , For they had often kiss'd and sported , A [ and ] [ b ] oath per [ s ] waded were in mind , She consented for to have [ ? ] He made Vows to her again , He wou'd Wed if she'd not leave him , When he did return from Spain Then a piece of Gold was broken , And each other took a part , And these words by her was spoken , Billy thou hast wone my heart . May the Heavens bless you thither , And your safe return again , Mally's your alone for ever , When you do return from Spain . Arm in arm they kis'd each other , And repeated Vows did make , Ever to love one another , But said Billy my heart does ache , lest in absence you should leave me , Then my heart will burst in twain , Curse on Mally if I deceive thee , But will wait till thou com'st from Spain . Billy a Gold'n Locket gave her , And beg'd of her to be true , Mally reply'd as I'm a Sinner , I will ne'er be false to you . Then they parted with Eyes weeping And he sail'd away for Spain , For two Years he's been a missing , But is now return'd again . Several Letters he had sent her , From Portugale and Spanish shore With Tokens hoping wou'd content her Until England he came o're , But no answer he received , Till with Admiral Leak he came , Then his heart was sorely grieved , Oh! that I had stay'd in Spain . For he found his sweet Heart Marry'd And he cursed false Lovers all , Since his Mally now was carry'd , By her Husband to Black wall , He cry'd out then in Vexation , Now [ ? ] and I'll find , Where wild Beasts have more Compassion , Then deluding Women kind . But alas , he's soar tormented , And cries out I am undone , For my Soul is discontented , And I shall distracted run , Mally's tall and has deceiv'd me , Oh! you Furies why d'ye stay , Of my Torment soon relieve me , Take my wretched Life away . Now he rends his Clothes asunder , And into distractions run , In Bedlam to all Peoples wonder , This distracted Sailors gone , There in Links of Iron Chained , And in Straw alone does lie , Against Mally he exclaimed , For her wretched Perjury . Day and Night his Chains he rattles , As if Bedlam he'd pull down , Come my Sailors think of battles , And of Boaming Spanish Towns , Ho lo you Sir bedlam Porter , Bring false Mally here again , I will ram her in a Mortar And will shoot her into Spain . FINIS . 