C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 117 ) R The true Scots Men's Lament for the Loss of the Rights of their Ancient Kingdom . SHall Monarchy be quite forgotten , and of it no more herd ? Antiquity be razed out , and Slav'ry put in Stead ? Is Scots Mens Blood now grown so cold the Valour of their Mind , That they can never once reflect on old long sine , etc ? What shall become now of our Crown , we have so long possessed ? Is it no more fashonable , that we should have it dress'd ? Shall we it for Tobacco fell , and never once repine ? Ah! then it's late for to reflect on old long sine , etc How oft have our Forefathers spent their Blood in its Defence ; Shall we than have it stol'n away by English Influence ? We'll curse the Actors of the Deed , when under Yoke we pine : Why will you not again reflect on old long sine ? Old Albion , what will become of thee when England sits thy Judge ? May thou not only then expect , Oppression but Refuge ? It's their Design to ruin thee , as clearly may be seen : Why wilt thou not again reflect on old long sine , etc ? How shall our crazy Shoulders bear , the Burden of their Tax ; Tho' they be rich , and we but poor , they will not us relax ; Unless some skilful one ov'rturn the Ground of their Design ; But then it's late for to reflect on old long sine , etc The Name of Britain shortly will thy Body hence possess , England thy Head will flourish great , thy Body will decrease , The Union will thy Ruin be , thou'll know in future Time ; Yet still you seem for to forget good old long sine etc Was not our Nation sometime brave , invincible and stout ; Conquering Cesar that great King , could not put it to Rout ; Nor not so much as Tribute get , for all his great Design : These Men I think thought to maintain good old long sine , etc Did not Romish Ambassadors , before our King kneel down ? I mean Carbredus Claudius great , most valiant of Renown ; And the Proposals of a Peace , unto him did resign ; These Actions may make us reflect on old long sine , etc The Royal Bruce , if now alive , he surely would regrate , And blame our Grandees irefully of Scotland's wretched State ; And tell them he priz'd Monarchy , while he was in his Prime , And bid them look right speedily to old long sine , etc May not Experience teach thee well , in Edward Lang-shank's Reign , How they pretended Good to thee , yet since mean'd no such Thing ; But merely stole from us the Chair , we did so much esteem : It's strange to me you should forget good old long sine , etc Yet it was not by their own Strength , that they gain'd such a Prize ; But by our base Malecontents who did them well advice ; I mean , the Coming , Kilpatrick , Vallange of Treach'rous Mind , Such Men I fear have now the Cause , that we must now so pine . Do not you mind the Barns of Air , where eighteen Score were kill'd , Under the Colour of a Truce , our Worthies Blood was spill'd ? And what by Force they could not win by Fraud they did obtain : Me wonders you should so forget , good old long sine , etc Remember William Wallace Wight , and his Accomplicies , Scotland that [ ? ] ook [ ? ] oh free , when it was in Distress . Likewise Sir James the Black Douglas under the Bruce's Reign ; These Men spar'd not their Blood to spill for old long sine , etc Why did you thy Union break thou had of late with France ; Where Honours were conferr'd on thee ? but now , not so is thy Chance : Thou must subject thy Neck unto a false proud Nation ; And more and more strive to forget good old long sine , etc Was it their seeming Riches that induced thee to fell Thy Honours , which as never yet no Monarch e're could quel ? Nor our Integrities once break , in all the bygone Time ? Yet now you seem for to forget good old long sine , etc The elder Brother let him read , the Neighbour Margin Line ; The second than let him look back to ruin'd Darien : I'm hopeful then you will remorse , on former Ill that's done ; And strive in Time for for to maintain good old long sine , etc Now mark and see what is the Cause of this so great a Fallen : Comtempt of Faith , Falsehood , Deceit , and Villainy withal ; But rouse yourselves like Scotish Lads , and quit you selves as Men : And more and more strive to maintain good old long sine , etc Edinburgh , Printed and Sold by John Reid in Pearson's-Closs 1718. C : Ry. III . a.10 ( 117 ) R The true Scots Men's Lament for the Loss of the Rights of their Ancient Kingdom . SHall Monarchy be quite forgotten , and of it no more herd ? Antiquity be razed out , and Slav'ry put in Stead ? Is Scots Mens Blood now grown so cold the Valour of their Mind , That they can never once reflect on old long sine , etc ? What shall become now of our Crown , we have so long possessed ? Is it no more fashonable , that we should have it dress'd ? Shall we it for Tobacco fell , and never once repine ? Ah! then it's late for to reflect on old long sine , etc How oft have our Forefathers spent their Blood in its Defence ; Shall we than have it stol'n away by English Influence ? We'll curse the Actors of the Deed , when under Yoke we pine : Why will you not again reflect on old long sine ? Old Albion , what will become of thee when England sits thy Judge ? May thou not only then expect , Oppression but Refuge ? It's their Design to ruin thee , as clearly may be seen : Why wilt thou not again reflect on old long sine , etc ? How shall our crazy Shoulders bear , the Burden of their Tax ; Tho' they be rich , and we but poor , they will not us relax ; Unless some skilful one ov'rturn the Ground of their Design ; But then it's late for to reflect on old long sine , etc The Name of Britain shortly will thy Body hence possess , England thy Head will flourish great , thy Body will decrease , The Union will thy Ruin be , thou'll know in future Time ; Yet still you seem for to forget good old long sine etc Was not our Nation sometime brave , invincible and stout ; Conquering Cesar that great King , could not put it to Rout ; Nor not so much as Tribute get , for all his great Design : These Men I think thought to maintain good old long sine , etc Did not Romish Ambassadors , before our King kneel down ? I mean Carbredus Claudius great , most valiant of Renown ; And the Proposals of a Peace , unto him did resign ; These Actions may make us reflect on old long sine , etc The Royal Bruce , if now alive , he surely would regrate , And blame our Grandees irefully of Scotland's wretched State ; And tell them he priz'd Monarchy , while he was in his Prime , And bid them look right speedily to old long sine , etc May not Experience teach thee well , in Edward Lang-shank's Reign , How they pretended Good to thee , yet since mean'd no such Thing ; But merely stole from us the Chair , we did so much esteem : It's strange to me you should forget good old long sine , etc Yet it was not by their own Strength , that they gain'd such a Prize ; But by our base Malecontents who did them well advice ; I mean , the Coming , Kilpatrick , Vallange of Treach'rous Mind , Such Men I fear have now the Cause , that we must now so pine . Do not you mind the Barns of Air , where eighteen Score were kill'd , Under the Colour of a Truce , our Worthies Blood was spill'd ? And what by Force they could not win by Fraud they did obtain : Me wonders you should so forget , good old long sine , etc Remember William Wallace Wight , and his Accomplicies , Scotland that [ ? ] ook [ ? ] oh free , when it was in Distress . Likewise Sir James the Black Douglas under the Bruce's Reign ; These Men spar'd not their Blood to spill for old long sine , etc Why did you thy Union break thou had of late with France ; Where Honours were conferr'd on thee ? but now , not so is thy Chance : Thou must subject thy Neck unto a false proud Nation ; And more and more strive to forget good old long sine , etc Was it their seeming Riches that induced thee to fell Thy Honours , which as never yet no Monarch e're could quel ? Nor our Integrities once break , in all the bygone Time ? Yet now you seem for to forget good old long sine , etc The elder Brother let him read , the Neighbour Margin Line ; The second than let him look back to ruin'd Darien : I'm hopeful then you will remorse , on former Ill that's done ; And strive in Time for for to maintain good old long sine , etc Now mark and see what is the Cause of this so great a Fallen : Comtempt of Faith , Falsehood , Deceit , and Villainy withal ; But rouse yourselves like Scotish Lads , and quit you selves as Men : And more and more strive to maintain good old long sine , etc Edinburgh , Printed and Sold by John Reid in Pearson's-Closs 1718. 