A warning to all false Traitors by example of 14. Whereof vi . were executed in diverse places near about London , and 2. near Braintford the 28. day of August , 1588. Also at Tyborne were executed the 30 . day vj . namely 5. Men and one Woman . To the tune of Greensleeves . YOu Traitors all that do devise , to hurt our Queen in treacherous wise , And in your hearts do still surmise , which way to hurt our England : Consider what the end will be , Of Traitors all in their degree , Hanging is still their destiny , that trouble the peace of England . Will not examples make you true , But you will still the steps ensue , Of the ungodly Romish crew , that trouble the peace of England ! Remember Felton long ago , And Campion that was hang'd also , With a number great of Traitors more , that troubled the peace of England . Then Parrie and Throckmorton eke , Of traitorous driftts were not to seek , And diverse other have done the like , to trouble the peace of England : And Babbington with his wicked train , Continually did beat their brain , which way and how they might obtain , to trouble the peace of England . But God we see hath still made known , Their wicked meanings every one , And death hath made their hearts to groan , that troubled the peace of England : Yet will not these examples good , Once stay these traitors madding mood , But still they seek to suck the blood , of our gracious Queen of England . As late near London there was seen , Two traitors hang'd on Myle-end green which did take part against our Queen , to trouble her Realm of England : The first a Priest , his name was Deane , The next was Weblin who did mean , To help the Spaniards for to glean , the fruits of the Realm of England . The next in Finsberrie field their died , A Priest that was a traitor tried , His name was Gunter who denied , to help the good Queen of England : But he would for the Spaniards sake , Provide invasion for to make , And gainst our Queen their parts to take to trouble the peace of England . There died in Lincolnes field also , Moorton a cruel traitor too : He being a Priest with other more , did come to trouble our England . And in that place there died with him , One More that was a traitor grim , who would have ventured life and limb , to hurt the good Queen of England . There died eke at Clarkenwell , A Priest that was a traitor fell , His name was Acton truth to tell , that troubled the peace of England : For why , he sought for to maintain , The Pope and eke the Spanish train , And did our gracious Queen disdain , with all that love her in England . Then Felton young who did uphold , The Pope as did his Father old , His false heart he to treason sold , to trouble the peace of England : To Braintford he was had to die , whereas he stoutly did deny , To help our Queen and her Country , but sought the decay of England . And in like manner Clarkson he , To Braintford went for company , where both were hanged upon a tree , as enemies to our England : Both Priests they were of Romish rout Who subtly did go about , But yet for them it was no boot , to hurt the good Realm of England . At Tyborne died the thirsteth day , Flewert and Shelley , truth to say , And Leigh a priest who did denay , to aid the good Queen of England : Martin and Rooche that present died , At Tyborne being Traitors tried : For like the rest they had denied , to aid the good Queen of England . One Margeret Ward there died that day , For from Bridewell she did convey , A traitorous priest with ropes away , that sought to trouble our England : This wicked woman void of grace , Would not repent in any case , But desperately even at that place , she died as a foe to England . When Law had passed upon them so , they should be hang'd and quartered too Our Queen took mercy on them though , which sought her decay in England : And pardoned them their greatest pain , Yet all her pity was in vain , For to ask mercy they did disdain , of the gracious Queen of England . But God we see doth still defend , Our gracious Queen unto the end , Gainst traitors that do ill pretend , to her and her Realm of England : God grant that we may thankful be , Unto his glorious Majesty , That so defends the sovereignty , of the virtuous Queen of England . The names of the 8. Tray - tors , executed on the eight and twentith of August . William Deane , and Henry Webley , executed at Myle-end . William Gunter , executed at Finsbury . Robert Moorton and Hugh Moore , execu - ted in Lincolns Inn field . Thomas Acton executed at Clarkenwell . Thomas Felton and James Clarkson , executed near Braintford . The names of them that were executed the 30. of August . Richard Flewett , Edward Shelley , Richard Leigh , Richard Martin , and John Rooche , execu - ted at Tyborne . Also at the same time one Margeret Ward for letting a Seminary Priest out of Bride - well . FINIS . Imprinted at London by Edward Allde . A warning to all false Traitors by example of 14. Whereof vi . were executed in diverse places near about London , and 2. near Braintford the 28. day of August , 1588. Also at Tyborne were executed the 30 . day vj . namely 5. Men and one Woman . To the tune of Greensleeves . YOu Traitors all that do devise , to hurt our Queen in treacherous wise , And in your hearts do still surmise , which way to hurt our England : Consider what the end will be , Of Traitors all in their degree , Hanging is still their destiny , that trouble the peace of England . Will not examples make you true , But you will still the steps ensue , Of the ungodly Romish crew , that trouble the peace of England ! Remember Felton long ago , And Campion that was hang'd also , With a number great of Traitors more , that troubled the peace of England . Then Parrie and Throckmorton eke , Of traitorous driftts were not to seek , And diverse other have done the like , to trouble the peace of England : And Babbington with his wicked train , Continually did beat their brain , which way and how they might obtain , to trouble the peace of England . But God we see hath still made known , Their wicked meanings every one , And death hath made their hearts to groan , that troubled the peace of England : Yet will not these examples good , Once stay these traitors madding mood , But still they seek to suck the blood , of our gracious Queen of England . As late near London there was seen , Two traitors hang'd on Myle-end green which did take part against our Queen , to trouble her Realm of England : The first a Priest , his name was Deane , The next was Weblin who did mean , To help the Spaniards for to glean , the fruits of the Realm of England . The next in Finsberrie field their died , A Priest that was a traitor tried , His name was Gunter who denied , to help the good Queen of England : But he would for the Spaniards sake , Provide invasion for to make , And gainst our Queen their parts to take to trouble the peace of England . There died in Lincolnes field also , Moorton a cruel traitor too : He being a Priest with other more , did come to trouble our England . And in that place there died with him , One More that was a traitor grim , who would have ventured life and limb , to hurt the good Queen of England . There died eke at Clarkenwell , A Priest that was a traitor fell , His name was Acton truth to tell , that troubled the peace of England : For why , he sought for to maintain , The Pope and eke the Spanish train , And did our gracious Queen disdain , with all that love her in England . Then Felton young who did uphold , The Pope as did his Father old , His false heart he to treason sold , to trouble the peace of England : To Braintford he was had to die , whereas he stoutly did deny , To help our Queen and her Country , but sought the decay of England . And in like manner Clarkson he , To Braintford went for company , where both were hanged upon a tree , as enemies to our England : Both Priests they were of Romish rout Who subtly did go about , But yet for them it was no boot , to hurt the good Realm of England . At Tyborne died the thirsteth day , Flewert and Shelley , truth to say , And Leigh a priest who did denay , to aid the good Queen of England : Martin and Rooche that present died , At Tyborne being Traitors tried : For like the rest they had denied , to aid the good Queen of England . One Margeret Ward there died that day , For from Bridewell she did convey , A traitorous priest with ropes away , that sought to trouble our England : This wicked woman void of grace , Would not repent in any case , But desperately even at that place , she died as a foe to England . When Law had passed upon them so , they should be hang'd and quartered too Our Queen took mercy on them though , which sought her decay in England : And pardoned them their greatest pain , Yet all her pity was in vain , For to ask mercy they did disdain , of the gracious Queen of England . But God we see doth still defend , Our gracious Queen unto the end , Gainst traitors that do ill pretend , to her and her Realm of England : God grant that we may thankful be , Unto his glorious Majesty , That so defends the sovereignty , of the virtuous Queen of England . The names of the 8. Tray - tors , executed on the eight and twentith of August . William Deane , and Henry Webley , executed at Myle-end . William Gunter , executed at Finsbury . Robert Moorton and Hugh Moore , execu - ted in Lincolns Inn field . Thomas Acton executed at Clarkenwell . Thomas Felton and James Clarkson , executed near Braintford . The names of them that were executed the 30. of August . Richard Flewett , Edward Shelley , Richard Leigh , Richard Martin , and John Rooche , execu - ted at Tyborne . Also at the same time one Margeret Ward for letting a Seminary Priest out of Bride - well . FINIS . Imprinted at London by Edward Allde . 