[ VERNON's Glory : Or , The ] Spaniards Defeat . [ Being and Account of the Taking of Carthagena by Vice - ] Admiral VERNON , Rear Admiral [ Ogle , and Commodore Lestock on the First of ] April last . Written by a Sailor on board [ the Shrewsbur ] y , and brought [ over by the Spence Slo ] open . ( Tune of , brave Vernon's Triumph ) ONce more brave Boys , let us proclaim brave , noble Admiral Vernon's Fame ; With Sir Chaloner Ogle too , they now have made the Spaniards rue : For Carthagene they now have [ tO ] a'ne , and laid it level with the Ground , Seven Castles so brave , their Town could not save , For Vernon and Ogle has beatrice them down . Last March we did from Jamaica sail , with a fair and gentle Gale ; Vice-Admiral Vernon of the Blue , Sir Chaloner Ogle Vice-Admiral too ; With Lestock Commodore , we made our Cannons roar , and two and twenty Frigates beside , Thirty Ships of the Line , a Sighed very fine , Before Carthagene at Anchor to ride . Bocachica Castle first we took , which made the Spaniards blue to look , That being of the largest Force , the other Six did fallen of course : With our Cannons and Bombs , we dismounted their Guns and our Colours did on their Castles raise ; Then toss off a Glass , and about let it pass , to Admiral Vernon's and Ogle's Praise . For twelve Hours space we bombarded the Town , before we brought their proud Spirits down ; We fir'd so smart they thought we were mad , at length to surrender they were glad ; We did so Cannonade , and such Breeches we made , and many of their Houses we set in Flame , They did submit to Fate , and the Town to surrender to Admiral Vernon , the Scourge of Spain . The Shrewsbury she did suffer most , and many of her Sailors lost , Her Cables broke , on their Castles she drove , and then expected she would have stove ; But kind Providence , stood in her Defence , much shatter'd at last she clear'd her Way , Her jolly Sailors bold , those noble hearts of Gold , all the Time show'd the Spaniards gallant Play . DONE Blass with six Ships in the Harbour la [ y ] and soon we show'd him British Play ; We made that proud and hectoring DONE Coward-like from his Ship to run : Tho' his Ship he forsook , two Captains we took , and unto England brought them home ; Let the insulting Foe , and proud DONE know , Vernon can conquer where'er he comes . Six Galleons did there remain , which by our Fleet was burned or ta'ne ; And tho' their Treasure was on Shore , Yet we found a sufficient Store : For Plunder , my Boys , did crown our Joys , after that strong Place we had wone ; We did revel and roar , and booze it on Shore , and forgotten all the Dangers we had run . In the King's Store-Houses we found the Valve of several Thousand Pounds , Which with great Joy we brought away , and did on Board our Ships convey ; Our Success was crown'd with Plunder we found , while the cowardly Spaniards from us fled , So great was their Fear , they would not come near , for Vernon had fill'd them all with Dread . When we had all their Treasure seiz'd , and freely plunder'd where we pleas'd , And none but Rubbish did remain , their Storehouses we set on Flame : Thus we burned them down , quite to the Ground , a heap of Ashes for to view ; Let the Cowards know , tho' they did insult us so , What noble Admiral Vernon can do . Our jolly Tarrs , brave noble Hearts , and the brave Marines did play their Parts ; The Officers their Order gave , with the Men perform'd as brave ; They never did flinch , nor give back and Inch , but sweet Revenge was all their Cry ; They scorn'd to run , from the Mouth of a Gun , but with Vernon and Ogle would conquer or die For the proud Queen of Spain we care not a fart for Cartagene she may break her Heart Of DONE Blass , that cowardly Tool , Brave Vernon did make and April Fool ; For 'twas upon that Day , we made him run away unto our Noble Admiral's Fame ; Then fill a brimming Glass , and round let it pass , To Admiral Vernon , and Ogle's Name . Come , brave Boys , a Health begin , and fill your Glasses up to the Brim , A Health to Admiral Vernon brave , to Sir Chaloner Ogle another we'll have ; To each jolly Tarr and Marine that was there , whose Courage there was bravely seen ; To Lestock , Commodore , and many Thousands more , who assisted at Taking Carthagene . [ VERNON's Glory : Or , The ] Spaniards Defeat . [ Being and Account of the Taking of Carthagena by Vice - ] Admiral VERNON , Rear Admiral [ Ogle , and Commodore Lestock on the First of ] April last . Written by a Sailor on board [ the Shrewsbur ] y , and brought [ over by the Spence Slo ] open . ( Tune of , brave Vernon's Triumph ) ONce more brave Boys , let us proclaim brave , noble Admiral Vernon's Fame ; With Sir Chaloner Ogle too , they now have made the Spaniards rue : For Carthagene they now have [ tO ] a'ne , and laid it level with the Ground , Seven Castles so brave , their Town could not save , For Vernon and Ogle has beatrice them down . Last March we did from Jamaica sail , with a fair and gentle Gale ; Vice-Admiral Vernon of the Blue , Sir Chaloner Ogle Vice-Admiral too ; With Lestock Commodore , we made our Cannons roar , and two and twenty Frigates beside , Thirty Ships of the Line , a Sighed very fine , Before Carthagene at Anchor to ride . Bocachica Castle first we took , which made the Spaniards blue to look , That being of the largest Force , the other Six did fallen of course : With our Cannons and Bombs , we dismounted their Guns and our Colours did on their Castles raise ; Then toss off a Glass , and about let it pass , to Admiral Vernon's and Ogle's Praise . For twelve Hours space we bombarded the Town , before we brought their proud Spirits down ; We fir'd so smart they thought we were mad , at length to surrender they were glad ; We did so Cannonade , and such Breeches we made , and many of their Houses we set in Flame , They did submit to Fate , and the Town to surrender to Admiral Vernon , the Scourge of Spain . The Shrewsbury she did suffer most , and many of her Sailors lost , Her Cables broke , on their Castles she drove , and then expected she would have stove ; But kind Providence , stood in her Defence , much shatter'd at last she clear'd her Way , Her jolly Sailors bold , those noble hearts of Gold , all the Time show'd the Spaniards gallant Play . DONE Blass with six Ships in the Harbour la [ y ] and soon we show'd him British Play ; We made that proud and hectoring DONE Coward-like from his Ship to run : Tho' his Ship he forsook , two Captains we took , and unto England brought them home ; Let the insulting Foe , and proud DONE know , Vernon can conquer where'er he comes . Six Galleons did there remain , which by our Fleet was burned or ta'ne ; And tho' their Treasure was on Shore , Yet we found a sufficient Store : For Plunder , my Boys , did crown our Joys , after that strong Place we had wone ; We did revel and roar , and booze it on Shore , and forgotten all the Dangers we had run . In the King's Store-Houses we found the Valve of several Thousand Pounds , Which with great Joy we brought away , and did on Board our Ships convey ; Our Success was crown'd with Plunder we found , while the cowardly Spaniards from us fled , So great was their Fear , they would not come near , for Vernon had fill'd them all with Dread . When we had all their Treasure seiz'd , and freely plunder'd where we pleas'd , And none but Rubbish did remain , their Storehouses we set on Flame : Thus we burned them down , quite to the Ground , a heap of Ashes for to view ; Let the Cowards know , tho' they did insult us so , What noble Admiral Vernon can do . Our jolly Tarrs , brave noble Hearts , and the brave Marines did play their Parts ; The Officers their Order gave , with the Men perform'd as brave ; They never did flinch , nor give back and Inch , but sweet Revenge was all their Cry ; They scorn'd to run , from the Mouth of a Gun , but with Vernon and Ogle would conquer or die For the proud Queen of Spain we care not a fart for Cartagene she may break her Heart Of DONE Blass , that cowardly Tool , Brave Vernon did make and April Fool ; For 'twas upon that Day , we made him run away unto our Noble Admiral's Fame ; Then fill a brimming Glass , and round let it pass , To Admiral Vernon , and Ogle's Name . Come , brave Boys , a Health begin , and fill your Glasses up to the Brim , A Health to Admiral Vernon brave , to Sir Chaloner Ogle another we'll have ; To each jolly Tarr and Marine that was there , whose Courage there was bravely seen ; To Lestock , Commodore , and many Thousands more , who assisted at Taking Carthagene . 