The Wine-Cooper's Delight . To the Tune of , The Delights of the Bottle . 1. THe Delights of the Bottle are turn'd out of doors , By factious fanatical Sons of damn'd Whores . French Wines Prohibition meant no other thing , But to poison the Subject , and beggar the K ------ Good Nature's suggested with Dregs like to choke her , Of fulsome stum'd Wine by the cursed Wine-Cooper . 2. Our plaguy Wine-Cooper has tamper'd so much , To find out the subtlety of the false Dutch . He tinctures pricked White-wine , that never was good , Till it mantles , and sparkles , and looks like Bulls blood . But when it declines , and its Spirits expire , He adds more Ingredients , and makes it look higher . 3. His old rotten Pipes , where he keeps all this Trash , For fear they should burst , Sir , he hoops them with Ash. When the Sophistication begins for to froth , And boils on the Fret , Sir , he wisely pulls forth A Tap which gives vent , to the grounds of the Cause , And then is to vamp up a second read Nose . 4. Then this dungy Wine-Cooper stops it up again , And keeps it unvended till 't's all on a flame . The Intelligences then were invented to show , Where Wine of strange Virtues in plenty did flow . People from all parts of the Nation did come , Both Lords , Knights , and Gentlemen , Doctor and Bum. 5. The Cooper then pulls the Tap out of the side , And drinks to the Elders of all his good Tribe . But when they had gusl'd about all their Bowls , They found a strange Freedom it gave to their Souls , Of Secrets in Nature , that never were known , It gave Inspiration from Beggar to Throne . 6. For the Cooper himself full Brimmers did draw , And all the whole Gang were oblig'd to do so . among these Cabals there was no such a thing , As a Health once propos'd to the WORSER --- or the King , But drank to that Idol , that hope's in their powers , And Sons of most Infamous Hackney old Whores . 7. Then the Rabble had notice from Smith and from Ben , What a heavenly Liquour was sent among men . Both Tinkers and Cobblers , the Broom-men and Sweep , Before this Wine-Cooper in Flocks they did meet , And each under foot stamped his old greasy Bonnet , To drink M --- Health , Sir , whatever came on it . 8. The Cooper perceiving his Trade to approach , He then was resolved once more to debauch . To encourage the Rabble , and show himself stout , He pull'd out the Spigot among the whole Rout ; Which kindness provoked them to swear they wou'd bring Such Trade to his House , as wou'd make him a K --- 9. A Hat or a Pottle was still at the Tap , But Zealots sometime laid their mouths to the Fat . They charg'd their brisk Bumpers so many times round , Till part of the Mobile sprawl'd on the ground . But when this damn'd Liquour was god in their Pates , They fell to Bombasting , Disord'ring of States . 10. They began to Cant dangers by formal Sedition , And swear lawful Allegiance , 'gainst lawful Succession . When these Propositions began to take fire , They screw'd their Presumptions a hold or two higher . But still they keep under Hugh Peters's Cloak , To bring in the Devil , to drive out the Pope . 11. But then they began for to pick at the Crown , Each thinking that he deserv'd one of his own . Then all the Kings Guards they thought fit to Indict , And swear Treason 'gainst all that maintain'd the King Right . Both Papist and Protestant , no matter whither , They are none of our Party , let's hang them together . 12. Next the chief of our Game is to keep the K --- poor , And our Senators must the Militia secure . The Navy and Cinque-ports we'l have in our hands , And then we'l make Kingdoms obey our Commands . Then if Changed ------ do withstand us , we need not to fight , To make Eighty one to outdo Forty eight . 13. Whatever Objections great Loyalists bring , Old Adam liv'd happy without e're a King . Then why may not we , that's much wiser than he , Subdue the whole World , Sir , by our Sov'raignty ? If one man alone can keep Three Nations under , Then why may not we that are Kings without number ? 14. Right , said the Cooper , and shak'd his old Noddle , Three Kingdoms we'l toss , like a Child in a Cradle . Stick close to this Liquour which I do prepare , 'Twill make us as splendid , as Noll in his Chair . We'le kindle old Plots , by inventing of new , Till none shall be safe but the Cooper and You. 15. O brave Boys ! o brave Boys ! thus the Rabble did roar , Tantivies and Tories shall Hector no more . By us they're out-acted , to us they shall bend , While we to our Dignities freely ascend . Then they were dead-drunk as the devil could make 'um , And fell fast asleep , as ten Drums could not wake 'um . 16. In the Piss and the Spew the poor Cooper did paddle , To stop up his Tap , but the Knave was not able . For his Limbs like a Tortoise did shrivle and crease , Down drops the Wine-Cooper with the other Beasts . And there the whole Litter as yet does abide , At the Sign of the Butt , with the Tap in one side . LONDON , Printed for H.L. in Westminster-Hall . MDCLXXXI . The Wine-Cooper's Delight . To the Tune of , The Delights of the Bottle . 1. THe Delights of the Bottle are turn'd out of doors , By factious fanatical Sons of damn'd Whores . French Wines Prohibition meant no other thing , But to poison the Subject , and beggar the K ------ Good Nature's suggested with Dregs like to choke her , Of fulsome stum'd Wine by the cursed Wine-Cooper . 2. Our plaguy Wine-Cooper has tamper'd so much , To find out the subtlety of the false Dutch . He tinctures pricked White-wine , that never was good , Till it mantles , and sparkles , and looks like Bulls blood . But when it declines , and its Spirits expire , He adds more Ingredients , and makes it look higher . 3. His old rotten Pipes , where he keeps all this Trash , For fear they should burst , Sir , he hoops them with Ash. When the Sophistication begins for to froth , And boils on the Fret , Sir , he wisely pulls forth A Tap which gives vent , to the grounds of the Cause , And then is to vamp up a second read Nose . 4. Then this dungy Wine-Cooper stops it up again , And keeps it unvended till 't's all on a flame . The Intelligences then were invented to show , Where Wine of strange Virtues in plenty did flow . People from all parts of the Nation did come , Both Lords , Knights , and Gentlemen , Doctor and Bum. 5. The Cooper then pulls the Tap out of the side , And drinks to the Elders of all his good Tribe . But when they had gusl'd about all their Bowls , They found a strange Freedom it gave to their Souls , Of Secrets in Nature , that never were known , It gave Inspiration from Beggar to Throne . 6. For the Cooper himself full Brimmers did draw , And all the whole Gang were oblig'd to do so . among these Cabals there was no such a thing , As a Health once propos'd to the WORSER --- or the King , But drank to that Idol , that hope's in their powers , And Sons of most Infamous Hackney old Whores . 7. Then the Rabble had notice from Smith and from Ben , What a heavenly Liquour was sent among men . Both Tinkers and Cobblers , the Broom-men and Sweep , Before this Wine-Cooper in Flocks they did meet , And each under foot stamped his old greasy Bonnet , To drink M --- Health , Sir , whatever came on it . 8. The Cooper perceiving his Trade to approach , He then was resolved once more to debauch . To encourage the Rabble , and show himself stout , He pull'd out the Spigot among the whole Rout ; Which kindness provoked them to swear they wou'd bring Such Trade to his House , as wou'd make him a K --- 9. A Hat or a Pottle was still at the Tap , But Zealots sometime laid their mouths to the Fat . They charg'd their brisk Bumpers so many times round , Till part of the Mobile sprawl'd on the ground . But when this damn'd Liquour was god in their Pates , They fell to Bombasting , Disord'ring of States . 10. They began to Cant dangers by formal Sedition , And swear lawful Allegiance , 'gainst lawful Succession . When these Propositions began to take fire , They screw'd their Presumptions a hold or two higher . But still they keep under Hugh Peters's Cloak , To bring in the Devil , to drive out the Pope . 11. But then they began for to pick at the Crown , Each thinking that he deserv'd one of his own . Then all the Kings Guards they thought fit to Indict , And swear Treason 'gainst all that maintain'd the King Right . Both Papist and Protestant , no matter whither , They are none of our Party , let's hang them together . 12. Next the chief of our Game is to keep the K --- poor , And our Senators must the Militia secure . The Navy and Cinque-ports we'l have in our hands , And then we'l make Kingdoms obey our Commands . Then if Changed ------ do withstand us , we need not to fight , To make Eighty one to outdo Forty eight . 13. Whatever Objections great Loyalists bring , Old Adam liv'd happy without e're a King . Then why may not we , that's much wiser than he , Subdue the whole World , Sir , by our Sov'raignty ? If one man alone can keep Three Nations under , Then why may not we that are Kings without number ? 14. Right , said the Cooper , and shak'd his old Noddle , Three Kingdoms we'l toss , like a Child in a Cradle . Stick close to this Liquour which I do prepare , 'Twill make us as splendid , as Noll in his Chair . We'le kindle old Plots , by inventing of new , Till none shall be safe but the Cooper and You. 15. O brave Boys ! o brave Boys ! thus the Rabble did roar , Tantivies and Tories shall Hector no more . By us they're out-acted , to us they shall bend , While we to our Dignities freely ascend . Then they were dead-drunk as the devil could make 'um , And fell fast asleep , as ten Drums could not wake 'um . 16. In the Piss and the Spew the poor Cooper did paddle , To stop up his Tap , but the Knave was not able . For his Limbs like a Tortoise did shrivle and crease , Down drops the Wine-Cooper with the other Beasts . And there the whole Litter as yet does abide , At the Sign of the Butt , with the Tap in one side . LONDON , Printed for H.L. in Westminster-Hall . MDCLXXXI . The Wine-Cooper's Delight . To the Tune of , The Delights of the Bottle . 1. THe Delights of the Bottle are turn'd out of doors , By factious fanatical Sons of damn'd Whores . French Wines Prohibition meant no other thing , But to poison the Subject , and beggar the K ------ Good Nature's suggested with Dregs like to choke her , Of fulsome stum'd Wine by the cursed Wine-Cooper . 2. Our plaguy Wine-Cooper has tamper'd so much , To find out the subtlety of the false Dutch . He tinctures pricked White-wine , that never was good , Till it mantles , and sparkles , and looks like Bulls blood . But when it declines , and its Spirits expire , He adds more Ingredients , and makes it look higher . 3. His old rotten Pipes , where he keeps all this Trash , For fear they should burst , Sir , he hoops them with Ash. When the Sophistication begins for to froth , And boils on the Fret , Sir , he wisely pulls forth A Tap which gives vent , to the grounds of the Cause , And then is to vamp up a second read Nose . 4. Then this dungy Wine-Cooper stops it up again , And keeps it unvended till 't's all on a flame . The Intelligences then were invented to show , Where Wine of strange Virtues in plenty did flow . People from all parts of the Nation did come , Both Lords , Knights , and Gentlemen , Doctor and Bum. 5. The Cooper then pulls the Tap out of the side , And drinks to the Elders of all his good Tribe . But when they had gusl'd about all their Bowls , They found a strange Freedom it gave to their Souls , Of Secrets in Nature , that never were known , It gave Inspiration from Beggar to Throne . 6. For the Cooper himself full Brimmers did draw , And all the whole Gang were oblig'd to do so . among these Cabals there was no such a thing , As a Health once propos'd to the WORSER --- or the King , But drank to that Idol , that hope's in their powers , And Sons of most Infamous Hackney old Whores . 7. Then the Rabble had notice from Smith and from Ben , What a heavenly Liquour was sent among men . Both Tinkers and Cobblers , the Broom-men and Sweep , Before this Wine-Cooper in Flocks they did meet , And each under foot stamped his old greasy Bonnet , To drink M --- Health , Sir , whatever came on it . 8. The Cooper perceiving his Trade to approach , He then was resolved once more to debauch . To encourage the Rabble , and show himself stout , He pull'd out the Spigot among the whole Rout ; Which kindness provoked them to swear they wou'd bring Such Trade to his House , as wou'd make him a K --- 9. A Hat or a Pottle was still at the Tap , But Zealots sometime laid their mouths to the Fat . They charg'd their brisk Bumpers so many times round , Till part of the Mobile sprawl'd on the ground . But when this damn'd Liquour was god in their Pates , They fell to Bombasting , Disord'ring of States . 10. They began to Cant dangers by formal Sedition , And swear lawful Allegiance , 'gainst lawful Succession . When these Propositions began to take fire , They screw'd their Presumptions a hold or two higher . But still they keep under Hugh Peters's Cloak , To bring in the Devil , to drive out the Pope . 11. But then they began for to pick at the Crown , Each thinking that he deserv'd one of his own . Then all the Kings Guards they thought fit to Indict , And swear Treason 'gainst all that maintain'd the King Right . Both Papist and Protestant , no matter whither , They are none of our Party , let's hang them together . 12. Next the chief of our Game is to keep the K --- poor , And our Senators must the Militia secure . The Navy and Cinque-ports we'l have in our hands , And then we'l make Kingdoms obey our Commands . Then if Changed ------ do withstand us , we need not to fight , To make Eighty one to outdo Forty eight . 13. Whatever Objections great Loyalists bring , Old Adam liv'd happy without e're a King . Then why may not we , that's much wiser than he , Subdue the whole World , Sir , by our Sov'raignty ? If one man alone can keep Three Nations under , Then why may not we that are Kings without number ? 14. Right , said the Cooper , and shak'd his old Noddle , Three Kingdoms we'l toss , like a Child in a Cradle . Stick close to this Liquour which I do prepare , 'Twill make us as splendid , as Noll in his Chair . We'le kindle old Plots , by inventing of new , Till none shall be safe but the Cooper and You. 15. O brave Boys ! o brave Boys ! thus the Rabble did roar , Tantivies and Tories shall Hector no more . By us they're out-acted , to us they shall bend , While we to our Dignities freely ascend . Then they were dead-drunk as the devil could make 'um , And fell fast asleep , as ten Drums could not wake 'um . 16. In the Piss and the Spew the poor Cooper did paddle , To stop up his Tap , but the Knave was not able . For his Limbs like a Tortoise did shrivle and crease , Down drops the Wine-Cooper with the other Beasts . And there the whole Litter as yet does abide , At the Sign of the Butt , with the Tap in one side . LONDON , Printed for H.L. in Westminster-Hall . MDCLXXXI . The Wine-Cooper's Delight . To the Tune of , The Delights of the Bottle . 1. THe Delights of the Bottle are turn'd out of doors , By factious fanatical Sons of damn'd Whores . French Wines Prohibition meant no other thing , But to poison the Subject , and beggar the K ------ Good Nature's suggested with Dregs like to choke her , Of fulsome stum'd Wine by the cursed Wine-Cooper . 2. Our plaguy Wine-Cooper has tamper'd so much , To find out the subtlety of the false Dutch . He tinctures pricked White-wine , that never was good , Till it mantles , and sparkles , and looks like Bulls blood . But when it declines , and its Spirits expire , He adds more Ingredients , and makes it look higher . 3. His old rotten Pipes , where he keeps all this Trash , For fear they should burst , Sir , he hoops them with Ash. When the Sophistication begins for to froth , And boils on the Fret , Sir , he wisely pulls forth A Tap which gives vent , to the grounds of the Cause , And then is to vamp up a second read Nose . 4. Then this dungy Wine-Cooper stops it up again , And keeps it unvended till 't's all on a flame . The Intelligences then were invented to show , Where Wine of strange Virtues in plenty did flow . People from all parts of the Nation did come , Both Lords , Knights , and Gentlemen , Doctor and Bum. 5. The Cooper then pulls the Tap out of the side , And drinks to the Elders of all his good Tribe . But when they had gusl'd about all their Bowls , They found a strange Freedom it gave to their Souls , Of Secrets in Nature , that never were known , It gave Inspiration from Beggar to Throne . 6. For the Cooper himself full Brimmers did draw , And all the whole Gang were oblig'd to do so . among these Cabals there was no such a thing , As a Health once propos'd to the WORSER --- or the King , But drank to that Idol , that hope's in their powers , And Sons of most Infamous Hackney old Whores . 7. Then the Rabble had notice from Smith and from Ben , What a heavenly Liquour was sent among men . Both Tinkers and Cobblers , the Broom-men and Sweep , Before this Wine-Cooper in Flocks they did meet , And each under foot stamped his old greasy Bonnet , To drink M --- Health , Sir , whatever came on it . 8. The Cooper perceiving his Trade to approach , He then was resolved once more to debauch . To encourage the Rabble , and show himself stout , He pull'd out the Spigot among the whole Rout ; Which kindness provoked them to swear they wou'd bring Such Trade to his House , as wou'd make him a K --- 9. A Hat or a Pottle was still at the Tap , But Zealots sometime laid their mouths to the Fat . They charg'd their brisk Bumpers so many times round , Till part of the Mobile sprawl'd on the ground . But when this damn'd Liquour was god in their Pates , They fell to Bombasting , Disord'ring of States . 10. They began to Cant dangers by formal Sedition , And swear lawful Allegiance , 'gainst lawful Succession . When these Propositions began to take fire , They screw'd their Presumptions a hold or two higher . But still they keep under Hugh Peters's Cloak , To bring in the Devil , to drive out the Pope . 11. But then they began for to pick at the Crown , Each thinking that he deserv'd one of his own . Then all the Kings Guards they thought fit to Indict , And swear Treason 'gainst all that maintain'd the King Right . Both Papist and Protestant , no matter whither , They are none of our Party , let's hang them together . 12. Next the chief of our Game is to keep the K --- poor , And our Senators must the Militia secure . The Navy and Cinque-ports we'l have in our hands , And then we'l make Kingdoms obey our Commands . Then if Changed ------ do withstand us , we need not to fight , To make Eighty one to outdo Forty eight . 13. Whatever Objections great Loyalists bring , Old Adam liv'd happy without e're a King . Then why may not we , that's much wiser than he , Subdue the whole World , Sir , by our Sov'raignty ? If one man alone can keep Three Nations under , Then why may not we that are Kings without number ? 14. Right , said the Cooper , and shak'd his old Noddle , Three Kingdoms we'l toss , like a Child in a Cradle . Stick close to this Liquour which I do prepare , 'Twill make us as splendid , as Noll in his Chair . We'le kindle old Plots , by inventing of new , Till none shall be safe but the Cooper and You. 15. O brave Boys ! o brave Boys ! thus the Rabble did roar , Tantivies and Tories shall Hector no more . By us they're out-acted , to us they shall bend , While we to our Dignities freely ascend . Then they were dead-drunk as the devil could make 'um , And fell fast asleep , as ten Drums could not wake 'um . 16. In the Piss and the Spew the poor Cooper did paddle , To stop up his Tap , but the Knave was not able . For his Limbs like a Tortoise did shrivle and crease , Down drops the Wine-Cooper with the other Beasts . And there the whole Litter as yet does abide , At the Sign of the Butt , with the Tap in one side . LONDON , Printed for H.L. in Westminster-Hall . MDCLXXXI . 