B Alas ! for the Loss of COCK-UPPS : OR , SARAH SAY-WEL Her APOLOGY . UPon a Night of misty Vapours , A Corpse transported was with Tapors ; Which coming from , I herd one cry , Will you by the Men's Reply I having read it straight did feel , To swallow had I too hard a Pil : For Women I did speak a word , But it's made me put up my sword . Let none think I betray my Cause , I hope I'll be excus'd by Laws ; Since that I found no grain of Reason For Women's Pride ( this is not Treason ) And though against Men I did flyt , Indeed two Blacks won't make a White . Now Women my Advice is this , Lay by your Hoods that cocked is , None in your Cause will good betide Alas I'm beaten Back and Side . Tho of me this Man's spoken evil , Even though he's called me a Devil ; I him forgive in all Men's sighed , Sing that he was in the Right ; For's pains deserves a Laurel Crown , Since it was pride that he cry'd down . However I'de have you search for him , I'm sorry I gave such bad Marks of him ; And when you find him , fill his Loof , If that will tend to your behoof , See that you rise not in a passion , For that with you is not new fashion ; But beg of him to hold his peace , Lest to you he bring more disgrace ; Yet I fear he'll disdain your Treasure , Till you leave off this prideful pleasure . Since that will fail , I give consent That you do Bill the Parliament , Their Wisdom ne'er will Pride allow , Your Bill will be refus'd I trow . What will you then do in this Case , For Cockups I can find no place ? O I remember I've seen them here , On them whom't did become to wear , The Whores scourg'd in the Town were those The foremost bears the high Cocko's Let Whores take them away for Stores , Which when they bring to Foreign shores I'll lay my Life they'll fright the Moors . So Sarah Say-well takes Goodnight , And wishes Pride be put to flight . FINIS . B Alas ! for the Loss of COCK-UPPS : OR , SARAH SAY-WEL Her APOLOGY . UPon a Night of misty Vapours , A Corpse transported was with Tapors ; Which coming from , I herd one cry , Will you by the Men's Reply I having read it straight did feel , To swallow had I too hard a Pil : For Women I did speak a word , But it's made me put up my sword . Let none think I betray my Cause , I hope I'll be excus'd by Laws ; Since that I found no grain of Reason For Women's Pride ( this is not Treason ) And though against Men I did flyt , Indeed two Blacks won't make a White . Now Women my Advice is this , Lay by your Hoods that cocked is , None in your Cause will good betide Alas I'm beaten Back and Side . Tho of me this Man's spoken evil , Even though he's called me a Devil ; I him forgive in all Men's sighed , Sing that he was in the Right ; For's pains deserves a Laurel Crown , Since it was pride that he cry'd down . However I'de have you search for him , I'm sorry I gave such bad Marks of him ; And when you find him , fill his Loof , If that will tend to your behoof , See that you rise not in a passion , For that with you is not new fashion ; But beg of him to hold his peace , Lest to you he bring more disgrace ; Yet I fear he'll disdain your Treasure , Till you leave off this prideful pleasure . Since that will fail , I give consent That you do Bill the Parliament , Their Wisdom ne'er will Pride allow , Your Bill will be refus'd I trow . What will you then do in this Case , For Cockups I can find no place ? O I remember I've seen them here , On them whom't did become to wear , The Whores scourg'd in the Town were those The foremost bears the high Cocko's Let Whores take them away for Stores , Which when they bring to Foreign shores I'll lay my Life they'll fright the Moors . So Sarah Say-well takes Goodnight , And wishes Pride be put to flight . FINIS . 