THE Sale of Esau's Birthright ; OR , The New Buckingham Ballad , To the Tune of the London Gentlewoman , or Little Peggy Ramsey . A Wondrous Tale I will relate ; The like was never told you , Of English men that England hate , The Town of Bucks has sold you . [ TO ] oh serve in Parliament they chosen Two men I fear to name them ; For if I did , you would suppose I told a Lie to shame them . That Beef and Ale should yet prevail , You need no longer wonder : For men of wit , must still submit To Fools of greater number . The WORSER --- , the Pope , and Tyranny , Need never fear a Downfall , For Teige and Wakeman both would be Elected for a Town-hall . These Loyal men of Buckingham , ( True only to their Purses ) Would fell the Crown , t' enrich the Town , And laugh at all your Curses . When they have sin'd , and damn'd their Souls , Or to the Devil gave them ; Their Friend the Pope , in him they hope , Well knowing he can save them . The Second Part , to the same Tune . IF Sc --- s would take off Oates's head , He need not fear succeeding ; But send him down unto this Town , He soon might see him bleeding . Of Thirteen men there are but Six Who do not merit Hemp well ; The other seven play their Tricks For L --- and TO --- The Father is a Reprobate , And yet the Son's Elected : The Gawdy Youth comes down in State , And must not be rejected . Our prating Knight does owe his Call To Timber , and his Lady ; Though one goes longer with Town-hall , Then t'other with her Baby . These men do to their choosing trudge , With all the speed that can be , And make the Son the Father's Judge , To save great Tom of WORSER --- The Bailiff is so mad a Spark , ( Though lives by Tanning Leather ) That for a Load of Temple's Bark He'd Sacrifice his Father . His Horns do shine , his Wife kept fine , All men would blame him had he Not made him stand , whose helping hand Must make him be a Daddy . He huffs and rants , and calls to Hall , But will not give men warning : When drunk o're night , he takes delight To play the Rogue i' th' morning . Next comes the Barber , who will do Whatever you desire him ; He for a Groat , will cut your Throat , A Lousy perjur'd Hireling . God damn and rot his Arm , he cries , And swears like any Lover , For to be true , to three in two , Poor Judas younger Brother . Of late he huff'd , and drank with Lords , But since a sad Disaster Hath summon'd him to Wash and Trim A Rev'rend Owl his Master . Another he hath kiss'd a hand , Which puts him in a Rapture ; So have I known a Miss o' th' Town , Adore the Fop that Clapped her . Since kissing hands can so prevail , There's no man need want Riches ; If they'l be kind , and come behind , They're welcome to our Breeches . Thus Buckingham hath led the way To Popery and sorrow : Those seven Knaves , who make us Slaves , Would fell their God tomorrow . A List of those who Voted for their King and Country , and Sir P. --- T. --- Mr. Rogers Draper , Mr. Brown Gent. Mr. Mason Apothecary , Mr. Eversay Draper , Mr. Robinson Laceman , Mr. Walter Arnot Ironmonger . Mr. William Hartly was absent at the Election , nor was there any need of his Company . Those who Voted for the L --- worser L --- , Sir Timber TO --- , and for their Town-hall . George Dancer Tanner and Bailiff , Pellam Sandwell Maulster , ------ Stevens Maulster , Thomas Sheen Farmer , George Carter Baker Henry Hayward , Shaver in Ordinary to her Excellency Madge Owlet . The Charter of this Town was given them by Queen Marry for their good Service in the propagation of Popery ; Therefore ( to give the Devil his due ) they are but true to the old Cause . THE Sale of Esau's Birthright ; OR , The New Buckingham Ballad , To the Tune of the London Gentlewoman , or Little Peggy Ramsey . A Wondrous Tale I will relate ; The like was never told you , Of English men that England hate , The Town of Bucks has sold you . [ TO ] oh serve in Parliament they chosen Two men I fear to name them ; For if I did , you would suppose I told a Lie to shame them . That Beef and Ale should yet prevail , You need no longer wonder : For men of wit , must still submit To Fools of greater number . The WORSER --- , the Pope , and Tyranny , Need never fear a Downfall , For Teige and Wakeman both would be Elected for a Town-hall . These Loyal men of Buckingham , ( True only to their Purses ) Would fell the Crown , t' enrich the Town , And laugh at all your Curses . When they have sin'd , and damn'd their Souls , Or to the Devil gave them ; Their Friend the Pope , in him they hope , Well knowing he can save them . The Second Part , to the same Tune . IF Sc --- s would take off Oates's head , He need not fear succeeding ; But send him down unto this Town , He soon might see him bleeding . Of Thirteen men there are but Six Who do not merit Hemp well ; The other seven play their Tricks For L --- and TO --- The Father is a Reprobate , And yet the Son's Elected : The Gawdy Youth comes down in State , And must not be rejected . Our prating Knight does owe his Call To Timber , and his Lady ; Though one goes longer with Town-hall , Then t'other with her Baby . These men do to their choosing trudge , With all the speed that can be , And make the Son the Father's Judge , To save great Tom of WORSER --- The Bailiff is so mad a Spark , ( Though lives by Tanning Leather ) That for a Load of Temple's Bark He'd Sacrifice his Father . His Horns do shine , his Wife kept fine , All men would blame him had he Not made him stand , whose helping hand Must make him be a Daddy . He huffs and rants , and calls to Hall , But will not give men warning : When drunk o're night , he takes delight To play the Rogue i' th' morning . Next comes the Barber , who will do Whatever you desire him ; He for a Groat , will cut your Throat , A Lousy perjur'd Hireling . God damn and rot his Arm , he cries , And swears like any Lover , For to be true , to three in two , Poor Judas younger Brother . Of late he huff'd , and drank with Lords , But since a sad Disaster Hath summon'd him to Wash and Trim A Rev'rend Owl his Master . Another he hath kiss'd a hand , Which puts him in a Rapture ; So have I known a Miss o' th' Town , Adore the Fop that Clapped her . Since kissing hands can so prevail , There's no man need want Riches ; If they'l be kind , and come behind , They're welcome to our Breeches . Thus Buckingham hath led the way To Popery and sorrow : Those seven Knaves , who make us Slaves , Would fell their God tomorrow . A List of those who Voted for their King and Country , and Sir P. --- T. --- Mr. Rogers Draper , Mr. Brown Gent. Mr. Mason Apothecary , Mr. Eversay Draper , Mr. Robinson Laceman , Mr. Walter Arnot Ironmonger . Mr. William Hartly was absent at the Election , nor was there any need of his Company . Those who Voted for the L --- worser L --- , Sir Timber TO --- , and for their Town-hall . George Dancer Tanner and Bailiff , Pellam Sandwell Maulster , ------ Stevens Maulster , Thomas Sheen Farmer , George Carter Baker Henry Hayward , Shaver in Ordinary to her Excellency Madge Owlet . The Charter of this Town was given them by Queen Marry for their good Service in the propagation of Popery ; Therefore ( to give the Devil his due ) they are but true to the old Cause . 