A NEW ADVICE TO WHORE ---- MASTERS etc O! Scotland now repent , consider that thou'rt drown'd ; Thy Talon is but lent , it is not to thee bound : Go put it in the usary , and do the same improve , Or else by all appearance , thy Candle will remove , Into the time of Famine , this truth I must record , Then many pay'd their Talon even back unto their Lord , Of whom they had received it , with usury in store , A new Talon is lent us , but not for evermore . Go therefore and improve the same , and keep it no more hid ; For if it be remov'd I fear we'll ne'er receive a Third . Our sins are grown so gross even in this our Land , Drinking Cursing and Swearing , now takes the upper hand . In old time Scotland flouri'shd , the Beauty of the Earth , The Gospel truly nourish'd , and truly did bring forth Fruit meet unto Repentance , for which I hear do call , Before your Candle be put out , let this forewarn you all . You know that Vengeance reached even such as did gainstand , The Gospel that is preached even now into our Land : And also some for Swearing , which since do cry aloud , For vengeance on us which does hang over us as a Cloud : Oh then obey the Gospel , and do these sins forbear Even your horrid Cursing , and bloody Oaths you swear : Also the since of Whoring , O! let your Sins down fallen And then with glorious glimpses , mercy'l be given for All. If this be not lamented and mourned for a right , Our Sun it will go down and well be left into the Night , And if we do Repent the same , our light shall be more clear , Our Dayspring but arising , and Grace will more appear . Now if these be lamented , all our Difficulties Shall soon be all removed , into our way that lies : Our War it should go on with forc [ e ] or enemies should fallen , If we had many Joshuas , remember Jericho's wall , Now all good natur'd People , that does read my line , I pray you censure tenderly , no evil I design , But wishes that the Gospel , may spread and flourish bright That Men may say in Scotland now Springs the Morning light . O therefore turn unto the Lord , before your Glass be spent , Lest you cry out when it is run , fain wou'd we now repen But if do return in time , and do for Mercy crave , All good things He will give to you and then your Souls receive . FINIS . A NEW ADVICE TO WHORE ---- MASTERS etc O! Scotland now repent , consider that thou'rt drown'd ; Thy Talon is but lent , it is not to thee bound : Go put it in the usary , and do the same improve , Or else by all appearance , thy Candle will remove , Into the time of Famine , this truth I must record , Then many pay'd their Talon even back unto their Lord , Of whom they had received it , with usury in store , A new Talon is lent us , but not for evermore . Go therefore and improve the same , and keep it no more hid ; For if it be remov'd I fear we'll ne'er receive a Third . Our sins are grown so gross even in this our Land , Drinking Cursing and Swearing , now takes the upper hand . In old time Scotland flouri'shd , the Beauty of the Earth , The Gospel truly nourish'd , and truly did bring forth Fruit meet unto Repentance , for which I hear do call , Before your Candle be put out , let this forewarn you all . You know that Vengeance reached even such as did gainstand , The Gospel that is preached even now into our Land : And also some for Swearing , which since do cry aloud , For vengeance on us which does hang over us as a Cloud : Oh then obey the Gospel , and do these sins forbear Even your horrid Cursing , and bloody Oaths you swear : Also the since of Whoring , O! let your Sins down fallen And then with glorious glimpses , mercy'l be given for All. If this be not lamented and mourned for a right , Our Sun it will go down and well be left into the Night , And if we do Repent the same , our light shall be more clear , Our Dayspring but arising , and Grace will more appear . Now if these be lamented , all our Difficulties Shall soon be all removed , into our way that lies : Our War it should go on with forc [ e ] or enemies should fallen , If we had many Joshuas , remember Jericho's wall , Now all good natur'd People , that does read my line , I pray you censure tenderly , no evil I design , But wishes that the Gospel , may spread and flourish bright That Men may say in Scotland now Springs the Morning light . O therefore turn unto the Lord , before your Glass be spent , Lest you cry out when it is run , fain wou'd we now repen But if do return in time , and do for Mercy crave , All good things He will give to you and then your Souls receive . FINIS . 