THE Welsh-Mens GLORY , OR , The Famous Victories of the Ancient BRITANS Obtain'd upon St. DAVID's Day . THe Honour , Glory and the Grace Of valiant Brute's triumphant Raze , Showing the Reasons , wherefore they Wear Leeks upon St. David's Day . The valiant Deeds of Britans bold , I here shall sing in Verse ; Direct my Pen , Heroic Muse ! While I the same rehearse : That to the Britans noble Fame , I bravely chant it may , The Reason why , they do wear LEEKS Upon St. David's Day . I mean not to relate the Deeds Of warlike valiant GUY , Nor England's Warwick Champion , Saint GEORGE's Chivalry ; Nor any other Warrior's Fame , Intend I to display , But what the Britans bold have done Upon St. David's Day . Cold Winter with his frosty Face Does bid you all Farewell ; And manly March hath taken place , A Month with you to dwell : Brother to sweet April Showers , And Usher to fair MAY , And in his Hat a LEEK he wears Upon St. David's Day . 'Gainst Britan when the Roman did Their warlike Ensigns bear , Instead of Plumes , the green-top LEEKS Brute's valiant Raze did wear , Who bravely from the Roman Troop , The Conquest boar away , Which Badge of Honour still they wear Upon St [ . ] David's Day . And though stout Caesar with his Force Did strongly invade their Land , The Britans bold with Foot and Horse His Power did withstand , And when of them he Tribute sought , They did refuse to pay , For which they still do wear a LEEK Upon St. David's Day . The Saxons entered afterwards , And Essex did obtain , And with and Army well prepared , The Kingdom for to gain ; Each Town and City went to wrack Where the Saxons boar the Sway , At length the Britans drove them back Upon St. David's Day . They being led by that brave Prince , King Arthur called by Name , Whose Power with his valiant Knights The Saxons Pride did tame . In twelve Battles them did overthrow , As Chronicles do say , The last of which , the Britans overcame Upon St. David's Day . Next after that the Lances came in , That great nerping Foe , At Winchelsey they did begin The Land to overthrow ; Till Captain Landaff , a BRITAN true , Did make their Lives decay , And conquered the Danish Crew , Upon St. David's Day . When crookback Richard wore the Crown , As Regent of this Land ; No Policy could put him down , Nor his proud Power withstand : Till Henry Richmond , entered Wales , Whom BRITANS did obey , And conquered in Bosworth-Field , Upon St. David's Day . The warlike Deeds which late have been , By valiant Welsh-Men shown , Both England , France , and Germany , And other Lands have known ; Whose Honour with triumphant Praise , Fame's Trumpet does display , And blazen still their noble Acts Upon St. David's Day . Then does not Our St. DAVID's Day , Well merit to be fam'd ; Whereon the most triumphant Brutus's Their mighty Foes have tam'd , And have so well behav'd themselves , That I may boldly say , The like was never yet perform'd Upon St. David's Day . Of James the Spaniards boast , Saint Denis stands for France ; Saint Patrick in the Western Coast , The Irish-Men advance ; George holds the Sword , David the Scales Where Justice bears the Sway , And England drinks a Health to Wales Upon St. David's Day . The BRITANS have been ever true , And dare for to oppose , Both Pagans , Infidels and Jews , And all that are our Foes ; And will maintain their Countries good , Which never will decay , Then Blessing be on all their Names , That love Saint David's Day . And to conclude my new made Song , I wish with all my Heart , That they may never suffer Wrong , That take the Welsh-Mens Part ; Who stand up for their Countries Right , As lawfully they may , And wear the LEEK as their Delight Upon St. David's Day . Entered according to Order . LONDON , Printed by Thomas Dawks , his Majesties British - Printer , at the West-End of Thames-Street . THE Welsh-Mens GLORY , OR , The Famous Victories of the Ancient BRITANS Obtain'd upon St. DAVID's Day . THe Honour , Glory and the Grace Of valiant Brute's triumphant Raze , Showing the Reasons , wherefore they Wear Leeks upon St. David's Day . The valiant Deeds of Britans bold , I here shall sing in Verse ; Direct my Pen , Heroic Muse ! While I the same rehearse : That to the Britans noble Fame , I bravely chant it may , The Reason why , they do wear LEEKS Upon St. David's Day . I mean not to relate the Deeds Of warlike valiant GUY , Nor England's Warwick Champion , Saint GEORGE's Chivalry ; Nor any other Warrior's Fame , Intend I to display , But what the Britans bold have done Upon St. David's Day . Cold Winter with his frosty Face Does bid you all Farewell ; And manly March hath taken place , A Month with you to dwell : Brother to sweet April Showers , And Usher to fair MAY , And in his Hat a LEEK he wears Upon St. David's Day . 'Gainst Britan when the Roman did Their warlike Ensigns bear , Instead of Plumes , the green-top LEEKS Brute's valiant Raze did wear , Who bravely from the Roman Troop , The Conquest boar away , Which Badge of Honour still they wear Upon St [ . ] David's Day . And though stout Caesar with his Force Did strongly invade their Land , The Britans bold with Foot and Horse His Power did withstand , And when of them he Tribute sought , They did refuse to pay , For which they still do wear a LEEK Upon St. David's Day . The Saxons entered afterwards , And Essex did obtain , And with and Army well prepared , The Kingdom for to gain ; Each Town and City went to wrack Where the Saxons boar the Sway , At length the Britans drove them back Upon St. David's Day . They being led by that brave Prince , King Arthur called by Name , Whose Power with his valiant Knights The Saxons Pride did tame . In twelve Battles them did overthrow , As Chronicles do say , The last of which , the Britans overcame Upon St. David's Day . Next after that the Lances came in , That great nerping Foe , At Winchelsey they did begin The Land to overthrow ; Till Captain Landaff , a BRITAN true , Did make their Lives decay , And conquered the Danish Crew , Upon St. David's Day . When crookback Richard wore the Crown , As Regent of this Land ; No Policy could put him down , Nor his proud Power withstand : Till Henry Richmond , entered Wales , Whom BRITANS did obey , And conquered in Bosworth-Field , Upon St. David's Day . The warlike Deeds which late have been , By valiant Welsh-Men shown , Both England , France , and Germany , And other Lands have known ; Whose Honour with triumphant Praise , Fame's Trumpet does display , And blazen still their noble Acts Upon St. David's Day . Then does not Our St. DAVID's Day , Well merit to be fam'd ; Whereon the most triumphant Brutus's Their mighty Foes have tam'd , And have so well behav'd themselves , That I may boldly say , The like was never yet perform'd Upon St. David's Day . Of James the Spaniards boast , Saint Denis stands for France ; Saint Patrick in the Western Coast , The Irish-Men advance ; George holds the Sword , David the Scales Where Justice bears the Sway , And England drinks a Health to Wales Upon St. David's Day . The BRITANS have been ever true , And dare for to oppose , Both Pagans , Infidels and Jews , And all that are our Foes ; And will maintain their Countries good , Which never will decay , Then Blessing be on all their Names , That love Saint David's Day . And to conclude my new made Song , I wish with all my Heart , That they may never suffer Wrong , That take the Welsh-Mens Part ; Who stand up for their Countries Right , As lawfully they may , And wear the LEEK as their Delight Upon St. David's Day . Entered according to Order . LONDON , Printed by Thomas Dawks , his Majesties British - Printer , at the West-End of Thames-Street . 