TOM and WILL : OR , News from the Country . Being a further NARRATIVE of the late POPISH PLOT . TOM and WILL , ( Two Country-Fellows ) Meeting by Chance one Day at Ale-House ; They fit them down , and o're a Pot , They Learnedly discourse the PLOT . Each vents his Thoughts , and tells his Story ; Little to POPE , or PAPISTS Glory . And though they now and then Disjoint A Word or two , What's that to th' Point ? No Man , I guess , will at it grutch , Since Doctors Grave have done as much . But why should I forestall the Market ? Read it but or'e , and do but mark i The Truth of All , you'll plainly see . The Tune is --------- Whoop Sir Domine . Tom. Hark thee Will , I'le tell thee some News ; it is so Good , I cannot choose : Do'st thou not hear the work on foot , with long-look'd for , it is come to't ? Papists , they are all in a Net , thanks to the Man that made the se We need not fear to cut their Throats ; the PLOT's made out by Dr. Oats . For he does swear this very thing , that they design'd to Kill the KING , And to Convert the Government a heinous , base , and vile Intent . And Bedlow , Prance , and Dugdale bold , the same by Oaths do plain unfold ; That is to say , the dismal Thing Oates swore before , to Slay the KING . And sundry Insults Jezazets had , to find out Men good KING to Stab : Then Ruffians Four , of Irish Breed , to Windsor went , to make KING Bleed . And Pickering was to lie aloof , with a gay Gun of Mettle-proof ; To shoot KING through , as he passed by , in any Part , to make KING Die . Then George Sir Wakeman Hired was , to Poison dead our Leige-Lord's Grace ; And for his Pains ( they said ) he should have Fifteen Thousand Pounds in Gold . KING being Kill'd , What next I trow ? it is but meet , that thou should'st know : Although the Matter be so Derne , It makes my very Bowels yearn . Hundreds , Thousands Men were to come , at Found of Trump , and Beatrice of Drum , Out of Utope , to cut and slice Protestant Guggles all in a Trice . And after that all Us were slave , Pope was to come a thwart the Main : And here to hold up his Left Hand , and solve the Cut-Throats of this Land. Then in order to his expense , before the Grey Beard went from hence ; They all should swear for Recompense , yearly to pay him Peterpence . Thus much and more , the Learned say , they practised Us to Destroy ; From which foul Deed , Great Jove forefend ; 'twere better the World were at and End. The Second Part , To the same Tune . Will . VErily Tom , you well do show , what I long time before did know ; Yet what I learn't from Maister's mind , the work's undone , that was design'd . For when at first , Grave Oats did swear , how Protestants were like to fare ; We should have rose up ev'ry where , and cut Papists Throats , in ev'ry Sheir . How pure a Charr had it been there , they not one , to Ten times Ten ; Scarce half a Meal to Feed the Jaws of such as are for the Good Old Cause . That done the work had been dispatch'd , and all made good , which R ------ had hatch'd ; But , hanging now so long i'th wind , 'twill go , I fear , against our mind . For though Coleman be put to Death , and Ireland hath lost his Breath ; And many more for Treason grand , at Tybourn , lately have been Hang'd . Yet all do swear , vow , and protest , as they expect Eternal rest ; They know no Plot , but Guiltless are of all that Oats , and Bedlow swear . And dying Men's words , Wise folk say , ought to bear a far greater sway : Then those are thought , who swear for gain , and were before of no good Fame . If Papists Arms had but been found in House , in Barn , or under Ground : Then we had had a fair pretence , to spoil their plea of Innocence . But no such matter yet appears , and now they ding it in our Ears : How we promote more Rebel Jigs , than Forty one , from Scottish whiggs . Beside , the Knight hath broke a Mash ; who lay long time under the Lash : And now away from Us is god ; whom all Men thought would go to pot . And three or four , then under pole , did flirt away through Doctor's hold , And all the rest , I am in doubt , now Net is burst , will soon get out . Again , that Berry , Hill , and Green ; as in some Writing may be seen , Concerning Godfrey's base Trapan , were not the Men that spoil'd that Man. Therefore Tom. what to say or do , I do not know , I tell thee true ; Swearing , and Lying , I espy , will not confound old Popery . FINIS . Printed in the YEAR , 1680. TOM and WILL : OR , News from the Country . Being a further NARRATIVE of the late POPISH PLOT . TOM and WILL , ( Two Country-Fellows ) Meeting by Chance one Day at Ale-House ; They fit them down , and o're a Pot , They Learnedly discourse the PLOT . Each vents his Thoughts , and tells his Story ; Little to POPE , or PAPISTS Glory . And though they now and then Disjoint A Word or two , What's that to th' Point ? No Man , I guess , will at it grutch , Since Doctors Grave have done as much . But why should I forestall the Market ? Read it but or'e , and do but mark i The Truth of All , you'll plainly see . The Tune is --------- Whoop Sir Domine . Tom. Hark thee Will , I'le tell thee some News ; it is so Good , I cannot choose : Do'st thou not hear the work on foot , with long-look'd for , it is come to't ? Papists , they are all in a Net , thanks to the Man that made the se We need not fear to cut their Throats ; the PLOT's made out by Dr. Oats . For he does swear this very thing , that they design'd to Kill the KING , And to Convert the Government a heinous , base , and vile Intent . And Bedlow , Prance , and Dugdale bold , the same by Oaths do plain unfold ; That is to say , the dismal Thing Oates swore before , to Slay the KING . And sundry Insults Jezazets had , to find out Men good KING to Stab : Then Ruffians Four , of Irish Breed , to Windsor went , to make KING Bleed . And Pickering was to lie aloof , with a gay Gun of Mettle-proof ; To shoot KING through , as he passed by , in any Part , to make KING Die . Then George Sir Wakeman Hired was , to Poison dead our Leige-Lord's Grace ; And for his Pains ( they said ) he should have Fifteen Thousand Pounds in Gold . KING being Kill'd , What next I trow ? it is but meet , that thou should'st know : Although the Matter be so Derne , It makes my very Bowels yearn . Hundreds , Thousands Men were to come , at Found of Trump , and Beatrice of Drum , Out of Utope , to cut and slice Protestant Guggles all in a Trice . And after that all Us were slave , Pope was to come a thwart the Main : And here to hold up his Left Hand , and solve the Cut-Throats of this Land. Then in order to his expense , before the Grey Beard went from hence ; They all should swear for Recompense , yearly to pay him Peterpence . Thus much and more , the Learned say , they practised Us to Destroy ; From which foul Deed , Great Jove forefend ; 'twere better the World were at and End. The Second Part , To the same Tune . Will . VErily Tom , you well do show , what I long time before did know ; Yet what I learn't from Maister's mind , the work's undone , that was design'd . For when at first , Grave Oats did swear , how Protestants were like to fare ; We should have rose up ev'ry where , and cut Papists Throats , in ev'ry Sheir . How pure a Charr had it been there , they not one , to Ten times Ten ; Scarce half a Meal to Feed the Jaws of such as are for the Good Old Cause . That done the work had been dispatch'd , and all made good , which R ------ had hatch'd ; But , hanging now so long i'th wind , 'twill go , I fear , against our mind . For though Coleman be put to Death , and Ireland hath lost his Breath ; And many more for Treason grand , at Tybourn , lately have been Hang'd . Yet all do swear , vow , and protest , as they expect Eternal rest ; They know no Plot , but Guiltless are of all that Oats , and Bedlow swear . And dying Men's words , Wise folk say , ought to bear a far greater sway : Then those are thought , who swear for gain , and were before of no good Fame . If Papists Arms had but been found in House , in Barn , or under Ground : Then we had had a fair pretence , to spoil their plea of Innocence . But no such matter yet appears , and now they ding it in our Ears : How we promote more Rebel Jigs , than Forty one , from Scottish whiggs . Beside , the Knight hath broke a Mash ; who lay long time under the Lash : And now away from Us is god ; whom all Men thought would go to pot . And three or four , then under pole , did flirt away through Doctor's hold , And all the rest , I am in doubt , now Net is burst , will soon get out . Again , that Berry , Hill , and Green ; as in some Writing may be seen , Concerning Godfrey's base Trapan , were not the Men that spoil'd that Man. Therefore Tom. what to say or do , I do not know , I tell thee true ; Swearing , and Lying , I espy , will not confound old Popery . FINIS . Printed in the YEAR , 1680. TOM and WILL : OR , News from the Country . Being a further NARRATIVE of the late POPISH PLOT . TOM and WILL , ( Two Country-Fellows ) Meeting by Chance one Day at Ale-House ; They fit them down , and o're a Pot , They Learnedly discourse the PLOT . Each vents his Thoughts , and tells his Story ; Little to POPE , or PAPISTS Glory . And though they now and then Disjoint A Word or two , What's that to th' Point ? No Man , I guess , will at it grutch , Since Doctors Grave have done as much . But why should I forestall the Market ? Read it but or'e , and do but mark i The Truth of All , you'll plainly see . The Tune is --------- Whoop Sir Domine . Tom. Hark thee Will , I'le tell thee some News ; it is so Good , I cannot choose : Do'st thou not hear the work on foot , with long-look'd for , it is come to't ? Papists , they are all in a Net , thanks to the Man that made the se We need not fear to cut their Throats ; the PLOT's made out by Dr. Oats . For he does swear this very thing , that they design'd to Kill the KING , And to Convert the Government a heinous , base , and vile Intent . And Bedlow , Prance , and Dugdale bold , the same by Oaths do plain unfold ; That is to say , the dismal Thing Oates swore before , to Slay the KING . And sundry Insults Jezazets had , to find out Men good KING to Stab : Then Ruffians Four , of Irish Breed , to Windsor went , to make KING Bleed . And Pickering was to lie aloof , with a gay Gun of Mettle-proof ; To shoot KING through , as he passed by , in any Part , to make KING Die . Then George Sir Wakeman Hired was , to Poison dead our Leige-Lord's Grace ; And for his Pains ( they said ) he should have Fifteen Thousand Pounds in Gold . KING being Kill'd , What next I trow ? it is but meet , that thou should'st know : Although the Matter be so Derne , It makes my very Bowels yearn . Hundreds , Thousands Men were to come , at Found of Trump , and Beatrice of Drum , Out of Utope , to cut and slice Protestant Guggles all in a Trice . And after that all Us were slave , Pope was to come a thwart the Main : And here to hold up his Left Hand , and solve the Cut-Throats of this Land. Then in order to his expense , before the Grey Beard went from hence ; They all should swear for Recompense , yearly to pay him Peterpence . Thus much and more , the Learned say , they practised Us to Destroy ; From which foul Deed , Great Jove forefend ; 'twere better the World were at and End. The Second Part , To the same Tune . Will . VErily Tom , you well do show , what I long time before did know ; Yet what I learn't from Maister's mind , the work's undone , that was design'd . For when at first , Grave Oats did swear , how Protestants were like to fare ; We should have rose up ev'ry where , and cut Papists Throats , in ev'ry Sheir . How pure a Charr had it been there , they not one , to Ten times Ten ; Scarce half a Meal to Feed the Jaws of such as are for the Good Old Cause . That done the work had been dispatch'd , and all made good , which R ------ had hatch'd ; But , hanging now so long i'th wind , 'twill go , I fear , against our mind . For though Coleman be put to Death , and Ireland hath lost his Breath ; And many more for Treason grand , at Tybourn , lately have been Hang'd . Yet all do swear , vow , and protest , as they expect Eternal rest ; They know no Plot , but Guiltless are of all that Oats , and Bedlow swear . And dying Men's words , Wise folk say , ought to bear a far greater sway : Then those are thought , who swear for gain , and were before of no good Fame . If Papists Arms had but been found in House , in Barn , or under Ground : Then we had had a fair pretence , to spoil their plea of Innocence . But no such matter yet appears , and now they ding it in our Ears : How we promote more Rebel Jigs , than Forty one , from Scottish whiggs . Beside , the Knight hath broke a Mash ; who lay long time under the Lash : And now away from Us is god ; whom all Men thought would go to pot . And three or four , then under pole , did flirt away through Doctor's hold , And all the rest , I am in doubt , now Net is burst , will soon get out . Again , that Berry , Hill , and Green ; as in some Writing may be seen , Concerning Godfrey's base Trapan , were not the Men that spoil'd that Man. Therefore Tom. what to say or do , I do not know , I tell thee true ; Swearing , and Lying , I espy , will not confound old Popery . FINIS . Printed in the YEAR , 1680. TOM and WILL : OR , News from the Country . Being a further NARRATIVE of the late POPISH PLOT . TOM and WILL , ( Two Country-Fellows ) Meeting by Chance one Day at Ale-House ; They fit them down , and o're a Pot , They Learnedly discourse the PLOT . Each vents his Thoughts , and tells his Story ; Little to POPE , or PAPISTS Glory . And though they now and then Disjoint A Word or two , What's that to th' Point ? No Man , I guess , will at it grutch , Since Doctors Grave have done as much . But why should I forestall the Market ? Read it but or'e , and do but mark i The Truth of All , you'll plainly see . The Tune is --------- Whoop Sir Domine . Tom. Hark thee Will , I'le tell thee some News ; it is so Good , I cannot choose : Do'st thou not hear the work on foot , with long-look'd for , it is come to't ? Papists , they are all in a Net , thanks to the Man that made the se We need not fear to cut their Throats ; the PLOT's made out by Dr. Oats . For he does swear this very thing , that they design'd to Kill the KING , And to Convert the Government a heinous , base , and vile Intent . And Bedlow , Prance , and Dugdale bold , the same by Oaths do plain unfold ; That is to say , the dismal Thing Oates swore before , to Slay the KING . And sundry Insults Jezazets had , to find out Men good KING to Stab : Then Ruffians Four , of Irish Breed , to Windsor went , to make KING Bleed . And Pickering was to lie aloof , with a gay Gun of Mettle-proof ; To shoot KING through , as he passed by , in any Part , to make KING Die . Then George Sir Wakeman Hired was , to Poison dead our Leige-Lord's Grace ; And for his Pains ( they said ) he should have Fifteen Thousand Pounds in Gold . KING being Kill'd , What next I trow ? it is but meet , that thou should'st know : Although the Matter be so Derne , It makes my very Bowels yearn . Hundreds , Thousands Men were to come , at Found of Trump , and Beatrice of Drum , Out of Utope , to cut and slice Protestant Guggles all in a Trice . And after that all Us were slave , Pope was to come a thwart the Main : And here to hold up his Left Hand , and solve the Cut-Throats of this Land. Then in order to his expense , before the Grey Beard went from hence ; They all should swear for Recompense , yearly to pay him Peterpence . Thus much and more , the Learned say , they practised Us to Destroy ; From which foul Deed , Great Jove forefend ; 'twere better the World were at and End. The Second Part , To the same Tune . Will . VErily Tom , you well do show , what I long time before did know ; Yet what I learn't from Maister's mind , the work's undone , that was design'd . For when at first , Grave Oats did swear , how Protestants were like to fare ; We should have rose up ev'ry where , and cut Papists Throats , in ev'ry Sheir . How pure a Charr had it been there , they not one , to Ten times Ten ; Scarce half a Meal to Feed the Jaws of such as are for the Good Old Cause . That done the work had been dispatch'd , and all made good , which R ------ had hatch'd ; But , hanging now so long i'th wind , 'twill go , I fear , against our mind . For though Coleman be put to Death , and Ireland hath lost his Breath ; And many more for Treason grand , at Tybourn , lately have been Hang'd . Yet all do swear , vow , and protest , as they expect Eternal rest ; They know no Plot , but Guiltless are of all that Oats , and Bedlow swear . And dying Men's words , Wise folk say , ought to bear a far greater sway : Then those are thought , who swear for gain , and were before of no good Fame . If Papists Arms had but been found in House , in Barn , or under Ground : Then we had had a fair pretence , to spoil their plea of Innocence . But no such matter yet appears , and now they ding it in our Ears : How we promote more Rebel Jigs , than Forty one , from Scottish whiggs . Beside , the Knight hath broke a Mash ; who lay long time under the Lash : And now away from Us is god ; whom all Men thought would go to pot . And three or four , then under pole , did flirt away through Doctor's hold , And all the rest , I am in doubt , now Net is burst , will soon get out . Again , that Berry , Hill , and Green ; as in some Writing may be seen , Concerning Godfrey's base Trapan , were not the Men that spoil'd that Man. Therefore Tom. what to say or do , I do not know , I tell thee true ; Swearing , and Lying , I espy , will not confound old Popery . FINIS . Printed in the YEAR , 1680. 