H A constant wife , a kind wife , A loving wife , and a fine wife , Which gives content unto men life . To the tune of , Locks and Bolts do hinder . YOung Men and Maids , lend me your aids , to speak of my deer Sweating , It shows how fortune hath betrayed , and often spoiled our meeting : She likely was for to be rich , and I a man but meanly , Wherefore her friends at me do grutch , and use me most unkindly . Her constancy I will declare , wherein she proved loyal , But few with her that will compare , when they are put to trial : Her friends against her did contend , because she lent me favour , They said I quickly all would spend , if that I might but have her . They did convey her from my sighed , because she should exempt me , I could not find my hearts delight , which soar did discontent me : I travel'd over craggy Rocks , over moutaines , hills , and valleys , But she was kept from me with locks . only through spite and malice , But love that conquers Kings and Queens , herein did show us favour , I brought to pass and wrought the means , in what place I should have her : She had and Uncle did detain , and keep her presence from me , Whom I was very like 't have slain , because he did so wrong me . I boldly came where she did dwell . and asked for my Sweating , They said of her they could not tell , which was to me sad greeting : But presently she herd my voice , and cal'd me at her window , Oh I would come to thee my Love , but doors and locks do hinder . Whereat amazed I did stand , to hear her make that answer , I drew my sword into my hand , and straight the house did enter : And then I made the locks to fly , and doors in pieces shatter . I vow'd to have her company , and quickly I came at her . Her Uncle and some of his men , did after present follow , Who said I ne're should out again , but in my blood should wallow : But with some hurt done on both sides , I brought my Sweetheart from them Yung Men to win yourselves such Brides , fight for to overcome them . Then joyn'd we hands in Hymens bans to love and live together , She lov'd me not for house or lands , for I had none of either : Her love was pure , and does endure , and so shall mine forever , Till death so much do us injure , as part us from each other . The Second Part , to the same Tune . WIth hand and heart I will impart , the praises of my Sweating , Now welcome joys and farewell smart , blessed be the time of meeting : With my Sweetheart and only deer , in whom is all my pleasure , The like of her does not appear , she is so blessed a creature . O happy be the time and hour , that ere I saw her feature , Sure Heavens bliss on me did shower , to send me such a creature ; She is so pleasing to mine eye , the like was never any , She's virtuous , wise , and very kind , she far surpasses any . Her comely feature may compare , with any in Town or City , For courtesy she is most rare , likewise she is full of pity ; No virtue that can give consent , to any earthly creature , But God to her the same hath lent , to please the will of nature . Her golden locks like threads of gold , her eyes like stars do glister , Her cheeks like Rose , and Lilies told , she may be Venus Sister ; She hath a dimpled chin , her neck shines like the Crystal , Her like hath seldom times been seen , she seems so celestial . Her arms and shoulders are complete , her breast like Alabaster , Her waste and middle is so neat , there's none that ere surpassed hsr : Her eloquence gives such content , in all that hear her phrases , That freely theyl yield their consent , to yield her earthly praises . Her Lily hand is at command , to do me any service , And quickly she will understand a matter whatsoever 'tis : If I bid go she will not stay , to work me a displeasure , But presently she goes away , and is not this a treasure . Her parts below I'll not descry , but they are very neat ones , A dainty foot , and leg , and thigh , as can be made of flesh and bones ; She is so perfect in her parts , that many were inflamed , On her they wholly set their hearts , and at her fully aimed , Thus to conclude and end my Song , I wish well to the Female , Or else I sure should do them wrong , and prove myself a telltale : Young Men adieu , prove not unkind unto your only Sweating , Observe your time , you need not rue , nor curse the hour of meeting . FINIS . London Printed by E.P. for F. Coals , in the Old-bailey . H A constant wife , a kind wife , A loving wife , and a fine wife , Which gives content unto men life . To the tune of , Locks and Bolts do hinder . YOung Men and Maids , lend me your aids , to speak of my deer Sweating , It shows how fortune hath betrayed , and often spoiled our meeting : She likely was for to be rich , and I a man but meanly , Wherefore her friends at me do grutch , and use me most unkindly . Her constancy I will declare , wherein she proved loyal , But few with her that will compare , when they are put to trial : Her friends against her did contend , because she lent me favour , They said I quickly all would spend , if that I might but have her . They did convey her from my sighed , because she should exempt me , I could not find my hearts delight , which soar did discontent me : I travel'd over craggy Rocks , over moutaines , hills , and valleys , But she was kept from me with locks . only through spite and malice , But love that conquers Kings and Queens , herein did show us favour , I brought to pass and wrought the means , in what place I should have her : She had and Uncle did detain , and keep her presence from me , Whom I was very like 't have slain , because he did so wrong me . I boldly came where she did dwell . and asked for my Sweating , They said of her they could not tell , which was to me sad greeting : But presently she herd my voice , and cal'd me at her window , Oh I would come to thee my Love , but doors and locks do hinder . Whereat amazed I did stand , to hear her make that answer , I drew my sword into my hand , and straight the house did enter : And then I made the locks to fly , and doors in pieces shatter . I vow'd to have her company , and quickly I came at her . Her Uncle and some of his men , did after present follow , Who said I ne're should out again , but in my blood should wallow : But with some hurt done on both sides , I brought my Sweetheart from them Yung Men to win yourselves such Brides , fight for to overcome them . Then joyn'd we hands in Hymens bans to love and live together , She lov'd me not for house or lands , for I had none of either : Her love was pure , and does endure , and so shall mine forever , Till death so much do us injure , as part us from each other . The Second Part , to the same Tune . WIth hand and heart I will impart , the praises of my Sweating , Now welcome joys and farewell smart , blessed be the time of meeting : With my Sweetheart and only deer , in whom is all my pleasure , The like of her does not appear , she is so blessed a creature . O happy be the time and hour , that ere I saw her feature , Sure Heavens bliss on me did shower , to send me such a creature ; She is so pleasing to mine eye , the like was never any , She's virtuous , wise , and very kind , she far surpasses any . Her comely feature may compare , with any in Town or City , For courtesy she is most rare , likewise she is full of pity ; No virtue that can give consent , to any earthly creature , But God to her the same hath lent , to please the will of nature . Her golden locks like threads of gold , her eyes like stars do glister , Her cheeks like Rose , and Lilies told , she may be Venus Sister ; She hath a dimpled chin , her neck shines like the Crystal , Her like hath seldom times been seen , she seems so celestial . Her arms and shoulders are complete , her breast like Alabaster , Her waste and middle is so neat , there's none that ere surpassed hsr : Her eloquence gives such content , in all that hear her phrases , That freely theyl yield their consent , to yield her earthly praises . Her Lily hand is at command , to do me any service , And quickly she will understand a matter whatsoever 'tis : If I bid go she will not stay , to work me a displeasure , But presently she goes away , and is not this a treasure . Her parts below I'll not descry , but they are very neat ones , A dainty foot , and leg , and thigh , as can be made of flesh and bones ; She is so perfect in her parts , that many were inflamed , On her they wholly set their hearts , and at her fully aimed , Thus to conclude and end my Song , I wish well to the Female , Or else I sure should do them wrong , and prove myself a telltale : Young Men adieu , prove not unkind unto your only Sweating , Observe your time , you need not rue , nor curse the hour of meeting . FINIS . London Printed by E.P. for F. Coals , in the Old-bailey . 