The Ballad-Makers Complain OR , The Satyric Lamentation of the Trades Involved , that their Labours permit them no time to reflect on Old Long Sin Should old pleasures be forgotten and never thought upon : The thrill of work extinguished and Jolly past and g [ oh ] ne : For this poor mule has gr [ oh ] wn so old [ e ] , the coffin be most kind , Dead thou canst no more reflect on Old Long Sin . For I'le long sighs my Job , o I'le long sighs , Here thou canst never earn respect , so I'le long sighs . We've run out of t's again , I had to spell 'the' 'she' ; Forgotten the leading 'twixt the lines , now Master shall strike me . The deep displeasure of his [ f ] ace so fills this heart o' mine , I slipped some ink inside his ale : Now he'll long sighs . For I'le long sighs my Job , o I'le long sighs , Here thou canst never earn respect , so I'le long sighs . Woodcarving does not banish woes , when faces are involv'd . My tool chipt off the Queen her nose , this cut shant be absolv'd ; To courtesan I shall turn thee , with mole beneath thine Eye : Thy skirts i'th stews the Men shall seize , o I'le long sighs . For I'le long sighs my Job , o I'le long sighs , Here thou canst never earn respect , so I'le long sighs . O papermaking pray prove more kind and pull on me not still ; Since all my clothes you have for pulp , my wife says me shee'l kill : These vatman's tears thwart my success , she'll beatrice me with disdain : Such strife does make me want to couch , for Old Long Sin . For I'le long sighs my Job , o I'le [ l ] ong sighs , Here thou canst never earn respect , so I'le long sighs . The Second Part. To the Same Tune . I'Ve cry'd my wares all down the streets , no soul does hark to this . O hawking is a thankless task when London smells of piss . I'le sing this tune till voice grows hoarse my wife can't hear my 'Fie' The Beadle chases . 'Vagrant , cease ! ' so I'le long sighs . O , I'le long sighs , my Job , for Old Long Sin , We ne'er have time for to reflect on Old Long Sin ! But first of all the ballad tale and author must conceive . Poor I remain tho' publish'd well : Curs'd Anonymity . With quill gone dry and paper blank my Helpmate is the pint . I should become a Roguish Cranke , so I'le no more sighs . O , I'le long sighs , my Job , for Old Long Sin , We ne'er have time for to reflect on Old Long Sin ! I'l raise a pot to the balladeers , with Tinker join the Fee ; Wee'l sing my Song to please thine Ears , and drink a health to me . I'le post my Ballads on the Walls , and merry times ye'll find , With pulp and ink and cuts enthral'd Thou'rt drawn to my design . O , I'le long sighs , my Job , for Old Long Sin , We ne'er have time for to reflect on Old Long Sin ! O , I'le no more sighs , my Job , for Old Long Sin , We raise a glass for to reflect on Old Long Sin ! FINIS printed by EMCImprint , under the Sign of the Ermine within South-Hall at Sainte Barbaras . The Ballad-Makers Complain OR , The Satyric Lamentation of the Trades Involved , that their Labours permit them no time to reflect on Old Long Sin Should old pleasures be forgotten and never thought upon : The thrill of work extinguished and Jolly past and g [ oh ] ne : For this poor mule has gr [ oh ] wn so old [ e ] , the coffin be most kind , Dead thou canst no more reflect on Old Long Sin . For I'le long sighs my Job , o I'le long sighs , Here thou canst never earn respect , so I'le long sighs . We've run out of t's again , I had to spell 'the' 'she' ; Forgotten the leading 'twixt the lines , now Master shall strike me . The deep displeasure of his [ f ] ace so fills this heart o' mine , I slipped some ink inside his ale : Now he'll long sighs . For I'le long sighs my Job , o I'le long sighs , Here thou canst never earn respect , so I'le long sighs . Woodcarving does not banish woes , when faces are involv'd . My tool chipt off the Queen her nose , this cut shant be absolv'd ; To courtesan I shall turn thee , with mole beneath thine Eye : Thy skirts i'th stews the Men shall seize , o I'le long sighs . For I'le long sighs my Job , o I'le long sighs , Here thou canst never earn respect , so I'le long sighs . O papermaking pray prove more kind and pull on me not still ; Since all my clothes you have for pulp , my wife says me shee'l kill : These vatman's tears thwart my success , she'll beatrice me with disdain : Such strife does make me want to couch , for Old Long Sin . For I'le long sighs my Job , o I'le [ l ] ong sighs , Here thou canst never earn respect , so I'le long sighs . The Second Part. To the Same Tune . I'Ve cry'd my wares all down the streets , no soul does hark to this . O hawking is a thankless task when London smells of piss . I'le sing this tune till voice grows hoarse my wife can't hear my 'Fie' The Beadle chases . 'Vagrant , cease ! ' so I'le long sighs . O , I'le long sighs , my Job , for Old Long Sin , We ne'er have time for to reflect on Old Long Sin ! But first of all the ballad tale and author must conceive . Poor I remain tho' publish'd well : Curs'd Anonymity . With quill gone dry and paper blank my Helpmate is the pint . I should become a Roguish Cranke , so I'le no more sighs . O , I'le long sighs , my Job , for Old Long Sin , We ne'er have time for to reflect on Old Long Sin ! I'l raise a pot to the balladeers , with Tinker join the Fee ; Wee'l sing my Song to please thine Ears , and drink a health to me . I'le post my Ballads on the Walls , and merry times ye'll find , With pulp and ink and cuts enthral'd Thou'rt drawn to my design . O , I'le long sighs , my Job , for Old Long Sin , We ne'er have time for to reflect on Old Long Sin ! O , I'le no more sighs , my Job , for Old Long Sin , We raise a glass for to reflect on Old Long Sin ! FINIS printed by EMCImprint , under the Sign of the Ermine within South-Hall at Sainte Barbaras . 