
  Discover a faster, simpler path to publishing in a high-quality journal. PLOS ONE promises fair, rigorous peer review,
  broad scope, and wide readership – a perfect fit for your research every time.
   
    
     Learn More
    
    
      Submit Now
    
   Click through the PLOS taxonomy to find articles in your field. For more information about PLOS Subject Areas, click
          here.
         Loading metrics Paper's citation count computed by Scopus. Sum of PLOS and PubMed Central page views and downloads. Sum of Facebook and Twitter activity. Open Access Peer-reviewed Research Article Affiliations
    Department of Biomedical Sciences, Chonnam
                    National University Medical School, Gwangju, Republic of Korea, 
    Research Institute of Medical Sciences,
                    Chonnam National University Medical School, Gwangju, Republic of
                    Korea
   Affiliations
    Department of Biology, Chosun University,
                    Gwangju, Republic of Korea, 
    Research Institute of Kim and Jung Co. Ltd.,
                    Hwasun, Republic of Korea
   Affiliations
    Research Institute of Medical Sciences,
                    Chonnam National University Medical School, Gwangju, Republic of
                    Korea, 
    Department of Pathogen Biology, Hainan Medical
                    University, Haikou, People's Republic of China
   Affiliations
    Department of Biomedical Sciences, Chonnam
                    National University Medical School, Gwangju, Republic of Korea, 
    Department of Biology, Chosun University,
                    Gwangju, Republic of Korea
   Affiliation
    Department of Biomedical Sciences, Chonnam
                    National University Medical School, Gwangju, Republic of Korea
   Affiliation
    College of Pharmacy and Research Institute of
                    Drug Development, Chonnam National University, Gwangju, Republic of
                    Korea
   Affiliation
    Department of Neurology, Chonnam National
                    University Medical School, Gwangju, Republic of Korea
    * E-mail: bashin@chonnam.ac.kr (BAS); zebrafish@chonnam.ac.kr (S-YC) Affiliation
    Research Institute of Medical Sciences,
                    Chonnam National University Medical School, Gwangju, Republic of
                    Korea
    * E-mail: bashin@chonnam.ac.kr (BAS); zebrafish@chonnam.ac.kr (S-YC) Affiliation
    Department of Biomedical Sciences, Chonnam
                    National University Medical School, Gwangju, Republic of Korea
   When expression of more than one gene is required in cells, bicistronic or
                    multicistronic expression vectors have been used. Among various strategies
                    employed to construct bicistronic or multicistronic vectors, an internal
                    ribosomal entry site (IRES) has been widely used. Due to the large size and
                    difference in expression levels between genes before and after IRES, however, a
                    new strategy was required to replace IRES. A self-cleaving 2A peptide could be a
                    good candidate to replace IRES because of its small size and high cleavage
                    efficiency between genes upstream and downstream of the 2A peptide. Despite the
                    advantages of the 2A peptides, its use is not widespread because (i) there are
                    no publicly available cloning vectors harboring a 2A peptide gene and (ii)
                    comprehensive comparison of cleavage efficiency among various 2A peptides
                    reported to date has not been performed in different contexts. Here, we
                    generated four expression plasmids each harboring different 2A peptides derived
                    from the foot-and-mouth disease virus, equine rhinitis A virus, Thosea
                        asigna virus and porcine teschovirus-1, respectively, and evaluated
                    their cleavage efficiency in three commonly used human cell lines, zebrafish
                    embryos and adult mice. Western blotting and confocal microscopic analyses
                    revealed that among the four 2As, the one derived from porcine teschovirus-1
                    (P2A) has the highest cleavage efficiency in all the contexts examined. We
                    anticipate that the 2A-harboring cloning vectors we generated and the highest
                    efficiency of the P2A peptide we demonstrated would help biomedical researchers
                    easily adopt the 2A technology when bicistronic or multicistronic expression is
                    required. Citation: Kim JH, Lee S-R, Li L-H, Park H-J, Park J-H, Lee KY, et al.  (2011) High Cleavage Efficiency of a 2A Peptide Derived from Porcine Teschovirus-1 in Human Cell Lines, Zebrafish and Mice. PLoS ONE 6(4):
        e18556.
        doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0018556 Editor: Volker Thiel, Kantonal Hospital St. Gallen, Switzerland Received: January 4, 2011; Accepted: March 4, 2011; Published:  April 29, 2011 Copyright:  © 2011 Kim et al. This is an open-access article distributed under the
                terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use,
                distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and
                source are credited. Funding: This work was supported by the Basic Science Research Program through the
                    National Research Foundation of Korea (NRF) funded by the Ministry of Education,
                    Science and Technology (2009-0071597 and 2009-0070204), a grant of the Korean
                    Health Technology R&D Project, Ministry for Health, Welfare & Family
                    Affairs, Republic of Korea (A100402) and the Korea Science and Engineering
                    Foundation through the Medical Research Center for Gene Regulation
                    (R13-2002-013-06002-0) at Chonnam National University. The funders had no role
                    in study design, data collection and analysis, decision to publish, or
                    preparation of the manuscript. Competing interests:  SRL is an employee of Kim & Jung Co. Ltd. All authors confirm adherence to
                    all the PLoS ONE policies on sharing data and materials. In biomedical research, the simultaneous expression of more than one gene in cells or
                organisms using a single plasmid is sometimes required. To this end, several
                strategies have been employed: (i) multiple promoters fused to the genes' open
                reading frames (ORFs); (ii) insertion of splicing signals between genes; fusion of
                genes whose expressions are driven by a single promoter; (iii) insertion of
                proteolytic cleavage sites between genes; and (iv) insertion of internal ribosomal
                entry sites (IRESs) between genes [1], [2]. Of these strategies, IRES has been widely used due to the following advantages: (i)
                ensured coexpression of genes before and after the IRES; (ii) feasibility of adding
                subcellular localization sequences to the gene after IRES; and (iii) availability of
                commercial expression plasmids harboring IRES [2]. However, IRES has two major
                limitations [2],
                    [3]. First,
                the size of IRES is usually longer than 500 nucleotides, which could be a problem
                when a large insert is cloned into IRES-containing viral vectors with limited
                cloning capacity or when multiple IRESs are used to generate multicistronic
                plasmids. Second, translation efficiency of a gene placed after the IRES is much
                lower than that of a gene located before IRES. These limitations can be overcome by a 2A peptide, a “self-cleaving”
                small peptide first identified by Ryan and colleagues in the foot-and-mouth disease
                virus (FMDV), a member of the picornavirus [4]. The average length of 2A peptides
                is 18–22 amino acids. The designation “2A” refers to a specific
                region of picornavirus polyproteins and arose from a systematic nomenclature adopted
                by researchers. In FMDV, it is delineated at its own C-terminus by
                ‘cleavage’ (to be more precise, by ribosome skipping) and at its
                N-terminus by a proteolytic cleavage or ‘trimming’ from the upstream
                capsid protein 1D by the 3C/3CD proteinase. Initially, it was speculated that either
                a virus-encoded proteinase or host cell proteinase might be responsible for the
                cleavage [4]. Recent
                reports demonstrated, however, that ribosomes skip the synthesis of the
                glycyl-prolyl peptide bond at the C-terminus of a 2A peptide, leading to the
                cleavage between a 2A peptide and its immediate downstream peptide [5], [6], [7]. As a result,
                the cleaved-off downstream peptide has proline at its N-terminus (Fig. 1A). The term CHYSEL
                        (cis-acting
                    hydrolase
                    element) was coined by Pablode Felipe to reflect the
                characteristics of this type of picornavirus 2A peptides [8].  (A) Schematic representation of cleavage occurring in a peptide translated in
                        foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV). 1D, 2A and 2B indicate contiguous
                        endogenous peptides translated in FMDV. The arrowhead indicates cleavage
                        site. (B) DNA and corresponding amino acid sequences of various 2A peptides.
                        Underlined sequences encode amino acids GSG, which were added to improve
                        cleavage efficiency. P2A indicates porcine teschovirus-1 2A; T2A,
                            Thoseaasigna virus 2A; E2A, equine rhinitis A virus
                        (ERAV) 2A; F2A, FMDV 2A. (C) A schema showing a map for an expression
                        plasmid harboring DNA sequences encoding a 2A peptide (upper) and a
                        construct used in this study encoding 2A peptides flanked by NLS-EGFP and
                        mCherry-CAAX. NLS and CAAX denote the nuclear localization sequence and
                        membrane localization sequence, respectively. (D) Sequences of the multiple
                        cloning sites and recognition sites of unique restriction endonucleases
                        therein. Nucleotides in blue encode a P2A peptide. 
              http://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0018556.g001 2A-mediated cleavage is a universal phenomenon in all eukaryotic cells. However, it
                has not been observed in prokaryotic cells [9]. In addition to the FMDV 2A
                peptide, several 2A peptides have since been identified in picornaviruses, insect
                viruses and type C rotaviruses [2]. Of the 2A peptides identified to date, four have been
                widely used in biomedical research: FMDV 2A (abbreviated herein as F2A); equine
                rhinitis A virus (ERAV) 2A (E2A); porcine teschovirus-1 2A (P2A) and
                    Thoseaasigna virus 2A (T2A). The former three viruses belong to
                picornaviruses and the latter is an insect virus [3]. Two advantages of the 2A peptide over IRES are its short length and stoichiometric
                expression of multiple proteins flanking the 2A peptide [3]. Despite these advantages, the
                use of 2A peptides has not been as common in biomedical research as it should be; we
                speculated that there might be two reasons. First, it is not certain which 2A
                peptide has the highest cleavage efficiency. Donnelly and colleagues showed in 2001
                that T2A has the highest cleavage efficiency (close to 100%) followed by E2A,
                P2A and F2A [10]. In addition, Szymczak and colleagues demonstrated in 2004
                that F2A and T2A have higher efficiency (close to 100%) than E2A [11]. However,
                since their claims were based on in vitro transcription/translation
                experiments, it remains unclear as to how the 2A peptides would act in an in
                    vivo context. Second, to the best of our knowledge, there is no
                publicly or commercially available cloning vector harboring a ubiquitous promoter
                and a 2A gene flanked by multiple cloning sites, which could make it difficult for
                scientists to adopt 2A technology for coexpression of more than one gene. To circumvent these two obstacles, we first set out to compare the cleavage
                efficiency of F2A, E2A, P2A and T2A peptides in three human cell lines, zebrafish
                and mice using Western blotting and confocal microscopy analyses. Second, we
                embarked on constructing cloning vectors bearing a simian cytomegalovirus (sCMV)
                promoter fused to a 2A gene flanked by multiple cloning sites. Animal studies were approved by the Chonnam National University Medical School
                    Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (Project number:
                    CNUIACUC-H-2010-20). All chemicals were purchased from Sigma (MO, USA), unless indicated
                    otherwise. Oligonucleotides encoding P2A, T2A, E2A or F2A (refer to Fig. 1B for sequences) were purchased from
                    Bioneer (Daejeon, Korea), annealed and then individually cloned into
                    SphI/BglII sites of a pCS4+ plasmid (provided by Chang-Yeol Yeo).
                    Oligonucleotides used are as follows. P2A: 5′-CGGAAGCGGAGCTACTAACTTCAGC
                        CTGCTGAAGCAGGCTGGAGACGTGGAGGAGAACCCTGGACCTA-3′
                    (forward) and 5′-GATCT
                        AGGTCCAGGGTTCTCCTCCACGTCTCCAGCCTGCTTCAGCAGGCTGAAGTTAGTAGCTCCGCTTCCGCATG-3′
                    (reverse). T2A: 5′-CGGAAGC
                        GGAGAGGGCAGAGGAAGTCTGCTAACATGCGGTGACGTCGAGGAGAAT
                        CCTGGACCTA-3′ (forward) and 5′-GATCTAGGTCCAGGATTCTCCTCGACGTC
                        ACCGCATGTTAGCAGACTTCCTCTGCCCTCTCCGCTTCCGCATG-3′
                    (reverse). E2A: 5′-CGGAAGCGGACAGTGTACTAATTATGCTCTCTTGAAATTGGCT
                        GGAGATGTTGAGAGCAACCCTGGACCTA-3′ (forward) and
                        5′-GATCTAGGTCC
                        AGGGTTGCTCTCAACATCTCCAGCCAATTTCAAGAGAGCATAATTAGTACA
                        CTGTCCGCTTCCGCATG-3′ (reverse). F2A: 5′-CGGAAGCGGAGTGAAACAG
                        ACTTTGAATTTTGACCTTCTCAAGTTGGCGGGAGACGTGGAGTCCAAC
                        CCTGGACCTA-3′ (forward) and 5′-GATCTAGGTCCAGGGTTGGACTCCACGTCTCCCGCCAACTTGAGAAGGTCAAAATTCAAAGTCTGTTTCACTCCGCTTCC
                        GCATG-3′ (reverse). The resulting construct was termed
                    pCS4+-2A. NLS-EGFP and mCherry-CAAX were PCR-amplified and then ligated
                    into the ClaI/AflII and BglII/NheI sites of pCS4+-2A, respectively, to
                    produce pNLS-EGFP-2A-mCherry-CAAX. NLS and EGFP indicate the nuclear
                    localization sequence and enhanced green fluorescent protein, respectively. All
                    plasmids constructed were verified by digestion with restriction endonucleases
                    (NEB; MA, USA) and DNA sequencing (Macrogen; Daejeon, Korea). HeLa, HT1080 and HEK293T cells were purchased from American Type Culture
                    Collection (VA, USA). HeLa and HEK293T cells were cultured in Dulbecco's
                    Modification of Eagle's Medium (DMEM; Welgene, Korea) supplemented with
                    10% fetal bovine serum (FBS; GIBCO, USA). HT1080 cells were cultured in
                    DMEM (Welgene) supplemented with 10% FBS (GIBCO). Transfection of the
                    cells with plasmids was carried out using FuGENE HD (Roche, Switzerland)
                    according to the manufacturer's instructions. M-PER mammalian protein extraction reagent (Thermo Scientific, USA) was used to
                    lyse the human cell lines 24 hr post-transfection, zebrafish embryos at 24 hour
                    post-fertilization (hpf) and mouse liver 3 day post-injection (dpi). Each lysate
                    was separated by 12% sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel
                    electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and transferred to nitrocellulose membrane (Pall
                    Corporation; NY, USA). Subsequently, the membrane was probed with the indicated
                    primary antibody (anti-EGFP [1∶1000, Santa Cruz Biotechnology,
                    catalog # sc-9996] and anti-DsRed [1∶1000, Clontech, catalog #
                    632393]), washed with TBST (0.2 M Tris, 1.37 M NaCl,0.1% Tween-20,
                    pH7.6), probed with HRP-conjugated goat anti-mouse antibody (1∶4000, Santa
                    Cruz Biotechnology, catalog # sc-2005). The bound antibody was detected by
                    enhanced chemiluminescence (AniGen, Korea) and then exposed to X-ray film (AGFA,
                    Belgium). Because anti-DsRed antibody has been successfully used to decorate mCherry
                    protein [12],
                    anti-DsRed antibody was used to visualize the mCherry protein. Plasmids encoding NLS-EGFP-2A-mCherry-CAAX were linearized with ClaI and
                        in vitro transcribed with SP6 RNA polymerase using an
                    mMessage mMachine kit (Ambion). The resulting RNA (200 pg) was microinjected
                    into one cell stage embryos. Recombinant adenovirus was generated as described previously [13]. In brief, a
                    DNA fragment encoding NLS-EGFP-2A-mCherry-CAAX was cloned into the NotI/SalI
                    sites of a pShuttle vector (Agilent Technologies, CA, USA). The resulting
                    construct was linearized with PmeI and then introduced via electroporation into
                    BJ5183 electroporation-competent cells harboring pAdEasy-1 (Agilent
                    Technologies). The resulting recombinant clones were selected by kanamycin and
                    digestion with restriction endonucleases. Subsequently, the verified clone was
                    amplified, linearized with PacI and then transfected into HEK293 A packaging
                    cells. The recombinant adenovirus was released from the cells through four
                    freeze-thaw-vortex cycles 14–20 day post-transfection, amplified through
                    infection of HEK293 A packaging cells and purified by CsCl ultracentrifugation.
                    The resulting high-titer (tissue-culture infected dose at 50%
                        [TCID50]) recombinant adenovirus was injected into mice
                    via the tail vein. Human cell lines were fixed 24 hr post-transfection in 4%
                    paraformaldehyde, permeabilized in 0.2% Triton X-100 and mounted with
                    Vectashield mounting media containing 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI;
                    Vector Labs; CA, USA). Zebrafish embryos at 24 hpf were anesthesized intricane
                    (Sigma) and mounted with 3% methylcellulose. Mouse liver was extracted 3
                    day post-injection, embedded in Tissue-Tek O.C.T. compound (Sakura
                    Finetechnical; Tokyo, Japan), frozen rapidly in liquid nitrogen, sectioned into
                    10 µl in thick slices using a LeicaCM3050 microtome (Walldorf, Germany)
                    and mounted on coverslips with Vectashield mounting media containing DAPI. The
                    mounted samples were imaged using anLSM 510 confocal microscope (Zeiss;Hamburg,
                    Germany), with a 100× or a 40× objective lens. The excitation
                    wavelengths applied were 488 nm for EGFP and 543 nm for mCherry. The images taken were assembled using Adobe Photoshop and band intensity on the
                    Western blots was analyzed using ImageJ. To generate versatile cloning vectors harboring genes encoding viral 2A peptides, we
                inserted four different 2A sequences (P2A, T2A, E2A and F2A; Fig. 1B) [11] into a pCS4+ plasmid,
                which has a simian cytomegalovirus (sCMV) promoter, SP6 and T7 RNA polymerase
                binding sites, multiple cloning sites (MCSs) and an SV40 polyadenylation site [14]. The sCMV promoter
                is a ubiquitous promoter and can function in Xenopus, zebrafish,
                mouse and human [15]. There sulting vectors have 2A sequences flanked by several
                unique recognition sites for restriction endonucleases (Fig. 1C). Nucleotide sequences encoding
                Gly-Ser-Gly were added to the 5′end of the 2A sequences to improve cleavage
                efficiency [11].
                Sequences of the MCSs and recognition sites of unique restriction endonucleases
                therein are shown in Fig.
                1D. To test whether the four 2A sequences used act properly, we fused a nuclear
                localization sequence (NLS) to the N-terminus of EGFP (termed NLS-EGFP) and a
                membrane localization sequence (CAAX, where X = any amino acid)
                to the C-terminus of mCherry (termed mCherry-CAAX) and then inserted the resulting
                NLS-EGFP and mCherry-CAAX [16] into the four different 2A cloning vectors generated. The
                resulting constructs were named pNLS-EGFP-2A-mCherry-CAAX. Subsequently, we
                transfected three widely used human cells lines (HEK293T [an embryonic kidney
                cell line], HT1080 [a fibrosarcoma cell line] and HeLa [a
                cervical cancer cell line]) with the pNLS-EGFP-2A-mCherry-CAAX and analyzed the
                cleavage efficiency of the respective 2A peptides using WB and confocal microscopy
                24-hr post-transfection. WB analysis revealed that all four 2As function with
                various cleavage efficiency in the HEK293T (Figs. 2A and 2B), HT1080 (Figs. 3A and 3B) and HeLa cell lines (Figs. 4A and 4B), with P2A to be
                the most efficient, followed by T2A, E2A and F2A. The two major byproducts indicated
                by asterisks in Figure 2A were
                noted as well in a previous report [17]. Of note, the byproducts did not appear in the lysate of
                cells transfected with pEGFP-N1 plasmid that does not have 2A sequences (marked GFP
                in Fig. S1),
                raising the possibility that their production may be related to 2A mediated
                ‘cleavage’ activity.  HEK293T cells were transfected with the indicated plasmids. (A) WB analysis
                        of cleavage efficiency of the 2As in HEK293T cells. The transfected cells
                        were processed for WB 24 hr post-transfection. The cleavage efficiency was
                        assessed using GFP and DsRed antibodies to decorate NLS-EGFP and
                        mCherry-CAAX, respectively. Asterisks indicate two major byproducts.
                        Anti-β actin antibody was used as a loading control. (B) Quantitation of
                        cleavage efficiency of indicated 2As. Cleavage
                        efficiency = cleaved form/(cleaved form+uncleaved
                        form). The amount of each form was estimated from its band intensity on the
                        Western blot measured by ImageJ software. The p value was
                        determined by the two-tailed Student's t-test
                        (n = 3). (C) Confocal microscopy of the transfected
                        cells. Green signals in the nucleus that do not overlap with red signals
                        indicate cleaved NLS-EGFP. Conversely, red signals in the plasma membrane
                        that do not overlap with green signals represent cleaved mCherry-CAAX. In
                        the overlay images, yellow signals derived from overlapping of green and red
                        signals denote uncleaved NLS-EGFP-2A-mCherry-CAAX. The scale bar represents
                        20 µm. 
              http://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0018556.g002  (A–C) HT1080 cells were transfected with indicated plasmids and
                        analyzed as described in Figure
                            2. The scale bar represents 20 µm. 
              http://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0018556.g003  (A–C) HeLa cells were transfected with indicated plasmids and analyzed
                        as described in Figure
                        2. The scale bar represents 20 µm. 
              http://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0018556.g004 In addition, the difference in cleavage efficiency among the 2As was confirmed by
                confocal microscopy: targeting of NLS-EGFP and mCherry-CAAX produced by 2A-mediated
                cleavage to the nucleus and plasma membrane, respectively, in the cell lines was the
                most efficient in P2A, followed by T2A, E2A and F2A. (Figs. 2C, 3C and 4C for HEK293T, HT1080 and HeLa cells,
                respectively). To determine if the results gained from experiments with the human cultured cell
                lines are recapitulated in zebrafish embryos, we generated mRNAs from
                pNLS-EGFP-2A-mCherry-CAAX using SP6 RNA polymerase and microinjected the resulting
                mRNAs into one-cell stage embryos. The embryos at 24 hpf were then harvested and
                analyzed using WB and confocal microscopy. WB analysis exhibited that P2A has the
                highest cleavage efficiency in zebrafish as well, followed by T2A, E2A and F2A
                    (Fig. 5A). Moreover,
                confocal microscopic analysis of zebrafish embryonic retina confirmed the WB result,
                as judged by the targeting of NLS-EGFP and mCherry produced by 2A-mediated cleavage
                to their respective destination, just as shown for human cultured cell lines (Fig. 5B). Taken together, findings
                of the experiments with zebrafish embryos recapitulated those of human cultured cell
                line experiments.  One- or two-cell stage embryos were injected with in vitro
                        transcribed RNAs encoding the indicated proteins. (A) WB analysis revealing
                        cleavage efficiency in the 2As in zebrafish embryos. The injected embryos at
                        24 hpf were processed for WB. Anti-β actin antibody was used as a
                        loading control. (B) Quantitation of cleavage efficiency of the indicated
                        2As. The cleavage efficiency was calculated as depicted in Figure 2B.
                            P value was determined by the two-tailed Student's
                            t-test (n = 3). (C) Confocal
                        microscopy of the retina in the injected embryos at 24 hpf. Non-overlapping
                        green signals in the nucleus and red signals in the plasma membrane
                        correspond to cleaved NLS-EGFP and mCherry-CAAS, respectively. Yellow
                        signals in the overlay images signify uncleaved NLS-EGFP-2A-mCherry-CAAX.
                        The scale bar represents 20 µm. 
              http://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0018556.g005 To investigate if the outcome of human cultured cell line and zebrafish embryo
                experiments is echoed in mouse tissue, we subcloned NLS-EGFP-2A-mCherry-CAAX into
                the adenoviral genome via homologous recombination, transduced packaging cell lines
                with the resulting recombinant adenovirus and amplified infectious adenovirus
                harboring pNLS-EGFP-2A-mCherry-CAAX. Subsequently, the infectious virus particles
                were injected into the tail veins of mice and livers were harvested 3 dpi. The
                harvested livers were then analyzed by WB and confocal microscopy. WB analysis
                displayed that P2A also has the highest cleavage efficiency in the mouse liver,
                followed by T2A, E2A and F2A (Fig.
                    6A). Furthermore, NLS-EGFP and mCherry produced by P2A-mediated cleavage
                were targeted most efficiently in the mouse liver as well, as evidenced by confocal
                microscopy (Fig. 6B).
                Collectively, our findings from the human cultured cell line and zebrafish embryo
                experiments were reiterated in the mouse liver: P2A has the highest cleavage
                efficiency, as demonstrated by WB and confocal microscopy.  Adult mice were injected with recombinant adenovirus encoding indicated
                        proteins via the tail vein. (A) WB analysis revealing cleavage efficiency of
                        the 2As in the mouse liver. The liver was extracted from the injected mice
                        at 3 day post-injection (dpi) and processed for WB. Anti-β actin
                        antibody was used as a loading control. (B) Quantitation of cleavage
                        efficiency of the indicated 2As. The cleavage efficiency was calculated as
                        depicted in Figure 2b.
                        The p value was determined by the two-tailed Student's
                            t-test (n = 3). (C) Confocal
                        microscopy of liver section of the injected mice. The images were taken at 3
                        dpi. Green, red and yellow signals are as described in the legend for Figure 5C. The scale bar
                        represents 20 µm. 
              http://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0018556.g006 Here, we show that among four different 2A peptides, a 2A peptide derived from
                porcine teschovirus-1 (P2A) has the highest cleavage efficiency in three human cell
                lines, zebrafish embryos and mouse liver. In addition, we generated sCMV promoter
                driven expression cloning vectors and adenoviral shuttle vectors, both harboring a
                2A gene flanked by multiple cloning sites. These vectors can be used to
                simultaneously express multiple genes in mammalian cell lines, zebrafish and mice.
                Although we did not test if this is the case, it is very likely that the cloning
                vectors would act in a similar manner in Xenopus, because an sCMV
                promoter functions in Xenopus as well [15] and the 2A-mediated cleavage
                occurs in all eukaryotic cells [9]. What is the mechanism by which P2A peptide exhibits the highest cleavage efficiency
                in human cell lines, zebrafish and mouse? Ryan and colleagues proposed that there
                are two ways to raise the cleavage efficiency [3]. First, insertion of a GSG
                linker at the N-terminus of a 2A peptide can improve cleavage efficiency [11], [18]. Second,
                addition of C-terminal amino acids of a 1D peptide to the N-terminus of a 2A peptide
                can increase cleavage efficiency, as shown by the following two reports. Ryan and
                colleagues reported that introduction of C-terminal five amino acids (APVKQ) of an
                FMDV 1D peptide to the N-terminus of an FMDV 2A peptide increased the efficiency by
                13% in vitro
                [9]. Groot
                Bramel-Verheije and colleagues demonstrated that the introduction of C-terminal
                seven amino acids (APVKQLL) of an FMDV 1D peptide to the N-terminus of an FMDV 2A
                peptide raised the efficiency by 15% in both baby hamster kidney (BHK-21)
                cells and porcine alveolar macrophages [19]. These two
                reports, however, do not account for the difference in the cleavage efficiency among
                2A peptides derived from different viruses in that the reports examined the cleavage
                efficiency of the same 2A peptides in the presence or absence of extra amino acids
                originating from the 1A peptide. We have demonstrated that the 19-amino acid P2A
                elicits higher cleavage efficiency than the 22-amino acid 2As. This suggests that
                when comparing the cleavage efficiency among 2A peptides derived from different
                viruses, the length of 2A peptide is not the only factor that determines the
                cleavage efficiency. Further work is required to determine the factor(s) governing
                the difference in cleavage efficiency among different 2As. We believe that identification of a highly efficient 2A peptide and construction of
                expression plasmids with a 2A gene flanked by multiple cloning sites would
                facilitate the use of 2A technology for simultaneous expression of multiple
                genes. Two major byproducts decorated by anti-GFP antibody in lysate of cells
                            transfected with 2A plasmids do not appear in lysate of cells
                            transfected with pEGFP-N1. HEK293T cells were individually
                        transfected with the indicated 2A plasmids and pEGFP-N1 that does not harbor
                        2A sequences. The transfected cells were processed for WB 24 hr
                        post-transfection. The cleavage efficiency was assessed using anti-GFP
                        antibodies to decorate NLS-EGFP. Asterisks indicate the two major
                        byproducts. Note that the byproducts do not appear in lysates of cells
                        transfected with pEGFP-N1 (GFP). Anti-β actin antibody was used as a
                        loading control. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0018556.s001 (TIF) We thank Chang-Yeol Yeo for providing the pCS4+ plasmid, Sheng Nan Jiang for
                technical assistance, Michael Frohman, Hyunju Ro and Hueng-Sik Choi for critical
                reading of the manuscript, Geong Duck Park for support and Eun Young Choi for
                encouragement. Conceived and designed the experiments: BAS S-YC. Performed the experiments:
                        JHK S-RL L-HL J-HP H-JP. Analyzed the data: JHK M-KK BAS S-YC. Contributed
                        reagents/materials/analysis tools: KYL. Wrote the paper: JHK S-YC. For more information about PLOS Subject Areas, click
          here. Is the Subject Area "Peptides" applicable to this article?
          Yes
          No Thanks for your feedback. Is the Subject Area "Zebrafish" applicable to this article?
          Yes
          No Thanks for your feedback. Is the Subject Area "Embryos" applicable to this article?
          Yes
          No Thanks for your feedback. Is the Subject Area "Confocal microscopy" applicable to this article?
          Yes
          No Thanks for your feedback. Is the Subject Area "Internal ribosome entry site" applicable to this article?
          Yes
          No Thanks for your feedback. Is the Subject Area "Plasmid construction" applicable to this article?
          Yes
          No Thanks for your feedback. Is the Subject Area "Foot and mouth disease" applicable to this article?
          Yes
          No Thanks for your feedback. Is the Subject Area "Vector cloning" applicable to this article?
          Yes
          No Thanks for your feedback. 

 

       Publications plos.org Blogs Collections Send us feedback Help using this site LOCKSS PLOS is a nonprofit 501(c)(3) corporation, #C2354500, and is based in San Francisco, California, US