Project Gutenberg's Arsene Lupin, by Edgar Jepson and Maurice Leblanc

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: Arsene Lupin

Author: Edgar Jepson
        Maurice Leblanc

Posting Date: June 4, 2009 [EBook #4014]
Release Date: May, 2003
First Posted: March 15, 2002
[Last updated. September 21, 2013]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ARSENE LUPIN ***




Produced by Charles Franks and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team. HTML version by Al Haines.










ARSENE LUPIN


BY


EDGAR JEPSON AND MAURICE LEBLANC



Frontispiece by H. Richard Boehm





CONTENTS

     I. THE MILLIONAIRE'S DAUGHTER
    II. THE COMING OF THE CHAROLAIS
   III. LUPIN'S WAY
    IV. THE DUKE INTERVENES
     V. A LETTER FROM LUPIN
    VI. AGAIN THE CHAROLAIS
   VII. THE THEFT OF THE MOTOR-CARS
  VIII. THE DUKE ARRIVES
    IX. M. FORMERY OPENS THE INQUIRY
     X. GUERCHARD ASSISTS
    XI. THE FAMILY ARRIVES
   XII. THE THEFT OF THE PENDANT
  XIII. LUPIN WIRES
   XIV. GUERCHARD PICKS UP THE TRUE SCENT
    XV. THE EXAMINATION OF SONIA
   XVI. VICTOIRE'S SLIP
  XVII. SONIA'S ESCAPE
 XVIII. THE DUKE STAYS
   XIX. THE DUKE GOES
    XX. LUPIN COMES HOME
   XXI. THE CUTTING OF THE TELEPHONE WIRES
   XII. THE BARGAIN
 XXIII. THE END OF THE DUEL




ARSENE LUPIN




CHAPTER I

THE MILLIONAIRE'S DAUGHTER


The rays of the September sun flooded the great halls of the old
chateau of the Dukes of Charmerace, lighting up with their mellow glow
the spoils of so many ages and many lands, jumbled together with the
execrable taste which so often afflicts those whose only standard of
value is money.  The golden light warmed the panelled walls and old
furniture to a dull lustre, and gave back to the fading gilt of the
First Empire chairs and couches something of its old brightness.  It
illumined the long line of pictures on the walls, pictures of dead and
gone Charmeraces, the stern or debonair faces of the men, soldiers,
statesmen, dandies, the gentle or imperious faces of beautiful women.
It flashed back from armour of brightly polished steel, and drew dull
gleams from armour of bronze.  The hues of rare porcelain, of the rich
inlays of Oriental or Renaissance cabinets, mingled with the hues of
the pictures, the tapestry, the Persian rugs about the polished floor
to fill the hall with a rich glow of colour.

But of all the beautiful and precious things which the sun-rays warmed
to a clearer beauty, the face of the girl who sat writing at a table in
front of the long windows, which opened on to the centuries-old turf of
the broad terrace, was the most beautiful and the most precious.

It was a delicate, almost frail, beauty. Her skin was clear with the
transparent lustre of old porcelain, and her pale cheeks were only
tinted with the pink of the faintest roses. Her straight nose was
delicately cut, her rounded chin admirably moulded. A lover of beauty
would have been at a loss whether more to admire her clear, germander
eyes, so melting and so adorable, or the sensitive mouth, with its
rather full lips, inviting all the kisses. But assuredly he would have
been grieved by the perpetual air of sadness which rested on the
beautiful face--the wistful melancholy of the Slav, deepened by
something of personal misfortune and suffering.

Her face was framed by a mass of soft fair hair, shot with strands of
gold where the sunlight fell on it; and little curls, rebellious to the
comb, strayed over her white forehead, tiny feathers of gold.

She was addressing envelopes, and a long list of names lay on her left
hand. When she had addressed an envelope, she slipped into it a
wedding-card. On each was printed:

    "M. Gournay-Martin has the honour to inform
     you of the marriage of his daughter
     Germaine to the Duke of Charmerace."

She wrote steadily on, adding envelope after envelope to the pile ready
for the post, which rose in front of her. But now and again, when the
flushed and laughing girls who were playing lawn-tennis on the terrace,
raised their voices higher than usual as they called the score, and
distracted her attention from her work, her gaze strayed through the
open window and lingered on them wistfully; and as her eyes came back
to her task she sighed with so faint a wistfulness that she hardly knew
she sighed. Then a voice from the terrace cried, "Sonia! Sonia!"

"Yes. Mlle. Germaine?" answered the writing girl.

"Tea! Order tea, will you?" cried the voice, a petulant voice, rather
harsh to the ear.

"Very well, Mlle. Germaine," said Sonia; and having finished addressing
the envelope under her pen, she laid it on the pile ready to be posted,
and, crossing the room to the old, wide fireplace, she rang the bell.

She stood by the fireplace a moment, restoring to its place a rose
which had fallen from a vase on the mantelpiece; and her attitude, as
with arms upraised she arranged the flowers, displayed the delightful
line of a slender figure. As she let fall her arms to her side, a
footman entered the room.

"Will you please bring the tea, Alfred," she said in a charming voice
of that pure, bell-like tone which has been Nature's most precious gift
to but a few of the greatest actresses.

"For how many, miss?" said Alfred.

"For four--unless your master has come back."

"Oh, no; he's not back yet, miss. He went in the car to Rennes to
lunch; and it's a good many miles away. He won't be back for another
hour."

"And the Duke--he's not back from his ride yet, is he?"

"Not yet, miss," said Alfred, turning to go.

"One moment," said Sonia. "Have all of you got your things packed for
the journey to Paris? You will have to start soon, you know. Are all
the maids ready?"

"Well, all the men are ready, I know, miss. But about the maids, miss,
I can't say. They've been bustling about all day; but it takes them
longer than it does us."

"Tell them to hurry up; and be as quick as you can with the tea,
please," said Sonia.

Alfred went out of the room; Sonia went back to the writing-table. She
did not take up her pen; she took up one of the wedding-cards; and her
lips moved slowly as she read it in a pondering depression.

The petulant, imperious voice broke in upon her musing.

"Whatever are you doing, Sonia? Aren't you getting on with those
letters?" it cried angrily; and Germaine Gournay-Martin came through
the long window into the hall.

The heiress to the Gournay-Martin millions carried her tennis racquet
in her hand; and her rosy cheeks were flushed redder than ever by the
game. She was a pretty girl in a striking, high-coloured, rather
obvious way--the very foil to Sonia's delicate beauty. Her lips were a
little too thin, her eyes too shallow; and together they gave her a
rather hard air, in strongest contrast to the gentle, sympathetic face
of Sonia.

The two friends with whom Germaine had been playing tennis followed her
into the hall: Jeanne Gautier, tall, sallow, dark, with a somewhat
malicious air; Marie Bullier, short, round, commonplace, and
sentimental.

They came to the table at which Sonia was at work; and pointing to the
pile of envelopes, Marie said, "Are these all wedding-cards?"

"Yes; and we've only got to the letter V," said Germaine, frowning at
Sonia.

"Princesse de Vernan--Duchesse de Vauvieuse--Marquess--Marchioness?
You've invited the whole Faubourg Saint-Germain," said Marie, shuffling
the pile of envelopes with an envious air.

"You'll know very few people at your wedding," said Jeanne, with a
spiteful little giggle.

"I beg your pardon, my dear," said Germaine boastfully. "Madame de
Relzieres, my fiance's cousin, gave an At Home the other day in my
honour. At it she introduced half Paris to me--the Paris I'm destined
to know, the Paris you'll see in my drawing-rooms."

"But we shall no longer be fit friends for you when you're the Duchess
of Charmerace," said Jeanne.

"Why?" said Germaine; and then she added quickly, "Above everything,
Sonia, don't forget Veauleglise, 33, University Street--33, University
Street."

"Veauleglise--33, University Street," said Sonia, taking a fresh
envelope, and beginning to address it.

"Wait--wait! don't close the envelope. I'm wondering whether
Veauleglise ought to have a cross, a double cross, or a triple cross,"
said Germaine, with an air of extreme importance.

"What's that?" cried Marie and Jeanne together.

"A single cross means an invitation to the church, a double cross an
invitation to the marriage and the wedding-breakfast, and the triple
cross means an invitation to the marriage, the breakfast, and the
signing of the marriage-contract. What do you think the Duchess of
Veauleglise ought to have?"

"Don't ask me. I haven't the honour of knowing that great lady," cried
Jeanne.

"Nor I," said Marie.

"Nor I," said Germaine. "But I have here the visiting-list of the late
Duchess of Charmerace, Jacques' mother. The two duchesses were on
excellent terms. Besides the Duchess of Veauleglise is rather worn-out,
but greatly admired for her piety. She goes to early service three
times a week."

"Then put three crosses," said Jeanne.

"I shouldn't," said Marie quickly. "In your place, my dear, I shouldn't
risk a slip. I should ask my fiance's advice. He knows this world."

"Oh, goodness--my fiance! He doesn't care a rap about this kind of
thing. He has changed so in the last seven years. Seven years ago he
took nothing seriously. Why, he set off on an expedition to the South
Pole--just to show off. Oh, in those days he was truly a duke."

"And to-day?" said Jeanne.

"Oh, to-day he's a regular slow-coach. Society gets on his nerves. He's
as sober as a judge," said Germaine.

"He's as gay as a lark," said Sonia, in sudden protest.

Germaine pouted at her, and said: "Oh, he's gay enough when he's making
fun of people. But apart from that he's as sober as a judge."

"Your father must be delighted with the change," said Jeanne.

"Naturally he's delighted. Why, he's lunching at Rennes to-day with the
Minister, with the sole object of getting Jacques decorated."

"Well; the Legion of Honour is a fine thing to have," said Marie.

"My dear! The Legion of Honour is all very well for middle-class
people, but it's quite out of place for a duke!" cried Germaine.

Alfred came in, bearing the tea-tray, and set it on a little table near
that at which Sonia was sitting.

Germaine, who was feeling too important to sit still, was walking up
and down the room. Suddenly she stopped short, and pointing to a silver
statuette which stood on the piano, she said, "What's this? Why is this
statuette here?"

"Why, when we came in, it was on the cabinet, in its usual place," said
Sonia in some astonishment.

"Did you come into the hall while we were out in the garden, Alfred?"
said Germaine to the footman.

"No, miss," said Alfred.

"But some one must have come into it," Germaine persisted.

"I've not heard any one. I was in my pantry," said Alfred.

"It's very odd," said Germaine.

"It is odd," said Sonia. "Statuettes don't move about of themselves."

All of them stared at the statuette as if they expected it to move
again forthwith, under their very eyes. Then Alfred put it back in its
usual place on one of the cabinets, and went out of the room.

Sonia poured out the tea; and over it they babbled about the coming
marriage, the frocks they would wear at it, and the presents Germaine
had already received. That reminded her to ask Sonia if any one had yet
telephoned from her father's house in Paris; and Sonia said that no one
had.

"That's very annoying," said Germaine. "It shows that nobody has sent
me a present to-day."

Pouting, she shrugged her shoulders with an air of a spoiled child,
which sat but poorly on a well-developed young woman of twenty-three.

"It's Sunday. The shops don't deliver things on Sunday," said Sonia
gently.

But Germaine still pouted like a spoiled child.

"Isn't your beautiful Duke coming to have tea with us?" said Jeanne a
little anxiously.

"Oh, yes; I'm expecting him at half-past four. He had to go for a ride
with the two Du Buits. They're coming to tea here, too," said Germaine.

"Gone for a ride with the two Du Buits? But when?" cried Marie quickly.

"This afternoon."

"He can't be," said Marie. "My brother went to the Du Buits' house
after lunch, to see Andre and Georges. They went for a drive this
morning, and won't be back till late to-night."

"Well, but--but why did the Duke tell me so?" said Germaine, knitting
her brow with a puzzled air.

"If I were you, I should inquire into this thoroughly. Dukes--well, we
know what dukes are--it will be just as well to keep an eye on him,"
said Jeanne maliciously.

Germaine flushed quickly; and her eyes flashed. "Thank you. I have
every confidence in Jacques. I am absolutely sure of him," she said
angrily.

"Oh, well--if you're sure, it's all right," said Jeanne.

The ringing of the telephone-bell made a fortunate diversion.

Germaine rushed to it, clapped the receiver to her ear, and cried:
"Hello, is that you, Pierre? ... Oh, it's Victoire, is it? ... Ah, some
presents have come, have they? ... Well, well, what are they? ... What!
a paper-knife--another paper-knife! ... Another Louis XVI.
inkstand--oh, bother! ... Who are they from? ... Oh, from the Countess
Rudolph and the Baron de Valery." Her voice rose high, thrilling with
pride.

Then she turned her face to her friends, with the receiver still at her
ear, and cried: "Oh, girls, a pearl necklace too! A large one! The
pearls are big ones!"

"How jolly!" said Marie.

"Who sent it?" said Germaine, turning to the telephone again. "Oh, a
friend of papa's," she added in a tone of disappointment. "Never mind,
after all it's a pearl necklace. You'll be sure and lock the doors
carefully, Victoire, won't you? And lock up the necklace in the secret
cupboard.... Yes; thanks very much, Victoire. I shall see you
to-morrow."

She hung up the receiver, and came away from the telephone frowning.

"It's preposterous!" she said pettishly. "Papa's friends and relations
give me marvellous presents, and all the swells send me paper-knives.
It's all Jacques' fault. He's above all this kind of thing. The
Faubourg Saint-Germain hardly knows that we're engaged."

"He doesn't go about advertising it," said Jeanne, smiling.

"You're joking, but all the same what you say is true," said Germaine.
"That's exactly what his cousin Madame de Relzieres said to me the
other day at the At Home she gave in my honour--wasn't it, Sonia?" And
she walked to the window, and, turning her back on them, stared out of
it.

"She HAS got her mouth full of that At Home," said Jeanne to Marie in a
low voice.

There was an awkward silence. Marie broke it:

"Speaking of Madame de Relzieres, do you know that she is on pins and
needles with anxiety? Her son is fighting a duel to-day," she said.

"With whom?" said Sonia.

"No one knows. She got hold of a letter from the seconds," said Marie.

"My mind is quite at rest about Relzieres," said Germaine. "He's a
first-class swordsman. No one could beat him."

Sonia did not seem to share her freedom from anxiety. Her forehead was
puckered in little lines of perplexity, as if she were puzzling out
some problem; and there was a look of something very like fear in her
gentle eyes.

"Wasn't Relzieres a great friend of your fiance at one time?" said
Jeanne.

"A great friend? I should think he was," said Germaine. "Why, it was
through Relzieres that we got to know Jacques."

"Where was that?" said Marie.

"Here--in this very chateau," said Germaine.

"Actually in his own house?" said Marie, in some surprise.

"Yes; actually here. Isn't life funny?" said Germaine. "If, a few
months after his father's death, Jacques had not found himself hard-up,
and obliged to dispose of this chateau, to raise the money for his
expedition to the South Pole; and if papa and I had not wanted an
historic chateau; and lastly, if papa had not suffered from rheumatism,
I should not be calling myself in a month from now the Duchess of
Charmerace."

"Now what on earth has your father's rheumatism got to do with your
being Duchess of Charmerace?" cried Jeanne.

"Everything," said Germaine. "Papa was afraid that this chateau was
damp. To prove to papa that he had nothing to fear, Jacques, en grand
seigneur, offered him his hospitality, here, at Charmerace, for three
weeks."

"That was truly ducal," said Marie.

"But he is always like that," said Sonia.

"Oh, he's all right in that way, little as he cares about society,"
said Germaine. "Well, by a miracle my father got cured of his
rheumatism here. Jacques fell in love with me; papa made up his mind to
buy the chateau; and I demanded the hand of Jacques in marriage."

"You did? But you were only sixteen then," said Marie, with some
surprise.

"Yes; but even at sixteen a girl ought to know that a duke is a duke. I
did," said Germaine. "Then since Jacques was setting out for the South
Pole, and papa considered me much too young to get married, I promised
Jacques to wait for his return."

"Why, it was everything that's romantic!" cried Marie.

"Romantic? Oh, yes," said Germaine; and she pouted. "But between
ourselves, if I'd known that he was going to stay all that time at the
South Pole--"

"That's true," broke in Marie. "To go away for three years and stay
away seven--at the end of the world."

"All Germaine's beautiful youth," said Jeanne, with her malicious smile.

"Thanks!" said Germaine tartly.

"Well, you ARE twenty-three. It's the flower of one's age," said Jeanne.

"Not quite twenty-three," said Germaine hastily. "And look at the
wretched luck I've had. The Duke falls ill and is treated at
Montevideo. As soon as he recovers, since he's the most obstinate
person in the world, he resolves to go on with the expedition. He sets
out; and for an age, without a word of warning, there's no more news of
him--no news of any kind. For six months, you know, we believed him
dead."

"Dead? Oh, how unhappy you must have been!" said Sonia.

"Oh, don't speak of it! For six months I daren't put on a light frock,"
said Germaine, turning to her.

"A lot she must have cared for him," whispered Jeanne to Marie.

"Fortunately, one fine day, the letters began again. Three months ago a
telegram informed us that he was coming back; and at last the Duke
returned," said Germaine, with a theatrical air.

"The Duke returned," cried Jeanne, mimicking her.

"Never mind. Fancy waiting nearly seven years for one's fiance. That
was constancy," said Sonia.

"Oh, you're a sentimentalist, Mlle. Kritchnoff," said Jeanne, in a tone
of mockery. "It was the influence of the castle."

"What do you mean?" said Germaine.

"Oh, to own the castle of Charmerace and call oneself Mlle.
Gournay-Martin--it's not worth doing. One MUST become a duchess," said
Jeanne.

"Yes, yes; and for all this wonderful constancy, seven years of it,
Germaine was on the point of becoming engaged to another man," said
Marie, smiling.

"And he a mere baron," said Jeanne, laughing.

"What? Is that true?" said Sonia.

"Didn't you know, Mlle. Kritchnoff? She nearly became engaged to the
Duke's cousin, the Baron de Relzieres. It was not nearly so grand."

"Oh, it's all very well to laugh at me; but being the cousin and heir
of the Duke, Relzieres would have assumed the title, and I should have
been Duchess just the same," said Germaine triumphantly.

"Evidently that was all that mattered," said Jeanne. "Well, dear, I
must be off. We've promised to run in to see the Comtesse de Grosjean.
You know the Comtesse de Grosjean?"

She spoke with an air of careless pride, and rose to go.

"Only by name. Papa used to know her husband on the Stock Exchange when
he was still called simply M. Grosjean. For his part, papa preferred to
keep his name intact," said Germaine, with quiet pride.

"Intact? That's one way of looking at it. Well, then, I'll see you in
Paris. You still intend to start to-morrow?" said Jeanne.

"Yes; to-morrow morning," said Germaine.

Jeanne and Marie slipped on their dust-coats to the accompaniment of
chattering and kissing, and went out of the room.

As she closed the door on them, Germaine turned to Sonia, and said: "I
do hate those two girls! They're such horrible snobs."

"Oh, they're good-natured enough," said Sonia.

"Good-natured? Why, you idiot, they're just bursting with envy of
me--bursting!" said Germaine. "Well, they've every reason to be," she
added confidently, surveying herself in a Venetian mirror with a petted
child's self-content.




CHAPTER II

THE COMING OF THE CHAROLAIS


Sonia went back to her table, and once more began putting wedding-cards
in their envelopes and addressing them. Germaine moved restlessly about
the room, fidgeting with the bric-a-brac on the cabinets, shifting the
pieces about, interrupting Sonia to ask whether she preferred this
arrangement or that, throwing herself into a chair to read a magazine,
getting up in a couple of minutes to straighten a picture on the wall,
throwing out all the while idle questions not worth answering.
Ninety-nine human beings would have been irritated to exasperation by
her fidgeting; Sonia endured it with a perfect patience. Five times
Germaine asked her whether she should wear her heliotrope or her pink
gown at a forthcoming dinner at Madame de Relzieres'. Five times Sonia
said, without the slightest variation in her tone, "I think you look
better in the pink." And all the while the pile of addressed envelopes
rose steadily.

Presently the door opened, and Alfred stood on the threshold.

"Two gentlemen have called to see you, miss," he said.

"Ah, the two Du Buits," cried Germaine.

"They didn't give their names, miss."

"A gentleman in the prime of life and a younger one?" said Germaine.

"Yes, miss."

"I thought so. Show them in."

"Yes, miss. And have you any orders for me to give Victoire when we get
to Paris?" said Alfred.

"No. Are you starting soon?"

"Yes, miss. We're all going by the seven o'clock train. It's a long way
from here to Paris; we shall only reach it at nine in the morning. That
will give us just time to get the house ready for you by the time you
get there to-morrow evening," said Alfred.

"Is everything packed?"

"Yes, miss--everything. The cart has already taken the heavy luggage to
the station. All you'll have to do is to see after your bags."

"That's all right. Show M. du Buit and his brother in," said Germaine.

She moved to a chair near the window, and disposed herself in an
attitude of studied, and obviously studied, grace.

As she leant her head at a charming angle back against the tall back of
the chair, her eyes fell on the window, and they opened wide.

"Why, whatever's this?" she cried, pointing to it.

"Whatever's what?" said Sonia, without raising her eyes from the
envelope she was addressing.

"Why, the window. Look! one of the panes has been taken out. It looks
as if it had been cut."

"So it has--just at the level of the fastening," said Sonia. And the
two girls stared at the gap.

"Haven't you noticed it before?" said Germaine.

"No; the broken glass must have fallen outside," said Sonia.

The noise of the opening of the door drew their attention from the
window. Two figures were advancing towards them--a short, round, tubby
man of fifty-five, red-faced, bald, with bright grey eyes, which seemed
to be continually dancing away from meeting the eyes of any other human
being. Behind him came a slim young man, dark and grave. For all the
difference in their colouring, it was clear that they were father and
son: their eyes were set so close together. The son seemed to have
inherited, along with her black eyes, his mother's nose, thin and
aquiline; the nose of the father started thin from the brow, but ended
in a scarlet bulb eloquent of an exhaustive acquaintance with the
vintages of the world.

Germaine rose, looking at them with an air of some surprise and
uncertainty: these were not her friends, the Du Buits.

The elder man, advancing with a smiling bonhomie, bowed, and said in an
adenoid voice, ingratiating of tone: "I'm M. Charolais, young
ladies--M. Charolais--retired brewer--chevalier of the Legion of
Honour--landowner at Rennes. Let me introduce my son." The young man
bowed awkwardly. "We came from Rennes this morning, and we lunched at
Kerlor's farm."

"Shall I order tea for them?" whispered Sonia.

"Gracious, no!" said Germaine sharply under her breath; then, louder,
she said to M. Charolais, "And what is your object in calling?"

"We asked to see your father," said M. Charolais, smiling with broad
amiability, while his eyes danced across her face, avoiding any meeting
with hers. "The footman told us that M. Gournay-Martin was out, but
that his daughter was at home. And we were unable, quite unable, to
deny ourselves the pleasure of meeting you." With that he sat down; and
his son followed his example.

Sonia and Germaine, taken aback, looked at one another in some
perplexity.

"What a fine chateau, papa!" said the young man.

"Yes, my boy; it's a very fine chateau," said M. Charolais, looking
round the hall with appreciative but greedy eyes.

There was a pause.

"It's a very fine chateau, young ladies," said M. Charolais.

"Yes; but excuse me, what is it you have called about?" said Germaine.

M. Charolais crossed his legs, leant back in his chair, thrust his
thumbs into the arm-holes of his waistcoat, and said: "Well, we've come
about the advertisement we saw in the RENNES ADVERTISER, that M.
Gournay-Martin wanted to get rid of a motor-car; and my son is always
saying to me, 'I should like a motor-car which rushes the hills, papa.'
He means a sixty horse-power."

"We've got a sixty horse-power; but it's not for sale. My father is
even using it himself to-day," said Germaine.

"Perhaps it's the car we saw in the stable-yard," said M. Charolais.

"No; that's a thirty to forty horse-power. It belongs to me. But if
your son really loves rushing hills, as you say, we have a hundred
horse-power car which my father wants to get rid of. Wait; where's the
photograph of it, Sonia? It ought to be here somewhere."

The two girls rose, went to a table set against the wall beyond the
window, and began turning over the papers with which it was loaded in
the search for the photograph. They had barely turned their backs, when
the hand of young Charolais shot out as swiftly as the tongue of a
lizard catching a fly, closed round the silver statuette on the top of
the cabinet beside him, and flashed it into his jacket pocket.

Charolais was watching the two girls; one would have said that he had
eyes for nothing else, yet, without moving a muscle of his face, set in
its perpetual beaming smile, he hissed in an angry whisper, "Drop it,
you idiot! Put it back!"

The young man scowled askance at him.

"Curse you! Put it back!" hissed Charolais.

The young man's arm shot out with the same quickness, and the statuette
stood in its place.

There was just the faintest sigh of relief from Charolais, as Germaine
turned and came to him with the photograph in her hand. She gave it to
him.

"Ah, here we are," he said, putting on a pair of gold-rimmed pince-nez.
"A hundred horse-power car. Well, well, this is something to talk over.
What's the least you'll take for it?"

"_I_ have nothing to do with this kind of thing," cried Germaine. "You
must see my father. He will be back from Rennes soon. Then you can
settle the matter with him."

M. Charolais rose, and said: "Very good. We will go now, and come back
presently. I'm sorry to have intruded on you, young ladies--taking up
your time like this--"

"Not at all--not at all," murmured Germaine politely.

"Good-bye--good-bye," said M. Charolais; and he and his son went to the
door, and bowed themselves out.

"What creatures!" said Germaine, going to the window, as the door
closed behind the two visitors. "All the same, if they do buy the
hundred horse-power, papa will be awfully pleased. It is odd about that
pane. I wonder how it happened. It's odd too that Jacques hasn't come
back yet. He told me that he would be here between half-past four and
five."

"And the Du Buits have not come either," said Sonia. "But it's hardly
five yet."

"Yes; that's so. The Du Buits have not come either. What on earth are
you wasting your time for?" she added sharply, raising her voice. "Just
finish addressing those letters while you're waiting."

"They're nearly finished," said Sonia.

"Nearly isn't quite. Get on with them, can't you!" snapped Germaine.

Sonia went back to the writing-table; just the slightest deepening of
the faint pink roses in her cheeks marked her sense of Germaine's
rudeness. After three years as companion to Germaine Gournay-Martin,
she was well inured to millionaire manners; they had almost lost the
power to move her.

Germaine dropped into a chair for twenty seconds; then flung out of it.

"Ten minutes to five!" she cried. "Jacques is late. It's the first time
I've ever known him late."

She went to the window, and looked across the wide stretch of
meadow-land and woodland on which the chateau, set on the very crown of
the ridge, looked down. The road, running with the irritating
straightness of so many of the roads of France, was visible for a full
three miles. It was empty.

"Perhaps the Duke went to the Chateau de Relzieres to see his
cousin--though I fancy that at bottom the Duke does not care very much
for the Baron de Relzieres. They always look as though they detested
one another," said Sonia, without raising her eyes from the letter she
was addressing.

"You've noticed that, have you?" said Germaine. "Now, as far as Jacques
is concerned--he's--he's so indifferent. None the less, when we were at
the Relzieres on Thursday, I caught him quarrelling with Paul de
Relzieres."

"Quarrelling?" said Sonia sharply, with a sudden uneasiness in air and
eyes and voice.

"Yes; quarrelling. And they said good-bye to one another in the oddest
way."

"But surely they shook hands?" said Sonia.

"Not a bit of it. They bowed as if each of them had swallowed a poker."

"Why--then--then--" said Sonia, starting up with a frightened air; and
her voice stuck in her throat.

"Then what?" said Germaine, a little startled by her panic-stricken
face.

"The duel! Monsieur de Relzieres' duel!" cried Sonia.

"What? You don't think it was with Jacques?"

"I don't know--but this quarrel--the Duke's manner this morning--the Du
Buits' drive--" said Sonia.

"Of course--of course! It's quite possible--in fact it's certain!"
cried Germaine.

"It's horrible!" gasped Sonia. "Consider--just consider! Suppose
something happened to him. Suppose the Duke--"

"It's me the Duke's fighting about!" cried Germaine proudly, with a
little skipping jump of triumphant joy.

Sonia stared through her without seeing her. Her face was a dead
white--fear had chilled the lustre from her skin; her breath panted
through her parted lips; and her dilated eyes seemed to look on some
dreadful picture.

Germaine pirouetted about the hall at the very height of triumph. To
have a Duke fighting a duel about her was far beyond the wildest dreams
of snobbishness. She chuckled again and again, and once she clapped her
hands and laughed aloud.

"He's fighting a swordsman of the first class--an invincible
swordsman--you said so yourself," Sonia muttered in a tone of anguish.
"And there's nothing to be done--nothing."

She pressed her hands to her eyes as if to shut out a hideous vision.

Germaine did not hear her; she was staring at herself in a mirror, and
bridling to her own image.

Sonia tottered to the window and stared down at the road along which
must come the tidings of weal or irremediable woe. She kept passing her
hand over her eyes as if to clear their vision.

Suddenly she started, and bent forward, rigid, all her being
concentrated in the effort to see.

Then she cried: "Mademoiselle Germaine! Look! Look!"

"What is it?" said Germaine, coming to her side.

"A horseman! Look! There!" said Sonia, waving a hand towards the road.

"Yes; and isn't he galloping!" said Germaine.

"It's he! It's the Duke!" cried Sonia.

"Do you think so?" said Germaine doubtfully.

"I'm sure of it--sure!"

"Well, he gets here just in time for tea," said Germaine in a tone of
extreme satisfaction. "He knows that I hate to be kept waiting. He said
to me, 'I shall be back by five at the latest.' And here he is."

"It's impossible," said Sonia. "He has to go all the way round the
park. There's no direct road; the brook is between us."

"All the same, he's coming in a straight line," said Germaine.

It was true. The horseman had left the road and was galloping across
the meadows straight for the brook. In twenty seconds he reached its
treacherous bank, and as he set his horse at it, Sonia covered her eyes.

"He's over!" said Germaine. "My father gave three hundred guineas for
that horse."




CHAPTER III

LUPIN'S WAY


Sonia, in a sudden revulsion of feeling, in a reaction from her fears,
slipped back and sat down at the tea-table, panting quickly, struggling
to keep back the tears of relief. She did not see the Duke gallop up
the slope, dismount, and hand over his horse to the groom who came
running to him. There was still a mist in her eyes to blur his figure
as he came through the window.

"If it's for me, plenty of tea, very little cream, and three lumps of
sugar," he cried in a gay, ringing voice, and pulled out his watch.
"Five to the minute--that's all right." And he bent down, took
Germaine's hand, and kissed it with an air of gallant devotion.

If he had indeed just fought a duel, there were no signs of it in his
bearing. His air, his voice, were entirely careless. He was a man whose
whole thought at the moment was fixed on his tea and his punctuality.

He drew a chair near the tea-table for Germaine; sat down himself; and
Sonia handed him a cup of tea with so shaky a hand that the spoon
clinked in the saucer.

"You've been fighting a duel?" said Germaine.

"What! You've heard already?" said the Duke in some surprise.

"I've heard," said Germaine. "Why did you fight it?"

"You're not wounded, your Grace?" said Sonia anxiously.

"Not a scratch," said the Duke, smiling at her.

"Will you be so good as to get on with those wedding-cards, Sonia,"
said Germaine sharply; and Sonia went back to the writing-table.

Turning to the Duke, Germaine said, "Did you fight on my account?"

"Would you be pleased to know that I had fought on your account?" said
the Duke; and there was a faint mocking light in his eyes, far too
faint for the self-satisfied Germaine to perceive.

"Yes. But it isn't true. You've been fighting about some woman," said
Germaine petulantly.

"If I had been fighting about a woman, it could only be you," said the
Duke.

"Yes, that is so. Of course. It could hardly be about Sonia, or my
maid," said Germaine. "But what was the reason of the duel?"

"Oh, the reason of it was entirely childish," said the Duke. "I was in
a bad temper; and De Relzieres said something that annoyed me."

"Then it wasn't about me; and if it wasn't about me, it wasn't really
worth while fighting," said Germaine in a tone of acute disappointment.

The mocking light deepened a little in the Duke's eyes.

"Yes. But if I had been killed, everybody would have said, 'The Duke of
Charmerace has been killed in a duel about Mademoiselle
Gournay-Martin.' That would have sounded very fine indeed," said the
Duke; and a touch of mockery had crept into his voice.

"Now, don't begin trying to annoy me again," said Germaine pettishly.

"The last thing I should dream of, my dear girl," said the Duke,
smiling.

"And De Relzieres? Is he wounded?" said Germaine.

"Poor dear De Relzieres: he won't be out of bed for the next six
months," said the Duke; and he laughed lightly and gaily.

"Good gracious!" cried Germaine.

"It will do poor dear De Relzieres a world of good. He has a touch of
enteritis; and for enteritis there is nothing like rest," said the Duke.

Sonia was not getting on very quickly with the wedding-cards. Germaine
was sitting with her back to her; and over her shoulder Sonia could
watch the face of the Duke--an extraordinarily mobile face, changing
with every passing mood. Sometimes his eyes met hers; and hers fell
before them. But as soon as they turned away from her she was watching
him again, almost greedily, as if she could not see enough of his face
in which strength of will and purpose was mingled with a faint, ironic
scepticism, and tempered by a fine air of race.

He finished his tea; then he took a morocco case from his pocket, and
said to Germaine, "It must be quite three days since I gave you
anything."

He opened the case, disclosed a pearl pendant, and handed it to her.

"Oh, how nice!" she cried, taking it.

She took it from the case, saying that it was a beauty. She showed it
to Sonia; then she put it on and stood before a mirror admiring the
effect. To tell the truth, the effect was not entirely desirable. The
pearls did not improve the look of her rather coarse brown skin; and
her skin added nothing to the beauty of the pearls. Sonia saw this, and
so did the Duke. He looked at Sonia's white throat. She met his eyes
and blushed. She knew that the same thought was in both their minds;
the pearls would have looked infinitely better there.

Germaine finished admiring herself; she was incapable even of
suspecting that so expensive a pendant could not suit her perfectly.

The Duke said idly: "Goodness! Are all those invitations to the
wedding?"

"That's only down to the letter V," said Germaine proudly.

"And there are twenty-five letters in the alphabet! You must be
inviting the whole world. You'll have to have the Madeleine enlarged.
It won't hold them all. There isn't a church in Paris that will," said
the Duke.

"Won't it be a splendid marriage!" said Germaine. "There'll be
something like a crush. There are sure to be accidents."

"If I were you, I should have careful arrangements made," said the Duke.

"Oh, let people look after themselves. They'll remember it better if
they're crushed a little," said Germaine.

There was a flicker of contemptuous wonder in the Duke's eyes. But he
only shrugged his shoulders, and turning to Sonia, said, "Will you be
an angel and play me a little Grieg, Mademoiselle Kritchnoff? I heard
you playing yesterday. No one plays Grieg like you."

"Excuse me, Jacques, but Mademoiselle Kritchnoff has her work to do,"
said Germaine tartly.

"Five minutes' interval--just a morsel of Grieg, I beg," said the Duke,
with an irresistible smile.

"All right," said Germaine grudgingly. "But I've something important to
talk to you about."

"By Jove! So have I. I was forgetting. I've the last photograph I took
of you and Mademoiselle Sonia." Germaine frowned and shrugged her
shoulders. "With your light frocks in the open air, you look like two
big flowers," said the Duke.

"You call that important!" cried Germaine.

"It's very important--like all trifles," said the Duke, smiling. "Look!
isn't it nice?" And he took a photograph from his pocket, and held it
out to her.

"Nice? It's shocking! We're making the most appalling faces," said
Germaine, looking at the photograph in his hand.

"Well, perhaps you ARE making faces," said the Duke seriously,
considering the photograph with grave earnestness. "But they're not
appalling faces--not by any means. You shall be judge, Mademoiselle
Sonia. The faces--well, we won't talk about the faces--but the
outlines. Look at the movement of your scarf." And he handed the
photograph to Sonia.

"Jacques!" said Germaine impatiently.

"Oh, yes, you've something important to tell me. What is it?" said the
Duke, with an air of resignation; and he took the photograph from Sonia
and put it carefully back in his pocket.

"Victoire has telephoned from Paris to say that we've had a paper-knife
and a Louis Seize inkstand given us," said Germaine.

"Hurrah!" cried the Duke in a sudden shout that made them both jump.

"And a pearl necklace," said Germaine.

"Hurrah!" cried the Duke.

"You're perfectly childish," said Germaine pettishly. "I tell you we've
been given a paper-knife, and you shout 'hurrah!' I say we've been
given a pearl necklace, and you shout 'hurrah!' You can't have the
slightest sense of values."

"I beg your pardon. This pearl necklace is from one of your father's
friends, isn't it?" said the Duke.

"Yes; why?" said Germaine.

"But the inkstand and the paper-knife must be from the Faubourg
Saint-Germain, and well on the shabby side?" said the Duke.

"Yes; well?"

"Well then, my dear girl, what are you complaining about? They balance;
the equilibrium is restored. You can't have everything," said the Duke;
and he laughed mischievously.

Germaine flushed, and bit her lip; her eyes sparkled.

"You don't care a rap about me," she said stormily.

"But I find you adorable," said the Duke.

"You keep annoying me," said Germaine pettishly. "And you do it on
purpose. I think it's in very bad taste. I shall end by taking a
dislike to you--I know I shall."

"Wait till we're married for that, my dear girl," said the Duke; and he
laughed again, with a blithe, boyish cheerfulness, which deepened the
angry flush in Germaine's cheeks.

"Can't you be serious about anything?" she cried.

"I am the most serious man in Europe," said the Duke.

Germaine went to the window and stared out of it sulkily.

The Duke walked up and down the hall, looking at the pictures of some
of his ancestors--somewhat grotesque persons--with humorous
appreciation. Between addressing the envelopes Sonia kept glancing at
him. Once he caught her eye, and smiled at her. Germaine's back was
eloquent of her displeasure. The Duke stopped at a gap in the line of
pictures in which there hung a strip of old tapestry.

"I can never understand why you have left all these ancestors of mine
staring from the walls and have taken away the quite admirable and
interesting portrait of myself," he said carelessly.

Germaine turned sharply from the window; Sonia stopped in the middle of
addressing an envelope; and both the girls stared at him in
astonishment.

"There certainly was a portrait of me where that tapestry hangs. What
have you done with it?" said the Duke.

"You're making fun of us again," said Germaine.

"Surely your Grace knows what happened," said Sonia.

"We wrote all the details to you and sent you all the papers three
years ago. Didn't you get them?" said Germaine.

"Not a detail or a newspaper. Three years ago I was in the
neighbourhood of the South Pole, and lost at that," said the Duke.

"But it was most dramatic, my dear Jacques. All Paris was talking of
it," said Germaine. "Your portrait was stolen."

"Stolen? Who stole it?" said the Duke.

Germaine crossed the hall quickly to the gap in the line of pictures.

"I'll show you," she said.

She drew aside the piece of tapestry, and in the middle of the panel
over which the portrait of the Duke had hung he saw written in chalk
the words:

ARSENE LUPIN

"What do you think of that autograph?" said Germaine.

"'Arsene Lupin?'" said the Duke in a tone of some bewilderment.

"He left his signature. It seems that he always does so," said Sonia in
an explanatory tone.

"But who is he?" said the Duke.

"Arsene Lupin? Surely you know who Arsene Lupin is?" said Germaine
impatiently.

"I haven't the slightest notion," said the Duke.

"Oh, come! No one is as South-Pole as all that!" cried Germaine. "You
don't know who Lupin is? The most whimsical, the most audacious, and
the most genial thief in France. For the last ten years he has kept the
police at bay. He has baffled Ganimard, Holmlock Shears, the great
English detective, and even Guerchard, whom everybody says is the
greatest detective we've had in France since Vidocq. In fact, he's our
national robber. Do you mean to say you don't know him?"

"Not even enough to ask him to lunch at a restaurant," said the Duke
flippantly. "What's he like?"

"Like? Nobody has the slightest idea. He has a thousand disguises. He
has dined two evenings running at the English Embassy."

"But if nobody knows him, how did they learn that?" said the Duke, with
a puzzled air.

"Because the second evening, about ten o'clock, they noticed that one
of the guests had disappeared, and with him all the jewels of the
ambassadress."

"All of them?" said the Duke.

"Yes; and Lupin left his card behind him with these words scribbled on
it:"

"'This is not a robbery; it is a restitution. You took the Wallace
collection from us.'"

"But it was a hoax, wasn't it?" said the Duke.

"No, your Grace; and he has done better than that. You remember the
affair of the Daray Bank--the savings bank for poor people?" said
Sonia, her gentle face glowing with a sudden enthusiastic animation.

"Let's see," said the Duke. "Wasn't that the financier who doubled his
fortune at the expense of a heap of poor wretches and ruined two
thousand people?"

"Yes; that's the man," said Sonia. "And Lupin stripped Daray's house
and took from him everything he had in his strong-box. He didn't leave
him a sou of the money. And then, when he'd taken it from him, he
distributed it among all the poor wretches whom Daray had ruined."

"But this isn't a thief you're talking about--it's a philanthropist,"
said the Duke.

"A fine sort of philanthropist!" broke in Germaine in a peevish tone.
"There was a lot of philanthropy about his robbing papa, wasn't there?"

"Well," said the Duke, with an air of profound reflection, "if you come
to think of it, that robbery was not worthy of this national hero. My
portrait, if you except the charm and beauty of the face itself, is not
worth much."

"If you think he was satisfied with your portrait, you're very much
mistaken. All my father's collections were robbed," said Germaine.

"Your father's collections?" said the Duke. "But they're better guarded
than the Bank of France. Your father is as careful of them as the apple
of his eye."

"That's exactly it--he was too careful of them. That's why Lupin
succeeded."

"This is very interesting," said the Duke; and he sat down on a couch
before the gap in the pictures, to go into the matter more at his ease.
"I suppose he had accomplices in the house itself?"

"Yes, one accomplice," said Germaine.

"Who was that?" asked the Duke.

"Papa!" said Germaine.

"Oh, come! what on earth do you mean?" said the Duke. "You're getting
quite incomprehensible, my dear girl."

"Well, I'll make it clear to you. One morning papa received a
letter--but wait. Sonia, get me the Lupin papers out of the bureau."

Sonia rose from the writing-table, and went to a bureau, an admirable
example of the work of the great English maker, Chippendale. It stood
on the other side of the hall between an Oriental cabinet and a
sixteenth-century Italian cabinet--for all the world as if it were
standing in a crowded curiosity shop--with the natural effect that the
three pieces, by their mere incongruity, took something each from the
beauty of the other. Sonia raised the flap of the bureau, and taking
from one of the drawers a small portfolio, turned over the papers in it
and handed a letter to the Duke.

"This is the envelope," she said. "It's addressed to M. Gournay-Martin,
Collector, at the Chateau de Charmerace, Ile-et-Vilaine."

The Duke opened the envelope and took out a letter.

"It's an odd handwriting," he said.

"Read it--carefully," said Germaine.

It was an uncommon handwriting. The letters of it were small, but
perfectly formed. It looked the handwriting of a man who knew exactly
what he wanted to say, and liked to say it with extreme precision. The
letter ran:

    "DEAR SIR,"

    "Please forgive my writing to you without our having
     been introduced to one another; but I flatter myself
     that you know me, at any rate, by name."

    "There is in the drawing-room next your hall a
     Gainsborough of admirable quality which affords me
     infinite pleasure. Your Goyas in the same drawing-room
     are also to my liking, as well as your Van Dyck. In the
     further drawing-room I note the Renaissance cabinets--a
     marvellous pair--the Flemish tapestry, the Fragonard,
     the clock signed Boulle, and various other objects of
     less importance. But above all I have set my heart on
     that coronet which you bought at the sale of the
     Marquise de Ferronaye, and which was formerly worn by
     the unfortunate Princesse de Lamballe. I take the
     greatest interest in this coronet: in the first place,
     on account of the charming and tragic memories which it
     calls up in the mind of a poet passionately fond of
     history, and in the second place--though it is hardly
     worth while talking about that kind of thing--on
     account of its intrinsic value. I reckon indeed that
     the stones in your coronet are, at the very lowest,
     worth half a million francs."

    "I beg you, my dear sir, to have these different
     objects properly packed up, and to forward them,
     addressed to me, carriage paid, to the Batignolles
     Station. Failing this, I shall Proceed to remove them
     myself on the night of Thursday, August 7th."

    "Please pardon the slight trouble to which I am putting
     you, and believe me,"

    "Yours very sincerely,"

    "ARSENE LUPIN."

    "P.S.--It occurs to me that the pictures have not glass
     before them. It would be as well to repair this
     omission before forwarding them to me, and I am sure
     that you will take this extra trouble cheerfully. I am
     aware, of course, that some of the best judges declare
     that a picture loses some of its quality when seen
     through glass. But it preserves them, and we should
     always be ready and willing to sacrifice a portion of
     our own pleasure for the benefit of posterity. France
     demands it of us.--A. L."


The Duke laughed, and said, "Really, this is extraordinarily funny. It
must have made your father laugh."

"Laugh?" said Germaine. "You should have seen his face. He took it
seriously enough, I can tell you."

"Not to the point of forwarding the things to Batignolles, I hope,"
said the Duke.

"No, but to the point of being driven wild," said Germaine. "And since
the police had always been baffled by Lupin, he had the brilliant idea
of trying what soldiers could do. The Commandant at Rennes is a great
friend of papa's; and papa went to him, and told him about Lupin's
letter and what he feared. The colonel laughed at him; but he offered
him a corporal and six soldiers to guard his collection, on the night
of the seventh. It was arranged that they should come from Rennes by
the last train so that the burglars should have no warning of their
coming. Well, they came, seven picked men--men who had seen service in
Tonquin. We gave them supper; and then the corporal posted them in the
hall and the two drawing-rooms where the pictures and things were. At
eleven we all went to bed, after promising the corporal that, in the
event of any fight with the burglars, we would not stir from our rooms.
I can tell you I felt awfully nervous. I couldn't get to sleep for ages
and ages. Then, when I did, I did not wake till morning. The night had
passed absolutely quietly. Nothing out of the common had happened.
There had not been the slightest noise. I awoke Sonia and my father. We
dressed as quickly as we could, and rushed down to the drawing-room."

She paused dramatically.

"Well?" said the Duke.

"Well, it was done."

"What was done?" said the Duke.

"Everything," said Germaine. "Pictures had gone, tapestries had gone,
cabinets had gone, and the clock had gone."

"And the coronet too?" said the Duke.

"Oh, no. That was at the Bank of France. And it was doubtless to make
up for not getting it that Lupin stole your portrait. At any rate he
didn't say that he was going to steal it in his letter."

"But, come! this is incredible. Had he hypnotized the corporal and the
six soldiers? Or had he murdered them all?" said the Duke.

"Corporal? There wasn't any corporal, and there weren't any soldiers.
The corporal was Lupin, and the soldiers were part of his gang," said
Germaine.

"I don't understand," said the Duke. "The colonel promised your father
a corporal and six men. Didn't they come?"

"They came to the railway station all right," said Germaine. "But you
know the little inn half-way between the railway station and the
chateau? They stopped to drink there, and at eleven o'clock next
morning one of the villagers found all seven of them, along with the
footman who was guiding them to the chateau, sleeping like logs in the
little wood half a mile from the inn. Of course the innkeeper could not
explain when their wine was drugged. He could only tell us that a
motorist, who had stopped at the inn to get some supper, had called the
soldiers in and insisted on standing them drinks. They had seemed a
little fuddled before they left the inn, and the motorist had insisted
on driving them to the chateau in his car. When the drug took effect he
simply carried them out of it one by one, and laid them in the wood to
sleep it off."

"Lupin seems to have made a thorough job of it, anyhow," said the Duke.

"I should think so," said Germaine. "Guerchard was sent down from
Paris; but he could not find a single clue. It was not for want of
trying, for he hates Lupin. It's a regular fight between them, and so
far Lupin has scored every point."

"He must be as clever as they make 'em," said the Duke.

"He is," said Germaine. "And do you know, I shouldn't be at all
surprised if he's in the neighbourhood now."

"What on earth do you mean?" said the Duke.

"I'm not joking," said Germaine. "Odd things are happening. Some one
has been changing the place of things. That silver statuette now--it
was on the cabinet, and we found it moved to the piano. Yet nobody had
touched it. And look at this window. Some one has broken a pane in it
just at the height of the fastening."

"The deuce they have!" said the Duke.




CHAPTER IV

THE DUKE INTERVENES


The Duke rose, came to the window, and looked at the broken pane. He
stepped out on to the terrace and looked at the turf; then he came back
into the room.

"This looks serious," he said. "That pane has not been broken at all.
If it had been broken, the pieces of glass would be lying on the turf.
It has been cut out. We must warn your father to look to his treasures."

"I told you so," said Germaine. "I said that Arsene Lupin was in the
neighbourhood."

"Arsene Lupin is a very capable man," said the Duke, smiling. "But
there's no reason to suppose that he's the only burglar in France or
even in Ile-et-Vilaine."

"I'm sure that he's in the neighbourhood. I have a feeling that he is,"
said Germaine stubbornly.

The Duke shrugged his shoulders, and said a smile: "Far be it from me
to contradict you. A woman's intuition is always--well, it's always a
woman's intuition."

He came back into the hall, and as he did so the door opened and a
shock-headed man in the dress of a gamekeeper stood on the threshold.

"There are visitors to see you, Mademoiselle Germaine," he said, in a
very deep bass voice.

"What! Are you answering the door, Firmin?" said Germaine.

"Yes, Mademoiselle Germaine: there's only me to do it. All the servants
have started for the station, and my wife and I are going to see after
the family to-night and to-morrow morning. Shall I show these gentlemen
in?"

"Who are they?" said Germaine.

"Two gentlemen who say they have an appointment."

"What are their names?" said Germaine.

"They are two gentlemen. I don't know what their names are. I've no
memory for names."

"That's an advantage to any one who answers doors," said the Duke,
smiling at the stolid Firmin.

"Well, it can't be the two Charolais again. It's not time for them to
come back. I told them papa would not be back yet," said Germaine.

"No, it can't be them, Mademoiselle Germaine," said Firmin, with
decision.

"Very well; show them in," she said.

Firmin went out, leaving the door open behind him; and they heard his
hob-nailed boots clatter and squeak on the stone floor of the outer
hall.

"Charolais?" said the Duke idly. "I don't know the name. Who are they?"

"A little while ago Alfred announced two gentlemen. I thought they were
Georges and Andre du Buit, for they promised to come to tea. I told
Alfred to show them in, and to my surprise there appeared two horrible
provincials. I never--Oh!"

She stopped short, for there, coming through the door, were the two
Charolais, father and son.

M. Charolais pressed his motor-cap to his bosom, and bowed low. "Once
more I salute you, mademoiselle," he said.

His son bowed, and revealed behind him another young man.

"My second son. He has a chemist's shop," said M. Charolais, waving a
large red hand at the young man.

The young man, also blessed with the family eyes, set close together,
entered the hall and bowed to the two girls. The Duke raised his
eyebrows ever so slightly.

"I'm very sorry, gentlemen," said Germaine, "but my father has not yet
returned."

"Please don't apologize. There is not the slightest need," said M.
Charolais; and he and his two sons settled themselves down on three
chairs, with the air of people who had come to make a considerable stay.

For a moment, Germaine, taken aback by their coolness, was speechless;
then she said hastily: "Very likely he won't be back for another hour.
I shouldn't like you to waste your time."

"Oh, it doesn't matter," said M. Charolais, with an indulgent air; and
turning to the Duke, he added, "However, while we're waiting, if you're
a member of the family, sir, we might perhaps discuss the least you
will take for the motor-car."

"I'm sorry," said the Duke, "but I have nothing to do with it."

Before M. Charolais could reply the door opened, and Firmin's deep
voice said:

"Will you please come in here, sir?"

A third young man came into the hall.

"What, you here, Bernard?" said M. Charolais. "I told you to wait at
the park gates."

"I wanted to see the car too," said Bernard.

"My third son. He is destined for the Bar," said M. Charolais, with a
great air of paternal pride.

"But how many are there?" said Germaine faintly.

Before M. Charolais could answer, Firmin once more appeared on the
threshold.

"The master's just come back, miss," he said.

"Thank goodness for that!" said Germaine; and turning to M. Charolais,
she added, "If you will come with me, gentlemen, I will take you to my
father, and you can discuss the price of the car at once."

As she spoke she moved towards the door. M. Charolais and his sons rose
and made way for her. The father and the two eldest sons made haste to
follow her out of the room. But Bernard lingered behind, apparently to
admire the bric-a-brac on the cabinets. With infinite quickness he
grabbed two objects off the nearest, and followed his brothers. The
Duke sprang across the hall in three strides, caught him by the arm on
the very threshold, jerked him back into the hall, and shut the door.

"No you don't, my young friend," he said sharply.

"Don't what?" said Bernard, trying to shake off his grip.

"You've taken a cigarette-case," said the Duke.

"No, no, I haven't--nothing of the kind!" stammered Bernard.

The Duke grasped the young man's left wrist, plunged his hand into the
motor-cap which he was carrying, drew out of it a silver
cigarette-case, and held it before his eyes.

Bernard turned pale to the lips. His frightened eyes seemed about to
leap from their sockets.

"It--it--was a m-m-m-mistake," he stammered.

The Duke shifted his grip to his collar, and thrust his hand into the
breast-pocket of his coat. Bernard, helpless in his grip, and utterly
taken aback by his quickness, made no resistance.

The Duke drew out a morocco case, and said: "Is this a mistake too?"

"Heavens! The pendant!" cried Sonia, who was watching the scene with
parted lips and amazed eyes.

Bernard dropped on his knees and clasped his hands.

"Forgive me!" he cried, in a choking voice. "Forgive me! Don't tell any
one! For God's sake, don't tell any one!"

And the tears came streaming from his eyes.

"You young rogue!" said the Duke quietly.

"I'll never do it again--never! Oh, have pity on me! If my father knew!
Oh, let me off!" cried Bernard.

The Duke hesitated, and looked down on him, frowning and pulling at his
moustache. Then, more quickly than one would have expected from so
careless a trifler, his mind was made up.

"All right," he said slowly. "Just for this once ... be off with you."
And he jerked him to his feet and almost threw him into the outer hall.

"Thanks! ... oh, thanks!" said Bernard.

The Duke shut the door and looked at Sonia, breathing quickly.

"Well? Did you ever see anything like that? That young fellow will go a
long way. The cheek of the thing! Right under our very eyes! And this
pendant, too: it would have been a pity to lose it. Upon my word, I
ought to have handed him over to the police."

"No, no!" cried Sonia. "You did quite right to let him off--quite
right."

The Duke set the pendant on the ledge of the bureau, and came down the
hall to Sonia.

"What's the matter?" he said gently. "You're quite pale."

"It has upset me ... that unfortunate boy," said Sonia; and her eyes
were swimming with tears.

"Do you pity the young rogue?" said the Duke.

"Yes; it's dreadful. His eyes were so terrified, and so boyish. And, to
be caught like that ... stealing ... in the act. Oh, it's hateful!"

"Come, come, how sensitive you are!" said the Duke, in a soothing,
almost caressing tone. His eyes, resting on her charming, troubled
face, were glowing with a warm admiration.

"Yes; it's silly," said Sonia; "but you noticed his eyes--the hunted
look in them? You pitied him, didn't you? For you are kind at bottom."

"Why at bottom?" said the Duke.

"Oh, I said at bottom because you look sarcastic, and at first sight
you're so cold. But often that's only the mask of those who have
suffered the most.... They are the most indulgent," said Sonia slowly,
hesitating, picking her words.

"Yes, I suppose they are," said the Duke thoughtfully.

"It's because when one has suffered one understands.... Yes: one
understands," said Sonia.

There was a pause. The Duke's eyes still rested on her face. The
admiration in them was mingled with compassion.

"You're very unhappy here, aren't you?" he said gently.

"Me? Why?" said Sonia quickly.

"Your smile is so sad, and your eyes so timid," said the Duke slowly.
"You're just like a little child one longs to protect. Are you quite
alone in the world?"

His eyes and tones were full of pity; and a faint flush mantled Sonia's
cheeks.

"Yes, I'm alone," she said.

"But have you no relations--no friends?" said the Duke.

"No," said Sonia.

"I don't mean here in France, but in your own country.... Surely you
have some in Russia?"

"No, not a soul. You see, my father was a Revolutionist. He died in
Siberia when I was a baby. And my mother, she died too--in Paris. She
had fled from Russia. I was two years old when she died."

"It must be hard to be alone like that," said the Duke.

"No," said Sonia, with a faint smile, "I don't mind having no
relations. I grew used to that so young ... so very young. But what is
hard--but you'll laugh at me--"

"Heaven forbid!" said the Duke gravely.

"Well, what is hard is, never to get a letter ... an envelope that one
opens ... from some one who thinks about one--"

She paused, and then added gravely: "But I tell myself that it's
nonsense. I have a certain amount of philosophy."

She smiled at him--an adorable child's smile.

The Duke smiled too. "A certain amount of philosophy," he said softly.
"You look like a philosopher!"

As they stood looking at one another with serious eyes, almost with
eyes that probed one another's souls, the drawing-room door flung open,
and Germaine's harsh voice broke on their ears.

"You're getting quite impossible, Sonia!" she cried. "It's absolutely
useless telling you anything. I told you particularly to pack my
leather writing-case in my bag with your own hand. I happen to open a
drawer, and what do I see? My leather writing-case."

"I'm sorry," said Sonia. "I was going--"

"Oh, there's no need to bother about it. I'll see after it myself,"
said Germaine. "But upon my word, you might be one of our guests,
seeing how easily you take things. You're negligence personified."

"Come, Germaine ... a mere oversight," said the Duke, in a coaxing tone.

"Now, excuse me, Jacques; but you've got an unfortunate habit of
interfering in household matters. You did it only the other day. I can
no longer say a word to a servant--"

"Germaine!" said the Duke, in sharp protest.

Germaine turned from him to Sonia, and pointed to a packet of envelopes
and some letters, which Bernard Charolais had knocked off the table,
and said, "Pick up those envelopes and letters, and bring everything to
my room, and be quick about it!"

She flung out of the room, and slammed the door behind her.

Sonia seemed entirely unmoved by the outburst: no flush of
mortification stained her cheeks, her lips did not quiver. She stooped
to pick up the fallen papers.

"No, no; let me, I beg you," said the Duke, in a tone of distress. And
dropping on one knee, he began to gather together the fallen papers. He
set them on the table, and then he said: "You mustn't mind what
Germaine says. She's--she's--she's all right at heart. It's her manner.
She's always been happy, and had everything she wanted. She's been
spoiled, don't you know. Those kind of people never have any
consideration for any one else. You mustn't let her outburst hurt you."

"Oh, but I don't. I don't really," protested Sonia.

"I'm glad of that," said the Duke. "It isn't really worth noticing."

He drew the envelopes and unused cards into a packet, and handed them
to her.

"There!" he said, with a smile. "That won't be too heavy for you."

"Thank you," said Sonia, taking it from him.

"Shall I carry them for you?" said the Duke.

"No, thank you, your Grace," said Sonia.

With a quick, careless, almost irresponsible movement, he caught her
hand, bent down, and kissed it. A great wave of rosy colour flowed over
her face, flooding its whiteness to her hair and throat. She stood for
a moment turned to stone; she put her hand to her heart. Then on hasty,
faltering feet she went to the door, opened it, paused on the
threshold, turned and looked back at him, and vanished.




CHAPTER V

A LETTER FROM LUPIN


The Duke stood for a while staring thoughtfully at the door through
which Sonia had passed, a faint smile playing round his lips. He
crossed the hall to the Chippendale bureau, took a cigarette from a box
which stood on the ledge of it, beside the morocco case which held the
pendant, lighted it, and went slowly out on to the terrace. He crossed
it slowly, paused for a moment on the edge of it, and looked across the
stretch of country with musing eyes, which saw nothing of its beauty.
Then he turned to the right, went down a flight of steps to the lower
terrace, crossed the lawn, and took a narrow path which led into the
heart of a shrubbery of tall deodoras. In the middle of it he came to
one of those old stone benches, moss-covered and weather-stained, which
adorn the gardens of so many French chateaux. It faced a marble basin
from which rose the slender column of a pattering fountain. The figure
of a Cupid danced joyously on a tall pedestal to the right of the
basin. The Duke sat down on the bench, and was still, with that rare
stillness which only comes of nerves in perfect harmony, his brow
knitted in careful thought. Now and again the frown cleared from his
face, and his intent features relaxed into a faint smile, a smile of
pleasant memory. Once he rose, walked round the fountains frowning,
came back to the bench, and sat down again. The early September dusk
was upon him when at last he rose and with quick steps took his way
through the shrubbery, with the air of a man whose mind, for good or
ill, was at last made up.

When he came on to the upper terrace his eyes fell on a group which
stood at the further corner, near the entrance of the chateau, and he
sauntered slowly up to it.

In the middle of it stood M. Gournay-Martin, a big, round, flabby hulk
of a man. He was nearly as red in the face as M. Charolais; and he
looked a great deal redder owing to the extreme whiteness of the
whiskers which stuck out on either side of his vast expanse of cheek.
As he came up, it struck the Duke as rather odd that he should have the
Charolais eyes, set close together; any one who did not know that they
were strangers to one another might have thought it a family likeness.

The millionaire was waving his hands and roaring after the manner of a
man who has cultivated the art of brow-beating those with whom he does
business; and as the Duke neared the group, he caught the words:

"No; that's the lowest I'll take. Take it or leave it. You can say Yes,
or you can say Good-bye; and I don't care a hang which."

"It's very dear," said M. Charolais, in a mournful tone.

"Dear!" roared M. Gournay-Martin. "I should like to see any one else
sell a hundred horse-power car for eight hundred pounds. Why, my good
sir, you're having me!"

"No, no," protested M. Charolais feebly.

"I tell you you're having me," roared M. Gournay-Martin. "I'm letting
you have a magnificent car for which I paid thirteen hundred pounds for
eight hundred! It's scandalous the way you've beaten me down!"

"No, no," protested M. Charolais.

He seemed frightened out of his life by the vehemence of the big man.

"You wait till you've seen how it goes," said M. Gournay-Martin.

"Eight hundred is very dear," said M. Charolais.

"Come, come! You're too sharp, that's what you are. But don't say any
more till you've tried the car."

He turned to his chauffeur, who stood by watching the struggle with an
appreciative grin on his brown face, and said: "Now, Jean, take these
gentlemen to the garage, and run them down to the station. Show them
what the car can do. Do whatever they ask you--everything."

He winked at Jean, turned again to M. Charolais, and said: "You know,
M. Charolais, you're too good a man of business for me. You're hot
stuff, that's what you are--hot stuff. You go along and try the car.
Good-bye--good-bye."

The four Charolais murmured good-bye in deep depression, and went off
with Jean, wearing something of the air of whipped dogs. When they had
gone round the corner the millionaire turned to the Duke and said, with
a chuckle: "He'll buy the car all right--had him fine!"

"No business success of yours could surprise me," said the Duke
blandly, with a faint, ironical smile.

M. Gournay-Martin's little pig's eyes danced and sparkled; and the
smiles flowed over the distended skin of his face like little ripples
over a stagnant pool, reluctantly. It seemed to be too tightly
stretched for smiles.

"The car's four years old," he said joyfully. "He'll give me eight
hundred for it, and it's not worth a pipe of tobacco. And eight hundred
pounds is just the price of a little Watteau I've had my eye on for
some time--a first-class investment."

They strolled down the terrace, and through one of the windows into the
hall. Firmin had lighted the lamps, two of them. They made but a small
oasis of light in a desert of dim hall. The millionaire let himself
down very gingerly into an Empire chair, as if he feared, with
excellent reason, that it might collapse under his weight.

"Well, my dear Duke," he said, "you don't ask me the result of my
official lunch or what the minister said."

"Is there any news?" said the Duke carelessly.

"Yes. The decree will be signed to-morrow. You can consider yourself
decorated. I hope you feel a happy man," said the millionaire, rubbing
his fat hands together with prodigious satisfaction.

"Oh, charmed--charmed," said the Duke, with entire indifference.

"As for me, I'm delighted--delighted," said the millionaire. "I was
extremely keen on your being decorated. After that, and after a volume
or two of travels, and after you've published your grandfather's
letters with a good introduction, you can begin to think of the
Academy."

"The Academy!" said the Duke, startled from his usual coolness. "But
I've no title to become an Academician."

"How, no title?" said the millionaire solemnly; and his little eyes
opened wide. "You're a duke."

"There's no doubt about that," said the Duke, watching him with
admiring curiosity.

"I mean to marry my daughter to a worker--a worker, my dear Duke," said
the millionaire, slapping his big left hand with his bigger right.
"I've no prejudices--not I. I wish to have for son-in-law a duke who
wears the Order of the Legion of Honour, and belongs to the Academie
Francaise, because that is personal merit. I'm no snob."

A gentle, irrepressible laugh broke from the Duke.

"What are you laughing at?" said the millionaire, and a sudden lowering
gloom overspread his beaming face.

"Nothing--nothing," said the Duke quietly. "Only you're so full of
surprises."

"I've startled you, have I? I thought I should. It's true that I'm full
of surprises. It's my knowledge. I understand so much. I understand
business, and I love art, pictures, a good bargain, bric-a-brac, fine
tapestry. They're first-class investments. Yes, certainly I do love the
beautiful. And I don't want to boast, but I understand it. I have
taste, and I've something better than taste; I have a flair, the
dealer's flair."

"Yes, your collections, especially your collection in Paris, prove it,"
said the Duke, stifling a yawn.

"And yet you haven't seen the finest thing I have--the coronet of the
Princesse de Lamballe. It's worth half a million francs."

"So I've heard," said the Duke, a little wearily. "I don't wonder that
Arsene Lupin envied you it."

The Empire chair creaked as the millionaire jumped.

"Don't speak of the swine!" he roared. "Don't mention his name before
me."

"Germaine showed me his letter," said the Duke. "It is amusing."

"His letter! The blackguard! I just missed a fit of apoplexy from it,"
roared the millionaire. "I was in this very hall where we are now,
chatting quietly, when all at once in comes Firmin, and hands me a
letter."

He was interrupted by the opening of the door. Firmin came clumping
down the room, and said in his deep voice, "A letter for you, sir."

"Thank you," said the millionaire, taking the letter, and, as he fitted
his eye-glass into his eye, he went on, "Yes, Firmin brought me a
letter of which the handwriting,"--he raised the envelope he was
holding to his eyes, and bellowed, "Good heavens!"

"What's the matter?" said the Duke, jumping in his chair at the sudden,
startling burst of sound.

"The handwriting!--the handwriting!--it's THE SAME HANDWRITING!" gasped
the millionaire. And he let himself fall heavily backwards against the
back of his chair.

There was a crash. The Duke had a vision of huge arms and legs waving
in the air as the chair-back gave. There was another crash. The chair
collapsed. The huge bulk banged to the floor.

The laughter of the Duke rang out uncontrollably. He caught one of the
waving arms, and jerked the flabby giant to his feet with an ease which
seemed to show that his muscles were of steel.

"Come," he said, laughing still. "This is nonsense! What do you mean by
the same handwriting? It can't be."

"It is the same handwriting. Am I likely to make a mistake about it?"
spluttered the millionaire. And he tore open the envelope with an air
of frenzy.

He ran his eyes over it, and they grew larger and larger--they grew
almost of an average size.

"Listen," he said "listen:"

"DEAR SIR,"

"My collection of pictures, which I had the pleasure of starting three
years ago with some of your own, only contains, as far as Old Masters
go, one Velasquez, one Rembrandt, and three paltry Rubens. You have a
great many more. Since it is a shame such masterpieces should be in
your hands, I propose to appropriate them; and I shall set about a
respectful acquisition of them in your Paris house tomorrow morning."

"Yours very sincerely,"

"ARSENE LUPIN."

"He's humbugging," said the Duke.

"Wait! wait!" gasped the millionaire. "There's a postscript. Listen:"

"P.S.--You must understand that since you have been keeping the coronet
of the Princesse de Lamballe during these three years, I shall avail
myself of the same occasion to compel you to restore that piece of
jewellery to me.--A. L."

"The thief! The scoundrel! I'm choking!" gasped the millionaire,
clutching at his collar.

To judge from the blackness of his face, and the way he staggered and
dropped on to a couch, which was fortunately stronger than the chair,
he was speaking the truth.

"Firmin! Firmin!" shouted the Duke. "A glass of water! Quick! Your
master's ill."

He rushed to the side of the millionaire, who gasped: "Telephone!
Telephone to the Prefecture of Police! Be quick!"

The Duke loosened his collar with deft fingers; tore a Van Loo fan from
its case hanging on the wall, and fanned him furiously. Firmin came
clumping into the room with a glass of water in his hand.

The drawing-room door opened, and Germaine and Sonia, alarmed by the
Duke's shout, hurried in.

"Quick! Your smelling-salts!" said the Duke.

Sonia ran across the hall, opened one of the drawers in the Oriental
cabinet, and ran to the millionaire with a large bottle of
smelling-salts in her hand. The Duke took it from her, and applied it
to the millionaire's nose. The millionaire sneezed thrice with terrific
violence. The Duke snatched the glass from Firmin and dashed the water
into his host's purple face. The millionaire gasped and spluttered.

Germaine stood staring helplessly at her gasping sire.

"Whatever's the matter?" she said.

"It's this letter," said the Duke. "A letter from Lupin."

"I told you so--I said that Lupin was in the neighbourhood," cried
Germaine triumphantly.

"Firmin--where's Firmin?" said the millionaire, dragging himself
upright. He seemed to have recovered a great deal of his voice. "Oh,
there you are!"

He jumped up, caught the gamekeeper by the shoulder, and shook him
furiously.

"This letter. Where did it come from? Who brought it?" he roared.

"It was in the letter-box--the letter-box of the lodge at the bottom of
the park. My wife found it there," said Firmin, and he twisted out of
the millionaire's grasp.

"Just as it was three years ago," roared the millionaire, with an air
of desperation. "It's exactly the same coup. Oh, what a catastrophe!
What a catastrophe!"

He made as if to tear out his hair; then, remembering its scantiness,
refrained.

"Now, come, it's no use losing your head," said the Duke, with quiet
firmness. "If this letter isn't a hoax--"

"Hoax?" bellowed the millionaire. "Was it a hoax three years ago?"

"Very good," said the Duke. "But if this robbery with which you're
threatened is genuine, it's just childish."

"How?" said the millionaire.

"Look at the date of the letter--Sunday, September the third. This
letter was written to-day."

"Yes. Well, what of it?" said the millionaire.

"Look at the letter: 'I shall set about a respectful acquisition of
them in your Paris house to-morrow morning'--to-morrow morning."

"Yes, yes; 'to-morrow morning'--what of it?" said the millionaire.

"One of two things," said the Duke. "Either it's a hoax, and we needn't
bother about it; or the threat is genuine, and we have the time to stop
the robbery."

"Of course we have. Whatever was I thinking of?" said the millionaire.
And his anguish cleared from his face.

"For once in a way our dear Lupin's fondness for warning people will
have given him a painful jar," said the Duke.

"Come on! let me get at the telephone," cried the millionaire.

"But the telephone's no good," said Sonia quickly.

"No good! Why?" roared the millionaire, dashing heavily across the room
to it.

"Look at the time," said Sonia; "the telephone doesn't work as late as
this. It's Sunday."

The millionaire stopped dead.

"It's true. It's appalling," he groaned.

"But that doesn't matter. You can always telegraph," said Germaine.

"But you can't. It's impossible," said Sonia. "You can't get a message
through. It's Sunday; and the telegraph offices shut at twelve o'clock."

"Oh, what a Government!" groaned the millionaire. And he sank down
gently on a chair beside the telephone, and mopped the beads of anguish
from his brow. They looked at him, and they looked at one another,
cudgelling their brains for yet another way of communicating with the
Paris police.

"Hang it all!" said the Duke. "There must be some way out of the
difficulty."

"What way?" said the millionaire.

The Duke did not answer. He put his hands in his pockets and walked
impatiently up and down the hall. Germaine sat down on a chair. Sonia
put her hands on the back of a couch, and leaned forward, watching him.
Firmin stood by the door, whither he had retired to be out of the reach
of his excited master, with a look of perplexity on his stolid face.
They all watched the Duke with the air of people waiting for an oracle
to deliver its message. The millionaire kept mopping the beads of
anguish from his brow. The more he thought of his impending loss, the
more freely he perspired. Germaine's maid, Irma, came to the door
leading into the outer hall, which Firmin, according to his usual
custom, had left open, and peered in wonder at the silent group.

"I have it!" cried the Duke at last. "There is a way out."

"What is it?" said the millionaire, rising and coming to the middle of
the hall.

"What time is it?" said the Duke, pulling out his watch.

The millionaire pulled out his watch. Germaine pulled out hers. Firmin,
after a struggle, produced from some pocket difficult of access an
object not unlike a silver turnip. There was a brisk dispute between
Germaine and the millionaire about which of their watches was right.
Firmin, whose watch apparently did not agree with the watch of either
of them, made his deep voice heard above theirs. The Duke came to the
conclusion that it must be a few minutes past seven.

"It's seven or a few minutes past," he said sharply. "Well, I'm going
to take a car and hurry off to Paris. I ought to get there, bar
accidents, between two and three in the morning, just in time to inform
the police and catch the burglars in the very midst of their burglary.
I'll just get a few things together."

So saying, he rushed out of the hall.

"Excellent! excellent!" said the millionaire. "Your young man is a man
of resource, Germaine. It seems almost a pity that he's a duke. He'd do
wonders in the building trade. But I'm going to Paris too, and you're
coming with me. I couldn't wait idly here, to save my life. And I can't
leave you here, either. This scoundrel may be going to make a
simultaneous attempt on the chateau--not that there's much here that I
really value. There's that statuette that moved, and the pane cut out
of the window. I can't leave you two girls with burglars in the house.
After all, there's the sixty horse-power and the thirty horse-power
car--there'll be lots of room for all of us."

"Oh, but it's nonsense, papa; we shall get there before the servants,"
said Germaine pettishly. "Think of arriving at an empty house in the
dead of night."

"Nonsense!" said the millionaire. "Hurry off and get ready. Your bag
ought to be packed. Where are my keys? Sonia, where are my keys--the
keys of the Paris house?"

"They're in the bureau," said Sonia.

"Well, see that I don't go without them. Now hurry up. Firmin, go and
tell Jean that we shall want both cars. I will drive one, the Duke the
other. Jean must stay with you and help guard the chateau."

So saying he bustled out of the hall, driving the two girls before him.




CHAPTER VI

AGAIN THE CHAROLAIS


Hardly had the door closed behind the millionaire when the head of M.
Charolais appeared at one of the windows opening on to the terrace. He
looked round the empty hall, whistled softly, and stepped inside.
Inside of ten seconds his three sons came in through the windows, and
with them came Jean, the millionaire's chauffeur.

"Take the door into the outer hall, Jean," said M. Charolais, in a low
voice. "Bernard, take that door into the drawing-room. Pierre and
Louis, help me go through the drawers. The whole family is going to
Paris, and if we're not quick we shan't get the cars."

"That comes of this silly fondness for warning people of a coup,"
growled Jean, as he hurried to the door of the outer hall. "It would
have been so simple to rob the Paris house without sending that
infernal letter. It was sure to knock them all silly."

"What harm can the letter do, you fool?" said M. Charolais. "It's
Sunday. We want them knocked silly for to-morrow, to get hold of the
coronet. Oh, to get hold of that coronet! It must be in Paris. I've
been ransacking this chateau for hours."

Jean opened the door of the outer hall half an inch, and glued his eyes
to it. Bernard had done the same with the door opening into the
drawing-room. M. Charolais, Pierre, and Louis were opening drawers,
ransacking them, and shutting them with infinite quickness and
noiselessly.

"Bureau! Which is the bureau? The place is stuffed with bureaux!"
growled M. Charolais. "I must have those keys."

"That plain thing with the brass handles in the middle on the
left--that's a bureau," said Bernard softly.

"Why didn't you say so?" growled M. Charolais.

He dashed to it, and tried it. It was locked.

"Locked, of course! Just my luck! Come and get it open, Pierre. Be
smart!"

The son he had described as an engineer came quickly to the bureau,
fitting together as he came the two halves of a small jemmy. He fitted
it into the top of the flap. There was a crunch, and the old lock gave.
He opened the flap, and he and M. Charolais pulled open drawer after
drawer.

"Quick! Here's that fat old fool!" said Jean, in a hoarse, hissing
whisper.

He moved down the hall, blowing out one of the lamps as he passed it.
In the seventh drawer lay a bunch of keys. M. Charolais snatched it up,
glanced at it, took a bunch of keys from his own pocket, put it in the
drawer, closed it, closed the flap, and rushed to the window. Jean and
his sons were already out on the terrace.

M. Charolais was still a yard from the window when the door into the
outer hall opened and in came M. Gournay-Martin.

He caught a glimpse of a back vanishing through the window, and
bellowed: "Hi! A man! A burglar! Firmin! Firmin!"

He ran blundering down the hall, tangled his feet in the fragments of
the broken chair, and came sprawling a thundering cropper, which
knocked every breath of wind out of his capacious body. He lay flat on
his face for a couple of minutes, his broad back wriggling
convulsively--a pathetic sight!--in the painful effort to get his
breath back. Then he sat up, and with perfect frankness burst into
tears. He sobbed and blubbered, like a small child that has hurt
itself, for three or four minutes. Then, having recovered his
magnificent voice, he bellowed furiously: "Firmin! Firmin! Charmerace!
Charmerace!"

Then he rose painfully to his feet, and stood staring at the open
windows.

Presently he roared again: "Firmin! Firmin! Charmerace! Charmerace!"

He kept looking at the window with terrified eyes, as though he
expected somebody to step in and cut his throat from ear to ear.

"Firmin! Firmin! Charmerace! Charmerace!" he bellowed again.

The Duke came quietly into the hall, dressed in a heavy motor-coat, his
motor-cap on his head, and carrying a kit-bag in his hand.

"Did I hear you call?" he said.

"Call?" said the millionaire. "I shouted. The burglars are here
already. I've just seen one of them. He was bolting through the middle
window."

The Duke raised his eyebrows.

"Nerves," he said gently--"nerves."

"Nerves be hanged!" said the millionaire. "I tell you I saw him as
plainly as I see you."

"Well, you can't see me at all, seeing that you're lighting an acre and
a half of hall with a single lamp," said the Duke, still in a tone of
utter incredulity.

"It's that fool Firmin! He ought to have lighted six. Firmin! Firmin!"
bellowed the millionaire.

They listened for the sonorous clumping of the promoted gamekeeper's
boots, but they did not hear it. Evidently Firmin was still giving his
master's instructions about the cars to Jean.

"Well, we may as well shut the windows, anyhow," said the Duke,
proceeding to do so. "If you think Firmin would be any good, you might
post him in this hall with a gun to-night. There could be no harm in
putting a charge of small shot into the legs of these ruffians. He has
only to get one of them, and the others will go for their lives. Yet I
don't like leaving you and Germaine in this big house with only Firmin
to look after you."

"I shouldn't like it myself, and I'm not going to chance it," growled
the millionaire. "We're going to motor to Paris along with you, and
leave Jean to help Firmin fight these burglars. Firmin's all
right--he's an old soldier. He fought in '70. Not that I've much belief
in soldiers against this cursed Lupin, after the way he dealt with that
corporal and his men three years ago."

"I'm glad you're coming to Paris," said the Duke. "It'll be a weight
off my mind. I'd better drive the limousine, and you take the
landaulet."

"That won't do," said the millionaire. "Germaine won't go in the
limousine. You know she has taken a dislike to it."

"Nevertheless, I'd better bucket on to Paris, and let you follow slowly
with Germaine. The sooner I get to Paris the better for your
collection. I'll take Mademoiselle Kritchnoff with me, and, if you
like, Irma, though the lighter I travel the sooner I shall get there."

"No, I'll take Irma and Germaine," said the millionaire. "Germaine
would prefer to have Irma with her, in case you had an accident. She
wouldn't like to get to Paris and have to find a fresh maid."

The drawing-room door opened, and in came Germaine, followed by Sonia
and Irma. They wore motor-cloaks and hoods and veils. Sonia and Irma
were carrying hand-bags.

"I think it's extremely tiresome your dragging us off to Paris like
this in the middle of the night," said Germaine pettishly.

"Do you?" said the millionaire. "Well, then, you'll be interested to
hear that I've just seen a burglar here in this very room. I frightened
him, and he bolted through the window on to the terrace."

"He was greenish-pink, slightly tinged with yellow," said the Duke
softly.

"Greenish-pink? Oh, do stop your jesting, Jacques! Is this a time for
idiocy?" cried Germaine, in a tone of acute exasperation.

"It was the dim light which made your father see him in those colours.
In a bright light, I think he would have been an Alsatian blue," said
the Duke suavely.

"You'll have to break yourself of this silly habit of trifling, my dear
Duke, if ever you expect to be a member of the Academie Francaise,"
said the millionaire with some acrimony. "I tell you I did see a
burglar."

"Yes, yes. I admitted it frankly. It was his colour I was talking
about," said the Duke, with an ironical smile.

"Oh, stop your idiotic jokes! We're all sick to death of them!" said
Germaine, with something of the fine fury which so often distinguished
her father.

"There are times for all things," said the millionaire solemnly. "And I
must say that, with the fate of my collection and of the coronet
trembling in the balance, this does not seem to me a season for idle
jests."

"I stand reproved," said the Duke; and he smiled at Sonia.

"My keys, Sonia--the keys of the Paris house," said the millionaire.

Sonia took her own keys from her pocket and went to the bureau. She
slipped a key into the lock and tried to turn it. It would not turn;
and she bent down to look at it.

"Why--why, some one's been tampering with the lock! It's broken!" she
cried.

"I told you I'd seen a burglar!" cried the millionaire triumphantly.
"He was after the keys."

Sonia drew back the flap of the bureau and hastily pulled open the
drawer in which the keys had been.

"They're here!" she cried, taking them out of the drawer and holding
them up.

"Then I was just in time," said the millionaire. "I startled him in the
very act of stealing the keys."

"I withdraw! I withdraw!" said the Duke. "You did see a burglar,
evidently. But still I believe he was greenish-pink. They often are.
However, you'd better give me those keys, Mademoiselle Sonia, since I'm
to get to Paris first. I should look rather silly if, when I got there,
I had to break into the house to catch the burglars."

Sonia handed the keys to the Duke. He contrived to take her little
hand, keys and all, into his own, as he received them, and squeezed it.
The light was too dim for the others to see the flush which flamed in
her face. She went back and stood beside the bureau.

"Now, papa, are you going to motor to Paris in a thin coat and linen
waistcoat? If we're going, we'd better go. You always do keep us
waiting half an hour whenever we start to go anywhere," said Germaine
firmly.

The millionaire bustled out of the room. With a gesture of impatience
Germaine dropped into a chair. Irma stood waiting by the drawing-room
door. Sonia sat down by the bureau.

There came a sharp patter of rain against the windows.

"Rain! It only wanted that! It's going to be perfectly beastly!" cried
Germaine.

"Oh, well, you must make the best of it. At any rate you're well
wrapped up, and the night is warm enough, though it is raining," said
the Duke. "Still, I could have wished that Lupin confined his
operations to fine weather." He paused, and added cheerfully, "But,
after all, it will lay the dust."

They sat for three or four minutes in a dull silence, listening to the
pattering of the rain against the panes. The Duke took his
cigarette-case from his pocket and lighted a cigarette.

Suddenly he lost his bored air; his face lighted up; and he said
joyfully: "Of course, why didn't I think of it? Why should we start
from a pit of gloom like this? Let us have the proper illumination
which our enterprise deserves."

With that he set about lighting all the lamps in the hall. There were
lamps on stands, lamps on brackets, lamps on tables, and lamps which
hung from the roof--old-fashioned lamps with new reservoirs, new lamps
of what is called chaste design, brass lamps, silver lamps, and lamps
in porcelain. The Duke lighted them one after another, patiently,
missing none, with a cold perseverance. The operation was punctuated by
exclamations from Germaine. They were all to the effect that she could
not understand how he could be such a fool. The Duke paid no attention
whatever to her. His face illumined with boyish glee, he lighted lamp
after lamp.

Sonia watched him with a smiling admiration of the childlike enthusiasm
with which he performed the task. Even the stolid face of the ox-eyed
Irma relaxed into grins, which she smoothed quickly out with a
respectful hand.

The Duke had just lighted the twenty-second lamp when in bustled the
millionaire.

"What's this? What's this?" he cried, stopping short, blinking.

"Just some more of Jacques' foolery!" cried Germaine in tones of the
last exasperation.

"But, my dear Duke!--my dear Duke! The oil!--the oil!" cried the
millionaire, in a tone of bitter distress. "Do you think it's my object
in life to swell the Rockefeller millions? We never have more than six
lamps burning unless we are holding a reception."

"I think it looks so cheerful," said the Duke, looking round on his
handiwork with a beaming smile of satisfaction. "But where are the
cars? Jean seems a deuce of a time bringing them round. Does he expect
us to go to the garage through this rain? We'd better hurry him up.
Come on; you've got a good carrying voice."

He caught the millionaire by the arm, hurried him through the outer
hall, opened the big door of the chateau, and said: "Now shout!"

The millionaire looked at him, shrugged his shoulders, and said: "You
don't beat about the bush when you want anything."

"Why should I?" said the Duke simply. "Shout, my good chap--shout!"

The millionaire raised his voice in a terrific bellow of "Jean! Jean!
Firmin! Firmin!"

There was no answer.




CHAPTER VII

THE THEFT OF THE MOTOR-CARS


The night was very black; the rain pattered in their faces.

Again the millionaire bellowed: "Jean! Firmin! Firmin! Jean!"

No answer came out of the darkness, though his bellow echoed and
re-echoed among the out-buildings and stables away on the left.

He turned and looked at the Duke and said uneasily, "What on earth can
they be doing?"

"I can't conceive," said the Duke. "I suppose we must go and hunt them
out."

"What! in this darkness, with these burglars about?" said the
millionaire, starting back.

"If we don't, nobody else will," said the Duke. "And all the time that
rascal Lupin is stealing nearer and nearer your pictures. So buck up,
and come along!"

He seized the reluctant millionaire by the arm and drew him down the
steps. They took their way to the stables. A dim light shone from the
open door of the motor-house. The Duke went into it first, and stopped
short.

"Well, I'll be hanged!" he cried,

Instead of three cars the motor-house held but one--the hundred
horse-power Mercrac. It was a racing car, with only two seats. On them
sat two figures, Jean and Firmin.

"What are you sitting there for? You idle dogs!" bellowed the
millionaire.

Neither of the men answered, nor did they stir. The light from the lamp
gleamed on their fixed eyes, which stared at their infuriated master.

"What on earth is this?" said the Duke; and seizing the lamp which
stood beside the car, he raised it so that its light fell on the two
figures. Then it was clear what had happened: they were trussed like
two fowls, and gagged.

The Duke pulled a penknife from his pocket, opened the blade, stepped
into the car and set Firmin free. Firmin coughed and spat and swore.
The Duke cut the bonds of Jean.

"Well," said the Duke, in a tone of cutting irony, "what new game is
this? What have you been playing at?"

"It was those Charolais--those cursed Charolais!" growled Firmin.

"They came on us unawares from behind," said Jean.

"They tied us up, and gagged us--the swine!" said Firmin.

"And then--they went off in the two cars," said Jean.

"Went off in the two cars?" cried the millionaire, in blank
stupefaction.

The Duke burst into a shout of laughter.

"Well, your dear friend Lupin doesn't do things by halves," he cried.
"This is the funniest thing I ever heard of."

"Funny!" howled the millionaire. "Funny! Where does the fun come in?
What about my pictures and the coronet?"

The Duke laughed his laugh out; then changed on the instant to a man of
action.

"Well, this means a change in our plans," he said. "I must get to Paris
in this car here."

"It's such a rotten old thing," said the millionaire. "You'll never do
it."

"Never mind," said the Duke. "I've got to do it somehow. I daresay it's
better than you think. And after all, it's only a matter of two hundred
miles." He paused, and then said in an anxious tone: "All the same I
don't like leaving you and Germaine in the chateau. These rogues have
probably only taken the cars out of reach just to prevent your getting
to Paris. They'll leave them in some field and come back."

"You're not going to leave us behind. I wouldn't spend the night in the
chateau for a million francs. There's always the train," said the
millionaire.

"The train! Twelve hours in the train--with all those changes! You
don't mean that you will actually go to Paris by train?" said the Duke.

"I do," said the millionaire. "Come along--I must go and tell Germaine;
there's no time to waste," and he hurried off to the chateau.

"Get the lamps lighted, Jean, and make sure that the tank's full. As
for the engine, I must humour it and trust to luck. I'll get her to
Paris somehow," said the Duke.

He went back to the chateau, and Firmin followed him.

When the Duke came into the great hall he found Germaine and her father
indulging in recriminations. She was declaring that nothing would
induce her to make the journey by train; her father was declaring that
she should. He bore down her opposition by the mere force of his
magnificent voice.

When at last there came a silence, Sonia said quietly: "But is there a
train? I know there's a train at midnight; but is there one before?"

"A time-table--where's a time-table?" said the millionaire.

"Now, where did I see a time-table?" said the Duke. "Oh, I know;
there's one in the drawer of that Oriental cabinet." Crossing to the
cabinet, he opened the drawer, took out the time-table, and handed it
to M. Gournay-Martin.

The millionaire took it and turned over the leaves quickly, ran his eye
down a page, and said, "Yes, thank goodness, there is a train. There's
one at a quarter to nine."

"And what good is it to us? How are we to get to the station?" said
Germaine.

They looked at one another blankly. Firmin, who had followed the Duke
into the hall, came to the rescue.

"There's the luggage-cart," he said.

"The luggage-cart!" cried Germaine contemptuously.

"The very thing!" said the millionaire. "I'll drive it myself. Off you
go, Firmin; harness a horse to it."

Firmin went clumping out of the hall.

It was perhaps as well that he went, for the Duke asked what time it
was; and since the watches of Germaine and her father differed still,
there ensued an altercation in which, had Firmin been there, he would
doubtless have taken part.

The Duke cut it short by saying: "Well, I don't think I'll wait to see
you start for the station. It won't take you more than half an hour.
The cart is light. You needn't start yet. I'd better get off as soon as
the car is ready. It isn't as though I could trust it."

"One moment," said Germaine. "Is there a dining-car on the train? I'm
not going to be starved as well as have my night's rest cut to pieces."

"Of course there isn't a dining-car," snapped her father. "We must eat
something now, and take something with us."

"Sonia, Irma, quick! Be off to the larder and see what you can find.
Tell Mother Firmin to make an omelette. Be quick!"

Sonia went towards the door of the hall, followed by Irma.

"Good-night, and bon voyage, Mademoiselle Sonia," said the Duke.

"Good-night, and bon voyage, your Grace," said Sonia.

The Duke opened the door of the hall for her; and as she went out, she
said anxiously, in a low voice: "Oh, do--do be careful. I hate to think
of your hurrying to Paris on a night like this. Please be careful."

"I will be careful," said the Duke.

The honk of the motor-horn told him that Jean had brought the car to
the door of the chateau. He came down the room, kissed Germaine's
hands, shook hands with the millionaire, and bade them good-night. Then
he went out to the car. They heard it start; the rattle of it grew
fainter and fainter down the long avenue and died away.

M. Gournay-Martin arose, and began putting out lamps. As he did so, he
kept casting fearful glances at the window, as if he feared lest, now
that the Duke had gone, the burglars should dash in upon him.

There came a knock at the door, and Jean appeared on the threshold.

"His Grace told me that I was to come into the house, and help Firmin
look after it," he said.

The millionaire gave him instructions about the guarding of the house.
Firmin, since he was an old soldier, was to occupy the post of honour,
and guard the hall, armed with his gun. Jean was to guard the two
drawing-rooms, as being less likely points of attack. He also was to
have a gun; and the millionaire went with him to the gun-room and gave
him one and a dozen cartridges. When they came back to the hall, Sonia
called them into the dining-room; and there, to the accompaniment of an
unsubdued grumbling from Germaine at having to eat cold food at eight
at night, they made a hasty but excellent meal, since the chef had left
an elaborate cold supper ready to be served.

They had nearly finished it when Jean came in, his gun on his arm, to
say that Firmin had harnessed the horse to the luggage-cart, and it was
awaiting them at the door of the chateau.

"Send him in to me, and stand by the horse till we come out," said the
millionaire.

Firmin came clumping in.

The millionaire gazed at him solemnly, and said: "Firmin, I am relying
on you. I am leaving you in a position of honour and danger--a position
which an old soldier of France loves."

Firmin did his best to look like an old soldier of France. He pulled
himself up out of the slouch which long years of loafing through woods
with a gun on his arm had given him. He lacked also the old soldier of
France's fiery gaze. His eyes were lack-lustre.

"I look for anything, Firmin--burglary, violence, an armed assault,"
said the millionaire.

"Don't be afraid, sir. I saw the war of '70," said Firmin boldly,
rising to the occasion.

"Good!" said the millionaire. "I confide the chateau to you. I trust
you with my treasures."

He rose, and saying "Come along, we must be getting to the station," he
led the way to the door of the chateau.

The luggage-cart stood rather high, and they had to bring a chair out
of the hall to enable the girls to climb into it. Germaine did not
forget to give her real opinion of the advantages of a seat formed by a
plank resting on the sides of the cart. The millionaire climbed heavily
up in front, and took the reins.

"Never again will I trust only to motor-cars. The first thing I'll do
after I've made sure that my collections are safe will be to buy
carriages--something roomy," he said gloomily, as he realized the
discomfort of his seat.

He turned to Jean and Firmin, who stood on the steps of the chateau
watching the departure of their master, and said: "Sons of France, be
brave--be brave!"

The cart bumped off into the damp, dark night.

Jean and Firmin watched it disappear into the darkness. Then they came
into the chateau and shut the door.

Firmin looked at Jean, and said gloomily: "I don't like this. These
burglars stick at nothing. They'd as soon cut your throat as look at
you."

"It can't be helped," said Jean. "Besides, you've got the post of
honour. You guard the hall. I'm to look after the drawing-rooms.
They're not likely to break in through the drawing-rooms. And I shall
lock the door between them and the hall."

"No, no; you won't lock that door!" cried Firmin.

"But I certainly will," said Jean. "You'd better come and get a gun."

They went to the gun-room, Firmin still protesting against the locking
of the door between the drawing-rooms and the hall. He chose his gun;
and they went into the kitchen. Jean took two bottles of wine, a
rich-looking pie, a sweet, and carried them to the drawing-room. He
came back into the hall, gathered together an armful of papers and
magazines, and went back to the drawing-room. Firmin kept trotting
after him, like a little dog with a somewhat heavy footfall.

On the threshold of the drawing-room Jean paused and said: "The
important thing with burglars is to fire first, old cock. Good-night.
Pleasant dreams."

He shut the door and turned the key. Firmin stared at the decorated
panels blankly. The beauty of the scheme of decoration did not, at the
moment, move him to admiration.

He looked fearfully round the empty hall and at the windows, black
against the night. Under the patter of the rain he heard
footsteps--distinctly. He went hastily clumping down the hall, and
along the passage to the kitchen.

His wife was setting his supper on the table.

"My God!" he said. "I haven't been so frightened since '70." And he
mopped his glistening forehead with a dish-cloth. It was not a clean
dish-cloth; but he did not care.

"Frightened? What of?" said his wife.

"Burglars! Cut-throats!" said Firmin.

He told her of the fears of M. Gournay-Martin, and of his own
appointment to the honourable and dangerous post of guard of the
chateau.

"God save us!" said his wife. "You lock the door of that beastly hall,
and come into the kitchen. Burglars won't bother about the kitchen."

"But the master's treasures!" protested Firmin. "He confided them to
me. He said so distinctly."

"Let the master look after his treasures himself," said Madame Firmin,
with decision. "You've only one throat; and I'm not going to have it
cut. You sit down and eat your supper. Go and lock that door first,
though."

Firmin locked the door of the hall; then he locked the door of the
kitchen; then he sat down, and began to eat his supper. His appetite
was hearty, but none the less he derived little pleasure from the meal.
He kept stopping with the food poised on his fork, midway between the
plate and his mouth, for several seconds at a time, while he listened
with straining ears for the sound of burglars breaking in the windows
of the hall. He was much too far from those windows to hear anything
that happened to them, but that did not prevent him from straining his
ears. Madame Firmin ate her supper with an air of perfect ease. She
felt sure that burglars would not bother with the kitchen.

Firmin's anxiety made him terribly thirsty. Tumbler after tumbler of
wine flowed down the throat for which he feared. When he had finished
his supper he went on satisfying his thirst. Madame Firmin lighted his
pipe for him, and went and washed up the supper-dishes in the scullery.
Then she came back, and sat down on the other side of the hearth,
facing him. About the middle of his third bottle of wine, Firmin's
cold, relentless courage was suddenly restored to him. He began to talk
firmly about his duty to his master, his resolve to die, if need were,
in defence of his interests, of his utter contempt for
burglars--probably Parisians. But he did not go into the hall.
Doubtless the pleasant warmth of the kitchen fire held him in his chair.

He had described to his wife, with some ferocity, the cruel manner in
which he would annihilate the first three burglars who entered the
hall, and was proceeding to describe his method of dealing with the
fourth, when there came a loud knocking on the front door of the
chateau.

Stricken silent, turned to stone, Firmin sat with his mouth open, in
the midst of an unfinished word. Madame Firmin scuttled to the kitchen
door she had left unlocked on her return from the scullery, and locked
it. She turned, and they stared at one another.

The heavy knocker fell again and again and again. Between the knocking
there was a sound like the roaring of lions. Husband and wife stared at
one another with white faces. Firmin picked up his gun with trembling
hands, and the movement seemed to set his teeth chattering. They
chattered like castanets.

The knocking still went on, and so did the roaring.

It had gone on at least for five minutes, when a slow gleam of
comprehension lightened Madame Firmin's face.

"I believe it's the master's voice," she said.

"The master's voice!" said Firmin, in a hoarse, terrified whisper.

"Yes," said Madame Firmin. And she unlocked the thick door and opened
it a few inches.

The barrier removed, the well-known bellow of the millionaire came
distinctly to their ears. Firmin's courage rushed upon him in full
flood. He clumped across the room, brushed his wife aside, and trotted
to the door of the chateau. He unlocked it, drew the bolts, and threw
it open. On the steps stood the millionaire, Germaine, and Sonia. Irma
stood at the horse's head.

"What the devil have you been doing?" bellowed the millionaire. "What
do you keep me standing in the rain for? Why didn't you let me in?"

"B-b-b-burglars--I thought you were b-b-b-burglars," stammered Firmin.

"Burglars!" howled the millionaire. "Do I sound like a burglar?"

At the moment he did not; he sounded more like a bull of Bashan. He
bustled past Firmin to the door of the hall.

"Here! What's this locked for?" he bellowed.

"I--I--locked it in case burglars should get in while I was opening the
front door," stammered Firmin.

The millionaire turned the key, opened the door, and went into the
hall. Germaine followed him. She threw off her dripping coat, and said
with some heat: "I can't conceive why you didn't make sure that there
was a train at a quarter to nine. I will not go to Paris to-night.
Nothing shall induce me to take that midnight train!"

"Nonsense!" said the millionaire. "Nonsense--you'll have to go! Where's
that infernal time-table?" He rushed to the table on to which he had
thrown the time-table after looking up the train, snatched it up, and
looked at the cover. "Why, hang it!" he cried. "It's for June--June,
1903!"

"Oh!" cried Germaine, almost in a scream. "It's incredible! It's one of
Jacques' jokes!"




CHAPTER VIII

THE DUKE ARRIVES


The morning was gloomy, and the police-station with its bare,
white-washed walls--their white expanse was only broken by
notice-boards to which were pinned portraits of criminals with details
of their appearance, their crime, and the reward offered for their
apprehension--with its shabby furniture, and its dingy fireplace,
presented a dismal and sordid appearance entirely in keeping with the
September grey. The inspector sat at his desk, yawning after a night
which had passed without an arrest. He was waiting to be relieved. The
policeman at the door and the two policemen sitting on a bench by the
wall yawned in sympathy.

The silence of the street was broken by the rattle of an uncommonly
noisy motor-car. It stopped before the door of the police-station, and
the eyes of the inspector and his men turned, idly expectant, to the
door of the office.

It opened, and a young man in motor-coat and cap stood on the threshold.

He looked round the office with alert eyes, which took in everything,
and said, in a brisk, incisive voice: "I am the Duke of Charmerace. I
am here on behalf of M. Gournay-Martin. Last evening he received a
letter from Arsene Lupin saying he was going to break into his Paris
house this very morning."

At the name of Arsene Lupin the inspector sprang from his chair, the
policemen from their bench. On the instant they were wide awake,
attentive, full of zeal.

"The letter, your Grace!" said the inspector briskly.

The Duke pulled off his glove, drew the letter from the breast-pocket
of his under-coat, and handed it to the inspector.

The inspector glanced through it, and said. "Yes, I know the
handwriting well." Then he read it carefully, and added, "Yes, yes:
it's his usual letter."

"There's no time to be lost," said the Duke quickly. "I ought to have
been here hours ago--hours. I had a break-down. I'm afraid I'm too late
as it is."

"Come along, your Grace--come along, you," said the inspector briskly.

The four of them hurried out of the office and down the steps of the
police-station. In the roadway stood a long grey racing-car, caked with
muds--grey mud, brown mud, red mud--from end to end. It looked as if it
had brought samples of the soil of France from many districts.

"Come along; I'll take you in the car. Your men can trot along beside
us," said the Duke to the inspector.

He slipped into the car, the inspector jumped in and took the seat
beside him, and they started. They went slowly, to allow the two
policemen to keep up with them. Indeed, the car could not have made any
great pace, for the tyre of the off hind-wheel was punctured and
deflated.

In three minutes they came to the Gournay-Martin house, a wide-fronted
mass of undistinguished masonry, in an undistinguished row of exactly
the same pattern. There were no signs that any one was living in it.
Blinds were drawn, shutters were up over all the windows, upper and
lower. No smoke came from any of its chimneys, though indeed it was
full early for that.

Pulling a bunch of keys from his pocket, the Duke ran up the steps. The
inspector followed him. The Duke looked at the bunch, picked out the
latch-key, and fitted it into the lock. It did not open it. He drew it
out and tried another key and another. The door remained locked.

"Let me, your Grace," said the inspector. "I'm more used to it. I shall
be quicker."

The Duke handed the keys to him, and, one after another, the inspector
fitted them into the lock. It was useless. None of them opened the door.

"They've given me the wrong keys," said the Duke, with some vexation.
"Or no--stay--I see what's happened. The keys have been changed."

"Changed?" said the inspector. "When? Where?"

"Last night at Charmerace," said the Duke. "M. Gournay-Martin declared
that he saw a burglar slip out of one of the windows of the hall of the
chateau, and we found the lock of the bureau in which the keys were
kept broken."

The inspector seized the knocker, and hammered on the door.

"Try that door there," he cried to his men, pointing to a side-door on
the right, the tradesmen's entrance, giving access to the back of the
house. It was locked. There came no sound of movement in the house in
answer to the inspector's knocking.

"Where's the concierge?" he said.

The Duke shrugged his shoulders. "There's a housekeeper, too--a woman
named Victoire," he said. "Let's hope we don't find them with their
throats cut."

"That isn't Lupin's way," said the inspector. "They won't have come to
much harm."

"It's not very likely that they'll be in a position to open doors,"
said the Duke drily.

"Hadn't we better have it broken open and be done with it?"

The inspector hesitated.

"People don't like their doors broken open," he said. "And M.
Gournay-Martin--"

"Oh, I'll take the responsibility of that," said the Duke.

"Oh, if you say so, your Grace," said the inspector, with a brisk
relief. "Henri, go to Ragoneau, the locksmith in the Rue Theobald.
Bring him here as quickly as ever you can get him."

"Tell him it's a couple of louis if he's here inside of ten minutes,"
said the Duke.

The policeman hurried off. The inspector bent down and searched the
steps carefully. He searched the roadway. The Duke lighted a cigarette
and watched him. The house of the millionaire stood next but one to the
corner of a street which ran at right angles to the one in which it
stood, and the corner house was empty. The inspector searched the road,
then he went round the corner. The other policeman went along the road,
searching in the opposite direction. The Duke leant against the door
and smoked on patiently. He showed none of the weariness of a man who
has spent the night in a long and anxious drive in a rickety motor-car.
His eyes were bright and clear; he looked as fresh as if he had come
from his bed after a long night's rest. If he had not found the South
Pole, he had at any rate brought back fine powers of endurance from his
expedition in search of it.

The inspector came back, wearing a disappointed air.

"Have you found anything?" said the Duke.

"Nothing," said the inspector.

He came up the steps and hammered again on the door. No one answered
his knock. There was a clatter of footsteps, and Henri and the
locksmith, a burly, bearded man, his bag of tools slung over his
shoulder, came hurrying up. He was not long getting to work, but it was
not an easy job. The lock was strong. At the end of five minutes he
said that he might spend an hour struggling with the lock itself;
should he cut away a piece of the door round it?

"Cut away," said the Duke.

The locksmith changed his tools, and in less than three minutes he had
cut away a square piece from the door, a square in which the lock was
fixed, and taken it bodily away.

The door opened. The inspector drew his revolver, and entered the
house. The Duke followed him. The policemen drew their revolvers, and
followed the Duke. The big hall was but dimly lighted. One of the
policemen quickly threw back the shutters of the windows and let in the
light. The hall was empty, the furniture in perfect order; there were
no signs of burglary there.

"The concierge?" said the inspector, and his men hurried through the
little door on the right which opened into the concierge's rooms. In
half a minute one of them came out and said: "Gagged and bound, and his
wife too."

"But the rooms which were to be plundered are upstairs," said the
Duke--"the big drawing-rooms on the first floor. Come on; we may be
just in time. The scoundrels may not yet have got away."

He ran quickly up the stairs, followed by the inspector, and hurried
along the corridor to the door of the big drawing-room. He threw it
open, and stopped dead on the threshold. He had arrived too late.

The room was in disorder. Chairs were overturned, there were empty
spaces on the wall where the finest pictures of the millionaire had
been hung. The window facing the door was wide open. The shutters were
broken; one of them was hanging crookedly from only its bottom hinge.
The top of a ladder rose above the window-sill, and beside it,
astraddle the sill, was an Empire card-table, half inside the room,
half out. On the hearth-rug, before a large tapestry fire-screen, which
masked the wide fireplace, built in imitation of the big, wide
fireplaces of our ancestors, and rose to the level of the
chimney-piece--a magnificent chimney-piece in carved oak-were some
chairs tied together ready to be removed.

The Duke and the inspector ran to the window, and looked down into the
garden. It was empty. At the further end of it, on the other side of
its wall, rose the scaffolding of a house a-building. The burglars had
found every convenience to their hand--a strong ladder, an egress
through the door in the garden wall, and then through the gap formed by
the house in process of erection, which had rendered them independent
of the narrow passage between the walls of the gardens, which debouched
into a side-street on the right.

The Duke turned from the window, glanced at the wall opposite, then, as
if something had caught his eye, went quickly to it.

"Look here," he said, and he pointed to the middle of one of the empty
spaces in which a picture had hung.

There, written neatly in blue chalk, were the words:

ARSENE LUPIN

"This is a job for Guerchard," said the inspector. "But I had better
get an examining magistrate to take the matter in hand first." And he
ran to the telephone.

The Duke opened the folding doors which led into the second
drawing-room. The shutters of the windows were open, and it was plain
that Arsene Lupin had plundered it also of everything that had struck
his fancy. In the gaps between the pictures on the walls was again the
signature "Arsene Lupin."

The inspector was shouting impatiently into the telephone, bidding a
servant wake her master instantly. He did not leave the telephone till
he was sure that she had done so, that her master was actually awake,
and had been informed of the crime. The Duke sat down in an easy chair
and waited for him.

When he had finished telephoning, the inspector began to search the two
rooms for traces of the burglars. He found nothing, not even a
finger-mark.

When he had gone through the two rooms he said, "The next thing to do
is to find the house-keeper. She may be sleeping still--she may not
even have heard the noise of the burglars."

"I find all this extremely interesting," said the Duke; and he followed
the inspector out of the room.

The inspector called up the two policemen, who had been freeing the
concierge and going through the rooms on the ground-floor. They did not
then examine any more of the rooms on the first floor to discover if
they also had been plundered. They went straight up to the top of the
house, the servants' quarters.

The inspector called, "Victoire! Victoire!" two or three times; but
there was no answer.

They opened the door of room after room and looked in, the inspector
taking the rooms on the right, the policemen the rooms on the left.

"Here we are," said one of the policemen. "This room's been recently
occupied." They looked in, and saw that the bed was unmade. Plainly
Victoire had slept in it.

"Where can she be?" said the Duke.

"Be?" said the inspector. "I expect she's with the burglars--an
accomplice."

"I gather that M. Gournay-Martin had the greatest confidence in her,"
said the Duke.

"He'll have less now," said the inspector drily. "It's generally the
confidential ones who let their masters down."

The inspector and his men set about a thorough search of the house.
They found the other rooms undisturbed. In half an hour they had
established the fact that the burglars had confined their attention to
the two drawing-rooms. They found no traces of them; and they did not
find Victoire. The concierge could throw no light on her disappearance.
He and his wife had been taken by surprise in their sleep and in the
dark.

They had been gagged and bound, they declared, without so much as
having set eyes on their assailants. The Duke and the inspector came
back to the plundered drawing-room.

The inspector looked at his watch and went to the telephone.

"I must let the Prefecture know," he said.

"Be sure you ask them to send Guerchard," said the Duke.

"Guerchard?" said the inspector doubtfully.

"M. Formery, the examining magistrate, does not get on very well with
Guerchard."

"What sort of a man is M. Formery? Is he capable?" said the Duke.

"Oh, yes--yes. He's very capable," said the inspector quickly. "But he
doesn't have very good luck."

"M. Gournay-Martin particularly asked me to send for Guerchard if I
arrived too late, and found the burglary already committed," said the
Duke. "It seems that there is war to the knife between Guerchard and
this Arsene Lupin. In that case Guerchard will leave no stone unturned
to catch the rascal and recover the stolen treasures. M. Gournay-Martin
felt that Guerchard was the man for this piece of work very strongly
indeed."

"Very good, your Grace," said the inspector. And he rang up the
Prefecture of Police.

The Duke heard him report the crime and ask that Guerchard should be
sent. The official in charge at the moment seemed to make some demur.

The Duke sprang to his feet, and said in an anxious tone, "Perhaps I'd
better speak to him myself."

He took his place at the telephone and said, "I am the Duke of
Charmerace. M. Gournay-Martin begged me to secure the services of M.
Guerchard. He laid the greatest stress on my securing them, if on
reaching Paris I found that the crime had already been committed."

The official at the other end of the line hesitated. He did not refuse
on the instant as he had refused the inspector. It may be that he
reflected that M. Gournay-Martin was a millionaire and a man of
influence; that the Duke of Charmerace was a Duke; that he, at any
rate, had nothing whatever to gain by running counter to their wishes.
He said that Chief-Inspector Guerchard was not at the Prefecture, that
he was off duty; that he would send down two detectives, who were on
duty, at once, and summon Chief-Inspector Guerchard with all speed. The
Duke thanked him and rang off.

"That's all right," he said cheerfully, turning to the inspector. "What
time will M. Formery be here?"

"Well, I don't expect him for another hour," said the inspector. "He
won't come till he's had his breakfast. He always makes a good
breakfast before setting out to start an inquiry, lest he shouldn't
find time to make one after he's begun it."

"Breakfast--breakfast--that's a great idea," said the Duke. "Now you
come to remind me, I'm absolutely famished. I got some supper on my way
late last night; but I've had nothing since. I suppose nothing
interesting will happen till M. Formery comes; and I may as well get
some food. But I don't want to leave the house. I think I'll see what
the concierge can do for me."

So saying, he went downstairs and interviewed the concierge. The
concierge seemed to be still doubtful whether he was standing on his
head or his heels, but he undertook to supply the needs of the Duke.
The Duke gave him a louis, and he hurried off to get food from a
restaurant.

The Duke went upstairs to the bathroom and refreshed himself with a
cold bath. By the time he had bathed and dressed the concierge had a
meal ready for him in the dining-room. He ate it with the heartiest
appetite. Then he sent out for a barber and was shaved.

He then repaired to the pillaged drawing-room, disposed himself in the
most restful attitude on a sofa, and lighted an excellent cigar. In the
middle of it the inspector came to him. He was not wearing a very
cheerful air; and he told the Duke that he had found no clue to the
perpetrators of the crime, though M. Dieusy and M. Bonavent, the
detectives from the Prefecture of Police, had joined him in the search.

The Duke was condoling with him on this failure when they heard a
knocking at the front door, and then voices on the stairs.

"Ah! Here is M. Formery!" said the inspector cheerfully. "Now we can
get on."




CHAPTER IX

M. FORMERY OPENS THE INQUIRY


The examining magistrate came into the room. He was a plump and pink
little man, with very bright eyes. His bristly hair stood up straight
all over his head, giving it the appearance of a broad, dapple-grey
clothes-brush. He appeared to be of the opinion that Nature had given
the world the toothbrush as a model of what a moustache should be; and
his own was clipped to that pattern.

"The Duke of Charmerace, M. Formery," said the inspector.

The little man bowed and said, "Charmed, charmed to make your
acquaintance, your Grace--though the occasion--the occasion is somewhat
painful. The treasures of M. Gournay-Martin are known to all the world.
France will deplore his losses." He paused, and added hastily, "But we
shall recover them--we shall recover them."

The Duke rose, bowed, and protested his pleasure at making the
acquaintance of M. Formery.

"Is this the scene of the robbery, inspector?" said M. Formery; and he
rubbed his hands together with a very cheerful air.

"Yes, sir," said the inspector. "These two rooms seem to be the only
ones touched, though of course we can't tell till M. Gournay-Martin
arrives. Jewels may have been stolen from the bedrooms."

"I fear that M. Gournay-Martin won't be of much help for some days,"
said the Duke. "When I left him he was nearly distracted; and he won't
be any better after a night journey to Paris from Charmerace. But
probably these are the only two rooms touched, for in them M.
Gournay-Martin had gathered together the gems of his collection. Over
the doors hung some pieces of Flemish tapestry--marvels--the
composition admirable--the colouring delightful."

"It is easy to see that your Grace was very fond of them," said M.
Formery.

"I should think so," said the Duke. "I looked on them as already
belonging to me, for my father-in-law was going to give them to me as a
wedding present."

"A great loss--a great loss. But we will recover them, sooner or later,
you can rest assured of it. I hope you have touched nothing in this
room. If anything has been moved it may put me off the scent
altogether. Let me have the details, inspector."

The inspector reported the arrival of the Duke at the police-station
with Arsene Lupin's letter to M. Gournay-Martin; the discovery that the
keys had been changed and would not open the door of the house; the
opening of it by the locksmith; the discovery of the concierge and his
wife gagged and bound.

"Probably accomplices," said M. Formery.

"Does Lupin always work with accomplices?" said the Duke. "Pardon my
ignorance--but I've been out of France for so long--before he attained
to this height of notoriety."

"Lupin--why Lupin?" said M. Formery sharply.

"Why, there is the letter from Lupin which my future father-in-law
received last night; its arrival was followed by the theft of his two
swiftest motor-cars; and then, these signatures on the wall here," said
the Duke in some surprise at the question.

"Lupin! Lupin! Everybody has Lupin on the brain!" said M. Formery
impatiently. "I'm sick of hearing his name. This letter and these
signatures are just as likely to be forgeries as not."

"I wonder if Guerchard will take that view," said the Duke.

"Guerchard? Surely we're not going to be cluttered up with Guerchard.
He has Lupin on the brain worse than any one else."

"But M. Gournay-Martin particularly asked me to send for Guerchard if I
arrived too late to prevent the burglary. He would never forgive me if
I had neglected his request: so I telephoned for him--to the Prefecture
of Police," said the Duke.

"Oh, well, if you've already telephoned for him. But it was
unnecessary--absolutely unnecessary," said M. Formery sharply.

"I didn't know," said the Duke politely.

"Oh, there was no harm in it--it doesn't matter," said M. Formery in a
discontented tone with a discontented air.

He walked slowly round the room, paused by the windows, looked at the
ladder, and scanned the garden:

"Arsene Lupin," he said scornfully. "Arsene Lupin doesn't leave traces
all over the place. There's nothing but traces. Are we going to have
that silly Lupin joke all over again?"

"I think, sir, that this time joke is the word, for this is a burglary
pure and simple," said the inspector.

"Yes, it's plain as daylight," said M. Formery "The burglars came in by
this window, and they went out by it."

He crossed the room to a tall safe which stood before the unused door.
The safe was covered with velvet, and velvet curtains hung before its
door. He drew the curtains, and tried the handle of the door of the
safe. It did not turn; the safe was locked.

"As far as I can see, they haven't touched this," said M. Formery.

"Thank goodness for that," said the Duke. "I believe, or at least my
fiancee does, that M. Gournay-Martin keeps the most precious thing in
his collection in that safe--the coronet."

"What! the famous coronet of the Princesse de Lamballe?" said M.
Formery.

"Yes," said the Duke.

"But according to your report, inspector, the letter signed 'Lupin'
announced that he was going to steal the coronet also."

"It did--in so many words," said the Duke.

"Well, here is a further proof that we're not dealing with Lupin. That
rascal would certainly have put his threat into execution, M. Formery,"
said the inspector.

"Who's in charge of the house?" said M. Formery.

"The concierge, his wife, and a housekeeper--a woman named Victoire,"
said the inspector.

"I'll see to the concierge and his wife presently. I've sent one of
your men round for their dossier. When I get it I'll question them. You
found them gagged and bound in their bedroom?"

"Yes, M. Formery; and always this imitation of Lupin--a yellow gag,
blue cords, and the motto, 'I take, therefore I am,' on a scrap of
cardboard--his usual bag of tricks."

"Then once again they're going to touch us up in the papers. It's any
odds on it," said M. Formery gloomily. "Where's the housekeeper? I
should like to see her."

"The fact is, we don't know where she is," said the inspector.

"You don't know where she is?" said M. Formery.

"We can't find her anywhere," said the inspector.

"That's excellent, excellent. We've found the accomplice," said M.
Formery with lively delight; and he rubbed his hands together. "At
least, we haven't found her, but we know her."

"I don't think that's the case," said the Duke. "At least, my future
father-in-law and my fiancee had both of them the greatest confidence
in her. Yesterday she telephoned to us at the Chateau de Charmerace.
All the jewels were left in her charge, and the wedding presents as
they were sent in."

"And these jewels and wedding presents--have they been stolen too?"
said M. Formery.

"They don't seem to have been touched," said the Duke, "though of
course we can't tell till M. Gournay-Martin arrives. As far as I can
see, the burglars have only touched these two drawing-rooms."

"That's very annoying," said M. Formery.

"I don't find it so," said the Duke, smiling.

"I was looking at it from the professional point of view," said M.
Formery. He turned to the inspector and added, "You can't have searched
thoroughly. This housekeeper must be somewhere about--if she's really
trustworthy. Have you looked in every room in the house?"

"In every room--under every bed--in every corner and every cupboard,"
said the inspector.

"Bother!" said M. Formery. "Are there no scraps of torn clothes, no
blood-stains, no traces of murder, nothing of interest?"

"Nothing!" said the inspector.

"But this is very regrettable," said M. Formery. "Where did she sleep?
Was her bed unmade?"

"Her room is at the top of the house," said the inspector. "The bed had
been slept in, but she does not appear to have taken away any of her
clothes."

"Extraordinary! This is beginning to look a very complicated business,"
said M. Formery gravely.

"Perhaps Guerchard will be able to throw a little more light on it,"
said the Duke.

M. Formery frowned and said, "Yes, yes. Guerchard is a good assistant
in a business like this. A little visionary, a little
fanciful--wrong-headed, in fact; but, after all, he IS Guerchard. Only,
since Lupin is his bugbear, he's bound to find some means of muddling
us up with that wretched animal. You're going to see Lupin mixed up
with all this to a dead certainty, your Grace."

The Duke looked at the signatures on the wall. "It seems to me that he
is pretty well mixed up with it already," he said quietly.

"Believe me, your Grace, in a criminal affair it is, above all things,
necessary to distrust appearances. I am growing more and more confident
that some ordinary burglars have committed this crime and are trying to
put us off the scent by diverting our attention to Lupin."

The Duke stooped down carelessly and picked up a book which had fallen
from a table.

"Excuse me, but please--please--do not touch anything," said M. Formery
quickly.

"Why, this is odd," said the Duke, staring at the floor.

"What is odd?" said M. Formery.

"Well, this book looks as if it had been knocked off the table by one
of the burglars. And look here; here's a footprint under it--a
footprint on the carpet," said the Duke.

M. Formery and the inspector came quickly to the spot. There, where the
book had fallen, plainly imprinted on the carpet, was a white
footprint. M. Formery and the inspector stared at it.

"It looks like plaster. How did plaster get here?" said M. Formery,
frowning at it.

"Well, suppose the robbers came from the garden," said the Duke.

"Of course they came from the garden, your Grace. Where else should
they come from?" said M. Formery, with a touch of impatience in his
tone.

"Well, at the end of the garden they're building a house," said the
Duke.

"Of course, of course," said M. Formery, taking him up quickly. "The
burglars came here with their boots covered with plaster. They've swept
away all the other marks of their feet from the carpet; but whoever did
the sweeping was too slack to lift up that book and sweep under it.
This footprint, however, is not of great importance, though it is
corroborative of all the other evidence we have that they came and went
by the garden. There's the ladder, and that table half out of the
window. Still, this footprint may turn out useful, after all. You had
better take the measurements of it, inspector. Here's a foot-rule for
you. I make a point of carrying this foot-rule about with me, your
Grace. You would be surprised to learn how often it has come in useful."

He took a little ivory foot-rule from his waist-coat pocket, and gave
it to the inspector, who fell on his knees and measured the footprint
with the greatest care.

"I must take a careful look at that house they're building. I shall
find a good many traces there, to a dead certainty," said M. Formery.

The inspector entered the measurements of the footprint in his
note-book. There came the sound of a knocking at the front door.

"I shall find footprints of exactly the same dimensions as this one at
the foot of some heap of plaster beside that house," said M. Formery;
with an air of profound conviction, pointing through the window to the
house building beyond the garden.

A policeman opened the door of the drawing-room and saluted.

"If you please, sir, the servants have arrived from Charmerace," he
said.

"Let them wait in the kitchen and the servants' offices," said M.
Formery. He stood silent, buried in profound meditation, for a couple
of minutes. Then he turned to the Duke and said, "What was that you
said about a theft of motor-cars at Charmerace?"

"When he received the letter from Arsene Lupin, M. Gournay-Martin
decided to start for Paris at once," said the Duke. "But when we sent
for the cars we found that they had just been stolen. M.
Gournay-Martin's chauffeur and another servant were in the garage
gagged and bound. Only an old car, a hundred horse-power Mercrac, was
left. I drove it to Paris, leaving M. Gournay-Martin and his family to
come on by train."

"Very important--very important indeed," said M. Formery. He thought
for a moment, and then added. "Were the motor-cars the only things
stolen? Were there no other thefts?"

"Well, as a matter of fact, there was another theft, or rather an
attempt at theft," said the Duke with some hesitation. "The rogues who
stole the motor-cars presented themselves at the chateau under the name
of Charolais--a father and three sons--on the pretext of buying the
hundred-horse-power Mercrac. M. Gournay-Martin had advertised it for
sale in the Rennes Advertiser. They were waiting in the big hall of the
chateau, which the family uses as the chief living-room, for the return
of M. Gournay-Martin. He came; and as they left the hall one of them
attempted to steal a pendant set with pearls which I had given to
Mademoiselle Gournay-Martin half an hour before. I caught him in the
act and saved the pendant."

"Good! good! Wait--we have one of the gang--wait till I question him,"
said M. Formery, rubbing his hands; and his eyes sparkled with joy.

"Well, no; I'm afraid we haven't," said the Duke in an apologetic tone.

"What! We haven't? Has he escaped from the police? Oh, those country
police!" cried M. Formery.

"No; I didn't charge him with the theft," said the Duke.

"You didn't charge him with the theft?" cried M. Formery, astounded.

"No; he was very young and he begged so hard. I had the pendant. I let
him go," said the Duke.

"Oh, your Grace, your Grace! Your duty to society!" cried M. Formery.

"Yes, it does seem to have been rather weak," said the Duke; "but there
you are. It's no good crying over spilt milk."

M. Formery folded his arms and walked, frowning, backwards and forwards
across the room.

He stopped, raised his hand with a gesture commanding attention, and
said, "I have no hesitation in saying that there is a connection--an
intimate connection--between the thefts at Charmerace and this
burglary!"

The Duke and the inspector gazed at him with respectful eyes--at least,
the eyes of the inspector were respectful; the Duke's eyes twinkled.

"I am gathering up the threads," said M. Formery. "Inspector, bring up
the concierge and his wife. I will question them on the scene of the
crime. Their dossier should be here. If it is, bring it up with them;
if not, no matter; bring them up without it."

The inspector left the drawing-room. M. Formery plunged at once into
frowning meditation.

"I find all this extremely interesting," said the Duke.

"Charmed! Charmed!" said M. Formery, waving his hand with an
absent-minded air.

The inspector entered the drawing-room followed by the concierge and
his wife. He handed a paper to M. Formery. The concierge, a bearded man
of about sixty, and his wife, a somewhat bearded woman of about
fifty-five, stared at M. Formery with fascinated, terrified eyes. He
sat down in a chair, crossed his legs, read the paper through, and then
scrutinized them keenly.

"Well, have you recovered from your adventure?" he said.

"Oh, yes, sir," said the concierge. "They hustled us a bit, but they
did not really hurt us."

"Nothing to speak of, that is," said his wife. "But all the same, it's
a disgraceful thing that an honest woman can't sleep in peace in her
bed of a night without being disturbed by rascals like that. And if the
police did their duty things like this wouldn't happen. And I don't
care who hears me say it."

"You say that you were taken by surprise in your sleep?" said M.
Formery. "You say you saw nothing, and heard nothing?"

"There was no time to see anything or hear anything. They trussed us up
like greased lightning," said the concierge.

"But the gag was the worst," said the wife. "To lie there and not be
able to tell the rascals what I thought about them!"

"Didn't you hear the noise of footsteps in the garden?" said M. Formery.

"One can't hear anything that happens in the garden from our bedroom,"
said the concierge.

"Even the night when Mlle. Germaine's great Dane barked from twelve
o'clock till seven in the morning, all the household was kept awake
except us; but bless you, sir, we slept like tops," said his wife
proudly.

"If they sleep like that it seems rather a waste of time to have gagged
them," whispered the Duke to the inspector.

The inspector grinned, and whispered scornfully, "Oh, them common
folks; they do sleep like that, your Grace."

"Didn't you hear any noise at the front door?" said M. Formery.

"No, we heard no noise at the door," said the concierge.

"Then you heard no noise at all the whole night?" said M. Formery.

"Oh, yes, sir, we heard noise enough after we'd been gagged," said the
concierge.

"Now, this is important," said M. Formery. "What kind of a noise was
it?"

"Well, it was a bumping kind of noise," said the concierge. "And there
was a noise of footsteps, walking about the room."

"What room? Where did these noises come from?" said M. Formery.

"From the room over our heads--the big drawing-room," said the
concierge.

"Didn't you hear any noise of a struggle, as if somebody was being
dragged about--no screaming or crying?" said M. Formery.

The concierge and his wife looked at one another with inquiring eyes.

"No, I didn't," said the concierge.

"Neither did I," said his wife.

M. Formery paused. Then he said, "How long have you been in the service
of M. Gournay-Martin?"

"A little more than a year," said the concierge.

M. Formery looked at the paper in his hand, frowned, and said severely,
"I see you've been convicted twice, my man."

"Yes, sir, but--"

"My husband's an honest man, sir--perfectly honest," broke in his wife.
"You've only to ask M. Gournay-Martin; he'll--"

"Be so good as to keep quiet, my good woman," said M. Formery; and,
turning to her husband, he went on: "At your first conviction you were
sentenced to a day's imprisonment with costs; at your second conviction
you got three days' imprisonment."

"I'm not going to deny it, sir," said the concierge; "but it was an
honourable imprisonment."

"Honourable?" said M. Formery.

"The first time, I was a gentleman's servant, and I got a day's
imprisonment for crying, 'Hurrah for the General Strike!'--on the first
of May."

"You were a valet? In whose service?" said M. Formery.

"In the service of M. Genlis, the Socialist leader."

"And your second conviction?" said M. Formery.

"It was for having cried in the porch of Ste. Clotilde, 'Down with the
cows!'--meaning the police, sir," said the concierge.

"And were you in the service of M. Genlis then?" said M. Formery.

"No, sir; I was in the service of M. Bussy-Rabutin, the Royalist
deputy."

"You don't seem to have very well-defined political convictions," said
M. Formery.

"Oh, yes, sir, I have," the concierge protested. "I'm always devoted to
my masters; and I have the same opinions that they have--always."

"Very good; you can go," said M. Formery.

The concierge and his wife left the room, looking as if they did not
quite know whether to feel relieved or not.

"Those two fools are telling the exact truth, unless I'm very much
mistaken," said M. Formery.

"They look honest enough people," said the Duke.

"Well, now to examine the rest of the house," said M. Formery.

"I'll come with you, if I may," said the Duke.

"By all means, by all means," said M. Formery.

"I find it all so interesting," said the Duke,




CHAPTER X

GUERCHARD ASSISTS


Leaving a policeman on guard at the door of the drawing-room M.
Formery, the Duke, and the inspector set out on their tour of
inspection. It was a long business, for M. Formery examined every room
with the most scrupulous care--with more care, indeed, than he had
displayed in his examination of the drawing-rooms. In particular he
lingered long in the bedroom of Victoire, discussing the possibilities
of her having been murdered and carried away by the burglars along with
their booty. He seemed, if anything, disappointed at finding no
blood-stains, but to find real consolation in the thought that she
might have been strangled. He found the inspector in entire agreement
with every theory he enunciated, and he grew more and more disposed to
regard him as a zealous and trustworthy officer. Also he was not at all
displeased at enjoying this opportunity of impressing the Duke with his
powers of analysis and synthesis. He was unaware that, as a rule, the
Duke's eyes did not usually twinkle as they twinkled during this solemn
and deliberate progress through the house of M. Gournay-Martin. M.
Formery had so exactly the air of a sleuthhound; and he was even
noisier.

Having made this thorough examination of the house, M. Formery went out
into the garden and set about examining that. There were footprints on
the turf about the foot of the ladder, for the grass was close-clipped,
and the rain had penetrated and softened the soil; but there were
hardly as many footprints as might have been expected, seeing that the
burglars must have made many journeys in the course of robbing the
drawing-rooms of so many objects of art, some of them of considerable
weight. The footprints led to a path of hard gravel; and M. Formery led
the way down it, out of the door in the wall at the bottom of the
garden, and into the space round the house which was being built.

As M. Formery had divined, there was a heap, or, to be exact, there
were several heaps of plaster about the bottom of the scaffolding.
Unfortunately, there were also hundreds of footprints. M. Formery
looked at them with longing eyes; but he did not suggest that the
inspector should hunt about for a set of footprints of the size of the
one he had so carefully measured on the drawing-room carpet.

While they were examining the ground round the half-built house a man
came briskly down the stairs from the second floor of the house of M.
Gournay-Martin. He was an ordinary-looking man, almost insignificant,
of between forty and fifty, and of rather more than middle height. He
had an ordinary, rather shapeless mouth, an ordinary nose, an ordinary
chin, an ordinary forehead, rather low, and ordinary ears. He was
wearing an ordinary top-hat, by no means new. His clothes were the
ordinary clothes of a fairly well-to-do citizen; and his boots had been
chosen less to set off any slenderness his feet might possess than for
their comfortable roominess. Only his eyes relieved his face from
insignificance. They were extraordinarily alert eyes, producing in
those on whom they rested the somewhat uncomfortable impression that
the depths of their souls were being penetrated. He was the famous
Chief-Inspector Guerchard, head of the Detective Department of the
Prefecture of Police, and sworn foe of Arsene Lupin.

The policeman at the door of the drawing-room saluted him briskly. He
was a fine, upstanding, red-faced young fellow, adorned by a rich black
moustache of extraordinary fierceness.

"Shall I go and inform M. Formery that you have come, M. Guerchard?" he
said.

"No, no; there's no need to take the trouble," said Guerchard in a
gentle, rather husky voice. "Don't bother any one about me--I'm of no
importance."

"Oh, come, M. Guerchard," protested the policeman.

"Of no importance," said M. Guerchard decisively. "For the present, M.
Formery is everything. I'm only an assistant."

He stepped into the drawing-room and stood looking about it, curiously
still. It was almost as if the whole of his being was concentrated in
the act of seeing--as if all the other functions of his mind and body
were in suspension.

"M. Formery and the inspector have just been up to examine the
housekeeper's room. It's right at the top of the house--on the second
floor. You take the servants' staircase. Then it's right at the end of
the passage on the left. Would you like me to take you up to it, sir?"
said the policeman eagerly. His heart was in his work.

"Thank you, I know where it is--I've just come from it," said Guerchard
gently.

A grin of admiration widened the already wide mouth of the policeman,
and showed a row of very white, able-looking teeth.

"Ah, M. Guerchard!" he said, "you're cleverer than all the examining
magistrates in Paris put together!"

"You ought not to say that, my good fellow. I can't prevent you
thinking it, of course; but you ought not to say it," said Guerchard
with husky gentleness; and the faintest smile played round the corners
of his mouth.

He walked slowly to the window, and the policeman walked with him.

"Have you noticed this, sir?" said the policeman, taking hold of the
top of the ladder with a powerful hand. "It's probable that the
burglars came in and went away by this ladder."

"Thank you," said Guerchard.

"They have even left this card-table on the window-sill," said the
policeman; and he patted the card-table with his other powerful hand.

"Thank you, thank you," said Guerchard.

"They don't think it's Lupin's work at all," said the policeman. "They
think that Lupin's letter announcing the burglary and these signatures
on the walls are only a ruse."

"Is that so?" said Guerchard.

"Is there any way I can help you, sir?" said policeman.

"Yes," said Guerchard. "Take up your post outside that door and admit
no one but M. Formery, the inspector, Bonavent, or Dieusy, without
consulting me." And he pointed to the drawing-room door.

"Shan't I admit the Duke of Charmerace? He's taking a great interest in
this affair," said the policeman.

"The Duke of Charmerace? Oh, yes--admit the Duke of Charmerace," said
Guerchard.

The policeman went to his post of responsibility, a proud man.

Hardly had the door closed behind him when Guerchard was all
activity--activity and eyes. He examined the ladder, the gaps on the
wall from which the pictures had been taken, the signatures of Arsene
Lupin. The very next thing he did was to pick up the book which the
Duke had set on the top of the footprint again, to preserve it; and he
measured, pacing it, the distance between the footprint and the window.

The result of this measuring did not appear to cause him any
satisfaction, for he frowned, measured the distance again, and then
stared out of the window with a perplexed air, thinking hard. It was
curious that, when he concentrated himself on a process of reasoning,
his eves seemed to lose something of their sharp brightness and grew a
little dim.

At last he seemed to come to some conclusion. He turned away from the
window, drew a small magnifying-glass from his pocket, dropped on his
hands and knees, and began to examine the surface of the carpet with
the most minute care.

He examined a space of it nearly six feet square, stopped, and gazed
round the room. His eyes rested on the fireplace, which he could see
under the bottom of the big tapestried fire-screen which was raised on
legs about a foot high, fitted with big casters. His eyes filled with
interest; without rising, he crawled quickly across the room, peeped
round the edge of the screen and rose, smiling.

He went on to the further drawing-room and made the same careful
examination of it, again examining a part of the surface of the carpet
with his magnifying-glass. He came back to the window to which the
ladder had been raised and examined very carefully the broken shutter.
He whistled softly to himself, lighted a cigarette, and leant against
the side of the window. He looked out of it, with dull eyes which saw
nothing, the while his mind worked upon the facts he had discovered.

He had stood there plunged in reflection for perhaps ten minutes, when
there came a sound of voices and footsteps on the stairs. He awoke from
his absorption, seemed to prick his ears, then slipped a leg over the
window-ledge, and disappeared from sight down the ladder.

The door opened, and in came M. Formery, the Duke, and the inspector.
M. Formery looked round the room with eyes which seemed to expect to
meet a familiar sight, then walked to the other drawing-room and looked
round that. He turned to the policeman, who had stepped inside the
drawing-room, and said sharply, "M. Guerchard is not here."

"I left him here," said the policeman. "He must have disappeared. He's
a wonder."

"Of course," said M. Formery. "He has gone down the ladder to examine
that house they're building. He's just following in our tracks and
doing all over again the work we've already done. He might have saved
himself the trouble. We could have told him all he wants to know. But
there! He very likely would not be satisfied till he had seen
everything for himself."

"He may see something which we have missed," said the Duke.

M. Formery frowned, and said sharply "That's hardly likely. I don't
think that your Grace realizes to what a perfection constant practice
brings one's power of observation. The inspector and I will cheerfully
eat anything we've missed--won't we, inspector?" And he laughed
heartily at his joke.

"It might always prove a large mouthful," said the Duke with an
ironical smile.

M. Formery assumed his air of profound reflection, and walked a few
steps up and down the room, frowning:

"The more I think about it," he said, "the clearer it grows that we
have disposed of the Lupin theory. This is the work of far less expert
rogues than Lupin. What do you think, inspector?"

"Yes; I think you have disposed of that theory, sir," said the
inspector with ready acquiescence.

"All the same, I'd wager anything that we haven't disposed of it to the
satisfaction of Guerchard," said M. Formery.

"Then he must be very hard to satisfy," said the Duke.

"Oh, in any other matter he's open to reason," said M. Formery; "but
Lupin is his fixed idea; it's an obsession--almost a mania."

"But yet he never catches him," said the Duke.

"No; and he never will. His very obsession by Lupin hampers him. It
cramps his mind and hinders its working," said M. Formery.

He resumed his meditative pacing, stopped again, and said:

"But considering everything, especially the absence of any traces of
violence, combined with her entire disappearance, I have come to
another conclusion. Victoire is the key to the mystery. She is the
accomplice. She never slept in her bed. She unmade it to put us off the
scent. That, at any rate, is something gained, to have found the
accomplice. We shall have this good news, at least, to tell M,
Gournay-Martin on his arrival."

"Do you really think that she's the accomplice?" said the Duke.

"I'm dead sure of it," said M. Formery. "We will go up to her room and
make another thorough examination of it."

Guerchard's head popped up above the window-sill:

"My dear M. Formery," he said, "I beg that you will not take the
trouble."

M. Formery's mouth opened: "What! You, Guerchard?" he stammered.

"Myself," said Guerchard; and he came to the top of the ladder and
slipped lightly over the window-sill into the room.

He shook hands with M. Formery and nodded to the inspector. Then he
looked at the Duke with an air of inquiry.

"Let me introduce you," said M. Formery. "Chief-Inspector Guerchard,
head of the Detective Department--the Duke of Charmerace."

The Duke shook hands with Guerchard, saying, "I'm delighted to make
your acquaintance, M. Guerchard. I've been expecting your coming with
the greatest interest. Indeed it was I who begged the officials at the
Prefecture of Police to put this case in your hands. I insisted on it."

"What were you doing on that ladder?" said M. Formery, giving Guerchard
no time to reply to the Duke.

"I was listening," said Guerchard simply--"listening. I like to hear
people talk when I'm engaged on a case. It's a distraction--and it
helps. I really must congratulate you, my dear M. Formery, on the
admirable manner in which you have conducted this inquiry."

M. Formery bowed, and regarded him with a touch of suspicion.

"There are one or two minor points on which we do not agree, but on the
whole your method has been admirable," said Guerchard.

"Well, about Victoire," said M. Formery. "You're quite sure that an
examination, a more thorough examination, of her room, is unnecessary?"

"Yes, I think so," said Guerchard. "I have just looked at it myself."

The door opened, and in came Bonavent, one of the detectives who had
come earlier from the Prefecture. In his hand he carried a scrap of
cloth.

He saluted Guerchard, and said to M. Formery, "I have just found this
scrap of cloth on the edge of the well at the bottom of the garden. The
concierge's wife tells me that it has been torn from Victoire's dress."

"I feared it," said M. Formery, taking the scrap of cloth from him. "I
feared foul play. We must go to the well at once, send some one down
it, or have it dragged."

He was moving hastily to the door, when Guerchard said, in his husky,
gentle voice, "I don't think there is any need to look for Victoire in
the well."

"But this scrap of cloth," said M. Formery, holding it out to him.

"Yes, yes, that scrap of cloth," said Guerchard. And, turning to the
Duke, he added, "Do you know if there's a dog or cat in the house, your
Grace? I suppose that, as the fiance of Mademoiselle Gournay-Martin,
you are familiar with the house?"

"What on earth--" said M. Formery.

"Excuse me," interrupted Guerchard. "But this is important--very
important."

"Yes, there is a cat," said the Duke. "I've seen a cat at the door of
the concierge's rooms."

"It must have been that cat which took this scrap of cloth to the edge
of the well," said Guerchard gravely.

"This is ridiculous--preposterous!" cried M. Formery, beginning to
flush. "Here we're dealing with a most serious crime--a murder--the
murder of Victoire--and you talk about cats!"

"Victoire has not been murdered," said Guerchard; and his husky voice
was gentler than ever, only just audible.

"But we don't know that--we know nothing of the kind," said M. Formery.

"I do," said Guerchard.

"You?" said M. Formery.

"Yes," said Guerchard.

"Then how do you explain her disappearance?"

"If she had disappeared I shouldn't explain it," said Guerchard.

"But since she has disappeared?" cried M. Formery, in a tone of
exasperation.

"She hasn't," said Guerchard.

"You know nothing about it!" cried M. Formery, losing his temper.

"Yes, I do," said Guerchard, with the same gentleness.

"Come, do you mean to say that you know where she is?" cried M. Formery.

"Certainly," said Guerchard.

"Do you mean to tell us straight out that you've seen her?" cried M.
Formery.

"Oh, yes; I've seen her," said Guerchard.

"You've seen her--when?" cried M. Formery.

Guerchard paused to consider. Then he said gently:

"It must have been between four and five minutes ago."

"But hang it all, you haven't been out of this room!" cried M. Formery.

"No, I haven't," said Guerchard.

"And you've seen her?" cried M. Formery.

"Yes," said Guerchard, raising his voice a little.

"Well, why the devil don't you tell us where she is? Tell us!" cried M.
Formery, purple with exasperation.

"But you won't let me get a word out of my mouth," protested Guerchard
with aggravating gentleness.

"Well, speak!" cried M. Formery; and he sank gasping on to a chair.

"Ah, well, she's here," said Guerchard.

"Here! How did she GET here?" said M. Formery.

"On a mattress," said Guerchard.

M. Formery sat upright, almost beside himself, glaring furiously at
Guerchard:

"What do you stand there pulling all our legs for?" he almost howled.

"Look here," said Guerchard.

He walked across the room to the fireplace, pushed the chairs which
stood bound together on the hearth-rug to one side of the fireplace,
and ran the heavy fire-screen on its casters to the other side of it,
revealing to their gaze the wide, old-fashioned fireplace itself. The
iron brazier which held the coals had been moved into the corner, and a
mattress lay on the floor of the fireplace. On the mattress lay the
figure of a big, middle-aged woman, half-dressed. There was a yellow
gag in her mouth; and her hands and feet were bound together with blue
cords.

"She is sleeping soundly," said Guerchard. He stooped and picked up a
handkerchief, and smelt it. "There's the handkerchief they chloroformed
her with. It still smells of chloroform."

They stared at him and the sleeping woman.

"Lend a hand, inspector," he said. "And you too, Bonavent. She looks a
good weight."

The three of them raised the mattress, and carried it and the sleeping
woman to a broad couch, and laid them on it. They staggered under their
burden, for truly Victoire was a good weight.

M. Formery rose, with recovered breath, but with his face an even
richer purple. His eyes were rolling in his head, as if they were not
under proper control.

He turned on the inspector and cried savagely, "You never examined the
fireplace, inspector!"

"No, sir," said the downcast inspector.

"It was unpardonable--absolutely unpardonable!" cried M. Formery. "How
is one to work with subordinates like this?"

"It was an oversight," said Guerchard.

M. Formery turned to him and said, "You must admit that it was
materially impossible for me to see her."

"It was possible if you went down on all fours," said Guerchard.

"On all fours?" said M. Formery.

"Yes; on all fours you could see her heels sticking out beyond the
mattress," said Guerchard simply.

M. Formery shrugged his shoulders: "That screen looked as if it had
stood there since the beginning of the summer," he said.

"The first thing, when you're dealing with Lupin, is to distrust
appearances," said Guerchard.

"Lupin!" cried M. Formery hotly. Then he bit his lip and was silent.

He walked to the side of the couch and looked down on the sleeping
Victoire, frowning: "This upsets everything," he said. "With these new
conditions, I've got to begin all over again, to find a new explanation
of the affair. For the moment--for the moment, I'm thrown completely
off the track. And you, Guerchard?"

"Oh, well," said Guerchard, "I have an idea or two about the matter
still."

"Do you really mean to say that it hasn't thrown you off the track
too?" said M. Formery, with a touch of incredulity in his tone.

"Well, no--not exactly," said Guerchard. "I wasn't on that track, you
see."

"No, of course not--of course not. You were on the track of Lupin,"
said M. Formery; and his contemptuous smile was tinged with malice.

The Duke looked from one to the other of them with curious, searching
eyes: "I find all this so interesting," he said.

"We do not take much notice of these checks; they do not depress us for
a moment," said M. Formery, with some return of his old grandiloquence.
"We pause hardly for an instant; then we begin to reconstruct--to
reconstruct."

"It's perfectly splendid of you," said the Duke, and his limpid eyes
rested on M. Formery's self-satisfied face in a really affectionate
gaze; they might almost be said to caress it.

Guerchard looked out of the window at a man who was carrying a hod-full
of bricks up one of the ladders set against the scaffolding of the
building house. Something in this honest workman's simple task seemed
to amuse him, for he smiled.

Only the inspector, thinking of the unexamined fireplace, looked really
depressed.

"We shan't get anything out of this woman till she wakes," said M.
Formery, "When she does, I shall question her closely and fully. In the
meantime, she may as well be carried up to her bedroom to sleep off the
effects of the chloroform."

Guerchard turned quickly: "Not her own bedroom, I think," he said
gently.

"Certainly not--of course, not her own bedroom," said M. Formery
quickly.

"And I think an officer at the door of whatever bedroom she does sleep
in," said Guerchard.

"Undoubtedly--most necessary," said M. Formery gravely. "See to it,
inspector. You can take her away."

The inspector called in a couple of policemen, and with their aid he
and Bonavent raised the sleeping woman, a man at each corner of the
mattress, and bore her from the room.

"And now to reconstruct," said M. Formery; and he folded his arms and
plunged into profound reflection.

The Duke and Guerchard watched him in silence.




CHAPTER XI

THE FAMILY ARRIVES


In carrying out Victoire, the inspector had left the door of the
drawing-room open. After he had watched M. Formery reflect for two
minutes, Guerchard faded--to use an expressive Americanism--through it.
The Duke felt in the breast-pocket of his coat, murmured softly, "My
cigarettes," and followed him.

He caught up Guerchard on the stairs and said, "I will come with you,
if I may, M. Guerchard. I find all these investigations extraordinarily
interesting. I have been observing M. Formery's methods--I should like
to watch yours, for a change."

"By all means," said Guerchard. "And there are several things I want to
hear about from your Grace. Of course it might be an advantage to
discuss them together with M. Formery, but--" and he hesitated.

"It would be a pity to disturb M. Formery in the middle of the process
of reconstruction," said the Duke; and a faint, ironical smile played
round the corners of his sensitive lips.

Guerchard looked at him quickly: "Perhaps it would," he said.

They went through the house, out of the back door, and into the garden.
Guerchard moved about twenty yards from the house, then he stopped and
questioned the Duke at great length. He questioned him first about the
Charolais, their appearance, their actions, especially about Bernard's
attempt to steal the pendant, and the theft of the motor-cars.

"I have been wondering whether M. Charolais might not have been Arsene
Lupin himself," said the Duke.

"It's quite possible," said Guerchard. "There seem to be no limits
whatever to Lupin's powers of disguising himself. My colleague,
Ganimard, has come across him at least three times that he knows of, as
a different person. And no single time could he be sure that it was the
same man. Of course, he had a feeling that he was in contact with some
one he had met before, but that was all. He had no certainty. He may
have met him half a dozen times besides without knowing him. And the
photographs of him--they're all different. Ganimard declares that Lupin
is so extraordinarily successful in his disguises because he is a great
actor. He actually becomes for the time being the person he pretends to
be. He thinks and feels absolutely like that person. Do you follow me?"

"Oh, yes; but he must be rather fluid, this Lupin," said the Duke; and
then he added thoughtfully, "It must be awfully risky to come so often
into actual contact with men like Ganimard and you."

"Lupin has never let any consideration of danger prevent him doing
anything that caught his fancy. He has odd fancies, too. He's a
humourist of the most varied kind--grim, ironic, farcical, as the mood
takes him. He must be awfully trying to live with," said Guerchard.

"Do you think humourists are trying to live with?" said the Duke, in a
meditative tone. "I think they brighten life a good deal; but of course
there are people who do not like them--the middle-classes."

"Yes, yes, they're all very well in their place; but to live with they
must be trying," said Guerchard quickly.

He went on to question the Duke closely and at length about the
household of M. Gournay-Martin, saying that Arsene Lupin worked with
the largest gang a burglar had ever captained, and it was any odds that
he had introduced one, if not more, of that gang into it. Moreover, in
the case of a big affair like this, Lupin himself often played two or
three parts under as many disguises.

"If he was Charolais, I don't see how he could be one of M.
Gournay-Martin's household, too," said the Duke in some perplexity.

"I don't say that he WAS Charolais," said Guerchard. "It is quite a
moot point. On the whole, I'm inclined to think that he was not. The
theft of the motor-cars was a job for a subordinate. He would hardly
bother himself with it."

The Duke told him all that he could remember about the millionaire's
servants--and, under the clever questioning of the detective, he was
surprised to find how much he did remember--all kinds of odd details
about them which he had scarcely been aware of observing.

The two of them, as they talked, afforded an interesting contrast: the
Duke, with his air of distinction and race, his ironic expression, his
mobile features, his clear enunciation and well-modulated voice, his
easy carriage of an accomplished fencer--a fencer with muscles of
steel--seemed to be a man of another kind from the slow-moving
detective, with his husky voice, his common, slurring enunciation, his
clumsily moulded features, so ill adapted to the expression of emotion
and intelligence. It was a contrast almost between the hawk and the
mole, the warrior and the workman. Only in their eyes were they alike;
both of them had the keen, alert eyes of observers. Perhaps the most
curious thing of all was that, in spite of the fact that he had for so
much of his life been an idler, trifling away his time in the pursuit
of pleasure, except when he had made his expedition to the South Pole,
the Duke gave one the impression of being a cleverer man, of a far
finer brain, than the detective who had spent so much of his life
sharpening his wits on the more intricate problems of crime.

When Guerchard came to the end of his questions, the Duke said: "You
have given me a very strong feeling that it is going to be a deuce of a
job to catch Lupin. I don't wonder that, so far, you have none of you
laid hands on him."

"But we have!" cried Guerchard quickly. "Twice Ganimard has caught him.
Once he had him in prison, and actually brought him to trial. Lupin
became another man, and was let go from the very dock."

"Really? It sounds absolutely amazing," said the Duke.

"And then, in the affair of the Blue Diamond, Ganimard caught him
again. He has his weakness, Lupin--it's women. It's a very common
weakness in these masters of crime. Ganimard and Holmlock Shears, in
that affair, got the better of him by using his love for a woman--'the
fair-haired lady,' she was called--to nab him."

"A shabby trick," said the Duke.

"Shabby?" said Guerchard in a tone of utter wonder. "How can anything
be shabby in the case of a rogue like this?"

"Perhaps not--perhaps not--still--" said the Duke, and stopped.

The expression of wonder faded from Guerchard's face, and he went on,
"Well, Holmlock Shears recovered the Blue Diamond, and Ganimard nabbed
Lupin. He held him for ten minutes, then Lupin escaped."

"What became of the fair-haired lady?" said the Duke.

"I don't know. I have heard that she is dead," said Guerchard. "Now I
come to think of it, I heard quite definitely that she died."

"It must be awful for a woman to love a man like Lupin--the constant,
wearing anxiety," said the Duke thoughtfully.

"I dare say. Yet he can have his pick of sweethearts. I've been offered
thousands of francs by women--women of your Grace's world and wealthy
Viennese--to make them acquainted with Lupin," said Guerchard.

"You don't surprise me," said the Duke with his ironic smile. "Women
never do stop to think--where one of their heroes is concerned. And did
you do it?"

"How could I? If I only could! If I could find Lupin entangled with a
woman like Ganimard did--well--" said Guerchard between his teeth.

"He'd never get out of YOUR clutches," said the Duke with conviction.

"I think not--I think not," said Guerchard grimly. "But come, I may as
well get on."

He walked across the turf to the foot of the ladder and looked at the
footprints round it. He made but a cursory examination of them, and
took his way down the garden-path, out of the door in the wall into the
space about the house that was building. He was not long examining it,
and he went right through it out into the street on which the house
would face when it was finished. He looked up and down it, and began to
retrace his footsteps.

"I've seen all I want to see out here. We may as well go back to the
house," he said to the Duke.

"I hope you've seen what you expected to see," said the Duke.

"Exactly what I expected to see--exactly," said Guerchard.

"That's as it should be," said the Duke.

They went back to the house and found M. Formery in the drawing-room,
still engaged in the process of reconstruction.

"The thing to do now is to hunt the neighbourhood for witnesses of the
departure of the burglars with their booty. Loaded as they were with
such bulky objects, they must have had a big conveyance. Somebody must
have noticed it. They must have wondered why it was standing in front
of a half-built house. Somebody may have actually seen the burglars
loading it, though it was so early in the morning. Bonavent had better
inquire at every house in the street on which that half-built house
faces. Did you happen to notice the name of it?" said M. Formery.

"It's Sureau Street," said Guerchard. "But Dieusy has been hunting the
neighbourhood for some one who saw the burglars loading their
conveyance, or saw it waiting to be loaded, for the last hour."

"Good," said M. Formery. "We are getting on."

M. Formery was silent. Guerchard and the Duke sat down and lighted
cigarettes.

"You found plenty of traces," said M. Formery, waving his hand towards
the window.

"Yes; I've found plenty of traces," said Guerchard.

"Of Lupin?" said M. Formery, with a faint sneer.

"No; not of Lupin," said Guerchard.

A smile of warm satisfaction illumined M. Formery's face:

"What did I tell you?" he said. "I'm glad that you've changed your mind
about that."

"I have hardly changed my mind," said Guerchard, in his husky, gentle
voice.

There came a loud knocking on the front door, the sound of excited
voices on the stairs. The door opened, and in burst M. Gournay-Martin.
He took one glance round the devastated room, raised his clenched hands
towards the ceiling, and bellowed, "The scoundrels! the dirty
scoundrels!" And his voice stuck in his throat. He tottered across the
room to a couch, dropped heavily to it, gazed round the scene of
desolation, and burst into tears.

Germaine and Sonia came into the room. The Duke stepped forward to
greet them.

"Do stop crying, papa. You're as hoarse as a crow as it is," said
Germaine impatiently. Then, turning on the Duke with a frown, she said:
"I think that joke of yours about the train was simply disgraceful,
Jacques. A joke's a joke, but to send us out to the station on a night
like last night, through all that heavy rain, when you knew all the
time that there was no quarter-to-nine train--it was simply
disgraceful."

"I really don't know what you're talking about," said the Duke quietly.
"Wasn't there a quarter-to-nine train?"

"Of course there wasn't," said Germaine. "The time-table was years old.
I think it was the most senseless attempt at a joke I ever heard of."

"It doesn't seem to me to be a joke at all," said the Duke quietly. "At
any rate, it isn't the kind of a joke I make--it would be detestable. I
never thought to look at the date of the time-table. I keep a box of
cigarettes in that drawer, and I have noticed the time-table there. Of
course, it may have been lying there for years. It was stupid of me not
to look at the date."

"I said it was a mistake. I was sure that his Grace would not do
anything so unkind as that," said Sonia.

The Duke smiled at her.

"Well, all I can say is, it was very stupid of you not to look at the
date," said Germaine.

M. Gournay-Martin rose to his feet and wailed, in the most heartrending
fashion: "My pictures! My wonderful pictures! Such investments! And my
cabinets! My Renaissance cabinets! They can't be replaced! They were
unique! They were worth a hundred and fifty thousand francs."

M. Formery stepped forward with an air and said, "I am distressed, M.
Gournay-Martin--truly distressed by your loss. I am M. Formery,
examining magistrate."

"It is a tragedy, M. Formery--a tragedy!" groaned the millionaire.

"Do not let it upset you too much. We shall find your masterpieces--we
shall find them. Only give us time," said M. Formery in a tone of warm
encouragement.

The face of the millionaire brightened a little.

"And, after all, you have the consolation, that the burglars did not
get hold of the gem of your collection. They have not stolen the
coronet of the Princesse de Lamballe," said M. Formery.

"No," said the Duke. "They have not touched this safe. It is unopened."

"What has that got to do with it?" growled the millionaire quickly.
"That safe is empty."

"Empty ... but your coronet?" cried the Duke.

"Good heavens! Then they HAVE stolen it," cried the millionaire
hoarsely, in a panic-stricken voice.

"But they can't have--this safe hasn't been touched," said the Duke.

"But the coronet never was in that safe. It was--have they entered my
bedroom?" said the millionaire.

"No," said M. Formery.

"They don't seem to have gone through any of the rooms except these
two," said the Duke.

"Ah, then my mind is at rest about that. The safe in my bedroom has
only two keys. Here is one." He took a key from his waistcoat pocket
and held it out to them. "And the other is in this safe."

The face of M. Formery was lighted up with a splendid satisfaction. He
might have rescued the coronet with his own hands. He cried
triumphantly, "There, you see!"

"See? See?" cried the millionaire in a sudden bellow. "I see that they
have robbed me--plundered me. Oh, my pictures! My wonderful pictures!
Such investments!"




CHAPTER XII

THE THEFT OF THE PENDANT


They stood round the millionaire observing his anguish, with eyes in
which shone various degrees of sympathy. As if no longer able to bear
the sight of such woe, Sonia slipped out of the room.

The millionaire lamented his loss and abused the thieves by turns, but
always at the top of his magnificent voice.

Suddenly a fresh idea struck him. He clapped his hand to his brow and
cried: "That eight hundred pounds! Charolais will never buy the Mercrac
now! He was not a bona fide purchaser!"

The Duke's lips parted slightly and his eyes opened a trifle wider than
their wont. He turned sharply on his heel, and almost sprang into the
other drawing-room. There he laughed at his ease.

M. Formery kept saying to the millionaire: "Be calm, M. Gournay-Martin.
Be calm! We shall recover your masterpieces. I pledge you my word. All
we need is time. Have patience. Be calm!"

His soothing remonstrances at last had their effect. The millionaire
grew calm:

"Guerchard?" he said. "Where is Guerchard?"

M. Formery presented Guerchard to him.

"Are you on their track? Have you a clue?" said the millionaire.

"I think," said M. Formery in an impressive tone, "that we may now
proceed with the inquiry in the ordinary way."

He was a little piqued by the millionaire's so readily turning from him
to the detective. He went to a writing-table, set some sheets of paper
before him, and prepared to make notes on the answers to his questions.
The Duke came back into the drawing-room; the inspector was summoned.
M. Gournay-Martin sat down on a couch with his hands on his knees and
gazed gloomily at M. Formery. Germaine, who was sitting on a couch near
the door, waiting with an air of resignation for her father to cease
his lamentations, rose and moved to a chair nearer the writing-table.
Guerchard kept moving restlessly about the room, but noiselessly. At
last he came to a standstill, leaning against the wall behind M.
Formery.

M. Formery went over all the matters about which he had already
questioned the Duke. He questioned the millionaire and his daughter
about the Charolais, the theft of the motor-cars, and the attempted
theft of the pendant. He questioned them at less length about the
composition of their household--the servants and their characters. He
elicited no new fact.

He paused, and then he said, carelessly as a mere matter of routine: "I
should like to know, M. Gournay-Martin, if there has ever been any
other robbery committed at your house?"

"Three years ago this scoundrel Lupin--" the millionaire began
violently.

"Yes, yes; I know all about that earlier burglary. But have you been
robbed since?" said M. Formery, interrupting him.

"No, I haven't been robbed since that burglary; but my daughter has,"
said the millionaire.

"Your daughter?" said M. Formery.

"Yes; I have been robbed two or three times during the last three
years," said Germaine.

"Dear me! But you ought to have told us about this before. This is
extremely interesting, and most important," said M. Formery, rubbing
his hands, "I suppose you suspect Victoire?"

"No, I don't," said Germaine quickly. "It couldn't have been Victoire.
The last two thefts were committed at the chateau when Victoire was in
Paris in charge of this house."

M. Formery seemed taken aback, and he hesitated, consulting his notes.
Then he said: "Good--good. That confirms my hypothesis."

"What hypothesis?" said M. Gournay-Martin quickly.

"Never mind--never mind," said M. Formery solemnly. And, turning to
Germaine, he went on: "You say, Mademoiselle, that these thefts began
about three years ago?"

"Yes, I think they began about three years ago in August."

"Let me see. It was in the month of August, three years ago, that your
father, after receiving a threatening letter like the one he received
last night, was the victim of a burglary?" said M. Formery.

"Yes, it was--the scoundrels!" cried the millionaire fiercely.

"Well, it would be interesting to know which of your servants entered
your service three years ago," said M. Formery.

"Victoire has only been with us a year at the outside," said Germaine.

"Only a year?" said M. Formery quickly, with an air of some vexation.
He paused and added, "Exactly--exactly. And what was the nature of the
last theft of which you were the victim?"

"It was a pearl brooch--not unlike the pendant which his Grace gave me
yesterday," said Germaine.

"Would you mind showing me that pendant? I should like to see it," said
M. Formery.

"Certainly--show it to him, Jacques. You have it, haven't you?" said
Germaine, turning to the Duke.

"Me? No. How should I have it?" said the Duke in some surprise.
"Haven't you got it?"

"I've only got the case--the empty case," said Germaine, with a
startled air.

"The empty case?" said the Duke, with growing surprise.

"Yes," said Germaine. "It was after we came back from our useless
journey to the station. I remembered suddenly that I had started
without the pendant. I went to the bureau and picked up the case; and
it was empty."

"One moment--one moment," said M. Formery. "Didn't you catch this young
Bernard Charolais with this case in his hands, your Grace?"

"Yes," said the Duke. "I caught him with it in his pocket."

"Then you may depend upon it that the young rascal had slipped the
pendant out of its case and you only recovered the empty case from
him," said M. Formery triumphantly.

"No," said the Duke. "That is not so. Nor could the thief have been the
burglar who broke open the bureau to get at the keys. For long after
both of them were out of the house I took a cigarette from the box
which stood on the bureau beside the case which held the pendant. And
it occurred to me that the young rascal might have played that very
trick on me. I opened the case and the pendant was there."

"It has been stolen!" cried the millionaire; "of course it has been
stolen."

"Oh, no, no," said the Duke. "It hasn't been stolen. Irma, or perhaps
Mademoiselle Kritchnoff, has brought it to Paris for Germaine."

"Sonia certainly hasn't brought it. It was she who suggested to me that
you had seen it lying on the bureau, and slipped it into your pocket,"
said Germaine quickly.

"Then it must be Irma," said the Duke.

"We had better send for her and make sure," said M. Formery.
"Inspector, go and fetch her."

The inspector went out of the room and the Duke questioned Germaine and
her father about the journey, whether it had been very uncomfortable,
and if they were very tired by it. He learned that they had been so
fortunate as to find sleeping compartments on the train, so that they
had suffered as little as might be from their night of travel.

M. Formery looked through his notes; Guerchard seemed to be going to
sleep where he stood against the wall.

The inspector came back with Irma. She wore the frightened,
half-defensive, half-defiant air which people of her class wear when
confronted by the authorities. Her big, cow's eyes rolled uneasily.

"Oh, Irma--" Germaine began.

M. Formery cut her short, somewhat brusquely. "Excuse me, excuse me. I
am conducting this inquiry," he said. And then, turning to Irma, he
added, "Now, don't be frightened, Mademoiselle Irma; I want to ask you
a question or two. Have you brought up to Paris the pendant which the
Duke of Charmerace gave your mistress yesterday?"

"Me, sir? No, sir. I haven't brought the pendant," said Irma.

"You're quite sure?" said M. Formery.

"Yes, sir; I haven't seen the pendant. Didn't Mademoiselle Germaine
leave it on the bureau?" said Irma.

"How do you know that?" said M. Formery.

"I heard Mademoiselle Germaine say that it had been on the bureau. I
thought that perhaps Mademoiselle Kritchnoff had put it in her bag."

"Why should Mademoiselle Kritchnoff put it in her bag?" said the Duke
quickly.

"To bring it up to Paris for Mademoiselle Germaine," said Irma.

"But what made you think that?" said Guerchard, suddenly intervening.

"Oh, I thought Mademoiselle Kritchnoff might have put it in her bag
because I saw her standing by the bureau," said Irma.

"Ah, and the pendant was on the bureau?" said M. Formery.

"Yes, sir," said Irma.

There was a silence. Suddenly the atmosphere of the room seemed to have
become charged with an oppression--a vague menace. Guerchard seemed to
have become wide awake again. Germaine and the Duke looked at one
another uneasily.

"Have you been long in the service of Mademoiselle Gournay-Martin?"
said M. Formery.

"Six months, sir," said Irma.

"Very good, thank you. You can go," said M. Formery. "I may want you
again presently."

Irma went quickly out of the room with an air of relief.

M. Formery scribbled a few words on the paper before him and then said:
"Well, I will proceed to question Mademoiselle Kritchnoff."

"Mademoiselle Kritchnoff is quite above suspicion," said the Duke
quickly.

"Oh, yes, quite," said Germaine.

"How long has Mademoiselle Kritchnoff been in your service,
Mademoiselle?" said Guerchard.

"Let me think," said Germaine, knitting her brow.

"Can't you remember?" said M. Formery.

"Just about three years," said Germaine.

"That's exactly the time at which the thefts began," said M. Formery.

"Yes," said Germaine, reluctantly.

"Ask Mademoiselle Kritchnoff to come here, inspector," said M. Formery.

"Yes, sir," said the inspector.

"I'll go and fetch her--I know where to find her," said the Duke
quickly, moving toward the door.

"Please, please, your Grace," protested Guerchard. "The inspector will
fetch her."

The Duke turned sharply and looked at him: "I beg your pardon, but do
you--" he said.

"Please don't be annoyed, your Grace," Guerchard interrupted. "But M.
Formery agrees with me--it would be quite irregular."

"Yes, yes, your Grace," said M. Formery. "We have our method of
procedure. It is best to adhere to it--much the best. It is the result
of years of experience of the best way of getting the truth."

"Just as you please," said the Duke, shrugging his shoulders.

The inspector came into the room: "Mademoiselle Kritchnoff will be here
in a moment. She was just going out."

"She was going out?" said M. Formery. "You don't mean to say you're
letting members of the household go out?"

"No, sir," said the inspector. "I mean that she was just asking if she
might go out."

M. Formery beckoned the inspector to him, and said to him in a voice
too low for the others to hear:

"Just slip up to her room and search her trunks."

"There is no need to take the trouble," said Guerchard, in the same low
voice, but with sufficient emphasis.

"No, of course not. There's no need to take the trouble," M. Formery
repeated after him.

The door opened, and Sonia came in. She was still wearing her
travelling costume, and she carried her cloak on her arm. She stood
looking round her with an air of some surprise; perhaps there was even
a touch of fear in it. The long journey of the night before did not
seem to have dimmed at all her delicate beauty. The Duke's eyes rested
on her in an inquiring, wondering, even searching gaze. She looked at
him, and her own eyes fell.

"Will you come a little nearer, Mademoiselle?" said M. Formery. "There
are one or two questions--"

"Will you allow me?" said Guerchard, in a tone of such deference that
it left M. Formery no grounds for refusal.

M. Formery flushed and ground his teeth. "Have it your own way!" he
said ungraciously.

"Mademoiselle Kritchnoff," said Guerchard, in a tone of the most
good-natured courtesy, "there is a matter on which M. Formery needs
some information. The pendant which the Duke of Charmerace gave
Mademoiselle Gournay-Martin yesterday has been stolen."

"Stolen? Are you sure?" said Sonia in a tone of mingled surprise and
anxiety.

"Quite sure," said Guerchard. "We have exactly determined the
conditions under which the theft was committed. But we have every
reason to believe that the culprit, to avoid detection, has hidden the
pendant in the travelling-bag or trunk of somebody else in order to--"

"My bag is upstairs in my bedroom, sir," Sonia interrupted quickly.
"Here is the key of it."

In order to free her hands to take the key from her wrist-bag, she set
her cloak on the back of a couch. It slipped off it, and fell to the
ground at the feet of the Duke, who had not returned to his place
beside Germaine. While she was groping in her bag for the key, and all
eyes were on her, the Duke, who had watched her with a curious
intentness ever since her entry into the room, stooped quietly down and
picked up the cloak. His hand slipped into the pocket of it; his
fingers touched a hard object wrapped in tissue-paper. They closed
round it, drew it from the pocket, and, sheltered by the cloak,
transferred it to his own. He set the cloak on the back of the sofa,
and very softly moved back to his place by Germaine's side. No one in
the room observed the movement, not even Guerchard: he was watching
Sonia too intently.

Sonia found the key, and held it out to Guerchard.

He shook his head and said: "There is no reason to search your
bag--none whatever. Have you any other luggage?"

She shrank back a little from his piercing eyes, almost as if their
gaze scared her.

"Yes, my trunk ... it's upstairs in my bedroom too ... open."

She spoke in a faltering voice, and her troubled eyes could not meet
those of the detective.

"You were going out, I think," said Guerchard gently.

"I was asking leave to go out. There is some shopping that must be
done," said Sonia.

"You do not see any reason why Mademoiselle Kritchnoff should not go
out, M. Formery, do you?" said Guerchard.

"Oh, no, none whatever; of course she can go out," said M. Formery.

Sonia turned round to go.

"One moment," said Guerchard, coming forward. "You've only got that
wrist-bag with you?"

"Yes," said Sonia. "I have my money and my handkerchief in it." And she
held it out to him.

Guerchard's keen eyes darted into it; and he muttered, "No point in
looking in that. I don't suppose any one would have had the audacity--"
and he stopped.

Sonia made a couple of steps toward the door, turned, hesitated, came
back to the couch, and picked up her cloak.

There was a sudden gleam in Guerchard's eyes--a gleam of understanding,
expectation, and triumph. He stepped forward, and holding out his
hands, said: "Allow me."

"No, thank you," said Sonia. "I'm not going to put it on."

"No ... but it's possible ... some one may have ... have you felt in
the pockets of it? That one, now? It seems as if that one--"

He pointed to the pocket which had held the packet.

Sonia started back with an air of utter dismay; her eyes glanced wildly
round the room as if seeking an avenue of escape; her fingers closed
convulsively on the pocket.

"But this is abominable!" she cried. "You look as if--"

"I beg you, mademoiselle," interrupted Guerchard. "We are sometimes
obliged--"

"Really, Mademoiselle Sonia," broke in the Duke, in a singularly clear
and piercing tone, "I cannot see why you should object to this mere
formality."

"Oh, but--but--" gasped Sonia, raising her terror-stricken eyes to his.

The Duke seemed to hold them with his own; and he said in the same
clear, piercing voice, "There isn't the slightest reason for you to be
frightened."

Sonia let go of the cloak, and Guerchard, his face all alight with
triumph, plunged his hand into the pocket. He drew it out empty, and
stared at it, while his face fell to an utter, amazed blankness.

"Nothing? nothing?" he muttered under his breath. And he stared at his
empty hand as if he could not believe his eyes.

By a violent effort he forced an apologetic smile on his face, and said
to Sonia: "A thousand apologies, mademoiselle."

He handed the cloak to her. Sonia took it and turned to go. She took a
step towards the door, and tottered.

The Duke sprang forward and caught her as she was falling.

"Do you feel faint?" he said in an anxious voice.

"Thank you, you just saved me in time," muttered Sonia.

"I'm really very sorry," said Guerchard.

"Thank you, it was nothing. I'm all right now," said Sonia, releasing
herself from the Duke's supporting arm.

She drew herself up, and walked quietly out of the room.

Guerchard went back to M. Formery at the writing-table.

"You made a clumsy mistake there, Guerchard," said M. Formery, with a
touch of gratified malice in his tone.

Guerchard took no notice of it: "I want you to give orders that nobody
leaves the house without my permission," he said, in a low voice.

"No one except Mademoiselle Kritchnoff, I suppose," said M. Formery,
smiling.

"She less than any one," said Guerchard quickly.

"I don't understand what you're driving at a bit," said M. Formery.
"Unless you suppose that Mademoiselle Kritchnoff is Lupin in disguise."

Guerchard laughed softly: "You will have your joke, M. Formery," he
said.

"Well, well, I'll give the order," said M. Formery, somewhat mollified
by the tribute to his humour.

He called the inspector to him and whispered a word in his ear. Then he
rose and said: "I think, gentlemen, we ought to go and examine the
bedrooms, and, above all, make sure that the safe in M.
Gournay-Martin's bedroom has not been tampered with."

"I was wondering how much longer we were going to waste time here
talking about that stupid pendant," grumbled the millionaire; and he
rose and led the way.

"There may also be some jewel-cases in the bedrooms," said M. Formery.
"There are all the wedding presents. They were in charge of Victoire."
said Germaine quickly. "It would be dreadful if they had been stolen.
Some of them are from the first families in France."

"They would replace them ... those paper-knives," said the Duke,
smiling.

Germaine and her father led the way. M. Formery, Guerchard, and the
inspector followed them. At the door the Duke paused, stopped, closed
it on them softly. He came back to the window, put his hand in his
pocket, and drew out the packet wrapped in tissue-paper.

He unfolded the paper with slow, reluctant fingers, and revealed the
pendant.




CHAPTER XIII

LUPIN WIRES


The Duke stared at the pendant, his eyes full of wonder and pity.

"Poor little girl!" he said softly under his breath.

He put the pendant carefully away in his waistcoat-pocket and stood
staring thoughtfully out of the window.

The door opened softly, and Sonia came quickly into the room, closed
the door, and leaned back against it. Her face was a dead white; her
skin had lost its lustre of fine porcelain, and she stared at him with
eyes dim with anguish.

In a hoarse, broken voice, she muttered: "Forgive me! Oh, forgive me!"

"A thief--you?" said the Duke, in a tone of pitying wonder.

Sonia groaned.

"You mustn't stop here," said the Duke in an uneasy tone, and he looked
uneasily at the door.

"Ah, you don't want to speak to me any more," said Sonia, in a
heartrending tone, wringing her hands.

"Guerchard is suspicious of everything. It is dangerous for us to be
talking here. I assure you that it's dangerous," said the Duke.

"What an opinion must you have of me! It's dreadful--cruel!" wailed
Sonia.

"For goodness' sake don't speak so loud," said the Duke, with even
greater uneasiness. "You MUST think of Guerchard."

"What do I care?" cried Sonia. "I've lost the liking of the only
creature whose liking I wanted. What does anything else matter? What
DOES it matter?"

"We'll talk somewhere else presently. That'll be far safer," said the
Duke.

"No, no, we must talk now!" cried Sonia. "You must know.... I must tell
... Oh, dear! ... Oh, dear! ... I don't know how to tell you.... And
then it is so unfair.... she ... Germaine ... she has everything," she
panted. "Yesterday, before me, you gave her that pendant, ... she
smiled ... she was proud of it.... I saw her pleasure.... Then I took
it--I took it--I took it! And if I could, I'd take her fortune, too....
I hate her! Oh, how I hate her!"

"What!" said the Duke.

"Yes, I do ... I hate her!" said Sonia; and her eyes, no longer gentle,
glowed with the sombre resentment, the dull rage of the weak who turn
on Fortune. Her gentle voice was harsh with rebellious wrath.

"You hate her?" said the Duke quickly.

"I should never have told you that.... But now I dare.... I dare speak
out.... It's you! ... It's you--" The avowal died on her lips. A
burning flush crimsoned her cheeks and faded as quickly as it came: "I
hate her!" she muttered.

"Sonia--" said the Duke gently.

"Oh! I know that it's no excuse.... I know that you're thinking 'This
is a very pretty story, but it's not her first theft'; ... and it's
true--it's the tenth, ... perhaps it's the twentieth.... It's true--I
am a thief." She paused, and the glow deepened in her eyes. "But
there's one thing you must believe--you shall believe; since you came,
since I've known you, since the first day you set eyes on me, I have
stolen no more ... till yesterday when you gave her the pendant before
me. I could not bear it ... I could not." She paused and looked at him
with eyes that demanded an assent.

"I believe you," said the Duke gravely.

She heaved a deep sigh of relief, and went on more quietly--some of its
golden tone had returned to her voice: "And then, if you knew how it
began ... the horror of it," she said.

"Poor child!" said the Duke softly.

"Yes, you pity me, but you despise me--you despise me beyond words. You
shall not! I will not have it!" she cried fiercely.

"Believe me, no," said the Duke, in a soothing tone.

"Listen," said Sonia. "Have you ever been alone--alone in the world?
... Have you ever been hungry? Think of it ... in this big city where I
was starving in sight of bread ... bread in the shops .... One only had
to stretch out one's hand to touch it ... a penny loaf. Oh, it's
commonplace!" she broke off: "quite commonplace!"

"Go on: tell me," said the Duke curtly.

"There was one way I could make money and I would not do it: no, I
would not," she went on. "But that day I was dying ... understand, I
was dying ....I went to the rooms of a man I knew a little. It was my
last resource. At first I was glad ... he gave me food and wine ... and
then, he talked to me ... he offered me money."

"What!" cried the Duke; and a sudden flame of anger flared up in his
eyes.

"No; I could not ... and then I robbed him.... I preferred to ... it
was more decent. Ah, I had excuses then. I began to steal to remain an
honest woman ... and I've gone on stealing to keep up appearances. You
see ... I joke about it." And she laughed, the faint, dreadful, mocking
laugh of a damned soul. "Oh, dear! Oh, dear!" she cried; and, burying
her face in her hands, she burst into a storm of weeping.

"Poor child," said the Duke softly. And he stared gloomily on the
ground, overcome by this revelation of the tortures of the feeble in
the underworld beneath the Paris he knew.

"Oh, you do pity me ... you do understand ... and feel," said Sonia,
between her sobs.

The Duke raised his head and gazed at her with eyes full of an infinite
sympathy and compassion.

"Poor little Sonia," he said gently. "I understand."

She gazed at him with incredulous eyes, in which joy and despair
mingled, struggling.

He came slowly towards her, and stopped short. His quick ear had caught
the sound of a footstep outside the door.

"Quick! Dry your eyes! You must look composed. The other room!" he
cried, in an imperative tone.

He caught her hand and drew her swiftly into the further drawing-room.

With the quickness which came of long practice in hiding her feelings
Sonia composed her face to something of its usual gentle calm. There
was even a faint tinge of colour in her cheeks; they had lost their
dead whiteness. A faint light shone in her eyes; the anguish had
cleared from them. They rested on the Duke with a look of ineffable
gratitude. She sat down on a couch. The Duke went to the window and
lighted a cigarette. They heard the door of the outer drawing-room
open, and there was a pause. Quick footsteps crossed the room, and
Guerchard stood in the doorway. He looked from one to the other with
keen and eager eyes. Sonia sat staring rather listlessly at the carpet.
The Duke turned, and smiled at him.

"Well, M. Guerchard," he said. "I hope the burglars have not stolen the
coronet."

"The coronet is safe, your Grace," said Guerchard.

"And the paper-knives?" said the Duke.

"The paper-knives?" said Guerchard with an inquiring air.

"The wedding presents," said the Duke.

"Yes, your Grace, the wedding presents are safe," said Guerchard.

"I breathe again," said the Duke languidly.

Guerchard turned to Sonia and said, "I was looking for you,
Mademoiselle, to tell you that M. Formery has changed his mind. It is
impossible for you to go out. No one will be allowed to go out."

"Yes?" said Sonia, in an indifferent tone.

"We should be very much obliged if you would go to your room," said
Guerchard. "Your meals will be sent up to you."

"What?" said Sonia, rising quickly; and she looked from Guerchard to
the Duke. The Duke gave her the faintest nod.

"Very well, I will go to my room," she said coldly.

They accompanied her to the door of the outer drawing-room. Guerchard
opened it for her and closed it after her.

"Really, M. Guerchard," said the Duke, shrugging his shoulders. "This
last measure--a child like that!"

"Really, I'm very sorry, your Grace; but it's my trade, or, if you
prefer it, my duty. As long as things are taking place here which I am
still the only one to perceive, and which are not yet clear to me, I
must neglect no precaution."

"Of course, you know best," said the Duke. "But still, a child like
that--you're frightening her out of her life."

Guerchard shrugged his shoulders, and went quietly out of the room.

The Duke sat down in an easy chair, frowning and thoughtful. Suddenly
there struck on his ears the sound of a loud roaring and heavy bumping
on the stairs, the door flew open, and M. Gournay-Martin stood on the
threshold waving a telegram in his hand.

M. Formery and the inspector came hurrying down the stairs behind him,
and watched his emotion with astonished and wondering eyes.

"Here!" bellowed the millionaire. "A telegram! A telegram from the
scoundrel himself! Listen! Just listen:"

  "A thousand apologies for not having been
   able to keep my promise about the coronet.
   Had an appointment at the Acacias. Please
   have coronet ready in your room to-night. Will
   come without fail to fetch it, between a quarter
   to twelve and twelve o'clock."

  "Yours affectionately,"

  "ARSENE LUPIN."

"There! What do you think of that?"

"If you ask me, I think he's humbug," said the Duke with conviction.

"Humbug! You always think it's humbug! You thought the letter was
humbug; and look what has happened!" cried the millionaire.

"Give me the telegram, please," said M. Formery quickly.

The millionaire gave it to him; and he read it through.

"Find out who brought it, inspector," he said.

The inspector hurried to the top of the staircase and called to the
policeman in charge of the front door. He came back to the drawing-room
and said: "It was brought by an ordinary post-office messenger, sir."

"Where is he?" said M. Formery. "Why did you let him go?"

"Shall I send for him, sir?" said the inspector.

"No, no, it doesn't matter," said M. Formery; and, turning to M.
Gournay-Martin and the Duke, he said, "Now we're really going to have
trouble with Guerchard. He is going to muddle up everything. This
telegram will be the last straw. Nothing will persuade him now that
this is not Lupin's work. And just consider, gentlemen: if Lupin had
come last night, and if he had really set his heart on the coronet, he
would have stolen it then, or at any rate he would have tried to open
the safe in M. Gournay-Martin's bedroom, in which the coronet actually
is, or this safe here"--he went to the safe and rapped on the door of
it--"in which is the second key."

"That's quite clear," said the inspector.

"If, then, he did not make the attempt last night, when he had a clear
field--when the house was empty--he certainly will not make the attempt
now when we are warned, when the police are on the spot, and the house
is surrounded. The idea is childish, gentlemen"--he leaned against the
door of the safe--"absolutely childish, but Guerchard is mad on this
point; and I foresee that his madness is going to hamper us in the most
idiotic way."

He suddenly pitched forward into the middle of the room, as the door of
the safe opened with a jerk, and Guerchard shot out of it.

"What the devil!" cried M. Formery, gaping at him.

"You'd be surprised how clearly you hear everything in these
safes--you'd think they were too thick," said Guerchard, in his gentle,
husky voice.

"How on earth did you get into it?" cried M. Formery.

"Getting in was easy enough. It's the getting out that was awkward.
These jokers had fixed up some kind of a spring so that I nearly shot
out with the door," said Guerchard, rubbing his elbow.

"But how did you get into it? How the deuce DID you get into it?" cried
M. Formery.

"Through the little cabinet into which that door behind the safe opens.
There's no longer any back to the safe; they've cut it clean out of
it--a very neat piece of work. Safes like this should always be fixed
against a wall, not stuck in front of a door. The backs of them are
always the weak point."

"And the key? The key of the safe upstairs, in my bedroom, where the
coronet is--is the key there?" cried M. Gournay-Martin.

Guerchard went back into the empty safe, and groped about in it. He
came out smiling.

"Well, have you found the key?" cried the millionaire.

"No. I haven't; but I've found something better," said Guerchard.

"What is it?" said M. Formery sharply.

"I'll give you a hundred guesses," said Guerchard with a tantalizing
smile.

"What is it?" said M. Formery.

"A little present for you," said Guerchard.

"What do you mean?" cried M. Formery angrily.

Guerchard held up a card between his thumb and forefinger and said
quietly:

"The card of Arsene Lupin."




CHAPTER XIV

GUERCHARD PICKS UP THE TRUE SCENT


The millionaire gazed at the card with stupefied eyes, the inspector
gazed at it with extreme intelligence, the Duke gazed at it with
interest, and M. Formery gazed at it with extreme disgust.

"It's part of the same ruse--it was put there to throw us off the
scent. It proves nothing--absolutely nothing," he said scornfully.

"No; it proves nothing at all," said Guerchard quietly.

"The telegram is the important thing--this telegram," said M.
Gournay-Martin feverishly. "It concerns the coronet. Is it going to be
disregarded?"

"Oh, no, no," said M. Formery in a soothing tone. "It will be taken
into account. It will certainly be taken into account."

M. Gournay-Martin's butler appeared in the doorway of the drawing-room:
"If you please, sir, lunch is served," he said.

At the tidings some of his weight of woe appeared to be lifted from the
head of the millionaire. "Good!" he said, "good! Gentlemen, you will
lunch with me, I hope."

"Thank you," said M. Formery. "There is nothing else for us to do, at
any rate at present, and in the house. I am not quite satisfied about
Mademoiselle Kritchnoff--at least Guerchard is not. I propose to
question her again--about those earlier thefts."

"I'm sure there's nothing in that," said the Duke quickly.

"No, no; I don't think there is," said M. Formery. "But still one never
knows from what quarter light may come in an affair like this. Accident
often gives us our best clues."

"It seems rather a shame to frighten her--she's such a child," said the
Duke.

"Oh, I shall be gentle, your Grace--as gentle as possible, that is. But
I look to get more from the examination of Victoire. She was on the
scene. She has actually seen the rogues at work; but till she recovers
there is nothing more to be done, except to wait the discoveries of the
detectives who are working outside; and they will report here. So in
the meantime we shall be charmed to lunch with you, M. Gournay-Martin."

They went downstairs to the dining-room and found an elaborate and
luxurious lunch, worthy of the hospitality of a millionaire, awaiting
them. The skill of the cook seemed to have been quite unaffected by the
losses of his master. M. Formery, an ardent lover of good things,
enjoyed himself immensely. He was in the highest spirits. Germaine, a
little upset by the night-journey, was rather querulous. Her father was
plunged in a gloom which lifted for but a brief space at the appearance
of a fresh delicacy. Guerchard ate and drank seriously, answering the
questions of the Duke in a somewhat absent-minded fashion. The Duke
himself seemed to have lost his usual flow of good spirits, and at
times his brow was knitted in an anxious frown. His questions to
Guerchard showed a far less keen interest in the affair.

To him the lunch seemed very long and very tedious; but at last it came
to an end. M. Gournay-Martin seemed to have been much cheered by the
wine he had drunk. He was almost hopeful. M. Formery, who had not by
any means trifled with the champagne, was raised to the very height of
sanguine certainty. Their coffee and liqueurs were served in the
smoking-room. Guerchard lighted a cigar, refused a liqueur, drank his
coffee quickly, and slipped out of the room.

The Duke followed him, and in the hall said: "I will continue to watch
you unravel the threads of this mystery, if I may, M. Guerchard."

Good Republican as Guerchard was, he could not help feeling flattered
by the interest of a Duke; and the excellent lunch he had eaten
disposed him to feel the honour even more deeply.

"I shall be charmed," he said. "To tell the truth, I find the company
of your Grace really quite stimulating."

"It must be because I find it all so extremely interesting," said the
Duke.

They went up to the drawing-room and found the red-faced young
policeman seated on a chair by the door eating a lunch, which had been
sent up to him from the millionaire's kitchen, with a very hearty
appetite.

They went into the drawing-room. Guerchard shut the door and turned the
key: "Now," he said, "I think that M. Formery will give me half an hour
to myself. His cigar ought to last him at least half an hour. In that
time I shall know what the burglars really did with their plunder--at
least I shall know for certain how they got it out of the house."

"Please explain," said the Duke. "I thought we knew how they got it out
of the house." And he waved his hand towards the window.

"Oh, that!--that's childish," said Guerchard contemptuously. "Those are
traces for an examining magistrate. The ladder, the table on the
window-sill, they lead nowhere. The only people who came up that ladder
were the two men who brought it from the scaffolding. You can see their
footsteps. Nobody went down it at all. It was mere waste of time to
bother with those traces."

"But the footprint under the book?" said the Duke.

"Oh, that," said Guerchard. "One of the burglars sat on the couch
there, rubbed plaster on the sole of his boot, and set his foot down on
the carpet. Then he dusted the rest of the plaster off his boot and put
the book on the top of the footprint."

"Now, how do you know that?" said the astonished Duke.

"It's as plain as a pike-staff," said Guerchard. "There must have been
several burglars to move such pieces of furniture. If the soles of all
of them had been covered with plaster, all the sweeping in the world
would not have cleared the carpet of the tiny fragments of it. I've
been over the carpet between the footprint and the window with a
magnifying glass. There are no fragments of plaster on it. We dismiss
the footprint. It is a mere blind, and a very fair blind too--for an
examining magistrate."

"I understand," said the Duke.

"That narrows the problem, the quite simple problem, how was the
furniture taken out of the room. It did not go through that window down
the ladder. Again, it was not taken down the stairs, and out of the
front door, or the back. If it had been, the concierge and his wife
would have heard the noise. Besides that, it would have been carried
down into a main street, in which there are people at all hours.
Somebody would have been sure to tell a policeman that this house was
being emptied. Moreover, the police were continually patrolling the
main streets, and, quickly as a man like Lupin would do the job, he
could not do it so quickly that a policeman would not have seen it. No;
the furniture was not taken down the stairs or out of the front door.
That narrows the problem still more. In fact, there is only one mode of
egress left."

"The chimney!" cried the Duke.

"You've hit it," said Guerchard, with a husky laugh. "By that
well-known logical process, the process of elimination, we've excluded
all methods of egress except the chimney."

He paused, frowning, in some perplexity; and then he said uneasily:
"What I don't like about it is that Victoire was set in the fireplace.
I asked myself at once what was she doing there. It was unnecessary
that she should be drugged and set in the fireplace--quite unnecessary."

"It might have been to put off an examining magistrate," said the Duke.
"Having found Victoire in the fireplace, M. Formery did not look for
anything else."

"Yes, it might have been that," said Guerchard slowly. "On the other
hand, she might have been put there to make sure that I did not miss
the road the burglars took. That's the worst of having to do with
Lupin. He knows me to the bottom of my mind. He has something up his
sleeve--some surprise for me. Even now, I'm nowhere near the bottom of
the mystery. But come along, we'll take the road the burglars took. The
inspector has put my lantern ready for me."

As he spoke he went to the fireplace, picked up a lantern which had
been set on the top of the iron fire-basket, and lighted it. The Duke
stepped into the great fireplace beside him. It was four feet deep, and
between eight and nine feet broad. Guerchard threw the light from the
lantern on to the back wall of it. Six feet from the floor the soot
from the fire stopped abruptly, and there was a dappled patch of
bricks, half of them clean and red, half of them blackened by soot,
five feet broad, and four feet high.

"The opening is higher up than I thought," said Guerchard. "I must get
a pair of steps."

He went to the door of the drawing-room and bade the young policeman
fetch him a pair of steps. They were brought quickly. He took them from
the policeman, shut the door, and locked it again. He set the steps in
the fireplace and mounted them.

"Be careful," he said to the Duke, who had followed him into the
fireplace, and stood at the foot of the steps. "Some of these bricks
may drop inside, and they'll sting you up if they fall on your toes."

The Duke stepped back out of reach of any bricks that might fall.

Guerchard set his left hand against the wall of the chimney-piece
between him and the drawing-room, and pressed hard with his right
against the top of the dappled patch of bricks. At the first push, half
a dozen of them fell with a bang on to the floor of the next house. The
light came flooding in through the hole, and shone on Guerchard's face
and its smile of satisfaction. Quickly he pushed row after row of
bricks into the next house until he had cleared an opening four feet
square.

"Come along," he said to the Duke, and disappeared feet foremost
through the opening.

The Duke mounted the steps, and found himself looking into a large
empty room of the exact size and shape of the drawing-room of M.
Gournay-Martin, save that it had an ordinary modern fireplace instead
of one of the antique pattern of that in which he stood. Its
chimney-piece was a few inches below the opening. He stepped out on to
the chimney-piece and dropped lightly to the floor.

"Well," he said, looking back at the opening through which he had come.
"That's an ingenious dodge."

"Oh, it's common enough," said Guerchard. "Robberies at the big
jewellers' are sometimes worked by these means. But what is uncommon
about it, and what at first sight put me off the track, is that these
burglars had the cheek to pierce the wall with an opening large enough
to enable them to remove the furniture of a house."

"It's true," said the Duke. "The opening's as large as a good-sized
window. Those burglars seem capable of everything--even of a
first-class piece of mason's work."

"Oh, this has all been prepared a long while ago. But now I'm really on
their track. And after all, I haven't really lost any time. Dieusy
wasted no time in making inquiries in Sureau Street; he's been working
all this side of the house."

Guerchard drew up the blinds, opened the shutters, and let the daylight
flood the dim room. He came back to the fireplace and looked down at
the heap of bricks, frowning:

"I made a mistake there," he said. "I ought to have taken those bricks
down carefully, one by one."

Quickly he took brick after brick from the pile, and began to range
them neatly against the wall on the left. The Duke watched him for two
or three minutes, then began to help him. It did not take them long,
and under one of the last few bricks Guerchard found a fragment of a
gilded picture-frame.

"Here's where they ought to have done their sweeping," he said, holding
it up to the Duke.

"I tell you what," said the Duke, "I shouldn't wonder if we found the
furniture in this house still."

"Oh, no, no!" said Guerchard. "I tell you that Lupin would allow for
myself or Ganimard being put in charge of the case; and he would know
that we should find the opening in the chimney. The furniture was taken
straight out into the side-street on to which this house opens." He led
the way out of the room on to the landing and went down the dark
staircase into the hall. He opened the shutters of the hall windows,
and let in the light. Then he examined the hall. The dust lay thick on
the tiled floor. Down the middle of it was a lane formed by many feet.
The footprints were faint, but still plain in the layer of dust.
Guerchard came back to the stairs and began to examine them. Half-way
up the flight he stooped, and picked up a little spray of flowers:
"Fresh!" he said. "These have not been long plucked."

"Salvias," said the Duke.

"Salvias they are," said Guerchard. "Pink salvias; and there is only
one gardener in France who has ever succeeded in getting this shade--M.
Gournay-Martin's gardener at Charmerace. I'm a gardener myself."

"Well, then, last night's burglars came from Charmerace. They must
have," said the Duke.

"It looks like it," said Guerchard.

"The Charolais," said the Duke.

"It looks like it," said Guerchard.

"It must be," said the Duke. "This IS interesting--if only we could get
an absolute proof."

"We shall get one presently," said Guerchard confidently.

"It is interesting," said the Duke in a tone of lively enthusiasm.
"These clues--these tracks which cross one another--each fact by
degrees falling into its proper place--extraordinarily interesting." He
paused and took out his cigarette-case: "Will you have a cigarette?" he
said.

"Are they caporal?" said Guerchard.

"No, Egyptians--Mercedes."

"Thank you," said Guerchard; and he took one.

The Duke struck a match, lighted Guerchard's cigarette, and then his
own:

"Yes, it's very interesting," he said. "In the last quarter of an hour
you've practically discovered that the burglars came from
Charmerace--that they were the Charolais--that they came in by the
front door of this house, and carried the furniture out of it."

"I don't know about their coming in by it," said Guerchard. "Unless I'm
very much mistaken, they came in by the front door of M.
Gournay-Martin's house."

"Of course," said the Duke. "I was forgetting. They brought the keys
from Charmerace."

"Yes, but who drew the bolts for them?" said Guerchard. "The concierge
bolted them before he went to bed. He told me so. He was telling the
truth--I know when that kind of man is telling the truth."

"By Jove!" said the Duke softly. "You mean that they had an accomplice?"

"I think we shall find that they had an accomplice. But your Grace is
beginning to draw inferences with uncommon quickness. I believe that
you would make a first-class detective yourself--with practice, of
course--with practice."

"Can I have missed my true career?" said the Duke, smiling. "It's
certainly a very interesting game."

"Well, I'm not going to search this barracks myself," said Guerchard.
"I'll send in a couple of men to do it; but I'll just take a look at
the steps myself."

So saying, he opened the front door and went out and examined the steps
carefully.

"We shall have to go back the way we came," he said, when he had
finished his examination. "The drawing-room door is locked. We ought to
find M. Formery hammering on it." And he smiled as if he found the
thought pleasing.

They went back up the stairs, through the opening, into the
drawing-room of M. Gournay-Martin's house. Sure enough, from the other
side of the locked door came the excited voice of M. Formery, crying:

"Guerchard! Guerchard! What are you doing? Let me in! Why don't you let
me in?"

Guerchard unlocked the door; and in bounced M. Formery, very excited,
very red in the face.

"Hang it all, Guerchard! What on earth have you been doing?" he cried.
"Why didn't you open the door when I knocked?"

"I didn't hear you," said Guerchard. "I wasn't in the room."

"Then where on earth have you been?" cried M. Formery.

Guerchard looked at him with a faint, ironical smile, and said in his
gentle voice, "I was following the real track of the burglars."




CHAPTER XV

THE EXAMINATION OF SONIA


M. Formery gasped: "The real track?" he muttered.

"Let me show you," said Guerchard. And he led him to the fireplace, and
showed him the opening between the two houses.

"I must go into this myself!" cried M. Formery in wild excitement.

Without more ado he began to mount the steps. Guerchard followed him.
The Duke saw their heels disappear up the steps. Then he came out of
the drawing-room and inquired for M. Gournay-Martin. He was told that
the millionaire was up in his bedroom; and he went upstairs, and
knocked at the door of it.

M. Gournay-Martin bade him enter in a very faint voice, and the Duke
found him lying on the bed. He was looking depressed, even exhausted,
the shadow of the blusterous Gournay-Martin of the day before. The rich
rosiness of his cheeks had faded to a moderate rose-pink.

"That telegram," moaned the millionaire. "It was the last straw. It has
overwhelmed me. The coronet is lost."

"What, already?" said the Duke, in a tone of the liveliest surprise.

"No, no; it's still in the safe," said the millionaire. "But it's as
good as lost--before midnight it will be lost. That fiend will get it."

"If it's in this safe now, it won't be lost before midnight," said the
Duke. "But are you sure it's there now?"

"Look for yourself," said the millionaire, taking the key of the safe
from his waistcoat pocket, and handing it to the Duke.

The Duke opened the safe. The morocco case which held the coronet lay
on the middle shell in front of him. He glanced at the millionaire, and
saw that he had closed his eyes in the exhaustion of despair. Whistling
softly, the Duke opened the case, took out the diadem, and examined it
carefully, admiring its admirable workmanship. He put it back in the
case, turned to the millionaire, and said thoughtfully:

"I can never make up my mind, in the case of one of these old diadems,
whether one ought not to take out the stones and have them re-cut. Look
at this emerald now. It's a very fine stone, but this old-fashioned
cutting does not really do it justice."

"Oh, no, no: you should never interfere with an antique, historic piece
of jewellery. Any alteration decreases its value--its value as an
historic relic," cried the millionaire, in a shocked tone.

"I know that," said the Duke, "but the question for me is, whether one
ought not to sacrifice some of its value to increasing its beauty."

"You do have such mad ideas," said the millionaire, in a tone of
peevish exasperation.

"Ah, well, it's a nice question," said the Duke.

He snapped the case briskly, put it back on the shelf, locked the safe,
and handed the key to the millionaire. Then he strolled across the room
and looked down into the street, whistling softly.

"I think--I think--I'll go home and get out of these motoring clothes.
And I should like to have on a pair of boots that were a trifle less
muddy," he said slowly.

M. Gournay-Martin sat up with a jerk and cried, "For Heaven's sake,
don't you go and desert me, my dear chap! You don't know what my nerves
are like!"

"Oh, you've got that sleuth-hound, Guerchard, and the splendid Formery,
and four other detectives, and half a dozen ordinary policemen guarding
you. You can do without my feeble arm. Besides, I shan't be gone more
than half an hour--three-quarters at the outside. I'll bring back my
evening clothes with me, and dress for dinner here. I don't suppose
that anything fresh will happen between now and midnight; but I want to
be on the spot, and hear the information as it comes in fresh. Besides,
there's Guerchard. I positively cling to Guerchard. It's an education,
though perhaps not a liberal education, to go about with him," said the
Duke; and there was a sub-acid irony in his voice.

"Well, if you must, you must," said M. Gournay-Martin grumpily.

"Good-bye for the present, then," said the Duke. And he went out of the
room and down the stairs. He took his motor-cap from the hall-table,
and had his hand on the latch of the door, when the policeman in charge
of it said, "I beg your pardon, sir, but have you M. Guerchard's
permission to leave the house?"

"M. Guerchard's permission?" said the Duke haughtily. "What has M.
Guerchard to do with me? I am the Duke of Charmerace." And he opened
the door.

"It was M. Formery's orders, your Grace," stammered the policeman
doubtfully.

"M. Formery's orders?" said the Duke, standing on the top step. "Call
me a taxi-cab, please."

The concierge, who stood beside the policeman, ran down the steps and
blew his whistle. The policeman gazed uneasily at the Duke, shifting
his weight from one foot to the other; but he said no more.

A taxi-cab came up to the door, the Duke went down the steps, stepped
into it, and drove away.

Three-quarters of an hour later he came back, having changed into
clothes more suited to a Paris drawing-room. He went up to the
drawing-room, and there he found Guerchard, M. Formery, and the
inspector, who had just completed their tour of inspection of the house
next door and had satisfied themselves that the stolen treasures were
not in it. The inspector and his men had searched it thoroughly just to
make sure; but, as Guerchard had foretold, the burglars had not taken
the chance of the failure of the police to discover the opening between
the two houses. M. Formery told the Duke about their tour of inspection
at length. Guerchard went to the telephone and told the exchange to put
him through to Charmerace. He was informed that the trunk line was very
busy and that he might have to wait half an hour.

The Duke inquired if any trace of the burglars, after they had left
with their booty, had yet been found. M. Formery told him that, so far,
the detectives had failed to find a single trace. Guerchard said that
he had three men at work on the search, and that he was hopeful of
getting some news before long.

"The layman is impatient in these matters," said M. Formery, with an
indulgent smile. "But we have learnt to be patient, after long
experience."

He proceeded to discuss with Guerchard the new theories with which the
discovery of the afternoon had filled his mind. None of them struck the
Duke as being of great value, and he listened to them with a somewhat
absent-minded air. The coming examination of Sonia weighed heavily on
his spirit. Guerchard answered only in monosyllables to the questions
and suggestions thrown out by M. Formery. It seemed to the Duke that he
paid very little attention to him, that his mind was still working hard
on the solution of the mystery, seeking the missing facts which would
bring him to the bottom of it. In the middle of one of M. Formery's
more elaborate dissertations the telephone bell rang.

Guerchard rose hastily and went to it. They heard him say: "Is that
Charmerace? ... I want the gardener.... Out? When will he be back? ...
Tell him to ring me up at M. Gournay-Martin's house in Paris the moment
he gets back.... Detective-Inspector Guerchard ... Guerchard ...
Detective-Inspector."

He turned to them with a frown, and said, "Of course, since I want him,
the confounded gardener has gone out for the day. Still, it's of very
little importance--a mere corroboration I wanted." And he went back to
his seat and lighted another cigarette.

M. Formery continued his dissertation. Presently Guerchard said, "You
might go and see how Victoire is, inspector--whether she shows any
signs of waking. What did the doctor say?"

"The doctor said that she would not really be sensible and have her
full wits about her much before ten o'clock to-night," said the
inspector; but he went to examine her present condition.

M. Formery proceeded to discuss the effects of different anesthetics.
The others heard him with very little attention.

The inspector came back and reported that Victoire showed no signs of
awaking.

"Well, then, M. Formery, I think we might get on with the examination
of Mademoiselle Kritchnoff," said Guerchard. "Will you go and fetch
her, inspector?"

"Really, I cannot conceive why you should worry that poor child," the
Duke protested, in a tone of some indignation.

"It seems to me hardly necessary," said M. Formery.

"Excuse me," said Guerchard suavely, "but I attach considerable
importance to it. It seems to me to be our bounden duty to question her
fully. One never knows from what quarter light may come."

"Oh, well, since you make such a point of it," said M. Formery.
"Inspector, ask Mademoiselle Kritchnoff to come here. Fetch her."

The inspector left the room.

Guerchard looked at the Duke with a faint air of uneasiness: "I think
that we had better question Mademoiselle Kritchnoff by ourselves," he
said.

M. Formery looked at him and hesitated. Then he said: "Oh, yes, of
course, by ourselves."

"Certainly," said the Duke, a trifle haughtily. And he rose and opened
the door. He was just going through it when Guerchard said sharply:

"Your Grace--"

The Duke paid no attention to him. He shut the door quickly behind him
and sprang swiftly up the stairs. He met the inspector coming down with
Sonia. Barring their way for a moment he said, in his kindliest voice:
"Now you mustn't be frightened, Mademoiselle Sonia. All you have to do
is to try to remember as clearly as you can the circumstances of the
earlier thefts at Charmerace. You mustn't let them confuse you."

"Thank you, your Grace, I will try and be as clear as I can," said
Sonia; and she gave him an eloquent glance, full of gratitude for the
warning; and went down the stairs with firm steps.

The Duke went on up the stairs, and knocked softly at the door of M.
Gournay-Martin's bedroom. There was no answer to his knock, and he
quietly opened the door and looked in. Overcome by his misfortunes, the
millionaire had sunk into a profound sleep and was snoring softly. The
Duke stepped inside the room, left the door open a couple of inches,
drew a chair to it, and sat down watching the staircase through the
opening of the door.

He sat frowning, with a look of profound pity on his face. Once the
suspense grew too much for him. He rose and walked up and down the
room. His well-bred calm seemed to have deserted him. He muttered
curses on Guerchard, M. Formery, and the whole French criminal system,
very softly, under his breath. His face was distorted to a mask of
fury; and once he wiped the little beads of sweat from his forehead
with his handkerchief. Then he recovered himself, sat down in the
chair, and resumed his watch on the stairs.

At last, at the end of half an hour, which had seemed to him months
long, he heard voices. The drawing-room door shut, and there were
footsteps on the stairs. The inspector and Sonia came into view.

He waited till they were at the top of the stairs: then he came out of
the room, with his most careless air, and said: "Well, Mademoiselle
Sonia, I hope you did not find it so very dreadful, after all."

She was very pale, and there were undried tears on her cheeks. "It was
horrible," she said faintly. "Horrible. M. Formery was all right--he
believed me; but that horrible detective would not believe a word I
said. He confused me. I hardly knew what I was saying."

The Duke ground his teeth softly. "Never mind, it's over now. You had
better lie down and rest. I will tell one of the servants to bring you
up a glass of wine."

He walked with her to the door of her room, and said: "Try to
sleep--sleep away the unpleasant memory."

She went into her room, and the Duke went downstairs and told the
butler to take a glass of champagne up to her. Then he went upstairs to
the drawing-room. M. Formery was at the table writing. Guerchard stood
beside him. He handed what he had written to Guerchard, and, with a
smile of satisfaction, Guerchard folded the paper and put it in his
pocket.

"Well, M. Formery, did Mademoiselle Kritchnoff throw any fresh light on
this mystery?" said the Duke, in a tone of faint contempt.

"No--in fact she convinced ME that she knew nothing whatever about it.
M. Guerchard seems to entertain a different opinion. But I think that
even he is convinced that Mademoiselle Kritchnoff is not a friend of
Arsene Lupin."

"Oh, well, perhaps she isn't. But there's no telling," said Guerchard
slowly.

"Arsene Lupin?" cried the Duke. "Surely you never thought that
Mademoiselle Kritchnoff had anything to do with Arsene Lupin?"

"I never thought so," said M. Formery. "But when one has a fixed idea
... well, one has a fixed idea." He shrugged his shoulders, and looked
at Guerchard with contemptuous eyes.

The Duke laughed, an unaffected ringing laugh, but not a pleasant one:
"It's absurd!" he cried.

"There are always those thefts," said Guerchard, with a nettled air.

"You have nothing to go upon," said M. Formery. "What if she did enter
the service of Mademoiselle Gournay-Martin just before the thefts
began? Besides, after this lapse of time, if she had committed the
thefts, you'd find it a job to bring them home to her. It's not a job
worth your doing, anyhow--it's a job for an ordinary detective,
Guerchard."

"There's always the pendant," said Guerchard. "I am convinced that that
pendant is in the house."

"Oh, that stupid pendant! I wish I'd never given it to Mademoiselle
Gournay-Martin," said the Duke lightly.

"I have a feeling that if I could lay my hand on that pendant--if I
could find who has it, I should have the key to this mystery."

"The devil you would!" said the Duke softly. "That is odd. It is the
oddest thing about this business I've heard yet."

"I have that feeling--I have that feeling," said Guerchard quietly.

The Duke smiled.




CHAPTER XVI

VICTOIRE'S SLIP


They were silent. The Duke walked to the fireplace, stepped into it,
and studied the opening. He came out again and said: "Oh, by the way,
M. Formery, the policeman at the front door wanted to stop me going out
of the house when I went home to change. I take it that M. Guerchard's
prohibition does not apply to me?"

"Of course not--of course not, your Grace," said M. Formery quickly.

"I saw that you had changed your clothes, your Grace," said Guerchard.
"I thought that you had done it here."

"No," said the Duke, "I went home. The policeman protested; but he went
no further, so I did not throw him into the middle of the street."

"Whatever our station, we should respect the law," said M. Formery
solemnly.

"The Republican Law, M. Formery? I am a Royalist," said the Duke,
smiling at him.

M. Formery shook his head sadly.

"I was wondering," said the Duke, "about M. Guerchard's theory that the
burglars were let in the front door of this house by an accomplice.
Why, when they had this beautiful large opening, did they want a front
door, too?"

"I did not know that that was Guerchard's theory?" said M. Formery, a
trifle contemptuously. "Of course they had no need to use the front
door."

"Perhaps they had no need to use the front door," said Guerchard; "but,
after all, the front door was unbolted, and they did not draw the bolts
to put us off the scent. Their false scent was already prepared"--he
waved his hand towards the window--"moreover, you must bear in mind
that that opening might not have been made when they entered the house.
Suppose that, while they were on the other side of the wall, a brick
had fallen on to the hearth, and alarmed the concierge. We don't know
how skilful they are; they might not have cared to risk it. I'm
inclined to think, on the whole, that they did come in through the
front door."

M. Formery sniffed contemptuously.

"Perhaps you're right," said the Duke. "But the accomplice?"

"I think we shall know more about the accomplice when Victoire awakes,"
said Guerchard.

"The family have such confidence in Victoire," said the Duke.

"Perhaps Lupin has, too," said Guerchard grimly.

"Always Lupin!" said M. Formery contemptuously.

There came a knock at the door, and a footman appeared on the
threshold. He informed the Duke that Germaine had returned from her
shopping expedition, and was awaiting him in her boudoir. He went to
her, and tried to persuade her to put in a word for Sonia, and
endeavour to soften Guerchard's rigour.

She refused to do anything of the kind, declaring that, in view of the
value of the stolen property, no stone must be left unturned to recover
it. The police knew what they were doing; they must have a free hand.
The Duke did not press her with any great vigour; he realized the
futility of an appeal to a nature so shallow, so self-centred, and so
lacking in sympathy. He took his revenge by teasing her about the
wedding presents which were still flowing in. Her father's business
friends were still striving to outdo one another in the costliness of
the jewelry they were giving her. The great houses of the Faubourg
Saint-Germain were still refraining firmly from anything that savoured
of extravagance or ostentation. While he was with her the eleventh
paper-knife came--from his mother's friend, the Duchess of Veauleglise.
The Duke was overwhelmed with joy at the sight of it, and his delighted
comments drove Germaine to the last extremity of exasperation. The
result was that she begged him, with petulant asperity, to get out of
her sight.

He complied with her request, almost with alacrity, and returned to M.
Formery and Guerchard. He found them at a standstill, waiting for
reports from the detectives who were hunting outside the house for
information about the movements of the burglars with the stolen booty,
and apparently finding none. The police were also hunting for the
stolen motor-cars, not only in Paris and its environs, but also all
along the road between Paris and Charmerace.

At about five o'clock Guerchard grew tired of the inaction, and went
out himself to assist his subordinates, leaving M. Formery in charge of
the house itself. He promised to be back by half-past seven, to let the
examining magistrate, who had an engagement for the evening, get away.
The Duke spent his time between the drawing-room, where M. Formery
entertained him with anecdotes of his professional skill, and the
boudoir, where Germaine was entertaining envious young friends who came
to see her wedding presents. The friends of Germaine were always a
little ill at ease in the society of the Duke, belonging as they did to
that wealthy middle class which has made France what she is. His
indifference to the doings of the old friends of his family saddened
them; and they were unable to understand his airy and persistent
trifling. It seemed to them a discord in the cosmic tune.

The afternoon wore away, and at half-past seven Guerchard had not
returned. M. Formery waited for him, fuming, for ten minutes, then left
the house in charge of the inspector, and went off to his engagement.
M. Gournay-Martin was entertaining two financiers and their wives, two
of their daughters, and two friends of the Duke, the Baron de Vernan
and the Comte de Vauvineuse, at dinner that night. Thanks to the Duke,
the party was of a liveliness to which the gorgeous dining-room had
been very little used since it had been so fortunate as to become the
property of M. Gournay-Martin.

The millionaire had been looking forward to an evening of luxurious
woe, deploring the loss of his treasures--giving their prices--to his
sympathetic friends. The Duke had other views; and they prevailed.
After dinner the guests went to the smoking-room, since the
drawing-rooms were in possession of Guerchard. Soon after ten the Duke
slipped away from them, and went to the detective. Guerchard's was not
a face at any time full of expression, and all that the Duke saw on it
was a subdued dulness.

"Well, M. Guerchard," he said cheerfully, "what luck? Have any of your
men come across any traces of the passage of the burglars with their
booty?"

"No, your Grace; so far, all the luck has been with the burglars. For
all that any one seems to have seen them, they might have vanished into
the bowels of the earth through the floor of the cellars in the empty
house next door. That means that they were very quick loading whatever
vehicle they used with their plunder. I should think, myself, that they
first carried everything from this house down into the hall of the
house next door; and then, of course, they could be very quick getting
them from hall to their van, or whatever it was. But still, some one
saw that van--saw it drive up to the house, or waiting at the house, or
driving away from it."

"Is M. Formery coming back?" said the Duke.

"Not to-night," said Guerchard. "The affair is in my hands now; and I
have my own men on it--men of some intelligence, or, at any rate, men
who know my ways, and how I want things done."

"It must be a relief," said the Duke.

"Oh, no, I'm used to M. Formery--to all the examining magistrates in
Paris, and in most of the big provincial towns. They do not really
hamper me; and often I get an idea from them; for some of them are men
of real intelligence."

"And others are not: I understand," said the Duke.

The door opened and Bonavent, the detective, came in.

"The housekeeper's awake, M. Guerchard," he said.

"Good, bring her down here," said Guerchard.

"Perhaps you'd like me to go," said the Duke.

"Oh, no," said Guerchard. "If it would interest you to hear me question
her, please stay."

Bonavent left the room. The Duke sat down in an easy chair, and
Guerchard stood before the fireplace.

"M. Formery told me, when you were out this afternoon, that he believed
this housekeeper to be quite innocent," said the Duke idly.

"There is certainly one innocent in this affair," said Guerchard,
grinning.

"Who is that?" said the Duke.

"The examining magistrate," said Guerchard.

The door opened, and Bonavent brought Victoire in. She was a big,
middle-aged woman, with a pleasant, cheerful, ruddy face, black-haired,
with sparkling brown eyes, which did not seem to have been at all
dimmed by her long, drugged sleep. She looked like a well-to-do
farmer's wife, a buxom, good-natured, managing woman.

As soon as she came into the room, she said quickly:

"I wish, Mr. Inspector, your man would have given me time to put on a
decent dress. I must have been sleeping in this one ever since those
rascals tied me up and put that smelly handkerchief over my face. I
never saw such a nasty-looking crew as they were in my life."

"How many were there, Madame Victoire?" said Guerchard.

"Dozens! The house was just swarming with them. I heard the noise; I
came downstairs; and on the landing outside the door here, one of them
jumped on me from behind and nearly choked me--to prevent me from
screaming, I suppose."

"And they were a nasty-looking crew, were they?" said Guerchard. "Did
you see their faces?"

"No, I wish I had! I should know them again if I had; but they were all
masked," said Victoire.

"Sit down, Madame Victoire. There's no need to tire you," said
Guerchard. And she sat down on a chair facing him.

"Let's see, you sleep in one of the top rooms, Madame Victoire. It has
a dormer window, set in the roof, hasn't it?" said Guerchard, in the
same polite, pleasant voice.

"Yes; yes. But what has that got to do with it?" said Victoire.

"Please answer my questions," said Guerchard sharply. "You went to
sleep in your room. Did you hear any noise on the roof?"

"On the roof? How should I hear it on the roof? There wouldn't be any
noise on the roof," said Victoire.

"You heard nothing on the roof?" said Guerchard.

"No; the noise I heard was down here," said Victoire.

"Yes, and you came down to see what was making it. And you were seized
from behind on the landing, and brought in here," said Guerchard.

"Yes, that's right," said Madame Victoire.

"And were you tied up and gagged on the landing, or in here?" said
Guerchard.

"Oh, I was caught on the landing, and pushed in here, and then tied
up," said Victoire.

"I'm sure that wasn't one man's job," said Guerchard, looking at her
vigorous figure with admiring eyes.

"You may be sure of that," said Victoire. "It took four of them; and at
least two of them have some nice bruises on their shins to show for it."

"I'm sure they have. And it serves them jolly well right," said
Guerchard, in a tone of warm approval. "And, I suppose, while those
four were tying you up the others stood round and looked on."

"Oh, no, they were far too busy for that," said Victoire.

"What were they doing?" said Guerchard.

"They were taking the pictures off the walls and carrying them out of
the window down the ladder," said Victoire.

Guerchard's eyes flickered towards the Duke, but the expression of
earnest inquiry on his face never changed.

"Now, tell me, did the man who took a picture from the walls carry it
down the ladder himself, or did he hand it through the window to a man
who was standing on the top of a ladder ready to receive it?" he said.

Victoire paused as if to recall their action; then she said, "Oh, he
got through the window, and carried it down the ladder himself."

"You're sure of that?" said Guerchard.

"Oh, yes, I am quite sure of it--why should I deceive you, Mr.
Inspector?" said Victoire quickly; and the Duke saw the first shadow of
uneasiness on her face.

"Of course not," said Guerchard. "And where were you?"

"Oh, they put me behind the screen."

"No, no, where were you when you came into the room?"

"I was against the door," said Victoire.

"And where was the screen?" said Guerchard. "Was it before the
fireplace?"

"No; it was on one side--the left-hand side," said Victoire.

"Oh, will you show me exactly where it stood?" said Guerchard.

Victoire rose, and, Guerchard aiding her, set the screen on the
left-hand side of the fireplace.

Guerchard stepped back and looked at it.

"Now, this is very important," he said. "I must have the exact position
of the four feet of that screen. Let's see ... some chalk ... of
course.... You do some dressmaking, don't you, Madame Victoire?"

"Oh, yes, I sometimes make a dress for one of the maids in my spare
time," said Victoire.

"Then you've got a piece of chalk on you," said Guerchard.

"Oh, yes," said Victoire, putting her hand to the pocket of her dress.

She paused, took a step backwards, and looked wildly round the room,
while the colour slowly faded in her ruddy cheeks.

"What am I talking about?" she said in an uncertain, shaky voice. "I
haven't any chalk--I--ran out of chalk the day before yesterday."

"I think you have, Madame Victoire. Feel in your pocket and see," said
Guerchard sternly. His voice had lost its suavity; his face its smile:
his eyes had grown dangerous.

"No, no; I have no chalk," cried Victoire.

With a sudden leap Guerchard sprang upon her, caught her in a firm grip
with his right arm, and his left hand plunged into her pocket.

"Let me go! Let me go! You're hurting," she cried.

Guerchard loosed her and stepped back.

"What's this?" he said; and he held up between his thumb and forefinger
a piece of blue chalk.

Victoire drew herself up and faced him gallantly: "Well, what of
it?--it is chalk. Mayn't an honest woman carry chalk in her pockets
without being insulted and pulled about by every policeman she comes
across?" she cried.

"That will be for the examining magistrate to decide," said Guerchard;
and he went to the door and called Bonavent. Bonavent came in, and
Guerchard said: "When the prison van comes, put this woman in it; and
send her down to the station."

"But what have I done?" cried Victoire. "I'm innocent! I declare I'm
innocent. I've done nothing at all. It's not a crime to carry a piece
of chalk in one's pocket."

"Now, that's a matter for the examining magistrate. You can explain it
to him," said Guerchard. "I've got nothing to do with it: so it's no
good making a fuss now. Do go quietly, there's a good woman."

He spoke in a quiet, business-like tone. Victoire looked him in the
eyes, then drew herself up, and went quietly out of the room.




CHAPTER XVII

SONIA'S ESCAPE


"One of M. Formery's innocents," said Guerchard, turning to the Duke.

"The chalk?" said the Duke. "Is it the same chalk?"

"It's blue," said Guerchard, holding it out. "The same as that of the
signatures on the walls. Add that fact to the woman's sudden
realization of what she was doing, and you'll see that they were
written with it."

"It is rather a surprise," said the Duke. "To look at her you would
think that she was the most honest woman in the world."

"Ah, you don't know Lupin, your Grace," said Guerchard. "He can do
anything with women; and they'll do anything for him. And, what's more,
as far as I can see, it doesn't make a scrap of difference whether
they're honest or not. The fair-haired lady I was telling you about was
probably an honest woman; Ganimard is sure of it. We should have found
out long ago who she was if she had been a wrong 'un. And Ganimard also
swears that when he arrested Lupin on board the Provence some woman,
some ordinary, honest woman among the passengers, carried away Lady
Garland's jewels, which he had stolen and was bringing to America, and
along with them a matter of eight hundred pounds which he had stolen
from a fellow-passenger on the voyage."

"That power of fascination which some men exercise on women is one of
those mysteries which science should investigate before it does
anything else," said the Duke, in a reflective tone. "Now I come to
think of it, I had much better have spent my time on that investigation
than on that tedious journey to the South Pole. All the same, I'm
deucedly sorry for that woman, Victoire. She looks such a good soul."

Guerchard shrugged his shoulders: "The prisons are full of good souls,"
he said, with cynical wisdom born of experience. "They get caught so
much more often than the bad."

"It seems rather mean of Lupin to make use of women like this, and get
them into trouble," said the Duke.

"But he doesn't," said Guerchard quickly. "At least he hasn't up to
now. This Victoire is the first we've caught. I look on it as a good
omen."

He walked across the room, picked up his cloak, and took a card-case
from the inner pocket of it. "If you don't mind, your Grace, I want you
to show this permit to my men who are keeping the door, whenever you go
out of the house. It's just a formality; but I attach considerable
importance to it, for I really ought not to make exceptions in favour
of any one. I have two men at the door, and they have orders to let
nobody out without my written permission. Of course M. Gournay-Martin's
guests are different. Bonavent has orders to pass them out. And, if
your Grace doesn't mind, it will help me. If you carry a permit, no one
else will dream of complaining of having to do so."

"Oh, I don't mind, if it's of any help to you," said the Duke
cheerfully.

"Thank you," said Guerchard. And he wrote on his card and handed it to
the Duke.

The Duke took it and looked at it. On it was written:

     "Pass the Duke of Charmerace."

     "J. GUERCHARD."

"It's quite military," said the Duke, putting the card into his
waistcoat pocket.

There came a knock at the door, and a tall, thin, bearded man came into
the room.

"Ah, Dieusy! At last! What news?" cried Guerchard.

Dieusy saluted: "I've learnt that a motor-van was waiting outside the
next house--in the side street," he said.

"At what time?" said Guerchard.

"Between four and five in the morning," said Dieusy.

"Who saw it?" said Guerchard.

"A scavenger. He thinks that it was nearly five o'clock when the van
drove off."

"Between four and five--nearly five. Then they filled up the opening
before they loaded the van. I thought they would," said Guerchard,
thoughtfully. "Anything else?"

"A few minutes after the van had gone a man in motoring dress came out
of the house," said Dieusy.

"In motoring dress?" said Guerchard quickly.

"Yes. And a little way from the house he threw away his cigarette. The
scavenger thought the whole business a little queer, and he picked up
the cigarette and kept it. Here it is."

He handed it to Guerchard, whose eyes scanned it carelessly and then
glued themselves to it.

"A gold-tipped cigarette ... marked Mercedes ... Why, your Grace, this
is one of your cigarettes!"

"But this is incredible!" cried the Duke.

"Not at all," said Guerchard. "It's merely another link in the chain.
I've no doubt you have some of these cigarettes at Charmerace."

"Oh, yes, I've had a box on most of the tables," said the Duke.

"Well, there you are," said Guerchard.

"Oh, I see what you're driving at," said the Duke. "You mean that one
of the Charolais must have taken a box."

"Well, we know that they'd hardly stick at a box of cigarettes," said
Guerchard.

"Yes ... but I thought ..." said the Duke; and he paused.

"You thought what?" said Guerchard.

"Then Lupin ... since it was Lupin who managed the business last
night--since you found those salvias in the house next door ... then
Lupin came from Charmerace."

"Evidently," said Guerchard.

"And Lupin is one of the Charolais."

"Oh, that's another matter," said Guerchard.

"But it's certain, absolutely certain," said the Duke. "We have the
connecting links ... the salvias ... this cigarette."

"It looks very like it. You're pretty quick on a scent, I must say,"
said Guerchard. "What a detective you would have made! Only ... nothing
is certain."

"But it IS. Whatever more do you want? Was he at Charmerace yesterday,
or was he not? Did he, or did he not, arrange the theft of the
motor-cars?"

"Certainly he did. But he himself might have remained in the background
all the while," said Guerchard.

"In what shape? ... Under what mask? ... By Jove, I should like to see
this fellow!" said the Duke.

"We shall see him to-night," said Guerchard.

"To-night?" said the Duke.

"Of course we shall; for he will come to steal the coronet between a
quarter to twelve and midnight," said Guerchard.

"Never!" said the Duke. "You don't really believe that he'll have the
cheek to attempt such a mad act?"

"Ah, you don't know this man, your Grace ... his extraordinary mixture
of coolness and audacity. It's the danger that attracts him. He throws
himself into the fire, and he doesn't get burnt. For the last ten years
I've been saying to myself, 'Here we are: this time I've got him! ...
At last I'm going to nab him.' But I've said that day after day," said
Guerchard; and he paused.

"Well?" said the Duke.

"Well, the days pass; and I never nab him. Oh, he is thick, I tell
you.... He's a joker, he is ... a regular artist"--he ground his
teeth--"The damned thief!"

The Duke looked at him, and said slowly, "Then you think that to-night
Lupin--"

"You've followed the scent with me, your Grace," Guerchard interrupted
quickly and vehemently. "We've picked up each clue together. You've
almost seen this man at work.... You've understood him. Isn't a man
like this, I ask you, capable of anything?"

"He is," said the Duke, with conviction.

"Well, then," said Guerchard.

"Perhaps you're right," said the Duke.

Guerchard turned to Dieusy and said, in a quieter voice, "And when the
scavenger had picked up the cigarette, did he follow the motorist?"

"Yes, he followed him for about a hundred yards. He went down into
Sureau Street, and turned westwards. Then a motor-car came along; he
got into it, and went off."

"What kind of a motor-car?" said Guerchard.

"A big car, and dark red in colour," said Dieusy.

"The Limousine!" cried the Duke.

"That's all I've got so far, sir," said Dieusy.

"Well, off you go," said Guerchard. "Now that you've got started,
you'll probably get something else before very long."

Dieusy saluted and went.

"Things are beginning to move," said Guerchard cheerfully. "First
Victoire, and now this motor-van."

"They are indeed," said the Duke.

"After all, it ought not to be very difficult to trace that motor-van,"
said Guerchard, in a musing tone. "At any rate, its movements ought to
be easy enough to follow up till about six. Then, of course, there
would be a good many others about, delivering goods."

"You seem to have all the possible information you can want at your
finger-ends," said the Duke, in an admiring tone.

"I suppose I know the life of Paris as well as anybody," said Guerchard.

They were silent for a while. Then Germaine's maid, Irma, came into the
room and said:

"If you please, your Grace, Mademoiselle Kritchnoff would like to speak
to you for a moment."

"Oh? Where is she?" said the Duke.

"She's in her room, your Grace."

"Oh, very well, I'll go up to her," said the Duke. "I can speak to her
in the library."

He rose and was going towards the door when Guerchard stepped forward,
barring his way, and said, "No, your Grace."

"No? Why?" said the Duke haughtily.

"I beg you will wait a minute or two till I've had a word with you,"
said Guerchard; and he drew a folded sheet of paper from his pocket and
held it up.

The Duke looked at Guerchard's face, and he looked at the paper in his
hand; then he said: "Oh, very well." And, turning to Irma, he added
quietly, "Tell Mademoiselle Kritchnoff that I'm in the drawing-room."

"Yes, your Grace, in the drawing-room," said Irma; and she turned to go.

"Yes; and say that I shall be engaged for the next five minutes--the
next five minutes, do you understand?" said the Duke.

"Yes, your Grace," said Irma; and she went out of the door.

"Ask Mademoiselle Kritchnoff to put on her hat and cloak," said
Guerchard.

"Yes, sir," said Irma; and she went.

The Duke turned sharply on Guerchard, and said: "Now, why on earth? ...
I don't understand."

"I got this from M. Formery," said Guerchard, holding up the paper.

"Well," said the Duke. "What is it?"

"It's a warrant, your Grace," said Guerchard.

"What! ... A warrant! ... Not for the arrest of Mademoiselle
Kritchnoff?"

"Yes," said Guerchard.

"Oh, come, it's impossible," said the Duke. "You're never going to
arrest that child?"

"I am, indeed," said Guerchard. "Her examination this afternoon was in
the highest degree unsatisfactory. Her answers were embarrassed,
contradictory, and in every way suspicious."

"And you've made up your mind to arrest her?" said the Duke slowly,
knitting his brow in anxious thought.

"I have, indeed," said Guerchard. "And I'm going to do it now. The
prison van ought to be waiting at the door." He looked at his watch.
"She and Victoire can go together."

"So ... you're going to arrest her ... you're going to arrest her?"
said the Duke thoughtfully: and he took a step or two up and down the
room, still thinking hard.

"Well, you understand the position, don't you, your Grace?" said
Guerchard, in a tone of apology. "Believe me that, personally, I've no
animosity against Mademoiselle Kritchnoff. In fact, the child attracts
me."

"Yes," said the Duke softly, in a musing tone. "She has the air of a
child who has lost its way ... lost its way in life.... And that poor
little hiding-place she found ... that rolled-up handkerchief ...
thrown down in the corner of the little room in the house next door ...
it was absolutely absurd."

"What! A handkerchief!" cried Guerchard, with an air of sudden, utter
surprise.

"The child's clumsiness is positively pitiful," said the Duke.

"What was in the handkerchief? ... The pearls of the pendant?" cried
Guerchard.

"Yes: I supposed you knew all about it. Of course M. Formery left word
for you," said the Duke, with an air of surprise at the ignorance of
the detective.

"No: I've heard nothing about it," cried Guerchard.

"He didn't leave word for you?" said the Duke, in a tone of greater
surprise. "Oh, well, I dare say that he thought to-morrow would do. Of
course you were out of the house when he found it. She must have
slipped out of her room soon after you went."

"He found a handkerchief belonging to Mademoiselle Kritchnoff. Where is
it?" cried Guerchard.

"M. Formery took the pearls, but he left the handkerchief. I suppose
it's in the corner where he found it," said the Duke.

"He left the handkerchief?" cried Guerchard. "If that isn't just like
the fool! He ought to keep hens; it's all he's fit for!"

He ran to the fireplace, seized the lantern, and began lighting it:
"Where is the handkerchief?" he cried.

"In the left-hand corner of the little room on the right on the second
floor. But if you're going to arrest Mademoiselle Kritchnoff, why are
you bothering about the handkerchief? It can't be of any importance,"
said the Duke.

"I beg your pardon," said Guerchard. "But it is."

"But why?" said the Duke.

"I was arresting Mademoiselle Kritchnoff all right because I had a very
strong presumption of her guilt. But I hadn't the slightest proof of
it," said Guerchard.

"What?" cried the Duke, in a horrified tone.

"No, you've just given me the proof; and since she was able to hide the
pearls in the house next door, she knew the road which led to it.
Therefore she's an accomplice," said Guerchard, in a triumphant tone.

"What? Do you think that, too?" cried the Duke. "Good Heavens! And it's
me! ... It's my senselessness! ... It's my fault that you've got your
proof!" He spoke in a tone of acute distress.

"It was your duty to give it me," said Guerchard sternly; and he began
to mount the steps.

"Shall I come with you? I know where the handkerchief is," said the
Duke quickly.

"No, thank you, your Grace," said Guerchard. "I prefer to go alone."

"You'd better let me help you," said the Duke.

"No, your Grace," said Guerchard firmly.

"I must really insist," said the Duke.

"No--no--no," said Guerchard vehemently, with stern decision. "It's no
use your insisting, your Grace; I prefer to go alone. I shall only be
gone a minute or two."

"Just as you like," said the Duke stiffly.

The legs of Guerchard disappeared up the steps. The Duke stood
listening with all his ears. Directly he heard the sound of Guerchard's
heels on the floor, when he dropped from the chimney-piece of the next
room, he went swiftly to the door, opened it, and went out. Bonavent
was sitting on the chair on which the young policeman had sat during
the afternoon. Sonia, in her hat and cloak, was half-way down the
stairs.

The Duke put his head inside the drawing-room door, and said to the
empty room: "Here is Mademoiselle Kritchnoff, M. Guerchard." He held
open the door, Sonia came down the stairs, and went through it. The
Duke followed her into the drawing-room, and shut the door.

"There's not a moment to lose," he said in a low voice.

"Oh, what is it, your Grace?" said Sonia anxiously.

"Guerchard has a warrant for your arrest."

"Then I'm lost!" cried Sonia, in a panic-stricken voice.

"No, you're not. You must go--at once," said the Duke.

"But how can I go? No one can get out of the house. M. Guerchard won't
let them," cried Sonia, panic-stricken.

"We can get over that," said the Duke.

He ran to Guerchard's cloak, took the card-case from the inner pocket,
went to the writing-table, and sat down. He took from his waist-coat
pocket the permit which Guerchard had given him, and a pencil. Then he
took a card from the card-case, set the permit on the table before him,
and began to imitate Guerchard's handwriting with an amazing exactness.
He wrote on the card:

     "Pass Mademoiselle Kritchnoff."
     "J. GUERCHARD."

Sonia stood by his side, panting quickly with fear, and watched him do
it. He had scarcely finished the last stroke, when they heard a noise
on the other side of the opening into the empty house. The Duke looked
at the fireplace, and his teeth bared in an expression of cold
ferocity. He rose with clenched fists, and took a step towards the
fireplace.

"Your Grace? Your Grace?" called the voice of Guerchard.

"What is it?" answered the Duke quietly.

"I can't see any handkerchief," said Guerchard. "Didn't you say it was
in the left-hand corner of the little room on the right?"

"I told you you'd better let me come with you, and find it," said the
Duke, in a tone of triumph. "It's in the right-hand corner of the
little room on the left."

"I could have sworn you said the little room on the right," said
Guerchard.

They heard his footfalls die away.

"Now, you must get out of the house quickly." said the Duke. "Show this
card to the detectives at the door, and they'll pass you without a
word."

He pressed the card into her hand.

"But--but--this card?" stammered Sonia.

"There's no time to lose," said the Duke.

"But this is madness," said Sonia. "When Guerchard finds out about this
card--that you--you--"

"There's no need to bother about that," interrupted the Duke quickly.
"Where are you going to?"

"A little hotel near the Star. I've forgotten the name of it," said
Sonia. "But this card--"

"Has it a telephone?" said the Duke.

"Yes--No. 555, Central," said Sonia.

"If I haven't telephoned to you before half-past eight to-morrow
morning, come straight to my house," said the Duke, scribbling the
telephone number on his shirt-cuff.

"Yes, yes," said Sonia. "But this card.... When Guerchard knows ...
when he discovers.... Oh, I can't let you get into trouble for me."

"I shan't. But go--go," said the Duke, and he slipped his right arm
round her and drew her to the door.

"Oh, how good you are to me," said Sonia softly.

The Duke's other arm went round her; he drew her to him, and their lips
met.

He loosed her, and opened the door, saying loudly: "You're sure you
won't have a cab, Mademoiselle Kritchnoff?"

"No; no, thank you, your Grace. Goodnight," said Sonia. And she went
through the door with a transfigured face.




CHAPTER XVIII

THE DUKE STAYS


The Duke shut the door and leant against it, listening anxiously,
breathing quickly. There came the bang of the front door. With a deep
sigh of relief he left the door, came briskly, smiling, across the
room, and put the card-case back into the pocket of Guerchard's cloak.
He lighted a cigarette, dropped into an easy chair, and sat waiting
with an entirely careless air for the detective's return. Presently he
heard quick footsteps on the bare boards of the empty room beyond the
opening. Then Guerchard came down the steps and out of the fireplace.

His face wore an expression of extreme perplexity:

"I can't understand it," he said. "I found nothing."

"Nothing?" said the Duke.

"No. Are you sure you saw the handkerchief in one of those little rooms
on the second floor--quite sure?" said Guerchard.

"Of course I did," said the Duke. "Isn't it there?"

"No," said Guerchard.

"You can't have looked properly," said the Duke, with a touch of irony
in his voice. "If I were you, I should go back and look again."

"No. If I've looked for a thing, I've looked for it. There's no need
for me to look a second time. But, all the same, it's rather funny.
Doesn't it strike you as being rather funny, your Grace?" said
Guerchard, with a worried air.

"It strikes me as being uncommonly funny," said the Duke, with an
ambiguous smile.

Guerchard looked at him with a sudden uneasiness; then he rang the bell.

Bonavent came into the room.

"Mademoiselle Kritchnoff, Bonavent. It's quite time," said Guerchard.

"Mademoiselle Kritchnoff?" said Bonavent, with an air of surprise.

"Yes, it's time that she was taken to the police-station."

"Mademoiselle Kritchnoff has gone, sir," said Bonavent, in a tone of
quiet remonstrance.

"Gone? What do you mean by gone?" said Guerchard.

"Gone, sir, gone!" said Bonavent patiently.

"But you're mad.... Mad!" cried Guerchard.

"No, I'm not mad," said Bonavent. "Gone! But who let her go?" cried
Guerchard.

"The men at the door," said Bonavent.

"The men at the door," said Guerchard, in a tone of stupefaction. "But
she had to have my permit ... my permit on my card! Send the fools up
to me!"

Bonavent went to the top of the staircase, and called down it.
Guerchard followed him. Two detectives came hurrying up the stairs and
into the drawing-room.

"What the devil do you mean by letting Mademoiselle Kritchnoff leave
the house without my permit, written on my card?" cried Guerchard
violently.

"But she had your permit, sir, and it WAS written on your card,"
stammered one of the detectives.

"It was? ... it was?" said Guerchard. "Then, by Jove, it was a forgery!"

He stood thoughtful for a moment. Then quietly he told his two men to
go back to their post. He did not stir for a minute or two, puzzling it
out, seeking light.

Then he came back slowly into the drawing-room and looked uneasily at
the Duke. The Duke was sitting in his easy chair, smoking a cigarette
with a listless air. Guerchard looked at him, and looked at him, almost
as if he now saw him for the first time.

"Well?" said the Duke, "have you sent that poor child off to prison? If
I'd done a thing like that I don't think I should sleep very well, M.
Guerchard."

"That poor child has just escaped, by means of a forged permit," said
Guerchard very glumly.

"By Jove, I AM glad to hear that!" cried the Duke. "You'll forgive my
lack of sympathy, M. Guerchard; but she was such a child."

"Not too young to be Lupin's accomplice," said Guerchard drily.

"You really think she is?" said the Duke, in a tone of doubt.

"I'm sure of it," said Guerchard, with decision; then he added slowly,
with a perplexed air:

"But how--how--could she get that forged permit?"

The Duke shook his head, and looked as solemn as an owl. Guerchard
looked at him uneasily, went out of the drawing-room, and shut the door.

"How long has Mademoiselle Kritchnoff been gone?" he said to Bonavent.

"Not much more than five minutes," said Bonavent. "She came out from
talking to you in the drawing-room--"

"Talking to me in the drawing-room!" exclaimed Guerchard.

"Yes," said Bonavent. "She came out and went straight down the stairs
and out of the house."

A faint, sighing gasp came from Guerchard's lips. He dashed into the
drawing-room, crossed the room quickly to his cloak, picked it up, took
the card-case out of the pocket, and counted the cards in it. Then he
looked at the Duke.

The Duke smiled at him, a charming smile, almost caressing.

There seemed to be a lump in Guerchard's throat; he swallowed it loudly.

He put the card-case into the breast-pocket of the coat he was wearing.
Then he cried sharply, "Bonavent! Bonavent!"

Bonavent opened the door, and stood in the doorway.

"You sent off Victoire in the prison-van, I suppose," said Guerchard.

"Oh, a long while ago, sir," said Bonavent.

"The van had been waiting at the door since half-past nine."

"Since half-past nine? ... But I told them I shouldn't want it till a
quarter to eleven. I suppose they were making an effort to be in time
for once. Well, it doesn't matter," said Guerchard.

"Then I suppose I'd better send the other prison-van away?" said
Bonavent.

"What other van?" said Guerchard.

"The van which has just arrived," said Bonavent.

"What! What on earth are you talking about?" cried Guerchard, with a
sudden anxiety in his voice and on his face.

"Didn't you order two prison-vans?" said Bonavent.

Guerchard jumped; and his face went purple with fury and dismay. "You
don't mean to tell me that two prison-vans have been here?" he cried.

"Yes, sir," said Bonavent.

"Damnation!" cried Guerchard. "In which of them did you put Victoire?
In which of them?"

"Why, in the first, sir," said Bonavent.

"Did you see the police in charge of it? The coachman?"

"Yes, sir," said Bonavent.

"Did you recognize them?" said Guerchard.

"No," said Bonavent; "they must have been new men. They told me they
came from the Sante."

"You silly fool!" said Guerchard through his teeth. "A fine lot of
sense you've got."

"Why, what's the matter?" said Bonavent.

"We're done, done in the eye!" roared Guerchard. "It's a stroke--a
stroke--"

"Of Lupin's!" interposed the Duke softly.

"But I don't understand," said Bonavent.

"You don't understand, you idiot!" cried Guerchard. "You've sent
Victoire away in a sham prison-van--a prison-van belonging to Lupin.
Oh, that scoundrel! He always has something up his sleeve."

"He certainly shows foresight," said the Duke. "It was very clever of
him to foresee the arrest of Victoire and provide against it."

"Yes, but where is the leakage? Where is the leakage?" cried Guerchard,
fuming. "How did he learn that the doctor said that she would recover
her wits at ten o'clock? Here I've had a guard at the door all day;
I've imprisoned the household; all the provisions have been received
directly by a man of mine; and here he is, ready to pick up Victoire
the very moment she gives herself away! Where is the leakage?"

He turned on Bonavent, and went on: "It's no use your standing there
with your mouth open, looking like a fool. Go upstairs to the servants'
quarters and search Victoire's room again. That fool of an inspector
may have missed something, just as he missed Victoire herself. Get on!
Be smart!"

Bonavent went off briskly. Guerchard paced up and down the room,
scowling.

"Really, I'm beginning to agree with you, M. Guerchard, that this Lupin
is a remarkable man," said the Duke. "That prison-van is
extraordinarily neat."

"I'll prison-van him!" cried Guerchard. "But what fools I have to work
with. If I could get hold of people of ordinary intelligence it would
be impossible to play such a trick as that."

"I don't know about that," said the Duke thoughtfully. "I think it
would have required an uncommon fool to discover that trick."

"What on earth do you mean? Why?" said Guerchard.

"Because it's so wonderfully simple," said the Duke. "And at the same
time it's such infernal cheek."

"There's something in that," said Guerchard grumpily. "But then, I'm
always saying to my men, 'Suspect everything; suspect everybody;
suspect, suspect, suspect.' I tell you, your Grace, that there is only
one motto for the successful detective, and that is that one word,
'suspect.'"

"It can't be a very comfortable business, then," said the Duke. "But I
suppose it has its charms."

"Oh, one gets used to the disagreeable part," said Guerchard.

The telephone bell rang; and he rose and went to it. He put the
receiver to his ear and said, "Yes; it's I--Chief-Inspector Guerchard."

He turned and said to the Duke, "It's the gardener at Charmerace, your
Grace."

"Is it?" said the Duke indifferently.

Guerchard turned to the telephone. "Are you there?" he said. "Can you
hear me clearly? ... I want to know who was in your hot-house yesterday
... who could have gathered some of your pink salvias?"

"I told you that it was I," said the Duke.

"Yes, yes, I know," said Guerchard. And he turned again to the
telephone. "Yes, yesterday," he said. "Nobody else? ... No one but the
Duke of Charmerace? ... Are you sure?... quite sure?... absolutely
sure? ... Yes, that's all I wanted to know ... thank you."

He turned to the Duke and said, "Did you hear that, your Grace? The
gardener says that you were the only person in his hot-houses
yesterday, the only person who could have plucked any pink salvias."

"Does he?" said the Duke carelessly.

Guerchard looked at him, his brow knitted in a faint, pondering frown.
Then the door opened, and Bonavent came in: "I've been through
Victoire's room," he said, "and all I could find that might be of any
use is this--a prayer-book. It was on her dressing-table just as she
left it. The inspector hadn't touched it."

"What about it?" said Guerchard, taking the prayer-book.

"There's a photograph in it," said Bonavent. "It may come in useful
when we circulate her description; for I suppose we shall try to get
hold of Victoire."

Guerchard took the photograph from the prayer-book and looked at it:
"It looks about ten years old," he said. "It's a good deal faded for
reproduction. Hullo! What have we here?"

The photograph showed Victoire in her Sunday best, and with her a boy
of seventeen or eighteen. Guerchard's eyes glued themselves to the face
of the boy. He stared at it, holding the portrait now nearer, now
further off. His eyes kept stealing covertly from the photograph to the
face of the Duke.

The Duke caught one of those covert glances, and a vague uneasiness
flickered in his eyes. Guerchard saw it. He came nearer to the Duke and
looked at him earnestly, as if he couldn't believe his eyes.

"What's the matter?" said the Duke. "What are you looking at so
curiously? Isn't my tie straight?" And he put up his hand and felt it.

"Oh, nothing, nothing," said Guerchard. And he studied the photograph
again with a frowning face.

There was a noise of voices and laughter in the hall.

"Those people are going," said the Duke. "I must go down and say
good-bye to them." And he rose and went out of the room.

Guerchard stood staring, staring at the photograph.

The Duke ran down the stairs, and said goodbye to the millionaire's
guests. After they had gone, M. Gournay-Martin went quickly up the
stairs; Germaine and the Duke followed more slowly.

"My father is going to the Ritz to sleep," said Germaine, "and I'm
going with him. He doesn't like the idea of my sleeping in this house
to-night. I suppose he's afraid that Lupin will make an attack in force
with all his gang. Still, if he did, I think that Guerchard could give
a good account of himself--he's got men enough in the house, at any
rate. Irma tells me it's swarming with them. It would never do for me
to be in the house if there were a fight."

"Oh, come, you don't really believe that Lupin is coming to-night?"
said the Duke, with a sceptical laugh. "The whole thing is sheer
bluff--he has no more intention of coming tonight to steal that coronet
than--than I have."

"Oh, well, there's no harm in being on the safe side," said Germaine.
"Everybody's agreed that he's a very terrible person. I'll just run up
to my room and get a wrap; Irma has my things all packed. She can come
round tomorrow morning to the Ritz and dress me."

She ran up the stairs, and the Duke went into the drawing-room. He
found Guerchard standing where he had left him, still frowning, still
thinking hard.

"The family are off to the Ritz. It's rather a reflection on your
powers of protecting them, isn't it?" said the Duke.

"Oh, well, I expect they'd be happier out of the house," said
Guerchard. He looked at the Duke again with inquiring, searching eyes.

"What's the matter?" said the Duke. "IS my tie crooked?"

"Oh, no, no; it's quite straight, your Grace," said Guerchard, but he
did not take his eyes from the Duke's face.

The door opened, and in came M. Gournay-Martin, holding a bag in his
hand. "It seems to be settled that I'm never to sleep in my own house
again," he said in a grumbling tone.

"There's no reason to go," said the Duke. "Why ARE you going?"

"Danger," said M. Gournay-Martin. "You read Lupin's telegram: 'I shall
come to-night between a quarter to twelve and midnight to take the
coronet.' He knows that it was in my bedroom. Do you think I'm going to
sleep in that room with the chance of that scoundrel turning up and
cutting my throat?"

"Oh, you can have a dozen policemen in the room if you like," said the
Duke. "Can't he, M. Guerchard?"

"Certainly," said Guerchard. "I can answer for it that you will be in
no danger, M. Gournay-Martin."

"Thank you," said the millionaire. "But all the same, outside is good
enough for me."

Germaine came into the room, cloaked and ready to start.

"For once in a way you are ready first, papa," she said. "Are you
coming, Jacques?"

"No; I think I'll stay here, on the chance that Lupin is not bluffing,"
said the Duke. "I don't think, myself, that I'm going to be gladdened
by the sight of him--in fact, I'm ready to bet against it. But you're
all so certain about it that I really must stay on the chance. And,
after all, there's no doubt that he's a man of immense audacity and
ready to take any risk."

"Well, at any rate, if he does come he won't find the diadem," said M.
Gournay-Martin, in a tone of triumph. "I'm taking it with me--I've got
it here." And he held up his bag.

"You are?" said the Duke.

"Yes, I am," said M. Gournay-Martin firmly.

"Do you think it's wise?" said the Duke.

"Why not?" said M. Gournay-Martin.

"If Lupin's really made up his mind to collar that coronet, and if
you're so sure that, in spite of all these safeguards, he's going to
make the attempt, it seems to me that you're taking a considerable
risk. He asked you to have it ready for him in your bedroom. He didn't
say which bedroom."

"Good Lord! I never thought of that!" said M. Gournay-Martin, with an
air of sudden and very lively alarm.

"His Grace is right," said Guerchard. "It would be exactly like Lupin
to send that telegram to drive you out of the house with the coronet to
some place where you would be less protected. That is exactly one of
his tricks."

"Good Heavens!" said the millionaire, pulling out his keys and
unlocking the bag. He opened it, paused hesitatingly, and snapped it to
again.

"Half a minute," he said. "I want a word with you, Duke."

He led the way out of the drawing-room door and the Duke followed him.
He shut the door and said in a whisper:

"In a case like this, I suspect everybody."

"Everybody suspects everybody, apparently," said the Duke. "Are you
sure you don't suspect me?"

"Now, now, this is no time for joking," said the millionaire
impatiently. "What do you think about Guerchard?"

"About Guerchard?" said the Duke. "What do you mean?"

"Do you think I can put full confidence in Guerchard?" said M.
Gournay-Martin.

"Oh, I think so," said the Duke. "Besides, I shall be here to look
after Guerchard. And, though I wouldn't undertake to answer for Lupin,
I think I can answer for Guerchard. If he tries to escape with the
coronet, I will wring his neck for you with pleasure. It would do me
good. And it would do Guerchard good, too."

The millionaire stood reflecting for a minute or two. Then he said,
"Very good; I'll trust him."

Hardly had the door closed behind the millionaire and the Duke, when
Guerchard crossed the room quickly to Germaine and drew from his pocket
the photograph of Victoire and the young man.

"Do you know this photograph of his Grace, mademoiselle?" he said
quickly.

Germaine took the photograph and looked at it.

"It's rather faded," she said.

"Yes; it's about ten years old," said Guerchard.

"I seem to know the face of the woman," said Germaine. "But if it's ten
years old it certainly isn't the photograph of the Duke."

"But it's like him?" said Guerchard.

"Oh, yes, it's like the Duke as he is now--at least, it's a little like
him. But it's not like the Duke as he was ten years ago. He has changed
so," said Germaine.

"Oh, has he?" said Guerchard.

"Yes; there was that exhausting journey of his--and then his illness.
The doctors gave up all hope of him, you know."

"Oh, did they?" said Guerchard.

"Yes; at Montevideo. But his health is quite restored now."

The door opened and the millionaire and the Duke came into the room. M.
Gournay-Martin set his bag upon the table, unlocked it, and with a
solemn air took out the case which held the coronet. He opened it; and
they looked at it.

"Isn't it beautiful?" he said with a sigh.

"Marvellous!" said the Duke.

M. Gournay-Martin closed the case, and said solemnly:

"There is danger, M. Guerchard, so I am going to trust the coronet to
you. You are the defender of my hearth and home--you are the proper
person to guard the coronet. I take it that you have no objection?"

"Not the slightest, M. Gournay-Martin," said Guerchard. "It's exactly
what I wanted you to ask me to do."

M. Gournay-Martin hesitated. Then he handed the coronet to Guerchard,
saying with a frank and noble air, "I have every confidence in you, M.
Guerchard."

"Thank you," said Guerchard.

"Good-night," said M. Gournay-Martin.

"Good-night, M. Guerchard," said Germaine.

"I think, after all, I'll change my mind and go with you. I'm very
short of sleep," said the Duke. "Good-night, M. Guerchard."

"You're never going too, your Grace!" cried Guerchard.

"Why, you don't want me to stay, do you?" said the Duke.

"Yes," said Guerchard slowly.

"I think I would rather go to bed," said the Duke gaily.

"Are you afraid?" said Guerchard, and there was challenge, almost an
insolent challenge, in his tone.

There was a pause. The Duke frowned slightly with a reflective air.
Then he drew himself up; and said a little haughtily:

"You've certainly found the way to make me stay, M. Guerchard."

"Yes, yes; stay, stay," said M. Gournay-Martin hastily. "It's an
excellent idea, excellent. You're the very man to help M. Guerchard,
Duke. You're an intrepid explorer, used to danger and resourceful,
absolutely fearless."

"Do you really mean to say you're not going home to bed, Jacques?" said
Germaine, disregarding her father's wish with her usual frankness.

"No; I'm going to stay with M. Guerchard," said the Duke slowly.

"Well, you will be fresh to go to the Princess's to-morrow night." said
Germaine petulantly. "You didn't get any sleep at all last night, you
couldn't have. You left Charmerace at eight o'clock; you were motoring
all the night, and only got to Paris at six o'clock this morning."

"Motoring all night, from eight o'clock to six!" muttered Guerchard
under his breath.

"Oh, that will be all right," said the Duke carelessly. "This
interesting affair is to be over by midnight, isn't it?"

"Well, I warn you that, tired or fresh, you will have to come with me
to the Princess's to-morrow night. All Paris will be there--all Paris,
that is, who are in Paris."

"Oh, I shall be fresh enough," said the Duke.

They went out of the drawing-room and down the stairs, all four of
them. There was an alert readiness about Guerchard, as if he were ready
to spring. He kept within a foot of the Duke right to the front door.
The detective in charge opened it; and they went down the steps to the
taxi-cab which was awaiting them. The Duke kissed Germaine's fingers
and handed her into the taxi-cab.

M. Gournay-Martin paused at the cab-door, and turned and said, with a
pathetic air, "Am I never to sleep in my own house again?" He got into
the cab and drove off.

The Duke turned and came up the steps, followed by Guerchard. In the
hall he took his opera-hat and coat from the stand, and went upstairs.
Half-way up the flight he paused and said:

"Where shall we wait for Lupin, M. Guerchard? In the drawing-room, or
in M. Gournay-Martin's bedroom?"

"Oh, the drawing-room," said Guerchard. "I think it very unlikely that
Lupin will look for the coronet in M. Gournay-Martin's bedroom. He
would know very well that that is the last place to find it now."

The Duke went on into the drawing-room. At the door Guerchard stopped
and said: "I will just go and post my men, your Grace."

"Very good," said the Duke; and he went into the drawing-room.

He sat down, lighted a cigarette, and yawned. Then he took out his
watch and looked at it.

"Another twenty minutes," he said.




CHAPTER XIX

THE DUKE GOES


When Guerchard joined the Duke in the drawing-room, he had lost his
calm air and was looking more than a little nervous. He moved about the
room uneasily, fingering the bric-a-brac, glancing at the Duke and
looking quickly away from him again. Then he came to a standstill on
the hearth-rug with his back to the fireplace.

"Do you think it's quite safe to stand there, at least with your back
to the hearth? If Lupin dropped through that opening suddenly, he'd
catch you from behind before you could wink twice," said the Duke, in a
tone of remonstrance.

"There would always be your Grace to come to my rescue," said
Guerchard; and there was an ambiguous note in his voice, while his
piercing eyes now rested fixed on the Duke's face. They seemed never to
leave it; they explored, and explored it.

"It's only a suggestion," said the Duke.

"This is rather nervous work, don't you know."

"Yes; and of course you're hardly fit for it," said Guerchard. "If I'd
known about your break-down in your car last night, I should have
hesitated about asking you--"

"A break-down?" interrupted the Duke.

"Yes, you left Charmerace at eight o'clock last night. And you only
reached Paris at six this morning. You couldn't have had a very
high-power car?" said Guerchard.

"I had a 100 h.-p. car," said the Duke.

"Then you must have had a devil of a break-down," said Guerchard.

"Yes, it was pretty bad, but I've known worse," said the Duke
carelessly. "It lost me about three hours: oh, at least three hours.
I'm not a first-class repairer, though I know as much about an engine
as most motorists."

"And there was nobody there to help you repair it?" said Guerchard.

"No; M. Gournay-Martin could not let me have his chauffeur to drive me
to Paris, because he was keeping him to help guard the chateau. And of
course there was nobody on the road, because it was two o'clock in the
morning."

"Yes, there was no one," said Guerchard slowly.

"Not a soul," said the Duke.

"It was unfortunate," said Guerchard; and there was a note of
incredulity in his voice.

"My having to repair the car myself?" said the Duke.

"Yes, of course," said Guerchard, hesitating a little over the assent.

The Duke dropped the end of his cigarette into a tray, and took out his
case. He held it out towards Guerchard, and said, "A cigarette? or
perhaps you prefer your caporal?"

"Yes, I do, but all the same I'll have one," said Guerchard, coming
quickly across the room. And he took a cigarette from the case, and
looked at it.

"All the same, all this is very curious," he said in a new tone, a
challenging, menacing, accusing tone.

"What?" said the Duke, looking at him curiously.

"Everything: your cigarettes ... the salvias ... the photograph that
Bonavent found in Victoire's prayer-book ... that man in motoring dress
... and finally, your break-down," said Guerchard; and the accusation
and the threat rang clearer.

The Duke rose from his chair quickly and said haughtily, in icy tones:
"M. Guerchard, you've been drinking!"

He went to the chair on which he had set his overcoat and his hat, and
picked them up. Guerchard sprang in front of him, barring his way, and
cried in a shaky voice: "No; don't go! You mustn't go!"

"What do you mean?" said the Duke, and paused. "What DO you mean?"

Guerchard stepped back, and ran his hand over his forehead. He was very
pale, and his forehead was clammy to his touch:

"No ... I beg your pardon ... I beg your pardon, your Grace ... I must
be going mad," he stammered.

"It looks very like it," said the Duke coldly.

"What I mean to say is," said Guerchard in a halting, uncertain voice,
"what I mean to say is: help me ... I want you to stay here, to help me
against Lupin, you understand. Will you, your Grace?"

"Yes, certainly; of course I will, if you want me to," said the Duke,
in a more gentle voice. "But you seem awfully upset, and you're
upsetting me too. We shan't have a nerve between us soon, if you don't
pull yourself together."

"Yes, yes, please excuse me," muttered Guerchard.

"Very good," said the Duke. "But what is it we're going to do?"

Guerchard hesitated. He pulled out his handkerchief, and mopped his
forehead: "Well ... the coronet ... is it in this case?" he said in a
shaky voice, and set the case on the table.

"Of course it is," said the Duke impatiently.

Guerchard opened the case, and the coronet sparkled and gleamed
brightly in the electric light: "Yes, it is there; you see it?" said
Guerchard.

"Yes, I see it; well?" said the Duke, looking at him in some
bewilderment, so unlike himself did he seem.

"We're going to wait," said Guerchard.

"What for?" said the Duke.

"Lupin," said Guerchard.

"Lupin? And you actually do believe that, just as in a fairy tale, when
that clock strikes twelve, Lupin will enter and take the coronet?"

"Yes, I do; I do," said Guerchard with stubborn conviction. And he
snapped the case to.

"This is most exciting," said the Duke.

"You're sure it doesn't bore you?" said Guerchard huskily.

"Not a bit of it," said the Duke, with cheerful derision. "To make the
acquaintance of this scoundrel who has fooled you for ten years is as
charming a way of spending the evening as I can think of."

"You say that to me?" said Guerchard with a touch of temper.

"Yes," said the Duke, with a challenging smile. "To you."

He sat down in an easy chair by the table. Guerchard sat down in a
chair on the other side of it, and set his elbows on it. They were
silent.

Suddenly the Duke said, "Somebody's coming."

Guerchard started, and said: "No, I don't hear any one."

Then there came distinctly the sound of a footstep and a knock at the
door.

"You've got keener ears than I," said Guerchard grudgingly. "In all
this business you've shown the qualities of a very promising
detective." He rose, went to the door, and unlocked it.

Bonavent came in: "I've brought you the handcuffs, sir," he said,
holding them out. "Shall I stay with you?"

"No," said Guerchard. "You've two men at the back door, and two at the
front, and a man in every room on the ground-floor?"

"Yes, and I've got three men on every other floor," said Bonavent, in a
tone of satisfaction.

"And the house next door?" said Guerchard.

"There are a dozen men in it," said Bonavent. "No communication between
the two houses is possible any longer."

Guerchard watched the Duke's face with intent eyes. Not a shadow
flickered its careless serenity.

"If any one tries to enter the house, collar him. If need be, fire on
him," said Guerchard firmly. "That is my order; go and tell the others."

"Very good, sir," said Bonavent; and he went out of the room.

"By Jove, we are in a regular fortress," said the Duke.

"It's even more of a fortress than you think, your Grace. I've four men
on that landing," said Guerchard, nodding towards the door.

"Oh, have you?" said the Duke, with a sudden air of annoyance.

"You don't like that?" said Guerchard quickly.

"I should jolly well think not," said the Duke. "With these
precautions, Lupin will never be able to get into this room at all."

"He'll find it a pretty hard job," said Guerchard, smiling. "Unless he
falls from the ceiling, or unless--"

"Unless you're Arsene Lupin," interrupted the Duke.

"In that case, you'd be another, your Grace," said Guerchard.

They both laughed. The Duke rose, yawned, picked up his coat and hat,
and said, "Ah, well, I'm off to bed."

"What?" said Guerchard.

"Well," said the Duke, yawning again, "I was staying to see Lupin. As
there's no longer any chance of seeing him--"

"But there is ... there is ... so stay," cried Guerchard.

"Do you still cling to that notion?" said the Duke wearily.

"We SHALL see him," said Guerchard.

"Nonsense!" said the Duke.

Guerchard lowered his voice and said with an air of the deepest
secrecy: "He's already here, your Grace."

"Lupin? Here?" cried the Duke.

"Yes; Lupin," said Guerchard.

"Where?" cried the astonished Duke.

"He is," said Guerchard.

"As one of your men?" said the Duke eagerly.

"I don't think so," said Guerchard, watching him closely.

"Well, but, well, but--if he's here we've got him.... He is going to
turn up," said the Duke triumphantly; and he set down his hat on the
table beside the coronet.

"I hope so," said Guerchard. "But will he dare to?"

"How do you mean?" said the Duke, with a puzzled air.

"Well, you have said yourself that this is a fortress. An hour ago,
perhaps, Lupin was resolved to enter this room, but is he now?"

"I see what you mean," said the Duke, in a tone of disappointment.

"Yes; you see that now it needs the devil's own courage. He must risk
everything to gain everything, and throw off the mask. Is Lupin going
to throw himself into the wolf's jaws? I dare not think it. What do you
think about it?"

Guerchard's husky voice had hardened to a rough harshness; there was a
ring of acute anxiety in it, and under the anxiety a faint note of
challenge, of a challenge that dare not make itself too distinct. His
anxious, challenging eyes burned on the face of the Duke, as if they
strove with all intensity to pierce a mask.

The Duke looked at him curiously, as if he were trying to divine what
he would be at, but with a careless curiosity, as if it were a matter
of indifference to him what the detective's object was; then he said
carelessly: "Well, you ought to know better than I. You have known him
for ten years ...." He paused, and added with just the faintest stress
in his tone, "At least, by reputation."

The anxiety in the detective's face grew plainer, it almost gave him
the air of being unnerved; and he said quickly, in a jerky voice: "Yes,
and I know his way of acting too. During the last ten years I have
learnt to unravel his intrigues--to understand and anticipate his
manoeuvres.... Oh, his is a clever system! ... Instead of lying low, as
you'd expect, he attacks his opponent ... openly.... He confuses
him--at least, he tries to." He smiled a half-confident, a
half-doubtful smile, "It is a mass of entangled, mysterious
combinations. I've been caught in them myself again and again. You
smile?"

"It interests me so," said the Duke, in a tone of apology.

"Oh, it interests me," said Guerchard, with a snarl. "But this time I
see my way clearly. No more tricks--no more secret paths ... We're
fighting in the light of day." He paused, and said in a clear, sneering
voice, "Lupin has pluck, perhaps, but it's only thief's pluck."

"Oh, is it?" said the Duke sharply, and there was a sudden faint
glitter in his eyes.

"Yes; rogues have very poor qualities," sneered Guerchard.

"One can't have everything," said the Duke quietly; but his languid air
had fallen from him.

"Their ambushes, their attacks, their fine tactics aren't up to much,"
said Guerchard, smiling contemptuously.

"You go a trifle too far, I think," said the Duke, smiling with equal
contempt.

They looked one another in the eyes with a long, lingering look. They
had suddenly the air of fencers who have lost their tempers, and are
twisting the buttons off their foils.

"Not a bit of it, your Grace," said Guerchard; and his voice lingered
on the words "your Grace" with a contemptuous stress. "This famous
Lupin is immensely overrated."

"However, he has done some things which aren't half bad," said the
Duke, with his old charming smile.

He had the air of a duelist drawing his blade lovingly through his
fingers before he falls to.

"Oh, has he?" said Guerchard scornfully.

"Yes; one must be fair. Last night's burglary, for instance: it is not
unheard of, but it wasn't half bad. And that theft of the motorcars: it
was a neat piece of work," said the Duke in a gentle, insolent voice,
infinitely aggravating.

Guerchard snorted scornfully.

"And a robbery at the British Embassy, another at the Treasury, and a
third at M. Lepine's--all in the same week--it wasn't half bad, don't
you know?" said the Duke, in the same gentle, irritating voice.

"Oh, no, it wasn't. But--"

"And the time when he contrived to pass as Guerchard--the Great
Guerchard--do you remember that?" the Duke interrupted. "Come, come--to
give the devil his due--between ourselves--it wasn't half bad."

"No," snarled Guerchard. "But he has done better than that lately....
Why don't you speak of that?"

"Of what?" said the Duke.

"Of the time when he passed as the Duke of Charmerace," snapped
Guerchard.

"What! Did he do that?" cried the Duke; and then he added slowly, "But,
you know, I'm like you--I'm so easy to imitate."

"What would have been amusing, your Grace, would have been to get as
far as actual marriage," said Guerchard more calmly.

"Oh, if he had wanted to," said the Duke; and he threw out his hands.
"But you know--married life--for Lupin."

"A large fortune ... a pretty girl," said Guerchard, in a mocking tone.

"He must be in love with some one else," said the Duke.

"A thief, perhaps," sneered Guerchard.

"Like himself.... And then, if you wish to know what I think, he must
have found his fiancee rather trying," said the Duke, with his charming
smile.

"After all, it's pitiful--heartrending, you must admit it, that, on the
very eve of his marriage, he was such a fool as to throw off the mask.
And yet at bottom it's quite logical; it's Lupin coming out through
Charmerace. He had to grab at the dowry at the risk of losing the
girl," said Guerchard, in a reflective tone; but his eyes were intent
on the face of the Duke.

"Perhaps that's what one should call a marriage of reason," said the
Duke, with a faint smile.

"What a fall!" said Guerchard, in a taunting voice. "To be expected,
eagerly, at the Princess's to-morrow evening, and to pass the evening
in a police-station ... to have intended in a month's time, as the Duke
of Charmerace, to mount the steps of the Madeleine with all pomp and to
fall down the father-in-law's staircase this evening--this very
evening"--his voice rose suddenly on a note of savage triumph--"with
the handcuffs on! What? Is that a good enough revenge for
Guerchard--for that poor old idiot, Guerchard? The rogues' Brummel in a
convict's cap! The gentleman-burglar in a gaol! For Lupin it's only a
trifling annoyance, but for a duke it's a disaster! Come, in your turn,
be frank: don't you find that amusing?"

The Duke rose quietly, and said coldly, "Have you finished?"

"DO you?" cried Guerchard; and he rose and faced him.

"Oh, yes; I find it quite amusing," said the Duke lightly.

"And so do I," cried Guerchard.

"No; you're frightened," said the Duke calmly.

"Frightened!" cried Guerchard, with a savage laugh.

"Yes, you're frightened," said the Duke. "And don't think, policeman,
that because I'm familiar with you, I throw off a mask. I don't wear
one. I've none to throw off. I AM the Duke of Charmerace."

"You lie! You escaped from the Sante four years ago. You are Lupin! I
recognize you now."

"Prove it," said the Duke scornfully.

"I will!" cried Guerchard.

"You won't. I AM the Duke of Charmerace."

Guerchard laughed wildly.

"Don't laugh. You know nothing--nothing, dear boy," said the Duke
tauntingly.

"Dear boy?" cried Guerchard triumphantly, as if the word had been a
confession.

"What do I risk?" said the Duke, with scathing contempt. "Can you
arrest me? ... You can arrest Lupin ... but arrest the Duke of
Charmerace, an honourable gentleman, member of the Jockey Club, and of
the Union, residing at his house, 34 B, University Street ... arrest
the Duke of Charmerace, the fiance of Mademoiselle Gournay-Martin?"

"Scoundrel!" cried Guerchard, pale with sudden, helpless fury.

"Well, do it," taunted the Duke. "Be an ass.... Make yourself the
laughing-stock of Paris ... call your coppers in. Have you a proof--one
single proof? Not one."

"Oh, I shall get them," howled Guerchard, beside himself.

"I think you may," said the Duke coolly. "And you might be able to
arrest me next week ... the day after to-morrow perhaps ... perhaps
never ... but not to-night, that's certain."

"Oh, if only somebody could hear you!" gasped Guerchard.

"Now, don't excite yourself," said the Duke. "That won't produce any
proofs for you.... The fact is, M. Formery told you the truth when he
said that, when it is a case of Lupin, you lose your head. Ah, that
Formery--there is an intelligent man if you like."

"At all events, the coronet is safe ... to-night--"

"Wait, my good chap ... wait," said the Duke slowly; and then he
snapped out: "Do you know what's behind that door?" and he flung out
his hand towards the door of the inner drawing-room, with a mysterious,
sinister air.

"What?" cried Guerchard; and he whipped round and faced the door, with
his eyes starting out of his head.

"Get out, you funk!" said the Duke, with a great laugh.

"Hang you!" said Guerchard shrilly.

"I said that you were going to be absolutely pitiable," said the Duke,
and he laughed again cruelly.

"Oh, go on talking, do!" cried Guerchard, mopping his forehead.

"Absolutely pitiable," said the Duke, with a cold, disquieting
certainty. "As the hand of that clock moves nearer and nearer midnight,
you will grow more and more terrified." He paused, and then shouted
violently, "Attention!"

Guerchard jumped; and then he swore.

"Your nerves are on edge," said the Duke, laughing.

"Joker!" snarled Guerchard.

"Oh, you're as brave as the next man. But who can stand the anguish of
the unknown thing which is bound to happen? ... I'm right. You feel it,
you're sure of it. At the end of these few fixed minutes an inevitable,
fated event must happen. Don't shrug your shoulders, man; you're green
with fear."

The Duke was no longer a smiling, cynical dandy. There emanated from
him an impression of vivid, terrible force. His voice had deepened. It
thrilled with a consciousness of irresistible power; it was
overwhelming, paralyzing. His eyes were terrible.

"My men are outside ... I'm armed," stammered Guerchard.

"Child! Bear in mind ... bear in mind that it is always when you have
foreseen everything, arranged everything, made every combination ...
bear in mind that it is always then that some accident dashes your
whole structure to the ground," said the Duke, in the same deep,
thrilling voice. "Remember that it is always at the very moment at
which you are going to triumph that he beats you, that he only lets you
reach the top of the ladder to throw you more easily to the ground."

"Confess, then, that you are Lupin," muttered Guerchard.

"I thought you were sure of it," said the Duke in a jeering tone.

Guerchard dragged the handcuffs out of his pocket, and said between his
teeth, "I don't know what prevents me, my boy."

The Duke drew himself up, and said haughtily, "That's enough."

"What?" cried Guerchard.

"I say that that's enough," said the Duke sternly. "It's all very well
for me to play at being familiar with you, but don't you call me 'my
boy.'"

"Oh, you won't impose on me much longer," muttered Guerchard; and his
bloodshot, haggard eyes scanned the Duke's face in an agony, an anguish
of doubting impotence.

"If I'm Lupin, arrest me," said the Duke.

"I'll arrest you in three minutes from now, or the coronet will be
untouched," cried Guerchard in a firmer tone.

"In three minutes from now the coronet will have been stolen; and you
will not arrest me," said the Duke, in a tone of chilling certainty.

"But I will! I swear I will!" cried Guerchard.

"Don't swear any foolish oaths! ... THERE ARE ONLY TWO MINUTES LEFT,"
said the Duke; and he drew a revolver from his pocket.

"No, you don't!" cried Guerchard, drawing a revolver in his turn.

"What's the matter?" said the Duke, with an air of surprise. "You
haven't forbidden me to shoot Lupin. I have my revolver ready, since
he's going to come.... THERE'S ONLY A MINUTE LEFT."

"There are plenty of us," said Guerchard; and he went towards the door.

"Funk!" said the Duke scornfully.

Guerchard turned sharply. "Very well," he said, "I'll stick it out
alone."

"How rash!" sneered the Duke.

Guerchard ground his teeth. He was panting; his bloodshot eyes rolled
in their sockets; the beads of cold sweat stood out on his forehead. He
came back towards the table on unsteady feet, trembling from head to
foot in the last excitation of the nerves. He kept jerking his head to
shake away the mist which kept dimming his eyes.

"At your slightest gesture, at your slightest movement, I'll fire," he
said jerkily, and covered the Duke with his revolver.

"I call myself the Duke of Charmerace. You will be arrested to-morrow!"
said the Duke, in a compelling, thrilling voice.

"I don't care a curse!" cried Guerchard.

"Only FIFTY SECONDS!" said the Duke.

"Yes, yes," muttered Guerchard huskily. And his eyes shot from the
coronet to the Duke, from the Duke to the coronet.

"In fifty seconds the coronet will be stolen," said the Duke.

"No!" cried Guerchard furiously.

"Yes," said the Duke coldly.

"No! no! no!" cried Guerchard.

Their eyes turned to the clock.

To Guerchard the hands seemed to be standing still. He could have sworn
at them for their slowness.

Then the first stroke rang out; and the eyes of the two men met like
crossing blades. Twice the Duke made the slightest movement. Twice
Guerchard started forward to meet it.

At the last stroke both their hands shot out. Guerchard's fell heavily
on the case which held the coronet. The Duke's fell on the brim of his
hat; and he picked it up.

Guerchard gasped and choked. Then he cried triumphantly:

"I HAVE it; now then, have I won? Have I been fooled this time? Has
Lupin got the coronet?"

"It doesn't look like it. But are you quite sure?" said the Duke gaily.

"Sure?" cried Guerchard.

"It's only the weight of it," said the Duke, repressing a laugh.
"Doesn't it strike you that it's just a trifle light?"

"What?" cried Guerchard.

"This is merely an imitation." said the Duke, with a gentle laugh.

"Hell and damnation!" howled Guerchard. "Bonavent! Dieusy!"

The door flew open, and half a dozen detectives rushed in.

Guerchard sank into a chair, stupefied, paralyzed; this blow, on the
top of the strain of the struggle with the Duke, had broken him.

"Gentlemen," said the Duke sadly, "the coronet has been stolen."

They broke into cries of surprise and bewilderment, surrounding the
gasping Guerchard with excited questions.

The Duke walked quietly out of the room.

Guerchard sobbed twice; his eyes opened, and in a dazed fashion
wandered from face to face; he said faintly: "Where is he?"

"Where's who?" said Bonavent.

"The Duke--the Duke!" gasped Guerchard.

"Why, he's gone!" said Bonavent.

Guerchard staggered to his feet and cried hoarsely, frantically: "Stop
him from leaving the house! Follow him! Arrest him! Catch him before he
gets home!"




CHAPTER XX

LUPIN COMES HOME


The cold light of the early September morning illumined but dimly the
charming smoking-room of the Duke of Charmerace in his house at 34 B,
University Street, though it stole in through two large windows. The
smoking-room was on the first floor; and the Duke's bedroom opened into
it. It was furnished in the most luxurious fashion, but with a taste
which nowadays infrequently accompanies luxury. The chairs were of the
most comfortable, but their lines were excellent; the couch against the
wall, between the two windows, was the last word in the matter of
comfort. The colour scheme, of a light greyish-blue, was almost too
bright for a man's room; it would have better suited a boudoir. It
suggested that the owner of the room enjoyed an uncommon lightness and
cheerfulness of temperament. On the walls, with wide gaps between them
so that they did not clash, hung three or four excellent pictures. Two
ballet-girls by Degas, a group of shepherdesses and shepherds, in pink
and blue and white beribboned silk, by Fragonard, a portrait of a woman
by Bastien-Lepage, a charming Corot, and two Conder fans showed that
the taste of their fortunate owner was at any rate eclectic. At the end
of the room was, of all curious things, the opening into the well of a
lift. The doors of it were open, though the lift itself was on some
other floor. To the left of the opening stood a book-case, its shelves
loaded with books of a kind rather suited to a cultivated, thoughtful
man than to an idle dandy.

Beside the window, half-hidden, and peering through the side of the
curtain into the street, stood M. Charolais. But it was hardly the M.
Charolais who had paid M. Gournay-Martin that visit at the Chateau de
Charmerace, and departed so firmly in the millionaire's favourite
motor-car. This was a paler M. Charolais; he lacked altogether the
rich, ruddy complexion of the millionaire's visitor. His nose, too, was
thinner, and showed none of the ripe acquaintance with the vintages of
the world which had been so plainly displayed on it during its owner's
visit to the country. Again, hair and eyebrows were no longer black,
but fair; and his hair was no longer curly and luxuriant, but thin and
lank. His moustache had vanished, and along with it the dress of a
well-to-do provincial man of business. He wore a livery of the
Charmeraces, and at that early morning hour had not yet assumed the
blue waistcoat which is an integral part of it. Indeed it would have
required an acute and experienced observer to recognize in him the
bogus purchaser of the Mercrac. Only his eyes, his close-set eyes, were
unchanged.

Walking restlessly up and down the middle of the room, keeping out of
sight of the windows, was Victoire. She wore a very anxious air, as did
Charolais too. By the door stood Bernard Charolais; and his natural,
boyish timidity, to judge from his frightened eyes, had assumed an
acute phase.

"By the Lord, we're done!" cried Charolais, starting back from the
window. "That was the front-door bell."

"No, it was only the hall clock," said Bernard.

"That's seven o'clock! Oh, where can he be?" said Victoire, wringing
her hands. "The coup was fixed for midnight.... Where can he be?"

"They must be after him," said Charolais. "And he daren't come home."
Gingerly he drew back the curtain and resumed his watch.

"I've sent down the lift to the bottom, in case he should come back by
the secret entrance," said Victoire; and she went to the opening into
the well of the lift and stood looking down it, listening with all her
ears.

"Then why, in the devil's name, have you left the doors open?" cried
Charolais irritably. "How do you expect the lift to come up if the
doors are open?"

"I must be off my head!" cried Victoire.

She stepped to the side of the lift and pressed a button. The doors
closed, and there was a grunting click of heavy machinery settling into
a new position.

"Suppose we telephone to Justin at the Passy house?" said Victoire.

"What on earth's the good of that?" said Charolais impatiently. "Justin
knows no more than we do. How can he know any more?"

"The best thing we can do is to get out," said Bernard, in a shaky
voice.

"No, no; he will come. I haven't given up hope," Victoire protested.
"He's sure to come; and he may need us."

"But, hang it all! Suppose the police come! Suppose they ransack his
papers.... He hasn't told us what to do ... we are not ready for
them.... What are we to do?" cried Charolais, in a tone of despair.

"Well, I'm worse off than you are; and I'm not making a fuss. If the
police come they'll arrest me," said Victoire.

"Perhaps they've arrested him," said Bernard, in his shaky voice.

"Don't talk like that," said Victoire fretfully. "Isn't it bad enough
to wait and wait, without your croaking like a scared crow?"

She started again her pacing up and down the room, twisting her hands,
and now and again moistening her dry lips with the tip of her tongue.

Presently she said: "Are those two plain-clothes men still there
watching?" And in her anxiety she came a step nearer the window.

"Keep away from the window!" snapped Charolais. "Do you want to be
recognized, you great idiot?" Then he added, more quietly, "They're
still there all right, curse them, in front of the cafe.... Hullo!"

"What is it, now?" cried Victoire, starting.

"A copper and a detective running," said Charolais. "They are running
for all they're worth."

"Are they coming this way?" said Victoire; and she ran to the door and
caught hold of the handle.

"No," said Charolais.

"Thank goodness!" said Victoire.

"They're running to the two men watching the house ... they're telling
them something. Oh, hang it, they're all running down the street."

"This way? ... Are they coming this way?" cried Victoire faintly; and
she pressed her hand to her side.

"They are!" cried Charolais. "They are!" And he dropped the curtain
with an oath.

"And he isn't here! Suppose they come.... Suppose he comes to the front
door! They'll catch him!" cried Victoire.

There came a startling peal at the front-door bell. They stood frozen
to stone, their eyes fixed on one another, staring.

The bell had hardly stopped ringing, when there was a slow, whirring
noise. The doors of the lift flew open, and the Duke stepped out of it.
But what a changed figure from the admirably dressed dandy who had
walked through the startled detectives and out of the house of M.
Gournay-Martin at midnight! He was pale, exhausted, almost fainting.
His eyes were dim in a livid face; his lips were grey. He was panting
heavily. He was splashed with mud from head to foot: one sleeve of his
coat was torn along half its length. The sole of his left-hand pump was
half off; and his cut foot showed white and red through the torn sock.

"The master! The master!" cried Charolais in a tone of extravagant
relief; and he danced round the room snapping his fingers.

"You're wounded?" cried Victoire.

"No," said Arsene Lupin.

The front-door bell rang out again, startling, threatening, terrifying.

The note of danger seemed to brace Lupin, to spur him to a last effort.

He pulled himself together, and said in a hoarse but steady voice:
"Your waistcoat, Charolais.... Go and open the door ... not too quickly
... fumble the bolts.... Bernard, shut the book-case. Victoire, get out
of sight, do you want to ruin us all? Be smart now, all of you. Be
smart!"

He staggered past them into his bedroom, and slammed the door. Victoire
and Charolais hurried out of the room, through the anteroom, on to the
landing. Victoire ran upstairs, Charolais went slowly down. Bernard
pressed the button. The doors of the lift shut and there was a slow
whirring as it went down. He pressed another button, and the book-case
slid slowly across and hid the opening into the lift-well. Bernard ran
out of the room and up the stairs.

Charolais went to the front door and fumbled with the bolts. He bawled
through the door to the visitors not to be in such a hurry at that hour
in the morning; and they bawled furiously at him to be quick, and
knocked and rang again and again. He was fully three minutes fumbling
with the bolts, which were already drawn. At last he opened the door an
inch or two, and looked out.

On the instant the door was dashed open, flinging him back against the
wall; and Bonavent and Dieusy rushed past him, up the stairs, as hard
as they could pelt. A brown-faced, nervous, active policeman followed
them in and stopped to guard the door.

On the landing the detectives paused, and looked at one another,
hesitating.

"Which way did he go?" said Bonavent. "We were on his very heels."

"I don't know; but we've jolly well stopped his getting into his own
house; and that's the main thing," said Dieusy triumphantly.

"But are you sure it was him?" said Bonavent, stepping into the
anteroom.

"I can swear to it," said Dieusy confidently; and he followed him.

Charolais came rushing up the stairs and caught them up as they were
entering the smoking-room:

"Here! What's all this?" he cried. "You mustn't come in here! His Grace
isn't awake yet."

"Awake? Awake? Your precious Duke has been galloping all night," cried
Dieusy. "And he runs devilish well, too."

The door of the bedroom opened; and Lupin stood on the threshold in
slippers and pyjamas.

"What's all this?" he snapped, with the irritation of a man whose sleep
has been disturbed; and his tousled hair and eyes dim with exhaustion
gave him every appearance of being still heavy with sleep.

The eyes and mouths of Bonavent and Dieusy opened wide; and they stared
at him blankly, in utter bewilderment and wonder.

"Is it you who are making all this noise?" said Lupin, frowning at
them. "Why, I know you two; you're in the service of M. Guerchard."

"Yes, your Grace," stammered Bonavent.

"Well, what are you doing here? What is it you want?" said Lupin.

"Oh, nothing, your Grace ... nothing ... there's been a mistake,"
stammered Bonavent.

"A mistake?" said Lupin haughtily. "I should think there had been a
mistake. But I take it that this is Guerchard's doing. I'd better deal
with him directly. You two can go." He turned to Charolais and added
curtly, "Show them out."

Charolais opened the door, and the two detectives went out of the room
with the slinking air of whipped dogs. They went down the stairs in
silence, slowly, reflectively; and Charolais let them out of the front
door.

As they went down the steps Dieusy said: "What a howler! Guerchard
risks getting the sack for this!"

"I told you so," said Bonavent. "A duke's a duke."

When the door closed behind the two detectives Lupin tottered across
the room, dropped on to the couch with a groan of exhaustion, and
closed his eyes. Presently the door opened, Victoire came in, saw his
attitude of exhaustion, and with a startled cry ran to his side.

"Oh, dearie! dearie!" she cried. "Pull yourself together! Oh, do try to
pull yourself together." She caught his cold hands and began to rub
them, murmuring words of endearment like a mother over a young child.
Lupin did not open his eyes; Charolais came in.

"Some breakfast!" she cried. "Bring his breakfast ... he's faint ...
he's had nothing to eat this morning. Can you eat some breakfast,
dearie?"

"Yes," said Lupin faintly.

"Hurry up with it," said Victoire in urgent, imperative tones; and
Charolais left the room at a run.

"Oh, what a life you lead!" said Victoire, or, to be exact, she wailed
it. "Are you never going to change? You're as white as a sheet....
Can't you speak, dearie?"

She stooped and lifted his legs on to the couch.

He stretched himself, and, without opening his eyes, said in a faint
voice: "Oh, Victoire, what a fright I've had!"

"You? You've been frightened?" cried Victoire, amazed.

"Yes. You needn't tell the others, though. But I've had a night of it
... I did play the fool so ... I must have been absolutely mad. Once I
had changed the coronet under that fat old fool Gournay-Martin's very
eyes ... once you and Sonia were out of their clutches, all I had to do
was to slip away. Did I? Not a bit of it! I stayed there out of sheer
bravado, just to score off Guerchard.... And then I ... I, who pride
myself on being as cool as a cucumber ... I did the one thing I ought
not to have done.... Instead of going quietly away as the Duke of
Charmerace ... what do you think I did? ... I bolted ... I started
running ... running like a thief.... In about two seconds I saw the
slip I had made. It did not take me longer; but that was too
long--Guerchard's men were on my track ... I was done for."

"Then Guerchard understood--he recognized you?" said Victoire anxiously.

"As soon as the first paralysis had passed, Guerchard dared to see
clearly ... to see the truth," said Lupin. "And then it was a chase.
There were ten--fifteen of them on my heels. Out of breath--grunting,
furious--a mob--a regular mob. I had passed the night before in a
motor-car. I was dead beat. In fact, I was done for before I started
... and they were gaining ground all the time."

"Why didn't you hide?" said Victoire.

"For a long while they were too close. They must have been within five
feet of me. I was done. Then I was crossing one of the bridges. ...
There was the Seine ... handy ... I made up my mind that, rather than
be taken, I'd make an end of it ... I'd throw myself over."

"Good Lord!--and then?" cried Victoire.

"Then I had a revulsion of feeling. At any rate, I'd stick it out to
the end. I gave myself another minute... one more minute--the last, and
I had my revolver on me... but during that minute I put forth every
ounce of strength I had left ... I began to gain ground ... I had them
pretty well strung out already ... they were blown too. The knowledge
gave me back my courage, and I plugged on ... my feet did not feel so
much as though they were made of lead. I began to run away from them
... they were dropping behind ... all of them but one ... he stuck to
me. We went at a jog-trot, a slow jog-trot, for I don't know how long.
Then we dropped to a walk--we could run no more; and on we went. My
strength and wind began to come back. I suppose my pursuer's did too;
for exactly what I expected happened. He gave a yell and dashed for me.
I was ready for him. I pretended to start running, and when he was
within three yards of me I dropped on one knee, caught his ankles, and
chucked him over my head. I don't know whether he broke his neck or
not. I hope he did."

"Splendid!" said Victoire. "Splendid!"

"Well, there I was, outside Paris, and I'm hanged if I know where. I
went on half a mile, and then I rested. Oh, how sleepy I was! I would
have given a hundred thousand francs for an hour's sleep--cheerfully.
But I dared not let myself sleep. I had to get back here unseen. There
were you and Sonia."

"Sonia? Another woman?" cried Victoire. "Oh, it's then that I'm
frightened ... when you get a woman mixed up in your game. Always, when
you come to grief ... when you really get into danger, there's a woman
in it."

"Oh, but she's charming!" protested Lupin.

"They always are," said Victoire drily. "But go on. Tell me how you got
here."

"Well, I knew it was going to be a tough job, so I took a good rest--an
hour, I should think. And then I started to walk back. I found that I
had come a devil of a way--I must have gone at Marathon pace. I walked
and walked, and at last I got into Paris, and found myself with still a
couple of miles to go. It was all right now; I should soon find a cab.
But the luck was dead against me. I heard a man come round the corner
of a side-street into a long street I was walking down. He gave a yell,
and came bucketing after me. It was that hound Dieusy. He had
recognized my figure. Off I went; and the chase began again. I led him
a dance, but I couldn't shake him off. All the while I was working my
way towards home. Then, just at last, I spurted for all I was worth,
got out of his sight, bolted round the corner of the street into the
secret entrance, and here I am." He smiled weakly, and added, "Oh, my
dear Victoire, what a profession it is!"




CHAPTER XXI

THE CUTTING OF THE TELEPHONE WIRES


The door opened, and in came Charolais, bearing a tray.

"Here's your breakfast, master," he said.

"Don't call me master--that's how his men address Guerchard. It's a
disgusting practice," said Lupin severely.

Victoire and Charolais were quick laying the table. Charolais kept up a
running fire of questions as he did it; but Lupin did not trouble to
answer them. He lay back, relaxed, drawing deep breaths. Already his
lips had lost their greyness, and were pink; there was a suggestion of
blood under the skin of his pale face. They soon had the table laid;
and he walked to it on fairly steady feet. He sat down; Charolais
whipped off a cover, and said:

"Anyhow, you've got out of the mess neatly. It was a jolly smart
escape."

"Oh, yes. So far it's all right," said Lupin. "But there's going to be
trouble presently--lots of it. I shall want all my wits. We all shall."

He fell upon his breakfast with the appetite but not the manners of a
wolf. Charolais went out of the room. Victoire hovered about him,
pouring out his coffee and putting sugar into it.

"By Jove, how good these eggs are!" he said. "I think that, of all the
thousand ways of cooking eggs, en cocotte is the best."

"Heavens! how empty I was!" he said presently. "What a meal I'm making!
It's really a very healthy life, this of mine, Victoire. I feel much
better already."

"Oh, yes; it's all very well to talk," said Victoire, in a scolding
tone; for since he was better, she felt, as a good woman should, that
the time had come to put in a word out of season. "But, all the same,
you're trying to kill yourself--that's what you're doing. Just because
you're young you abuse your youth. It won't last for ever; and you'll
be sorry you used it up before it's time. And this life of lies and
thefts and of all kinds of improper things--I suppose it's going to
begin all over again. It's no good your getting a lesson. It's just
thrown away upon you."

"What I want next is a bath," said Lupin.

"It's all very well your pretending not to listen to me, when you know
very well that I'm speaking for your good," she went on, raising her
voice a little. "But I tell you that all this is going to end badly. To
be a thief gives you no position in the world--no position at all--and
when I think of what you made me do the night before last, I'm just
horrified at myself."

"We'd better not talk about that--the mess you made of it! It was
positively excruciating!" said Lupin.

"And what did you expect? I'm an honest woman, I am!" said Victoire
sharply. "I wasn't brought up to do things like that, thank goodness!
And to begin at my time of life!"

"It's true, and I often ask myself how you bring yourself to stick to
me," said Lupin, in a reflective, quite impersonal tone. "Please pour
me out another cup of coffee."

"That's what I'm always asking myself," said Victoire, pouring out the
coffee. "I don't know--I give it up. I suppose it is because I'm fond
of you."

"Yes, and I'm very fond of you, my dear Victoire," said Lupin, in a
coaxing tone.

"And then, look you, there are things that there's no understanding. I
often talked to your poor mother about them. Oh, your poor mother!
Whatever would she have said to these goings-on?"

Lupin helped himself to another cutlet; his eyes twinkled and he said,
"I'm not sure that she would have been very much surprised. I always
told her that I was going to punish society for the way it had treated
her. Do you think she would have been surprised?"

"Oh, nothing you did would have surprised her," said Victoire. "When
you were quite a little boy you were always making us wonder. You gave
yourself such airs, and you had such nice manners of your
own--altogether different from the other boys. And you were already a
bad boy, when you were only seven years old, full of all kinds of
tricks; and already you had begun to steal."

"Oh, only sugar," protested Lupin.

"Yes, you began by stealing sugar," said Victoire, in the severe tones
of a moralist. "And then it was jam, and then it was pennies. Oh, it
was all very well at that age--a little thief is pretty enough. But
now--when you're twenty-eight years old."

"Really, Victoire, you're absolutely depressing," said Lupin, yawning;
and he helped himself to jam.

"I know very well that you're all right at heart," said Victoire. "Of
course you only rob the rich, and you've always been kind to the
poor.... Yes; there's no doubt about it: you have a good heart."

"I can't help it--what about it?" said Lupin, smiling.

"Well, you ought to have different ideas in your head. Why are you a
burglar?"

"You ought to try it yourself, my dear Victoire," said Lupin gently;
and he watched her with a humorous eye.

"Goodness, what a thing to say!" cried Victoire.

"I assure you, you ought," said Lupin, in a tone of thoughtful
conviction. "I've tried everything. I've taken my degree in medicine
and in law. I have been an actor, and a professor of Jiu-jitsu. I have
even been a member of the detective force, like that wretched
Guerchard. Oh, what a dirty world that is! Then I launched out into
society. I have been a duke. Well, I give you my word that not one of
these professions equals that of burglar--not even the profession of
Duke. There is so much of the unexpected in it, Victoire--the splendid
unexpected.... And then, it's full of variety, so terrible, so
fascinating." His voice sank a little, and he added, "And what fun it
is!"

"Fun!" cried Victoire.

"Yes ... these rich men, these swells in their luxury--when one
relieves them of a bank-note, how they do howl! ... You should have
seen that fat old Gournay-Martin when I relieved him of his
treasures--what an agony! You almost heard the death-rattle in his
throat. And then the coronet! In the derangement of their minds--and it
was sheer derangement, mind you--already prepared at Charmerace, in the
derangement of Guerchard, I had only to put out my hand and pluck the
coronet. And the joy, the ineffable joy of enraging the police! To see
Guerchard's furious eyes when I downed him.... And look round you!" He
waved his hand round the luxurious room. "Duke of Charmerace! This
trade leads to everything ... to everything on condition that one
sticks to it ....I tell you, Victoire, that when one cannot be a great
artist or a great soldier, the only thing to be is a great thief!"

"Oh, be quiet!" cried Victoire. "Don't talk like that. You're working
yourself up; you're intoxicating yourself! And all that, it is not
Catholic. Come, at your age, you ought to have one idea in your head
which should drive out all these others, which should make you forget
all these thefts.... Love ... that would change you, I'm sure of it.
That would make another man of you. You ought to marry."

"Yes ... perhaps ... that would make another man of me. That's what
I've been thinking. I believe you're right," said Lupin thoughtfully.

"Is that true? Have you really been thinking of it?" cried Victoire
joyfully.

"Yes," said Lupin, smiling at her eagerness. "I have been thinking
about it--seriously."

"No more messing about--no more intrigues. But a real woman ... a woman
for life?" cried Victoire.

"Yes," said Lupin softly; and his eyes were shining in a very grave
face.

"Is it serious--is it real love, dearie?" said Victoire. "What's she
like?"

"She's beautiful," said Lupin.

"Oh, trust you for that. Is she a blonde or a brunette?"

"She's very fair and delicate--like a princess in a fairy tale," said
Lupin softly.

"What is she? What does she do?" said Victoire.

"Well, since you ask me, she's a thief," said Lupin with a mischievous
smile.

"Good Heavens!" cried Victoire.

"But she's a very charming thief," said Lupin; and he rose smiling.

He lighted a cigar, stretched himself and yawned: "She had ever so much
more reason for stealing than ever I had," he said. "And she has always
hated it like poison."

"Well, that's something," said Victoire; and her blank and fallen face
brightened a little.

Lupin walked up and down the room, breathing out long luxurious puffs
of smoke from his excellent cigar, and watching Victoire with a
humorous eye. He walked across to his book-shelf, and scanned the
titles of his books with an appreciative, almost affectionate smile.

"This is a very pleasant interlude," he said languidly. "But I don't
suppose it's going to last very long. As soon as Guerchard recovers
from the shock of learning that I spent a quiet night in my ducal bed
as an honest duke should, he'll be getting to work with positively
furious energy, confound him! I could do with a whole day's
sleep--twenty-four solid hours of it."

"I'm sure you could, dearie," said Victoire sympathetically.

"The girl I'm going to marry is Sonia Kritchnoff," he said.

"Sonia? That dear child! But I love her already!" cried Victoire.
"Sonia, but why did you say she was a thief? That was a silly thing to
say."

"It's my extraordinary sense of humour," said Lupin.

The door opened and Charolais bustled in: "Shall I clear away the
breakfast?" he said.

Lupin nodded; and then the telephone bell rang. He put his finger on
his lips and went to it.

"Are you there?" he said. "Oh, it's you, Germaine.... Good morning....
Oh, yes, I had a good night--excellent, thank you.... You want to speak
to me presently? ... You're waiting for me at the Ritz?"

"Don't go--don't go--it isn't safe," said Victoire, in a whisper.

"All right, I'll be with you in about half an hour, or perhaps
three-quarters. I'm not dressed yet ... but I'm ever so much more
impatient than you ... good-bye for the present." He put the receiver
on the stand.

"It's a trap," said Charolais.

"Never mind, what if it is? Is it so very serious?" said Lupin.
"There'll be nothing but traps now; and if I can find the time I shall
certainly go and take a look at that one."

"And if she knows everything? If she's taking her revenge ... if she's
getting you there to have you arrested?" said Victoire.

"Yes, M. Formery is probably at the Ritz with Gournay-Martin. They're
probably all of them there, weighing the coronet," said Lupin, with a
chuckle.

He hesitated a moment, reflecting; then he said, "How silly you are! If
they wanted to arrest me, if they had the material proof which they
haven't got, Guerchard would be here already!"

"Then why did they chase you last night?" said Charolais.

"The coronet," said Lupin. "Wasn't that reason enough? But, as it
turned out, they didn't catch me: and when the detectives did come
here, they disturbed me in my sleep. And that me was ever so much more
me than the man they followed. And then the proofs ... they must have
proofs. There aren't any--or rather, what there are, I've got!" He
pointed to a small safe let into the wall. "In that safe are the
coronet, and, above all, the death certificate of the Duke of
Charmerace ... everything that Guerchard must have to induce M. Formery
to proceed. But still, there is a risk--I think I'd better have those
things handy in case I have to bolt."

He went into his bedroom and came back with the key of the safe and a
kit-bag. He opened the safe and took out the coronet, the real coronet
of the Princesse de Lamballe, and along with it a pocket-book with a
few papers in it. He set the pocket-book on the table, ready to put in
his coat-pocket when he should have dressed, and dropped the coronet
into the kit-bag.

"I'm glad I have that death certificate; it makes it much safer," he
said. "If ever they do nab me, I don't wish that rascal Guerchard to
accuse me of having murdered the Duke. It might prejudice me badly.
I've not murdered anybody yet."

"That comes of having a good heart," said Victoire proudly.

"Not even the Duke of Charmerace," said Charolais sadly. "And it would
have been so easy when he was ill--just one little draught. And he was
in such a perfect place--so out of the way--no doctors."

"You do have such disgusting ideas, Charolais," said Lupin, in a tone
of severe reproof.

"Instead of which you went and saved his life," said Charolais, in a
tone of deep discontent; and he went on clearing the table.

"I did, I did: I had grown quite fond of him," said Lupin, with a
meditative air. "For one thing, he was so very like one. I'm not sure
that he wasn't even better-looking."

"No; he was just like you," said Victoire, with decision. "Any one
would have said you were twin brothers."

"It gave me quite a shock the first time I saw his portrait," said
Lupin. "You remember, Charolais? It was three years ago, the day, or
rather the night, of the first Gournay-Martin burglary at Charmerace.
Do you remember?"

"Do I remember?" said Charolais. "It was I who pointed out the likeness
to you. I said, 'He's the very spit of you, master.' And you said,
'There's something to be done with that, Charolais.' And then off you
started for the ice and snow and found the Duke, and became his friend;
and then he went and died, not that you'd have helped him to, if he
hadn't."

"Poor Charmerace. He was indeed grand seigneur. With him a great name
was about to be extinguished.... Did I hesitate? ... No.... I continued
it," said Lupin.

He paused and looked at the clock. "A quarter to eight," he said,
hesitating. "Shall I telephone to Sonia, or shall I not? Oh, there's no
hurry; let the poor child sleep on. She must be worn out after that
night-journey and that cursed Guerchard's persecution yesterday. I'll
dress first, and telephone to her afterwards. I'd better be getting
dressed, by the way. The work I've got to do can't be done in pyjamas.
I wish it could; for bed's the place for me. My wits aren't quite as
clear as I could wish them to deal with an awkward business like this.
Well, I must do the best I can with them."

He yawned and went to the bedroom, leaving the pocket-book on the table.

"Bring my shaving-water, Charolais, and shave me," he said, pausing;
and he went into the bedroom and shut the door.

"Ah," said Victoire sadly, "what a pity it is! A few years ago he would
have gone to the Crusades; and to-day he steals coronets. What a pity
it is!"

"I think myself that the best thing we can do is to pack up our
belongings," said Charolais. "And I don't think we've much time to do
it either. This particular game is at an end, you may take it from me."

"I hope to goodness it is: I want to get back to the country," said
Victoire.

He took up the tray; and they went out of the room. On the landing they
separated; she went upstairs and he went down. Presently he came up
with the shaving water and shaved his master; for in the house in
University Street he discharged the double functions of valet and
butler. He had just finished his task when there came a ring at the
front-door bell.

"You'd better go and see who it is," said Lupin.

"Bernard is answering the door," said Charolais. "But perhaps I'd
better keep an eye on it myself; one never knows."

He put away the razor leisurely, and went. On the stairs he found
Bonavent, mounting--Bonavent, disguised in the livery and fierce
moustache of a porter from the Ritz.

"Why didn't you come to the servants' entrance?" said Charolais, with
the truculent air of the servant of a duke and a stickler for his
master's dignity.

"I didn't know that there was one," said Bonavent humbly. "Well, you
ought to have known that there was; and it's plain enough to see. What
is it you want?" said Charolais.

"I've brought a letter--a letter for the Duke of Charmerace," said
Bonavent.

"Give it to me," said Charolais. "I'll take it to him."

"No, no; I'm to give it into the hands of the Duke himself and to
nobody else," said Bonavent.

"Well, in that case, you'll have to wait till he's finished dressing,"
said Charolais.

They went on up to the stairs into the ante-room. Bonavent was walking
straight into the smoking-room.

"Here! where are you going to? Wait here," said Charolais quickly.
"Take a chair; sit down."

Bonavent sat down with a very stolid air, and Charolais looked at him
doubtfully, in two minds whether to leave him there alone or not.
Before he had decided there came a thundering knock on the front door,
not only loud but protracted. Charolais looked round with a scared air;
and then ran out of the room and down the stairs.

On the instant Bonavent was on his feet, and very far from stolid. He
opened the door of the smoking-room very gently and peered in. It was
empty. He slipped noiselessly across the room, a pair of clippers ready
in his hand, and cut the wires of the telephone. His quick eye glanced
round the room and fell on the pocket-book on the table. He snatched it
up, and slipped it into the breast of his tunic. He had scarcely done
it--one button of his tunic was still to fasten--when the bedroom door
opened, and Lupin came out:

"What do you want?" he said sharply; and his keen eyes scanned the
porter with a disquieting penetration.

"I've brought a letter to the Duke of Charmerace, to be given into his
own hands," said Bonavent, in a disguised voice.

"Give it to me," said Lupin, holding out his hand.

"But the Duke?" said Bonavent, hesitating.

"I am the Duke," said Lupin.

Bonavent gave him the letter, and turned to go.

"Don't go," said Lupin quietly. "Wait, there may be an answer."

There was a faint glitter in his eyes; but Bonavent missed it.

Charolais came into the room, and said, in a grumbling tone, "A
run-away knock. I wish I could catch the brats; I'd warm them. They
wouldn't go fetching me away from my work again, in a hurry, I can tell
you."

Lupin opened the letter, and read it. As he read it, at first he
frowned; then he smiled; and then he laughed joyously. It ran:

"SIR,"

"M. Guerchard has told me everything. With regard to Sonia I have
judged you: a man who loves a thief can be nothing but a rogue. I have
two pieces of news to announce to you: the death of the Duke of
Charmerace, who died three years ago, and my intention of becoming
engaged to his cousin and heir, M. de Relzieres, who will assume the
title and the arms."

"For Mademoiselle Gournay-Martin," "Her maid, IRMA."

"She does write in shocking bad taste," said Lupin, shaking his head
sadly. "Charolais, sit down and write a letter for me."

"Me?" said Charolais.

"Yes; you. It seems to be the fashion in financial circles; and I am
bound to follow it when a lady sets it. Write me a letter," said Lupin.

Charolais went to the writing-table reluctantly, sat down, set a sheet
of paper on the blotter, took a pen in his hand, and sighed painfully.

"Ready?" said Lupin; and he dictated:

"MADEMOISELLE,"

"I have a very robust constitution, and my indisposition will very soon
be over. I shall have the honour of sending, this afternoon, my humble
wedding present to the future Madame de Relzieres."

"For Jacques de Bartut, Marquis de Relzieres, Prince of Virieux, Duke
of Charmerace."

"His butler, ARSENE."

"Shall I write Arsene?" said Charolais, in a horrified tone.

"Why not?" said Lupin. "It's your charming name, isn't it?"

Bonavent pricked up his ears, and looked at Charolais with a new
interest.

Charolais shrugged his shoulders, finished the letter, blotted it, put
it in an envelope, addressed it, and handed it to Lupin.

"Take this to Mademoiselle Gournay-Martin," said Lupin, handing it to
Bonavent.

Bonavent took the letter, turned, and had taken one step towards the
door when Lupin sprang. His arm went round the detective's neck; he
jerked him backwards off his feet, scragging him.

"Stir, and I'll break your neck!" he cried in a terrible voice; and
then he said quietly to Charolais, "Just take my pocket-book out of
this fellow's tunic."

Charolais, with deft fingers, ripped open the detective's tunic, and
took out the pocket-book.

"This is what they call Jiu-jitsu, old chap! You'll be able to teach it
to your colleagues," said Lupin. He loosed his grip on Bonavent, and
knocked him straight with a thump in the back, and sent him flying
across the room. Then he took the pocket-book from Charolais and made
sure that its contents were untouched.

"Tell your master from me that if he wants to bring me down he'd better
fire the gun himself," said Lupin contemptuously. "Show the gentleman
out, Charolais."

Bonavent staggered to the door, paused, and turned on Lupin a face
livid with fury.

"He will be here himself in ten minutes," he said.

"Many thanks for the information," said Lupin quietly.




CHAPTER XXII

THE BARGAIN


Charolais conducted the detective down the stairs and let him out of
the front door, cursing and threatening vengeance as he went. Charolais
took no notice of his words--he was the well-trained servant. He came
back upstairs, and on the landing called to Victoire and Bernard. They
came hurrying down; and the three of them went into the smoking-room.

"Now we know where we are," said Lupin, with cheerful briskness.
"Guerchard will be here in ten minutes with a warrant for my arrest.
All of you clear out."

"It won't be so precious easy. The house is watched," said Charolais.
"And I'll bet it's watched back and front."

"Well, slip out by the secret entrance. They haven't found that yet,"
said Lupin. "And meet me at the house at Passy."

Charolais and Bernard wanted no more telling; they ran to the book-case
and pressed the buttons; the book-case slid aside; the doors opened and
disclosed the lift. They stepped into it. Victoire had followed them.
She paused and said: "And you? Are you coming?"

"In an instant I shall slip out the same way," he said.

"I'll wait for him. You go on," said Victoire; and the lift went down.

Lupin went to the telephone, rang the bell, and put the receiver to his
ear.

"You've no time to waste telephoning. They may be here at any moment!"
cried Victoire anxiously.

"I must. If I don't telephone Sonia will come here. She will run right
into Guerchard's arms. Why the devil don't they answer? They must be
deaf!" And he rang the bell again.

"Let's go to her! Let's get out of here!" cried Victoire, more
anxiously. "There really isn't any time to waste."

"Go to her? But I don't know where she is. I lost my head last night,"
cried Lupin, suddenly anxious himself. "Are you there?" he shouted into
the telephone. "She's at a little hotel near the Star. ... Are you
there? ... But there are twenty hotels near the Star.... Are you there?
... Oh, I did lose my head last night. ... Are you there? Oh, hang this
telephone! Here I'm fighting with a piece of furniture. And every
second is important!"

He picked up the machine, shook it, saw that the wires were cut, and
cried furiously: "Ha! They've played the telephone trick on me! That's
Guerchard.... The swine!"

"And now you can come along!" cried Victoire.

"But that's just what I can't do!" he cried.

"But there's nothing more for you to do here, since you can no longer
telephone," said Victoire, bewildered.

Lupin caught her arm and shook her, staring into her face with
panic-stricken eyes. "But don't you understand that, since I haven't
telephoned, she'll come here?" he cried hoarsely. "Five-and-twenty
minutes past eight! At half-past eight she will start--start to come
here."

His face had suddenly grown haggard; this new fear had brought back all
the exhaustion of the night; his eyes were panic-stricken.

"But what about you?" said Victoire, wringing her hands.

"What about her?" said Lupin; and his voice thrilled with anguished
dread.

"But you'll gain nothing by destroying both of you--nothing at all."

"I prefer it," said Lupin slowly, with a suddenly stubborn air.

"But they're coming to take you," cried Victoire, gripping his arm.

"Take me?" cried Lupin, freeing himself quietly from her grip. And he
stood frowning, plunged in deep thought, weighing the chances, the
risks, seeking a plan, saving devices.

He crossed the room to the writing-table, opened a drawer, and took out
a cardboard box about eight inches square and set it on the table.

"They shall never take me alive," he said gloomily.

"Oh, hush, hush!" said Victoire. "I know very well that you're capable
of anything ... and they too--they'll destroy you. No, look you, you
must go. They won't do anything to her--a child like that--so frail.
She'll get off quite easily. You're coming, aren't you?"

"No, I'm not," said Lupin stubbornly.

"Oh, well, if you won't," said Victoire; and with an air of resolution
she went to the side of the lift-well, and pressed the buttons. The
doors closed; the book-case slid across. She sat down and folded her
arms.

"What, you're not going to stop here?" cried Lupin.

"Make me stir if you can. I'm as fond of you as she is--you know I am,"
said Victoire, and her face set stonily obstinate.

Lupin begged her to go; ordered her to go; he seized her by the
shoulder, shook her, and abused her like a pickpocket. She would not
stir. He abandoned the effort, sat down, and knitted his brow again in
profound and painful thought, working out his plan. Now and again his
eyes flashed, once or twice they twinkled. Victoire watched his face
with just the faintest hope on her own.

It was past five-and-twenty minutes to nine when the front-door bell
rang. They gazed at one another with an unspoken question on their
lips. The eyes of Victoire were scared, but in the eyes of Lupin the
light of battle was gathering.

"It's her," said Victoire under her breath.

"No," said Lupin. "It's Guerchard."

He sprang to his feet with shining eyes. His lips were curved in a
fighting smile. "The game isn't lost yet," he said in a tense, quiet
voice. "I'm going to play it to the end. I've a card or two left
still--good cards. I'm still the Duke of Charmerace." He turned to her.

"Now listen to me," he said. "Go down and open the door for him."

"What, you want me to?" said Victoire, in a shaky voice.

"Yes, I do. Listen to me carefully. When you have opened the door, slip
out of it and watch the house. Don't go too far from it. Look out for
Sonia. You'll see her coming. Stop her from entering, Victoire--stop
her from entering." He spoke coolly, but his voice shook on the last
words.

"But if Guerchard arrests me?" said Victoire.

"He won't. When he comes in, stand behind the door. He will be too
eager to get to me to stop for you. Besides, for him you don't count in
the game. Once you're out of the house, I'll hold him here for--for
half an hour. That will leave a margin. Sonia will hurry here. She
should be here in twelve minutes. Get her away to the house at Passy.
If I don't come keep her there; she's to live with you. But I shall
come."

As he spoke he was pushing her towards the door.

The bell rang again. They were at the top of the stairs.

"And suppose he does arrest me?" said Victoire breathlessly.

"Never mind, you must go all the same," said Lupin. "Don't give up
hope--trust to me. Go--go--for my sake."

"I'm going, dearie," said Victoire; and she went down the stairs
steadily, with a brave air.

He watched her half-way down the flight; then he muttered:

"If only she gets to Sonia in time."

He turned, went into the smoking-room, and shut the door. He sat
quietly down in an easy chair, lighted a cigarette, and took up a
paper. He heard the noise of the traffic in the street grow louder as
the front door was opened. There was a pause; then he heard the door
bang. There was the sound of a hasty footstep on the stairs; the door
flew open, and Guerchard bounced into the room.

He stopped short in front of the door at the sight of Lupin, quietly
reading, smoking at his ease. He had expected to find the bird flown.
He stood still, hesitating, shuffling his feet--all his doubts had
returned; and Lupin smiled at him over the lowered paper.

Guerchard pulled himself together by a violent effort, and said
jerkily, "Good-morning, Lupin."

"Good-morning, M. Guerchard," said Lupin, with an ambiguous smile and
all the air of the Duke of Charmerace.

"You were expecting me? ... I hope I haven't kept you waiting," said
Guerchard, with an air of bravado.

"No, thank you: the time has passed quite quickly. I have so much to do
in the morning always," said Lupin. "I hope you had a good night after
that unfortunate business of the coronet. That was a disaster; and so
unexpected too."

Guerchard came a few steps into the room, still hesitating:

"You've a very charming house here," he said, with a sneer.

"It's central," said Lupin carelessly. "You must please excuse me, if I
cannot receive you as I should like; but all my servants have bolted.
Those confounded detectives of yours have frightened them away."

"You needn't bother about that. I shall catch them," said Guerchard.

"If you do, I'm sure I wish you joy of them. Do, please, keep your hat
on," said Lupin with ironic politeness.

Guerchard came slowly to the middle of the room, raising his hand to
his hat, letting it fall again without taking it off. He sat down
slowly facing him, and they gazed at one another with the wary eyes of
duellists crossing swords at the beginning of a duel.

"Did you get M. Formery to sign a little warrant?" said Lupin, in a
caressing tone full of quiet mockery.

"I did," said Guerchard through his teeth.

"And have you got it on you?" said Lupin.

"I have," said Guerchard.

"Against Lupin, or against the Duke of Charmerace?" said Lupin.

"Against Lupin, called Charmerace," said Guerchard.

"Well, that ought to cover me pretty well. Why don't you arrest me?
What are you waiting for?" said Lupin. His face was entirely serene,
his eyes were careless, his tone indifferent.

"I'm not waiting for anything," said Guerchard thickly; "but it gives
me such pleasure that I wish to enjoy this minute to the utmost,
Lupin," said Guerchard; and his eyes gloated on him.

"Lupin, himself," said Lupin, smiling.

"I hardly dare believe it," said Guerchard.

"You're quite right not to," said Lupin.

"Yes, I hardly dare believe it. You alive, here at my mercy?"

"Oh, dear no, not yet," said Lupin.

"Yes," said Guerchard, in a decisive tone. "And ever so much more than
you think." He bent forwards towards him, with his hands on his knees,
and said, "Do you know where Sonia Kritchnoff is at this moment?"

"What?" said Lupin sharply.

"I ask if you know where Sonia Kritchnoff is?" said Guerchard slowly,
lingering over the words.

"Do you?" said Lupin.

"I do," said Guerchard triumphantly.

"Where is she?" said Lupin, in a tone of utter incredulity.

"In a small hotel near the Star. The hotel has a telephone; and you can
make sure," said Guerchard.

"Indeed? That's very interesting. What's the number of it?" said Lupin,
in a mocking tone.

"555 Central: would you like to telephone to her?" said Guerchard; and
he smiled triumphantly at the disabled instrument.

Lupin shock his head with a careless smile, and said, "Why should I
telephone to her? What are you driving at?"

"Nothing ... that's all," said Guerchard. And he leant back in his
chair with an ugly smile on his face.

"Evidently nothing. For, after all, what has that child got to do with
you? You're not interested in her, plainly. She's not big enough game
for you. It's me you are hunting ... it's me you hate ... it's me you
want. I've played you tricks enough for that, you old scoundrel. So
you're going to leave that child in peace? ... You're not going to
revenge yourself on her? ... It's all very well for you to be a
policeman; it's all very well for you to hate me; but there are things
one does not do." There was a ring of menace and appeal in the deep,
ringing tones of his voice. "You're not going to do that, Guerchard....
You will not do it.... Me--yes--anything you like. But her--her you
must not touch." He gazed at the detective with fierce, appealing eyes.

"That depends on you," said Guerchard curtly.

"On me?" cried Lupin, in genuine surprise.

"Yes, I've a little bargain to propose to you," said Guerchard.

"Have you?" said Lupin; and his watchful face was serene again, his
smile almost pleasant.

"Yes," said Guerchard. And he paused, hesitating.

"Well, what is it you want?" said Lupin. "Out with it! Don't be shy
about it."

"I offer you--"

"You offer me?" cried Lupin. "Then it isn't true. You're fooling me."

"Reassure yourself," said Guerchard coldly. "To you personally I offer
nothing."

"Then you are sincere," said Lupin. "And putting me out of the
question?"

"I offer you liberty."

"Who for? For my concierge?" said Lupin.

"Don't play the fool. You care only for a single person in the world. I
hold you through her: Sonia Kritchnoff."

Lupin burst into a ringing, irrepressible laugh:

"Why, you're trying to blackmail me, you old sweep!" he cried.

"If you like to call it so," said Guerchard coldly.

Lupin rose and walked backwards and forwards across the room, frowning,
calculating, glancing keenly at Guerchard, weighing him. Twice he
looked at the clock.

He stopped and said coldly: "So be it. For the moment you're the
stronger.... That won't last.... But you offer me this child's liberty."

"That's my offer," said Guerchard; and his eyes brightened at the
prospect of success.

"Her complete liberty? ... on your word of honour?" said Lupin; and he
had something of the air of a cat playing with a mouse.

"On my word of honour," said Guerchard.

"Can you do it?" said Lupin, with a sudden air of doubt; and he looked
sharply from Guerchard to the clock.

"I undertake to do it," said Guerchard confidently.

"But how?" said Lupin, looking at him with an expression of the gravest
doubt.

"Oh, I'll put the thefts on your shoulders. That will let her out all
right," said Guerchard.

"I've certainly good broad shoulders," said Lupin, with a bitter smile.
He walked slowly up and down with an air that grew more and more
depressed: it was almost the air of a beaten man. Then he stopped and
faced Guerchard, and said: "And what is it you want in exchange?"

"Everything," said Guerchard, with the air of a man who is winning.
"You must give me back the pictures, tapestry, Renaissance cabinets,
the coronet, and all the information about the death of the Duke of
Charmerace. Did you kill him?"

"If ever I commit suicide, you'll know all about it, my good Guerchard.
You'll be there. You may even join me," said Lupin grimly; he resumed
his pacing up and down the room.

"Done for, yes; I shall be done for," he said presently. "The fact is,
you want my skin."

"Yes, I want your skin," said Guerchard, in a low, savage, vindictive
tone.

"My skin," said Lupin thoughtfully.

"Are you going to do it? Think of that girl," said Guerchard, in a
fresh access of uneasy anxiety.

Lupin laughed: "I can give you a glass of port," he said, "but I'm
afraid that's all I can do for you."

"I'll throw Victoire in," said Guerchard.

"What?" cried Lupin. "You've arrested Victoire?" There was a ring of
utter dismay, almost despair, in his tone.

"Yes; and I'll throw her in. She shall go scot-free. I won't bother
with her," said Guerchard eagerly.

The front-door bell rang.

"Wait, wait. Let me think," said Lupin hoarsely; and he strove to
adjust his jostling ideas, to meet with a fresh plan this fresh
disaster.

He stood listening with all his ears. There were footsteps on the
stairs, and the door opened. Dieusy stood on the threshold.

"Who is it?" said Guerchard.

"I accept--I accept everything," cried Lupin in a frantic tone.

"It's a tradesman; am I to detain him?" said Dieusy. "You told me to
let you know who came and take instructions."

"A tradesman? Then I refuse!" cried Lupin, in an ecstasy of relief.

"No, you needn't keep him," said Guerchard, to Dieusy.

Dieusy went out and shut the door.

"You refuse?" said Guerchard.

"I refuse," said Lupin.

"I'm going to gaol that girl," said Guerchard savagely; and he took a
step towards the door.

"Not for long," said Lupin quietly. "You have no proof."

"She'll furnish the proof all right herself--plenty of proofs," said
Guerchard brutally. "What chance has a silly child like that got, when
we really start questioning her? A delicate creature like that will
crumple up before the end of the third day's cross-examination."

"You swine!" said Lupin. "You know well enough that I can do it--on my
head--with a feeble child like that; and you know your Code; five years
is the minimum," said Guerchard, in a tone of relentless brutality,
watching him carefully, sticking to his hope.

"By Jove, I could wring your neck!" said Lupin, trembling with fury. By
a violent effort he controlled himself, and said thoughtfully, "After
all, if I give up everything to you, I shall be free to take it back
one of these days."

"Oh, no doubt, when you come out of prison," said Guerchard ironically;
and he laughed a grim, jeering laugh.

"I've got to go to prison first," said Lupin quietly.

"Pardon me--if you accept, I mean to arrest you," said Guerchard.

"Manifestly you'll arrest me if you can," said Lupin.

"Do you accept?" said Guerchard. And again his voice quivered with
anxiety.

"Well," said Lupin. And he paused as if finally weighing the matter.

"Well?" said Guerchard, and his voice shook.

"Well--no!" said Lupin; and he laughed a mocking laugh.

"You won't?" said Guerchard between his teeth.

"No; you wish to catch me. This is just a ruse," said Lupin, in quiet,
measured tones. "At bottom you don't care a hang about Sonia,
Mademoiselle Kritchnoff. You will not arrest her. And then, if you did
you have no proofs. There ARE no proofs. As for the pendant, you'd have
to prove it. You can't prove it. You can't prove that it was in her
possession one moment. Where is the pendant?" He paused, and then went
on in the same quiet tone: "No, Guerchard; after having kept out of
your clutches for the last ten years, I'm not going to be caught to
save this child, who is not even in danger. She has a very useful
friend in the Duke of Charmerace. I refuse."

Guerchard stared at him, scowling, biting his lips, seeking a fresh
point of attack. For the moment he knew himself baffled, but he still
clung tenaciously to the struggle in which victory would be so precious.

The front-door bell rang again.

"There's a lot of ringing at your bell this morning," said Guerchard,
under his breath; and hope sprang afresh in him.

Again they stood silent, waiting.

Dieusy opened the door, put in his head, and said, "It's Mademoiselle
Kritchnoff."

"Collar her! ... Here's the warrant! ... collar her!" shouted
Guerchard, with savage, triumphant joy.

"Never! You shan't touch her! By Heaven, you shan't touch her!" cried
Lupin frantically; and he sprang like a tiger at Guerchard.

Guerchard jumped to the other side of the table. "Will you accept,
then?" he cried.

Lupin gripped the edge of the table with both hands, and stood panting,
grinding his teeth, pale with fury. He stood silent and motionless for
perhaps half a minute, gazing at Guerchard with burning, murderous
eyes. Then he nodded his head.

"Let Mademoiselle Kritchnoff wait," said Guerchard, with a sigh of deep
relief. Dieusy went out of the room.

"Now let us settle exactly how we stand," said Lupin, in a clear,
incisive voice. "The bargain is this: If I give you the pictures, the
tapestry, the cabinets, the coronet, and the death-certificate of the
Duke of Charmerace, you give me your word of honour that Mademoiselle
Kritchnoff shall not be touched."

"That's it!" said Guerchard eagerly.

"Once I deliver these things to you, Mademoiselle Kritchnoff passes out
of the game."

"Yes," said Guerchard.

"Whatever happens afterwards. If I get back anything--if I escape--she
goes scot-free," said Lupin.

"Yes," said Guerchard; and his eyes were shining.

"On your word of honour?" said Lupin.

"On my word of honour," said Guerchard.

"Very well," said Lupin, in a quiet, businesslike voice. "To begin
with, here in this pocket-book you'll find all the documents relating
to the death of the Duke of Charmerace. In it you will also find the
receipt of the Plantin furniture repository at Batignolles for the
objects of art which I collected at Gournay-Martin's. I sent them to
Batignolles because, in my letters asking the owners of valuables to
forward them to me, I always make Batignolles the place to which they
are to be sent; therefore I knew that you would never look there. They
are all in cases; for, while you were making those valuable inquiries
yesterday, my men were putting them into cases. You'll not find the
receipt in the name of either the Duke of Charmerace or my own. It is
in the name of a respected proprietor of Batignolles, a M. Pierre
Servien. But he has lately left that charming suburb, and I do not
think he will return to it."

Guerchard almost snatched the pocket-book out of his hand. He verified
the documents in it with greedy eyes; and then he put them back in it,
and stuffed it into the breast-pocket of his coat.

"And where's the coronet?" he said, in an excited voice.

"You're nearly standing on it," said Lupin.

"It's in that kit-bag at your feet, on the top of the change of clothes
in it."

Guerchard snatched up the kit-bag, opened it, and took out the coronet.

"I'm afraid I haven't the case," said Lupin, in a tone of regret. "If
you remember, I left it at Gournay-Martin's--in your charge."

Guerchard examined the coronet carefully. He looked at the stones in
it; he weighed it in his right hand, and he weighed it in his left.

"Are you sure it's the real one?" said Lupin, in a tone of acute but
affected anxiety. "Do not--oh, do not let us have any more of these
painful mistakes about it. They are so wearing."

"Yes--yes--this is the real one," said Guerchard, with another deep
sigh of relief.

"Well, have you done bleeding me?" said Lupin contemptuously.

"Your arms," said Guerchard quickly.

"They weren't in the bond," said Lupin. "But here you are." And he
threw his revolver on the table.

Guerchard picked it up and put it into his pocket. He looked at Lupin
as if he could not believe his eyes, gloating over him. Then he said in
a deep, triumphant tone:

"And now for the handcuffs!"




CHAPTER XXIII

THE END OF THE DUEL


"The handcuffs?" said Lupin; and his face fell. Then it cleared; and he
added lightly, "After all, there's nothing like being careful; and, by
Jove, with me you need to be. I might get away yet. What luck it is for
you that I'm so soft, so little of a Charmerace, so human! Truly, I
can't be much of a man of the world, to be in love like this!"

"Come, come, hold out your hands!" said Guerchard, jingling the
handcuffs impatiently.

"I should like to see that child for the last time," said Lupin gently.

"All right," said Guerchard.

"Arsene Lupin--and nabbed by you! If you aren't in luck! Here you are!"
said Lupin bitterly; and he held out his wrists.

Guerchard snapped the handcuffs on them with a grunt of satisfaction.

Lupin gazed down at them with a bitter face, and said: "Oh, you are in
luck! You're not married by any chance?"

"Yes, yes; I am," said Guerchard hastily; and he went quickly to the
door and opened it: "Dieusy!" he called. "Dieusy! Mademoiselle
Kritchnoff is at liberty. Tell her so, and bring her in here."

Lupin started back, flushed and scowling; he cried: "With these things
on my hands! ... No! ... I can't see her!"

Guerchard stood still, looking at him. Lupin's scowl slowly softened,
and he said, half to himself, "But I should have liked to see her ...
very much ... for if she goes like that ... I shall not know when or
where--" He stopped short, raised his eyes, and said in a decided tone:
"Ah, well, yes; I should like to see her."

"If you've quite made up your mind," said Guerchard impatiently, and he
went into the anteroom.

Lupin stood very still, frowning thoughtfully. He heard footsteps on
the stairs, and then the voice of Guerchard in the anteroom, saying, in
a jeering tone, "You're free, mademoiselle; and you can thank the Duke
for it. You owe your liberty to him."

"Free! And I owe it to him?" cried the voice of Sonia, ringing and
golden with extravagant joy.

"Yes, mademoiselle," said Guerchard. "You owe it to him."

She came through the open door, flushed deliciously and smiling, her
eyes brimming with tears of joy. Lupin had never seen her look half so
adorable.

"Is it to you I owe it? Then I shall owe everything to you. Oh, thank
you--thank you!" she cried, holding out her hands to him.

Lupin half turned away from her to hide his handcuffs.

She misunderstood the movement. Her face fell suddenly like that of a
child rebuked: "Oh, I was wrong. I was wrong to come here!" she cried
quickly, in changed, dolorous tones. "I thought yesterday ... I made a
mistake ... pardon me. I'm going. I'm going."

Lupin was looking at her over his shoulder, standing sideways to hide
the handcuffs. He said sadly. "Sonia--"

"No, no, I understand! It was impossible!" she cried quickly, cutting
him short. "And yet if you only knew--if you knew how I have
changed--with what a changed spirit I came here.... Ah, I swear that
now I hate all my past. I loathe it. I swear that now the mere presence
of a thief would overwhelm me with disgust."

"Hush!" said Lupin, flushing deeply, and wincing. "Hush!"

"But, after all, you're right," she said, in a gentler voice. "One
can't wipe out what one has done. If I were to give back everything
I've taken--if I were to spend years in remorse and repentance, it
would be no use. In your eyes I should always be Sonia Kritchnoff, the
thief!" The great tears welled slowly out of her eyes and rolled down
her cheeks; she let them stream unheeded.

"Sonia!" cried Lupin, protesting.

But she would not hear him. She broke out with fresh vehemence, a
feverish passion: "And yet, if I'd been a thief, like so many others...
but you know why I stole. I'm not trying to defend myself, but, after
all, I did it to keep honest; and when I loved you it was not the heart
of a thief that thrilled, it was the heart of a poor girl who
loved...that's all...who loved."

"You don't know what you're doing! You're torturing me! Be quiet!"
cried Lupin hoarsely, beside himself.

"Never mind...I'm going...we shall never see one another any more," she
sobbed. "But will you...will you shake hands just for the last time?"

"No!" cried Lupin.

"You won't?" wailed Sonia in a heartrending tone.

"I can't!" cried Lupin.

"You ought not to be like this.... Last night ... if you were going to
let me go like this ... last night ... it was wrong," she wailed, and
turned to go.

"Wait, Sonia! Wait!" cried Lupin hoarsely. "A moment ago you said
something.... You said that the mere presence of a thief would
overwhelm you with disgust. Is that true?"

"Yes, I swear it is," cried Sonia.

Guerchard appeared in the doorway.

"And if I were not the man you believe?" said Lupin sombrely.

"What?" said Sonia; and a faint bewilderment mingled with her grief.
"If I were not the Duke of Charmerace?"

"Not the Duke?"

"If I were not an honest man?" said Lupin.

"You?" cried Sonia.

"If I were a thief? If I were--"

"Arsene Lupin," jeered Guerchard from the door.

Lupin turned and held out his manacled wrists for her to see.

"Arsene Lupin! ... it's ... it's true!" stammered Sonia. "But then, but
then ... it must be for my sake that you've given yourself up. And it's
for me you're going to prison. Oh, Heavens! How happy I am!"

She sprang to him, threw her arms round his neck, and pressed her lips
to his.

"And that's what women call repenting," said Guerchard.

He shrugged his shoulders, went out on to the landing, and called to
the policeman in the hall to bid the driver of the prison-van, which
was waiting, bring it up to the door.

"Oh, this is incredible!" cried Lupin, in a trembling voice; and he
kissed Sonia's lips and eyes and hair. "To think that you love me
enough to go on loving me in spite of this--in spite of the fact that
I'm Arsene Lupin. Oh, after this, I'll become an honest man! It's the
least I can do. I'll retire."

"You will?" cried Sonia.

"Upon my soul, I will!" cried Lupin; and he kissed her again and again.

Guerchard came back into the room. He looked at them with a cynical
grin, and said, "Time's up."

"Oh, Guerchard, after so many others, I owe you the best minute of my
life!" cried Lupin.

Bonavent, still in his porter's livery, came hurrying through the
anteroom: "Master," he cried, "I've found it."

"Found what?" said Guerchard.

"The secret entrance. It opens into that little side street. We haven't
got the door open yet; but we soon shall."

"The last link in the chain," said Guerchard, with warm satisfaction.
"Come along, Lupin."

"But he's going to take you away! We're going to be separated!" cried
Sonia, in a sudden anguish of realization.

"It's all the same to me now!" cried Lupin, in the voice of a conqueror.

"Yes, but not to me!" cried Sonia, wringing her hands.

"Now you must keep calm and go. I'm not going to prison," said Lupin,
in a low voice. "Wait in the hall, if you can. Stop and talk to
Victoire; condole with her. If they turn you out of the house, wait
close to the front door."

"Come, mademoiselle," said Guerchard. "You must go."

"Go, Sonia, go--good-bye--good-bye," said Lupin; and he kissed her.

She went quietly out of the room, her handkerchief to her eyes.
Guerchard held open the door for her, and kept it open, with his hand
still on the handle; he said to Lupin: "Come along."

Lupin yawned, stretched himself, and said coolly, "My dear Guerchard,
what I want after the last two nights is rest--rest." He walked quickly
across the room and stretched himself comfortably at full length on the
couch.

"Come, get up," said Guerchard roughly. "The prison-van is waiting for
you. That ought to fetch you out of your dream."

"Really, you do say the most unlucky things," said Lupin gaily.

He had resumed his flippant, light-hearted air; his voice rang as
lightly and pleasantly as if he had not a care in the world.

"Do you mean that you refuse to come?" cried Guerchard in a rough,
threatening tone.

"Oh, no," said Lupin quickly: and he rose.

"Then come along!" said Guerchard.

"No," said Lupin, "after all, it's too early." Once more he stretched
himself out on the couch, and added languidly, "I'm lunching at the
English Embassy."

"Now, you be careful!" cried Guerchard angrily. "Our parts are changed.
If you're snatching at a last straw, it's waste of time. All your
tricks--I know them. Understand, you rogue, I know them."

"You know them?" said Lupin with a smile, rising. "It's fatality!"

He stood before Guerchard, twisting his hands and wrists curiously.
Half a dozen swift movements; and he held out his handcuffs in one hand
and threw them on the floor.

"Did you know that trick, Guerchard? One of these days I shall teach
you to invite me to lunch," he said slowly, in a mocking tone; and he
gazed at the detective with menacing, dangerous eyes.

"Come, come, we've had enough of this!" cried Guerchard, in mingled
astonishment, anger, and alarm. "Bonavent! Boursin! Dieusy! Here! Help!
Help!" he shouted.

"Now listen, Guerchard, and understand that I'm not humbugging," said
Lupin quickly, in clear, compelling tones. "If Sonia, just now, had had
one word, one gesture of contempt for me, I'd have given way--yielded
... half-yielded, at any rate; for, rather than fall into your
triumphant clutches, I'd have blown my brains out. I've now to choose
between happiness, life with Sonia, or prison. Well, I've chosen. I
will live happy with her, or else, my dear Guerchard, I'll die with
you. Now let your men come--I'm ready for them."

Guerchard ran to the door and shouted again.

"I think the fat's in the fire now," said Lupin, laughing.

He sprang to the table, opened the cardboard box, whipped off the top
layer of cotton-wool, and took out a shining bomb.

He sprang to the wall, pressed the button, the bookshelf glided slowly
to one side, the lift rose to the level of the floor and its doors flew
open just as the detectives rushed in.

"Collar him!" yelled Guerchard.

"Stand back--hands up!" cried Lupin, in a terrible voice, raising his
right hand high above his head. "You know what this is ... a bomb....
Come and collar me now, you swine! ... Hands up, you ... Guerchard!"

"You silly funks!" roared Guerchard. "Do you think he'd dare?"

"Come and see!" cried Lupin.

"I will!" cried Guerchard. And he took a step forward.

As one man his detectives threw themselves upon him. Three of them
gripped his arms, a fourth gripped him round the waist; and they all
shouted at him together, not to be a madman! ... To look at Lupin's
eyes! ... That Lupin was off his head!

"What miserable swine you are!" cried Lupin scornfully. He sprang
forward, caught up the kit-bag in his left hand, and tossed it behind
him into the lift. "You dirty crew!" he cried again. "Oh, why isn't
there a photographer here? And now, Guerchard, you thief, give me back
my pocket-book."

"Never!" screamed Guerchard, struggling with his men, purple with fury.

"Oh, Lord, master! Do be careful! Don't rile him!" cried Bonavent in an
agony.

"What? Do you want me to smash up the whole lot?" roared Lupin, in a
furious, terrible voice. "Do I look as if I were bluffing, you fools?"

"Let him have his way, master!" cried Dieusy.

"Yes, yes!" cried Bonavent.

"Let him have his way!" cried another.

"Give him his pocket-book!" cried a third.

"Never!" howled Guerchard.

"It's in his pocket--his breast-pocket! Be smart!" roared Lupin.

"Come, come, it's got to be given to him," cried Bonavent. "Hold the
master tight!" And he thrust his hand into the breast of Guerchard's
coat, and tore out the pocket-book.

"Throw it on the table!" cried Lupin.

Bonavent threw it on to the table; and it slid along it right to Lupin.
He caught it in his left hand, and slipped it into his pocket. "Good!"
he said. And then he yelled ferociously, "Look out for the bomb!" and
made a feint of throwing it.

The whole group fell back with an odd, unanimous, sighing groan.

Lupin sprang into the lift, and the doors closed over the opening.
There was a great sigh of relief from the frightened detectives, and
then the chunking of machinery as the lift sank.

Their grip on Guerchard loosened. He shook himself free, and shouted,
"After him! You've got to make up for this! Down into the cellars, some
of you! Others go to the secret entrance! Others to the servants'
entrance! Get into the street! Be smart! Dieusy, take the lift with me!"

The others ran out of the room and down the stairs, but with no great
heartiness, since their minds were still quite full of the bomb, and
Lupin still had it with him. Guerchard and Dieusy dashed at the doors
of the opening of the lift-well, pulling and wrenching at them.
Suddenly there was a click; and they heard the grunting of the
machinery. There was a little bump and a jerk, the doors flew open of
themselves; and there was the lift, empty, ready for them. They jumped
into it; Guerchard's quick eye caught the button, and he pressed it.
The doors banged to, and, to his horror, the lift shot upwards about
eight feet, and stuck between the floors.

As the lift stuck, a second compartment, exactly like the one Guerchard
and Dieusy were in, came up to the level of the floor of the
smoking-room; the doors opened, and there was Lupin. But again how
changed! The clothes of the Duke of Charmerace littered the floor; the
kit-bag was open; and he was wearing the very clothes of
Chief-Inspector Guerchard, his seedy top-hat, his cloak. He wore also
Guerchard's sparse, lank, black hair, his little, bristling, black
moustache. His figure, hidden by the cloak, seemed to have shrunk to
the size of Guerchard's.

He sat before a mirror in the wall of the lift, a make-up box on the
seat beside him. He darkened his eyebrows, and put a line or two about
his eyes. That done he looked at himself earnestly for two or three
minutes; and, as he looked, a truly marvellous transformation took
place: the features of Arsene Lupin, of the Duke of Charmerace,
decomposed, actually decomposed, into the features of Jean Guerchard.
He looked at himself and laughed, the gentle, husky laugh of Guerchard.

He rose, transferred the pocket-book to the coat he was wearing, picked
up the bomb, came out into the smoking-room, and listened. A muffled
roaring thumping came from the well of the lift. It almost sounded as
if, in their exasperation, Guerchard and Dieusy were engaged in a
struggle to the death. Smiling pleasantly, he stole to the window and
looked out. His eyes brightened at the sight of the motor-car,
Guerchard's car, waiting just before the front door and in charge of a
policeman. He stole to the head of the stairs, and looked down into the
hall. Victoire was sitting huddled together on a chair; Sonia stood
beside her, talking to her in a low voice; and, keeping guard on
Victoire, stood a brown-faced, active, nervous policeman, all
alertness, briskness, keenness.

"Hi! officer! come up here! Be smart," cried Lupin over the bannisters,
in the husky, gentle voice of Chief-Inspector Guerchard.

The policeman looked up, recognized the great detective, and came
bounding zealously up the stairs.

Lupin led the way through the anteroom into the sitting-room. Then he
said sharply: "You have your revolver?"

"Yes," said the young policeman. And he drew it with a flourish.

"Put it away! Put it away at once!" said Lupin very smartly. "You're
not to use it. You're not to use it on any account! You understand?"

"Yes," said the policeman firmly; and with a slightly bewildered air he
put the revolver away.

"Here! Stand here!" cried Lupin, raising his voice. And he caught the
policeman's arm, and hustled him roughly to the front of the doors of
the lift-well. "Do you see these doors? Do you see them?" he snapped.

"Yes, yes," said the policeman, glaring at them.

"They're the doors of a lift," said Lupin. "In that lift are Dieusy and
Lupin. You know Dieusy?"

"Yes, yes," said the policeman.

"There are only Dieusy and Lupin in the lift. They are struggling
together. You can hear them," shouted Lupin in the policeman's ear.
"Lupin is disguised. You understand--Dieusy and a disguised man are in
the lift. The disguised man is Lupin. Directly the lift descends and
the doors open, throw yourself on him! Hold him! Shout for assistance!"
He almost bellowed the last words into the policeman's ear.

"Yes, yes," said the policeman. And he braced himself before the doors
of the lift-well, gazing at them with harried eyes, as if he expected
them to bite him.

"Be brave! Be ready to die in the discharge of your duty!" bellowed
Lupin; and he walked out of the room, shut the door, and turned the key.

The policeman stood listening to the noise of the struggle in the lift,
himself strung up to fighting point; he was panting. Lupin's
instructions were whirling and dancing in his head.

Lupin went quietly down the stairs. Victoire and Sonia saw him coming.
Victoire rose; and as he came to the bottom of the stairs Sonia stepped
forward and said in an anxious, pleading voice:

"Oh, M. Guerchard, where is he?"

"He's here," said Lupin, in his natural voice.

Sonia sprang to him with outstretched arms.

"It's you! It IS you!" she cried.

"Just look how like him I am!" said Lupin, laughing triumphantly. "But
do I look quite ruffian enough?"

"Oh, NO! You couldn't!" cried Sonia.

"Isn't he a wonder?" said Victoire.

"This time the Duke of Charmerace is dead, for good and all," said
Lupin.

"No; it's Lupin that's dead," said Sonia softly.

"Lupin?" he said, surprised.

"Yes," said Sonia firmly.

"It would be a terrible loss, you know--a loss for France," said Lupin
gravely.

"Never mind," said Sonia.

"Oh, I must be in love with you!" said Lupin, in a wondering tone; and
he put his arm round her and kissed her violently.

"And you won't steal any more?" said Sonia, holding him back with both
hands on his shoulders, looking into his eyes.

"I shouldn't dream of such a thing," said Lupin. "You are here.
Guerchard is in the lift. What more could I possibly desire?" His voice
softened and grew infinitely caressing as he went on: "Yet when you are
at my side I shall always have the soul of a lover and the soul of a
thief. I long to steal your kisses, your thoughts, the whole of your
heart. Ah, Sonia, if you want me to steal nothing else, you have only
to stay by my side."

Their lips met in a long kiss.

Sonia drew herself out of his arms and cried, "But we're wasting time!
We must make haste! We must fly!"

"Fly?" said Lupin sharply. "No, thank you; never again. I did flying
enough last night to last me a lifetime. For the rest of my life I'm
going to crawl--crawl like a snail. But come along, you two, I must
take you to the police-station."

He opened the front door, and they came out on the steps. The policeman
in charge of the car saluted.

Lupin paused and said softly: "Hark! I hear the sound of wedding bells."

They went down the steps.

Even as they were getting into the car some chance blow of Guerchard or
Dieusy struck a hidden spring and released the lift. It sank to the
level of Lupin's smoking-room and stopped. The doors flew open, Dieusy
and Guerchard sprang out of it; and on the instant the brown-faced,
nervous policeman sprang actively on Guerchard and pinned him. Taken by
surprise, Guerchard yelled loudly, "You stupid idiot!" somehow
entangled his legs in those of his captor, and they rolled on the
floor. Dieusy surveyed them for a moment with blank astonishment. Then,
with swift intelligence, grasped the fact that the policeman was Lupin
in disguise. He sprang upon them, tore them asunder, fell heavily on
the policeman, and pinned him to the floor with a strangling hand on
his throat.

Guerchard dashed to the door, tried it, and found it locked, dashed for
the window, threw it open, and thrust out his head. Forty yards down
the street a motor-car was rolling smoothly away--rolling to a
honeymoon.

"Oh, hang it!" he screamed. "He's doing a bunk in my motor-car!"









End of Project Gutenberg's Arsene Lupin, by Edgar Jepson and Maurice Leblanc

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ARSENE LUPIN ***

***** This file should be named 4014.txt or 4014.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/4/0/1/4014/

Produced by Charles Franks and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team. HTML version by Al Haines.


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.net/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.net

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
