Project Gutenberg's Observations by Mr. Dooley, by Finley Peter Dunne

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: Observations by Mr. Dooley

Author: Finley Peter Dunne

Posting Date: September 11, 2009 [EBook #4729]
Release Date: December, 2003
First Posted: March 7, 2002

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK OBSERVATIONS BY MR. DOOLEY ***




Produced by Kirk Pearson, with help from the volunteers
at the Distributed Proofreaders project. HTML version by
Al Haines.










Observations by Mr. Dooley


by

Finley Peter Dunne




  A Little Essay on Books
  The Law's Delays
  Sherlock Holmes
  International Amenities
  Art Patronage
  Immigration
  White House Discipline
  Money and Matrimony
  Prince Henry's Visit
  Prince Henry's Reception
  Cuba vs. Beet Sugar
  Bad Men From The West
  European Intervention
  The Philippine Peace
  Soldier and Policeman
  King Edward's Coronation
  One Advantage of Poverty
  The Fighting Word
  Home Life of Geniuses
  Reform Administration
  Work and Sport
  The Names of a Week
  The End of the War
  Newport
  Arctic Exploration
  Machinery
  Swearing
  The War Game
  Newspaper Publicity
  Adventure
  Rights and Privileges of Women
  Avarice and Generosity
  The End of Things
  Hypocrisy
  History
  Enjoyment
  Gratitude




A Little Essay on Books


"Hogan tells me that wan iv th' first things man done afther he'd
larned to kill his neighborin' animals, an' make a meal iv wan
part iv thim an' a vest iv another, was to begin to mannyfacther
lithrachoor, an' it's been goin' on up to th' prisint day.  Thim
was times that th' Lord niver heerd about, but is as well known
to manny a la-ad in th' univarsity iv southren Injyanny as if th'
histhry iv thim was printed on a poster.  Hogan says a pro-fissor
with a shovel an' a bad bringin'-up can go out annywhere along th'
dhrainage-canal an' prove to ye that th' Bible is no more thin an
exthry avenin' edition iv th' histhry iv th' wurruld, an' th' Noah
fam'ly was considhered new arrivals in th' neighborhood where they
lived.  He says he'll show ye th' earth as though 't was a section
iv a layer-cake or an archytect's dhrawin' iv a flat-buildin', an'
p'int out how 't was accumylated.

"First 't was a mere squdge in which ne'er a livin' thing cud be
found.  This peryod lasted a few millyion years, an' thin th' mush
caked an' become buildin'-materyal, an' threes grew out iv th'
buildin'-materyal an' fell down an' become coal.  Thin th' wather
come--but where it come fr'm I don't know, f'r they was no God at
th' time--an' covered th' earth, an' thin th' wather evaporated an'
left little p'ints iv land shtickin' up with ready-made men an'
women occypyin' thim, an' at that moment th' Bible begun.  Ye might
say we 're livin' on th' roof iv a flat, with all th' apartmints
beneath us occypied be th' bones iv submarine monsthers an' other
tinants.

"Lasteways that's what Hogan tells me, but I don't believe a wurrud
he says.  Most iv th' people iv this wurruld is a come-on f'r
science, but I'm not.  Ye can't con-vince me, me boy, that a man
who's so near-sighted he can't read th' sign on a cable-car knows
anny more about th' formation iv th' earth thin Father Kelly.  I
believe th' wurruld is flat, not round; that th' sun moves an' is
about th' size iv a pie-plate in th' mornin' an' a car-wheel at
noon; an' it 's no proof to me that because a pro-fissor who 's
peekin' through a chube all night says th' stars ar-re millyions
iv miles away an' each is bigger thin this wurruld, that they 're
bigger thin they look, or much higher thin th' top iv th' shot-tower.
I've been up tin thousand feet on a mountain, an' they seemed so
near that I kept whiskin' thim off me nose as I lay there on me
back, but they wasn't anny larger thin they were on th' sthreet-level.
I believe what I see an' some iv th' things I'm told, if they 've
been told often, an' thim facts iv science has not been hung long
enough to be digistible."  But, annyhow, they say that man first
begun writin' whin he had to hammer out his novels an' pomes on a
piece iv rock, an' th' hammer has been th' imblim iv lithrachoor
iver since.  Thin he painted it on skins, hince th' publisher;
thin he played it an' danced it an' croshayed it till 't was
discovered that ink an' pa-aper wud projooce wurruds, an' thin th'
printin'-press was invinted.  Gunpowdher was invinted th' same
time, an' 't is a question I've often heerd discussed which has
done more to ilivate th' human race.  A joke.

Th' longer th' wurruld lasts th' more books does be comin' out.
Day be day I r-read in th' pa-apers announcemints iv new publications
that look like th' dilinquent tax-list.  They 's a publisher in
ivry block, an' in thousan's iv happy homes some wan is pluggin'
away at th' romantic novel or whalin' out a pome on th' type-writer
up-stairs.  A fam'ly without an author is as contimptible as wan
without a priest.  Is Malachi near-sighted, peevish, averse to th'
suds, an' can't tell whether th' three in th' front yard is blue
or green? Make an author iv him! Does Miranda prisint no atthractions
to th' young men iv th' neighborhood, does her overskirt dhrag,
an' is she poor with th' gas-range? Make an authoreen iv her!
Forchunitly, th' manly insthinct is often too sthrong f'r th'
designs iv th' fam'ly, an' manny a man that if his parents had had
their way might have been at this moment makin' artificial feet
f'r a deformed pome is l'adin' what me fri'nd Hogan calls a glad,
free, an' timperymintal life on th' back iv a sthreet-car.

"But lithrachoor is th' gr-reat life-wurruk iv th' modhren woman.
Th' conthrol is passin' into th' hands iv th' fair sect, an' th'
day will come whin th' wurrud book will mane no more to an able-bodied
man thin th' wurrud gusset.  Women write all th' romantic novels
that ar-re anny good.  That's because ivry man thinks th' thrue
hayroe is himsilf, an' ivry woman thinks he's James K. Hackett.
A woman is sure a good, sthrong man ought to be able to kill anny
number iv bad, weak men, but a man is always wondherin' what th'
other la-ad wud do.  He might have th' punch left in him that wud
get th' money.  A woman niver cares how manny men are kilt, but a
man believes in fair play, an' he'd like to see th' polis intherfere
about Chapter Three.

"Women writes all th' good romantic novels, an' read thim all.
If anny proud la-ad in th' gum business thinks he riprisints th'
ideal iv his wife's soul, he ought to take a look at th' books she
reads.  He'll larn there th' reason he's where he is, is because
he was th' on'y chanst, not because he was th' first choice.  'Twud
humble th' haughtiest prince iv thrade to look into th' heart iv
th' woman he cares most f'r an' thinks laste about, an' find that,
instead iv th' photygraft iv a shrewd but kindly man with a thriflin'
absence iv hair on his head an' a burglar-proof safe on his
watch-charm, there's a pitcher iv a young la-ad in green tights
playin' a mandolin to a high front stoop.  On th' stoop, with a
rose in her hand, is his lawful-wedded wife, th' lady Annamariar
Huggins iv Peotone.  Ye can't keep her away fr'm a romantic novel.
No matther what Edward Atkinson tells ye, she prefers 'Th' Age iv
Chivalry' to th' mos' atthractive housewurruk.  A woman's readin'
is niver done.  Hardly a day passes but some lady frind iv mine
stops me on me way to catch a car, an' asks me if I don't regard
Morse Hewlett as th' gr-reatest an' mos' homicidal writer iv our
time, an' what I've got to say about Hinnelly's attack on Stevenson.
'Madam,' says I, 'I wud n't know Morse if I was to see him goin'
down th' sthreet ax in hand, an' as f'r Hinnelly, his name escapes
me, though his language is familiar to anny wan who iver helped
load a scow.  Stevenson,' I says, 'does n't appeal to me, an' if
he shud, I'll revarse th' decision on th' ground iv th' bad prevyous
charackter iv th' plaintiff, while,' I says, 'admittin' th' thruth
iv what he said.  But,' says I, 'th' on'y books in me libr'y is
th' Bible an' Shakspere,' says I.  'They 're gr-reat f'r ye,' says
she.  'So bully f'r th' style.  D' ye read thim all th' time?' she
says.  'I niver read thim,' says I.  'I use thim f'r purposes iv
definse.  I have niver read thim, but I'll niver read annything
else till I have read thim,' I says.  'They shtand between me an'
all modhren lithrachoor,' says I.  'I've built thim up into a kind
iv breakwather,' I says, 'an' I set behind it ca'm an' contint
while Hall Caine rages without,' says I.

"Yes, sir, th' readin' an' writin' iv books is as much woman's
wurruk as th' mannyfacther iv tidies.  A woman is a nachral writer.
She don't mind givin' hersilf away if 't will bring a tear to th'
eye or a smile to th' lips.  But a man does.  He has more to give
away.  I'm not sayin' that anny man can't write betther thin a
woman if he wants to.  But so can he cuk betther, an' sew betther,
an' paint minichoors betther, an' do annything betther but nurse
th' baby--if he wants to; but he don't often want to.  He despises
such thrivyal pursuits.  Mos' iv th' gr-reat writers I iver see
th' pitchers iv was little, thin, peevish men that was always
gettin' licked.  Wanst in a while a sthrong man got into th' game,
a bull-necked, round-headed man that might have made a fine
thrackmaster or boiler-maker, but was addicted to dhrink, an'
niver had energy enough left in th' mornin' f'r annything more
thin writin' th' best plays or th' finest novels or th' gr-reatest
histhries in th' wurruld.  But if ye got at th' rale feelin' iv
three-meal-a-day men about writin', ye'd find they classed it with
preachin', school-teachin', play-actin', dancin', an' lace-wurruk.
A man iv that kind might start to write, but if he did, he'd stop
an' think afther a while, an' say to himsilf: 'What's a big, sthrong,
able-bodied, two-hundhred-an'-tin-pound, forty-four-acrost-th'-chest
crather like me doin' here, pokin' these funny hireyoglyphics into
a piece iv pa-aper with a little sthick? I guess I'll go out an'
shoe a horse.'

"So it is with readin'.  I'm tol' I ought to read more be Hogan,
who's wan iv th' best-read an' mos' ignorant men I know.  Well,
maybe I ought, though whin I was a young man, an' was helpin' to
build up this counthry, th' principal use iv lithrachoor was as
a weepin.  In thim days, if a little boy was seen readin' a book,
his father took it away fr'm him an' bate him on th' head with it.
Me father was th' mos' accyrate man in th' wurruld with letthers.
He found th' range nachrally, an' he cud wing anny wan iv us with
th' 'Lives iv th' Saints' as far as he cud see.  He was a poor
man, an' on'y had such books in his libr'y as a gintleman shud
take, but if ye'd give him libr'y enough, he'd capture Giberaltor.
If lithrachoor niver pinethrated me intelleck, 'twas not his
fault.  But nowadays, whin I go down th' sthreet, I see th' childher
settin' on th' front steps studyin' a book through double-compound-convex
spectacles, lookin' like th' offspring of a profissyonal diver.
What'll they iver grow up to be? Be hivins! that la-ad Carnaygie
knows his business.  He is studied th' situation, an' he undhersthands
that if he builds libr'ies enough an' gets enough people readin'
books, they won't be anny wan left afther a while capable iv takin'
away what he's got.  Ye bet he didn't larn how to make steel billets
out iv 'Whin Knighthood was in Flower.' He larned it be confabulatin'
afther wurrukin' hours with some wan that knew how.  I think he
must be readin' now, f'r he's writin' wan or two.  'Tis th' way
with a man who takes to readin' late in life.  He can't keep it
down.

"Readin', me frind, is talked about be all readin' people as though
it was th' on'y thing that makes a man betther thin his neighbors.
But th' thruth is that readin' is th' nex' thing this side iv
goin' to bed f'r restin' th' mind.  With mos' people it takes th'
place iv wurruk.  A man doesn't think whin he's readin', or if he
has to, th' book is no fun.  Did ye iver have something to do that
ye ought to do, but didn't want to, an' while ye was wishin' ye
was dead, did ye happen to pick up a newspaper? Ye know what
occurred.  Ye didn't jus' skim through th' spoortin' intillygince
an' th' crime news.  Whin ye got through with thim, ye read th'
other quarther iv th' pa-aper.  Ye read about people ye niver heerd
iv, an' happenin's ye didn't undhersthand--th' fashion notes, th'
theatrical gossip, th' s'ciety news fr'm Peoria, th' quotations
on oats, th' curb market, th' rale-estate transfers, th' marredge
licenses, th' death notices, th' want ads., th' dhrygoods bargains,
an' even th' iditoryals.  Thin ye r-read thim over again, with a
faint idee ye'd read thim befure.  Thin ye yawned, studied th'
design iv th' carpet, an' settled down to wurruk.  Was ye exercisin'
ye-er joynt intelleck while ye was readin'? No more thin if ye'd
been whistlin' or writin' ye-er name on a pa-aper.  If anny wan
else but me come along they might say: 'What a mind Hinnissy has!
He's always readin'.' But I wud kick th' book or pa-aper out iv
ye-er hand, an' grab ye be th' collar, an' cry 'Up, Hinnissy, an'
to wurruk!' f'r I'd know ye were loafin'.  Believe me, Hinnissy,
readin' is not thinkin'.  It seems like it, an' whin it comes out
in talk sometimes, it sounds like it.  It's a kind iv nearthought
that looks ginooine to th' thoughtless, but ye can't get annything
on it.  Manny a man I've knowed has so doped himsilf with books
that he'd stumble over a carpet-tack.

"Am I again' all books, says ye? I'm not.  If I had money, I'd
have all th' good lithrachoor iv th' wurruld on me table at this
minyit.  I mightn't read it, but there it'd be so that anny iv me
frinds cud dhrop in an' help thimsilves if they didn't care f'r
other stimylants.  I have no taste f'r readin', but I won't deny
it's a good thing f'r thim that's addicted to it.  In modheration,
mind ye.  In modheration, an' afther th' chores is done.  F'r as
a frind iv Hogan's says, 'Much readin' makes a full man,' an' he
knew what he was talkin' about.  An' do I object to th' pursuit
iv lithrachoor? Oh, faith, no.  As a pursuit 'tis fine, but it may
be bad f'r anny wan that catches it."




The Law's Delays


"If I had me job to pick out," said Mr. Dooley, "I'd be a judge.
I've looked over all th' others an' that's th' on'y wan that suits.
I have th' judicyal timperamint.  I hate wurruk.

"Ivrybody else is pushed an' hurrid in this tumulchuse age.  Th'
business man has to get to th' bank befure it closes an' th' banker
has to get there befure th' business man escapes, an' th' high-priced
actor has to kill off more gradyates iv th' school iv actin' thin
iver he did, an' th' night editions iv th' pa-apers comes out
arlier ivry mornin'.  All is rush an' worry.  Kings an' imprors
duck about their jooties like bell-hops, th' pampered son iv luxury
at Newport is thryin' f'r a mile a minyit in his autymobill an'
th' on'y leisure class left in th' wurruld is th' judicyary.  Mind
ye, Hinnissy, I'm not sayin' annything again' thim.  I won't dhrag
th' joodicyal ermine in th' mud though I haven't noticed that manny
iv thim lift it immodestly whin they takes th' pollytical crossing.
I have th' high rayspict f'r th' job that's th' alternative iv
sixty days in jail.  Besides, me boy, I invy thim.

"Somewhere a la-ad hits somewan on th' head with an axe or sinds
him a bunch iv proosic acid done up to look like candy.  Maybe he
does an' maybe he don't; but annyhow that's what he's lagged f'r.
Th' polis are in a hurry to get to th' pool-room befure th' flag
falls in th' first race an' they carry th' case to th' gran' jury;
th' gran' jury indicts him without a thought or a suspicion iv ax
har-rd feelin', th' judge takes his breakfast on th' bench to be
there in time an' charges th' jury to be fair but not to f'rget
th' man done it, an' th' jury rayturns a verdict iv guilty with
three cheers an' a tiger.  Th' pris'ner has hardly time to grab
up his hat befure he 's hauled off to his funeral obsequies, an'
th' onprejudiced public feels happy about it.  I don't believe in
capital punishmint, Hinnissy, but 'twill niver be abolished while
th' people injye it so much.  They 're jus' squarin' thimsilves
f'r th' rayvoltin' details whin wurrud comes that Judge Tamarack
iv Opolis has granted a stay iv proceedin's.  Stays iv pro-ceedin's
is devices, Hinnissy, be which th' high coorts keep in form.  'Tis
a lagal joke.  I med it up.  Says Judge Tamarack: 'I know very
little about this ease excipt what I've been tol' be th' larned
counsel f'r th' dayfinse, an' I don't believe that, but I agree
with Lord Coke in th' maxim that th' more haste th' less sleep.
Therefore to all sheriffs, greetin': Fen jarrin' th' pris'ner till
ye hear fr'm us.'

"So th' pris'ner waits an' dhreams he 's a lightnin' rod an' th'
public waits an' ivrybody waits.  Th' high coort is busy in its
way.  Ivry two or three years it is discovered takin' a nap at a
county seat in th' corn belt, an' it hands down a decision f'r th'
defindant in a case f'r damages growin' out iv th' Shay rebillion.
Then it dhrops off again.  Th' judge that thried th' case retires
to a well-arned job with a railrood comp'ny, th' jury has ceased
to look f'r their pitchers in th' pa-apers an' th' insurance
comp'nies insure young Cyanide's life f'r the lowest known premyum.
Occasionally a judge iv th' coort iv appeals walkin' in his sleep
meets another judge, an' they discuss matthers.  'How ar-re ye
gettin' on with th' Cyanide case, judge?' 'I'm makin' fair headway,
judge.  I r-read part iv th' vardict iv th' coroner's jury las'
year an' nex' month whin th' fishin' is over, I expict to look
into th' indictment.  'Tis a puzzlin' case.  Th' man is not guilty.'
'Well, good bye, judge; I'll see ye in a year or two.  Lave me
know how ye're gettin' on.  Pleasant dhreams!' An' so they part.
Th' higher up a coort is, th' less they see iv each other.  Their
office hours are fr'm a quarther to wan leap years.  Ye take a
lively lawyer that's wurruked twinty hours a day suin' sthrect
railrood comp'nies an' boost him onto a high coort an' he can't
think out iv a hammock.  Th' more exalted what Hogan calls th'
joodicyal station, th' more it's like a dormitory.  Th' years rowl
by an' th' tillygraft op'rator that's been expictin' to sind a
rush tillygram through young Cyanide sees his ohms an' his volts
mouldin' an' no wurrud comes fr'm th' coort iv appeals but th'
murmur iv th' chief justice discussin' th' nullification theery.
But wan day, th' decision is wafted down.  'Th' coort finds,' it
says, 'that th' vardict was conthry to th' law an' th' ividince.
We seen this fr'm th' first.  It's as plain as th' nose on ye'er
face.  Th' judge was prejudiced an' th' jury was ignorant.  Th'
ividince wasn't sufficient to hang a cat.  We revarse th' decision
an' ordher a new thrile that full justice may be done.  We cannot
help remarkin' at this time on th' croolty iv subjectin' this
unforchnit man to all these years iv torture an' imprisonment with
a case again' him which we see at a glance durin' th' Mexican war
cud not shtand th' test iv th' law.'

"But whin th' decision is carried to th' pris'ner, th' warden says
'Who?' 'P. Cyanide,' says th' clark iv th' coort.  'He's not here,'
says th' warden.  'On consultin' me books, I find a man iv that
name left in th' year sivinty-wan.' 'Did he escape?' 'In a sinse.
He's dead.'

"So, Hinnissy, I'd like to be a judge iv a high coort, dhreamin'
th' happy hours away.  No hurry, no sthrivin' afther immejet
raysults, no sprintin', no wan hollenin' 'Dooley J. hurry up with
that ne exeat,' or 'Dooley, hand down that opinyion befure th'
batthry gives out.' 'Tis th' thrue life iv aise an' gintlemanly
comfort.  'Tis wait till th' clouds rowl by; 'tis time was meant
for slaves; 'tis a long life an' a happy wan.  Like th' Shamrock
II, th' coort acts well in stays but can't run befure th' wind.
A jury is f'r hangin' ivry man, but th' high coort says: 'Ye must
die, but take ye'er time about it an' go out th' way ye like.' If
I wanted to keep me money so that me gran'childher might get it
f'r their ol' age, I'd appeal it to th' supreme coort.  Oh, th'
fine judge I'd make, f'r I can sleep annywhere, an' I'm niver
impatient f'r annywan to get his jooes."

"I don't see," said Mr. Hennessy, "why they have anny juries.  Why
don't they thry ivry man before th' supreme coort an' have done
with it?"

"I have a betther way than that," said Mr. Dooley.  "Ye see they'e
wurrukin' on time now.  I wondher if they wudden't sthep livelier
if they were paid be th' piece."




Sherlock Holmes


"Dorsey an' Dugan are havin' throuble," said Mr. Hennessy.

"What about?" asked Mr. Dooley.

"Dorsey," said Mr. Hennessy, "says Dugan stole his dog.  They had
a party at Dorsey's an' Dorsey heerd a noise in th' back yard an'
wint out an' see Dugan makin' off with his bull tarryer."

"Ye say he see him do it?"

"Yis, he see him do it."

"Well," said Mr. Dooley, "'twud baffle th' injinooty iv a Sherlock
Holmes."

"Who's Sherlock Holmes?"

"He's th' gr-reatest detictive that iver was in a story book.
I've been r-readin' about him an' if I was a criminal, which I wud
be if I had to wurruk f'r a livin', an' Sherlock Holmes got afther
me, I'd go sthraight to th' station an' give mesilf up.  I'd lay
th' goods on th' desk an' say: 'Sargeant, put me down in th' hard
cage.  Sherlock Holmes has jus' see a man go by in a cab with a
Newfoundland dog an' he knows I took th' spoons.' Ye see, he ain't
th' ordh'nry fly cop like Mulcahy that always runs in th' Schmidt
boy f'r ivry crime rayported fr'm stealin' a ham to forgin' a check
in th' full knowledge that some day he'll get him f'r th' right
thing.  No, sir; he's an injanyous man that can put two an' two
together an' make eight iv thim.  He applies his brain to crime,
d'ye mind, an' divvle th' crime, no matther how cunnin' it is,
will escape him.  We'll suppose, Hinnissy, that I'm Sherlock Holmes.
I'm settin' here in me little parlor wearin' a dhressin' gown an'
now an' thin pokin' mesilf full iv morpheen.  Here we are.  Ye come
in.  'Good-mornin', Watson.'"

"I ain't Watson," said Mr. Hennessy.  "I'm Hinnissy."

"Ah," said Mr. Dooley; "I thought I'd wring it fr'm ye.  Perhaps
ye'd like to know how I guessed ye had come in.  'Tis very simple.
On'y a matther iv observation.  I heerd ye'er step; I seen ye'er
refliction in th' lookin' glass; ye spoke to me.  I put these
things together with me thrained faculty f'r observation an'
deduction, d'ye mind.  Says I to mesilf: 'This must be Hinnissy.'
But mind ye, th' chain iv circumstances is not complete.  It might
be some wan disguised as ye.  So says I to mesilf: 'I will throw
this newcome, whoiver he is, off his guard, be callin' him be a
sthrange name!' Ye wudden't feel complimented, Hinnissy, if ye
knew who Watson is.  Watson knows even less than ye do.  He don't
know annything, an' annything he knows is wrong.  He has to look
up his name in th' parish raygisther befure he can speak to himsilf.
He's a gr-reat frind iv Sherlock Holmes an' if Sherlock Holmes
iver loses him, he'll find him in th' nearest asylum f'r th'
feeble-minded.  But I surprised ye'er secret out iv ye.  Thrown
off ye'er guard be me innocent question, ye popped out 'I'm
Hinnissy,' an' in a flash I guessed who ye were.  Be th' same
process iv raisonin' be deduction, I can tell ye that ye were home
las' night in bed, that ye're on ye'er way to wurruk, an' that
ye'er salary is two dollars a day.  I know ye were at home las'
night because ye ar-re always at home between iliven an' sivin,
bar Pathrick's night, an' ye'er wife hasn't been in lookin' f'r
ye.  I know ye're on ye'er way to wurruk because I heerd ye'er
dinner pail jingle as ye stepped softly in.  I know ye get two
dollars a day because ye tol' me ye get three an' I deducted
thirty-three an' wan third per cint f'r poetic license.  'Tis very
simple.  Ar-re those shoes ye have on ye'er feet? Be hivins, I
thought so."

"Simple," said Mr. Hennessy, scornfully; "'tis foolish."

"Niver mind," said Mr. Dooley.  "Pass th' dope, Watson.  Now bein'
full iv th' cillybrated Chow Sooey brand, I addhress me keen mind
to th' discussion iv th' case iv Dorsey's dog.  Watson, look out
iv th' window an' see if that's a cab goin' by ringin' a gong.  A
throlley car? So much th' betther.  Me observation tol' me it was
not a balloon or a comet or a reindeer.  Ye ar-re a gr-reat help
to me, Watson.  Pass th' dope.  Was there a dog on th' car? No?
That simplifies th' thing.  I had an idee th' dog might have gone
to wurruk.  He was a bull-tarryer, ye say.  D'ye know annything
about his parents? Be Mulligan's Sloppy Weather out iv O'Hannigan's
Diana iv th' Slough? Iv coorse.  Was ayether iv thim seen in th'
neighborhood th' night iv th' plant? No? Thin it is not, as manny
might suppose, a case iv abduction.  What were th' habits iv
Dorsey's coyote? Was he a dog that dhrank? Did he go out iv nights?
Was he payin' anny particular attintions to anny iv th' neighbors?
Was he baffled in love? Ar-re his accounts sthraight? Had Dorsey
said annything to him that wud 've made him despondent? Ye say no.
He led a dog's life but seemed to be happy.  Thin 'tis plainly not
a case iv suicide.

"I'm gettin' up close to th' criminals.  Another shot iv th' mad
mixture.  Wait till I can find a place in th' ar-rm.  There ye
ar-re.  Well, Watson, what d'ye make iv it?"

"If ye mane me, Dugan stole th' dog."

"Not so fast," said Mr. Dooley.  "Like all men iv small minds ye
make ye'ers up readily.  Th' smaller th' mind, th' aisier 'tis
made up.  Ye'ers is like a blanket on th' flure befure th' fire.
All ye have to do to make it up is to lave it.  Mine is like a
large double bed, an' afther I've been tossin' in it, 'tis no aisy
job to make it up.  I will puncture me tire with th' fav'rite
flower iv Chinnytown an' go on.  We know now that th' dog did not
elope, that he didn't commit suicide an' that he was not kidnaped
be his rayturnin' parents.  So far so good.  Now I'll tell ye who
stole th' dog.  Yisterdah afthernoon I see a suspicious lookin'
man goin' down th' sthreet.  I say he was suspicious lookin' because
he was not disguised an' looked ivry wan in th' face.  He had no
dog with him.  A damning circumstance, Watson, because whin he'd
stolen th' dog he niver wud 've taken it down near Dorsey's house.
Ye wudden't notice these facts because ye'er mind while feeble
is unthrained.  His coat collar was turned up an' he was whistlin'
to himsilf, a habit iv dog fanciers.  As he wint be Hogan's house
he did not look around or change his gait or otherwise do annything
that wud indicate to an unthrained mind that there was annything
wrong, facts in thimsilves that proved to me cultivated intilligence
that he was guilty.  I followed him in me mind's eye to his home
an' there chained to th' bed leg is Dorsey's dog.  Th' name iv th'
criminal is P. X. O'Hannigan, an' he lives at twinty-wan hundhred
an' ninety-nine South Halsted sthreet, top flat, rear, a plumber
be pro-fission.  Officer, arrest that man!

"That's all right," said Mr. Hennessy; "but Dugan rayturned th'
dog las' night."

"Oh, thin," said Mr. Dooley, calmly, "this is not a case f'r
Sherlock Holmes but wan f'r th' polis.  That's th' throuble,
Hinnissy, with th' detictive iv th' story.  Nawthin' happens in
rale life that's complicated enough f'r him.  If th' Prisidint iv
th' Epworth League was a safe-blower be night th' man that'd catch
him'd be a la-ad with gr-reat powers iv observation an' thrained
habits iv raisonin'.  But crime, Hinnissy, is a pursoot iv th'
simple minded--that is, catchable crime is a pursoot iv th'
simple-minded.  Th' other kind, th' uncatchable kind that is took
up be men iv intellict is called high fi-nance.  I've known manny
criminals in me time, an' some iv thim was fine men an' very happy
in their home life, an' a more simple, pasth'ral people ye niver
knew.  Wan iv th' ablest bank robbers in th' counthry used to live
near me--he ownded a flat buildin'--an' befure he'd turn in to bed
afther rayturnin' fr'm his night's wurruk, he'd go out in th' shed
an' chop th' wood.  He always wint into th' house through a thransom
f'r fear iv wakin' his wife who was a delicate woman an' a shop
lifter.  As I tell ye he was a man without guile, an' he wint about
his jooties as modestly as ye go about ye'ers.  I don't think in
th' long run he made much more thin ye do.  Wanst in a while, he'd
get hold iv a good bunch iv money, but manny other times afther
dhrillin' all night through a steel dure, all he'd find 'd be a
short crisp note fr'm th' prisidint iv th' bank.  He was often
discouraged, an' he tol' me wanst if he had an income iv forty
dollars th' month, he'd retire fr'm business an' settle down on
a farm.

"No, sir, criminals is th' simplest crathers in th' wide wide
wurruld--innocent, sthraight-forward, dangerous people, that haven't
sinse enough to be honest or prosperous.  Th' extint iv their
schamin' is to break a lock on a dure or sweep a handful iv change
fr'm a counter or dhrill a hole in a safe or administher th' strong
short arm to a tired man takin' home his load.  There are no
mysteryous crimes excipt thim that happens to be.  Th' ordh'nry
crook, Hinnissy, goes around ringin' a bell an' disthributin'
hand-bills announcin' his business.  He always breaks through a
window instead iv goin' through an open dure, an' afther he's done
annything that he thinks is commindable, he goes to a neighborin'
liquor saloon, stands on th' pool table an' confides th' secret
to ivrybody within sound iv his voice.  That's why Mulligan is a
betther detictive thin Sherlock Holmes or me.  He can't put two
an' two together an' he has no powers iv deduction, but he's a
hard dhrinker an' a fine sleuth.  Sherlock Holmes niver wud've
caught that frind iv mine.  Whin th' safe iv th' Ninth Rational
Bank was blowed, he wud've put two an' two together an' arristed
me.  But me frind wint away lavin' a hat an' a pair iv cuffs marked
with his name in th' safe, an' th' polis combined these discoveries
with th' well-known fact that Muggins was a notoryous safe blower
an' they took him in.  They found him down th' sthreet thryin' to
sell a bushel basket full iv Alley L stock.  I told ye he was a
simple man.  He ralized his ambition f'r an agaracoolchral life.
They give him th' care iv th' cows at Joliet."

"Did he rayform?" asked Mr. Hennessy.

"No," said Mr. Dooley; "he escaped.  An' th' way he got out wud
baffle th' injinooty iv a Sherlock Holmes."

"How did he do it?" asked Mr. Hennessy.

"He climbed over th' wall," said Mr. Dooley.




International Amenities


"Be hivins," said Mr. Dooley, "I wisht I'd been there."

"Where?" asked Mr. Hennessy.

"At th' bankit iv th' Ancyent an' Hon'rable Chamber iv Commerce
in New York," said Mr. Dooley.  "'Tis a hard fate that compels me
to live out here on th' prairies among th' aborig'nal Americans
fr'm Poland an' Bohaymya.  Me heart at times is burstin' f'r to
jine in th' festivities iv me fellow Britons in New York.  F'r I'm
a British subjick, Hinnissy.  I wasn't born wan.  I was born in
Ireland.  But I have a little money put away, an' ivry American
that has larned to make wan dollar sthick to another is ex-officio,
as Hogan says, a British subjick.  We've adopted a foster father.
Some iv us ain't anny too kind to th' ol' gintleman.  In th'
matther iv th' Nicaragoon Canal we have recently pushed him over
an' took about all he had.  But our hearts feels th' love iv th'
parent counthry, though our hands is rebellyous, an' ivry year me
fellow-merchants gets together in New York an' f'rgets th' cares
iv th' wool an' tallow business in an outburst iv devotion to th'
ol' land fr'm which our fathers sprung or was sprung be th'
authorities.

"Th' prisidint iv th' bankit was me frind Morse K. Cheeseshop a
mimber iv an ol' Yorkshire fam'ly born in th' West Riding iv Long
Island befure th' Crimeyan War.  At his right sat th' Sicrety iv
state f'r th' colony, an' at his left me frind th' ambassadure to
th' Coort iv Saint James.  Why we shud sind an ambassadure I don't
know, though it may be an ol' custom kept up f'r to plaze th'
people iv Omaha.  He's a good man, th' ambassadure, who is
inthrajoocin' th' American joke in England.  Hogan says th'
diff'rence between an American joke an' an English joke is th'
place to laugh.  In an American joke ye laugh just afther th' point
if at all, but in an English joke ye laugh ayether befure th'
point or afther th' decease iv th' joker.  Th' ambassadure hopes
to inthrajooce a cross iv th' two that ye don't laugh at at all
that will be suited to th' English market.  His expeeriments so
far has been encouragin'.

"At th' conclusion iv th' eatin' th' chairman, Sir Morse Cheeseshop
inthrajooced th' sicrety iv state in a few well chosen wurruds.
'Fellow Colonists,' says he, 'I desire to presint His Majesty's
ripresentative in this counthry who is doin' more thin anny other
man in th' plastherin' business,' he says.  'Owin',' he says, 'to
mimbers iv th' Sinit lavin' a hod iv bricks fall on his head
recently, he has not been able to do much on th' job,' he says.
'But he has brought his throwel and morthar here to-night an' if
ye will kindly lave off singing' "Brittanya rules th' prosperity
wave" f'r a minyit he'll give ye an exhibition iv how he wurruks.
Me Lords an' gintlemen, th' sicrety iv state:'

"'Fellow subjicks,' says th' sicrety iv state, 'diplomacy is far
diff'rent business thin it used to be.  (A voice, 'Good f'r you.')
In th' days iv Bismarck, Gladstun an' Charles Francis Adams 'twas
a case iv inthrigue an' deceit.  Now it is as simple as a pair iv
boots.  In fifteen years th' whole nature iv man is so changed that
a diplomat has on'y to be honest, straight-forward an' manly an'
concede ivrything an' he will find his opponents will meet him
half way an' take what he gives.  Unforchunitly diplomacy on'y
goes as far as the dure.  It is onable to give protection to th'
customer, so whin he laves th' shop th' sthrong arm men iv th'
Sinit knocks him down an' takes fr'm him ivrything he got inside
an' more too.  Di-plomacy has become a philanthropic pursoot like
shop-keepin', but politics, me lords, is still th' same ol' spoort
iv highway robb'ry.  But I done what I cud to protict th' intherests
iv th' mother, father an' brother-in-law counthry, an' between
you an' me if I don't desarve th' Victorya cross f'r presintin'
that threaty to th' Sinit nobody does.  I will on'y say that
hinceforth th' policy iv this gover'mint will be as befure not to
bully a sthrong power or wrong a weak, but will remain thrue to
th' principle iv wrongin' th' sthrong an' bullyin' th' weak.'

"Th' sicrety iv state was followed be th' ambassadure.  'I wish
to tell ye,' said he, 'what a good time I had in England.  Befure
I wint there I was sthrongly prejudiced again' England.  I thought
it was th' noblest counthry on which, as Dan'l Webster says, th'
sun niver set without hatchin' out a new colony.  But I did it a
great injustice.  It is betther thin what I thought.  It does not
care f'r chaff or gush such as goes down in this counthry.  All an
English gintleman demands is that ye shall be ye'ersilf, frank,
manly an' sincere.  A little cry on th' shouldher, a firm grasp
iv th' hand, a brief acknowledgment that we owe our language an'
are payin' it back, our lithrachoor an' our boots to him, an' his
heart opens.  He cannot conceal his admiration f'r ye.  He goes
away.  Ah, niver will I f'rget th' day I peeked out iv me bed-room
window at Windsor Castle an' see manny iv th' sturdy lielists here
befure me bein' received in th' back yard be th' king.  I mind
well th' wurruds that fell fr'm his lips whin ye left to take lunch
in th' rile woodshed.  "Chote," he says, "thim were a fine lot iv
Americans," he says.  "What thribe did ye say they belonged to?
Soos?" he says.'

"So th' avenin' proceeded until it was time to go home, whin th'
chairman proposed th' customary toast.  'Me lords an' gintlemen,
charge ye'er glasses an' jine me in a toast,' he says.  'His majesty
Edward th' Sivinth, iv Gr-reat Britain an' possibly Ireland, iv
Inja, Egypt, iv Austhralya, iv South Africa in a sinse, an' iv th'
Dominions beyant th' sea, includin' New York, King, Definder iv
th' Faith.  I hope I got it all in.' 'Ye did,' said th' ambassadure.
An' th' toast was dhrunk with enthusyasm.  Other toasts was dhrunk
to th' rile fam'ly an' th' Protestant Succession, to th' Jook iv
Argyle who used to own Andhrew Carnaygie, an' in manny cases th'
rile merchants carrid th' glasses away in their pockets.  Jus' as
th' comp'ny was breakin' up a man whose gaiters creaked rose an'
said: 'Isn't there wan more toast?' 'Good hivins have I f'rgotten
somewan?' said Lord Cheeseshop.  'That was all there was in th'
book.  Who d'ye mane?' he says.  'I mane th' prisidint iv th'
United States,' says th' man, who comes fr'm Baraboo.  'Oh him,'
says th' chairman in a relieved tone.  'Well, annywan that wants
to can dhrink his health at th' bar,' he says.

"As th' comp'ny filed out a band was playin' in th' adjinin' room
where they was a meetin' iv th' Amalgamated Stove-polish men fr'm
th' neighborhood iv Terry Hut.  'What's that outlandish chune?'
says Lord Cheeseshop.  ''Tis th' naytional air, west iv Hoboken,'
says th' man fr'm Baraboo.  'What's it called?' says Lord Cheeseshop.
'Th' Star Spangled Banner,' says th' man.  'Well,' says Lord
Cheeseshop, ''tis very intherestin',' he says.  ''Tis th' on'y
Indyan music I iver heerd,' he says."

"Ah well," said Mr. Hennessy, "who cares?"

"Faith I think ye're right," said Mr. Dooley.  "A man will swallow
annything with a dinner.  What is good f'r what Hogan calls th'
iliminthry canal has nawthin' to do with th' Nicaragoon Canal an'
I'd be more afraid iv Lord Cheeseshop if he thought th' toast an'
didn't say it.  Our Anglo-Saxon relations is always a give-away--on
some wan."




Art Patronage


"I see in this pa-aper," said Mr. Dooley, "they'se a fellow kickin'
because an American painther ain't got anny chanst again' foreign
compytition."

"Sure," said Mr. Hennessy; "he's aisy displazed.  I niver knew th'
business to be betther.  Wages is high an' 'tis a comfortable
thrade barrin' colic."

"I don't mane that kind iv painthers," said Mr. Dooley.  "I don't
mane th' wans that paint ye'er barn, but th' wans that paints a
pitcher iv ye'er barn an' wants to sell it to ye f'r more thin th'
barn is worth.  This man says no matther how industhrees an American
painther is, no matther if he puts on his overalls arly in th'
mornin' an' goes out with a laddher an' whales away all day long,
he can hardly arn a livin', while th' pauper artists iv Europe is
fairly rowlin' in th' lap iv luxury.  Manny a la-ad that started
in life with th' intintion iv makin' th' wurruld f'rget that what's
his name--Hogan's frind--ye know who I mane--Michael Angelo--ever
lived, is now glad to get a job decoratin' mountain scenery with
th' latest news about th' little liver pills.

"Ye see, Hinnissy, whin a man gets hold iv a large hatful iv money,
wan iv th' first things he does is to buy some art.  Up to th'
time whin th' top blew off th' stock market, he bought his art
out iv th' front window iv a news an' station'ry shop or had it
put in be th' paperhanger.  He took th' Sundah pa-apers that ar-re
a gr-reat help if ye're collectin' art, an' he had some pitchers
iv fruit that looks nachral enough to ate, d'ye mind, a paintin'
iv a deer like th' wan he shot at in th' Manotowish counthry in
Eighty-eight, an' a livin' likeness iv a Lake Supeeryor white fish
on a silver plate.  That was th' peeryod, mind ye, whin th' iron
dogs howled on his lawn an' people come miles an' miles f'r to see
a grotto made out iv relics iv th' Chicago fire.

"Manetime his daughter was illustratin' suspinders an' illuminatin'
china plates an' becomin' artistic, an' afther awhile whin th'
time come that he had to keep a man at th' dure to sweep out th'
small bills, she give him a good push to'rd betther things.
Besides, his pardner down th' sthreet had begun collectin' pitchers,
an' ivry time he wint abroad th' mannyfacthrers iv pitcher frames
bought new autymobills f'r th' Champs All Easy.  So 'twas a soft
matther f'r our frind Higbie to be persuaded that he ought to be
a pathron iv art, an' he wint abroad detarmined to buy a bunch iv
chromos that'd make people come out iv th' gallery iv his pardner
down th' sthreet stiflin' their laughter in their hands.

"Now ye'd think seein' that he made his money in this counthry,
he'd pathronize American art.  Ye'd believe he'd sind wurrud down
to his agent f'r to secure forty feet iv Evansville be moonlight
an' be con-tint.  But he don't.

"Ye don't catch Higbie changin' iv anny iv his dividends on
domestic finished art.  He jumps on a boat an' goes sthraight
acrost to th' centhral deepo.  The first thing he gets is a
porthrait iv himsilf be wan iv th' gr-reat modhren masthers,
Sargent be name.  This here Sargent, Hogan tells me, used to live
in this counthry, an' faith, if he'd stayed here ye might see him
to-day on a stagin'.  But he had a mind in his head an' he tore
off f'r Europe th' way a duck hunter goes f'r a rice swamp.  Afther
awhile, Higbie shows up, an' says he: 'I'm Higbie iv th' Non-Adhesive
Consolidated Glue Company,' he says.  'Can ye do me?' 'I can an'
will,' says Sargent.  'I'll do ye good.  How much have ye got?'
he says.  'Get some more an' come around,' he says.  An' Higbie
puts on his Prince Albert coat an' laves it open so that ye can
see his watch charm--th' crown iv Poland with th' Kohinoor in th'
top iv it--an' me frind Sargent does him brown an' red.  He don't
give him th' pitcher iv coorse.  If ye have ye'er porthrait painted
be a gr-reat painther, it's ye'er porthrait but 'tis his pitcher,
an' he keeps it till ye don't look that way anny more.  So Higbie's
porthrait is hung up in a gallery an' th' doctors brings people
to see it that ar-re sufferin' fr'm narvous dyspepsia to cheer
thim up.  Th' pa-apers says 'tis fine.  'Number 108 shows Sargent
at his best.  There is the same marvellous ticknick that th' great
master displayed in his cillybrated take-off on Mrs. Maenheimer
in last year's gallery.  Th' skill an' ease with which th' painther
has made a monkey iv his victim are beyond praise.  Sargent has
torn th' sordid heart out iv th' wretched crather an' exposed it
to th' wurruld.  Th' wicked, ugly little eyes, th' crooked nose,
th' huge graspin' hands, tell th' story iv this miscreant's
character as completely as if they were written in so manny wurruds,
while th' artist, with wondherful malice, has painted onto th'
face a smile iv sickenin' silf-complacency that is positively
disgustin'.  No artist iv our day has succeeded so well in showin'
up th' maneness iv th' people he has mugged.  We ondershtand that
th' atrocious Higbie paid wan hundherd thousan' dollars f'r this
comic valentine.  It is worth th' money to ivrybody but him.'

"But Higbie don't see th' pa-aper.  He's over in Paris.  Th' chimes
are rung, bonefires are lighted in th' sthreets an' th' Pannyma
Comp'ny declares a dividend whin he enters th' city.  They'se such
a demand f'r paint that th' supply runs out an' manny gr-reat
imprishonist pitcher facthries is foorced to use bluein'.  Higbie
ordhers paintin's be th' ton, th' r-runnin' foot, th' foot pound,
th' car load.  He insthructs th' pitcher facthries to wurruk night
an' day till his artistic sowl is satisfied.  We follow his coorse
in th' pa-apers.  'Th' cillybrated Gainsborough that niver wud be
missed has been captured be Misther Higbie, th' American millyionaire.
Th' price paid is said to be wan hundherd thousan' dollars.  Th'
pitcher riprisints a lady in a large hat fondlin' a cow.  It is
wan iv th' finest Gainsboroughs painted be th' Gainsborough
Mannyfacthrin' comp'ny iv Manchester.  At th' las' public sale,
it was sold f'r thirty dollars.  Misther Higbie has also purchased
th' cillybrated Schmartzmeister Boogooroo, wan iv th' mos' horrible
examples iv this delightful painther's style.  He is now negotyatin'
with th' well-known dealer Moosoo Mortheimer f'r th' intire output
iv th' Barabazah School.  Yisterdah in a call on th' janial dealer,
th' name iv th' cillybrated painther Mooney was mintioned.  "How
manny pitchers has he painted?" "Four hundherd and forty-three
thousan' at ilivin o'clock to-day," says th' dealer.  "But four
hundherd thousan' iv thim ar-re in America." "Get th' r-rest iv
thim f'r me," says th' connysoor.  "What did ye say th' gintleman's
name was?" We ondershtand that Misther Mooney has had to put in
two new four-deck machines to meet th' ordhers, which include
thirty green an' mauve haystacks, forty blue barns or childher at
play, an' no less thin ninety riprisintations iv mornin' at sea,
moonlight avenin', flock iv sheep, or whativer ye may call thim.'

"An' whin he comes home, he hangs thim in his house, so that his
frinds can't turn around without takin' off a pasthral scene on
their coats, an' he pastes th' price on th' frame, an' whin he
dies, he laves his pitcher to some definceless art museem.  An'
there ye ar-re.

"So I tell ye, Hinnissy, if I was a young an' ambitious American
painther, I'd go to Europe.  Whin Hannigan was over there, he met
a young man that painted that fine head iv Murphy that looks so
much like Casey that hangs in Schwartzmeister's back room.  'Ar-re
ye still at th' art?' says Hannigan.  'I am,' says th' young man.
'How does it go?' asks Hannigan.  'I've more thin I can do,' says
th' young man.  'Since steel rails got so high, I've had to hire
an assistant.  Ye see, I didn't get on in Chicago.  Me "Bridgepoort
in a Fog" was th' on'y pitcher I sold, an' a sausage mannyfacthrer
bought that because his facthry was in it.  I come over here, an'
so's me pitchers will have a fair show, I sign annywan's name ye
want to thim.  Ye've heerd iv Michael Angelo? That's me.  Ye've
heerd iv Gainsborough? That's me.  Ye've heerd iv Millet, th' boy
that painted th' pitcher give away with th' colored supplimint iv
th' Sundah Howl? That's me.  Yis, sir, th' rale name iv near ivry
distinguished painther iv modhren times is Remsen K. Smith.  Whin
ye go home, if ye see a good painther an' glazier that'd like a
job as assistant Rimbrandt f'r th' American thrade, sind him to
me.  F'r,' he says, 'th' on'y place an American artist can make a
livin' is here.  Charity f'r artists,' he says, 'begins abroad,'
he says."

"Well," said Mr. Hennessy, "perhaps a bum Europeen pitcher is
betther thin a good American pitcher."

"Perhaps so," said Mr. Dooley.  "I think it is so.  Annyhow, no
matther how bad a painther he is, annywan that can get money out
iv an American millyionaire is an artist an' desarves it.  There's
th' rale art.  I wish it was taught in th' schools.  I'd like to
see an exhibition at th' Museem with 'Check iv American Gintleman,
dhrawn fr'm life,' hung on th' wall."




Immigration


"Well, I see Congress has got to wurruk again," said Mr. Dooley.

"The Lord save us fr'm harm," said Mr. Hennessy.

"Yes, sir," said Mr. Dooley, "Congress has got to wurruk again,
an' manny things that seems important to a Congressman 'll be
brought up befure thim.  'Tis sthrange that what's a big thing to
a man in Wash'nton, Hinnissy, don't seem much account to me.
Divvle a bit do I care whether they dig th' Nicaragoon Canal or
cross th' Isthmus in a balloon; or whether th' Monroe docthrine
is enfoorced or whether it ain't; or whether th' thrusts is abolished
as Teddy Rosenfelt wud like to have thim or encouraged to go on
with their neefaryous but magnificent entherprises as th' Prisidint
wud like; or whether th' water is poured into th' ditches to reclaim
th' arid lands iv th' West or th' money f'r thim to fertilize th'
arid pocket-books iv th' conthractors; or whether th' Injun is
threated like a depindant an' miserable thribesman or like a free
an' indepindant dog; or whether we restore th' merchant marine to
th' ocean or whether we lave it to restore itsilf.  None iv these
here questions inthrests me, an' be me I mane you an' be you I
mane ivrybody.  What we want to know is, ar-re we goin' to have
coal enough in th' hod whin th' cold snap comes; will th' plumbin'
hold out, an' will th' job last.

"But they'se wan question that Congress is goin' to take up that
you an' me are intherested in.  As a pilgrim father that missed
th' first boats, I must raise me claryon voice again' th' invasion
iv this fair land be th' paupers an' arnychists iv effete Europe.
Ye bet I must--because I'm here first.  'Twas diff'rent whin I
was dashed high on th' stern an' rockbound coast.  In thim days
America was th' refuge iv th' oppressed iv all th' wurruld.  They
cud come over here an' do a good job iv oppressin' thimsilves.
As I told ye I come a little late.  Th' Rosenfelts an' th' Lodges
bate me be at laste a boat lenth, an' be th' time I got here they
was stern an' rockbound thimsilves.  So I got a gloryous rayciption
as soon as I was towed off th' rocks.  Th' stars an' sthripes
whispered a welcome in th' breeze an' a shovel was thrust into me
hand an' I was pushed into a sthreet excyvatin' as though I'd been
born here.  Th' pilgrim father who bossed th' job was a fine ol'
puritan be th' name iv Doherty, who come over in th' Mayflower
about th' time iv th' potato rot in Wexford, an' he made me think
they was a hole in th' breakwather iv th' haven iv refuge an' some
iv th' wash iv th' seas iv opprission had got through.  He was a
stern an' rockbound la-ad himsilf, but I was a good hand at loose
stones an' wan day--but I'll tell ye about that another time.

"Annyhow, I was rayceived with open arms that sometimes ended in
a clinch.  I was afraid I wasn't goin' to assimilate with th'
airlyer pilgrim fathers an' th' instichoochions iv th' counthry,
but I soon found that a long swing iv th' pick made me as good
as another man an' it didn't require a gr-reat intellect, or
sometimes anny at all, to vote th' dimmycrat ticket, an' befure
I was here a month, I felt enough like a native born American to
burn a witch.  Wanst in a while a mob iv intilligint collajeens,
whose grandfathers had bate me to th' dock, wud take a shy at me
Pathrick's Day procission or burn down wan iv me churches, but
they got tired iv that befure long; 'twas too much like wurruk.

"But as I tell ye, Hinnissy, 'tis diff'rent now.  I don't know why
'tis diff'rent but 'tis diff'rent.  'Tis time we put our back
again' th' open dure an' keep out th' savage horde.  If that cousin
iv ye'ers expects to cross, he'd betther tear f'r th' ship.  In a
few minyits th' gates 'll be down an' whin th' oppressed wurruld
comes hikin' acrost to th' haven iv refuge, they'll do well to put
a couplin' pin undher their hats, f'r th' Goddess iv Liberty 'll
meet thim at th' dock with an axe in her hand.  Congress is goin'
to fix it.  Me frind Shaughnessy says so.  He was in yisterdah an'
says he: ''Tis time we done something to make th' immigration laws
sthronger,' says he.  'Thrue f'r ye, Miles Standish,' says I; 'but
what wud ye do?' 'I'd keep out th' offscourin's iv Europe,' says
he.  'Wud ye go back?' says I.  'Have ye'er joke,' says he.  ''Tis
not so seeryus as it was befure ye come,' says I.  'But what ar-re
th' immygrants doin' that's roonous to us?' I says.

'Well,' says he, 'they're arnychists,' he says; 'they don't
assymilate with th' counthry,' he says.  'Maybe th' counthry's
digestion has gone wrong fr'm too much rich food,' says I; 'perhaps
now if we'd lave off thryin' to digest Rockyfellar an' thry a
simple diet like Schwartzmeister, we wudden't feel th' effects iv
our vittels,' I says.  'Maybe if we'd season th' immygrants a
little or cook thim thurly, they'd go down betther,' I says.

"'They're arnychists, like Parsons,' he says.  'He wud've been an
immygrant if Texas hadn't been admitted to th' Union,' I says.
'Or Snolgosh,' he says.  'Has Mitchigan seceded?' I says.  'Or
Gittoo,' he says.  'Who come fr'm th' effete monarchies iv Chicago,
west iv Ashland Av'noo,' I says.  'Or what's-his-name, Wilkes
Booth,' he says.  'I don't know what he was--maybe a Boolgharyen,'
says I.  'Well, annyhow,' says he, 'they're th' scum iv th' earth.'
'They may be that,' says I; 'but we used to think they was th'
cream iv civilization,' I says.  'They're off th' top annyhow.  I
wanst believed 'twas th' best men iv Europe come here, th' la-ads
that was too sthrong and indepindant to be kicked around be a
boorgomasther at home an' wanted to dig out f'r a place where they
cud get a chanst to make their way to th' money.  I see their sons
fightin' into politics an' their daughters tachin' young American
idee how to shoot too high in th' public school, an' I thought
they was all right.  But I see I was wrong.  Thim boys out there
towin' wan heavy foot afther th' other to th' rowlin' mills is all
arnychists.  There's warrants out f'r all names endin' in 'inski,
an' I think I'll board up me windows, f'r,' I says, 'if immygrants
is as dangerous to this counthry as ye an' I an' other pilgrim
fathers believe they are, they'se enough iv thim sneaked in already
to make us aborigines about as infloointial as the prohibition
vote in th' Twinty-ninth Ward.  They'll dash again' our stern an'
rock-bound coast till they bust it,' says I.

"'But I ain't so much afraid as ye ar-re.  I'm not afraid iv me
father an' I'm not afraid iv mesilf.  An' I'm not afraid iv
Schwartzmeister's father or Hinnery Cabin Lodge's grandfather.
We all come over th' same way, an' if me ancestors were not what
Hogan calls rigicides, 'twas not because they were not ready an'
willin', on'y a king niver come their way.  I don't believe in
killin' kings, mesilf.  I niver wud've sawed th' block off that
curly-headed potintate that I see in th' pitchers down town, but,
be hivins, Presarved Codfish Shaughnessy, if we'd begun a few years
ago shuttin' out folks that wudden't mind handin' a bomb to a king,
they wudden't be enough people in Mattsachoosetts to make a quorum
f'r th' Anti-Impeeryal S'ciety,' says I.  'But what wud ye do with
th' offscourin' iv Europe?' says he.  'I'd scour thim some more,'
says I.

"An' so th' meetin' iv th' Plymouth Rock Assocyation come to an
end.  But if ye wud like to get it together, Deacon Hinnissy, to
discuss th' immygration question, I'll sind out a hurry call f'r
Schwartzmeister an' Mulcahey an' Ignacio Sbarbaro an' Nels Larsen
an' Petrus Gooldvink, an' we 'll gather to-night at Fanneilnoviski
Hall at th' corner iv Sheridan an' Sigel sthreets.  All th' pilgrim
fathers is rayquested f'r to bring interpreters."

"Well," said Mr. Hennessy, "divvle th' bit I care, on'y I'm here
first, an' I ought to have th' right to keep th' bus fr'm bein'
overcrowded."

"Well," said Mr. Dooley, "as a pilgrim father on me gran' nephew's
side, I don't know but ye're right.  An' they'se wan sure way to
keep thim out."

"What's that?" asked Mr. Hennessy.

"Teach thim all about our instichoochions befure they come," said
Mr. Dooley.




White House Discipline


"Where did ye spind th' New Year's?" asked Mr. Dooley.

"I didn't go to th' White House rayciption," said Mr. Hennessy,
pleasantly.

"I see ye didn't," said Mr. Doolcy.  "Ye'er ar-rm is not in a
sling.  Man an' boy, Hinnissy, I've taken manny a chanst on me
life, but I'd as lave think iv declarin' th' sintimints iv me heart
in an Orange meetin' as dhroppin' in f'r a socyal call at what
Hogan calls th' ixicutive mansion.  That is, if I was a govermint
emplyee, which I ain't, havin' been born wrong.

"Th' time was whin a man lost his job an' his heart to th' prisidint
at th' same time.  A reproof was administhered to him with chloryform.
He woke up an' rubbed his eyes an' says, 'Where am I?' an' th'
polisman says: 'Ye're in an ash bar'l.' He come fr'm th' White
House with tears in his eyes an' was tol' he was out iv wurruk.
But, Hinnissy, th' prisint occypant iv th' White House is a heartier
person.  A reproof fr'm him is th' same thing as a compound fracture.
A wurrud iv caution will lay a man up f'r a week an' a severe
riprimand will sind him through life with a wooden leg.

"There was me frind, Gin'ral Miles.  No more gallant sojer iver
dhrew his soord to cut out a patthern f'r a coat thin Gin'ral Miles.
He's hunted th' Apachy, th' Sioux, th' Arapahoo, th' Comanchee, th'
Congressman an' other savages iv th' plain; he's faced death an'
promotion in ivry form, an' no harm come to him till he wint up th'
White House stairs or maybe 'twas till he come down.  Annyhow,
Gin'ral Miles was pursooin' th' thrue coorse iv a nachral warryor
an' enlightenin' th' wurruld on th' things he happened to think
iv.  'Tis what is ixpicted iv him.  If ye don't read him ye don't
know what's goin' on in th' wurruld.  Ivry Sundah I pick up me
pa-aper an' hurry through th' articles on what's a suitable Christmas
gift f'r th' hired girl who'll pizen th' soup if she gets three
yards iv calico, be Winnyfield Scott Schley, an' what ought to be
done f'r th' Chinee, be Cap. Mahan, an' get down to what Gin'ral
Miles thinks.  'Tis always good an' full iv meaty advice.  'Is
Mars inhabited?' 'Th' future iv th' Columbya river salmon,' 'Is
white lead good f'r th' complexion?' 'What wud I do if I had a
millyion dollars an' it was so,' 'England's supreemacy in Cochin
China,' 'Pink gaiters as a necissity iv warfare,' 'Is th' Impire
shouldhers goin' out?' 'Waist measurements iv warriors I have met,'
an' so on.  Gin'ral Miles is th' on'y in-an'-out, up an' down,
catch-as-catch-can, white, red or black, with or without, journylist
we have left.  On anny subject fr'm stove polish to sun worship,
I'd take th' wurrud iv me frind Gin'ral Miles befure th' man that
made th' goods.

"'Twas that got him into throuble.  Wan day afther inspictin' th'
army, Gin'ral Miles give a chat to wan iv his fav'rite journals on
what he thought about th' navy, him bein' a great authority on
navy affairs befure steam come in.  I don't know what th' divvle
he said an' I don't care, f'r me mind was made up long ago, an'
ivrybody that don't agree with me is little betther thin a thraitor
or a cow'rd.  But annyhow he give his opinyion, an' afther givin'
it he took his bonnet out, had a goold beater in to fix up th'
epylets, got th' ilicthric lights goin' in th' buttons, found th'
right pair iv blue an' pink pants, pulled on th' shoes with th'
silver bells, harnessed to his manly hips th' soord with the
forget-me-nots on th' handle an' pranced over to th' White House.
As he wint up th' hall, he noticed an atmosphere iv what Hogan
calls cold hatoor, f'r wan iv th' durekeepers said th' prisidint
wasn't home an' another lightly kicked him as he passed, but like
a sojer he wint on to th' East room where Mr. Rosenfelt, th'
pa-apers tells me, shtud in front iv th' fireplace, nervously
pluckin' Sicrety Gage be th' beard.  'I've come,' says Gin'ral
Miles, 'to pay me rayspicts to th' head iv th' naytion.' 'Thank
ye,' says th' prisidint, 'I'll do th' same f'r th' head iv th'
army,' he says, bouncin' a coal scuttle on th' vethran's helmet.
'Gin'ral, I don't like ye'er recent conduct,' he says, sindin'
th' right to th' pint iv th' jaw.  'Ye've been in th' army forty
year,' he says, pushin' his head into th' grate, 'an' ye shud know
that an officer who criticizes his fellow officers, save in th'
reg'lar way, that is to say in a round robin, is guilty iv I
dinnaw what,' he says, feedin' him with his soord.  'I am foorced
to administher ye a severe reproof,' he says.  'Is that what this
is?' says Gin'ral Miles.  'It is,' says th' prisidint.  'I thought
it was capital punishnmint,' says Gin'ral Miles as he wint out
through th' window pursooed be a chandelier.  His nex' article
will be entitled 'Hospital Sketches,' an' I undhershtand he's
dictatin' a few remarks to his nurse on providin' atthractive suits
iv steel plate f'r gin'rals in th' army.

"Well, sir, they'll be gr-reat times down there f'r a few years.
A movement is on foot f'r to establish an emergency hospital f'r
office holders an' politicians acrost th' sthreet fr'm th' White
House where they can be threated f'r infractions iv th' Civil
Sarvice law followed be pers'nal injuries.  I'll be watchin' th'
pa-apers ivry mornin'.  'Rayciption at th' White House.  Among th'
casulties was so-an'-so.  Th' prisidint was in a happy mood.  He
administhered a stingin' rebuke to th' Chief Justice iv th' Supreme
Coort, a left hook to eye.  Sinitor Hanna was prisint walkin' with
a stick.  Th' prisidint approached him gaily an' asked him about
his leg.  "'Tis gettin' betther," says th' sinitor.  "That's good,"
says th' prisidint.  "Come again whin it is entirely well an' we'll
talk over that appointment," he says.  Th' afthernoon was enlivened
be th' appearance iv a Southern Congressman askin' f'r a foorth-class
post-office.  Th' prisidint hardly missed him be more thin a foot
at th' gate, but th' Congressman bein' formerly wan iv Mosby's
guerillas escaped, to th' gr-reat chagrin iv Mr. Rosenfelt, who
remarked on his return that life at th' White House was very
confinin'.  "I will niver be able to enfoorce th' civil sarvice
law till I take more exercise," he said heartily.  Th' ambulance
was at th' dure promptly at five, but no important business havin'
been thransacted nearly all th' cabinet was able to walk to their
homes.'

"Yes, sir, 'twill be grand an' I'm goin' to injye it.  F'r th'
first time since I've been at it, Ar-rchey road methods has been
inthrajooced in naytional polliticks.  I knew th' time wud come,
Hinnissy.  'Tis th' on'y way.  Ye may talk about it as much as ye
want, but govermint, me boy, is a case iv me makin' ye do what I
want an' if I can't do it with a song, I'll do it with a shovel.
Th' ir'n hand in th' velvet glove, th' horseshoe in th' boxin'
mit, th' quick right, an' th' heavy boot, that was th' way we r-run
polliticks when I was captain iv me precinct."

"But ye niver was prisidint," said Mr. Hennessy.

"I always had too soft a spot f'r age," said Mr. Dooley; "an' 'tis
th' aged that does up us young fellows.  An' annyhow I done betther."




Money and Matrimony


"Can a man marry on twinty-five dollars?" asked Mr. Dooley.

"He can if he can get th' money," said Mr. Hennessy.

"Well, sir," said Mr. Dooley; "here's a judge on th' binch says
twinty-five dollars is as much as a man needs to enther th' sacred
bonds--twinty-five dollars beside th' nerve, an' he has to have
that annyhow.  Th' pa-apers has took it up an' some is f'r it an'
some is again' it.  A few iditors believes it can be done on less;
others thinks it can't be done undher thirty at th' outside.  A
larned lawyer says that a man who wud lure a young girl away fr'm
her music lessons whin if she asked him f'r twinty-six dollars
he'd have to signal f'r help, is nawthin' short iv a crim'nal.
Nearly all th' ladin' acthresses in th' counthry has been interviewed
an' they say that if marrid at all they cud not see their way clear
f'r less thin a millyion iv money.  They think th' judge meant a
divoorce.  Lookin' over th' argymints pro an' con, Hinnissy, I
come to th' conclusion that th' judge is wrong an' times has changed.

"Whin I was a boy all a man needed was a little encouragement fr'm
th' fam'ly, an account with a liveryman an' a small pull with th'
parish priest an' there he was.  'Twas well if he had a job too
but if he hadn't it wasn't a bar.  A marrid man can always find
wurruk to do.  He's got to.  But no wan iver thought iv askin' him
to skin open his bank book.  They wasn't anny such things.  They
wasn't anny banks.  He didn't have to pin a cashier's check to th'
proposal an' put in a sealed bid.  If th' girls in my time an'
this part iv town had to wait f'r an opulent business man with
twinty-five or thirty dollars, manny iv thim wud be waitin' at
this minyit.

"We looked on mathrimony as a dhraft on posterity, as Mark Hanna
wud say, an' not as an invistmint.  We argyied that while th'
childher was growin' up we'd be undher no expinse, an' when they'd
finished their schoolin' an' was able to take up th' stern jooties
iv life an' go to wurruk, say between th' age iv sivin an' nine,
they cud support us in luxury.  Th' young ladies had none th' best
iv us.  They had no money too, along with th' rest iv their charms.
It was no case iv matchin' coopons in thim happy days.  Th' father
iv th' fam'ly niver thought iv sindin' in an expert accountant to
look over th' young man's books an' decide whether his invistmints
was sound, an' if th' young man had th' nerve to ask his father-in-law
was he still on th' payroll, 'twudn't be the sacramint iv mathrimony
he'd require.  If th' young man was kind to th' dog, smoked seegars
that were not made be th' rubber thrust an' cud pass ivry second
saloon without a pang, he was illegible f'r to enther th' first
fam'lies in th' neighborhood an' sometimes even th' last.  We was
too dilicate f'r to speak iv marredge as though it was like buyin'
a pound iv tinpinny nails.  Durin' th' coortship no wan around
th' house iver let on that annything was in th' air, though wanst
in awhile they was a giggle whin th' dure bell rang an' th' ol'
man wud give a wink to th' clock an' go out into th' kitchen.  We
spint most iv our time in th' kitchen while th' preliminaries was
bein' arranged.  Th' coortship I think wint on be a complete system
iv signals long befure Marconi come into th' wurruld, but wan night
th' wealthy heiress come hack fr'm th' parlor an' fell into a
clinch with her mother, an' th' proud father yawned an' wint to
bed.  That was all they was to it.  No wan assayed young Lotharyo
Hinnissy iv th' sixth ward.  If they heard he had twinty-five
dollars, they'd begin f'r to make an allybi ready f'r him.  I mind
whin Hogan was goin' to marry Cassidy's daughter.  'I haven't a
cint,' he says.  'Hurry up an' marry thin,' says Cassidy, 'or ye
might have.'

"That's th' way it was in thim good ol' days an', be hivins, I
think that's th' way it is now among th' likes iv us.  An' that's
a good thing f'r th' men that own th' rollin' mills.  It wudden't
do to take anny chances goin' up an' down Ar-rchey road offerin'
ye'ersilf without th' cash forfeit.  Some wan might call ye.  But
it's diff'rent among th' best fam'lies.  'Tis far diff'rent.  I
read be th' pa-apers in this conthrovarsy, that if a man can't
show down a bank account that wud make Andhrew Carnaygie feel like
goin' back to wurruk, he might as well make up his mind to remain
a gay bachelor till he falls fr'm th' cab f'r th' las' time.  Not
f'r him th' joys iv marrid life, th' futman at th' dure tellin'
him his wife has not come home yet, th' prattlin' iv th' tendher
infant as it is rocked to sleep in th' incybator, th' frequent
letthers fr'm abroad askin' him if th' dhraft come.  No rayspictible
woman wud have him while he was gettin' th' money an' none ought
to have him afther he's got it.

"Manetime th' price iv mathrimonyal coopon fours goes up till
hardly annywan can think iv entherin' thim.  A man believes th'
judge was wrong an' says he, 'I'll niver condimn Mary Josephine
to be a poor man's wife.  I'll wait till I get a millyion.' It's
not so hard to get a millyion nowadays if ye pick out th' right
people to get it fr'm, but it takes some time, an' befure th' eager
suitor has landed enough to sit in th' game, he's considherably
past th' age iv consint.  Manetime father, too, hasn't been idle.
He's bethrayed a few thrusts himsilf an' put a story or two on
th' house.  So whin th' young man comes up wan night an' lays down
his pile an' suggests that th' time has come f'r to hasten th'
glad evint, father says: 'I'm afraid, me boy, that ye're a little
slow.  Ye haven't kept pace with th' socyal requiremints.  Since
seein' ye last, Mary Josephine has acquired th' use iv a private
yacht an' is slowly mastherin' th' great truth that if ye have a
club suit, ye ought to pass up th' make.  A slight oversight some
afthernoon in distinguishin' thrumps an' they wudden't be enough
iv that bundle left to put a rubber band around.  No, Mike, I think
a gr-reat deal iv ye, but niver, niver will I consint that a
daughter iv mine shud suffer th' pangs iv poverty.' An' so it goes
through th' years until marredge, Hinnissy, is resthricted to th'
very rich an' th' exthremely poor who're almost all marrid already.

"I don't know mesilf what to think iv it, Hinnissy, an' I don't
know that I ought to worry about it.  I haven't noticed anny
reduction in th' number iv marredge licenses day be day.  Th'
Kubelowskis an' th' Witsinskis still are exchangin' vows, an' if
they've got more thin twinty-five dollars apiece I'd like to know
where they got it an' notify th' polis.  No, sir, th' gloryous ol'
instichooshion iv which I'm as proud as I am shy is here to stay,
an' I'm thinkin' it'll be here whin money becomes extinct.  If th'
rich are becomin' richer, th' poor are becomin' more foolish about
these things, an' there's hope in that."

"D'ye ra-ally think a man ought to marry on twinty-five dollars?"
asked Mr. Hennessy.

"If he's that kind iv a man, more money thin that wud be wasted
on him," said Mr. Dooley.




Prince Henry's Visit


"It's goin' to be gr-reat times f'r us Germans whin Prince Hinnery
comes over," said Mr. Dooley.

"By th' way," said Mr. Hennessy with an air of polite curiosity,
"what relation's he to th' impror iv Germany? Is he th' son or th'
nevvew?"

"He's nayther," said Mr. Dooley.  "Th' impror has no sons that I
iver heerd iv.  If he had a son he'd be a steam injine.  No, sir,
this man is th' impror's brother Hinnery or Hans.  I don't exactly
know what th' usual jooties iv an impror's brother is.  I know
what an impror has to do.  His wurruk's cut out f'r him.  I cud
fill th' job mesilf to me own satisfaction an' th' on'y wan an
impror has to plaze is himsilf.  Th' German impror frequently
mintions another, but on'y in th' way iv politeness.  I know what
an impror's jooties is, but I don't know what an impror's brother
has to do ex officio, as Hogan says.  But this boy Hinnery or Hans
has more wurruk thin a bartinder in a prohibition town.  He's a
kind iv travellin' agent f'r th' big la-ad.  His bag is ready
packed ivry night, he sleeps like a fireman with his pants in his
boots beside his bed, an' they'se a thrap dure alongside th' cradle
f'r him to slide down to th' first flure.

"He's no more thin got to sleep whin th' three iliven sounds on
th' gong.  In Hinnery leaps to th' pantaloons, down th' laddher
he goes pullin' up his suspinders with wan hand an' puttin' on his
hat with th' other an' off he is f'r Corea or Chiny or Booloochistan
at a gallop.  His brother stands at th' dure an' hollers farewell
to him.  'Go, Hinnery,' he says.  'Go, me dear brother, to th'
land iv perpetchooal sunshine an' knock in nails f'r to hang up
th' German armor,' he says.  'Knock in th' nails, an' if ye happen
to hit ye'ersilf on th' thumb, swear on'y be th' German Mike an'
raymimber ye done it f'r me,' he says.  'I will remain at home an'
conthrol th' rest iv th' wurruld with th' assistance iv that German
Providence that has been as kind to us as we desarve an' that we
look up to as our akel,' he says.  An' Hinnery goes away.  He
travels o'er land an' sea, be fire an' flood an' field.  He's th'
ginooine flyin' Dutchman.  His home is in his hat.  He hasn't slept
all night in a bed f'r tin years.  'Tis Hinnery this an' Hinnery
that; Hinnery up th' Nile an' Hinnery to Injy; Hinnery here an'
Hinnery there.  Th' cuffs iv his shirt is made iv th' time cards
iv railroads.  Ivry time they'se a change in schedool he ordhers
new shirts.  He knows th' right iv way fr'm Berlin to Ballymaehoo;
he speaks all known languages, an' ivrywhere he goes he makes a
frind or an inimy, which is th' same thing to th' Germans.  He
carries a sample case undher wan arm an' a gun undher th' other,
an' if ye don't like Rhine wine perhaps ye'll take lead.  On
second considherations he won't shoot ye but he'll sell ye th'
Krupp.  They'se more where it come fr'm.

"I tell ye, Hinnissy, this Impror or Kaiser iv Germany is a smart
man.  I used to think 'twas not so.  I thought he had things unaisy
in his wheel-house.  I mind whin he got th' job, ivrywan says:
'Look out f'r war.  This wild man will be in that office f'r a
year whin he'll just about declare fight with th' wurruld.' An'
ivrybody framed up f'r him.  But look ye what happened.  'Tis
twinty years since he was swore in an' ne'er a fight has he had.
Ivrybody else has been in throuble.  A screw-maker iv a sindintary
life has ploonged England into a war; me frinds th' Greeks that
were considhered about akel to a flush iv anger over a raid on a
push cart has mixed it up with th' Turks; th' Japs has been at
war, an' th' Dagoes; our own peace-lovin' nation has been runnin'
wan short an' wan serryal war, an' aven th' Chinese has got their
dandher up, be hivins, but Willum, th' Middleweight Champeen,
Willum th' Potsdam Game Chicken, Willum, th' Unterdenlinden Cyclone,
Willum has been ladin' th' ca'm an' prosperous life iv a delicatessen
dealer undher a turner hall.  He's had no fights.  He niver will
have anny fights.  He'll go to his grave with th' repytation iv
nayether winnin' nor losin' a battle, but iv takin' down more
forfeits thin anny impror pugilist iv our time.

"What do I think iv him? Well, sir, I think he's not a fighter but
a fight lover.  Did ye iver see wan iv thim young men that always
has a front seat at a scrap so near th' ring that whin th' second
blows th' wather he gets what's left on his shirt front? Well,
that's me frind Willum.  He is a pathron iv spoort an' not a spoort.
His ideel is war but he's a practical man.  He has a season ticket
to th' matches but he niver will put on the gloves.  He's in the
spoortin' goods business an' he usu'lly gets a percintage iv th'
gate receipts.  If he sees two nations bellowin' at each other th'
assurances iv their distinguished considheration, he says: 'Boys,
get together.  'Tis a good match.  Ye're both afraid.  Go in, uncle;
go in, Boer.' He is all around th' ringside, encouragin' both sides.
'Stand up again' him there, Paul; rassle him to th' flure.  Good
f'r ye, uncle.  A thrifle low, that wan, but all's fair in war.
Defind ye'er indipindance, noble sons iv Teutonic blood.  Exercise
ye'er sov'reign rights, me English frinds.' If wan or th' other
begins to weaken th' first bottle through th' ropes is Willum's.
Whin annybody suggests a dhraw, he demands his money back.  Nawthin'
but a fight to a finish will do him.  If ayether iv th' contestants
is alive in th' ring at th' end, he congratulates him an' asks
him if he heerd that German cheer in th' las' round.

"Oh, he's good.  He'll do all right, that German man.  In high
di-plomacy, he's what in low di-plomacy wud be called a happy
jollyer.  But he knows that if a man's always slappin' ye on th'
back, ye begin to think he's weak; so he first shakes his fist
undher ye'er nose an' thin slaps ye on th' back.  Sometimes he
does both at th' same time.  An' he's got th' thrue jollyer's way
iv provin' to ye that he's ye'er frind alone an' th' deadly inimy
iv all others.  He's got th' Czar iv Rooshya hypnotized, th' King
iv England hugged to a standstill, an' th' Impror iv Chiny in tears.
An' he's made thim all think th' first thing annywan knows, he'll
haul off an' swing on wan iv th' others.

"So, havin' fixed ivrything up in Europe, he cast his eyes on this
counthry, an' says he: 'I think I'll have to dazzle thim furriners
somewhat.  They've got a round-headed man f'r prisidint that was
born with spurs on his feet an' had a catridge-belt f'r a rattle,
an' some day his goolash won't agree with him an' he'll call th'
bluff I've been makin' these manny years.  What'll I do to make
thim me frinds so that 'twud be like settin' fire to their own
house to attackt me? Be hivins, I've got it.  They're a dimmycratic
people.  I'll sind thim a prince.  They can't keep him away, an'
whin he lands, th' German popylation'll come out an' get up
schootzenfists f'r him an' me fellow impror acrost th' say'll see
how manny iv them there ar-re, an' he'll think twict befure he
makes faces at me.  F'r, wanst a German, always a German be it
iver so far,' he says.  'I'll sind thim Hinnery.  Hinnery! Turn
in th' alarm f'r Hinnery,' he says.  Hinnery slides down th' pole
an' th' Impror says: 'Brother, catch th' night boat f'r America
an' pay a visit to whativer king they have there.  Take along
annywan ye like an' as manny thrunks as ye need, an' stay as long
as ye plaze.  Don't ring.  Back th' dhray again' th' front dure
an' hurl ye'ersilf into th' first bed room ye see.  Act just as
if ye was me,' he says.  'But I'm not invited,' says Hinnery.
'Write ye'er own invitation,' says Willum.  'Here's th' answer:
'Fellow Potyntate, Ye'ers iv th' second instant askin' me brother
Hinnery to spind a year with ye, not received.  In reply will say
that nawthin' cud give me gr-reater pleasure.  He can stay as long
as he plazes.  Him an' his soot will not need more thin th' whole
house, so ye can have th' barn to ye'ersilf.  If ye have a brother,
don't neglect to sind him over to see me.  I know a good hotel at
four a day, all included but candles, an' if he stands at th'
front window, he can see me go by anny day.  Ye'ers, Willum, Rex
an' a shade more.'

"So here comes Hinnery, an' we're goin' to give him a gloryous
rayciption.  Th' war vessels will be out to welcome him, th'
prisidint will meet him at th' dock an' he will be threated to wan
continyous round iv schutzenfists, turnd'yeminds, sangerbunds,
katzenjammers, skats, an' other German fistivals.  Th' aristocracy
iv New York is practicin' Dutch an' th' Waldorf-Astorya will be
festooned with dachshunds.  He'll see more Germans an' more German
Germans thin he iver see in Prooshya.  An' I hope he'll have a
good time."

"I wondher what Tiddy Rosenfelt thinks iv it?" asked Mr. Hennessy.

"Well, what wud ye think if ye'd had to intertain a German Prince
unawares? Ye'd give him th' best ye'd got, ye'd dig up a bottle
iv Knockimheimer down th' sthreet an' ye'd see that he got a noodle
ivry time he reached.  An' whin he wint away, ye'd go as far as
th' dure with him an' pat him on th' back an' say: 'Good-bye,
good-bye, Hinnery.  Good-bye, Hans.  Guten nobben, oof veedersayin,
me boy.  Good luck to ye.  Look out f'r that shtep! There ye ar-re.
Be careful iv th' gate.  D'ye think ye can get home all right? I'd
go as far as th' car with ye if I had me coat on.  Well, good-bye
lanksman.  Raymimber me to ye'er brother.  Tell him not to f'rget
that little matther.  Oh, of coorse, they'se no counthry in th'
wurruld like Germany an' we're uncivilized an' rapacyous an' will
get our heads knocked off if we go into a fight.  Good-bye, mein
frind.' An' whin ye'd shut th' dure on him, ye'd say: 'Well, what
d'ye think iv that?'"




Prince Henry's Reception


"That Prince Hinnery seems to be havin' a good time," said Mr.
Hennessy.

"He's havin' th' time iv his life," said Mr. Dooley.  "Not since
th' Hohnezollern fam'ly was founded be wan iv th' ablest burglars
iv th' middle ages has anny prince injyed such a spree as this
wan.  Ye see, a prince is a gr-reat man in th' ol' counthry, but
he niver is as gr-reat over there as he is here.  Whin he's at
home he's something th' people can't help an' they don't mind him.
He's like an iron lamp post, station'ry, ornymintal, an' useful
to let people know where they are.  But whin he comes to this home
iv raypublican simplicity, he's all that th' wurrud prince wud
imply, an' it implies more to us thin to annywan else.  I tell ye,
we're givin' him th' best we have in th' shop.  We're showin' him
that whativer riv'rince we may feel tow'rd George Wash'nton, it
don't prejudice us again' live princes.  Th' princes we hate is
thim that are dead an' harmless.  We've rayceived him with open
arms, an' I'll say this f'r him, that f'r a German he's a good
fellow.

"That's as far as I care to go, havin' lived f'r manny years among
th' Germans.  I'm not prejudiced again' thim, mind ye.  They make
good beer an' good citizens an' mod-rate polismen, an' they are
fond iv their fam'lies an' cheese.  But wanst a German, always
Dutch.  Ye cudden't make Americans iv thim if ye called thim all
Perkins an' brought thim up in Worcester.  A German niver ra-aly
leaves Germany.  He takes it with him wheriver he goes.  Whin an
Irishman is four miles out at sea he is as much an American as
Presarved Fish.  But a German is niver an American excipt whin he
goes back to Germany to see his rilitives.  He keeps his own
language, he plays pinochle, he despises th' dhrink iv th' counthry,
his food is sthrange an' he on'y votes f'r Germans f'r office, or
if he can't get a German, f'r somewan who's again' th' Irish.  I
bet ye, if ye was to suddenly ask Schwarzmeister where he is, he'd
say: 'At Hockheimer in Schwabia.' He don't ra-aly know he iver
come to this counthry.  I've heerd him talkin' to himsilf.  He
always counts in German.

"But I say about Prince Hinnery that f'r a German he's all right
an' I'm glad he come.  I hear he wrote home to his brother that
is th' Imp'ror over there: 'Dear Willum: This is a wondherful
counthry, an' they've give me a perfectly killin' rayciption.
I've almost died laughin'.  We was met forty miles out at sea be
a band on a raft playin' th' Watch on th' Rhine.  We encountered
another band playin' th' same plazin' harmony ivry five miles till
we got up to New York.  I wisht I had come over on a man-iv-war.
In th' Bay we was surrounded be a fleet iv tugs carryin' riprisintatives
iv th' press, singin' th' Watch on th' Rhine.  I rayceived siveral
offers through a migaphone to write an article about what ye say
in ye'er sleep f'r th' pa-apers, but I declined thim, awaitin'
insthructions fr'm ye.  At th' dock we was greeted be a band playin'
th' Watch on th' Rhine an' afther some delay, caused be th'
Delicatessen Sangerbund holdin' us while they sung th' Watch on
th' Rhine, we stepped ashore on a gangplank neatly formed be th'
guv'nor iv th' state holdin' onto th' feet iv th' mayor, him
clutchin' th' iditor iv th' Staats Zeitung an' so on, th' gangplank
singin' th' Watch on th' Rhine as we walked to th' dock.

"'I am much imprissed be New York.  I hate it.  Th' buildin's are
very high here but th' language is higher.  If I was to go home
now, ye wudden't know me.  Afther I hear a speech I don't dare to
look in th' glass f'r fear I might be guilty iv treason to ye,
mein lieber.  Our illustrious ancesthor, Fridrick th' Great, was
a cheap an' common man compared to me, an' ye, august brother,
niver got by th' barrier.  I hope I'll have time to cool down
befure I get home or ye'll have to lock me up.

"'They're givin' me th' fine line iv entertainmint.  Ivrywhere I
go, they'se music or something that does as well.  I have a musical
insthrument called a catastrophone in me room that plays th' Watch
on th' Rhine whin I go in at night an' get up in th' mornin'.
Whin I go out on th' sthreet, th' crowd cries "Hock th' Kaiser."
I wish they'd stop hockin' ye, dear brother, an' hock th' Watch
on th' Rhine.  (This here is an American joke.  I'm gettin' on
fast.) I'm goin' to be took to th' opry some night this week.
They've fired a lot iv la-ads out iv their boxes to make room f'r
me.  Wan iv thim objected, but he was fired annyhow.  Aftherward
I'm goin' to ate dinner with th' iditors iv th' counthry.  Won't
that be nice? I suppose I'm th' first Hohnezollern that iver took
dinner with an iditor, though our fam'ly has often given thim food
an' lodgin'--in jail.  I wish ye was here to go with me.  Ye've
had more journylistic expeeryence an' manny iv th' things ye've
had printed wudden't seem too unthrue to th' other guests.  Th'
newspapers has been mos' kind to me, I might say almost too kind.
I am sindin' ye a photygraft iv mesilf in me bath, took be flashlight
be an iditor concealed on th' top iv th' clothes press, an' an
interview be a lady rayporther who riprisinted hersilf as th'
Queen iv Ohio.

"'But th' big ivint comes off tomorrah.  I am actually invited to
a dinner iv wan hundherd iv th' riprisintative business men iv New
York an' a few Christyans ast in aftherward.  Hooray, hooray! Mind
ye, these ar-re not ordhn'ry business men.  Far fr'm it.  No one
gets in unless he has made at laste eight millyion marks out iv
th' sivinty millyion marks in this counthry.  An' I'm ast to meet
thim! What fun! I bet 'twill be jolly.  I'm goin' to buy me a table
f'r computin' inthrest, a copy iv th' naytional bankin' act an' a
good account iv th' thransactions in sterlin' exchange f'r th'
current year an' whin th' quip an' jest go round, I'll be no
skeleton at th' feast.

"'Ye can see be this that me life has been almost too gay, but th'
merrymint goes blithely on.  Fr'm here I go to Bawstown where I
expict to pat th' Bunker Hill monymint on th' head an' have a look
at th' new railway station.  Then I will take in Buffly, Cichago
(pro-nounced Sichawgo), Saint Looey, Three Rapids, Idaho, Pinnsylvanya,
an' mos' iv th' large cities iv th' west, includin' Chatahooga
where wan iv th' gr-reat battles iv th' rivolution was fought
between Gin'ral Sigel an' Gin'ral Zollycoffer.  I ixpict to larn
a good deal about th' steel, pork, corn, lard an' lithrachoor iv
th' counthry befure I rayturn.  But this buttherfly existence is
killin' me.  It is far too gay.  I suppose whin I was younger, I
wud've injyed it, but me time f'r socyal fistivities has passed
an' I long f'r th' quiet iv home life among th' simple ryelties
iv Europe.  Ye'ers, Hinnery.'

"Yes, he's havin' a good time.  But what th' pa-apers calls th'
climax iv th' intertainmint will be reached whin he arrives in
Chicago.  Schwartzmeister an' I will rayceive him.  Schwartzmeister's
fam'ly knew his in th' ol' counthry.  He had an uncle that was
booted all th' way fr'm Sedan to Paris be a cousin iv th' Prince.
We've arranged th' programme as far as Ar-rchey road is consarned.
Monday mornin', visit to Kennedy's packin' house; afthernoon,
Riordan's blacksmith shop; avenin', 'Th' Two Orphans,' at th'
Halsted sthreet opry house.  Choosdah, iliven A.M., inspiction iv
th' rollin' mills ; afthernoon, visit to Feeney's coal yard;
avenin', 'Bells iv Corneville,' at th' opry house.  Winsdah
mornin', tug ride on th' river fr'm Thirty-first sthreet to Law's
coal yard; afthernoon, a call on th' tanneries, th' cable barn an'
th' brick yards; avenin', dinner an' rayciption be th' retail
saloonkeepers.  There's th' whole programme.  They may think in
New York they are givin' him a good time but we'll show him what
gayety ra-aly is, an' inform him iv th' foundation iv our
supreemacy as a nation.  That's what he wants to see an' we'll
show it to him."

"Goowan," said Mr. Hennessy.  "He don't know ye."

"I bet ye he knows me as much as he knows thim," said Mr. Dooley.
"To a ra-ale prince, they can't be much diff'rence between a man
who sells liquor be th' pail an' wan that sells it be th' distillery,
between a man that makes a horseshoe an' wan that makes a mlllyion
tons iv steel.  We're all alike to him--Carnaygie, Rockyfellar,
Morgan, Schwartzmeister an' me."

"Well, he certainly has been well rayceived," said Mr. Hennessy.

"I wondher," said Mr. Dooley, "if he thinks 'tis on th' square!"




Cuba vs. Beet Sugar


"What's all this about Cubia an' th' Ph'lippeens?" asked Mr.
Hennessy.  "What's beet sugar?"

"Th' throuble about Cubia is that she's free; th' throuble about
beet sugar is we're not; an' th' throuble about th' Ph'lippeens
is th' Ph'lippeen throuble," said Mr. Dooley.  "As rega-ards Cubia,
she's like a woman that th' whole neighborhood helps to divoorce
fr'm a crool husband, but nivertheless a husband, an' a miserable
home but a home, an' a small credit at th' grocery but a credit,
an' thin whin she goes into th' dhressmakin' business, rayfuse to
buy annything fr'm her because she's a divoorced woman.  We freed
Cubia but we didn't free annything she projooces.  It wasn't her
fault.  We didn't think.  We expicted that all we had to do was
to go down to Sandago with a kinetoscope an' sthrike th' shackles
fr'm th' slave an' she'd be comfortable even if she had no other
protiction f'r her poor feet.  We f'rgot about th' Beet.  Most iv
us niver thought about that beautiful but fragile flower excipt
biled in conniction with pigs' feet or pickled in its own life
juice.  We didn't know that upon th' Beet hangs th' fate iv th'
nation, th' hope iv th' future, th' permanence iv our instichoochions
an' a lot iv other things akelly precious.  Th' Beet is th' naytional
anthem an', be hivins, it looks as though it might be th' naytional
motto befure long.

"Well, Cubia got her freedom or something that wud look like th'
same thing if she kept it out iv th' rain, but somehow or another
it didn't suit her entirely.  A sort iv cravin' come over her that
it was hard to tell fr'm th' same feelin' iv vacancy that she knew
whin she was opprissed be th' Hated Casteel.  Hunger, Hinnissy,
is about th' same thing in a raypublic as in a dispotism.  They'se
not much choice iv unhappiness between a hungry slave an' a hungry
freeman.  Cubia cudden't cuk or wear freedom.  Ye can't make freedom
into a stew an' ye can't cut a pair iv pants out iv it.  It won't
bile, fry, bake or fricassee.  Ye can't take two pounds iv fresh
creamery freedom, a pound iv north wind, a heapin' taycupfull iv
naytional aspirations an' a sprinklin' iv bars fr'm th' naytional
air, mix well, cuk over a hot fire an' sarve sthraight fr'm th'
shtove; ye can't make a dish out iv that that wud nourish a tired
freeman whin he comes home afther a hard day's wurruk lookin' f'r
a job.  So Cubia comes te us an' says she: 'Ye done well by us,'
she says.  'Ye give us freedom,' says she, 'an' more thin enough
to go round,' she says, 'an' now if ye plaze we'd like to thrade
a little iv it bhack f'r a few groceries,' she says.  'We will
wear wan shackle f'r a ham,' says she, 'an' we'll put on a full
raygalia iv ball an' chain an' yoke an' fetters an' come-alongs
f'r a square meal,' says she.

"That sounds raisonable enough an' bein' be nature a gin'rous
people whin we don't think, we're about to help her disthress with
whativer we have cold in th' panthry whin th' thought iv th' Beet
crosses our minds.  What will th' Beet say, th' red, th' juicy,
th' sacchrine Beet, th' Beet iv our Fathers, th' Beet iv Plymouth
Rock, Beet iv th' Pilgrim's Pride, Sweet Beet iv Liberty, iv thee
I sing? If we do annything f'r Cubia, down goes th' Beet, an' with
th' Beet perishes our instichoochions.  Th' constichoochion follows
th' Beet ex propria vigore, as Hogan says.  Th' juice iv th' Beet
is th' life blood iv our nation.  Whoiver touches a hair iv yon
star spangled Beet, shoot him on th' spot.  A bold Beet industhry
a counthry's pride whin wanst desthroyed can niver be supplied.
'Beet sugar an' Liberty Now an' Foriver, wanan' insiprable'--Dan'l
Webster.  'Thank Gawd I--I also--am a Beet'--th' same.  'Gover'mint
iv th' Beet, by th' Beet an' f'r th' Beet shall not perish fr'm
th' earth,'--Abraham Lincoln.  An' so, Hinnissy, we put th' pie
back into th' ice-chest where we keep our honor an' ginerosity an'
lock th' dure an' Cubia goes home, free an' hopeless.  D'ye think
so? Well, I don't.  Be hivins, Hinnissy, I think th' time has come
whin we've got to say whether we're a nation iv Beets.  I am no
serf, but I'd rather be bent undher th' dispotism iv a Casteel
thin undher th' tyranny iv a Beet.  If I've got to be a slave,
I'd rather be wan to a man, even a Spanish man, thin to a viggytable.
If I'm goin' to he opprissed be a Beet, let it be fr'm th' inside
not fr'm without.  I'll choose me masther, Hinnissy, an' whin I
do, 'twill not be that low-lyin', purple-complected, indygistible
viggytable.  I may bend me high head to th' egg-plant, th' potato,
th' cabbage, th' squash, th' punkin, th' sparrow-grass, th' onion,
th' spinach, th' rutabaga turnip, th' Fr-rench pea or th' parsnip,
but 'twill niver be said iv me that I was subjygated be a Beet.
No, sir.  Betther death.  I'm goin' to begin a war f'r freedom.
I'm goin' to sthrike th' shackles fr'm a slave an' I'm him.  I'm
goin' to organize a rig'mint iv Rough Riders an' whin I stand on
th' top iv San Joon hill with me soord in me hand an' me gleamin'
specs on me nose, ye can mark th' end iv th' domination iv th'
Beet in th' western wurruld.  F'r, Hinnissy, I tell ye what, if
th' things I hear fr'm Wash'nton is thrue, that other war iv freedom
stopped befure it was half done."

"An' what about th' Ph'lippeens?" asked Mr. Hennessy.

"They'se nawthin' to say about th' Ph'lippeens," said Mr. Dooley,
"excipt that th' throuble down there is all over."

"All over?"

"All over."




Bad Men From The West


"I see," said Mr. Hennessy, "th' Sinit has rayfused f'r to confirm
th' nommynation iv a man f'r an office out West because he'd been
in jail."

"Pro-fissyonal jealousy," said Mr. Dooley.  "Ye see, th' fact iv
th' matther is th' Sinit don't know what th' people iv th' Far
West want an' th' prisidint does.  Th' Sinit thinks th' jooty iv
th' counthry to th' land iv th' tarantuly is done if they sind out
a man too weak in th' lungs to stay in th' East an' wan that can
multiply com-pound fractions in his head.  But th' prisidint he
knows that what's needed in th' Far West is active, intilligent
officers that can shoot through th' pocket.  Th' other day it
become necess'ry to thrust on th' impeeryal terrytory iv Aryzony
a competint person f'r to administher th' laws an' keep th' peace
iv said community, an' th' pollyticians in Wash'nton was f'r givin'
thim somewan fr'm Connecticut or Rhode Island with a cough an' a
brother in th' legislachure.  But th' prisidint says no.  'No,'
he says, 'none but th' best,' he says, f'r th' domain iv th' settin'
sun, 'he says.  'I know th' counthry well,' he says, 'an' to cope
with th' hardy spirits iv Aryzony 'tis issintial we shud have a
man that can plug a coyote fr'm th' hip at fifty paces,' he says.
'How can you dhraw to yon hectic flush so's to make him good again'
th' full hands iv thim communities where life is wan gay an'
tireless round iv shoot,' he says.  'Ye can't expict him to riprisint
th' majesty iv th' govermint iv Wash'nton an' Lincoln.  He'd be
bucked off befure he got his feet in th' sturrups.  No, sir, th'
man iv me choice is Tarantula Jake, th' whirlwind iv Zuina Pass.
This imminint statesman has pocketed more balls thin anny other
disperado west iv Tucson, an' anny docymints iv state enthrusted
to his hands is sure to be delivered to their object,' he says,
'or,' he says, 'th' heirs iv th' object,' he says.

"'But,' says th' Sinit, 'he lost an ear in a fight.'

"'A boyish error,' says th' prisidint.  'Th' man threw th' knife
at him,' he says.

"'And he kilt a man,' says they.

"'Ye do him an injustice,' says th' prisidint.  'Kilt a man, says
ye! Kilt a man! Such is fame.  Why,' he says, 'he's kilt more men
thin th' Sinit has repytations,' he says.  'Ye might jus' as well
say me frind Sinitor Bivridge wanst made a speech, or that Shakespere
wrote a play, or that it's a fine tooth I have.  If all th' people
Jake has kilt was alive to-day, we'd be passin' congisted disthrict
ligislachion f'r Aryzony.  Kilt a man is it? I give ye me wurrud
that ye can hardly find wan home in Aryzony, fr'm th' proudest
doby story-an'-a-half palace iv th' rich to th' lowly doby wan-story
hut iv th' poor, that this flagrant pathrite hasn't deprived iv
at laste wan ornymint.  Didn't I tell ye he is a killer? I didn't
mane a man that on'y wanst in a while takes a life.  He's a rale
killer.  He's no retailer.  He's th' Armour iv that particular
line iv slaughter.  Ye don't suppose that I'd propose f'r to
enthrust him with a lofty constichoochinal mission if he on'y
kilt wan man.  Me notions iv th' jooties iv public office is far
higher thin that, I thank hivin.  Besides in th' case ye speak iv
'twas justifiable homicide.  He had ast th' man to dhrink with
him.  No, sir, I have examined his record carefully an' I find him
fully equipped f'r anny emergency.  He niver misses.  He's th' man
f'r th' place, th' quick dhrawin', readily passionate, hammerless
gun firin' Terror iv th' Great Desert.'

"But th' Sinit didn't approve iv him.  Th' sinitor fr'm Matsachoosetts,
where human life is held so cheap that no wan thinks iv takin' it,
pro-tested again' him, an' 'twas fin'lly discovered that early
in his career he'd been caught runnin' off a bunch iv cows an'
pushed into jail, an' that was too much f'r th' hon'rable body,
hardly wan member iv which has iver been caught.  So they give
Jake th' go-by.

"But it'll come out all right in th' end.  Th' prisidint knows
what th' West wants an' he 'll get it f'r thim.  Th' West is no
effete community, where th' folks likes a quiet book-keepin' life,
an early supper, a game iv cards, lock th' windy, wind th' clock
an' so to bed.  That may do f'r th' East.  But in th' West, we
demand Sthrenuse Life an' Sudden Death.  We're people out here on
th' des'late plains where th' sun sets pink acrost th' gray desert
an' th' scorpion clings to th' toe.  We don't want pianny tuners
or plasther saints to govern us.  We want men who go to bed with
their spurs on, an' can break a gun without spikin' their thumbs.
We'll have thim too.  Undher precedin' administhrations, th' job
wint to th' la-ads with no more qualifications thin is needed to
run a dairy lunch.  Some iv th' bes' places in th' West is held
be th' poorest shots, while men capable iv th' mos' sthrikin' gun
plays is left to devote their talents to private functions.  An'
they call that th' merit system! I expict th' time is near at hand
whin justice will be done thim worthy citizens.  At prisint whin
a man is needed f'r a govermint office, he is called on to set
down with a sheet of pa-aper an' a pot iv ink an' say how manny
times eight-an'-a-half will go into a line dhrawn fr'm th' base
iv th' hypothenoose, an' if he makes th' answer bright an' readable,
they give him a place administherin' th' affairs iv a proud people
that cudden't tell a hypothenoose fr'm a sea-lion.  But whin things
gets goin' right undher this administhration, th' civil sarvice
commission consistin' iv th' Hon. Bill Cody, th' Hon. Texas Jack,
an' th' Hon. Bat Masterson will put th' boys through an examination
that'll bring out all there is in thim.   I'm preparin' a pa-aper
f'r an examination iv candydates f'r sup'rintindint iv th'
Smithsonyan Institoot:

"1. Describe a round-up.

"2. Name five iv th' best brands (a) cattle (b) whiskey, ye have
used.

"3. Afther makin' a cinch, is it proper f'r to always kick th'
critter in th' stomach or on'y whin ye feel like it?

"4. Undher what circumstances shud a Mexican not be shot, and if
so, why?

"5. How long shud a tinderfoot dance befure he is entitled to live?

"6. Name eighty reasons f'r dhrawin' a gun.

"7. State ye'er opinyion iv sheep men.

"8. Write a brief account iv th' life an' death iv Billy th' Kid.

"Iv coorse, Hinnissy, this is on'y a part iv th' exercise.  They'll
be practical tests as well.  Th' iligible list'll be taken out
into th' yard an' required to shoot at movin' an' stationary
targets, at pedesthreens an' horsemen, fr'm th' pocket, fr'm th'
hip, over th' shouldher, fr'm a window with a sawed-off shot gun,
an' so on.  They'll be required to bust a buckin' bronc, cut out
a steer fr'm th' herd without stampedin' th' rest, lassoo movin'
objects an' give other exhibitions iv science.  An' th' la-ad
that wins out'll have to defind his job again' all comers f'r a
month.

"I want to see this day.  We're a nation iv hayroes, an' none but
hayroes shud enjye th' spoil.  Thin we'll read that th' Hon. Mike
McCorker has been appinted Ambassadure to England: 'Mike is wan
iv th' mos' detarmined statesmen between Rapid City an' Rawlins.
His early life was spint in seclusion, owin' to a little diff'rence
about a horse, but he had no sooner appeared in public life thin
he made his mark on th' marshal iv Red Gulch.  He applied himsilf
to his chosen career with such perseverance an' so thrue an aim
that within two years he had risen to th' head iv his pro-fission,
a position that he has since held without interruption excipt
durin' th' peryod whin th' Hon. Grindle H. Gash shelled him f'r
three days with a howitzer.  His remarkable night attack on that
gallant but sleepy statesman will not soon be f'rgotten.  A great
ovation will be given Bill whin he pulls his freight f'r th' coort
iv Saint James.  Some iv th' boys is loadin' up f'r it already,
an' near all th' Chinese has moved into th' hills.  Ambassadure
Gash was a Rough Rider durin' th' late Cubian War.

"'Th' appintment iv Judge Rufus Flush to be Chief Justice iv th'
United States Supreeme Coort is hailed with delight be all citizens
iv New Mexico.  Judge Flush is th' recognized authority on gun
shot wounds an' lynch law in th' Southwest, besides bein' in private
life a pretty handy man with knife or gun himsilf.  He was wan iv
th' first men up San Joon Hill on th' mim'rable day.

"'Th' sicrety iv state was visited yisterdah be throop B iv th'
Rough Riders, includin' th' sicrety iv th' threesury, th' postmasther
gin'ral, nine disthrick judges, forty postmasthers, an' wan hundherd
an' eight collictors iv intarnal rivinoo.  Th' conversation was
informal, but it is undhershtud that th' advisability iv an excursion
to Boston to shoot up th' anti-impeeryalist saloons was discussed.
Th' prisidint dhropped in durin' th' conference an' greeted all
prisint be their first name, which is Bill.  There was some
good-natured chaff as to which iv th' gintlemen was first at th'
top iv San Joon Hill befure th' meetin' broke up.  Th' postmasther
gin'ral is sufferin' fr'm a slight knife wound.'"

"Ar-re all th' people West iv th' park shootin' men?" asked Mr.
Hennessy timidly.

"I think so," said Mr. Dooley, "but a man that's been out there
tells me not.  He says annywan but an Englishman cud go fr'm wan
end iv th' West to th' other without carryin' a gun, an' that
people that kill each other are not considhered rayspictable in
Tucson anny more thin they wud be in Eysther Bay, but that they
are mostly dhrunk men an' th' like iv that.  Th' towns, he says,
is run be fellows that sell ribbons, milk, yeast, spool thread an'
pills an' pull teeth an' argye little foolish law suits, just as
th' towns down here are run, an' th' bad men are more afraid iv
thim thin they are iv each other.  He says there are things doin'
out West that niver get into th' dime novels, an' that whin people
lose their lives they do it more often in a saw mill or a smelter
thin in a dance hail.  He says so but I don't believe him."

"I suppose," said Mr. Hennessy, "a man iv me peaceable disposition
wud niver get a job."

"Make a repytation," said Mr. Dooley.  "Buy a gun."




European Intervention


"Th' question befure th' house is," said Mr. Dooley, "which wan
iv th' Euro-peen powers done mos' f'r us in th' Spanish war."

"I thought they were all again' us," said Mr. Hennessy.

"So did I," said Mr. Dooley, "but I done thim an injustice.  I was
crool to thim crowned heads.  If it hadn't been f'r some wan power,
an' I can't make out which it was, th' Cubians to-day wud be
opprissed be th' Casteel instead iv th' Beet Sugar Thrust an' th'
Filipinos'd be shot be Mausers instead iv Krag-Jorgensens.  Some
wan power sthretched out its hand an' said, 'No.  No,' it said,
'thus far but no farther.  We will not permit this misguided but
warrum-hearted little people to be crushed be th' ruffyan power
iv Spain,' it said.  'Niver,' it said, 'shall histhry record that
th' United States iv America, nestlin' there in its cosy raypublic
fr'm th' Atlantic to th'Passyfic, was desthroyed an' th' hurtage
iv liberty that they robbed fr'm us wasted because we did not give
thim support,' it says.  An' so whin th' future looked darkest,
whin we didn't know whether th' war wud last eight or be prolonged
f'r tin weary, thragic minyits, whin it seemed as though th' Spanish
fleet wud not sink unless shot at, some kindly power was silently
comfortin' us an' sayin' to itsilf: 'I do so hope they'll win, if
they can.' But I don't know which wan it was.

"At first I thought it was England.  Whiniver ye hear iv anny
counthry helpin' us, ye think it is England.  That's because England
has helped us so much in th' past.  Says Lord Cranburne in reply
to a question in th' House iv Commons: 'I am reluctantly foorced
be mesilf to blushin'ly admit that but f'r us, people on their way
to China to-day wud be gettin' up an' lookin' over th' side iv
th' ship an' sayin', "This is where America used to be." Whin war
was first discussed, mesilf an' th' rest iv th' fam'ly met an'
decided that unless prompt action was took, our cousins an'
invistmints acrost th' sea wud be damaged beyond repair, so we
cabled our ambassadure to go at wanst to th' White House an' inform
th' prisidint that we wud regard th' war as a crool blot on
civilization an' an offinse to th' intillygince iv mankind.  I am
glad to say our inthervintion was iffycacious.  War was immeedjately
declared.  I will not tell ye how high our hearts beat as we
r-read th' news fr'm day to day.  Ye know.  I will on'y say that
we insthructed our ambassadure to do ivrything in his power to
help our kinsmen an' he faithfully ixicuted his ordhers.  He
practically lived at th' White House durin' th' thryin' peeryod,
an' his advice to th' prisidint such as: "If ye go on with this
binnyficint war th' United Powers will knock ye'er head off," or
"I think I can secure fav'rable terms fr'm th' Powers if ye will
abdicate in favor iv a riprisintative iv th' house iv Bourbon an'
cede New England to Spain," done more thin annything else to put
heart into th' American foorces.  I will add that durin' this time
we was approached be an ambassadure iv wan iv th' powers who ast
us to inthervene.  I will not say which power it was, excipt that
it was Austhrya-Hungary an' I'm previnted be th' obligations iv me
office fr'm mintionin' what powers was behind th' move beyond
hintin' that they was as follows: Germany, France, Rooshya, It'ly,
China, Turkey, Monaco, San Marino, Boolgahrya, Montinaygro,
Booloochistan an' Pershya.  Pah's reply to th' ambassadure was:
"I will do all I can" as he kicked him down stairs.  It ill becomes
me to say what else we done f'r that home iv freedom--an' hiven
knows I wisht it'd stay there an' not be wandherin' over th' face
iv th' wurruld--but I'm not proud iv me looks an' I will remark
that Tiddy Rosenfelt was capably directed be th' iditors iv England,
thim hearts iv oak, that th' American navy was advised be our mos'
inargetic corryspondints an' that, to make th' raysult certain, we
lint a few British gin'rals to th' Spanish.  Cud frindship go
farther? As they say in America: "I reckon, be gosh, not."'

"Well, whin I read this speech I was prepared to hang th' medal
f'r savin' life on th' breasts iv th' hands acrost th' sea where
there's always plinty iv hooks f'r medals.  But th' nex' day, I
picks up th' pa-aper an' sees that 'twas not England done it but
Germany.  Yes, sir, 'twas Germany.  Germany was our on'y frind.
They was a time whin it looked as though she was goin' to shoot
at us to keep us fr'm th' consequences iv our rash act.  They'se
nawthin' Germany wudden't do for or to a frind.  Yes, it was Germany.
But it was France, too.  La Belle France was there with a wurrud iv
encouragemint an' a glance iv affection out iv her dark eyes that
kep' growin' darker as th' war proceeded.  An' it was Rooshya.
Whin th' Czar heerd iv th' war, th' first thing he said was: 'I'm
so sorry.  Who is th' United States?' 'An' 'twas It'ly an'
Booloochistan an' Boolgahrya an' even Spain.  Spain was our frind
till th' war was over.  Thin she rounded on us an' sold us th'
Ph'lippines.

"They was all our frinds an' yet on'y wan iv thim was our frind.
How d'ye make it out, Hinnissy? Hogan has a sayin' that onaisy
lies th' head that wears a crown, but it seems to be as aisy f'r
some iv thim as f'r th' mos' dimmycratic American.  But whoiver
it was that saved us I'm thankful to thim.  It won't do f'r ye to
look at th' map an' say that th' pow'rful protictin' nation wud
be hardly big enough f'r a watch charm f'r a man fr'm Texas, or
that Europeen assistance f'r America is about as useful as a crutch
f'r a foot-runner.  But f'r th' inthervention iv our unknown frind,
we'd've been annihilated.  Th' powers wud've got together an' they
wud've sint over a fleet that wud've been turrble if it didn't
blow up an' th' crews didn't get sea-sick.  They wud've sint an
irresistible ar-rmy; an' fin'ly if all else failed, they wud
rayfuse food.  That's goin' to be th' unsixpicted blow iv anny war
that th' parishes iv Europe wages again' us.  They will decline
to eat.  They will turn back our wheat an' pork an' short rib
sides.  They'll starve us out.  If left to their own resoorces,
Europe cud outstarve America in a month."

"I'm not afraid iv thim," said Mr. Hennessy.  "Whin I was a young
man, I cud take a runnin' jump acrost Germany or France, an' as
f'r England we'd hardly thrip over it in th' dark."

"Perhaps ye're right," said Mr. Dooley.  "But if all thim gr-reat
powers, as they say thimsilves, was f'r to attack us, d'ye know
what I'd do? I'll tell ye.  I'd blockade Armour an' Comp'ny an'
th' wheat ilivators iv Minnysoty.  F'r, Hinnissy, I tell ye, th'
hand that rocks th' scales in th' grocery store, is th' hand that
rules th' wurruld."




The Philippine Peace


"'Tis sthrange we don't hear much talk about th' Ph'lippeens," said
Mr. Hennessy.

"Ye ought to go to Boston," said Mr. Dooley.  "They talk about it
there in their sleep.  Th' raison it's not discussed annywhere
else is that ivrything is perfectly quiet there.  We don't talk
about Ohio or Ioway or anny iv our other possissions because they'se
nawthin' doin' in thim parts.  Th' people ar-re goin' ahead,
garnerin' th' products iv th' sile, sindin' their childher to
school, worshipin' on Sundah in th' churches an' thankin' Hiven
f'r th' blessin's iv free govermint an' th' pro-tiction iv th'
flag above thim.

"So it is in th' Phi'lippeens.  I know, f'r me frind Gov'nor Taft
says so, an' they'se a man that undherstands con-tintmint whin
he sees it.  Ye can't thrust th' fellows that comes back fr'm th'
jools iv th' Passyfic an' tells ye that things ar-re no betther
thin they shud be undher th' shade iv th' cocoanut palm be th'
blue wathers iv th' still lagoon.  They mus' be satisfied with our
rule.  A man that isn't satisfied whin he's had enough is a glutton.
They're satisfied an' happy an' slowly but surely they're acquirin'
that love f'r th' govermint that floats over thim that will make
thim good citizens without a vote or a right to thrile be jury.
I know it.  Guv'nor Taft says so.

"Says he: 'Th' Ph'lippeens as ye have been tol' be me young but
speechful frind, Sinitor Bivridge, who was down there f'r tin
minyits wanst an' spoke very highly an' at some lenth on th'
beauties iv th' scenery, th' Ph'lippeens is wan or more iv th'
beautiful jools in th' diadem iv our fair nation.  Formerly our
fair nation didn't care f'r jools, but done up her hair with side
combs, but she's been abroad some since an' she come back with
beautiful reddish goolden hair that a tiara looks well in an' that
is betther f'r havin' a tiara.  She is not as young as she was.
Th' simple home-lovin' maiden that our fathers knew has disappeared
an' in her place we find a Columbya, gintlemen, with machurer
charms, a knowledge iv Euro-peen customs an' not averse to a
cigareet.  So we have pinned in her fair hair a diadem that sets
off her beauty to advantage an' holds on th' front iv th' hair,
an' th' mos' lovely pearl in this ornymint is thim sunny little
isles iv th' Passyfic.  They are almost too sunny f'r me.  I had
to come away.

"'To shift me language suddintly fr'm th' joolry counther an' th'
boodore, I will say that nawthin' that has been said even be th'
gifted an' scholarly sinitor, who so worthily fills part iv th'
place wanst crowded be Hendricks an' McDonald, does justice to th'
richness iv thim islands.  They raise unknown quantities iv produce,
none iv which forchnitly can come into this counthry.  All th'
riches iv Cathay, all th' wealth iv Ind, as Hogan says, wud look
like a second morgedge on an Apache wickeyup compared with th'
untold an' almost unmintionable products iv that gloryous domain.
Me business kept me in Manila or I wud tell ye what they are.
Besides some iv our lile subjects is gettin' to be good shots an'
I didn't go down there f'r that purpose.

"'I turn to th' climate.  It is simply hivenly.  No other wurrud
describes it.  A white man who goes there seldom rayturns unless
th' bereaved fam'ly insists.  It is jus' right.  In winter enough
rain, in summer plinty iv heat.  Gin'rally speakin' whin that
thropical sky starts rainin' it doesn't stop till it's impty, so
th' counthry is not subjected to th' sudden changes that afflict
more northerly climes.  Whin it rains it rains; whin it shines it
shines.  Th' wather frequently remains in th' air afther th' sun
has been shinin' a month or more, th' earth bein' a little overcrowded
with juice an' this gives th' atmosphere a certain cosiness that
is indescribable.  A light green mould grows on th' clothes an'
is very becomin'.  I met a man on th' boat comin' back who said
'twas th' finest winter climate in th' wurruld.  He was be
profission a rubber in a Turkish bath.  As f'r th' summers they
are delicious.  Th' sun doesn't sit aloft above th' jools iv th'
Passyfic.  It comes down an' mingles with th' people.  Ye have
heard it said th' isles was kissed be th' sun.  Perhaps bitten wud
be a betther wurrud.  But th' timprachoor is frequently modified
be an eruption iv th' neighborin' volcanoes an' th' inthraduction
iv American stoves.  At night a coolin' breeze fr'm th' crather
iv a volcano makes sleep possible in a hammock swung in th' ice-box.
It is also very pleasant to be able to cuk wan's dinner within wan.

"'Passin' to th' pollytical situation, I will say it is good.  Not
perhaps as good as ye'ers or mine, but good.  Ivry wanst in a while
whin I think iv it, an iliction is held.  Unforchnitly it usually
happens that those ilicted have not yet surrindhered.  In th'
Ph'lippeens th' office seeks th' man, but as he is also pursooed
be th' sojery, it is not always aisy to catch him an' fit it on
him.  Th' counthry may be divided into two parts, pollytically,--where
th' insurrection continues an' where it will soon be.  Th'
brave but I fear not altogether cheery army conthrols th' insurrected
parts be martiyal law, but th' civil authorities are supreme in
their own house.  Th' diff'rence between civil law an' martiyal
law in th' Ph'lippeens is what kind iv coat th' judge wears.  Th'
raysult is much th' same.  Th' two branches wurruks in perfect
harmony.  We bag thim in th' city an' they round thim up in th'
counthry.

"'It is not always nicessry to kill a Filipino American right away.
Me desire is to idjacate thim slowly in th' ways an' customs iv
th' counthry.  We ar-re givin' hundherds iv these pore benighted
haythen th' well-known, ol'-fashioned American wather cure.  Iv
coorse, ye know how 'tis done.  A Filipino, we'll say, niver heerd
iv th' histhry iv this counthry.  He is met be wan iv our sturdy
boys in black an' blue iv th' Macabebee scouts who asts him to
cheer f'r Abraham Lincoln.  He rayfuses.  He is thin placed upon
th' grass an' given a dhrink, a baynit bein' fixed in his mouth
so he cannot rejict th' hospitality.  Undher th' inflooence iv
th' hose that cheers but does not inebriate, he soon warrums or
perhaps I might say swells up to a ralization iv th' granjoor iv
his adoptive counthry.  One gallon makes him give three groans f'r
th' constitchoochion.  At four gallons, he will ask to be wrapped
in th' flag.  At th' dew pint he sings Yankee Doodle.  Occasionally
we run acrost a stubborn an' rebellyous man who wud sthrain at me
idee iv human rights an' swallow th' Passyfic Ocean, but I mus'
say mos' iv these little fellows is less hollow in their pretintions.
Nachrally we have had to take a good manny customs fr'm th'
Spanyard, but we have improved on thim.  I was talkin' with a
Spanish gintleman th' other day who had been away f'r a long time
an' he said he wudden't know th' counthry.  Even th' faces iv th'
people on th' sthreets had changed.  They seemed glad to see him.
Among th' mos' useful Spanish customs is reconcenthration.  Our
reconcenthration camps is among th' mos' thickly popylated in th'
wurruld.  But still we have to rely mainly on American methods.
They are always used fin'lly in th' makin' iv a good citizen, th'
garotte sildom.

"'I have not considhered it advisable to inthrajooce anny fads
like thrile be jury iv ye'er peers into me administhration.  Plain
sthraight-forward dealin's is me motto.  A Filipino at his best
has on'y larned half th' jooty iv mankind.  He can be thried but
he can't thry his fellow man.  It takes him too long.  But in time
I hope to have thim thrained to a pint where they can be good men
an' thrue at th' inquest.

"'I hope I have tol' ye enough to show ye that th' stories iv
disordher is greatly exaggerated.  Th' counthry is pro-gressin'
splindidly, th' ocean still laps th' shore, th' mountains are there
as they were in Bivridge's day, quite happy apparently; th' flag
floats free an' well guarded over th' govermint offices, an' th'
cherry people go an' come on their errands--go out alone an' come
back with th' throops.  Ivrywhere happiness, contint, love iv th'
shtep-mother counthry, excipt in places where there ar-re people.
Gintlemen, I thank ye.'

"An' there ye ar-re, Hinnissy.  I hope this here lucid story
will quite th' waggin' tongues iv scandal an' that people will let
th' Ph'lippeens stew in their own happiness."

"But sure they ought do something f'r thim," said Mr. Hennessy.

"They will," said Mr. Dooley.  "They'll give thim a measure iv
freedom."

"But whin?"

"Whin they'll sthand still long enough to be measured," said Mr.
Dooley.




Soldier and Policeman


"Th' life iv a sojer though gloryous is hard," said Mr. Dooley.
"Here's me frind, Gin'ral Fustian, wan iv th' gallantest men that
has come out iv Kansas since Stormy Jordan's day, has been called
down f'r on'y suggistin' that Sinitor Hoar an' th' rest iv thim
be hanged be th' heels.  I'm with th' gallant gin'ral mesilf.  I'm
not sure but he'd like to hang me, though as ye know, me opinyions
on th' Ph'lippeens is varyous an' I don't give a dam ayether way.
If he runs me to earth I on'y ast him as a fellow pathrite that
he won't give me th' wather cure.  Th' very thought iv it makes
me flesh creep.

"But th' prisidint called him down.  Afther th' publication iv th'
fifteenth speech whin ivry colledge pro-fissor in this broad an'
fair land was undher sintince iv death fr'm th' gin'ral, th'
prisidint wrote to him sayin': 'Dear Fred: Me attintion has been
called to ye'er pathriotic utthrances in favor iv fryin' Edward
Atkinson on his own cuk shtove.  I am informed be me advisers that
it can't be done.  It won't fry beans.  So I am compilled be th'
reg'lations iv war to give ye a good slap.  How ar-re ye, ol'
commerade-in-arms? Ye ought to 've seen me on th' top iv San Joon
hill.  Oh, that was th' day! Iver, me dear Fred, reprovingly but
lovingly, T. Rosenfelt, late colonel First United States Volunteers
Calv'ry, betther known as th' Rough Riders, an' ex-officio prisidint
iv th' United States.' That was wan f'r Fred.  I wisht th' same
cud be handed to Gin'ral Miles.  Ivry time he opins his mouth, if
'tis on'y to say 'tis a fine day--which I must say is seldom--all
they do to him is to break his back.

"'Tis a hard life, a sojer's, but a gloryous wan.  I wisht me
father had enthered me f'r a martial career instead iv tachin' me
be precipt an' example to be quick on me feet.  In these days whin
a man gets to be a gin'ral because he's been a long time a doctor
or because he's supprissed a naygur rite, 'tis me that wud go
boundin' up to th' top iv th' laddher.

"'Janooary wan, Private Dooley distinguished himsilf at th' Battle
iv Ogoowan in th' island iv Samar be rushin' out in a perfect hell
iv putty-balls, rice, arrers, an' harsh cries, an' seizin' th'
gin'ral iv th' Tamalese an' batin' him over th' head with his own
bean-blower.

"'Janooary twinty: Colonel Dooley iv th' hunderth an' eighth
Macabebee scouts yisterdah administhered th' best an' muddyest
part iv th' Gingong river to Gin'ral Alfico Bim in th' prisince
iv a large an' smilin' audjeence.  Th' ribil had rayfused to
communicate his plans to th' gallant colonel, but afther he had
had sufficient irrigation his conversation was more extinded.  So
was th' gin'ral.

"'Feb'ry eighth: Gin'ral Dooley, th' hayro iv th' Ph'lippeens who
is at home with a large spleen which he got into him in our beautiful
island possissions made a speech before th' Locoed club las' night.
He said we shud niver give up th' Ph'lippeens which had been
wathered be some iv th best blood in our land--he might say all.
He didn't know much about th' constichoochion, but fr'm what he
heerd about it fr'm a man in his rig'mint who cud spell, it wasn't
intinded f'r use out iv coort.  He thought no wan shud be ilicted
to congress undher th' rank iv major.  There was much talk iv
pro-gress in lithrachoor an' science which he was in favor iv
hangin'.  All th' army needed was rope enough an' all wud be well.
Th' Supreme Coort was all right but if ye wanted justice hot out
iv th' oven, ye shud see it administhered be three or four laughin'
sub-alturns on th' stumps iv threes, jus' afther lunch.

"'March eighth: Prisidint Dooley, chafin' at th' delay in th' Sinit
requirin' all civilyans to submit their opinyons on th' tariff to
th' neighborin' raycruitin' sergeant wanst a week, wint over to
th' capitol this mornin' with a file iv sojers an' arristed th'
anti-administhration foorces who are now locked up in th' barn
back iv th' White House.  Th' prisidint was severely lacerated be
Sinitor Tillman durin' th' encounther.'

"Yes, sir, I'd like to be a sojer.  I want to be a military man.
An' yet I niver wanted to be a polisman.  'Tis sthrange, too, f'r
if ye think it over they ain't th' lot iv diff'rence between th'
mos' ordhinry, flat-footed elbow that iver pulled wan leg afther
another to mornin' roll-call an' th' gr-reatest gin'ral that
iver wint through a war behind a band on horse.  They both belong
to th' race iv round-headed men.  Whin ye lenthen th' head iv a
man or dog, ye rayjooce his courage.  That's thrue iv all but th'
bull-tarryer an' th' Turk.  Both iv thim fight like th' divvle.
Th' jooties is much th' same but th' polisman's is harder.  Th'
polisman has to fight night an' day but th' sojer on'y wanst a
month.  A man's got to be five foot nine to get on th' foorce.
He can be five foot eight an' get into th' army through West Pint,
or three foot two an' get in through th' War Department.  Didn't
Mike Gilligan take more chances whin he wint up to th' patch where
Red Starkey was holdin' th' fort with a Krupp gun an' took him be
th' hand an' pivoted with him out iv a window, thin me frind
Fearless Freddy win he assumed false whiskers, pretinded to be a
naygur an' stole little Aggynaldoo out iv his flat? Ye wudden't
expict a pathrolman to be promoted to be sergeant f'r kidnapin'
an organ-grinder, wud ye? An' Gilligan didn't ask f'r lave iv
absence an' go down town to th' Union Lague Club an' tell th'
assembled mannyfactherers iv axle-grease what ought to be done
with th' wather taxes.  No, sir! What happened to Gilligan was at
roll-call th' nex' mornin' th' Loot says: 'Officer Gilligan, in
capturin' Starkey, ye reflicted gr-reat credit on this precinct
an' ye'er own bringin' up.  But I want ye to know, officer, that
this important arrist is no excuse f'r ye goin' out an' loadin'
ye'ersilf to th' joo-pint with Hannigan's paint.  Th' nex' time
ye miss pullin' ye'er box, I'll have ye up befure th' thrile boord.
Put that in ye'er pipe an' smoke it, Mike Gilligan.' An' Gilligan
blushed.

"No, sir, between th' two, th' polisman's life's th' hard wan.
He can't rethreat f'r reinfoorcemints or surrindher with all th'
honors iv war.  If he surrindhers, he's kilt an' if he rethreats,
his buttons comes off.  He gets no soord fr'm Congress whin he
brings in Starkey be th' burnin' hair iv his head.  If he's promoted
to sergeant, he's sure to be bounced be th' first rayform
administhration.  He takes his ordhers, carries his stick iv timber
up hill an' down dale undher th' gleamin' stars, has nawthin' to
say but 'Move on there, now,' an' if his foot slips another
round-headed man pushes him into a cell an' a impartyal jury iv men
that's had throuble with th' polis befure convicts him heartily.

"Now, suppose Gilligan's father whin he was young had looked him
over an' said: 'Agathy, Michael's head is per-fictly round.
It's like a baseball.  'Tis so pecoolyar.  An' he has a fightin'
face.  'Tis no good thryin' to tache him a thrade.  Let's make a
sojer iv him.' An' he wint into th' army.  If he'd done there what
he's done in th' patch, 'tis Gin'ral Gilligan he'd be be this
time--Gin'ral Gilligan stormin' th' heights iv San Joon Hill;
Gin'ral Mike Gilligan suspindin' th' haveas corpus in th' Ph'lippeens
an' th' anti-impeeryalists at home; Gin'ral Mike Gilligan capturin'
Aggynaldoo, an' he'd do it with bare hands an' without th' aid iv
a mustache; Gin'ral Mike Gilligan abolishin' th' third reader;
Gin'ral Mike Gilligan discoorsin' to th' public on 'Books I have
niver read: Series wan, th' Histhry iv th' United States.' If his
foot slips an' he grows a little cross with a pris'ner iv war on
th' way to th' station an' dhrops his soord or his club on th' top
iv him, is he up befure th' judge an' thried be a jury iv his peers?
Officer Mike, yes; Gin'ral Mike, no.  Gin'ral Mike has no peers.
He raceives a letther notifyin' him that he has broken a human
skull divine an' th' reg'lations iv th' army an' must be thried.
'Who will me brave frind have go through with this here austere
but hail-fellow inquiry?' 'Oh, annywan will do.  Anny iv th'
gallant lift'nants iv me brigade will do,' says Gin'ral Mike.  So
th' Gin'ral is put on thrile an' a frind iv his addhresses th'
coort.  'Gintlemen,' says he, 'th' question befure th' coort is
not so much did our gallant leader hammer th' coon as whether our
flag wanst stuck up where we have wathered so many precious citizens
shall iver come down.  (Th' coort: 'No, no!') That's th' pint.
What do th' people at home who know nawthin' about this here war,
excipt what we tell thim, what do they mane be subjectin' this
here hayro, gray an' bent with infirmities but pretty spry at that,
to this ignominy? He has fought f'r thim an' what have they done
f'r him? In more thin wan year he has on'y risen fr'm th' rank iv
captain to brigadier gin'ral an' his pay is less thin twinty times
what it was.  (Here th' coort weeps.) I ast ye, I ast ye, ye fine
little boys, is it meet an' proper, nay, is it meat an' dhrink f'r
us, to punish him?'

"An' th' coort puts th' vardict iv acquittal in th' shape iv th'
pop'lar song 'F'r he's a jolly good fellow' an' adds a ricommindation
that Harvard colledge is gettin' too gay annyhow.

"That's th' diff'rence between sojer an' polisman.  Why is it that
th' fair sect wudden't be seen talkin' to a polisman, but if ye
say 'Sojer' to thim, they're all out iv th' window but th' feet?
I want to know."

"I can't tell," said Mr. Hennessy.  "I heerd a frind iv Willum J.
Bryan say we was in danger iv havin' thim run th' counthry like
they do in--in Germany, d'ye mind."

"Niver fear," said Mr. Dooley.  "There's too manny Gilligans not
in th' ar-rmy f'r that."




King Edward's Coronation


"Now that th' king iv Great Britain an' Ireland, but Ireland don't
know it, an' th' Dominyons beyond th' sea, f'r awhile, has been
cawrnated," said Mr. Dooley, "we can raysume where we left off."

"So it has been done at last, has it?" said Mr. Hennessy.

"Yes," said Mr. Dooley, "in th' prisince iv th' mos' illusthrees
iv his subjects, except me frind Whitelaw Reid, he was cawrnated
las' Saturdah.  'Tis too bad it was put off.  'Twas got up, d'ye
mind, f'r th' thrue an' staunch subjects on this side iv th' wather.
Th' king didn't need it.  He's been king all th' time.  A lot iv
us knew it.  All he had to do anny time was to take his caubeen
fr'm th' rack, but his subjects fr'm beyond th' sea wanted to see
a cawrnation, an' they cudden't convaniently have wan here where
th' counthry is still run be univarsal suffering an' there are a
good manny shootin' gall'ries, an' annyhow he thought he'd like
to keep on good terms with th' Captains iv Industhry f'r fear they
might get mad an' put his furniture out into th' channel an' use
th' island f'r storin' ex-prisidints.  So he got up th' cawrnation.
An' afther all, most iv thim didn't see it.  They had to come
home here where they were born an' lave th' land where they expict
to die an' will, too, if they an' us have luck.

"But 'twas a gorgyous spicticle annyhow, Hinnissy.  F'r weeks an'
weeks some iv th' finest minds in Europe has been debatin' whether
th' king shud stand on th' Earl iv Whinkie or th' markess iv
Ballyhoo durin' th' ceremony.  It was decided that th' honor shud
go to th' noble earl, but that it was th' privilege iv th' noble
markess that his majesty shud put his feet on his back whin he set
down.  Th' king ain't supposed to do annything f'r himsilf but go
up an' be cawrnated.  At ivry turn they must be a jook or somebody
akelly as good to pull his tie sthraight, hand him his gloves, an'
haul his coat down whin it gets up over th' collar.  An' ivrybody
cudden't do it, mind ye.  It had to be done be th' right party,
whose folks had done it f'r other kings.  I've been readin' about
it an' I've come to th' con-clusion, Hinnissy, that th' Scotch
nobility is mos'ly dayscinded fr'm tailors.

"Annyhow, these here mighty questions was all decided accoordin'
to th' rules iv th' game, whin wan day I read in th' pa-aper: 'Th'
king dines with Wall sthreet magnates.  Jools missin' fr'm th'
crown.' Ye see, th' hat had not been out f'r a long time an' whin
they come to get it fr'm th' box, 'twas found that manny iv th'
vallyable gems in th' band was missin'.  I don't know whether 'tis
thrue or not, but 'tis said that th' ancesthors iv th' prisint
king, bein' hard up, was used to pick a jool out iv th' hat iv a
Saturdah night an' go down to Mose at th' corner an' get something
on it.  An' whin times was slack an' th' ponies backward, they
cudden't get th' jools out, so they cut a piece fr'm th' window
an' pasted it in.  It looked f'r awhile as though th' king wud
have to be cawrnated be a glazier.  They cudden't find th' tickets
high or low.  It wudden't do to cawrnate him in a glass hat, an'
there was gr-reat thribylations, but Pierpont Morgan come along at
th' right moment an' give thim a handful iv his unimportant jools
an' th' hat was properly decorated.  Fr'm that time on we saw that
if we were to get th' worth iv our money, we'd have to do th' job
oursilves, an' ivrybody turned in to help our depindant cousins.
Andhrew Carnaygie lint Wistminsther Abbey which was superbly
dicorated with tapestries lint be J. Pierpont Morgan; Yerkes lint
thim th' sthreets; Frohman th' theatres; th' American syndicate
give thim th' use iv th' river, an' a hundherd thousand lile
American hearts an' lungs lint thim a pathriotic howl that made
th' king jump ivry time he heerd it.

"An' th' American duchesses! Were they there? Look in th' pa-apers.
I sometimes wondher whin I read th' palajeems iv our liberties
whether an English nobleman iver marries at home.  Is it a law
that prevints thim fr'm marryin' thim fresh-faced, clear-eyed
daughters iv ol' Albion or is it fear? Annyhow, th' American
duchesses is about all there is to it in London.  They were at th'
cawrnation, ye bet.  They were th' cawrnation.  They bore th'
thrain iv th' queen.  No wan can lift a thrain betther or higher
thin a free-born American lady.  At th' side iv her majesty walked
th' beautiful Duchess iv Binkie-whistle, born Lucy hicks iv Dobbs
Ferry.  Th' Duchess' father an' mother come over las' week with
their respictive fam'lies, an' it is undhershtud that wan iv th'
happiest ivints iv th' whole glad cawrnation season was th'
determination iv Ma Hicks to devote her alimony intire to rebuildin'
th' ancesthral mansion iv th' jook.  Pa Hicks, not to be outdone,
announced that he wud add th' rent derived fr'm th' ancesthral
mansion iv th' duchess, which is now used as a livery stable.

"An' so th' gr-reat ivint come off.  I won't describe it to ye.
It's been done betther thin I cud do it be a fearless press.  Ye
know ye'ersilf how th' pro-cission winded its way through th'
sthreets; how Wistminsther Abbey was crowded with peers an'
peeresses, an' what a mighty shout wint up fr'm Willum Waldorf
Astor whin he come in an' sat on his hat near th' dure.  It was
all right.  First come th' prelates backin' to'rd th' althar.
Thin all th' jooks bowin' low.  Thin th' queen, attinded be a bevy
iv American duchesses.  Thin th' king lookin' ivry inch a
king--sixty-four be sixty-two in all.  Thin th' Rile Shoes, th'
Rile Socks, th' Rile Collar an' Cuffs, an' th' Rile Hat borne be
th' hereditary Sockbearers, Shoesters, Collariferios, an' th' High
an' Magnificint Lid-Lord (in chains).  Suddenly all is silent.  A
hush falls on th' assimblage, broken on'y be a low, sad cry.
Willum Waldorf Astor has fainted.

"An' so, says th' pa-aper, in th' prisince iv th' mighty dead an'
th' mighty near dead, among th' surroundings that recalled th'
days iv shivaree an' in an atmosphere full iv aristocratic
assocyations, on account iv th' vintilation bein' poor, Albert
Edward Ernest Pathrick Arthur, king, definder iv th' faith, put
on his hat.  Th' organ pealed off a solemn peal, th' cannons boomed,
th' duchesses et hard-biled eggs out iv a paper bag, an' a pale
man in silk tights wept over th' tomb iv Major Andhre.  It was
Joseph Chote.  That night all Great Britain rejoiced, fr'm wan
end iv Ireland to th' other th' lile popylace showed their joy
an' th' sky was lit up be hundherds iv burnin' barns an' a salute
iv forty-four guns was fired in th' County Kerry at a landlord's
agent comin' home fr'm a ball.

"I hope he'll make a good king.  I ain't so much down on kings as
I used to be, Hinnissy.  I ain't down on thim anny more because I
don't invy thim, an' ye can't be down on anny man ye don't invy.
'Tis a hard job an' a thankless wan.  A king nowadays is no more
thin a hitchin' post f'r wan pollytician afther another.  He ain't
allowed to move himsilf, but anny crazy pollytician that ties up
to him is apt to pull him out be th' roots.  He niver has anny
childhood.  He's like th' breaker-boys in th' mines; he's put to
wurruk larnin' his thrade as soon as he can walk.  Whin it comes
time f'r him to marry, th' prime ministher takes him out wan day
an' says: 'There's th' on'y woman in th' wurruld f'r ye.' 'But I
niver see her befure,' says th' unforchnit king.  'Ye'll see less
iv her afther nex' week,' says th' prime ministher.  'Ye're goin'
to marry her,' he says.  An' he backs him up to th' bench where
th' young lady sets an' inthrajooces thim an' they're marrid.
Think iv havin' th' boord iv aidhermen silict a wife f'r ye an'
ye'll know how th' king feels whin a warrant is sarved again' him
to hook up with his cousin Agoosta Ann, a German lady who freckles
aisily an' croshays neckties f'r a lift'nant in th' army.  All his
life long a king is bossed about like a hired girl in a boardin'
house, an' he can't aven die without havin' a lot iv people runnin'
in ivry tin minyits to ask has he done it yet so they can be on
th' mark to holler 'God save th' king' out iv th' front window th'
moment th' flag falls.  No, sir; I don't want to be a king an'
whiniver I see a good fellow takin' th' job, I feel sorry f'r him.
I know what he is up again'."

"I believe ye're no betther thin th' rest iv thim thraitors," said
Mr. Hennessy.

"I'm diff'rent," said Mr. Dooley, calmly.  "They helped him in an'
I'd do annything in me power, now that he is king, to help him out."




One Advantage of Poverty


"Well, sir," said Mr. Dooley, "ye ought to be glad ye're not sick
an' illusthrees at th' same time."

"How's that?" Mr. Hennessy demanded.

"Well, ye see," said Mr. Dooley, "suppose annything happens to ye
now; a fellow counthryman dhrops a hammer on ye th' day afther th'
picnic or ye'er di-gestion listens to a walkin' dillygate fr'm th'
Union iv Microbes an' goes out on sthrike.  Th' polisman on th'
corner has th' usual suspicions among gintlemen an' hits ye over
th' head an' calls th' wagon an' sinds ye home.  Th' good woman
wrings her hands an' calls Hiven to witness that if ye have a
toothache ye wake th' neighborhood, an' slaps a mustard plasther
on ye.  If she comes back later an' finds ye haven't put th' sheet
between ye an' th' plasther an' gone to sleep, she knows 'tis
seeryous an' sinds f'r th' doctor.  We continyoo to have doctors
in what th' pa-apers calls th' outlyin' wards.  They live above
th' dhrug-store an' practice midicine on us.  Th' physicians an'
surgeons are all down town editin' th' pa-apers.  Well, dock comes
to ye afther awhile in a buggy.  On th' way up he sets a broken
leg, removes an arm, does a little something f'r th' city directhry,
takes a dhrink, talks pollyticks with th' unhappy parent an' fin'lly
lands at ye'er dure with th' burglar's tools.  Afther he's closed
that dure th' secrets iv th' inner man is known on'y to him.  No
wan hears or wants to hear annything about it.  Th' nex' time we
see ye, ye come out lookin' pale an' emacyated an' much younger
an' betther lookin' thin annywan iver raymimbers seein' ye, an'
afther awhile ye obsarve that whin ye start to tell how manny
stitches it took an' what ye see whin ye smelled th' dizzy sponge,
ye'er frinds begin to sprint away.  An' ye go back reluctantly to
wurruk.  Ye niver hear annywan say: 'Hinnissy is great comp'ny whin
he begins to talk about his sickness.' I've seen men turn fr'm a
poor, helpless, enthusyastic invalid to listen to a man talkin'
about th' Nicaragoon canal.

"But with th' great 'tis far diff'rent.  I've often thanked th'
Lord that I didn't continyoo in pollytics whin I was cap'n iv me
precinct, f'r with th' eyes iv all th' wurruld focussed, as Hogan
says, on me, I cud niver injye th' pleasure iv a moment's sickness
without people in far-off Boolgahrya knowin' whether me liver was
on sthraight.  Sickness is wan iv th' privileges iv th' poor man
that he shares with no wan.  Whin it comes kindly to him, th' four
walls iv his room closes in on him like a tent, folks goes by on
th' other side iv th' sthreet, th' rollin' mill disappears, an'
with th' mornin' comes no honest day's tile.  He lies there in
blessid idleness an' no matther what's th' matther with him, he
don't suffer half as much pain as he would in pursoot iv two dollars
a day.  I knowed a man wanst who used to take his vacations that
way.  Whin others wint off f'r to hunt what Hogan calls th' finny
monsthers iv th' deep, he become seeryously ill an' took to bed.
It made him very sthrong.

"But suppose I hadn't resigned fr'm cap'n iv me precinct whin I
was defeated.  If annything had happened to me, ye'd pick up th'
pa-apers an' see: 'Seeryous news about th' Cap'n iv th' twinty-sicond
precinct iv th' sixth ward.  He has brain fever.  He has not.  He
got in a fight with a Swede an' had his ribs stove in.  He fell
out iv th' window iv a joolry store he was burglarizin' an' broke
th' left junction iv th' sizjymoid cartilage.  Th' throuble with
th' Cap'n is he dhrinks too much.  A man iv his age who has been
a soak all his life always succumbs to anny throuble like
hyperthroopily iv th' cranium.  Docthor Muggers, dean iv th' Post
Gradyate Vethrinary school iv Osteopathy says he had a similar
case las' year in Mr. Hinnery Haitch Clohessy, wan iv th' best
known citizens iv this city.  Like th' Cap, Mr. Clohessy was a
high liver, a heavy dhrinker, a gambler an' a flirt.  Th' cases
are almost identical.  Owin' to th' code iv pro-fissional eethics
Dr. Muggers cud not tell th' bereaved fam'ly what ailed Misther
Clohessy, but it was undoubtedly his Past Life.'

"Thin come th' doctors.  Not wan doctor, Hinnissy, to give ye a
whiff out iv a towel an' make ye sleep f'r an hour an' wake up an'
say 'I fooled ye.  Whin do ye begin?' No, but all iv thim.  They
escort th' prisoner up th' sthreet in a chariot, an' th' little
newsboys runs alongside sellin' exthry papers.  'Our night edition
will print th' inside facts about Cap Dooley's condition, an' th'
Cap himsilf with a cinematograph iv th' jolly proceedin's be Dock
Laparatonny.' What happens to th' criminal at first is th' same
as if he was a dacint, wurrukin' man.  But whin that is done, an'
'tis gettin' so aisy they tell me they'se not much diff'rence
between a good clam-salesman an' a first-class surgeon, th' lithry
wurruk begins.  Ye think 'tis all over whin ye say: 'Dock, put
ye'er hand undher th' pillow an' take what's there.' But not so.
Th' assembled docks adjourn to a large hall an' prepare th' story
iv 'Cap Dooley; a Stormy Career.  Be wan who knows.'

"'Upon seein' th' Cap, we at once diagnosed th' case as
peritclipalitickipantilitisitis, or chicken bone in th' throat.
Dr. Pincers operated, Dr. Smothers administhered th' annysthetic,
Dr. Hygeen opened th' window, Dr. Anodyne turned on th' gas, Dr.
Aluompaine turned th' pitchers to th' wall, Dr. Rambo looked out
th' window, Docthors Peroxide, Gycal, Cephalgern, Antipyreen an'
Coltar took a walk in th' park, an' Doctor Saliclate figured up
th' bill.  As we have said we diagnosed th' case as above.  We
can't raymimber th' name.  It depinds on how th' syllables came
out iv th' hat.  We were wrong, although what we see whin we got
in more thin made up f'r th' error.  We made a long incision fr'm
th' chin down an' another acrost an' not findin' what we expicted,
but manny things that ought to be kept fr'm th' fam'ly, we put th'
Cap back an' wint on.  Th' op'ration was a complete success.  Th'
wretch is restin an' swearin' easily.  We have given him a light
meal iv pickles an' antiseptic oats, an' surgical science havin'
done its duty, mus' lave th' rest to Nature, which was not in th'
consultation, bein' considhered be some iv us, slightly irregular.
(Signed) Look at our names: 'Pincers, Anodyne, Peroxide, Smothers,
Coltar, Antipyreen, Cepalgeen, Alicompane, Gycal, Hygeen, Rambo,
Saliclate.'

"But that's nawthin'.  If ye think they'se annything ye wud like
to keep up ye'er sleeve, look f'r it in th' pa-apers.  'Th' followin'
facts is stated on th' authority iv wan iv th' attindin' surgeons:
Cap Dooley cut up terribly undher th' chloryform, singin' songs,
swearin' an' askin' f'r Lucy.  His wife's name is Annamariar.  She
was in th' adjinin' room.  It seems they have had throuble.  Th'
room was poorly furnished.  Th' Cap's clothes was much worn as was
most iv him.  He must have led a shockin' life.  It is doubtful
if he will iver raycover f'r he is very, very old.  He has been
concealin' his age f'r manny years.  He is a notoryous profligate,
as was well shown be th' view we had.  Th' flash light pitcher iv
th' Cap will appeal to all who know his inner histhry.'

"An' there ye ar-re.  Think iv a man comin' out in th' light iv
day afther all that.  He can't get on clothes enough to cover him.
He may bear himsilf with a haughty manner, but he feels that ivry
man he meets knows more about him thin he knows himsilf.  Th'
fellow on th' sthreet has been within th' walls.  He's sayin' to
himsilf: 'Ye're a hollow sham composed akelly iv impaired organs
an' antiseptic gauze.' To th' end iv his life, he'll niver be
annything more thin an annytomical chart to his frinds.  His privacy
is over f'river, f'r what good can it do annywan, Hinnissy, to
pull down th' blinds iv his bed room if ivrybody knows exactly th'
size, shape an' location iv his spleen?

"No, sir, if I've got to be sick, give me th' ordhn'ry dacencies
iv poverty.  I don't want anny man to know anny more about me thin
he can larn fr'm th' handiwork iv Marks, th' tailor, an' Schmitt,
th' shoemaker, an' fr'm th' deceitful expression iv me face.  If
I have a bad heart, let him know it be me eyes.  On me vest is
written: 'Thus far an' no farther.' They'se manny a man on intimate
terms with th' King iv England to-day that don't know anny more
about me thin that I'm broadcloth on Sundah an' serge on week days.
An' I don't intind they shall.  I hide behind th' privileges iv
me position an' say: 'Fellow-citizens, docks an' journalists, I
cannot inthrajooce ye to th' Inner Man.  He's a reecloose an'
avarse to s'ciety.  He's modest an' shy an' objects to callers.
Ye can guess what kind iv man I am but I wudden't have ye know.'
An' I can do that as long as I stay poor."

"I'm glad I'm poor," said Mr. Hennessy.

"It gives ye less to talk about but more to think about," said Mr.
Dooley.




The Fighting Word


"That man Bailey iv Texas f'r me ivry time," said Mr. Dooley.

"What's he been doin'?" asked Mr. Hennessy.

"He done me frind Biv'ridge iv Injyanny," said Mr. Dooley.  "An'
I'm f'r him f'r leader iv th' party.  He's wan iv th' best two-handed
orators in th' sinit or annywhere.  He has a wondherful left an'
his repartee with th' right is said to be very stingin'.  He's
inthrajooced th' sthrangle holt be means iv which th' debate can
be suddenly cut off.  He's me ideel leader.

"I want a leader who's got a good grip on public affairs an' men,
who can take hold iv anny question or anny raypublican an' choke
it or him till they're black in th' face.  Bailey's th' boy.  I
followed Tillman f'r awhile, but he's gone back.  He belongs to
th' ol' school iv parlymintaryans, th' same that Jawn L. Sullivan
belongs to.  He's clever f'r an old 'un an' I'd be willin' to back
him again anny raypublican in New England at catch-weights.  His
reply to Sinitor McLaurin was said to be wan iv th' quickest iver
heerd since th' days iv Dan'l Webster.  It laid open th' scalp.
But they tell me Tillman's speeches is not what Hogan calls
impromptchu.  He rehearses thim ivry mornin' with a punchin'-bag.
Bailey is more iv a nachral debater.  No holds barred with him.
Hand or fut, 'tis all th' same.

"What was it all about, says ye? Well, ye see this sinitor fr'm
Injyanny, me frind Jeremiah Biv'ridge made a mos' insultin' remark
to Misther Bailey.  What did he say? I mustn't tell ye.  No, no,
'tis too horrible.  Well, if ye must hear it, close th' dure an'
pull down th' blinds.  Whisper! There! There ye have it.  I blush
to raypeat th' wurruds.  To think that anny man shud so demean
himsilf as to imagine such a thing, lave alone say it.  But he
did--right out in th' Sinit befure Hinnery Cabin Lodge.  Oh, it
was turr'ble.  Here it is in th' pa-apers: 'Misther Biv'ridge said
th' st-t-m-nts iv th' hon'rable sinitor fr'm Texas was unw-r-nted.'
Modesty where was thy blush? as Shakespere says.  Now, th' sinitors
iv th' United States is not aisily shocked.  That's not th' way
ye get into th' Sinit.  Th' bright blush iv shame hasn't been used
there more thin twice since th' war.  Ye can say almost annything
ye like to a sinitor.  Ye can say he wanst stole a horse, that
he's livin' undher an assumed name, that he was made be a thrust,
that his on'y nourishment is beets, or that he belongs to New York
s'ciety, an' th' Sinit will on'y yawn.  But wanst even hint that
his such-an'-such is so-an'-so (I will not repeat th' heejous
wurruds) an' ye mus' hurry an' slip on th' brass knuckles, f'r
they'se a slap comin' to ye.

"Here's what happened: 'Sinitor Bailey stepped quickly over Sinitors
Hoar, Mason, Quay, an' others an' made f'r where Sinitor Biv'ridge
was quitely smokin' a cigar an' talkin' to himsilf.  Sinitor Bailey
says: "Hon'rable sir, ye must withdraw that loathsome insinooation
again' me good name," he says.  "I have not led a pure life.  No
man has.  I don't claim to be anny betther thin others.  But no
wan befure has iver said about me such things as these, an' if ye
don't take thim back at wanst, I'll kill ye, I'll choke ye, I'll
give ye a poke in th' eye," he says.  "I cannot consint," says th'
bold sinitor fr'm Injyanny, "I cannot consint to haul back me
epithet.  It wud not be sinitoryal courtesy," he says.  "Thin,"
says Sinitor Bailey, "here goes f'r an assault an' batthry." An'
with a gesture iv th' thrue orator, he seized him be th' throat.
Th' debate become gin'ral.  Sinitor Spooner iv Wisconsin led f'r
th' raypublicans an' Sinitor Morgan iv Alabama counthered f'r th'
dimmycrats.  Sinitor Platt made a very happy retort with a chair,
to which Sinitor Gorman replied with a sintintious cuspidor.  Owin'
to th' excitin' nature iv th' debate on'y a few iv th' best remarks
reached th' gall'ry, wan iv thim, a piece iv hard coal, layin' out
a riprisintative iv th' Sultan iv Zulu.  At th' hospital he declared
himsilf much imprissed.  Durin' th' proceedin's Biv'ridge acted
in th' mos' gintlemanly an' even ladylike manner.  His face wore
a smile iv complete sang fraud or pain, an' he niver took his cigar
fr'm his mouth wanst.  Indeed, it was siv'ral hours befure th'
Havana cud be exthracted be th' surgeon who was called in.  While
th' debate was in progress, a pitcher iv Thomas Jefferson was
obsarved to give a slight moan an' turn its face to th' wall.  Th'
Sinit thin took up routine business an' th' janitor swept up th'
hair an' neckties.  Sinitor Biv'ridge was not much hurt.  Th'
tinder outside iv th' wind-pipe was somewhat bruised, but th'
wurrukin' inside is still intact.'

"'Twas a pretty scene, Hinnissy, an' wan that makes me proud iv
Bailey f'r his courage in pouncin' on his collague; iv Biv'ridge
f'r th' manly self resthraint an' rayspict f'r th' dignity iv th'
Sinit that par'lyzes a man's hands whin his wind is cut off; iv
our noble counthry that projooces such sturdy sons, iv th' Sinit
that brings thim together in a clinch an' iv mesilf because I
wasn't there.  I'm with Bailey.  Bailey f'r prisidint! Bailey or
bust or choke!

"I'm not sure that if I was in th' same place I'd do th' same
thing.  But I'm no statesman.  Who am I to say that what wudden't
be manners in a bar-room is not all right in th' Sinit? Diff'rent
men has diff'rent raisons f'r fightin'.  Ivry man will fight.  Ye
can bet on that.  A brave man will fight because he is brave an'
a cow'rd because he is a cow'rd.  All men will fight an' all men
will run.  Some will fight befure they'll run, but they'll run;
some men will run befure they'll fight, but they'll fight.  They'se
a pretty good fight an' a pretty fast run in ivry man I know.  Th'
debate in th' Sinit don't prove annything about th' merits iv
ayether pug.  In some other circumstances, Biv'ridge might have
hunted Bailey up a three.  It happened to be Bailey's day.

"As I get on in years, I believe less in fightin'.  'Tis a turr'ble
thing to see th' aged an' infirm swingin' away at each other.
'Tis so unscientific.  I hate to think iv a man with one leg in
th' grave usin' th' other to thrip th' free foot iv a fellow aged.
I'm glad Bailey an' Biv'ridge ar-re young men.  What a scandal if
Sinitor Cullom an' Sinitor Morgan shud mix it up! Wan iv th' things
a man larns as he grows old is to dislike fightin'.  He dislikes
annything he can't do as well as he cud.  I'm that way.  But I
wasn't always so.  No, sir.  They was a time whin I'd fight at th'
dhrop iv a hat, f'r money or marbles or pool checks, f'r th' good
name iv women or th' revarse, f'r political principles or unprincipled
politics, f'r th' gate receipts, f'r me relligion, f'r th' look
iv th' thing, because th' barkeeper heard what he said, because he
whispered to her, f'r th' sacred theery that th' buildin's is higher
in Chicago thin in New York, f'r th' fun iv th' thing, an' f'r th'
Fight.  That last's th' best iv all.  A man that won't fight f'r
th' fight itsilf is no rale fighter.  I don't know what wud make
me fight nowadays.  I know lots iv things that wud make me want
to fight, but I've larned to repress me desires.  Me heart is full
iv song but I've lost me voice.  In me dhreams I'm always punchin'
somebody's head.  I shall niver f'rget th' night whin I put Jeffries
out iv th' business with wan well-directed punch an' me in me bare
feet, too.  I can niver f'rget it f'r I fell out iv bed and bumped
me head again' th' rocker iv a chair.  But in me wakin' hours, I'm
a man iv vi'lent impulses an' peaceful raysults.  In a fight I'd
be like a deef-mute in a debatin' s'ciety.  But as I said, Hinnissy,
they was a day whin th' lightest wurrud was an insult.  Nowadays
I say to mesilf: 'Considher th' soorce.  How can such a low blaggard
as that insult me? Jus' because some dhrunken wretch chooses to
apply a foul epitaph to me, am I goin' to dignify him be knockin'
him down in th' public sthreet an' p'raps not, an' gettin' th'
head beat off me? No, sir.  I will raymimber me position in th'
community.  I will pass on with a smile iv bitter contempt.  Maybe
I'd betther run a little.'

"Th' las' throuble I got into I begun to think iv th' new suit I
had on an' I knew me warryor days was over.  Whin a man raymimbers
his clothes or his appearance in battle, 'tis high time f'r him
to retire fr'm th' ring.  Th' ca'm, almost deathlike smile that
rests upon a man's face whin another man is cloutin' him about is
on'y th' outward exprission iv something about two numbers up th'
chest fr'm sea sickness.  That's all I've got to say about fightin'.
Ye can't lay down anny rules about it."

"Ye niver will go to th' Sinit with thim views," said Mr. Hennessy.

"I don't want to," said Mr. Dooley.  "Some day th' Sinit will be
pulled."




Home Life of Geniuses


"A woman ought to be careful who she marries," said Mr. Dooley.

"So ought a man," said Mr. Hennessy, with feeling.

"It don't make so much diff'rence about him," said Mr. Dooley.
"Whin a man's marrid, he's a marrid man.  That's all ye can say
about him.  Iv coorse, he thinks marredge is goin' to change th'
whole current iv his bein', as Hogan says.  But it doesn't.  Afther
he's been hooked up f'r a few months, he finds he was marrid befure,
even if he wasn't, which is often th' case, d'ye mind.  Th' first
bride iv his bosom was th' Day's Wurruk, an' it can't be put off.
They'se no groun's f'r dissolvin' that marredge, Hinnissy.  Ye
can't say to th' Day's Wurruk: 'Here, take this bunch iv alimony
an' go on th' stage.' It turns up at breakfast about th' fourth
month afther th' weddin' an' creates a scandal.  Th' unforchnit
man thries to shoo it off but it fixes him with its eye an' hauls
him away fr'm the bacon an' eggs, while the lady opposite weeps
and wondhers what he can see in annything so old an' homely.  It
says, 'Come with me, aroon,' an' he goes.  An' afther that he
spinds most iv his time an' often a good deal iv his money with
th' enchantress.  I tell ye what, Hinnissy, th' Day's Wurruk has
broke up more happy homes thin comic opry.  If th' coorts wud
allow it, manny a woman cud get a divorce on th' groun's that her
husband cared more f'r his Day's Wurruk thin he did f'r her.
'Hinnissy varsus Hinnissy; corryspondint, th' Day's Wurruk.' They'd
be ividince that th' defindant was seen ridin' in a cab with th'
corryspondint, that he took it to a picnic, that he wint to th'
theaytre with it, that he talked about it in his sleep, an' that,
lost to all sinse iv shame, he even escoorted it home with him an'
inthrajooced it to his varchoos wife an' innocint childher.  So
it don't make much diff'rence who a man marries.  If he has a job,
he's safe.

"But with a woman 'tis diff'rent.  Th' man puts down on'y part iv
th' bet.  Whin he's had enough iv th' convarsation that in Union
Park undher th' threes med him think he was talkin' with an
intellechool joyntess, all he has to do is to put on his coat,
grab up his dinner pail an' go down to th' shops, to be happy
though marrid.  But a woman, I tell ye, bets all she has.  A man
don't have to marry but a woman does.  Ol' maids an' clargymen do
th' most good in th' wurruld an' we love thim f'r th' good they
do.  But people, especially women, don't want to be loved that
way.  They want to be loved because people can't help lovin' thim
no matther how bad they are.  Th' story books that ye give ye'er
daughter Honoria all tell her 'tis just as good not to be marrid.
She reads about how kind Dorothy was to Lulu's childher an' she
knows Dorothy was th' betther woman, but she wants to be Lulu.
Her heart, an' a cold look in th' eye iv th' wurruld an' her Ma
tell her to hurry up.  Arly in life she looks f'r th' man iv her
choice in th' tennis records; later she reads th' news fr'm th'
militia encampmint; thin she studies th' socyal raygisther; further
on she makes hersilf familyar with Bradsthreets' rayports, an'
fin'lly she watches th' place where life presarvers are hangin'.

"Now, what kind iv a man ought a woman to marry? She oughtn't to
marry a young man because she'll grow old quicker thin he will;
she oughtn't to marry an old man because he'll be much older befure
he's younger; she oughtn't to marry a poor man because he may
become rich an' lose her; she oughtn't to marry a rich man because
if he becomes poor, she can't lose him; she oughtn't to marry a
man that knows more thin she does, because he'll niver fail to
show it, an' she oughtn't to marry a man that knows less because
he may niver catch up.  But above all things she mustn't marry a
janius.  A flure-walker, perhaps; a janius niver.

"I tell ye this because I've been r-readin' a book Hogan give
me, about th' divvle's own time a janius had with his fam'ly.  A
cap iv industhry may have throuble in his fam'ly till there isn't
a whole piece iv chiny in th' cupboard, an' no wan will be the
wiser f'r it but th' hired girl an' th' doctor that paints th'
black eye.  But ivrybody knows what happens in a janius' house.
Th' janius always tells th' bartinder.  Besides he has other
janiuses callin' on him, an' 'tis th' business iv a janius to write
about th' domestic throubles iv other janiuses so posterity'll
know what a hard thing it is to be a janius.  I've been readin'
this book iv Hogan's an' as I tell ye, 'tis about th' misery a
wretched woman inflicted on a pote's life.

"'Our hayro,' says th' author,' at this peeryod conthracted an
unforchnit alliance that was destined to cast a deep gloom over
his career.  At th' age iv fifty, afther a life devoted to th'
pursoot iv such gayety as janiuses have always found niciss'ry to
solace their avenin's, he marrid a young an' beautiful girl some
thirty-two years his junior.  This wretched crather had no
appreciation iv lithrachoor or lithry men.  She was frivolous an'
light-minded an' ividintly considhered that nawthin' was rally
lithrachoor that cudden't be thranslated into groceries.  Niver
shall I f'rget th' expression iv despair on th' face iv this godlike
man as he came into Casey's saloon wan starry July avenin' an'
staggered into his familyar seat, holdin' in his hand a bit iv
soiled paper which he tore into fragmints an' hurled into th' coal
scuttle.  On that crumpled parchmint findin' a sombre grave among
th' disinterred relics iv an age long past, to wit, th' cariboniferious
or coal age, was written th' iver-mim'rable pome: "Ode to Gin."
Our frind had scribbled it hastily at th' dinner iv th'
Betther-thin-Shakespere Club, an' had attimpted to read it to his
wife through th' keyhole iv her bedroom dure an' met no response
fr'm th' fillystein but a pitcher iv wather through th' thransom.
Forchnitly he had presarved a copy on his cuff an' th' gem was
not lost to posterity.  But such was th' home life iv wan iv th'
gr-reatest iv lithry masters, a man indowed be nachure with all
that shud make a woman adore him as is proved be his tindher
varses: 'To Carrie,' 'To Maude,' 'To Flossie,' 'To Angehel,' 'To
Queenie,' an' so foorth.  De Bonipoort in his cillybrated 'Mimores,'
in which he tells ivrything unpleasant he see or heerd in his
frinds' houses, gives a sthrikin' pitcher iv a scene that happened
befure his eyes.  'Afther a few basins iv absceenthe in th' reev
gosh,' says he, 'Parnassy invited us home to dinner.  Sivral iv
th' bum vivonts was hard to wake up, but fin'lly we arrived at th'
handsome cellar where our gr-reat frind had installed his unworthy
fam'ly.  Ivrything pinted to th' admirable taste iv th' thrue
artist.  Th' tub, th' washboard, th' biler singin' on th' fire,
th' neighbor's washin' dancin' on the clothes rack, were all in
keepin' with th' best ideels iv what a pote's home shud be.  Th'
wife, a faded but still pretty woman, welcomed us more or less,
an' with th' assistance iv sivral bottles iv paint we had brought
with us, we was soon launched on a feast iv raison an' a flow iv
soul.  Unhappily befure th' raypast was con-cluded a mis'rable
scene took place.  Amid cries iv approval, Parnassy read his
mim'rable pome intitled: 'I wisht I nivir got marrid.' Afther
finishin' in a perfect roar of applause, he happened to look up
an' see his wife callously rockin' th' baby.  With th' impetchosity
so charackteristic iv th' man, he broke a soup plate over her head
an' burst into tears on th' flure, where gentle sleep soon soothed
th' pangs iv a weary heart.  We left as quitely as we cud,
considherin' th' way th' chairs was placed, an' wanst undher th'
stars comminted on th' ir'ny iv fate that condimned so great a man
to so milancholy a distiny.

"'This,' says our author, 'was th' daily life iv th' hayro f'r tin
years.  In what purgatory will that infamous woman suffer if Hiven
thinks as much iv janiuses as we think iv oursilves.  Forchnitly
th' pote was soon to be marcifully relieved.  He left her an' she
marrid a boorjawce with whom she led a life iv coarse happiness.
It is sad to relate that some years aftherward th' great pote,
havin' called to make a short touch on th' woman f'r whom he had
sacryficed so much, was unfeelingly kicked out iv th' boorjawce's
plumbin' shop.'

"So, ye see, Hinnissy, why a woman oughtn't to marry a janius.
She can't be cross or peevish or angry or jealous or frivolous or
annything else a woman ought to be at times f'r fear it will get
into th' ditchn'ry iv bio-graphy, an' she'll go down to histhry
as a termygant.  A termygant, Hinnissy, is a woman who's heerd
talkin' to her husband after they've been marrid a year.  Hogan
says all janiuses was unhappily marrid.  I guess that's thrue iv
their wives, too.  He says if ye hear iv a pote who got on with
his fam'ly, scratch him fr'm ye'er public lib'ry list.  An' there
ye ar-re."

"Ye know a lot about marredge," said Mr. Hennessy.

"I do," said Mr. Dooley.

"Ye was niver marrid?"

"No," said Mr. Dooley.  "No, I say, givin' three cheers.  I know
about marredge th' way an asthronomer knows about th' stars.  I'm
studyin' it through me glass all th' time."

"Ye're an asthronomer," said Mr. Hennessy; "but," he added, tapping
himself lightly on the chest, "I'm a star."

"Go home," said Mr. Dooley crossly, "befure th' mornin' comes to
put ye out."




Reform Administration


"Why is it," asked Mr. Hennessy, "that a rayform administhration
always goes to th' bad?"

"I'll tell ye," said Mr. Dooley.  "I tell ye ivrything an' I'll
tell ye this.  In th' first place 'tis a gr-reat mistake to think
that annywan ra-aly wants to rayform.  Ye niver heerd iv a man
rayformin' himsilf.  He'll rayform other people gladly.  He likes
to do it.  But a healthy man'll niver rayform while he has th'
strenth.  A man doesn't rayform till his will has been impaired
so he hasn't power to resist what th' pa-apers calls th' blandishments
iv th' timpter.  An' that's thruer in politics thin annywhere else.

"But a rayformer don't see it.  A rayformer thinks he was ilicted
because he was a rayformer, whin th' thruth iv th' matther is he
was ilicted because no wan knew him.  Ye can always ilict a man
in this counthry on that platform.  If I was runnin' f'r office,
I'd change me name, an' have printed on me cards: 'Give him a
chanst; he can't be worse.' He's ilicted because th' people don't
know him an' do know th' other la-ad; because Mrs. Casey's oldest
boy was clubbed be a polisman, because we cudden't get wather above
th' third story wan day, because th' sthreet car didn't stop f'r
us, because th' Flannigans bought a pianny, because we was near
run over be a mail wagon, because th' saloons are open Sundah night,
because they're not open all day, an' because we're tired seein'
th' same face at th' window whin we go down to pay th' wather taxes.
Th' rayformer don't know this.  He thinks you an' me, Hinnissy,
has been watchin' his spotless career f'r twinty years, that we've
read all he had to say on th' evils iv pop'lar sufferage befure
th' Society f'r the Bewildermint iv th' Poor, an' that we're achin'
in ivry joint to have him dhrag us be th' hair iv th' head fr'm
th' flowin' bowl an' th' short card game, make good citizens iv
us an' sind us to th' pinitinchry.  So th' minyit he gets into th'
job he begins a furyous attimpt to convart us into what we've been
thryin' not to be iver since we come into th' wurruld.

"In th' coorse iv th' twinty years that he spint attimptin' to get
office, he managed to poke a few warrum laws conthrollin' th'
pleasures iv th' poor into th' stachoo book, because no wan cared
about thim or because they made business betther f'r th' polis,
an' whin he's in office, he calls up th' Cap'n iv the polis an'
says he: 'If these laws ar-re bad laws th' way to end thim is to
enfoorce thim.' Somebody told him that, Hinnissy.  It isn't thrue,
d'ye mind.  I don't care who said it, not if 'twas Willum Shakespere.
It isn't thrue.  Laws ar-re made to throuble people an' th' more
throuble they make th' longer they stay on th' stachoo book.  But
th' polis don't ast anny questions.  Says they: 'They'll be less
money in th' job but we need some recreation,' an' that night a
big copper comes down th' sthreet, sees me settin' out on th' front
stoop with me countenance dhraped with a tin pail, fans me with
his club an' runs me in.  Th' woman nex' dure is locked up f'r
sthringin' a clothes line on th' roof, Hannigan's boy Tim gets
tin days f'r keepin' a goat, th' polis resarves are called out to
protict th' vested rights iv property against th' haynyous pushcart
man, th' stations is crowded with felons charged with maintainin'
a hose conthrary to th' stachoos made an' provided, an' th'
tindherline is all over town.  A rayformer don't think annything
has been accomplished if they'se a vacant bedroom in th' pinitinchry.
His motto is 'Arrest that man.'

"Whin a rayformer is ilicted he promises ye a business administhration.
Some people want that but I don't.  Th' American business man is
too fly.  He's all right, d'ye mind.  I don't say annything again'
him.  He is what Hogan calls th' boolwarks iv pro-gress, an' we
cudden't get on without him even if his scales are a little too
quick on th' dhrop.  But he ought to be left to dale with his
akels.  'Tis a shame to give him a place where he can put th'
comether on millions iv people that has had no business thrainin'
beyond occasionally handin' a piece iv debased money to a car
conductor on a cold day.  A reg'lar pollytician can't give away
an alley without blushin', but a business man who is in pollytics
jus' to see that th' civil sarvice law gets thurly enfoorced, will
give Lincoln Park an' th' public libr'y to th' beef thrust, charge
an admission price to th' lake front an' make it a felony f'r
annywan to buy stove polish outside iv his store, an' have it all
put down to public improvemints with a pitcher iv him in th' corner
stone.

"Fortchnitly, Hinnissy, a rayformer is seldom a business man.  He
thinks he is, but business men know diff'rent.  They know what he
is.  He thinks business an' honesty is th' same thing.  He does,
indeed.  He's got thim mixed because they dhress alike.  His idee
is that all he has to do to make a business administhration is to
have honest men ar-round him.  Wrong.  I'm not sayin', mind ye,
that a man can't do good work an' be honest at th' same time.  But
whin I'm hirin' a la-ad I find out first whether he is onto his
job, an' afther a few years I begin to suspect that he is honest,
too.  Manny a dishonest man can lay brick sthraight an' manny a
man that wudden't steal ye'er spoons will break ye'er furniture.
I don't want Father Kelly to hear me, but I'd rather have a competint
man who wud steal if I give him a chanst, but I won't, do me
plumbin' thin a person that wud scorn to help himsilf but didn't
know how to wipe a joint.  Ivry man ought to be honest to start
with, but to give a man an office jus' because he's honest is like
ilictin' him to Congress because he's a pathrite, because he don't
bate his wife or because he always wears a right boot on th' right
foot.  A man ought to be honest to start with an' afther that he
ought to be crafty.  A pollytician who's on'y honest is jus' th'
same as bein' out in a winther storm without anny clothes on.

"Another thing about rayform administhrations is they always think
th' on'y man that ought to hold a job is a lawyer.  Th' raison is
that in th' coorse iv his thrainin' a lawyer larns enough about
ivrything to make a good front on anny subject to annybody who
doesn't know about it.  So whin th' rayform administhration comes
in th' mayor says: 'Who'll we make chief iv polis in place iv th'
misguided ruffyan who has held th' job f'r twinty years?' 'Th' man
f'r th' place,' says th' mayor's adviser, 'is Arthur Lightout,'
he says.  'He's an ixcillent lawyer, Yale, '95, an' is well up on
polis matthers.  Las' year he read a paper on "The fine polis
foorce iv London" befure th' annyal meetin' iv th' S'ciety f'r
Ladin' th' Mulligan Fam'ly to a Betther an' Harder Life.  Besides,'
he says, 'he's been in th' milishy an' th' foorce needs a man
who'll be afraid not to shoot in case iv public disturbance.' So
Arthur takes hold iv th' constabulary an' in a year th' polis can
all read Emerson an' th' burglars begin puttin' up laddhers an'
block an' tackles befure eight A.M.  An' so it is on ivry side.
A lawyer has charge iv the city horse-shoein', another wan is
clanin' th' sthreets, th' author iv 'Gasamagoo on torts' is thryin'
to dispose iv th' ashes be throwin' thim in th' air on a windy day,
an' th' bright boy that took th' silver ware f'r th' essay on ne
exeats an' their relation to life is plannin' a uniform that will
be sarviceable an' constitchoochinal f'r th' brave men that wurruks
on th' city dumps.  An' wan day th' main rayformer goes out expictin'
to rayceive th' thanks iv th' community an' th' public that has
jus' got out iv jail f'r lettin' th' wather run too long in th'
bath tub rises up an' cries: 'Back to th' Univarsity Settlemint.'
Th' man with th' di'mon' in his shirt front comes home an' pushes
th' honest lawyers down th' steps, an' a dishonest horse shoer
shoes th' city's horses well, an' a crooked plumber does th' city's
plumbin' securely, an' a rascally polisman that may not be avarse
to pickin' up a bet but will always find out whin Pathrolman
Scanlan slept on his beat, takes hold iv th' polis foorce, an' we
raysume our nachral condition iv illagal merrimint.  An' th'
rayformer spinds th' rest iv his life tellin' us where we are
wrong.  He's good at that.  On'y he don't undherstand that people
wud rather be wrong an' comfortable thin right in jail."

"I don't like a rayformer," said Mr. Hennessy.

"Or anny other raypublican," said Mr. Dooley.




Work and Sport


"A hard time th' rich have injyin' life," said Mr. Dooley.

"I'd thrade with thim," said Mr. Hennessy.

"I wud not," said Mr. Dooley.  "'Tis too much like hard wurruk.
If I iver got hold iv a little mound iv th' money, divvle th' bit
iv hardship wud I inflict on mesilf.  I'd set on a large Turkish
sofa an' have dancin' girls dancin' an' a mandolin orchesthree
playin' to me.  I wudden't move a step without bein' carrid.  I'd
go to bed with th' lark an' get up with th' night watchman.  If
annywan suggested physical exercise to me, I'd give him forty
dollars to go away.  I'd hire a prize fighter to do me fightin'
f'r me, a pedesthreen to do me walkin', a jockey to do me ridin',
an' a colledge pro-fissor to do me thinkin'.  Here I'd set with
a naygur fannin' me with osterich feathers, lookin' ca'mly out
through me stained glass windies on th' rollin' mills, smokin'
me good five cint seegar an' rejicin' to know how bad ye mus' be
feelin' ivry time ye think iv me hoorded wealth.

"But that ain't th' way it comes out, Hinnissy.  Higgins, the
millyionaire, had th' same idee as me whin he was beginnin' to
breed money with a dollar he ownded an' a dollar he took fr'm some
wan that wasn't there at th' time.  While he was hammerin' hoops
on a bar'l or dhrivin' pegs into a shoe, he'd stop wanst in a while
to wipe th' sweat off his brow whin th' boss wasn't lookin' an'
he'd say to himsilf: 'If I iver get it, I'll have a man wheel me
around on a chair.' But as his stable grows an' he herds large
dhroves down to th' bank ivry week, he changes his mind, an' whin
he's got enough to injye life, as they say, he finds he's up against
it.  His throubles has just begun.  I know in his heart Higgins'
ideel iv luxury is enough buckwheat cakes an' a cozy corner in a
Turkish bath, but he can't injye it.  He mus' be up an' doin'.
An' th' on'y things annywan around him is up an' doin' is th'
things he used to get paid f'r doin' whin he was a young man.

"Arly in th' mornin' Higgins has got to be out exercisin' a horse
to keep th' horse in good health.  Higgins has no business on a
horse an' he knows it.  He was built an' idycated f'r a cooper an'
th' horse don't fit him.  Th' nachral way f'r Higgins to ride a
horse is to set well aft an' hang onto th' ears.  But he's tol'
that's wrong an' he's made to set up sthraight an' be a good fellow
an' meet th' horse half way.  An' if th' horse don't run away with
Higgins an' kill him, he's tol' it's not a good horse an' he ought
to sell it.  An' mind ye, he pays f'r that though he can't help
raymimberin' th' man nex' dure fr'm him used to get tin dollars a
week f'r th' same job.

"Whin he was a young man, Higgins knowed a fellow that dhruv four
horses f'r a brewery.  They paid him well, but he hated his job.
He used to come in at night an' wish his parents had made him a
cooper, an' Higgins pitied him, knowin' he cudden't get out a life
insurance policy an' his wife was scared to death all th' time.
Now that Higgins has got th' money, he's took th' brewery man's
job with worse horses an' him barred fr'm dhrivin' with more thin
wan hand.  An' does he get annything f'r it? On th' conth'ry,
Hinnissy, it sets him back a large forchune.  An' he says he's
havin' a good time an' if th' brewery man come along an' felt sorry
f'r him, Higgins wudden't exactly know why.

"Higgins has to sail a yacht raymimberin' how he despised th' Swede
sailors that used to loaf in th' saloon near his house dunn' th'
winter; he has to run an autymobill, which is th' same thing as
dhrivin' a throlley car on a windy day without pay; he has to play
golf, which is th' same thing as bein' a letther-carryer without
a dacint uniform; he has to play tennis, which is another wurrud
f'r batin' a carpet; he has to race horses, which is the same thing
as bein' a bookmaker with th' chances again' ye; he has to go
abroad, which is th' same thing as bein' an immigrant; he has to
set up late, which is th' same thing as bein' a dhrug clerk; an'
he has to play cards with a man that knows how, which is th' same
thing as bein' a sucker.

"He takes his good times hard, Hinnissy.  A rich man at spoort is
a kind iv non-union laborer.  He don't get wages f'r it an' he
don't dhrive as well as a milkman, ride as well as a stable-boy,
shoot as well as a polisman, or autymobill as well as th' man that
runs th' steam-roller.  It's a tough life.  They'se no rest f'r
th' rich an' weary.  We'll be readin' in th' pa-apers wan iv these
days: 'Alonzo Higgins, th' runner up in las' year's champeenship,
showed gr-reat improvement in this year's brick layin' tournymint
at Newport, an' won handily with about tin square feet to spare.
He was nobly assisted be Regynald Van Stinyvant, who acted as his
hod carryer an' displayed all th' agility which won him so much
applause arlier in th' year.

"'Th' Pickaways carrid off all th' honors in th' sewer-diggin'
contest yesterdah, defatin' th' Spadewells be five holes to wan.
Th' shovel wurruk iv Cassidy th' banker was spicially noticeable.
Th' colors iv th' Pickaways was red flannel undhershirts an' dark
brown trousers.

"'Raycreations iv rich men: Jawn W. Grates an' J. Pierpont Morgan
ar-re to have a five days' shinglin' contest at Narragansett
Pier.  George Gold is thrainin' f'r th' autumn plumbin' jimkanny.
Mitchigan avnoo is tore up fr'm Van Buren sthreet to th' belt
line in priparation f'r th' contest in sthreet layin'between mimbers
iv th' Assocyation iv More-Thin-Rich Spoorts.  Th' sledge teams
is completed but a few good tampers an' wather men is needed.'

"An' why not, Hinnissy? If 'tis fun to wurruk why not do some rale
wurruk? If 'tis spoort to run an autymobill, why not run a locymotive?
If dhrivin' a horse in a cart is a game, why not dhrive a delivery
wagon an' carry things around? Sure, I s'pose th' raison a rich
man can't undherstand why wages shud go higher is because th' rich
can't see why annybody shud be paid f'r annything so amusin' as
wurruk.  I bet ye Higgins is wondherin' at this moment why he was
paid so much f'r puttin' rings around a bar'l.

"No, sir, what's a rich man's raycreation is a poor man's wurruk.
Th' poor ar-re th' on'y people that know how to injye wealth.
Me idee iv settin' things sthraight is to have th' rich who wurruk
because they like it, do th' wurruk f'r th' poor who wud rather
rest.  I'll be happy th' day I see wan iv th' Hankerbilts pushin'
ye'er little go-cart up th' platform while ye set in th' shade iv
a three an' cheer him on his way.  I'm sure he'd do it if ye called
it a spoort an' tol him th' first man to th' dump wud be entitled
to do it over again against sthronger men nex' week.  Wud ye give
him a tin cup that he cud put his name on? Wud ye, Hinnissy? I'm
sure ye wud."

"Why do they do it?" asked Mr. Hennessy.

"I dinnaw," said Mr. Dooley, "onless it is that th' wan great
object iv ivry man's life is to get tired enough to sleep.  Ivrything
seems to be some kind iv wurruk.  Wurruk is wurruk if ye're paid
to do it an' it's pleasure if ye pay to be allowed to do it."




The Names of a Week


"What's goin' on this week in th' papers?" asked Mr. Hennessy.

"Ivrything," said Mr. Dooley.  "It's been a turbylint week.  I can
hardly sleep iv nights thinkin' iv th' doin's iv people.  Th'
campinily at Venice has fallen down.  'Twas built in 1604 be th'
Beezantiums an' raystored in 1402 be th' Dogs.  It fell down because
th' foundations was weak, because th' wind blew, because th'
beautiful figure iv th' goolden angel on top iv it was fifteen
feet high.  It will be rebuilt or maybe not.  Th' king iv Italy
has given thirty-three billion liars to put it up again, an' siv'ral
ladin' American archytects have offered to do th' job, makin' an
office buildin' iv it.  Th' campinily was wan iv th' proudest
monymints iv Italy an' was used as a bell-tower at times, an' at
other times as a gazabo where anny American cud take a peek at th'
gran' canal an' compare it with th' Erie, th' Pannyma an' th'
dhrainage iv the same name.

"Th' king iv England is betther.  He's off in his yacht.  So ar-re
Laking, Treves, Smith, Barlow, Jones, Casey, Lister, thank Hiven!
A hard life is science.  Th' Hon'rable Joseph Choate is raycoverin'
more slowly.  He still sobs occas'nally in his sleep an' has
ordhered all th' undher sicreties to have their vermyform appindixes
raymoved as a token iv rayspict f'r th' sthricken nation.  Th'
Hon'rable Whitelaw Reid is havin' a cast iv his knee breeches made,
which will be exhibited in New York durin' th' comin' winter.

"Me frind, J. Pierpont Morgan, has been takin' dinner with th'
Impror Willum.  It is undherstud he will presint him to th'
Methropolytan Museem iv Art.  There are said to be worse things
there.

"Lord Salisberry has thrun up his job.  Lord Salisberry was wan
iv th' grandest an' mos' succissful statesmen iv modhren times.
He niver did annything.  He is succeeded be his nevvew, Misther
Balfour, if I get th' name right, who has done less.  It is expicted
that Misther Balfour will have a good time.  On rayceivin' th'
congrathylations iv his colleague, Misther Chamberlain, he bought
himsilf a rayvolver an' took out a policy on his life.

"A lady down east woke her husband up to tell him there was a
burglar in th' house.  Th' foolish woman.  They'se always burglars
in th' house.  That's what burglars are f'r, an' houses.  Instead
iv argyin' th' pint in a loud voice, coughin' an' givin' th' burglar
a chance to lave with dignity, this man got up an' was kilt.  Now
th' pa-apers with th' assistance iv th' officers iv th' law has
discovered that th' lady took a boat ride with a gintleman frind
in th' summer iv sixty-two, that she wanst quarreled with her
husband about th' price iv a hat, that wan iv her lower teeth is
plugged, that she wears a switch an' that she weeps whin she sees
her childher.  They'se a moral in this.  It's ayether don't wake
a man up out iv a sound sleep, or don't get out iv bed till ye
have to, or don't bother a burglar whin ye see he's busy, or kill
th' iditor.  I don't know which it is.

"Willum Jennings Bryan is readin' me frind Grover Cleveland out
iv th' party.  He's usin' the Commoner to read him out.  That's a
sure way.

"Mary MeLane has been in town.  I didn't see her, me place not
bein' a raysort f'r th' young an' yearnin', an' especially me
duckin' all lithry ladies iv whativer sex.  Mary McLane is th'
author iv a book called: 'Whin I am older I'll know betther.' Ye
ought to read it, Hinnissy.

"Th' Newport season is opened with gr-reat gayety an' th' aim
iv rayturnin' husbands is much more sure.

"Gin'ral Bragg fr'm up in Wisconsin has been gettin' into throuble
with our haughty allies, th' Cubians, he writin' home to his wife
that ye might as well thry to make a whistle out iv a pig's tail
as a dacint man out iv a Cubian.  Gin'ral Bragg will be bounced
an' he ought to be.  He don't belong in pollytics.  His place is
iditor iv a losin' newspaper.

"Gov'nor Taft has been in Rome showin' th' wurruld how succissful,
sthraightforward, downright, outspoken, manly, frank, fourteen
ounces to th' pound American business dalings can be again' th'
worn-out di-plomacy iv th' papal coort.  Whin last heerd fr'm
this astoot an' able man, backed up be th' advice iv Elihoo Root
iv York state, was makin' his way tow'rd Manila on foot, an' siv'ral
mimbers iv th' colledge iv cardinals was heerd to regret that
American statesmen were so thin they cudden't find anything to
fit thim in his thrunk.

"Cholera is ragin' in th' Ph'lippeens vice Gin'ral Jake Smith,
raymoved.

"Th' stock market is boomin' an' business has become so dull
elsewhere that some iv th' best known outside operators ar-re
obliged to increase th' depth iv th' goold coatin' on th' brick
to nearly an inch.

"Th' capital iv th' nation has raymoved to Eyesther Bay, a city
on th' north shore iv Long Island, with a popylation iv three
millyion clams, an' a number iv mosquitos with pianola attachments
an' steel rams.  There day be day th' head iv th' nation thransacts
th' nation's business as follows: four A.M., a plunge into th'
salt, salt sea an' a swim iv twenty miles; five A.M., horse-back
ride, th' prisidint insthructin' his two sons, aged two and four
rayspictively, to jump th' first Methodist church without knockin'
off th' shingles; six A.M., wrestles with a thrained grizzly bear;
sivin A.M., breakfast; eight A.M., Indyan clubs; nine A.M., boxes
with Sharkey; tin A.M., bates th' tinnis champeen; iliven A.M.,
rayceives a band iv rough riders an' person'lly supervises th'
sindin' iv th' ambylance to look afther th' injured in th' village;
noon, dinner with Sharkey, Oscar Featherstone, th' champeen
roller-skater iv Harvard, '98, Pro-fissor McGlue, th' archyologist,
Lord Dum de Dum, Mike Kehoe, Immanuel Kant Gumbo, th' naygro pote,
Horrible Hank, t' bad lands scout, Sinitor Lodge, Lucy Emerson
Tick, th' writer on female sufferage, Mud-in-the-Eye, th' chief
iv th' Ogallas, Gin'ral Powell Clayton, th' Mexican mine expert,
four rough riders with their spurs on, th' Ambassadure iv France
an' th' Cinquovasti fam'ly, jugglers.  Th' conversation, we larn
fr'm wan iv th' guests who's our spoortin' iditor, was jined in
be th' prisidint an' dealt with art, boxin', lithrachoor,
horse-breakin', science, shootin', pollytics, how to kill a mountain
line, di-plomacy, lobbing, pothry, th' pivot blow, rayform, an'
th' campaign in Cubia.  Whin our rayporther was dhriven off th'
premises be wan iv th' rough riders, th' head iv th' nation was
tachin' Lord Dum de Dum an' Sicrety Hay how to do a hand-spring,
an' th' other guests was scattered about th' lawn, boxin', rasslin',
swingin' on th' thrapeze, ridin' th' buckin' bronco an' shootin'
at th' naygro pote f'r th' dhrinks--in short enjyin' an ideel day
in th' counthry.

"An' that's all th' news," said Mr. Dooley.  "There ye ar-re jus'
as if ye cud read.  That's all that's happened.  Ain't I a good
newspaper? Not a dull line in me.  Sind in ye'er small ads."

"Sure, all that's no news," said Mr. Hennessy, discontentedly.
"Hasn't there annything happened? Hasn't anny wan been--been
kilt?"

"There ye ar-re," said Mr. Dooley.  "Be news ye mane misfortune.
I suppose near ivry wan does.  What's wan man's news is another
man's throubles.  In these hot days, I'd like to see a pa-aper
with nawthin' in it but affectionate wives an' loyal husbands an'
prosp'rous, smilin' people an' money in th' bank an' three a day.
That's what I'm lookin' f'r in th' hot weather."

"Th' newspapers have got to print what happens," said Mr. Hennessy.

"No," said Mr. Dooley, "they've got to print what's diff'rent.
Whiniver they begin to put headlines on happiness, contint, varchoo,
an' charity, I'll know things is goin' as wrong with this counthry
as I think they ar-re ivry naytional campaign."




The End of the War


"Why did th' Boers quit fightin'?" asked Mr. Hennessy.

"Th' supply iv British gin'rals give out," said Mr. Dooley.  "They
were fin'lly crushed be th' surrindher iv Gin'ral Lord Mechoon.

"Up to that time th' British had niver gained anny important
advantage.  They'd surrindhered ninety or a hundherd thousan'
private sojery, thirty or forty colonels, near all th' officers
iv th' guards, th' Northumberland Fusileers over an' over again,
an' Winston Churchill; they'd hurled gr-reat masses iv th' Impeeryal
Yeomanry into th' prison camps iv th' Boers; they'd surrindhered
rifles, an' ammunition an' pompons an' mules, but nary a British
gin'ral among thim.  Although a smaller foorce, Hinnissy, th' Boers
had th' advantage iv knowin' ivry foot iv th' ground they were
fightin' on.  Manny iv thim had just gone there, while th' British
had been on th' ground f'r three years with an opporchunity to
f'rget something ivry hour.  Th' crafty Dutch, marchin' almost as
well be bright moonlight as in th' day time, proceedin' without
rest f'r hours at a time, always placin' th' catridge in th' gun
befure firm', hardy, vigorous an' accustomed to th' veldt, had
eluded all attempts to hand thim th' roast beef iv Merry England
in th' shape iv a gin'ral.

"But whin Gin'ral, me Lord Kitchener, th' Great Coon Conqueror,
wint to South Africa, like th' stern an' remorseless warryor that
he is, he detarmined to niver rest till he had desthroyed th'
inimy.  In less thin two years, he had evolved his sthrategy.  I
will tell ye what it was, because ye're inthrested in military
plans.  He spread his magnificent army iv gallant Britons out in
a long line that sthretched clane acrost th' counthry, wan yeoman
deep.  Thin, accompanied be his sub-gin'rals, he moved out in th'
followin' ordher.  I'll dhraw it f'r ye, as I see it in th' pa-aper.
Here ye ar-re:

"The band,

"Gin'ral Lord Kitchener, K.C.B., K.N., K.L.K., G.K.R. (with medals),

"The other gin'rals,

"Pianos, Pianolas, Cottage Organs, Ping Pong Sets, Tennis Bats,
Bridge Scores, Cricket Stumps, War Corryspondints,

"Th' Avingin' Line,

"Their horses,

"Their ammunition,

"Their Food, and

"Their Rifles.

"As th' dhread formation moved off in th' bright sunlight iv that
fair day in March, with th' band playin' a quick shtep an' th'
colors flyin' in th' air, it was a sight to make ivry Englishman
proud iv th' fact that he had to be an Englishman.  Detarmination
was written in ivry face--th' detarmination to go on at anny risk
till tea time.  No flinchin', no hisitation, ivry man with his
head erect an' th' feelin' in his heart that on him rested th'
security iv th' impire if so.  On, an' iver on they marched, fr'm
Spimfontein, past th' gleamin' spires iv Wa-aberneck, till they
saw in th' distance th' long, low line iv purple light that marked
th' walls iv Boobenastofein.  It was thin four o'clock P.M., an'
th' column halted while th' bugles blew th' cheery call to tea.
Eager hands unshipped th' marmalade an' opened th' caddies, bread
was toasted on th' small stoves carrid be ivry officer's valet,
th' pickets an' scouts were dispatched f'r plum cake an' f'rgettin'
f'r a moment th' thriles iv th' campaign, th' rough warryors
indulged in that repast that has done so much to make Englishmen
what they are.  At siven, havin' taken all precautions, havin'
placed th' powdher in a cool runnin' brook an' tethered th' mules
to th' rifles, th' vast army slept.  It was breakfast time whin
th' God iv Slumber was dhriven off be th' other British God iv
Appetite.  Such, Hinnissy, is th' brief story iv Gin'ral Kitchener's
cillybrated dhrive, as I read it in th' pa-apers.

"To some extint it was succissful an' to some other extints not.
Th' bands were good.  Th' tea was fine, though some prefer Oolong.
Rifles, pompons, mules, fusileers, etcethry had been lost.  But
not wan British gin'ral had been captured.  Not wan.  They were
all at breakfast an' th' great heart iv th' British nation was
sad.  Th' great heart begun to grumble, which is a way th' great
heart iv a nation has.  It ast what was th' use iv this costly
manoover--if they was as manny gin'rals left afther it as befure.
While in this mood, it was ilicthryfied be a piece iv startlin'
intilligince.  Th' whisper ran round, grew to be a murmur, increased
to a roar, mounted to a shriek that Mechoon was captured.

"It seemed too good to be thrue.  No wan cud believe it at first.
But fin'lly it was officially announced in Parlymint be that hot
headed ol' pathrite, Lord Salsberry himsilf.  In a voice choked
be emotion he arose an' give three cheers.  Afther which he read
Gin'ral Kitchener's dispatch: 'I have th' pleasure to rayport that
yisterdah at nine o'clock Lord Mechoon be a superb sthrategy had
himsilf surrounded be an infeeryor foorce iv Boers undher Gin'ral
Delaney or some such name.  Our cust'mary precaution iv dhrawin'
in th' pickets afther nightfall an' buryin' our rifles, which had
repeatedly failed in th' past owin' to th' caution iv th' Boers,
wurruked admirably.  Gin'ral Delaney was completely taken be
surprise an' befure he cud recover, Lord Mechoon had thrown himsilf
around his neck an' given him his cigreet case in token iv submission.
Th' command behaved with gr-reat gallantry.  In wan case, a
whole comp'ny surrindhered to wan Boer.  I am sindin' ricommindations
f'r th' Victorya cross be freight.  Unforchunitly our casulties
were very heavy.  Mesilf an' nearly all th' other gin'rals escaped
capture.  But betther luck nex' time.  Gin'ral Dewet is about a
mile fr'm here, if in Africa at all, or indeed, livin'.  Gin'ral
Botha is said to be in Ioway, though ye can't believe ivrything
ye see in th' pa-apers.  Wan or th' other may be enthrapped into
kidnapin' me.  In th' manetime I am plannin' right along.  I sleep
constantly in clothes becomin' me station, an' th' impire may rely
on me not makin' a show iv mesilf whin I am took.  Ye'ers hopefully,
Kitchener.'

"Th' Boers niver raycovered fr'm th' tur'ble blow.  Their spirits
was crushed.  Their hopes had fled.  Th' kindergartens had opened
an' manny iv their bravest warryors had been carried off be their
mothers.  Anny moment they might be surrounded an' surrindhered
to.  So wan mornin' th' entire mighty army, th' whole thirty-two
iv them, histed th' white flag an' presinted their bill."

"An' so th' war is over?" asked Mr. Hennessy.

"On'y part iv it," said Mr. Dooley.  "Th' part that ye see in th'
pitcher pa-apers is over, but th' tax collector will continyoo
his part iv th' war with relentless fury.  Cav'lry charges are not
th' on'y wars in a rale war."




Newport


"About this time ivry year," said Mr. Dooley, "I go to Newport f'r
th' summer."

"Ye go where?" asked Mr. Hennessy.

"I go to Newport," said Mr. Dooley, calmly, "in th' pa-apers.
Newport's always there.  I may not find annything about th' fire
at th' yards or th' war in th' Ph'lippeens, but if Mrs. Rasther
opens a can iv salmon or pounds th' top off an egg, it's down in
black an' white be th' fearless hands iv th' iditor.  'Tis a
gr-reat joy bein' lithry an' knowin' how to read.  Th' air is
hot in Ar-rchey Road; ye can see it.  It looks an' feels like
hot soup with people floatin' around in it like viggytables.  Th'
smoke poors fr'm th' chimbly iv th' rollin' mills an' comes right
down on th' sthreet an' jines us.  People ar-re lyin' out iv
doors with their mouths open.  They'se a gr-reat dale iv cholery
infantum an' a few deleeryam thremens.  If I cudden't read I'd be
hot about th' weather an' things.  But whin th' day is darkest an'
I don't want to see me best cukkin' frind, I takes me yacht at th'
top iv page eight an' goes sailin' off to Newport in me shirt
sleeves with twelve inches iv malt in th' hook iv me thumb, an'
there I stay till I want to come back an' rest.

"'Th' autymobill season has opened in deadly earnest.  Manny new
machines is seen daily an' wan iv th' delights iv th' summer colony
is to go out iv an avenin' an' see th' farmers iv th' neighborhood
pluckin' their horses fr'm th' top branches iv threes.  Th' younger
Hankerbilt has atthracted much attintion be his acc'rate ridin'.
Th' other day he made a scoor iv eight fr'm a runnin' start in
tin minyits an' this in spite iv th' fact that he was obliged to
come back to th' last wan, a Swede named Olson, an' bump him over
again.

"'Misther Graball, th' Muskegon millionaire who got into s'ciety
las' year be dyin' his hair green an' givin' a dinner at which all
th' guests rayceived a lumber mill as sooveneers, has returned
suddenly fr'm th' West an' his house party is over.'

"'Little Aigrette Vandycooker has a tooth, her elder sister a
markess, an' her mother a siparation.'

"'Misther an' Mrs. Roger Smitherson an' frind ar-re spindin' th'
summer at frind's house.'

"Gin'rally we lade a life iv quite an' iligant luxury.  Wud ye
like a line on me daily routine? Well, in th' mornin' a little
spin in me fifty-horse power 'Suffer-little-childher,' in th'
afthernoon a whirl over th' green wathers iv th' bay in me
goold-an'-ivory yacht, in th' avenin' dinner with a monkey or
something akelly as good, at night a few leads out iv th' wrong
hand, some hasty wurruds an' so to bed.  Such is th' spoortin'
life in Rhode Island, th' home iv Roger Williams an' others not
so much.  It grows tiresome afther awhile.  I confess to ye,
Algernon Hinnissy, that befure th' monkey was inthrajooced, I was
sufferin' fr'm what Hogan calls onwee, which is th' same thing as
ingrowin' money.  I had got tired iv puttin' new storeys on me
cottage an' ridin' up in th' ilivator fr'm th' settin' room on
th' eighth flure to th' dinin' room on th' twinty-ninth, I didn't
care about ayether thrap-shootin' or autymobillin', I felt like
givin' a cawrnation dinner to th' poor iv th' village an' feedin'
thim me polo ponies, I didn't care whether th' champagne bar'ls
was kept iced, whether th' yacht was as long as th' wan ownded be
th' Ginger Snap king nex' dure, whether I had three or tin millyon
dollars in me pants pocket in th' mornin' or whether th' Poles in
th' coal mine was sthrikin' f'r wan dollar an' forty-siven or wan
dollar an' forty-eight cints a day.  I was tired iv ivrything.
Life had me be th' throat, th' black dog was on me back.  I felt
like suicide or wurruk.   Thin come th' bright idee iv me young
frind an' th' monkey saved me.  He give me something to live f'r.
Perhaps we too may be monkeys some day an' be amusin'.  We don't
talk half as loud or look half as foolish or get dhrunk half as
quick, but give us a chanst.  We're a young people an' th' monkeys
is an old, old race.  They've been Newportin' f'r cinchries.  Sure
that ol' la-ad who said man was descinded fr'm monkeys knew what
he was talkin' about.  Descinded, but how far?

"Now, don't go gettin' cross about th' rich, Hinnissy.  Put up
that dinnymite.  Don't excite ye'ersilf about us folks in Newport.
It's always been th' same way, Father Kelly tells me.  Says he:
'If a man is wise, he gets rich an' if he gets rich, he gets
foolish, or his wife does.  That's what keeps th' money movin'
around.  What comes in at th' ticker goes out at th' wine agent.
F'river an' iver people have been growin' rich, goin' down to some
kind iv a Newport, makin' monkeys iv thimsilves an' goin' back to
th' jungle.  'Tis a steady pro-cission.  Aisy come, lazy go.  In
ivry little hamlet in this broad land, there's some man with a
broad jaw an' th' encouragement iv a good woman, makin' ready to
shove some other man off his steam yacht.  At this very minyit
whin I speak, me frind Jawn Grates has his eye on Hankerbilk's
house.  He wud swing a hammock in th' woodshed this year, but nex'
he may have his feet up on th' bannister iv th' front stoop.  Whin
a captain iv industhry stops dhrinkin' at th' bar, he's near his
finish.  If he ain't caught in his own person, th' constable will
get to his fam'ly.  Ye read about th' union iv two gr-reat
fortunes.  A dollar meets another dollar, they are conganial, have
sim'lar tastes, an' manny mutual frinds.  They are marrid an' bring
up a fam'ly iv pennies, dimes, thirty-cintses an' countherfeits.
An' afther awhile, th' fam'ly passes out iv circylation.  That's
th' histhry iv it,' says Father Kelly.  'An',' says he,' I'm glad
there is a Newport,' he says.  'It's th' exhaust pipe,' he says.
'Without it we might blow up,' he says.  'It's th' hole in th' top
iv th' kettle,' he says.  'I wish it was bigger,' he says."

"Oh, well," said Mr. Hennessy, "we are as th' Lord made us."

"No," said Mr. Dooley, "lave us be fair.  Lave us take some iv th'
blame oursilves."




Arctic Exploration


"This here business iv Artic exploration's th' gran' pursoot,"
said Mr. Dooley.  "A gran', comfortable, fightin', quarrelin'
business."

"What's it all about?" asked Mr. Hennessy.  "Why shud annywan want
to go to th' North Pole? Ain't it cold enough here?"

"I niver cud quite make it out," said Mr. Dooley.  "I've heerd
tell that years ago, befure th' fire or th' war, some wan had an
idee in his foolish head that they was a gran' sea up there with
blue wather dimplin' in th' moonlight an' cocynut threes growin'
on th' shore an' if a man cud on'y get in with his boat, he cud
sail around th' wurruld an' fetch up in Chiny.  That idee blew up
an' thin some wan said 'twud be a fine thing f'r science if a white
man cud get to th' North Pole.  What he'd do if he got there no
wan has anny thought.  Accordin' to what I hear, th' North Pole
ain't like a tillygraft pole, a barber pole, a fishin' pole, a
clothes pole, a poll-tax, a Maypole, a Russhyan Pole, or annything
that ye can see, smell or ate.  Whin ye get to it, it is no diff'rent
fr'm bein' annywhere on th' ice.  Th' on'y way ye know ye're there
is be consultin' a pocket arithmetic, a watch an' a compass.  Don't
get it into ye'er head that if me frind Baldwin or Peary iver wint
north iv Milwaukee an' come acrost th' North Pole they'd carve
their names on it or hist a flag over it or bring it home with
thim on a thruck an' set it up on th' lake front.  Th' north pole
is a gigantic column iv cold air, some says hot, an' an enthusyastic
explorer that wasn't lookin' where he wint might pass right through
it without knowin'.

"In th' arly days whin an explorer wint off to find th' Pole, he
bought himsilf a sheepskin coat, a couple iv dogs, a pair iv skates,
an' a bottle iv pickled onions an' set out bravely, an' th' people
watched th' fam'ly to see what other form th' lunacy wud take.
Afther awhile he ayether come back or he didn't.  Sometimes th'
Esqueemo lady didn't care to lave her pleasant home in th' land
iv perpetchool blubber an' in that case th' hardy mariner remained
in th' frozen north.  I niver cud see th' advantages iv life in
th' Artic regions.  'Tis thrue th' nights is six months long an'
sleep is wan iv th' spoorts that age hasn't deprived me iv.  It
mus' be a gr-reat counthry f'r burglars.  But f'r a plain wurrukin'
man it's very thryin'.  Think iv a six months' wurrukin' day.  Ye
get ye'er breakfast at sun-up in March an' ye don't set down to
dinner till th' first iv June.  Thin comes a long afthernoon an'
I tell ye whin th' whistle blows at six o'clock October, it's a
welcome sound it sinds to ye'er ears.  Ye go home an' all th'
childher has growed up an' th' news in th' mornin' pa-per is six
months' old.  Ye lie around readin' an' playin' cards f'r a month
or two an' thin ye yawn an' set th' alarm clock f'r March an' says:
'Mah, it's th' fifteenth iv Novimber an' time th' childher was
abed,' an' go to sleep.  About Christmas th' good woman wakes ye
up to look f'r th' burglar an' afther ye've paddled around in th'
ice floe f'r a week, ye climb back into bed grumblin' an' go to
sleep again.  Afther awhile ye snore an' th' wife iv ye'er bosom
punches ye.  'What time is it?' says ye.  'It's a quarther past
th' fifteenth iv Janooary,' says she, 'an' that siren iv ye'ers
has been goin' since New Year's day.' At March ye ar-re aroused
be th' alarm clock an' ye go out to feed th' seals an' I tell ye,
ye need a shave.  It mus' be a quare sinsation to wake up in th'
mornin' an' find that th' kid ye tucked into bed th' night befure
has grown side-whiskers in his sleep an' his feet has pushed out
th' foot iv th' cradle.  Not f'r my money, Hinnissy.  Th' Artic
regions f'r thim that likes thim but give me a land where ye don't
tell th' time iv day be th' almynac.

"But other people is diff'rent.  Th' boldest Artic explorer is a
man that's made his money out iv sellin' base-burnin' stoves an'
has chillblains in July.  Such a man is niver continted till he's
started somebody off f'r th' northest north.  An' he has no throuble
to find a man.  Nex' to bein' invited on a private yacht to sail
in th' Middyteranyan, th' nicest thing a millyonaire can do f'r
ye is to make an Artic explorer iv ye.  Th' prelim'naries is great
spoort.  F'r two years ye go round th' counthry letchrin' on 'What
I will see in th' Artic regions whin I get there if at all.' Fin'lly
ye set off with th' fleet, consistin' iv a ship f'r ye'ersilf,
three f'r th' provisions, two f'r th' clothes an' wan f'r th'
diaries.  They'se also a convoy.  Th' business iv th' convoy is
to dhrop in at Thromsoe in Norway an' ast f'r news iv ye.  Thromsoe
is wan iv th' farthest north places that anny explorer has been.
But it well repays a visit, bein' a thrivin', bustlin' Swede city
with a good club.  Afther th' long sthruggle with th' pitiliss ice
machine it is very pleasant to dhrop in on this hospital community
an' come back that night be thrain.  Well, as I was sayin', wan
explorer starts off in a fur suit an' has th' time iv his life an'
th' other explorer stays at home an' suffers th' crool hardships
an' bitther disapp'intments iv life in Brooklyn.  Lashed to his
rockin' chair, he shivers ivry time th' wind blows an' he thinks
iv his hardy partner facin' th' purls iv that far-off region iv
ice an' snow an' funny little Esqueemo women in union garments iv
fur.  'He's in Greenland now; he's battlin' with th' deadly ice
floe; now he's rasslin' with a Polar bear; he's up; he's away;
he's reached th' Pole; he's pullin' it up be th' roots; bravo
Baldy!' An' so he goes till his hands is all chapped fr'm thinkin'
iv th' cold an' his leg is lame fr'm th' encounther with a Polar
bear an' his rockin' chair is in danger iv bein' dashed to pieces
again' th' threacherous pianny.  An' wan day a message comes fr'm
th' other explorer: 'Rio Janeiro.  We have rayturned, baffled but
not defeated.  Th' pickled walnuts give out befure we reached th'
West Indies.  As far as we've gone we've had excellent raysults.
Th' cap'n, th' mate, th' cook, th' stewart an' eighty per cint iv
th' crew is in ir'ns an' as soon as I've got this tillygram off
I'm goin' in to punch th' surgeon.  I congratylate ye.  Ye'er name
will stand high among th' binnyfactors iv science.  We have
demonsthrated beyond fear iv conthrydiction that th' gulf sthream
is jus' where it was an' that volcanoes ain't what they are cracked
up to be.  Our motto is: "Niver give up th' ship.  It's too
comfortable." Who's ye'er banker here?' Whin th' millyionaire dies
iv exposure, a victim to science, th' mariner rayturns an' letchers
on th' subject: 'Quarrels I have had in th' frozen north.' Talk
about th' terrors, iv Artic exploration, Hinnissy! There's where
ye get thim.  Did ye iver go to an Artic exploration letcher? I
did wanst.  They was wan down at th' brothers' school las' winther.
I've been lame iver since.

"None iv it in mine, if ye plaze.  It's too hot wurrik in thim
clothes.  An' aven if ye get up near th' pole, what's it good f'r?
Th' climate is disagreeable, an' th' s'ciety is monotonous.
Ivrybody dhresses alike.  Th' wan tailor makes th' clothes f'r
pah, mah, Lucille an' th' Polar bear out iv th' same patthern.
If ye go to coort a girl, ye don't know befure she speaks whether
'tis hersilf or her Uncle Mike.  I heerd iv an Artic explorer wanst
that held hands with a Swede sicond mate f'r over an hour befure
he ralized his mistake.

"No, sir, no Artic explorations f'r me, ayether pers'nally or be
check.  But if I did go into it, I know who I'd sind.  I'd not
fool around with people who begin to cough within sight iv th' car
barns.  I'd utilize th' folks in th' neighborhood.  I'd pathronize
home industhries.  Th' Pole f'r th' polars, says I.  They mus' be
hundherds iv la-ads up in that part iv th' wurruld that'd be
willin' to earn an honest dollar be discoverin' th' pole.  With
thim 'twud be like ye goin' down to explore th' stock yards.  I
bet manny iv thim knows th' pole as well as I know Haley's slough.
Ye'd prob'ly find they've hung their washin' on it f'r years an'
manny iv th' kids has shinned up it."

"Who'd ye sind?" asked Mr. Hennessy.

"Esqueemos," said Mr. Dooley.




Machinery


Mr. Dooley was reading from a paper.

"'We live,' he says, 'in an age iv wondhers.  Niver befure in th'
histhry iv th' wurruld has such progress been made.'

"Thrue wurruds an' often spoken.  Even in me time things has
changed.  Whin I was a la-ad Long Jawn Wintworth cud lean his
elbows on th' highest buildin' in this town.  It took two months
to come here fr'm Pittsburg on a limited raft an' a stage coach
that run fr'm La Salle to Mrs. Murphy's hotel.  They wasn't anny
tillygraft that I can raymimber an' th' sthreet car was pulled be
a mule an' dhruv be an engineer be th' name iv Mulligan.  We thought
we was a pro-grissive people.  Ye bet we did.  But look at us
today.  I go be Casey's house tonight an' there it is a fine
storey-an'-a-half frame house with Casey settin' on th' dure shtep
dhrinkin' out iv a pail.  I go be Casey's house to-morrah an'
it's a hole in th' groun'.  I rayturn to Casey's house on Thursdah
an' it's a fifty-eight storey buildin' with a morgedge onto it an'
they're thinkin' iv takin' it down an' replacin' it with a modhren
sthructure.  Th' shoes that Corrigan th' cobbler wanst wurruked
on f'r a week, hammerin' away like a woodpecker, is now tossed out
be th' dozens fr'm th' mouth iv a masheen.  A cow goes lowin'
softly in to Armours an' comes out glue, beef, gelatine, fertylizer,
celooloid, joolry, sofy cushions, hair restorer, washin' sody,
soap, lithrachoor an' hed springs so quick that while aft she's
still cow, for'ard she may be annything fr'm huttons to Pannyma
hats. I can go fr'm Chicago to New York in twinty hours, but I
don't have to, thank th' Lord.  Thirty years ago we thought 'twas
marvelous to be able to tillygraft a man in Saint Joe an' get an
answer that night. Now, be wireless tillygraft ye can get an answer
befure ye sind th' tillygram if they ain't careful.  Me friend
Macroni has done that.  Be manes iv his wondher iv science a man
on a ship in mid-ocean can sind a tillygram to a man on shore, if
he has a confid'rate on board.  That's all he needs.  Be mechanical
science an' thrust in th' op'rator annywan can set on th' shore
iv Noofoundland an' chat with a frind in th' County Kerry.

"Yes, sir, mechanical science has made gr-reat sthrides.  Whin I
was a young man we used to think Hor'ce Greeley was th' gr-reatest
livin' American.  He was a gran' man, a gran' man with feathers
beneath his chin an' specs on his nose like th' windows in a diver's
hemlet. His pollyticks an' mine cudden't live in th' same neighborhood
but he was a gran' man all th' same.  We used to take th' Cleveland
Plain Daler in thim days f'r raycreation an' th' New York Thrybune
f'r exercise. 'Twas considhered a test iv a good natured dimmycrat
if he cud read an article in th' Thrybune without havin' to do th'
stations iv th' cross aftherward f'r what he said.  I almost did
wanst but they was a line at th' end about a frind iv mine be th'
name iv Andhrew Jackson an' I wint out an' broke up a Methodist
prayer meetin'.  He was th' boy that cud put it to ye so that if
ye voted th' dimmycrat tickit it was jus' th' same as demandin'
a place in purgytory.  Th' farmers wud plant annything fr'm a
ruty baga to a congressman on his advice.  He niver had money enough
to buy a hat but he cud go to th' sicrety iv th' threasury an'
tell him who's pitcher to put on th' useful valentines we thrade
f'r groceries.

"But if Hor'ce Greeley was alive today where'd he be? Settin' on
three inches iv th' edge iv a chair in th' outside office iv me
frind Pierpont Morgan waitin' f'r his turn.  In th' line is th'
Imp'ror iv Germany, th' new cook, th' prisidint iv a railroad, th'
cap'n iv th' yacht, Rimbrandt th' painther, Jawn W. Grates, an'
Hor'ce.  Afther awhile th' boy at th' dure says: 'Ye're next, ol'
party.  Shtep lively f'r th' boss has had a Weehawken Peerooginy
sawed off on him this mornin' an' he mustn't he kep' waitin'.' An'
th' iditor goes in.  'Who ar-re ye?' says th' gr-reat man,
givin' him wan iv thim piercin' looks that whin a man gets it he
has to be sewed up at wanst.  'I'm ye'er iditor,' says Hor'ce.
'What's ye'er spishilty?' 'Tahriff an' th' improvemint iv th'
wurruld,' says Hor'ce.  'See Perkins,' says Pierpont, an' th'
intherview is over.  Now what's made th' change? Mechanical Science,
Hinnissy.  Some wan made a masheen that puts steel billets within
th' reach iv all.  Hince Charlie Schwab.

"What's it done f'r th' wurruld? says ye.  It's done ivrything.
It's give us fast ships an' an autymatic hist f'r th' hod, an'
small flats an' a taste iv solder in th' peaches.  If annybody
says th' wurruld ain't betther off thin it was, tell him that a
masheen has been invinted that makes honey out iv pethrolyum.  If
he asts ye why they ain't anny Shakesperes today, say: 'No, but
we no longer make sausages he hand.'

"'Tis pro-gress.  We live in a cinchry iv pro-gress an' I thank
th' Lord I've seen most iv it.  Man an' boy I've lived pretty near
through this wondherful age.  If I was proud I cud say I seen more
thin Julyus Caesar iver see or cared to.  An' here I am, I'll not
say how old, still pushin' th' malt acrost th' counther at me
thirsty counthrymen.  All around me is th' refinemints iv mechanical
janius.  Instead iv broachin' th' beer kag with a club an' dhrawin'
th' beer through a fassit as me Puritan forefathers done, I have
that wondher iv invintive science th' beer pump.  I cheat mesilf
with a cash raygisther.  I cut off th' end iv me good cigar with
an injanyous device an' pull th' cork out iv a bottle with a
conthrivance that wud've made that frind that Hogan boasts about,
that ol' boy Archy Meeds, think they was witchcraft in th' house.
Science has been a gr-reat blessin' to me.  But amidst all these
granjoors here am I th' same ol' antiquated combination iv bellows
an' pump I always was.  Not so good.  Time has worn me out.  Th'
years like little boys with jackknives has carved their names in
me top.  Ivry day I have to write off something f'r deprecyation.
'Tis about time f'r whoiver owns me to wurruk me off on a thrust.
Mechanical science has done ivrything f'r me but help me.  I suppose
I ought to feel supeeryor to me father.  He niver see a high buildin'
but he didn't want to.  He cudden't come here in five days but he
was a wise man an' if he cud've come in three he'd have stayed
in th' County Roscommon.

"Th' pa-apers tells me that midical science has kept pace with
th' hop-skip-an'-a-jump iv mechanical inginooty.  Th' doctors has
found th' mickrobe iv ivrything fr'm lumbago to love an' fr'm
jandice to jealousy, but if a brick bounces on me head I'm crated
up th' same as iv yore an' put away.  Rockyfellar can make a pianny
out iv a bar'l iv crude ile, but no wan has been able to make a
blade iv hair grow on Rockyfellar.  They was a doctor over in
France that discovered a kind iv a thing that if 'twas pumped into
ye wud make ye live till people got so tired iv seein' ye around
they cud scream.  He died th' nex' year iv premachure ol' age.
They was another doctor cud insure whether th' flex' wan wud be a
boy or a girl.  All ye had to do was to decide wud it be Arthur
or Ethel an' lave him know.  He left a fam'ly iv unmarredgeable
daughters.

"I sometimes wondher whether pro-gress is anny more thin a kind
iv a shift.  It's like a merry-go-round.  We get up on a speckled
wooden horse an' th' mechanical pianny plays a chune an' away we
go, hollerin'.  We think we're thravellin' like th' divvle but th'
man that doesn't care about merry-go-rounds knows that we will
come back where we were.  We get out dizzy an' sick an' lay on th'
grass an' gasp: 'Where am I? Is this th' meelin-yum?' An' he says:
'No, 'tis Ar-rchey Road.' Father Kelly says th' Agyptians done
things we cudden't do an' th' Romans put up sky-scrapers an' aven
th' Chinks had tillyphones an' phony-grafts.

"I've been up to th' top iv th' very highest buildin' in town,
Hinnissy, an' I wasn't anny nearer Hivin thin if I was in th'
sthreet.  Th' stars was as far away as iver.  An' down beneath is
a lot iv us runnin' an' lapin' an' jumpin' about, pushin' each other
over, haulin' little sthrips iv ir'n to pile up in little buildin's
that ar-re called sky-scrapers but not be th' sky; wurrukin' night
an' day to make a masheen that'll carry us fr'm wan jack-rabbit
colony to another an' yellin', 'Pro-gress! 'Pro-gress, oho! I can
see th' stars winkin' at each other an' sayin': 'Ain't they funny!
Don't they think they're playin' hell!'

"No, sir, masheens ain't done much f'r man.  I can't get up anny
kind iv fam'ly inthrest f'r a steam dredge or a hydhraulic hist.
I want to see sky-scrapin' men.  But I won't.  We're about th'
same hight as we always was, th' same hight an' build, composed
iv th' same inflammable an' perishyable mateeryal, an exthra
hazardous risk, unimproved an' li'ble to collapse.  We do make
pro-gress but it's th' same kind Julyus Caesar made an' ivry wan
has made befure or since an' in this age iv masheenery we're still
burrid be hand."

"What d'ye think iv th' man down in Pinnsylvanya who says th' Lord
an' him is partners in a coal mine?" asked Mr. Hennessy, who wanted
to change the subject.

"Has he divided th' profits?" asked Mr. Dooley.




Swearing


Did ye see what th' prisidint said to th' throlley man that bumped
him?" asked Mr. Dooley.

"I did not," said Mr. Hennessy.  "What was it?"

"I can't tell ye till I get mad," said Mr. Dooley.  "Lave us go
into ixicutive sission.  Whisper.  That was it.  Ha, ha.  He give
it to him sthraight.  A good, honest, American blankety-blank.
Rale language like father used to make whin he hit his thumb with
th' hammer.  No 'With ye'er lave' or 'By ye'er lave,' but a dacint
'Damn ye, sir,' an' a little more f'r th' sake iv imphasis.

"What else wud ye have him do? 'Twas nayether th' time nor th'
occasion, as th' candydate said whin they ast him where he got his
money, 'twas nayether th' time nor th' occasion f'r wurruds that
wud be well rayceived at Chatauqua.  A throlley car had pushed him
an' diplomatic relations was suspinded.  He was up on top iv a
bus, hurryin' fr'm speech to speech an' thinkin' what to say next.
'Th' thrusts,' says he to himsilf, ' are heejous monsthers built
up be th' inlightened intherprise iv th' men that have done so
much to advance pro-gress in our beloved counthry,' he says.  'On
wan hand I wud stamp thim undher fut; on th' other hand not so
fast.  What I want more thin th' bustin' iv th' thrusts is to see
me fellow counthrymen happy an' continted.  I wudden't have thim
hate th' thrusts.  Th' haggard face, th' droopin' eye, th' pallid
complexion that marks th' inimy iv thrusts is not to me taste.
Lave us be merry about it an' jovial an' affectionate.  Lave us
laugh an' sing th' octopus out iv existence.  Betther blue but
smilin' lips anny time thin a full coal scuttle an' a sour heart.
As Hogan says, a happy peasanthry is th' hope iv th' state.  So
lave us warble ti-lire-a-lay--' Jus' thin Euclid Aristophanes
Madden on th' quarther deck iv th' throlley car give a twisht to
his brake an' th' chief ixicutive iv th' nation wint up in th' air
with th' song on his lips.  He wint up forty, some say, fifty feet.
Sicrety Cortilloo says three hundherd an' fifty.  Annyhow whin he
come down he landed nachrally on his feet.

"Now, Hinnissy, no matther what a man may've been wan minyit befure
he was hit be a throlley car, a minyit afther he's on'y a man.
Th' throlley car plays no fav'rites.  It bounces th' high an' th'
low alike.  It tears th' exalted fr'm their throne an' ilivates
th' lowly.  So whin th' prisidint got back to the earth he wasn't
prisidint anny longer but Tiddy Rosenfelt, 180 pounds iv a man.
An' he done accordin'ly.  If it'd been Willum Jennings Bryan,
he'd've ast th' throlley engineer was he a mimber iv th' Union.
If he cud show a wurrukin' card he was entitled to bump anny wan.
At worst Willum Jennings Bryan wud've written an article about
him in th' Commoner, or if he felt unusually vindicative, maybe
he'd sind it to him through th' mails.  Whin Sicrety Cortilloo
come to fr'm a dhream that he'd jus' rayfused a favor to Sinitor
Tillman, he hauled out a little note book an' got ready to take
down something that cud be put on th' thransparencies two years
fr'm now--something like--'No power on earth can stop American
business entherprise.' But nawthin' that will iver be printed in
th' first reader dhropped fr'm th' lips iv th' chief exicutive.
With two jumps he was in th' throlley man's hair an' spoke as
follows--No, I won't say it again.  But I'll tell ye this much, a
barn-boss that was standin' by an' heerd it, said he niver befure
regretted his father hadn't sint him to Harvard.

"We know what Wash'nton said to his gin'rals an' what Grant said
to Lee an' what Cleveland said to himsilf.  They're in th' books.
But engraved in th' hearth iv his counthrymen is what Rosenfelt
said to th' throlley man.  'Twas good because 'twas so nachral.
Most iv th' sayin's I've read in books sounds as though they was
made be a patent inkybator.  They go with a high hat an' a white
tie.  Ye can hear th' noise iv th' phonygraft.  But this here jim
of emotion an' thought come sthraight fr'm th' heart an' wint right
to th' heart.  That's wan reason I think a lot iv us likes Tiddy
Rosenfelt that wudden't iver be suspicted iv votin' f'r him.  Whin
he does anny talkin'--which he sometimes does--he talks at th' man
in front iv him.  Ye don't hear him hollerin' at posterity.
Posterity don't begin to vote till afther th' polls close.  So whin
he wished to convey to th' throlley man th' sintimints iv his bosom,
he done it in wurruds suited to th' crisis, as Hogan wud say.  They
do say his remarks singed th' hair off th' head iv th' unforchnit
man.

"I don't believe in profanity, Hinnissy--not as a reg'lar thing.
But it has its uses an' its place.  F'r instance, it is issintial
to some thrades.  No man can be a printer without swearin'.  'Tis
impossible.  I mind wanst I wint to a printin' office where a frind
iv mine be th' name iv Donovan held cases an' I heerd th' foreman
say: 'What gintleman is setting A thirty?' he says.  'I am,' says
a pale aristocrat with black whiskers who was atin' tobacco in th'
rear iv th' room.  'Thin,' says th' foreman, 'ye blankety-blank
blacksmith, get a move on ye.  D'ye think this is a annyooal
incyclopejee?' he says.  Ivrybody swore at ivrybody else.  Th'
little boys runnin' around with type prattled innocent pro-fanity
an' afther awhile th' iditor come in an' he swore more thin annybody
else.  But 'twas aisy to see he'd not lamed th' thrade iv printer.
He swore with th' enthusyasm an' inacc'racy iv an amachoor, though
I mus' say, he had his good pints.  I wisht I cud raymimber what
it was he called th' Czar iv Rooshya f'r dyin' jus' as th' pa-aper
was goin' to press.  I cud've often used it since.  But it's slipped
me mind.

"Swearin' belongs to some thrades,--like printin', bricklayin' an'
plumbin'.  It is no help at all, at all to tailors, shoemakers,
hair-dressers, dintists or authors.  A surgeon needs it but a
doctor niver.  It is a great help in unloadin' a ship an' sailor
men always swear--th' cap'n an' mate whin wurruk is goin' on an'
th' men befure th' mast at meals.  Sojers mus' swear.  They'se no
way out iv it.  It's as much th' equipment iv a sojer as catridges.
In vigorous spoort it is niciss'ry but niver at checkers or chess
an' sildom at dominoes.  Cowboys are compelled to use it.  No wan
cud rope a cow or cinch a pony without swearin'.  A sthrick bringin'
up is th' same as havin' a wooden leg on th' plains.  Profanity
shud be used sparingly if at all on childher--especially girls--an'
sildom on women, though I've knowed an occasional domestic: 'Damn
ye'er eyes' to wurruk wondhers in reg-latin' a fam'ly.  Women can't
swear.  They have th' feelin' but not th' means.  Westhern men
swear betther thin Eastern men though I mus' say th' mos' lib'ral
swearers I iver knew come fr'm Boston.

"But it don't do to use pro-fanity th' way ye wud ordin'ry wurruds.
No, sir.  Ye've got to save it up an' invist it at th' right time
or get nawthin' fr'm it.  It's betther thin a doctor f'r a stubbed
toe but it niver cured a broken leg.  It's a kind iv a first aid
to th' injured.  It seems to deaden th' pain.  Women an' childher
cry or faint whin they're hurt.  That's because they haven't th'
gift iv swearin'.  But as I tell ye, they'se no good wastin' it.
Th' man that swears at ivrything has nawthin' to say when rale
throubles come.  I hate to hear annywan spillin' out th' valyable
wurruds that he ought to save to be used whin th' shtove-pipe comes
down.  Not that it shocks me.  I'm a dimmycrat.  But I know th'
foolish man is hurtin' himsilf.  Put a little pro-fanity by f'r
rainy days, says I.  Ye won't miss it an' at th' end iv th' year
whin ye renew ye'er lease ye'll be surprised to find out how much
ye have on hand.  But if ye hurl it broadcast, if ivry time ye
open ye'er mouth a hot wan lapes out, th' time will come whin ye'll
want to say something scorchin' an' ye'll have nawthin' to say
that ye haven't said f'r fun.  I'd as soon think iv swearin' f'r
pleasure as iv lindin' money f'r pleasure.  They ain't too much
pro-fanity in th' wurruld.  A good dale iv it has been used up
since th' coal sthrike begun.  Th' govermint ought to presarve it
an' prevint annywan fr'm swearin' more thin was niciss'ry f'r to
support life.

"I niver knew Father Kelly to swear but wanst.  'Twas a little
wan, Hinnissy.  Dhropped fr'm th' lips iv a polisman it wud've
sounded like a 'thank ye kindly.' But, be Hivins, whin I heerd it
I thought th' roof wud fall down on th' head iv Scanlan that he
was thryin' to show th' evil iv his ways.  Melia Murdher, but it
was gran'! They was more varchue in that wan damn thin in a fastin'
prayer.  Scanlan wint to wurruk th' nex' day an' he hasn't tasted
a dhrop since.

"But th' best thing about a little judicyous swearin' is that it
keeps th' temper.  'Twas intinded as a compromise between runnin'
away an' fightin'.  Befure it was invinted they was on'y th' two
ways out iv an argymint."

"But I've heerd ye say a man was swearin' mad," said Mr. Hennessy.

"He wasn't fightin' mad, thin," said Mr. Dooley.




The War Game


What's this here war game I've been readin' about?" asked Mr.
Hennessy.

"It's a kind iv a blind man's buff," said Mr. Dooley.  "It's a
thrile iv cunnin' an' darin' between th' army an' th' navy.  Be
manes iv it we tarn whether th' inimy cud sneak into Boston afther
dark without annywan seein' thim an' anchor in Boston common.  Ye
an' I know diff'rent, Hinnissy.  We know how manny people are in
th' sthreets afther dark.  But th' navy don't know an' th' army
don't know.  Their idee is that a German fleet might gum-shoe up
th' harbor in th' dark iv th' moon an' whin people turned out f'r
their mornin' dhram, there wud be th' Impror Willum atin' his
breakfast iv Hungayrian Goolash an' noodle soup on th' steps iv
th' State House iv Matsachoosetts.  But it's a gran' game.  I'd
like to play it mesilf.  It's as noisy as forty-fives between
Connock men an' as harmless as a steeryopticon letcher.  If war
an' th' war game was th' same thing, I'd be an admiral, at laste,
be this time with me face gashed an' seamed be raspberry jam an'
me clothes stained with English breakfast tea.

"Th' navy chose to be th' inimy an' 'twas th' jooty iv th' navy
to divastate th' New England coast.  On th' other hand, th' business
iv th' army was to catch th' navy at its neefaryous wurruk an' tag
it befure it cud get its fingers crost.  To play th' game well,
th' navy must act as much like an inimy as it can an' th' army
must pretind to be jus' as cross at th' navy as it is whin they
are both on the same side.  Frindship ceases whin they set in.

"It's a hard game to follow if ye're lookin' on an' puttin' up th'
money as I am.  I've been readin' about it in th' pa-apers an' I
can't make out now whether th' inimy is lootin' th' breweries iv
Conneticut or whether th' definders iv our hearths has blown thim
up in th' harbor iv New London.  'I have th' honor to rayport,'
says Admiral Higginson, 'that I have this day desthroyed all th'
forts on th' New England coast, put th' definders to rout with
gr-reat slaughter an' kilt with me own hands Gin'ral McArthur th'
Commander iv th' lan' foorces--a brave man but no match f'r ye'ers
thruly.  His las' wurruds to me was "Higginson, ye done well!" I
rayturned him his soord with th' wurruds: "Gin'ral, between two
brave men there can be no hard feelin's." Th' battle in which me
gallant foe met his fate was th' con-clusion iv wan iv th' mos'
successful socyal an' naval campaigns in th' histhry iv our counthry.
I have th' honor to inform ye that promptly on th' declaration
iv war, I give an afthernoon tea to th' Duchess iv Marlborough.
Th' forts at Newport attimpted to reply, but was unable to scoor
more thin three or four westhren millyonaires an' soon succumbed
to th' inivitable.  I thin moved up th' Sound an' fell upon Gin'ral
McArthur whin he wasn't lookin'.  Befure he cud load his guns, we
poored a perfect blankety-blank hell iv blank catridges on him.
He made a spirited reply but t'was useless.  We outfought him be
nearly fifty thousan' dollars worth iv powdher.  In th' mist iv
th' flame an' smoke, I discerned th' caitiff foe standin' on top
iv a fort directin' his wav'rin' foorces.  "Hi-spy, Gin'ral McArthur,"
says I in claryon tones, an' th' battle was over to all intints
an' purposes.  I have to ispicially commind Cap'n McWhallop who,
findin' his boat caught between th' fires an' th' inimy, called
out: "Lay me down, boys, an' save th' ship.  I'm full iv marmylade."
Th' ladies aboord was perfectly delighted with th' valor an'
hospitality iv our men.  To-night we completed our wurruk be givin'
a dinner an' hop on boord th' flagship.  Among those presint was--'
an' so on.

"That's what th' gallant Higginson says.  But listen to what th'
akelly gallant McArthur says: 'I have th' honor to rayport that
mesilf an' me gallant men, but largely if I do say it that shudden't,
mesilf, crushed an' annihilated th' inimy's fleet at high noon
to-day.  Las' night at th' first round iv jacks, or midnight, as
civilyans wud say, we rayceived a rayport fr'm our vigylant scouts
that th' inimy were not at Bar Harbor, Pookypsie, Keokuk, Johannesboorg
or Council Bluffs.  But where were they? That was th' question.
An idee struck me.  War is as much a matther iv ingenooty an'
thought as iv fire an' slaughter.  I sint out f'r an avenin' paper
an' as I suspicted, it announced that th' craven foe was about
two blocks away.  At that very moment, th' sthrains iv th' "Bloo
Danoob" was wafted to me ears an' me suspicions was confirmed.  On
such occasions there is no sleep f'r th' modhren sojer.  Napolyon
wud've gone to bed but slumber niver crost me tired eyelids.  'Twas
six o'clock whin we cashed in an' each wint to th' mournful jooties
iv th' day, silently but with a heart full iv courage.  At high
noon, we fell upon th' inimy an' poored out about eighty-five
thousan' dollars worth iv near-slaughter on him.  His guns was
choked with cotillyon favors an' he did not reply at wanst, but
whin he did, th' scene was thruly awful.  Th' sky was blackened
be th' smoke iv smokeless powdher an' th' air was full iv cotton
waste fr'm th' fell injines iv desthruction.  A breeze fr'm shore
carried out to me ears th' wails iv th' wounded tax payers.  At
twelve fifteen, I descried th' bloodthirsty Higginson--an' a good
fellow Caleb is at that--on th' roof iv his boat.  "Hi-spy," says
he.  "Hi-spy ye'er gran'mother," says I.  "I've had me eye on ye
f'r fifteen minyits an' ye're a dead man as I can prove be witnesses,"
I says.  An' he fell off th' roof.  I was sorry to take his life
but war knows no mercy.  He was a brave man but foolhardy.  He
ought niver to've gone again' me.  He might've licked Cervera but
he cudden't lick me.  We captured all th' men-iv-war, desthroyed
most iv th' cruisers an' ar-re now usin' th' flag-ship f'r a
run-about.  Th' counthry is safe, thanks to a vigylant an' sleepless
army.  I will go up to New York tomorrah to be measured f'r th'
prisintation soord."

"There it is, Hinnissy.  Who won? I don't know.  I can't tell at
this minyit whether I ought to be undher th' bed larnin' German
f'r th' time whin a Prooshyan sojer'll poke me out with his saber,
or down at Finucane's hall callin' a meetin' to thank th' definders
iv th' fireside.  Nobody knows.  It's a quare game, f'r they tell
me afther th' battles has been fought an' th' kilt has gone back
to holeystonin' th' deck an' th' smoke fr'm th' chafin' dish has
cleared away, th' decision is up to a good figurer at Wash'nton.
It depinds on him whether we ar-re a free people or whether we
wear th' yoke iv sarvichood an' bad German hats f'r all time.
He's th' officyal scoorer an' what Higginson thinks was a base
hit, he calls a foul an' what McArthur calls an accipted chanst
is an error.  Afther th' gallant lads in blue an' gold has got
through, a wathry-eyed clerk named Perkins H. Something-or-other,
sets down an' figures out th' victhry.  Th' man behind th' fountain
pen is th' boy.  It's up to him whether th' stars an' sthripes
still floats over an onconquered people or whether five pfennigs
is th' price iv a dhrink in New York.  He sets on his high stool
an' says he: 'Five times eight is twinty-nine, subthract three
f'r th' duchess, a quarther to one o'clock an' eighty miles fr'm
Narragansett pier is two-an'-a-half, plus th' load-wather-line iv
th' saloon companionway, akel to two-fifths iv th' differentyal
tangent.  Huroo! Misther Sicrety, ye can go home an' tell ye'er
wife th' counthry's safe.' He has to be a smart man.  A good
book-keeper, as th' pote says, is th' counthry's on'y safety.  He
mus' be careful, too, d'ye mind.  Th' honor iv th' army an' the
navy is at stake.  Wan or th' other iv thim has been careless."

"D'ye think a foreign fleet cud capture this counthry?" asked Mr.
Hennessy.

"Not onless it was op'rated be a throlley," said Mr. Dooley.

"Supposin' ye an' I had throuble, Hinnissy, an' both iv us was
armed with bricks an' ye was on roller skates an' I was on th' top
iv a house, how much chanst wud ye have again' me? Ships is good
to fight other ships.  That's all.  I'd sooner be behind a bank
iv mud thin in th' finest ship in th' wurruld.  A furrin inimy
thryin' to get up to New York wud be like a blind burglar attimptin'
to walk on th' top iv a hot-house with all th' neighbors an' th'
neighbors' dogs waitin' f'r him.  Th' war game is all right.  It
don't do anny harm.  But it's like punchin' th' bag an' I'd jus'
as soon thrain a man f'r a fight be larnin' him to play th' mandolin,
as be insthructin' him in bag punchin'.  It's a fine game.  I don't
know who won, but I know who lost."

"Who's that?" asked Mr. Hennessy.

"Th' threeasury," said Mr. Dooley.




Newspaper Publicity


"Was ye iver in th' pa-apers?" asked Mr. Dooley.

"Wanst," said Mr. Hennessy.  "But it wasn't me.  It was another
Hinnissy.  Was you?"

"Manny times," said Mr. Dooley.  "Whin I was prom'nent socyally,
ye cud hardly pick up a pa-aper without seein' me name in it an'
th' amount iv th' fine.  Ye must lade a very simple life.  Th'
newspaper is watchin' most iv us fr'm th' cradle to th' grave, an'
befure an' afther.  Whin I was a la-ad thrippin' continted over
th' bogs iv Roscommon, ne'er an iditor knew iv me existence, nor
I iv his.  Whin annything was wrote about a man 'twas put this
way: 'We undhershtand on good authority that M--l--chi H---y,
Esquire, is on thrile before Judge G----n on an accusation iv
l--c--ny.  But we don't think it's true.' Nowadays th' larceny is
discovered be a newspa-aper.  Th' lead pipe is dug up in ye'er
back yard be a rayporther who knew it was there because he helped
ye bury it.  A man knocks at ye'er dure arly wan mornin' an' ye
answer in ye'er nighty.  'In th' name iv th' law, I arrist ye,'
says th' man seizin' ye be th' throat.  'Who ar-re ye?' ye cry.
'I'm a rayporther f'r th' Daily Slooth,' says he.  'Phottygrafter,
do ye'er jooty!' Ye're hauled off in th' circylation wagon to th'
newspaper office, where a con-fission is ready f'r ye to sign;
ye're thried be a jury iv th' staff, sintinced be th' iditor-in-chief
an' at tin o'clock Friday th' fatal thrap is sprung be th' fatal
thrapper iv th' fam'ly journal.

"Th' newspaper does ivrything f'r us.  It runs th' polis foorce
an' th' banks, commands th' milishy, conthrols th' ligislachure,
baptizes th' young, marries th' foolish, comforts th' afflicted,
afflicts th' comfortable, buries th' dead an' roasts thim aftherward.
They ain't annything it don't turn its hand to fr'm explaining
th' docthrine iv thransubstantiation to composin' saleratus biskit.
Ye can get anny kind iv information ye want to in ye'er fav'rite
newspaper about ye'ersilf or annywan else.  What th' Czar whispered
to th' Imp'ror Willum whin they were alone, how to make a silk
hat out iv a wire matthress, how to settle th' coal sthrike, who
to marry, how to get on with ye'er wife whin ye're married, what
to feed th' babies, what doctor to call whin ye've fed thim as
directed,--all iv that ye'll find in th' pa-apers.

"They used to say a man's life was a closed book.  So it is but
it's an open newspaper.  Th' eye iv th' press is on ye befure ye
begin to take notice.  Th' iditor obsarves th' stork hoverin' over
th' roof iv 2978 1/2 B Ar-rchey Road an' th' article he writes
about it has a wink in it.  'Son an' heir arrives f'r th' Hon'rable
Malachi Hinnissy,' says th' pa-aper befure ye've finished th'
dhrink with th' doctor.  An' afther that th' histhry iv th'
offspring's life is found in th' press:

"'It is undhershtud that there is much excitement in th' Hinnissy
fam'ly over namin' th' lates' sign.  Misther Hinnissy wishes it
called Pathrick McGlue afther an uncle iv his, an' Mrs. Hinnissy
is in favor iv namin' it Alfonsonita afther a Pullman car she seen
wan day.  Th' Avenin Fluff offers a prize iv thirty dollars f'r
th' bes' name f'r this projeny.  Maiden ladies will limit their
letters to three hundherd wurruds.'

"'Above is a snap shot iv young Alfonsonita McGlue Hinnissy, taken
on his sicond birthday with his nurse, Miss Angybel Blim, th'
well-known specyal nurse iv th' Avenin' Fluff.  At th' time th'
phottygraft was taken, th' infant was about to bite Miss Blim which
accounts f'r th' agynized exprission on that gifted writer's face.
Th' Avenin Fluff offers a prize iv four dollars to th' best answer
to th' question: "What does th' baby think iv Miss Blim?"'

"'Young Alf Hinnissy was siven years ol' yisterdah.  A rayporther
iv th' Fluff sought him out an' indeavored to intherview him on
th' Nicaragooan Canal, th' Roomanyan Jews, th' tahriff an' th'
thrusts.  Th' comin' statesman rayfused to be dhrawn on these
questions, his answer bein' a ready, "Go chase ye'ersilf, ye big
stiff!" Afther a daylightful convarsation th' rayporther left,
bein' followed to th' gate be his janial young host who hit him
smartly in th' back with a brick.  He is a chip iv th' ol' block.'

"'Groton, Conn., April 8.  Ye'er rayporther was privileged to see
th' oldest son iv th' Hon'rable Malachi Hinnissy started at this
siminary f'r th' idjacation iv young Englishmen bor-rn in America.
Th' heir iv th' Hinnissys was enthered at th' exclusive school
thirty years befure he was bor-rn.  Owin' to th' uncertainty iv
his ancesthors he was also enthered at Vassar.  Th' young fellow
took a lively intherest in th' school.  Th' above phottygraft
riprisints him mathriculatin'.  Th' figures at th' foot ar-re
Misther an' Mrs. Hinnissy.  Those at th' head ar-re Profissor
Peabody Plantagenet, prisident iv th' instichoochion an' Officer
Michael H. Rafferty.  Young Hinnissy will remain here till he has
a good cukkin' idjacation.'

"'Exthry Red Speshul Midnight Edition.  Mumps! Mumps! Mumps! Th'
heir iv th' Hinnissy's sthricken with th' turr'ble scoorge.  Panic
on th' stock exchange.  Bereaved father starts f'r th' plague spot
to see his afflicted son.  Phottygrafts iv Young Hinnissy at wan,
two, three, eight an' tin.  Phottygrafts iv th' house where his
father was born, his mother, his aunt, his uncle, Profissor
Plantagenet, Groton School, th' gov'nor iv Connecticut, Chansy
Depoo, statue iv Liberty, Thomas Jefferson, Niagara Falls be
moonlight.  Diagram iv jaw an' head showin' th' prob'ble coorse
iv the Mumpococeus.  Intherviews with J. Pierpont Morgan, Terry
McGovern, Mary MeLain, Jawn Mitchell, Lyman J. Gage, th' Prince
iv Wales, Sinitor Bivridge, th' Earl iv Roslyn, an' Chief Divry
on Mumps.  We offer a prize iv thirty million dollars in advertisin'
space f'r a cure f'r th' mumps that will save th' nation's pride.
Later, it's croup.'

"An' so it goes.  We march through life an' behind us marches th'
phottygrafter an' th' rayporther.  There are no such things as
private citizens.  No matther how private a man may be, no matther
how secretly he steals, some day his pitcher will be in th' pa-aper
along with Mark Hanna, Stamboul 2:01 1/2, Fitzsimmons' fightin'
face, an' Douglas, Douglas, Tin dollar shoe.  He can't get away
fr'm it.  An' I'll say this f'r him, he don't want to.  He wants
to see what bad th' neighbors are doin' an' he wants thim to see
what good he's doin'.  He gets fifty per cint iv his wish; niver
more.  A man keeps his front window shade up so th' pa-apers can
come along an' make a pitcher iv him settin' in his iligant furnished
parlor readin' th' life iv Dwight L. Moody to his fam'ly.  An'
th' lad with th' phottygraft happens along at th' moment whin he
is batin' his wife.  If we wasn't so anxious to see our names among
those prisint at th' ball, we wudden't get into th' pa-apers so
often as among those that ought to be prisint in th' dock.  A man
takes his phottygraft to th' iditor an' says he: 'Me attintion has
been called to th' fact that ye'd like to print this mug iv a
prom'nent philanthropist;' an' th' iditor don't use it till he's
robbed a bank.  Ivrybody is inthrested in what ivrybody else is
doin' that's wrong.  That's what makes th' newspapers.  An' as
this is a dimmycratic counthry where ivrybody was bor-rn akel
to ivrybody else, aven if they soon outgrow it, an' where wan man's
as good as another an' as bad, all iv us has a good chanst to have
his name get in at laste wanst a year.

"Some goes in at Mrs. Rasther's dinner an' some as victims iv a
throlley car, but ivrybody lands at last.  They'll get ye afther
awhile, Hinnissy.  They'll print ye'er pitcher.  But on'y wanst.
A newspaper is to intertain, not to teach a moral lesson."

"D'ye think people likes th' newspapers iv th' prisint time?" asked
Mr. Hennessy.

"D'ye think they're printed f'r fun?" said Mr. Dooley.




Adventure


"What a life iv advinture I have led, to be sure.  I've niver been
still a minyit since I cud see an' hear--always on th' go, performin'
heeroyc actions on land an' sea.  Between th' ages iv eight an'
fifteen I bet ye I caught more runaway teams thin all th' park
polismen in th' wurruld.  I begun with stoppin' th' horses iv a
man called Monahan that owned a canal boat an' askin' as a reward
that he give me a job dhrivin' th' mule.  But I rose rapidly in
th' wurruld, an' befure I was fifteen I was dashin' out nearly
ivry hour an' nailin' a team iv maddened animals in th' bullyvard
an' savin' th' life iv th' pet daughther iv a millyonaire.  She
usully accepted me young hand in marredge in th' dhrug store.  But
sometimes whin I needed a top or a kite I took money.  I'm ashamed
to con-fiss it, but I did.  Iv coorse I rayfused th' first offer
iv th' pluthycrat.  Whin he thried to crowd wan millyon dollar on
me, I give him a look iv scorn an' moved away.  He was tur-rbly
ashamed iv his onmanly action an' followed me up an' be sharp
schamin' managed to get two millyons to me in a way that I cuddn't
resint.  I think it come in th' shape iv an advance payment on th'
dowry.

"At fifteen I quit stoppin' runaway horses as on'y suited to
childher.  After that I wint in almost entirely f'r knockin' down
arnychists as they was about to shoot.  I saved th' life iv th'
Impror iv Rooshya, an' he was anxious f'r to have me stay at th'
coort, but people begun to talk about me an' wan iv th' rile
princesses an' I left.  On my way home I seized an arnychist jus'
as he had raised his pistol again th' Prince iv Wales, an' as a
reward he freed Ireland on th' spot.  I rayceived an ovation f'r
this in Dublin in 1860 or thereabouts, but I disclaimed anny glory,
was always willin' to do annything f'r me counthry, wisht them th'
best iv luck: gintlemen, I can on'y say, I thank ye, I thank ye,
I thank ye.

"Me raycint advintures has been more in th' spoortin' line.  I had
to give up futball afther winnin' victhry f'r me almy matther f'r
four successive years be a suparb run aroun' th' end.  F'r a long
time I sailed th' cup dayfinder ivry year, an' always won be a
sthrategy that no wan but mesilf undherstands.  I've killed iliphants
an' tigers be th' hundherd, rescooed people fr'm dhrownin' be th'
thousan', climbed up th' outside iv a burnin' buildin' an' come
down with two or three fine-lookin' ladies in me arms, captured
forts, charged armies, knocked out th' wurruld's greatest pugilists
with a punch, led revolutions, suppressed thim, an' done it all
modestly an' quietly.

"Iv coorse I won't say 'twas always th' spirit iv advinture led
me into these gallant acts.  If I must tell ye th' thruth I've
gin'rally took less intherest in th' advinture itself thin in th'
reward.  I'm always a little hazy about th' details iv how I saved
th' girl fr'm th' rapids iv Niagra whin I can't swim, or how I
happened to hit th' tiger in th' eye whin I'm so afraid iv firearms,
or how I stopped th' runaway team whin I know that th' other day
whin th' milkman's horse broke loose th' best I cud do was run to
th' edge iv th' sidewalk an' wring me hands an' yell: "Whoa!" But
th' grateful millyonaire is always distinct.  I can always hear
th' cheers iv th' crowd as I come dhrippin' fr'm th' wather.
Though th' raison I happened to be ladin' me rig'mint up th' hill
iv San Joon is not clear to me now, I can plainly see mesilf
returnin' fr'm th' war, bronzed and weather-beaten, settin' erect
on me horse an' respondin' to th' frantic cheers iv th' multichood
with a slight bow.  I always used to lose an arm or part iv an
arm, but I've larned that isn't nicess'ry.

"An' where have all these advintures occurred, d'ye say? Well,
some iv th' most feerocyous iv thim happened in me bedroom, an'
some on th' front stoop iv th' house on warm moonlight nights, but
most iv thim here in this room in front iv th' fire.  Be rights
th' walls ought to be dic'rated with moose antlers, tigers' heads,
diplomas, soords, votes iv Congress, medals an' autygrafted pitchers
iv th' crowned heads iv Europe.  Th' best advintures anny iv us
has is at home in a comf'rtable room--th' mos' excitin' an' th'
asiest.  Ye can make ye'ersilf as brave as ye want an' as cool,
ye avide mussin' ye'er clothes, ye flavor with danger to suit th'
taste, an' ye get a good dale more applause an' get it quicker
thin th' other kind iv hayro.  F'r manny years I've shot all me
tigers fr'm this rockin' chair."




Rights and Privileges of Women


"Woman's rights? What does a woman want iv rights whin she has
priv'leges? Rights is th' last thing we get in this wurruld.
They're th' nex' things to wrongs.  They're wrongs tur-ned inside
out.  We have th' right to be sued f'r debt instead iv lettin' the
bill run, which is a priv'lege.  We have th' right to thrile be a
jury iv our peers, a right to pay taxes an' a right to wurruk.
None iv these things is anny good to me.  They'se no fun in thim.
All th' r-rights I injye I don't injye.  I injye th' right to
get money, but I niver have had anny money to spind.  Th'
constichooshion guarantees me th' right to life, but I die; to
liberty, but if I thry bein' too free I'm locked up; an' to th'
pursoot iv happiness, but happiness has th' right to run whin
pursood, an' I've niver been able to three her yet.  Here I am at
iver-so-manny years iv age blown an' exhausted be th' chase, an'
happiness is still able to do her hundhred yards in tin minyits
flat whin I approach.  I'd give all th' rights I read about for
wan priv-lege.  If I cud go to sleep th' minyit I go to bed I
wudden't care who done me votin'.

"No, sir, a woman don't need rights.  Th' pope, imprors, kings an'
women have priv-leges; ordhin'ry men has rights.  Ye niver hear
iv th' Impror of Rooshya demandin' rights.  He don't need thim
in his wurruk.  He gives thim, such as they ar're, to th' moojiks,
or whativer it is ye call thim.  D'ye think anny wan wud make a
gr-reat success be goin' to th' Czar an' sayin': "Czar (or sire,
as th' case may be), ye must be unhappy without th' sufferage.
Ye must be achin' all over to go down to th' livry stable an' cast
ye'er impeeral ballot f'r Oscaroviski K. Hickinski f'r school
thrustee?" I think th' Czar wud reply: 'Gintlemen, ye do me too
much honor.  I mus' rayfuse.  Th' manly art iv sufferage is wan
iv th' most potint weepins iv th' freeman, but I'm not used to it,
an' I wudden't know what to do with it.  It might be loaded.  I
think I'll have to crawl along with me modest preerogatives iv
collectin' th' taxes, dalin' life an' death to me subjicks, atin'
free, dhrinkin' th' best an' livin' aisy.  But ye shall have ye'er
rights.  Posieotofski, lade th' gintlemen out into th' coortyard
an' give thim their rights as Rooshyan citizens.  I think about
twinty f'r each iv th' comity an' about a dozen exthry f'r the
chairman.  F'r wan iv th' rights guaranteed to his subjicks, be
me sainted father, was a good latherin' ivry time it was comin'
to thim.'

"An' so it is with women.  They haven't th' right to vote, but
they have th' priv'lege iv conthrollin' th' man ye ilict.  They
haven't th' right to make laws, but they have th' priv'lege iv
breakin' thim, which is betther.  They haven't th' right iv a fair
thrile be a jury iv their peers; but they have th' priv'lege iv
an unfair thrile be a jury iv their admirin' infeeryors.  If I cud
fly d'ye think I'd want to walk?"




Avarice and Generosity


"I niver blame a man f'r bein' avaricyous in his ol' age.  Whin a
fellow gits so he has nawthin' else to injye, whin ivrybody calls
him 'sir' or 'mister,' an' young people dodge him an' he sleeps
afther dinner, an' folks say he's an ol' fool if he wears a
buttonhole bokay an' his teeth is only tinants at will an' not
permanent fixtures, 'tis no more thin nach'ral that he shud begin
to look around him f'r a way iv keepin' a grip on human s'ciety.
It don't take him long to see that th' on'y thing that's vin'rable
in age is money an' he pro-ceeds to acquire anything that happens
to be in sight, takin' it where he can find it, not where he wants
it, which is th' way to accumylate a fortune.  Money won't prolong
life, but a few millyons judicyously placed in good banks an'
occas'nally worn on th' person will rayjooce age.  Poor ol' men
are always older thin poor rich men.  In th' almshouse a man is
decrepit an' mournful-lookin' at sixty, but a millyonaire at sixty
is jus' in th' prime iv life to a frindly eye, an' there are no
others.

"It's aisier to th' ol' to grow rich thin it is to th' young.  At
makin' money a man iv sixty is miles ahead iv a la-ad iv
twinty-five.  Pollytics and bankin' is th' on'y two games where
age has th' best iv it.  Youth has betther things to attind to,
an' more iv thim.  I don't blame a man f'r bein' stingy anny more
thin I blame him f'r havin' a bad leg.  Ye know th' doctors say
that if ye don't use wan iv ye'er limbs f'r a year or so ye can
niver use it again.  So it is with gin'rosity.  A man starts arly
in life not bein' gin'rous.  He says to himsilf: "I wurruked f'r
this thing an' if I give it away I lose it." He ties up his
gin'rosity in bandages so that th' blood can't circylate in it.
It gets to be a superstition with him that he'll have bad luck if
he iver does annything f'r annybody.  An' so he rakes in an' puts
his private mark with his teeth on all th' movable money in th'
wurruld.  But th' day comes whin he sees people around him gettin'
a good dale iv injyemint out iv gin'rosity an' somewan says: 'Why
don't ye, too, be gin-rous? Come, ol' green goods, unbelt, loosen
up, be gin-rous.' 'Gin'rous?' says he, 'what's that?' 'It's th'
best spoort in th' wurruld.  It's givin' things to people.' 'But
I can't,' he says.  'I haven't annything to do it with,' he says.
'I don't know th' game.  I haven't anny gin'rosity,' he says.
'But ye have,' says they.  'Ye have as much gin'rosity as annywan
if ye'll only use it,' says they.  'Take it out iv th' plasther
cast ye put it in an' 'twill look as good as new,' says they.  An'
he does it.  He thries to use his gin'rosity, but all th' life is
out iv it.  It gives way undher him an' he falls down.  He can't
raise it fr'm th' groun'.  It's ossyfied an' useless.  I've seen
manny a fellow that suffered fr'm ossyfied gin'rosity.

"Whin a man begins makin' money in his youth at annything but games
iv chance, he niver can become gin'rous late in life.  He may make
a bluff at it.

Some men are gin'rous with a crutch.  Some men get the use of their
gin'rosity back suddenly whin they ar-re in danger.  Whin Clancy
the miser was caught in a fire in th' Halsted Sthreet Palace hotel
he howled fr'm a window: 'I'll give twinty dollars to annywan
that'll take me down.' Cap'n Minehan put up a laddher an' climbed
to him an' carrid him to the sthreet.  Half-way down th' laddher
th' brave rayscooer was seen to be chokin' his helpless burdhen.
We discovered aftherwards that Clancy had thried to begin negotyations
to rayjooce th' reward to five dollars.  His gin'rosity had become
suddenly par'lyzed again.

"So if ye'd stay gin'rous to th' end niver lave ye'er gin'rosity
idle too long.  Don't run it ivry hour at th' top iv its speed,
but fr'm day to day give it a little gintle exercise to keep it
supple an' hearty an' in due time ye may injye it."




The End of Things


"The raison no wan is afraid iv Death, Hinnessy, is that no wan
ra-ally undherstands it.  If anny wan iver come to undherstand
it he'd be scared to death.  If they is anny such thing as a cow'rd,
which I doubt, he's a man that comes nearer realizin' thin other
men, how seeryous a matther it is to die.  I talk about it, an'
sometimes I think about it.  But how do I think about it? It's me
lyin' there in a fine shoot iv clothes an' listenin' to all th'
nice things people are sayin' about me.  I'm dead, mind ye, but I
can hear a whisper in the furthest corner iv th' room.  Ivry wan
is askin' ivry wan else why did I die.  'It's a gr-reat loss to
th' counthry,' says Hogan.  'It is,' says Donahue.  'He was a fine
man,' says Clancy.  'As honest a man is iver dhrew th' breath iv
life,' says Schwartzmeister.  'I hope he forgives us all th' harm
we attimpted to do him,' says Donahue.  'I'd give annything to
have him back,' says Clancy.  'He was this and that, th' life iv
th' party, th' sowl iv honor, th' frind iv th' disthressed, th'
boolwark iv th' constichoochion, a pathrite, a gintleman, a Christyan
an' a scholard.' 'An' such a roguish way with him,' says th' Widow
O'Brien.

"That's what I think, but if I judged fr'm expeeryence I'd know
it'd be, 'It's a nice day f'r a dhrive to th' cimitry.  Did he
lave much?' No man is a hayro to his undertaker."




Hypocrisy


"It must be a good thing to be good or ivrybody wudden't be
pretendin' he was.  But I don't think they'se anny such thing as
hypocrisy in th' wurruld.  They can't be.  If ye'd turn on th' gas
in th' darkest heart ye'd find it had a good raison for th' worst
things it done, a good varchous raison, like needin' th' money or
punishin' th' wicked or tachin' people a lesson to be more careful,
or protectin' th' liberties iv mankind, or needin' the money."




History


"I know histhry isn't thrue, Hinnessy, because it ain't like what
I see ivry day in Halsted Sthreet.  If any wan comes along with a
histhry iv Greece or Rome that'll show me th' people fightin',
gettin' dhrunk, makin' love, gettin' married, owin' th' grocery
man an' bein' without hard-coal, I'll believe they was a Greece
or Rome, but not befure.  Historyans is like doctors.  They are
always lookin' f'r symptoms.  Those iv them that writes about their
own times examines th' tongue an' feels th' pulse an' makes a wrong
dygnosis.  Th' other kind iv histhry is a post-mortem examination.
It tells ye what a counthry died iv.  But I'd like to know what
it lived iv."




Enjoyment


"I don't think we injye other people's sufferin', Hinnessy.  It
isn't acshally injyement.  But we feel betther f'r it."




Gratitude


"Wan raison people ar-re not grateful is because they're proud iv
thimsilves an' they niver feel they get half what they desarve.
Another raison is they know ye've had all th' fun ye're entitled
to whin ye do annything f'r annybody.  A man who expicts gratichood
is a usurer, an' if he's caught at it he loses th' loan an' th'
intherest."









End of Project Gutenberg's Observations by Mr. Dooley, by Finley Peter Dunne

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK OBSERVATIONS BY MR. DOOLEY ***

***** This file should be named 4729.txt or 4729.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/4/7/2/4729/

Produced by Kirk Pearson, with help from the volunteers
at the Distributed Proofreaders project. HTML version by
Al Haines.


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.net/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.net

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
