
  Discover a faster, simpler path to publishing in a high-quality journal. PLOS ONE promises fair, rigorous peer review,
  broad scope, and wide readership – a perfect fit for your research every time.
   
    
     Learn More
    
    
      Submit Now
    
   Click through the PLOS taxonomy to find articles in your field. For more information about PLOS Subject Areas, click
          here.
         Loading metrics Paper's citation count computed by Scopus. Sum of PLOS and PubMed Central page views and downloads. Sum of Facebook and Twitter activity. Open Access Peer-reviewed Research Article  * E-mail: ezambid1@jhmi.edu (ETZ); paul.burridge@jhmi.edu (PWB) Affiliation
    Johns Hopkins Institute for Cell Engineering, The Johns Hopkins
                    University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, United States of
                    America
   Affiliation
    Department of Biomedical Engineering, The Johns Hopkins University School
                    of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, United States of America
   Affiliation
    Johns Hopkins Institute for Cell Engineering, The Johns Hopkins
                    University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, United States of
                    America
   Affiliation
    Department of Biomedical Engineering, The Johns Hopkins University School
                    of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, United States of America
   Affiliation
    Johns Hopkins Institute for Cell Engineering, The Johns Hopkins
                    University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, United States of
                    America
   Affiliation
    Johns Hopkins Institute for Cell Engineering, The Johns Hopkins
                    University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, United States of
                    America
   Affiliation
    Division of Neuropathology, Department of Pathology, The Johns Hopkins
                    University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, United States of
                    America
   Affiliations
    Division of Neuropathology, Department of Pathology, The Johns Hopkins
                    University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, United States of
                    America, 
    Department of Neurology, The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine,
                    Baltimore, Maryland, United States of America, 
    Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, The Johns Hopkins
                    University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, United States of
                    America
   Affiliation
    Department of Biomedical Engineering, The Johns Hopkins University School
                    of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, United States of America
    * E-mail: ezambid1@jhmi.edu (ETZ); paul.burridge@jhmi.edu (PWB) Affiliation
    Johns Hopkins Institute for Cell Engineering, The Johns Hopkins
                    University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, United States of
                    America
   The production of cardiomyocytes from human induced pluripotent stem cells
                        (hiPSC) holds great promise for patient-specific cardiotoxicity drug
                        testing, disease modeling, and cardiac regeneration. However, existing
                        protocols for the differentiation of hiPSC to the cardiac lineage are
                        inefficient and highly variable. We describe a highly efficient system for
                        differentiation of human embryonic stem cells (hESC) and hiPSC to the
                        cardiac lineage. This system eliminated the variability in cardiac
                        differentiation capacity of a variety of human pluripotent stem cells
                        (hPSC), including hiPSC generated from CD34+ cord blood
                        using non-viral, non-integrating methods. We systematically and rigorously optimized >45 experimental variables to
                        develop a universal cardiac differentiation system that produced contracting
                        human embryoid bodies (hEB) with an improved efficiency of
                        94.7±2.4% in an accelerated nine days from four hESC and seven
                        hiPSC lines tested, including hiPSC derived from neonatal
                            CD34+ cord blood and adult fibroblasts using
                        non-integrating episomal plasmids. This cost-effective differentiation
                        method employed forced aggregation hEB formation in a chemically defined
                        medium, along with staged exposure to physiological (5%) oxygen, and
                        optimized concentrations of mesodermal morphogens BMP4 and FGF2, polyvinyl
                        alcohol, serum, and insulin. The contracting hEB derived using these methods
                        were composed of high percentages (64–89%) of cardiac troponin
                            I+ cells that displayed ultrastructural properties of
                        functional cardiomyocytes and uniform electrophysiological profiles
                        responsive to cardioactive drugs. This efficient and cost-effective universal system for cardiac
                        differentiation of hiPSC allows a potentially unlimited production of
                        functional cardiomyocytes suitable for application to hPSC-based drug
                        development, cardiac disease modeling, and the future generation of
                        clinically-safe nonviral human cardiac cells for regenerative medicine. Citation: Burridge PW, Thompson S, Millrod MA, Weinberg S, Yuan X, Peters A, et al.  (2011) A Universal System for Highly Efficient Cardiac Differentiation of Human Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells That Eliminates Interline Variability. PLoS ONE 6(4):
        e18293.
        doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0018293 Editor: Martin Pera, University of Southern California, United States of America Received: December 22, 2010; Accepted: February 23, 2011; Published:  April 8, 2011 Copyright:  © 2011 Burridge et al. This is an open-access article distributed under
                the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted
                use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and
                source are credited. Funding: This study was supported by the Maryland Stem Cell Research Fund (E.T.Z., L.T.),
                    and the NHLBI Progenitor Biology Consortium (National Institutes of Health
                    U01HL099775 and U01HL100397 (E.T.Z)). P.W.B. and V.M. are supported by
                    postdoctoral fellowship grants from the Maryland Stem Cell Research Fund. The
                    funders had no role in study design, data collection and analysis, decision to
                    publish, or preparation of the manuscript. Competing interests:  The authors have declared that no competing interests exist. Cardiac differentiation of human embryonic stem cells (hESC) and human induced
                pluripotent stem cells (hiPSC) offers a potentially unlimited source of
                cardiomyocytes for novel drug discovery and testing, regenerative medicine, and the
                study of human cardiac development and disease [1]. Cardiac cells differentiated
                from human pluripotent stem cells (hPSC) display normal cardiac molecular,
                structural and functional characteristics [2], [3], [4], including the ability to
                respond physiologically to cardioactive drugs [5]. Although hESC differentiation
                efficiencies up to 70% (as assessed by the percentage of contracting hEB
                generated) have been published [3], the most commonly used basic protocol for hESC cardiac
                differentiation has a low efficiency of ∼8–22% [6], [7], and takes up to
                21 days to produce contracting areas. This protocol performs even less efficiently
                for hiPSC (∼1–25%) and take up to 30 days to generate contracting
                hEB [8], [9]. Multiple approaches have been described for directed and efficient cardiac
                differentiation of hESC. These methods include co-culture with END2 (mouse visceral
                endoderm-like cell) stromal layers [4], [10], [11], differentiation of hESC in monolayer culture with high
                levels of activin A and bone morphogenetic protein 4 (BMP4) which yielded
                >30% cardiomyocytes [12], and the formation of human embryoid bodies (hEB) with
                growth factor supplementation resulting in 23–60% of hEB contracting
                    [13], [14], [15] or suspension
                in END2 conditioned medium resulting in ∼12–70% hEB contracting
                    [10], [14]. These techniques
                are all limited in their capacities for scale-up due to inherent low-throughput
                design, poor differentiation yields, and the use of expensive reagents. Most
                importantly, there is great inconsistency in differentiation efficiency between
                various hESC lines. This variability is likely a function of genetic and epigenetic
                differences between hESC lines [16], [17], [18] that directly impact their cardiac differentiation
                capacity [19],
                    [20],
                    [21]. hiPSC
                lines exhibit even broader epigenetic diversity [22] which may additionally limit their
                cardiac differentiation capacity [8]. Therefore, existing cardiac differentiation protocols
                developed using select hESC lines with propensities toward cardiac differentiation
                may not be applicable to genetically and epigenetically diverse patient-specific
                hiPSC lines. These limitations highlight the need for a reproducible, fully
                optimized and universally applicable differentiation system capable of overcoming
                the interline variability that commonly exists amongst human pluripotent stem cells
                (hPSC). As yet, no cardiac differentiation system optimized specifically for hiPSC
                has been demonstrated. In addition to poor differentiation yields, another
                limitation of hiPSC for cardiac drug testing, disease modeling or cellular therapies
                involves the caveats associated with generating hiPSC using retroviruses or
                lentiviruses. Despite overall silencing of integrated retroviral and lentivector
                promoters during hiPSC generation, low level expression of viral transgenes or
                vector promoters has the potential for insertional mutagenesis or malignant
                transformation following cardiac differentiation [23]. We hypothesized that undifferentiated hPSC growth rate, hEB formation, media
                formulation, and exposure to growth factors during cardiac differentiation could all
                be systematically optimized to improve cardiac differentiation. We identified and
                rigorously optimized >45 variables that affect the experimental variation of
                cardiac differentiation in genetically diverse hPSC lines. We used this data to
                develop a universal cardiac differentiation system that has an average efficiency of
                94.7±2.4% hEB contracting for a diverse repertoire of hESC lines and
                hiPSC lines, including those generated from fetal fibroblasts using lentiviral
                methods, or neonatal CD34+ cord blood cells and mature-donor dermal
                fibroblasts using non-viral episomal-based methods. To improve the efficiency and reproducibility, and to reduce the known interline
                    variability of cardiac differentiation [15], [20], [21], we
                    analyzed existing cardiac differentiation strategies [6],[12],[13],[14],[15],[24], identified >45 possible
                    experimental variables (Figure S1), and initiated a strategy for
                    systematically optimizing the cardiac differentiation of hPSC. We employed our
                    previously described forced aggregation cardiac differentiation system, which
                    efficiently forms uniform homogeneous hEB from known numbers of cells [15] (Figure
                    S2A). For initial system development, we used the hESC line H9 (WA09). We
                    divided our cardiac differentiation system into four distinct phases for
                    rigorous, systemic optimization (Figure 1A): phase 1, uniform undifferentiated hPSC growth; phase 2,
                    hEB formation/mesoderm induction; phase 3, hEB cardiac specification; phase 4,
                    contracting cardiomyocyte development. We used a contracting hEB assay to
                    sequentially assess improvements in cardiac differentiation in each of these
                    four phases by counting the number of hEB contracting after nine days of
                    differentiation (Figure S2B). The final fully-developed system (Figure 1A and Figure S2C)
                    reproducibly formed homogeneous H9 hEB (Figure 1B) which began contracting at a
                    significantly (p<3×10−10) improved efficiency of
                    91.2±1.9% contracting hEB in an accelerated time period of only 9
                    days of differentiation, compared to an average efficiency of
                    10.4±6.8% contracting hEB in 20 days using traditional methods
                        (Figure 1D).
                    Additionally, in contrast to prior methodologies that produce only rare, focused
                    areas of contracting cells at the periphery of the hEB, our optimized
                    differentiation method produced robust and forceful contractions within the
                    entire hEB (Figure 1C and
                        Movie
                        S1).  (A) Schematic of the optimized cardiac differentiation
                            system demonstrating: Phase 1, uniform growth of hESC/hiPSC as
                            monolayers. Phase 2 (d0–d2), aggregation of 5000 single cell hESC
                            or hiPSC in chemically defined RPMI+PVA medium in V96 plates. Phase
                            3 (d2–d4), cardiac specification using FBS or hSA containing
                            medium. Phase 4 (d4+), cardiac development, hEB are allowed to
                            adhere to U96 tissue culture treated plates in RPMI+INS.
                                (B) Typical d2 hEB formed using the forced aggregation
                            procedure in RPMI-PVA to demonstrate homogeneity in hEB size. Scale
                            bar = 500 µm. (C) Typical d9
                            contracting hEB formed using the optimized cardiac differentiation
                            method with the contracting area circled, note minimal fibroblast
                            outgrowth. Scale bar = 200 µm.
                                (D) Efficiency of generation of contracting hEB
                            produced in this system (New system,
                            n = 48), with comparisons to xeno-
                            and serum-free conditions (Xeno-/serum-free,
                            n = 5), our previous method
                            (Previous system, n = 7), and
                            typically used methods (Typical,
                            n = 9). Error bars, ±
                            S.E.M. 
              http://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0018293.g001 To avoid potential clinical caveats of cardiomyocytes differentiated from
                    retroviral or lentiviral derived-hiPSC (e.g., insertional
                    mutagenesis), we generated several non-viral, transgene-free hiPSC for
                    cardiomyocyte differentiation using a three plasmid, seven-factor (SOKMNLT;
                        SOX2, OCT4 (POU5F1), KLF4, MYC, NANOG, LIN28, and SV40L T
                        antigen) EBNA-based episomal system [25]. These hiPSC cell lines were
                    generated from adult fibroblasts (iPSCWT2, iPSCWT4), and CD34+
                    cord blood cells (CBiPSC6.2, CBiPSC6.11, CBiPSC6.13, and CBiPSC19.11). hiPSC
                    lines expressed high levels of pluripotency markers by immunocytochemistry
                        (Figure 2A) and
                    real-time qRT-PCR (Figure
                    2C), and formed trilineage teratomas when injected into murine recipients
                        (Figure 2B). Lack of
                    genomic episomal vector or transgene integration and expression was demonstrated
                    by Southern blot, genomic PCR, and RT-PCR studies of plasmid backbone and
                    transgene sequences (Figure
                        2D–E). All non-viral hiPSC evaluated in these studies expressed
                    similar levels of pluripotency markers, formed similar teratomas, and were
                    demonstrated to be transgene- and vector-free. Full details of the derivation
                    and characterization of these non-viral hiPSC are described in Methods. In comparison to episomal
                    reprogramming of adult fibroblasts [25], CBiPSC from plasmid-nucleofected
                        CD34+ cord blood cells emerged rapidly in 14–21 days
                    at extremely high frequencies (average 1.4% efficiency; e.g.
                    300–1450 alkaline phosphatase+ TRA-1-81+
                    colonies per million CD34+ input cells; range
                    0.4%–3.6% efficiency;
                    n = 5). These efficiencies were comparable
                    to previously reported ‘high efficiency’ non-integrating
                    reprogramming systems using either the same EBNA1-based episomal plasmid system
                    we used (0.1–1% efficiency, [26]), or alternatively,
                    synthetic mRNA-based reprogramming protocols (0.6–4.4% efficiency,
                        [27]).
                    Below we describe our approach for the systematic optimization of each of the
                    four phases of our highly efficient cardiac differentiation system in various
                    hPSC lines.  (A) Representative immunocytochemistry of pluripotency
                            markers POU5F1 (OCT4), NANOG, TRA-1-81, and SSEA4 in hiPSC line
                            CBiPSC6.2 after >20 passages. (B) Representative
                            hematoxylin and eosin staining of teratoma sections derived from
                            CBiPSC6.2 after >20 passages demonstrating ectodermal, endodermal and
                            mesodermal lineage differentiation. All CBiPSC clones in these studies
                            formed similar teratomas. (C) Real-time RT-PCR studies p15
                            CBiPSC lines for endogenous pluripotency genes using primers that
                            distinguish endogenous expression from transgenes (see Methods). (D) The
                            presence of plasmid transgene sequences examined by PCR at p11 in
                            CBiPSC6.2, CBiPSC6.11, CBiPSC6.13, CBiPSC19.11 (lanes 3–6,
                            respectively) and negative control H9 hESC (p48) (lane 1) compared to
                            positive control early cultures from p2 (lane 2). RT-PCR analysis of
                            selected plasmid sequences in p11 CBiPSC6.2, CBiPSC6.11, CBiPSC6.13,
                            CBiPSC19.11 (lanes 8–11, respectively) and negative control H9
                            hESC (lane 7) and p2 cultures (lane 12). (E) Genomic
                            Southern blot analysis for episomal vector backbone integration in lines
                            CBiPSC6.2, CBiPSC6.11, CBiPSC6.13, CBiPSC19.11 (p15) (lanes 2–5,
                            respectively), H9 hESC (p55) (lane 1). Combination 6 episomal vector DNA
                            was diluted as positive control to the equivalents of 0.4 and 4
                            integrations per haploid genome (0.4× and 4×). L: 1 kb plus
                            ladder. These studies were also conducted for non-viral adult
                            fibroblast-derived hiPSC lines iPSCWT2 and iPSCWT4 with similar results
                            (Machairaki et al., in preparation). 
              http://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0018293.g002 We first hypothesized that promoting uniform growth of undifferentiated hPSC
                    lines is critical for subsequent reproducible differentiation and for the
                    derivation of a universal cardiac differentiation system. To conform all hPSC
                    lines to one universal culture method, we adapted all lines to feeder-free
                    monolayer growth [28] on the basement membrane matrix Geltrex in
                    conditioned medium [29]. In this system, cells were enzymatically-passaged to
                    single cells on a rigid timescale of every three days, counted using an
                    automated cell counter, and plated at fixed cell densities (Figure 3A). This approach resulted in
                    controlled, reproducible growth of four hESC lines (H1, H9, ES03, and SI-233),
                    as well as seven hiPSC lines including lentiviral fetal lung fibroblast-derived
                    hiPSC lines iPS(IMR90)-1 and iPS(IMR90)-4, as well as our own episomal
                        CD34+ cord blood-derived hiPSC lines (CBiPSC6.2, CBiPSC6.11
                    and CBiPSC6.13) and non-viral adult dermal fibroblast-derived lines (iPSCWT2 and
                    iPSCWT4) for over 30 passages (Figure 3B). Cells cultured in this manner maintained high expression
                    levels (>99%) of pluripotency markers SSEA4 and TRA-1-60 (Figure 3C).  (A) Schematic of monolayer hESC/hiPSC culture technique.
                            This monolayer technique uses conditioned medium prepared in a defined
                            manner, single-cell passaging, automated cell counting, plating cells at
                            a known density, and passaging every three days. (B) Stable
                            growth rates of H9 hESC, viral fetal fibroblast-derived hiPSC lines
                            iPS(IMR90)-1 and iPS(IMR90)-4, non-viral CD34+ cord
                            blood-derived hiPSC lines CBiPSC6.2, CBiPSC6.11, and non-viral adult
                            fibroblast-derived hiPSC line iPSCWT4. (C) The homogenous
                            culture phenotype seen when culturing H9 hESC as feeder-free monolayers
                            (left), compared in comparison to typical colony morphology of cells
                            grown in co-culture with MEF (right). (D) Comparable SSEA4
                            and TRA-1-60 expression of H9 hESC growing as monolayer cultures (left)
                            or colonies grown in co-culture with MEF (right). 
              http://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0018293.g003 To accelerate mesoderm induction in the second phase of this system, we optimized
                    hEB formation via forced aggregation [15] by systematically testing
                    21 published hESC and mESC differentiation and pluripotent culture media
                    formulations. We found that the chemically defined media formulation originally
                    devised by Wiles and Johansson [30] formed the most reproducibly homogeneous hEB via
                    forced aggregation (Figure S3A). By subtraction analysis we found
                    that only three of the components of this media (basal media, PVA, and insulin)
                    were necessary for forced aggregation hEB formation (Figure
                    S3B). We next tested the individual supplements to this media formulation
                    in an effort to further enhance cardiac differentiation. The final d0–d2
                    media formulation that gave the most efficient cardiac differentiation is
                    described as RPMI+PVA (Table
                        1). The combination of the growth factors BMP4 and FGF2 was
                    determined to be necessary for optimally efficient cardiac differentiation
                        (Figure
                        S4A, B). Other growth factors including NODAL, activin A, TDGF1,
                    BMP2, BMP6, TGFB, IGF1, IGF2 and WNT3A were each individually titrated between
                    1–100 ng mL−1, and none were found to have the same
                    efficacy as BMP4 (data not shown). We also assessed the effects of cell handling
                    prior to and during forced aggregation. Cardiac differentiation of hEB made from
                    monolayers of pluripotent cells passaged one day prior to aggregation was more
                    efficient (93.8±3.3% contracting hEB) than the differentiation of
                    those passaged 2 days (46.9±4.1%), or 3 days
                    (26.0±8.0%) earlier (Figure S5H). Centrifugal force was not
                    required for hEB formation using this media formulation (Figure
                    S5F). Other aggregation hEB formation techniques such as AggreWell
                    (StemCell Technologies) [31] or ‘Shrinky-dink’ methods did not result
                    in cardiac differentiation [32] (data not shown).  
              http://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0018293.t001 Once H9 hEB formation and mesodermal induction was reproducibly maximized, we
                    focused on optimizing the third phase of differentiation: cardiac specification.
                    We found that supplementation with 20% FBS was essential for efficient
                    cardiac differentiation (Figure S6A) and that the supplier of FBS did
                    not impact cardiac differentiation (Figure S6B). Additionally we found that
                    replacement of FBS with human serum maintained this same high efficiency
                    differentiation. Finally, we discovered that the supplementation of this
                    d2–d4 step with any level of insulin (which was essential for the
                    preceding phase 2 d0–d2 hEB formation step) completely abrogated cardiac
                    specification (Figure S6H). Once we completed formulation of the optimal cardiac specification media, we
                    focused on enhancing the final steps of cardiomyocyte differentiation and
                    maintenance. We found that adherence onto tissue culture treated plates on d4
                    enhanced subsequent cardiomyocyte development, whilst adherence before this
                    time-point almost completely ablated contraction (Figure
                    S5D). Unlike the third phase media formulation, the media formulation for
                    this fourth phase was not dependent on factors contained in FBS (Figure
                    S7A). Moreover, once contraction had begun, we found that hEB could be
                    successfully maintained in a variety of media (e.g. RPMI+FBS or
                    RPMI+PVA or simple RPMI+INS (Table 1)) for at least 3 months with
                    continuous contraction. In both RPMI+PVA and RPMI+INS media the hEB
                    formed substantially less fibroblast outgrowth than seen when using RPMI-FBS. A
                    summary of the optimal media and factors for each phase is provided in Table
                    S2. We next assessed the performance of our H9 hESC-optimized cardiac differentiation
                    system, using the hESC lines H1, ES03 and SI-233, and we found that similarly
                    high efficiencies of cardiac differentiation could be achieved. However, this
                    system produced only low levels (2.5–20.5%) of contracting hEB for
                    various hiPSC lines (Figure 4A,
                        C). Attempts to re-optimize the dose-response dependant variables
                    from phases two and three using the hiPSC line iPS(IMR90)-1 resulted in
                    identical optimal conditions to those we had found for H9, albeit at lower
                    efficiencies. We noted that the main impediment to efficient hiPSC
                    differentiation was that hiPSC-derived hEB were substantially less stable and
                    robust than those formed from hESC lines. To improve this hEB instability we
                    tested the inclusion of extracellular matrix proteins (1∶100 Matrigel or
                    laminin-511 and nidogen-1) [33] during hEB formation (at d0–d2, d2–d4 or
                    d0–d4), but we found that these proteins completely abrogated cardiac
                    differentiation (data not shown). However, the inclusion of increasing
                    concentrations of the synthetic polymer polyvinyl alcohol (PVA; from 1 mg
                        mL−1 to 4 mg mL−1) was highly effective in
                    increasing the percentage contraction of iPS(IMR90)-1 hiPSC hEB from
                    20.6±3.7% to 68.3±2.3%, and CBiPSC6.2 hEB from
                    2.5±1.8% to 34.2±10.2% (Figure 4B). Concentrations of PVA above 4 mg
                        mL−1 were less effective at improving cardiac
                    differentiation (Figure S4K). This increased PVA concentration did not affect hESC
                    experiments that already consistently differentiated at high (>91.4%)
                    efficiencies at 1, 2, or 4 mg mL−1 (Figure 3A). We also assessed the effects of
                    physiological oxygen tensions on differentiation efficiency by subjecting
                    differentiation cultures to 5% O2 at timed intervals (i.e.
                    during d0–d2, d2–d4, d4 onwards, or combinations thereof). These
                    experiments revealed that 5% O2 between d0–d2
                    significantly (p<0.028) enhanced the differentiation of all hiPSC lines
                    tested but had little effect on the already high efficiency of hESC
                    differentiation (Figure 4B,
                        C). The combined use of higher concentrations of PVA and timed
                    exposure to physiological oxygen tensions significantly (p<0.04) enhanced
                    cardiac differentiation and allowed each of the seven hiPSC lines we tested to
                    achieve cardiac differentiation with an average efficiency
                    94.7±2.4% of hEB contracting (Figure 4C and Movie
                    S2).  (A) Increasing the concentration of PVA from 1 mg
                                mL−1 to 4 mg mL−1 PVA in the
                            d0–d2 media formulation enhanced the differentiation of viral
                            fibroblast-derived hiPSC line iPS(IMR90)-1, and non-viral cord
                            blood-derived hiPSC line CB-iPSC6.2, whilst not affecting H9 hESC
                                (n = 3). (B)
                            Exposure of iPS(IMR90)-1 hEB to physiological (5%) oxygen
                            tensions from differentiation d0–d2 also enhanced cardiac
                            differentiation (n = 3,
                            p<0.005). Identical conditions did not improve already highly
                            efficient H9 hESC differentiation. (C) Combining both
                            physiological oxygen tension and 4 mg mL−1 PVA between
                            d0–d2 eliminated interline differentiation variability in hiPSC
                            derived using both viral- and non-viral-techniques
                            (n≥3, p<0.005). Error bars, ± S.E.M. 
              http://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0018293.g004 Using real-time RT-PCR analysis, we established that hEB differentiated using
                    this optimized system progress through the normal developmental stages of
                    cardiac lineage gene expression (Figure 5A). Our data demonstrated that, compared to our previous
                    system [15],
                    the relative peak in mesodermal gene expression (assayed by expression of
                        T (Brachyury) and MESP1) was substantially
                    increased (2–6-fold) and accelerated from 4 to 2 days. Expression of
                    cardiac progenitor markers (NKX2-5 and ISL1)
                    and terminal cardiac markers (TNNT2 and MYH6)
                    was substantially enhanced (5–2500-fold) (Figure 5A). We also analyzed the expression
                    of the cardiac structural proteins α-actinin (ACTN2) and cardiac troponin I
                    (TNNI3) using immunocytochemistry, and we showed that cardiomyocytes
                    differentiated from H9 hESC and CBiPSC6.2 formed striated sarcomeres (Figure 5B, C). Gap junction
                    formation was also demonstrated by expression of CX43 (GJA1; data not shown).
                    Finally, intracytoplasmic staining and flow cytometry analysis of various hESC
                    and hiPSC lines demonstrated that the entire contents of each 96-well consisted
                    of 64–89% cardiac troponin I (TNNI3)+
                    cardiomyocytes (Figure
                    6).  (A) Comparison of real-time RT-PCR for markers of mesoderm
                                (T, MESP1), cardiac progenitors (NKX2.5,
                                ISL1), and cardiomyocytes (TNNT2, MYH6)
                            during hESC differentiation using either the Previous system or New
                            system. Analysis was performed using the ΔΔCt method
                            with relative expression calculated using d0 of differentiation (hESC
                            samples) as baseline. 18S RNA expression was used for normalization.
                            Primers are shown in Table S1. (B)
                            Immunocytochemistry for cardiac markers in hEB differentiated from H9
                            hESC. Troponin I (red), α-actinin (green) and DAPI (blue) at low
                            power (top panels) demonstrating unaligned striations throughout the hEB
                            and higher power (lower panels) demonstrating area of aligned striation.
                                (C) Immunocytochemistry for cardiac markers in hEB
                            differentiated from CBiPSC6.2. 
              http://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0018293.g005  Expression of cardiac troponin I in contracting hEB from differentiated
                            H9 hESC, ES03 hESC, viral fibroblast-derived line iPS(IMR90)-1 hiPSC,
                            and non-viral CD34+ cord blood-derived hiPSC lines CBiPSC6.2 and
                            CBiPSC6.11. For each sample the entire U-well contents of one 96-well
                            plate was enzymatically digested into a single cell suspension and
                            analyzed by flow cytometry. 
              http://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0018293.g006 Using optical mapping methods, we next evaluated the electrophysiological
                    properties of cardiomyocytes generated from H9 hESC with this system. The hEB
                    were either mechanically dissected for micromapping or dissociated into single
                    cells and plated as a confluent monolayer for macromapping [34]. hEB and monolayers were
                    then stained with either voltage- or calcium-sensitive dye and optically mapped
                    to visualize spontaneous activity and response to electrical field stimulation
                        (Figure 7A, 8A, S8).
                    Replicates of voltage micromapping experiments
                    (n = 19) demonstrated reproducible action
                    potential duration and conduction velocities (Figure 7B and Movie S3).
                    Optical mapping of intracellular calcium demonstrated a physiological calcium
                    transient (Figure 7B, 8B, S8 and
                        Movie
                        S4). To assess cardioactive drug responsiveness, 20 µM
                    isoproterenol or 100 µM pinacidil was added to cardiomyocyte monolayers or
                    hEB to test for beta-adrenergic stimulation response and the presence of
                    functional KATP channels, respectively. Both drugs produced a
                    shortening of the action potential (Figure 7C and Figure S8A). 20 µM isoproterenol was
                    demonstrated to induce increase in conduction velocity in CBiPSC6.2 hEB (Figure 8B). Functional
                    electrical coupling within a cardiomyocyte monolayer (Figure S8A)
                    and between a pair of hEB (Figure S8B) was demonstrated by voltage
                    mapping. Contracting hEB derived from the hiPSC lines CBiPSC6.2 (Figure 8) and iPSCWT2 (data
                    not shown) were also tested in the same manner and yielded similar results.  (A) Voltage micromapping. a, Phase contrast image of H9 hEB
                            at 4× magnification. b, Voltage activation map (arrows indicate
                            direction of electrical wave propagating across hEB). c, Action
                            potential duration (APD) map. d, Representative transmembrane potential
                                (Vm) trace at position denoted by the small square in a
                            and b during 0.5 Hz field stimulation. e, Mean APD and conduction
                            velocity (CV) measurements from 19 hEB (error bars represent ±
                            s.d.). Coefficient of variation (COV, population s.d. divided by mean)
                            for APD was 0.30 and for CV was 0.88 across hEB population. COV within
                            an individual hEB was calculated from multiple APD measurements across
                            all of the recording sites for that hEB (panel A, c) and was
                            0.042±0.030 (s.d.) when averaged across 19 hEB. (B)
                            Intracellular calcium micromapping. a, Phase map of hEB at 6×
                            magnification. b, Calcium map (arrows indicate direction of propagating
                            calcium wave). c, Representative intracellular calcium (Cai)
                            trace at position denoted by the box in a and b. (C) The
                            beta-adrenergic agonist isoproterenol shortened the mean APD in all 4
                            hEB by an average of 23±8 ms (mean ± s.d.). *
                            indicates p≈0.01 in a paired Student's t-test. 
              http://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0018293.g007  (A) Voltage micromapping. Phase image of CBiPSC6.2 hEB at
                            4× magnification. b. Voltage map, hEB were stained with
                            di-4-ANEPPS (a voltage-sensitive fluorescent dye), and electrically
                            field-stimulated at the same pacing rate (arrows indicate direction of
                            electrical wave propagating across hEB). c. Action potentials during 0.5
                            Hz field stimulation. d. Average conduction velocity (CV) measurements
                            (mean ± standard deviation) for control and 15 min after addition
                            of 50 µM isoproterenol during 0.5 Hz field stimulation.
                                (B) Calcium micromapping. a. Phase image of beating
                            hEB. b. Calcium map (arrows indicate direction of calcium wave
                            propagating across beating hEB). c. Representative calcium transient
                            (Ca) waveforms during 0.5 Hz field stimulation. Box in a and b denote
                            site of recording in c. 
              http://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0018293.g008 To further maximize the ultimate clinical utility of our method, we also
                    conducted parallel optimization experiments that focused on the complete
                    elimination of serum during the third phase of differentiation (d2–d4). We
                    formulated a serum-free optimal media containing human serum albumin (HSA),
                    L-ascorbic acid, and lipids (Table 1 and Figure S9) and found that this formula, used
                    from day 2–4 to replace the FBS or human serum containing media produced
                    64.8±3.3% of hEB contracting by d15 of differentiation (Figure 1D). Additional
                    supplementation with DKK1 and VEGFA165[13] did not
                    further enhance differentiation (data not shown). We have demonstrated that by systematically and rigorously optimizing culture
                conditions, we could significantly improve cardiac differentiation efficiency to an
                average of 94.7±2.4% of hEB contracting from four hESC and seven hiPSC
                lines. The variation in cardiac differentiation potential among different hPSC lines
                cultured under similar conditions has been well documented [15], [20], [21], [35]. Although robust cardiac
                differentiation in select hPSC lines has been reported [9], [12], [13], [24], highly efficient cardiac
                differentiation of multiple independently derived hESC and hiPSC lines using a
                single technique has thus far not been possible. One reason for this difficulty may
                be that significant variability exists in the innate response to cardiac inductive
                factors among different hESC lines [8], [15], [20], [35]. Previous cardiac
                differentiation systems may simply leverage the innate cardiac potential of specific
                hESC lines, and therefore not be suitable for other hESC lines with differing
                propensities. Such cardiac differentiation systems may be even less effective for
                hiPSC differentiation, as these cell types have been demonstrated to possess wider
                variation in gene expression [36]. In developing a universal cardiac differentiation system, we evaluated and tested the
                strengths of multiple published protocols with a multivariate strategy. Although we
                initially favored a monolayer differentiation based technique [12] due to its simplicity and
                reproducibility, monolayer based differentiation systems have been demonstrated to
                be less responsive to cardiac inductive factors than in hEB systems [37]. Our previous
                data demonstrated that hEB could be formed from feeder-free single-cell hESC using
                forced aggregation in chemically defined media (CDM) [30]. The use of CDM enhanced the
                effectiveness of recombinant growth factors due to the exclusion of FBS or BSA [38]. We tested a
                large number of mesodermal morphogens from the NODAL, BMP4, and WNT signaling
                cascades for cardiogenic potential. However, only the combination of BMP4 and FGF2
                was suitable for highly efficient cardiac differentiation. Indeed, BMP4 is a known
                potent mesoderm morphogen in hESC [39], with a brief temporal window of effectiveness for
                mesendoderm induction (d1–d2) [40]. Furthermore, BMP4 and FGF2
                synergize to promote mesoderm induction [39], [41]. We noted that in the
                d2–d4 stage, insulin completely ablated cardiac differentiation even at 5
                µg mL−1. The negative effect of insulin on cardiac
                differentiation has been previously reported with an effective window from d3
                onwards [14]. Freud
                    et al. demonstrated that insulin, acting primarily via IGF1R
                and PI3K/Akt, has an inhibitory effect on each of d0–d5 of cardiac
                differentiation, due to a redirection of cardiogenic mesoderm to neuroectoderm [10]. We have
                defined this negative effect to a small temporal window of d2–d4. One reason
                for the lack of negative effect of insulin in our system between d0–d2 is that
                it was required during this period for successful hEB formation (Figure S3B). We
                also discovered that either 20% FBS or human serum was essential for phase 3
                (d2–d4) of this system, indicating that additional serum factors are required
                at this stage. This requirement of FBS for cardiac differentiation has previously
                been demonstrated [42]. Although FBS is undefined, the 20% FBS media
                contains approximately 0.2–20 µg mL−1 of insulin [43], suggesting
                that cardiac differentiation efficiency may be further enhanced if the cardiogenic
                properties of FBS can be identified and recreated in the absence of insulin. In our
                defined serum- and xeno-free version of our differentiation system (Table 1 and Figure S9),
                replacing FBS/human serum with HSA, lipids and L-ascorbic acid [11] reduced differentiation
                efficiency to ∼65%, suggesting that additional factors in FBS/human serum
                are required at this stage. After day 4 of differentiation, we found that only a
                very simple media was required for the completion of cardiomyocyte specification,
                suggesting that once the cardiomyocyte program is initiated by sequential treatment
                with BMP4/FG2 followed by FBS, this final process is essentially self-specifying.
                Once contraction began, hEB could be maintained in a simple media formulation for
                extended periods, as previously described [44]. Once a system for highly efficient cardiac differentiation of H9 hESC was
                established, we found that our improved system overcame the well-documented
                variation in cardiac differentiation potential among different hESC lines [15], [20], [21], [35]. We then further
                applied this system to hiPSC cardiac differentiation, and noted that efficiency was
                initially poorer than that of hESC, as reported in other differentiation systems
                    [8], and would
                require additional optimizations. These results were consistent with the notion that
                there are important biological differences between hiPSC and hESC. For example, it
                has been demonstrated that early passage iPSC retain an epigenetic memory of their
                somatic cell of origin which may affect lineage-specific differentiation capacity
                    [22], [45]. Such inherent
                epigenetic limitations of iPSC lineage-specific differentiation have been partially
                overcome by the use of chromatin-modifying drugs (e.g. the demethylation inhibitor
                5-azacytidine [9],
                    [22] or the HDAC
                inhibitor trichostatin A [46]). In contrast, superior hiPSC cardiac differentiation
                efficiencies were achieved in our system without need for non-specific, toxic, and
                potentially mutagenic drugs. Instead, we achieved comparably high efficiencies in
                    both hESC and hiPSC by applying our highly efficient hESC
                system with enhancement of the structural integrity of hiPSC hEB using PVA, and
                using timed exposure to physiological oxygen tensions. PVA, a common constituent of
                embryo culture media, is a cost-effective media additive that is used to replace the
                need for BSA or FBS, creating a true chemically defined media, as well as
                functioning as an adhesive. The adhesive properties of PVA likely enhance hiPSC hEB
                formation, and promoted their subsequent cardiac specification. Low oxygen tensions
                also have established effects for improving embryoid body formation [47], [48]. Low oxygen
                tensions also affect a wide range of developmental processes, including
                cardiogenesis, the stem cell niche, and modulation of NODAL, VEGF, WNT and NOTCH
                signaling [49]. In
                particular 5% O2 has been shown to induce WNT pathway signaling by
                enhancing β-catenin activation [49]. The positive effect of 5% O2 during
                only d0–d4 of our differentiation, and subsequent negative effect after day 4
                suggests that WNT signaling may be the 5% O2 effector in our
                system. We found that the addition of the WNT signaling inhibitor DKK1 only impacted
                cardiac differentiation when added at d0–d2 and none of the subsequent stages
                (data not shown). Electrophysiological assessment of our contracting hEB demonstrated that these hEB
                displayed characteristics of immature cardiomycytes. Although our electrophysiology
                method does not evaluate single or clusters of cells, the whole hEBs that were
                assessed displayed, on average, a ventricular-type electrophysiological profile. In
                addition, we demonstrated that each well contained a high percentage of troponin
                    I+ cells. Based on this data for every 500,000 input cells, one
                96-well plate produced ∼500,000 cells, and an average of 407,000
                cardiomyocytes. In summary, this system produced highly efficient cardiomyocyte differentiation from
                a wide variety of independently derived hESC and nonviral, non-integrated hiPSC
                lines. Importantly we demonstrate that the contracting cells produced using this
                system expressed normal cardiomyocyte markers, were capable of electrically
                coupling, and displayed highly reproducible electrophysiological profiles. The
                development of a universal cardiac differentiation protocol that can translate
                across multiple pluripotent stem cell lines allows immediate application to
                genetically diverse hiPSC lines created from patients with cardiac related diseases
                (e.g. long QT syndrome [50], [51]). The uniformity of the electrophysiological profiles of
                these cells highlights the potential for translation of this methodology to future
                high-throughput cardiotoxicity testing and novel drug discovery assays that can be
                used at various stages of drug development. The generation of cardiomyocytes from
                clinically safe cord blood-derived hiPSC is especially attractive since this cell
                source is widely available, carries relatively few somatic mutations, and could
                ultimately be used to create an HLA-defined stem cell bank for hiPSC generation via
                worldwide networks of existing cord blood banks. Overall, the development of this
                efficient cardiac differentiation system should greatly facilitate the utility of
                hiPSC-derived cardiomyocytes in drug development and cardiotoxicity screening,
                cardiac developmental biology and disease modeling, and contribute to the future
                generation of clinically safe human cardiac cells for regenerative medicine. All tissue culture reagents were purchased from Invitrogen (Carlsbad, CA,
                        http://www.invitrogen.com) unless otherwise stated. MEF, hESC
                    and hiPSC cultures were maintained at 37°C, 5% CO2 and
                    85% relative humidity. Medium was changed every day on hESC and hiPSC
                    cultures. Physiological (5%) oxygen conditions were created in a hypoxia
                    chamber using nitrogen gas by ProOx Oxygen and ProCO2 CO2
                    controllers (BioSpherix, Lacona, NY, http://www.biospherix.com/). hESC lines H1 (WA01) and H9 (WA09) [52], ES03
                    (HES1) [53], and hiPSC lines iPS(IMR90)-1-DL-1 and iPS(IMR90)-4-DL-1
                    derived from fibroblasts using lentiviruses [25] were obtained from the WiCell
                    WISC Bank (Madison, WI, http://www.wicell.org). The
                    hESC line SI-233 [54] was obtained from Stemride International (London, UK,
                        http://www.stemride.com). hiPSC lines CBiPSC6.2, CBiPSC6.11, and
                    CBiPSC6.13 were derived in our lab from CD34+ cord blood using a
                    modified episomal plasmid methodology described below. hiPSC lines iPSCWT2, and
                    iPSCWT4 were derived in our lab from adult fibroblasts using a modified episomal
                    plasmid methodology described below. All hESC lines used in these studies were
                    approved for use by The Johns Hopkins University Institutional Stem Cell
                    Research Oversight Committee. Pluripotent stem cell lines were initially
                    cultured as colonies on irradiated (5000 cGy) MEF (E13.5 DR4 seeded at
                        2×104 cells cm−2) in 6-well plates
                    (Greiner Bio-One) in hESC medium consisting of DMEM-F12, 15% Knockout
                    Serum Replacer (KSR), 1% non-essential amino acids (NEAA), 100 µM
                    2-mercaptoethanol and 4 ng mL−1 human FGF2 (R&D Systems,
                    Minneapolis, MN, http://www.rndsystems.com)
                    and passaged with collagenase IV. For transfer of hiPSC and hESC to monolayer
                    culture [28]
                    1 confluent well of a 6-well plate was treated with TrypLE Select and single
                    cells were passaged into a T25 flask (BD Biosciences, Bedford, MA, http://www.bdbiosciences.com) coated with a 1∶400 dilution
                    (200 µL cm−2) of Geltrex in 5 mL of conditioned medium.
                    Conditioned medium was made essentially as previously described [29]. In brief,
                    confluent p2 MEF were irradiated (5000 cGy) and seeded at 6×104
                    cells cm−2 on gelatin coated flasks in MEF medium consisting of
                    DMEM (with Glutamine), 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS, Characterized,
                    Hyclone, Thermo Fisher, Waltham MA, http://www.hyclone.com),
                    1% NEAA, 55 µM 2-mercaptoethanol. After allowing MEF to attach for
                    24 h cells were washed and media was replaced with 0.5 mL cm−2
                    hESC medium. Medium was conditioned for 22–26 h, pooled, filter sterilized
                    and supplemented with an additional 4 ng mL−1 FGF2 and stored
                    at −20°C. Conditioned medium was collected for 7 days. Confluent
                    cultures were passaged every 3 days washing with PBS then treating with room
                    temperature TrypLE Select for 1 min at 37°C. Confluent cultures were
                    passaged every 3 days with TrypLE Select. Cells were counted with a Countess
                    Automated Cell Counter and seeded at 1.25×106 cells per T25
                    flask. All hPSC lines commonly grew from 1.25×106 to
                        5×106 in these 3 days. EBNA-based pCEP4 vectors pEP4 EO2S EN2L (OCT4, SOX2, NANOG,
                        LIN28), pEP4 EO2S ET2K (OCT4, SOX2, SV40LT, KLF4),
                    pEP4 EO2S EM2K (OCT4, SOX2, MYC, KLF4) were obtained from
                    Addgene (Cambridge, MA, http://www.addgene.org).
                        E. coli containing the plasmids were propagated and
                    purified using a Plasmid Maxi Kit (QIAGEN, Valencia, CA, http://www.qiagen.com). Ratios of (1∶1∶1) were mixed
                    as the seven-factor SOKMNLT (Combination 6 [25]) and co-concentrated using a
                    QIAquick PCR Purification Kit. For generation of the hiPSC lines iPSCWT2 and iPSCWT4, adult fibroblasts from a
                    normal 56 year-old female donor were obtained from the Coriell Cell Repository
                    (Coriell, Camden, NJ, http://www.ccr.coriell.org/) and cultured in standard
                    conditions. Two-three days following passage, cells were trypisinized and
                        1×106 cells were nucleofected in NHDF nucleofector solution
                    (VPD-1001, Lonza, Walkersville, MD, http://www.lonzabio.com)
                    with 6 µg total of the three plasmids using an AMAXA II nucleofector
                    (Lonza) and program U023. Cells were then plated on three 10 cm plates seeded
                    with irradiated MEF (5000 cGy, E13.5 DR4 MEF seeded at 2×104
                    cells cm−2) in fibroblast (MEF) medium. Nucleofection solution
                    medium was changed after 4–6 hours. After 3 days fibroblast medium was
                    replaced with hESC medium containing 40 ng mL−1 FGF2. Medium
                    was changed every 2 days. Starting on Day 10 medium was changed every day using
                    MEF-conditioned medium (made as above) supplemented with 40 ng
                        mL−1 FGF2. After 21 days+ colonies were passaged onto
                    fresh irradiated MEF layers, and ESC-like colonies that emerged were manually
                    picked and expanded for further analysis, as described [55]. For generation of the non-viral CD34+ cord blood-derived hiPSC lines
                    (CBiPSC6.2, CBiPSC6.11, CBiPSC6.13 and CBiPSC19.11),
                        0.5–1×106 human CD34+ cord blood
                    cells (AllCells, Emeryville, CA, http://www.allcells.com)
                    were expanded in StemSpan-SFEM (StemCell Technologies, Vancouver, BC, http://www.stemcell.com), supplemented with FTK (100 ng
                        mL−1 FLT3L, 10 ng mL−1 TPO and 100 ng
                        mL−1 KITLG (SCF) (R&D Systems)) in 1 well of a 12-well
                    plate for 3 days. All reprogramming culture steps were conducted in tissue
                    culture plates that were tightly wrapped in Saran wrap. After three days,
                        0.5×106 cells were nucleofected with 6 µg total
                    plasmid DNA as above using CD34+ nucleofector solution
                    (VPA-1003, Lonza) and program U-008. Cells were incubated in RPMI/10% FBS
                    for 4–6 hr then, washed in SFEM and re-plated onto 6 wells of a
                    Retronectin (Takara Bio, Madison, WI, http://www.takara-bio.com)-coated (10 µg
                    mL−1) 6-well plate seeded with irradiated (2000 cGy) human
                    mesenchymal stem cells (hMSC, AllCells, seeded at 2×104 cells
                        cm−2) in SFEM+FTK. On Day 3, cells were harvested (300
                    g, 5 min), and re-plated onto irradiated MEF in SFEM+FTK, as above. On Day
                    4, two mL of hESC medium containing 40 ng mL−1 FGF2 was added
                    to CD34+/MEF co-cultures. On Day 6, and every 2 days thereafter,
                    half of the medium in each well was removed, cells were collected by
                    centrifugation and media was aspirated and replace with fresh media and returned
                    to the wells. Starting on Day 10, medium was changed every day using MEF
                    conditioned medium supplemented with 40 ng mL−1 FGF2. ESC-like
                    colonies were visible under these conditions and emerged as early as 7–21
                    days post-nucleofection, and manually picked for expansion and further
                    characterization. Whole hiPSC colonies were washed in PBS and fixed cold 3.7% PFA in PBS,
                    washed twice in PBS and permeabilized with 0.2% Triton-X (Sigma) in TBS
                    for 10 min where appropriate. Cells were then incubated with 10% goat or
                    donkey serum (Sigma) in PBS for 1 hr at RT and incubated overnight at 4°C
                    with anti-human NANOG (1∶500, goat IgG1, AF1997, R&D systems,),
                    anti-human POU5F1 (OCT4, 1∶200, mouse IgG1), anti-human SSEA4
                    (1∶200, mouse IgG1,) (BD Biosciences) anti-human TRA-1-60 (1∶200,
                    mouse IgM, Millipore) diluted in antibody diluent (Invitrogen). Cells were
                    washed 3 times in TBS-T then incubated for 45 min at RT in the dark with
                    secondary antibodies Cy3-conjugated donkey anti-goat IgG1 (1∶1000, Jackson
                    Immuno Research, West Grove, PA), Alexa Fluor 488-conjugated goat anti-mouse
                    IgG1 (1∶500, Invitrogen), or Alexa Fluor 488-conjugated goat anti-mouse
                    IgM (1∶500, Invitrogen), which were diluted in antibody diluent
                    (Invitrogen). Cells were then washed 3 times in TBS-T and mounted with ProLong
                    Gold with DAPI (Invitrogen) onto Superfrost Plus (VWR) slides and imaged with a
                    Confocal Microscope (Zeiss). Teratoma assays were performed as previously
                    described [56]. 5 µg of genomic DNA from hiPSC samples growing in feeder-free conditions
                    was isolated with a DNeasy Blood & Tissue Kit (QIAGEN), and digested with
                    high fidelity restriction enzymes BamHI and SpeI (NEB). Undigested
                    “combination 6” pCEP4 episomal vectors (0.4×: 8.55 pg of
                    pEP4O2DEN2L, 9.72 pg of pEP4EO2SET2K, 9.22 pg of pEP4EO2SEM2K) were mixed in
                    1∶1∶1 ratios and purified by QIAquick PCR Purification Kit (QIAGEN).
                    Samples were processed using DIG High Prime DNA labeling and Detection Starter
                    Kit II (Roche Applied Biosciences) following the manufacturer's directions.
                    The pCEP4 parental construct (Invitrogen) was digested with NotI and NruI
                    (Invitrogen) to release a 7.3 kb episomal vector backbone probe, gel-extracted
                    using the QIAquick Gel Extraction Kit (Invitrogen), DIG labeled, further
                    digested with AluI (Invitrogen), and purified using QIAquick PCR Purification
                    Kit (QIAGEN). DNA was extracted using DNeasy Blood & Tissue and RNeasy Mini Kits (QIAGEN).
                    For hiPSC experiments, DNA and RNA were extracted from p11 CBiPSC cells,
                    negative control p48 H9 hESC, and positive p2 early CBiPSC, RT was performed
                    using SuperScript-First Strand Synthesis (Invitrogen), and PCR using Pfx DNA
                    polymerase (Invitrogen). Real-time RT-PCR was performed Power SYBR PCR Mastermix
                    (Applied Biosystems). Genomic analysis for non-viral hiPSC used primers as
                    described [25].
                    RT-PCR analysis used primers as described [55]. For cardiomyocyte
                    analysis, the contents of 16 wells a 96-well plate were removed, RNA extracted
                    as above, cDNA synthesis was performed using a High Capacity RNA-cDNA kit
                    (Applied Biosystems, Carlsbad, CA, http://www.appliedbiosystems.com). Real-time RT-PCR was
                    performed using Universal PCR Master Mix and on an Applied Biosystems 7900HT.
                    Using Taqman Assay-on-Demand Gene Expression Assays (Applied Biosystems) (Table
                    S1). For forced aggregation hEB differentiations, confluent hESC or hiPSC which had
                    been grown on Geltrex as monolayers for 3 to 13 passages were passaged with
                    TrypLE Select and seeded at 2.5×106 per T25 flask. After 24 h
                    growth, cells were treated with TrypLE Select and seeded at 5000 cells per well
                    in 96-well V-bottom uncoated plates (249952, NUNC Rochester, NY, http://www.nuncbrand.com) in 100 µL per well RPMI+PVA
                    medium consisting of RPMI Media 1640 (with L-Glutamine), 4 mg
                        mL−1 polyvinyl alcohol (P8136 Sigma-Aldrich St. Louis MO,
                        http://www.sigmaaldrich.com), dissolved in RPMI at 4°C for
                    at least 72 h, mixing by inversion every day, 1% chemically defined lipid
                    concentrate, 10 µg mL−1 recombinant human insulin (I9278,
                    Sigma-Aldrich), 400 µM 1-thioglycerol (Sigma-Aldrich), 25 ng
                        mL−1 human BMP4 and 5 ng mL−1 human FGF2
                    (both from R&D systems), 1 µM Y-27632 (Stemgent, Cambridge, MA,
                        http://www.stemgent.com). This medium is not stable and was made
                    fresh for each experiment. After 48 hours medium was aspirated with a Costar
                    8-channel aspirator (Corning Life Sciences, Corning, NY, http://www.corning.com) and replaced with RPMI+FBS medium
                    consisting of RPMI Media 1640, 20% FBS (Characterized, Hyclone), 400
                    µM 1-thioglycerol. On day 4 media was aspirated and replaced with
                    RPMI+INS consisting of RPMI, 1% chemically defined lipid
                    concentrate, 10 µg mL−1 recombinant human insulin, 400
                    µM 1-thioglycerol and hEB were transferred to 96-well U-bottom tissue
                    culture treated plates (NUNC). Media was changed on d7 and every 3 days
                    afterwards. hEB were visually assessed for contraction on d9 using a Nikon
                    Eclipse Ti microscope (Nikon Instruments, Melvin, NY, http://www.nikoninstruments.com). Images were captured using
                    NIS-Elements (Nikon). Other factors that were tested include: Germcell human
                    serum, Benchmark FBS (Gemini, Sacramento, CA, http://www.gembio.com), Growth
                    factor reduced Matrigel (BD Biosciences), NODAL, activin A, DKK1,
                        VEGFA165, WNT3A, TDGF1, BMP2, BMP6, TGFB, IGF1, IGF2, Nidogen
                    (R&D systems), 96-well U-bottom uncoated plates, 96-well F-bottom tissue
                    culture plates (NUNC), ITS-X, ITS-G, N2 supplement, B27 supplement,
                    non-essential amino acids, DMEM, IMDM, F12, KO-DMEM, StemPro-34, KnockOut Serum
                    Replacement, Xeno-free Knockout Serum Replacement, Qualified FBS (all from
                    Invitrogen), X-VIVO 10 (Lonza), BSA (A3311), human serum albumin (HSA),
                    recombinant human albumin (rHA), human transferrin, L-ascorbic acid, L-ascorbic
                    acid-2-phosphate, Stemline II (Sigma-Aldrich), mTeSR1, SFEM, ES-Cult FBS for
                    Hematopoietic Differentiation (StemCell Technologies), mouse WNT3A, EX-CYTE
                    (Millipore, Billerica, MA, http://www.millipore.com).
                    Traditional cardiac differentiations using FBS were performed as previously
                    described [6].
                    Briefly, confluent H9 hESC grown as colonies on MEF were treated with
                    collagenase IV for 5 min at 37°C then washed from the plate using a 5 mL
                    pipette. Cell clusters were then transferred to Petri dishes in DMEM (with
                    Glutamine), 20% FBS (Characterized, Hyclone), 1% NEAA, 100
                    µM 2-mercaptethanol medium for 7 days. hEB were then transferred to
                    gelatin coated tissue culture plates. Media was changed every three days. One single replicate consists of one 96-well plate. Repeat replicates were
                    performed 1–4 months apart. Each experiment was repeated >3 times
                    representing >288 hEB. Total number of hEB assessed in this work exceeds
                    80,000. Wells in which no hEB was detected due to pipetting error were excluded
                    and accounted for approximately 1–5% of wells. P-values were
                    established using an unpaired two-tailed Student's t-test. Whole cardiomyocyte hEB clusters were plated onto fibronectin-coated glass
                    coverslips and given 5 days to attach and processed as above with primary
                    antibodies anti human sarcomeric alpha actinin (1∶200, monoclonal mouse
                    IgG1, ab9465, Abcam, Cambridge, MA, http://www.abcam.com) and
                    anti-human cardiac troponin I (1∶200, monoclonal mouse IgG2b, T8665-13F,
                    US Biological, Swamscott, MA, http://www.usbio.net) and
                    secondary antibodies Alexa Fluor 568 Goat anti-mouse IgG (1∶200,
                    Invitrogen) and Alexa Fluor 488 Goat anti-mouse IgG2b (1∶200, Invitrogen).
                    For flow cytometry, one whole plate of d9 H9 hEB (whole well contents) were
                    disaggregated using TrypLE and stained as above. Cells were analyzed using a
                    FACSCaliber (BD Biosciences) flow cytometer (Beckton-Dickinson). Data was
                    analyzed using FlowJo (Tree Star, Ashland, OR, http://www.treestar.com). For optical micromapping, contracting hEB were mechanically dissected, plated on
                    fibronectin (BD Biosciences)-coated glass coverslips and given at least 5 days
                    to attach. hEB were then stained with either 10 µM Rhod-2-AM calcium dye
                    (Invitrogen) for 20 minutes or 10 µM di-4-ANEPPS voltage dye (Invitrogen)
                    for 5 minutes. After several rinses with Tyrode's solution (135 mM NaCl,
                    5.4 mM KCl, 1.8 mM CaCl2, 1 mM MgCl2, 0.33 mM
                        NaH2PO4, 5 mM HEPES, and 5 mM glucose, (Sigma)), hEB
                    were incubated with 30 µM blebbistatin (Sigma) for 15 minutes to inhibit
                    excitation-contraction coupling and subsequently prevent signal distortion due
                    to motion artifact. The absence of hEB contraction was confirmed visually. hEB
                    were then excited at 530 nm to visualize spontaneous activity and response to
                    electrical field stimulation. Imaging of transmembrane potential (Vm)
                    or intracellular calcium (Cai) was performed using an Andor
                    iXon+ 860 (Andor Technology, South Windsor, CN, http://www.andor.com) electron multiplying charged coupled
                    device (EMCCD) camera (128×128 pixels) at 490 Hz sampling rate. At
                    6× magnification, the field of view is ∼520 µm×520
                    µm, resulting in a spatial resolution of ∼4 µm. Micromapping
                    experiments were performed at room temperature. Macromapping of hESC-CM
                    monolayers was performed using contact fluorescent imaging, in which maps of
                        Vm were recorded by placing the monolayer directly on top of a
                    bundle of 253 optical fibers 1 mm in diameter, arranged in a tightly packed,
                    17-mm-diameter hexagonal array. The cell monolayers were stained with 10
                    µM di-4-ANEPPS, and continually superfused with Tyrode's solution.
                    The monolayer was excited by an array of high-power green LEDs placed directly
                    above the experimental chamber. The fluorescent dye signal was relayed by the
                    optical fiber bundle to an array of photodetectors and amplifiers, digitized at
                    a 1 kHz sampling rate, and processed by custom written software. Macromapping
                    experiments were performed at 36°C. In drug-response experiments, drugs were
                    added for 15 min before subsequent recordings. To analyze data, the individual
                    recorded signals were spatially filtered using a 5×5 box filter,
                    temporally filtered using a 10 point median filter, baseline-corrected by
                    subtraction of a fitted 3rd order polynomial, and range-normalized.
                    The activation time at each recording site was computed as the time of the
                    maximum first derivative of the action potential
                        (dVm/dtmax) or calcium transient upstroke
                        (dCa/dtmax). Repolarization time was computed as the 80%
                    recovery time from the peak amplitude, and action potential duration (APD) was
                    computed from the difference of repolarization and activation times. APD maps
                    were computed by first spatially binning voltage data to 16×16 pixels and
                    measuring APD at each pixel. Uniformity of APD was assessed by the coefficient
                    of variation. For each hEB, the coefficient of variation was determined from the
                    mean APD (over all pixels in the APD map), divided by the standard deviation.
                    Conduction velocity was computed by taking the distance of a path perpendicular
                    to the direction of propagation, and dividing by the difference of activation
                    times at the path endpoints. At least 3 paths were chosen for each measurement.
                    The conduction velocity coefficient of variation was determined from the mean
                    conduction velocity (over all measured paths), divided by the standard
                    deviation. Schematic representation of the variables considered whilst optimizing the
                        cardiac differentiation system. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0018293.s001 (TIF) Development of a strategy for the optimization of cardiac differentiation.
                            (A) Schematic of previous cardiac differentiation strategy
                        published in Burridge et al., 2007. (B) Pilot
                        experiments allowed us to develop a prototype system in which we used BMP4
                        from d0–d4 and removed the mass culture step to eliminate the
                        inter-hEB paracrine effect and prevents hEB from adhering to each other.
                            (C) Final four step optimized differentiation strategy
                        detailing the use of hESC/hIPSC passaged one day prior to aggregation, 5,000
                        cells in RPMI+PVA media for 2 days followed by 2 days in RPMI+FBS
                        and finally adherence in RPMI+INS. All variables previously tested
                        between the prototype system stage and final system were repeated three
                        times to confirm dose-response under final system conditions. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0018293.s002 (TIF) Optimizing media formulations of hEB formation. (A) 21 existing
                        media formulations were compared for efficiency of hEB formation both from
                        cells cultured as colonies on MEF and cells grown as monolayers. hEB were
                        formed from 10,000 cells, collected into a single well on d2 and imaged
                        (4× magnification). The results demonstrated that media formulation
                        from Wiles & Johansson '98 was most successful for homogeneous hEB
                        formation. (B) The minimal media requirements for hEB formation
                        were assessed by subtraction until we found that only the combination of a
                        basal medium supplemented with 1 mg mL−1 PVA and insulin
                        was required for successful hEB formation (4× magnification). Details
                        of references are provided in References S1. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0018293.s003 (TIF) Optimization of day 0–2 media formulation and growth factor variables
                        using H9 hESC. d9 was chosen for assessment as ‘prototype’
                        version of our previous protocol had identified this as the day of maximum
                        percentage contraction. Optimal conditions for the d0–d2 phase 2 stage
                        were derived using RPMI-PVA as the base media (Table 1) and making relevant subtractions
                        or additions to it. Optimal conditions for high efficiency differentiation
                        differentiation were: (A) 25 ng mL−1 of BMP4.
                            (B) 5 ng ml−1 FGF2. (C) The
                        basal medium RPMI 1640. (D) No additional L-glutamine other
                        than that included in the basal medium (2.5 mM). (E) 400
                        µM 1-thioglycerol was optimal for cardiac differentiation whereas
                        2-mercaptoethanol was not suitable for hEB formation. (F) 10
                        µg mL−1 insulin, more complex products such as ITS-G
                        or -X (Invitrogen) provided similar results. (G) The addition
                        of transferrin did not affect differentiation. (H) L-ascorbic
                        acid had a negative dose-response on differentiation. (I)
                        1× chemically defined lipids. (J) non-essential amino
                        acids did not enhance differentiation. (K) The addition of BSA
                        alone did not promote differentiation although PVA was successful at a
                        concentration of >1 mg mL−1. (L) Only a
                        comparatively low dose of 1 µM of Y-27632 (ROCK inhibitor) promoted
                        efficient subsequent differentiation.
                        n = 3. Error bars, ±S.E.M. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0018293.s004 (TIF) Optimization of forced aggregation hEB formation physical factors. Optimal
                        conditions for physical factors stage were derived using system described in
                            Figure 1A and making
                        relevant subtractions or additions to it. (A) Forced
                        aggregation input cell number per well between 500–20,000 cells.
                        3,000–10,000 cells were suitable for successful cardiac
                        differentiation. hEB did not form from 500 or 1,000 cells. (B)
                        Both V-bottom and U-bottom plates were successful for hEB formation,
                        V-bottom plates were chosen due to the comparative ease of media change and
                        prevention of loss of hEB. (C) Only day 2 was suitable for
                        change of media RPMI-FBS. (D) hEB that were transferred to
                        adherent plates before d4 quickly lost their structure. (E)
                        U-bottom plates were chosen over F-bottom plates as hEB would adhere in the
                        center of the well simplifying the observation of contracting hEB.
                            (F) Once Y-27632 was added to the media it was found that
                        g-force was no longer required to induce aggregation. (G) The
                        density at which the T25 flasks of pluripotent cells were split to the day
                        before forced aggregation did not affect subsequent differentiation.
                            (H) Passaging cells one day prior to forced aggregation
                        rather than allowing them to grow to confluence was found to be crucial for
                        efficient differentiation. n = 3.
                        Error bars, ±S.E.M. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0018293.s005 (TIF) Optimization of day 2–4 media factors. (A) Only 20%
                        fetal bovine serum (FBS) was suitable for inducing >90%
                        contracting hEB. Optimal conditions for the d2–d4 phase 3 stage were
                        derived using RPMI-FBS as the base media (Table 1) and making relevant subtractions
                        or additions to it. (B) Manufacturer of FBS did not affect
                        cardiac induction. FBS could be substituted with 20% human serum with
                        no reduction in efficiency to create a fully xeno-free system. The use of
                        Knockout Serum Replacement (KSR) or Xeno-Free KSR was not sufficient to
                        allow cardiomyocyte induction. (C) The addition of BMP4 at this
                        d2–d4 stage did not enhance cardiac differentiation. (D)
                        The addition of FGF2 also did not have an effect on cardiac differentiation.
                            (E) As with d0–d2, only the basal medium RPMI was
                        suitable for efficient cardiac differentiation. (F) Additional
                        L-glutamine did not enhance cardiac differentiation. (G)
                        1-thioglycerol was the most suitable thiol for this phase. (H)
                        Any level of supplementation with insulin during this phase completely
                        ablated cardiac differentiation. (I) Human transferrin did not
                        enhance differentiation. (J) L-ascorbic acid did not enhance
                        differentiation at low dose although did have a negative effect on
                        differentiation at high doses (560 µM). (K) Chemically
                        defined lipids dis not enhance differentiation although EX-CYTE (Millipore)
                        had a negative effect. (L) Non-essential amino acids (NEAA) did
                        not enhanced this phase of differentiation.
                        n = 3. Error bars, ±S.E.M. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0018293.s006 (TIF) Optimization of day 4 onwards media formulation. Optimal conditions for the
                        d0–d2 phase 2 stage were derived using RPMI-INS as the base media
                            (Table 1) and
                        making relevant subtractions or additions to it. (A) FBS, PVA
                        or HSA was not required for the d4 onwards phase. (B) In
                        contrast to the d2–d4 stage, insulin did not effect this d4+
                        phase. (C) Transferrin was not required. (D)
                        Supplemental lipids were also not required. (E) 1-thioglycerol
                        was essential for this d4+ phase. Although only
                        RPMI+1-thioglycerol was required for d4+ cardiac differentiation,
                        a more complex media (RPMI-INS) was required for further (d9 onwards) hEB
                        survival and therefore used in the final system.
                        n = 3. Error bars, ±S.E.M. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0018293.s007 (TIF) Demonstration of cardiomyocyte drug responsiveness and electrical coupling
                        using optical mapping. (A) Time series of voltage maps
                        demonstrates electrical coupling in an hESC-derived cardiomyocyte monolayer
                        during 0.67 Hz pacing (pulse symbol indicates stimulus site, arrows indicate
                        direction of propagation). A second, spontaneous activation site can seen on
                        the upper right at 40 ms. b, Representative Vm traces, time
                        aligned by the stimulus timing, taken at site x in a. Isoproterenol and
                        pinacidil shortened the action potential (363±137 ms control
                            (n = 73 recording sites) vs.
                        257±56 ms pinacidil (n = 64)
                        vs. 262±107 ms isoproterenol
                        (n = 94), mean±s.d.).
                            (B) Electrical coupling between two hEB during voltage
                        micromapping. a, Phase map of two hEB in close contact at 6×. b, Time
                        series of voltage maps demonstrates electrical coupling between the hEB pair
                        by continuous propagation from one hEB to the other. c and d, Vm
                        traces (from the three boxes in a) demonstrate the synchrony of the action
                        potentials, as the electrical wave propagates from right to left (red to
                        blue to green trace) across the field of view. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0018293.s008 (TIF) Optimization of xeno- and serum-free day 2–4 media formulation. Optimal
                        conditions for the d2–d4 phase 2 stage were derived using
                        ‘Xeno-free’ as the base media (Table 1) and making relevant subtractions
                        or additions to it. (A) PVA supplementation did not induce
                        cardiac differentiation. (B) A high dose (5 mg
                            mL−1) of human serum albumin (HSA) was required.
                            (C) HSA could not be replaced by recombinant albumin.
                            (D) As with the xeno-containing d2–d4 media
                        formulation, the addition of insulin inhibited cardiac differentiation.
                            (E) The addition of transferrin did not impact
                        differentiation. (F) L-ascorbic acid promoted xeno-free cardiac
                        differentiation any concentration. (G) Chemically defined
                        lipids had a small effect. (H) Non-essential amino acids were
                        not required. This xeno-free d2–d4 media could also be simply replaced
                        by the BSA-containing media StemPro34 (Invitrogen) supplemented with 280
                        µM of L-ascorbic acid with similar results (data not shown). doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0018293.s009 (TIF) Real-time RT-PCR primers. Table of Applied Biosystems assay-on-demand primers
                        used for real-time RT-PCR analysis. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0018293.s010 (TIF) Heat-map of optimized media formulations and physical factors for cardiac
                        differentiation of H9 hESC. A condensed schematic of the optimal cardiac
                        differentiation media formulations and physical factors used in the
                        optimized protocol. Red represents greater than 90% of hEB
                        contracting on d9, yellow represents 50–90% of hEB contracting
                        on d9, blue represents less than 50% of hEB contracting on d9, and
                        white represents 0% contracting hEB on d9. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0018293.s011 (TIF) Contracting H9 hEB on d9 of differentiation. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0018293.s012 (MOV) Contracting iPS(IMR90)-1 hEB on d9 of differentiation. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0018293.s013 (MP4) Voltage mapping of H9 hEB. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0018293.s014 (MP4) Calcium mapping of H9 hEB. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0018293.s015 (MP4) Supplementary references. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0018293.s016 (DOC) The authors would like to thank Karan Verma, Tea Soon Park, and Ian Kaplan for expert
                technical assistance, and Kenneth Boheler for reading the manuscript. Conception and design, collection and assembly of data, data analysis and
                        interpretation, manuscript writing: PWB. Collection and assembly of data,
                        data analysis and interpretation: ST MAM SW XY AP. Provision of study
                        material, data analysis and interpretation: VM VEK. Data analysis and
                        interpretation: LT. Conception and design, collection and assembly of data,
                        data analysis and interpretation, manuscript writing, financial support,
                        administrative support, final approval of manuscript: ETZ. For more information about PLOS Subject Areas, click
          here. Is the Subject Area "Cell differentiation" applicable to this article?
          Yes
          No Thanks for your feedback. Is the Subject Area "Insulin" applicable to this article?
          Yes
          No Thanks for your feedback. Is the Subject Area "Pluripotency" applicable to this article?
          Yes
          No Thanks for your feedback. Is the Subject Area "Fibroblasts" applicable to this article?
          Yes
          No Thanks for your feedback. Is the Subject Area "Lipids" applicable to this article?
          Yes
          No Thanks for your feedback. Is the Subject Area "Oxygen" applicable to this article?
          Yes
          No Thanks for your feedback. Is the Subject Area "Optimization" applicable to this article?
          Yes
          No Thanks for your feedback. Is the Subject Area "Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction" applicable to this article?
          Yes
          No Thanks for your feedback. 

 

       Publications plos.org Blogs Collections Send us feedback Help using this site LOCKSS PLOS is a nonprofit 501(c)(3) corporation, #C2354500, and is based in San Francisco, California, US