The sorrowful complaint of Susan Higges , a lusty Country Wench , dwelling in Risborrow in Buc - kinghamshire , who for twenty years , most gallantly maintained her self by Robberies on the highway side , and such like practises . And lastly , how she was executed at Brickhill , at the Assizes , for a murder by her committed upon Messeldon Heath . To the tune of Lusty Gallant . TO Oh mourn for my offences , and former passed sins , This sad and doleful story , my heavy heart begins : Most wickedly I spent my time . devoid of godly grace : A lewder Woman never lived , I think in any place . Nare Buckingham I dwelled , and Susan Higges by name , Well thought of by good Gentlemen and Farmers of good fame : Where thus . for xx . years at least , I lived in gallant sort : Which made the Country marvel much , to here of my report . My state was not maintained , ( as you shall understand ) By good and honest dealings , nor labour of my hand : But by deceit and cozening shifts the end whereof , we see Hath ever been repayed with shame and ever like to be . My servants were young Country girls brought up unto my mind , By nature fair and beautiful , and of a gentle kind : Who with their sweet enticing eyes , did many Youngsters move To come by night unto my house in hope of further love . But still at their close meetings , ( as I the plot had late ) I slept in still at unawares , while they the wantons played . And would in question bring their names , except they did agree To give me money for this wrong , done to my house and me . This was but petty cozenage , to things that I have done : My weapon by the highway side , hath me much money won : In men's attire I oft have road , upon a Gelding stout , And done great robberies valiantly , the Countries round about . I had my Scarves and Vizards , my face for to disguise : Sometime a beard upon my chin , to blind the peoples eyes . My Turkey blade , and Pistols good , my courage to maintain : Thus took I many a Farmers purse well cramed with golden gain . Great store of London Merchants I boldly have bid Stand , And showed my self most bravely , a Woman of my hand , You rulsling Roisters , every one in my defence say then , we women still for gallant minds , may well compare with men . But if so be it chanced , the Countries were beset , With hue and cries and warrants into my house I get : And I so being with my Maids , would cloak the matter so , That no man could by any means , the right offender know . Yet God that still most justly , does punish every vice , Did bring unto confusion my fortune's in a trice : For by a murder all my sins were strangely brought to light : And such desert I had by law , as justice claimed by right . Upon the Heath of Misseldon , I met a woman there , And robbed her , as from market , homewards she did repair : Which woman called me by my name and said , that she me knew : For which , even with her life's deer blood , my hands I did embrue . But after I had wounded , this women unto death , And that her bleeding body , was almost reft of breath : She gave a groan : and therewithal did spit upon my face , Three drops of blood , that never could be wiped from that place : For after I returned unto my house again , The more that I it washde , it more appeared plain : Each hour I thought that beasts , [ & amp ; ] birds this murder would reveal , Or that the air , so vile a deed , no longer would conceal . So heavy at my conscience , this woeful murder lay , That I was soon enforced , the same for to beware , And to my servants made it known , as God appointed me : For blood can never secret rest , nor long unpunished be . My servants to the Justices , declared what I had said : For which I was attached , and to the Jail conveyed , And at the Sises was condemned , and had my just desert : Even such a death let all them have , that bear so false a heart . Be warned by this story , you ru [ s ] sling Rosters all : The higher that you climb in sin the greater is your fallen : For now the world so wicked is , in Maiden and in Wife That few , or none , can find the way to led and honest life . FINIS . Printed at London for H . G.The sorrowful complaint of Susan Higges , a lusty Country Wench , dwelling in Risborrow in Buc - kinghamshire , who for twenty years , most gallantly maintained her self by Robberies on the highway side , and such like practises . And lastly , how she was executed at Brickhill , at the Assizes , for a murder by her committed upon Messeldon Heath . To the tune of Lusty Gallant . TO Oh mourn for my offences , and former passed sins , This sad and doleful story , my heavy heart begins : Most wickedly I spent my time . devoid of godly grace : A lewder Woman never lived , I think in any place . Nare Buckingham I dwelled , and Susan Higges by name , Well thought of by good Gentlemen and Farmers of good fame : Where thus . for xx . years at least , I lived in gallant sort : Which made the Country marvel much , to here of my report . My state was not maintained , ( as you shall understand ) By good and honest dealings , nor labour of my hand : But by deceit and cozening shifts the end whereof , we see Hath ever been repayed with shame and ever like to be . My servants were young Country girls brought up unto my mind , By nature fair and beautiful , and of a gentle kind : Who with their sweet enticing eyes , did many Youngsters move To come by night unto my house in hope of further love . But still at their close meetings , ( as I the plot had late ) I slept in still at unawares , while they the wantons played . And would in question bring their names , except they did agree To give me money for this wrong , done to my house and me . This was but petty cozenage , to things that I have done : My weapon by the highway side , hath me much money won : In men's attire I oft have road , upon a Gelding stout , And done great robberies valiantly , the Countries round about . I had my Scarves and Vizards , my face for to disguise : Sometime a beard upon my chin , to blind the peoples eyes . My Turkey blade , and Pistols good , my courage to maintain : Thus took I many a Farmers purse well cramed with golden gain . Great store of London Merchants I boldly have bid Stand , And showed my self most bravely , a Woman of my hand , You rulsling Roisters , every one in my defence say then , we women still for gallant minds , may well compare with men . But if so be it chanced , the Countries were beset , With hue and cries and warrants into my house I get : And I so being with my Maids , would cloak the matter so , That no man could by any means , the right offender know . Yet God that still most justly , does punish every vice , Did bring unto confusion my fortune's in a trice : For by a murder all my sins were strangely brought to light : And such desert I had by law , as justice claimed by right . Upon the Heath of Misseldon , I met a woman there , And robbed her , as from market , homewards she did repair : Which woman called me by my name and said , that she me knew : For which , even with her life's deer blood , my hands I did embrue . But after I had wounded , this women unto death , And that her bleeding body , was almost reft of breath : She gave a groan : and therewithal did spit upon my face , Three drops of blood , that never could be wiped from that place : For after I returned unto my house again , The more that I it washde , it more appeared plain : Each hour I thought that beasts , [ & amp ; ] birds this murder would reveal , Or that the air , so vile a deed , no longer would conceal . So heavy at my conscience , this woeful murder lay , That I was soon enforced , the same for to beware , And to my servants made it known , as God appointed me : For blood can never secret rest , nor long unpunished be . My servants to the Justices , declared what I had said : For which I was attached , and to the Jail conveyed , And at the Sises was condemned , and had my just desert : Even such a death let all them have , that bear so false a heart . Be warned by this story , you ru [ s ] sling Rosters all : The higher that you climb in sin the greater is your fallen : For now the world so wicked is , in Maiden and in Wife That few , or none , can find the way to led and honest life . FINIS . Printed at London for H.G. 