TO : The lamentabe complaint of Fraunce , for the death of the late King Henry the 4. who was lately murdered by one Fraunces Ravilliacke , born in the town of Angollem , showing the manner of his death , and of the election and Proclaiming of the new King Lewis , the 13. of that name , being a child of 9. years of age . To a new tune F Raunce that is so famous , and late in joys abounded , May now lament the loss of him : that mischief hath confounded . Their thrice renowned King , that Soldier brave and bold , In peace and wars so well belov'de lies clad in earthly mould . All kingdoms come and mourn , for this same sad mischance : For we have lost our Countries King , and flower of famous france . The bloody hand that wrought , and heart that gave consent : Now makes more eyes in France to weep : then ever did lament . More sighs [ and ] worser sobes was never herd , then be in Fraunce this day , For every one now mourning sits : this pleasant month of May . No joy , no hearts delight , but death and bloody deeds , In every Coast of famous Fraunce : much grief and sorrow breeds . In May the thirteenth day , it pleased this royal King : To make his Wife a Crowned Queen , which was a princely thing Who then in Triumph road along fair Paris streets , Whom all the Lords & amp ; peers of Fraunce in joyful manner greets . And all the streets along , whereas the Queen did ride . Were like the walls of Paradise , bedecked on every side : The royal King himself , the Dolphin his young son : The lordly Prelates of that land , and Barrons many one . With all the states of Fraunce : there honoured Henries Queen , More stately triumphs never was , within that Country seen . But soon thiese glories vanished , for death put in his hand , And in less time then forty hours made Fraunce a woeful land . This noble King god wot , supposing all good friends : The following day for pleasures sake : a journey forth intends . Wherein his Coach he rides , some of his lords with him , Along renowned Paris streets , being then decked out most trim . The people cried with joy : God save our Royal King , The presence of your Majesty : rejoicing love does bring . The People thronged so fast , about him in the streets , That hardly he could pass along : such numbers did he meet . among so many friends , a Judas hand there was , That turned the cheerful flower of france to fading withered grass , Two Coaches by hard chance . his graces Passage stayed , A time whereon his gentle life , by murder was betrayed . The Traitor tO [ hat ] three times , before had missed his aim , And could not in his royal blood : his cursed fingers stain . Now desperately thrust forth : unto his coaches side , And gave him there , 2 mortal wounds , by which , the King soon died , A cursed knife it was , which did this bloody deed , But ten times cursed be the cause , that did this mischief breed . The wounded King cried out , then with a fainting breath : O , save his life till he reveal . the plotters of my death . The Traitor being stayed , was so offence bereaven , That presently for this vild deed : he thought to purchase heaven . Some led this villain thence , and some , the King convaide : Unto his Palace mournfully , in bloody Robes arrayde . A native frenchman born , this wretch is known to be : Bred in the Town of Angolsem , a Courtier in degree . Fraunces Ravilliacke nam , in passed time a Fryer , Maintained long about this court , to accomplish his desire . But who the causers be : and chiefest in this crime , By wisdom of the peers of Fraunce : will found out in time . Mean while the villains teeth , are pulde out every one : lest he should bite clean out his tongue , and so no truth be shown , His nails likewise pinched off , lest he should tear it out , And speachles thus should loose his life : and no ways clear this doubt But let us speak again , of this the bleeding King , Who entering at his palace gate : death broke his life heart string . Even in a Bishops Arms , he yielded up his breath , And said I die true Christian King , sweet lords revenge my death . His Queen , his son , and peers , with wringing hands made moan , And said , if God be not our friend , our states be overthrown . The heaviest day in Fraunce , this is that ever was seen , His death now makes and orphant Prince , and eke a widowed Queen . Yet wisdom so prevailde , among the lords of Fraunce , That by the gracious help of God , they salved this mischance . The next day in the morn : fower Cardinals of estate , And Princes of the Kings own blood , this buisines did debate . To establish love and peace : within this mournful land , They there proclaimed the Dolphin King in Paris out of hand . A child of nine years old , being true and lawful heir , The only hope the Kingdom hath , to rid them from all fear . Up to his father's throne , the Dolphin straight was led , In Purple Robes most gorgeously : with sumptuous Jewels spread . Whom , in the peoples hearts , did move such present joy , That every one in gladsome sort , did cry vi , va , le roy . Yea every one does pray , now dwelling in the land , That like his father he may prove , and Imp of Mars his band . But three such days in Fraunce , no age hath ever known , Where present joy gained sudden woe , yet woe to joy is grown . One day a Crowned Queen , the next a murdered King , The third a Prince in joy proclaymde , a settled peace to bring . But God defend each Land , from such a sudden chance , As lately hath befallen the King , of fair renowned Fraunce . FINIS . At London printed for William Barley , and are to be should at his shop in Gracious Street 1610. TO : The lamentabe complaint of Fraunce , for the death of the late King Henry the 4. who was lately murdered by one Fraunces Ravilliacke , born in the town of Angollem , showing the manner of his death , and of the election and Proclaiming of the new King Lewis , the 13. of that name , being a child of 9. years of age . To a new tune F Raunce that is so famous , and late in joys abounded , May now lament the loss of him : that mischief hath confounded . Their thrice renowned King , that Soldier brave and bold , In peace and wars so well belov'de lies clad in earthly mould . All kingdoms come and mourn , for this same sad mischance : For we have lost our Countries King , and flower of famous france . The bloody hand that wrought , and heart that gave consent : Now makes more eyes in France to weep : then ever did lament . More sighs [ and ] worser sobes was never herd , then be in Fraunce this day , For every one now mourning sits : this pleasant month of May . No joy , no hearts delight , but death and bloody deeds , In every Coast of famous Fraunce : much grief and sorrow breeds . In May the thirteenth day , it pleased this royal King : To make his Wife a Crowned Queen , which was a princely thing Who then in Triumph road along fair Paris streets , Whom all the Lords & amp ; peers of Fraunce in joyful manner greets . And all the streets along , whereas the Queen did ride . Were like the walls of Paradise , bedecked on every side : The royal King himself , the Dolphin his young son : The lordly Prelates of that land , and Barrons many one . With all the states of Fraunce : there honoured Henries Queen , More stately triumphs never was , within that Country seen . But soon thiese glories vanished , for death put in his hand , And in less time then forty hours made Fraunce a woeful land . This noble King god wot , supposing all good friends : The following day for pleasures sake : a journey forth intends . Wherein his Coach he rides , some of his lords with him , Along renowned Paris streets , being then decked out most trim . The people cried with joy : God save our Royal King , The presence of your Majesty : rejoicing love does bring . The People thronged so fast , about him in the streets , That hardly he could pass along : such numbers did he meet . among so many friends , a Judas hand there was , That turned the cheerful flower of france to fading withered grass , Two Coaches by hard chance . his graces Passage stayed , A time whereon his gentle life , by murder was betrayed . The Traitor tO [ hat ] three times , before had missed his aim , And could not in his royal blood : his cursed fingers stain . Now desperately thrust forth : unto his coaches side , And gave him there , 2 mortal wounds , by which , the King soon died , A cursed knife it was , which did this bloody deed , But ten times cursed be the cause , that did this mischief breed . The wounded King cried out , then with a fainting breath : O , save his life till he reveal . the plotters of my death . The Traitor being stayed , was so offence bereaven , That presently for this vild deed : he thought to purchase heaven . Some led this villain thence , and some , the King convaide : Unto his Palace mournfully , in bloody Robes arrayde . A native frenchman born , this wretch is known to be : Bred in the Town of Angolsem , a Courtier in degree . Fraunces Ravilliacke nam , in passed time a Fryer , Maintained long about this court , to accomplish his desire . But who the causers be : and chiefest in this crime , By wisdom of the peers of Fraunce : will found out in time . Mean while the villains teeth , are pulde out every one : lest he should bite clean out his tongue , and so no truth be shown , His nails likewise pinched off , lest he should tear it out , And speachles thus should loose his life : and no ways clear this doubt But let us speak again , of this the bleeding King , Who entering at his palace gate : death broke his life heart string . Even in a Bishops Arms , he yielded up his breath , And said I die true Christian King , sweet lords revenge my death . His Queen , his son , and peers , with wringing hands made moan , And said , if God be not our friend , our states be overthrown . The heaviest day in Fraunce , this is that ever was seen , His death now makes and orphant Prince , and eke a widowed Queen . Yet wisdom so prevailde , among the lords of Fraunce , That by the gracious help of God , they salved this mischance . The next day in the morn : fower Cardinals of estate , And Princes of the Kings own blood , this buisines did debate . To establish love and peace : within this mournful land , They there proclaimed the Dolphin King in Paris out of hand . A child of nine years old , being true and lawful heir , The only hope the Kingdom hath , to rid them from all fear . Up to his father's throne , the Dolphin straight was led , In Purple Robes most gorgeously : with sumptuous Jewels spread . Whom , in the peoples hearts , did move such present joy , That every one in gladsome sort , did cry vi , va , le roy . Yea every one does pray , now dwelling in the land , That like his father he may prove , and Imp of Mars his band . But three such days in Fraunce , no age hath ever known , Where present joy gained sudden woe , yet woe to joy is grown . One day a Crowned Queen , the next a murdered King , The third a Prince in joy proclaymde , a settled peace to bring . But God defend each Land , from such a sudden chance , As lately hath befallen the King , of fair renowned Fraunce . FINIS . At London printed for William Barley , and are to be should at his shop in Gracious Street 1610. 