A Wellwishing to a place of Pleasure . To and excellent new tune . S Ee the building , where whilst my mistress lived in , was pleasures essence , See how it droops , And how nakedly it looks without her presence : Every creature That appertains to nature , about this house living , Does resemble , If not dissemble , due praises giving . Hark , how the hollow Winds do blow , and seem to murmur , in every corner , for her long absence : The which does plainly show The causes why I do now All this grief and sorrow show . See the Garden , Where I received reward in , for my true love : Behold those graces , Where I received those graces , the Gods might move : The Queen of plenty With all the fruits are dainty delights to please . Flora springing , Is ever bringing Dame Venus ease , O , see the Arbour where that she with melting kisses distilling blisses , From her true self , with joy did ravish me . The pretty Nightingale did sing melodiously . Haile to those Groves , Where I injoyde those loves so many days : Let the flowers be springing And sweet birds ever singing their Roundelays . Many Cupids measures , As cause for true loves pleasures , be danced around . Let all contentment For mirths presentment , this day be found : And may the grass grow ever green , where we two lying , have oft been trying More several ways then Beauty's lovely Queen , When she in bed with Mars by all the Gods was seen . FinisA Wellwishing to a place of Pleasure . To and excellent new tune . S Ee the building , where whilst my mistress lived in , was pleasures essence , See how it droops , And how nakedly it looks without her presence : Every creature That appertains to nature , about this house living , Does resemble , If not dissemble , due praises giving . Hark , how the hollow Winds do blow , and seem to murmur , in every corner , for her long absence : The which does plainly show The causes why I do now All this grief and sorrow show . See the Garden , Where I received reward in , for my true love : Behold those graces , Where I received those graces , the Gods might move : The Queen of plenty With all the fruits are dainty delights to please . Flora springing , Is ever bringing Dame Venus ease , O , see the Arbour where that she with melting kisses distilling blisses , From her true self , with joy did ravish me . The pretty Nightingale did sing melodiously . Haile to those Groves , Where I injoyde those loves so many days : Let the flowers be springing And sweet birds ever singing their Roundelays . Many Cupids measures , As cause for true loves pleasures , be danced around . Let all contentment For mirths presentment , this day be found : And may the grass grow ever green , where we two lying , have oft been trying More several ways then Beauty's lovely Queen , When she in bed with Mars by all the Gods was seen . Finis 