TO : A new Ballad entitled , The Old men complaint against his wretched son , who to advance his marriage , did undo himself . To the tune of , Dainty come thou to me . A Ll you that Father's be , look on my misery , Let not affection found work your extremity : For to advance my son in marriage wealthily I have my self undone , without alt remedy . I that was wont to live uncontrolled any way , With many checks and taunts , I am grieved every day . Alack and woe is me , I that might late command , Cannot have a bit of bred , but at my children's hand , While I was wont to fit chief at the Tables end , Now like a serving-slave , must I on them attend : I must not come in place , where their friends merry be Lest I should my son disgrace with my unreverencie : My coughing in the night , offends my daughter in law , My deafness and ill sighed does much disliking draw ; Fie on this doting fool , this crooked churl quoth she . The chimney corner still must with me troubled be , I must rise from my chair , to give my children place : I must speak servants fair , this is my woeful case . Unto their friends they tell , I must not say they lie , That [ they ] do keep me here : even [ of mere ] charity . When I am sick in bed , they will not come me [ n ] you Each day they wish me dead , yet say I'll never die . O Lord an't be thy will , look on my woeful case , No honest man before , ever took such disgrace , This was the old men plaint every night and day . With woe he waxed faint , but mark what I shall say . This rich and dainty pair , the young man and his wife , Though clogged with golden coin yet led a grievous life . Seven years they married were and yet in all this space God gave them never and heir , their riches to embrace . Thus did their sorrow breed , joy was from them exiled : Quoth she a hundred pound would I give for a child : To have a jolly child : of mine own body born ; Full oft I am reviled , of this my barren womb . Much Physic did she take , to make a fruitful soil , And with excess thereof her body she did spoil . Full of grief full of pain , full of ach grew she then , That she cried out amain , seek me forth cunning men , That I my health may have , I will no money spare , But that which she did crave , fell never to her share . Alack , alack , she said , what torments live I in , How well are they payed , that any case can win . So that I had my health , and from this pain were free , I would give all my wealth , that blessed joy to see . O that I had my health , though I were never so poor , I cared not though I went begging from door to door . Fie on that muck ( quoth she ) it cannot pleasure me , In this my woeful case and great extremity . Thus lived she long in pain , all comfort from her fled , She strangled at the last her self within a bed . Her husband full of grief , consuming woefully , His body pined away , suddenly he did die , Ere thirteene years were passed , died he without a Will , And by this means at last , the old man living still . Enjoyed his land again after such misery : Many years after that , lived he most happily , Far richer than before , by this means was he known He helped the sick and soar , the poor man overthrown : But this was all his song , let all men understand , Those Parents are accursed , live on their children's hand . Finis . Printed at London for H . G.T : A new Ballad entitled , The Old men complaint against his wretched son , who to advance his marriage , did undo himself . To the tune of , Dainty come thou to me . A Ll you that Father's be , look on my misery , Let not affection found work your extremity : For to advance my son in marriage wealthily I have my self undone , without alt remedy . I that was wont to live uncontrolled any way , With many checks and taunts , I am grieved every day . Alack and woe is me , I that might late command , Cannot have a bit of bred , but at my children's hand , While I was wont to fit chief at the Tables end , Now like a serving-slave , must I on them attend : I must not come in place , where their friends merry be Lest I should my son disgrace with my unreverencie : My coughing in the night , offends my daughter in law , My deafness and ill sighed does much disliking draw ; Fie on this doting fool , this crooked churl quoth she . The chimney corner still must with me troubled be , I must rise from my chair , to give my children place : I must speak servants fair , this is my woeful case . Unto their friends they tell , I must not say they lie , That [ they ] do keep me here : even [ of mere ] charity . When I am sick in bed , they will not come me [ n ] you Each day they wish me dead , yet say I'll never die . O Lord an't be thy will , look on my woeful case , No honest man before , ever took such disgrace , This was the old men plaint every night and day . With woe he waxed faint , but mark what I shall say . This rich and dainty pair , the young man and his wife , Though clogged with golden coin yet led a grievous life . Seven years they married were and yet in all this space God gave them never and heir , their riches to embrace . Thus did their sorrow breed , joy was from them exiled : Quoth she a hundred pound would I give for a child : To have a jolly child : of mine own body born ; Full oft I am reviled , of this my barren womb . Much Physic did she take , to make a fruitful soil , And with excess thereof her body she did spoil . Full of grief full of pain , full of ach grew she then , That she cried out amain , seek me forth cunning men , That I my health may have , I will no money spare , But that which she did crave , fell never to her share . Alack , alack , she said , what torments live I in , How well are they payed , that any case can win . So that I had my health , and from this pain were free , I would give all my wealth , that blessed joy to see . O that I had my health , though I were never so poor , I cared not though I went begging from door to door . Fie on that muck ( quoth she ) it cannot pleasure me , In this my woeful case and great extremity . Thus lived she long in pain , all comfort from her fled , She strangled at the last her self within a bed . Her husband full of grief , consuming woefully , His body pined away , suddenly he did die , Ere thirteene years were passed , died he without a Will , And by this means at last , the old man living still . Enjoyed his land again after such misery : Many years after that , lived he most happily , Far richer than before , by this means was he known He helped the sick and soar , the poor man overthrown : But this was all his song , let all men understand , Those Parents are accursed , live on their children's hand . Finis . Printed at London for H.G. 