The defence of Hide Parke , From some aspersions cast upon her Tending to her great dishonour . To a curious new Court tune . W Hen glistering Phaebus , had hid his head , And horned Cinthia shined in his stead , A dulness that time had possessed my brain , Then to a Tavern , I straight took my way , Where was good Canary , as I did hear say , To put me into a pleasant vain : And as I passed , A long in the dark , One in disgrace , Unto my face Slandered the honesty of old Hide Park . What though your Courtiers appear here in bravery , Must it be bolster unto their knavery , There's private corners , for them in the Court . Your Ladies of the Court , are they not neat ones , I surely that they be , and very feat ones . Yet come they not hither , to play at loves sport . They can point places , if it be their mind , More fit then this , To play and kiss : Then judge of Hide Park . no more then you find . What though your Ladies all of the Land , Come riding hither forth of the Strand , They come out to take the air , and so are gone . I dare not boldly say , that they come here to play , As they pass on they way in garments rich and gay , What harm is this I pray , I can find none , Each one hath time enough , at her own home , Nor you know what , Foe hurt in that , They to Hide Park to dooed need never come . Truth is , your Merchant's wives sometime come hither , Like loving little Rogues , kindly together : Is't not as fit for them , as this for many , Their husbands give them , a spare time for walking . Ships are not found they know , without good chalking , For in that they do here , I do not know any . Let not Hide Park . be so much scandalized , And made a bawd To women's fraud , You that have done this , be better advised . The honest Country Girls , sometime resort here , Think not amiss of them , they make no sport here , They take more pleasure to dance over a green , Or at a whitson ale , to be wooed plainly With a true country Lad , no word spoke vainly Though in Hide Park now and then they'll be seen , This never a whit the more dishonest for them . Therefore I'll still , Say they do ill , That do so honest a place so condemn . [ N . B ] [ That you 2d Part of this ] Ballad is misplaced in Page 339. The defence of Hide Parke , From some aspersions cast upon her Tending to her great dishonour . To a curious new Court tune . W Hen glistering Phaebus , had hid his head , And horned Cinthia shined in his stead , A dulness that time had possessed my brain , Then to a Tavern , I straight took my way , Where was good Canary , as I did hear say , To put me into a pleasant vain : And as I passed , A long in the dark , One in disgrace , Unto my face Slandered the honesty of old Hide Park . What though your Courtiers appear here in bravery , Must it be bolster unto their knavery , There's private corners , for them in the Court . Your Ladies of the Court , are they not neat ones , I surely that they be , and very feat ones . Yet come they not hither , to play at loves sport . They can point places , if it be their mind , More fit then this , To play and kiss : Then judge of Hide Park . no more then you find . What though your Ladies all of the Land , Come riding hither forth of the Strand , They come out to take the air , and so are gone . I dare not boldly say , that they come here to play , As they pass on they way in garments rich and gay , What harm is this I pray , I can find none , Each one hath time enough , at her own home , Nor you know what , Foe hurt in that , They to Hide Park to dooed need never come . Truth is , your Merchant's wives sometime come hither , Like loving little Rogues , kindly together : Is't not as fit for them , as this for many , Their husbands give them , a spare time for walking . Ships are not found they know , without good chalking , For in that they do here , I do not know any . Let not Hide Park . be so much scandalized , And made a bawd To women's fraud , You that have done this , be better advised . The honest Country Girls , sometime resort here , Think not amiss of them , they make no sport here , They take more pleasure to dance over a green , Or at a whitson ale , to be wooed plainly With a true country Lad , no word spoke vainly Though in Hide Park now and then they'll be seen , This never a whit the more dishonest for them . Therefore I'll still , Say they do ill , That do so honest a place so condemn . [ N . B ] [ That you 2d Part of this ] Ballad is misplaced in Page 339. 