The scoond part , To the same tune . M Any brave Races , both of foot and horse , This sptious place is so fit for a Course , It often inviteth both Lords , Knights & amp ; Squires Here is the Trial for better and worse , And truth to confess here is many a purse I'th year taine perforce : and ( before his horse tires ) Many a man is constrained to stay , Ere he pass by , In courtesy , At Hide Park Corner , a tribute to pay . Such great authority hath old Hide park . And shows such charity , to many a Spark , He hath spent his means , and must maintenance have , That she can shelter at night when this dark , Many a Roarer and swaggering Shark , By which she exalteth full many a knave , Higher than hundreds , which flocking doe run , Once a month still To hear their will Which they make at their ends , near Paddington . It seems confessed that Hide Park is faulty , Of shrouding those that do boldly assault you , As you do travel along by her pale : But as for bawdry she foully scorns , Although she includeth a number of horns , For making of Cuckolds she's clear as my nail , If by chance any a foul Jest do break , Suffering the same she's not to blame , Perhaps sheeed chide them , if that she could speak . FINIS . Printed at London for . H . G.The scoond part , To the same tune . M Any brave Races , both of foot and horse , This sptious place is so fit for a Course , It often inviteth both Lords , Knights & amp ; Squires Here is the Trial for better and worse , And truth to confess here is many a purse I'th year taine perforce : and ( before his horse tires ) Many a man is constrained to stay , Ere he pass by , In courtesy , At Hide Park Corner , a tribute to pay . Such great authority hath old Hide park . And shows such charity , to many a Spark , He hath spent his means , and must maintenance have , That she can shelter at night when this dark , Many a Roarer and swaggering Shark , By which she exalteth full many a knave , Higher than hundreds , which flocking doe run , Once a month still To hear their will Which they make at their ends , near Paddington . It seems confessed that Hide Park is faulty , Of shrouding those that do boldly assault you , As you do travel along by her pale : But as for bawdry she foully scorns , Although she includeth a number of horns , For making of Cuckolds she's clear as my nail , If by chance any a foul Jest do break , Suffering the same she's not to blame , Perhaps sheeed chide them , if that she could speak . FINIS . Printed at London for . H.G. 