A Lovers newest Curranto , or the Lamentation of a young men folly . To a pleasant new tune . A S it fell upon a day , in the merry month of may : Sitting in a pleasant shade , with a gown of mertle made ? Beasts did leap and birds did sing , trees they grow and plants they spring , Every bird sings banish moan , save the Nightingale alone : She poor bird as all forlorn leans her breast unto a thorn : Where she sung this mournful ditty , that to here it it great pity : Fie , fie , fie , now can she cry . to-ra-ra-ra-ra-ro-by and by : For to hear her thus complain . scarce from tears I could refrain , For her grief so lively shown , makes me think upon my own . O thought I thou monest in vain , none takes pity of thy pain : Senseless trees they cannot here thee : retchless birds they will not cheer thee , King annoy he is dead , and all thy friends are clad in led , All thy fellow birds do sing , careless of thy sorrowing : While that fickle fortune smiled , thou and I were both beguiled : Every one that flatters thee , is no friend in misery , When that I was prodigal , bountiful they did me call : And with such flattering , pity but I were a King , But when fortune chanced to frown , then farewell thy high renown , He is thy friend and friend in deed , that sticks to thee in time of need , When thou sorrowest he will weep : when thou wakest he will not sleep , Thus with every grief in heart , he with thee will bear a part . First enticed by many wiles , and by fortune's fickle smiles : Grief it is my chiefest song , sorrow to me does belong , Still I wait and moan to see , my hard hap and misery . When all my money it was spent , no credit unto me he lent : But straight they turned me out of door , to beg my bred among the poor . Thus fortune first on me did smile , and afterwards did me beguile , Wherefore I wish all youths that see , to take warning here by me . How that they follow Venus trace . fear lest they come to great disgrace , For she like Sire's will them entice , and afterwards will them despise , FINIS . printed at London for . J . W.A Lovers newest Curranto , or the Lamentation of a young men folly . To a pleasant new tune . A S it fell upon a day , in the merry month of may : Sitting in a pleasant shade , with a gown of mertle made ? Beasts did leap and birds did sing , trees they grow and plants they spring , Every bird sings banish moan , save the Nightingale alone : She poor bird as all forlorn leans her breast unto a thorn : Where she sung this mournful ditty , that to here it it great pity : Fie , fie , fie , now can she cry . to-ra-ra-ra-ra-ro-by and by : For to hear her thus complain . scarce from tears I could refrain , For her grief so lively shown , makes me think upon my own . O thought I thou monest in vain , none takes pity of thy pain : Senseless trees they cannot here thee : retchless birds they will not cheer thee , King annoy he is dead , and all thy friends are clad in led , All thy fellow birds do sing , careless of thy sorrowing : While that fickle fortune smiled , thou and I were both beguiled : Every one that flatters thee , is no friend in misery , When that I was prodigal , bountiful they did me call : And with such flattering , pity but I were a King , But when fortune chanced to frown , then farewell thy high renown , He is thy friend and friend in deed , that sticks to thee in time of need , When thou sorrowest he will weep : when thou wakest he will not sleep , Thus with every grief in heart , he with thee will bear a part . First enticed by many wiles , and by fortune's fickle smiles : Grief it is my chiefest song , sorrow to me does belong , Still I wait and moan to see , my hard hap and misery . When all my money it was spent , no credit unto me he lent : But straight they turned me out of door , to beg my bred among the poor . Thus fortune first on me did smile , and afterwards did me beguile , Wherefore I wish all youths that see , to take warning here by me . How that they follow Venus trace . fear lest they come to great disgrace , For she like Sire's will them entice , and afterwards will them despise , FINIS . printed at London for . J.W. 