A new Ballad entitled , I have fresh Cheese and Cream . To a new tune . I N London lately as I went , Along the streets to try , Many a pretty Wench I saw , Along the streets to cry : But none so sweet , Which I there could meet , As there was a handsome Wench , That sang in Colman street , I have fresh Cheese and Cream , I have fresh Cheese and Cream . Upon her back she wore A Fustian waistcoat white , Her Bodies and her Stomacher , Were fastened very tite . Her Neckenger of Holland sure , Her voice was shrill and very pure : Her Ware she opened straight To any that would buy . I have fresh Cheese and Cream , I have fresh Cheese and Cream . She pleased me full well , In singing of her noate ; She sung not like and Oyster whore , That rattleth in the throat : Which made me to admier , And asked her name , but with the same , She cried then more higher . I have fresh Cheese and Cream , I have , etc With that I marked all the trades Were round about the City , The cries of youngmen , boys , and maids , And all their pleasant ditty : Ripe Cherry , ripe ripe , Hot Pippin-pies , they pipe : Hay'ny Bouls or Trays to mend ? White young Radish , white . I have fresh Cheese and Cream , I have , etc Will you buy any Aqua-viti ? Sweep Chimney sweep : Buy any Writing pens , or Ink ? Will you buy any Milk ? Will you buy Pippins fine , Or Lemons for your Wine ? Will you buy any Blacking , 'Twill make your shoes to shine ? I have fresh Cheese and Cream , I have , etc Old shoes ; will you buy any Brooms ? Will you buy a Sive ? Hay'ny old Bellows to mend ? Hay'ny Wood to cleave ? Will you buy any sucruy Grass ? Will you buy any Glasses ? Ripe saint Thomas Onions . But then began this Lass , I have fresh Cheese and Cream , I have fresh , etc Buy a Mat for a Bed . New Mustles , Lily white . Buy a fine Tinder box . What Kitchenstuff hay you Maids ? I have white young Leeks . Hay'ny old Doublets ? I have ripe Cucumbers ripe . Hay'ny Corns ay'r feet . I have fresh Cheese and Cream , I have fresh , etc I have fine Pomegranuts . Hot Codlings hot . I have ripe Strawberries . Dee lack sir , what dee lack , Bands , Shirts , or Ruffs , Handkerchiefs , or Cuffs : Garters , Knives , or Purses , Or Muscova silken Muffs ? I have fresh Cheese and Cream , I have fresh , etc By no means can I get , To know her dwelling place : She was so decked with comeliness , And bodied with such grace . I would not care a rush , So might have my wish , To have her stay all night with me , which were a better dish , then her fresh Cheese and Cream , then her fresh Cheese and Cream . FINIS . Imprinted at London by W.W. 16A new Ballad entitled , I have fresh Cheese and Cream . To a new tune . I N London lately as I went , Along the streets to try , Many a pretty Wench I saw , Along the streets to cry : But none so sweet , Which I there could meet , As there was a handsome Wench , That sang in Colman street , I have fresh Cheese and Cream , I have fresh Cheese and Cream . Upon her back she wore A Fustian waistcoat white , Her Bodies and her Stomacher , Were fastened very tite . Her Neckenger of Holland sure , Her voice was shrill and very pure : Her Ware she opened straight To any that would buy . I have fresh Cheese and Cream , I have fresh Cheese and Cream . She pleased me full well , In singing of her noate ; She sung not like and Oyster whore , That rattleth in the throat : Which made me to admier , And asked her name , but with the same , She cried then more higher . I have fresh Cheese and Cream , I have , etc With that I marked all the trades Were round about the City , The cries of youngmen , boys , and maids , And all their pleasant ditty : Ripe Cherry , ripe ripe , Hot Pippin-pies , they pipe : Hay'ny Bouls or Trays to mend ? White young Radish , white . I have fresh Cheese and Cream , I have , etc Will you buy any Aqua-viti ? Sweep Chimney sweep : Buy any Writing pens , or Ink ? Will you buy any Milk ? Will you buy Pippins fine , Or Lemons for your Wine ? Will you buy any Blacking , 'Twill make your shoes to shine ? I have fresh Cheese and Cream , I have , etc Old shoes ; will you buy any Brooms ? Will you buy a Sive ? Hay'ny old Bellows to mend ? Hay'ny Wood to cleave ? Will you buy any sucruy Grass ? Will you buy any Glasses ? Ripe saint Thomas Onions . But then began this Lass , I have fresh Cheese and Cream , I have fresh , etc Buy a Mat for a Bed . New Mustles , Lily white . Buy a fine Tinder box . What Kitchenstuff hay you Maids ? I have white young Leeks . Hay'ny old Doublets ? I have ripe Cucumbers ripe . Hay'ny Corns ay'r feet . I have fresh Cheese and Cream , I have fresh , etc I have fine Pomegranuts . Hot Codlings hot . I have ripe Strawberries . Dee lack sir , what dee lack , Bands , Shirts , or Ruffs , Handkerchiefs , or Cuffs : Garters , Knives , or Purses , Or Muscova silken Muffs ? I have fresh Cheese and Cream , I have fresh , etc By no means can I get , To know her dwelling place : She was so decked with comeliness , And bodied with such grace . I would not care a rush , So might have my wish , To have her stay all night with me , which were a better dish , then her fresh Cheese and Cream , then her fresh Cheese and Cream . FINIS . Imprinted at London by W.W. 16 