A Lovers Lamentation to his fair Phillida . To new Tune . M Y Philida , adue , Love , And evermore farewell : I must go seek a new Love , Yet will I ring her knell . Ding dung , ding dung , ding dung , My Phillida is dead : I'll stick a branch of Willows At my fairy Phillis head . Our bridal bed was made , By my fair Phillida , Instead of silken shade , She now lies wrapped in clay . Ding dung , etc Her corpse shall be attended With Nymphs in rich array , Till Obsaquies be ended , And my Love wrapped in clay . Ding dung , etc Her Hearse it shall be carried , With them which do excel : And when that she is buried , Thus will I will ring her knell . Ding dung , etc I'll deck her Tomb with flowers The rarest that ere was seen : And with my tears as showers , I'll keep them fresh and green . Ding dung , etc In stead of fairest flowers , Set forth by curious Art , Her picture shall be painted In my distressed heart . Ding dung , etc And ever shall be written , And after shall be said , True love is not forgotten , Though Phillda be dead . Ding dung , etc Now ever will I dwell Where my True-Love does lie : And in some darksome Cell , There will I pine and die . Ding dung , etc In Sable will I mourn , The black shall be my weed , Ah me , I hear some talk , That Phillida is dead . Ding dung , etc A garland shall be framed , By Art and Nature's skill , With sundry other flowers , In token of good will . Ding dung , etc With sundry coloured Ribbons , As much I will bestow : They should be black and yellow , In token of my woe . Ding dung , etc True Lovers be not scanting With tears to make me mourn , Since Phillida is wanting , And all my joys are gone . Ding dung , etc She was my only True-Love , My heart can witness well : Wherefore , in sign I love her , Once more I'll wring her knell . Ding dung , ding dung , ding dung , My Phillida is dead : I'll stick a branch of Willows At my fair Phillis head . FINIS . Printed at London by G. P . A Lovers Lamentation to his fair Phillida . To new Tune . M Y Philida , adue , Love , And evermore farewell : I must go seek a new Love , Yet will I ring her knell . Ding dung , ding dung , ding dung , My Phillida is dead : I'll stick a branch of Willows At my fairy Phillis head . Our bridal bed was made , By my fair Phillida , Instead of silken shade , She now lies wrapped in clay . Ding dung , etc Her corpse shall be attended With Nymphs in rich array , Till Obsaquies be ended , And my Love wrapped in clay . Ding dung , etc Her Hearse it shall be carried , With them which do excel : And when that she is buried , Thus will I will ring her knell . Ding dung , etc I'll deck her Tomb with flowers The rarest that ere was seen : And with my tears as showers , I'll keep them fresh and green . Ding dung , etc In stead of fairest flowers , Set forth by curious Art , Her picture shall be painted In my distressed heart . Ding dung , etc And ever shall be written , And after shall be said , True love is not forgotten , Though Phillda be dead . Ding dung , etc Now ever will I dwell Where my True-Love does lie : And in some darksome Cell , There will I pine and die . Ding dung , etc In Sable will I mourn , The black shall be my weed , Ah me , I hear some talk , That Phillida is dead . Ding dung , etc A garland shall be framed , By Art and Nature's skill , With sundry other flowers , In token of good will . Ding dung , etc With sundry coloured Ribbons , As much I will bestow : They should be black and yellow , In token of my woe . Ding dung , etc True Lovers be not scanting With tears to make me mourn , Since Phillida is wanting , And all my joys are gone . Ding dung , etc She was my only True-Love , My heart can witness well : Wherefore , in sign I love her , Once more I'll wring her knell . Ding dung , ding dung , ding dung , My Phillida is dead : I'll stick a branch of Willows At my fair Phillis head . FINIS . Printed at London by G. P. 