And inconstant Female . With a reward for her disdain in equality : To the same tune . L Oving mortal , In love I here exhort all in that estate : Love is wasting . But everlasting is women's hate . Why then live ye , Or wherefore always give you your tears and prayers To found woman , Whose mind , so common , respects no tears . O be ruled , and be advised by one hath seen them , by one hath known them , by one hath found them And their loves so small , For what must parted be , To me is nought at all . Once I loved , But thousand times have proved a curious Fair , Helens feature Bears this coy creature , and Venus hair . Cupid dandling , Her tender breasts handling , betwixt them lies . Love pursued , The more I viewed , love more did rise . She did feed me with delay , and swore to have me , not once to leave me , but vowed to love me , With the like respect , When she another Sweetheart Better did affect . Void of sorrow , A patience pure I borrow , and wait the time : She neglectful , Of some respectful , does let me pine . Love increased , But could not be released , the more I sue , She ungrateful , To me turns hateful , false , fair , untrue : Spend I love , or time of fears , I am neglected , not once respected , but quite rejected , And can nothing gain , But false dissembling love , Or fend to love in vain . Now a Troylus I still must live , yet joyless of Cresida : Love's mistaken , And I forsaken , am left for aye : Fair she fed me , Until my Daphne fled me , with swiftest wings : Fair she proved , But false she loved , so Sire's sings But now my love hath proved untrue , disdaining pity , to one so witty , I'll sing this ditty : Thus the note shall found , Falsehearted fickle Maids Are better lost then found . Finis . Printed at London for Francis Coules . And inconstant Female . With a reward for her disdain in equality : To the same tune . L Oving mortal , In love I here exhort all in that estate : Love is wasting . But everlasting is women's hate . Why then live ye , Or wherefore always give you your tears and prayers To found woman , Whose mind , so common , respects no tears . O be ruled , and be advised by one hath seen them , by one hath known them , by one hath found them And their loves so small , For what must parted be , To me is nought at all . Once I loved , But thousand times have proved a curious Fair , Helens feature Bears this coy creature , and Venus hair . Cupid dandling , Her tender breasts handling , betwixt them lies . Love pursued , The more I viewed , love more did rise . She did feed me with delay , and swore to have me , not once to leave me , but vowed to love me , With the like respect , When she another Sweetheart Better did affect . Void of sorrow , A patience pure I borrow , and wait the time : She neglectful , Of some respectful , does let me pine . Love increased , But could not be released , the more I sue , She ungrateful , To me turns hateful , false , fair , untrue : Spend I love , or time of fears , I am neglected , not once respected , but quite rejected , And can nothing gain , But false dissembling love , Or fend to love in vain . Now a Troylus I still must live , yet joyless of Cresida : Love's mistaken , And I forsaken , am left for aye : Fair she fed me , Until my Daphne fled me , with swiftest wings : Fair she proved , But false she loved , so Sire's sings But now my love hath proved untrue , disdaining pity , to one so witty , I'll sing this ditty : Thus the note shall found , Falsehearted fickle Maids Are better lost then found . Finis . Printed at London for Francis Coules . 