The Northern Turtle : Wailing his unhappy fate , In being deprived of his sweet Mate . To a new Northern tune , or A health to betty . A S I was walking all alone , I herd a man lamenting , Under a hollow bush he lay , but soar he did repent him : Alas , quoth he , my love is gone , which causeth me to wander , Yet merry will I never be , till I lie lulling beyond her . Good Lord so soundly could I sleep if that I lay lulling beyond her , All the night , till day were light , and the Sun did shine upon her : Yet early by day I would steal away , to keep my love from slander , Yet I will never merry be , till I lie lulling beyond her . My love and I will gallantly so many years together , Her love was so inclined to me , that now I'm loath to leave her : But now this wicked world is such , that causeth me to wander ; Yet will I never woman touch , till I lie lulling beyond her . Like to the Turtle I will mourn , in absence of my marrow , With bitter tears I cry and mourn , my joy is all but sorrow ; My comfort is to me much care , while floods and woods I wander : Nay , merry will I never be : till I lie lulling beyond her . O Gods that make the fowls to fly , to love their mates so dearly , Yet for her sake they do refuse , to sing or chirp once cheerly . What comfort can the world afford , , what joys then can I render ? Nay merry will I never be , till I lie lulling beyond her . A pretty Dame was once my Love , till death made separation , And she to me did constant prove , with out dissimulation : Yet for her sake still will I weep , while I on earth do wander : Nay soundly will I never sleep , till I lie lulling beyond her . Though cruel death had cut the breath , of this my comely creature , To meet again we have true faith , our change is but a feature : Death may indeed in bondage keep , yet not our love can hinder , Then soundly , soundly shall I sleep , when as I lie lulling beyond her . My dearest Dear I come to thee , when't pleases death to send me , The grave I count my dearest home , o quickly then befriend me : She proved a Hero true to me , and I will be a Leander , I never shall in quiet be , till I lie lulling beyond her . London , Printed for J.H. FINIS . The Northern Turtle : Wailing his unhappy fate , In being deprived of his sweet Mate . To a new Northern tune , or A health to betty . A S I was walking all alone , I herd a man lamenting , Under a hollow bush he lay , but soar he did repent him : Alas , quoth he , my love is gone , which causeth me to wander , Yet merry will I never be , till I lie lulling beyond her . Good Lord so soundly could I sleep if that I lay lulling beyond her , All the night , till day were light , and the Sun did shine upon her : Yet early by day I would steal away , to keep my love from slander , Yet I will never merry be , till I lie lulling beyond her . My love and I will gallantly so many years together , Her love was so inclined to me , that now I'm loath to leave her : But now this wicked world is such , that causeth me to wander ; Yet will I never woman touch , till I lie lulling beyond her . Like to the Turtle I will mourn , in absence of my marrow , With bitter tears I cry and mourn , my joy is all but sorrow ; My comfort is to me much care , while floods and woods I wander : Nay , merry will I never be : till I lie lulling beyond her . O Gods that make the fowls to fly , to love their mates so dearly , Yet for her sake they do refuse , to sing or chirp once cheerly . What comfort can the world afford , , what joys then can I render ? Nay merry will I never be , till I lie lulling beyond her . A pretty Dame was once my Love , till death made separation , And she to me did constant prove , with out dissimulation : Yet for her sake still will I weep , while I on earth do wander : Nay soundly will I never sleep , till I lie lulling beyond her . Though cruel death had cut the breath , of this my comely creature , To meet again we have true faith , our change is but a feature : Death may indeed in bondage keep , yet not our love can hinder , Then soundly , soundly shall I sleep , when as I lie lulling beyond her . My dearest Dear I come to thee , when't pleases death to send me , The grave I count my dearest home , o quickly then befriend me : She proved a Hero true to me , and I will be a Leander , I never shall in quiet be , till I lie lulling beyond her . London , Printed for J.H. FINIS . 