A most notable Example of and ungracious Son , who in the pride of his heart denied his own Fathe [ r ] and how God for his offence , turned his meat into loathsome Toads . To the tune of Lord Darley . I N searching famous Chronicles , it was my chance to read A worthy story strange and true , whereto I took good heed , Betwixt a Farmer and his Son , this rare example stands ; Which well may move the hardest hearts to weep and wring their hands . The Farmer in the Country dwelled , whose substance had none end ; He sent therefore his eldest Son , in Paris for to dwell , Where he because a Merchant man , and traffic great he used , So that he was exceeding rich , till he himself abused . For having now the world at will , his mind was wholly bent : To gaming , wine , and wantonness , till all his goods were spent . Yea such excessive riotousness by him was showed forth , That he was three times more in debt , then all his wealth was worth . At length his credit clean was cracked , and he in Prison cast : And every man against him then did set his actium fast . There lay he locked in irons strong , for ever and for aye , Unable while his life did last , his grievous debt to pay . And living in this careful case , his eyes with tears bespent : The lewdness of his former life , too late he did repent . And being void of all relief , of help and comfort quite ; Unto his Father at the last , he thus began to write . Bow down a while your heedful ears , my loving Father deer : And grant I pray in gracious sort , my piteous plaint to hear . Forgive the foul offences all of thy unthrifty Son : Which through the lewdness of his life , hath now himself undone . O my good Father , take remorse on this my extreme need , And succour his distressed state , whose heart for when does bleed . In direful dungeon here I lie , my feet in fetters fast : Whom my most cruel Creditors in Prison so have cast . Let pity therefore pierce your breast , and mercy move your mind : And to release my misery , some shirt , sweet Father , find . My chiefest cheer is bred full brown , the boards my softest bed : And flinty stones my pillows serve to rest my troubled head . My garments all are worn to rags , my body starves with cold : And crawling vermin eats my flesh , most grievous to behold . Dear Father , come therefore with speed and rid me out of thrall : And let me not in Prison die , sith for your help I call . The good old man no sooner had , perused this written scroll : But trickling tears along his cheeks , from watery eyes did roll . Alas my son , my son , quoth he , in whom I joyed most , Thou shall not long in Prison be , whatever it me cost . Two hundred heads of well fed beasts , he changed them for gold : Foure hundred quarters of good Corn , for silver eke he sold . But all the same could not suffice , this heinous debt to pay . Till at the length constrained he was to fell his Land away . Then was his son released quite , his debt discharged clean : And he likewise as well to live , as he before had been . Then went his loving Father home , who for to help his son , Had sold his living quite away , and eke himself undone . So that he lived poor and bore , and in such extreme need , That many times he wanted food , his hungry corpse to feed . His son mean time in wealth did swim , whose substance now was such , That sure within the City then , few men were found so rich . But as his goods did still increase , and riches in did slide : So more and more his hardened heart did swell in hateful pride : But it fell out upon a time , when ten years woe was passed , Unto his son he did repair , for some relief at last . And being come unto his house , in very poor array : It chanced so , that with his son great States should dine that day . The poor old man with hat in hand , did then the Porter pray , To show his son that at the gate his father there did stay . Whereat this proud disdainful wretch [ h ] with taunting speeches said : That long ago his Father's bones within his grave were laid : What Rascal then is that ( quoth he ) that stains so my state ? I charge thee Porter presently , to drive him from my gate . Which answer when the old man hea [ rd ] he was in mind dismayed : He wept , he wailed , he wrung his hand [ s ] and thus at length he said , Oh cursed wretch and most unkind , the worker of my woe , Thou monster of humanity , and eke thy father's foe : Have I been careful of thy case , maintaining still thy state : And dost thou now so doggedly enforce me from thy gate : And have I wronged thy brothers all from thrall to set thee free : And brought my self to beggars state and all to succour thee ? Woe worth the time when first of all thy body I espied , Which hath in hardness of thy heart , thy Father's face denied . But now behold how God that time did show a wonder great : Even where his son with all his frien [ ds ] were settled down to meat . For when the fairest pie was cut , a strange and dreadful case , Most ugly Toads came crawling and leapt at his face . Then did this wretch his fault conf [ ess ] and for his Father sent , And for his great ingratitude , full soar he did repent . All virtuous Children learn by that [ is ] obedient hearts to show : And honour still your Parents deer for God commanded so . And think how he did turn his [ meat ] to poisoned Toads indeed , Which did his Father's face deny , because he stood in need . Printed at London for H. Gosson . FINIS . A most notable Example of and ungracious Son , who in the pride of his heart denied his own Fathe [ r ] and how God for his offence , turned his meat into loathsome Toads . To the tune of Lord Darley . I N searching famous Chronicles , it was my chance to read A worthy story strange and true , whereto I took good heed , Betwixt a Farmer and his Son , this rare example stands ; Which well may move the hardest hearts to weep and wring their hands . The Farmer in the Country dwelled , whose substance had none end ; He sent therefore his eldest Son , in Paris for to dwell , Where he because a Merchant man , and traffic great he used , So that he was exceeding rich , till he himself abused . For having now the world at will , his mind was wholly bent : To gaming , wine , and wantonness , till all his goods were spent . Yea such excessive riotousness by him was showed forth , That he was three times more in debt , then all his wealth was worth . At length his credit clean was cracked , and he in Prison cast : And every man against him then did set his actium fast . There lay he locked in irons strong , for ever and for aye , Unable while his life did last , his grievous debt to pay . And living in this careful case , his eyes with tears bespent : The lewdness of his former life , too late he did repent . And being void of all relief , of help and comfort quite ; Unto his Father at the last , he thus began to write . Bow down a while your heedful ears , my loving Father deer : And grant I pray in gracious sort , my piteous plaint to hear . Forgive the foul offences all of thy unthrifty Son : Which through the lewdness of his life , hath now himself undone . O my good Father , take remorse on this my extreme need , And succour his distressed state , whose heart for when does bleed . In direful dungeon here I lie , my feet in fetters fast : Whom my most cruel Creditors in Prison so have cast . Let pity therefore pierce your breast , and mercy move your mind : And to release my misery , some shirt , sweet Father , find . My chiefest cheer is bred full brown , the boards my softest bed : And flinty stones my pillows serve to rest my troubled head . My garments all are worn to rags , my body starves with cold : And crawling vermin eats my flesh , most grievous to behold . Dear Father , come therefore with speed and rid me out of thrall : And let me not in Prison die , sith for your help I call . The good old man no sooner had , perused this written scroll : But trickling tears along his cheeks , from watery eyes did roll . Alas my son , my son , quoth he , in whom I joyed most , Thou shall not long in Prison be , whatever it me cost . Two hundred heads of well fed beasts , he changed them for gold : Foure hundred quarters of good Corn , for silver eke he sold . But all the same could not suffice , this heinous debt to pay . Till at the length constrained he was to fell his Land away . Then was his son released quite , his debt discharged clean : And he likewise as well to live , as he before had been . Then went his loving Father home , who for to help his son , Had sold his living quite away , and eke himself undone . So that he lived poor and bore , and in such extreme need , That many times he wanted food , his hungry corpse to feed . His son mean time in wealth did swim , whose substance now was such , That sure within the City then , few men were found so rich . But as his goods did still increase , and riches in did slide : So more and more his hardened heart did swell in hateful pride : But it fell out upon a time , when ten years woe was passed , Unto his son he did repair , for some relief at last . And being come unto his house , in very poor array : It chanced so , that with his son great States should dine that day . The poor old man with hat in hand , did then the Porter pray , To show his son that at the gate his father there did stay . Whereat this proud disdainful wretch [ h ] with taunting speeches said : That long ago his Father's bones within his grave were laid : What Rascal then is that ( quoth he ) that stains so my state ? I charge thee Porter presently , to drive him from my gate . Which answer when the old man hea [ rd ] he was in mind dismayed : He wept , he wailed , he wrung his hand [ s ] and thus at length he said , Oh cursed wretch and most unkind , the worker of my woe , Thou monster of humanity , and eke thy father's foe : Have I been careful of thy case , maintaining still thy state : And dost thou now so doggedly enforce me from thy gate : And have I wronged thy brothers all from thrall to set thee free : And brought my self to beggars state and all to succour thee ? Woe worth the time when first of all thy body I espied , Which hath in hardness of thy heart , thy Father's face denied . But now behold how God that time did show a wonder great : Even where his son with all his frien [ ds ] were settled down to meat . For when the fairest pie was cut , a strange and dreadful case , Most ugly Toads came crawling and leapt at his face . Then did this wretch his fault conf [ ess ] and for his Father sent , And for his great ingratitude , full soar he did repent . All virtuous Children learn by that [ is ] obedient hearts to show : And honour still your Parents deer for God commanded so . And think how he did turn his [ meat ] to poisoned Toads indeed , Which did his Father's face deny , because he stood in need . Printed at London for H. Gosson . FINIS . 