A pleasant Song , made by a Soldier , whose bringing up had been dainty , and partly fed by those affections of his unbridled youth , is now beaten with his own rod , and therefore termeth this his repentance , the fallen of his folly . To the tune of Calino . I N Summer time when Phoebus rays , Did cheer each mortal men delight , Increasing of the cheerful days , and cutting off the darksome night . When Nature brought forth every thing , By just return of April showers : To make the pleasant branches spring , of sundry sorts of herbs and flowers . It was my chance to walk abroad , To view Dame Nature's newcome brood : The pretty Birds did lay on load , with sugared tunes in every wood . The gallant Nightingale did set , Her speckled breast against a Bryer , Whose woeful tunes bewails as yet , her brother Tereus foul desire . The Serpents having cast their coats , Lay listening how the Birds did sing : The pretty birds with sugared notes , did welcome in the pleasant Spring : I drew me to the Green-wood side , To hear this country harmony , Whereas ere long I had espied , a woeful man in misery . He lay along upon the ground , And to the heavens he cast his eye : The bordering hills and dales resound , the Echoes of his piteous cry . He wailing soar , and sighing , said , Oh heaven , what endless grief have I ? Why are my sorrows thus delayed ? come therefore death and let me die . When Nature first had made my frame , And let me lose when she had done : Steps Fortune in that fickle Dame , to end what Nature had begun , She set me soft upon her knee , And blessed my tender age with store ; But in the end she did agree , to mar what she had done before . I could no sooner creep alone , But she forsook her fostered child , I had no land to live upon , but traced abroad the world so wild . At length I fell in company , With gallant youths of Mars his train , I spent my life in jeoperdy , and god my labour for my pain . I walked on the sieged walls , In thunder , lightning , rain , and snow , And oft in shot of powdered halls , whose costly marks are yet to show , When all my kindred took their rest , At home in many a stately bed : The ground and pavement was my nest , my Flask a pillow for my head . My meat was such as I could find , As Roots and Herbs of sundry sorts : Which did content my hungry mind , although my commons were but short , My powder served to salt my meat , My murren for a gilded cup , Wherein such drink as I could get , in spring or ditch , I drank it up . My Rapier always by my side , My piece lay charged with match alight , Thus many a month I did abide , to ward all day , and watch all night , I lived in this glorious vain , Until my limbs were stiff and lame : And then I god me home again , regarding not such costly fame . When I came home , I made a proof What friends would do if need should be , My nearest kinsfolks looked aloof , as though they had forgotten me . And as the Owl by chattering charms , Is wondered at of other Birds , So came they wondering at my harms , and yield me no relief but words . Thus do I want when they have store , That am their equal every way : B ut fortune lent them somewhat more , else had I been as good as they . Come gentle Death and end my grief , You pretty B irds ring forth my knell : Let Robin read breast be the chief , to bury me , and so farewell . Let no good Soldier be dismayed , To fight in field with courage bold , Yet mark the words that I have said , trust not to friends when thou art old . FINIS . Printed at London for John Wright . A pleasant Song , made by a Soldier , whose bringing up had been dainty , and partly fed by those affections of his unbridled youth , is now beaten with his own rod , and therefore termeth this his repentance , the fallen of his folly . To the tune of Calino . I N Summer time when Phoebus rays , Did cheer each mortal men delight , Increasing of the cheerful days , and cutting off the darksome night . When Nature brought forth every thing , By just return of April showers : To make the pleasant branches spring , of sundry sorts of herbs and flowers . It was my chance to walk abroad , To view Dame Nature's newcome brood : The pretty Birds did lay on load , with sugared tunes in every wood . The gallant Nightingale did set , Her speckled breast against a Bryer , Whose woeful tunes bewails as yet , her brother Tereus foul desire . The Serpents having cast their coats , Lay listening how the Birds did sing : The pretty birds with sugared notes , did welcome in the pleasant Spring : I drew me to the Green-wood side , To hear this country harmony , Whereas ere long I had espied , a woeful man in misery . He lay along upon the ground , And to the heavens he cast his eye : The bordering hills and dales resound , the Echoes of his piteous cry . He wailing soar , and sighing , said , Oh heaven , what endless grief have I ? Why are my sorrows thus delayed ? come therefore death and let me die . When Nature first had made my frame , And let me lose when she had done : Steps Fortune in that fickle Dame , to end what Nature had begun , She set me soft upon her knee , And blessed my tender age with store ; But in the end she did agree , to mar what she had done before . I could no sooner creep alone , But she forsook her fostered child , I had no land to live upon , but traced abroad the world so wild . At length I fell in company , With gallant youths of Mars his train , I spent my life in jeoperdy , and god my labour for my pain . I walked on the sieged walls , In thunder , lightning , rain , and snow , And oft in shot of powdered halls , whose costly marks are yet to show , When all my kindred took their rest , At home in many a stately bed : The ground and pavement was my nest , my Flask a pillow for my head . My meat was such as I could find , As Roots and Herbs of sundry sorts : Which did content my hungry mind , although my commons were but short , My powder served to salt my meat , My murren for a gilded cup , Wherein such drink as I could get , in spring or ditch , I drank it up . My Rapier always by my side , My piece lay charged with match alight , Thus many a month I did abide , to ward all day , and watch all night , I lived in this glorious vain , Until my limbs were stiff and lame : And then I god me home again , regarding not such costly fame . When I came home , I made a proof What friends would do if need should be , My nearest kinsfolks looked aloof , as though they had forgotten me . And as the Owl by chattering charms , Is wondered at of other Birds , So came they wondering at my harms , and yield me no relief but words . Thus do I want when they have store , That am their equal every way : B ut fortune lent them somewhat more , else had I been as good as they . Come gentle Death and end my grief , You pretty B irds ring forth my knell : Let Robin read breast be the chief , to bury me , and so farewell . Let no good Soldier be dismayed , To fight in field with courage bold , Yet mark the words that I have said , trust not to friends when thou art old . FINIS . Printed at London for John Wright . 