A new Ditty , showing the wonderful Miracles of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ , which he did while he remained upon earth . To the tune of Triumph and Joy . W Hen Jesus Christ was twlve years old , as holy Scriptures plainly told , He then disputed brave and bold among the learned Doctors : Who wondered greatly at his wit , As in the Temple he did fit : For no man could compare with it , his wisdom was so heavenly . Then praise the Lord both high and low , Which all these wondrous works does show , That we to heaven at length may go , where he in glory reigneth . At thirty years he then began To rreach the Gospel unto man , And all Judea wondered than , to hear his heavenly Doctrine : Such works he did as made them muse , Among the proud hardhearted Jewes , Yet evermore they did refuse to take him for their Saviour . Then praise , etc For first of all by power divine , He changed water into wine , When at a marriage he did dine , which made the people wonder : Moreover with seven loaves of bred , Seven thousand men he fully fed , Whereby his glory far was spread , throughout the Land of Jury Then praise , etc And by his glorious power and might , Unto the blind he gave their sighed , For which the Jewes boar him a spite , who sought for to destroy him . The man which was both deaf and dumb , Which never herd nor spoke with tongue , By Christ was healed when headed come : whose praise he then pronounced . Then praise , etc The woman that was grieved soar , With and issue of blood twlve years & amp ; more , Unto her health he did restore , in a minute of and hour : The Captains man that sick did lie , Our Saviour healed presently , Although he never came him nigh , his words alone did help him , Then praise , etc Likewise he healed the Lepers ten , Whose Bodies were most filthy then , Yet none but one did come again , him humble thanks to render : And he that sick of the Palsy lay , With shaking joints full many a day , The Lord to heal him did not stay , but straight his will fulfilled . Then praise , etc The halt and lame that could not go , But still remained in great woe , Our Saviour Christ did pity show , and make them whole and lusty : The man that was with Devils possessed , And never lived in peace and rest , By Christ his Word at length was blessed , and they were clean cast from him . Then praise , etc The widow's son that dead did lie , When Christ our Saviour came not nigh , He raised to life immediately , unto her joy and comfort . Then Marry and Martha made great moan , Because their Brother was dead and gone , Our Lord put life in him alone , and he from grave came running . Then praise , etc And more his heavenly might to show , Upon the Sea himself did go , And never none could yet do so , but only Christ our Saviour . And when the Soldiers with great might Did seek to take him in the night , They were not able to stand in his sighed , till he the same permitted . Then praise , etc But yet for all these wonders great , The Jewes were in a raging heat , Whom no persawsion could entreat , but cruelly they did kill him : And when he left his life so good , The Moon was turned into blood , The Earth and Temple shaking stood , and graves full wide did open . Then praise , etc Then some of them that stood thereby , With voices loud began to cry , This was the Son of God truly , without all kind of doubting : And as they said , it proved plain : For in three days he rose again , Although he suffered bitter pain , both heaven and hell he conquered . Then praise , etc And after that ascended he , To heaven in glorious Majesty , With whom God send us all to be , for evermore rejoicing . Then praise , etc F I N I S. Printed at London for H . G.A new Ditty , showing the wonderful Miracles of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ , which he did while he remained upon earth . To the tune of Triumph and Joy . W Hen Jesus Christ was twlve years old , as holy Scriptures plainly told , He then disputed brave and bold among the learned Doctors : Who wondered greatly at his wit , As in the Temple he did fit : For no man could compare with it , his wisdom was so heavenly . Then praise the Lord both high and low , Which all these wondrous works does show , That we to heaven at length may go , where he in glory reigneth . At thirty years he then began To rreach the Gospel unto man , And all Judea wondered than , to hear his heavenly Doctrine : Such works he did as made them muse , Among the proud hardhearted Jewes , Yet evermore they did refuse to take him for their Saviour . Then praise , etc For first of all by power divine , He changed water into wine , When at a marriage he did dine , which made the people wonder : Moreover with seven loaves of bred , Seven thousand men he fully fed , Whereby his glory far was spread , throughout the Land of Jury Then praise , etc And by his glorious power and might , Unto the blind he gave their sighed , For which the Jewes boar him a spite , who sought for to destroy him . The man which was both deaf and dumb , Which never herd nor spoke with tongue , By Christ was healed when headed come : whose praise he then pronounced . Then praise , etc The woman that was grieved soar , With and issue of blood twlve years & amp ; more , Unto her health he did restore , in a minute of and hour : The Captains man that sick did lie , Our Saviour healed presently , Although he never came him nigh , his words alone did help him , Then praise , etc Likewise he healed the Lepers ten , Whose Bodies were most filthy then , Yet none but one did come again , him humble thanks to render : And he that sick of the Palsy lay , With shaking joints full many a day , The Lord to heal him did not stay , but straight his will fulfilled . Then praise , etc The halt and lame that could not go , But still remained in great woe , Our Saviour Christ did pity show , and make them whole and lusty : The man that was with Devils possessed , And never lived in peace and rest , By Christ his Word at length was blessed , and they were clean cast from him . Then praise , etc The widow's son that dead did lie , When Christ our Saviour came not nigh , He raised to life immediately , unto her joy and comfort . Then Marry and Martha made great moan , Because their Brother was dead and gone , Our Lord put life in him alone , and he from grave came running . Then praise , etc And more his heavenly might to show , Upon the Sea himself did go , And never none could yet do so , but only Christ our Saviour . And when the Soldiers with great might Did seek to take him in the night , They were not able to stand in his sighed , till he the same permitted . Then praise , etc But yet for all these wonders great , The Jewes were in a raging heat , Whom no persawsion could entreat , but cruelly they did kill him : And when he left his life so good , The Moon was turned into blood , The Earth and Temple shaking stood , and graves full wide did open . Then praise , etc Then some of them that stood thereby , With voices loud began to cry , This was the Son of God truly , without all kind of doubting : And as they said , it proved plain : For in three days he rose again , Although he suffered bitter pain , both heaven and hell he conquered . Then praise , etc And after that ascended he , To heaven in glorious Majesty , With whom God send us all to be , for evermore rejoicing . Then praise , etc F I N I S. Printed at London for H.G. 