A most excellent Ditty , called Collins Conceit To the tune of Wigmores Gallard . C Onceits of sundry sorts there are , but this Conceit of mine , Does wish all men to have a care , to live by wisdoms line . In my conceit if men would look , where sacred virtues dwell . And live according to Gods Book , then all things should be well . If wisdom were once made our guide , she would direct us right , Where now we daily flip aside , for want of wisdoms light . If we had faith , we need not fear the Devil nor powers of Hell : If godly faith our Anchor were , then all things should be well . If we could learn to love the Lord , with and unfeigned love , And willingly obey his Word , as duty does us move : If we would leave our wickedness , wherein we do excel , And give our minds to godliness , then all things should be well . If people did not go to Church , only for fashion sake : If one would not another lurch , nor yet bad courses take : If all those that seem so pure , would not by false weights fell , But justly deal , we might be sure that all things should be well . If men would not , to purchase gain , falsely themselves forswear , Nor take the name of God in vain , but live in dread and fear : If all hypocrisy were left , which daily does excel : If we were not of zeal bereft , then all things should be well . If conscience were not overstrai'nd , for to oppress the weak : If subtle mates were not maintai'nd , if none would promise break : If spiteful men did not delight , in wrangling suits to dwell : If one kept not another's wife , then all things should be well . If no man would false witness bear for lucre or for love : If no contentious people were disquiet for to move : If none would hurt the innocent , nor yet for money fell Another's life , it time well spent , then all things should be well . If bloody murdering would cease , which does for vengeance cry : If every man would seek for peace , and live contentedly : If drunkenness and gluttony , that does so much excel : If none would practise cruelty , then all things should be well . If Parents would instruction use , and youth in time correct : Would youth good counsel note rfuse , but thereto have respect : If servants were obedient to those with whom they dwell If they were quick and diligent , then all things should be well . If fornication were not used , nor foul adultery : In every place were bribes refused , and partiality : If no man would his neighbour wrong which far or near him dwell , Nor stain their cr [ e ] dits with his tonge , then all things should be well . If scolding queans were punished , did witches hang or burn : If bawds and whores not sufffered , some had a blessed turn : If we did not delight to fit in sins dark shadow Cell : If godly wisdom governed wit , then all things should be well . If crafty heads would once grow scant , which scrape and claw for gain , The poor and needy souls that want would not so much complain . If trust might lie safe in his bed , if truth might buy and fell , If double dealing once were dead , then all things should be well . If cunning Cutpurses and Thieves , were clean out of the way , Then some false knaves that true men grieve should not remain this day , If swearing were once out of ure , that none of oaths could tell : If lies were left , we might be sure , that all things would be well . If carry-tales , that breed debate , were hid from Man and Wife : Then surely each man with his mate , might led a quiet life : If neighbours would like friends agree and love among us dwell : If pride might once expelled be , then all things should be well . If Landlords would leave racking rend , if usury would cease : If we had not great malcontent , this Land might live in peace . If Justice would not swerve at all , if malice would not swell : Might high aspiring climbers fallen , then all things should be well . If rash and hasty people would to patience give place : If wrath were left , a number would not be so void of grace : If hatred were abandoned , were envy driven to Hell : If Idleness were punished , then all things should be well If deeds of charity were used . if poor men were not proud , If Officers were not abused , if dice were not allowed : If Lawyers would not suits prolong , but to their Clients tell How cases stand , if right or wrong , then all things should be well . If flattering pickthanks were expelled out of the Commonwealth : If men a moderate diet held , they might live long in health : If hellbred covetousness and pride did not among us dwell : If rich men were not merciless , then all things should be well . If poor men's states were pitied , which do in prison lie : If sick folk were much comforted , in their necessity : If Tradesmen did not use deceit , if fraud did not excel : Did wicked men practise no sleights , then all things should be well . If these false traitors were found out , which would this Realm betray , Then should all England round about , stand at a better stay . That wicked vices may decay , and virtue bear the bell , To God let us most humbly pray , and so we shall do well . FINIS . Printed at London for H. GossonA most excellent Ditty , called Collins Conceit To the tune of Wigmores Gallard . C Onceits of sundry sorts there are , but this Conceit of mine , Does wish all men to have a care , to live by wisdoms line . In my conceit if men would look , where sacred virtues dwell . And live according to Gods Book , then all things should be well . If wisdom were once made our guide , she would direct us right , Where now we daily flip aside , for want of wisdoms light . If we had faith , we need not fear the Devil nor powers of Hell : If godly faith our Anchor were , then all things should be well . If we could learn to love the Lord , with and unfeigned love , And willingly obey his Word , as duty does us move : If we would leave our wickedness , wherein we do excel , And give our minds to godliness , then all things should be well . If people did not go to Church , only for fashion sake : If one would not another lurch , nor yet bad courses take : If all those that seem so pure , would not by false weights fell , But justly deal , we might be sure that all things should be well . If men would not , to purchase gain , falsely themselves forswear , Nor take the name of God in vain , but live in dread and fear : If all hypocrisy were left , which daily does excel : If we were not of zeal bereft , then all things should be well . If conscience were not overstrai'nd , for to oppress the weak : If subtle mates were not maintai'nd , if none would promise break : If spiteful men did not delight , in wrangling suits to dwell : If one kept not another's wife , then all things should be well . If no man would false witness bear for lucre or for love : If no contentious people were disquiet for to move : If none would hurt the innocent , nor yet for money fell Another's life , it time well spent , then all things should be well . If bloody murdering would cease , which does for vengeance cry : If every man would seek for peace , and live contentedly : If drunkenness and gluttony , that does so much excel : If none would practise cruelty , then all things should be well . If Parents would instruction use , and youth in time correct : Would youth good counsel note rfuse , but thereto have respect : If servants were obedient to those with whom they dwell If they were quick and diligent , then all things should be well . If fornication were not used , nor foul adultery : In every place were bribes refused , and partiality : If no man would his neighbour wrong which far or near him dwell , Nor stain their cr [ e ] dits with his tonge , then all things should be well . If scolding queans were punished , did witches hang or burn : If bawds and whores not sufffered , some had a blessed turn : If we did not delight to fit in sins dark shadow Cell : If godly wisdom governed wit , then all things should be well . If crafty heads would once grow scant , which scrape and claw for gain , The poor and needy souls that want would not so much complain . If trust might lie safe in his bed , if truth might buy and fell , If double dealing once were dead , then all things should be well . If cunning Cutpurses and Thieves , were clean out of the way , Then some false knaves that true men grieve should not remain this day , If swearing were once out of ure , that none of oaths could tell : If lies were left , we might be sure , that all things would be well . If carry-tales , that breed debate , were hid from Man and Wife : Then surely each man with his mate , might led a quiet life : If neighbours would like friends agree and love among us dwell : If pride might once expelled be , then all things should be well . If Landlords would leave racking rend , if usury would cease : If we had not great malcontent , this Land might live in peace . If Justice would not swerve at all , if malice would not swell : Might high aspiring climbers fallen , then all things should be well . If rash and hasty people would to patience give place : If wrath were left , a number would not be so void of grace : If hatred were abandoned , were envy driven to Hell : If Idleness were punished , then all things should be well If deeds of charity were used . if poor men were not proud , If Officers were not abused , if dice were not allowed : If Lawyers would not suits prolong , but to their Clients tell How cases stand , if right or wrong , then all things should be well . If flattering pickthanks were expelled out of the Commonwealth : If men a moderate diet held , they might live long in health : If hellbred covetousness and pride did not among us dwell : If rich men were not merciless , then all things should be well . If poor men's states were pitied , which do in prison lie : If sick folk were much comforted , in their necessity : If Tradesmen did not use deceit , if fraud did not excel : Did wicked men practise no sleights , then all things should be well . If these false traitors were found out , which would this Realm betray , Then should all England round about , stand at a better stay . That wicked vices may decay , and virtue bear the bell , To God let us most humbly pray , and so we shall do well . FINIS . Printed at London for H. Gosson 