The woeful lamentation of Edward Smith , a poor penitent prisoner in the Jail of Bedford , which he wrote a short time before his death . To the tune of , Dainty come thou to me . I Am a Prisoner poor , Oppressed with misery : Oh Lord do thou restore that faith which wants in me . In woe I wail and weep , In gripping grief I cry , In dungeon dark and deep , In fetters fast I lie , Sighing I fit and moan , My foul offences all , My loathsome life is known , which makes me live in thrall . Ned Smith I am , the wight In prison that remains , Tormented day and night , with bans and iron chains . My joys are turned to nought , My hope's are worn away , My wickedness hath wrought my downfall and decay . Those gifts that God gave me , My wants for to supply , Abused much I have , To please my fantasy , My [ n ] ame I did deny , In B [ ap ] ti [ s ] me given me , That Sacrament whereby Regenerate I should be . No wit nor strength may serve The Law to satisfy : For death I do deserve , In right and equity . For I offended have Nobles of high degree , What favour can I crave For life or liberty ? But hope of life is past , My acts so heinous be : And liberty is lost , Till death do set me free . All men both old and young Which are at liberty , And hear my doleful song , Example take by me . Be true , and trust in God , Fly theft , and vice eschew , Lest Gods most heavy rod Correct your deeds untrue . Would I had never been born To do such wicked deeds , Which makes me live in scorn And shame that soar exceeds . But that which passed is , I cannot now recall : My sins and my amiss , Oh Lord forgive them all . Woe worth ill company , Fie on that filthy crew : Accursed the day may be That ever I them knew . If life and death were set Before me for to chosen , Though I might pardon get , My life first would I loose , Then run that wicked raze , And do as I have done , Sweet Jesus give me grace , That life so lewd to shun . Fare well my loving wife , Who sought to turn my mind , And make me mend my life , Thy words full true I find . Farewell my children all , My tender Babes adue : Let this your Father's fallen , Be warning good for you . Dear wife , and Infants three , Serve God , remember this , That you true subject's be , Though I have done amiss . Farewell my Music sweet , And Cittron silver found , Mourning for me is meet , My sins do so abound . O Lord , on bent knees , And hands lift up on high , Cast on me gracious eyes , With grace my wants supply . Lay not unto my charge , The things that I have done , Though I have run at large , And played the unthrift son . Yet now I do repent , And humbly come to thee , My sins I do lament , Sweet Jesus comfort me . O Lord I do lament , And only joy in thee , To praise thee day and night , For thou redeemedst me . Lord save our royal King Whose prisoner poor am I , Prolong his days on earth , With fame and victory . Against his Majesty , I have offended soar , Committing Felony , And now I die therefore , A doleful death , God knows , Which once I did defy : Thus must I end my woes Which I take patiently . By thee Oh Saviour sweet , In heaven I hope to rest , In joy where I shall meet , Those souls whom thou hast blessed , Where we shall sing thy praise , Oh God , with voices high , When I shall end my days , And live eternally . Printed at London for C . W.The woeful lamentation of Edward Smith , a poor penitent prisoner in the Jail of Bedford , which he wrote a short time before his death . To the tune of , Dainty come thou to me . I Am a Prisoner poor , Oppressed with misery : Oh Lord do thou restore that faith which wants in me . In woe I wail and weep , In gripping grief I cry , In dungeon dark and deep , In fetters fast I lie , Sighing I fit and moan , My foul offences all , My loathsome life is known , which makes me live in thrall . Ned Smith I am , the wight In prison that remains , Tormented day and night , with bans and iron chains . My joys are turned to nought , My hope's are worn away , My wickedness hath wrought my downfall and decay . Those gifts that God gave me , My wants for to supply , Abused much I have , To please my fantasy , My [ n ] ame I did deny , In B [ ap ] ti [ s ] me given me , That Sacrament whereby Regenerate I should be . No wit nor strength may serve The Law to satisfy : For death I do deserve , In right and equity . For I offended have Nobles of high degree , What favour can I crave For life or liberty ? But hope of life is past , My acts so heinous be : And liberty is lost , Till death do set me free . All men both old and young Which are at liberty , And hear my doleful song , Example take by me . Be true , and trust in God , Fly theft , and vice eschew , Lest Gods most heavy rod Correct your deeds untrue . Would I had never been born To do such wicked deeds , Which makes me live in scorn And shame that soar exceeds . But that which passed is , I cannot now recall : My sins and my amiss , Oh Lord forgive them all . Woe worth ill company , Fie on that filthy crew : Accursed the day may be That ever I them knew . If life and death were set Before me for to chosen , Though I might pardon get , My life first would I loose , Then run that wicked raze , And do as I have done , Sweet Jesus give me grace , That life so lewd to shun . Fare well my loving wife , Who sought to turn my mind , And make me mend my life , Thy words full true I find . Farewell my children all , My tender Babes adue : Let this your Father's fallen , Be warning good for you . Dear wife , and Infants three , Serve God , remember this , That you true subject's be , Though I have done amiss . Farewell my Music sweet , And Cittron silver found , Mourning for me is meet , My sins do so abound . O Lord , on bent knees , And hands lift up on high , Cast on me gracious eyes , With grace my wants supply . Lay not unto my charge , The things that I have done , Though I have run at large , And played the unthrift son . Yet now I do repent , And humbly come to thee , My sins I do lament , Sweet Jesus comfort me . O Lord I do lament , And only joy in thee , To praise thee day and night , For thou redeemedst me . Lord save our royal King Whose prisoner poor am I , Prolong his days on earth , With fame and victory . Against his Majesty , I have offended soar , Committing Felony , And now I die therefore , A doleful death , God knows , Which once I did defy : Thus must I end my woes Which I take patiently . By thee Oh Saviour sweet , In heaven I hope to rest , In joy where I shall meet , Those souls whom thou hast blessed , Where we shall sing thy praise , Oh God , with voices high , When I shall end my days , And live eternally . Printed at London for C.W. 