Titus Andronicus Complaint . To the tune of Fortune . Y Ou noble minds and famous martial wights , That in defence of native Country fights ; Give ear to me that ten years fought for Rome , Yet reaped disgrace when I returned home , In Room I lived in fame full threescore years , My name beloved was of all my Peers , Full five and twenty valiant sons I had , Whose forward virtues made their father glad . For when Romes foes their warlike forces bent , Against them still my sons and I were sent , Against the Gothes full ten years weary war We spent , receiving many a bloody scar . Just two and twenty of my sons were slain , Before we did return to Room again : Of five and twenty sons I brought but three Alive , the stately Towers of Room to see . When wars were done , I conquest home did bring And did present my prisonsrs to the King : The Queen of Gothes , her sons , and eke a More , Which did such murders ; the like was never before . The Emperor did make the Queen his wife , Which bred in Rome debate and deadly strife , The More with her two sons did grow so proud , That none like them in Room was then aloud . The More so pleased the new made Empress eye , That she consented with him secretly For to abuse her husbands marriage bed , And so in time a Blackamoor she bred . Then she whose thoughts to murder were inclined Consented with the More with bloody mind , Agoinst my self , my kin , and all my friends , In cruel sort to bring them to their ends . So when in age I thought to live in peace , Both woe and grief began then to increase : among my sons I had one daughter bright , Which joyed and pleased best my aged sighed : My deer Lavinia was betrothed as than , To Cesars son , a young and Noble man , Who in a hunting by the Emperors wife , And her two sons bereft was of life , He being slain , was cast in cruel wise , Into a dismal den from light of skies : The cruel More did come that way as then , With my two sons , who fell into that den , The More then fetched the Emperor with speed For to accuse them of that murderous deed , And when my sons within the den were found , In wrongful prison they were cast and bound : But now behold what wounded most my mind , The Emperors two sons of Tigers kind , My daughter ravished without remorse , And took away her honour quite perforce . When they had tasted of so sweet a flower , Fearing their sweet should shortly turn to sour , They cut her tongue , whereby she could not tell , How that dishonour unto her befell . Then both her hands they falsely cut off quite , Whereby their wickedness she could not write , Nor with her needle on her Sampler sow , The bloody workers of her direful woe . My brother Marcus found her in the wood , Staining the grassy ground with purple blood , That trickled from her stumps & amp ; handless arms , No tongue at all she had to tell her arms . But when I saw her in that woeful case , With tears of blood I wet my aged face : For my Lavinia I lamented more , Then for my two and twenty sons before . When as I saw she could not write nor speak , With grief my aged heart began to break , We spread of sand upon the ground , Whereby those bloody tyrants we out found . For with a staff , without the help of hand , She writ these words upon the plot of sand , The lustful sons of the proud Empress , Are doers of this hateful wickedness . I tear the milkwhite hairs from off my head , I cursed the hour wherein I was first bred ; I wished my hand that fought for Countries fame , In Cradle rocked , had first been strucken lame . The More delighting still in villainy , Did say , to set my sons from prison free , I should unto the King my right hand give , And then my two imprisoned sons should live . The More I caused to strike it off with speed , Whereat I grieved not to see it bleed , But for my sons would willingly impart , And for their ransom send my bleeding heart . But as my life did linger thus in pain , They sent to me my bloodless hand again , And therewithal , the heads of my two sons , Which filled my dying heart with fresher groans . Then passed relief , I up and down did go , And with my tears , writ in the dust my woe : I shot my arrows towards heaven high : And for revenge to hell did sometime cry . The Empress thinking then that I was mad , Like Furies she and both her sons were clad , She named Revenge , and Rape , and Murder they , To undermine and know what I would say . I fed their foolish veins a certain space , Until my friends and I did find a place , Where both her sons unto a post were bound , Where just revenge in cruel sort was found . I cut their throats , my daughter held the pan , Betwixt her stumps , wherein the blood then ran , And then I ground their bones in powder small , And made a past for pies straight therewithal . Then with their flesh I made two mighty pies , And at a banquet served it in stately wise , Before the Empress set this loathesome meat : So of her sons own flesh she well did eat . My self bereaved my daughter then of life : The Empress then I slew with bloody knife : I stabbed the Emperor immediately , And then my self ; even so did Titus worser [ y ] e . Then this revenge against the More was found [ Alive ] they set him half into the ground , Whereas he stood until such time he starved , And so God send all murderers may be served . London printed for E. Wright . FINIS . Titus Andronicus Complaint . To the tune of Fortune . Y Ou noble minds and famous martial wights , That in defence of native Country fights ; Give ear to me that ten years fought for Rome , Yet reaped disgrace when I returned home , In Room I lived in fame full threescore years , My name beloved was of all my Peers , Full five and twenty valiant sons I had , Whose forward virtues made their father glad . For when Romes foes their warlike forces bent , Against them still my sons and I were sent , Against the Gothes full ten years weary war We spent , receiving many a bloody scar . Just two and twenty of my sons were slain , Before we did return to Room again : Of five and twenty sons I brought but three Alive , the stately Towers of Room to see . When wars were done , I conquest home did bring And did present my prisonsrs to the King : The Queen of Gothes , her sons , and eke a More , Which did such murders ; the like was never before . The Emperor did make the Queen his wife , Which bred in Rome debate and deadly strife , The More with her two sons did grow so proud , That none like them in Room was then aloud . The More so pleased the new made Empress eye , That she consented with him secretly For to abuse her husbands marriage bed , And so in time a Blackamoor she bred . Then she whose thoughts to murder were inclined Consented with the More with bloody mind , Agoinst my self , my kin , and all my friends , In cruel sort to bring them to their ends . So when in age I thought to live in peace , Both woe and grief began then to increase : among my sons I had one daughter bright , Which joyed and pleased best my aged sighed : My deer Lavinia was betrothed as than , To Cesars son , a young and Noble man , Who in a hunting by the Emperors wife , And her two sons bereft was of life , He being slain , was cast in cruel wise , Into a dismal den from light of skies : The cruel More did come that way as then , With my two sons , who fell into that den , The More then fetched the Emperor with speed For to accuse them of that murderous deed , And when my sons within the den were found , In wrongful prison they were cast and bound : But now behold what wounded most my mind , The Emperors two sons of Tigers kind , My daughter ravished without remorse , And took away her honour quite perforce . When they had tasted of so sweet a flower , Fearing their sweet should shortly turn to sour , They cut her tongue , whereby she could not tell , How that dishonour unto her befell . Then both her hands they falsely cut off quite , Whereby their wickedness she could not write , Nor with her needle on her Sampler sow , The bloody workers of her direful woe . My brother Marcus found her in the wood , Staining the grassy ground with purple blood , That trickled from her stumps & amp ; handless arms , No tongue at all she had to tell her arms . But when I saw her in that woeful case , With tears of blood I wet my aged face : For my Lavinia I lamented more , Then for my two and twenty sons before . When as I saw she could not write nor speak , With grief my aged heart began to break , We spread of sand upon the ground , Whereby those bloody tyrants we out found . For with a staff , without the help of hand , She writ these words upon the plot of sand , The lustful sons of the proud Empress , Are doers of this hateful wickedness . I tear the milkwhite hairs from off my head , I cursed the hour wherein I was first bred ; I wished my hand that fought for Countries fame , In Cradle rocked , had first been strucken lame . The More delighting still in villainy , Did say , to set my sons from prison free , I should unto the King my right hand give , And then my two imprisoned sons should live . The More I caused to strike it off with speed , Whereat I grieved not to see it bleed , But for my sons would willingly impart , And for their ransom send my bleeding heart . But as my life did linger thus in pain , They sent to me my bloodless hand again , And therewithal , the heads of my two sons , Which filled my dying heart with fresher groans . Then passed relief , I up and down did go , And with my tears , writ in the dust my woe : I shot my arrows towards heaven high : And for revenge to hell did sometime cry . The Empress thinking then that I was mad , Like Furies she and both her sons were clad , She named Revenge , and Rape , and Murder they , To undermine and know what I would say . I fed their foolish veins a certain space , Until my friends and I did find a place , Where both her sons unto a post were bound , Where just revenge in cruel sort was found . I cut their throats , my daughter held the pan , Betwixt her stumps , wherein the blood then ran , And then I ground their bones in powder small , And made a past for pies straight therewithal . Then with their flesh I made two mighty pies , And at a banquet served it in stately wise , Before the Empress set this loathesome meat : So of her sons own flesh she well did eat . My self bereaved my daughter then of life : The Empress then I slew with bloody knife : I stabbed the Emperor immediately , And then my self ; even so did Titus worser [ y ] e . Then this revenge against the More was found [ Alive ] they set him half into the ground , Whereas he stood until such time he starved , And so God send all murderers may be served . London printed for E. Wright . FINIS . 