TO : Sir Walter Rauleigh his lamentation : Who was beheaded in the old Palace at Westminster the 29. of October . 1618. To the tune of Welladay . C Ourteous kind Gallants all , pity me , pity me , My time is now but small , here to continue : Thousands of people stay , To see my dying day , Sing I then welladay , woefully mourning . Once in a gallant sort lived I , lived I . Beloved in Englands court graced with honours : Sir Walter Rauleighs name Had then a noble fame : Though turned now to shame through my misdoing . In youth I was too free of my will , of my will , Which now deceives me of my best fortune's : All that same gallant train Which I did then maintain , Holds me now in disdain for my vain folly . When as Queen Elizabeth ruled this land , ruled this land , I trodden the honoured path of a brave Courtier : Offices I had store , Heaped on me more and more , And my self I in them boar proud and commanding . Gone are those golden days , woe is me woe is me : Offences many ways brought unto trial , Shows that disloyalty Done to his Majesty , Judgeth me thus to die ; Lord for thy pity . But the good graces here of my King , of my King , Showed to me many a year makes my soul happy In that his royal Grace Gave me both time and space Repentance to embrace : now heaven be praised . Thirteene years in the tower have I lain , have I lain . Before this appointed hour of my lives ending : Likewise such liberty Had I unluckily , To be sent gallantly out on a voyage . But that same voyage then proved amiss proved amiss , Many good gentlemen lost their good fortune's : All that with me did go Had sudden overthrow My wicked will to show gainst my deer Country . When I returned back , hoping grace , hoping grace , The tower again alack was my abiding : Where for offences past , My life again was cast Woe on woe followed fast to my confusion . It pleased my royal King thus to do , thus to do , That his peers should me bring to my lives judgement . The Lieutenant of the tower Kept me fast in his power , Till the appointed hour of my removing . The Second Part . TO O Westminster then was I guarded strong , guarded strong Where many a wandering eye saw me conveyed Where I a Judgement had , for my offences bad , Which was to lose my head , there the next morning . So to the Gatehouse there , was I sent , was I sent , By knights and gentlemen , guarding me safely , Where all that woeful night , My heart took no delight : Such is the heavy plighted of a poor prisoner . Calling then to my mind , all my joys , all my joys , Whereto I was inclined , living in pleasures : All those days past and gone , Brings me now care and moan , Being thus overthrown , by mine own folly . When the sad morning came I should die , I should die : Oh what a fright of shame : filled up my bosom : My heart did almost break , when I herd people speak , I should my ending make as a vile traitor . I thought my fortune's hard , when I saw , when I saw In the fair palace yard a scaffold prepared : My loathed life to end : On which I did ascend . Having at all no friend there to grant mercy . Kneeling down on my knee , willingly , willingly , Prayed for his Majustie long to continue : And for his Nobles all . With subject's great and small , Let this my woeful fallen be a fit warning . And you that hither come thus to see , thus to see My most unhappy doom pity my ending . A Christian true I die : Papistry I defy , Nor never Atheist I as is reported . You Lords & amp ; knights also in this place , in this place Some gentle love bestow pity my falling : As I rose suddenly Up to great dignity , So I deservedly die for my folly . Farewell my loving wife woe is me , woe is me : Mournful will be thy life , Left a sad widow . Farewell my children sweet , We never more shall meet Till we each other gr [ ee ] tO , blessed in heaven , With this my dying knell willingly , willingly , Bid I the world farewell full of vain shadows All her deluding shows brings my heart nought but woes Who rightly feels and knows . all her deceivings . Thus with my dying breath do I kiss , do I kiss , This axe that for my death here is provided : May I feel little pain , when as it cuts in twaine , what my life must sustain all her deceivings . My head on block is laid , And my last part is played : Fortune hath me betrayed , sweet Jesus grant mercy . Thou that my headsman art , when thou list , when thou list , Without fear do thy part I am prepared : Thus here my end I take farewell world , farewell world , And my last will I make , climbing to heaven : For this my offence , I die with true penitance , Jesus receive me hence : farewell sweet England . London Printed for Philip Birch and are to be sold at his shop at the Guildhall . TO : Sir Walter Rauleigh his lamentation : Who was beheaded in the old Palace at Westminster the 29. of October . 1618. To the tune of Welladay . C Ourteous kind Gallants all , pity me , pity me , My time is now but small , here to continue : Thousands of people stay , To see my dying day , Sing I then welladay , woefully mourning . Once in a gallant sort lived I , lived I . Beloved in Englands court graced with honours : Sir Walter Rauleighs name Had then a noble fame : Though turned now to shame through my misdoing . In youth I was too free of my will , of my will , Which now deceives me of my best fortune's : All that same gallant train Which I did then maintain , Holds me now in disdain for my vain folly . When as Queen Elizabeth ruled this land , ruled this land , I trodden the honoured path of a brave Courtier : Offices I had store , Heaped on me more and more , And my self I in them boar proud and commanding . Gone are those golden days , woe is me woe is me : Offences many ways brought unto trial , Shows that disloyalty Done to his Majesty , Judgeth me thus to die ; Lord for thy pity . But the good graces here of my King , of my King , Showed to me many a year makes my soul happy In that his royal Grace Gave me both time and space Repentance to embrace : now heaven be praised . Thirteene years in the tower have I lain , have I lain . Before this appointed hour of my lives ending : Likewise such liberty Had I unluckily , To be sent gallantly out on a voyage . But that same voyage then proved amiss proved amiss , Many good gentlemen lost their good fortune's : All that with me did go Had sudden overthrow My wicked will to show gainst my deer Country . When I returned back , hoping grace , hoping grace , The tower again alack was my abiding : Where for offences past , My life again was cast Woe on woe followed fast to my confusion . It pleased my royal King thus to do , thus to do , That his peers should me bring to my lives judgement . The Lieutenant of the tower Kept me fast in his power , Till the appointed hour of my removing . The Second Part . TO O Westminster then was I guarded strong , guarded strong Where many a wandering eye saw me conveyed Where I a Judgement had , for my offences bad , Which was to lose my head , there the next morning . So to the Gatehouse there , was I sent , was I sent , By knights and gentlemen , guarding me safely , Where all that woeful night , My heart took no delight : Such is the heavy plighted of a poor prisoner . Calling then to my mind , all my joys , all my joys , Whereto I was inclined , living in pleasures : All those days past and gone , Brings me now care and moan , Being thus overthrown , by mine own folly . When the sad morning came I should die , I should die : Oh what a fright of shame : filled up my bosom : My heart did almost break , when I herd people speak , I should my ending make as a vile traitor . I thought my fortune's hard , when I saw , when I saw In the fair palace yard a scaffold prepared : My loathed life to end : On which I did ascend . Having at all no friend there to grant mercy . Kneeling down on my knee , willingly , willingly , Prayed for his Majustie long to continue : And for his Nobles all . With subject's great and small , Let this my woeful fallen be a fit warning . And you that hither come thus to see , thus to see My most unhappy doom pity my ending . A Christian true I die : Papistry I defy , Nor never Atheist I as is reported . You Lords & amp ; knights also in this place , in this place Some gentle love bestow pity my falling : As I rose suddenly Up to great dignity , So I deservedly die for my folly . Farewell my loving wife woe is me , woe is me : Mournful will be thy life , Left a sad widow . Farewell my children sweet , We never more shall meet Till we each other gr [ ee ] tO , blessed in heaven , With this my dying knell willingly , willingly , Bid I the world farewell full of vain shadows All her deluding shows brings my heart nought but woes Who rightly feels and knows . all her deceivings . Thus with my dying breath do I kiss , do I kiss , This axe that for my death here is provided : May I feel little pain , when as it cuts in twaine , what my life must sustain all her deceivings . My head on block is laid , And my last part is played : Fortune hath me betrayed , sweet Jesus grant mercy . Thou that my headsman art , when thou list , when thou list , Without fear do thy part I am prepared : Thus here my end I take farewell world , farewell world , And my last will I make , climbing to heaven : For this my offence , I die with true penitance , Jesus receive me hence : farewell sweet England . London Printed for Philip Birch and are to be sold at his shop at the Guildhall . 