The cries of the Dead . Or the late Murder in South-warke , committed by one Richard Price Weaver , who most unhumaynly tormented to death a boy of thirteene years old , with two others before , which he brought to untimely ends , for which he lies now imprissoned in the White - Lion , till the time of his trial . To the tune of Ned Smith . M Ee thinks I hear a groan , of death and deadly dole , Ascending from the grave of a poor silly soul : Of a poor silly soul , untimely made away , Come then and sing with me , sobs of sad welladay , One Price , in South-warke dwelled a Weaver by his trayde , But a more graceless man I think was never made : All his life wicked was , and his mind bent to blood , Nothing but cruelty did his heart any good . Many poor Prentisses to himself did he bind , Sweet gentle children all of a most willing mind : Serving him carefully in this his weaving Art , Whom he requited still , with a most cruel heart . Lawful corrections , he from his mind cast aside , Beating them cruelly for no cause , tell they syed : Spurning and kicking them , as if dogs they had been , Careless in cruelty , was this wretch ever seen . Never went they without bruised and broken eyes , Head and face black and blue , such was their misery's : What so came next his hand , tongue's or fork from the fire Would he still lay on them , in his mad moody ire . Parents come bend your ears , listen what followed on , Master's come shed your tears , mother's come make your moan Servants with sad laments , rue the calamity , Those gentle children had , living in missery . The first a pretty boy , had with a sudden spurn , One of his ears strocke off , woefully rend and torn : Where under surgeons hands , he lived long in woe , By this same grievous wound , this vilaine gave him so . Most heavy was his hand , and his heart full of strife , Ungodly all the days of this his passed life , Who so persuading him to patient Charity , Was still abusied much , by this wretch wilfully . Witness this harmless child , that he misused soar , Scourging him day by day , not knowing cause wherefore , Unlawful government brings him unto his end , From such like cruelty all servants God defend . The second part . To the same tune . TO His his deeds was not known which he kept secretly Nor to light , many a day came this vile villainy Till that his heart did thirst , more human blood to shed , Which in the same full soon cruel conditions bred . No spark of gentleness , but flames of cruelty . Burned within his breast mischiefs black treasury , So that to further ills , and to more bloody deeds Wanting grace , wilfully to the same he proceeds . A poor men child he had whom he beatrice back and side Continuing it day and hour till this poor prentis died , For which he was arraigned and by Law had been cast , But mercy quit him for those offences past . Yet those fair warnings here wrought in him little good , But rather drew him on For to shed further blood : And being blinded thus with a pursuing ill , Another poor harmless child he did by beating kill . Harmless indeed was he , and a poor neighbours son Whom he did beatrice and bruise ere since this frost begun : Only because that he could not work in the cold Nor perform such a task as he by custom should . Wherefore this cruel wretch , whipped him from top to toe , With a coard full of knots , of leather yet to show , Whereby his tender limbs , from his foot to the head , Are with wounds black & amp ; blew , covered over all and spread . O cursed cruelties , this did not him suffice , But kept him lokt up close , from sighed of neighbours eyes , And from his parents deer , when they came him to see , Little misdouting this , their sons extremetye . Thus weary woeful days , did this poor child abide , Where he lay languishing , till the hour that he died , Where his poor mangled corpses , By neighbours there was found , bruised and beaten soar , with many a deadly wound . His brains nigh broken forth , and his neck burst in twaine , On his Limbs over all , spots of blood did remain . And the rim of his womb , spurned in pieces is , Never such Mars [ er ] dome , of a poor child like this , ( O Price , ) hear is the price for this blood thou must pay , Life for life , blood for blood , on thy domes dying day , Pray thou for mercy there , to save thy sinful soul , For me thinks I do hear , thy pasing Bell does toule . FINIS . Printed at London for T. L . The cries of the Dead . Or the late Murder in South-warke , committed by one Richard Price Weaver , who most unhumaynly tormented to death a boy of thirteene years old , with two others before , which he brought to untimely ends , for which he lies now imprissoned in the White - Lion , till the time of his trial . To the tune of Ned Smith . M Ee thinks I hear a groan , of death and deadly dole , Ascending from the grave of a poor silly soul : Of a poor silly soul , untimely made away , Come then and sing with me , sobs of sad welladay , One Price , in South-warke dwelled a Weaver by his trayde , But a more graceless man I think was never made : All his life wicked was , and his mind bent to blood , Nothing but cruelty did his heart any good . Many poor Prentisses to himself did he bind , Sweet gentle children all of a most willing mind : Serving him carefully in this his weaving Art , Whom he requited still , with a most cruel heart . Lawful corrections , he from his mind cast aside , Beating them cruelly for no cause , tell they syed : Spurning and kicking them , as if dogs they had been , Careless in cruelty , was this wretch ever seen . Never went they without bruised and broken eyes , Head and face black and blue , such was their misery's : What so came next his hand , tongue's or fork from the fire Would he still lay on them , in his mad moody ire . Parents come bend your ears , listen what followed on , Master's come shed your tears , mother's come make your moan Servants with sad laments , rue the calamity , Those gentle children had , living in missery . The first a pretty boy , had with a sudden spurn , One of his ears strocke off , woefully rend and torn : Where under surgeons hands , he lived long in woe , By this same grievous wound , this vilaine gave him so . Most heavy was his hand , and his heart full of strife , Ungodly all the days of this his passed life , Who so persuading him to patient Charity , Was still abusied much , by this wretch wilfully . Witness this harmless child , that he misused soar , Scourging him day by day , not knowing cause wherefore , Unlawful government brings him unto his end , From such like cruelty all servants God defend . The second part . To the same tune . TO His his deeds was not known which he kept secretly Nor to light , many a day came this vile villainy Till that his heart did thirst , more human blood to shed , Which in the same full soon cruel conditions bred . No spark of gentleness , but flames of cruelty . Burned within his breast mischiefs black treasury , So that to further ills , and to more bloody deeds Wanting grace , wilfully to the same he proceeds . A poor men child he had whom he beatrice back and side Continuing it day and hour till this poor prentis died , For which he was arraigned and by Law had been cast , But mercy quit him for those offences past . Yet those fair warnings here wrought in him little good , But rather drew him on For to shed further blood : And being blinded thus with a pursuing ill , Another poor harmless child he did by beating kill . Harmless indeed was he , and a poor neighbours son Whom he did beatrice and bruise ere since this frost begun : Only because that he could not work in the cold Nor perform such a task as he by custom should . Wherefore this cruel wretch , whipped him from top to toe , With a coard full of knots , of leather yet to show , Whereby his tender limbs , from his foot to the head , Are with wounds black & amp ; blew , covered over all and spread . O cursed cruelties , this did not him suffice , But kept him lokt up close , from sighed of neighbours eyes , And from his parents deer , when they came him to see , Little misdouting this , their sons extremetye . Thus weary woeful days , did this poor child abide , Where he lay languishing , till the hour that he died , Where his poor mangled corpses , By neighbours there was found , bruised and beaten soar , with many a deadly wound . His brains nigh broken forth , and his neck burst in twaine , On his Limbs over all , spots of blood did remain . And the rim of his womb , spurned in pieces is , Never such Mars [ er ] dome , of a poor child like this , ( O Price , ) hear is the price for this blood thou must pay , Life for life , blood for blood , on thy domes dying day , Pray thou for mercy there , to save thy sinful soul , For me thinks I do hear , thy pasing Bell does toule . FINIS . Printed at London for T. L. 