Gallants , to Bohemia . Or , let us to the Wars again : Showing the forwardness of our English Soldiers , both in times past , and at this present . To a pleasant new Warlike tune . Y E noble Brittaines , be no more possessed with ease upon the shore : You that have been so bold and stout , fit not musing , but look out : Kings of England with their shields full oft have fought in martial fields , And golden prizes did obtain : Then let us to the wars again . the noble Captains of the Lord , and Sea men of such brave command : Bend all your forces to the Seas , and take on Land no longer ease : For Drums and Trumpets are not mute , to call you forth with Fife and Flute , To fleet your ships upon the main , Then let us to the wars again . Now Seamen Pilots leave the Land , Carded and Compass take in hand : And high again to Neptune Seas , where we'll have riches when we please Our Soldiers they are men of might , and will for gold and silver fight : Which does us bravely all maintain , Then let us to the wars again . France and Flanders makes no moan , they get riches , we get none , Flemish Captains sail about , unknown Islands to find out : That Indian Pearls and Jewels store , may deck them bravely on the shore : Away then Gallants , hence amain , And let us to the wars again . Some seek in foreign Lands to thrive , we like Bees do keep our hive : Some get riches , Pearl and Gold , we sitting still grow faint and cold : Once again let it be said , we foreign actions never feared , The true Religion to maintain , Come let us to the wars again . In fair Bohemia now is sprung , a Service which we looked for long : Where Soldiers may their valour try , when cowards from the field will fly : It never shall of us be said , that English Captains stood afraid : Or such adventures would refrain , Then let us to the wars again . Of late we had within our Land , a noble number of command : Of gallant Leaders brave and bold , that almost all the world controlled : As Essex , Cumberland and Drake , which made both Sea & amp ; Land to shake , The Indian silver to obtain , Then let us to the wars again . The second Part. To the same tune . TO He Norrisses , and noble Veeres , and Sidnies famous many years : The Willoughby and worthy Grey , that served still for royal pay : Made England famous every where , to such as did their fortune's hear : Then let us not at home remain , But Bravely to those wars again . Gilbert , Hawkins , Forbisher , and golden Candish , Englands star : With many a Knight of noble worth , that compassed round the circled earth : Have left examples here behind , the like adventures forth to find : The which to follow and maintain , Come , let us to those wars again . Let us no more fit musing then , but show our selves true Englishmen , Whose fame's great Mars resounds from far , to be the only men of war : The bounds of Europe cannot yield , forth better Soldiers for the field : Let bullets come as thick as rain , We'el bravely to those wars again . Bohemian Drums and Trumpets call , a Summons to us Soldiers all : Then who will from such service fly , when Princes bear us company , To arms , to arms all Europe sings , the cause is just , we fight for Kings , The which most bravely to maintain , Come let us to those wars again . The Germane States , and Netherlands , have mustered up their martial bans : The Denmarke King does close combine , his forces to the Palatine : With three hundred Princes more , ' side Dukes , Earls and Barons store : Then how can we at home remain , But bravely to those wars again . The Seas with ships are richly spread , the Land with colours white and read And every Captain ready pressed , to rank his squadrons with the rest : The Martial musics rattling found , says , Soldiers , stand & amp ; keep your groun [ worser ] Though burning bullets fly amain , Yet will we to those wars again . Our Leaders nobly minded are , for to maintain so brave a war As this , for true Religions right , to spend their lives in bloody fight : For God and for his Gospel , then to arms , and fight it out like men , The which most bravely to maintain , Let us go to the wars again . And let us all that Soldiers be , both noble blood and low degree : Be true to him that takes in hand these popish kingdoms to withstand : God guide him on with good success , and all his noble army bless : And so we shall the right maintain , And go unto these wars again . Imprinted at London by G . E.Gallants , to Bohemia . Or , let us to the Wars again : Showing the forwardness of our English Soldiers , both in times past , and at this present . To a pleasant new Warlike tune . Y E noble Brittaines , be no more possessed with ease upon the shore : You that have been so bold and stout , fit not musing , but look out : Kings of England with their shields full oft have fought in martial fields , And golden prizes did obtain : Then let us to the wars again . the noble Captains of the Lord , and Sea men of such brave command : Bend all your forces to the Seas , and take on Land no longer ease : For Drums and Trumpets are not mute , to call you forth with Fife and Flute , To fleet your ships upon the main , Then let us to the wars again . Now Seamen Pilots leave the Land , Carded and Compass take in hand : And high again to Neptune Seas , where we'll have riches when we please Our Soldiers they are men of might , and will for gold and silver fight : Which does us bravely all maintain , Then let us to the wars again . France and Flanders makes no moan , they get riches , we get none , Flemish Captains sail about , unknown Islands to find out : That Indian Pearls and Jewels store , may deck them bravely on the shore : Away then Gallants , hence amain , And let us to the wars again . Some seek in foreign Lands to thrive , we like Bees do keep our hive : Some get riches , Pearl and Gold , we sitting still grow faint and cold : Once again let it be said , we foreign actions never feared , The true Religion to maintain , Come let us to the wars again . In fair Bohemia now is sprung , a Service which we looked for long : Where Soldiers may their valour try , when cowards from the field will fly : It never shall of us be said , that English Captains stood afraid : Or such adventures would refrain , Then let us to the wars again . Of late we had within our Land , a noble number of command : Of gallant Leaders brave and bold , that almost all the world controlled : As Essex , Cumberland and Drake , which made both Sea & amp ; Land to shake , The Indian silver to obtain , Then let us to the wars again . The second Part. To the same tune . TO He Norrisses , and noble Veeres , and Sidnies famous many years : The Willoughby and worthy Grey , that served still for royal pay : Made England famous every where , to such as did their fortune's hear : Then let us not at home remain , But Bravely to those wars again . Gilbert , Hawkins , Forbisher , and golden Candish , Englands star : With many a Knight of noble worth , that compassed round the circled earth : Have left examples here behind , the like adventures forth to find : The which to follow and maintain , Come , let us to those wars again . Let us no more fit musing then , but show our selves true Englishmen , Whose fame's great Mars resounds from far , to be the only men of war : The bounds of Europe cannot yield , forth better Soldiers for the field : Let bullets come as thick as rain , We'el bravely to those wars again . Bohemian Drums and Trumpets call , a Summons to us Soldiers all : Then who will from such service fly , when Princes bear us company , To arms , to arms all Europe sings , the cause is just , we fight for Kings , The which most bravely to maintain , Come let us to those wars again . The Germane States , and Netherlands , have mustered up their martial bans : The Denmarke King does close combine , his forces to the Palatine : With three hundred Princes more , ' side Dukes , Earls and Barons store : Then how can we at home remain , But bravely to those wars again . The Seas with ships are richly spread , the Land with colours white and read And every Captain ready pressed , to rank his squadrons with the rest : The Martial musics rattling found , says , Soldiers , stand & amp ; keep your groun [ worser ] Though burning bullets fly amain , Yet will we to those wars again . Our Leaders nobly minded are , for to maintain so brave a war As this , for true Religions right , to spend their lives in bloody fight : For God and for his Gospel , then to arms , and fight it out like men , The which most bravely to maintain , Let us go to the wars again . And let us all that Soldiers be , both noble blood and low degree : Be true to him that takes in hand these popish kingdoms to withstand : God guide him on with good success , and all his noble army bless : And so we shall the right maintain , And go unto these wars again . Imprinted at London by G.E. 