The Joyful Peace , concluded between the King of Denmarke and the King of Sweden , by the means of our most worthy Sovereign , James , by the grace of God , King of great Brittaine France and Ireland , etc To the tune of who list to led a Soldiers life . TO He Lord of Hosts hath blessed no Land As he hath blessed ours : Whom neither famine , sword nor fire Nor misery devours . But in his merry always still He gives us blessings store : And does the hungry ever fill , And feeds both rich and poor . For we that know not woes of war Forget the Joys of peace : But if we once should feel wars stroke Then would our Joys decreace , Let men of Judgement , ponder well The dangerous State of Arms And they will judge a happy peace More good then fierce alarms . How many kingdoms hath been spoiled ? How many Cities sacked ? How many valiant men been foiled How many ships been wracked ? What bloody massacres and Rapes What dismal horrid deeds ? The wars hath both undone and dONE While thousand thousands bleeds . And true report to Britaines brings What warlike cruel strife Betwixt Denmarke & amp ; the Sweavian kings Where thousands lost their life Till mighty James our Royal Leidge Did cause the wars to end , And both these foes gave over their seidge And each is others friend . For what the one demanded still The other still denied : And Kings contention was the cause That many subject's died . What Princes speak in heat of blood Is fierce consuming wrath And seldom can it be withstood Without their subject's seath . The Royal King of Denmarke laid Just claim to certain Land The which the Sweavian King denied And did his force with stand But after many miseries And deadly dints of wars Our gracious Sovereign Lord King James Did end these bloody Jars . The second part of the Joyful Peace , concluded between the King of Denmarke and the King of Sweden , by the means of our most worthy Sovereign , James , by the grace of God , King of great Britaine France and Ireland . etc To than tune of who list to led a Soldiers life . S Ixe Articles of consequence , between them is agreed : With oaths confirmed between each Prince , to be performed indeed . The which conditions of the peace , in order follow here : Whereby the cause of all those broils , to all men may appear . First that the King of Sweden should , The City Calman yeald : Into the King of Denmarkes hands , ( ever further blood be spiled . ) With all the profits of the same : If he the same would hold Or else to his commodity , The City must be sold . That Elsbach , Otland , two great towns , and Mensborch , with the land : And Forces must be all delivered , to mighty Denmarks hand . For twelve years space he must enjoy , Those Castles Towns and Forts , And now in rest these Princes great , do flourish in their Courts . Beside the King of Sweden must , to end the mighty quarrels : Unto the King of Denmarke pay , of gold full fifteene barrels . For charges of the foresaid wars , and that their ships at seas , May pass through one another's bounds , and no man them displease . That Layland ever shall be free , without all contribution : That Greeneland is the Danish Kings , and give no restitution . That Denmarks King without all let , foure golden Crowns may bear , Which was the great and greatest cause , he first these wars did rear . Beside some things of smaller note , betwixt them is decreed : And so those mighty Christian Kings , like brother's are agreed . Thus after many bloody fights , and many people slain : The deadly stroke of dangerous arms , brings blessed peace again . FINIS . Those which are desirous to see this matter more at large : I refer to the book newly come forth according to the Dutch Copy . Printed for Henry Gosson , and are to be sold at his shop on London Bridge . 1613. The Joyful Peace , concluded between the King of Denmarke and the King of Sweden , by the means of our most worthy Sovereign , James , by the grace of God , King of great Brittaine France and Ireland , etc To the tune of who list to led a Soldiers life . TO He Lord of Hosts hath blessed no Land As he hath blessed ours : Whom neither famine , sword nor fire Nor misery devours . But in his merry always still He gives us blessings store : And does the hungry ever fill , And feeds both rich and poor . For we that know not woes of war Forget the Joys of peace : But if we once should feel wars stroke Then would our Joys decreace , Let men of Judgement , ponder well The dangerous State of Arms And they will judge a happy peace More good then fierce alarms . How many kingdoms hath been spoiled ? How many Cities sacked ? How many valiant men been foiled How many ships been wracked ? What bloody massacres and Rapes What dismal horrid deeds ? The wars hath both undone and dONE While thousand thousands bleeds . And true report to Britaines brings What warlike cruel strife Betwixt Denmarke & amp ; the Sweavian kings Where thousands lost their life Till mighty James our Royal Leidge Did cause the wars to end , And both these foes gave over their seidge And each is others friend . For what the one demanded still The other still denied : And Kings contention was the cause That many subject's died . What Princes speak in heat of blood Is fierce consuming wrath And seldom can it be withstood Without their subject's seath . The Royal King of Denmarke laid Just claim to certain Land The which the Sweavian King denied And did his force with stand But after many miseries And deadly dints of wars Our gracious Sovereign Lord King James Did end these bloody Jars . The second part of the Joyful Peace , concluded between the King of Denmarke and the King of Sweden , by the means of our most worthy Sovereign , James , by the grace of God , King of great Britaine France and Ireland . etc To than tune of who list to led a Soldiers life . S Ixe Articles of consequence , between them is agreed : With oaths confirmed between each Prince , to be performed indeed . The which conditions of the peace , in order follow here : Whereby the cause of all those broils , to all men may appear . First that the King of Sweden should , The City Calman yeald : Into the King of Denmarkes hands , ( ever further blood be spiled . ) With all the profits of the same : If he the same would hold Or else to his commodity , The City must be sold . That Elsbach , Otland , two great towns , and Mensborch , with the land : And Forces must be all delivered , to mighty Denmarks hand . For twelve years space he must enjoy , Those Castles Towns and Forts , And now in rest these Princes great , do flourish in their Courts . Beside the King of Sweden must , to end the mighty quarrels : Unto the King of Denmarke pay , of gold full fifteene barrels . For charges of the foresaid wars , and that their ships at seas , May pass through one another's bounds , and no man them displease . That Layland ever shall be free , without all contribution : That Greeneland is the Danish Kings , and give no restitution . That Denmarks King without all let , foure golden Crowns may bear , Which was the great and greatest cause , he first these wars did rear . Beside some things of smaller note , betwixt them is decreed : And so those mighty Christian Kings , like brother's are agreed . Thus after many bloody fights , and many people slain : The deadly stroke of dangerous arms , brings blessed peace again . FINIS . Those which are desirous to see this matter more at large : I refer to the book newly come forth according to the Dutch Copy . Printed for Henry Gosson , and are to be sold at his shop on London Bridge . 1613. 