A warning for all desperate Women . By the example of Alice Davis who for killing of her husband was burned in Smithfield the 12 of July 1628. to the terror of all the beholders . To the tune of the Ladies fallen . U Unto the world to make my moan , I know it is a folly , Because that I have spent my time , which have been free and jolly , But to the Lord which rules above , I do for mercy cry , To grant me pardon for the crime , for which on earth I die . Hells fiery flames prepared are , for those that live in sin , And now on earth I taste of some , but as a prick or pin , To those which shall hereafter be , without Gods mercy great , Who once more calls us to account , on his Tribunal Seat . Then hasty hairebraind wives take heed , of me a warning take , lest like to me in cool of blood , you burnt be at a stake ; The woman which here last did die , and was consumed with fire , Puts me in mind , but all to late , for death I do require . But to the story now I come , which to you I'll relate , Because that I have lived like some , in good repute and state , In Westminster we lived there , well known by many friends , Which little thought that each of us , should have come to such ends . A Smith my husband was by trade , as many well do know , And diverse merry days we had , not feeling cause of woe , Abroad together we had been , and home at length we came , But then I did that fatal deed , which brings me to this shame . He asked what moneys I had left , and some he needs would have , But I a penny would not give , though he did seem to crave , But words betwixt us then did pass , as words to harsh I gave , And as the Devil would as then , I did both swear and rave . The second Part , To the same tune . A Nd then I took a little knife , and stabbed him in the heart . Whose Soul from Body instantly , my bloody hand did part , But cursed hand , and fatal knife and wicked was that hour , When as my God did give me over unto his hellish power . The deed no sooner I had dONE , But out of doors I ran , And to the neighbours I did cry , I killed had my good man , Who straightway flocked unto my house , to see that bloody sighed , Which when they did behold with grief , it did them much affright . Then hands upon me there was laid , And I to Prison sent , Where as I lay perplexed in woe , and did that deed repent , When Sizes came I was arraigned , by Jury just and true , I was found guilty of the fact , for which I have my endue . The Jury having cast me then , to judgement then I came , Which was a terror to my heart , and to my friends a shame , To think upon my husbands death , and of my wretched life , Betwixt my Spirit and my flesh , did cause a cruel strife . But then the Judge me sentence gave to go from whence I came , From thence , unto a stake be bound to burn in fierce flame , Until my flesh and bones consumed , to ashes in that place , Which was a heavy sentence then , to on so void of grace . And on the twelfth of July now , I on a sledge was laid , To Smithfield with a guard of men I straight way was conveyed , Where I was tied to a stake , with Redes was round beset , And Fagtos , Pitch , and other things which they for me did get . Now great Jehovah I thee pray , my bloody sins forgive , For on this earth most wretched I unworthy am to live . Christ Jesus unto thee I pray , and unto thee I cry , Thou with thy blood wilt wash my sins away , which here must die . Good wives and bad , example take , at this my cursed fallen , And Maidens that shall husbands have , I warning am to all : Your Husbands are your Lords & amp ; heads , you ought them to obey , Grant love betwixt each man and wife , unto the Lord I pray . God and the world forgive my sins , which are so vile and foul , Sweet Jesus now I come to thee , Oh Lord receive my Soul . Then to the Redes they fire did put , which flamd up to the sky , And then she shrieked most pitifully , before that she did die . The Lord preserve our King & amp ; Queen , and all good Subject's bless , And Grant the Gospel true and free , among us may increase . Betwixt each husband and each wife , send land and amity , And grant that I may be the last . that such a death did die . [ F ] INIS . Printed for F. Coules . A warning for all desperate Women . By the example of Alice Davis who for killing of her husband was burned in Smithfield the 12 of July 1628. to the terror of all the beholders . To the tune of the Ladies fallen . U Unto the world to make my moan , I know it is a folly , Because that I have spent my time , which have been free and jolly , But to the Lord which rules above , I do for mercy cry , To grant me pardon for the crime , for which on earth I die . Hells fiery flames prepared are , for those that live in sin , And now on earth I taste of some , but as a prick or pin , To those which shall hereafter be , without Gods mercy great , Who once more calls us to account , on his Tribunal Seat . Then hasty hairebraind wives take heed , of me a warning take , lest like to me in cool of blood , you burnt be at a stake ; The woman which here last did die , and was consumed with fire , Puts me in mind , but all to late , for death I do require . But to the story now I come , which to you I'll relate , Because that I have lived like some , in good repute and state , In Westminster we lived there , well known by many friends , Which little thought that each of us , should have come to such ends . A Smith my husband was by trade , as many well do know , And diverse merry days we had , not feeling cause of woe , Abroad together we had been , and home at length we came , But then I did that fatal deed , which brings me to this shame . He asked what moneys I had left , and some he needs would have , But I a penny would not give , though he did seem to crave , But words betwixt us then did pass , as words to harsh I gave , And as the Devil would as then , I did both swear and rave . The second Part , To the same tune . A Nd then I took a little knife , and stabbed him in the heart . Whose Soul from Body instantly , my bloody hand did part , But cursed hand , and fatal knife and wicked was that hour , When as my God did give me over unto his hellish power . The deed no sooner I had dONE , But out of doors I ran , And to the neighbours I did cry , I killed had my good man , Who straightway flocked unto my house , to see that bloody sighed , Which when they did behold with grief , it did them much affright . Then hands upon me there was laid , And I to Prison sent , Where as I lay perplexed in woe , and did that deed repent , When Sizes came I was arraigned , by Jury just and true , I was found guilty of the fact , for which I have my endue . The Jury having cast me then , to judgement then I came , Which was a terror to my heart , and to my friends a shame , To think upon my husbands death , and of my wretched life , Betwixt my Spirit and my flesh , did cause a cruel strife . But then the Judge me sentence gave to go from whence I came , From thence , unto a stake be bound to burn in fierce flame , Until my flesh and bones consumed , to ashes in that place , Which was a heavy sentence then , to on so void of grace . And on the twelfth of July now , I on a sledge was laid , To Smithfield with a guard of men I straight way was conveyed , Where I was tied to a stake , with Redes was round beset , And Fagtos , Pitch , and other things which they for me did get . Now great Jehovah I thee pray , my bloody sins forgive , For on this earth most wretched I unworthy am to live . Christ Jesus unto thee I pray , and unto thee I cry , Thou with thy blood wilt wash my sins away , which here must die . Good wives and bad , example take , at this my cursed fallen , And Maidens that shall husbands have , I warning am to all : Your Husbands are your Lords & amp ; heads , you ought them to obey , Grant love betwixt each man and wife , unto the Lord I pray . God and the world forgive my sins , which are so vile and foul , Sweet Jesus now I come to thee , Oh Lord receive my Soul . Then to the Redes they fire did put , which flamd up to the sky , And then she shrieked most pitifully , before that she did die . The Lord preserve our King & amp ; Queen , and all good Subject's bless , And Grant the Gospel true and free , among us may increase . Betwixt each husband and each wife , send land and amity , And grant that I may be the last . that such a death did die . [ F ] INIS . Printed for F. Coules . 