Damnable Practises Of three Lincolnshire Witches , Joane Flower , and her two Daughters , Margret and Phillip Flower , against Henry Lord Rosse , with others the Children of the Right Honourable the Earl of Rutland , at Beaver Castle , who for the same were executed at Lincolne the 11. of March last . To the tune of the Ladies fallen . O F damned deeds , and deadly dole , I make my mournful song , By Witches done in Lincolnshire , where they have lived long : And practised many a wicked deed , within that Country there , Which fills my breast and bosom full , of sobs , and trembling fear . [ O ] ne Beaver Castle is a place , that welcome gives to all , [ B ] y which the Earl of Rutland gains the loves of great and small : [ His ] Countess of like friendliness , [ Do ] that bear as free a mind : [ All ] so from them both rich and poor , [ ? ] helps and succour find . [ Am ] ongst the rest were Witches three , [ that ] at to this Castle came , [ ? ] Margaret and Phillip Flower , [ And ] worser Joane their Mother's name : [ Whi ] changed Women daily found relief , [ and ] were contented well : [ That ] at the last this Margret was , [ rec ] eived there to dwell . [ ? ] oak unto such household charge , [ ? ] unto her belonged , [ ? ] she possessed with fraud and guile , [ he ] r place and office wronged , [ ? ] [ s ] ecretly purloined things [ tO ] oh her mother home : [ ? ] unlawful hours from thence , [ worser ] id nightly go and come . [ ? ] en the Earl & amp ; Countess herd , [ ? ] r dealings knew , [ ? ] ved much that she should prove , [ ? ] so untrue . And so discharged her of the house , therein to come no more : For of her lewd and filching pranks , of proofs there were some store . And likewise that her Mother was , a woman full of wrath , A swearing and blaspheming wretch , forespeaking sudden death : And how that neighbours in her looks , malicious signs did see : And some affirmed she dealt with Spirits , and so a Witch might be . And that her Sister Phillip was well known a Strumpet lewd , And how she had a young men love , bewitched and subdued , Which made the young man often say , he had no power to leave Her cursed enticing company , that did him so deceive . When to the Earl and Countess thus , these just complaints were made , Their hearts began to breed dislike , and greatly grew afraid : Commanding that she never should , return unto their sighed , Nor back into the Castle come , but be excluded quite . Whereat the old malicious fiend , with these her darlings thought : The Earl and Countess them disgraced , and their discredits wrought : In turning thus despitefully , her daughter out of doors , For which revengement , in her mind she many a mischief stores . Hereat the Devil made entrance in , his Kingdom to enlarge . And puts his executing wrath , unto these women's charge : Not caring whom it lighted on , the Innocent or no , And offered them his diligence , to fly , to run , and go . And to attend in pretty forms , of Dog , of Cat , or Rat , To which they freely gave consent , and much rejoiced thereat : And as it seemed they should their souls , for service of such Spirits , And sealing it with drops of blood , damnation so inherits . These Women thus being Devils grown most cunning in their Arts : With charms and with enchanting spells , they played most damned parts : They did forespeak , and Cattle killed , that neighbours could not thrive , And oftentimes their Children young , of life they would deprive . At length the Countess and her Lord , to fits of sickness grew : The which they deemed the hand of God , and their corrections due : Which crosses patiently they boar , misdoubting no such deed , As from these wicked Witches here , maliciously proceeds . Yet so their malice more increased , that mischief set in foot , To blast the branches of that house , and undermine the root : Their eldest son Henry Lord Rosse , possessed with sickness strange , Did lingering , lie tormented long , till death his life did change . Their second son Lord Francis next , felt like continuing woe : Both day and night in grievous sort , yet none the cause did know : And then the Lady Katherin , into such torments fell : By these their devilish practises , as grieves my heart to tell . The second Part. To the same tune . Y Et did this noble minded Earl , so patiently it bear : As if his children's punishments , right nature's troubles were : Suspecting little , that such means , against them should be wrought , Until it pleased the Lord to have to light these mischiefs brought . For greatly here the hand of God , did work in justice cause : When he for these their practises them all in question draws . And so before the Magistrates , when as the youngest came , Who being guilty of the fact confessed and told the same . How that her mother and her self , and sister gave consent : To give the Countess and her Lord , occasions to repent That ere they turned her out of doors , in such vile disgrace : For which , or them or theirs should be , brought into heavy case . And how her sister found a time , Lord Rosses glove to take : Who gave it to her mother's hand consuming spells to make . The which she pricked all full of holes , and laid it deep in ground : Whereas it rotted , so should he , be quite away consumed . All which her elder sister did , acknowledge to be true : And how that she in boiling blood , did oft the same embrue , And hereupon the young Lord Rosse , such torments did abide : That strangely he consumed away , until the hour he died . And likewise she confessed how they , together all agreed : Against the children of this Earl , to practise and proceed . Not leaving them a child alive , and never to have more : If witchcraft so could do , because , they turned them out of door . The mother as the daughters told , could hardly this deny : For which they were attached all , by Justice speedily . And unto Lincolne City born , therein to lie in Jail : Until the Judging Sizes came , that death might be their bail . But there this hateful mother witch , these speeches did recall : And said that in Lord Rosses death , she had no hand at all . Whereon she bred and butter took , God let this same ( quoth she ) If I be guilty of his death , pass never through me . So mumbling it within her mouth , she never spoke more words : But fell down dead , a judgement just and wonder of the Lords . Her Daughters two their trials had , of which being guilty found , They died in shame , by strangling twist , and laid by shame in the ground . Have mercy Heaven , on sinners all , and grant that never like Be in this Nation known or done , but Lord in vengeance strike : Or else convert their wicked lives which in bad ways are spent : The fears of God and love of heaven , such courses will prevent . FINIS . There is a book printed of these Witches , wherein you shall know all their examinations and confessions at large : As also the wicked practice of three other most Notorious Wit - ches in Leceister - shire with all their examinations and confessions . Printed by G. Eld. for John Barns , dwell - ling in the long Walk near Christ-Church 1619. Damnable Practises Of three Lincolnshire Witches , Joane Flower , and her two Daughters , Margret and Phillip Flower , against Henry Lord Rosse , with others the Children of the Right Honourable the Earl of Rutland , at Beaver Castle , who for the same were executed at Lincolne the 11. of March last . To the tune of the Ladies fallen . O F damned deeds , and deadly dole , I make my mournful song , By Witches done in Lincolnshire , where they have lived long : And practised many a wicked deed , within that Country there , Which fills my breast and bosom full , of sobs , and trembling fear . [ O ] ne Beaver Castle is a place , that welcome gives to all , [ B ] y which the Earl of Rutland gains the loves of great and small : [ His ] Countess of like friendliness , [ Do ] that bear as free a mind : [ All ] so from them both rich and poor , [ ? ] helps and succour find . [ Am ] ongst the rest were Witches three , [ that ] at to this Castle came , [ ? ] Margaret and Phillip Flower , [ And ] worser Joane their Mother's name : [ Whi ] changed Women daily found relief , [ and ] were contented well : [ That ] at the last this Margret was , [ rec ] eived there to dwell . [ ? ] oak unto such household charge , [ ? ] unto her belonged , [ ? ] she possessed with fraud and guile , [ he ] r place and office wronged , [ ? ] [ s ] ecretly purloined things [ tO ] oh her mother home : [ ? ] unlawful hours from thence , [ worser ] id nightly go and come . [ ? ] en the Earl & amp ; Countess herd , [ ? ] r dealings knew , [ ? ] ved much that she should prove , [ ? ] so untrue . And so discharged her of the house , therein to come no more : For of her lewd and filching pranks , of proofs there were some store . And likewise that her Mother was , a woman full of wrath , A swearing and blaspheming wretch , forespeaking sudden death : And how that neighbours in her looks , malicious signs did see : And some affirmed she dealt with Spirits , and so a Witch might be . And that her Sister Phillip was well known a Strumpet lewd , And how she had a young men love , bewitched and subdued , Which made the young man often say , he had no power to leave Her cursed enticing company , that did him so deceive . When to the Earl and Countess thus , these just complaints were made , Their hearts began to breed dislike , and greatly grew afraid : Commanding that she never should , return unto their sighed , Nor back into the Castle come , but be excluded quite . Whereat the old malicious fiend , with these her darlings thought : The Earl and Countess them disgraced , and their discredits wrought : In turning thus despitefully , her daughter out of doors , For which revengement , in her mind she many a mischief stores . Hereat the Devil made entrance in , his Kingdom to enlarge . And puts his executing wrath , unto these women's charge : Not caring whom it lighted on , the Innocent or no , And offered them his diligence , to fly , to run , and go . And to attend in pretty forms , of Dog , of Cat , or Rat , To which they freely gave consent , and much rejoiced thereat : And as it seemed they should their souls , for service of such Spirits , And sealing it with drops of blood , damnation so inherits . These Women thus being Devils grown most cunning in their Arts : With charms and with enchanting spells , they played most damned parts : They did forespeak , and Cattle killed , that neighbours could not thrive , And oftentimes their Children young , of life they would deprive . At length the Countess and her Lord , to fits of sickness grew : The which they deemed the hand of God , and their corrections due : Which crosses patiently they boar , misdoubting no such deed , As from these wicked Witches here , maliciously proceeds . Yet so their malice more increased , that mischief set in foot , To blast the branches of that house , and undermine the root : Their eldest son Henry Lord Rosse , possessed with sickness strange , Did lingering , lie tormented long , till death his life did change . Their second son Lord Francis next , felt like continuing woe : Both day and night in grievous sort , yet none the cause did know : And then the Lady Katherin , into such torments fell : By these their devilish practises , as grieves my heart to tell . The second Part. To the same tune . Y Et did this noble minded Earl , so patiently it bear : As if his children's punishments , right nature's troubles were : Suspecting little , that such means , against them should be wrought , Until it pleased the Lord to have to light these mischiefs brought . For greatly here the hand of God , did work in justice cause : When he for these their practises them all in question draws . And so before the Magistrates , when as the youngest came , Who being guilty of the fact confessed and told the same . How that her mother and her self , and sister gave consent : To give the Countess and her Lord , occasions to repent That ere they turned her out of doors , in such vile disgrace : For which , or them or theirs should be , brought into heavy case . And how her sister found a time , Lord Rosses glove to take : Who gave it to her mother's hand consuming spells to make . The which she pricked all full of holes , and laid it deep in ground : Whereas it rotted , so should he , be quite away consumed . All which her elder sister did , acknowledge to be true : And how that she in boiling blood , did oft the same embrue , And hereupon the young Lord Rosse , such torments did abide : That strangely he consumed away , until the hour he died . And likewise she confessed how they , together all agreed : Against the children of this Earl , to practise and proceed . Not leaving them a child alive , and never to have more : If witchcraft so could do , because , they turned them out of door . The mother as the daughters told , could hardly this deny : For which they were attached all , by Justice speedily . And unto Lincolne City born , therein to lie in Jail : Until the Judging Sizes came , that death might be their bail . But there this hateful mother witch , these speeches did recall : And said that in Lord Rosses death , she had no hand at all . Whereon she bred and butter took , God let this same ( quoth she ) If I be guilty of his death , pass never through me . So mumbling it within her mouth , she never spoke more words : But fell down dead , a judgement just and wonder of the Lords . Her Daughters two their trials had , of which being guilty found , They died in shame , by strangling twist , and laid by shame in the ground . Have mercy Heaven , on sinners all , and grant that never like Be in this Nation known or done , but Lord in vengeance strike : Or else convert their wicked lives which in bad ways are spent : The fears of God and love of heaven , such courses will prevent . FINIS . There is a book printed of these Witches , wherein you shall know all their examinations and confessions at large : As also the wicked practice of three other most Notorious Wit - ches in Leceister - shire with all their examinations and confessions . Printed by G. Eld. for John Barns , dwell - ling in the long Walk near Christ-Church 1619. 