The Araignement of John Flodder and his wife , at Norwidge , with the wife of one Bicks , for burning the Town of Windham in Norfolke , upon the xi . day of June last 1615. Where two of them are now executed , and the third reprieved upon further confession . To the tune of Fortune my foe . B Rave Windham late , whom Fortune did adorn , With Buildings fair , & amp ; fresh as Summers morn : To coalblack Ashes now , quite burned down , May sorrowing say , I was a gallant Town . Yea all my state and glory is put by , For mourning on the ground my Buildings lie : My Goods consumed , my Dwellers brought full low , Which now go wandering up and down in woe . Three hundred dwelling Houses of account , Which did to fourtie thousand pounds amount , Are all consumed and wasted quite away , And nothing left , but ruin and decay . Woe worth the causers of this black misdeed , That makes a thousand hearts with sorrow bleed : A thousand hearts with wringing hands may say , In Windham town this was a woeful day . The deed was done by such unhallowed hands , Whose rigour carded not for a thousand Lands , The Earth it self , if that it flamed with fire , Were as these damned harlets did desire . One Flodder and his cursed wife , were those , Which wrought this famous town these sudden woes : Confederate with one Bickes wife ; which three , Unto this cursed actium did agree . As Rogues and Beggars wandering up and down , They went to seek relief from town to town : And lived by the usage of base sin , As custom traineth all such livers in . [ ? ] sure the Devil or else some Fiend of his , [ ? ] aved them unto this foul amiss , With Fire to wast so brave a Market town , That flourished fair , with Riches and Renown . A Fire that was devised of the Devil , A Fire of all the worst , and worse then evil : Wild fire it was , that could not quenched be , A Ball thereof [ la ] y kindling secretly , Within and Eaves , not seen of any man , A Match gave fire , and so it first began : In Service time , when people were at Prayers , As God required , and not on worldly cares . A time that such a chance could hardly be Prevented by men help , as man might see : For on a sudden kindled so the flame , That mazed people could not quench the same . Within two hours the town was burned quite , And much good Wealth therein consumed outright : The Free-school house , with many a gallant Hall With Aged people , and poor Children small . Such woes were never seen in any place , Nor never men remained in heavier case : Strange doubts were made how first the fire begun That hath so many good men's states undone . At last this Flodder , with his wandering Mates , Which daily begged for food at rich men's Gates , Examined were , where soon their guilty tongues Confessed the chief occasions of these wrongs . And so with hearts bespotted with black shame , They were arraigned , and judged for the same , To suffer death , a recompense to make , For this offence , they thus did undertake . The Second part of the Araignement of Flodder and his wife etc To the same tune . A Nd when their day of death drew near at hand , According to the Judges just command , Before ten thousand peoples wondering eyes , This Flodder like a damned monster dies , A self-willed Papist , of a stubborn heart , That would but small submission from him part : But boldly died as though he had done well , And not been guilty of this fact of Hell . His hated body still on Earth remains , ( A shame unto his kin ) hanged up in Chains : And must at all no other Burial have , But Crows & amp ; Ravens maws to make his grave But Bicks his wife in sign of penitence , With weeping tears bewailed her offence : And at her death , confessed with grieved mind , This deed beyond the reach of Womankind . And how most lewdly she had lived long , A shameful life , in doing deeds of wrong : And trodden the steps of Whoredom day by day , Accounting sin and shame , the better way . And how that she , was willed to put her hope At last , to have a Pardon from the Pope For all her sins : for which , she did repent , And said , no Pope , but Christ was her content . And as for Flodders wife , the chief herein , And damded leader to this wilful sin , Being big with child , reprieved was therefore , To give that life , which in her Womb she boar . But having now deliverance of her Child , All further hope's of life , are quite exiled . Yet hope of life , hath made her now confess , The Towns proceeding dangers and distress . And how the rest should all have burned been , So with a second Fire to waste it clean : And how the Husband of the woman dead , Had given consent to have this mischief spread . Likewise one Hicks , a fellow of good age , She said , his credit and his word did gage , To be a furtherer to this damned deed , That now hath made a thousand hearts to bleed . But let no such accursed wretch as this , The course of Law and Justice look to miss : But with repentance true prepare for death , As most unworthy of a minutes breath . And now let Englands Towns both far & amp ; near With wisdom still prevent like chance , & amp ; fear , And weed away from every place and City , Such idle Drones , you cherish with your pity . Yet in your hearts let Charity remain , And freely give , to build this Town again . And in your Prayers desire the Lord of heaven , That bounteous gifts may thereunto be given . Our royal King , with good and gracious hand , Have granted them , the bounties of our Land : In every Church that gathering there may be , As by his Letter patents we may see . FINIS Imprinted at London for John Trundle , dwell - ling in Barbican at the sign of the No body . The names in the Kings Letters Patents , to gather up the money , are these following . John Moore . Steven Agas . Robert Carre . John Doffeelde . William Horsnell . Esa Freeman . Robert Agas . William Rowse . The Countries and Cities , granted for these men to gather in , are these following . London and Westminster : Middlesex , Essex , Kent , Hartford , Surry , and Sussex : with the Cities of Canterburie , Rochester , and the Cinque Ports , with the City of Chester . The Araignement of John Flodder and his wife , at Norwidge , with the wife of one Bicks , for burning the Town of Windham in Norfolke , upon the xi . day of June last 1615. Where two of them are now executed , and the third reprieved upon further confession . To the tune of Fortune my foe . B Rave Windham late , whom Fortune did adorn , With Buildings fair , & amp ; fresh as Summers morn : To coalblack Ashes now , quite burned down , May sorrowing say , I was a gallant Town . Yea all my state and glory is put by , For mourning on the ground my Buildings lie : My Goods consumed , my Dwellers brought full low , Which now go wandering up and down in woe . Three hundred dwelling Houses of account , Which did to fourtie thousand pounds amount , Are all consumed and wasted quite away , And nothing left , but ruin and decay . Woe worth the causers of this black misdeed , That makes a thousand hearts with sorrow bleed : A thousand hearts with wringing hands may say , In Windham town this was a woeful day . The deed was done by such unhallowed hands , Whose rigour carded not for a thousand Lands , The Earth it self , if that it flamed with fire , Were as these damned harlets did desire . One Flodder and his cursed wife , were those , Which wrought this famous town these sudden woes : Confederate with one Bickes wife ; which three , Unto this cursed actium did agree . As Rogues and Beggars wandering up and down , They went to seek relief from town to town : And lived by the usage of base sin , As custom traineth all such livers in . [ ? ] sure the Devil or else some Fiend of his , [ ? ] aved them unto this foul amiss , With Fire to wast so brave a Market town , That flourished fair , with Riches and Renown . A Fire that was devised of the Devil , A Fire of all the worst , and worse then evil : Wild fire it was , that could not quenched be , A Ball thereof [ la ] y kindling secretly , Within and Eaves , not seen of any man , A Match gave fire , and so it first began : In Service time , when people were at Prayers , As God required , and not on worldly cares . A time that such a chance could hardly be Prevented by men help , as man might see : For on a sudden kindled so the flame , That mazed people could not quench the same . Within two hours the town was burned quite , And much good Wealth therein consumed outright : The Free-school house , with many a gallant Hall With Aged people , and poor Children small . Such woes were never seen in any place , Nor never men remained in heavier case : Strange doubts were made how first the fire begun That hath so many good men's states undone . At last this Flodder , with his wandering Mates , Which daily begged for food at rich men's Gates , Examined were , where soon their guilty tongues Confessed the chief occasions of these wrongs . And so with hearts bespotted with black shame , They were arraigned , and judged for the same , To suffer death , a recompense to make , For this offence , they thus did undertake . The Second part of the Araignement of Flodder and his wife etc To the same tune . A Nd when their day of death drew near at hand , According to the Judges just command , Before ten thousand peoples wondering eyes , This Flodder like a damned monster dies , A self-willed Papist , of a stubborn heart , That would but small submission from him part : But boldly died as though he had done well , And not been guilty of this fact of Hell . His hated body still on Earth remains , ( A shame unto his kin ) hanged up in Chains : And must at all no other Burial have , But Crows & amp ; Ravens maws to make his grave But Bicks his wife in sign of penitence , With weeping tears bewailed her offence : And at her death , confessed with grieved mind , This deed beyond the reach of Womankind . And how most lewdly she had lived long , A shameful life , in doing deeds of wrong : And trodden the steps of Whoredom day by day , Accounting sin and shame , the better way . And how that she , was willed to put her hope At last , to have a Pardon from the Pope For all her sins : for which , she did repent , And said , no Pope , but Christ was her content . And as for Flodders wife , the chief herein , And damded leader to this wilful sin , Being big with child , reprieved was therefore , To give that life , which in her Womb she boar . But having now deliverance of her Child , All further hope's of life , are quite exiled . Yet hope of life , hath made her now confess , The Towns proceeding dangers and distress . And how the rest should all have burned been , So with a second Fire to waste it clean : And how the Husband of the woman dead , Had given consent to have this mischief spread . Likewise one Hicks , a fellow of good age , She said , his credit and his word did gage , To be a furtherer to this damned deed , That now hath made a thousand hearts to bleed . But let no such accursed wretch as this , The course of Law and Justice look to miss : But with repentance true prepare for death , As most unworthy of a minutes breath . And now let Englands Towns both far & amp ; near With wisdom still prevent like chance , & amp ; fear , And weed away from every place and City , Such idle Drones , you cherish with your pity . Yet in your hearts let Charity remain , And freely give , to build this Town again . And in your Prayers desire the Lord of heaven , That bounteous gifts may thereunto be given . Our royal King , with good and gracious hand , Have granted them , the bounties of our Land : In every Church that gathering there may be , As by his Letter patents we may see . FINIS Imprinted at London for John Trundle , dwell - ling in Barbican at the sign of the No body . The names in the Kings Letters Patents , to gather up the money , are these following . John Moore . Steven Agas . Robert Carre . John Doffeelde . William Horsnell . Esa Freeman . Robert Agas . William Rowse . The Countries and Cities , granted for these men to gather in , are these following . London and Westminster : Middlesex , Essex , Kent , Hartford , Surry , and Sussex : with the Cities of Canterburie , Rochester , and the Cinque Ports , with the City of Chester . 