The silver Age , or , The World turned backward . To a pleasant new Court tune . M Y Lady Pecunia is a fair creature , All clothed in silver , according to nature : She flies most freely , none does await her , To wash off her pinions by counterfeit water . O this is a silver age , O this is a changing age . The Lord and the Lady , the Beggar the Knight , For Lady Pecunia cares not a Doit : Redeemed from prison , she takes delight , To go to the Prodigal spender aright . O this is a silver age , O this is a wasting age . Our lusty brave gallants now walks among clowns With their full pockets well stored with crowns , To give to poor people the rends of their grounds , where alms of brass farthings are changed to pounds . O this is a silver age , O this is a bountiful age . The Merchant refuseth to gain by adventure , The Citizen leaveth to lend by Indenture . Young gallants grow careless their titles to enter , But put their whole livings to'th stretch of the tenter . O this is a silver age , O this is a liberal age . Rich mizers have turned their gold to good cheer , And bids the poor beggar most kindly draw near : And with the fat gluttons , they spend away shear , What greediness gained by fraud in ten years . O this is a silver age , O this is a spending age . He that hath riches locked up in his chest , With too many crosses himself he hath blessed . To raise up the devil , his mind to molest , But conjured by conscience , in quiet does rest . O this is a silver age , O this is a mending age . Young women grow weary of walking the street , They scarce in a Tavern , will set in their feet , Their husbands they fear not , with whom they do meet , And like to good Angels they never do fleet . O this is a silver age , O this is a virtuous age . The bawd and the pander are turned to grace , And for a full pocket they hold it but base . A wench that is painted , comes not into place , For fear lest the beadle her shoulders uncase , O this is a silver age , O this is and honest age . The Tapster still living by foam and by froth , The Broaker that eateth most like to the moath , Are now turned honest and virtuous both : One penny ill got to take they are loath . O this is a silver age , O this is and honest age . The second part . To the same tune . C Armen and Porters are now no more dogged , Nor the old watermen rough and so hogged , The Thames lately frozen , with want have them clogged Now money comes trouling , for which they have jogged . O this is a silver age , O this is a bettered age . Bailiffs and Sergeants all pitiful be , And to the poor debtors lends money most free . And wait in the Tavern , until they agree , Not taking one penny in lieu of their fee . O this is a silver age , O this is a favourable age . The honest true Hostler repenting his sins , Now careth for money , no more then for pins , The size of his provander justly begins , To bring Lady conscience to all our good Inns . O this is a silver age , O this is a mending age . Old fraud and false dealing [ have ] changed their ditty , At Alderman's houses for Porter stands pity : With gentle charity , smiling most pretty , To give to poor people , the love of the City . O this is a silver age , O this is a merciful age . The wife and the husband , unquiet before : To win the old breeches , will quarrel no more : For fear of the Beggar that stands at the door . For quiet true concord , brings plentiful store . O this is a silver age , O this is a friendly age . Now Lady Pecunia , grows out of regard , And turned from the Chamber , into the cold yard : And from all true good men , she well may be spared , When such and age changed , yet never was herd . O this is a silver age , O this is a wondering age . FINIS . Printed at London by G . E.The silver Age , or , The World turned backward . To a pleasant new Court tune . M Y Lady Pecunia is a fair creature , All clothed in silver , according to nature : She flies most freely , none does await her , To wash off her pinions by counterfeit water . O this is a silver age , O this is a changing age . The Lord and the Lady , the Beggar the Knight , For Lady Pecunia cares not a Doit : Redeemed from prison , she takes delight , To go to the Prodigal spender aright . O this is a silver age , O this is a wasting age . Our lusty brave gallants now walks among clowns With their full pockets well stored with crowns , To give to poor people the rends of their grounds , where alms of brass farthings are changed to pounds . O this is a silver age , O this is a bountiful age . The Merchant refuseth to gain by adventure , The Citizen leaveth to lend by Indenture . Young gallants grow careless their titles to enter , But put their whole livings to'th stretch of the tenter . O this is a silver age , O this is a liberal age . Rich mizers have turned their gold to good cheer , And bids the poor beggar most kindly draw near : And with the fat gluttons , they spend away shear , What greediness gained by fraud in ten years . O this is a silver age , O this is a spending age . He that hath riches locked up in his chest , With too many crosses himself he hath blessed . To raise up the devil , his mind to molest , But conjured by conscience , in quiet does rest . O this is a silver age , O this is a mending age . Young women grow weary of walking the street , They scarce in a Tavern , will set in their feet , Their husbands they fear not , with whom they do meet , And like to good Angels they never do fleet . O this is a silver age , O this is a virtuous age . The bawd and the pander are turned to grace , And for a full pocket they hold it but base . A wench that is painted , comes not into place , For fear lest the beadle her shoulders uncase , O this is a silver age , O this is and honest age . The Tapster still living by foam and by froth , The Broaker that eateth most like to the moath , Are now turned honest and virtuous both : One penny ill got to take they are loath . O this is a silver age , O this is and honest age . The second part . To the same tune . C Armen and Porters are now no more dogged , Nor the old watermen rough and so hogged , The Thames lately frozen , with want have them clogged Now money comes trouling , for which they have jogged . O this is a silver age , O this is a bettered age . Bailiffs and Sergeants all pitiful be , And to the poor debtors lends money most free . And wait in the Tavern , until they agree , Not taking one penny in lieu of their fee . O this is a silver age , O this is a favourable age . The honest true Hostler repenting his sins , Now careth for money , no more then for pins , The size of his provander justly begins , To bring Lady conscience to all our good Inns . O this is a silver age , O this is a mending age . Old fraud and false dealing [ have ] changed their ditty , At Alderman's houses for Porter stands pity : With gentle charity , smiling most pretty , To give to poor people , the love of the City . O this is a silver age , O this is a merciful age . The wife and the husband , unquiet before : To win the old breeches , will quarrel no more : For fear of the Beggar that stands at the door . For quiet true concord , brings plentiful store . O this is a silver age , O this is a friendly age . Now Lady Pecunia , grows out of regard , And turned from the Chamber , into the cold yard : And from all true good men , she well may be spared , When such and age changed , yet never was herd . O this is a silver age , O this is a wondering age . FINIS . Printed at London by G.E. 