Constance of Cleveland . A very excellent Sonnet of the most fair Lady Constance of Clevelan [ worser ] and her disloyal Knight . To the tune of Crimson Velvet . I TO was a youthful Knight , loved a gallant Lady , Fair she was and bright , and of virtues rare : Her self she did behave so courteously as may be , Wedded were they brave , joy without compare . Here began the grief , Pain without relief , her husband soon her love forsook , To women lewd of mind Being bad inclined , he only lent a pleasant look : The Lady she sat weeping , While that he was keeping company with others more : Her words , my Love , believe not , Come to me and grieve not , Wantons will thee overthrow . His fair Ladies words nothing he regarded , Wantonness affords such delightful sport : While they dance and sing , with great mirth prepared , She her hands did wring in most grievous s [ oo ] rt . O what hap had I Thus to wail and cry , unrespected every day : Living in disdain , While that others gain all the right I should enjoy ? I am left forsaken , Others they are taken , ah my Love , why dost thou so ? Her flatteries believe not , etc The Knight with his fair Piece , at length his Lady spied , Who did him daily fleece of his wealth and store : Secretly she stood , while she her fashions tried , With a patient mood , while deep the Strumpet swore : Oh sir Knight , quoth she , So dearly I love thee , my life does rest at thy dispose , By day and eke by night , For thy sweet delight , thou shalt me in thy arms disclose . I am thine own for ever , Still will I persever true to thee where ere I go . Her flatteries believe not , etc The virtuous Lady mild enters then among them , Being big with child , as ever she might be . With distilling tears she looked then upon them , Filled full of fears , thus replied she : Ah my Love and Dear , Wherefore stay you here , refusing me your loving wife , For and Harlots sake , Which each one will take , whose vile deeds provoke much strife : Many can accuse her , Oh my Love refuse her , with thy Lady home return : Her flatteries believe not , Come to me and grieve not , etc All in fury then the angry Knight upstarted Very furious , when he herd his Ladies speech : With many bitter terms his wife he overthwarted , Using hard extremes , while she did him beseech . From her neck so white , He took away in spite her curious chain of finest gold , Her Jewels and her Rings , And all such costly things , as he about her did behold . The Harlot in her presence , He did gently reverence , and to her he gave them all He sent away his Lady , Full of woe as may be , who in a found with grief did fallen . The second part , To the same tune . A TO his Ladies wrong the Harlot fleered and laughed , Enticements are so strong , they overcome the wife : The Knight nothing regarded , to see the Lady scoffed , This was her reward , for her enterprise . The Harlot all this space Did him oft embrace , she flatters him , and thus does say , For thee I'll die and live , For thee my faith I'll give , no woe shall work my Loves decay . Thou shalt be my treasure , Thou shalt be my pleasure , thou shalt be my hearts delight : I will be thy darling , I will be thy worldling , in despite of Fortune's spite . Thus he did remain in wasteful great expenses , Till it bred his pain , and consumed him quite : When his Lands were spent , troubled in his senses , Then he did repent this his lewd delight : For relief he hies , For relief he flies , to them on whom he spent his gold , They do him deny , They do him defy , they will not once his face behold . Being thus distressed , Being thus oppressed , in the fields that night he lay , Which the Harlot knowing , Through her malice growing , sought to take his life away . A young and proper Lad , they had slain in secret , For the gold he had : whom they did convey , By a Ruffian lewd , to that place directly , Where that youthful Knight fast a sleeping lay : The bloody dagger than , Wherewith they killed the man , hard by the Knight he likewise laid , Sprinkling him with blood , As he thought it good , and then no longer there he stayed . The Knight being so abused , Was forthwith accused for this murder which was done , And he was condemned , That had not offended , shameful death he might not shun . When the Lady bright understood the matter , That her wedded Knight was condemned to die , To the King she went with all the speed that might be , Where she did lament her hard destiny : Noble King , quoth she , Pity take on me , and pardon my poor husbands life , Else I am undone , With my little son , let mercy mitigate this grief . Lady fair , content thee , Soon thou wouldst repent thee , if he should be saved so : Soar he hath abused thee , Soar he hath misused thee , therefore Lady let him go . O my Liege , quoth she , grant your gracious favour , Dear he is to me , though he did me wrong : The King replied again , with a stern behaviour , A Subject he hath slain , die he shall ere long , Except thou canst find Any one so kind , that will die and set him free . Noble King , she said , Glad am I paid , the same person will I be , I will suffer duly , I will suffer truly , for my Love and husbands sake . The King therefore amazed , Though he her duty praised , he bade that thence he should her take . It was the Kings command , on the morrow after , She should out of hand , to the Scaffold go : Her husband pointed was , to bear the sword before her , He must eke alas , give the deadly blow : He refused the deed , She bade him proceed , with a thousand kisses sweet . In this woeful case , They did both embrace which moved the Ruffian in that place Straight for to discover This concealed murder , whereby the Lady saved was , The Harlot then was hanged , As she well deserved , this [ did v ] ertue bring to pass . FINIS . Printed at London for J. Wright . Constance of Cleveland . A very excellent Sonnet of the most fair Lady Constance of Clevelan [ worser ] and her disloyal Knight . To the tune of Crimson Velvet . I TO was a youthful Knight , loved a gallant Lady , Fair she was and bright , and of virtues rare : Her self she did behave so courteously as may be , Wedded were they brave , joy without compare . Here began the grief , Pain without relief , her husband soon her love forsook , To women lewd of mind Being bad inclined , he only lent a pleasant look : The Lady she sat weeping , While that he was keeping company with others more : Her words , my Love , believe not , Come to me and grieve not , Wantons will thee overthrow . His fair Ladies words nothing he regarded , Wantonness affords such delightful sport : While they dance and sing , with great mirth prepared , She her hands did wring in most grievous s [ oo ] rt . O what hap had I Thus to wail and cry , unrespected every day : Living in disdain , While that others gain all the right I should enjoy ? I am left forsaken , Others they are taken , ah my Love , why dost thou so ? Her flatteries believe not , etc The Knight with his fair Piece , at length his Lady spied , Who did him daily fleece of his wealth and store : Secretly she stood , while she her fashions tried , With a patient mood , while deep the Strumpet swore : Oh sir Knight , quoth she , So dearly I love thee , my life does rest at thy dispose , By day and eke by night , For thy sweet delight , thou shalt me in thy arms disclose . I am thine own for ever , Still will I persever true to thee where ere I go . Her flatteries believe not , etc The virtuous Lady mild enters then among them , Being big with child , as ever she might be . With distilling tears she looked then upon them , Filled full of fears , thus replied she : Ah my Love and Dear , Wherefore stay you here , refusing me your loving wife , For and Harlots sake , Which each one will take , whose vile deeds provoke much strife : Many can accuse her , Oh my Love refuse her , with thy Lady home return : Her flatteries believe not , Come to me and grieve not , etc All in fury then the angry Knight upstarted Very furious , when he herd his Ladies speech : With many bitter terms his wife he overthwarted , Using hard extremes , while she did him beseech . From her neck so white , He took away in spite her curious chain of finest gold , Her Jewels and her Rings , And all such costly things , as he about her did behold . The Harlot in her presence , He did gently reverence , and to her he gave them all He sent away his Lady , Full of woe as may be , who in a found with grief did fallen . The second part , To the same tune . A TO his Ladies wrong the Harlot fleered and laughed , Enticements are so strong , they overcome the wife : The Knight nothing regarded , to see the Lady scoffed , This was her reward , for her enterprise . The Harlot all this space Did him oft embrace , she flatters him , and thus does say , For thee I'll die and live , For thee my faith I'll give , no woe shall work my Loves decay . Thou shalt be my treasure , Thou shalt be my pleasure , thou shalt be my hearts delight : I will be thy darling , I will be thy worldling , in despite of Fortune's spite . Thus he did remain in wasteful great expenses , Till it bred his pain , and consumed him quite : When his Lands were spent , troubled in his senses , Then he did repent this his lewd delight : For relief he hies , For relief he flies , to them on whom he spent his gold , They do him deny , They do him defy , they will not once his face behold . Being thus distressed , Being thus oppressed , in the fields that night he lay , Which the Harlot knowing , Through her malice growing , sought to take his life away . A young and proper Lad , they had slain in secret , For the gold he had : whom they did convey , By a Ruffian lewd , to that place directly , Where that youthful Knight fast a sleeping lay : The bloody dagger than , Wherewith they killed the man , hard by the Knight he likewise laid , Sprinkling him with blood , As he thought it good , and then no longer there he stayed . The Knight being so abused , Was forthwith accused for this murder which was done , And he was condemned , That had not offended , shameful death he might not shun . When the Lady bright understood the matter , That her wedded Knight was condemned to die , To the King she went with all the speed that might be , Where she did lament her hard destiny : Noble King , quoth she , Pity take on me , and pardon my poor husbands life , Else I am undone , With my little son , let mercy mitigate this grief . Lady fair , content thee , Soon thou wouldst repent thee , if he should be saved so : Soar he hath abused thee , Soar he hath misused thee , therefore Lady let him go . O my Liege , quoth she , grant your gracious favour , Dear he is to me , though he did me wrong : The King replied again , with a stern behaviour , A Subject he hath slain , die he shall ere long , Except thou canst find Any one so kind , that will die and set him free . Noble King , she said , Glad am I paid , the same person will I be , I will suffer duly , I will suffer truly , for my Love and husbands sake . The King therefore amazed , Though he her duty praised , he bade that thence he should her take . It was the Kings command , on the morrow after , She should out of hand , to the Scaffold go : Her husband pointed was , to bear the sword before her , He must eke alas , give the deadly blow : He refused the deed , She bade him proceed , with a thousand kisses sweet . In this woeful case , They did both embrace which moved the Ruffian in that place Straight for to discover This concealed murder , whereby the Lady saved was , The Harlot then was hanged , As she well deserved , this [ did v ] ertue bring to pass . FINIS . Printed at London for J. Wright . 