A Looking glass for Corne-hoorders , By the example of John Russell a Farmer dwelling at St Peters Chassant in Buckingham shire , whose Horses sunk into the ground the 4 of March 1631. To the tune of Welladay . O F wonders strange that was ever herd , ever herd , The like never came to pass of this that follows . Let no man this truth doubt , but rather search it out : For this spread far about in every place . This woeful chance befell welladay , welladay , Which I with grief do tell , Lord , have thou pity , Since men's hearts are so hard , that poor from bred are barred , And diverse almost starved in this our Land. In Buckingham Shire this Accident , Accident , Fell out at a place named Saint Peters Chassant . This thing though strange , ti's true , I do assure all you That do wrong , wrack and scrue the needy poor . The poor being abused by the rich , by the rich , And by them cruelly used in every Town : But God that hears their moan , for their sakes hath this shown , That's already noysd and blown over the Land. A Farmer there did dwell , rich he was , rich he was , Who had much Corn to fell , and store of grain : John Russell was he named , whose base fact hath him shamed , Because it is proclaimed to his disgrace . A poor man wanting grain , came to him , came to him , Requesting to obtain some of his store , The Farmer yields thereto , seeming willing to do This for the poor man , so he might be paid . The Farmer took his price of his Corn , of his Corn , The poor man was not nice but yielded to it : He bid him repair home , and bring with him that sum That they concluded on , and he should have't . The poor man came and brought to the house , to the house , Of the Farmer , and sought him , to fulfil His former promise made , When he these words had said , His money down he paid unto the Farmer . The second part . To the same tune . TO He poor man left his Sack with his quoin , with his quoin , Thinking to return back to him again , And for to fetch from thence that Corn , which he long since Had given recompense unto the full . But afterwards he came to demand , to demand , That Corn , yea that very same that he had bought , The Farmers humour was such that he did grumble much . Nor would he at all keep touch with this poor man . But told him , Corn did rise every day , every day , And therefore a higher price must he give him : Otherwise he should not have one Corn , though's lifeed might save , At which his speeches brave the poor man grieved , The poor man he went far to his friend , to his friend , To get some money more , to buy that Corn . Which when he had procured , though he was much injured He quietly endured , and gave it him : Who found him labouring in the field , in the field , And hard a harrowing with his servants , But God will sure requite all those , that do delight To affront and affright those that are poor . The ground strait opened wide , into which , into which Did two of his horses slide : this strange to hear . They did sink down so low , that no man yet can know Whither they fell , they did so strangely vanish : The rest o'th' Term did sink presently , presently , But it good help , I think , that them released . They were raised up again , suffering but little pain . This is a blot and stain to all our Mi'zers . Let them take heed how they do oppress , do oppress The poor that God obey , and are beloved . God will not let these long alone , that do his wrong , Though never so rich and strong that are oppressors' . Printed at London for H. Gosson . FINIS . A Looking glass for Corne-hoorders , By the example of John Russell a Farmer dwelling at St Peters Chassant in Buckingham shire , whose Horses sunk into the ground the 4 of March 1631. To the tune of Welladay . O F wonders strange that was ever herd , ever herd , The like never came to pass of this that follows . Let no man this truth doubt , but rather search it out : For this spread far about in every place . This woeful chance befell welladay , welladay , Which I with grief do tell , Lord , have thou pity , Since men's hearts are so hard , that poor from bred are barred , And diverse almost starved in this our Land. In Buckingham Shire this Accident , Accident , Fell out at a place named Saint Peters Chassant . This thing though strange , ti's true , I do assure all you That do wrong , wrack and scrue the needy poor . The poor being abused by the rich , by the rich , And by them cruelly used in every Town : But God that hears their moan , for their sakes hath this shown , That's already noysd and blown over the Land. A Farmer there did dwell , rich he was , rich he was , Who had much Corn to fell , and store of grain : John Russell was he named , whose base fact hath him shamed , Because it is proclaimed to his disgrace . A poor man wanting grain , came to him , came to him , Requesting to obtain some of his store , The Farmer yields thereto , seeming willing to do This for the poor man , so he might be paid . The Farmer took his price of his Corn , of his Corn , The poor man was not nice but yielded to it : He bid him repair home , and bring with him that sum That they concluded on , and he should have't . The poor man came and brought to the house , to the house , Of the Farmer , and sought him , to fulfil His former promise made , When he these words had said , His money down he paid unto the Farmer . The second part . To the same tune . TO He poor man left his Sack with his quoin , with his quoin , Thinking to return back to him again , And for to fetch from thence that Corn , which he long since Had given recompense unto the full . But afterwards he came to demand , to demand , That Corn , yea that very same that he had bought , The Farmers humour was such that he did grumble much . Nor would he at all keep touch with this poor man . But told him , Corn did rise every day , every day , And therefore a higher price must he give him : Otherwise he should not have one Corn , though's lifeed might save , At which his speeches brave the poor man grieved , The poor man he went far to his friend , to his friend , To get some money more , to buy that Corn . Which when he had procured , though he was much injured He quietly endured , and gave it him : Who found him labouring in the field , in the field , And hard a harrowing with his servants , But God will sure requite all those , that do delight To affront and affright those that are poor . The ground strait opened wide , into which , into which Did two of his horses slide : this strange to hear . They did sink down so low , that no man yet can know Whither they fell , they did so strangely vanish : The rest o'th' Term did sink presently , presently , But it good help , I think , that them released . They were raised up again , suffering but little pain . This is a blot and stain to all our Mi'zers . Let them take heed how they do oppress , do oppress The poor that God obey , and are beloved . God will not let these long alone , that do his wrong , Though never so rich and strong that are oppressors' . Printed at London for H. Gosson . FINIS . 