A Lanthorn for Landlords . To the tune of , The Duke of Norfolke . W Ith sobbing grief my heart will break Asunder in my breast , Before this story of great woe , I truly have expressed : Therefore let all kind hearted men , And those that tender be , Come bear a part of this my grief , and jointly say with me , Woe worth the man , etc Not long ago in Lincolne dwelled , As I did understand , A labouring man from thence set forth to serve in Ireland : And there in Princes wars was slain , As does that Country know , But left his widow great with child as ever she could go . Woe , etc This woman having gone her time , Her husband being dead , Of two fine pretty Boys at once was sweetly brought to bed ; Whereat her wicked Landlord straight , Did ponder in his mind , How that their wants he should relieve , and succour for them find . For being born upon his ground , This was his vile conceit , That he the mother should maintain , and give the other meat : Which to prevent he hied fast , Unto this widow poor , And on the day she went to Church , he turned her out of door . Her household goods he strained upon , To satisfy the rend , And left her scarce a rag to wear , so wilful was he bent : Her pretty Babes that sweetly slept Upon her tender breast , Were forced by the Mizers rage , by nights in streets to rest . Quoth she , my husband in your cause , In wars did loose his life , And will you use thus cruelly his harmless wedded wife ? O God revenge a widow's wrong , That all the world may know , How you have forced a Soldiers wife a begging for to go . From Lincolne thus this widow went , But left her curse behind , And begged all the Land about , her maintenance to find : At many places where she came ; She knew the whipping post , Constrained still as beggars be , to taste on such like rost . But weary of such punishment , Which she had suffered long , She daily thought within her heart she had exceeding wrong : And coming near to Norwich gates , In grief she sat her down , Desiring God that never she might come in that same Town . For I had rather live , quoth she , Within these pleasant fields , And feed my children with such food , as woods and meadows yield , Before I will of rich men beg , Or crave it at their door , Whose hearts I know are merciless unto the needy poor . The second part . To the same tune . H Er Boys now grown to two years old , Did from their Mother run To gather ears of Barley Corn , as they before had done . But mark what heavy chance befell Unto these pretty Elves , They happened into lands of Wheat , wherein they lost themselves . Woe , etc And thinking to return again , They wandered further still , Far from their Mother's hearing quite , full soar against her will , Who sought them all the fields about , But labouring all in vain , For why , her children both were lost , and could not come again . The two sweet Babes when they perceived The coal black night drew on , And they not in their mother's sighed , for her did make great moan : But wearied with the days great heat , They sat them down and cried , Until such time that arm in arm , these two sweet Infants died . Their Mother after three days search , Resolved had her mind , That some good honest meaning man did both her children find : And therefore went to seek her self A service out of hand , Who chanced with that man to dwell , which owed this green wheat land . It fell out so in harvest time , This woeful widow then , Was at the reaping of the Wheat , with other labouring men . Where finding of her liveless Babes , Almost consumed away , She wrung her hands and beatrice her breast , but knew not what to say . The rumor of which woeful chance , Throughout the City told , Inforced many a weeping eye , the same for to behold . From whence she was conveyed again To Lincolne back with speed , To prosecute the Law against the causer of this deed . But see the Judgement of the Lord , How he in fury great , Did bring this Mizer to distress , though wealthy was his seat . For when to Lincolne she was brought , The Caitiff he was gone , Of all his cursed family , remaining was but one . For first the house wherein she dwelled , Did prove unfortunate , Which made the Landlord and his friends , to marvel much thereat . For tenants foure there dwelled therein , A twelvemonth and a day , Yet none of them could thrive at all , but beggars went away : Whereat this miserable wretch Did turn it to a Bairn And filled it full in harvest time , with good read wheat and corn . To keep it safely from the poor , Until there came a year , That famine might oppress them all , and make all victuals deer , But God forgetting not the wrongs , He did the Widow poor , Sent down a fire from heaven , which soon consumed all his store : By which this wicked mizer man , Was brought to beggary , And likewise laid a grievous scourge upon his family : His wife she proved a cursed witch , And burned for the same , His daughter now a Strumpet is at London in defame . At Leicester at the Sizes last , Was hanged his eldest son , For their consenting wickedly unto a murder done . His second son was fled away Unto the enemy , And proved disloyal to his Prince , and to his own country . His youngest son had like mishap , Or worse in my mind , For he consented to a bitch , contrary unto kind , For which , the Lord without delay , Rained vengeance on his head , Who like a sinful Sodomite defiled Nature's bed : For there were two great mastive dogs That met him in a wood , And tore his limbs in pieces small , devouring up his blood : Whereof when as his father herd , Most like a desperate man , Within a channel drowned himself , that down the street it ran , Where as water could scarce suffice , To drown a silly mouse : And thus the ruin you have herd of him and all his house . The Widow she was soon possessed Of all the goods he left , In recompense of those sweet Babes mischance from her bereft . Therefore let all hardhearted men , By this example take , That God is just , and will be true , for woeful widows sake . Woe worth the man , etc London , printed for J. Wright . FINIS . A Lanthorn for Landlords . To the tune of , The Duke of Norfolke . W Ith sobbing grief my heart will break Asunder in my breast , Before this story of great woe , I truly have expressed : Therefore let all kind hearted men , And those that tender be , Come bear a part of this my grief , and jointly say with me , Woe worth the man , etc Not long ago in Lincolne dwelled , As I did understand , A labouring man from thence set forth to serve in Ireland : And there in Princes wars was slain , As does that Country know , But left his widow great with child as ever she could go . Woe , etc This woman having gone her time , Her husband being dead , Of two fine pretty Boys at once was sweetly brought to bed ; Whereat her wicked Landlord straight , Did ponder in his mind , How that their wants he should relieve , and succour for them find . For being born upon his ground , This was his vile conceit , That he the mother should maintain , and give the other meat : Which to prevent he hied fast , Unto this widow poor , And on the day she went to Church , he turned her out of door . Her household goods he strained upon , To satisfy the rend , And left her scarce a rag to wear , so wilful was he bent : Her pretty Babes that sweetly slept Upon her tender breast , Were forced by the Mizers rage , by nights in streets to rest . Quoth she , my husband in your cause , In wars did loose his life , And will you use thus cruelly his harmless wedded wife ? O God revenge a widow's wrong , That all the world may know , How you have forced a Soldiers wife a begging for to go . From Lincolne thus this widow went , But left her curse behind , And begged all the Land about , her maintenance to find : At many places where she came ; She knew the whipping post , Constrained still as beggars be , to taste on such like rost . But weary of such punishment , Which she had suffered long , She daily thought within her heart she had exceeding wrong : And coming near to Norwich gates , In grief she sat her down , Desiring God that never she might come in that same Town . For I had rather live , quoth she , Within these pleasant fields , And feed my children with such food , as woods and meadows yield , Before I will of rich men beg , Or crave it at their door , Whose hearts I know are merciless unto the needy poor . The second part . To the same tune . H Er Boys now grown to two years old , Did from their Mother run To gather ears of Barley Corn , as they before had done . But mark what heavy chance befell Unto these pretty Elves , They happened into lands of Wheat , wherein they lost themselves . Woe , etc And thinking to return again , They wandered further still , Far from their Mother's hearing quite , full soar against her will , Who sought them all the fields about , But labouring all in vain , For why , her children both were lost , and could not come again . The two sweet Babes when they perceived The coal black night drew on , And they not in their mother's sighed , for her did make great moan : But wearied with the days great heat , They sat them down and cried , Until such time that arm in arm , these two sweet Infants died . Their Mother after three days search , Resolved had her mind , That some good honest meaning man did both her children find : And therefore went to seek her self A service out of hand , Who chanced with that man to dwell , which owed this green wheat land . It fell out so in harvest time , This woeful widow then , Was at the reaping of the Wheat , with other labouring men . Where finding of her liveless Babes , Almost consumed away , She wrung her hands and beatrice her breast , but knew not what to say . The rumor of which woeful chance , Throughout the City told , Inforced many a weeping eye , the same for to behold . From whence she was conveyed again To Lincolne back with speed , To prosecute the Law against the causer of this deed . But see the Judgement of the Lord , How he in fury great , Did bring this Mizer to distress , though wealthy was his seat . For when to Lincolne she was brought , The Caitiff he was gone , Of all his cursed family , remaining was but one . For first the house wherein she dwelled , Did prove unfortunate , Which made the Landlord and his friends , to marvel much thereat . For tenants foure there dwelled therein , A twelvemonth and a day , Yet none of them could thrive at all , but beggars went away : Whereat this miserable wretch Did turn it to a Bairn And filled it full in harvest time , with good read wheat and corn . To keep it safely from the poor , Until there came a year , That famine might oppress them all , and make all victuals deer , But God forgetting not the wrongs , He did the Widow poor , Sent down a fire from heaven , which soon consumed all his store : By which this wicked mizer man , Was brought to beggary , And likewise laid a grievous scourge upon his family : His wife she proved a cursed witch , And burned for the same , His daughter now a Strumpet is at London in defame . At Leicester at the Sizes last , Was hanged his eldest son , For their consenting wickedly unto a murder done . His second son was fled away Unto the enemy , And proved disloyal to his Prince , and to his own country . His youngest son had like mishap , Or worse in my mind , For he consented to a bitch , contrary unto kind , For which , the Lord without delay , Rained vengeance on his head , Who like a sinful Sodomite defiled Nature's bed : For there were two great mastive dogs That met him in a wood , And tore his limbs in pieces small , devouring up his blood : Whereof when as his father herd , Most like a desperate man , Within a channel drowned himself , that down the street it ran , Where as water could scarce suffice , To drown a silly mouse : And thus the ruin you have herd of him and all his house . The Widow she was soon possessed Of all the goods he left , In recompense of those sweet Babes mischance from her bereft . Therefore let all hardhearted men , By this example take , That God is just , and will be true , for woeful widows sake . Woe worth the man , etc London , printed for J. Wright . FINIS . 