The first part of the Widow of Watling street & amp ; her three daughters , & amp ; how her wicked Son accused her to be and harlot , and his sisters Bastards . To the tune of Bragandary . O F the kind Widow of Watling street I will the story tell , Who by her husband deer was left , In substance very well ; A prodigal son likewise had she , And fair young daughters lovely three ? Great misery , sorrow and misery , Comes for want of grace . For by his daily practises , which were both lewd and ill , His father's heart from him was drawn , His love and his good will . But yet what chance so ere befell , his mother loved him dearly well , When in prison lay full poor , for debt that he did owe , His father would not stir out of doors , For to release his woe . But when his mother his grief did see , she found the means to set him free . And when her husband fell full sick , and went to make his will , Oh husband remember your son she said , Although he hath been ill : But yet no doubt he may return , repenting the evil he hath done . Remember wife what sorrow and care , through him I daily found : Who through his lewd ungracious deeds , Hath spent me many a pound : And therefore let him sink or swim , I mean not for to deal with him . And therefore sole Executor here , I do thee only make : To pay thy debts & amp ; legacies , the rest unto thee take , Not so my husband deer ( quoth she ) but let your son be joined with me : For why he is our child ( she said ) we can it not deny . The first that ever graced you With father's dignity , O , that ever you did me love , grant this request for his behove . Thy love deer wife was evermore , most precious unto me : And therefore for thy sweet loves sake I grant thy suit to thee . But ere one year be fully spent , I know thou wilt the same repent . Now was his son received home , and with his mother deer , Was joined Executor of the Will , which did his courage cheer : The old man dying , buried was , but now behold what came to pass . The funeral being ended quite , it fell upon a day some friend did fetch the Widow forth , To drive conceits away , While she was forth and thought no ill , her wicked son does work his will . Possession of the house he took , in most despite full wise throwing his sisters out of doors , With sad lamenting cries . When this they did his mother show , She would not believe he would do so . But when she came unto her house , and found it so indeed , She called unto her son and said , although her heart did bleed , Come down my son , come down said she , let in thy mother and sisters three . I will not let in my mother he said , nor sisters any one , The house is mine , I will it keep , Therefore away begone . O son how canst thou endure to see't . thy mother and sisters to lie i'th street . Did not thy father by his will , For term of this my life , Give me this house for to enjoy , without all further strife . And more of all his goods said she , I am Executor joined with thee . My father left you the house , he said , but this was his intent , That you therefore during your life , Should pay me yearly rend : And hundred pound a year therefore , you shall give me , or else give it over . And sith the Cities custom is , that you thirds must have Of all my father's movables , I grant what law does crave : But not a penny more will I , discharge of any Legacy . O wicked son , quoth she that seeks thy mother thus to fleece : Thy father to his daughters gave Three hundred pounds a piece : Tell me who shall their portions pay , appointed at their marriage day . Then with a scornful smile he said , What talk you of so much : Ten pounds a piece , I will them give , My charity is such . Now fie upon thee beast , quoth she , that thus dost deal with them and me . But ere that they and I will take this injury at thy hand : The chiefest Peers of England shall the matter understand : Nay , if you go to that , quoth he , mark well what I shall tell to thee . Thou hast a secret harlot been , and this I'll prove full plain , That in my Father's life time didst Lewd Ruffians entertain : The which did then beget of thee , in wicked sort these bastards three , No daughters to my father then were they in any wise : As he supposed them to be , Thou blinding so his eyes . Therefore no right at all have they , to any penny given this day . When she did hear her shameless son , for to defame her so , She with her lovely daughters three , with grief away did go . But how this matter out did fallen , the second part will show you all . FINIS . The second part of the Widow of Watling street and her three Daughters To the tune of , the Wanton wife . TO He beautiful Widow of Watling street , Being thus falsely accused by her son , With her three daughters of favour so sweet , Whose beauty the love of many had won : With her daughters three for succour went she , unto the Kings Counsel of Noble degree . Now fie upon falsehood , and forgery frail , For great is the truth , and it will prevail . Her son by Writ now summoned is , At the Starchamber with speed to appear , To answer the vile abuses of his : The Lord of the Counsel the matter will hear , This news being brought , his wits he sought , Which way his villainy best might be wrought . Then up and down the City so fair , He seeks companions to serve his turn : A sort of Vagabonds naked and bore , The which to work murders for money are wone : These wretches behold , for money and gold , He hired for witness his lies to uphold , etc My master's , quoth he , my mother by name , To be a lewd strumpet accused I have : And having no witness to prove the same , Your aid and assistance herein I do crave , Therefore without fear , before the Lords there , That this thing is certain you sixe shall it swear . The first two quoth he shall swear on a Book , That sixteene yearss passed they plainly did see , As they through the Garden hedge sadly did look , That she in one hour was abused by three : But how it befell , they two marked it well , That just nine months after she had her first Girl . The second couple shall swear in this sort , That at Bristow about thirteene years past , She with her own prentice did fallen in such sport , That her second daughter was god at the last , Now trust us quoth they weel swear what you say , Or any thing else for money this day , etc And thus the third couple their oath now shall take , That at the Bath she stayed on a day , For ach in the bones and excuse she did make , How she with a Courtier the wanton did play , And how well you wot in that pleasant plot , Her dearest young daughter for certain was god . But now my master's your names let me know , That I may provide your apparel with speed , Like sixe grave Citizens , so must you go , The better your speeches the Nobles will heed : So shall I with scorn ere Saturday morn , Prove her a harlot , my Sisters base born . My name is Makeshift the first man did say , And Francis Light-finger the second likewise : Cutbert Creepe-window the third to display , And Rowland Robman with foul staring eyes , Jacke shameless came then with Harry steale-hen , You are quoth the Widow son right honest men . Before the Lords most prudent and grave , This wretch does with his witnesses come , The Mother complains , and Justice does crave , Of all the offences that he hath her done . My Lords than quoth , I pray you hear me , The Law for my deeds , my warrant shall be . Her son said also she's a harlot most vild , And those be her bastards that stand here in place , And that she hath often her body defiled , By very good witness I'll prove to her face , This thing of thy Mother thou oughtest to smother , This shame for a child to speak ill of his Mother . But if this matter be proved untrue , And thou a false Liar be found to thy face , Worse than and Infidel , Pagan , or Jew , Thou oughtest to be punished and plagued in this case And therefore draw near and let us hear , What says the witness that here does appear . When the first couple did come for to swear , They quivered and quaked in most wondrous sort , The Lords very countenance did put them in fear , And now they knew not what to report , The second likewise so stared with their eyes , They stammered and knew not what tThe first part of the Widow of Watling street & amp ; her three daughters , & amp ; how her wicked Son accused her to be and harlot , and his sisters Bastards . To the tune of Bragandary . O F the kind Widow of Watling street I will the story tell , Who by her husband deer was left , In substance very well ; A prodigal son likewise had she , And fair young daughters lovely three ? Great misery , sorrow and misery , Comes for want of grace . For by his daily practises , which were both lewd and ill , His father's heart from him was drawn , His love and his good will . But yet what chance so ere befell , his mother loved him dearly well , When in prison lay full poor , for debt that he did owe , His father would not stir out of doors , For to release his woe . But when his mother his grief did see , she found the means to set him free . And when her husband fell full sick , and went to make his will , Oh husband remember your son she said , Although he hath been ill : But yet no doubt he may return , repenting the evil he hath done . Remember wife what sorrow and care , through him I daily found : Who through his lewd ungracious deeds , Hath spent me many a pound : And therefore let him sink or swim , I mean not for to deal with him . And therefore sole Executor here , I do thee only make : To pay thy debts & amp ; legacies , the rest unto thee take , Not so my husband deer ( quoth she ) but let your son be joined with me : For why he is our child ( she said ) we can it not deny . The first that ever graced you With father's dignity , O , that ever you did me love , grant this request for his behove . Thy love deer wife was evermore , most precious unto me : And therefore for thy sweet loves sake I grant thy suit to thee . But ere one year be fully spent , I know thou wilt the same repent . Now was his son received home , and with his mother deer , Was joined Executor of the Will , which did his courage cheer : The old man dying , buried was , but now behold what came to pass . The funeral being ended quite , it fell upon a day some friend did fetch the Widow forth , To drive conceits away , While she was forth and thought no ill , her wicked son does work his will . Possession of the house he took , in most despite full wise throwing his sisters out of doors , With sad lamenting cries . When this they did his mother show , She would not believe he would do so . But when she came unto her house , and found it so indeed , She called unto her son and said , although her heart did bleed , Come down my son , come down said she , let in thy mother and sisters three . I will not let in my mother he said , nor sisters any one , The house is mine , I will it keep , Therefore away begone . O son how canst thou endure to see't . thy mother and sisters to lie i'th street . Did not thy father by his will , For term of this my life , Give me this house for to enjoy , without all further strife . And more of all his goods said she , I am Executor joined with thee . My father left you the house , he said , but this was his intent , That you therefore during your life , Should pay me yearly rend : And hundred pound a year therefore , you shall give me , or else give it over . And sith the Cities custom is , that you thirds must have Of all my father's movables , I grant what law does crave : But not a penny more will I , discharge of any Legacy . O wicked son , quoth she that seeks thy mother thus to fleece : Thy father to his daughters gave Three hundred pounds a piece : Tell me who shall their portions pay , appointed at their marriage day . Then with a scornful smile he said , What talk you of so much : Ten pounds a piece , I will them give , My charity is such . Now fie upon thee beast , quoth she , that thus dost deal with them and me . But ere that they and I will take this injury at thy hand : The chiefest Peers of England shall the matter understand : Nay , if you go to that , quoth he , mark well what I shall tell to thee . Thou hast a secret harlot been , and this I'll prove full plain , That in my Father's life time didst Lewd Ruffians entertain : The which did then beget of thee , in wicked sort these bastards three , No daughters to my father then were they in any wise : As he supposed them to be , Thou blinding so his eyes . Therefore no right at all have they , to any penny given this day . When she did hear her shameless son , for to defame her so , She with her lovely daughters three , with grief away did go . But how this matter out did fallen , the second part will show you all . FINIS . The second part of the Widow of Watling street and her three Daughters To the tune of , the Wanton wife . TO He beautiful Widow of Watling street , Being thus falsely accused by her son , With her three daughters of favour so sweet , Whose beauty the love of many had won : With her daughters three for succour went she , unto the Kings Counsel of Noble degree . Now fie upon falsehood , and forgery frail , For great is the truth , and it will prevail . Her son by Writ now summoned is , At the Starchamber with speed to appear , To answer the vile abuses of his : The Lord of the Counsel the matter will hear , This news being brought , his wits he sought , Which way his villainy best might be wrought . Then up and down the City so fair , He seeks companions to serve his turn : A sort of Vagabonds naked and bore , The which to work murders for money are wone : These wretches behold , for money and gold , He hired for witness his lies to uphold , etc My master's , quoth he , my mother by name , To be a lewd strumpet accused I have : And having no witness to prove the same , Your aid and assistance herein I do crave , Therefore without fear , before the Lords there , That this thing is certain you sixe shall it swear . The first two quoth he shall swear on a Book , That sixteene yearss passed they plainly did see , As they through the Garden hedge sadly did look , That she in one hour was abused by three : But how it befell , they two marked it well , That just nine months after she had her first Girl . The second couple shall swear in this sort , That at Bristow about thirteene years past , She with her own prentice did fallen in such sport , That her second daughter was god at the last , Now trust us quoth they weel swear what you say , Or any thing else for money this day , etc And thus the third couple their oath now shall take , That at the Bath she stayed on a day , For ach in the bones and excuse she did make , How she with a Courtier the wanton did play , And how well you wot in that pleasant plot , Her dearest young daughter for certain was god . But now my master's your names let me know , That I may provide your apparel with speed , Like sixe grave Citizens , so must you go , The better your speeches the Nobles will heed : So shall I with scorn ere Saturday morn , Prove her a harlot , my Sisters base born . My name is Makeshift the first man did say , And Francis Light-finger the second likewise : Cutbert Creepe-window the third to display , And Rowland Robman with foul staring eyes , Jacke shameless came then with Harry steale-hen , You are quoth the Widow son right honest men . Before the Lords most prudent and grave , This wretch does with his witnesses come , The Mother complains , and Justice does crave , Of all the offences that he hath her done . My Lords than quoth , I pray you hear me , The Law for my deeds , my warrant shall be . Her son said also she's a harlot most vild , And those be her bastards that stand here in place , And that she hath often her body defiled , By very good witness I'll prove to her face , This thing of thy Mother thou oughtest to smother , This shame for a child to speak ill of his Mother . But if this matter be proved untrue , And thou a false Liar be found to thy face , Worse than and Infidel , Pagan , or Jew , Thou oughtest to be punished and plagued in this case And therefore draw near and let us hear , What says the witness that here does appear . When the first couple did come for to swear , They quivered and quaked in most wondrous sort , The Lords very countenance did put them in fear , And now they knew not what to report , The second likewise so stared with their eyes , They stammered and knew not what to devise , etc The Lords perceiving the case how it went , Did ask the last couple what they had to say , Who fell on their knees incontinent , Saying they were hired for money that day : Quoth they it is so the truth for to show , Against the good Widow no harm we do know . Thus was the Widow delivered from blame , With her three Daughters of beauty most bright . Her son reproached with sorrow and shame , Having his Judgement appointed him right , To forfeit even all the goods he possessed , To lose both his ears , and banished , so rest , etc When he herd his Judgement pronounced to be , The tears full bitterly fell down from his face : To Mother and Sisters he kneeled on his knee , Confessing that lucre had brought this disgrace , That for mine own gain I sought to detain My Sisters three portions this lie I did feign , Therefore deer Mother forgiveness I crave , Of you and my Sisters , offended so soar : My body from peril if you will but save , I swear I will grieve and offend you no more . The Lords then replied the Law justly tried . The punishment now thou art like to abide : Therefore to prison now thou shalt go , Whereas thou shalt the Kings pleasure abide : From thence to be brought with shame and with woe To suffer the punishment due for thy pride , Then out of hand thou shalt understand , That presently thou shalt be banished the Land , Now while in prison this prisoner did rest , Himself he hanged in desperate wise : Such horror of conscience possessed his breast : And being cast forth , the Ravens picked out his eyes All Children behold what hath been told , Accuse no man falsely for Lucre of Gold . Now fie upon falsehood and forgery frail , For great is the truth and it will prevail . FINIS . Prin for Fr. Cowles . oh devise , etc The Lords perceiving the case how it went , Did ask the last couple what they had to say , Who fell on their knees incontinent , Saying they were hired for money that day : Quoth they it is so the truth for to show , Against the good Widow no harm we do know . Thus was the Widow delivered from blame , With her three Daughters of beauty most bright . Her son reproached with sorrow and shame , Having his Judgement appointed him right , To forfeit even all the goods he possessed , To lose both his ears , and banished , so rest , etc When he herd his Judgement pronounced to be , The tears full bitterly fell down from his face : To Mother and Sisters he kneeled on his knee , Confessing that lucre had brought this disgrace , That for mine own gain I sought to detain My Sisters three portions this lie I did feign , Therefore deer Mother forgiveness I crave , Of you and my Sisters , offended so soar : My body from peril if you will but save , I swear I will grieve and offend you no more . The Lords then replied the Law justly tried . The punishment now thou art like to abide : Therefore to prison now thou shalt go , Whereas thou shalt the Kings pleasure abide : From thence to be brought with shame and with woe To suffer the punishment due for thy pride , Then out of hand thou shalt understand , That presently thou shalt be banished the Land , Now while in prison this prisoner did rest , Himself he hanged in desperate wise : Such horror of conscience possessed his breast : And being cast forth , the Ravens picked out his eyes All Children behold what hath been told , Accuse no man falsely for Lucre of Gold . Now fie upon falsehood and forgery frail , For great is the truth and it will prevail . FINIS . Prin for Fr. Cowles . 