A new Song , showing the cruelty of Gernutus a Jew , who lending to a Merchant a hundred Crowns , would have a pound of his Flesh , because he could not pay him at the day appointed . To the tune of , Black and Yellow . I N Venice town not long ago , a cruel Jew did dwell , Which lived all on Usury , as Italian writes tell . Gernutus called was the Jew , which never thought to die : Nor never yet did any good , to them in streets that lie . His life was like a Barrow-hog , that lives many a day : Yet never once does any good , until men will him slay . Or like a filthy heap of Dung , that lies in a whoard , Which never can do any good , till it be spread [ abroa ] worser . So fares it with the Usurer , he can not sleep in rest : For fear the thief will him pursue , to pluck him from his nest . His heart does think on many a wile , how to deceive the poor : His mouth is almost full of muck , yet still he gapes for more . His Wife must send a Shilling , or every week a Penny ; [ Y ] et bring a pledge that's double worth , if that you will have any . And see ( likewise ) you keep your day , or else you lose it all : This was the living of the Wife ; her Cow she did it call . Within that City dwelled that time , a Merchant of great fame , Which being distressed , in his need unto Gernutus came , Desiring him to stand his friend , for twelve month and a day , To lend to him and hundred Crowns , and he for it would pay Whatsoever he would demand of him , and Pledges he should have . No ( quoth the Jew with flearing looks ) Sir ask what you will have . No penny for the lone of it , for one year you shall pay : You may do me as good a turn , before my dying day : But we will have a merry jest , for to be talked long : You shall make me a Band ( quoth he ) that shall be large and strong . And this shall be the forfeiture , of your own Flesh a pound : If you agree , make you the Band , and here is a hundred Crowns . With right goodwill the Merchant said , and so the Band was made . When twelve month and a day drew on , that back it should be paid , The Merchants Ships were all at Seas , and Money came not in : Which way to take , or what to do , to think he does begin . And to Gernutus straight he comes , with cap and bent knee : And said to him , of courtesy , I pray you bear with me . My day is come , and I have not the Money for to pay : And little good the forfeiture will do you , I dare say . With all my heart , Gernutus said , command it to your mind , In things of bigger weight then this , you shall me ready find . He goes his way , the day once passed , Gernutus does not slack , To get a Sergiant presently , and clapped him on the back : And laid him into Prison strong , and sued his Band withal . And when the judgement day was come , for judgement he did call . The Merchants friends came thither fast , with many a weeping eye : For other means they could not find , but he that day must die . The Second part of the Jewes cruelty , setting forth the mercifulness of the Judge towards the Merchant . To the tune of Black and yellow . S Ome offered for his hundred Crowns , five hundred for to pay : And some a thousand , two , or three : yet still he did denay . And at the last , Ten thousand Crowns they offered him to save : Gernutus said , I will no Gold , my forfeit I will have . A pound of flesh is my desire , and that shall be my hire . Then said the Judge , yet good my friend , let me of you desire , To take the flesh from such a place , as yet you let him live : Do so , and lo and hundred Crowns , to thee here will I give . No , no ( quoth he ) no judgement here , for this it shall tried : For I will have my pound of flesh from under his right side . It grieved all the company , his cruelty to see : For neither friend nor foe could help , but he must spoiled be . The bloody Jew now ready is , with whetted blade in hand , To spoil the blood of Innocent , by forfeit of his Band . And as he was about to strike in him the deadly blow Stay ( quoth the Judge ) thy cruelty , I charge thee to do so . Sith needs thou wilt thy forfeit have , which is of flesh a pound : See that you shed no drop of blood , nor yet the man confound . For if thou do , like murderer , thou here shalt hanged be : Likewise of flesh see that thou cut , no more then longes to thee . For if thou take either more or less , to the valve of a Mite , Thou shalt be hanged presently , as is both law and right . Gernutus now waxed frantic mad , and wots not what to say : Quoth he at last , ten thousand Crowns I will that he shall pay : And so I grant to set him free . The Judge does answer make , You shall not have a penny given , your Forfeiture now take . At the last he does demand , but for to have his own . No quoth the Judge , do as you list , thy Judgement shall shown . Either take your pound of flesh , quoth he , or cancel me your Band : Oh cruel Judge , then quoth the Jew , that does against me stand . And so with gripping grieved mind , he bids them [ far ] ewell : All the people pray [ ed to tO ] he Lord , that ever this herd tell . Good people that do hear this song for truth I dare well say , That many a wretch as ill as he , does live now at this day . That seeks nothing but the spoil of many a wealthy man : And for to trap the Innocent , devises what they can . From whom , the Lord deliver me , and every Christian too : And send to them like sentence eke , that means so to be . FINIS . Imprinted at London for TO . P.A new Song , showing the cruelty of Gernutus a Jew , who lending to a Merchant a hundred Crowns , would have a pound of his Flesh , because he could not pay him at the day appointed . To the tune of , Black and Yellow . I N Venice town not long ago , a cruel Jew did dwell , Which lived all on Usury , as Italian writes tell . Gernutus called was the Jew , which never thought to die : Nor never yet did any good , to them in streets that lie . His life was like a Barrow-hog , that lives many a day : Yet never once does any good , until men will him slay . Or like a filthy heap of Dung , that lies in a whoard , Which never can do any good , till it be spread [ abroa ] worser . So fares it with the Usurer , he can not sleep in rest : For fear the thief will him pursue , to pluck him from his nest . His heart does think on many a wile , how to deceive the poor : His mouth is almost full of muck , yet still he gapes for more . His Wife must send a Shilling , or every week a Penny ; [ Y ] et bring a pledge that's double worth , if that you will have any . And see ( likewise ) you keep your day , or else you lose it all : This was the living of the Wife ; her Cow she did it call . Within that City dwelled that time , a Merchant of great fame , Which being distressed , in his need unto Gernutus came , Desiring him to stand his friend , for twelve month and a day , To lend to him and hundred Crowns , and he for it would pay Whatsoever he would demand of him , and Pledges he should have . No ( quoth the Jew with flearing looks ) Sir ask what you will have . No penny for the lone of it , for one year you shall pay : You may do me as good a turn , before my dying day : But we will have a merry jest , for to be talked long : You shall make me a Band ( quoth he ) that shall be large and strong . And this shall be the forfeiture , of your own Flesh a pound : If you agree , make you the Band , and here is a hundred Crowns . With right goodwill the Merchant said , and so the Band was made . When twelve month and a day drew on , that back it should be paid , The Merchants Ships were all at Seas , and Money came not in : Which way to take , or what to do , to think he does begin . And to Gernutus straight he comes , with cap and bent knee : And said to him , of courtesy , I pray you bear with me . My day is come , and I have not the Money for to pay : And little good the forfeiture will do you , I dare say . With all my heart , Gernutus said , command it to your mind , In things of bigger weight then this , you shall me ready find . He goes his way , the day once passed , Gernutus does not slack , To get a Sergiant presently , and clapped him on the back : And laid him into Prison strong , and sued his Band withal . And when the judgement day was come , for judgement he did call . The Merchants friends came thither fast , with many a weeping eye : For other means they could not find , but he that day must die . The Second part of the Jewes cruelty , setting forth the mercifulness of the Judge towards the Merchant . To the tune of Black and yellow . S Ome offered for his hundred Crowns , five hundred for to pay : And some a thousand , two , or three : yet still he did denay . And at the last , Ten thousand Crowns they offered him to save : Gernutus said , I will no Gold , my forfeit I will have . A pound of flesh is my desire , and that shall be my hire . Then said the Judge , yet good my friend , let me of you desire , To take the flesh from such a place , as yet you let him live : Do so , and lo and hundred Crowns , to thee here will I give . No , no ( quoth he ) no judgement here , for this it shall tried : For I will have my pound of flesh from under his right side . It grieved all the company , his cruelty to see : For neither friend nor foe could help , but he must spoiled be . The bloody Jew now ready is , with whetted blade in hand , To spoil the blood of Innocent , by forfeit of his Band . And as he was about to strike in him the deadly blow Stay ( quoth the Judge ) thy cruelty , I charge thee to do so . Sith needs thou wilt thy forfeit have , which is of flesh a pound : See that you shed no drop of blood , nor yet the man confound . For if thou do , like murderer , thou here shalt hanged be : Likewise of flesh see that thou cut , no more then longes to thee . For if thou take either more or less , to the valve of a Mite , Thou shalt be hanged presently , as is both law and right . Gernutus now waxed frantic mad , and wots not what to say : Quoth he at last , ten thousand Crowns I will that he shall pay : And so I grant to set him free . The Judge does answer make , You shall not have a penny given , your Forfeiture now take . At the last he does demand , but for to have his own . No quoth the Judge , do as you list , thy Judgement shall shown . Either take your pound of flesh , quoth he , or cancel me your Band : Oh cruel Judge , then quoth the Jew , that does against me stand . And so with gripping grieved mind , he bids them [ far ] ewell : All the people pray [ ed to tO ] he Lord , that ever this herd tell . Good people that do hear this song for truth I dare well say , That many a wretch as ill as he , does live now at this day . That seeks nothing but the spoil of many a wealthy man : And for to trap the Innocent , devises what they can . From whom , the Lord deliver me , and every Christian too : And send to them like sentence eke , that means so to be . FINIS . Imprinted at London for T.P. 