TO : Knavery in all Trades , OR , Here's and age would make a man mad . To the tune of , Ragged and torn and true . A S I was walking of late , within the fields so fair , My mind to recreate , well nigh overcome with care : I herd two men discourse , as I along did walk , It moved me with remorse , to harken to their talk , Full oftentimes they said , ( to hear them I was sad ) All honesty is decayed , here's and age would make a man mad . The one to the other did say , what course shall I take to live , For none can thrive at this day , but such as their minds do give ? To overreach and deceive , and doing of others wrong , All they that such courses leave , may sing the Begger-Boyes Song , A man can scarce thrive by his trade men's consciences are so bad , All honesty is decayed , here's and age will make a man mad . He that is rich already , is like still to be so , And he that is poor and needy , his burden must undergo ; This a Proverb used in our Town , it hath been and ever will , That if a man be once down , the world cries down with him still , How shall a man find a trade , whereby true means may be had , All honesty is decayed , here's and age would make a man mad . If a poor man be wronged by a rich , as alas we daily see , Without money to go through stitch , in a pitiful case is he : He were better to pocket up wrong , than himself into trouble to draw , For unless his pockets be strong , this but folly to meddle with Law , This makes many men dismayed , for the fee makes a case good for bad , All honesty is decayed , here's and age would make a man mad . Between the Lawyer and the money-begetting Mizer , Men loose both house and land , and afterwards wish they had been wiser : Although we have plenty of Grain , yet the rich make among us a dearth , Which causeth the poor to complain , as though little grew on the earth , Engrossing is grown such a trade , that the poor have great cause to be sad , All honesty is decayed , here's and age would make a man mad . One tradesman deceiveth another , and sellers will cony-catch buyers , For gain one will cheat his own brother , the world's full of swearers and liars : Men now make no conscience of oaths , and this I may boldly say , Some Rorers doe were gallant clothes , for which they did never pay : The rich shall a Saint be made , though his life be never so bad , All honesty is decayed , here's and age would make a man mad . The second part . To the same tune . TO He Taylor can never live well , as many men plainly perceives , Unless he have gains from hell , or lives upon Cabidge leaves ; Oh is't not a pitiful case , and a thing which few men believes ? A Taylor that will live in grace , cuts out of one gown three sleeves : Thus they must use their Trade , or else little means can be had , All honesty is decayed , here's and age would make a man mad . The Victualers , Tapsters and Cooks , are hindered very soar , With man [ y ] sharking Rooks , that use to encroach on their score : And when they are once in chalk , the hoose they will refrain , And to other places they'll walk , but never come there again , This trusling without being paid , breaks many and honest Lad , All honesty is decayed , here's and age would make a man mad . Plain dealing now is dead , and truth is so rare to find , That most men now are led , contrary unto kind : Where one man's just and found , whose words and deeds agree , A dozen may be found , that will from their promise flee , Such knaves makes men afraid , to believe a true [ e ] hearted Lad , For honesty is decayed , here's and age would make a man mad . Such horrible abuse , is practised in this Nation , A fashion now in use , next month is out of fashion : Our men are effeminate , which all their manhood disgraces , And makes our foes of late , to jeer us to our faces , They were of us afraid , when English hearts we had , Our honour is much decayed , here's and age would make a man mad . A man I may rightly say , may be mad to note these times , Since Virtue does decay , and Vice to preferment climes : Now covetousness and pride , is over the Land bespread , All charities laid aside , and conscience is quite dead : The Master abuseth his Maid , which makes the Mistress sad , Thus honesty is decayed , here's and age would make a man mad . Some men that have wives at home , both beautiful , virtuous , and chaste , Abroad among whores do room , and with them their means they wast : While the wife at home does stay , the husband in Taverns does roar , She thinks he is busy all the day , indeed so he is with his whore : In brief no more need be said , all things do appear too bad , For honesty is decayed , here's and age would make a man mad . London , printed for F. Grove . FINIS . M . P.T : Knavery in all Trades , OR , Here's and age would make a man mad . To the tune of , Ragged and torn and true . A S I was walking of late , within the fields so fair , My mind to recreate , well nigh overcome with care : I herd two men discourse , as I along did walk , It moved me with remorse , to harken to their talk , Full oftentimes they said , ( to hear them I was sad ) All honesty is decayed , here's and age would make a man mad . The one to the other did say , what course shall I take to live , For none can thrive at this day , but such as their minds do give ? To overreach and deceive , and doing of others wrong , All they that such courses leave , may sing the Begger-Boyes Song , A man can scarce thrive by his trade men's consciences are so bad , All honesty is decayed , here's and age will make a man mad . He that is rich already , is like still to be so , And he that is poor and needy , his burden must undergo ; This a Proverb used in our Town , it hath been and ever will , That if a man be once down , the world cries down with him still , How shall a man find a trade , whereby true means may be had , All honesty is decayed , here's and age would make a man mad . If a poor man be wronged by a rich , as alas we daily see , Without money to go through stitch , in a pitiful case is he : He were better to pocket up wrong , than himself into trouble to draw , For unless his pockets be strong , this but folly to meddle with Law , This makes many men dismayed , for the fee makes a case good for bad , All honesty is decayed , here's and age would make a man mad . Between the Lawyer and the money-begetting Mizer , Men loose both house and land , and afterwards wish they had been wiser : Although we have plenty of Grain , yet the rich make among us a dearth , Which causeth the poor to complain , as though little grew on the earth , Engrossing is grown such a trade , that the poor have great cause to be sad , All honesty is decayed , here's and age would make a man mad . One tradesman deceiveth another , and sellers will cony-catch buyers , For gain one will cheat his own brother , the world's full of swearers and liars : Men now make no conscience of oaths , and this I may boldly say , Some Rorers doe were gallant clothes , for which they did never pay : The rich shall a Saint be made , though his life be never so bad , All honesty is decayed , here's and age would make a man mad . The second part . To the same tune . TO He Taylor can never live well , as many men plainly perceives , Unless he have gains from hell , or lives upon Cabidge leaves ; Oh is't not a pitiful case , and a thing which few men believes ? A Taylor that will live in grace , cuts out of one gown three sleeves : Thus they must use their Trade , or else little means can be had , All honesty is decayed , here's and age would make a man mad . The Victualers , Tapsters and Cooks , are hindered very soar , With man [ y ] sharking Rooks , that use to encroach on their score : And when they are once in chalk , the hoose they will refrain , And to other places they'll walk , but never come there again , This trusling without being paid , breaks many and honest Lad , All honesty is decayed , here's and age would make a man mad . Plain dealing now is dead , and truth is so rare to find , That most men now are led , contrary unto kind : Where one man's just and found , whose words and deeds agree , A dozen may be found , that will from their promise flee , Such knaves makes men afraid , to believe a true [ e ] hearted Lad , For honesty is decayed , here's and age would make a man mad . Such horrible abuse , is practised in this Nation , A fashion now in use , next month is out of fashion : Our men are effeminate , which all their manhood disgraces , And makes our foes of late , to jeer us to our faces , They were of us afraid , when English hearts we had , Our honour is much decayed , here's and age would make a man mad . A man I may rightly say , may be mad to note these times , Since Virtue does decay , and Vice to preferment climes : Now covetousness and pride , is over the Land bespread , All charities laid aside , and conscience is quite dead : The Master abuseth his Maid , which makes the Mistress sad , Thus honesty is decayed , here's and age would make a man mad . Some men that have wives at home , both beautiful , virtuous , and chaste , Abroad among whores do room , and with them their means they wast : While the wife at home does stay , the husband in Taverns does roar , She thinks he is busy all the day , indeed so he is with his whore : In brief no more need be said , all things do appear too bad , For honesty is decayed , here's and age would make a man mad . London , printed for F. Grove . FINIS . M.P. 