TO : The French Whipper , Untrussing severally the noted abuse , In all sorts of people , which is most in use . To the Tune of the Corranto . I F that you will hear a ditty , that wants both reason and rhyme : Mark and I think I shall fit ye , for expense of this idle time : The Author although it be foolish , he will not his ditty disdain . Kind parents refuse not their Orfants , although they be crooked and lame . I tender the case of a Beggar , much more do I pity a King , The ones a contemned creature , the others a royal thing : Want only a Beggar distresseth , but a King lives in manifold dangers , Care and fear his breast still possesses , as well of his Subject's as strangers . Let a Beggar live never so loosely , his life and his calling agree : Though a King rule never so wisely , his Subject's some faults will espy . The mier is sooner perceived , that on the white Swan does remain : Though a Crow in the dirt be bedabbled , his C [ ? a ] ler it will never stain . The brisk Sickafanticall Courtier , that by begging Monopolies rise : Yet are not so deep in my favone , as the Ploughman that many despise : He's the chiefest prop of a Nation , though his behaviour & amp ; raiment be plain He begs of the King no pension , nor lives he on others men's pain . And if he grow rich in his calling , this alone by the fruit of him [ s ] [ l ] abour : When that one by another's falling , Courtiers climb into place and favour : Their alone and best observation , is to flatter & amp ; cloak with the Mighty : Unless by fantastical fashion , he insinuate the love of some Lady . The Knights and the Gentry that meddles with business belonging to Hindes : I detest them of all sorts of people , for their base and degenerate minds : Since Knights become clowns and the gentry gan meddle in matters so base : Clowns are become Knights & amp ; are sawsy to intrude into Gentle men's place . I like not a Country Justice , when's fingers in every men cause : Nor these preposterous Attorneys , they do so torment the Laws : Yet the ones in majesteticall fashion , controuleth within his Commission : The others the bane of a Nation , and the brand that does kindle sedition . Such a Justice receives more booties , from his neighbours that do not agree , Then the King receives from them duties , brudes his Clarke he must have fee : Then give your Aturny your money , his advice exceeds Ployden or Dyer : And follow his council I warrant you recover , or find him a Liar . The second part . To the same tune . I Love not a raedie tongued Lawyer , he's so full of demurs and delays : Nor yet a treacherous Armenian , though he turn up his eyes when he prays : Yet both they have holy directions , for the Angels the Lawyers do guide : And the Spirits the Armenians instruction , lest he from his matter should slide . A Lawyers tongue like to a feather , will wave any way for a fee : But rage and affection may sever , a Priest of this sekt we oft see : Then the Spirit must needs be evil , that this Priest from his text so does led : And the Angels proseede from the devil , that Lawyers gainst truth cause to plead . Your fine Gentlewomen and Ladies , that paint when their beauty's decay : And your Citizens wives that like babies , are tricked up in trime array : When they to better their feature , and their beauty far passed amend , They become apes of reasonable creatures , & amp ; their Husbands the w [ ur ] kho [ rn ] e does lend . The tradesmen that dwell in the City , and tiffetie tafferie wear : I wonder how they grow so wealthy , and yet never gain by their ware : Thei'le fell it for less then they bought it , or promise to give you the buying From whence proceeds then their profit , I think they do gain by their lying . I scorn a Thrasonical Soldier , when his valour in Taverns he shows , And a lean pedantical Usher , when's legs are too little for's hose : And yet though I like not I care not , let Soldiers use drinking & amp ; drabbing : And Ladies use Ushers and spare not , I do not love to be babbling . I love not a Meger Physician , although he can jumble a potion : Nor yet a quacke-salveing Surgeon , for he smells of the seringe and Lotion : Yet the one juditiously endeth , our lives in the days of oppression : The other Artificially mendeth , the defect [ of tO ] he cause of transgression . I hate a paraphrastical Taylor , because he purloins our Apparel . A base-farming-Punke and a Pander , that for sinful commodities quarrel : Yet the punk deserves no commendation , she's neither true , honest , nor wise ; She's the absolute bane of a nation , and does all true virtue despise . A Parater , and a Delater , and Usurer , and a false Scribe : A Bawd , and a filthy Pander , and a Baliefe that makes a bribe : I detest their wicked profession , for the Sumner , & amp ; Bawd live by evil : And the Delater by the statutes transgression deceives both the King and his people . And now I will come to Conclusion , for teadiousnesse oft proves abuse : And [ worser ] if you can make right allusion , The composer needs frame no excuse : For of most of the sorts I have nam , there are many both honest and wise : And many are much to be blamed , For their vild and detestable lives . Printed at London for John Trundle . FINIS . TO : The French Whipper , Untrussing severally the noted abuse , In all sorts of people , which is most in use . To the Tune of the Corranto . I F that you will hear a ditty , that wants both reason and rhyme : Mark and I think I shall fit ye , for expense of this idle time : The Author although it be foolish , he will not his ditty disdain . Kind parents refuse not their Orfants , although they be crooked and lame . I tender the case of a Beggar , much more do I pity a King , The ones a contemned creature , the others a royal thing : Want only a Beggar distresseth , but a King lives in manifold dangers , Care and fear his breast still possesses , as well of his Subject's as strangers . Let a Beggar live never so loosely , his life and his calling agree : Though a King rule never so wisely , his Subject's some faults will espy . The mier is sooner perceived , that on the white Swan does remain : Though a Crow in the dirt be bedabbled , his C [ ? a ] ler it will never stain . The brisk Sickafanticall Courtier , that by begging Monopolies rise : Yet are not so deep in my favone , as the Ploughman that many despise : He's the chiefest prop of a Nation , though his behaviour & amp ; raiment be plain He begs of the King no pension , nor lives he on others men's pain . And if he grow rich in his calling , this alone by the fruit of him [ s ] [ l ] abour : When that one by another's falling , Courtiers climb into place and favour : Their alone and best observation , is to flatter & amp ; cloak with the Mighty : Unless by fantastical fashion , he insinuate the love of some Lady . The Knights and the Gentry that meddles with business belonging to Hindes : I detest them of all sorts of people , for their base and degenerate minds : Since Knights become clowns and the gentry gan meddle in matters so base : Clowns are become Knights & amp ; are sawsy to intrude into Gentle men's place . I like not a Country Justice , when's fingers in every men cause : Nor these preposterous Attorneys , they do so torment the Laws : Yet the ones in majesteticall fashion , controuleth within his Commission : The others the bane of a Nation , and the brand that does kindle sedition . Such a Justice receives more booties , from his neighbours that do not agree , Then the King receives from them duties , brudes his Clarke he must have fee : Then give your Aturny your money , his advice exceeds Ployden or Dyer : And follow his council I warrant you recover , or find him a Liar . The second part . To the same tune . I Love not a raedie tongued Lawyer , he's so full of demurs and delays : Nor yet a treacherous Armenian , though he turn up his eyes when he prays : Yet both they have holy directions , for the Angels the Lawyers do guide : And the Spirits the Armenians instruction , lest he from his matter should slide . A Lawyers tongue like to a feather , will wave any way for a fee : But rage and affection may sever , a Priest of this sekt we oft see : Then the Spirit must needs be evil , that this Priest from his text so does led : And the Angels proseede from the devil , that Lawyers gainst truth cause to plead . Your fine Gentlewomen and Ladies , that paint when their beauty's decay : And your Citizens wives that like babies , are tricked up in trime array : When they to better their feature , and their beauty far passed amend , They become apes of reasonable creatures , & amp ; their Husbands the w [ ur ] kho [ rn ] e does lend . The tradesmen that dwell in the City , and tiffetie tafferie wear : I wonder how they grow so wealthy , and yet never gain by their ware : Thei'le fell it for less then they bought it , or promise to give you the buying From whence proceeds then their profit , I think they do gain by their lying . I scorn a Thrasonical Soldier , when his valour in Taverns he shows , And a lean pedantical Usher , when's legs are too little for's hose : And yet though I like not I care not , let Soldiers use drinking & amp ; drabbing : And Ladies use Ushers and spare not , I do not love to be babbling . I love not a Meger Physician , although he can jumble a potion : Nor yet a quacke-salveing Surgeon , for he smells of the seringe and Lotion : Yet the one juditiously endeth , our lives in the days of oppression : The other Artificially mendeth , the defect [ of tO ] he cause of transgression . I hate a paraphrastical Taylor , because he purloins our Apparel . A base-farming-Punke and a Pander , that for sinful commodities quarrel : Yet the punk deserves no commendation , she's neither true , honest , nor wise ; She's the absolute bane of a nation , and does all true virtue despise . A Parater , and a Delater , and Usurer , and a false Scribe : A Bawd , and a filthy Pander , and a Baliefe that makes a bribe : I detest their wicked profession , for the Sumner , & amp ; Bawd live by evil : And the Delater by the statutes transgression deceives both the King and his people . And now I will come to Conclusion , for teadiousnesse oft proves abuse : And [ worser ] if you can make right allusion , The composer needs frame no excuse : For of most of the sorts I have nam , there are many both honest and wise : And many are much to be blamed , For their vild and detestable lives . Printed at London for John Trundle . FINIS . 