TO : A Fools Bolt is soon shot . Good Friends beware , I'm like to hit ye , What ere you be here's that will fit ye ; Which way soever that you go , At you I aim my Bolt and Bow . To the Tune of , O no no no not yet . S Tanned wide my Master's , and take heed , for fear the Fool does hit ye , If that you think you shall be shot , Id'e wish you hence to get ye ; My Bow you see stands ready bent , to give each one their lot , Then have among you with my Bolts , for now I make a shot . He that does take delight in Law , and ever to be brangling , Would he like to the Bells' were hanged , that loves still to be jangling ; His Lawyers purse he fills with Coin , himself hath nothing god , And proves a beggar at the last , at him I make a shot . Who all the week does work full hard , and moil both night and day , Will in a trice spend all his coin , and fool his means away , In drinking and in rioting , at pipe and at the pot , Whose brains are like and adled egg , at him I make a shot . The Prodigal that is left rich , that wastes his state away , In wantons and surfeiting , in gaming and in play , And spends his means on Whores and Queans , does make himself a sot , May in a Spittle chance to die , at him I make a shot . He that is apt to come in bans for every common friend , May shake a beggar by the hand , and pay the debt it'h end , By selling Goods and Lands away , or in a Prison rot , Where none will pity his poor case , at him I make a shot . The Man that weds for greedy wealth , he goes a fishing fair , But often times he gets a Frog , or very little share ; And he that is both young and free , and marries and old Trot , When he might live at liberty , at him I make a shot . The Second Part. To the same Tune . TO He Miser that gets wealth great store , and wretchedly does live , In's life is like to starve himself , at's death he all does give Unto some Prodigal , or Fool , that spends all he hath god , With gripping usury and pain , at him I make a shot . He that does early rise each morn , and works hard all day , When he comes home can not come in , his Wife is gone to play ; And lets her to drink and spend all the moneys which he god , Shall wear my Coxcomb and my Bell , and at him heers a shot . And Old-man for to dote in age upon a Wench thats young , Who hath a nimble wit and eye , with them a pleasing tongue , Acteons plume I greatly fear will fallen unto his lot , That stoutly in his crest he'll bear , at him I make a shot . A Widow that is richly left , that will be Ladifide , And to some Gull or Roaring-boy she must be made a Bride , His Clothes at Brokers he hath hired himself not worth a groat , That basts her hide and spends her means at her I make a shot . A Maiden that is fair , and rich , and young , yet is so proud , That favour unto honest men by no means can be lowed ; And thus she spends her chiefest prime , refusing her good lot , In youth does scorn in age is scorned , at her I make a shot . But she that wanton is and found , that fast and lose will play , When that her reconings are cast up , must for it soundly pay , And may the Father chance to seek of that which she hath god , Beside her standing in a sheet , at her I make a shot . Who spends his time in youth away , to be a Servingman , Dotd seldom grow for to be rich , do he the best he can ; And then when age does come , God knows this Man hath nothing god , But is turned out among the dogs , at him I make a shot . He that does fell his Lands away , and Office for to buy , May keep a quarter for a time , but will a beggar die ; For he hath sold his Lambs good man , and younger Sheep hath god , Although he think himself so wise , at him I make a shot . He that will go unto the Sea , and may live well on shore , Although he venture life and goods , may hap to come home poor , Or by the Foe be made a Slave , with all that he hath god , Whose Limbs in pieces are all torn , at him I make a shot . Those that their Parents do reject , and makes of them a scorn , Who wishes then with grief and woe they never had been born ; For portion they may Twelvepence have beside a heavy lot , For disobedience ordained , at them I make a shot . The Parents which their Child brings up to have their own free will , The wise and ancient Salomon does say they them will spill : And when correction comes too late , they wish they never been god : But for their folly which is past , at them I make a shot . They that continue still in sin , and think they never shall die , Defereing off repentance still , and lives in jollity , Death quickly comes and ceases them , and then it is their lot In hells hight flame for to remain , at them I make a shot . And so farewell my Master's all , God send's a merry meeting ; Pray be not angry with the Fool that thus to you sends greeting : And if that any have escaped , and says I did not hit them , It is because my Bolts are spent , but I'll have more to fit them . FINIS . T.F. Printed at London for I . G.T : A Fools Bolt is soon shot . Good Friends beware , I'm like to hit ye , What ere you be here's that will fit ye ; Which way soever that you go , At you I aim my Bolt and Bow . To the Tune of , O no no no not yet . S Tanned wide my Master's , and take heed , for fear the Fool does hit ye , If that you think you shall be shot , Id'e wish you hence to get ye ; My Bow you see stands ready bent , to give each one their lot , Then have among you with my Bolts , for now I make a shot . He that does take delight in Law , and ever to be brangling , Would he like to the Bells' were hanged , that loves still to be jangling ; His Lawyers purse he fills with Coin , himself hath nothing god , And proves a beggar at the last , at him I make a shot . Who all the week does work full hard , and moil both night and day , Will in a trice spend all his coin , and fool his means away , In drinking and in rioting , at pipe and at the pot , Whose brains are like and adled egg , at him I make a shot . The Prodigal that is left rich , that wastes his state away , In wantons and surfeiting , in gaming and in play , And spends his means on Whores and Queans , does make himself a sot , May in a Spittle chance to die , at him I make a shot . He that is apt to come in bans for every common friend , May shake a beggar by the hand , and pay the debt it'h end , By selling Goods and Lands away , or in a Prison rot , Where none will pity his poor case , at him I make a shot . The Man that weds for greedy wealth , he goes a fishing fair , But often times he gets a Frog , or very little share ; And he that is both young and free , and marries and old Trot , When he might live at liberty , at him I make a shot . The Second Part. To the same Tune . TO He Miser that gets wealth great store , and wretchedly does live , In's life is like to starve himself , at's death he all does give Unto some Prodigal , or Fool , that spends all he hath god , With gripping usury and pain , at him I make a shot . He that does early rise each morn , and works hard all day , When he comes home can not come in , his Wife is gone to play ; And lets her to drink and spend all the moneys which he god , Shall wear my Coxcomb and my Bell , and at him heers a shot . And Old-man for to dote in age upon a Wench thats young , Who hath a nimble wit and eye , with them a pleasing tongue , Acteons plume I greatly fear will fallen unto his lot , That stoutly in his crest he'll bear , at him I make a shot . A Widow that is richly left , that will be Ladifide , And to some Gull or Roaring-boy she must be made a Bride , His Clothes at Brokers he hath hired himself not worth a groat , That basts her hide and spends her means at her I make a shot . A Maiden that is fair , and rich , and young , yet is so proud , That favour unto honest men by no means can be lowed ; And thus she spends her chiefest prime , refusing her good lot , In youth does scorn in age is scorned , at her I make a shot . But she that wanton is and found , that fast and lose will play , When that her reconings are cast up , must for it soundly pay , And may the Father chance to seek of that which she hath god , Beside her standing in a sheet , at her I make a shot . Who spends his time in youth away , to be a Servingman , Dotd seldom grow for to be rich , do he the best he can ; And then when age does come , God knows this Man hath nothing god , But is turned out among the dogs , at him I make a shot . He that does fell his Lands away , and Office for to buy , May keep a quarter for a time , but will a beggar die ; For he hath sold his Lambs good man , and younger Sheep hath god , Although he think himself so wise , at him I make a shot . He that will go unto the Sea , and may live well on shore , Although he venture life and goods , may hap to come home poor , Or by the Foe be made a Slave , with all that he hath god , Whose Limbs in pieces are all torn , at him I make a shot . Those that their Parents do reject , and makes of them a scorn , Who wishes then with grief and woe they never had been born ; For portion they may Twelvepence have beside a heavy lot , For disobedience ordained , at them I make a shot . The Parents which their Child brings up to have their own free will , The wise and ancient Salomon does say they them will spill : And when correction comes too late , they wish they never been god : But for their folly which is past , at them I make a shot . They that continue still in sin , and think they never shall die , Defereing off repentance still , and lives in jollity , Death quickly comes and ceases them , and then it is their lot In hells hight flame for to remain , at them I make a shot . And so farewell my Master's all , God send's a merry meeting ; Pray be not angry with the Fool that thus to you sends greeting : And if that any have escaped , and says I did not hit them , It is because my Bolts are spent , but I'll have more to fit them . FINIS . T.F. Printed at London for I.G. 