TO : Charles Rickets his recantation . Warning all good Fellows to strive , To learn with him the way to thrive . To the Tune of his lamentation , or I'll beatrice my wife no more . H E runs far that never returns , is a Proverb still in use : And he's unhappy that never mourneth , for his former times abuse . I therefore , who used to roar , Wherever I did come or go , do now repent , for time ill spent , And vow I'll never more do so . All my folly now I'll banish , which before possessed my mind : All ill husbandry shall vanish , for I now begin to find that mine own good I have withstood , And brought my substance very low , but now I'll give my mind to thrive , Good heavens grant I may do so . I have used among the bravest , to kee [ p ] e quarter like a gallant , By which means my wealth is lavished , for with the best I spent my talon : when to a Fair to fell my ware , Or Market , I did use to go , there was [ ? ] few but my name knew , I used to drink and fuddle so . Who but Charles the Lad of Morton , was denoted far and near ? But now alas they shall come short on , that which late I did appear : for now I mean to abandon clean , Those humours which in me did flow , I'll bridle still my headstrong will , Good heavens grant I may do so . Many times ith'towne of Cambden , where my business sometime lay : Among boon Lads , I have been hemmed i [ n ] and enforced long to stay : both day and night for my delight , I tarried still , and would not go to my own home but loved to come Abroad , but I'll no more do so . At Easam also , and at Shipson , I am for a rorer known , Where many times mad Charles the gipses : hath his merry humours shown , the stoutest there for wine and beer , Me in expense could not outgo , for all the day I'de call and pay : But now I will no more do so . The second part . To the same tune . M Any Crotchets have I played , which in performance cost me deer , Whereby my substance it decayed , therefore I'll such tricks casheere : my mind was such it joyed me much , When I such mad exploits did show , my time I lost , beside my cost , But now I will no more do so . A Taylor once well soaked in Barley , proffered to lend me seven pound , About the same we two did parley , and when he my humour found , a shilling he did give to me In earnest , his kind love to show , and I in game did take the same , Because he sware it should be so . Having taken the Tailors shilling , a Jug of beer I called for then : I paid for that , and then was willing to give him the rest again : but he refused , and rather chused To spend the rest ere he did go , then I did call and paid for all , The Tailors wiled it should be so . This and many more such actions have I done to please my humour : But now I'll leave all drunken fashions , would to God I had done so sooner : in merriment my time I spent , And money too , which breeds my woe : now my mad pranks , I give God thanks , Are left , and I'll no more do so . I will follow my Vocation with industry and regard , And maintain my reputation , in this world thats grown so hard , Markets are nought , Ware is not bought , As it since I the Trade did know , this time therefore now to give over Such spending , and no more do so . My wife and children I will tender , more then heretofore I used , I'll be no more so vain a spender , nor will I be with drink abused : I'll learn at last ere hope is past , My self a civil man to show , and banish quite my old delight : Good heavens grant I may do so . You that hear my recantation , which I purpose to observe : When you see this alteration , from my rules do you not swerve : through Oxfordshire , both far and near , My resolution I will show , that every one which so hath done , May mend with me . God grant it so . Finis . Charles Rickets . Printed for John Wright . TO : Charles Rickets his recantation . Warning all good Fellows to strive , To learn with him the way to thrive . To the Tune of his lamentation , or I'll beatrice my wife no more . H E runs far that never returns , is a Proverb still in use : And he's unhappy that never mourneth , for his former times abuse . I therefore , who used to roar , Wherever I did come or go , do now repent , for time ill spent , And vow I'll never more do so . All my folly now I'll banish , which before possessed my mind : All ill husbandry shall vanish , for I now begin to find that mine own good I have withstood , And brought my substance very low , but now I'll give my mind to thrive , Good heavens grant I may do so . I have used among the bravest , to kee [ p ] e quarter like a gallant , By which means my wealth is lavished , for with the best I spent my talon : when to a Fair to fell my ware , Or Market , I did use to go , there was [ ? ] few but my name knew , I used to drink and fuddle so . Who but Charles the Lad of Morton , was denoted far and near ? But now alas they shall come short on , that which late I did appear : for now I mean to abandon clean , Those humours which in me did flow , I'll bridle still my headstrong will , Good heavens grant I may do so . Many times ith'towne of Cambden , where my business sometime lay : Among boon Lads , I have been hemmed i [ n ] and enforced long to stay : both day and night for my delight , I tarried still , and would not go to my own home but loved to come Abroad , but I'll no more do so . At Easam also , and at Shipson , I am for a rorer known , Where many times mad Charles the gipses : hath his merry humours shown , the stoutest there for wine and beer , Me in expense could not outgo , for all the day I'de call and pay : But now I will no more do so . The second part . To the same tune . M Any Crotchets have I played , which in performance cost me deer , Whereby my substance it decayed , therefore I'll such tricks casheere : my mind was such it joyed me much , When I such mad exploits did show , my time I lost , beside my cost , But now I will no more do so . A Taylor once well soaked in Barley , proffered to lend me seven pound , About the same we two did parley , and when he my humour found , a shilling he did give to me In earnest , his kind love to show , and I in game did take the same , Because he sware it should be so . Having taken the Tailors shilling , a Jug of beer I called for then : I paid for that , and then was willing to give him the rest again : but he refused , and rather chused To spend the rest ere he did go , then I did call and paid for all , The Tailors wiled it should be so . This and many more such actions have I done to please my humour : But now I'll leave all drunken fashions , would to God I had done so sooner : in merriment my time I spent , And money too , which breeds my woe : now my mad pranks , I give God thanks , Are left , and I'll no more do so . I will follow my Vocation with industry and regard , And maintain my reputation , in this world thats grown so hard , Markets are nought , Ware is not bought , As it since I the Trade did know , this time therefore now to give over Such spending , and no more do so . My wife and children I will tender , more then heretofore I used , I'll be no more so vain a spender , nor will I be with drink abused : I'll learn at last ere hope is past , My self a civil man to show , and banish quite my old delight : Good heavens grant I may do so . You that hear my recantation , which I purpose to observe : When you see this alteration , from my rules do you not swerve : through Oxfordshire , both far and near , My resolution I will show , that every one which so hath done , May mend with me . God grant it so . Finis . Charles Rickets . Printed for John Wright . 