TO : A merry new catch of all Trades . To the tune of The clean Contrary way . A LL Trades are not alike in show , All Arts do not agree : All Occupations gains are small , As here they all shall see , As here they all shall see . The Courtier woes , his servant does , Far more then he can answer , The Baker weighs with false essays , The Cuckold's turned a Monster . The Cuck . etc The Taylor sows , the Smith he blows , The Tinker beats his pan : The Pewterer rank , cries tinke a tank tank , The Apothecary ranta tan tan . The Apoth : etc The Bricklayer high does rise to fly , The Plummer oft does melt , The Carpenter does love his rule , And the Hatmakar loves his felt . And the , etc The Weaver thumps , his old wife mumps , The Barber goes snip snap , The Butcher pricks , the Tapster nicks , The Farmer stops a [ g ] ap . The Farmer , etc The Curryer toils , and deals in oils , The Cobbler lives by his piece : The Chamberlain cheats with musty meats , And does the Country fleece . And does , etc The Carter whips , the Beggar ships , The Beadle lives by blows , Yet whores will be whores at honest men's doors Disphight a'th Beadles nose . Despite a'th , etc The Broom man cries , maid servants buys , And swaps with him for wares , The Country ass does to the Cosse , Fell Orchards full of Pears . Sell , etc Some Schoolmasters teach beyond their reach , The Mason deals with his square , The Fletcher does nock , and works by the clock , The Bearward lives by his Bear . The , etc The Grosers pates about things of weight , Is often troubled soar , The Tailors yard is seldom marred , Though it measure many a score . Tho it measure many a score . The second part . To the same Tune TO He Ironmonger hardly deals , All Fruterers lose by'th rot : The Hagler buys and lives by lies , The Drunkard plies the pot . The Drunkard plies the pot . The Collier swears heel lose his ears , But he will falsely deal : And such are glad as manned the Pad , For trifles for to steal . For trifles , etc The Budget-maker oftentimes , Do deal in brazen nails : And Tradesmen store , turn Porters poor , When other trading fails . When other , etc The Waterman will carry Nan , For twopence cross the River : Yet this heel say , if she cannot pay , Her passage free heel give her . Her passage , etc The Glover pokes , the Gallant smokes , Yet lives in Tradesmen debts , The Drawer thrives by honest wives , The Cheater lives by bets . The Cheater , etc The Cook does broil , the Fencer foil , The footman he does sweat : And Apple-John does usher Nan , And she gives him a heat . And she , etc The Ostler rubs , the Cutler scrubs , The Semsters deal in Ruffs : The smoky man with his small coal pan , Maintained is by puffs . Maintained is , etc The Chandelors deeds great penance needs , And Faggots they do bear : The Vintner drains , yet makes no frays , The Beggar is void of care . The Beggar , etc The Morris dance does bravely prance , And about the Country goes : And May-poles high shall mount to the sky , Despite of the Hobby horse nose . Despite , etc Dissensions seed , the Parators need , And Scolds him money give : And if there were no swaggering Whore , The Pander could not live . The Pander , etc Thus all arise by contraties , Heaven send them crosses ten : Unless they all both great and small , Do live and die honest men . Doe live and die honest men . FINIS . Printed at London for J. Trundle . TO : A merry new catch of all Trades . To the tune of The clean Contrary way . A LL Trades are not alike in show , All Arts do not agree : All Occupations gains are small , As here they all shall see , As here they all shall see . The Courtier woes , his servant does , Far more then he can answer , The Baker weighs with false essays , The Cuckold's turned a Monster . The Cuck . etc The Taylor sows , the Smith he blows , The Tinker beats his pan : The Pewterer rank , cries tinke a tank tank , The Apothecary ranta tan tan . The Apoth : etc The Bricklayer high does rise to fly , The Plummer oft does melt , The Carpenter does love his rule , And the Hatmakar loves his felt . And the , etc The Weaver thumps , his old wife mumps , The Barber goes snip snap , The Butcher pricks , the Tapster nicks , The Farmer stops a [ g ] ap . The Farmer , etc The Curryer toils , and deals in oils , The Cobbler lives by his piece : The Chamberlain cheats with musty meats , And does the Country fleece . And does , etc The Carter whips , the Beggar ships , The Beadle lives by blows , Yet whores will be whores at honest men's doors Disphight a'th Beadles nose . Despite a'th , etc The Broom man cries , maid servants buys , And swaps with him for wares , The Country ass does to the Cosse , Fell Orchards full of Pears . Sell , etc Some Schoolmasters teach beyond their reach , The Mason deals with his square , The Fletcher does nock , and works by the clock , The Bearward lives by his Bear . The , etc The Grosers pates about things of weight , Is often troubled soar , The Tailors yard is seldom marred , Though it measure many a score . Tho it measure many a score . The second part . To the same Tune TO He Ironmonger hardly deals , All Fruterers lose by'th rot : The Hagler buys and lives by lies , The Drunkard plies the pot . The Drunkard plies the pot . The Collier swears heel lose his ears , But he will falsely deal : And such are glad as manned the Pad , For trifles for to steal . For trifles , etc The Budget-maker oftentimes , Do deal in brazen nails : And Tradesmen store , turn Porters poor , When other trading fails . When other , etc The Waterman will carry Nan , For twopence cross the River : Yet this heel say , if she cannot pay , Her passage free heel give her . Her passage , etc The Glover pokes , the Gallant smokes , Yet lives in Tradesmen debts , The Drawer thrives by honest wives , The Cheater lives by bets . The Cheater , etc The Cook does broil , the Fencer foil , The footman he does sweat : And Apple-John does usher Nan , And she gives him a heat . And she , etc The Ostler rubs , the Cutler scrubs , The Semsters deal in Ruffs : The smoky man with his small coal pan , Maintained is by puffs . Maintained is , etc The Chandelors deeds great penance needs , And Faggots they do bear : The Vintner drains , yet makes no frays , The Beggar is void of care . The Beggar , etc The Morris dance does bravely prance , And about the Country goes : And May-poles high shall mount to the sky , Despite of the Hobby horse nose . Despite , etc Dissensions seed , the Parators need , And Scolds him money give : And if there were no swaggering Whore , The Pander could not live . The Pander , etc Thus all arise by contraties , Heaven send them crosses ten : Unless they all both great and small , Do live and die honest men . Doe live and die honest men . FINIS . Printed at London for J. Trundle . 