A merry Progress to London to see Fashions , by a young Country Gallant , that had more Money then Wit . To the tune of , Riding to Rumford . M Y Mother to Heaven is gone , ten Pounds she gave me ; Now never a Penny's left , as God shall have me : Yet still my heart is free , I live at liberty , And keep good company , taking Tobacco . Old Woman , fare thou well , thanks for thy kindness , My Plough and Cart are gone , with my good Geldings : I have no foot of Land , Nor one Groat at command : Which way then shall I stand to a pipe of Tobacco ? My Purse will chincke no more , my Pocket's empty : I am turned out of door ; farewell good Company . Friendship now slender grows , Poverty pa [ rt ] eth those That for Drink fell their Clothes and for Tobacco . My Cloak is laid to pawn , with my old Dagger : My state is quite orethrowne , how shall I swagger ? Yet I'll [ do ] what I can , And be no Coward though , But prove my self a man , at a pipe of Tobacco . In and old Satin suit without a Penny , We Gallants may brag it brave : as well as any . What though my Credit's lost , Yet can I find a Post Still to score with mine Host , for a pipe of Tobacco . Upon a proper Nag daintily paced ; To London first I came , all with Gold laced : Then with my Punk each day , Road I to see a Play ; There went my Gold away , taking Tobacco . Twenty good Sheep I brought , left by my Mother : Eawes and Lambs , Cows & amp ; Calves , one with the other : With which I paid a shot , For a Pipe and a Pot : All these were bravely god , and spent in Tobacco . No companion was I then for clownish Carters : I wore embroidered Hose , with golden Garters : My Silver-hatched Sword , Made me swear like a Lord , Come Rogue , ( at every word ) fill me Tobacco . The Second part of the merry Progress to London . To the same tune . TO Hen tracing the gallant Streets of London City , A Damsel me kindly greets , courteous and witty : She like a singing Lark , Led me into the dark , Where I soon paid a Mark for a Pipe of Tobacco . To Smithfield then gallantly took I my jorny , Where I left soon behind part of my Money : There I found out a Punk , With whom I was so drunk , That my Purse bottom shrunk away with Tobacco . Pickthatch and Clarken-well , made me so merry , Until my Purse at last ; began to grow weary : Yellow-starcht bonny Kate , with her fine nimble pate , Coosond me of my plate , with a pipe of Tobacco . Then for Good-fellowship , to Garden-ally , I hied me to search for Daughters of folly : There I found roaring Boys , with their fair Female joys : And the Devil making toys to take Tobacco . After , to Shores-ditch then , stood I beholding : Where I found sinners store , of the Devils moulding : I speak for no slander , The Punk and her Pander , Like a Goose and her Gander , took whiffs of Tobacco . To Saint Katharns passed I next , not without trouble : Where my Pur [ s ] e lashed out , drinking Beer double : A Tester for each Toast paid I there to my Host ; And the Sauce to my cost , was a Crown for to Tobacce . To Ratcliffe and Wapping then , went I for Shipping ; Where as a Lass lovingly gave me a whipping : There was a bonny Wench , Stroke a Nail would not clench , That taught me finely French , taking Tobacco . Then straight to Westminster made I adventure , To find Good fellows ( who ) willed me to enter , Where I felt such a smoke , As might the Devil choke , There went away my Cloak , with the smoke of Tobacco . Backward to Barbican quickly I hasted : There met I honest John , My Money being wasted : A Pipe and a Pot ( quoth he ) My friend I'll bestow on thee ; Then lets to Nobody , there's the best Tobacco . Now farewell Good-fellowship , London I leave thee : Never more while I live , shall they deceive me . Every Street , every Lane , Holds me in disdain , London hath wrought my bane , so farewell Tobacco . Finis . Imprinted at London for J . White . A merry Progress to London to see Fashions , by a young Country Gallant , that had more Money then Wit . To the tune of , Riding to Rumford . M Y Mother to Heaven is gone , ten Pounds she gave me ; Now never a Penny's left , as God shall have me : Yet still my heart is free , I live at liberty , And keep good company , taking Tobacco . Old Woman , fare thou well , thanks for thy kindness , My Plough and Cart are gone , with my good Geldings : I have no foot of Land , Nor one Groat at command : Which way then shall I stand to a pipe of Tobacco ? My Purse will chincke no more , my Pocket's empty : I am turned out of door ; farewell good Company . Friendship now slender grows , Poverty pa [ rt ] eth those That for Drink fell their Clothes and for Tobacco . My Cloak is laid to pawn , with my old Dagger : My state is quite orethrowne , how shall I swagger ? Yet I'll [ do ] what I can , And be no Coward though , But prove my self a man , at a pipe of Tobacco . In and old Satin suit without a Penny , We Gallants may brag it brave : as well as any . What though my Credit's lost , Yet can I find a Post Still to score with mine Host , for a pipe of Tobacco . Upon a proper Nag daintily paced ; To London first I came , all with Gold laced : Then with my Punk each day , Road I to see a Play ; There went my Gold away , taking Tobacco . Twenty good Sheep I brought , left by my Mother : Eawes and Lambs , Cows & amp ; Calves , one with the other : With which I paid a shot , For a Pipe and a Pot : All these were bravely god , and spent in Tobacco . No companion was I then for clownish Carters : I wore embroidered Hose , with golden Garters : My Silver-hatched Sword , Made me swear like a Lord , Come Rogue , ( at every word ) fill me Tobacco . The Second part of the merry Progress to London . To the same tune . TO Hen tracing the gallant Streets of London City , A Damsel me kindly greets , courteous and witty : She like a singing Lark , Led me into the dark , Where I soon paid a Mark for a Pipe of Tobacco . To Smithfield then gallantly took I my jorny , Where I left soon behind part of my Money : There I found out a Punk , With whom I was so drunk , That my Purse bottom shrunk away with Tobacco . Pickthatch and Clarken-well , made me so merry , Until my Purse at last ; began to grow weary : Yellow-starcht bonny Kate , with her fine nimble pate , Coosond me of my plate , with a pipe of Tobacco . Then for Good-fellowship , to Garden-ally , I hied me to search for Daughters of folly : There I found roaring Boys , with their fair Female joys : And the Devil making toys to take Tobacco . After , to Shores-ditch then , stood I beholding : Where I found sinners store , of the Devils moulding : I speak for no slander , The Punk and her Pander , Like a Goose and her Gander , took whiffs of Tobacco . To Saint Katharns passed I next , not without trouble : Where my Pur [ s ] e lashed out , drinking Beer double : A Tester for each Toast paid I there to my Host ; And the Sauce to my cost , was a Crown for to Tobacce . To Ratcliffe and Wapping then , went I for Shipping ; Where as a Lass lovingly gave me a whipping : There was a bonny Wench , Stroke a Nail would not clench , That taught me finely French , taking Tobacco . Then straight to Westminster made I adventure , To find Good fellows ( who ) willed me to enter , Where I felt such a smoke , As might the Devil choke , There went away my Cloak , with the smoke of Tobacco . Backward to Barbican quickly I hasted : There met I honest John , My Money being wasted : A Pipe and a Pot ( quoth he ) My friend I'll bestow on thee ; Then lets to Nobody , there's the best Tobacco . Now farewell Good-fellowship , London I leave thee : Never more while I live , shall they deceive me . Every Street , every Lane , Holds me in disdain , London hath wrought my bane , so farewell Tobacco . Finis . Imprinted at London for J . White . 