The Country men chat , Wherein you shall find How each man does talk To please his own mind . To the tune of , Welcome to Town . I N place where late I chanced to be at a feast of friendly meetings , Where men and women of each degree , used kind and courteous greetings , For their acquaintance and their conference , one had with another , Well I noted as they sorted all their speech in order , Men by themselves , women likewise , men they talked of Tillage , The prizes of wheat , of sheep and Neat , and order of their Village . First , quod John Thake , to the Goodman Lake , what when do you gin sow Barley ? Mass quoth he not , this sennet yet I think it's somewhat too early . Quoth Goodman Hare , to another there , how works your land in Brimly ? Why , quoth old Pain , ' twants but a rain , but I warned twould work even trimly . Then , quoth old Jud , I think it good , and if you sewed with Peason , No , quoth John How , were I as you , it should lie another season . Quod Goodman Ros , how's your horse , I herd he's sick ath' stavers , O hang him Jade , quoth old John Dade , its time he were at the Glovers . Quoth Goodman Read , to the Goodman Pead , how sold you wheat at Hertford ? Faith , quoth old Brown , even half a crown and so it sold at Storford . I never knew , quoth old John True , the Markets to be slower . Nay , quoth old Snow , this very like so , the prizes will be lower . Marry , quoth old Gue , pray God be true ; then poor shall fare the better , Now forth came Mence , with's eloquence , yet he knew never a letter , we are confused , and infused , and our hedges broken , I faith , quoth Bars , I tell you sirs , my fields they lie all open , Faith , quoth old Neale , the poor will steal , before they'll fallen to working . I and whore for all they're poor , they care not for a Jerking . These hedgebreakers I think it fit , that at next leet we pain them , And these inmates , quoth Peter Gates , how should a man restrain them . Faith Boys and Girls , & amp ; knaves & amp ; truls , their can be no dividing , They must be matched , and will be pitched , somewhere to have a biding . Tush , quoth old Rule , man you're a fool , don't those so that have riches ; But now they'll prevent impediment , for down goes Cloackbag breeches . The second part . To the same tune . TO hen , quod Goodman Dent , how shall we do , this lent , they say ther's no good Herring There's no good white , quod Goodman Knight , nay , I'll stand to't , quoth old Seering , And quoth Tom Bush , law's strait lor flesh , if that's true , quoth old Kelly . Tush you may be excused , quod Goodman Hewesed along of your wives great belly . You're killing a calf , quoth Goodman Roffe , I catch this same at Roston , Where I sold my hogs as cheap as any dogs , that I bestowed such cost on . Quoth Goodman Fip , how stands your sheep , they say there die abundant , Faith , quoth Ned Scot , they all have the rot , I hold a hundred pound ont , Nay thats a Jest , quoth Robin Feast , for I know heres good Mutton , Theres little found in all this Town , I'll stand to't quoth old Hutton . What is there then , quoth Francis Wren , that is without some misflaw , But stay your tale , quoth Humfrey Sale , can you spare us a load of Peas-straw ? What now John Dan , how dost thou man ? me thinks thou lookest but sickly , I doubt , quoth Jeames , he hath arrayed his seams , that makes him go so featly , Now here John Simmes , to all our friends , in City and in Country , Do let it come and I'll drink round , to Dicke and so to Humfrey . man I was at Stadds with those old Lads , and there we drunk full deeply , Come , quoth Tom Trap , man take of your lap , and lets be going quickly . How doe's , quoth one , your neighbour Tun , I doubt he thrives but slowly . But there's Ned Stitch is grown vile rich , which way the dewce is't know you . Thus much delating and much chatting , is there at such meetings . If ought I leave you may it conceive , I'll now to the women's greeting For they were neatly talking featly , as they use at Banquets : Whose kinds I spied even last Shrovetide , when they were eating Pankakes . FINIS . London , printed for H . G.The Country men chat , Wherein you shall find How each man does talk To please his own mind . To the tune of , Welcome to Town . I N place where late I chanced to be at a feast of friendly meetings , Where men and women of each degree , used kind and courteous greetings , For their acquaintance and their conference , one had with another , Well I noted as they sorted all their speech in order , Men by themselves , women likewise , men they talked of Tillage , The prizes of wheat , of sheep and Neat , and order of their Village . First , quod John Thake , to the Goodman Lake , what when do you gin sow Barley ? Mass quoth he not , this sennet yet I think it's somewhat too early . Quoth Goodman Hare , to another there , how works your land in Brimly ? Why , quoth old Pain , ' twants but a rain , but I warned twould work even trimly . Then , quoth old Jud , I think it good , and if you sewed with Peason , No , quoth John How , were I as you , it should lie another season . Quod Goodman Ros , how's your horse , I herd he's sick ath' stavers , O hang him Jade , quoth old John Dade , its time he were at the Glovers . Quoth Goodman Read , to the Goodman Pead , how sold you wheat at Hertford ? Faith , quoth old Brown , even half a crown and so it sold at Storford . I never knew , quoth old John True , the Markets to be slower . Nay , quoth old Snow , this very like so , the prizes will be lower . Marry , quoth old Gue , pray God be true ; then poor shall fare the better , Now forth came Mence , with's eloquence , yet he knew never a letter , we are confused , and infused , and our hedges broken , I faith , quoth Bars , I tell you sirs , my fields they lie all open , Faith , quoth old Neale , the poor will steal , before they'll fallen to working . I and whore for all they're poor , they care not for a Jerking . These hedgebreakers I think it fit , that at next leet we pain them , And these inmates , quoth Peter Gates , how should a man restrain them . Faith Boys and Girls , & amp ; knaves & amp ; truls , their can be no dividing , They must be matched , and will be pitched , somewhere to have a biding . Tush , quoth old Rule , man you're a fool , don't those so that have riches ; But now they'll prevent impediment , for down goes Cloackbag breeches . The second part . To the same tune . TO hen , quod Goodman Dent , how shall we do , this lent , they say ther's no good Herring There's no good white , quod Goodman Knight , nay , I'll stand to't , quoth old Seering , And quoth Tom Bush , law's strait lor flesh , if that's true , quoth old Kelly . Tush you may be excused , quod Goodman Hewesed along of your wives great belly . You're killing a calf , quoth Goodman Roffe , I catch this same at Roston , Where I sold my hogs as cheap as any dogs , that I bestowed such cost on . Quoth Goodman Fip , how stands your sheep , they say there die abundant , Faith , quoth Ned Scot , they all have the rot , I hold a hundred pound ont , Nay thats a Jest , quoth Robin Feast , for I know heres good Mutton , Theres little found in all this Town , I'll stand to't quoth old Hutton . What is there then , quoth Francis Wren , that is without some misflaw , But stay your tale , quoth Humfrey Sale , can you spare us a load of Peas-straw ? What now John Dan , how dost thou man ? me thinks thou lookest but sickly , I doubt , quoth Jeames , he hath arrayed his seams , that makes him go so featly , Now here John Simmes , to all our friends , in City and in Country , Do let it come and I'll drink round , to Dicke and so to Humfrey . man I was at Stadds with those old Lads , and there we drunk full deeply , Come , quoth Tom Trap , man take of your lap , and lets be going quickly . How doe's , quoth one , your neighbour Tun , I doubt he thrives but slowly . But there's Ned Stitch is grown vile rich , which way the dewce is't know you . Thus much delating and much chatting , is there at such meetings . If ought I leave you may it conceive , I'll now to the women's greeting For they were neatly talking featly , as they use at Banquets : Whose kinds I spied even last Shrovetide , when they were eating Pankakes . FINIS . London , printed for H.G. 