The honest plain dealing Porter : Who once was a rich man , but now this his lot , To prove that need will make the old wife trot . To the tune of the Maids A.B.C. Y Ou who have been rich heretofore , and by ill fates are now grown poor , In that estate do not despair , but patiently your crosses bear : Though you have quite consumed your wealth , if God have lent you limbs and health , To labour daily murmur not , For need will make the old wife trot . I have had wealth as others have , so much , I needed not to crave , Among good fellows some I spent , the rest to cosening knaves I lent : Now all is gone , and nought is left , and I am feign to make hard shift , Yet am contented with my lot , Thus need will make the old wife trot . Now all my means is gone and spent , to fare hard I must be content , To get my bred my brows must sweat , till I have earned I must not eat . My charge I must take care to keep , which makes me wake when others sleep , I trudge abroad be it cold or hight , Thus need will make the old wife trot . At first to work I was ashamed , but poverty hath me so tamed , That now I think it no disgrace , to get my living in any place , This more commendable to work , then idly at home to lurk , Wishing for bred , and have it not , Thus need will make the old wife trot . Some idle knaves about this town do basely loiter up and down , And ere they'le set their hands to work , from place to place they'le live by ' that shirke , They'le fit i'th Alehouse all the day , and drink and eat , yet nothing pay . I scorn to drink of another's pot , though need do make the old wife trot . Such men as these I hold in scorn , I'll rather rise at foure i'th morn , And labour hard till nine at night , ere I in shirking take delight : What honestly I get I spend , and well accept what God does send : No man shall say he paid my shot , though need does make the old wife trot . My calling's honest , good and just , well worthy to be put in trust , I am a Porter my habit shows , my trade I do not care who knows , I am a man that's born to bear , I carry burdens far and near , By which and honest means is god , thus need do make the old wife trot . When some who knew me rich before , do shun to meet me now I'm poor , I dare to look them in the face , because my calling is not base . For of all men we Porters be good understanding men you see , Then though I labour blame me not , for need will make the old wife trot . The second part . The same Tune . S Such pleasure in my work I find , that I live more content in mind , To earn my living with my hands , then when I lived upon my lands . For many cares are incident to wealthy men when sweet content Does fallen unto the mean men lot , though need does make the old wife trot . When I do meet with any friend , I seldom want a penny to spend , Which brings me to a good report , because I live in honest sort , Idem rather earn my living deer , then steal or beg for bred or beer , For charity is cold God wot , when need does make the old wife trot . We Porters are good fellows still , and spend our money with good will , When three or foure on's meet together , we needs must drink come wind come weather , In friendly sort our pence we join , or more , if we be stored with coin , We never wrangle at paying the shot , though need does make the old wife trot . When I all day have laboured hard , content at night is my reward . When I come home , to quit my pains , my wife me kindly entertains . We sup with such as God hath sent , though never so small we are content , Come weal , come woe , we grumble not , For need will make the old wife trot . Thus have I shown you my estate , and how I first was crossed by fate , And how that cross did prove a bliss , because my mind contented is , My means I did consume in waste , but there's no help for what is past , I little dreamed of this my lot , but need will make the old wife trot . By this I free my self of blame , my kindred I will never shame , Well may they hear that I am poor , yet not to beg from door to door . Let him who hath no house nor land , some honest calling take in hand , Whereby a living may be god , For need will make the old wife trot . If thou hast learning , strength , or wit , to use it lawfully this fit , To shark and shift from place to place , does thee and all thy kin disgrace . This base to beg , this worse to steal , then if thou honestly do deal , Be not ashamed of thy lot , For need will make the old wife trot . FINIS . M.P. Printed at London for F. Coules , dwelling at the upper end of the Old Baily . The honest plain dealing Porter : Who once was a rich man , but now this his lot , To prove that need will make the old wife trot . To the tune of the Maids A.B.C. Y Ou who have been rich heretofore , and by ill fates are now grown poor , In that estate do not despair , but patiently your crosses bear : Though you have quite consumed your wealth , if God have lent you limbs and health , To labour daily murmur not , For need will make the old wife trot . I have had wealth as others have , so much , I needed not to crave , Among good fellows some I spent , the rest to cosening knaves I lent : Now all is gone , and nought is left , and I am feign to make hard shift , Yet am contented with my lot , Thus need will make the old wife trot . Now all my means is gone and spent , to fare hard I must be content , To get my bred my brows must sweat , till I have earned I must not eat . My charge I must take care to keep , which makes me wake when others sleep , I trudge abroad be it cold or hight , Thus need will make the old wife trot . At first to work I was ashamed , but poverty hath me so tamed , That now I think it no disgrace , to get my living in any place , This more commendable to work , then idly at home to lurk , Wishing for bred , and have it not , Thus need will make the old wife trot . Some idle knaves about this town do basely loiter up and down , And ere they'le set their hands to work , from place to place they'le live by ' that shirke , They'le fit i'th Alehouse all the day , and drink and eat , yet nothing pay . I scorn to drink of another's pot , though need do make the old wife trot . Such men as these I hold in scorn , I'll rather rise at foure i'th morn , And labour hard till nine at night , ere I in shirking take delight : What honestly I get I spend , and well accept what God does send : No man shall say he paid my shot , though need does make the old wife trot . My calling's honest , good and just , well worthy to be put in trust , I am a Porter my habit shows , my trade I do not care who knows , I am a man that's born to bear , I carry burdens far and near , By which and honest means is god , thus need do make the old wife trot . When some who knew me rich before , do shun to meet me now I'm poor , I dare to look them in the face , because my calling is not base . For of all men we Porters be good understanding men you see , Then though I labour blame me not , for need will make the old wife trot . The second part . The same Tune . S Such pleasure in my work I find , that I live more content in mind , To earn my living with my hands , then when I lived upon my lands . For many cares are incident to wealthy men when sweet content Does fallen unto the mean men lot , though need does make the old wife trot . When I do meet with any friend , I seldom want a penny to spend , Which brings me to a good report , because I live in honest sort , Idem rather earn my living deer , then steal or beg for bred or beer , For charity is cold God wot , when need does make the old wife trot . We Porters are good fellows still , and spend our money with good will , When three or foure on's meet together , we needs must drink come wind come weather , In friendly sort our pence we join , or more , if we be stored with coin , We never wrangle at paying the shot , though need does make the old wife trot . When I all day have laboured hard , content at night is my reward . When I come home , to quit my pains , my wife me kindly entertains . We sup with such as God hath sent , though never so small we are content , Come weal , come woe , we grumble not , For need will make the old wife trot . Thus have I shown you my estate , and how I first was crossed by fate , And how that cross did prove a bliss , because my mind contented is , My means I did consume in waste , but there's no help for what is past , I little dreamed of this my lot , but need will make the old wife trot . By this I free my self of blame , my kindred I will never shame , Well may they hear that I am poor , yet not to beg from door to door . Let him who hath no house nor land , some honest calling take in hand , Whereby a living may be god , For need will make the old wife trot . If thou hast learning , strength , or wit , to use it lawfully this fit , To shark and shift from place to place , does thee and all thy kin disgrace . This base to beg , this worse to steal , then if thou honestly do deal , Be not ashamed of thy lot , For need will make the old wife trot . FINIS . M.P. Printed at London for F. Coules , dwelling at the upper end of the Old Baily . 