The praise of London : OR , A delicate new Ditty , which does invite you to fair London City I cannot rightly speak but in her praise , Because she is the flower of earthly joys . To the tune of the second part of Hide Parke . A Ll you that delight in Pastime and Pleasure , now list to my Ditty wherein I will show ; In London they'll say there is good store of treasure and that for a certain there is many does know , Great store of silver and gold you may see , with all things else pleasing as ever can be : There are fine shows and glistering sights , Then come to the City for your delights . And yet there is many a Country Farmer , perhaps in objection this Proverb may say , The Country fruits they do help to adore her , and make her seem like to the flowers in May : True is the Country London does feed , with such Commodities as there does need : But as for renown true honour fights , So London Town is the chief for delights . You see how the chiefest are thither resorting , and chiefly are there in the cold Winter time : The City in Winter is better for sporting , than this in the Country in the Summer prime : The Lords and the Knights and the Ladies so gay , may there take their pleasure and go to a Play , Pleasure it flows there day and nights , Then come to the City for your delights . The Country Gentles and swagering Gallants , will not spare there money to see this brave place , And if they want means they'll sell their whole talents , to see this brave Ciy that is of such grace , With a brave Gelding , a Hawk and a Hound , will bravely come riding into this fair Town Meaning to see all the famous sights . Thus they come to the City for their delights . Likewise there is many a Country Miser , that will spare and Angel , a Mark or a pound , And bring up his wife with him for to suffice her , and happily on her bestow a new Gown : From one place to another about they will go , and many brave pleasures his wife he will show This is the humours of country wights They'll come to the City for their delights . The Weaver , the Baker , the Brewer , the Miller , the Glover , the Tanner , the Butcher , the Barber The Joiner , the Cooper , the Sawyer , the Turner , the Tapster , the Hostler , the Clothier , the Taylor And many more Trades that here I might name , that hear of brave Londons renowned high fame All these prepare both day and nights , To come to the City for their delights . The Spanish , the French , the Turke , and Italian and so do the Gretians come thither also ; And likewise they do come from all parts of Holland but seldom there any will back again go , The Germane come thither to vault and to dance , whose names in the City do highly advance , The outlandish Lords with Ladies and Knights , Do come to the City for their delights . The second part . To the same tune . L Ikewise you have many that catch some mischances as they in the Country are at their play : The Maids and the Youngmen they love to have dances , and yet without music they'll pass time away : The Maidens indeed sometime by mishap , with playing and toying doe soon catch a clap , Then to void blame and for their rights , They come to the City for their delights . Full well it is known such chances come many , the Carriers indeed bring up Maids to the City , And when they come there it is unknown to any , these Country Lasses , o they are so witty : Theres enough beside Tailors that serve for a cloak , and help limping Vulkan to bear up the yoke : Cupid he binds fast in men's sights , Then come to the City for your delights . My Aunt kept a Maid and she called her Marry , and she was beloved of the Miller Tom ; And as she went out in and evening with Sary , this Miller by chance unto her did come , All the whole night until it was day , Marry and Thomas together did play , But thought it were night the Moon shined bright , Whereby Tom and Mary did take their delight . Within short time after her teeth fell to aching , and she doubted Thomas had god her with child , Thus was the poor Lass in a pitiful taking , and in her doubt she was no whit beguiled , She safe was delivered and Thomas he fled , this Maid was churched and the child was dead , She escaped all punishment by her fine flights , And came to the City for her delights . My Ladies fine waiting maid met in the dark with John Bold the Coachman who caused her to stay And she was invited by this gallant spark , to learn a pretty canceited fine play , What game they call it I cannot well tell , but in short time after her belly did swell , It made her offen fetch grievous sighs , Yet she came to the City for her delights . Thus you see plainly how that here is many a gallant young Lass to the City does come , Although they be broken what is that to any , there's some Maids come with them although a small sum , They fit for the City as Bells for a Steeple , for in London dwells many sorts of people , Then come away you Noble wights , O come to the City fit for your delights . Fair London is ready to entertain many , you kindly are welcome and so you shall find , But pray take my counsel and bring with you money , and then you shall see they will prove very kind , The kind hearted lasses will welcome you all , and if you have money to pay what you call ; Come noble hearts where pleasure inivites , O come to the City for your delights . Thus in my conclusion all you that are willing , to buy this new Ditty whereby you may learn ; Perhaps you spend many a penny or shilling , upon many trifles which little concern , O London is praised by all that her knows , to be a place where joy and pleasure it flows ; You that have wits may live by your slights , Then come to the City for your delights . London , Printed for F.C. FINIS . R . C.The praise of London : OR , A delicate new Ditty , which does invite you to fair London City I cannot rightly speak but in her praise , Because she is the flower of earthly joys . To the tune of the second part of Hide Parke . A Ll you that delight in Pastime and Pleasure , now list to my Ditty wherein I will show ; In London they'll say there is good store of treasure and that for a certain there is many does know , Great store of silver and gold you may see , with all things else pleasing as ever can be : There are fine shows and glistering sights , Then come to the City for your delights . And yet there is many a Country Farmer , perhaps in objection this Proverb may say , The Country fruits they do help to adore her , and make her seem like to the flowers in May : True is the Country London does feed , with such Commodities as there does need : But as for renown true honour fights , So London Town is the chief for delights . You see how the chiefest are thither resorting , and chiefly are there in the cold Winter time : The City in Winter is better for sporting , than this in the Country in the Summer prime : The Lords and the Knights and the Ladies so gay , may there take their pleasure and go to a Play , Pleasure it flows there day and nights , Then come to the City for your delights . The Country Gentles and swagering Gallants , will not spare there money to see this brave place , And if they want means they'll sell their whole talents , to see this brave Ciy that is of such grace , With a brave Gelding , a Hawk and a Hound , will bravely come riding into this fair Town Meaning to see all the famous sights . Thus they come to the City for their delights . Likewise there is many a Country Miser , that will spare and Angel , a Mark or a pound , And bring up his wife with him for to suffice her , and happily on her bestow a new Gown : From one place to another about they will go , and many brave pleasures his wife he will show This is the humours of country wights They'll come to the City for their delights . The Weaver , the Baker , the Brewer , the Miller , the Glover , the Tanner , the Butcher , the Barber The Joiner , the Cooper , the Sawyer , the Turner , the Tapster , the Hostler , the Clothier , the Taylor And many more Trades that here I might name , that hear of brave Londons renowned high fame All these prepare both day and nights , To come to the City for their delights . The Spanish , the French , the Turke , and Italian and so do the Gretians come thither also ; And likewise they do come from all parts of Holland but seldom there any will back again go , The Germane come thither to vault and to dance , whose names in the City do highly advance , The outlandish Lords with Ladies and Knights , Do come to the City for their delights . The second part . To the same tune . L Ikewise you have many that catch some mischances as they in the Country are at their play : The Maids and the Youngmen they love to have dances , and yet without music they'll pass time away : The Maidens indeed sometime by mishap , with playing and toying doe soon catch a clap , Then to void blame and for their rights , They come to the City for their delights . Full well it is known such chances come many , the Carriers indeed bring up Maids to the City , And when they come there it is unknown to any , these Country Lasses , o they are so witty : Theres enough beside Tailors that serve for a cloak , and help limping Vulkan to bear up the yoke : Cupid he binds fast in men's sights , Then come to the City for your delights . My Aunt kept a Maid and she called her Marry , and she was beloved of the Miller Tom ; And as she went out in and evening with Sary , this Miller by chance unto her did come , All the whole night until it was day , Marry and Thomas together did play , But thought it were night the Moon shined bright , Whereby Tom and Mary did take their delight . Within short time after her teeth fell to aching , and she doubted Thomas had god her with child , Thus was the poor Lass in a pitiful taking , and in her doubt she was no whit beguiled , She safe was delivered and Thomas he fled , this Maid was churched and the child was dead , She escaped all punishment by her fine flights , And came to the City for her delights . My Ladies fine waiting maid met in the dark with John Bold the Coachman who caused her to stay And she was invited by this gallant spark , to learn a pretty canceited fine play , What game they call it I cannot well tell , but in short time after her belly did swell , It made her offen fetch grievous sighs , Yet she came to the City for her delights . Thus you see plainly how that here is many a gallant young Lass to the City does come , Although they be broken what is that to any , there's some Maids come with them although a small sum , They fit for the City as Bells for a Steeple , for in London dwells many sorts of people , Then come away you Noble wights , O come to the City fit for your delights . Fair London is ready to entertain many , you kindly are welcome and so you shall find , But pray take my counsel and bring with you money , and then you shall see they will prove very kind , The kind hearted lasses will welcome you all , and if you have money to pay what you call ; Come noble hearts where pleasure inivites , O come to the City for your delights . Thus in my conclusion all you that are willing , to buy this new Ditty whereby you may learn ; Perhaps you spend many a penny or shilling , upon many trifles which little concern , O London is praised by all that her knows , to be a place where joy and pleasure it flows ; You that have wits may live by your slights , Then come to the City for your delights . London , Printed for F.C. FINIS . R.C. 