Londons Lottery : With and encouragement to the furtherance thereof , for the good of Virginia , and the benefit of this our native Country ; wishing good fortune to all that venture in the same . To the tune of Lusty Gallant . LOndon , live thou famous long , thou bearest a gallant mind : Plenty , peace , and pleasures store , in thee we daily find . The Merchant's of Virginia now , hath nobly took in hand , The bravest golden Lottery , that ere was in this Land. A gallant House well furnished forth , with Gold and Silver Plate , There stands prepared with Prizes now , set forth in greatest state . To London , worthy Gentlemen , go venture there your changed [ a ] unce : Good luck stands now in readiness , your fortune's to advance . It is to plant a Kingdom sure , where savage people dwell : God will favour Christians still , and like the purpose well . Take courage then with willingness , let hands and hearts agree : A braver enterprise then this , I think can never be . Our most royal King and Queen , in princely forwardness , Hath granted grace and favours both , as thousands can express . Sweet nature's Jem , Prince Henry he , in love is not behind : The Nobles of the Land likewise , we all do forward find . Well may this famous Lottery , have good success and speed , When as the States of England thus , do such good liking breed . Come Gallants , come ; come noble minds come venture now for Gold , For smiling hope , here bids you all , take currage , and be bold . Come Knights , and gallant Gentlemen , put in your ventures all : Let nothing daunt your willing minds , good fortune may befall : Me thinks I see great numbers flock , and bring in fast their Coin : And Tradesmen how in loving sort , their Moneys all do join : Here Prizes are of great account , not simple , plain , and poor ; But unto Thousands doe surmount , whereof there be some store : And happily some men there be , in gaining of the same , May spend their days like Gentlemen , in credit and good name . As lately here in London was , some unto Riches brought ; Where many mended their estates , when they full little thought : Yet here are greater Prizes far , as easily to be gained , And valued to more thousand pounds , then hath the first contained . You London Merchant's sending forth your fortune's to the Sea , Here may you purchase Golden worth , and Countries love this way . It pleases God , contents the King , in venturing thus your store : To plant that Land in government , which never was before . Full many a man that lives full bore , and knows no joys of Gold , For one small Crown may get a share , of twice two Thousand told : Then what is he that fears to try his fortune in this kind , When luck & amp ; chance may make a man , and thus great Riches find . You Maids that have but portions small to gain your Marriage friend , Cast in your Lots with willing hand , God may good fortune send . You Widows , and you wedded Wives , one little substance try : You may advance both you and yours , with wealth that comes thereby . The Second part of Londons Lottery . To the tune of , Lusty Gallant . Y Ou Farmers and you Country men , whom God hath blessed with store , To this good work set helping hand , and God will send you more : What comes in love , will prosper well , and be redoubled back : And they that thus for Country does , can never live in lack . The King , the Queen , & amp ; noble Prince , gives courage to persuade : The Peers and Barrons of the Land , hath not their loves denayde : Court and City does the like , where willingly each man , To build up fast Virginias state , performs the best he can . The Merchant's of the Eastern parts , here shows both love and care ; And ventures Gold with joyful hearts , and thereof makes no spare . Our gallant London Companies , and Halls of high renown , Into Virginias Lottery , sends freely many a Crown . For good intent all this is done , and no man wronged therein : Then happy fortune be his dole , the greatest Prize can win : And happy fortune be their guides , that nobly thus maintains The planting of this Newfound Land , with cares , with cost , and pains . Let no man think that he shall lose , though he no Prize poseesse : His substance to Virginia goes , which God , no doubt will bless : And in short time send from that land , much rich commodity ; So shall we think all well bestowed , upon this Latterie . Here profit does with pleasure join , and bids each cheerful heart , To this high praised enterprise , perform a Christian part : Good Countrymen be forward then , and with your Talents small , Adventure here for good lucks sake , and grant your loves withal . We ought not live here , for our selves , but for our Countries good : And Countries good , it is well known , long hath this purpose stood : For first , when Queen Elizabeth here lived , so much renowned , This Land now called Viginia , by English-men was found . Sir Gilbert , Drake , and others more , gave us thereof first sighed ; But followed now by noble minds , with careful course aright : Desiring nothing for their pains , but Countries love and favour : Then reason calls our liberal aids , to this renowned labour . Who knows not England once was like a Wilderness and savage place , Till government and use of men , that wildness did deface : And so Virginia may in time , be made like England now ; Where long-lovd peace and plenty both , sits smiling on her brow . Our King , the Lord full long preserve , the cause of all this pleasure : The Queen , the Prince , and all his seed , with days of longest measure : And that Virginia well may prove a Land of rich increase : And Englands government thereof , good God let never cease . FINIS . Imprinted at London by W.W. for Henry Robaras , and are to be sold at his shop near to S. Botulphes Church without Aldgate . 1612. Londons Lottery : With and encouragement to the furtherance thereof , for the good of Virginia , and the benefit of this our native Country ; wishing good fortune to all that venture in the same . To the tune of Lusty Gallant . LOndon , live thou famous long , thou bearest a gallant mind : Plenty , peace , and pleasures store , in thee we daily find . The Merchant's of Virginia now , hath nobly took in hand , The bravest golden Lottery , that ere was in this Land. A gallant House well furnished forth , with Gold and Silver Plate , There stands prepared with Prizes now , set forth in greatest state . To London , worthy Gentlemen , go venture there your changed [ a ] unce : Good luck stands now in readiness , your fortune's to advance . It is to plant a Kingdom sure , where savage people dwell : God will favour Christians still , and like the purpose well . Take courage then with willingness , let hands and hearts agree : A braver enterprise then this , I think can never be . Our most royal King and Queen , in princely forwardness , Hath granted grace and favours both , as thousands can express . Sweet nature's Jem , Prince Henry he , in love is not behind : The Nobles of the Land likewise , we all do forward find . Well may this famous Lottery , have good success and speed , When as the States of England thus , do such good liking breed . Come Gallants , come ; come noble minds come venture now for Gold , For smiling hope , here bids you all , take currage , and be bold . Come Knights , and gallant Gentlemen , put in your ventures all : Let nothing daunt your willing minds , good fortune may befall : Me thinks I see great numbers flock , and bring in fast their Coin : And Tradesmen how in loving sort , their Moneys all do join : Here Prizes are of great account , not simple , plain , and poor ; But unto Thousands doe surmount , whereof there be some store : And happily some men there be , in gaining of the same , May spend their days like Gentlemen , in credit and good name . As lately here in London was , some unto Riches brought ; Where many mended their estates , when they full little thought : Yet here are greater Prizes far , as easily to be gained , And valued to more thousand pounds , then hath the first contained . You London Merchant's sending forth your fortune's to the Sea , Here may you purchase Golden worth , and Countries love this way . It pleases God , contents the King , in venturing thus your store : To plant that Land in government , which never was before . Full many a man that lives full bore , and knows no joys of Gold , For one small Crown may get a share , of twice two Thousand told : Then what is he that fears to try his fortune in this kind , When luck & amp ; chance may make a man , and thus great Riches find . You Maids that have but portions small to gain your Marriage friend , Cast in your Lots with willing hand , God may good fortune send . You Widows , and you wedded Wives , one little substance try : You may advance both you and yours , with wealth that comes thereby . The Second part of Londons Lottery . To the tune of , Lusty Gallant . Y Ou Farmers and you Country men , whom God hath blessed with store , To this good work set helping hand , and God will send you more : What comes in love , will prosper well , and be redoubled back : And they that thus for Country does , can never live in lack . The King , the Queen , & amp ; noble Prince , gives courage to persuade : The Peers and Barrons of the Land , hath not their loves denayde : Court and City does the like , where willingly each man , To build up fast Virginias state , performs the best he can . The Merchant's of the Eastern parts , here shows both love and care ; And ventures Gold with joyful hearts , and thereof makes no spare . Our gallant London Companies , and Halls of high renown , Into Virginias Lottery , sends freely many a Crown . For good intent all this is done , and no man wronged therein : Then happy fortune be his dole , the greatest Prize can win : And happy fortune be their guides , that nobly thus maintains The planting of this Newfound Land , with cares , with cost , and pains . Let no man think that he shall lose , though he no Prize poseesse : His substance to Virginia goes , which God , no doubt will bless : And in short time send from that land , much rich commodity ; So shall we think all well bestowed , upon this Latterie . Here profit does with pleasure join , and bids each cheerful heart , To this high praised enterprise , perform a Christian part : Good Countrymen be forward then , and with your Talents small , Adventure here for good lucks sake , and grant your loves withal . We ought not live here , for our selves , but for our Countries good : And Countries good , it is well known , long hath this purpose stood : For first , when Queen Elizabeth here lived , so much renowned , This Land now called Viginia , by English-men was found . Sir Gilbert , Drake , and others more , gave us thereof first sighed ; But followed now by noble minds , with careful course aright : Desiring nothing for their pains , but Countries love and favour : Then reason calls our liberal aids , to this renowned labour . Who knows not England once was like a Wilderness and savage place , Till government and use of men , that wildness did deface : And so Virginia may in time , be made like England now ; Where long-lovd peace and plenty both , sits smiling on her brow . Our King , the Lord full long preserve , the cause of all this pleasure : The Queen , the Prince , and all his seed , with days of longest measure : And that Virginia well may prove a Land of rich increase : And Englands government thereof , good God let never cease . FINIS . Imprinted at London by W.W. for Henry Robaras , and are to be sold at his shop near to S. Botulphes Church without Aldgate . 1612. 