The Post of Ware : With a Packet full of strange News out of diverse Countries . To a pleasant new Tune . A Way , Away ; make no delay , this News requires haste ; Boy , mount thy Mare , post hence to Ware , thou canst not ride too fast ; And as thou ridest through every Town , blow forth this lively blast : All Citizens Wives Are grown constant and found , And say , That Truth does abound , In every Tailors Shop to be found . I'th Street of Ware , good Boy , declare , we shall have money store , The Hollanders here did taste our Beer , while they could drink no more ; Some lost their gold , which struck them cold though they were hight before : And vexing for anger , their money to lose , They drank old Sack Upse-freeze ; And lustily eat up their red-coted Cheese . Relate again , this News from Spaine , that they are wondrous rich , The Fleet of late , hath helped their State , by bringing home so much ; The States and Spaine , will tooed again ; the Wars were never none such , And Spinola vows , he no longer will stay , But raise his men by break of day : Heel burn up their Forts , and go marching away . Say , France with peace hath great increase from every Country near , The Boors betimes renew their Vines , which lately spoiled were , And some suppose , while Vineyards grow they make a shift with Beer : And tell them the next time thou comest thither Post , Thou shalt bring news from Englands Coast For that is the News , that concerns us all most . Away again , Post hence amain , and stranger News declare , To every Town , both wise and Clown , that hath abiding there , For certain tell , that all is well , and bid them banish fear ; Say , Courtiers are honest , they led virtuous lives , The one by the other lovingly thrives , And all have gi'n over to wrong Citizens Wives . The Second Part. To the same Tune . TO He Country large , maintain their charge and good Hospitality use , The Farmers bore of their high rate , and do great Measures choose ; The Landlords they , at Quarter day do Fines or Bribes refuse ; The poor well are clothed , and victuals have store , The trades are increased which late did deplore , And Constables scorn for to favour a Whore . A Soldier true , come over new , may quietly to his friends pass , Without being stayed , no ways are laid , by any inquisitive Ass , And Carriers sing , they'll never bring London a broken Glass ; The Knights and the Gentry , each keeps his house , The neighbours welcome to Brawn & amp ; Souse , And Beggars so proud , that they all hate a Louse . All City Dams maintain their fame's , their pride they do impair , The rich each day their money lay , Pauls Steeple up to rear ; Each Prisoners Fee discharged shall be , to quit them from their care ; The Bride-wells are altered , and Hospitals made , And maimed Soldiers therein laid . And every Bachelor marries a Maid . By Merchant's rich is given much , to Bankrupts newly decayed , The Merchant's store , shall help the poor , that want , to set up their Trade ; From Lud-gate stones none shall hear mones which have so long been made ; The Usurers , five in the hundred will take , Promoter all shall Soldiers make , And Whores are turned honest , for conscience sake . More mightest thou say my fine-tongued Boy , of this our happy News , If any grieve for to believe , I prithee bid them choose ; And those that will to London still these objects come and peruse ; Where you shall find honestly all that I say , Provide , make haste , use no delay : For all this shall be betwixt this and Doomsday . FINIS . The Post . Printed at London for J. Trundle . The Post of Ware : With a Packet full of strange News out of diverse Countries . To a pleasant new Tune . A Way , Away ; make no delay , this News requires haste ; Boy , mount thy Mare , post hence to Ware , thou canst not ride too fast ; And as thou ridest through every Town , blow forth this lively blast : All Citizens Wives Are grown constant and found , And say , That Truth does abound , In every Tailors Shop to be found . I'th Street of Ware , good Boy , declare , we shall have money store , The Hollanders here did taste our Beer , while they could drink no more ; Some lost their gold , which struck them cold though they were hight before : And vexing for anger , their money to lose , They drank old Sack Upse-freeze ; And lustily eat up their red-coted Cheese . Relate again , this News from Spaine , that they are wondrous rich , The Fleet of late , hath helped their State , by bringing home so much ; The States and Spaine , will tooed again ; the Wars were never none such , And Spinola vows , he no longer will stay , But raise his men by break of day : Heel burn up their Forts , and go marching away . Say , France with peace hath great increase from every Country near , The Boors betimes renew their Vines , which lately spoiled were , And some suppose , while Vineyards grow they make a shift with Beer : And tell them the next time thou comest thither Post , Thou shalt bring news from Englands Coast For that is the News , that concerns us all most . Away again , Post hence amain , and stranger News declare , To every Town , both wise and Clown , that hath abiding there , For certain tell , that all is well , and bid them banish fear ; Say , Courtiers are honest , they led virtuous lives , The one by the other lovingly thrives , And all have gi'n over to wrong Citizens Wives . The Second Part. To the same Tune . TO He Country large , maintain their charge and good Hospitality use , The Farmers bore of their high rate , and do great Measures choose ; The Landlords they , at Quarter day do Fines or Bribes refuse ; The poor well are clothed , and victuals have store , The trades are increased which late did deplore , And Constables scorn for to favour a Whore . A Soldier true , come over new , may quietly to his friends pass , Without being stayed , no ways are laid , by any inquisitive Ass , And Carriers sing , they'll never bring London a broken Glass ; The Knights and the Gentry , each keeps his house , The neighbours welcome to Brawn & amp ; Souse , And Beggars so proud , that they all hate a Louse . All City Dams maintain their fame's , their pride they do impair , The rich each day their money lay , Pauls Steeple up to rear ; Each Prisoners Fee discharged shall be , to quit them from their care ; The Bride-wells are altered , and Hospitals made , And maimed Soldiers therein laid . And every Bachelor marries a Maid . By Merchant's rich is given much , to Bankrupts newly decayed , The Merchant's store , shall help the poor , that want , to set up their Trade ; From Lud-gate stones none shall hear mones which have so long been made ; The Usurers , five in the hundred will take , Promoter all shall Soldiers make , And Whores are turned honest , for conscience sake . More mightest thou say my fine-tongued Boy , of this our happy News , If any grieve for to believe , I prithee bid them choose ; And those that will to London still these objects come and peruse ; Where you shall find honestly all that I say , Provide , make haste , use no delay : For all this shall be betwixt this and Doomsday . FINIS . The Post . Printed at London for J. Trundle . 