Whipping Cheer . Or the woeful lamentations of the the three Sisters in the Spittle when they were in new Bride-well To the tune of hemp and flax . C Ome you fatal Sisters three , whose exercise is spinning : And help us to pull out these thrids , for hee'rs but a harsh beginning . O hemp , and flax , and tow to to to , Tow to to to , tow tero . O hemp , etc The blinded whipper he attends us , if the wheel leave turning , And then the very Matrons looks , turns all our mirth to mourning . O hemp and flax and Tow to to to , tow to to to to to tero , O hemp etc Now for a Cup of bottle Ale , some suger-plummes and Cakes a , But never a client must come in , to gives a poor pint of Sack , Here's hemp and flax and tow to to to tow tow to to to to tero . Here's hemp and etc Besse the eldest Sister , she is stained much with honour , And one cannot endure the labour , which is thrust upon her . O hemp and flax and tow to to to . Tow to to , to to tero . O hemp etc Garden-allies clear are swept , Hoglaine laments a little : Our tinder boxes over our heads , were broken at the Spittle : Here's hemp and flax and tow to to to , tow to to to to to tero . Here's hemp etc If the London Prentices , And other good men of fashion : Would but refrain our companies , Then woe to our occupation . Then hemp and flax and tow to to to Tow to to to to tero . Then hemp , etc Oh you lusty Roaring Boys , Come show your brazen faces : Let your weapons turn to beetles , And shoulder out some of these lashes . At hemp and flax and tow to to to , Tow to to to to to tero , At hemp , etc Gold and silver hath forsaken , Our acquaintance clearly : Twined whipcord takes the place , And strikes t'our shoulders nearly . Here's hemp and flax and tow to to to , Tow to to to to tero . Here's hemp , etc You Punks and Panders every one , Come follow your loving sisters : In new Bridewell there is a mill , Fills all our hands with blisters . And hemp and flax and , Tow to to to to tero , If the Millers art you like not , to the hemp block pack ye : Thumpe , and thump , and thump apace , for fear the whipper take ye . Ther's hemp & amp ; flax and tow to to to , Tow to to to to tero . Finis . The Second Part of the Whipping Cheer . With the Roaring [ Boys ] comfortable answer to three fatal Sisters . To the same tune . S Isters we have received your letters , And lament yours cases : Work but apace a little while , we will possess your places . At hemp and flax and tow , to , to , to . At hemp and flax , etc You have pla [ cd ] your parts we see , And well maintained the battle : Now to give thee Counterblow , Weel make the beetles rattle . At hemp and flax and tow , to to to , At hemp etc Dice and Cards and money store , Which every fool disburses : Commands us all to sing and roar , With full impleated purses . Now to the hemp and Tow to to to , Now to thee , etc Clowns shall not escape our hands , But still we will be nipping : Weel ventures gentry state and lands , Because weel have some whipping . At hemp and flax and Tow to to to , At hemp , etc Summons shall be sent abroad , To call home country brother's : Panders , Foisters , and roaring boys , The Pimp and all such others . To the hemp and flax & amp ; Tow to to to , To the hemp , etc Cutpurse boys shall grow to strength , For labours best befitting : Play the beetles out at length , Unless yowl go to whipping . To the hemp and flax and Tow to to to , To the hemp , etc Pads and Prancers run and ride , Decoys come show your cunning : Make haste to bring the cards and dice , Your labours worth the running . Here's hemp and flax and tow to to to , Here's hemp , etc Work apace for Wine and Capon , And good cheer grows scanty : Now the beetles grow the weapon , Our fares not half so dainty . Here's hemp and flax and tow to to to , Here's hemp . Sisters what think you that we , Do second out your labours , When we meet abroad again , I display the double colours . O hemp and flax and tow to to to , Oh hemp , etc Lastly to amend the matter , Show your shoulders printed : Weel show as fair and if not better , For so it is appointed . At hemp and flax and to to to to , At hemp axd flax and tow to to to , etc FINIS . Printed at London for H . G.Whipping Cheer . Or the woeful lamentations of the the three Sisters in the Spittle when they were in new Bride-well To the tune of hemp and flax . C Ome you fatal Sisters three , whose exercise is spinning : And help us to pull out these thrids , for hee'rs but a harsh beginning . O hemp , and flax , and tow to to to , Tow to to to , tow tero . O hemp , etc The blinded whipper he attends us , if the wheel leave turning , And then the very Matrons looks , turns all our mirth to mourning . O hemp and flax and Tow to to to , tow to to to to to tero , O hemp etc Now for a Cup of bottle Ale , some suger-plummes and Cakes a , But never a client must come in , to gives a poor pint of Sack , Here's hemp and flax and tow to to to tow tow to to to to tero . Here's hemp and etc Besse the eldest Sister , she is stained much with honour , And one cannot endure the labour , which is thrust upon her . O hemp and flax and tow to to to . Tow to to , to to tero . O hemp etc Garden-allies clear are swept , Hoglaine laments a little : Our tinder boxes over our heads , were broken at the Spittle : Here's hemp and flax and tow to to to , tow to to to to to tero . Here's hemp etc If the London Prentices , And other good men of fashion : Would but refrain our companies , Then woe to our occupation . Then hemp and flax and tow to to to Tow to to to to tero . Then hemp , etc Oh you lusty Roaring Boys , Come show your brazen faces : Let your weapons turn to beetles , And shoulder out some of these lashes . At hemp and flax and tow to to to , Tow to to to to to tero , At hemp , etc Gold and silver hath forsaken , Our acquaintance clearly : Twined whipcord takes the place , And strikes t'our shoulders nearly . Here's hemp and flax and tow to to to , Tow to to to to tero . Here's hemp , etc You Punks and Panders every one , Come follow your loving sisters : In new Bridewell there is a mill , Fills all our hands with blisters . And hemp and flax and , Tow to to to to tero , If the Millers art you like not , to the hemp block pack ye : Thumpe , and thump , and thump apace , for fear the whipper take ye . Ther's hemp & amp ; flax and tow to to to , Tow to to to to tero . Finis . The Second Part of the Whipping Cheer . With the Roaring [ Boys ] comfortable answer to three fatal Sisters . To the same tune . S Isters we have received your letters , And lament yours cases : Work but apace a little while , we will possess your places . At hemp and flax and tow , to , to , to . At hemp and flax , etc You have pla [ cd ] your parts we see , And well maintained the battle : Now to give thee Counterblow , Weel make the beetles rattle . At hemp and flax and tow , to to to , At hemp etc Dice and Cards and money store , Which every fool disburses : Commands us all to sing and roar , With full impleated purses . Now to the hemp and Tow to to to , Now to thee , etc Clowns shall not escape our hands , But still we will be nipping : Weel ventures gentry state and lands , Because weel have some whipping . At hemp and flax and Tow to to to , At hemp , etc Summons shall be sent abroad , To call home country brother's : Panders , Foisters , and roaring boys , The Pimp and all such others . To the hemp and flax & amp ; Tow to to to , To the hemp , etc Cutpurse boys shall grow to strength , For labours best befitting : Play the beetles out at length , Unless yowl go to whipping . To the hemp and flax and Tow to to to , To the hemp , etc Pads and Prancers run and ride , Decoys come show your cunning : Make haste to bring the cards and dice , Your labours worth the running . Here's hemp and flax and tow to to to , Here's hemp , etc Work apace for Wine and Capon , And good cheer grows scanty : Now the beetles grow the weapon , Our fares not half so dainty . Here's hemp and flax and tow to to to , Here's hemp . Sisters what think you that we , Do second out your labours , When we meet abroad again , I display the double colours . O hemp and flax and tow to to to , Oh hemp , etc Lastly to amend the matter , Show your shoulders printed : Weel show as fair and if not better , For so it is appointed . At hemp and flax and to to to to , At hemp axd flax and tow to to to , etc FINIS . Printed at London for H.G. 