Here is and Item for you . Or , The Countrimans bill of charges , for his coming up to London Declared by a Whistle . To the tune of King Henry , etc DIogenes that laughed to see a Mare once eat a Thistle , Would surely smile and laugh the while , to hear me sing my whistle , For now , this meant we must invent , a silent way of ringing , And so for fear lest some should hear , must whistle stead of singing , With a hay down , with a ho down , With a hay down , down , down , derry , since that we may nor sing , nor say , Weel whistle and be merry , A Countryman to London came to view the famous City , And here his charge did grow so large , it made me write this Ditty , For in a Bill he set down still , his charge from the beginning , Which I did find , and now do mind , to whistle stead of singing , With a hay down , etc . Impri miss , coming unto town , and at my Inn alighting I almost spent a noble crown in potting and in piping , Item , that the Tapster there my Jugges half full did bring in , I dare not s [ a ] y he was a [ R ] . but I'll whistle stead of singing . With a hay down , etc . Item , that I went abroad , and had my purse soon picked , While I did stare on London beware , by a Pickpurse I was fitted . Item , that I met a wench , that put me down in drinking , I dare not say what she made me pay , but I'll whistle stead of singing , With a hay down , etc . Item , that I met withal a very loving Cousin , Who needs would be of my Country and gave me half a dozen , And at the last a pare of Cards they cunningly did bring in , I will not say what they made me pay but I'll whistle stead of singing , With a hay down , with a ho down , With a hay down , down , down , derry , since that we may nor sing , nor say , Weel whistle and be merry , Item , that I daily went unto my Law [ y ] ers Chamber , And he did say I should win the day , without all fear or danger , But then at last , for charge and [ c ] ost , he such a Bill did bring in , I will not say , what he made me pay , but I'll whistle stead of singing , With a heigh down , etc . Item , that I paid there , for a bagpipe in a bottle , Which did begin to hiss and sing , when we did stir the stople . Item , that one night I did lie in the Counter for my drinking , I will not say , what I paid next day but I'll whistle in stead of singing . With a heigh down , etc . Item , that at last I came to take my horse again , But my poor horse looked never worse , his belly did complain , For he alas for want of hay , stood over the manger grinning , Yet they made me pay for night and day but I'll whistle stead of singing , With a heigh down , etc . The Countrymans going down into the Country , Declared by a whistle . To the same tune . TO Hus having god from London once , he rid full heavy hearted , For like and honest man he had from all his money parted . His Cloake-bag full of papers was , in stead of money gingling , I dare not boast what those papers cost , but I'll whistle stead of singing . With a hay down , with a ho down , With a hay down , down , down , derry , since that we may nor sing , nor say , Weel whistle and be merry . Imprimis , coming home , he found , his good wife Joane a brewing , And did not defer but unto her his papers fell to showing . But when she saw , nothing but law , she fell to scold and flinging , But all that day he kept away , and whistled stead of singing . With a hay down , etc . Item , then he went to plough which while that he was driving Alas says he what fools are we , in law to fallen a striving , For now I mean to keep my teem , which shall good profit bring in I must drive on my money's gone , and whistle stead of singing . With a heigh down , etc . Item , that his neighbour came to ask what news at London , Alas says he , more wiser be , for fear that you be undone . Spend not at Term what you do yearn , while that your wives are spinning , Which makes me now to drive the plough , and whistle stead of singing . With a heigh down , etc . For be it known unto you all , that I my money spended Such fools as I will beggars die before their lives are ended . Therefore beware and have more care when that your moneys' gingling , lest when t'is spent you do repent and whistle stead of singing . Witha a hay down , etc . For I so many Items had , yet could not I beware , For this and that and I know not what , this Item brings my care , Yet let this be to all of you , and Item which I bring in , Lest money spent makes you repent , and whistle stead of singing , With a hay down , etc . Yet one more Item I will add since that my song is ended My Item's this , that I would wish , no man to be offended , With all my Items but to save , his money when t'is gingling , lest when ti's spent , he do repent , and whistle stead of singing , With a hay down , with a ho down , With a hay down , down , down , derry , since that we may nor sing , nor say , Weel whistle and be merry . FINIS . Printed at London by M . F . Here is and Item for you . Or , The Countrimans bill of charges , for his coming up to London Declared by a Whistle . To the tune of King Henry , etc DIogenes that laughed to see a Mare once eat a Thistle , Would surely smile and laugh the while , to hear me sing my whistle , For now , this meant we must invent , a silent way of ringing , And so for fear lest some should hear , must whistle stead of singing , With a hay down , with a ho down , With a hay down , down , down , derry , since that we may nor sing , nor say , Weel whistle and be merry , A Countryman to London came to view the famous City , And here his charge did grow so large , it made me write this Ditty , For in a Bill he set down still , his charge from the beginning , Which I did find , and now do mind , to whistle stead of singing , With a hay down , etc . Impri miss , coming unto town , and at my Inn alighting I almost spent a noble crown in potting and in piping , Item , that the Tapster there my Jugges half full did bring in , I dare not s [ a ] y he was a [ R ] . but I'll whistle stead of singing . With a hay down , etc . Item , that I went abroad , and had my purse soon picked , While I did stare on London beware , by a Pickpurse I was fitted . Item , that I met a wench , that put me down in drinking , I dare not say what she made me pay , but I'll whistle stead of singing , With a hay down , etc . Item , that I met withal a very loving Cousin , Who needs would be of my Country and gave me half a dozen , And at the last a pare of Cards they cunningly did bring in , I will not say what they made me pay but I'll whistle stead of singing , With a hay down , with a ho down , With a hay down , down , down , derry , since that we may nor sing , nor say , Weel whistle and be merry , Item , that I daily went unto my Law [ y ] ers Chamber , And he did say I should win the day , without all fear or danger , But then at last , for charge and [ c ] ost , he such a Bill did bring in , I will not say , what he made me pay , but I'll whistle stead of singing , With a heigh down , etc . Item , that I paid there , for a bagpipe in a bottle , Which did begin to hiss and sing , when we did stir the stople . Item , that one night I did lie in the Counter for my drinking , I will not say , what I paid next day but I'll whistle in stead of singing . With a heigh down , etc . Item , that at last I came to take my horse again , But my poor horse looked never worse , his belly did complain , For he alas for want of hay , stood over the manger grinning , Yet they made me pay for night and day but I'll whistle stead of singing , With a heigh down , etc . The Countrymans going down into the Country , Declared by a whistle . To the same tune . TO Hus having god from London once , he rid full heavy hearted , For like and honest man he had from all his money parted . His Cloake-bag full of papers was , in stead of money gingling , I dare not boast what those papers cost , but I'll whistle stead of singing . With a hay down , with a ho down , With a hay down , down , down , derry , since that we may nor sing , nor say , Weel whistle and be merry . Imprimis , coming home , he found , his good wife Joane a brewing , And did not defer but unto her his papers fell to showing . But when she saw , nothing but law , she fell to scold and flinging , But all that day he kept away , and whistled stead of singing . With a hay down , etc . Item , then he went to plough which while that he was driving Alas says he what fools are we , in law to fallen a striving , For now I mean to keep my teem , which shall good profit bring in I must drive on my money's gone , and whistle stead of singing . With a heigh down , etc . Item , that his neighbour came to ask what news at London , Alas says he , more wiser be , for fear that you be undone . Spend not at Term what you do yearn , while that your wives are spinning , Which makes me now to drive the plough , and whistle stead of singing . With a heigh down , etc . For be it known unto you all , that I my money spended Such fools as I will beggars die before their lives are ended . Therefore beware and have more care when that your moneys' gingling , lest when t'is spent you do repent and whistle stead of singing . Witha a hay down , etc . For I so many Items had , yet could not I beware , For this and that and I know not what , this Item brings my care , Yet let this be to all of you , and Item which I bring in , Lest money spent makes you repent , and whistle stead of singing , With a hay down , etc . Yet one more Item I will add since that my song is ended My Item's this , that I would wish , no man to be offended , With all my Items but to save , his money when t'is gingling , lest when ti's spent , he do repent , and whistle stead of singing , With a hay down , with a ho down , With a hay down , down , down , derry , since that we may nor sing , nor say , Weel whistle and be merry . FINIS . Printed at London by M . F . 