News good and new To the tune of Twenty pound a year . John N Owe welcome neighbour Rowland , From London welcome home , What news is there I pray you ? From thence I hear you come . Row . The best that ere you herd , Yowl say't when I you show . John. I hardly can believe it , This too good to be true . Row . The Lawyer in his pleading to gain gives no [ res ] pect , Though Cli [ e ] nts have no money , he does not them neglect : But truly pleads their cause , of these there be not few . John. I never will believe it , This too good to be true . In Lords there's no ambition , in Ladies theres no pride , The Clergy loves no money no woman's wanton-eyed , Each one that wicked lived , does strive to live anew . John. I never will bele [ i ] we it , This too good to be true . Row I there did know and Usurer , ith hundred took threescore : But he is now repented , and gave all to the poor , And daily fasts and prays , and hates that damned Crew , John. I never will believe it , This too good to be true . Row . Your Tradesmen hate short measures false lights , and falser weights : Nor will they in their bargains , use oaths as cunning baits , To fetch the simple over , theres no such cunning Jew . John . I never will believe it , This too good to be true . Row . No Vintner there does mingle , his wine with water pure : And then does swear this neatest : in London's no such Brewer . Of that they all are clear , they can , but will not brew . John. I never will believe it . This too good to be true . Row . No Ostler there will rob you , of either oats or hay : No Tapster nicks the pot there , but fills it as he may : No host will there be drunk , no hostess proves untrue . John. I never will believe it , This too good to be true . Row . Your Brokers there are honest and are not ranked with knaves , They lend their coin for conscience , which makes them over their graves To have their good deeds writ , whose number is but few . John. I never will believe it , This too good to be true . Too good to be true The Second Part. Row . A Sergeant late turned honest , and not abused his place : A Baily became pitiful , and wail ' [ worser ] his prisoners case : And both to goodness framed their former course anew . John. I never will believe this , This too good to be true . Row . The Landlords there are pitiful and rack not poor men's rends , The tenant there is dutiful , and pays what he indents . The rich the poor do love : of these there are but few . John. I never will believe this , This too good to be true . Row . Jailors are tender hearted , that do their prisons keep : To think on poor men's misery's , their iron hearts do weep : The poor men they relieve , and give the rich their endue . John. I never will believe this , this too good to be true . Ro. You there shall see no drunkards , in walking through the street : The stocks stand ever empty , all's sober that you meet . He's hated that's but seen , amid a drunken crew . John. I never will believe this , This too good to be true . Row . Picthatch , and garden Allies , Turnebull , and Mutton lane , Of truth are now turned honest , and hate unlawful gain . Bridewell did them convert , and clad their backs in blue . John. I never will believe this , this too good to be true . Row . Fleetstreet ha never a cheater , Whitefriars never a whore : Tiburne is now delivered , and bears thieves no more . And S [ mith ] field now is rid , of those horse-cheating crew . John. I never will believe this , this too good to be true . Row . Ludgate ha never a bankrupt that can , but will not pay : The Counter never a Prodigal , that turns the night to day , By vile disordered life , which age does after rue . John. I never will believe this , this too good to be true . This news does much amaze me , the which you have me told , And truly to believe it , I dare not be too bold . I would [ not ] true it were , as it to me is new . But I will not believe it , this too good to be true . Printed for J . Trundle . News good and new To the tune of Twenty pound a year . John N Owe welcome neighbour Rowland , From London welcome home , What news is there I pray you ? From thence I hear you come . Row . The best that ere you herd , Yowl say't when I you show . John. I hardly can believe it , This too good to be true . Row . The Lawyer in his pleading to gain gives no [ res ] pect , Though Cli [ e ] nts have no money , he does not them neglect : But truly pleads their cause , of these there be not few . John. I never will believe it , This too good to be true . In Lords there's no ambition , in Ladies theres no pride , The Clergy loves no money no woman's wanton-eyed , Each one that wicked lived , does strive to live anew . John. I never will bele [ i ] we it , This too good to be true . Row I there did know and Usurer , ith hundred took threescore : But he is now repented , and gave all to the poor , And daily fasts and prays , and hates that damned Crew , John. I never will believe it , This too good to be true . Row . Your Tradesmen hate short measures false lights , and falser weights : Nor will they in their bargains , use oaths as cunning baits , To fetch the simple over , theres no such cunning Jew . John . I never will believe it , This too good to be true . Row . No Vintner there does mingle , his wine with water pure : And then does swear this neatest : in London's no such Brewer . Of that they all are clear , they can , but will not brew . John. I never will believe it . This too good to be true . Row . No Ostler there will rob you , of either oats or hay : No Tapster nicks the pot there , but fills it as he may : No host will there be drunk , no hostess proves untrue . John. I never will believe it , This too good to be true . Row . Your Brokers there are honest and are not ranked with knaves , They lend their coin for conscience , which makes them over their graves To have their good deeds writ , whose number is but few . John. I never will believe it , This too good to be true . Too good to be true The Second Part. Row . A Sergeant late turned honest , and not abused his place : A Baily became pitiful , and wail ' [ worser ] his prisoners case : And both to goodness framed their former course anew . John. I never will believe this , This too good to be true . Row . The Landlords there are pitiful and rack not poor men's rends , The tenant there is dutiful , and pays what he indents . The rich the poor do love : of these there are but few . John. I never will believe this , This too good to be true . Row . Jailors are tender hearted , that do their prisons keep : To think on poor men's misery's , their iron hearts do weep : The poor men they relieve , and give the rich their endue . John. I never will believe this , this too good to be true . Ro. You there shall see no drunkards , in walking through the street : The stocks stand ever empty , all's sober that you meet . He's hated that's but seen , amid a drunken crew . John. I never will believe this , This too good to be true . Row . Picthatch , and garden Allies , Turnebull , and Mutton lane , Of truth are now turned honest , and hate unlawful gain . Bridewell did them convert , and clad their backs in blue . John. I never will believe this , this too good to be true . Row . Fleetstreet ha never a cheater , Whitefriars never a whore : Tiburne is now delivered , and bears thieves no more . And S [ mith ] field now is rid , of those horse-cheating crew . John. I never will believe this , this too good to be true . Row . Ludgate ha never a bankrupt that can , but will not pay : The Counter never a Prodigal , that turns the night to day , By vile disordered life , which age does after rue . John. I never will believe this , this too good to be true . This news does much amaze me , the which you have me told , And truly to believe it , I dare not be too bold . I would [ not ] true it were , as it to me is new . But I will not believe it , this too good to be true . Printed for J . Trundle . 