The Beggars Intrusion , Or the world's Illusion . To the tune of Sallingers Round . A Beggar of late most poor in estate I truly will discover , In behaviour rude , yet he would intrude , no place he would passover , Conceit the meaning Gentlemen or else you do me wrong : For the world's Illusion , in the conclusion , is subject of my song . He meets first with a Prodigal , and he shakes him by the clooke , Who indisgrace upon the face did hit this Beggar a struck , The poor man answered only this , for ought that I can spy , Though blows be rife & amp ; you led a proud life yet a Beggar you shall die There meets he with a Serving man , dect bravely in apparel , Who spying of this beggar than made proffer for to quarrel , Pray leave your words , and keep your sword , and live contentedly : Were you in fear or you casherd , then a Beggar would you die Then meets he with a dainty Dame , a Courtier I do think , Who had a gown most rich to see beset with many a pink , Who spying of this Beggerman , thou smelst quoth she fi fi : Quoth the Beggar aloud , be not to proud , for a Beggar you must die , Then meets he with a Sergeant , and in his hand his Maze , The Beggar then most lustily steps , and comes towards him a pace , What wouldst thou have thou arrant knave , thou comest to hastily , For to tell you this you live amiss , and a Beggar you must die . Then meets he with a Lawyers Clarke , and he tells him boldly thus : Sir you are he ored dims my eye , that is the undoing of us . For when your Master gives a tester : you do his gift deny , But for all your procolle , hell hath your soul and a Beggar you will die . Then meets he with a Usurer , and he tells him to his teeth : That he hordes up store , & amp ; gives nought to the poor , and clads himself with neck be [ e ] fe . But Usurer stay , mark what I say , for in thy cares it'll cry : Thy conscience is large , and lose thy charge : yet a Beggar thou shalt die . Then meets he with a Broacker , and he tells him to his face : That often times he bought stole clothes , was not this a deep disgrace . But though your conscience be ell long , next bargain you do buy : Full well I know , will cross you so , that a Beggar you shall die . The second part . To the same tune . TO Hen meets he with a Farmer , was pulling up his corn Who when he spied this Beggar , he made a show of scorn , Scorn not a man in misery , for you so well as I If heaven should but cross your store , a Beggar sure would die . Then meets he a Promoter , who lives by honest men's falls , But being little to far of to him this Beggar calls : Saying prey leave of your course of life , il'e show you a reason why , Would men live in awe and obey the law , then a Beggar would you die , Then meets he with a horemaster , and he seeks by gentle Queans , For to withdraw this young men mind , from these abhorred [ q ] eans , Oh fly there baits my gentle youth , and live contentively , lest you to late lament your state , and so a beggar die . Then meets he with a Drunkard and tells him of his vice , Oh friend ( quoth he ) leave of in time , and learn to be more wise , This drink confounds your substance , like wash within it does lie , When you have spent your store you can spend-no more then a Beggar you must die . Then meets he with a Gamester great , and intreats him to give over Leave [ nody ] new cut and penicth , especially with a whore , Leave wid ruff tickle me quickly to , lay on and thereto by , Play but a game at ruff or twaine , lest a beggar you do die , To all Estates to all degrees this beggar boldly went , No house where thriftless riot was kept , but he did it frequent , And when he spied a man that loved in the Alehouse for to lie , He'd say my friend thy life amend , lest a Beggar you do die , Thus have you herd this wordles bad corpse , in living lives most rude , And how this beggar boldly does , to all Estates intrude , Let man and woman night and day , pray to the Lord one high : That he would send , we our lives might mend , that we might not beggars die . FINIS . William Hockom . Imprinted at London for E . W.The Beggars Intrusion , Or the world's Illusion . To the tune of Sallingers Round . A Beggar of late most poor in estate I truly will discover , In behaviour rude , yet he would intrude , no place he would passover , Conceit the meaning Gentlemen or else you do me wrong : For the world's Illusion , in the conclusion , is subject of my song . He meets first with a Prodigal , and he shakes him by the clooke , Who indisgrace upon the face did hit this Beggar a struck , The poor man answered only this , for ought that I can spy , Though blows be rife & amp ; you led a proud life yet a Beggar you shall die There meets he with a Serving man , dect bravely in apparel , Who spying of this beggar than made proffer for to quarrel , Pray leave your words , and keep your sword , and live contentedly : Were you in fear or you casherd , then a Beggar would you die Then meets he with a dainty Dame , a Courtier I do think , Who had a gown most rich to see beset with many a pink , Who spying of this Beggerman , thou smelst quoth she fi fi : Quoth the Beggar aloud , be not to proud , for a Beggar you must die , Then meets he with a Sergeant , and in his hand his Maze , The Beggar then most lustily steps , and comes towards him a pace , What wouldst thou have thou arrant knave , thou comest to hastily , For to tell you this you live amiss , and a Beggar you must die . Then meets he with a Lawyers Clarke , and he tells him boldly thus : Sir you are he ored dims my eye , that is the undoing of us . For when your Master gives a tester : you do his gift deny , But for all your procolle , hell hath your soul and a Beggar you will die . Then meets he with a Usurer , and he tells him to his teeth : That he hordes up store , & amp ; gives nought to the poor , and clads himself with neck be [ e ] fe . But Usurer stay , mark what I say , for in thy cares it'll cry : Thy conscience is large , and lose thy charge : yet a Beggar thou shalt die . Then meets he with a Broacker , and he tells him to his face : That often times he bought stole clothes , was not this a deep disgrace . But though your conscience be ell long , next bargain you do buy : Full well I know , will cross you so , that a Beggar you shall die . The second part . To the same tune . TO Hen meets he with a Farmer , was pulling up his corn Who when he spied this Beggar , he made a show of scorn , Scorn not a man in misery , for you so well as I If heaven should but cross your store , a Beggar sure would die . Then meets he a Promoter , who lives by honest men's falls , But being little to far of to him this Beggar calls : Saying prey leave of your course of life , il'e show you a reason why , Would men live in awe and obey the law , then a Beggar would you die , Then meets he with a horemaster , and he seeks by gentle Queans , For to withdraw this young men mind , from these abhorred [ q ] eans , Oh fly there baits my gentle youth , and live contentively , lest you to late lament your state , and so a beggar die . Then meets he with a Drunkard and tells him of his vice , Oh friend ( quoth he ) leave of in time , and learn to be more wise , This drink confounds your substance , like wash within it does lie , When you have spent your store you can spend-no more then a Beggar you must die . Then meets he with a Gamester great , and intreats him to give over Leave [ nody ] new cut and penicth , especially with a whore , Leave wid ruff tickle me quickly to , lay on and thereto by , Play but a game at ruff or twaine , lest a beggar you do die , To all Estates to all degrees this beggar boldly went , No house where thriftless riot was kept , but he did it frequent , And when he spied a man that loved in the Alehouse for to lie , He'd say my friend thy life amend , lest a Beggar you do die , Thus have you herd this wordles bad corpse , in living lives most rude , And how this beggar boldly does , to all Estates intrude , Let man and woman night and day , pray to the Lord one high : That he would send , we our lives might mend , that we might not beggars die . FINIS . William Hockom . Imprinted at London for E.W. 