Every men condition . Or every Man has his several opinion , Which they do affect as the Welchman his Onion . To the Tune of two Slips . A LL men are inclined , To follow their mind although their courses be bad . Some men will laugh And some men will quaff , and some again look very sad . Other sorts there be , That love flattery , but they are base in my opinion , Your swaggerers will roar , And your knaves run on score , but your Welchman he still loves and Onion . Your citizens fine , Love a cup of neat wine , their wivvs do love good Canary , Your Lawyer he , Well loves a large fee , your Courtyier he loves to be merry : Your Gallants and Knights , For their sports and delights , will spend out their time among women : The sparks of our age , In their drink they will rage , but your Welchman he still loves and Onion . The Merchant's likewise , Though they seem precise , yet they covet more wealth , and more pleasure : By crossing the Sea , Enriched are they , thus still multipled is their treasure So they may get gain , They care not for pain , but they are not of my opinion : Though small be my wealth , I pray still for health , but the Welchman he still loves and Onion . The Tailors loves bred With a bottom of thread : his shears , his needle and thimble : The sawyer his Saw , And the Miser loves Law , the Carpenter he loves his wimble : The Cooper his adds , The children their Dads , but this still is my chief opinion , To be merry and wise , And trust mine own eyes , but the Welchman he still loves and Onion . The Thrasher his flail The Spa [ nigh ] l his [ ? ] lle , the Carman his whip and his whistle : The B [ u ] tcher his dog , the Swineherd his hog , the Boar delights for to bristle : the Rorer his wench , The Lecher the French , pray let them both pack with a winion : For I love my health , As the Farmer loves wealth , or the Welchman a piece of and Onion . The second part . To the same tune . Y Our pure-seeming man Will deceive if he can , Your Papist deals all in crosses , The Thief lives by stealth On other men's wealth the Traveller endures great losses . But time gives free scope For the thief to have a rope this fit for him in my opinion , If you will shun shame Then love your own fame , as a Welchman his Lake or his Onion . The Mercer loves Cloves , The Dutchwoman stoves , [ the ] Grocer's a man of some reason : The farmer loves [ corn ] e , And the hunstman his horn , the Unthrift does spend out of season : The Weaver his Loom , The Miller his thumb , thus all are of several opinion , Give me good old Sherry I love to be merry , as well as the Welchman his Onion . The Usurer Gold , Idle Knaves endure cold , because that they will not labour , The Fiddler he fiddle , The Jester his riddle the Piper his pipe and his tabour , The Cobbler his last , The Bowler his cast , thus men are of several opinion , The fish loves the pool , And my Lady her fool , But the Welchman , etc The Smith loves his Hammer , And the Captain his Drummer , The Soulder loves a good blade , The Pedlar his pack , And the Collyer his Sack , and the Horse-courser he loves a Jade . The Brazier his kettle , The Bell-sounder mettle addicted to several opinions , The Broom-man loves Broom , And the Pope he loves Room , but the Welchman , etc The Dutchman loves Beer , And the Bearward his Bear , the Porter his frock and his Basket , My Mamesey nose Host Loves a pot and a toste , and the Laundress she loves a neat F [ la ] sket , The hangman the Gallows , and all creating fellows , deserveth in my opinion To end in that place , That lives by disgrace , But the Welchman he still loves and Onion . Let no body grudge , Nor ill of me judge because I have pend this same ditty . But let every man , These verses well scan , and if he please say they are pretty . But yet howsoever I do not endeavour to please your base ones or coy minions : But to end my tale , I love good strong Ale as well as the Welchman loves Onions . Printed for Fr. Coules , L . I.Morg . Every men condition . Or every Man has his several opinion , Which they do affect as the Welchman his Onion . To the Tune of two Slips . A LL men are inclined , To follow their mind although their courses be bad . Some men will laugh And some men will quaff , and some again look very sad . Other sorts there be , That love flattery , but they are base in my opinion , Your swaggerers will roar , And your knaves run on score , but your Welchman he still loves and Onion . Your citizens fine , Love a cup of neat wine , their wivvs do love good Canary , Your Lawyer he , Well loves a large fee , your Courtyier he loves to be merry : Your Gallants and Knights , For their sports and delights , will spend out their time among women : The sparks of our age , In their drink they will rage , but your Welchman he still loves and Onion . The Merchant's likewise , Though they seem precise , yet they covet more wealth , and more pleasure : By crossing the Sea , Enriched are they , thus still multipled is their treasure So they may get gain , They care not for pain , but they are not of my opinion : Though small be my wealth , I pray still for health , but the Welchman he still loves and Onion . The Tailors loves bred With a bottom of thread : his shears , his needle and thimble : The sawyer his Saw , And the Miser loves Law , the Carpenter he loves his wimble : The Cooper his adds , The children their Dads , but this still is my chief opinion , To be merry and wise , And trust mine own eyes , but the Welchman he still loves and Onion . The Thrasher his flail The Spa [ nigh ] l his [ ? ] lle , the Carman his whip and his whistle : The B [ u ] tcher his dog , the Swineherd his hog , the Boar delights for to bristle : the Rorer his wench , The Lecher the French , pray let them both pack with a winion : For I love my health , As the Farmer loves wealth , or the Welchman a piece of and Onion . The second part . To the same tune . Y Our pure-seeming man Will deceive if he can , Your Papist deals all in crosses , The Thief lives by stealth On other men's wealth the Traveller endures great losses . But time gives free scope For the thief to have a rope this fit for him in my opinion , If you will shun shame Then love your own fame , as a Welchman his Lake or his Onion . The Mercer loves Cloves , The Dutchwoman stoves , [ the ] Grocer's a man of some reason : The farmer loves [ corn ] e , And the hunstman his horn , the Unthrift does spend out of season : The Weaver his Loom , The Miller his thumb , thus all are of several opinion , Give me good old Sherry I love to be merry , as well as the Welchman his Onion . The Usurer Gold , Idle Knaves endure cold , because that they will not labour , The Fiddler he fiddle , The Jester his riddle the Piper his pipe and his tabour , The Cobbler his last , The Bowler his cast , thus men are of several opinion , The fish loves the pool , And my Lady her fool , But the Welchman , etc The Smith loves his Hammer , And the Captain his Drummer , The Soulder loves a good blade , The Pedlar his pack , And the Collyer his Sack , and the Horse-courser he loves a Jade . The Brazier his kettle , The Bell-sounder mettle addicted to several opinions , The Broom-man loves Broom , And the Pope he loves Room , but the Welchman , etc The Dutchman loves Beer , And the Bearward his Bear , the Porter his frock and his Basket , My Mamesey nose Host Loves a pot and a toste , and the Laundress she loves a neat F [ la ] sket , The hangman the Gallows , and all creating fellows , deserveth in my opinion To end in that place , That lives by disgrace , But the Welchman he still loves and Onion . Let no body grudge , Nor ill of me judge because I have pend this same ditty . But let every man , These verses well scan , and if he please say they are pretty . But yet howsoever I do not endeavour to please your base ones or coy minions : But to end my tale , I love good strong Ale as well as the Welchman loves Onions . Printed for Fr. Coules , L . I.Morg . 