The merry Forester . Young men and maids , in Country or in City , I crave your aides with me to tune this Ditty , Both new , and true it is , no harm in this is , But is composed of the word called , kisses . Yet meant by none abroad loves to be gadding , It goes unto the tune of : With a fadding . O F late I chanced to be where I did view and object worth delighting , Down in a valley I did espy dame Venus with Adonis fighting for kisses . And looking about a little aside , down in a Thicket adorned with Roses , AEneas with Queen Dido I spied , where they did take their sweet reposes , with kisses . Thought I , this sex is wondrous kind , when Kings will venture their chiefest treasure , If they can but find one , unto their mind , who can content them with the sweet pleasure of kisses . For Philip Mace [ worser ] onian King had not been by Paus [ enna ] killed , Had not Olympa thought of a thing , that he fair Cleopatra willed to kiss him . Nor lovely Hero had not come to that apparent eminent danger , If with desire she had not shown the Hellispont to her Leander , for kisses . The Merchant for his Mistress sake does life & amp ; limbs , and goods adventure , If she on his love and labours approve , he doubtless will in dangers enter for kisses . Of gold as dross he but esteems to gain her love and true affection , For unto him , a matchless Jem and Jewel rare , his hearts election for kissing . The neat and handsome Servingman a clownish mind he scorns to carry , His master dead , his mistress than gives her consent with him to marry for kissing . The Country Swain , that goes to the plow at wedings thinks himself much graced , If his sweetheart will take his part to dance with him , or be embraced with kissing . What Duke , what Earl , what Lord , what Knight , in all this Land , but loves to be doing , If they but meet with beauty's are bright , but will begin there amorous wooing , with kissing ? The second part , to the same tune . I Know no Country Gentleman , that hath but any good fashion or breeding , But he will endeavour , or do what he can , to have a smug Lass thats of his own feeding , for kissing . Thus kissing is and ancient thing , and gives content to many a Madam In loving sort , City or Country : Eve was the first beloved of Adam , for kissing . When friends with one another meet , it is a courtesy thats common , In house , in field , or in the street , most lovingly to salute a woman with kissing . The Court thats called the Commissary , does punish with penance that same pleasure , And yet in their wooing , youngmen will be doing , still kindness showing their own sweethearts with kisses . Kissing it gives no offence , nor danger brings to one or other : For in the virtuous sects that are , the sister will salute the brother with kissing . When discontent betwixt man and wife , does cause them one fallen out with another , The only means to make them friends , and silently their grieves to smoother , is kissing . The hardy Soldier stout and strong , that honour gains himself by fighting , In time of peace his joys increase , he in his mistress takes delight in , for kissing . The beauteous girls that portions lack , oft times rich husbands kind and loving , Do them respect and still affect , their beauty's are so bright and moving in kissing . The aged man of three-score years , oft takes to wife a girl of twenty , The cause whereof you may suppose , which make him take this girl so dainty , is kissing . And widow's many times do dote , respecting not a pin their treasure , But marry with Lads have never a groat , because in them they find sweet pleasure , in kissing . Thus kissing is and ancient thing , and gives content to many a Madam , Many delightful thing it does bring . Eve was the first beloved of Adam for kissing . Printed at London for H. Gosson . By Robert Guy Finis . The merry Forester . Young men and maids , in Country or in City , I crave your aides with me to tune this Ditty , Both new , and true it is , no harm in this is , But is composed of the word called , kisses . Yet meant by none abroad loves to be gadding , It goes unto the tune of : With a fadding . O F late I chanced to be where I did view and object worth delighting , Down in a valley I did espy dame Venus with Adonis fighting for kisses . And looking about a little aside , down in a Thicket adorned with Roses , AEneas with Queen Dido I spied , where they did take their sweet reposes , with kisses . Thought I , this sex is wondrous kind , when Kings will venture their chiefest treasure , If they can but find one , unto their mind , who can content them with the sweet pleasure of kisses . For Philip Mace [ worser ] onian King had not been by Paus [ enna ] killed , Had not Olympa thought of a thing , that he fair Cleopatra willed to kiss him . Nor lovely Hero had not come to that apparent eminent danger , If with desire she had not shown the Hellispont to her Leander , for kisses . The Merchant for his Mistress sake does life & amp ; limbs , and goods adventure , If she on his love and labours approve , he doubtless will in dangers enter for kisses . Of gold as dross he but esteems to gain her love and true affection , For unto him , a matchless Jem and Jewel rare , his hearts election for kissing . The neat and handsome Servingman a clownish mind he scorns to carry , His master dead , his mistress than gives her consent with him to marry for kissing . The Country Swain , that goes to the plow at wedings thinks himself much graced , If his sweetheart will take his part to dance with him , or be embraced with kissing . What Duke , what Earl , what Lord , what Knight , in all this Land , but loves to be doing , If they but meet with beauty's are bright , but will begin there amorous wooing , with kissing ? The second part , to the same tune . I Know no Country Gentleman , that hath but any good fashion or breeding , But he will endeavour , or do what he can , to have a smug Lass thats of his own feeding , for kissing . Thus kissing is and ancient thing , and gives content to many a Madam In loving sort , City or Country : Eve was the first beloved of Adam , for kissing . When friends with one another meet , it is a courtesy thats common , In house , in field , or in the street , most lovingly to salute a woman with kissing . The Court thats called the Commissary , does punish with penance that same pleasure , And yet in their wooing , youngmen will be doing , still kindness showing their own sweethearts with kisses . Kissing it gives no offence , nor danger brings to one or other : For in the virtuous sects that are , the sister will salute the brother with kissing . When discontent betwixt man and wife , does cause them one fallen out with another , The only means to make them friends , and silently their grieves to smoother , is kissing . The hardy Soldier stout and strong , that honour gains himself by fighting , In time of peace his joys increase , he in his mistress takes delight in , for kissing . The beauteous girls that portions lack , oft times rich husbands kind and loving , Do them respect and still affect , their beauty's are so bright and moving in kissing . The aged man of three-score years , oft takes to wife a girl of twenty , The cause whereof you may suppose , which make him take this girl so dainty , is kissing . And widow's many times do dote , respecting not a pin their treasure , But marry with Lads have never a groat , because in them they find sweet pleasure , in kissing . Thus kissing is and ancient thing , and gives content to many a Madam , Many delightful thing it does bring . Eve was the first beloved of Adam for kissing . Printed at London for H. Gosson . By Robert Guy Finis . 