A new Song of a Young men opinion , of the diffe - rence between good and bad Women . To a pleasant new tune , S Hall I wrestling in despair , Die because a woman's fair , Shall my cheeks look rale with care , Cause another's rosy are : Be she fairer then the day . Or the flowery meads in May : If she think not well of me , What care I how fair she be . Shall my foolish heart be pinde , Be cause I see a Woman kind , Or a well disposed nature , Joined with a comely feature , Be she meeker kinder then , The Turtle Dove or pelican : If she be not such to me , What care I how kind she be , Shall a woman's goodness move , Me to perish for her love , Or her worthy merits known , Make me quite forget mine own , Be she with that goodness blessed , As may merit name of best , If she be not such to me , What care I how good she be , Be she good or kind or fair , I will never more despair , If she love me this believe , I will die ere she shall grieve , If she slight me when I woe , I will scorn and let her go . If she be not fit for me , What care I for whom she be . Shall a Woman sweet of voice , Make my foolish heart rejoice : Or the pleasures of her tongue Be the means to do me wrong : If she had the sweets of mind , Above the pitch of women kind . If she be not so to me , What care I how sweet she be . Shall a Woman truly wise Draw amazement from mine eyes , Wondering that from such a Creature Wisdom thus should come by nature And comprehend the best of things That from the well of wisdom springs : If she be not such to me , What care I how wise she be . Shall Cupid set my heart on fire , To see a woman's chaste desire , And no found persuasions move , A change unto her maiden love , With purity of virtue graced , To make her more in living chaste : Yet if she be not such to me , What care I how chaste she be . Shall all the sweets that do belong , Unto a beauty fair and young , Upon a woman's forehead shine , To make a Creature most divine , when on her cheeks the youthful blood , In prime of May begins to bud , Yet if she not such to me , What care I how young she be . Then if she be young or chaste , Or with the best of Women placed , And of my love will not think strange No life shall be ere I will change : But if regardless I her find . Farewell false love I'll change my mind Then is she not so fit for me , As I desire my love should be . FINIS . The second part of the Young men Opinion . To the same tune S Hall I cast affection down , Because I see a Woman brown : Shall beauty's changeling kill desire , Or loathing quench out fancies fire . Be she brown or black or foul ' Or fronted like a broad eyed Owl , Yet if she be not such to me , What care I how foul she be . Shall my heart with sorrow burst , Because I see a Woman cursed : Or shall I grieve when I behold , The picture of a perfect scold : Be her tongue so truly evil That well might tire the very Devil : Yet if she be not such to me , What care I how cursed she be . Shall a Woman's badness make , Me leave true loving for her sake , Yet cross a Woman of her will , Her best of good is worse then ill , Best or worst what ere befall , Bad is good where none at all . Yet if she be not such to me , What care I how bad she be . Shall I of my life be weary , To see a foolish woman merry , Or shall I think my self unfit , To speak to one that hath no wit , This Maxem oft hath passed in Scholes Our greatest plagues are women fools Yet if they be not such to me , What care I what fools they be . Shall a Woman's proud attire , Inveigle me with found desire : Or shall this strange devised shape , Transform me to a wondering Ape , Be she of the proudest fashion On every limb a several nation . Yet if she be not such to me , What care I how proud she be . Shall a Woman's tempting smile , Accuse her for a Crokadile : Or shall I trust a wantons eyes , That most dissembles when she cries , Be Women made of evil holy , To draw us men to wanton folly , Yet if they be not such to me , What care I how ill they be . Shall a Woman that is old , Freeze my fancy up with cold , Shall old desires with pleasures met , Within a coffin and a sheet : Shall doting age on beauty gaze , When youth hath spent her brightest blaze Yet if she dote not thus on me , What care I how old she be . Shall Women all affecting features , Make me judge them Angel Creatures Shall I think them come from Heaven , To be and earthly blessing given , Be good or bad or what you please , The less we need them most at ease . Be what they will if not for me . I care not then what Women be . FINIS . Printed at London by W . I.A new Song of a Young men opinion , of the diffe - rence between good and bad Women . To a pleasant new tune , S Hall I wrestling in despair , Die because a woman's fair , Shall my cheeks look rale with care , Cause another's rosy are : Be she fairer then the day . Or the flowery meads in May : If she think not well of me , What care I how fair she be . Shall my foolish heart be pinde , Be cause I see a Woman kind , Or a well disposed nature , Joined with a comely feature , Be she meeker kinder then , The Turtle Dove or pelican : If she be not such to me , What care I how kind she be , Shall a woman's goodness move , Me to perish for her love , Or her worthy merits known , Make me quite forget mine own , Be she with that goodness blessed , As may merit name of best , If she be not such to me , What care I how good she be , Be she good or kind or fair , I will never more despair , If she love me this believe , I will die ere she shall grieve , If she slight me when I woe , I will scorn and let her go . If she be not fit for me , What care I for whom she be . Shall a Woman sweet of voice , Make my foolish heart rejoice : Or the pleasures of her tongue Be the means to do me wrong : If she had the sweets of mind , Above the pitch of women kind . If she be not so to me , What care I how sweet she be . Shall a Woman truly wise Draw amazement from mine eyes , Wondering that from such a Creature Wisdom thus should come by nature And comprehend the best of things That from the well of wisdom springs : If she be not such to me , What care I how wise she be . Shall Cupid set my heart on fire , To see a woman's chaste desire , And no found persuasions move , A change unto her maiden love , With purity of virtue graced , To make her more in living chaste : Yet if she be not such to me , What care I how chaste she be . Shall all the sweets that do belong , Unto a beauty fair and young , Upon a woman's forehead shine , To make a Creature most divine , when on her cheeks the youthful blood , In prime of May begins to bud , Yet if she not such to me , What care I how young she be . Then if she be young or chaste , Or with the best of Women placed , And of my love will not think strange No life shall be ere I will change : But if regardless I her find . Farewell false love I'll change my mind Then is she not so fit for me , As I desire my love should be . FINIS . The second part of the Young men Opinion . To the same tune S Hall I cast affection down , Because I see a Woman brown : Shall beauty's changeling kill desire , Or loathing quench out fancies fire . Be she brown or black or foul ' Or fronted like a broad eyed Owl , Yet if she be not such to me , What care I how foul she be . Shall my heart with sorrow burst , Because I see a Woman cursed : Or shall I grieve when I behold , The picture of a perfect scold : Be her tongue so truly evil That well might tire the very Devil : Yet if she be not such to me , What care I how cursed she be . Shall a Woman's badness make , Me leave true loving for her sake , Yet cross a Woman of her will , Her best of good is worse then ill , Best or worst what ere befall , Bad is good where none at all . Yet if she be not such to me , What care I how bad she be . Shall I of my life be weary , To see a foolish woman merry , Or shall I think my self unfit , To speak to one that hath no wit , This Maxem oft hath passed in Scholes Our greatest plagues are women fools Yet if they be not such to me , What care I what fools they be . Shall a Woman's proud attire , Inveigle me with found desire : Or shall this strange devised shape , Transform me to a wondering Ape , Be she of the proudest fashion On every limb a several nation . Yet if she be not such to me , What care I how proud she be . Shall a Woman's tempting smile , Accuse her for a Crokadile : Or shall I trust a wantons eyes , That most dissembles when she cries , Be Women made of evil holy , To draw us men to wanton folly , Yet if they be not such to me , What care I how ill they be . Shall a Woman that is old , Freeze my fancy up with cold , Shall old desires with pleasures met , Within a coffin and a sheet : Shall doting age on beauty gaze , When youth hath spent her brightest blaze Yet if she dote not thus on me , What care I how old she be . Shall Women all affecting features , Make me judge them Angel Creatures Shall I think them come from Heaven , To be and earthly blessing given , Be good or bad or what you please , The less we need them most at ease . Be what they will if not for me . I care not then what Women be . FINIS . Printed at London by W.I. 