Frauncis new Jig , between Frauncis a Gentleman , and Richard a Farmer . To the tune of Walsingham . Besse . A S I went to Walsingham , to the shrine with speed , Met I with a jolly Palmer , in a Pilgrim's weed . Now God you save you jolly Palmer . Fran. Welcome Lady gay , Oft have I sued to thee for love . B. Oft have I said you nay . F. My love is fixed . B . And so is mine , but not on you : For to my husband while I live , I will ever be true . F . I'll give thee gold and rich array . B . Which I shall buy too deer . F . Nought shalt thou want : then say not nay . B. Nought would you make me I fear . What though you be a Gentleman , and have lands great store ? I will be chaste doe what you can , though I live never so poor . F . Thy beauty rare hath wounded me , and pierced my heart . B. Your foolish love does trouble me , pray you Sir depart . F. Then tell me sweet wilt thou consent unto my desire : B. And if I should , then tell me sir , what is it you require ? F . For to enjoy thee as my love . B . Sir you have a wife : Therefore let your suit have and end . F. First will I loose my life . All I have thou shalt command . B. Then my love you have . F. Your meaning I well understand . B. I yield to what you crave . F . But tell me sweet when shall I enjoy my hearts delight . B. I prithee sweet heart be not coy , even soon at night . My husband is rid ten miles from home , money to receive : In the evening see you come . F. Till then I take my leave . Exit : B. Thus have I rid my hands full well of my amorous love , And my sweet husband will I tell , how he does me move . Enter Richard Besses husband . To the tune of the Jewish dance . Rich. Heigh down a down , heigh down , a down a down , There is never a lusty Farmer , in all our town : That hath more cause , to led a merry life , Then I that am married to and honest faithful wife . B. I thank you gentle husband , you praise me to my face . R. I cry thee mercy , Bessee , I knew thee not in place . B. Believe me gentle husband , if you knew as much as I , The words that you have spoken , you quickly would deny : For since you went from home , A suitor I have had , Who is so far in love with me , that he is almost mad . Heel give me gold and silver store , and money for to spend , And I have promised him therefore , to be his loving friend . R. Believe me , gentle wife , but this makes me to frown , There is no gentleman nor knight , nor Lord of high renown : That shall enjoy thy love , girl , though he were never so good : Before he wrong my Bessee so , I'll spend on him my blood . And therefore tell me who it is that does desire thy love . B. Our neighbour master Francis , that often did me move . To whom I gave consent , his mind for to fulfil , And promised him this night , that he should have his will : Nay do not frown , good Dickie , but hear me speak my mind : For thou shalt see I'll warrant thee , I'll use him in his kind . For unto thee I will be true , so long as I do live , I'll never change thee for a new , nor once my mind so give . Go you to mistress Frauncis , and this to her declare : And will her with all speed , to my house to repair : Where she and isle devise some pretty knavish wile : For I have laid the plot , her husband to beguile . Make hast I pray and tarry not , for long he will not stay . R. Fear not , isle tell her such a tale , shall make her come away . B. Now Besse bethink thee , what thou hast to doe . Thy lover will come presently , and hardly will he woo : I will teach my Gentleman , a trick that he may know , I am too crafty and too wise , to be overreached so : But here he comes now : not a word but fallen to work again . she sows F. How now sweetheart , at work so hard ? B. I sir , I must take pains . F. But say , my lovely sweating , thy promise wilt thou keep ? Shall I enjoy thy love , this night with me to sleep ? B. My husband rid from home , here safely may you stay . F. And I have made my wife believe I rid another way . B. Go in good sir , what ere betide , this night and lodge with me . F. The happiest night that ever I had , thy friend still will I be . Enter Mistress Frauncis with Richard . To the tune of Bugle Boe . Imprinted at London for J. W. The Second part of Attowels new Jig . To the tune of as I went to Walsingham . W I Thank you neighbour Richard , for bringing me this news : R. Nay , thank my wife that loves me so , and will not you abuse . W. But see whereas she stands , and waits our return . R. You must go cool your husbands heat , that so in love does burn . B. Now Dickie welcome home , and Mistress welcome hither : Grieve not although you find your husband and I together . For you shall have your right , nor will I wrong you so : Then change apparel with me straight , and unto him do go . W. For this your kind goodwill , a thousand thanks I give : And make account I will requite this kindness , if I live . B. I hope it shall not need , Dick will not serve me so : I know he loves me not so ill , a ranging for to go . R. No faith , my lovely Besse , first will I loose my life : Before I'll break my wedlock bonds , or seek to wrong my wife . Now thinks good Master Frauncis , he hath thee in his bed : And makes account he is grafting of horns upon my head . But softly stand aside , now shall we know his mind , And how he would have used thee , if thou hadst been so kind . Enter Master Francis with his own wife , having a mask before her face , supposing her to be Besse . To the tune of go from my window . F. Farewell my joy and hearts delight , till next we meet again : Thy kindness to requite , for lodging me all night , heeres ten pound for thy pain : And more to show my love to thee , wear this ring for my sake . W. Without your gold or fee you shall have more of me . F. No doubt of that I make . W. Then let your love continue still . F. It shall till life does end . W. Your wife I greatly fear . F. for her thou needest not care so I remain thy friend . W. But yowl suspect me without cause , that I am false to you : And then yowl cast me off , and make me but a scoff , since that I prove untrue . F. Then never trust man for my sake , if I prove so unkind : So often have you sworn , sir , since that you were born , and soon have change your mind . Nor wife nor life , nor goods nor lands , shall make me leave my love , Nor any worldly treasure make me forgo my pleasure , nor once my mind remove . W. But soft a while , who is yonder ? do you see my husband ? out alas . F. And yonder is my wife , now shall we have alife how comes this to pass ? R. Come hither gentle Besse I charge thee do confess what makes Master Francis here . B. Good husband pardon me , I'll tell the troth to thee . R. Then speak and do not fear . F. Nay , neighbour Richard hark to me , I'll tell the troth to you . W. Nay tell it unto me , good sir , that I may see , what you have here to do . But you can make no scuse to colour this abuse , this wrong is too too great . R. Good sir I take great scorn you should proffer me the horn W. Now must I cool this heat . F. Nay neighbour Richard be content , thou hast no wrong at all : Thy wife hath done thee right , and pleasurde me this night . F. This frets me to the gall . Good wife forgive me this offence , I do repent mine ill . W. I thank you with mine heart , for playing this kind part , though soar against your will . Nay gentle husband frown not so , for you have made amends : I think it is good gain , to have ten pound for my pain : then let us both be friends . F. Ashamed I am and know not what to say , good wife forgive this crime : Alas I do repent . W. Tut I could be content , to be served so many a time . F. Good neighbour Richard be content , isle woo thy wife no more : I have enough of this . W. Then all forgiven is , I thank thee Dick therefore . And to thy wife isle give this gold , I hope yowl not say no : Since I have had the pleasure , let her enjoy the treasure . F. Good wife let it be so . B. I thank you gentle Mistress . R. Faith & amp ; so do I . sir , learn your own wife to know : And shoot not in the dark , for fear you miss the mark . B. He hath paid for this I trow . All women learn of me . F. All men by me take heed how you a woman trust . W. Nay women trust no men . F. And if they do : how then ? W. Ther's few of them prove just . Farewell neighbour Richard , Frauncis new Jig , between Frauncis a Gentleman , and Richard a Farmer . To the tune of Walsingham . Besse . A S I went to Walsingham , to the shrine with speed , Met I with a jolly Palmer , in a Pilgrim's weed . Now God you save you jolly Palmer . Fran. Welcome Lady gay , Oft have I sued to thee for love . B. Oft have I said you nay . F. My love is fixed . B . And so is mine , but not on you : For to my husband while I live , I will ever be true . F . I'll give thee gold and rich array . B . Which I shall buy too deer . F . Nought shalt thou want : then say not nay . B. Nought would you make me I fear . What though you be a Gentleman , and have lands great store ? I will be chaste doe what you can , though I live never so poor . F . Thy beauty rare hath wounded me , and pierced my heart . B. Your foolish love does trouble me , pray you Sir depart . F. Then tell me sweet wilt thou consent unto my desire : B. And if I should , then tell me sir , what is it you require ? F . For to enjoy thee as my love . B . Sir you have a wife : Therefore let your suit have and end . F. First will I loose my life . All I have thou shalt command . B. Then my love you have . F. Your meaning I well understand . B. I yield to what you crave . F . But tell me sweet when shall I enjoy my hearts delight . B. I prithee sweet heart be not coy , even soon at night . My husband is rid ten miles from home , money to receive : In the evening see you come . F. Till then I take my leave . Exit : B. Thus have I rid my hands full well of my amorous love , And my sweet husband will I tell , how he does me move . Enter Richard Besses husband . To the tune of the Jewish dance . Rich. Heigh down a down , heigh down , a down a down , There is never a lusty Farmer , in all our town : That hath more cause , to led a merry life , Then I that am married to and honest faithful wife . B. I thank you gentle husband , you praise me to my face . R. I cry thee mercy , Bessee , I knew thee not in place . B. Believe me gentle husband , if you knew as much as I , The words that you have spoken , you quickly would deny : For since you went from home , A suitor I have had , Who is so far in love with me , that he is almost mad . Heel give me gold and silver store , and money for to spend , And I have promised him therefore , to be his loving friend . R. Believe me , gentle wife , but this makes me to frown , There is no gentleman nor knight , nor Lord of high renown : That shall enjoy thy love , girl , though he were never so good : Before he wrong my Bessee so , I'll spend on him my blood . And therefore tell me who it is that does desire thy love . B. Our neighbour master Francis , that often did me move . To whom I gave consent , his mind for to fulfil , And promised him this night , that he should have his will : Nay do not frown , good Dickie , but hear me speak my mind : For thou shalt see I'll warrant thee , I'll use him in his kind . For unto thee I will be true , so long as I do live , I'll never change thee for a new , nor once my mind so give . Go you to mistress Frauncis , and this to her declare : And will her with all speed , to my house to repair : Where she and isle devise some pretty knavish wile : For I have laid the plot , her husband to beguile . Make hast I pray and tarry not , for long he will not stay . R. Fear not , isle tell her such a tale , shall make her come away . B. Now Besse bethink thee , what thou hast to doe . Thy lover will come presently , and hardly will he woo : I will teach my Gentleman , a trick that he may know , I am too crafty and too wise , to be overreached so : But here he comes now : not a word but fallen to work again . she sows F. How now sweetheart , at work so hard ? B. I sir , I must take pains . F. But say , my lovely sweating , thy promise wilt thou keep ? Shall I enjoy thy love , this night with me to sleep ? B. My husband rid from home , here safely may you stay . F. And I have made my wife believe I rid another way . B. Go in good sir , what ere betide , this night and lodge with me . F. The happiest night that ever I had , thy friend still will I be . Enter Mistress Frauncis with Richard . To the tune of Bugle Boe . Imprinted at London for J. W. The Second part of Attowels new Jig . To the tune of as I went to Walsingham . W I Thank you neighbour Richard , for bringing me this news : R. Nay , thank my wife that loves me so , and will not you abuse . W. But see whereas she stands , and waits our return . R. You must go cool your husbands heat , that so in love does burn . B. Now Dickie welcome home , and Mistress welcome hither : Grieve not although you find your husband and I together . For you shall have your right , nor will I wrong you so : Then change apparel with me straight , and unto him do go . W. For this your kind goodwill , a thousand thanks I give : And make account I will requite this kindness , if I live . B. I hope it shall not need , Dick will not serve me so : I know he loves me not so ill , a ranging for to go . R. No faith , my lovely Besse , first will I loose my life : Before I'll break my wedlock bonds , or seek to wrong my wife . Now thinks good Master Frauncis , he hath thee in his bed : And makes account he is grafting of horns upon my head . But softly stand aside , now shall we know his mind , And how he would have used thee , if thou hadst been so kind . Enter Master Francis with his own wife , having a mask before her face , supposing her to be Besse . To the tune of go from my window . F. Farewell my joy and hearts delight , till next we meet again : Thy kindness to requite , for lodging me all night , heeres ten pound for thy pain : And more to show my love to thee , wear this ring for my sake . W. Without your gold or fee you shall have more of me . F. No doubt of that I make . W. Then let your love continue still . F. It shall till life does end . W. Your wife I greatly fear . F. for her thou needest not care so I remain thy friend . W. But yowl suspect me without cause , that I am false to you : And then yowl cast me off , and make me but a scoff , since that I prove untrue . F. Then never trust man for my sake , if I prove so unkind : So often have you sworn , sir , since that you were born , and soon have change your mind . Nor wife nor life , nor goods nor lands , shall make me leave my love , Nor any worldly treasure make me forgo my pleasure , nor once my mind remove . W. But soft a while , who is yonder ? do you see my husband ? out alas . F. And yonder is my wife , now shall we have alife how comes this to pass ? R. Come hither gentle Besse I charge thee do confess what makes Master Francis here . B. Good husband pardon me , I'll tell the troth to thee . R. Then speak and do not fear . F. Nay , neighbour Richard hark to me , I'll tell the troth to you . W. Nay tell it unto me , good sir , that I may see , what you have here to do . But you can make no scuse to colour this abuse , this wrong is too too great . R. Good sir I take great scorn you should proffer me the horn W. Now must I cool this heat . F. Nay neighbour Richard be content , thou hast no wrong at all : Thy wife hath done thee right , and pleasurde me this night . F. This frets me to the gall . Good wife forgive me this offence , I do repent mine ill . W. I thank you with mine heart , for playing this kind part , though soar against your will . Nay gentle husband frown not so , for you have made amends : I think it is good gain , to have ten pound for my pain : then let us both be friends . F. Ashamed I am and know not what to say , good wife forgive this crime : Alas I do repent . W. Tut I could be content , to be served so many a time . F. Good neighbour Richard be content , isle woo thy wife no more : I have enough of this . W. Then all forgiven is , I thank thee Dick therefore . And to thy wife isle give this gold , I hope yowl not say no : Since I have had the pleasure , let her enjoy the treasure . F. Good wife let it be so . B. I thank you gentle Mistress . R. Faith & amp ; so do I . sir , learn your own wife to know : And shoot not in the dark , for fear you miss the mark . B. He hath paid for this I trow . All women learn of me . F. All men by me take heed how you a woman trust . W. Nay women trust no men . F. And if they do : how then ? W. Ther's few of them prove just . Farewell neighbour Richard , farewell honest Besse I hope we are all friends . W. And if you stay at home , and use not thus to room here all our quarrel ends . FINIS . George Attowell : At London Printed for J . W.farewell honest Besse I hope we are all friends . W. And if you stay at home , and use not thus to room here all our quarrel ends . FINIS . George Attowell : At London Printed for J.W. 