The Pedlar opening of his Pack , To know of Maids what this they lack To the tune of , Last Christmas 'twas my chance , W Ho is it will repair , or come and see my packet : Where there's store of Ware , If any of you lack it , view the Fair . Fair Maidens come and see , if here be ought will please you : And if we can agree , I'll give you just your due , or never trust me . And if that you do please to see my Farthel open , My burden for to ease , I hope that we shall Copen then straight ways . From Turky , France and Spaine , do come my chiefest Treasure , Which does cost much pain , I fell by weight and measure , for small gain . Farfetched Indian ware and China hard to enter : Which to get is rare , costs many lives to venture , we never care . From Venice City comes great store of rare Complexion , From western Isles your Gums to keep Teeth from infection , and from Rheums . Here is a water rare , will make a wench that's fiftie , For to look more fair then one that wants of twenty , stiled from the Air . A Periwig to wear , or Cover for bore places : If you have lost your hear , full many one it graces : this not deer . Heeres Poking sticks of steel , and Crystal Looking Glasses : Heres globes that round will wheel to see each one that passes , Dildo Dill. Pomado for your Lips , to make them soft and ruddy : And sweet as Cipres chops , a lustre like a Ruby soon it gets . Heres Bracelets for your arm [ e ] of Coral , or of Amber : A Powder that will Charm or bring one to your Chambe [ r ] this no harm . A water can restore a Maiden head that's vanished You'll say she is no whore , although that it were banished long before . A pair of Body [ ? ] , to make you fine and slender : A Buske as black as Jeat , to keep your bellies under that are great . And if you please to wear , a Bodkin of pure Silver : To thrust into your hair , it comforts the Liver without fear . Rebates , Tires , and Rings , Scissors and a Thimble : And many pretty things , to keep your fingers nimble , weaving strings . TO [ he sec ] and part . S Ilkes of any hew , and Spanish needles plenty : Thread both white and blue , like me not one amongst twenty , can fit you . Balls of Camphyre made , to keep your face from pimples : And Unguent that's allayed , you never shall have wrinkles , if a Maid . Sponges for your face , or Soap that came from Turkey : Your favour it will grace , if that you be not dirty , in no place . Rich embroidered Gloves , to draw upon your white hand : Or to give your Loves , a Ruff or falling band , my pretty Doves . Scarves that came from Cales , or points and Laces lack you : Inckle made in Wales , I finely can beknacke you : tell no tales . Bone lace who will buy , that came from Flaunders lately : Pray do not think I lie , but I will serve you straightly , by and by . Pinnes both white and read , of all sorts and all sizes : Plumbs and Ginger bred , my Wares of diverse prizes , Books to read . Venice Glasses fine , were newly made in London : To drink your Beer or Wine , come now my Pack's undone , speak betime . Lawn and Cambricke pure , as good as ever was worn : Like iron it will dure , until that it be torn , be you sure . Here's many other things , as Jewes trumps , pipes & amp ; Babies : St. Martins Beads and Rings , and other toys for Ladies , knots and strings . All you that want my Ware , approach unto my Standing : Where I will use you fair , without deceit or cunning , to a hair . And as my Ware does prove , so let me take your money : My pretty Turtle Dove , that sweeter is then honey , which is Love . Printed at London by E.A. FINIS . The Pedlar opening of his Pack , To know of Maids what this they lack To the tune of , Last Christmas 'twas my chance , W Ho is it will repair , or come and see my packet : Where there's store of Ware , If any of you lack it , view the Fair . Fair Maidens come and see , if here be ought will please you : And if we can agree , I'll give you just your due , or never trust me . And if that you do please to see my Farthel open , My burden for to ease , I hope that we shall Copen then straight ways . From Turky , France and Spaine , do come my chiefest Treasure , Which does cost much pain , I fell by weight and measure , for small gain . Farfetched Indian ware and China hard to enter : Which to get is rare , costs many lives to venture , we never care . From Venice City comes great store of rare Complexion , From western Isles your Gums to keep Teeth from infection , and from Rheums . Here is a water rare , will make a wench that's fiftie , For to look more fair then one that wants of twenty , stiled from the Air . A Periwig to wear , or Cover for bore places : If you have lost your hear , full many one it graces : this not deer . Heeres Poking sticks of steel , and Crystal Looking Glasses : Heres globes that round will wheel to see each one that passes , Dildo Dill. Pomado for your Lips , to make them soft and ruddy : And sweet as Cipres chops , a lustre like a Ruby soon it gets . Heres Bracelets for your arm [ e ] of Coral , or of Amber : A Powder that will Charm or bring one to your Chambe [ r ] this no harm . A water can restore a Maiden head that's vanished You'll say she is no whore , although that it were banished long before . A pair of Body [ ? ] , to make you fine and slender : A Buske as black as Jeat , to keep your bellies under that are great . And if you please to wear , a Bodkin of pure Silver : To thrust into your hair , it comforts the Liver without fear . Rebates , Tires , and Rings , Scissors and a Thimble : And many pretty things , to keep your fingers nimble , weaving strings . TO [ he sec ] and part . S Ilkes of any hew , and Spanish needles plenty : Thread both white and blue , like me not one amongst twenty , can fit you . Balls of Camphyre made , to keep your face from pimples : And Unguent that's allayed , you never shall have wrinkles , if a Maid . Sponges for your face , or Soap that came from Turkey : Your favour it will grace , if that you be not dirty , in no place . Rich embroidered Gloves , to draw upon your white hand : Or to give your Loves , a Ruff or falling band , my pretty Doves . Scarves that came from Cales , or points and Laces lack you : Inckle made in Wales , I finely can beknacke you : tell no tales . Bone lace who will buy , that came from Flaunders lately : Pray do not think I lie , but I will serve you straightly , by and by . Pinnes both white and read , of all sorts and all sizes : Plumbs and Ginger bred , my Wares of diverse prizes , Books to read . Venice Glasses fine , were newly made in London : To drink your Beer or Wine , come now my Pack's undone , speak betime . Lawn and Cambricke pure , as good as ever was worn : Like iron it will dure , until that it be torn , be you sure . Here's many other things , as Jewes trumps , pipes & amp ; Babies : St. Martins Beads and Rings , and other toys for Ladies , knots and strings . All you that want my Ware , approach unto my Standing : Where I will use you fair , without deceit or cunning , to a hair . And as my Ware does prove , so let me take your money : My pretty Turtle Dove , that sweeter is then honey , which is Love . Printed at London by E.A. FINIS . 