A pleasant new Northern Song , called the two Yorkshire L [ oh ] vers . To a pleasant new Court [ tune , Or , th ] e tu [ ne of ] Willy . W Hen Willy once he stayed : To fetch home a Lamb that strayed under a hill side , a bonny Lass he spied , Of whom he was well apayed . Her cheeks like Cherries growing , Her lips like Rosebuds blowing , her eyes black and clear , as the Sloe upon the breere , Or the worm in the hedge lies glowing . Her waste so small and slender , Her skin so soft and tender , he sighed ; and he said , that she was a fair maid , And his love to her heeed render . The wind did seem to play With her tresses as she lay , betwixt hope and fear , he was in despair , To give her the time of the day . Yet resolved to court this Minion , There stepped in a new opinion : this timorous Clown , thought Phebe had come down , To speak with her loved Endimion . His errand quite forgotten , He leaned to a tree was rotten he swore by the mass , there was never such a Lass , His heart with a shaft was shotten . Then boldly he stepped unto her , His eyes shot affection through her , he cast away fears , and pricking up his ears , Thus Willy began to woo her . Good day ( quoth he ) my honey , Thou dearer to me than money , I'll loose my little Lamb , and gladly give the Dam , To jig with a Lass so bonny . Now list to what I'll tell thee , There's none in shape does excel thee ; so thou wilt wed me , none happier than thee , Nor better day ere befell me . Of Nuts I'll give thee plenty , And read side Apples twenty , my butter I'll lose , to make thee Summer Cheese , And Cream to make Egge-pies dainty . My Lambs new Gowns shall bear thee , No daglocks shall ere come near thee , the Poultry of the Town , shall cackle without down , Ere I'll want a soft bed to cheer thee . My Bagpipes mirth shall make thee , Each morn with a Song I'll wake thee , at night I'll not fail , to tell a merry tale , And make thy sad thoughts forsake thee . The second part . To the same tune . W Hite Lilies shall pave the Closes , Each Brier shall blush with Roses , the grass green and sweet , shall kiss thy tender feet , And the Meadows shall yield thee posies . With shady bowers set over thee , With thousand contents I'll store thee , while by some clear brook , with my little Dog and hook , I'll bring my fine Ewes before thee . While thus he was close set at her , ( Quoth she ) I suspect the matter , for and hours sport , like the false alluring Court , The Country has learned to flatter . Therefore leave off thy wooing , I love not such short doing , and come unto the matter , I love not for to flatter , True affection hates long suing . But if your love will prove steady , Till Hymen had made him ready , then surfeit all night , in a captive Maids delight , Which yet but with air hath fed ye . Quoth he I love none above thee , For chastity I prove thee : as constant I'll prove , as the Mate unto the Dove , Nay , though thou wertenberg dead I'll love thee . And all contents I'll give thee , So that thou wilt live with me , my life and all I'll loose , ere I my Love abuse , And all my rich kith unto me . As Willy thus was talking , The Shepherd's eyes were walking , each leg and each limb , so tricked so trim . Shee thought it no time of balking . Her heart with love was taken , God Cupid did her awaken , and cast a cheerful eye , upon him by and by , To show he was not forsaken . His lips to hers he laid , She never a word gainsaid : thus joining their hands , they tied the Nuptial bans , Which never till death decayed . Such happy joy God send me , When I to wed intend me : and to each faithful Lover where they be one or other , I heartily now commend me . FINIS . London , printed for J . W.A pleasant new Northern Song , called the two Yorkshire L [ oh ] vers . To a pleasant new Court [ tune , Or , th ] e tu [ ne of ] Willy . W Hen Willy once he stayed : To fetch home a Lamb that strayed under a hill side , a bonny Lass he spied , Of whom he was well apayed . Her cheeks like Cherries growing , Her lips like Rosebuds blowing , her eyes black and clear , as the Sloe upon the breere , Or the worm in the hedge lies glowing . Her waste so small and slender , Her skin so soft and tender , he sighed ; and he said , that she was a fair maid , And his love to her heeed render . The wind did seem to play With her tresses as she lay , betwixt hope and fear , he was in despair , To give her the time of the day . Yet resolved to court this Minion , There stepped in a new opinion : this timorous Clown , thought Phebe had come down , To speak with her loved Endimion . His errand quite forgotten , He leaned to a tree was rotten he swore by the mass , there was never such a Lass , His heart with a shaft was shotten . Then boldly he stepped unto her , His eyes shot affection through her , he cast away fears , and pricking up his ears , Thus Willy began to woo her . Good day ( quoth he ) my honey , Thou dearer to me than money , I'll loose my little Lamb , and gladly give the Dam , To jig with a Lass so bonny . Now list to what I'll tell thee , There's none in shape does excel thee ; so thou wilt wed me , none happier than thee , Nor better day ere befell me . Of Nuts I'll give thee plenty , And read side Apples twenty , my butter I'll lose , to make thee Summer Cheese , And Cream to make Egge-pies dainty . My Lambs new Gowns shall bear thee , No daglocks shall ere come near thee , the Poultry of the Town , shall cackle without down , Ere I'll want a soft bed to cheer thee . My Bagpipes mirth shall make thee , Each morn with a Song I'll wake thee , at night I'll not fail , to tell a merry tale , And make thy sad thoughts forsake thee . The second part . To the same tune . W Hite Lilies shall pave the Closes , Each Brier shall blush with Roses , the grass green and sweet , shall kiss thy tender feet , And the Meadows shall yield thee posies . With shady bowers set over thee , With thousand contents I'll store thee , while by some clear brook , with my little Dog and hook , I'll bring my fine Ewes before thee . While thus he was close set at her , ( Quoth she ) I suspect the matter , for and hours sport , like the false alluring Court , The Country has learned to flatter . Therefore leave off thy wooing , I love not such short doing , and come unto the matter , I love not for to flatter , True affection hates long suing . But if your love will prove steady , Till Hymen had made him ready , then surfeit all night , in a captive Maids delight , Which yet but with air hath fed ye . Quoth he I love none above thee , For chastity I prove thee : as constant I'll prove , as the Mate unto the Dove , Nay , though thou wertenberg dead I'll love thee . And all contents I'll give thee , So that thou wilt live with me , my life and all I'll loose , ere I my Love abuse , And all my rich kith unto me . As Willy thus was talking , The Shepherd's eyes were walking , each leg and each limb , so tricked so trim . Shee thought it no time of balking . Her heart with love was taken , God Cupid did her awaken , and cast a cheerful eye , upon him by and by , To show he was not forsaken . His lips to hers he laid , She never a word gainsaid : thus joining their hands , they tied the Nuptial bans , Which never till death decayed . Such happy joy God send me , When I to wed intend me : and to each faithful Lover where they be one or other , I heartily now commend me . FINIS . London , printed for J.W. 