The faithful Lovers resolution , being forsaken of a coy and faythles Dame . To the tune of , My deer and only Love take heed . TO Hough booteles I must needs complain my fate is so extreme , I loved , and was beloved again , yet all was but a dream : For as that love was quickly god , so was as quickly gone , I'll touch no more a flame so hight , I'll rather lie alone , No Creature be she never so fair shall any way beguile My fancy with a feigned tear , nor tempt me with a smile : I'll never think affection sound that is so plainly shown , Nor built on faith before this found , I'll rather lie alone . Should now the little God conspire again t'intrap my mind , Or strive to set my heart on fire ? alas the Boy's to blind : For sithes I'll never venture smiles , nor hazard mirth for moan , Nor yet regard a Woman's wiles , I'll rather lie alone . The blazing Torch is soon burned out , the Diamond light abides , The first her glory hurls about , the next her virtue hides : The Spark if any shall be mine , that else shows light to none , For if to every eye she shine , I'll rather lie alone . No Woman shall deceive my thoughts with colours not in grain , Nor put a Love so slightly wrought into my hands again : I'll pay no more so deer for wit , but live upon mine own , Nor shall affection conquer it , I'll rather lie alone . And now I'll set my heart at rest , in loving , labours lost , Il [ e ] be no more so rarely blessed to be so strangely crossed : The love lost Turtle so will die , the Phenixe is but one , They seek no Mates , no more will I but ever lie alone . The coy Maidens answer . To the same tune . I F that your love was but a dream , what Woman cares for love ? There is no mean if t'is extreme , therefore your suit remove : It boots not for to complain , then pray sir seize your moan ; Desires hight flame augments your pain , you still may lie alone . If beauty in a Woman's face does residence there keep ? She must not in her heart give place to all can feign and weep : But you do say this Women's wiles that causeth Men to moan , When all endue know you do beguil's , and let's not lie alone . If Cupid caught you in his snare , you must endure the pain , And either speak him foul or fair , your liberty to gain ; For sith , or sob , I will not love , my beauty is mine own , And other man my heart must prove , and you must lie alone . The burning Taper spends itself for to give others light : The Diamond is esteemed for wealth , and in the dark shows bright : But like the Torch I'll never be , I'll first be like the Stone , And never will yield in love to thee , But rather lie alone . If that I showed my self once kind , and partly did you love , May I not therefore change my mind [ e ] , and otherwise remove , You should have held me faster sure , and not have let me gone , I'll come no more unto your lure , but let you lie alone . If Phenixe like you do intend to end your days in fire , My life I mean not so to spend , my thoughts are mounted higher : I'll love and bill like Turtle-doves , although it breed your moan ; When you are gone there is more Loves , I will not lie alone . Printed at London for P. Birch . The faithful Lovers resolution , being forsaken of a coy and faythles Dame . To the tune of , My deer and only Love take heed . TO Hough booteles I must needs complain my fate is so extreme , I loved , and was beloved again , yet all was but a dream : For as that love was quickly god , so was as quickly gone , I'll touch no more a flame so hight , I'll rather lie alone , No Creature be she never so fair shall any way beguile My fancy with a feigned tear , nor tempt me with a smile : I'll never think affection sound that is so plainly shown , Nor built on faith before this found , I'll rather lie alone . Should now the little God conspire again t'intrap my mind , Or strive to set my heart on fire ? alas the Boy's to blind : For sithes I'll never venture smiles , nor hazard mirth for moan , Nor yet regard a Woman's wiles , I'll rather lie alone . The blazing Torch is soon burned out , the Diamond light abides , The first her glory hurls about , the next her virtue hides : The Spark if any shall be mine , that else shows light to none , For if to every eye she shine , I'll rather lie alone . No Woman shall deceive my thoughts with colours not in grain , Nor put a Love so slightly wrought into my hands again : I'll pay no more so deer for wit , but live upon mine own , Nor shall affection conquer it , I'll rather lie alone . And now I'll set my heart at rest , in loving , labours lost , Il [ e ] be no more so rarely blessed to be so strangely crossed : The love lost Turtle so will die , the Phenixe is but one , They seek no Mates , no more will I but ever lie alone . The coy Maidens answer . To the same tune . I F that your love was but a dream , what Woman cares for love ? There is no mean if t'is extreme , therefore your suit remove : It boots not for to complain , then pray sir seize your moan ; Desires hight flame augments your pain , you still may lie alone . If beauty in a Woman's face does residence there keep ? She must not in her heart give place to all can feign and weep : But you do say this Women's wiles that causeth Men to moan , When all endue know you do beguil's , and let's not lie alone . If Cupid caught you in his snare , you must endure the pain , And either speak him foul or fair , your liberty to gain ; For sith , or sob , I will not love , my beauty is mine own , And other man my heart must prove , and you must lie alone . The burning Taper spends itself for to give others light : The Diamond is esteemed for wealth , and in the dark shows bright : But like the Torch I'll never be , I'll first be like the Stone , And never will yield in love to thee , But rather lie alone . If that I showed my self once kind , and partly did you love , May I not therefore change my mind [ e ] , and otherwise remove , You should have held me faster sure , and not have let me gone , I'll come no more unto your lure , but let you lie alone . If Phenixe like you do intend to end your days in fire , My life I mean not so to spend , my thoughts are mounted higher : I'll love and bill like Turtle-doves , although it breed your moan ; When you are gone there is more Loves , I will not lie alone . Printed at London for P. Birch . 