A Wench for a Weaver . A Wench for a Weaver here you shall find , In defending his trade brought her to his mind . To the tune of hang up my Shuttle C 1 The Weaver . I TO chanced on a day , as I was walking , In the pleasant Month of May , with my Love talking : Most friendly arm in arm , the weather being warm , I suvar [ e ] I thought no harm , as I am a weaver . The substance of my speech . as we were going , Was I did this maid beseech , my request in wooing Grant me thy love quoth he , or one sweet smile from thee , Say walking unto me , thou bonny weaver . The Maid . The Maiden then replied , sure you are but jesting , You needs must be denied , of your requesting . Without you can declare your wits then do not spare , How I'll live out of care , you being a weaver . For the common speech is rife , that I'll implore To be a Weavers wife is to live poor . Then clear but you this case , why a Weaver is counted base , Then you I will embrace , none like a weaver . The Weaver . My own true love and deer , since we came hither , These slanderous words I'll clear , lets go together . If the Bark from the Tree you pill , the root you needs must kill , So through husbands that are ill , disgract are weavers . Yet there are more as well as we , that have disgraces , As you may plainly see in diverse places . For the richest of you all , if your means begin to fallen , Then your trades worse then all , as well as weavers . The Maid . Then I see this poverty that breeds thy slander : Yet I have herd of thee thou hast been Commander . Tho gone now are those days , and other bears thee sways , Yet thou hast had the praise none like a weaver . Seeing thou hast resolved me of what I asked : All the world plain man see you are vainly taxed . Yet show me the ground of all , and how you first did fallen . That I may speak of all , in praise of weavers . The second part . To the same tune . The Weaver . M Y Love at thy request , thou shalt command me : For why I love thee best , then understand me . Fortune sometime frowns , he raiseth and pulls down As well Cities as Towns , then why not weavers . Canning Street you know , where cloth is selling : Weavers have made like show in their houses dwelling . Though they be gone and dead , and Drapers crept in stead , Yet I herd and read , there dwelled brave weavers . Jacke of Nuberie , though he be dead and rotten , Of Weavers famde was he , he should not be forgotten . Two hundred and fifty looms to maintain he presumest , That honoureth now the tombs of worthy weavers . Cheapside among the rest shall not be forgotten , There are some that make jests , to see them broken . It is like-men that do break , they cannot hold they are so weak , And more would go to rack , were't not for weavers . Be not so proud in heart , although you flourish , Give Weavers due desert , for we do them nourish . A Weaver they cannot want , if they should their heart would pan [ e ] And they would feel more want : then love a weaver . To write more then is my share I should be sorry : The truth I will not spare , I have read a story Of a Weaver that was a King , whose fame through the world did ring , Which makes me merrily sing speak well of weavers . In those Golden days , weavers had pleasure : None like them then had praise , they gained much treasure . Weaving did so excel , none like them did so well : Of all trades they bore the bell , speak well of weavers . If any offended be at this my writing , That no eloquence he see in my inditing : Pardon me for this time , though simply now I rhyme , For here I mean to climb in praise of weavers . Thus here I end my song , and eke my story , I hope I have done no wrong , if I have I am sorry . Then how sayest thou my Love , my constant heart then prove : From thee I'll never move . then love a Weaver . F I N I S. Tho : Neale . Printed at London for F. CoulesA Wench for a Weaver . A Wench for a Weaver here you shall find , In defending his trade brought her to his mind . To the tune of hang up my Shuttle C 1 The Weaver . I TO chanced on a day , as I was walking , In the pleasant Month of May , with my Love talking : Most friendly arm in arm , the weather being warm , I suvar [ e ] I thought no harm , as I am a weaver . The substance of my speech . as we were going , Was I did this maid beseech , my request in wooing Grant me thy love quoth he , or one sweet smile from thee , Say walking unto me , thou bonny weaver . The Maid . The Maiden then replied , sure you are but jesting , You needs must be denied , of your requesting . Without you can declare your wits then do not spare , How I'll live out of care , you being a weaver . For the common speech is rife , that I'll implore To be a Weavers wife is to live poor . Then clear but you this case , why a Weaver is counted base , Then you I will embrace , none like a weaver . The Weaver . My own true love and deer , since we came hither , These slanderous words I'll clear , lets go together . If the Bark from the Tree you pill , the root you needs must kill , So through husbands that are ill , disgract are weavers . Yet there are more as well as we , that have disgraces , As you may plainly see in diverse places . For the richest of you all , if your means begin to fallen , Then your trades worse then all , as well as weavers . The Maid . Then I see this poverty that breeds thy slander : Yet I have herd of thee thou hast been Commander . Tho gone now are those days , and other bears thee sways , Yet thou hast had the praise none like a weaver . Seeing thou hast resolved me of what I asked : All the world plain man see you are vainly taxed . Yet show me the ground of all , and how you first did fallen . That I may speak of all , in praise of weavers . The second part . To the same tune . The Weaver . M Y Love at thy request , thou shalt command me : For why I love thee best , then understand me . Fortune sometime frowns , he raiseth and pulls down As well Cities as Towns , then why not weavers . Canning Street you know , where cloth is selling : Weavers have made like show in their houses dwelling . Though they be gone and dead , and Drapers crept in stead , Yet I herd and read , there dwelled brave weavers . Jacke of Nuberie , though he be dead and rotten , Of Weavers famde was he , he should not be forgotten . Two hundred and fifty looms to maintain he presumest , That honoureth now the tombs of worthy weavers . Cheapside among the rest shall not be forgotten , There are some that make jests , to see them broken . It is like-men that do break , they cannot hold they are so weak , And more would go to rack , were't not for weavers . Be not so proud in heart , although you flourish , Give Weavers due desert , for we do them nourish . A Weaver they cannot want , if they should their heart would pan [ e ] And they would feel more want : then love a weaver . To write more then is my share I should be sorry : The truth I will not spare , I have read a story Of a Weaver that was a King , whose fame through the world did ring , Which makes me merrily sing speak well of weavers . In those Golden days , weavers had pleasure : None like them then had praise , they gained much treasure . Weaving did so excel , none like them did so well : Of all trades they bore the bell , speak well of weavers . If any offended be at this my writing , That no eloquence he see in my inditing : Pardon me for this time , though simply now I rhyme , For here I mean to climb in praise of weavers . Thus here I end my song , and eke my story , I hope I have done no wrong , if I have I am sorry . Then how sayest thou my Love , my constant heart then prove : From thee I'll never move . then love a Weaver . F I N I S. Tho : Neale . Printed at London for F. Coules 