The Lovers Gift Or a Faring for Maids : Being a Dialogue between Edmund and Prisilly . To a pleasant new tune . Edmund . M Y Love she is fair , surpassing compare , More bright , then was Daphne the coy : Her two starry eyes , My heart did surprise , Being struck by the blinded Boy , See where she does come , Her sighed strikes me dumb , I'll speak though to speak it grieve me , My own gentle sweating I am glad of this meeting , Thou knowest not what I have to give thee . Prisilly . I pray thee give over , Entice me no more , In suing for love thou dost move me For I tell thee plain , I do thee disdain , I have not the power to love thee : My answer you know , You backward may go , For it is another must shrive me : Thy face I despise , for thy great goggle eyes , I care not what thou hast to give me . Edmund . Thou Joy of my life , what need all this strife , Thou knowest that I love thee more , Then Piramis , When Thisby was his , Who after by a Lion was tore : Queen Juno did move , The Olimpicall Jove , Yet so will not Edmund grieve thee , I pray thee sweet heart , Some kind words impart , Thou knowest not what I have to give thee . Prisilly . As Juno did move The thunderer Jove , Prisilly will strive for to move thee , Thy rustical words No matter affords , To make a young maiden to love thee , Learn wit for to woe Or I cannot do , Nor will I in ought believe thee , I pray thee give over , Torment me no more , I care not what thou hast to give me . Edmund . Why maiden so bright , My birth do not spite , For I do not murmur at thine , But think with thy self , Though thy father have pelf , Thy birth cannot equal mine : Thy virtues does move Poor Edmund to love , And still shall if thou wilt believe me , Let love not be vain But love me again , Thou knowest not what I have to give thee . Prisilly . Nay grieve not at this For what is amiss , I'll strive for to make thee amends , To leave off delay , Faith what would you say , If you and I joined like friends ? If to your desert My love I impart , And that I should fondly believe thee , I doubt you would prove Disloyal in love , And you would that same gift give me , [ The ] second part of the Lovers gift , to the same tune . Edmund . WORSER Ear sweet would you join , Your love unto mine , My love should for ever stand sure , Or to end the strife Wouldst thou be my wife , Like Turtles we both would endure : There should not proceed No bad word nor deed , That should have the power to grieve thee , We'll live till we die Most merrily , Thou knowest not what I have to give thee . Prisilly . Since nothing can shift , Say what is the gift , That you upon me would bestow , And if I do find It contents my mind , The more of my love you shall know , That gift will me move , To like as I love , There quickly repeat it to me , And here I protest , My heart shall rest , Thou and I straight will agree . Edmund . Then if you'll agree , To marry with me , I'll make thee a Jointer by the year : And set down profound five hundred pound , And all for the love of my deer : What a woman can crave , Be sure to have , And if that thou durst to believe me , It's a gift most rare , To a maiden so fair , Lo this is the gift I will give thee , Prisilly . This gift is of force To make your recorse , The easier to my bed , No longer lets tarry , But straight let us marry , And then take my maidenhead : No longer I can Live without a man , Then pray thee sweet heart believe me , I'll love thee still , If with a good will , This pretty gift thou wilt give me . Edmund . Then sweating pray come , I long till it's done , To Church let us high us with speed , I can when I list , Procure a blind Priest , Which for us shall do this same deed , Prisi . Then sweet let us go , We must not be slow , If ever you mean to win me , But think upon this , That you do not miss , This same pretty gift to give me , Author . Away then they went , And fulfilled there intent , Unto their great comfort and joy , Fortie weeks being passed This young wife at the last , Did bring her young husband a boy , Heaven send all young wives , To led honest lives , And husbands to live with them kind : May wives strive to please , All such husbands as these That are of so honest a mind . Printed at London for John Trundle , and are to be sold at his shop in Barbicon . The Lovers Gift Or a Faring for Maids : Being a Dialogue between Edmund and Prisilly . To a pleasant new tune . Edmund . M Y Love she is fair , surpassing compare , More bright , then was Daphne the coy : Her two starry eyes , My heart did surprise , Being struck by the blinded Boy , See where she does come , Her sighed strikes me dumb , I'll speak though to speak it grieve me , My own gentle sweating I am glad of this meeting , Thou knowest not what I have to give thee . Prisilly . I pray thee give over , Entice me no more , In suing for love thou dost move me For I tell thee plain , I do thee disdain , I have not the power to love thee : My answer you know , You backward may go , For it is another must shrive me : Thy face I despise , for thy great goggle eyes , I care not what thou hast to give me . Edmund . Thou Joy of my life , what need all this strife , Thou knowest that I love thee more , Then Piramis , When Thisby was his , Who after by a Lion was tore : Queen Juno did move , The Olimpicall Jove , Yet so will not Edmund grieve thee , I pray thee sweet heart , Some kind words impart , Thou knowest not what I have to give thee . Prisilly . As Juno did move The thunderer Jove , Prisilly will strive for to move thee , Thy rustical words No matter affords , To make a young maiden to love thee , Learn wit for to woe Or I cannot do , Nor will I in ought believe thee , I pray thee give over , Torment me no more , I care not what thou hast to give me . Edmund . Why maiden so bright , My birth do not spite , For I do not murmur at thine , But think with thy self , Though thy father have pelf , Thy birth cannot equal mine : Thy virtues does move Poor Edmund to love , And still shall if thou wilt believe me , Let love not be vain But love me again , Thou knowest not what I have to give thee . Prisilly . Nay grieve not at this For what is amiss , I'll strive for to make thee amends , To leave off delay , Faith what would you say , If you and I joined like friends ? If to your desert My love I impart , And that I should fondly believe thee , I doubt you would prove Disloyal in love , And you would that same gift give me , [ The ] second part of the Lovers gift , to the same tune . Edmund . WORSER Ear sweet would you join , Your love unto mine , My love should for ever stand sure , Or to end the strife Wouldst thou be my wife , Like Turtles we both would endure : There should not proceed No bad word nor deed , That should have the power to grieve thee , We'll live till we die Most merrily , Thou knowest not what I have to give thee . Prisilly . Since nothing can shift , Say what is the gift , That you upon me would bestow , And if I do find It contents my mind , The more of my love you shall know , That gift will me move , To like as I love , There quickly repeat it to me , And here I protest , My heart shall rest , Thou and I straight will agree . Edmund . Then if you'll agree , To marry with me , I'll make thee a Jointer by the year : And set down profound five hundred pound , And all for the love of my deer : What a woman can crave , Be sure to have , And if that thou durst to believe me , It's a gift most rare , To a maiden so fair , Lo this is the gift I will give thee , Prisilly . This gift is of force To make your recorse , The easier to my bed , No longer lets tarry , But straight let us marry , And then take my maidenhead : No longer I can Live without a man , Then pray thee sweet heart believe me , I'll love thee still , If with a good will , This pretty gift thou wilt give me . Edmund . Then sweating pray come , I long till it's done , To Church let us high us with speed , I can when I list , Procure a blind Priest , Which for us shall do this same deed , Prisi . Then sweet let us go , We must not be slow , If ever you mean to win me , But think upon this , That you do not miss , This same pretty gift to give me , Author . Away then they went , And fulfilled there intent , Unto their great comfort and joy , Fortie weeks being passed This young wife at the last , Did bring her young husband a boy , Heaven send all young wives , To led honest lives , And husbands to live with them kind : May wives strive to please , All such husbands as these That are of so honest a mind . Printed at London for John Trundle , and are to be sold at his shop in Barbicon . 