A merry Ballad of a rich Maid that had 18. several Suitors of several Countries : otherwise called the scornful Maid . To the tune of , hoop do me no harm good man . I Am a young lass , and my time does so pass , That of late I did long for to marry , I have for my deer five hundred a year , And yet for all that I will tarry . I had with a Scot , much money I wot , He strouted with Rapier and Poniard : He is laid with fine lase , but I like not his face , Ais fear he has lost his Whiniard . Then came one from France who bravely could dance , He is proper in every joint : Yet in his Country . he escaped well the Pee , So well he did cut the cross point , A Signiour Spaniore , is late came over , And he thinks that he hath no fellow , As is hight in the Re [ y ] ne , and hath god a strain , By dancing in a Bandello . Then came a Duch-man can touse well the can , Till his head be as light as a feather : The Spaniard had's Punk , & amp ; the Dutch-man was drunk , And so they went both together . And Italian came post , and full well he can host , But I like no such found fellows : If I were his wife he should led and ill life , For I do like none so jealous . From Room one came to me , who daily did woe me He fasted three days in the week , But when prayer is done , if he spy a fair Nun , His stomach is wonderful quick . A troublesome Turke , did make hasty work , But his suit it was quickly ended : I scorned his belief , and so to be brief , He did return home offended . Then next a brave Dane , came marching amain , But I answered him as the rest , That he could not prevail , so he hoist up his sail , For his nose could abide no jest . From Ireland I had , a lusty brave lad , Each Limb was proportioned mighty : Truth was he was poor ) yet I gave him over , Cause his breath stunk of Aquavity . From Swethland resorted , a man well reported And he made a proffer to woe me : His neck was so big , and so small was his leg , That since he would never come to me . From Rushia likewise , in antic disguise , One came which did think to obtain me : But his hair & amp ; his hood , against my mind stood Therefore he shall never gain me . The Second Part of the scornful Maid . To the same tune . A Grecian one day , my love did assay , ( Who stands at every Church door : ) I never respected though he me affected , I had rather turn fiddlers whore . And Almain Rut spied me , and presently tried me , Who thought I would yield at the first : But I could not abide he should lie by my side , For some say they are devilish and cursed . From Pol did come hither in Summer's hight weather , He strutted and stalked with a grace : So soon as I spied him I could not abide him , His nose was frozen of on his face . He had a great mind , and was willing inclined , No Nation so willing as those , He swore and protested I gibed and jested , And bade him go get a new nose . A Barbarian , a big bellied man , Did proffer to win me for's wife : But I told him this , he should surely miss , For I liked not his course of life . From Amsterdame a vile Atheist came , He was neither true Dutchman nor Pole : But I do reject all that are of that sect , For I doubt me that hell hath his soul . This baseminded Creature does think that by nature , Both heaven and earth is made : He thinks there's no hell , where Atheists must [ dwell ] But my mind he shall not persuade . A Gentleman of wales did tell her fine tales , That her had a house built on a hill , Had big and had Goat , and green leek in the pot , And could eat good Couse bobby her fill . He would keep me so brave , if I would him have , He would buy me a hood and a hat : He would buy me fine hose , with garters and rose , And sweet heart how like you of that . A Englishman came , but I know not his name , And he bravely could quaff it and quarrel : He'll drink till he die , some says , but not I , And fell all his lands for apparel . If I would be his wife , he swore by his life , Ere long he would make me a Lady : He would fell his [ au ] ld manners to buy him new honours , And thats but the trick of a baby . Now which should I have , your counsels I crave , If you can but find one will fit me : The best I will take , and amends I'll you make , If Cupid ere then do not hit me . FINIS . Imprinted at London for Henry Gosson . A merry Ballad of a rich Maid that had 18. several Suitors of several Countries : otherwise called the scornful Maid . To the tune of , hoop do me no harm good man . I Am a young lass , and my time does so pass , That of late I did long for to marry , I have for my deer five hundred a year , And yet for all that I will tarry . I had with a Scot , much money I wot , He strouted with Rapier and Poniard : He is laid with fine lase , but I like not his face , Ais fear he has lost his Whiniard . Then came one from France who bravely could dance , He is proper in every joint : Yet in his Country . he escaped well the Pee , So well he did cut the cross point , A Signiour Spaniore , is late came over , And he thinks that he hath no fellow , As is hight in the Re [ y ] ne , and hath god a strain , By dancing in a Bandello . Then came a Duch-man can touse well the can , Till his head be as light as a feather : The Spaniard had's Punk , & amp ; the Dutch-man was drunk , And so they went both together . And Italian came post , and full well he can host , But I like no such found fellows : If I were his wife he should led and ill life , For I do like none so jealous . From Room one came to me , who daily did woe me He fasted three days in the week , But when prayer is done , if he spy a fair Nun , His stomach is wonderful quick . A troublesome Turke , did make hasty work , But his suit it was quickly ended : I scorned his belief , and so to be brief , He did return home offended . Then next a brave Dane , came marching amain , But I answered him as the rest , That he could not prevail , so he hoist up his sail , For his nose could abide no jest . From Ireland I had , a lusty brave lad , Each Limb was proportioned mighty : Truth was he was poor ) yet I gave him over , Cause his breath stunk of Aquavity . From Swethland resorted , a man well reported And he made a proffer to woe me : His neck was so big , and so small was his leg , That since he would never come to me . From Rushia likewise , in antic disguise , One came which did think to obtain me : But his hair & amp ; his hood , against my mind stood Therefore he shall never gain me . The Second Part of the scornful Maid . To the same tune . A Grecian one day , my love did assay , ( Who stands at every Church door : ) I never respected though he me affected , I had rather turn fiddlers whore . And Almain Rut spied me , and presently tried me , Who thought I would yield at the first : But I could not abide he should lie by my side , For some say they are devilish and cursed . From Pol did come hither in Summer's hight weather , He strutted and stalked with a grace : So soon as I spied him I could not abide him , His nose was frozen of on his face . He had a great mind , and was willing inclined , No Nation so willing as those , He swore and protested I gibed and jested , And bade him go get a new nose . A Barbarian , a big bellied man , Did proffer to win me for's wife : But I told him this , he should surely miss , For I liked not his course of life . From Amsterdame a vile Atheist came , He was neither true Dutchman nor Pole : But I do reject all that are of that sect , For I doubt me that hell hath his soul . This baseminded Creature does think that by nature , Both heaven and earth is made : He thinks there's no hell , where Atheists must [ dwell ] But my mind he shall not persuade . A Gentleman of wales did tell her fine tales , That her had a house built on a hill , Had big and had Goat , and green leek in the pot , And could eat good Couse bobby her fill . He would keep me so brave , if I would him have , He would buy me a hood and a hat : He would buy me fine hose , with garters and rose , And sweet heart how like you of that . A Englishman came , but I know not his name , And he bravely could quaff it and quarrel : He'll drink till he die , some says , but not I , And fell all his lands for apparel . If I would be his wife , he swore by his life , Ere long he would make me a Lady : He would fell his [ au ] ld manners to buy him new honours , And thats but the trick of a baby . Now which should I have , your counsels I crave , If you can but find one will fit me : The best I will take , and amends I'll you make , If Cupid ere then do not hit me . FINIS . Imprinted at London for Henry Gosson . 