A Country new Jig between Simon and Susan , to be sung in merr [ y ] pastime by Bachelors and Maidens . To the tune of I can nor will no longer lie alone . Or , Falero lero lo . Simon . O Mine own sweet heart , and when wilt thou be true : Or when will the time come , that I shall marry you , That I may give you kisses , one , two or three , More sweeter then the honey , that comes from the Bee . Susan . My father is unwilling that I should marry thee , Yet I could wish in heart , that so the same might be : For now me thinks thou seemest , more lovely unto me : and fresher then the Blossoms , that blooms on the tree . Simon . Thy mother is most willing , and will consent I know , Then let us to thy Father now both together go : Where if he give us his good will , and to our match agree : 'Twill be sweeter then the honey that comes from the Bee . Susan . Come go , for I am willing , good fortune be our guide : From that which I have promised , deer heart , I'll never slide : If that he do but smile , and I the same may see , This better then the blossoms , that blooms upon the tree . Simon . But stay here comes my Mother , weel talk with hhr a word : I doubt not but some comfort , to us she may afford : If comfort she will give us , that we the same may see , 'Twill be sweeter then the honey , that comes from the Bee , Susan . O Mother we are going my Father for to pray , That he will give me his good will , for long I cannot stay . A young man I have chosen a fitting match for me , More fairer then the blossoms that blooms on the tree . Mother . Daughter thou art old enough to be a wedded wife , You maidens are desirous to led a married life . Then my consent good daughter shall to thy wishes be , For young thou art as blossoms that bloom upon the tree . Simon . Then mother you are willing your daughter I shall have : And Susan thou art welcome I'll keep thee fi [ n ] e and brave . And have those wished blessings bestowed upon thee , More sweeter then the honey that comes from the Bee . Susan . Yet Simon I am minded to led a merry life , And be as well maintained as any City wife : And live a gallant mistress of maidens that shall be More fairer then the blossoms that bloom upon the tree . The Second part . To the same [ tu ] ne . Simon . TO How shall have thy Candles , before thou dost arise : For churlishness breeds sickness and danger therein lies . Young lasses must be cherished with sweets that dainty be , Far sweeter then the honey that comes from the Bee . Mother . Well said good Son and Daughter , this is the only diet To please a dainty young wife , and keep the house in quiet . But stay , here comes your father , his words I hope will be More sweeter then the blossoms that bloom upon the tree . Father . Why how now daughter Susan do you intend to marry ? Maidens in the old time did twenty winter's tarry . Now in the teens no sooner but you a wife will be And lose the sweetest blossom that blooms upon thy tree . Susan . It is for my preferment good father say not nay , For I have found a husband kind and loving every way : That still unto my fancy will evermore agree , Which is more sweet then honey that comes from the Bee . Mother . Hinder not your daughter , good husband , lest you bring Her loves consuming sickness , or else a worse thing . Maidens youngly married loving wives will be And sweet as is the honey which comes from the Bee . Simon . Good father be not cruel , your daughter is mine own : Her mother hath consented and is to liking grown . And if your self will give then , her gentle hand to me , 'Twill sweeter be then honey that comes from the Bee . Father . God give thee joy deer Daughter , there is no reason I Should hinder thy proceeding , and thou a maiden worser [ y ] e : And after to led Apes in hell , as maidens doomed be : That fairer are then blossoms that bloom upon the tree . Simon . Then let's unto the Parson and Clerk to say Amen : Susan . With all my heart good Simon , we are concluded then , My father and my mother both do willingly agree My Simon's sweet as honey that comes from the Bee . All together sing . You Maidens and Bachelors we hope will loose no time , Which learn it by experience that youth is in the prime , And daily in their hearts desire young married folks to be More sweeter then the blossoms that bloom upon the tree . F I N I S. Imprinted at London for H. Goss [ on ] . A Country new Jig between Simon and Susan , to be sung in merr [ y ] pastime by Bachelors and Maidens . To the tune of I can nor will no longer lie alone . Or , Falero lero lo . Simon . O Mine own sweet heart , and when wilt thou be true : Or when will the time come , that I shall marry you , That I may give you kisses , one , two or three , More sweeter then the honey , that comes from the Bee . Susan . My father is unwilling that I should marry thee , Yet I could wish in heart , that so the same might be : For now me thinks thou seemest , more lovely unto me : and fresher then the Blossoms , that blooms on the tree . Simon . Thy mother is most willing , and will consent I know , Then let us to thy Father now both together go : Where if he give us his good will , and to our match agree : 'Twill be sweeter then the honey that comes from the Bee . Susan . Come go , for I am willing , good fortune be our guide : From that which I have promised , deer heart , I'll never slide : If that he do but smile , and I the same may see , This better then the blossoms , that blooms upon the tree . Simon . But stay here comes my Mother , weel talk with hhr a word : I doubt not but some comfort , to us she may afford : If comfort she will give us , that we the same may see , 'Twill be sweeter then the honey , that comes from the Bee , Susan . O Mother we are going my Father for to pray , That he will give me his good will , for long I cannot stay . A young man I have chosen a fitting match for me , More fairer then the blossoms that blooms on the tree . Mother . Daughter thou art old enough to be a wedded wife , You maidens are desirous to led a married life . Then my consent good daughter shall to thy wishes be , For young thou art as blossoms that bloom upon the tree . Simon . Then mother you are willing your daughter I shall have : And Susan thou art welcome I'll keep thee fi [ n ] e and brave . And have those wished blessings bestowed upon thee , More sweeter then the honey that comes from the Bee . Susan . Yet Simon I am minded to led a merry life , And be as well maintained as any City wife : And live a gallant mistress of maidens that shall be More fairer then the blossoms that bloom upon the tree . The Second part . To the same [ tu ] ne . Simon . TO How shall have thy Candles , before thou dost arise : For churlishness breeds sickness and danger therein lies . Young lasses must be cherished with sweets that dainty be , Far sweeter then the honey that comes from the Bee . Mother . Well said good Son and Daughter , this is the only diet To please a dainty young wife , and keep the house in quiet . But stay , here comes your father , his words I hope will be More sweeter then the blossoms that bloom upon the tree . Father . Why how now daughter Susan do you intend to marry ? Maidens in the old time did twenty winter's tarry . Now in the teens no sooner but you a wife will be And lose the sweetest blossom that blooms upon thy tree . Susan . It is for my preferment good father say not nay , For I have found a husband kind and loving every way : That still unto my fancy will evermore agree , Which is more sweet then honey that comes from the Bee . Mother . Hinder not your daughter , good husband , lest you bring Her loves consuming sickness , or else a worse thing . Maidens youngly married loving wives will be And sweet as is the honey which comes from the Bee . Simon . Good father be not cruel , your daughter is mine own : Her mother hath consented and is to liking grown . And if your self will give then , her gentle hand to me , 'Twill sweeter be then honey that comes from the Bee . Father . God give thee joy deer Daughter , there is no reason I Should hinder thy proceeding , and thou a maiden worser [ y ] e : And after to led Apes in hell , as maidens doomed be : That fairer are then blossoms that bloom upon the tree . Simon . Then let's unto the Parson and Clerk to say Amen : Susan . With all my heart good Simon , we are concluded then , My father and my mother both do willingly agree My Simon's sweet as honey that comes from the Bee . All together sing . You Maidens and Bachelors we hope will loose no time , Which learn it by experience that youth is in the prime , And daily in their hearts desire young married folks to be More sweeter then the blossoms that bloom upon the tree . F I N I S. Imprinted at London for H. Goss [ on ] . 