A Country new Jig between Simon and Susan , to be sung in merry pastime by Bachelors and Maids . To the tune of I can , nor will no longer lie alone : Or , Falero lero lo . Simon . O Mine own sweet heart , and when wilt thou be true : Or when will the time come , that I shall marry you . That I may give you kisses , one , two , or three , More sweeter then the honey , that comes from the Bee . Susan . My Father is unwilling , that I should marry thee : Yet I could wish in heart , that so the same might be . For now me thinks thou seemest , more lovely unto me : and fresher then the Blossoms , that blooms upon the Tree . Simon . Thy mother is most willing , and will consent I know , Then let us to thy Father now both together go : Where if he give us his good will , and to our match agree : Will be sweeter then the honey , that comes from the Bee . Susan . Come go , for I am willing , good fortune be our guide : From that which I have promised , deer heart I'll never slide . If that he do but smile , and I the same may see : This sweeter then the blossoms , that blooms upon the Tree . Simon . But stay here comes my mother , weel talk with her a word , I doubt not but some comfort , to us she may afford : If comfort she will give us , that we the same may see , 'Twill be sweeter then the honey , that comes from the Bee , Susan . O Mother we are going my Father for to pray : That he will give me his good will , for long I cannot stay . A young man I have chosen ; a fitting match for me : More fairer then the blossoms that blooms upon the Tree . Mother . Daughter thou art old enough , to be a wedded wife , You Maidens are desirous to led a married life . Then my consent good Daughter , shall to thy wishes be : For young thou art as blossoms , that bloom upon the Tree . Simon . Then Mother you are willing , your Daughter I should have : And Susan thou art welcome , isle keep thee fine and brave . And have those wished blessings bestowed upon thee , More sweeter then the honey that comes from the Bee . Susan . Yet Simon I am minded to led a merry life : And be as well maintained , as any City wife : And live a gallant Mistress of Maidens that shall be More fairer then the blossoms , that bloom upon the Tree . The second part , to the same tune . Simon . TO How shalt have thy Caudles , before thou dost arise : For churlishness breeds sickness and danger therein lies , Young Lasses must be cheerisht , with sweets that dainty be , Far sweeter then the honey , that comes from the Bee . Mother . Well said good son and Daughter , this is the only diet : To please a dainty young wife , and keep the house in quiet : But stay , here comes your Father his words I hope will be : More sweeter then the blossoms , that bloom upon the Tree . Father . Why how now Daughter Susan , do you intend to marry ? Maidens in the old time , did twenty winter's tarry : Now in the teens no sooner , but you a wife will be : And lose the sweetest blossoms , that blooms up on the Tree . Susan . It is for my preferment , good Father say not nay : For I have found a Husband kind , and loving every way : That still unto my fancy will evermore agree : Which is more sweet then honey that comes from the Bee . Mother . Hinder not your Daughter , good Husband , lest you bring Her loves consuming sickness , or else a worse thing : Maidens youngly married loving wives will be . And sweet as is the honey , which comes from the Bee . Simon . Good Father be not cruel , your Daughter is mine own : Her mother hath consented , and is to liking grown . And if your self will give then , her gentle hand to me , 'Twill sweeter be then honey , that comes from the Bee . Father . God give thee joy deer Daughter , there is no reason I , Should hinder thy proceeding , and thou a Maiden die : And after to led Apes in hell , as Maidens doomed be : That fairer are then blossoms , that bloom upon the Tree . Simon . Then let's to the Parson , and Clarke to say Amen : Susan . With all my heart good Simon , we are concluded then : My Father and Mother both , do willingly agree : My Simon's sweet as honey , That comes from the Bee . All together sing . You Maidens and Bachelors , we hope will lose no time : Which learn it by experience , That youth is in their prime , And daily in their hearts desire , Young married folks to be ; More sweeter then the blossoms , that bloom from the Tree . F I N I S. Printed at London by W. I . A Country new Jig between Simon and Susan , to be sung in merry pastime by Bachelors and Maids . To the tune of I can , nor will no longer lie alone : Or , Falero lero lo . Simon . O Mine own sweet heart , and when wilt thou be true : Or when will the time come , that I shall marry you . That I may give you kisses , one , two , or three , More sweeter then the honey , that comes from the Bee . Susan . My Father is unwilling , that I should marry thee : Yet I could wish in heart , that so the same might be . For now me thinks thou seemest , more lovely unto me : and fresher then the Blossoms , that blooms upon the Tree . Simon . Thy mother is most willing , and will consent I know , Then let us to thy Father now both together go : Where if he give us his good will , and to our match agree : Will be sweeter then the honey , that comes from the Bee . Susan . Come go , for I am willing , good fortune be our guide : From that which I have promised , deer heart I'll never slide . If that he do but smile , and I the same may see : This sweeter then the blossoms , that blooms upon the Tree . Simon . But stay here comes my mother , weel talk with her a word , I doubt not but some comfort , to us she may afford : If comfort she will give us , that we the same may see , 'Twill be sweeter then the honey , that comes from the Bee , Susan . O Mother we are going my Father for to pray : That he will give me his good will , for long I cannot stay . A young man I have chosen ; a fitting match for me : More fairer then the blossoms that blooms upon the Tree . Mother . Daughter thou art old enough , to be a wedded wife , You Maidens are desirous to led a married life . Then my consent good Daughter , shall to thy wishes be : For young thou art as blossoms , that bloom upon the Tree . Simon . Then Mother you are willing , your Daughter I should have : And Susan thou art welcome , isle keep thee fine and brave . And have those wished blessings bestowed upon thee , More sweeter then the honey that comes from the Bee . Susan . Yet Simon I am minded to led a merry life : And be as well maintained , as any City wife : And live a gallant Mistress of Maidens that shall be More fairer then the blossoms , that bloom upon the Tree . The second part , to the same tune . Simon . TO How shalt have thy Caudles , before thou dost arise : For churlishness breeds sickness and danger therein lies , Young Lasses must be cheerisht , with sweets that dainty be , Far sweeter then the honey , that comes from the Bee . Mother . Well said good son and Daughter , this is the only diet : To please a dainty young wife , and keep the house in quiet : But stay , here comes your Father his words I hope will be : More sweeter then the blossoms , that bloom upon the Tree . Father . Why how now Daughter Susan , do you intend to marry ? Maidens in the old time , did twenty winter's tarry : Now in the teens no sooner , but you a wife will be : And lose the sweetest blossoms , that blooms up on the Tree . Susan . It is for my preferment , good Father say not nay : For I have found a Husband kind , and loving every way : That still unto my fancy will evermore agree : Which is more sweet then honey that comes from the Bee . Mother . Hinder not your Daughter , good Husband , lest you bring Her loves consuming sickness , or else a worse thing : Maidens youngly married loving wives will be . And sweet as is the honey , which comes from the Bee . Simon . Good Father be not cruel , your Daughter is mine own : Her mother hath consented , and is to liking grown . And if your self will give then , her gentle hand to me , 'Twill sweeter be then honey , that comes from the Bee . Father . God give thee joy deer Daughter , there is no reason I , Should hinder thy proceeding , and thou a Maiden die : And after to led Apes in hell , as Maidens doomed be : That fairer are then blossoms , that bloom upon the Tree . Simon . Then let's to the Parson , and Clarke to say Amen : Susan . With all my heart good Simon , we are concluded then : My Father and Mother both , do willingly agree : My Simon's sweet as honey , That comes from the Bee . All together sing . You Maidens and Bachelors , we hope will lose no time : Which learn it by experience , That youth is in their prime , And daily in their hearts desire , Young married folks to be ; More sweeter then the blossoms , that bloom from the Tree . F I N I S. Printed at London by W. I . 