The two Welsh Lovers , OR The British Nymph that long was in her life , A changing Maid , but a recanting Wife . Let every man that would win a Maids favour , At home keep with her , if he mean to have her . To the tune of the Blazing Torch . A S late I walked the Meads along , where Severns streams did glide ; I herd a mournful Shepherd's song , and him at last espied . He wrung his hands and wept apace , to mourn he did not lin : Rivers of tears ran down his face , and still he cried Due gwin . I drew me near unto the Swain , and prayed him tell the cause , Why he so sadly did complain , he silent made a pause . At length he raised himself to speak , yet ever he could begin ; He sighed as if his heart would break , and cried alas Due gwin . Quoth he , Among yond British hills , where Zephirus does breathe : Where flowers sweet the Meadows fills , and valleys underneath , And near unto that fountain head , where Dee comes flowing in : Ah me , that fatal Nymph was bred , for whom I cried Due gwin . I loved her once , but now I rue , that I was such and Ass : For she did prove the most untrue , that ever woman was . Fair was her face , great was her fame , had she still constant been : But , O , her heart was not the same : which makes me cry Due gwin . Once had I power , till her command forbade that power to rise , Further then touching of her hand , or looking on her eyes . I feared to contradict her will , as though it were a sin : Yet she rewards my good with ill , which makes me cry Due gwin . I thought I had her free consent , but it proved quite contrary : For while I on a journey went , another she did marry . Cause I was absent for a space , and thought no hurt therein : Another did possess my place , which made me cry Due gwin , When I returned home again , I thought with her to wed : But there I found my labour vain , for she before was sped . Which when I saw , I sighed and sobbed , and made a piteous din : Wishing him hanged that had me robbed , and made me cry Due gwin . It seems by this , it's hard to find a woman true in heart : Believe them not , though they seem kind , they can deceive by art . We men may woe and use the means , at us they laugh and grin : Thus we are crossed by faithless queans , which makes us cry Due gwin . The second Part. To the same tune . With the Nymphs Recantation . N Owe when the Nymph did see the swain was safe returned at last : Most petuously she did complain , to think of what was passed . The sting of conscience did her prick , calling to mind her sin : Immediately she fell soar sick , and cried alas Due gwin . No comfort could she take at all , to cure her inward smart : She thought it bootless to recall the folly of her heart . It might have grieved a man to see , the case that she was in : My found mistrust of him , quoth she , thus makes me cry Due gwin . O had I never seen men face , since my deer shepherd went : Then had I never known disgrace , but lived still continent . Or if within some sacred cell , I had included been : I had remained constant still . but now I cry Due gwin . Thus having wept for her offence , she sent unto her swain : Desiring that without offence , she might his sighed obtain . At her request he went apace , her husband not within : As soon as ever she saw his face , she wept and cried Due gwin . What speeches passed between these twaine were needless here to tell : The Nymph embraced and kissed her Swain , and all was wondrous well . He needs no elegance of phrase , her favour now to win , Her grief was turned to found love plays , she cried no more Due gwin . Dear love , quoth she , what's done & amp ; past , I cannot now recant : Yet what I have , while life does last , my shepherd shall not want . What though my husbands forehead ache , I weigh it not a pin : Yet if by chance he should us take , we both must cry Due gwin . Thus were the lovers perfect friends , the Nymph , as best became her , Did make her shepherd such amend , he knew not how to blame her . Yet let all young men keep [ ? ] if they their loves w [ ? ] If they be lost while [ ? ] then they may cry [ Due gwin . ] FIN [ IS ] By Martin [ Parker ] London Printed for Joh [ n Trundle ] to be told at his shop [ ? ] tall gate in S [ ? ] The two Welsh Lovers , OR The British Nymph that long was in her life , A changing Maid , but a recanting Wife . Let every man that would win a Maids favour , At home keep with her , if he mean to have her . To the tune of the Blazing Torch . A S late I walked the Meads along , where Severns streams did glide ; I herd a mournful Shepherd's song , and him at last espied . He wrung his hands and wept apace , to mourn he did not lin : Rivers of tears ran down his face , and still he cried Due gwin . I drew me near unto the Swain , and prayed him tell the cause , Why he so sadly did complain , he silent made a pause . At length he raised himself to speak , yet ever he could begin ; He sighed as if his heart would break , and cried alas Due gwin . Quoth he , Among yond British hills , where Zephirus does breathe : Where flowers sweet the Meadows fills , and valleys underneath , And near unto that fountain head , where Dee comes flowing in : Ah me , that fatal Nymph was bred , for whom I cried Due gwin . I loved her once , but now I rue , that I was such and Ass : For she did prove the most untrue , that ever woman was . Fair was her face , great was her fame , had she still constant been : But , O , her heart was not the same : which makes me cry Due gwin . Once had I power , till her command forbade that power to rise , Further then touching of her hand , or looking on her eyes . I feared to contradict her will , as though it were a sin : Yet she rewards my good with ill , which makes me cry Due gwin . I thought I had her free consent , but it proved quite contrary : For while I on a journey went , another she did marry . Cause I was absent for a space , and thought no hurt therein : Another did possess my place , which made me cry Due gwin , When I returned home again , I thought with her to wed : But there I found my labour vain , for she before was sped . Which when I saw , I sighed and sobbed , and made a piteous din : Wishing him hanged that had me robbed , and made me cry Due gwin . It seems by this , it's hard to find a woman true in heart : Believe them not , though they seem kind , they can deceive by art . We men may woe and use the means , at us they laugh and grin : Thus we are crossed by faithless queans , which makes us cry Due gwin . The second Part. To the same tune . With the Nymphs Recantation . N Owe when the Nymph did see the swain was safe returned at last : Most petuously she did complain , to think of what was passed . The sting of conscience did her prick , calling to mind her sin : Immediately she fell soar sick , and cried alas Due gwin . No comfort could she take at all , to cure her inward smart : She thought it bootless to recall the folly of her heart . It might have grieved a man to see , the case that she was in : My found mistrust of him , quoth she , thus makes me cry Due gwin . O had I never seen men face , since my deer shepherd went : Then had I never known disgrace , but lived still continent . Or if within some sacred cell , I had included been : I had remained constant still . but now I cry Due gwin . Thus having wept for her offence , she sent unto her swain : Desiring that without offence , she might his sighed obtain . At her request he went apace , her husband not within : As soon as ever she saw his face , she wept and cried Due gwin . What speeches passed between these twaine were needless here to tell : The Nymph embraced and kissed her Swain , and all was wondrous well . He needs no elegance of phrase , her favour now to win , Her grief was turned to found love plays , she cried no more Due gwin . Dear love , quoth she , what's done & amp ; past , I cannot now recant : Yet what I have , while life does last , my shepherd shall not want . What though my husbands forehead ache , I weigh it not a pin : Yet if by chance he should us take , we both must cry Due gwin . Thus were the lovers perfect friends , the Nymph , as best became her , Did make her shepherd such amend , he knew not how to blame her . Yet let all young men keep [ ? ] if they their loves w [ ? ] If they be lost while [ ? ] then they may cry [ Due gwin . ] FIN [ IS ] By Martin [ Parker ] London Printed for Joh [ n Trundle ] to be told at his shop [ ? ] tall gate in S [ ? ] 