O yes . If any Man or Woman , any thing desire , Let them repair forthwith unto the Crier . To the tune of the Parrator . O yes , I F any man or woman , in Country or in City , Can tell where lives Charity or where abideth Pity ? Bring news unto the Crier , and their reward shall be The prayers of poor folks every day , upon the humble knee . O yes , If any man hath gone so long unto the Law , That he hath lost his wits , and is not worth a straw , That to regain the saddle , is glad to lose the horse , Let them turn down by Beggars-bush and rest at weeping-cross . O yes , If any man there be , that loves the crafty Fox , And yet the mumping Cunny , will firret with a pox : Let him come to the Crier , and for his just reward , He may die in and Hospital , and stink within the Yard . O yes , If any loving Wench does miss her Maidenhead , And knows not where she lost it , abroad or in her bed , Let her come to the Crier , and pay him for his pain , And tell the marks of it , and she shall have it straight again . O yes , If there be any Ostler , has lately lost a Nag , By lodging in his hay-mowe , of every Tag and Rag , And now is forced to pay fored , let him trust knaves no more : But now the Steed is stolen , be sure to shut the stable door . O yes , If any Man or Woman , or Maiden , if she be , That hath by any sudden chance , lost some small honesty , Let them come and demand it , they shall have their desire , Without telling the marks of it , or paying of the Crier . The second Part. To the same tune . O yes , I F any gentle Lady , in Court or in the City Hath lost all her Complexion , the Crier in mere pity , Hath god a box of beauty , the like was never seen , Full of the purest Read and White , to cover black or green . O yes , If any gallant Squires who near their bodies spare , In any great hight service , have strangely lost their hair , Let them come to the Crier , and straight he will them fit , With curled locks which like the best to cover all their wit . O yes , If there be any Cutpurse , that the last market day By chance did cut a Purse that went unwillingly astray , With twenty Pounds in money , let him forthwith appear And if he chance to escape the rope , he shall have whipping cheer . O yes , If there be any Woman the which hath lost her tongue , To help her to recover it , would do her husband wrong : For thus the goodman wishes , if that she be a scold , With all his heart that she might take and everlasting could . O yes , If theres any man or woman , that can directly tell Where any Petty fogger , that takes no bribes , does dwell , Bring word unto the Crier , he shall be paid therefore , For he will never plead aright the causes of the poor . O yes , Or is there any here can tell me any news , Where dwells and honest Broker , that never will refuse To take ten in the hundred , of such a one I pray Bing word to me , I am his friend a twelvemonth and a day . O yes , If there be any man hoth lately lost his Wife . Who never since she saw fifteene , did led and honest life ; Let him three market days expect to see his evil , Or mounted in a Cart , or else she's gone unto the devil . O yes , If there be any Lass that will her skill engage . To find a sucking Infant left , of twenty years of age ; And let her bring him home , she shall be welly paid , And have her praises pricked & amp ; pricked , and sent away no Maid . Printed for F. Coules . FINIS . O yes . If any Man or Woman , any thing desire , Let them repair forthwith unto the Crier . To the tune of the Parrator . O yes , I F any man or woman , in Country or in City , Can tell where lives Charity or where abideth Pity ? Bring news unto the Crier , and their reward shall be The prayers of poor folks every day , upon the humble knee . O yes , If any man hath gone so long unto the Law , That he hath lost his wits , and is not worth a straw , That to regain the saddle , is glad to lose the horse , Let them turn down by Beggars-bush and rest at weeping-cross . O yes , If any man there be , that loves the crafty Fox , And yet the mumping Cunny , will firret with a pox : Let him come to the Crier , and for his just reward , He may die in and Hospital , and stink within the Yard . O yes , If any loving Wench does miss her Maidenhead , And knows not where she lost it , abroad or in her bed , Let her come to the Crier , and pay him for his pain , And tell the marks of it , and she shall have it straight again . O yes , If there be any Ostler , has lately lost a Nag , By lodging in his hay-mowe , of every Tag and Rag , And now is forced to pay fored , let him trust knaves no more : But now the Steed is stolen , be sure to shut the stable door . O yes , If any Man or Woman , or Maiden , if she be , That hath by any sudden chance , lost some small honesty , Let them come and demand it , they shall have their desire , Without telling the marks of it , or paying of the Crier . The second Part. To the same tune . O yes , I F any gentle Lady , in Court or in the City Hath lost all her Complexion , the Crier in mere pity , Hath god a box of beauty , the like was never seen , Full of the purest Read and White , to cover black or green . O yes , If any gallant Squires who near their bodies spare , In any great hight service , have strangely lost their hair , Let them come to the Crier , and straight he will them fit , With curled locks which like the best to cover all their wit . O yes , If there be any Cutpurse , that the last market day By chance did cut a Purse that went unwillingly astray , With twenty Pounds in money , let him forthwith appear And if he chance to escape the rope , he shall have whipping cheer . O yes , If there be any Woman the which hath lost her tongue , To help her to recover it , would do her husband wrong : For thus the goodman wishes , if that she be a scold , With all his heart that she might take and everlasting could . O yes , If theres any man or woman , that can directly tell Where any Petty fogger , that takes no bribes , does dwell , Bring word unto the Crier , he shall be paid therefore , For he will never plead aright the causes of the poor . O yes , Or is there any here can tell me any news , Where dwells and honest Broker , that never will refuse To take ten in the hundred , of such a one I pray Bing word to me , I am his friend a twelvemonth and a day . O yes , If there be any man hoth lately lost his Wife . Who never since she saw fifteene , did led and honest life ; Let him three market days expect to see his evil , Or mounted in a Cart , or else she's gone unto the devil . O yes , If there be any Lass that will her skill engage . To find a sucking Infant left , of twenty years of age ; And let her bring him home , she shall be welly paid , And have her praises pricked & amp ; pricked , and sent away no Maid . Printed for F. Coules . FINIS . 