The Discourse between A Soldier and his Love . Showing that she did bear a faithful mind , For Land nor Sea could make her stay behind . To the tune of Upon a Summer time . Soldier . M Y dearest deer adue , since that I needs must go My Fortune's to pursue against some Foreign Foe . Being that it is so , I pray thee patient be , And do not killed thy Coat , to go along with me . Pegge . Alas my dearest heart , if that thou leave me here , Death kills me with his dart , as plainly may appear . For sorrow grief and smart , will quickly make me die , Therefore I'll killed my Coat , and go along with thee . Soldier . Over the dangerous Seas , whereto I must repair , Will breed thee some disease , and change thy colour fair . Therefore my Love forbear , and well advised be , And do not killed thy Coat to go along with me . Pegge . Theres nothing can withstand , a willing settled mind : There neither Sea nor Land , shall make me stay behind . I think I were unkind , to leave thy company : Nay I will killed my Coat and go along with thee . Soldier . Sweetheart let me persuade , that thou wilt stay at home , And mark what shall be said as all to pass will come . When we have passed the Seas , and come unto the Land , Against our Enemies , in Armour we must stand . Pegge . Well I for one will stand , while that my life does last , And fight with heart and hand , till dangers are over past . And then I will relieve thee in extremity , Therefore I'll killed my Coat , and go along with thee . The second part to same tune . Soldier . TO Oh lie in open fields , in time of Frost and Snow , Without or house or shields , where bitter blasts do blow . It will thy body change , my deer I tell to thee : Then do not killed thy Coat , to go along with me . Pegge . Sweetheart I do suppose , all that you say is true , I am as sure a choice , as I appear to you . I think I were unkind to leave thy company , Therefore I'll killed my Coat and go along with thee . Soldier . It is a dangerous thing , my sweet , my fair , my deer , To hear the Cannons ring , like thunder in the air . The sword , the Pike , the Spear , the dreadful enemy : Will much affright thy Coat to go along with me . Pegge . I will lay all aside , what ever may befall , Whatsoever does betide I'll verture life and all . The matter were but small , though for thy sake I die , Therefore Ill killed my Coat , and go along with thee . Soldier . My griefs would still abound , if I should see thee want , Thy cries would still resound , and make my heart to pant . Sweetheart let not thy mind , be bent unto the sea . Nor do not killed thy Coat to go along with me . Pegge . Why , do thou not despair , nor trouble so thy mind : Howsoever I do fare I'll take it as I find . And I will thee comfort in midst of thy woe : Then do not say no more , but yield that I may go . Soldier . Then welcome with my heart seeing thou wilt go with me Thou playest as kind a part as did Penelope , Thou comfortest all my woes , I'll have thy company : Therefore love killed thy Coat and go along with me . No Turtle to her mate , could ever be more true , For she with fortune's fate , all dangers did pursue She ventures love and life , most like a lover true : God send me such a wife , and so kind hearts adue . Printed at London for F. Coules . The Discourse between A Soldier and his Love . Showing that she did bear a faithful mind , For Land nor Sea could make her stay behind . To the tune of Upon a Summer time . Soldier . M Y dearest deer adue , since that I needs must go My Fortune's to pursue against some Foreign Foe . Being that it is so , I pray thee patient be , And do not killed thy Coat , to go along with me . Pegge . Alas my dearest heart , if that thou leave me here , Death kills me with his dart , as plainly may appear . For sorrow grief and smart , will quickly make me die , Therefore I'll killed my Coat , and go along with thee . Soldier . Over the dangerous Seas , whereto I must repair , Will breed thee some disease , and change thy colour fair . Therefore my Love forbear , and well advised be , And do not killed thy Coat to go along with me . Pegge . Theres nothing can withstand , a willing settled mind : There neither Sea nor Land , shall make me stay behind . I think I were unkind , to leave thy company : Nay I will killed my Coat and go along with thee . Soldier . Sweetheart let me persuade , that thou wilt stay at home , And mark what shall be said as all to pass will come . When we have passed the Seas , and come unto the Land , Against our Enemies , in Armour we must stand . Pegge . Well I for one will stand , while that my life does last , And fight with heart and hand , till dangers are over past . And then I will relieve thee in extremity , Therefore I'll killed my Coat , and go along with thee . The second part to same tune . Soldier . TO Oh lie in open fields , in time of Frost and Snow , Without or house or shields , where bitter blasts do blow . It will thy body change , my deer I tell to thee : Then do not killed thy Coat , to go along with me . Pegge . Sweetheart I do suppose , all that you say is true , I am as sure a choice , as I appear to you . I think I were unkind to leave thy company , Therefore I'll killed my Coat and go along with thee . Soldier . It is a dangerous thing , my sweet , my fair , my deer , To hear the Cannons ring , like thunder in the air . The sword , the Pike , the Spear , the dreadful enemy : Will much affright thy Coat to go along with me . Pegge . I will lay all aside , what ever may befall , Whatsoever does betide I'll verture life and all . The matter were but small , though for thy sake I die , Therefore Ill killed my Coat , and go along with thee . Soldier . My griefs would still abound , if I should see thee want , Thy cries would still resound , and make my heart to pant . Sweetheart let not thy mind , be bent unto the sea . Nor do not killed thy Coat to go along with me . Pegge . Why , do thou not despair , nor trouble so thy mind : Howsoever I do fare I'll take it as I find . And I will thee comfort in midst of thy woe : Then do not say no more , but yield that I may go . Soldier . Then welcome with my heart seeing thou wilt go with me Thou playest as kind a part as did Penelope , Thou comfortest all my woes , I'll have thy company : Therefore love killed thy Coat and go along with me . No Turtle to her mate , could ever be more true , For she with fortune's fate , all dangers did pursue She ventures love and life , most like a lover true : God send me such a wife , and so kind hearts adue . Printed at London for F. Coules . 