The kind hearted Creature : Or The prettest jest that ere you knew , Yet Il'e say nothing but what is true : I once herd of a cunning Whore , But never the like of this before . To the tune of the Mother beguiled the Daughter : A L you that are disposed now , to hear a merry jest , By me shall be disclosed how , a bonny Lass confessed , That she had loved one or two , nay two or three and twenty , I cannot tell what they did doe , but she had Lovers plenty , Sing Boys , drink Boys , why should we not be merry : I'll tell you of a bonny Lass , and her Love beyond the Ferry . This bonny lass had caught a clap it seems by some young shaver , She being match with such mishap the Lads began to leave her , Though she missed of their company , some one made sure his bargain But she was loved of so many , that it is worth regarding . Yet she will sing , and always say drink round and let's be merry , I have a love in Lankeshire , and a little beyond the ferry . She now being called to account , for to describe aright , What young man was the Father oned and her own hearts delight But she could not resolve the same , because there was so many , She knew not's trade nor yet his name , for she was free for any . Sing Boys , etc Quoth she and if it have a Book then it the man it'h Gown , Or otherways an't have a hook , it the shepherd on the down , Or if it have a whip in's hand : then sure it was a carter , Or if it cannot go nor stand , I think it drunken Artor . Sing Boys , etc And if it have a new fashion , it one came out of France , And if it be a Musician : it one taught me to dance . And if in's hand a needle be , then sure it was a Taylor , Or if it chance to cross the Sea , I think it was a sailor . Sing Boys , drink boys , why should we not be merry , I have a love in Lankeshire , and a little beyond the ferry . The second part To the same tune . A Nd if it have a Hammer , then sure a Smith was he , And if it be full of manner , it one of good degree . Or if it have a shuttle , a Weaver sure was he then , And if that it be wise and subtle , it one of the bailiffs youngmen . Sing Boys etc And if it have a long lock , a Courtier sure was he , And if it be a pretty cock , then that was William he , And if it have a shoe in's hand , it was the boon Shoemaker , Or if it have a dirty band , it sure a dunghill raker - Sing boys etc And if it have a Kettle , then sure he was a Tinker : And if it be full of Mettle , it sure a good Ale-drinker And if that it be Gresie , then sure it was a Butcher : And if that it be lousy , then sure it was Butcher . Sing Boys , etc And if inns hand a flower be , a Gardener was the man sure , And if it love to take a Fee , I think it the Pariture : And if it be in a gown of grey , it one that lives ith Country , And if that it be fresh and gay , it one the common gentry . Sing Boys , etc And if it have a Pen inns hand , then sure it was a Scrivner , And if ith the Tavern he love to stand then sure it was a Vintner : And if it have a drowsy eye , it him that they call sleeper , And if with bromes and horns he cry it sure the Chimney-sweeper . Sing Boys , etc And if inns hand he have a Bun , then sure it was a Baker , And if he love to drink ith Tun , it then the good Alemaker : And if he love to ride a Horse , I think it was and Ostler , Or else it it the man oath Cross , that was a valiant Wrestler . Sing Boys , etc And if it have a mealy face , it him that grines the corn , And if a long note be in place , this him that winds the horn , And many more I here might name , which loved me once most dearly , But that indeed it is a shame , for enough is shown hereby . Sing boys etc Now all the hope I have is this , my bairn must have a Father , And I confess I did amiss , would I had repented rather , Yet ther's a youngman loves me well but I could never abide him , I know of me hel'e have no fear , though many will deride him , Sing boys etc R. C. London printed for F. Coules . The kind hearted Creature : Or The prettest jest that ere you knew , Yet Il'e say nothing but what is true : I once herd of a cunning Whore , But never the like of this before . To the tune of the Mother beguiled the Daughter : A L you that are disposed now , to hear a merry jest , By me shall be disclosed how , a bonny Lass confessed , That she had loved one or two , nay two or three and twenty , I cannot tell what they did doe , but she had Lovers plenty , Sing Boys , drink Boys , why should we not be merry : I'll tell you of a bonny Lass , and her Love beyond the Ferry . This bonny lass had caught a clap it seems by some young shaver , She being match with such mishap the Lads began to leave her , Though she missed of their company , some one made sure his bargain But she was loved of so many , that it is worth regarding . Yet she will sing , and always say drink round and let's be merry , I have a love in Lankeshire , and a little beyond the ferry . She now being called to account , for to describe aright , What young man was the Father oned and her own hearts delight But she could not resolve the same , because there was so many , She knew not's trade nor yet his name , for she was free for any . Sing Boys , etc Quoth she and if it have a Book then it the man it'h Gown , Or otherways an't have a hook , it the shepherd on the down , Or if it have a whip in's hand : then sure it was a carter , Or if it cannot go nor stand , I think it drunken Artor . Sing Boys , etc And if it have a new fashion , it one came out of France , And if it be a Musician : it one taught me to dance . And if in's hand a needle be , then sure it was a Taylor , Or if it chance to cross the Sea , I think it was a sailor . Sing Boys , drink boys , why should we not be merry , I have a love in Lankeshire , and a little beyond the ferry . The second part To the same tune . A Nd if it have a Hammer , then sure a Smith was he , And if it be full of manner , it one of good degree . Or if it have a shuttle , a Weaver sure was he then , And if that it be wise and subtle , it one of the bailiffs youngmen . Sing Boys etc And if it have a long lock , a Courtier sure was he , And if it be a pretty cock , then that was William he , And if it have a shoe in's hand , it was the boon Shoemaker , Or if it have a dirty band , it sure a dunghill raker - Sing boys etc And if it have a Kettle , then sure he was a Tinker : And if it be full of Mettle , it sure a good Ale-drinker And if that it be Gresie , then sure it was a Butcher : And if that it be lousy , then sure it was Butcher . Sing Boys , etc And if inns hand a flower be , a Gardener was the man sure , And if it love to take a Fee , I think it the Pariture : And if it be in a gown of grey , it one that lives ith Country , And if that it be fresh and gay , it one the common gentry . Sing Boys , etc And if it have a Pen inns hand , then sure it was a Scrivner , And if ith the Tavern he love to stand then sure it was a Vintner : And if it have a drowsy eye , it him that they call sleeper , And if with bromes and horns he cry it sure the Chimney-sweeper . Sing Boys , etc And if inns hand he have a Bun , then sure it was a Baker , And if he love to drink ith Tun , it then the good Alemaker : And if he love to ride a Horse , I think it was and Ostler , Or else it it the man oath Cross , that was a valiant Wrestler . Sing Boys , etc And if it have a mealy face , it him that grines the corn , And if a long note be in place , this him that winds the horn , And many more I here might name , which loved me once most dearly , But that indeed it is a shame , for enough is shown hereby . Sing boys etc Now all the hope I have is this , my bairn must have a Father , And I confess I did amiss , would I had repented rather , Yet ther's a youngman loves me well but I could never abide him , I know of me hel'e have no fear , though many will deride him , Sing boys etc R. C. London printed for F. Coules . 