The witty Western Lass . OR You maids that with your friends whole nights have spent Beware of back-fallings ; for fear of the event . To the tune called , The beggar boy . S Weet Lucina , lend me thy aid , thou art my helper , and no other , Pity the state of a Teeming maid , that never was wife , yet must be a mother By my presage it should be a boy , that thus lies tumbling in my belly , Yield me some ease to cure my annoy , and list to the griefs I now shall tell you . I was beloved every where , And much admired for my beauty , Young men thought they happy were , who best to me could show their duty , But now alack , pained in my back , and cruel gripping in my belly , Do force me to cry , Oh sick am I , I fear I shall die , alack , and welly . In stead of mirth now may I weep , and sadly for to fit lamenting , Since he I loved , no faith does keep , nor seeks no means for my contenting , But all regardless of my moan , or that lies tumbling in my belly , And into Swethland now is gone , he left me to cry , alack , and welly . It does the Proverb verify , folly were it to complain me , Those that desired my company , scornfully now disdain me , Wanting his sighed , was my delight , and cruel gripings in my belly , Do force me to cry , Oh sick am I , I fear I shall die , alack , and welly . Thus am I to the world a scorn . my dearest friends will not come nigh me , Shall I then for his absence mourn , that for his dearest does deny me , No , no , I will not do so , with patience I my grief will smother , And as he hath cozened me so will I by cunning gull another . Incontinent to Troy novant , for my content , I'll thither high me , Where privately , from company , obscurely I'll lie where none shall descry me , And when I am eased of my pain , and cruel gripings in my belly , I for a maid will pass again , and need not to cry alack , and welly . The second part , To the same tune . S Ome tradesman there I will deceive , by my modesty and carriage And I will so my self behave , as by some trick to get a marriage , And when I am married , I will so carry it , as none shall know it by my belly , That ever I have formerly had cause to cry , alack and welly . And if he be a husband kind I'll true and constant be unto him , Obedient still he shall me find , with good respect I'll duty owe him . But if he crabbed be , and cross , and basely beatrice me back and belly , As Vulcans Knight , I'll fit him right , and scorn to cry alack and welly . A secret friend I'll keep in store . for my content and delectation , And now and then in the Tavern rose , with jovial Gallants men of fashion , Sack , or Claret , I will call for it , I'll scorn to want or pinch my belly , But merry will be in company , no more will I cry and alack welly . And if I cannot to my mind a husband get that will maintain me , I'll show my self to each man kind , in hope that it some love will gain me . But yet so wary I will be , I'll shun from ought that may wrong my belly Through misery , to cause me cry , as formerly alack and welly . Had he I loved but constant proved , and not have been to me deceitful . No subtle Sinon should have moved me to those courses hateful . But since he proves false so to me , not pitying that is in my belly , No more I will grieve , but merry will be , and cry no more alack and welly . With resolution firmly bent , I'll cast off care and melancholy Sorrow and grief , and discontent , to fret and vex it is but a folly , Or seek by woe to overthrow , or wrong the first fruits of my belly , No , no , no , I'll not do so , no more I will cry , alack and welly . FINIS . Robert Guy . London printed for F Coals . The witty Western Lass . OR You maids that with your friends whole nights have spent Beware of back-fallings ; for fear of the event . To the tune called , The beggar boy . S Weet Lucina , lend me thy aid , thou art my helper , and no other , Pity the state of a Teeming maid , that never was wife , yet must be a mother By my presage it should be a boy , that thus lies tumbling in my belly , Yield me some ease to cure my annoy , and list to the griefs I now shall tell you . I was beloved every where , And much admired for my beauty , Young men thought they happy were , who best to me could show their duty , But now alack , pained in my back , and cruel gripping in my belly , Do force me to cry , Oh sick am I , I fear I shall die , alack , and welly . In stead of mirth now may I weep , and sadly for to fit lamenting , Since he I loved , no faith does keep , nor seeks no means for my contenting , But all regardless of my moan , or that lies tumbling in my belly , And into Swethland now is gone , he left me to cry , alack , and welly . It does the Proverb verify , folly were it to complain me , Those that desired my company , scornfully now disdain me , Wanting his sighed , was my delight , and cruel gripings in my belly , Do force me to cry , Oh sick am I , I fear I shall die , alack , and welly . Thus am I to the world a scorn . my dearest friends will not come nigh me , Shall I then for his absence mourn , that for his dearest does deny me , No , no , I will not do so , with patience I my grief will smother , And as he hath cozened me so will I by cunning gull another . Incontinent to Troy novant , for my content , I'll thither high me , Where privately , from company , obscurely I'll lie where none shall descry me , And when I am eased of my pain , and cruel gripings in my belly , I for a maid will pass again , and need not to cry alack , and welly . The second part , To the same tune . S Ome tradesman there I will deceive , by my modesty and carriage And I will so my self behave , as by some trick to get a marriage , And when I am married , I will so carry it , as none shall know it by my belly , That ever I have formerly had cause to cry , alack and welly . And if he be a husband kind I'll true and constant be unto him , Obedient still he shall me find , with good respect I'll duty owe him . But if he crabbed be , and cross , and basely beatrice me back and belly , As Vulcans Knight , I'll fit him right , and scorn to cry alack and welly . A secret friend I'll keep in store . for my content and delectation , And now and then in the Tavern rose , with jovial Gallants men of fashion , Sack , or Claret , I will call for it , I'll scorn to want or pinch my belly , But merry will be in company , no more will I cry and alack welly . And if I cannot to my mind a husband get that will maintain me , I'll show my self to each man kind , in hope that it some love will gain me . But yet so wary I will be , I'll shun from ought that may wrong my belly Through misery , to cause me cry , as formerly alack and welly . Had he I loved but constant proved , and not have been to me deceitful . No subtle Sinon should have moved me to those courses hateful . But since he proves false so to me , not pitying that is in my belly , No more I will grieve , but merry will be , and cry no more alack and welly . With resolution firmly bent , I'll cast off care and melancholy Sorrow and grief , and discontent , to fret and vex it is but a folly , Or seek by woe to overthrow , or wrong the first fruits of my belly , No , no , no , I'll not do so , no more I will cry , alack and welly . FINIS . Robert Guy . London printed for F Coals . 