A good throw for three Maidenheads . Some say that maidenheads are of high price , But here are three maids that have lost theirs at dice . To the Tune , Of Over and Under . TO Hree maids did make a meeting , With one young man of late , Where they had such a greeting , As passes Peg and Kate . They talk of many matters , Not fitting to be told : Also they drank strong waters , To heat their stomachs cold and when they had , drunk with the Lad , Until they were merry all : between them three , they did agree , Into discourse to fallen . Concerning husbands getting , The question did arise , And each of them their sitting , Some reason did devise . One was a milkemaid bonny , The other I'll not name , And she did get much money , By selling of the same , her name is Jone , as is well known , I hope this no offence : to tell what they , did on that day , Before they went from thence . They all did love this young man And each for him did strive , It seems he was a strong man , That could his work contrive . Now which of them should have him , They neither of them knew , But each of them did crave him , As her own proper endue . now meeting , and greeting , As maids and young men use , with them he drank , his money was frank , Indeed he could not choose . And either of them telling , Her mind in full to him , Mean while the rest were filling , Their cups up to thee brim . Because in either of them , It seems he had a share , Unless he meant to scoff them , He now must choose his ware . and therefore they , without delay , Being on the merry pin : with good advice , did throw the dice , Who should the young man win ? The young man was contented , And so the dice were brought . The maids that this invented , Their lessons were well taught : For the youngman all lusted , And by this fine device , They severally all trusted , To win him by the dice . but hark now , and mark now , The manner of their play , in their behalf , I know yowl laugh , Before you go away . The second part , To the same tune , I F any of the lasses , Do overthrow the rest , On her the verdict passes , None should with her contest , But she should have her lover , Clean from the other twaine , If even not above her , Then they must throw again . but if he , all them three , Did win by throwing most : their maidenheads all , to him must fallen , Without any pain or cost . To this they all replied , They jointly were agreed , What words had testified , Should be performed indeed . The first maid threw , tray cater ace , Which is in all but eight , She hoped from all the maids in place , To win the lad by right , The second I think , threw tray dewce cinque , There's ten ( quoth she ) for me the first was quelled , for this excelled Full sorely vexed was she . The third with courage lusty , Did take the dice in hand , Now dice if you be trusty , Quoth she , this cast shall stand , For I resolve for better for worse As fortune shall dispose , That either now isle win the horse Or else the Saddle loose . she took them , and she shook them , And threw without fear or wit , tray cater since , gramercy dice , Quoth she , for that is it . She thought herself most certain The young man now to have , But false deluding fortune , No such great favour gave . The young man took the dice up Quoth he now have at all , He threw sink cater since up , Which made her courage fallen , who threw the last , for was surpassed , How now my girls , quoth he , You must resign , for they are mine , Your maidenheads to me . For I have fairly won them , As you your selves can tell , The lots were cast upon them , Which you all liked well . The maidens all confessed , That what he said was true , And that they were distressed , Should he exact his endue . we hope sir , some scope sir , You unto us will give . if that we pay , whats lost by play , It pity we should live . Quoth he , I'll have them all three , For they by right are mine , Or else in troth , they shall be , All painted on my sign . The sign of the one maidenhead , Hath oftentimes been seen , But isle have three caused shall be said The like hath never been . now whither this lad , his winnings had , I cannot nor will not say : but likely this , he would not miss , What was wone by fair play . They thought they had been private Where none had heard their doing But one did so contrive it , That he herd all this woeing . Thought he I have herd many hold , Their maidenheads at high price , But now hereafter it may be told , How three were won at dice . this man ere long , did cause this song , To be made on the same , that maidens fair , might have a care , And play at no such game . London , Printed for I. Grissmond . FINIS . M. P . A good throw for three Maidenheads . Some say that maidenheads are of high price , But here are three maids that have lost theirs at dice . To the Tune , Of Over and Under . TO Hree maids did make a meeting , With one young man of late , Where they had such a greeting , As passes Peg and Kate . They talk of many matters , Not fitting to be told : Also they drank strong waters , To heat their stomachs cold and when they had , drunk with the Lad , Until they were merry all : between them three , they did agree , Into discourse to fallen . Concerning husbands getting , The question did arise , And each of them their sitting , Some reason did devise . One was a milkemaid bonny , The other I'll not name , And she did get much money , By selling of the same , her name is Jone , as is well known , I hope this no offence : to tell what they , did on that day , Before they went from thence . They all did love this young man And each for him did strive , It seems he was a strong man , That could his work contrive . Now which of them should have him , They neither of them knew , But each of them did crave him , As her own proper endue . now meeting , and greeting , As maids and young men use , with them he drank , his money was frank , Indeed he could not choose . And either of them telling , Her mind in full to him , Mean while the rest were filling , Their cups up to thee brim . Because in either of them , It seems he had a share , Unless he meant to scoff them , He now must choose his ware . and therefore they , without delay , Being on the merry pin : with good advice , did throw the dice , Who should the young man win ? The young man was contented , And so the dice were brought . The maids that this invented , Their lessons were well taught : For the youngman all lusted , And by this fine device , They severally all trusted , To win him by the dice . but hark now , and mark now , The manner of their play , in their behalf , I know yowl laugh , Before you go away . The second part , To the same tune , I F any of the lasses , Do overthrow the rest , On her the verdict passes , None should with her contest , But she should have her lover , Clean from the other twaine , If even not above her , Then they must throw again . but if he , all them three , Did win by throwing most : their maidenheads all , to him must fallen , Without any pain or cost . To this they all replied , They jointly were agreed , What words had testified , Should be performed indeed . The first maid threw , tray cater ace , Which is in all but eight , She hoped from all the maids in place , To win the lad by right , The second I think , threw tray dewce cinque , There's ten ( quoth she ) for me the first was quelled , for this excelled Full sorely vexed was she . The third with courage lusty , Did take the dice in hand , Now dice if you be trusty , Quoth she , this cast shall stand , For I resolve for better for worse As fortune shall dispose , That either now isle win the horse Or else the Saddle loose . she took them , and she shook them , And threw without fear or wit , tray cater since , gramercy dice , Quoth she , for that is it . She thought herself most certain The young man now to have , But false deluding fortune , No such great favour gave . The young man took the dice up Quoth he now have at all , He threw sink cater since up , Which made her courage fallen , who threw the last , for was surpassed , How now my girls , quoth he , You must resign , for they are mine , Your maidenheads to me . For I have fairly won them , As you your selves can tell , The lots were cast upon them , Which you all liked well . The maidens all confessed , That what he said was true , And that they were distressed , Should he exact his endue . we hope sir , some scope sir , You unto us will give . if that we pay , whats lost by play , It pity we should live . Quoth he , I'll have them all three , For they by right are mine , Or else in troth , they shall be , All painted on my sign . The sign of the one maidenhead , Hath oftentimes been seen , But isle have three caused shall be said The like hath never been . now whither this lad , his winnings had , I cannot nor will not say : but likely this , he would not miss , What was wone by fair play . They thought they had been private Where none had heard their doing But one did so contrive it , That he herd all this woeing . Thought he I have herd many hold , Their maidenheads at high price , But now hereafter it may be told , How three were won at dice . this man ere long , did cause this song , To be made on the same , that maidens fair , might have a care , And play at no such game . London , Printed for I. Grissmond . FINIS . M. P. 