A most pleasant Dialogue : OR A merry greeting between two lovers , How Will and Nan did fallen at strife , And at the last made man and wife . To the tune of Lusina . G Ood morrow fair Nansie , whither so fast , I pray sweet , whither are you walking ? Stand back , Jack-sauce , I like not your cast , I scorn with Coxcombs to be talking . No rustic Clown within the Town , shall disturb me , stop , stay , or hinder , To talk with such a fool as thee : no man shall think my wits so slender . Thou knowest I am a Gentleman born , and come of no small reputation : My fame will never be out worn , while English men enjoy this Nation . In foreign Lands I have been proved to be the leader of the battle , Of Captains knights and Lords beloved , when thundering Drums and Cannons rattle . I herd indeed thou hast been pressed , and know the cause of it , believe me : Only to get a man released , for which he 20 . shillings gave thee : But being come into the place , while others bravely showed their cunning , Thou like a Coward didst hide thy face , and glad wertenberg thou for to be running . I have 3 . hundred pounds a year , which shall be thine , if thou canst fancy , And love thy friend as may appear , all shall redound to my sweet Nansie . My birth also thou dost wellknow , my Parentage does grace our meeting : Grant me thy love , and thou shalt be the Mistress of my wealth , my sweating . As for thy wealth , keep to thy self , for fear hereafter thou shouldst want it : I knew a fool bestowed his pelf , and in small time he did recant it . But for thy birth , I think on earth the like was not by one nor other , Long 7 . years together , through wind & amp ; weather , thou wast born at the back of thy mother . When I lived with my friends at home , I went in silk and rich arayment , With Gallants I in Taverns roared , ten pound at once in ready payment I did disburse out of my purse , unto the Vintner for good licker , And so my Father allowed me to do , to make my wits and spirits quicker . The second part , to the same tune . M Such like unto a ruffian , rude , thou didst amongst Punks & amp ; Panders wander , And commpany keptest with Strumpets lude , as flocks of Geese keep with the Gander . To Tom of Bedlam wouldst thou skip , all this is truth which I do tell yet , And eat the meat out of his scrip , so glad wertenberg thou to fill thy belly . Why Nan , me thinks thou shouldst not chide , nor put thy will to these disgraces : Many fair Lasses I have denied , which sought to win me with embraces . Winny the witty and Parnell the pretty , and Sis of the City have sought unto me . Besse , Joane , and Isabell : Sue , Alce & amp ; bonny Nell , thought of me passing well , & amp ; Kate did woo me . Since thou so many loves haste had , and every one of them do forsake thee , I'll show thee how thou mayest soon be a Dad , if thou with speed away be take thee . Go to Pickt-hatch , there is bouncsing Kate , that for a good husband is like to miscarry , If thou goest unto her , and soundly dost woo her , sheeed make thee a Dad the first day thou dost marry . Wilt please you to the Tavern go , and take a pint of Sack or Clarret : Fine Sugar cakes weel have also , whatever it cost I will pay for it . The good Sack-bowl shall merrily trowle . in Nectar shall your health go roundly , Then welcome luck ; my dainty duck , may fit and see her self pledged soundly . Thou boisterous Clown , give over thy suit , and leave thy fabling complication : Speak wiser words , or else be mute , 'twill be more for thy commendation , Thy jolly read nose does well disclose , and show thee to be a man of mettle : Thou'lt fit in a house , to drink and carouse , till thy nose look like a Copper-kettle . All these strange speeches which here are past , shall never make me misdoubt my Nanny : I trust to enjoy thy favour at last , the words in derision thou hast given me many I for thy sake will under take , to swim the Ocean like Leander . Be thou to me like Penelope , which in affection did never wander . Then heeres my hand , sweet , Will at command my heart also shall still procure , Like faithful Hero to thee I'll stand , like dame Venus will I endure , To keep my Joy from direful annoy , I'll leave my life to do thee pleasure . Take all thy self , my only sweet boy , my Jewels , Rings , my gold and treasure . Thanks gentle mistress of my heart , my breast hath now given over panting : To Church let us go act the part , which yet betwixt us two is wanting . In Nuptial bans give hearts and hand - which never can be separated . Great Cresus gold twice overtold : could never be so highly rated . Printed at London for H.G. Finis . C . R.A most pleasant Dialogue : OR A merry greeting between two lovers , How Will and Nan did fallen at strife , And at the last made man and wife . To the tune of Lusina . G Ood morrow fair Nansie , whither so fast , I pray sweet , whither are you walking ? Stand back , Jack-sauce , I like not your cast , I scorn with Coxcombs to be talking . No rustic Clown within the Town , shall disturb me , stop , stay , or hinder , To talk with such a fool as thee : no man shall think my wits so slender . Thou knowest I am a Gentleman born , and come of no small reputation : My fame will never be out worn , while English men enjoy this Nation . In foreign Lands I have been proved to be the leader of the battle , Of Captains knights and Lords beloved , when thundering Drums and Cannons rattle . I herd indeed thou hast been pressed , and know the cause of it , believe me : Only to get a man released , for which he 20 . shillings gave thee : But being come into the place , while others bravely showed their cunning , Thou like a Coward didst hide thy face , and glad wertenberg thou for to be running . I have 3 . hundred pounds a year , which shall be thine , if thou canst fancy , And love thy friend as may appear , all shall redound to my sweet Nansie . My birth also thou dost wellknow , my Parentage does grace our meeting : Grant me thy love , and thou shalt be the Mistress of my wealth , my sweating . As for thy wealth , keep to thy self , for fear hereafter thou shouldst want it : I knew a fool bestowed his pelf , and in small time he did recant it . But for thy birth , I think on earth the like was not by one nor other , Long 7 . years together , through wind & amp ; weather , thou wast born at the back of thy mother . When I lived with my friends at home , I went in silk and rich arayment , With Gallants I in Taverns roared , ten pound at once in ready payment I did disburse out of my purse , unto the Vintner for good licker , And so my Father allowed me to do , to make my wits and spirits quicker . The second part , to the same tune . M Such like unto a ruffian , rude , thou didst amongst Punks & amp ; Panders wander , And commpany keptest with Strumpets lude , as flocks of Geese keep with the Gander . To Tom of Bedlam wouldst thou skip , all this is truth which I do tell yet , And eat the meat out of his scrip , so glad wertenberg thou to fill thy belly . Why Nan , me thinks thou shouldst not chide , nor put thy will to these disgraces : Many fair Lasses I have denied , which sought to win me with embraces . Winny the witty and Parnell the pretty , and Sis of the City have sought unto me . Besse , Joane , and Isabell : Sue , Alce & amp ; bonny Nell , thought of me passing well , & amp ; Kate did woo me . Since thou so many loves haste had , and every one of them do forsake thee , I'll show thee how thou mayest soon be a Dad , if thou with speed away be take thee . Go to Pickt-hatch , there is bouncsing Kate , that for a good husband is like to miscarry , If thou goest unto her , and soundly dost woo her , sheeed make thee a Dad the first day thou dost marry . Wilt please you to the Tavern go , and take a pint of Sack or Clarret : Fine Sugar cakes weel have also , whatever it cost I will pay for it . The good Sack-bowl shall merrily trowle . in Nectar shall your health go roundly , Then welcome luck ; my dainty duck , may fit and see her self pledged soundly . Thou boisterous Clown , give over thy suit , and leave thy fabling complication : Speak wiser words , or else be mute , 'twill be more for thy commendation , Thy jolly read nose does well disclose , and show thee to be a man of mettle : Thou'lt fit in a house , to drink and carouse , till thy nose look like a Copper-kettle . All these strange speeches which here are past , shall never make me misdoubt my Nanny : I trust to enjoy thy favour at last , the words in derision thou hast given me many I for thy sake will under take , to swim the Ocean like Leander . Be thou to me like Penelope , which in affection did never wander . Then heeres my hand , sweet , Will at command my heart also shall still procure , Like faithful Hero to thee I'll stand , like dame Venus will I endure , To keep my Joy from direful annoy , I'll leave my life to do thee pleasure . Take all thy self , my only sweet boy , my Jewels , Rings , my gold and treasure . Thanks gentle mistress of my heart , my breast hath now given over panting : To Church let us go act the part , which yet betwixt us two is wanting . In Nuptial bans give hearts and hand - which never can be separated . Great Cresus gold twice overtold : could never be so highly rated . Printed at London for H.G. Finis . C.R. 