This Maid would give tenne Shillings for a Kiss : To the Tune of Shall I wrestle in despair . Y Ou young men all take pity on me , the haplessest Maid you ever did see : Refused of all , of all neglected , hated of all and by none affected : The cause I know not : well I know , their found neglect procures my woe . Then since their hopeful loves I miss , come , here's ten shillings for a kiss . I do as much as a Maid can do , for gainst my nature I do woe : I use all means that ere I can , to get the love of a proper man : Yet let me use the best of skill , they still deny , and cross my will : Then since their hopeful loves I miss : come here's ten shillings for a kiss . With Sievet sweet I make me fine , with sweet complexion I do shine : With beauteous colours passing deer , I paint and prune , yet never the near . My cost is vain , so well it proves : for all my cost there's no man loves : Then since their hopeful loves I miss , come here's ten shillings for a kiss . I have a face as fair as any , my nose and lip surpasses many , I have and eye that rousing lies , though theies are better to entice : Why should all men disdaining prove ? and worse beauty's dearly love ? But since their hopeful loves I miss : come here's ten shillings for a kiss . My arms are nimble to each point , active I am in every joint : I am not as some maidens are , so coy , for young men not to care , Why should I then disdained be ? when those are loved be worse then me : But since their hopeful loves I miss : come here's ten shillings for a kiss . My waste is small , and likewise long , my leg well calf , and boned strong , My pretty foot you all may feel , is not in breadth and inch in the heel . From head to foot in every part , I seem a building framed by Art : Yet since their hopeful loves I miss , come here's ten shillings for a kiss . Yet man's obdurate to my mones , they all stand senseless of my groans , They never regard a proper maid : great heirs are taken and she denayed , Yet by all means I will assay , to gain men's loves as well as they : For since their hopeful loves I miss , come here's ten shillings for a kiss . Is Cupid dead , will he not strike , and make some man perforce to like : Or is he angry with a creature , making me live the scorn of nature : Or is his dart in's Quiver fast : o no , I h [ open ] e heel strike at last : Since I their hopeful loves do miss , come here's ten shillings for a kiss . To the Dancing school I usual go , and learn far more then many do Oft I resort to weddings for this , only to gain a young men kiss . Yet though my dancing be so good , by all youth there I am withstood : Then since their hopeful loves I miss , come here's ten shillings for a kiss . Let Venus guide some young men heart , or Anthropos strike here thy Dart Let young men pity my hard state , or prove like me unfortunate . Come gentle young men ease my grief , nought but a kiss can give relief , For since their hopeful loves I miss : come here's ten shillings for a kiss . FIINS . Printed at London by J. White . The Second Part shows she may have them Cheap I wis : To the Tune I can nor will no longer lie alone . A Lack fair Maid , why dost thou groan , As it for a kiss , alack but for one ? Nay thou shalt have a hundred one two or three , More sweeter then the honey that comes from the Bee . Do not think we men are unkind , For a Kiss or two to stay behind : Nay thou shalt have a hundred one two or three , More sweter then the blossoms from the Tree . All Maids they say , not as you say , For if that we pray , they will say nay : The more that we seek they still will reply , Alack they cannot love , yet know not why . I do not condemn all of your kind , But such that bear a froward faithless mind : The good I do protest , I love with my heart , And with the evil I , will not take part . we men are constant and Women to blame To be unconstant , to their loves a shame : Yet tell them of their faults , they still will reply , They will have their wiles , yet know not why . I would all Maids were of thy mind , Then should we Men to women be kind : And in love and Amity agree , More sweter uhen the honey that comes from the Bee . Many examples I could procure , Showing men constant in their love : Which thou shalt find in me I tell thee plain , Come kiss me gentle Sweating O Kiss again . There dwells a Maid in our Town green , With whom many Lovers , I have seen : Yet she's so coy , God wot she will have none , But led a single life all alone . But how it falls I do not know , A Ballet they say , now does it show : That sighing and protesting , she makes her moan , She can nor will no longer lie alone . And other lately as I hear , That vowed to live a Maiden forty year : Five shillings for a Husband now does cry , If that she be not helped , alack shee'l die . Come Ginny come and other cries , With the trickling tears in her eyes : My Maiden head alack it troubles me , Oh Ginny Ginny I , may say to thee . Do not blush at this I speak , For alack I know your Sex is weak : Let coy Dams pass away , refusing their bliss , Upon thy sweet lipes I do seal this Kiss . And now to conclude this my Song . Alack for a Kiss thou hast stayed too long : Nay thou deservest a thousand one two or three , More sweeter then the blossoms of the Tree . FINIS . Printed at London by J. White . This Maid would give tenne Shillings for a Kiss : To the Tune of Shall I wrestle in despair . Y Ou young men all take pity on me , the haplessest Maid you ever did see : Refused of all , of all neglected , hated of all and by none affected : The cause I know not : well I know , their found neglect procures my woe . Then since their hopeful loves I miss , come , here's ten shillings for a kiss . I do as much as a Maid can do , for gainst my nature I do woe : I use all means that ere I can , to get the love of a proper man : Yet let me use the best of skill , they still deny , and cross my will : Then since their hopeful loves I miss : come here's ten shillings for a kiss . With Sievet sweet I make me fine , with sweet complexion I do shine : With beauteous colours passing deer , I paint and prune , yet never the near . My cost is vain , so well it proves : for all my cost there's no man loves : Then since their hopeful loves I miss , come here's ten shillings for a kiss . I have a face as fair as any , my nose and lip surpasses many , I have and eye that rousing lies , though theies are better to entice : Why should all men disdaining prove ? and worse beauty's dearly love ? But since their hopeful loves I miss : come here's ten shillings for a kiss . My arms are nimble to each point , active I am in every joint : I am not as some maidens are , so coy , for young men not to care , Why should I then disdained be ? when those are loved be worse then me : But since their hopeful loves I miss : come here's ten shillings for a kiss . My waste is small , and likewise long , my leg well calf , and boned strong , My pretty foot you all may feel , is not in breadth and inch in the heel . From head to foot in every part , I seem a building framed by Art : Yet since their hopeful loves I miss , come here's ten shillings for a kiss . Yet man's obdurate to my mones , they all stand senseless of my groans , They never regard a proper maid : great heirs are taken and she denayed , Yet by all means I will assay , to gain men's loves as well as they : For since their hopeful loves I miss , come here's ten shillings for a kiss . Is Cupid dead , will he not strike , and make some man perforce to like : Or is he angry with a creature , making me live the scorn of nature : Or is his dart in's Quiver fast : o no , I h [ open ] e heel strike at last : Since I their hopeful loves do miss , come here's ten shillings for a kiss . To the Dancing school I usual go , and learn far more then many do Oft I resort to weddings for this , only to gain a young men kiss . Yet though my dancing be so good , by all youth there I am withstood : Then since their hopeful loves I miss , come here's ten shillings for a kiss . Let Venus guide some young men heart , or Anthropos strike here thy Dart Let young men pity my hard state , or prove like me unfortunate . Come gentle young men ease my grief , nought but a kiss can give relief , For since their hopeful loves I miss : come here's ten shillings for a kiss . FIINS . Printed at London by J. White . The Second Part shows she may have them Cheap I wis : To the Tune I can nor will no longer lie alone . A Lack fair Maid , why dost thou groan , As it for a kiss , alack but for one ? Nay thou shalt have a hundred one two or three , More sweeter then the honey that comes from the Bee . Do not think we men are unkind , For a Kiss or two to stay behind : Nay thou shalt have a hundred one two or three , More sweter then the blossoms from the Tree . All Maids they say , not as you say , For if that we pray , they will say nay : The more that we seek they still will reply , Alack they cannot love , yet know not why . I do not condemn all of your kind , But such that bear a froward faithless mind : The good I do protest , I love with my heart , And with the evil I , will not take part . we men are constant and Women to blame To be unconstant , to their loves a shame : Yet tell them of their faults , they still will reply , They will have their wiles , yet know not why . I would all Maids were of thy mind , Then should we Men to women be kind : And in love and Amity agree , More sweter uhen the honey that comes from the Bee . Many examples I could procure , Showing men constant in their love : Which thou shalt find in me I tell thee plain , Come kiss me gentle Sweating O Kiss again . There dwells a Maid in our Town green , With whom many Lovers , I have seen : Yet she's so coy , God wot she will have none , But led a single life all alone . But how it falls I do not know , A Ballet they say , now does it show : That sighing and protesting , she makes her moan , She can nor will no longer lie alone . And other lately as I hear , That vowed to live a Maiden forty year : Five shillings for a Husband now does cry , If that she be not helped , alack shee'l die . Come Ginny come and other cries , With the trickling tears in her eyes : My Maiden head alack it troubles me , Oh Ginny Ginny I , may say to thee . Do not blush at this I speak , For alack I know your Sex is weak : Let coy Dams pass away , refusing their bliss , Upon thy sweet lipes I do seal this Kiss . And now to conclude this my Song . Alack for a Kiss thou hast stayed too long : Nay thou deservest a thousand one two or three , More sweeter then the blossoms of the Tree . FINIS . Printed at London by J. White . 