The true Maid of the South : OR , A rare example of a Maid dwelling at Rye in Sussex , who for the love of a youngma [ n ] of Lester-shire , went beyond Sea in the habit of a Page , and after , to their hearts content , were both married at Magrum in Germany , and now dwelling at Rye aforesaid . To the tune of , Come , come , my sweet and bonny one . W Ithin the Haven Town of Rye , that stands in Sussex fair There dwelled a Maid whose constancy transcendeth all compare : This Turtle Dove Did dearly love a Youth , who did appear In mind and face , To be the grace and pride of Lester-shire . This youngman with a Noble Peer , who liked his service well , Went from his native Lester-shire , in Sussex for to dwell : Where living nigh The Town of Rye , This pretty Maid did hear Of his good parts , Who by deserts , was pride of Lester-shire . For coming once into that Town , it was at first his chance , To meet with her , whose brave renown all Sussex did advance : And she likewise , In his fair eyes , w [ he ] n once she came him near , Did plainly see , That none but he , [ ? ] e pride of Lester-shire . Then little Cupid , god of Love , began to play his part , And on the sudden from above , he shot his golden Dart , Which did constrain These Lovers twaine to prize each other deer : Sweet Margery Loved Anthony , the pride of Lester-shire . Thus with concordant sympathy , these Lovers were combined , One loved the other heartily , yet neither told their mind : She longed to speak , Her mind to break unto her Lover deer , She durst not tell Though she loved well the pride of Lester-shire . Within short time it came to pass , to Sea the young man went , And left this young and pretty Lass in woe and discontent : Who wept full soar , And grieved therefore , when truly she did hear , That her Sweetheart , From her must part , the pride of Lester-shire . The second part . To the same tune . I TO was his hap that time to go to travel with his Lord , Which to his heart did breed much woe yet could he not afford A remedy To's misery , but needs her must leave here His Madge behind Who grieved in mind for the pride of Lester-shire . She being then bereft clean of hope , yet did invent , By her rare policy , a mean to work her hearts content : In garments strange She straight did change her self , rejecting fear , To go with him Whom she did deem the pride of Lester-shire . And in the habit of a Page , she did entreat his Lord , That being a Boy of tender age , he would this grace afford , That he might go , Service to show to him both far and near , Who little thought What love she ought , to the pride of Lester-shire . This Lord did take her , as she seemed to be a pretty Lad , And for his Page he her esteemed , which made her heart full glad : To Sea went she , And so did he , whom she esteemed so deer : Who for her sake Great moan did make , and shed full many a tear . Thus he , poor Lad , lay with his Love full many a tedious night , Yet neither of them both did prove a Lovers true delight : She herd him weep , When he should sleep , and shed forth many a tear , For Margery , Who then lay by the pride of Lester-shire . Long time these Lovers traveled , and were bedfellows still , Yet she did keep her Maidenhead , until she had her will . Shee herd his moan , Yet still unknown she kept her self for fear ; Yet at the last She cleaved full fast to the pride of Lester shire . For having traveled sixe weeks , unknown unto her Lover , With rosy blushes in her cheeks her mind she did discover : See here , quoth she , One that for thee hath left her Parents deer : Poor Margery The Maid of Rye I am , behold me here . When Anthony did hear this word , his heart with joy did leap , He went unto his Noble Lord , to whom he did report This wonderful thing , Which straight did bring amazement to him there : Of such a Page , In any age , quoth he , I did not hear . At Magrum then in Germany , their Lord did see them married , From whence unto the Town of Rye in England were they carried ; Where now they dwell Beloved well of neighbours far and near , Sweet Margery Loves Anthony the pride of Lester-shire . You Maids and youngmen warning take by these two Lovers kind , Who ever you your choice do make , to them be true in mind , For , perfect love Comes from above as may by this appear , Which came to pass By Sussex Lass , and the Lad of Lester-shire . Printed at London for Francis Coules . Finis . The true Maid of the South : OR , A rare example of a Maid dwelling at Rye in Sussex , who for the love of a youngma [ n ] of Lester-shire , went beyond Sea in the habit of a Page , and after , to their hearts content , were both married at Magrum in Germany , and now dwelling at Rye aforesaid . To the tune of , Come , come , my sweet and bonny one . W Ithin the Haven Town of Rye , that stands in Sussex fair There dwelled a Maid whose constancy transcendeth all compare : This Turtle Dove Did dearly love a Youth , who did appear In mind and face , To be the grace and pride of Lester-shire . This youngman with a Noble Peer , who liked his service well , Went from his native Lester-shire , in Sussex for to dwell : Where living nigh The Town of Rye , This pretty Maid did hear Of his good parts , Who by deserts , was pride of Lester-shire . For coming once into that Town , it was at first his chance , To meet with her , whose brave renown all Sussex did advance : And she likewise , In his fair eyes , w [ he ] n once she came him near , Did plainly see , That none but he , [ ? ] e pride of Lester-shire . Then little Cupid , god of Love , began to play his part , And on the sudden from above , he shot his golden Dart , Which did constrain These Lovers twaine to prize each other deer : Sweet Margery Loved Anthony , the pride of Lester-shire . Thus with concordant sympathy , these Lovers were combined , One loved the other heartily , yet neither told their mind : She longed to speak , Her mind to break unto her Lover deer , She durst not tell Though she loved well the pride of Lester-shire . Within short time it came to pass , to Sea the young man went , And left this young and pretty Lass in woe and discontent : Who wept full soar , And grieved therefore , when truly she did hear , That her Sweetheart , From her must part , the pride of Lester-shire . The second part . To the same tune . I TO was his hap that time to go to travel with his Lord , Which to his heart did breed much woe yet could he not afford A remedy To's misery , but needs her must leave here His Madge behind Who grieved in mind for the pride of Lester-shire . She being then bereft clean of hope , yet did invent , By her rare policy , a mean to work her hearts content : In garments strange She straight did change her self , rejecting fear , To go with him Whom she did deem the pride of Lester-shire . And in the habit of a Page , she did entreat his Lord , That being a Boy of tender age , he would this grace afford , That he might go , Service to show to him both far and near , Who little thought What love she ought , to the pride of Lester-shire . This Lord did take her , as she seemed to be a pretty Lad , And for his Page he her esteemed , which made her heart full glad : To Sea went she , And so did he , whom she esteemed so deer : Who for her sake Great moan did make , and shed full many a tear . Thus he , poor Lad , lay with his Love full many a tedious night , Yet neither of them both did prove a Lovers true delight : She herd him weep , When he should sleep , and shed forth many a tear , For Margery , Who then lay by the pride of Lester-shire . Long time these Lovers traveled , and were bedfellows still , Yet she did keep her Maidenhead , until she had her will . Shee herd his moan , Yet still unknown she kept her self for fear ; Yet at the last She cleaved full fast to the pride of Lester shire . For having traveled sixe weeks , unknown unto her Lover , With rosy blushes in her cheeks her mind she did discover : See here , quoth she , One that for thee hath left her Parents deer : Poor Margery The Maid of Rye I am , behold me here . When Anthony did hear this word , his heart with joy did leap , He went unto his Noble Lord , to whom he did report This wonderful thing , Which straight did bring amazement to him there : Of such a Page , In any age , quoth he , I did not hear . At Magrum then in Germany , their Lord did see them married , From whence unto the Town of Rye in England were they carried ; Where now they dwell Beloved well of neighbours far and near , Sweet Margery Loves Anthony the pride of Lester-shire . You Maids and youngmen warning take by these two Lovers kind , Who ever you your choice do make , to them be true in mind , For , perfect love Comes from above as may by this appear , Which came to pass By Sussex Lass , and the Lad of Lester-shire . Printed at London for Francis Coules . Finis . 