The Northampton-shire Lover , or a pleasant Dialogue between a Northampton - shire Gentleman and a Merchants daughter of London . To the tune of Falero lero lo . TO How sweetest of complexion , whose beauty does entice : My heart lives in subjection , thy love did it surprise : Let only this suffice , thy virtues I do know , Which makes me to love thee , Fa lero lero lo . Wertenberg thou not so regardless , of my most kindly offer , And Warden-like rewardless , wouldst entertain my proffer , My Father's richest coffer , on thee I would bestow , For still me thinks I love thee . Fa lero , lero lo . Of all my Predecessors , I am the only heir , That [ liv ] eth in Northamptonshire , that country rich and fair : Yet howsoever I fare : my love shall not be slow : Thy virtues makes me love thee , Fa lero , lero lo . My father being deceased , mark but my store of land , Which were my love appeased , should be at thy command : Do not my love withstand , and thou my state shalt know : Thy virtues makes me love thee , Fa lero , lero lo . Three hundred goodly Akers , of fallow Land is mine , With threescore five half Akers , which next to them do join : For roods and part of fetches , I have as many more , Yet thy virtues makes me love thee , Fa lero , lero lo . Unsowne does lie so much more , from weeds and thistles clear : Which cause shall be more fruitful , is kept until next year : Wouldst thou embrace thy Dear , all this thou shouldst have too , Thy virtues makes me love thee , Fa lero , lero lo . Full fifty head of goodly kine , my father free does keep , Three goodly term of Horses , and full three thousand sheep : Beside his swine and poultrey , then let not love be slow , Thy virtues makes me love thee , Fa lero , lero lo . His tenements are many , built strong of lime and stone , In Northampton stands fix , my father calls his own : Thou let thy love be shown , to him that wooes thee so , Thy virtues makes me love thee , Fa lero , lero lo , What is it thou does cause me , of thee to be rejected , My body hath by beauteous maids , been oftentimes affected : Yet I all love rejected , till thee I once did know : Thy virtues makes me love thee , Fa lero , lero lo . Dear sweet regard my wounded heart , struck by the God of love : Which until I obtain thee , I know will never remove : Then grant me love for love , on me thy love bestow : For thy virtues makes me love thee , Fa lero , lero lo . Found man leave off thy wooing , for I thy love do shun , Dost think a Merchants daughter , by words so soon is wone : Maids have been oft undone , by men's most flattering show , Men's vices makes me hate thee , To love I cry not no . Men friendly seem to woo us , when false they are in heart , Intending to undo us , and so from us to part : Would all had their deserts , that prove to maidens so , Men's vices makes me hate thee , To love I cry no , no . The Second part , To the same tune . F Or all thy father's riches , I do not weigh a straw : Young heirs oft spend their coffers , in riot , pride , and law . Since first thy face I saw , my love to thee was flew : Men's vices makes me hate thee , To love I cry no , no . My father is as rich at Sea , as thine is on the land , Three goodly ships with Merchandise do float at his command : On wealth I do not stand , enough does need no more , Men's vices makes me hate thee , To love I cry no , no . Beside within the City here , full plainly may be found : His Shop and full stuffed Warehouses worth many hundred pound . Which does to me redound , but yet I wish not so , Men's vices makes me hate thee , To love I cry no , no . Variety of Gallants , make show of love to me , Who of me shall be slighted , just as I now slight thee : My dowry shall procure a man , whom firm in mind I know , But yet my love gainst all shall stand To love I cry no , no . You men in mind are fickle , ye love but by the hour , A maid may find a young man kind , who instantly will lower , In all things men untrue do prove , in promise they are slow : Therefore I'll bid adue to love , And still will cry no , no . But if I chance to match wi [ tO ] h man Northamptonshire I'll choose : Because of mind those men are kind , the rest I will refuse . Northamptonshire to London , was helper in her woe , Which is the cause I love them , Fa lero , lero lo . Which when this lusty gallant herd he seemed away to part : Pretending thereby for to try , the temper of her heart . For whither tongue and mind agreed by this he thought to know , And yet in heart he loved her . Fa lero , lero lo . The Damsel this perceiving , and noting this behaviour : Though fit to entertain him , possessed of all her favour : Which he enjoyed with full consent . so unto Church they go . Where he espoused the maid he loved . Fa lero , lero lo . The father's of these couple , death took into his hands , And they were full possessed , of all their goods and lands : They lived in prosperity , may all young men do so , Let men and Maids remember this , love creeps whered cannot go . FINIS . Imprinted at London for H. Gosson . The Northampton-shire Lover , or a pleasant Dialogue between a Northampton - shire Gentleman and a Merchants daughter of London . To the tune of Falero lero lo . TO How sweetest of complexion , whose beauty does entice : My heart lives in subjection , thy love did it surprise : Let only this suffice , thy virtues I do know , Which makes me to love thee , Fa lero lero lo . Wertenberg thou not so regardless , of my most kindly offer , And Warden-like rewardless , wouldst entertain my proffer , My Father's richest coffer , on thee I would bestow , For still me thinks I love thee . Fa lero , lero lo . Of all my Predecessors , I am the only heir , That [ liv ] eth in Northamptonshire , that country rich and fair : Yet howsoever I fare : my love shall not be slow : Thy virtues makes me love thee , Fa lero , lero lo . My father being deceased , mark but my store of land , Which were my love appeased , should be at thy command : Do not my love withstand , and thou my state shalt know : Thy virtues makes me love thee , Fa lero , lero lo . Three hundred goodly Akers , of fallow Land is mine , With threescore five half Akers , which next to them do join : For roods and part of fetches , I have as many more , Yet thy virtues makes me love thee , Fa lero , lero lo . Unsowne does lie so much more , from weeds and thistles clear : Which cause shall be more fruitful , is kept until next year : Wouldst thou embrace thy Dear , all this thou shouldst have too , Thy virtues makes me love thee , Fa lero , lero lo . Full fifty head of goodly kine , my father free does keep , Three goodly term of Horses , and full three thousand sheep : Beside his swine and poultrey , then let not love be slow , Thy virtues makes me love thee , Fa lero , lero lo . His tenements are many , built strong of lime and stone , In Northampton stands fix , my father calls his own : Thou let thy love be shown , to him that wooes thee so , Thy virtues makes me love thee , Fa lero , lero lo , What is it thou does cause me , of thee to be rejected , My body hath by beauteous maids , been oftentimes affected : Yet I all love rejected , till thee I once did know : Thy virtues makes me love thee , Fa lero , lero lo . Dear sweet regard my wounded heart , struck by the God of love : Which until I obtain thee , I know will never remove : Then grant me love for love , on me thy love bestow : For thy virtues makes me love thee , Fa lero , lero lo . Found man leave off thy wooing , for I thy love do shun , Dost think a Merchants daughter , by words so soon is wone : Maids have been oft undone , by men's most flattering show , Men's vices makes me hate thee , To love I cry not no . Men friendly seem to woo us , when false they are in heart , Intending to undo us , and so from us to part : Would all had their deserts , that prove to maidens so , Men's vices makes me hate thee , To love I cry no , no . The Second part , To the same tune . F Or all thy father's riches , I do not weigh a straw : Young heirs oft spend their coffers , in riot , pride , and law . Since first thy face I saw , my love to thee was flew : Men's vices makes me hate thee , To love I cry no , no . My father is as rich at Sea , as thine is on the land , Three goodly ships with Merchandise do float at his command : On wealth I do not stand , enough does need no more , Men's vices makes me hate thee , To love I cry no , no . Beside within the City here , full plainly may be found : His Shop and full stuffed Warehouses worth many hundred pound . Which does to me redound , but yet I wish not so , Men's vices makes me hate thee , To love I cry no , no . Variety of Gallants , make show of love to me , Who of me shall be slighted , just as I now slight thee : My dowry shall procure a man , whom firm in mind I know , But yet my love gainst all shall stand To love I cry no , no . You men in mind are fickle , ye love but by the hour , A maid may find a young man kind , who instantly will lower , In all things men untrue do prove , in promise they are slow : Therefore I'll bid adue to love , And still will cry no , no . But if I chance to match wi [ tO ] h man Northamptonshire I'll choose : Because of mind those men are kind , the rest I will refuse . Northamptonshire to London , was helper in her woe , Which is the cause I love them , Fa lero , lero lo . Which when this lusty gallant herd he seemed away to part : Pretending thereby for to try , the temper of her heart . For whither tongue and mind agreed by this he thought to know , And yet in heart he loved her . Fa lero , lero lo . The Damsel this perceiving , and noting this behaviour : Though fit to entertain him , possessed of all her favour : Which he enjoyed with full consent . so unto Church they go . Where he espoused the maid he loved . Fa lero , lero lo . The father's of these couple , death took into his hands , And they were full possessed , of all their goods and lands : They lived in prosperity , may all young men do so , Let men and Maids remember this , love creeps whered cannot go . FINIS . Imprinted at London for H. Gosson . 