The Passionate Lover . To the tune of I Loved thee once I'll love no more . A S I sat in a pleasant shade , under the arch of a thick Grove , Where Nature had and Arbour made , I did begin to think of Love ; Me thought it was a peevish toy , Because Loves God was but a Boy , and deeply vowed that in my breast such braineles frenzies should not rest . As I thus thought , there passed by one seemed a Goddess , yet a Creature , Who did transpire me with her eye , and wound me with her heavenly feature : My heart she did so deeply wound , That I fell senseless to the ground , and was of senses quite bereaved , till with her hand I up was heaved . But her soft hand , diviner touch was cause of greater misery , The virtue of her hand was such , that it pierced deeper then her eye , Her fingers are those venomed darts By which she pierces tender hearts : her eyes be shafts , and if she aim she does the mark or kill , or maim . I gazed so long upon her eyes , that I was taken in a snare , And made her captive , and her prize , bound in the tresses of her hair : As I upon her beauty gaze , My erring thoughts are in a maze , whereas they wander round about , [ And ] can [ no ] tO find a passage out . I thought she was the sovereign cure to salve this heart sick malady , Because she did the wound procure , I thought she would be remedy : But the unkind denied relief , Like a bad Surgeon launched my grief , and left it not as it before , but cared less , and wounded more , The more I looked , the worse my heart . the more I grieve , the less she cares , The more she smiles , the worse my smart , and she does laugh when I shed tears : This is not Balsam for my soar , It helps it less , and pains it more , and she may know if she be wise I can't be curd by contraries . Beauty is like a blazing light , that simple fools do flock unto , Like silly Flies to that by night . till they themselves do quite undo , For while they dally with the Torch , They presently themselves do scorch , then soon they fallen , as soon they die , o that I were not such a Fly . I thought in Love were only joy , continual truce , and never war , But now I see nought but annoy , fears and despairs the ofspringer : Some Men perchance do Honey find , If that they meet with one that's kind , but I have found that in this be there is no sweet , but sting for me . The Second Part. To the same Tune . S He was the white at which I shot , but aiming wide I could not hit her Scorns and disdains was all I god , she was to coy , I could not get her : But as for her , she shot so right That none her arrows hinder might , She is so skilful and so quick . That if she shoots she hits the prick , Unhappy I that face to view whose every look shoots death at me , Whose every glance does grieve renew , and add degrees to misery : Then let those eyes in darkness languish , that were my Conduit's to this anguish , And let the Curtains of sad night , Debar them of the joy of light . O thrice unhappy I to go , unto the grove where she was seen , It was the cause of all my woe : I wish that there I had not been , Then let my legs wax dry & amp ; wither , that were my porters brought me hither And let them fallen and broken lie , like pillars by times injury When that I herd the fatal voice , that she pronounced against my bliss : My heart for very anguish stirred , and ready was pale death to kiss , If her least word can do such wrong : why was she born with such a tongue , And I to heavens will put this suit , that I were deaf or she were mute , Why should dame nature make such faces , and so adorn these heavenly creatures : When they do want those milder graces , That do add grace unto their features Like to the Sire's they allure : that no man can their Charms endure , And in the looks where grace should lie : sharp frowns sits in and puts grace by I thought in that soft Satin skin , which being touched does seem to melt , And in that breast which tempts to sin : and ravish men when it is fealt , There had not been so hard a heart ; since softness was in every part , O why should Nature make a Jewel , to be so Lovely and so Cruel : The burning fever of found love , hath now corrupted every part : My legs too weak can hardly move ; and love hath festered to my heart , My sinews shrirke my heartstrings ache , My pulses leap my joints do shake : And every limb and every sense , is plagued for my eyes offence . Then let my soul post hence away , And with swift flight from me be gone , Why should it with me longer stay : in such a rotten mansion ; Oh Let it take the last farewell , in such a house no longer dwell , While I for grife would farther speak , my soul flies out my heartstrings break [ ? Printed for [ E ( or F ? ) ] The Passionate Lover . To the tune of I Loved thee once I'll love no more . A S I sat in a pleasant shade , under the arch of a thick Grove , Where Nature had and Arbour made , I did begin to think of Love ; Me thought it was a peevish toy , Because Loves God was but a Boy , and deeply vowed that in my breast such braineles frenzies should not rest . As I thus thought , there passed by one seemed a Goddess , yet a Creature , Who did transpire me with her eye , and wound me with her heavenly feature : My heart she did so deeply wound , That I fell senseless to the ground , and was of senses quite bereaved , till with her hand I up was heaved . But her soft hand , diviner touch was cause of greater misery , The virtue of her hand was such , that it pierced deeper then her eye , Her fingers are those venomed darts By which she pierces tender hearts : her eyes be shafts , and if she aim she does the mark or kill , or maim . I gazed so long upon her eyes , that I was taken in a snare , And made her captive , and her prize , bound in the tresses of her hair : As I upon her beauty gaze , My erring thoughts are in a maze , whereas they wander round about , [ And ] can [ no ] tO find a passage out . I thought she was the sovereign cure to salve this heart sick malady , Because she did the wound procure , I thought she would be remedy : But the unkind denied relief , Like a bad Surgeon launched my grief , and left it not as it before , but cared less , and wounded more , The more I looked , the worse my heart . the more I grieve , the less she cares , The more she smiles , the worse my smart , and she does laugh when I shed tears : This is not Balsam for my soar , It helps it less , and pains it more , and she may know if she be wise I can't be curd by contraries . Beauty is like a blazing light , that simple fools do flock unto , Like silly Flies to that by night . till they themselves do quite undo , For while they dally with the Torch , They presently themselves do scorch , then soon they fallen , as soon they die , o that I were not such a Fly . I thought in Love were only joy , continual truce , and never war , But now I see nought but annoy , fears and despairs the ofspringer : Some Men perchance do Honey find , If that they meet with one that's kind , but I have found that in this be there is no sweet , but sting for me . The Second Part. To the same Tune . S He was the white at which I shot , but aiming wide I could not hit her Scorns and disdains was all I god , she was to coy , I could not get her : But as for her , she shot so right That none her arrows hinder might , She is so skilful and so quick . That if she shoots she hits the prick , Unhappy I that face to view whose every look shoots death at me , Whose every glance does grieve renew , and add degrees to misery : Then let those eyes in darkness languish , that were my Conduit's to this anguish , And let the Curtains of sad night , Debar them of the joy of light . O thrice unhappy I to go , unto the grove where she was seen , It was the cause of all my woe : I wish that there I had not been , Then let my legs wax dry & amp ; wither , that were my porters brought me hither And let them fallen and broken lie , like pillars by times injury When that I herd the fatal voice , that she pronounced against my bliss : My heart for very anguish stirred , and ready was pale death to kiss , If her least word can do such wrong : why was she born with such a tongue , And I to heavens will put this suit , that I were deaf or she were mute , Why should dame nature make such faces , and so adorn these heavenly creatures : When they do want those milder graces , That do add grace unto their features Like to the Sire's they allure : that no man can their Charms endure , And in the looks where grace should lie : sharp frowns sits in and puts grace by I thought in that soft Satin skin , which being touched does seem to melt , And in that breast which tempts to sin : and ravish men when it is fealt , There had not been so hard a heart ; since softness was in every part , O why should Nature make a Jewel , to be so Lovely and so Cruel : The burning fever of found love , hath now corrupted every part : My legs too weak can hardly move ; and love hath festered to my heart , My sinews shrirke my heartstrings ache , My pulses leap my joints do shake : And every limb and every sense , is plagued for my eyes offence . Then let my soul post hence away , And with swift flight from me be gone , Why should it with me longer stay : in such a rotten mansion ; Oh Let it take the last farewell , in such a house no longer dwell , While I for grife would farther speak , my soul flies out my heartstrings break [ ? Printed for [ E ( or F ? ) ] 