The loving Forester , To a new tune : Or , nay fie , nay fie . N Ot long ago I hard a Maid , ( if none ) pray God to mend her : And every day to Venus prayed , that she a Love would send her : For why quoth she I cannot stay , till Husband hath me wedded : This is the merry month of May , and now I must be bedded , This maid was young & amp ; passing fair , her body small and tender : Blithe were her looks yellow her locks , her fingers long and slender : With outward gifts this comely Lass , was so adorned by Nature , That who so viewed her , did commend her for a lovely Creature : She did delight as most Maids do , in May month to be walking : And amongst youngmen ( perhaps to woe ) in mirth for to be talking , She was courteous and affable , and kind as maidens be : And very much commended for her wits dexteretie She much delighted to go brave , and quaint in her attire : Her head she graced with her hair , set out upon a wire : With silver bodkin therein placed , and ought that might but grace her : Which so adorn this beauteous Lass , that none but would embrace her . Her other ornaments were such , which so did grace her beauty : That Cupid young , did oft times long , to her to show his duty : She never omitted ought that might procure true love to grace her But yet this Maid did want a friend , in love for to embrace her . She went attired in waistcoat white , whose whiteness pass the snow : Her petticoat was Scarlet read , wherein she was not slow To trace along the Forest side , with Venus chaste desire : Yet hardly could she any meet , to grant what she required . Until young Cupid minding her , his mother Queen implord : That to this comely lovely maid , a love might be restored : Whereat Loves Queen with ireful looks , unto her son thus said : Shall many lovely Nymph's by thee , so long time be delayed . Whose lovely suits have been rejected , though beauteous fair they were : And wilt thou now speak for a trial , and make her suit appear ? I tell thee son thou dost me wrong , and to thy self disgrace : I'll near agree if she by thee , with us shall have a place . The Second Part of the loving Forester , To a new tune , Or : nay fie , nay fie . G Ood mother queen ( Cupid replied ) with patience do but hear : That she deserves to be beloved , I'll make it straight appear : She's young , she's fair , she's nature's Jem , she is the flower of many , Wherefore good mother grant her love if love you'll grant to any . Blind boy ( quoth Venus ) why dost praise her whom thou never did see ? Mother quoth he because I know , by power of Deity : That this fair maid excels all maids , though beauteous there are many : And none could ere compare with her , indeed ( loves Queen ) not any . Sayest so quoth Citherea , then do as thou thinkest best : Since thou commendest her , do thy will my will with thine shall rest : Blind Cupid gave his mother thanks , and forth withdrew his quiver : And with and arrow aiming right , this Maid did soon deliver . From out her long endured grief , and wished her not seem strange : But instantly be ruled by him , and Silvanus Forest range : For thy sake I have ( quoth he ) a Forester so moved , That will he , will be , thou of him shalt ever be beloved . This lovely maid , ( with awful thanks ) his counsel soon did follow , And as she traced amidst the woods , down in a dingle hollow : She instantly in good time met with a brave Jolly Forester , Who seeing such a lovely fair , at first did thus accost her . Fair maid ( quoth he ) accept his love , that does most dearly love thee : I think ( quoth she ) you me deride , nay then ( quoth he ) I'll prove thee : That my love's placed only on thee , Cupid Loves God does know : Only on thee on thee deer love , Oh do not then say no . Whereat her joys so much increased , that joy had speece bereft : No utterance to make reply , unto her tongue was left : Only her looks seemed to dissever , a perfect loves consent : Which ( being perceived ) this Forester with speed incontinent Did boldly take her in his arms , and on the grassy down : With many a lovely kind embrace , did give her a green gown : But when she saw it time to part , she kissing wept for sorrow : And ga'him a Ring and said sweetheart lets meet again to morrow FINIS Printed at London by J. White . The loving Forester , To a new tune : Or , nay fie , nay fie . N Ot long ago I hard a Maid , ( if none ) pray God to mend her : And every day to Venus prayed , that she a Love would send her : For why quoth she I cannot stay , till Husband hath me wedded : This is the merry month of May , and now I must be bedded , This maid was young & amp ; passing fair , her body small and tender : Blithe were her looks yellow her locks , her fingers long and slender : With outward gifts this comely Lass , was so adorned by Nature , That who so viewed her , did commend her for a lovely Creature : She did delight as most Maids do , in May month to be walking : And amongst youngmen ( perhaps to woe ) in mirth for to be talking , She was courteous and affable , and kind as maidens be : And very much commended for her wits dexteretie She much delighted to go brave , and quaint in her attire : Her head she graced with her hair , set out upon a wire : With silver bodkin therein placed , and ought that might but grace her : Which so adorn this beauteous Lass , that none but would embrace her . Her other ornaments were such , which so did grace her beauty : That Cupid young , did oft times long , to her to show his duty : She never omitted ought that might procure true love to grace her But yet this Maid did want a friend , in love for to embrace her . She went attired in waistcoat white , whose whiteness pass the snow : Her petticoat was Scarlet read , wherein she was not slow To trace along the Forest side , with Venus chaste desire : Yet hardly could she any meet , to grant what she required . Until young Cupid minding her , his mother Queen implord : That to this comely lovely maid , a love might be restored : Whereat Loves Queen with ireful looks , unto her son thus said : Shall many lovely Nymph's by thee , so long time be delayed . Whose lovely suits have been rejected , though beauteous fair they were : And wilt thou now speak for a trial , and make her suit appear ? I tell thee son thou dost me wrong , and to thy self disgrace : I'll near agree if she by thee , with us shall have a place . The Second Part of the loving Forester , To a new tune , Or : nay fie , nay fie . G Ood mother queen ( Cupid replied ) with patience do but hear : That she deserves to be beloved , I'll make it straight appear : She's young , she's fair , she's nature's Jem , she is the flower of many , Wherefore good mother grant her love if love you'll grant to any . Blind boy ( quoth Venus ) why dost praise her whom thou never did see ? Mother quoth he because I know , by power of Deity : That this fair maid excels all maids , though beauteous there are many : And none could ere compare with her , indeed ( loves Queen ) not any . Sayest so quoth Citherea , then do as thou thinkest best : Since thou commendest her , do thy will my will with thine shall rest : Blind Cupid gave his mother thanks , and forth withdrew his quiver : And with and arrow aiming right , this Maid did soon deliver . From out her long endured grief , and wished her not seem strange : But instantly be ruled by him , and Silvanus Forest range : For thy sake I have ( quoth he ) a Forester so moved , That will he , will be , thou of him shalt ever be beloved . This lovely maid , ( with awful thanks ) his counsel soon did follow , And as she traced amidst the woods , down in a dingle hollow : She instantly in good time met with a brave Jolly Forester , Who seeing such a lovely fair , at first did thus accost her . Fair maid ( quoth he ) accept his love , that does most dearly love thee : I think ( quoth she ) you me deride , nay then ( quoth he ) I'll prove thee : That my love's placed only on thee , Cupid Loves God does know : Only on thee on thee deer love , Oh do not then say no . Whereat her joys so much increased , that joy had speece bereft : No utterance to make reply , unto her tongue was left : Only her looks seemed to dissever , a perfect loves consent : Which ( being perceived ) this Forester with speed incontinent Did boldly take her in his arms , and on the grassy down : With many a lovely kind embrace , did give her a green gown : But when she saw it time to part , she kissing wept for sorrow : And ga'him a Ring and said sweetheart lets meet again to morrow FINIS Printed at London by J. White . 