The two kind Lovers : OR , The Maidens resolution and will , To be like her true Lover still . To a dainty new tune . TO Woe lovely Lovers , walking all alone , The Female to the Male , was making piteous moan : Saying , if thou wilt go , Love , let me go with thee , Because I cannot live , without thy company . Be thou my master , I'll be thy trusty Page , To wait on thee in thy weary Pilgrimage . So shall I still enjoy thy lovely presence , In which alone consist my earthly essence . Be thou the Sun , I'll be the beams so bright , Be thou the Moon . I'll be the lightest night : Be thou Aurora , the usher of the day , I will be the pearly due , upon the flowers gay . Be thou the Rose , thy smell I will assume , And yield a sweet odoriferous perfume : Be thou the Rainbow , Il [ ? ] colours many , [ ? ] cloud , [ ? ] weather rainy . Be thou the Lion , I'll be the Lioness : Be thou the servant , I'll be the Mistress : Be thou the Porpentine , and I'll be the quill , That wheresoever thou goest : I may be with thee still . Be thou the Turtle ; and I will be thy Mate , And if thou die , my life I'll ever hate : Be thou the nimble Fairy , that trips upon the ground , And I will be the circle , where thou mayest dance a round . Be thou the Swan , I'll be the bubbling river : Be thou the gift , and I will be the giver : Be thou the chaste Diana , and I will be as chaste , Be thou the Time , I'll be the hours past . Be thou the Ship , I'll be the surging Seas , That shall transport my Love , where he does please : Be thou the Neptune , I'll be the triple Base . Be thou the jocund Hunter , I'll be the Dear in chase . The second part . To the same tune . BE thou the Shepherd , I'll be the Shepherdess , To sport with thee in joy and happiness : I will be the Marygold , if thou wilt be the Sun : Be thou the Fryer , and I will be the Nun. I will be the Pelican , and thou shalt be the young , I'll spend my blood , to succour thee from wrong : Be thou the Gardener , and I will be the flowers , That thou mayest make me grow with fruitful showers . Be thou the Falconer , the falcon I will be , To yield delight and pleasure unto thee : Be thou the Lanthorn , I will be the light , To led thee to thy fancy every darksome night . Be thou the Captain , I'll be the Soldier stout , And help in danger still to bear thee out : Be thou the lovely Elm , and I will be the Vine , In sweet concordance , to sympathise and twine . Be thou the Pilot , I'll be the Seamans Carded , I'll be the Taylor , and thou shalt be my yard : Be thou the Weaver , and I'll the shuttle be , Be thou the Fruiterer , and I will be the Tree . Be thou the Blacksmith , I will be the forge : Be thou the Waterman , and I will be the Barge : Be thou the Broker , and I will be the Pawn . Be thou the Paresite , and I will learn to fawn . These lovely Lovers being thus combined , Most equally agreed both in heart and mind . Accursed may they be , who seek to part these Whom Love and nature did to love ordain . I wish all youngmen , that constant are in love , To find out a woman that will so loyal prove , And to all honest Maidens , in heart I wish the same , That Cupids laws may be devoid of blame . Finis . London Printed for F. Coules . The two kind Lovers : OR , The Maidens resolution and will , To be like her true Lover still . To a dainty new tune . TO Woe lovely Lovers , walking all alone , The Female to the Male , was making piteous moan : Saying , if thou wilt go , Love , let me go with thee , Because I cannot live , without thy company . Be thou my master , I'll be thy trusty Page , To wait on thee in thy weary Pilgrimage . So shall I still enjoy thy lovely presence , In which alone consist my earthly essence . Be thou the Sun , I'll be the beams so bright , Be thou the Moon . I'll be the lightest night : Be thou Aurora , the usher of the day , I will be the pearly due , upon the flowers gay . Be thou the Rose , thy smell I will assume , And yield a sweet odoriferous perfume : Be thou the Rainbow , Il [ ? ] colours many , [ ? ] cloud , [ ? ] weather rainy . Be thou the Lion , I'll be the Lioness : Be thou the servant , I'll be the Mistress : Be thou the Porpentine , and I'll be the quill , That wheresoever thou goest : I may be with thee still . Be thou the Turtle ; and I will be thy Mate , And if thou die , my life I'll ever hate : Be thou the nimble Fairy , that trips upon the ground , And I will be the circle , where thou mayest dance a round . Be thou the Swan , I'll be the bubbling river : Be thou the gift , and I will be the giver : Be thou the chaste Diana , and I will be as chaste , Be thou the Time , I'll be the hours past . Be thou the Ship , I'll be the surging Seas , That shall transport my Love , where he does please : Be thou the Neptune , I'll be the triple Base . Be thou the jocund Hunter , I'll be the Dear in chase . The second part . To the same tune . BE thou the Shepherd , I'll be the Shepherdess , To sport with thee in joy and happiness : I will be the Marygold , if thou wilt be the Sun : Be thou the Fryer , and I will be the Nun. I will be the Pelican , and thou shalt be the young , I'll spend my blood , to succour thee from wrong : Be thou the Gardener , and I will be the flowers , That thou mayest make me grow with fruitful showers . Be thou the Falconer , the falcon I will be , To yield delight and pleasure unto thee : Be thou the Lanthorn , I will be the light , To led thee to thy fancy every darksome night . Be thou the Captain , I'll be the Soldier stout , And help in danger still to bear thee out : Be thou the lovely Elm , and I will be the Vine , In sweet concordance , to sympathise and twine . Be thou the Pilot , I'll be the Seamans Carded , I'll be the Taylor , and thou shalt be my yard : Be thou the Weaver , and I'll the shuttle be , Be thou the Fruiterer , and I will be the Tree . Be thou the Blacksmith , I will be the forge : Be thou the Waterman , and I will be the Barge : Be thou the Broker , and I will be the Pawn . Be thou the Paresite , and I will learn to fawn . These lovely Lovers being thus combined , Most equally agreed both in heart and mind . Accursed may they be , who seek to part these Whom Love and nature did to love ordain . I wish all youngmen , that constant are in love , To find out a woman that will so loyal prove , And to all honest Maidens , in heart I wish the same , That Cupids laws may be devoid of blame . Finis . London Printed for F. Coules . 