A most excellent and famous Ditty of Sampson Judge of Israell , how he wedded [ a ] Philistines Daughter , who at length forsook him : also how he slew a Lion , and propounded a Riddle , and after how he was falsely betrayed by Dalila , and of his death . To the tune of the Spanish Pavin . W Hen Sampson was a fell young man His power and strength increased than , And in the host and Tribe of Dan , the Lord did bless him still . It chancrd so upon a day , As he was walking on his way , He saw a Maiden fresh and gay , in Timnah . With whom he fell so soar in love , That he his fancy could not move : His Parents therefore he did prove , and craved their good wills . I have found out a wife quoth he , I pray you Father give her me , Though she a strangers daughter be , I pass not . Then did bespeak his Parents deer , Have we not many Maidens here , Of Country , and acquaintance near , for thee to love and like ? O no , ( quoth Sampson presently ) Not one so pleasant in mine eye , Whom I could find so faithfully to fancy . At length they granted their consent : And so with Sampson forth they went , To see the Maid was their intent . which was so fair and bright : But as they were a going there , A Lion put them in great fear , Whom Sampson presently did tear , in pieces . When they were come unto the place , They were agreed in the case : The wedding day appointed was : and when the time was come . As Sampson went for beauty's fees , The Lyons carcase there he sees , Wherein a sort of honey Bees had swearmed . Then closely Sampson went his way , And not a word thereof did say , Until the merry feasting day , unto the company . A Riddle I will show , quoth he , The meaning if you tell to me Within seven days , I will give ye great riches . But if the meaning you do miss , And cannot show me what it is , Then shall you give to me ( I wiss ) so much as I have said . Put forth thy Riddle ( then quoth they ) And we will tell it by our day , Or we will loose ( as thou dost say ) the wager . Then mark ( quoth he ) the total sum , Out of the eater meat did come , And from the strong did sweetness run , declare it if you can . And when they herd the Riddle told , Their hearts within them waxed cold : For none of them could then unfold the meaning . Then unto Sampsons wife went they And threatened her without delay , If she would not the thing bewray , to burn her Father's house . Then Sampsons wife with grief and woe , Desired him the same to show : And when she knew she straight did go to tell them . Then were they all full glad of this , To tell the thing they did not miss , What stronger beast then Lion is ? What sweeter meat then Honey : Then Sampson answered them full round : If my Hayfar had not ploughed the ground , So easily you had not found my Riddle . Then Sampson did his losses pay , And to his father went his way , But while with them he there did stay , his wife forsook him quite . And took another to her Love , Which Samsons anger much did move , To plague them therefore he did prove his cunning . A subtle sighed he then had found , To burn their corn upon the ground , Their Vineyards he destroyed round which made them fret and fume . But when they knew that Sampson he Had done them all this injury , Because his wife did him deny , they killed her : And afterwards they had decreed , To murder Sampson for that deed , Three thousand men they sent with speed , to bring him bound to them : But he did break his cords apace , And with the Jawbone of and Ass , A thousand men ere he did pass , he killed . When all his foes were laid in dust , Then Sampson was full soar athirst , In God therefore was all his trust , to help his fanting heart : For liquour thereabouts was none : The Lord therefore from the Jawbone , Did make fresh water spring alone , to help him . Then Sampson had a joyful spright , A and in a City lay that night , Whereas his foes with deadly spite , did seek his life to spill : But he at midnight then awakes , And tearing down the City gates , With him away the same he takes , most stoutly . Then on Dalila fair and bright , Did Sampson set his whole delight , Whom he did love both day and night , which wrought his overthrow : For she with sweet words did entreat , That for her sake he would repeat , Wherein his strength , that was so great , consisted . At length unto his utter fallen , And through her suit , which was not small He did not let to show her all , the secrets of his heart : If that my hair be cut ( quoth he ) Which now so fair and long you see , Liks other men then shall I be , in weakness . Then through deceit which was so deep , She lulled Sampson fast asleep , A man she called which she did keep , to cut off all his hair . Then did she call his hateful foes , Ere Sampson from her lap arose , Who could not then withstand their blows for weakness , To bind him fast they did devise , Then did they put out both his eyes , In Prison woefully he lies , and there he grinds the Mill. But God remembered all his pain , And did restore his strength again , Although that bound he did remain , in Prison The Philistines now were glad of this , For joy they made a feast ( I wiss ) A and all their Princes did not miss to come unto the same : And being merry bent that day , For Sampson they did send straightway That they might laugh to see him play among them Then to the house was Sampson led And when he had their fancies fed , He plucked the house upon their head , and down they tumbled all : So that with grief and deadly pain , Three thousand persons there were slave [ e ] Thus Sampson then with all his train , was brained . The Ballad of constant Susanna . TO Here dwelled a man in Babylon , of reputation great by fame : He took to wife a fair woman , Susanna she was called by name : A woman fair and virtuous , Lady , Lady , Why should we not of her learn thus to live godly ? Virtuously her life she led , she feared God , she stood in awe , As in the story we have read , was well brought up in Moses Law , Her Parents they were godly folk , Lady , Lady , Why should we not then sing & amp ; talk , of this Lady . That year two Judges there was made , which were the Elders of Babylon , To Joachims house was all their trade who was Susannas husband then , Joachim was a great rich man , Lady , Lady , These Elders oft to his house came , for this Lady : Joachim had and Orchard by , fast joining to his house or place , Whereas Susanna commonly , her self did daily there solace , And that these Elders soon had spied , Lady , Lady , And privily themselves did hide , for that Lady , Her chaste and constant life was tried by these two Elders of Babylon , A time convenient they espied , to have this Lady all alone : In this Orchard it came to pass , Lady , Lady , Where she alone her self did wash , her fair body , These Elders came to her anon , and thus they said , Fair dame , God speed Thy doors are fast , thy maids are gone , consent to us and do this deed , For we are men of no mistrust , Lady , Lady , And yet to thee we have a lust , Oh fair Lady , If that to us thou dost say nay , a testimonial we will bring , We will say that one with thee lay , how canst thou then avoid this thing Therefore consent to us and turn , Lady , Lady , For we to thee in lust do burn , Oh fair Lady . Then did she sighs , and said , alas , now woe is me on every side , Was ever wretch in such a case , shall I consent and do this deed ? Whither I do or do it not , Lady , Lady , It is my death , right well I wot , Oh true Lady , Better it were for me to fallen , into your hands this day guiltless , Then that I should consent at all to this your shameful wickedness , And even with that ( whereas she stood ) Lady , Lady , Unto the Lord she cried aloud , pitifully . These Elders both likewise again , against Susanna aloud they cried , Their filthy lust could not obtain , their wickedness they sought to hide Unto her friends they then her brought Lady , Lady , And with all speed the life they sought of that Lady , On the morrow she was brought forth before the people there to stand , That they might hear & amp ; know the truth how these two Elders Susanna found These Elders swore and thus did say Lady , Lady , How that they saw a young man lay with that Lady : Judgement there was for no offence , Susanna then causeless must die : These Elders boar such A most excellent and famous Ditty of Sampson Judge of Israell , how he wedded [ a ] Philistines Daughter , who at length forsook him : also how he slew a Lion , and propounded a Riddle , and after how he was falsely betrayed by Dalila , and of his death . To the tune of the Spanish Pavin . W Hen Sampson was a fell young man His power and strength increased than , And in the host and Tribe of Dan , the Lord did bless him still . It chancrd so upon a day , As he was walking on his way , He saw a Maiden fresh and gay , in Timnah . With whom he fell so soar in love , That he his fancy could not move : His Parents therefore he did prove , and craved their good wills . I have found out a wife quoth he , I pray you Father give her me , Though she a strangers daughter be , I pass not . Then did bespeak his Parents deer , Have we not many Maidens here , Of Country , and acquaintance near , for thee to love and like ? O no , ( quoth Sampson presently ) Not one so pleasant in mine eye , Whom I could find so faithfully to fancy . At length they granted their consent : And so with Sampson forth they went , To see the Maid was their intent . which was so fair and bright : But as they were a going there , A Lion put them in great fear , Whom Sampson presently did tear , in pieces . When they were come unto the place , They were agreed in the case : The wedding day appointed was : and when the time was come . As Sampson went for beauty's fees , The Lyons carcase there he sees , Wherein a sort of honey Bees had swearmed . Then closely Sampson went his way , And not a word thereof did say , Until the merry feasting day , unto the company . A Riddle I will show , quoth he , The meaning if you tell to me Within seven days , I will give ye great riches . But if the meaning you do miss , And cannot show me what it is , Then shall you give to me ( I wiss ) so much as I have said . Put forth thy Riddle ( then quoth they ) And we will tell it by our day , Or we will loose ( as thou dost say ) the wager . Then mark ( quoth he ) the total sum , Out of the eater meat did come , And from the strong did sweetness run , declare it if you can . And when they herd the Riddle told , Their hearts within them waxed cold : For none of them could then unfold the meaning . Then unto Sampsons wife went they And threatened her without delay , If she would not the thing bewray , to burn her Father's house . Then Sampsons wife with grief and woe , Desired him the same to show : And when she knew she straight did go to tell them . Then were they all full glad of this , To tell the thing they did not miss , What stronger beast then Lion is ? What sweeter meat then Honey : Then Sampson answered them full round : If my Hayfar had not ploughed the ground , So easily you had not found my Riddle . Then Sampson did his losses pay , And to his father went his way , But while with them he there did stay , his wife forsook him quite . And took another to her Love , Which Samsons anger much did move , To plague them therefore he did prove his cunning . A subtle sighed he then had found , To burn their corn upon the ground , Their Vineyards he destroyed round which made them fret and fume . But when they knew that Sampson he Had done them all this injury , Because his wife did him deny , they killed her : And afterwards they had decreed , To murder Sampson for that deed , Three thousand men they sent with speed , to bring him bound to them : But he did break his cords apace , And with the Jawbone of and Ass , A thousand men ere he did pass , he killed . When all his foes were laid in dust , Then Sampson was full soar athirst , In God therefore was all his trust , to help his fanting heart : For liquour thereabouts was none : The Lord therefore from the Jawbone , Did make fresh water spring alone , to help him . Then Sampson had a joyful spright , A and in a City lay that night , Whereas his foes with deadly spite , did seek his life to spill : But he at midnight then awakes , And tearing down the City gates , With him away the same he takes , most stoutly . Then on Dalila fair and bright , Did Sampson set his whole delight , Whom he did love both day and night , which wrought his overthrow : For she with sweet words did entreat , That for her sake he would repeat , Wherein his strength , that was so great , consisted . At length unto his utter fallen , And through her suit , which was not small He did not let to show her all , the secrets of his heart : If that my hair be cut ( quoth he ) Which now so fair and long you see , Liks other men then shall I be , in weakness . Then through deceit which was so deep , She lulled Sampson fast asleep , A man she called which she did keep , to cut off all his hair . Then did she call his hateful foes , Ere Sampson from her lap arose , Who could not then withstand their blows for weakness , To bind him fast they did devise , Then did they put out both his eyes , In Prison woefully he lies , and there he grinds the Mill. But God remembered all his pain , And did restore his strength again , Although that bound he did remain , in Prison The Philistines now were glad of this , For joy they made a feast ( I wiss ) A and all their Princes did not miss to come unto the same : And being merry bent that day , For Sampson they did send straightway That they might laugh to see him play among them Then to the house was Sampson led And when he had their fancies fed , He plucked the house upon their head , and down they tumbled all : So that with grief and deadly pain , Three thousand persons there were slave [ e ] Thus Sampson then with all his train , was brained . The Ballad of constant Susanna . TO Here dwelled a man in Babylon , of reputation great by fame : He took to wife a fair woman , Susanna she was called by name : A woman fair and virtuous , Lady , Lady , Why should we not of her learn thus to live godly ? Virtuously her life she led , she feared God , she stood in awe , As in the story we have read , was well brought up in Moses Law , Her Parents they were godly folk , Lady , Lady , Why should we not then sing & amp ; talk , of this Lady . That year two Judges there was made , which were the Elders of Babylon , To Joachims house was all their trade who was Susannas husband then , Joachim was a great rich man , Lady , Lady , These Elders oft to his house came , for this Lady : Joachim had and Orchard by , fast joining to his house or place , Whereas Susanna commonly , her self did daily there solace , And that these Elders soon had spied , Lady , Lady , And privily themselves did hide , for that Lady , Her chaste and constant life was tried by these two Elders of Babylon , A time convenient they espied , to have this Lady all alone : In this Orchard it came to pass , Lady , Lady , Where she alone her self did wash , her fair body , These Elders came to her anon , and thus they said , Fair dame , God speed Thy doors are fast , thy maids are gone , consent to us and do this deed , For we are men of no mistrust , Lady , Lady , And yet to thee we have a lust , Oh fair Lady , If that to us thou dost say nay , a testimonial we will bring , We will say that one with thee lay , how canst thou then avoid this thing Therefore consent to us and turn , Lady , Lady , For we to thee in lust do burn , Oh fair Lady . Then did she sighs , and said , alas , now woe is me on every side , Was ever wretch in such a case , shall I consent and do this deed ? Whither I do or do it not , Lady , Lady , It is my death , right well I wot , Oh true Lady , Better it were for me to fallen , into your hands this day guiltless , Then that I should consent at all to this your shameful wickedness , And even with that ( whereas she stood ) Lady , Lady , Unto the Lord she cried aloud , pitifully . These Elders both likewise again , against Susanna aloud they cried , Their filthy lust could not obtain , their wickedness they sought to hide Unto her friends they then her brought Lady , Lady , And with all speed the life they sought of that Lady , On the morrow she was brought forth before the people there to stand , That they might hear & amp ; know the truth how these two Elders Susanna found These Elders swore and thus did say Lady , Lady , How that they saw a young man lay with that Lady : Judgement there was for no offence , Susanna then causeless must die : These Elders boar such evidence , against her they did verify , Who were believed then indeed , Lady , Lady , Against Susanna to proceed , that she should die . Susannas friends that stood her by , they did lament and were full woe , When as they saw no remedy , but that to death she then must go : Susanna then both true and just , Lady , Lady , In God was all her hope and trust , to him did cry . The Lord her voice herd and beheld , the Daughters cry of Israel : His Spirit he raised in a child , whose name was call [ ' ] worser young Daniel Who cried aloud whereas he stood , Lady , Lady , I am clear of the guiltless blood of this Lady , Are you such fools , quoth Daniel then , in judgement you have not done well , Nor yet the right way you have gone , to judge a Daughter of Israel , By this witness of false disdain , Lady , Lady , Wherefore to judgement turn again for that Lady : And when to judgement they were set , he called for those wicked men , And soon he did them separate , putting the one from the other then , He asked the one where he did see that fair Lady . He said under a Mulberry-tree : who lied falsely . Thou liest said Danie [ l ] , on thy head thy sentence is before the Lord : He bade that forth he might be led , and bring the other that boar record To see how they two did agree for this Lady : He said under a Pomegranate tree , Who lied falsely . Said Daniel as he did before , behold the Messenger of the Lord Stands waiting for you at the door , even for to cut thee with a sword . And even with that the multitude aloud did cry , Give thanks to God : so to conclude , for this Lady ; They dealt like with these wicked men according as the Scripture says , They dealt as with their neighbour then by Moses Law were put to death , The Innocent preserved was , Lady , Lady , As God by Daniel brought to pass , for this Lady . FINIS . Printed at London for H. Gosson . evidence , against her they did verify , Who were believed then indeed , Lady , Lady , Against Susanna to proceed , that she should die . Susannas friends that stood her by , they did lament and were full woe , When as they saw no remedy , but that to death she then must go : Susanna then both true and just , Lady , Lady , In God was all her hope and trust , to him did cry . The Lord her voice herd and beheld , the Daughters cry of Israel : His Spirit he raised in a child , whose name was call [ ' ] worser young Daniel Who cried aloud whereas he stood , Lady , Lady , I am clear of the guiltless blood of this Lady , Are you such fools , quoth Daniel then , in judgement you have not done well , Nor yet the right way you have gone , to judge a Daughter of Israel , By this witness of false disdain , Lady , Lady , Wherefore to judgement turn again for that Lady : And when to judgement they were set , he called for those wicked men , And soon he did them separate , putting the one from the other then , He asked the one where he did see that fair Lady . He said under a Mulberry-tree : who lied falsely . Thou liest said Danie [ l ] , on thy head thy sentence is before the Lord : He bade that forth he might be led , and bring the other that boar record To see how they two did agree for this Lady : He said under a Pomegranate tree , Who lied falsely . Said Daniel as he did before , behold the Messenger of the Lord Stands waiting for you at the door , even for to cut thee with a sword . And even with that the multitude aloud did cry , Give thanks to God : so to conclude , for this Lady ; They dealt like with these wicked men according as the Scripture says , They dealt as with their neighbour then by Moses Law were put to death , The Innocent preserved was , Lady , Lady , As God by Daniel brought to pass , for this Lady . FINIS . Printed at London for H. Gosson . A most excellent and famous Ditty of Sampson Judge of Israell , how he wedded [ a ] Philistines Daughter , who at length forsook him : also how he slew a Lion , and propounded a Riddle , and after how he was falsely betrayed by Dalila , and of his death . To the tune of the Spanish Pavin . WHen Sampson was a fell young man His power and strength increased than , And in the host and Tribe of Dan , the Lord did bless him still . It chancrd so upon a day , As he was walking on his way , He saw a Maiden fresh and gay , in Timnah . With whom he fell so soar in love , That he his fancy could not move : His Parents therefore he did prove , and craved their good wills . I have found out a wife quoth he , I pray you Father give her me , Though she a strangers daughter be , I pass not . Then did bespeak his Parents deer , Have we not many Maidens here , Of Country , and acquaintance near , for thee to love and like ? O no , ( quoth Sampson presently ) Not one so pleasant in mine eye , Whom I could find so faithfully to fancy . At length they granted their consen And so with Sampson forth they went , To see the Maid was their intent . which was so fair and brigh But as they were a going there , A Lion put them in great fear , Whom Sampson presently did tear , in pieces . When they were come unto the place , They were agreed in the case : The wedding day appointed was : and when the time was come . As Sampson went for beauty's fees , The Lyons carcase there he sees , Wherein a sort of honey Bees had swearmed . Then closely Sampson went his way , And not a word thereof did say , Until the merry feasting day , unto the company . A Riddle I will show , quoth he , The meaning if you tell to me Within seven days , I will give ye great riches . But if the meaning you do miss , And cannot show me what it is , Then shall you give to me ( I wiss ) so much as I have said . Put forth thy Riddle ( then quoth they ) And we will tell it by our day , Or we will loose ( as thou dost say ) the wager . Then mark ( quoth he ) the total sum , Out of the eater meat did come , And from the strong did sweetness run , declare it if you can . And when they herd the Riddle told , Their hearts within them waxed cold : For none of them could then unfold the meaning . Then unto Sampsons wife went they And threatened her without delay , If she would not the thing bewray , to burn her Father's house . Then Sampsons wife with grief and woe , Desired him the same to show : And when she knew she straight did go to tell them . Then were they all full glad of this , To tell the thing they did not miss , What stronger beast then Lion is ? What sweeter meat then Honey : Then Sampson answered them full round : If my Hayfar had not ploughed the ground , So easily you had not found my Riddle . Then Sampson did his losses pay , And to his father went his way , But while with them he there did stay , his wife forsook him quite . And took another to her Love , Which Samsons anger much did move , To plague them therefore he did prove his cunning . A subtle sighed he then had found , To burn their corn upon the ground , Their Vineyards he destroyed round which made them fret and fume . But when they knew that Sampson he Had done them all this injury , Because his wife did him deny , they killed her : And afterwards they had decreed , To murder Sampson for that deed , Three thousand men they sent with speed , to bring him bound to them : But he did break his cords apace , And with the Jawbone of and Ass , A thousand men ere he did pass , he killed . When all his foes were laid in dust , Then Sampson was full soar athirst , In God therefore was all his trust , to help his fanting hear For liquour thereabouts was none : The Lord therefore from the Jawbone , Did make fresh water spring alone , to help him . Then Sampson had a joyful spright , And in a City lay that night , Whereas his foes with deadly spite , did seek his life to spill : But he at midnight then awakes , And tearing down the City gates , With him away the same he takes , most stoutly . Then on Dalila fair and bright , Did Sampson set his whole delight , Whom he did love both day and night , which wrought his overthrow : For she with sweet words did entreat , That for her sake he would repeat , Wherein his strength , that was so great , consisted . At length unto his utter fallen , And through her suit , which was not small He did not let to show her all , the secrets of his hear If that my hair be cut ( quoth he ) Which now so fair and long you see , Liks other men then shall I be , in weakness . Then through deceit which was so deep , She lulled Sampson fast asleep , A man she cal'd which she did keep , to cut off all his hair . Then did she call his hateful foes , Ere Sampson from her lap arose , Who could not then withstand their blows for weakness , To bind him fast they did devise , Then did they put out both his eyes , In Prison woefully he lies , and there he grinds the Mill. But God remembered all his pain , And did restore his strength again , Although that bound he did remain , in Prison The Philistines now were glad of this , For joy they made a feast ( I wiss ) And all their Princes did not miss to come unto the same : And being merry bent that day , For Sampson they did send straightway That they might laugh to see him play among them Then to the house was Sampson led And when he had their fancies fed , He plucked the house upon their head , and down they tumbled all : So that with grief and deadly pain , Three thousand persons there were slave [ e ] Thus Sampson then with all his train , was brained . The Ballad of constant Susanna . THere dwelled a man in Babylon , of reputation great by fame : He took to wife a fair woman , Susanna she was call'd by name : A woman fair and virtuous , Lady , Lady , Why should we not of her learn thus to live godly ? Virtuously her life she led , she feared God , she stood in awe , As in the story we have read , was well brought up in Moses Law , Her Parents they were godly folk , Lady , Lady , Why should we not then sing & talk , of this Lady . That year two Judges there was made , which were the Elders of Babylon , To Joachims house was all their trade who was Susannas husband then , Joachim was a great rich man , Lady , Lady , These Elders oft to his house came , for this Lady : Joachim had and Orchard by , fast joining to his house or place , Whereas Susanna commonly , her self did daily there solace , And that these Elders soon had spied , Lady , Lady , And privily themselves did hide , for that Lady , Her chaste and constant life was tried by these two Elders of Babylon , A time convenient they espied , to have this Lady all alone : In this Orchard it came to pass , Lady , Lady , Where she alone her self did wash , her fair body , These Elders came to her anon , and thus they said , Fair dame , God speed Thy doors are fast , thy maids are gone , consent to us and do this deed , For we are men of no mistrust , Lady , Lady , And yet to thee we have a lust , Oh fair Lady , If that to us thou dost say nay , a testimonial we will bring , We will say that one with thee lay , how canst thou then avoid this thing Therefore consent to us and turn , Lady , Lady , For we to thee in lust do burn , Oh fair Lady . Then did she sighs , and said , alas , now woe is me on every side , Was ever wretch in such a case , shall I consent and do this deed ? Whither I do or do it not , Lady , Lady , It is my death , right well I wot , Oh true Lady , Better it were for me to fallen , into your hands this day guiltless , Then that I should consent at all to this your shameful wickedness , And even with that ( whereas she stood ) Lady , Lady , Unto the Lord she cried aloud , pitifully . These Elders both likewise again , against Susanna aloud they cried , Their filthy lust could not obtain , their wickedness they sought to hide Unto her friends they then her brought Lady , Lady , And with all speed the life they sought of that Lady , On the morrow she was brought forth before the people there to stand , That they might hear & know the truth how these two Elders Susanna found These Elders swore and thus did say Lady , Lady , How that they saw a young man lay with that Lady : Judgement there was for no offence , Susanna then causeless must die : These Elders boar such evidence , against her A most excellent and famous Ditty of Sampson Judge of Israell , how he wedded [ a ] Philistines Daughter , who at length forsook him : also how he slew a Lion , and propounded a Riddle , and after how he was falsely betrayed by Dalila , and of his death . To the tune of the Spanish Pavin . WHen Sampson was a fell young man His power and strength increased than , And in the host and Tribe of Dan , the Lord did bless him still . It chancrd so upon a day , As he was walking on his way , He saw a Maiden fresh and gay , in Timnah . With whom he fell so soar in love , That he his fancy could not move : His Parents therefore he did prove , and craved their good wills . I have found out a wife quoth he , I pray you Father give her me , Though she a strangers daughter be , I pass not . Then did bespeak his Parents deer , Have we not many Maidens here , Of Country , and acquaintance near , for thee to love and like ? O no , ( quoth Sampson presently ) Not one so pleasant in mine eye , Whom I could find so faithfully to fancy . At length they granted their consen And so with Sampson forth they went , To see the Maid was their intent . which was so fair and brigh But as they were a going there , A Lion put them in great fear , Whom Sampson presently did tear , in pieces . When they were come unto the place , They were agreed in the case : The wedding day appointed was : and when the time was come . As Sampson went for beauty's fees , The Lyons carcase there he sees , Wherein a sort of honey Bees had swearmed . Then closely Sampson went his way , And not a word thereof did say , Until the merry feasting day , unto the company . A Riddle I will show , quoth he , The meaning if you tell to me Within seven days , I will give ye great riches . But if the meaning you do miss , And cannot show me what it is , Then shall you give to me ( I wiss ) so much as I have said . Put forth thy Riddle ( then quoth they ) And we will tell it by our day , Or we will loose ( as thou dost say ) the wager . Then mark ( quoth he ) the total sum , Out of the eater meat did come , And from the strong did sweetness run , declare it if you can . And when they herd the Riddle told , Their hearts within them waxed cold : For none of them could then unfold the meaning . Then unto Sampsons wife went they And threatened her without delay , If she would not the thing bewray , to burn her Father's house . Then Sampsons wife with grief and woe , Desired him the same to show : And when she knew she straight did go to tell them . Then were they all full glad of this , To tell the thing they did not miss , What stronger beast then Lion is ? What sweeter meat then Honey : Then Sampson answered them full round : If my Hayfar had not ploughed the ground , So easily you had not found my Riddle . Then Sampson did his losses pay , And to his father went his way , But while with them he there did stay , his wife forsook him quite . And took another to her Love , Which Samsons anger much did move , To plague them therefore he did prove his cunning . A subtle sighed he then had found , To burn their corn upon the ground , Their Vineyards he destroyed round which made them fret and fume . But when they knew that Sampson he Had done them all this injury , Because his wife did him deny , they killed her : And afterwards they had decreed , To murder Sampson for that deed , Three thousand men they sent with speed , to bring him bound to them : But he did break his cords apace , And with the Jawbone of and Ass , A thousand men ere he did pass , he killed . When all his foes were laid in dust , Then Sampson was full soar athirst , In God therefore was all his trust , to help his fanting hear For liquour thereabouts was none : The Lord therefore from the Jawbone , Did make fresh water spring alone , to help him . Then Sampson had a joyful spright , And in a City lay that night , Whereas his foes with deadly spite , did seek his life to spill : But he at midnight then awakes , And tearing down the City gates , With him away the same he takes , most stoutly . Then on Dalila fair and bright , Did Sampson set his whole delight , Whom he did love both day and night , which wrought his overthrow : For she with sweet words did entreat , That for her sake he would repeat , Wherein his strength , that was so great , consisted . At length unto his utter fallen , And through her suit , which was not small He did not let to show her all , the secrets of his hear If that my hair be cut ( quoth he ) Which now so fair and long you see , Liks other men then shall I be , in weakness . Then through deceit which was so deep , She lulled Sampson fast asleep , A man she cal'd which she did keep , to cut off all his hair . Then did she call his hateful foes , Ere Sampson from her lap arose , Who could not then withstand their blows for weakness , To bind him fast they did devise , Then did they put out both his eyes , In Prison woefully he lies , and there he grinds the Mill. But God remembered all his pain , And did restore his strength again , Although that bound he did remain , in Prison The Philistines now were glad of this , For joy they made a feast ( I wiss ) And all their Princes did not miss to come unto the same : And being merry bent that day , For Sampson they did send straightway That they might laugh to see him play among them Then to the house was Sampson led And when he had their fancies fed , He plucked the house upon their head , and down they tumbled all : So that with grief and deadly pain , Three thousand persons there were slave [ e ] Thus Sampson then with all his train , was brained . The Ballad of constant Susanna . THere dwelled a man in Babylon , of reputation great by fame : He took to wife a fair woman , Susanna she was call'd by name : A woman fair and virtuous , Lady , Lady , Why should we not of her learn thus to live godly ? Virtuously her life she led , she feared God , she stood in awe , As in the story we have read , was well brought up in Moses Law , Her Parents they were godly folk , Lady , Lady , Why should we not then sing & talk , of this Lady . That year two Judges there was made , which were the Elders of Babylon , To Joachims house was all their trade who was Susannas husband then , Joachim was a great rich man , Lady , Lady , These Elders oft to his house came , for this Lady : Joachim had and Orchard by , fast joining to his house or place , Whereas Susanna commonly , her self did daily there solace , And that these Elders soon had spied , Lady , Lady , And privily themselves did hide , for that Lady , Her chaste and constant life was tried by these two Elders of Babylon , A time convenient they espied , to have this Lady all alone : In this Orchard it came to pass , Lady , Lady , Where she alone her self did wash , her fair body , These Elders came to her anon , and thus they said , Fair dame , God speed Thy doors are fast , thy maids are gone , consent to us and do this deed , For we are men of no mistrust , Lady , Lady , And yet to thee we have a lust , Oh fair Lady , If that to us thou dost say nay , a testimonial we will bring , We will say that one with thee lay , how canst thou then avoid this thing Therefore consent to us and turn , Lady , Lady , For we to thee in lust do burn , Oh fair Lady . Then did she sighs , and said , alas , now woe is me on every side , Was ever wretch in such a case , shall I consent and do this deed ? Whither I do or do it not , Lady , Lady , It is my death , right well I wot , Oh true Lady , Better it were for me to fallen , into your hands this day guiltless , Then that I should consent at all to this your shameful wickedness , And even with that ( whereas she stood ) Lady , Lady , Unto the Lord she cried aloud , pitifully . These Elders both likewise again , against Susanna aloud they cried , Their filthy lust could not obtain , their wickedness they sought to hide Unto her friends they then her brought Lady , Lady , And with all speed the life they sought of that Lady , On the morrow she was brought forth before the people there to stand , That they might hear & know the truth how these two Elders Susanna found These Elders swore and thus did say Lady , Lady , How that they saw a young man lay with that Lady : Judgement there was for no offence , Susanna then causeless must die : These Elders boar such evidence , against her they did verify , Who were believed then indeed , Lady , Lady , Against Susanna to proceed , that she should die . Susannas friends that stood her by , they did lament and were full woe , When as they saw no remedy , but that to death she then must go : Susanna then both true and just , Lady , Lady , In God was all her hope and trust , to him did cry . The Lord her voice herd and beheld , the Daughters cry of Israel : His Spirit he raised in a child , whose name was call [ ' ] worser young Daniel Who cried aloud whereas he stood , Lady , Lady , I am clear of the guiltless blood of this Lady , Are you such fools , quoth Daniel then , in judgement you have not done well , Nor yet the right way you have gone , to judge a Daughter of Israel , By this witness of false disdain , Lady , Lady , Wherefore to judgement turn again for that Lady : And when to judgement they were set , he called for those wicked men , And soon he did them separate , putting the one from the other then , He asked the one where he did see that fair Lady . He said under a Mulberry-tree : who lied falsely . Thou liest said Danie [ l ] , on thy head thy sentence is before the Lord : He bade that forth he might be led , and bring the other that boar record To see how they two did agree for this Lady : He said under a Pomegranate tree , Who lied falsely . Said Daniel as he did before , behold the Messenger of the Lord Stands waiting for you at the door , even for to cut thee with a sword . And even with that the multitude aloud did cry , Give thanks to God : so to conclude , for this Lady ; They dealt like with these wicked men according as the Scripture says , They dealt as with their neighbour then by Moses Law were put to death , The Innocent preserved was , Lady , Lady , As God by Daniel brought to pass , for this Lady . FINIS . Printed at London for H. Gosson . they did verify , Who were believed then indeed , Lady , Lady , Against Susanna to proceed , that she should die . Susannas friends that stood her by , they did lament and were full woe , When as they saw no remedy , but that to death she then must go : Susanna then both true and just , Lady , Lady , In God was all her hope and trust , to him did cry . The Lord her voice herd and beheld , the Daughters cry of Israel : His Spirit he raised in a child , whose name was call [ ' ] worser young Daniel Who cried aloud whereas he stood , Lady , Lady , I am clear of the guiltless blood of this Lady , Are you such fools , quoth Daniel then , in judgement you have not done well , Nor yet the right way you have gone , to judge a Daughter of Israel , By this witness of false disdain , Lady , Lady , Wherefore to judgement turn again for that Lady : And when to judgement they were set , he called for those wicked men , And soon he did them separate , putting the one from the other then , He asked the one where he did see that fair Lady . He said under a Mulberry-tree : who lied falsely . Thou liest said Danie [ l ] , on thy head thy sentence is before the Lord : He bade that forth he might be led , and bring the other that boar record To see how they two did agree for this Lady : He said under a Pomegranate tree , Who lied falsely . Said Daniel as he did before , behold the Messenger of the Lord Stands waiting for you at the door , even for to cut thee with a sword . And even with that the multitude aloud did cry , Give thanks to God : so to conclude , for this Lady ; They dealt like with these wicked men according as the Scripture says , They dealt as with their neighbour then by Moses Law were put to death , The Innocent preserved was , Lady , Lady , As God by Daniel brought to pass , for this Lady . FINIS . Printed at London for H. Gosson . 