The loving Virgins Complaint . Or , her destre to obtain the love of a young man . To the tune of Walking of late abroad . O Ne morning when bright Sol Did first ith East appear , abroad I walked , abroad I walked , the Nightingale to hear . Close by a pleasant Grove , I herd a Maiden cry , with sobs of sorrow , with sobs of sorrow , she wept most heartily . O fie on Cupids Chain , That hath my heart in hold , to endless bondage , to endless bondage , I am for ever sold . Was never silly lass tormented with such pain , I long have loved , I long have loved , and all alack in vain . Ill fortune sure had I to dote thus on a boy , the more I love him , the more I love him , the more the fool is coy . Like Venus Queen of Love , I woo my sweet Adonis , but he is bashful , but he is bashful , all comfort from me gone is . I dote upon his face . I more respect his sighed , then did that virgin , then did that virgin , who wooed Hermaphradite . So beautiful is he , and of so rare complexion , his eyes like loadstones , his eyes like loadstones , have drawn me to subjection . His locks of lovely brown are every one a snare , to bind poor Maidens , to bind poor Maidens , to sorrow , grief , and care . Would I had never seen those honey smiles so sweet , which did enthral me , which did enthral me , when first we two did meet . Me thought he to mine eye did seem so pleasant rare , that sure a creature , that sure a creature , he was without compare . But all that breeds my care , is that he is so young , he hardly knows yet , he hardly knows yet , what does to love belong . When he and I by chance in any place do meet , from me he turns , from me he turns , with rosy blushes sweet . I do more then my sir will give me leave to do , yet he is silent , yet he is silent , and knows not how to woo . The second part . To the same tune . W Hen love does me constrain , from him to steal a kiss , hee'll not afford me hee'll not afford me so small a thing as this . When Maids & amp ; young men meet where they all merry be , with pleasant pastime , with pleasant pastime , their company I flee . Unless my love be there , whose presence breeds my joy , yet heell not see me , yet heell not see me , which brings me sad annoy . But why do I complain , or wherefore am I sad , I hope my lover , I hope my lover , will one day make me glad . You goddesses and Nymphs , who Cupids captives were , Oh make my sweating Oh make my sweating commiserate my care . O Cupid god of Love , shoot forth thy golden dart , that he may love me , that he may love me , who now does breed my smart . If he would but regard how deer I him respect , it sure would move him , it sure would move him , more deer me to affect . Yet though he be so coy , still to reject my love , my constant fancy , my constant fancy from him shall never move . The knees of my poor heart to his subjection bend , though he disdain me , though he disdain me , I'll love him to the end . Like echo to the Woods , I here distressed do fly , where I a virgin , where I a virgin , do vow to live and die . And so farewell found world , farewell my lovely boy : thy love shall end me , thy love shall end me , because thou art so coy . I hearing this poor maid , so piteous complain , I stepped unto her , I stepped unto her , to ease her of her pain . Sweet virgin cease your moan , quoth I , and be content , by me be ruled , by me be ruled , and you shall not repent . By my persuasion she was ruled , and did agree to leave the green wood , to leave the green wood , and walk along with me . In hope that after wards his heart would tender prove , which she deserved , which she deserved , by true and constant love , FINIS . Printed for Fr. Coules . The loving Virgins Complaint . Or , her destre to obtain the love of a young man . To the tune of Walking of late abroad . O Ne morning when bright Sol Did first ith East appear , abroad I walked , abroad I walked , the Nightingale to hear . Close by a pleasant Grove , I herd a Maiden cry , with sobs of sorrow , with sobs of sorrow , she wept most heartily . O fie on Cupids Chain , That hath my heart in hold , to endless bondage , to endless bondage , I am for ever sold . Was never silly lass tormented with such pain , I long have loved , I long have loved , and all alack in vain . Ill fortune sure had I to dote thus on a boy , the more I love him , the more I love him , the more the fool is coy . Like Venus Queen of Love , I woo my sweet Adonis , but he is bashful , but he is bashful , all comfort from me gone is . I dote upon his face . I more respect his sighed , then did that virgin , then did that virgin , who wooed Hermaphradite . So beautiful is he , and of so rare complexion , his eyes like loadstones , his eyes like loadstones , have drawn me to subjection . His locks of lovely brown are every one a snare , to bind poor Maidens , to bind poor Maidens , to sorrow , grief , and care . Would I had never seen those honey smiles so sweet , which did enthral me , which did enthral me , when first we two did meet . Me thought he to mine eye did seem so pleasant rare , that sure a creature , that sure a creature , he was without compare . But all that breeds my care , is that he is so young , he hardly knows yet , he hardly knows yet , what does to love belong . When he and I by chance in any place do meet , from me he turns , from me he turns , with rosy blushes sweet . I do more then my sir will give me leave to do , yet he is silent , yet he is silent , and knows not how to woo . The second part . To the same tune . W Hen love does me constrain , from him to steal a kiss , hee'll not afford me hee'll not afford me so small a thing as this . When Maids & amp ; young men meet where they all merry be , with pleasant pastime , with pleasant pastime , their company I flee . Unless my love be there , whose presence breeds my joy , yet heell not see me , yet heell not see me , which brings me sad annoy . But why do I complain , or wherefore am I sad , I hope my lover , I hope my lover , will one day make me glad . You goddesses and Nymphs , who Cupids captives were , Oh make my sweating Oh make my sweating commiserate my care . O Cupid god of Love , shoot forth thy golden dart , that he may love me , that he may love me , who now does breed my smart . If he would but regard how deer I him respect , it sure would move him , it sure would move him , more deer me to affect . Yet though he be so coy , still to reject my love , my constant fancy , my constant fancy from him shall never move . The knees of my poor heart to his subjection bend , though he disdain me , though he disdain me , I'll love him to the end . Like echo to the Woods , I here distressed do fly , where I a virgin , where I a virgin , do vow to live and die . And so farewell found world , farewell my lovely boy : thy love shall end me , thy love shall end me , because thou art so coy . I hearing this poor maid , so piteous complain , I stepped unto her , I stepped unto her , to ease her of her pain . Sweet virgin cease your moan , quoth I , and be content , by me be ruled , by me be ruled , and you shall not repent . By my persuasion she was ruled , and did agree to leave the green wood , to leave the green wood , and walk along with me . In hope that after wards his heart would tender prove , which she deserved , which she deserved , by true and constant love , FINIS . Printed for Fr. Coules . 