Love without Luck , Or The Maidens Misfortune To the Tune of the new Celebrand . I N the sweet temperate Air of a May Morning , When Ver and Flora fair had be adorning The lovely Fields and Meads , Valleys and Mountains , Cheering the bubbling Brooks and streaming Fountains : When Younglings sport and play , ( AEltina's Holiday ) As I walked on the way for recreation , Where each Lad with his Lass , Neatly trip on the gra [ s ] e , As they the Meadows pass , in lovely fashion . Now Groves and Copses loud Echoes are ringing , The Mavis Robin and early Lark singing , Philomel chants her note Jug , Jug , most sweetly , And the fair Bird of May Coo-koo discreetly , Each Bird did chirp and sing , To welcome in the Spring , With cheerful solacing , and fragrant Flowers All lovely to the eye , Smelling most curiously , In choice variety for Ladies Bowers . Singling my self alone for my contenting , I herd a Beauteous One sadly lamenting , Tears down her lovely cheeks from eyes distilling , Sighing ; and cursed the Time , ere she so willing Had yielded foolishly , Up her Virginity , And grown in misery , after despised Of him she held so deer , Who had plucked from her there , What she most worser [ ee ] med near and highly prized . Lands that are mortgaged may oft be redeemed , But Virgin-Honor lost never esteemed : Were she the fairest One Nature ere framed , That matchless Jewel gone and she defamed , In scorn it will be said , There goes one was a Maid , Yet hath the Wanton played , o , this does grieve me , Chiefly to think that he Should so inconstant be , Loving him faithfully , thus to deceive me . The second part . To the same tune . W Ith that again she wept , Her griefs renewing , Whereon to her I stepped , her feature viewing , Thinking some Angel bright in shape of woman , So dazzled had my sighed ; for I think no man Ere yet beheld with eye One more immortally , ( For wit and modesty , grace , Art , and feature ) Decked with deportments fair , And Beauty's passing rare . Thus I began . O Fair Divinest creature , Tell me , where lives the Man could be so cruel , I'll right thee if I can for thy lost Jewel , And force him marry Thee if thou desire it , That he so false could be , I do admire it . Then with tears in her eyes , Mournfully she replies , He's for some golden price , rashly is ventured : Else over the Seas is gone , With Marquesse Hambleton , And like a perjured one , left me distempered . But since the time that he , the Seas has taken ; My friends despitefully , have me forsaken : Father , and Mother ; All Brother's and Sisters , Lewd Strumpet do me call , and as Detesters They loath my company ; I dare not come them nigh , But may curse till I die , all false Protesters . That seek there wills to have , And yet poor maids deceive , Then do no credit give unto such Jesters . No marriage yet at home , would I accept on : Till at length over come , by this young Captain , Who had vowed earnestly he would me marry And his fair promises made me miscarry , For fearing of none ill I yielded to his will , Sorrow my heart do kill , being disdained . Let this my misery , to all a warning be , To keep their chastity pure and unstained . Printed at London for J. G. FINIS . Love without Luck , Or The Maidens Misfortune To the Tune of the new Celebrand . I N the sweet temperate Air of a May Morning , When Ver and Flora fair had be adorning The lovely Fields and Meads , Valleys and Mountains , Cheering the bubbling Brooks and streaming Fountains : When Younglings sport and play , ( AEltina's Holiday ) As I walked on the way for recreation , Where each Lad with his Lass , Neatly trip on the gra [ s ] e , As they the Meadows pass , in lovely fashion . Now Groves and Copses loud Echoes are ringing , The Mavis Robin and early Lark singing , Philomel chants her note Jug , Jug , most sweetly , And the fair Bird of May Coo-koo discreetly , Each Bird did chirp and sing , To welcome in the Spring , With cheerful solacing , and fragrant Flowers All lovely to the eye , Smelling most curiously , In choice variety for Ladies Bowers . Singling my self alone for my contenting , I herd a Beauteous One sadly lamenting , Tears down her lovely cheeks from eyes distilling , Sighing ; and cursed the Time , ere she so willing Had yielded foolishly , Up her Virginity , And grown in misery , after despised Of him she held so deer , Who had plucked from her there , What she most worser [ ee ] med near and highly prized . Lands that are mortgaged may oft be redeemed , But Virgin-Honor lost never esteemed : Were she the fairest One Nature ere framed , That matchless Jewel gone and she defamed , In scorn it will be said , There goes one was a Maid , Yet hath the Wanton played , o , this does grieve me , Chiefly to think that he Should so inconstant be , Loving him faithfully , thus to deceive me . The second part . To the same tune . W Ith that again she wept , Her griefs renewing , Whereon to her I stepped , her feature viewing , Thinking some Angel bright in shape of woman , So dazzled had my sighed ; for I think no man Ere yet beheld with eye One more immortally , ( For wit and modesty , grace , Art , and feature ) Decked with deportments fair , And Beauty's passing rare . Thus I began . O Fair Divinest creature , Tell me , where lives the Man could be so cruel , I'll right thee if I can for thy lost Jewel , And force him marry Thee if thou desire it , That he so false could be , I do admire it . Then with tears in her eyes , Mournfully she replies , He's for some golden price , rashly is ventured : Else over the Seas is gone , With Marquesse Hambleton , And like a perjured one , left me distempered . But since the time that he , the Seas has taken ; My friends despitefully , have me forsaken : Father , and Mother ; All Brother's and Sisters , Lewd Strumpet do me call , and as Detesters They loath my company ; I dare not come them nigh , But may curse till I die , all false Protesters . That seek there wills to have , And yet poor maids deceive , Then do no credit give unto such Jesters . No marriage yet at home , would I accept on : Till at length over come , by this young Captain , Who had vowed earnestly he would me marry And his fair promises made me miscarry , For fearing of none ill I yielded to his will , Sorrow my heart do kill , being disdained . Let this my misery , to all a warning be , To keep their chastity pure and unstained . Printed at London for J. G. FINIS . 