The two Nottinghamshire Lovers , or the Maid of Standon of Not - tinghamshire , and the Leicestershire Man , which were linked together contra - ry to their Friends minds , but she was inflamed in love , that she reque - stead him from thence to go ; and he resolved her so to do , ap - pointing the place where they should meet , but it was a heavy meeting as ere was known , as in the Ditty shall be shown . To the tune of , I feareed shall stay too long . I N Nottinghamshire , As late I did hear , there lived two Lovers true , Whose heart was linked fast , While life did last , but mark what did ensue . O this was all her song , My Love , I suffer wrong , And I fear thou wilt stay too long . In Standon she was born , That lived thus forlorn , and her name was called Anne Hall . But her own friends did seek , Her mind for to break , which caused her great downfall . And this was , etc This Youngman in Leicestershire , Was born as I do hear , and his name was called John brown , But in this love he was Not so constant as this Lass , as hereby shall be plainly found . But this was , etc Her friends would not agree That married she should be , to him that she best did love : Though she did them entreat , They her misused and beatrice , in hope that her mind would move . O this was , etc Her friends to her would say , If you will him denay , and marry some other man , Then you shall want for nought That for money can be bought , take you him that hath house and land . But this was , etc But she was thus resolved , Till death her dissolved , not to change like the wavering wind : Like to the Turtle Dove , So true she did prove , and she was steadfast in her mind . O but this , etc That when that she did see Her friends would not agree , she moan made unto her Love : Saying she would go , With him in weal or woe , and would prove like the Turtle dove . O but this , etc . Thus he replied again , My mind I will explain , and will tell thee what I will do ; Meet me in thy father's Land , And here's my heart and hand , tomorrow with thee I'll go . O but this , etc To same she did agree , And appointed presently , the place where she should him meet , Then home she went again , For money to maintain her self and her lover sweet . O but this , etc And when the hour came , Then she returned again , to the place where he did appoint : But when that she came there , She saw him not appear , and then she began to faint . O but this , etc Then down she sat her strait , And thus began to write , complaining most piteously , Of her crosses she Had endured patiently , but then was resolved to die . O but this , etc . Falsehearted one , That breeds my moan , and does cause me thus to complain : O I will never trust To one so unjust , for I find that it is in vain , But this was all her song , My love , I suffer wrong , And I fear thou wilt stay too long . The second part . To the same tune . H E so swore to me , That true he would be , as the Turtle to her Mate , O but him I find Much like to the wind , that blows uncertain state , But this is still my song , My love I suffer wrong , And I fear thou wilt stay too long . His urging eyes Like to the pleasant skies , that in April oft do show , Yet ere that you are aware , They changed are , to stormy wind and blow . Therefore , etc Seeing thee here I find , To be so unkind to me which so deer loved thee , I am resolved in heart , From the world to depart , thou again shalt me never see . Therefore , etc To Father and Mother , I speak above all other , who are the causers of my woe , You would not give consent , Therefore you may repent , you have wrought my overthrow . Therefore , etc When I did you entreat , Then was I sorely beatrice , and you said him I should not marry , You stood for worldly gain , Which breeds now my pain , for my love I do now miscarry . Therefore , etc To you my love likewise , Whom I did once surmise , would have proved more true to me : But you I false do find , And to me so unkind , therefore now I here must die . Therefore , etc This letter of my woe , With me shall be to show , in the place where you me shall find , For to declare aright , The causes of my spite , and the truth of a troubled mind . Therefore , etc , Then with her knife , She ended her life , in the place that appointed was , Where her love to see , Came thither presently , and found her dead on the grass . Therefore , etc Then with his Rapier he , Himself immediately did kill hard by his love : Straight after they were found Bleeding upon the ground , near to a pleasant Grove . Therefore , etc Her friends when they did hear Soar grieved they were : yet unto the place did come , And from her pocket they There pulled out straightway , this letter of grief and moan . Therefore , etc When this they read and hear , They strucken were with fear . and cried most piteously : Confessing of it true , But mark what did ensue , Oh they after did quickly die . Therefore , etc Let other Parents now , Not seek to break a vow , that is made between Lovers true : Lest all too late I say , They work their lives decay , as this story does plainly show . And now to end my song , My love , I suffer wrong , And I fear thou wilt stay too long . London , printed for H. Gossen . FINIS . The two Nottinghamshire Lovers , or the Maid of Standon of Not - tinghamshire , and the Leicestershire Man , which were linked together contra - ry to their Friends minds , but she was inflamed in love , that she reque - stead him from thence to go ; and he resolved her so to do , ap - pointing the place where they should meet , but it was a heavy meeting as ere was known , as in the Ditty shall be shown . To the tune of , I feareed shall stay too long . I N Nottinghamshire , As late I did hear , there lived two Lovers true , Whose heart was linked fast , While life did last , but mark what did ensue . O this was all her song , My Love , I suffer wrong , And I fear thou wilt stay too long . In Standon she was born , That lived thus forlorn , and her name was called Anne Hall . But her own friends did seek , Her mind for to break , which caused her great downfall . And this was , etc This Youngman in Leicestershire , Was born as I do hear , and his name was called John brown , But in this love he was Not so constant as this Lass , as hereby shall be plainly found . But this was , etc Her friends would not agree That married she should be , to him that she best did love : Though she did them entreat , They her misused and beatrice , in hope that her mind would move . O this was , etc Her friends to her would say , If you will him denay , and marry some other man , Then you shall want for nought That for money can be bought , take you him that hath house and land . But this was , etc But she was thus resolved , Till death her dissolved , not to change like the wavering wind : Like to the Turtle Dove , So true she did prove , and she was steadfast in her mind . O but this , etc That when that she did see Her friends would not agree , she moan made unto her Love : Saying she would go , With him in weal or woe , and would prove like the Turtle dove . O but this , etc . Thus he replied again , My mind I will explain , and will tell thee what I will do ; Meet me in thy father's Land , And here's my heart and hand , tomorrow with thee I'll go . O but this , etc To same she did agree , And appointed presently , the place where she should him meet , Then home she went again , For money to maintain her self and her lover sweet . O but this , etc And when the hour came , Then she returned again , to the place where he did appoint : But when that she came there , She saw him not appear , and then she began to faint . O but this , etc Then down she sat her strait , And thus began to write , complaining most piteously , Of her crosses she Had endured patiently , but then was resolved to die . O but this , etc . Falsehearted one , That breeds my moan , and does cause me thus to complain : O I will never trust To one so unjust , for I find that it is in vain , But this was all her song , My love , I suffer wrong , And I fear thou wilt stay too long . The second part . To the same tune . H E so swore to me , That true he would be , as the Turtle to her Mate , O but him I find Much like to the wind , that blows uncertain state , But this is still my song , My love I suffer wrong , And I fear thou wilt stay too long . His urging eyes Like to the pleasant skies , that in April oft do show , Yet ere that you are aware , They changed are , to stormy wind and blow . Therefore , etc Seeing thee here I find , To be so unkind to me which so deer loved thee , I am resolved in heart , From the world to depart , thou again shalt me never see . Therefore , etc To Father and Mother , I speak above all other , who are the causers of my woe , You would not give consent , Therefore you may repent , you have wrought my overthrow . Therefore , etc When I did you entreat , Then was I sorely beatrice , and you said him I should not marry , You stood for worldly gain , Which breeds now my pain , for my love I do now miscarry . Therefore , etc To you my love likewise , Whom I did once surmise , would have proved more true to me : But you I false do find , And to me so unkind , therefore now I here must die . Therefore , etc This letter of my woe , With me shall be to show , in the place where you me shall find , For to declare aright , The causes of my spite , and the truth of a troubled mind . Therefore , etc , Then with her knife , She ended her life , in the place that appointed was , Where her love to see , Came thither presently , and found her dead on the grass . Therefore , etc Then with his Rapier he , Himself immediately did kill hard by his love : Straight after they were found Bleeding upon the ground , near to a pleasant Grove . Therefore , etc Her friends when they did hear Soar grieved they were : yet unto the place did come , And from her pocket they There pulled out straightway , this letter of grief and moan . Therefore , etc When this they read and hear , They strucken were with fear . and cried most piteously : Confessing of it true , But mark what did ensue , Oh they after did quickly die . Therefore , etc Let other Parents now , Not seek to break a vow , that is made between Lovers true : Lest all too late I say , They work their lives decay , as this story does plainly show . And now to end my song , My love , I suffer wrong , And I fear thou wilt stay too long . London , printed for H. Gossen . FINIS . 