The good Shepherds sorrow for the death ef his beloved Son . To and excellent new tune . I N sad and Ashy weeds , I sighs , I pine , I grieve , I mourn : My Oats and yellow reeds , I now to Jet and Ebon turn . My urged eyes like winter skies , My furrowed cheeks overflow , All heaven knows why men mourn as I and who can blame my woe ? In Sable robes of night , My days of joy appareled be , My sorrow sees no light , my light through sorrows nothing see , For now my son his date hath run , And from his Sphere does go , To endless bed of folded led , and who can blame my woe ? My flocks I now forsake , That senseless sheep my griefs may know And lilies loath to take , that since his sail presumed to grow : I envy air because it dare , Still breath and he not so . Hate earth that does entomb his youth , and who can blame my woe ? Not I poor Lad aloane , Aloane , how can such sorrows be ? Not only men make moan , but more then men make moan with me The Gods of greens , the mountain Queens The Fairies circled Row : The Muses nine the Nymph's divine , and all condole my woe . You awful Gods of sky , If Shepherds may you question thus , What Diety to supply , took you this gentle Star from us ? Is Hermes fled ? is Cupid dead ? Does Sol his seat forgo , Or J ove his joy he stool from Troy , or who hath framed this woe ? Did not mine eyes , O heavens Adore your light as well before , But that amid your seaven , you fixed have one Planet more : You well may raise now double days , On this sad earth below , Your powers have wone from us a Son and who can blame my woe ? At your great hands I ask , This boon , which you may easily grant That till my utmost mask of death , I still may moan his want , Since his Divine parts with you shine Too bright for us below : And earth's sad breast entombs the rest Yet mine entombs his woe . The Second Part of the good Shepherd , or Coridons Comfort . To the same tune . P Eace Shepherd cease to moan , in vain is all this grief and woe , For him thats from us gone , and can ( alack ) return no more : And yet indeed , The Oaten Reed , and mirth thou late didst know : I blame thee not , If now forgotten , for who can blame thy woe ? The breath , had once a found harmonious , is in sighing spent : The temples once were bound , with Chaplets of a pleasing sent , Now Cypress wear , Thy grief and care , to all the world to show : The pipe so sweet , Thy lips never meet , and who can blame thy woe , The murmur of the Brooks , hath been delightful to thine ear , Much pleasure hast thou took , sweet Philomelaes note to hear , To see that Choir , From bush to brier , leap lightly too and from : The Summer's Queen , Attired in green , but now this nothing so , To see this Queen of flowers , when hoary Hyems part is done , Deck up those Summer Bowers , [ ? ] Defend us from the parching Sun , To see the ground , Embroidered round , and every tree to show : His Virid ' die , Hath pleased thine eye , but now this nothing so . Too well I know thy sheep , at random graze upon the plain : Grief luls thee now asleep , and now thou wakst to grieve again Asleep , awake For his deer sake , some sign thy sorrows show : No bed of rest , Can ease thy breast , and who can blame thy woe . No man , ( the man that knew for whom our fainting bodies were These robes of saddest hue , and woes more black imbrested bear ) Can well forbear , To shed a tear , griefs tide will overflow : Pale sorrwes course , Hath still some force : then who can blame thy woe . Thy woes I cannot blame , but in thy sorrows bear a part , Yet now to patience frame , and see the salve cures all our smart : This bud is dead , Is gone , is fled , but in his place does grow A Flower as fair ; As fresh as rare , and he cures all our woe . FINIS . Imprinted at London for Henry Gosson . The good Shepherds sorrow for the death ef his beloved Son . To and excellent new tune . I N sad and Ashy weeds , I sighs , I pine , I grieve , I mourn : My Oats and yellow reeds , I now to Jet and Ebon turn . My urged eyes like winter skies , My furrowed cheeks overflow , All heaven knows why men mourn as I and who can blame my woe ? In Sable robes of night , My days of joy appareled be , My sorrow sees no light , my light through sorrows nothing see , For now my son his date hath run , And from his Sphere does go , To endless bed of folded led , and who can blame my woe ? My flocks I now forsake , That senseless sheep my griefs may know And lilies loath to take , that since his sail presumed to grow : I envy air because it dare , Still breath and he not so . Hate earth that does entomb his youth , and who can blame my woe ? Not I poor Lad aloane , Aloane , how can such sorrows be ? Not only men make moan , but more then men make moan with me The Gods of greens , the mountain Queens The Fairies circled Row : The Muses nine the Nymph's divine , and all condole my woe . You awful Gods of sky , If Shepherds may you question thus , What Diety to supply , took you this gentle Star from us ? Is Hermes fled ? is Cupid dead ? Does Sol his seat forgo , Or J ove his joy he stool from Troy , or who hath framed this woe ? Did not mine eyes , O heavens Adore your light as well before , But that amid your seaven , you fixed have one Planet more : You well may raise now double days , On this sad earth below , Your powers have wone from us a Son and who can blame my woe ? At your great hands I ask , This boon , which you may easily grant That till my utmost mask of death , I still may moan his want , Since his Divine parts with you shine Too bright for us below : And earth's sad breast entombs the rest Yet mine entombs his woe . The Second Part of the good Shepherd , or Coridons Comfort . To the same tune . P Eace Shepherd cease to moan , in vain is all this grief and woe , For him thats from us gone , and can ( alack ) return no more : And yet indeed , The Oaten Reed , and mirth thou late didst know : I blame thee not , If now forgotten , for who can blame thy woe ? The breath , had once a found harmonious , is in sighing spent : The temples once were bound , with Chaplets of a pleasing sent , Now Cypress wear , Thy grief and care , to all the world to show : The pipe so sweet , Thy lips never meet , and who can blame thy woe , The murmur of the Brooks , hath been delightful to thine ear , Much pleasure hast thou took , sweet Philomelaes note to hear , To see that Choir , From bush to brier , leap lightly too and from : The Summer's Queen , Attired in green , but now this nothing so , To see this Queen of flowers , when hoary Hyems part is done , Deck up those Summer Bowers , [ ? ] Defend us from the parching Sun , To see the ground , Embroidered round , and every tree to show : His Virid ' die , Hath pleased thine eye , but now this nothing so . Too well I know thy sheep , at random graze upon the plain : Grief luls thee now asleep , and now thou wakst to grieve again Asleep , awake For his deer sake , some sign thy sorrows show : No bed of rest , Can ease thy breast , and who can blame thy woe . No man , ( the man that knew for whom our fainting bodies were These robes of saddest hue , and woes more black imbrested bear ) Can well forbear , To shed a tear , griefs tide will overflow : Pale sorrwes course , Hath still some force : then who can blame thy woe . Thy woes I cannot blame , but in thy sorrows bear a part , Yet now to patience frame , and see the salve cures all our smart : This bud is dead , Is gone , is fled , but in his place does grow A Flower as fair ; As fresh as rare , and he cures all our woe . FINIS . Imprinted at London for Henry Gosson . 