Leanders love to loyal Hero To the tune of Shackley hay . TO woe famous Lovers once there was , whom Fam [ e ] would [ tO ] h [ q ] uite fo [ r ] god [ tO ] : Who loved long mos [ tO ] counterfeit [ n ] stantly , without all envious blot ; She was most fair , and he as true : which caused that which did ensue ; fa la , Whose story I do mean to write , and title it , True Loves delight , fa la . Leander was this youngman's name , right Noble by dessent : And Hero , she whose beauty rare , might give great Jove content . He at Abidos kept his Court , and she at Sestos lived in sport , fa la , A River great did part these twaine , which caused them oft poor souls complain , fa la . Even Hellespont , whose Current streams , like lightnings swift did glide , Accursed River that two hearts , so faithful must divide . And more , which did augment their woe , their parents wear each others foe , fa la , So that no Ship durst him convey , unto the place whereas his Hero lay , fa la . Long time these Lovers did complain , the miss of their desire . Not knowing how they might obtain , the thing they did require . Though they were parted with rough seas , no waters could Loves flames appease , fa la , Leander ventured to Swim to Hero , who well welcomed him , fa la . Even in tO [ he ] midst of darksome night , when a [ ll ] things silent were , Would young Leander take his flight , through Hellospont so clear ; Where at the shore , Hero would be , to welcome him most lovingly , fa la , And so Leander would convey , unto the chamber where she lay , fa la . Thus many days they did enjoy , the fruits of their delight , For he oft to his Hero came , and back aganie same night . And she for to encourage him , through Hellospont more bold to swim , fa la , In her Tower top a Lamp did place , whereby he might behold her face , fa la . And by this Lamp would Hero fit , still praying for her love , That the rough waters to Leander , would not offensive prove . Be mild quoth she , till he does swim , and that I have well welcomed him , fa la ; And then ever rage and roar amain , that he may never go hence again , fa la . Now Boisterous Winter hasted on , when winds and Waters rage : Yet could it not the lustful heat , of this young Youth assuage : Though winds and waters raged so , no Ship durst venture for to go , fa la ; Leander would go see his Love , his manly Arms in Floods to prove , fa la . The s econd part of Leanders love to Loyal Hero : To the s ame tune . TO hen leapt he into Hellospont desirous for to go , Unto the place of his delight , which he affected so . But winds and waves did him withstand , so that he could attain no land , fa la ; For his loves Lamp looking about , fair Hero slept , and it gone out , fa la . Then all in vain Leander strove ; till Arms could do no more , For naked he deprived of life , was cast upon the shore : O had the Lamp still stayed in , Leander liveless had not been , fa la . Which being gone , he knew no ground , because thick darkness did abound , fa la ; When Hero fair awaked from sleep , and saw her Lamp was gone , Her senses all be numbed wear and she like to a stone . O from her Eyes then Pearls more clear , proceeded many a doleful tear , fa la , Presaging that the angry Flood , had drunk Leanders Lovely blood , fa la . Then to the top of highest Tower . fair Hero , did ascend : To see how winds did with the waves , for mastership contend : And on the Sands she did espy a naked body Liveless lie , fa la ; And looking more upont , she knew , it was Leanders bloodless hue , fa la . Then did she tear her golden hair , and in her grief thus said , Accursed River that art still a foe to every Maid , Since Hellen fair , in thee was drowned , named Hellospont tha'rt ever found , fa la ; And now to see what though canst do , thou hast made me a mourner too . But though thou didst attach my Love , and took him for thine own : That he was only Heroes deer , henceforth it shall known . Then from the Tower fair Hero fell , whose woeful death I sighs to tell , fa la : And on his body there did die , that loved her most tenderly fa la ; Thus ended they both life and love , in prime of their young years : Since whose untimely funerals no such true love appears : Until more Constant love arise , their names I will immortalise , fa la . And heavens send such as have true friends , as faithful hearts , but better ends , fa la . FINIS . quoth William Meash , Imprinted at London for I . W . Leanders love to loyal Hero To the tune of Shackley hay . TO woe famous Lovers once there was , whom Fam [ e ] would [ tO ] h [ q ] uite fo [ r ] god [ tO ] : Who loved long mos [ tO ] counterfeit [ n ] stantly , without all envious blot ; She was most fair , and he as true : which caused that which did ensue ; fa la , Whose story I do mean to write , and title it , True Loves delight , fa la . Leander was this youngman's name , right Noble by dessent : And Hero , she whose beauty rare , might give great Jove content . He at Abidos kept his Court , and she at Sestos lived in sport , fa la , A River great did part these twaine , which caused them oft poor souls complain , fa la . Even Hellespont , whose Current streams , like lightnings swift did glide , Accursed River that two hearts , so faithful must divide . And more , which did augment their woe , their parents wear each others foe , fa la , So that no Ship durst him convey , unto the place whereas his Hero lay , fa la . Long time these Lovers did complain , the miss of their desire . Not knowing how they might obtain , the thing they did require . Though they were parted with rough seas , no waters could Loves flames appease , fa la , Leander ventured to Swim to Hero , who well welcomed him , fa la . Even in tO [ he ] midst of darksome night , when a [ ll ] things silent were , Would young Leander take his flight , through Hellospont so clear ; Where at the shore , Hero would be , to welcome him most lovingly , fa la , And so Leander would convey , unto the chamber where she lay , fa la . Thus many days they did enjoy , the fruits of their delight , For he oft to his Hero came , and back aganie same night . And she for to encourage him , through Hellospont more bold to swim , fa la , In her Tower top a Lamp did place , whereby he might behold her face , fa la . And by this Lamp would Hero fit , still praying for her love , That the rough waters to Leander , would not offensive prove . Be mild quoth she , till he does swim , and that I have well welcomed him , fa la ; And then ever rage and roar amain , that he may never go hence again , fa la . Now Boisterous Winter hasted on , when winds and Waters rage : Yet could it not the lustful heat , of this young Youth assuage : Though winds and waters raged so , no Ship durst venture for to go , fa la ; Leander would go see his Love , his manly Arms in Floods to prove , fa la . The s econd part of Leanders love to Loyal Hero : To the s ame tune . TO hen leapt he into Hellospont desirous for to go , Unto the place of his delight , which he affected so . But winds and waves did him withstand , so that he could attain no land , fa la ; For his loves Lamp looking about , fair Hero slept , and it gone out , fa la . Then all in vain Leander strove ; till Arms could do no more , For naked he deprived of life , was cast upon the shore : O had the Lamp still stayed in , Leander liveless had not been , fa la . Which being gone , he knew no ground , because thick darkness did abound , fa la ; When Hero fair awaked from sleep , and saw her Lamp was gone , Her senses all be numbed wear and she like to a stone . O from her Eyes then Pearls more clear , proceeded many a doleful tear , fa la , Presaging that the angry Flood , had drunk Leanders Lovely blood , fa la . Then to the top of highest Tower . fair Hero , did ascend : To see how winds did with the waves , for mastership contend : And on the Sands she did espy a naked body Liveless lie , fa la ; And looking more upont , she knew , it was Leanders bloodless hue , fa la . Then did she tear her golden hair , and in her grief thus said , Accursed River that art still a foe to every Maid , Since Hellen fair , in thee was drowned , named Hellospont tha'rt ever found , fa la ; And now to see what though canst do , thou hast made me a mourner too . But though thou didst attach my Love , and took him for thine own : That he was only Heroes deer , henceforth it shall known . Then from the Tower fair Hero fell , whose woeful death I sighs to tell , fa la : And on his body there did die , that loved her most tenderly fa la ; Thus ended they both life and love , in prime of their young years : Since whose untimely funerals no such true love appears : Until more Constant love arise , their names I will immortalise , fa la . And heavens send such as have true friends , as faithful hearts , but better ends , fa la . FINIS . quoth William Meash , Imprinted at London for I. W. 