The diseased Maiden L over . Being a pleasant new court Song : To and exeellent new tune , Or to be sung to the tune of Bonny Nell . A S I went forth one Summer's day , To view the Meadows fresh and gay , A pleasant Bower I espied , Standing hard by a Rivers side : and in't I herd a Maiden cry , alas , there's none ere loved like I . I couched close to hear her moan , With many a heavy groan , And wished that I had been the wight , That might have bred her hearts delight : but these were all the words that she , did still repeat , none loves like me . Then round the Meadows did she walk , Catching each flower by the stalk , Such as within the Meadows grew . As Dead-mans thumb , and Harebell blue : and as she plucked them , still cried she , alas , there's none ere loved like me . A bed therein she made to lie : Of fine green things that grew fast by , Of Poplars , and of Willow leaves , Of Sycamore and Flaggy sheaves : and as she plucked them , still cried she , alas , there's none ere loved like me . The little Lark-foote sheeed not pass , Nor yet the flowers of Three-leaved grass , With Milkemayds Honey Succles phrase , The Crows foot , nor the yellow Crayse , and as she plucked them , still cried she , alas , there's none ere loved like me . The pretty Dasie which does show Her love to Phoebus , bred her woe ; Who joys to see his cheerful face , And mourns when he is not in place , alack , alack , alack , quoth she , there's none that ever loved like me . The Flowers of the Sweetest sent , She bound them round with knotted Bent , And as she laid them still in bans , She wept , she wailed , and wrung her hands , alas , alas , alas , quoth she , there's none that ever loved like me . False man , quoth she , forgive thee heaven , As I do wish my sins forgiven , In blessed Elizium I shall sleep , When thou with perjured souls shalt weep who when they lived , did like to thee , that loved their Loves as thou dost me . When she had filled her Apron full , Of such sweet Flowers as she could cull ; The green leaves served her for a Bed , The Flowers pillows for her head , Then down she lay , never more did speak , alas with love her heart did break . F I N I S. Printed at London for J. Wright . The Faithless Lover . To the same tune . W Hen I had seen this Virgins end , I sorrowed as became a friend , And wept to see that such a Maid Should be by faithless love betrayed . but woe ( I fear ) will come to thee , that was not true in love as she . The Birds did cease their Harmony , The harmless Lambs did seem to cry , The Flowers they did hang their head , The Flower of Maidens being dead , whose life by death is now set free , and none did love more deer than she . The bubbling brooks did seem to moan , And Echo from the Vales did groan ; Diana's Nymph's did ring her knell , And to their Queen the same did tell , who vowed by her chastity , that none should take revenge but she . When as I saw her corpse were cold , I to her Lover went , and told What chance unto this Maid befell , Who said , I am glad she sped so well . d'ee think that I so found would be , to love no Maid but only she ? I was not made for one alone , I take delight to hear them moan ; When one is gone , I will have more : That man is rich , that hath most store , I bondage hate , I must live free , and not be tied to such as she . O Sir , remember , ( then quoth I ) The power of Heavens All-seeing eye , Who does remember vows forgotten , Though you deny you know it not : call to your mind this Maiden free , the which was wronged by none but thee . Quoth he , I have a love more fair , Beside , she is her Father's heir , A bonny Lass does please my mind , That unto me is wondrous kind : her will I love , and none but she , who still shall welcome be to me . False-minded man that so would prove , Disloyal to thy dearest Love , Who at her death for thee did pray , And wished thee many a happy day . I would my Love would but love me , even half so well as she loved thee . Fair Maidens will example take , Youngmen will curse thee for her sake : They'll stop their ears unto our plaints , And call us Devils seeming Saints : they'll say to day , that we are kind , tomorrow of another mind . FINIS . Printed at London for John Wright . The diseased Maiden L over . Being a pleasant new court Song : To and exeellent new tune , Or to be sung to the tune of Bonny Nell . A S I went forth one Summer's day , To view the Meadows fresh and gay , A pleasant Bower I espied , Standing hard by a Rivers side : and in't I herd a Maiden cry , alas , there's none ere loved like I . I couched close to hear her moan , With many a heavy groan , And wished that I had been the wight , That might have bred her hearts delight : but these were all the words that she , did still repeat , none loves like me . Then round the Meadows did she walk , Catching each flower by the stalk , Such as within the Meadows grew . As Dead-mans thumb , and Harebell blue : and as she plucked them , still cried she , alas , there's none ere loved like me . A bed therein she made to lie : Of fine green things that grew fast by , Of Poplars , and of Willow leaves , Of Sycamore and Flaggy sheaves : and as she plucked them , still cried she , alas , there's none ere loved like me . The little Lark-foote sheeed not pass , Nor yet the flowers of Three-leaved grass , With Milkemayds Honey Succles phrase , The Crows foot , nor the yellow Crayse , and as she plucked them , still cried she , alas , there's none ere loved like me . The pretty Dasie which does show Her love to Phoebus , bred her woe ; Who joys to see his cheerful face , And mourns when he is not in place , alack , alack , alack , quoth she , there's none that ever loved like me . The Flowers of the Sweetest sent , She bound them round with knotted Bent , And as she laid them still in bans , She wept , she wailed , and wrung her hands , alas , alas , alas , quoth she , there's none that ever loved like me . False man , quoth she , forgive thee heaven , As I do wish my sins forgiven , In blessed Elizium I shall sleep , When thou with perjured souls shalt weep who when they lived , did like to thee , that loved their Loves as thou dost me . When she had filled her Apron full , Of such sweet Flowers as she could cull ; The green leaves served her for a Bed , The Flowers pillows for her head , Then down she lay , never more did speak , alas with love her heart did break . F I N I S. Printed at London for J. Wright . The Faithless Lover . To the same tune . W Hen I had seen this Virgins end , I sorrowed as became a friend , And wept to see that such a Maid Should be by faithless love betrayed . but woe ( I fear ) will come to thee , that was not true in love as she . The Birds did cease their Harmony , The harmless Lambs did seem to cry , The Flowers they did hang their head , The Flower of Maidens being dead , whose life by death is now set free , and none did love more deer than she . The bubbling brooks did seem to moan , And Echo from the Vales did groan ; Diana's Nymph's did ring her knell , And to their Queen the same did tell , who vowed by her chastity , that none should take revenge but she . When as I saw her corpse were cold , I to her Lover went , and told What chance unto this Maid befell , Who said , I am glad she sped so well . d'ee think that I so found would be , to love no Maid but only she ? I was not made for one alone , I take delight to hear them moan ; When one is gone , I will have more : That man is rich , that hath most store , I bondage hate , I must live free , and not be tied to such as she . O Sir , remember , ( then quoth I ) The power of Heavens All-seeing eye , Who does remember vows forgotten , Though you deny you know it not : call to your mind this Maiden free , the which was wronged by none but thee . Quoth he , I have a love more fair , Beside , she is her Father's heir , A bonny Lass does please my mind , That unto me is wondrous kind : her will I love , and none but she , who still shall welcome be to me . False-minded man that so would prove , Disloyal to thy dearest Love , Who at her death for thee did pray , And wished thee many a happy day . I would my Love would but love me , even half so well as she loved thee . Fair Maidens will example take , Youngmen will curse thee for her sake : They'll stop their ears unto our plaints , And call us Devils seeming Saints : they'll say to day , that we are kind , tomorrow of another mind . FINIS . Printed at London for John Wright . 