The lamentable Ditty of Little Mousgrove , and the Lady Barnet . To and excellent tune . A S it fell on a light Holiday , as many more does in the year , Little Mousgrove would to the Church and pray to see the fair Ladies there , Gallants there were of good degree , for beauty exceeding fair , Most wondrous lovely to the eye , that did to that Church repair . Some came down in read Velvet , and others came down in Pall , But next came down my Lady Barnet , the fairest among them all , She cast a look upon Little Mousgrove , as bright as the Summer's Sun , Full well perceived then Little Mousgrove , Lady Barnets Love he had won . Then Lady Barnet most meek and mild , saluted this Little Mousgrove , Who did repay her kind courtesy , with favour , and Gentle Love , I have a bower in merry Barnet , bestrewed with Cowslips sweet , If that it please you , Little Mousgrove , in love me there to meet , Within my Arms one night to sleep , for you my heart have won , You need not fear my suspicious Lord , for he from home is gone . Betide me life , betide me death , this night I will sleep with thee , And for thy sake I'll hazard my breath , so deer is my love to thee . What shall we do with our little Foot-Page , our Counsel for to keep , And watch for fear Lord Barnet comes , whilst we together do sleep ? Red Gold shall be his hire , quoth he , and Silver shall be his fee , If he our Counsel safely do keep , that I may sleep with thee . I will have none of your Gold , said he , nor none of your Silver fee , If I should keep your Counsel , sir , it great disloyalty . I will not be false unto my Lord , for house nor yet for land , But if my Lady do prove untrue , Lord Barnet shall understand . Then swiftly runs the little Foot-Page , unto his Lord with speed , Who then was feasting with his deer friends , not dreaming of this ill deed : Most speedily the Page did haste , most swiftly did he run , And when he came to the broken Bridge , he lay on his breast and swum . The Page did make no stay at all , but went to his Lord with speed , That he the truth might lay to him , concerning this wicked deed . He found his Lord at supper then , great merriment there they did keep . My Lord , quoth he , this night on my word Mousgrove with your Lady does sleep . The second part ; To the same tune . I F this be true , my little Foot-Page . and true as thou tellest to me , My eldest daughter I'll give to thee , and wedded shalt thou be . If this be a lie , my little Foot-Page , and a lie as thou tellest to me : A new pair of Gallows shall straight be set , and hanged shalt thou be . If this be a lie , my Lord , said he , a lie that you hear from me , Then never stay a Gallows to make , but hang me upon the next tree . Lord Barnet then called up his merry men , away with speed he would go , His heart was soar perplexed with grief , the truth of this he must know . Saddle your horses with speed , quoth he , and saddle me my white Steed , If this be true as the Page hath said , Mousgrove shall repent this deed . He charged his men no noise to make , as they road all along on the way , Nor wind no horns , quoth he , on your life , lest our coming it should betray . But one of the men that Mousgrove did love , and respected his friendship most deer , To give him knowledge Lord Barnet was near , did wind his Bugle most clear , And evermore as he did blow , away Mousgrove and away : For if I take thee with my lady , then slain thou shalt be this day . O hark , fair Lady , your Lord is near , I hear his little horn blow , And if he find me in your Arms thus , then slain I shall be , I know . O lie still , lie still , little Mousgrove , and keep my back from the cold . I know it is my Father's shepherd , driving sheep to the Pinfold . Mousgrove did turn him round about , sweet slumber his eyes did greet . When he did wake , he then espied Lord Barnet at his beds feet . O rise up , rise up , little Mousgrove , and put thy Clothes on , It shall never be said in fair England , I slew a naked man . Here's two good swords , Lord Barnet said , thy choice Mousgrove thou shalt make , The best of them thy self shalt have , and I the worst will take ; The first good blow that Mousgrove did strike , he wounded Lord Barnet soar , The second blow that Lord Barnet gave , Mousgrove could strike no more . He took his Lady by the white hand , all love to rage did convert , That with his sword in most furious sort , he pierced her tender heart , A grave , a grave , Lord Barnet cried , prepare to lay us in , My Lady shall lie on the upper side , because she's of the better kin . Then suddenly he slew himself , which grieves his friends full soar : The death's of these three worthy wights , with tears they did deplore . This sad mischance by lust was wrought . Then let us call for grace , That we may shun this wicked vice , and mend our lives apace . London Printed for H. Gosson . FINIS . The lamentable Ditty of Little Mousgrove , and the Lady Barnet . To and excellent tune . A S it fell on a light Holiday , as many more does in the year , Little Mousgrove would to the Church and pray to see the fair Ladies there , Gallants there were of good degree , for beauty exceeding fair , Most wondrous lovely to the eye , that did to that Church repair . Some came down in read Velvet , and others came down in Pall , But next came down my Lady Barnet , the fairest among them all , She cast a look upon Little Mousgrove , as bright as the Summer's Sun , Full well perceived then Little Mousgrove , Lady Barnets Love he had won . Then Lady Barnet most meek and mild , saluted this Little Mousgrove , Who did repay her kind courtesy , with favour , and Gentle Love , I have a bower in merry Barnet , bestrewed with Cowslips sweet , If that it please you , Little Mousgrove , in love me there to meet , Within my Arms one night to sleep , for you my heart have won , You need not fear my suspicious Lord , for he from home is gone . Betide me life , betide me death , this night I will sleep with thee , And for thy sake I'll hazard my breath , so deer is my love to thee . What shall we do with our little Foot-Page , our Counsel for to keep , And watch for fear Lord Barnet comes , whilst we together do sleep ? Red Gold shall be his hire , quoth he , and Silver shall be his fee , If he our Counsel safely do keep , that I may sleep with thee . I will have none of your Gold , said he , nor none of your Silver fee , If I should keep your Counsel , sir , it great disloyalty . I will not be false unto my Lord , for house nor yet for land , But if my Lady do prove untrue , Lord Barnet shall understand . Then swiftly runs the little Foot-Page , unto his Lord with speed , Who then was feasting with his deer friends , not dreaming of this ill deed : Most speedily the Page did haste , most swiftly did he run , And when he came to the broken Bridge , he lay on his breast and swum . The Page did make no stay at all , but went to his Lord with speed , That he the truth might lay to him , concerning this wicked deed . He found his Lord at supper then , great merriment there they did keep . My Lord , quoth he , this night on my word Mousgrove with your Lady does sleep . The second part ; To the same tune . I F this be true , my little Foot-Page . and true as thou tellest to me , My eldest daughter I'll give to thee , and wedded shalt thou be . If this be a lie , my little Foot-Page , and a lie as thou tellest to me : A new pair of Gallows shall straight be set , and hanged shalt thou be . If this be a lie , my Lord , said he , a lie that you hear from me , Then never stay a Gallows to make , but hang me upon the next tree . Lord Barnet then called up his merry men , away with speed he would go , His heart was soar perplexed with grief , the truth of this he must know . Saddle your horses with speed , quoth he , and saddle me my white Steed , If this be true as the Page hath said , Mousgrove shall repent this deed . He charged his men no noise to make , as they road all along on the way , Nor wind no horns , quoth he , on your life , lest our coming it should betray . But one of the men that Mousgrove did love , and respected his friendship most deer , To give him knowledge Lord Barnet was near , did wind his Bugle most clear , And evermore as he did blow , away Mousgrove and away : For if I take thee with my lady , then slain thou shalt be this day . O hark , fair Lady , your Lord is near , I hear his little horn blow , And if he find me in your Arms thus , then slain I shall be , I know . O lie still , lie still , little Mousgrove , and keep my back from the cold . I know it is my Father's shepherd , driving sheep to the Pinfold . Mousgrove did turn him round about , sweet slumber his eyes did greet . When he did wake , he then espied Lord Barnet at his beds feet . O rise up , rise up , little Mousgrove , and put thy Clothes on , It shall never be said in fair England , I slew a naked man . Here's two good swords , Lord Barnet said , thy choice Mousgrove thou shalt make , The best of them thy self shalt have , and I the worst will take ; The first good blow that Mousgrove did strike , he wounded Lord Barnet soar , The second blow that Lord Barnet gave , Mousgrove could strike no more . He took his Lady by the white hand , all love to rage did convert , That with his sword in most furious sort , he pierced her tender heart , A grave , a grave , Lord Barnet cried , prepare to lay us in , My Lady shall lie on the upper side , because she's of the better kin . Then suddenly he slew himself , which grieves his friends full soar : The death's of these three worthy wights , with tears they did deplore . This sad mischance by lust was wrought . Then let us call for grace , That we may shun this wicked vice , and mend our lives apace . London Printed for H. Gosson . FINIS . 