A pleasant new Ballad , both merry and witty , That she weth the humours , of the wives in the City . To the tune of , How shall a good Husband . Husband . W Ife , prithee come hither & amp ; fit thee down by me , For I am best pleased when ye art most nigh me . Wife . I scorn to fit by such a blockheaded Clown , No thou shalt not touch the worst hem of my Gown , For I could have had men both proper and good , That would have maintained me even as I wood . Husband . Wife pray you forgive me if I have offended , Let me know my fault Love , and all shall be mended . Wife . Away you base Rascal , get out of my sighed , Thou shalt not come near me by day nor by night , For dost thou not see it , even to my disgrace , My neighbours exceed me in dressings and Lace . Husband . If that be the matter wife , let it not move thee , Thou shalt have as good as they ; come kiss & amp ; love me . Wife . I will have a silk Gown , a Mask and a Fan , I will never walk abroad without my man , And he shall be handsome to , with a good face , Not such a Clown as You , me to disgrace . Husband . Wife I will attend thee if that may suffice , And lay all things ready against you do rise , And then if you please to walk and take the air , Wife I will wait on thee , be it foul or fair , Wife . Nay , thou art not worthy to carry my Fan , I will be supplied by a propperer man : And he'll have our Coach and horse to ride at pleasure And thou shalt run by on foot , and wait our leisure . Husband . Wife thou shalt have horses and Coach , and a man To drive for thy pleasure through Cheapside & amp ; Strand , And I will go with thee , and always attend thee , My care shall be such Love , as none shall offend thee . Wife . I'll not be attended by any such Foole. No , thou art not worthy to empty my close stool , For thou hast no compliment , Courtship nor wit , And therefore not worthy to kiss where I fit . The second part : To the same tune . Husband . C Ome Dame I will tell you , for I cannot hold No longer , but tell thee that thou art turned Scold , For I have born long with your blockhead and fool , Not worthy you say , for to empty your stool . Wife . Why so I say still , if you mend not your manners , It were better you lived among Brewers or Tanners . Husband . Come Huswife I'll teach you to use your tongue better Or else I will tie it up with such a fetter ; Shalt cause you to wish you never had used it , With such ill-be-fitting terms and so abusing it . Wife . Why what have I said now you take in such dudgeon , Which makes you to grumble so like a Curmudgeon . Husband . Dame I'll make you know how that I am your head , And you shall be ready at board , or in bed , To give me content , or else be sure of this , Both gown and lace , horse & amp ; Coach all you shall miss . Wife . Alas Sir , you wrong me , to use me so ill , In not giving way to my humour and will : For this for your credit man , all this I crave , And you are esteemed for my going brave . Husband . I like no such credit Dame , let them that will , Retain it and hold it , 'twill give them their fill , But as for your self Wife , I'll cause you to know , What duty and service to me you do owe . Wife . I pray you be quiet , if I have offended , Forgive me my fault Love , and all shall be mended : And here I do promise and give my consent , To do whatsoever may give you content . Husband . Well , that I will try ere you part from my sighed , Fetch up all the Candles , and see you do light Every one of them , even at the wrong ends , And then pin the basket , and so we are friends . Wife . All this am I willing , and more I will do , To show my respect , thus I stoop to your shoe . Husband . Why that's a good Wench , now come kiss & amp ; be friends Put out all the Candles I'll make thee amends . Printed at London for H. G. Finis . A pleasant new Ballad , both merry and witty , That she weth the humours , of the wives in the City . To the tune of , How shall a good Husband . Husband . W Ife , prithee come hither & amp ; fit thee down by me , For I am best pleased when ye art most nigh me . Wife . I scorn to fit by such a blockheaded Clown , No thou shalt not touch the worst hem of my Gown , For I could have had men both proper and good , That would have maintained me even as I wood . Husband . Wife pray you forgive me if I have offended , Let me know my fault Love , and all shall be mended . Wife . Away you base Rascal , get out of my sighed , Thou shalt not come near me by day nor by night , For dost thou not see it , even to my disgrace , My neighbours exceed me in dressings and Lace . Husband . If that be the matter wife , let it not move thee , Thou shalt have as good as they ; come kiss & amp ; love me . Wife . I will have a silk Gown , a Mask and a Fan , I will never walk abroad without my man , And he shall be handsome to , with a good face , Not such a Clown as You , me to disgrace . Husband . Wife I will attend thee if that may suffice , And lay all things ready against you do rise , And then if you please to walk and take the air , Wife I will wait on thee , be it foul or fair , Wife . Nay , thou art not worthy to carry my Fan , I will be supplied by a propperer man : And he'll have our Coach and horse to ride at pleasure And thou shalt run by on foot , and wait our leisure . Husband . Wife thou shalt have horses and Coach , and a man To drive for thy pleasure through Cheapside & amp ; Strand , And I will go with thee , and always attend thee , My care shall be such Love , as none shall offend thee . Wife . I'll not be attended by any such Foole. No , thou art not worthy to empty my close stool , For thou hast no compliment , Courtship nor wit , And therefore not worthy to kiss where I fit . The second part : To the same tune . Husband . C Ome Dame I will tell you , for I cannot hold No longer , but tell thee that thou art turned Scold , For I have born long with your blockhead and fool , Not worthy you say , for to empty your stool . Wife . Why so I say still , if you mend not your manners , It were better you lived among Brewers or Tanners . Husband . Come Huswife I'll teach you to use your tongue better Or else I will tie it up with such a fetter ; Shalt cause you to wish you never had used it , With such ill-be-fitting terms and so abusing it . Wife . Why what have I said now you take in such dudgeon , Which makes you to grumble so like a Curmudgeon . Husband . Dame I'll make you know how that I am your head , And you shall be ready at board , or in bed , To give me content , or else be sure of this , Both gown and lace , horse & amp ; Coach all you shall miss . Wife . Alas Sir , you wrong me , to use me so ill , In not giving way to my humour and will : For this for your credit man , all this I crave , And you are esteemed for my going brave . Husband . I like no such credit Dame , let them that will , Retain it and hold it , 'twill give them their fill , But as for your self Wife , I'll cause you to know , What duty and service to me you do owe . Wife . I pray you be quiet , if I have offended , Forgive me my fault Love , and all shall be mended : And here I do promise and give my consent , To do whatsoever may give you content . Husband . Well , that I will try ere you part from my sighed , Fetch up all the Candles , and see you do light Every one of them , even at the wrong ends , And then pin the basket , and so we are friends . Wife . All this am I willing , and more I will do , To show my respect , thus I stoop to your shoe . Husband . Why that's a good Wench , now come kiss & amp ; be friends Put out all the Candles I'll make thee amends . Printed at London for H. G. Finis . 