Nobody his Counsel to choose a Wife : OR , The difference between Widow's and Maids [ : ] To the Tune of the wanton Wife of Westminster . L Et Young men give ear unto that I rehearse , And think good the subject though set down in verse : Nobody unto you , will kindly relate : The difference betwixt Maidens and Widow's estate , When ere they be had , they both will prove bad : Yet he that a Widow takes , most may be glad : For Maidens are wanton and often times coy : But Widow's be wilful and never say nay . That man that does woe a maid , must be compelled : To live like and honest life ere she will yield : He sometimes must [ coll ] her , and often times kiss her , Yet may another gain , he may chance miss her : He lives like a slave , must do what shel'e have : He must not deny whatsoever she does crave . For Maidens , etc But take me a Widow , who if you do woe her : Will yield with the soonest , when ere you come to her : She will be as willing , to yield to a man : As he that does woe her , make what speed he can : Sheel'e give him content , for what he hath spent : If he that does woe her , to true love be bent . For Maidens , etc He that a Maid marries is caught in the lurch , He must never let her go often to Church : lest thinking by that means , some goodness to teach her : She larne some new fashion , and mind not the Preacher : Then when she comes home , sheel'e pine , and sheele moan : With sweet heart let me have that fashion or none . For maidens , etc He that's matched with a widow , by ! that is a winner : Sheel'e stay and hear Service , and then provide dinner : She is twice in a Saboath , at Church like a Woman : And not to learn fashions , as some doe most common : She loves to go plain , let who will disdain : She needs must go so , that hath had Husbands twain : For Maidens , etc And if a young Bell do chance for to swell : That man that begotten it , were as good live in Hell : For she will be calling for one thing or other , It may be she's joyful she shalt be a Mother : Then the man must disburse , to hire a Nurse , With twenty things more , which is married men's curse . For Maidens , etc He that deals with a Widow , hath these at command : He takes a commodity broke to his hand , He need not stand carking , for linen nor Cradle : If he bestow getting , to keep it she's able : She seldom will pray , her Husband to pay : If he bestow night work , then sheele bestow day . For Maidens are wanton , and often times coy : But Widow's be wilful , and never say nay . The second part . to the same tune . A Young Wife must have gossips , [ w ] ere never had before She scorns to have any are judged to be poor : Great Banquets sheele make them , no cost shall be spared : Her poor husbands purse she does never regard , With pray be not sad , this the first that I had : My Husband and I , have cause to be glad . For Maidens are wanton , and often times coy : But widow's be wilful , and never say nay . A widow to save all these charges will shift . For she can have Gossips at any dead lift : Sheele bid them as welcome , to one joint of rost : As your new married Cupple . shall with all their cost : Sheele say man be wife , spend what may suffice : For Houserent and all things . begins to rise . For Maidens , etc A young Wife is crabbed , and takes a delight : If her maid do but cross her , so speak and then smite : She never is well but a breeding debate , Shee'le make her young husband , his prentices hate : No servants will stay , man and maid will away : By this means she works , her Husbands decay : For Maidens , etc A Widow will never be froward to such , Sheele use them as kindly , and then theyle do much : Theyle call her kind Mistress , and always work faster : Because they live quiet with her , and their master : She still bears the mind , to use servants kind : That she and her husband much profit may find . For Maidens , etc A young wife must always , in house be half Master : Or else her tongue gallops . no Mill-clacke goes faster : If he do deny her , a needless request : She have it by some means , or make him a beast : With rascal and slave , give me what I crave : Or else by this light , thou no quiet shalt have : For Maidens , etc A Widow will always , look well to her home : Let him do his business or let it alone , Sheele buy what is needful to serve her own use : In words she will never her Husband abuse , A broad she is kind , in bed he shall find : A woman that strive will , to pleasure his mind : For Maidens , etc A young Wife will vaver as oft as the wind , And old wife is fixed nought changes her mind : A young wife once crossed , continually does frown : But cross once and old wife , her mind will reform : A young wife will brawl , if she rule not all : A widow will rule what to her does befall : For Maidens , etc Much more I could speak , but to tell you the troth : To praise and to dispraise too much , I am loath : I would not to be partial , on one side nor other : Did they to their deserve , I would speak well of tother : My judgements not blind , I speak as I find : None will take exceptions , for speaking my mind . For Maidens , etc I speak not of all Maids , that are to be had : This pity amongst thousands , if all should be bad : Nay some widow's likewise , may worse be then they : Both sorts are too wicked , no man will gain say : With this I do end , hoping none I offend : If I wed , with a widow my days I will spend . For Maidens are wanton , and often times coy : But Widow's be wilful , and never say nay . FINIS . Printed at London by A. M . Nobody his Counsel to choose a Wife : OR , The difference between Widow's and Maids [ : ] To the Tune of the wanton Wife of Westminster . L Et Young men give ear unto that I rehearse , And think good the subject though set down in verse : Nobody unto you , will kindly relate : The difference betwixt Maidens and Widow's estate , When ere they be had , they both will prove bad : Yet he that a Widow takes , most may be glad : For Maidens are wanton and often times coy : But Widow's be wilful and never say nay . That man that does woe a maid , must be compelled : To live like and honest life ere she will yield : He sometimes must [ coll ] her , and often times kiss her , Yet may another gain , he may chance miss her : He lives like a slave , must do what shel'e have : He must not deny whatsoever she does crave . For Maidens , etc But take me a Widow , who if you do woe her : Will yield with the soonest , when ere you come to her : She will be as willing , to yield to a man : As he that does woe her , make what speed he can : Sheel'e give him content , for what he hath spent : If he that does woe her , to true love be bent . For Maidens , etc He that a Maid marries is caught in the lurch , He must never let her go often to Church : lest thinking by that means , some goodness to teach her : She larne some new fashion , and mind not the Preacher : Then when she comes home , sheel'e pine , and sheele moan : With sweet heart let me have that fashion or none . For maidens , etc He that's matched with a widow , by ! that is a winner : Sheel'e stay and hear Service , and then provide dinner : She is twice in a Saboath , at Church like a Woman : And not to learn fashions , as some doe most common : She loves to go plain , let who will disdain : She needs must go so , that hath had Husbands twain : For Maidens , etc And if a young Bell do chance for to swell : That man that begotten it , were as good live in Hell : For she will be calling for one thing or other , It may be she's joyful she shalt be a Mother : Then the man must disburse , to hire a Nurse , With twenty things more , which is married men's curse . For Maidens , etc He that deals with a Widow , hath these at command : He takes a commodity broke to his hand , He need not stand carking , for linen nor Cradle : If he bestow getting , to keep it she's able : She seldom will pray , her Husband to pay : If he bestow night work , then sheele bestow day . For Maidens are wanton , and often times coy : But Widow's be wilful , and never say nay . The second part . to the same tune . A Young Wife must have gossips , [ w ] ere never had before She scorns to have any are judged to be poor : Great Banquets sheele make them , no cost shall be spared : Her poor husbands purse she does never regard , With pray be not sad , this the first that I had : My Husband and I , have cause to be glad . For Maidens are wanton , and often times coy : But widow's be wilful , and never say nay . A widow to save all these charges will shift . For she can have Gossips at any dead lift : Sheele bid them as welcome , to one joint of rost : As your new married Cupple . shall with all their cost : Sheele say man be wife , spend what may suffice : For Houserent and all things . begins to rise . For Maidens , etc A young Wife is crabbed , and takes a delight : If her maid do but cross her , so speak and then smite : She never is well but a breeding debate , Shee'le make her young husband , his prentices hate : No servants will stay , man and maid will away : By this means she works , her Husbands decay : For Maidens , etc A Widow will never be froward to such , Sheele use them as kindly , and then theyle do much : Theyle call her kind Mistress , and always work faster : Because they live quiet with her , and their master : She still bears the mind , to use servants kind : That she and her husband much profit may find . For Maidens , etc A young wife must always , in house be half Master : Or else her tongue gallops . no Mill-clacke goes faster : If he do deny her , a needless request : She have it by some means , or make him a beast : With rascal and slave , give me what I crave : Or else by this light , thou no quiet shalt have : For Maidens , etc A Widow will always , look well to her home : Let him do his business or let it alone , Sheele buy what is needful to serve her own use : In words she will never her Husband abuse , A broad she is kind , in bed he shall find : A woman that strive will , to pleasure his mind : For Maidens , etc A young Wife will vaver as oft as the wind , And old wife is fixed nought changes her mind : A young wife once crossed , continually does frown : But cross once and old wife , her mind will reform : A young wife will brawl , if she rule not all : A widow will rule what to her does befall : For Maidens , etc Much more I could speak , but to tell you the troth : To praise and to dispraise too much , I am loath : I would not to be partial , on one side nor other : Did they to their deserve , I would speak well of tother : My judgements not blind , I speak as I find : None will take exceptions , for speaking my mind . For Maidens , etc I speak not of all Maids , that are to be had : This pity amongst thousands , if all should be bad : Nay some widow's likewise , may worse be then they : Both sorts are too wicked , no man will gain say : With this I do end , hoping none I offend : If I wed , with a widow my days I will spend . For Maidens are wanton , and often times coy : But Widow's be wilful , and never say nay . FINIS . Printed at London by A. M. 