Any thing for a quiet life ; Or the Married men bondage to a cursed Wife . To the tune of O no , no , no , not yet ; or I'll never love thee more . A Nigh thing for a quiet life a Young man feign would do : To serve his Master out his time , and please his Mistress too : His bondage wished for liberty , that he might have a wife At his own will , for to do still any thing for a quiet life . In haste he chosen himself then one , and quickly was he wed : But crooked cares of household charge , molested much his head . His wedding shoes no sooner off , but his commanding wife Did make him pray , and often say , Any thing for a quiet life . His wife ( young Lass ) grew wanton sick , within a day or two : And longed , she knew not well for what , as many women do . The daintiest things that could be god , he gave unto his wife , And for her sake , did undertake any thing for a quiet life . With Plums , and Pears , & amp ; Cherries ripe , of twenty shillings a pound , With Peascods newly from the bloom , if any might be found . All which he must go seek forthwith , to please his longing wife : Thus married men do now and then , to have a quiet life . Seven Holidays in one week , she still desired to make , And every day to lie till noon , for fear her head should ache . For want of sleep would trouble soar this his young teeming wife , That would have died , if he denied any thing for a quiet life . For breakfast in her bed she had a Cawdle of Muscadine : And then with Woodcocks and with Larks , she must rise up and dine : Where he kindhearted married man , gives welcome to his wife : For do but crave , quoth he , and have , any thing for a quiet life . At last her Childbed time drew on , where money must be spent : In dainty Lawns & amp ; Cambricks fine , or else no way content . Her house must be as well set out , as any City wife : Thus filled with care , he must not spare , any thing for a quiet life . Her Nurse's weekly charge likewise , with many a Gossips feast : He well perceived , when purse grew light , and emptied was his Chest . The Sugar Plums , & amp ; sweet Conserves to please his Childbed wife : Both night and day , grieved him to say , Any thing for a quiet life . The second part . To the same tune . TO Hese Christening charges overpast , the Churching day came on : Against which time , her Taylor must her guarded Gown bring home . Her Petticoat of Stammell read , new given unto his wife : Which charges paid , this Youngman said , any thing for a quiet life . Thus after many a brave Carouse , upon her Churching day , Her tattling Gossips her persuade , in this her rich array , To take the comforts of the air , and pleasures of a wife : While he at home , says like a mome , any thing for a quiet life . Unto her Nurse-child then must she , in jollity and joy , Some ten miles distance for to see , the usage of her Boy . Well mounted on and ambling Nag , with some kind neighbours wife , While he poor soul must sing in dole , any thing for a quiet life . Not any meeting in seven miles , where Gallants do repair : But she will brave it with the best , and for no charges spare . If fault her Husband find therewith , she proves a frowning wife , And tires him so , till he bestow [ s , ] any thing for a quiet life . His old acquaintance must he not at any time go see : Except she grant , and give him leave , or there in presence be . And then his purse he must yield up to his commanding wife : While he must say , Good woman pay any thing for a quiet life . Thus year by year , he spent his days , in troubles and in cares : A warning fit for him which thus , himself to marriage snares . The only hell upon this earth , to have and angry wife : To make us say both night and day , any thing for a quiet life . Let Youngmen all take heed by this , how they do match and marry : He leads a life of liberty , that does the longest tarry . It is the foremost step to woe , to wed unto a wife , That will have still , at her own will , any thing for a quiet life . FINIS . At London printed by G . P.Any thing for a quiet life ; Or the Married men bondage to a cursed Wife . To the tune of O no , no , no , not yet ; or I'll never love thee more . A Nigh thing for a quiet life a Young man feign would do : To serve his Master out his time , and please his Mistress too : His bondage wished for liberty , that he might have a wife At his own will , for to do still any thing for a quiet life . In haste he chosen himself then one , and quickly was he wed : But crooked cares of household charge , molested much his head . His wedding shoes no sooner off , but his commanding wife Did make him pray , and often say , Any thing for a quiet life . His wife ( young Lass ) grew wanton sick , within a day or two : And longed , she knew not well for what , as many women do . The daintiest things that could be god , he gave unto his wife , And for her sake , did undertake any thing for a quiet life . With Plums , and Pears , & amp ; Cherries ripe , of twenty shillings a pound , With Peascods newly from the bloom , if any might be found . All which he must go seek forthwith , to please his longing wife : Thus married men do now and then , to have a quiet life . Seven Holidays in one week , she still desired to make , And every day to lie till noon , for fear her head should ache . For want of sleep would trouble soar this his young teeming wife , That would have died , if he denied any thing for a quiet life . For breakfast in her bed she had a Cawdle of Muscadine : And then with Woodcocks and with Larks , she must rise up and dine : Where he kindhearted married man , gives welcome to his wife : For do but crave , quoth he , and have , any thing for a quiet life . At last her Childbed time drew on , where money must be spent : In dainty Lawns & amp ; Cambricks fine , or else no way content . Her house must be as well set out , as any City wife : Thus filled with care , he must not spare , any thing for a quiet life . Her Nurse's weekly charge likewise , with many a Gossips feast : He well perceived , when purse grew light , and emptied was his Chest . The Sugar Plums , & amp ; sweet Conserves to please his Childbed wife : Both night and day , grieved him to say , Any thing for a quiet life . The second part . To the same tune . TO Hese Christening charges overpast , the Churching day came on : Against which time , her Taylor must her guarded Gown bring home . Her Petticoat of Stammell read , new given unto his wife : Which charges paid , this Youngman said , any thing for a quiet life . Thus after many a brave Carouse , upon her Churching day , Her tattling Gossips her persuade , in this her rich array , To take the comforts of the air , and pleasures of a wife : While he at home , says like a mome , any thing for a quiet life . Unto her Nurse-child then must she , in jollity and joy , Some ten miles distance for to see , the usage of her Boy . Well mounted on and ambling Nag , with some kind neighbours wife , While he poor soul must sing in dole , any thing for a quiet life . Not any meeting in seven miles , where Gallants do repair : But she will brave it with the best , and for no charges spare . If fault her Husband find therewith , she proves a frowning wife , And tires him so , till he bestow [ s , ] any thing for a quiet life . His old acquaintance must he not at any time go see : Except she grant , and give him leave , or there in presence be . And then his purse he must yield up to his commanding wife : While he must say , Good woman pay any thing for a quiet life . Thus year by year , he spent his days , in troubles and in cares : A warning fit for him which thus , himself to marriage snares . The only hell upon this earth , to have and angry wife : To make us say both night and day , any thing for a quiet life . Let Youngmen all take heed by this , how they do match and marry : He leads a life of liberty , that does the longest tarry . It is the foremost step to woe , to wed unto a wife , That will have still , at her own will , any thing for a quiet life . FINIS . At London printed by G.P. 