The Shepherds Lamentation . To the tune of the plain-dealing Woman . C Ome Shepherds , deck your heads , no more with bays but willows Forsake your downy beds , and make your ground your pillows : And mourn with me , since crossed as I , was never no man : Nor never shepherd lo , lo , lo , lost , so plain a dealing woman . All you forsaken woers . that ever were distressed , And all you lusty Lovers , that ever love molested , Your loss I must condole , and all together summon , To mourn for the poor so , so , soul , of my plain dealing woman : Fair Venus made her chaste , and Ceres beauty gave her : Pan wept when she was lost , and Satires strove to have her : But o she was to them so nice , so coy , that no man , Could judge but he knew , knew , knew , she was plain dealing woman , For all her pretty parts , I never enough shall wonder , She overcame all hearts , and all hearts made to wonder . Her breath it is so sweet , so sweet the like felt no man , O , Shepherds never lo , lo , lost , so plain a dealing woman . Her eyes did shine like glass , to grace her comely feature : Fair Venus she did far surpass , she was a comely creature . [ But ] o she was so coy , [ as ] never yet was no one : [ And ] Cupid that blind bo , bo , boy , [ loved ] my plain dealing Woman . So beautiful was she , in favour and in feature : Her well shaped limbs did show , she was a comely creature : What grief was this to me , judge all true hearted young men : To have so great a lo , lo , loss , of my plain dealing woman . Diana fair and chaste , on her might well attend , A Nymph she was at least , and to Shepherds a great friend : And o she was so kind , as never yet was no one , A man could hardly fi , fi , find , so plain a dealing woman . So courteous eke she was , I and so kind to all men : What better pleasure could you wish , then so plain a dealing woman : But now alas she's gone it makes my heart to pity : O there was never such and o , oh , other wench in Country or in City . Kind Shepherds all farewell , since death hath me over taken : Unto the world pray tell , that I am quite forsaken , And so to all adue , go forth I pray and summon , The slanting crew to mourn for me , and my plain dealing woman . Put on your mourning weeds , and bring the wreathe of willow : Go tell the world I am dead , and make the ground my pillow . And ring , ding dung , ding dung , ding dung , adieu , Love , you no more so so long , but change each day a new . Come Shepherds leave your sighing and wipe away your tears , And let us fallen to piping , to drive away all cares : For though that she be gone , that was so fair a good one , Yet once more may we find , as plain a dealing woman . FINIS . The Second Part of the Plain dealing woman . Y E Silvan Nymph's come skip it , and crown your heads with Myrtle : Ye fair Ewes come trip it , on earth's embroidered kirtle . And Oh you Driades , which haunt the coolest Fountains : Come leave your silken shady groves , and sport it in the Mountains . For lo the Gods obtain it , that wonders shall possess her : And Nature did decree it , when she with life did bless her . The Queen disdained not , fair Phillis for her feature , For all the world contained not , so rare a comely creature . Diana made her chaste , and Pallas made her witty : The Goddess Ceres graced her heart with love and pity . The Muses did select her , to grace their learned number : And Venus did elect her , the only beauteous wonder . When Jove beheld her beauty , his Leda did repent him : Jove thought that in loves duty , she only did content him . And Phoebus blushed to know it , that Daphne had abused him , For lo , her worth did show , that desertles she refused him . Pan was enamoured on her . his Sirynx could not please him : And when he looked upon her , her very sighed did ease him : The Satire mourned to miss her , whom all the world admired : Silvanus wished to kiss her , whom greatest Gods desired . Cupid his Psyche left , to feed his eyes upon her , Of Godlike power bereft , that her he more might honour , His bow and shafts he gave her , wherewith she wounds all hearts So well she does behave her , like love in all his parts . I list no more to praise her , whom heaven and earth admire , A loftier Muse must raise her , whose verse can mount up higher : A golden pen must write it , dipped in the Muses Fountain , And they themselves in [ worser ] item it , upon their sacred Mountain . Then Oh ye Shepherd Swains , with garlands deck your bonnets , And let arcadian plains , ring forth with Lyric Sonnets : Come tune your rural voices , to chant her matchless merits , Whose fair exceeds all beauty's , the spacious world inherits . FINIS . Imprinted at London for I . W.The Shepherds Lamentation . To the tune of the plain-dealing Woman . C Ome Shepherds , deck your heads , no more with bays but willows Forsake your downy beds , and make your ground your pillows : And mourn with me , since crossed as I , was never no man : Nor never shepherd lo , lo , lo , lost , so plain a dealing woman . All you forsaken woers . that ever were distressed , And all you lusty Lovers , that ever love molested , Your loss I must condole , and all together summon , To mourn for the poor so , so , soul , of my plain dealing woman : Fair Venus made her chaste , and Ceres beauty gave her : Pan wept when she was lost , and Satires strove to have her : But o she was to them so nice , so coy , that no man , Could judge but he knew , knew , knew , she was plain dealing woman , For all her pretty parts , I never enough shall wonder , She overcame all hearts , and all hearts made to wonder . Her breath it is so sweet , so sweet the like felt no man , O , Shepherds never lo , lo , lost , so plain a dealing woman . Her eyes did shine like glass , to grace her comely feature : Fair Venus she did far surpass , she was a comely creature . [ But ] o she was so coy , [ as ] never yet was no one : [ And ] Cupid that blind bo , bo , boy , [ loved ] my plain dealing Woman . So beautiful was she , in favour and in feature : Her well shaped limbs did show , she was a comely creature : What grief was this to me , judge all true hearted young men : To have so great a lo , lo , loss , of my plain dealing woman . Diana fair and chaste , on her might well attend , A Nymph she was at least , and to Shepherds a great friend : And o she was so kind , as never yet was no one , A man could hardly fi , fi , find , so plain a dealing woman . So courteous eke she was , I and so kind to all men : What better pleasure could you wish , then so plain a dealing woman : But now alas she's gone it makes my heart to pity : O there was never such and o , oh , other wench in Country or in City . Kind Shepherds all farewell , since death hath me over taken : Unto the world pray tell , that I am quite forsaken , And so to all adue , go forth I pray and summon , The slanting crew to mourn for me , and my plain dealing woman . Put on your mourning weeds , and bring the wreathe of willow : Go tell the world I am dead , and make the ground my pillow . And ring , ding dung , ding dung , ding dung , adieu , Love , you no more so so long , but change each day a new . Come Shepherds leave your sighing and wipe away your tears , And let us fallen to piping , to drive away all cares : For though that she be gone , that was so fair a good one , Yet once more may we find , as plain a dealing woman . FINIS . The Second Part of the Plain dealing woman . Y E Silvan Nymph's come skip it , and crown your heads with Myrtle : Ye fair Ewes come trip it , on earth's embroidered kirtle . And Oh you Driades , which haunt the coolest Fountains : Come leave your silken shady groves , and sport it in the Mountains . For lo the Gods obtain it , that wonders shall possess her : And Nature did decree it , when she with life did bless her . The Queen disdained not , fair Phillis for her feature , For all the world contained not , so rare a comely creature . Diana made her chaste , and Pallas made her witty : The Goddess Ceres graced her heart with love and pity . The Muses did select her , to grace their learned number : And Venus did elect her , the only beauteous wonder . When Jove beheld her beauty , his Leda did repent him : Jove thought that in loves duty , she only did content him . And Phoebus blushed to know it , that Daphne had abused him , For lo , her worth did show , that desertles she refused him . Pan was enamoured on her . his Sirynx could not please him : And when he looked upon her , her very sighed did ease him : The Satire mourned to miss her , whom all the world admired : Silvanus wished to kiss her , whom greatest Gods desired . Cupid his Psyche left , to feed his eyes upon her , Of Godlike power bereft , that her he more might honour , His bow and shafts he gave her , wherewith she wounds all hearts So well she does behave her , like love in all his parts . I list no more to praise her , whom heaven and earth admire , A loftier Muse must raise her , whose verse can mount up higher : A golden pen must write it , dipped in the Muses Fountain , And they themselves in [ worser ] item it , upon their sacred Mountain . Then Oh ye Shepherd Swains , with garlands deck your bonnets , And let arcadian plains , ring forth with Lyric Sonnets : Come tune your rural voices , to chant her matchless merits , Whose fair exceeds all beauty's , the spacious world inherits . FINIS . Imprinted at London for I.W. 