Man's Felicity and Misery : Which is a good wife and a bad : or the best and the worst discoursed in a Dialogue between Edmund and David . To the tune of , I have for all good Wives a Song . Edmund . K Ind Cozen David , prithee stay , Good news to thee I will bewray , Since last I saw thee I am married , Now things with me are better carried , I dare say that which few men can , I have the best wife that ever had man . David . I am right joyful Cozen Ned , To hear that thou so well art sped , As thou mayest thy good fortune bless , I may curse thy unhappiness : My torments none on earth can scan , I have the worst wife that ever had man . Edmund . My Wife for beauty bears the name , From all ith'Town from whence she came , For shape she might a Lady be ; And so all say that do her see ; Her middle I can easily span , She is the best Wife that ever had man . David . My wife so loathsome is to view , She every morning makes me spew , For person , She's scarce good enough To cry , Maids ha'ye any Kitchen-stuff : She shines like a Drippingpan , O she's the worst wife that ever had man . Edmund . My Wife is affable and meek , To please my fancy she does seek , My humour she will never thwart , But does my will with all her heart , we use no words but Ned and Nan , She is the best Wife that ever had man . David . My wife is obstinate and froward , She's sullen , peevish and untoward ; She's glad at heart when she can find Occasion to molest my mind ; Shee'l have her will do what I can , O she's the worst wife that ever had man . Edmund . My wife is careful of her charge , She never romes abroad at large , Her business she will never neglect , But brings all things to good effect ; She's to her Babes a Pelican , Oh she's the best wife that ere had man . David . My wife among her gossips does gad , As though nothing to doe she had , The children go undrest all day , Unless I put on their array : I'm feign to make what shift I can , For she's the worst wife that ever had man . Edmund . My wife's for constant chastity , Like Lucrece or Penelope : She is so wary in her carriage , That if a kiss would wrong her marriage , No one should get that favour than , For she's the best wife that ever had man . David . My wife is full of merry tricks , She hath been nought with five or sixe , If she can get me out o'th door , Ere I return shee'l play the whore , Shee'l say though I cant others can , O she's the worst wife that ere had ma [ n . ] The second part . To the same tune : Edmund . M Y wife so cleanly is and neat , She adds a goodness to my meat , I eat when I no stomach have , Because this done as I do crave ; In sickness she is my Physician , For she's the best wife that ere had man . David . My wife is such a beastly Slut , Unless it be and Egg or a Nut , I in the house dare nothing eat , For fear there's poison in the meat , The Dogs do lick both Dish and Pan , O she's the worst wife that ever had man . Edmund . My wife will wear no yellow hose , No wench can make her swell ith'nose , She knows that I to her am just , And in my faith she puts her trust ; Sheele not be vexed say what I can , For she's the best wife that ever had man . David . If I upon a woman look , My wife will swear upon a book , That she is certainly my whore , Though I never saw the woman before . Shee'l claw her eyes out if she can , O she's the worst wife that ever had man . Edmund . My wife will never follow me , Go where I will , at home stays she , Though I from Morn till night do room , She smiling bids me welcome home , This makes me haste home to my Nan , For she's the best wife that ere had man . David . If I unto the Alehouse go , To drink a Jug of beer or so , Though never so fast I thither high , My wife is there as soon as I ; At me and my friends shee'l curse and ban , For she's the worst wife that ere had man . Edmund . If any friend comes home to me , My wife gives entertainment free , But out oth'doores she will not stir , Unless I go along with her , She scrapes and saves what ere she can , O she's the best wife that ere had man . David . My wife will at the Alehouse fit , And wast away both money and wit ; Nay rather than shee'l liquour lack , Shee'l fell the smock from off her back , Shee'l steal from me all that she can , O she's the worst wife that ere had man . Edmund . Kind Cozen David I am very sorry , To hear thee tell so sad a story , Marriage and hanging now I see , Goes , as they say , by destiny , I would thou couldst say as I can , I have the best wife that ever had man . David . I thank you Cozen for your good will , Long may your bliss continue still , My cross I must with patience bear , Till God or the Devil end my care . And thus I end as I began , I have the worst wife that ere had man . Author . You wives who have herd this discourse , Now show who's better and who is worse , The best will freely buy this Song , The worst will show she hath a tongue , The head's soon broken that is scald , And Jades will kick if they be galled . FINIS . M.P. London , Printed for F. Grove . Man's Felicity and Misery : Which is a good wife and a bad : or the best and the worst discoursed in a Dialogue between Edmund and David . To the tune of , I have for all good Wives a Song . Edmund . K Ind Cozen David , prithee stay , Good news to thee I will bewray , Since last I saw thee I am married , Now things with me are better carried , I dare say that which few men can , I have the best wife that ever had man . David . I am right joyful Cozen Ned , To hear that thou so well art sped , As thou mayest thy good fortune bless , I may curse thy unhappiness : My torments none on earth can scan , I have the worst wife that ever had man . Edmund . My Wife for beauty bears the name , From all ith'Town from whence she came , For shape she might a Lady be ; And so all say that do her see ; Her middle I can easily span , She is the best Wife that ever had man . David . My wife so loathsome is to view , She every morning makes me spew , For person , She's scarce good enough To cry , Maids ha'ye any Kitchen-stuff : She shines like a Drippingpan , O she's the worst wife that ever had man . Edmund . My Wife is affable and meek , To please my fancy she does seek , My humour she will never thwart , But does my will with all her heart , we use no words but Ned and Nan , She is the best Wife that ever had man . David . My wife is obstinate and froward , She's sullen , peevish and untoward ; She's glad at heart when she can find Occasion to molest my mind ; Shee'l have her will do what I can , O she's the worst wife that ever had man . Edmund . My wife is careful of her charge , She never romes abroad at large , Her business she will never neglect , But brings all things to good effect ; She's to her Babes a Pelican , Oh she's the best wife that ere had man . David . My wife among her gossips does gad , As though nothing to doe she had , The children go undrest all day , Unless I put on their array : I'm feign to make what shift I can , For she's the worst wife that ever had man . Edmund . My wife's for constant chastity , Like Lucrece or Penelope : She is so wary in her carriage , That if a kiss would wrong her marriage , No one should get that favour than , For she's the best wife that ever had man . David . My wife is full of merry tricks , She hath been nought with five or sixe , If she can get me out o'th door , Ere I return shee'l play the whore , Shee'l say though I cant others can , O she's the worst wife that ere had ma [ n . ] The second part . To the same tune : Edmund . M Y wife so cleanly is and neat , She adds a goodness to my meat , I eat when I no stomach have , Because this done as I do crave ; In sickness she is my Physician , For she's the best wife that ere had man . David . My wife is such a beastly Slut , Unless it be and Egg or a Nut , I in the house dare nothing eat , For fear there's poison in the meat , The Dogs do lick both Dish and Pan , O she's the worst wife that ever had man . Edmund . My wife will wear no yellow hose , No wench can make her swell ith'nose , She knows that I to her am just , And in my faith she puts her trust ; Sheele not be vexed say what I can , For she's the best wife that ever had man . David . If I upon a woman look , My wife will swear upon a book , That she is certainly my whore , Though I never saw the woman before . Shee'l claw her eyes out if she can , O she's the worst wife that ever had man . Edmund . My wife will never follow me , Go where I will , at home stays she , Though I from Morn till night do room , She smiling bids me welcome home , This makes me haste home to my Nan , For she's the best wife that ere had man . David . If I unto the Alehouse go , To drink a Jug of beer or so , Though never so fast I thither high , My wife is there as soon as I ; At me and my friends shee'l curse and ban , For she's the worst wife that ere had man . Edmund . If any friend comes home to me , My wife gives entertainment free , But out oth'doores she will not stir , Unless I go along with her , She scrapes and saves what ere she can , O she's the best wife that ere had man . David . My wife will at the Alehouse fit , And wast away both money and wit ; Nay rather than shee'l liquour lack , Shee'l fell the smock from off her back , Shee'l steal from me all that she can , O she's the worst wife that ere had man . Edmund . Kind Cozen David I am very sorry , To hear thee tell so sad a story , Marriage and hanging now I see , Goes , as they say , by destiny , I would thou couldst say as I can , I have the best wife that ever had man . David . I thank you Cozen for your good will , Long may your bliss continue still , My cross I must with patience bear , Till God or the Devil end my care . And thus I end as I began , I have the worst wife that ere had man . Author . You wives who have herd this discourse , Now show who's better and who is worse , The best will freely buy this Song , The worst will show she hath a tongue , The head's soon broken that is scald , And Jades will kick if they be galled . FINIS . M.P. London , Printed for F. Grove . 