A constant Wife , a kind Wife , A loving Wife , and a fine Wife , Which gives content unto men life . To the tune of , Lie lulling beyond thee . Y Oung men and maids lend me your aids , to sing of my deer Sweating : It shows how Fortune hath betrayd's and often spoiled our meeting . She likely was for to be rich , and I a man but meanly , Wharefore her friends at me did grutch , and used me most unkindly . Her constancy I will declare , wherein she proved loyal : But few with her that will compare when they are put to trial . Her friends against her did contend , because she lent me favour , They said , I quickly all would spend , if that I might but have her . They did convey her from my sighed , because she should exempt me : I could not find my hearts delight , which soar did discontent me . I traveled over craggy rocks , over mountain , hills , and valleys , But she was kept from me with locks , only through spite and malice . But Love that conquers Kings and Queen's , herin did show us favour , It brought to pass , and wrought the means , in what place I should have her . She had and Uncle did detain , and keep her presence from me : Whom I was very like to-have slain , because he so did wrong me . I boldly came where he did dwell , and asked for my Sweating : They said of her they could not tell , which was to me sad greeting . But presently she herd my voice , and call me at her windor . O I would come to thee my choice , but doors and locks do hinder . Whereat amazed I did stand , to hear her make that answer : I drew my sword into my hand , and straight the house did enter , And then I made the locks to fly , and doors in pieces shatter : I vowed to have her company , and quickly I came at her . Her Uncle and some of his men , did after present follow : Who said I should never out again , but in my blood should wallow : But with some hurt done on both sides , I brought my Sweetheart from them , Young men to win yourselves such Brides , fight for to overcome them . Then joined we hands in Hymens bans to love and live together , She loved me not for house nor lands , for I had none of either . Her love was pure , and does endure , and so shall mine for ever : Till death does us so much injure , as part us from each other . The second part , to the same tune . W Ith hand and heart I will impart , the praises of my Sweating , Now welcome joys , and farewell smart , blessed be the time of meeting With my Sweetheart and only Dear , in whom is all my pleasure . The like of her does not appear , she is so blessed a treasure . O happy be the time and hour , that ere I saw her feature : Sure heavens bliss on me did shower , to send me such a creature . She is so pleasing to my mind , the like was never any , She's virtuous , wise , and very kind , she far surpasses many . Her comely feature may compare with any in Town or City , For courtesy she is most rare , likewise she is full of pity . No virtue that can give content to any earthly creature , But God to her the same hath sent , to please the will of Nature . Her golden locks like threads of gold , her eyes like stars do glitter , Her cheeks like Rose and Lilies fouled , she may be Venus sister . She hath a handsome dimpled chin , her neck shines like the crystal : Her like hath seldom times been seen , she seems so celestial . Her arms and shoulders are complete her breasts like Alabaster ; Her waist and body is as neat , there's none that ere surpassed her , Her eloquence gives such content to all that hear her phrases , That freely they'll give their consents to yield her earthly praises . Her Lily hand is at command , to do me any service : And quickly she will understand a matter whatsoever it is . If I bid go she will not stay , to work any displeasure , But presently she goes her way . And is not this a treasure ? Her parts below I'll not descry , but they are very neat ones , A dainty foot and leg , and thigh , as can be made of flesh and bones . Shee is so perfect in her parts , that many were inflamed , On her they wholly set their hearts , and at her fully aimed . Thus to conclude and end my song , I wish well to the female , Or else I sure should do them wrong and prove my self a telltale Young men adue , be kind [ and true ] unto your only Sweet [ ing ] Observe your time , you [ need not rue , ] nor curse the hour of [ meeting ] London Printed for F. C. FINISA constant Wife , a kind Wife , A loving Wife , and a fine Wife , Which gives content unto men life . To the tune of , Lie lulling beyond thee . Y Oung men and maids lend me your aids , to sing of my deer Sweating : It shows how Fortune hath betrayd's and often spoiled our meeting . She likely was for to be rich , and I a man but meanly , Wharefore her friends at me did grutch , and used me most unkindly . Her constancy I will declare , wherein she proved loyal : But few with her that will compare when they are put to trial . Her friends against her did contend , because she lent me favour , They said , I quickly all would spend , if that I might but have her . They did convey her from my sighed , because she should exempt me : I could not find my hearts delight , which soar did discontent me . I traveled over craggy rocks , over mountain , hills , and valleys , But she was kept from me with locks , only through spite and malice . But Love that conquers Kings and Queen's , herin did show us favour , It brought to pass , and wrought the means , in what place I should have her . She had and Uncle did detain , and keep her presence from me : Whom I was very like to-have slain , because he so did wrong me . I boldly came where he did dwell , and asked for my Sweating : They said of her they could not tell , which was to me sad greeting . But presently she herd my voice , and call me at her windor . O I would come to thee my choice , but doors and locks do hinder . Whereat amazed I did stand , to hear her make that answer : I drew my sword into my hand , and straight the house did enter , And then I made the locks to fly , and doors in pieces shatter : I vowed to have her company , and quickly I came at her . Her Uncle and some of his men , did after present follow : Who said I should never out again , but in my blood should wallow : But with some hurt done on both sides , I brought my Sweetheart from them , Young men to win yourselves such Brides , fight for to overcome them . Then joined we hands in Hymens bans to love and live together , She loved me not for house nor lands , for I had none of either . Her love was pure , and does endure , and so shall mine for ever : Till death does us so much injure , as part us from each other . The second part , to the same tune . W Ith hand and heart I will impart , the praises of my Sweating , Now welcome joys , and farewell smart , blessed be the time of meeting With my Sweetheart and only Dear , in whom is all my pleasure . The like of her does not appear , she is so blessed a treasure . O happy be the time and hour , that ere I saw her feature : Sure heavens bliss on me did shower , to send me such a creature . She is so pleasing to my mind , the like was never any , She's virtuous , wise , and very kind , she far surpasses many . Her comely feature may compare with any in Town or City , For courtesy she is most rare , likewise she is full of pity . No virtue that can give content to any earthly creature , But God to her the same hath sent , to please the will of Nature . Her golden locks like threads of gold , her eyes like stars do glitter , Her cheeks like Rose and Lilies fouled , she may be Venus sister . She hath a handsome dimpled chin , her neck shines like the crystal : Her like hath seldom times been seen , she seems so celestial . Her arms and shoulders are complete her breasts like Alabaster ; Her waist and body is as neat , there's none that ere surpassed her , Her eloquence gives such content to all that hear her phrases , That freely they'll give their consents to yield her earthly praises . Her Lily hand is at command , to do me any service : And quickly she will understand a matter whatsoever it is . If I bid go she will not stay , to work any displeasure , But presently she goes her way . And is not this a treasure ? Her parts below I'll not descry , but they are very neat ones , A dainty foot and leg , and thigh , as can be made of flesh and bones . Shee is so perfect in her parts , that many were inflamed , On her they wholly set their hearts , and at her fully aimed . Thus to conclude and end my song , I wish well to the female , Or else I sure should do them wrong and prove my self a telltale Young men adue , be kind [ and true ] unto your only Sweet [ ing ] Observe your time , you [ need not rue , ] nor curse the hour of [ meeting ] London Printed for F. C. FINIS 