A Banquet for Sovereign Husbands . OR , The Roasting of the Ram whole at Saint Giles in the fields on Wednesday the twenty foure of June , 1629. being Midsummer day , Head , Horns and all . To the tune of The Woman to the Blow , and the Man to the Hen-Roost . O N Midsummer day I chanced to go Unto a place which many know : And there was done a merry Jest , Which in my song shall be expressed . Let no man think this is a flamme , I sing the roasting of a Ram . Saint Giles'es in the fields , that town , Which no place can for mirth put down : Especially about the City , They have such sport and pastime pretty : But this excels all , sure I am , I mean the roasting of the Ram . [ The Ramm ] e was for this purpose fed , [ Was cooked w ] hold both feet and head : [ Head and ] worser horns and all to boot , [ And now her ] e all that would come tooed . [ Come John , ] come George , come William [ so precious ] is the roasted Ram . [ And many a man ther ] e thither came , [ Swearing he would ] his wife rule and tame : [ And that he s ] hold eat up the spit , [ ? ] om should taste a bit . [ But all be ] held most sure I am [ that nothing was eaten ] of the Ram . He lay so long o'th Spit I'll tell ye , Till most o'th puddings dropped out of's belly , And scarce a man durst draw his knife , For fear he should displease his wife : Many excused it with a flame , and few or none durst touch the Ram . At last came in a good fellow o'th Town , And swore it should cost him a Crown , But he would have a slash at the Tup , This was before his wife was up : Had she been there , half sure I am , he had not tasted of the Ram . Many were half resolved to enter , Yet on the Ram they durst not venture , For fear their wives ere they had dinde Would fetch them home with words unkind : Franke would fain , & amp ; so would Sam , yet neither of them durst taste the Ram . This being perceived by mine Host , Who feared this project would be crossed , He had it cut off bit by bit , And sold for money from off the spit : On these conditions many came to buy for money some o'th Ram . The second part To the same tune . N Owe if this Ram had been a Bull , And all his belly with pudding full , If none but ruling women might Have come , it had been swallowed quite In the forenoon , for sure I am they best deserved to eat the Ram . But now to make my story short , This Ram all day did cause good sport , As Moris-dancing , and such toys , That draw together Girls and Boys . And many a groat and tester came to'th Host , for tasting of the Ram . The Master Cook that Jovial blade , All day good mirth and pastime made : Though first a Tapster , next a Groom , He for that day supplied the room Of th'Cooke , and he with many a flame god money for the roasted Ram . One man among the rest was there , Who meant to taste of this good cheer , But he was glad his share to hide , For's wife came in and began to chide , She sware he should dine with the devil & amp ; is Dam before he should eat a bit o'th Ram . This poor men credit being cracked , Alack for woe the market slacked , For all the women did consent , To make her tongue their president : And many a one to hinder came their husbands from the taste oh that Ram . One sort of wives were not so bold , In such a meeting place to scold : Yet because their husbands shall not eat , On purpose they dispraise the meat . But I eat some , and sure I am , no Venson's sweeter then was that Ram [ . ] Though ruling husbands few did taste , The Ram was eaten up at last : They shaved him barely to the bones , Nay some did cut his very stones : Who did the same not sure I am : who ever he was he well loved Ram . Some eat the rumpe , and some the feet , Not asking whither the meat was sweet , The head and horns I cannot tell , Unto whose share by right they fell , But he that hath a wanton wife , might keep them still to whet his knife . Thus unto you I have expressed , The manner of this merry feast : He that is horned like a beast , Perhaps is angry at this Jest , But each good fellow sure I am , will buy this Ballad of the Ram . If here be any scolding wives , I wish them if they love their lives , In any case not buy this song , Which does to gentle wives belong : Thus from the Author told I am , who made this ditty of the Ram . Printed for Francis Coules . FINIS . M . P.A Banquet for Sovereign Husbands . OR , The Roasting of the Ram whole at Saint Giles in the fields on Wednesday the twenty foure of June , 1629. being Midsummer day , Head , Horns and all . To the tune of The Woman to the Blow , and the Man to the Hen-Roost . O N Midsummer day I chanced to go Unto a place which many know : And there was done a merry Jest , Which in my song shall be expressed . Let no man think this is a flamme , I sing the roasting of a Ram . Saint Giles'es in the fields , that town , Which no place can for mirth put down : Especially about the City , They have such sport and pastime pretty : But this excels all , sure I am , I mean the roasting of the Ram . [ The Ramm ] e was for this purpose fed , [ Was cooked w ] hold both feet and head : [ Head and ] worser horns and all to boot , [ And now her ] e all that would come tooed . [ Come John , ] come George , come William [ so precious ] is the roasted Ram . [ And many a man ther ] e thither came , [ Swearing he would ] his wife rule and tame : [ And that he s ] hold eat up the spit , [ ? ] om should taste a bit . [ But all be ] held most sure I am [ that nothing was eaten ] of the Ram . He lay so long o'th Spit I'll tell ye , Till most o'th puddings dropped out of's belly , And scarce a man durst draw his knife , For fear he should displease his wife : Many excused it with a flame , and few or none durst touch the Ram . At last came in a good fellow o'th Town , And swore it should cost him a Crown , But he would have a slash at the Tup , This was before his wife was up : Had she been there , half sure I am , he had not tasted of the Ram . Many were half resolved to enter , Yet on the Ram they durst not venture , For fear their wives ere they had dinde Would fetch them home with words unkind : Franke would fain , & amp ; so would Sam , yet neither of them durst taste the Ram . This being perceived by mine Host , Who feared this project would be crossed , He had it cut off bit by bit , And sold for money from off the spit : On these conditions many came to buy for money some o'th Ram . The second part To the same tune . N Owe if this Ram had been a Bull , And all his belly with pudding full , If none but ruling women might Have come , it had been swallowed quite In the forenoon , for sure I am they best deserved to eat the Ram . But now to make my story short , This Ram all day did cause good sport , As Moris-dancing , and such toys , That draw together Girls and Boys . And many a groat and tester came to'th Host , for tasting of the Ram . The Master Cook that Jovial blade , All day good mirth and pastime made : Though first a Tapster , next a Groom , He for that day supplied the room Of th'Cooke , and he with many a flame god money for the roasted Ram . One man among the rest was there , Who meant to taste of this good cheer , But he was glad his share to hide , For's wife came in and began to chide , She sware he should dine with the devil & amp ; is Dam before he should eat a bit o'th Ram . This poor men credit being cracked , Alack for woe the market slacked , For all the women did consent , To make her tongue their president : And many a one to hinder came their husbands from the taste oh that Ram . One sort of wives were not so bold , In such a meeting place to scold : Yet because their husbands shall not eat , On purpose they dispraise the meat . But I eat some , and sure I am , no Venson's sweeter then was that Ram [ . ] Though ruling husbands few did taste , The Ram was eaten up at last : They shaved him barely to the bones , Nay some did cut his very stones : Who did the same not sure I am : who ever he was he well loved Ram . Some eat the rumpe , and some the feet , Not asking whither the meat was sweet , The head and horns I cannot tell , Unto whose share by right they fell , But he that hath a wanton wife , might keep them still to whet his knife . Thus unto you I have expressed , The manner of this merry feast : He that is horned like a beast , Perhaps is angry at this Jest , But each good fellow sure I am , will buy this Ballad of the Ram . If here be any scolding wives , I wish them if they love their lives , In any case not buy this song , Which does to gentle wives belong : Thus from the Author told I am , who made this ditty of the Ram . Printed for Francis Coules . FINIS . M.P. 