A pleasant new Song , betwixt The Sailor and his Love . to the tune of Dulcina . W Hat does ail my Love , so sadly in such heavy [ worser ] umps to stand : Does she grieve or take unkindly , that I am so near at hand ? Or does she vow , She will not know , Nor speak to me when I do come : If that be so , [ a ] way I'll go , first kiss and bid me welcome home . Had I ever thee forsaken , putting thee out of my mind , Thou then mightest have justly spoken that I was to thee unkind . Or should I take Some other make , Then mightest thou have just cause to mourn But let me die Before that I , do so : then bid me welcome home . Sooner shall the grass leave growing , from the hare the hound shall run , Husbandmen shall leave their sowing , floods shall run the land upon , The fish shall fly , The Sea run dry , The birds no more shall sing but mourn . Ere I of thee Unmindful be , then kiss and bid me welcome home . Smile on me , be not offended , pardon grant for my amiss : Let thy favour so be friend me , as to seal it with a kiss : To me , I swear , Thou art so deer , That for thy sake I'll fancy none , Then do not frown , But fit thee down , Sweet , kiss and bid me welcome home . If thou hast proved chaste Diana , since from thee I did depart . I as constant have been to thee , for on thee fixed was my heart : No not for she Jupiter see , Dinae in her tower alone . Should me entice , No I'll be nice , then kiss and bid me welcome home . No nor Venus Cupids mother , nor the fairest wife of Jove , Should Lucretia or some other , seek by gifts to win my love , Should Hellen fair , To me repair , And unto me for love make move , Yet none of these My mind shall please , then kiss , and bid me welcome home The second part . To the same tune . F Rom thy sighed though I was banished yet I always was to thee , Far more kind then was Ulysses , to his chaste Penelope : For why away He once did stay Ten years , and left her all alone . But I from thee , Have not been three , Sweet kiss and bid me welcome him . Come sweet heart come fit down by me , and let thy lap my pillow me . While sweet sleep my mind beguileth , all my dreams shall be on thee . I pray thee stay , Steal not away , Let lullaby be all my song : With kisses sweet , Lull me asleep , and say sweet heart thou'rt welcome home , The woman's answer . I Have been sad to see how from me , thou so long away didst stay , Yet now I more rejoice to see thee , happily arrived this day . Thou from our shore Shalt go no more , To wander thus abroad alone : But thou shalt stay With me always , for here's my hand , thou'rt welcome home . I have proved Diana to thee , since from me thou wentest away , I have had suitors well-nigh twenty , and much ado had for to stay : But I denied , When they replied , And sent them all away in scorn : For I had sworn , To live forlorn , until that I see thee come home . Seeing thou art home arrived , thou shalt not go away in haste , But lovingly come fit down by me , let thine arms embrace my waste : Farewell annoy , Welcome my joy , Now lullaby is all my song , For now my heart , Sings loath to part , then kiss , sweetheart , thou'rt welcome home Since sweet heart thou dost befriend me thus to take me to thy love , Never more will I offend thee , but will ever constant prove . Thou hast my heart , Not to depart . But ever constant to remain : And thou hast mine , And I have thine , then let us kiss and welcome home . FINIS . Printed at London for John Grismond . A pleasant new Song , betwixt The Sailor and his Love . to the tune of Dulcina . W Hat does ail my Love , so sadly in such heavy [ worser ] umps to stand : Does she grieve or take unkindly , that I am so near at hand ? Or does she vow , She will not know , Nor speak to me when I do come : If that be so , [ a ] way I'll go , first kiss and bid me welcome home . Had I ever thee forsaken , putting thee out of my mind , Thou then mightest have justly spoken that I was to thee unkind . Or should I take Some other make , Then mightest thou have just cause to mourn But let me die Before that I , do so : then bid me welcome home . Sooner shall the grass leave growing , from the hare the hound shall run , Husbandmen shall leave their sowing , floods shall run the land upon , The fish shall fly , The Sea run dry , The birds no more shall sing but mourn . Ere I of thee Unmindful be , then kiss and bid me welcome home . Smile on me , be not offended , pardon grant for my amiss : Let thy favour so be friend me , as to seal it with a kiss : To me , I swear , Thou art so deer , That for thy sake I'll fancy none , Then do not frown , But fit thee down , Sweet , kiss and bid me welcome home . If thou hast proved chaste Diana , since from thee I did depart . I as constant have been to thee , for on thee fixed was my heart : No not for she Jupiter see , Dinae in her tower alone . Should me entice , No I'll be nice , then kiss and bid me welcome home . No nor Venus Cupids mother , nor the fairest wife of Jove , Should Lucretia or some other , seek by gifts to win my love , Should Hellen fair , To me repair , And unto me for love make move , Yet none of these My mind shall please , then kiss , and bid me welcome home The second part . To the same tune . F Rom thy sighed though I was banished yet I always was to thee , Far more kind then was Ulysses , to his chaste Penelope : For why away He once did stay Ten years , and left her all alone . But I from thee , Have not been three , Sweet kiss and bid me welcome him . Come sweet heart come fit down by me , and let thy lap my pillow me . While sweet sleep my mind beguileth , all my dreams shall be on thee . I pray thee stay , Steal not away , Let lullaby be all my song : With kisses sweet , Lull me asleep , and say sweet heart thou'rt welcome home , The woman's answer . I Have been sad to see how from me , thou so long away didst stay , Yet now I more rejoice to see thee , happily arrived this day . Thou from our shore Shalt go no more , To wander thus abroad alone : But thou shalt stay With me always , for here's my hand , thou'rt welcome home . I have proved Diana to thee , since from me thou wentest away , I have had suitors well-nigh twenty , and much ado had for to stay : But I denied , When they replied , And sent them all away in scorn : For I had sworn , To live forlorn , until that I see thee come home . Seeing thou art home arrived , thou shalt not go away in haste , But lovingly come fit down by me , let thine arms embrace my waste : Farewell annoy , Welcome my joy , Now lullaby is all my song , For now my heart , Sings loath to part , then kiss , sweetheart , thou'rt welcome home Since sweet heart thou dost befriend me thus to take me to thy love , Never more will I offend thee , but will ever constant prove . Thou hast my heart , Not to depart . But ever constant to remain : And thou hast mine , And I have thine , then let us kiss and welcome home . FINIS . Printed at London for John Grismond . 