The Cuckoos Commendation : Or , the Cuckolds Credit : Being a merry Maying Song in Praise of the Cuckoo . To [ tO ] he Tune of the Buttoned Smock . O F all the Birds that haunts the woods , The waters or the Plain ; I like the Cuckows pleasant tunes , though some his Notes disdain : For all the fair green Season , most cheerfully he sings , And with his double Ditties makes the Hills and Valleys ring . The Earth to entertain him , puts on her best array , The lofty trees and lowly shrubs , likewise are fresh and gay ; The Birds to bid him welcome in , do warble pleasant notes , All Beasts in fields and Forests wild cast off their winter coats . And when he comes among them , he chants his melody , More freely then a Lawyer , that takes a double Fee : He far excels the Fiddler , his melodie's more free , As well unto the [ p ] oorest sort , as to the highest degree . The Citizens that hear him , will walk to fetch in May ; Their wives like [ w ] i'm [ to ] cheer them , will dress themselves most gay : All for to hear the Cuckoo sing , and warble forth his notes , The Maidens and the Prentices , together go in flocks . He'll sing unto the Courtier , as well as to the Clown , He sp [ a ] reth not his music , in City nor in Town : And many when they hear him , will think this Proverb true , That Gold and Opportunity , will make some Women do . The Lawyer when he hears him , his velvet Cap off stirs , And fears while he's at Westminster , another Cause demurs : Lest that some younger Student come at home and in his place , To have the free soliciting of his own proper case . The Merchant and the Mariner , that foreign Countries find , When they do hear the Cuckoo sing , rest doubtful in their mind : While they strange trafficks take in hand to load their Ships with wares , Their Pinnace that they left at home some other Burden bears . The Maidens when they hear him , accuse him for a blab , The jealous Doctor when he cries , thinks his young wife a Drab : Captains and wedded Martialists , when they do hear him cry , Likewise mistrust their Wives at home , in others Arms do lie . The silken suited Citizens which let their gorgeous Spouses Go frolic in good company , while they do keep their houses : If they do blame the Cuckoo sweet , they do the Bird abuse : For wine and opportunity , will make some women lose . The second Part , to the same Tune . A Nother takes a Garden , to which in pleasant weather The Mistress must a walking go , the Prentice brings her thither : And then it so may fortune , that walking on the way , They fallen into some dancing-Schoole , and there they both do stay . But then and if the Citizen does hear the Cuckoos found , He fears not but his Prentices , from Venery are bound : Suspecttly then he keeps his house , and casts up his Book , Mean while the Mistress and her Man , are doing what , go look . And there be Knights and Gentlemen , which gallant seem and stout , Do let their wives have Coaches , to whirl the streets about , Maned only by a Coachman , and Usher and a Page : Yet when they hear the Cuckoos note , they neither sin nor rage . For if my Lady lights , the Coachman must fit still , The Lackey he is then employed , to do her worships will : The Usher for her Ladyship , he well does know his part , And does that which the Prentice did , to please his Mistress heart . The Taylor that so neatly does fit his Mistress wast , And puts on her strait Bodies , when Petticoats unlaced , While thus he fits his Mistress , another is at home , To ease his wives strait Bodies , which are to narrow grown . The Butcher that for fat ware full oft abroad does ride , And leaves his wife to fell the Joints , that he does well provide : While he from home is ranging , his Wife a Friend may find , That of a Lamb may make a Ram , and use her very kind . The Smith which on his Anvil , the Iron hard does ding : He cannot hear the Cuckoo , although he loud does sing , In pointing of Plow-Harnesse , he labours till he sweat , While another in his Forge at home , may steal a private heat . But to conclude of all sorts , though high or low they be , Theres many lose backsliders , would there were none for me : And yet it grieves my Conscience , that such a lovely Game , Should make the Cuckoo hated , and scandal his good name , His body is as toothsome , and pleasant as his voice , And use him as a Diet , he is a food most choice : He fortifies the back-part , and freeth some Disease , And therefore use you all the Art , may best the Cuckoo please . FINIS . Printed for Mr. R . The Cuckoos Commendation : Or , the Cuckolds Credit : Being a merry Maying Song in Praise of the Cuckoo . To [ tO ] he Tune of the Buttoned Smock . O F all the Birds that haunts the woods , The waters or the Plain ; I like the Cuckows pleasant tunes , though some his Notes disdain : For all the fair green Season , most cheerfully he sings , And with his double Ditties makes the Hills and Valleys ring . The Earth to entertain him , puts on her best array , The lofty trees and lowly shrubs , likewise are fresh and gay ; The Birds to bid him welcome in , do warble pleasant notes , All Beasts in fields and Forests wild cast off their winter coats . And when he comes among them , he chants his melody , More freely then a Lawyer , that takes a double Fee : He far excels the Fiddler , his melodie's more free , As well unto the [ p ] oorest sort , as to the highest degree . The Citizens that hear him , will walk to fetch in May ; Their wives like [ w ] i'm [ to ] cheer them , will dress themselves most gay : All for to hear the Cuckoo sing , and warble forth his notes , The Maidens and the Prentices , together go in flocks . He'll sing unto the Courtier , as well as to the Clown , He sp [ a ] reth not his music , in City nor in Town : And many when they hear him , will think this Proverb true , That Gold and Opportunity , will make some Women do . The Lawyer when he hears him , his velvet Cap off stirs , And fears while he's at Westminster , another Cause demurs : Lest that some younger Student come at home and in his place , To have the free soliciting of his own proper case . The Merchant and the Mariner , that foreign Countries find , When they do hear the Cuckoo sing , rest doubtful in their mind : While they strange trafficks take in hand to load their Ships with wares , Their Pinnace that they left at home some other Burden bears . The Maidens when they hear him , accuse him for a blab , The jealous Doctor when he cries , thinks his young wife a Drab : Captains and wedded Martialists , when they do hear him cry , Likewise mistrust their Wives at home , in others Arms do lie . The silken suited Citizens which let their gorgeous Spouses Go frolic in good company , while they do keep their houses : If they do blame the Cuckoo sweet , they do the Bird abuse : For wine and opportunity , will make some women lose . The second Part , to the same Tune . A Nother takes a Garden , to which in pleasant weather The Mistress must a walking go , the Prentice brings her thither : And then it so may fortune , that walking on the way , They fallen into some dancing-Schoole , and there they both do stay . But then and if the Citizen does hear the Cuckoos found , He fears not but his Prentices , from Venery are bound : Suspecttly then he keeps his house , and casts up his Book , Mean while the Mistress and her Man , are doing what , go look . And there be Knights and Gentlemen , which gallant seem and stout , Do let their wives have Coaches , to whirl the streets about , Maned only by a Coachman , and Usher and a Page : Yet when they hear the Cuckoos note , they neither sin nor rage . For if my Lady lights , the Coachman must fit still , The Lackey he is then employed , to do her worships will : The Usher for her Ladyship , he well does know his part , And does that which the Prentice did , to please his Mistress heart . The Taylor that so neatly does fit his Mistress wast , And puts on her strait Bodies , when Petticoats unlaced , While thus he fits his Mistress , another is at home , To ease his wives strait Bodies , which are to narrow grown . The Butcher that for fat ware full oft abroad does ride , And leaves his wife to fell the Joints , that he does well provide : While he from home is ranging , his Wife a Friend may find , That of a Lamb may make a Ram , and use her very kind . The Smith which on his Anvil , the Iron hard does ding : He cannot hear the Cuckoo , although he loud does sing , In pointing of Plow-Harnesse , he labours till he sweat , While another in his Forge at home , may steal a private heat . But to conclude of all sorts , though high or low they be , Theres many lose backsliders , would there were none for me : And yet it grieves my Conscience , that such a lovely Game , Should make the Cuckoo hated , and scandal his good name , His body is as toothsome , and pleasant as his voice , And use him as a Diet , he is a food most choice : He fortifies the back-part , and freeth some Disease , And therefore use you all the Art , may best the Cuckoo please . FINIS . Printed for Mr. R. 