Round boys indeed . OR The Shoemakers Holiday . Being a very pleasant new Ditty , To fit both Country , Town and City , Delightful to peruse in every degree , Come gallant Gentlemen , handsel from you let me see , To a pleasant new Tune : H Ere we are good fellows all , round Boys round : Attendance give when we do call , round boys indeed . Since we are here good fellows all , drink we must and work we shall . And work we will what ere befall , for money to serve our need . We get our livings by our hands , round boys round Then fill us bear at our commands , round boys indeed , Our livings we get by our hands , as plainly you may understand , While many gallants fell their land , for money to serve their need . We set our stitches just and straight , round boys round , And do our work without deceit , round boys indeed , Though Munday Sundayes fellow be , when tuesday comes to work fallen we And fallen to work most merrily , for money to serve our need . The titles which our trade adorn , round boys round , Shoemakers sons were princes born , round boys indeed , For kind S. Hughe and Crispins sake , a merry day we mean to make , And after to our tools betake , for money to serve our need . And if our Master angry seem , round boys round , We little do of that esteem , round boys indeed , S. Hughs bones up we take in haste , both pinsers , punching all and last , The gentle Craft was never disgraced , they have money to serve their need . If we want cash over night , round boys round , We shall not long be in that plighted , round boys indeed , Next day ere morn God will us send , if we to work our humour bend , And merry make each friend with friend with money to serve our need . We scorn such cheating knaves and queans round boys round , Which do not live by honest means , round boys indeed , When thieves & amp ; whores to tyburn pack we'll drink strong beer good ale and sack , The gentle Craft did never lack , for money to serve their need . The second part . To the same tune . O Fie upon the cursed crew , round boys round , We do defy the cursed crew , round boys indeed , The gallows take that wicked crew , that will not keep them just and true , And pay to every man his endue , and have money to serve their need . The shirking rook and base decoy , round boys round , Our company shall not enjoy , round boys indeed , But with those men of good report , that led their lives in honest sort , A Jug or two will make us sport , we have money to serve our need . The smith , the weaver , and the tailor , round boys round , The feriman and the jovial sailor , round boys indeed , The mariner and soldier bold , are in the book of fame enrolled : That ventured have their lives for gold and money to serve their need . The carpenter we daily see , round boys round , The mason and bricklayers be , round boys indeed , he Costerdmonger will not shrink , The is no niggard of his chincke , But with boon blades will fit & amp ; drink , when he of it hath need . The maltman and the baker stout , round boys round , Will with the brewer have about , round boys indeed , The tapster may not lose his share , though barley broth be never so deer , He'll give his friend a jug of bear if that he stand in need . The butcher if he be a dry , round boys round , He'll keep good fellows company , round boys indeed , The tanner when he comes to town , weighs not the spending of a crown , among his chapmen up and down , he hath money to serve his need . All those good fellows which are na'md round boys round , Within this song I here have fra'md , are round boys indeed , The gentle Craft does bear good will , to all kind hearted tradesmen still , That keep the proverb to fulfil , a penny to serve their need . Now to conclude my harmless ditty , round boys round , I wish both country town and City , round boys indeed , That every man and woman kind , a faithful friend may ever find So here my friends you know my mind , keep money to serve your need . I trust none of this company , round boys , round Will with this song offended be , round boys indeed , therefore let some kind Creature hear give handsel for to buy me beer , To make my throat more shrill & amp ; clear you sae I have great need . L.P. Printed at London for I . Wright . Round boys indeed . OR The Shoemakers Holiday . Being a very pleasant new Ditty , To fit both Country , Town and City , Delightful to peruse in every degree , Come gallant Gentlemen , handsel from you let me see , To a pleasant new Tune : H Ere we are good fellows all , round Boys round : Attendance give when we do call , round boys indeed . Since we are here good fellows all , drink we must and work we shall . And work we will what ere befall , for money to serve our need . We get our livings by our hands , round boys round Then fill us bear at our commands , round boys indeed , Our livings we get by our hands , as plainly you may understand , While many gallants fell their land , for money to serve their need . We set our stitches just and straight , round boys round , And do our work without deceit , round boys indeed , Though Munday Sundayes fellow be , when tuesday comes to work fallen we And fallen to work most merrily , for money to serve our need . The titles which our trade adorn , round boys round , Shoemakers sons were princes born , round boys indeed , For kind S. Hughe and Crispins sake , a merry day we mean to make , And after to our tools betake , for money to serve our need . And if our Master angry seem , round boys round , We little do of that esteem , round boys indeed , S. Hughs bones up we take in haste , both pinsers , punching all and last , The gentle Craft was never disgraced , they have money to serve their need . If we want cash over night , round boys round , We shall not long be in that plighted , round boys indeed , Next day ere morn God will us send , if we to work our humour bend , And merry make each friend with friend with money to serve our need . We scorn such cheating knaves and queans round boys round , Which do not live by honest means , round boys indeed , When thieves & amp ; whores to tyburn pack we'll drink strong beer good ale and sack , The gentle Craft did never lack , for money to serve their need . The second part . To the same tune . O Fie upon the cursed crew , round boys round , We do defy the cursed crew , round boys indeed , The gallows take that wicked crew , that will not keep them just and true , And pay to every man his endue , and have money to serve their need . The shirking rook and base decoy , round boys round , Our company shall not enjoy , round boys indeed , But with those men of good report , that led their lives in honest sort , A Jug or two will make us sport , we have money to serve our need . The smith , the weaver , and the tailor , round boys round , The feriman and the jovial sailor , round boys indeed , The mariner and soldier bold , are in the book of fame enrolled : That ventured have their lives for gold and money to serve their need . The carpenter we daily see , round boys round , The mason and bricklayers be , round boys indeed , he Costerdmonger will not shrink , The is no niggard of his chincke , But with boon blades will fit & amp ; drink , when he of it hath need . The maltman and the baker stout , round boys round , Will with the brewer have about , round boys indeed , The tapster may not lose his share , though barley broth be never so deer , He'll give his friend a jug of bear if that he stand in need . The butcher if he be a dry , round boys round , He'll keep good fellows company , round boys indeed , The tanner when he comes to town , weighs not the spending of a crown , among his chapmen up and down , he hath money to serve his need . All those good fellows which are na'md round boys round , Within this song I here have fra'md , are round boys indeed , The gentle Craft does bear good will , to all kind hearted tradesmen still , That keep the proverb to fulfil , a penny to serve their need . Now to conclude my harmless ditty , round boys round , I wish both country town and City , round boys indeed , That every man and woman kind , a faithful friend may ever find So here my friends you know my mind , keep money to serve your need . I trust none of this company , round boys , round Will with this song offended be , round boys indeed , therefore let some kind Creature hear give handsel for to buy me beer , To make my throat more shrill & amp ; clear you sae I have great need . L.P. Printed at London for I . Wright . 