No body loves me . To the tune of Philliday . N Owe all my money is gone , how should I swagger ? Now may I fit alone with wooden Dagger , Robert and honest John with mine Host Kester , Could drink a dozen Cans out of a Tester : If now I wash my throat Needs must I pawn my coat , And sing this heavy note , Nobody loves me . I [ flowers ] ht w [ ith my friends while my ] quoin lasted , Now that my sudd [ ? ends ? ] eir love's blasted , He and he with his pot [ don't treat me kindly ] , While I could pay my shot [ loving ] g me blindly : Now that I have no C [ hink ] e , With the Ducks may I [ dr ] ink , All my friends from me shrink , Nobody loves me . My Hostis with a smile would entertain me , Now like a varlet vile does she disdain me I had the Parlour before at [ my counterfeit ] mmanding , Now in the kitchen I take up my standing : Now all my revel ruff , Is turned to kitchen stuff , And I sing , Marry muff , Nobody loves me . When as I had no want , each one would lend me , Now that my money is skant , they say , God send ye : They leave Pearce-penniles , with high disdaining , And all are pitiless , to my complaining : Their words are guilded fair , Their deeds base copper beware , Now I am waxed bore , Nobody loves me . Fair Maids would follow me fast for a Fairing , I was good company , Purse was not sparing : The finest fro in this town , I might have kissed her , And perhaps laid her down , now I must miss her . Now that my money is lost , They bid me kiss the post , Was ever man thus crossed , Nobody loves me . Top of my kin I thought , would not deny me , When I do ask them ought , strait they pass by me Nought but old proverbs on me they venture , Save nought in summer and starve in winter . Old Proverbs fly about , No money pull they out , Their hands have god the gout , Nobody loves me . Faith I'll go dig for more and if I find it , Like rich Cobs hand and foot , fast will I bind it . And hide it in the hay until it canker , Then farewell thriftless play , and good Ale Tanker : I'll drink plain whig and whay , Until my dying day , Black pots brings all away , Nobody loves me . I'll save my money I , to make a purchase Or else before I die , for to built Churches : Like worldlings every hour will I be scraping , Or like hell still for more will I be gaping : Ere I do spend my coin , I'll let my Carcase pine , And eat beans from the suine . no body loves me . If I be once rich again , I will be wiser , And learn of money-men to be a Miser : Rather then lend a groat to one or other , I'll help to cut his throat , were he my brother . I will shut up my door , Always against the poor : So Karls do get their store . No body loves me . FINIS . Printed at London for E.W. The Second part of No body loves me . A new Ballad that praiseth good company , sent unto Peter Ply-pot , and Cutbert Empty-can . To the tune of Dainty come thou to me . TO Heres no comparison , of folly to be made , To the meaner sort of men , such as live by their trade : Vain pleasure so does led , their light-braine wits awry , That spend and bring themselves , to open beggary . Company asks cost , Company wastes gain : Let him that means to thrive , Much company refrain . Such as so wary be , to spare and not to spend : Thy wasteful quality , he shall mock in the end . For such as have no care , a penny for to keep : Shall never be worth a pound , but live in danger deep . Company asks cost , etc In a torn ragged coat . commonly shall he go : His wife with sorrow filled , his children full of woe . Their stomach seldom shall be filled with flesh or fish : On his board shall be seen , always and empty dish , Company , etc To the Wine Tavern sure , and victling house likewise : You seem to be good friends , but your own enemies : For all that you do spend , no thank they do you give : But in your beggary , they laugh to see you live . Company , etc Be male content with since , for once a day will come , When you that laugh shall weep , this is Christs dreadful doom : Before Lent fast and pray , your death you do not know , Thus ere you do depart , starve not your souls with woe . Company , etc Though thought will pay no debt . yet every honest man , To pay each debt is due , will do the best he can : For when a man for debt in prison fast does lie : Small help then shall he have of merry company . Company , etc The merriest man on earth , is overcome of death : Repenting with much pain , his mirth that was so vain . Blessed may he be and glad , that for his sin is sad : Great joy shall he obtain , in heaven where Christ does reign . Company , etc Sith vain all pleasures are , then void lewd company : Good company there is none , but in Gods Church alone . Silver and gold will rust , and friends will prove unjust : Let then thy pleasure be , to sing Christs verity C ompany , etc The best fellowship I say , is for to spend the day Among thy family , at thy work merrily . Then happily shalt thou speed , having coin at thy need : Full well then mayest thou fare . thy purse shall never be bore . Company asks cost , etc The world may justly then teach all such foolish men , To provide while they may , against their sickness day And cease their Alehouse songs , the which their credit wrongs , Leading more civil lives , with these true wedded wives . FINIS . Imprinted at London for E. W . No body loves me . To the tune of Philliday . N Owe all my money is gone , how should I swagger ? Now may I fit alone with wooden Dagger , Robert and honest John with mine Host Kester , Could drink a dozen Cans out of a Tester : If now I wash my throat Needs must I pawn my coat , And sing this heavy note , Nobody loves me . I [ flowers ] ht w [ ith my friends while my ] quoin lasted , Now that my sudd [ ? ends ? ] eir love's blasted , He and he with his pot [ don't treat me kindly ] , While I could pay my shot [ loving ] g me blindly : Now that I have no C [ hink ] e , With the Ducks may I [ dr ] ink , All my friends from me shrink , Nobody loves me . My Hostis with a smile would entertain me , Now like a varlet vile does she disdain me I had the Parlour before at [ my counterfeit ] mmanding , Now in the kitchen I take up my standing : Now all my revel ruff , Is turned to kitchen stuff , And I sing , Marry muff , Nobody loves me . When as I had no want , each one would lend me , Now that my money is skant , they say , God send ye : They leave Pearce-penniles , with high disdaining , And all are pitiless , to my complaining : Their words are guilded fair , Their deeds base copper beware , Now I am waxed bore , Nobody loves me . Fair Maids would follow me fast for a Fairing , I was good company , Purse was not sparing : The finest fro in this town , I might have kissed her , And perhaps laid her down , now I must miss her . Now that my money is lost , They bid me kiss the post , Was ever man thus crossed , Nobody loves me . Top of my kin I thought , would not deny me , When I do ask them ought , strait they pass by me Nought but old proverbs on me they venture , Save nought in summer and starve in winter . Old Proverbs fly about , No money pull they out , Their hands have god the gout , Nobody loves me . Faith I'll go dig for more and if I find it , Like rich Cobs hand and foot , fast will I bind it . And hide it in the hay until it canker , Then farewell thriftless play , and good Ale Tanker : I'll drink plain whig and whay , Until my dying day , Black pots brings all away , Nobody loves me . I'll save my money I , to make a purchase Or else before I die , for to built Churches : Like worldlings every hour will I be scraping , Or like hell still for more will I be gaping : Ere I do spend my coin , I'll let my Carcase pine , And eat beans from the suine . no body loves me . If I be once rich again , I will be wiser , And learn of money-men to be a Miser : Rather then lend a groat to one or other , I'll help to cut his throat , were he my brother . I will shut up my door , Always against the poor : So Karls do get their store . No body loves me . FINIS . Printed at London for E.W. The Second part of No body loves me . A new Ballad that praiseth good company , sent unto Peter Ply-pot , and Cutbert Empty-can . To the tune of Dainty come thou to me . TO Heres no comparison , of folly to be made , To the meaner sort of men , such as live by their trade : Vain pleasure so does led , their light-braine wits awry , That spend and bring themselves , to open beggary . Company asks cost , Company wastes gain : Let him that means to thrive , Much company refrain . Such as so wary be , to spare and not to spend : Thy wasteful quality , he shall mock in the end . For such as have no care , a penny for to keep : Shall never be worth a pound , but live in danger deep . Company asks cost , etc In a torn ragged coat . commonly shall he go : His wife with sorrow filled , his children full of woe . Their stomach seldom shall be filled with flesh or fish : On his board shall be seen , always and empty dish , Company , etc To the Wine Tavern sure , and victling house likewise : You seem to be good friends , but your own enemies : For all that you do spend , no thank they do you give : But in your beggary , they laugh to see you live . Company , etc Be male content with since , for once a day will come , When you that laugh shall weep , this is Christs dreadful doom : Before Lent fast and pray , your death you do not know , Thus ere you do depart , starve not your souls with woe . Company , etc Though thought will pay no debt . yet every honest man , To pay each debt is due , will do the best he can : For when a man for debt in prison fast does lie : Small help then shall he have of merry company . Company , etc The merriest man on earth , is overcome of death : Repenting with much pain , his mirth that was so vain . Blessed may he be and glad , that for his sin is sad : Great joy shall he obtain , in heaven where Christ does reign . Company , etc Sith vain all pleasures are , then void lewd company : Good company there is none , but in Gods Church alone . Silver and gold will rust , and friends will prove unjust : Let then thy pleasure be , to sing Christs verity C ompany , etc The best fellowship I say , is for to spend the day Among thy family , at thy work merrily . Then happily shalt thou speed , having coin at thy need : Full well then mayest thou fare . thy purse shall never be bore . Company asks cost , etc The world may justly then teach all such foolish men , To provide while they may , against their sickness day And cease their Alehouse songs , the which their credit wrongs , Leading more civil lives , with these true wedded wives . FINIS . Imprinted at London for E. W. 