Roaring Dick of Dover : OR , The Jovial good fellow of Kent , That never is willing to give over , Till all his money be spent . To the tune of Fuddle , roar and swagger . H Eeres a health to all good fellows , that intend with me to join , At the Tavern , or the Alehouse , and will freely spend their quoin . But for such as hate strong liquour , are not for my company , Oh it makes my wits the quicker , when I taste it thoroughly . I can fuddle , roar and swagger , sing and dance in several sort , And give six pence to a beggar , in all this there's little hurt . While some churl thats worth a million , will give nought in charity , But to himself he proves a villain : judge who's better he or I . There's many men get store of treasure , yet they live like very slaves : In this world they have no pleasure , the more they have , the more they crave . Hang such greedy-minded misers , that will never contented be , I have herd by good advisers , that content lives merrily . Wherefore should we live in sorrow , since we may embrace true joy ? To day alive , and dead to morrow , as most commonly they'll say . He is a fool that pines his carkais [ if ] he have to serve his turn , And perhaps sometime in darkness , grafted is his head with horn . He's not right truehearted fellow , that in company will drink , Till such time as he is mellow , and not freely spend his chink . Let such sharking base companions , be kicked out of company , For they be but beastly hang on's ; and will call , but we must pay . Come my Lads , be blithe and merry , sing and drink and trace your ground , And let's have a cup of Sherry ; that ( me thinks ) goes kindly down . Lets not spare while we have money , for to pay for what we call , We needs must spare when we have not any , that's the greatest plague of all . The second part , To the same tune . H Onest Hugh , Tom , Will and Harry , they will join their money round , Kate , Nan , Besse and bouncing Marry , will not shrink , but still are found . They are Lads and honest Lasses , that to each others are kind , They'll sing & amp ; roar , break pots and glasses , when their heads are tipped with wine . Some men's wives will brawl & amp ; wrangle , if their husbands spend a pot , But my self I will entangle , with a Lass to pay my shot . I do hate these base conditions of a devilish scolding Quean , Jealous heads have bad suspicion [ s ] , you may think of w [ hom I ] mean . Women [ kind ] let [ me ] in [ tre ] at you , that you will n [ ot br ] awl and scold , For it makes your husbands beatrice you , some men will not be controlled , Therefore rest your selves contented : best I hold it so to be : In your minds be not tormented : but take part as well as he . Me thinks it is a worldly pleasure , for to have a wife prove kind , This a joy beyond all measure , I my self the same do find . If I had a scolding creature , I should never merry be , Sure I many times should beatrice her , with her I could not agree . Tapster , come and take thy reckoning , tell me kindly what's to pay , Yet Pieces in my pockets rattling , bid me longer here to stay , Come bring a pipe of good Tobacco , let it be the very best , Thats the thing that here we take so , then come drink with us thy guests . Hang up sorrow , I can borrow money for to buy two pots , Who can say to live to morrow ? then let's never fit like sots . When I have spent away my money , I will go and work for more , And I have a kind sweet honey that sometime will pay my score . He that hath abundant treasure , hence shall nothing bear away : Then let's take some part of pleasure , drink and sing and freely pay . While our time and money lasteth , let's not prove Curmudgeon boors , Time indeed away it hastes : come let's go and pay our scores , Thus for to conclude my Ditty , heeres a health to all true blades , Remembering , Kate , Nell , Sis , and Betty , and all other kind true Maids : I love Meg , Nan , Alice , and Marry , Jane , and Jone , and my fine Doll , With Winifred , and my sweet Sara . Thus , kind hearts , I leave you all . Printed at London for H.G. FINIS . R . C.Roaring Dick of Dover : OR , The Jovial good fellow of Kent , That never is willing to give over , Till all his money be spent . To the tune of Fuddle , roar and swagger . H Eeres a health to all good fellows , that intend with me to join , At the Tavern , or the Alehouse , and will freely spend their quoin . But for such as hate strong liquour , are not for my company , Oh it makes my wits the quicker , when I taste it thoroughly . I can fuddle , roar and swagger , sing and dance in several sort , And give six pence to a beggar , in all this there's little hurt . While some churl thats worth a million , will give nought in charity , But to himself he proves a villain : judge who's better he or I . There's many men get store of treasure , yet they live like very slaves : In this world they have no pleasure , the more they have , the more they crave . Hang such greedy-minded misers , that will never contented be , I have herd by good advisers , that content lives merrily . Wherefore should we live in sorrow , since we may embrace true joy ? To day alive , and dead to morrow , as most commonly they'll say . He is a fool that pines his carkais [ if ] he have to serve his turn , And perhaps sometime in darkness , grafted is his head with horn . He's not right truehearted fellow , that in company will drink , Till such time as he is mellow , and not freely spend his chink . Let such sharking base companions , be kicked out of company , For they be but beastly hang on's ; and will call , but we must pay . Come my Lads , be blithe and merry , sing and drink and trace your ground , And let's have a cup of Sherry ; that ( me thinks ) goes kindly down . Lets not spare while we have money , for to pay for what we call , We needs must spare when we have not any , that's the greatest plague of all . The second part , To the same tune . H Onest Hugh , Tom , Will and Harry , they will join their money round , Kate , Nan , Besse and bouncing Marry , will not shrink , but still are found . They are Lads and honest Lasses , that to each others are kind , They'll sing & amp ; roar , break pots and glasses , when their heads are tipped with wine . Some men's wives will brawl & amp ; wrangle , if their husbands spend a pot , But my self I will entangle , with a Lass to pay my shot . I do hate these base conditions of a devilish scolding Quean , Jealous heads have bad suspicion [ s ] , you may think of w [ hom I ] mean . Women [ kind ] let [ me ] in [ tre ] at you , that you will n [ ot br ] awl and scold , For it makes your husbands beatrice you , some men will not be controlled , Therefore rest your selves contented : best I hold it so to be : In your minds be not tormented : but take part as well as he . Me thinks it is a worldly pleasure , for to have a wife prove kind , This a joy beyond all measure , I my self the same do find . If I had a scolding creature , I should never merry be , Sure I many times should beatrice her , with her I could not agree . Tapster , come and take thy reckoning , tell me kindly what's to pay , Yet Pieces in my pockets rattling , bid me longer here to stay , Come bring a pipe of good Tobacco , let it be the very best , Thats the thing that here we take so , then come drink with us thy guests . Hang up sorrow , I can borrow money for to buy two pots , Who can say to live to morrow ? then let's never fit like sots . When I have spent away my money , I will go and work for more , And I have a kind sweet honey that sometime will pay my score . He that hath abundant treasure , hence shall nothing bear away : Then let's take some part of pleasure , drink and sing and freely pay . While our time and money lasteth , let's not prove Curmudgeon boors , Time indeed away it hastes : come let's go and pay our scores , Thus for to conclude my Ditty , heeres a health to all true blades , Remembering , Kate , Nell , Sis , and Betty , and all other kind true Maids : I love Meg , Nan , Alice , and Marry , Jane , and Jone , and my fine Doll , With Winifred , and my sweet Sara . Thus , kind hearts , I leave you all . Printed at London for H.G. FINIS . R.C. 