The Lamenting Lady , Who for the wrongs done to her by a poor woman , for having two children at one burden , was by the hand of God most strangely punished , by sending her as many children at one birth , as there are days in the year , in re - membrance whereof , there is now a monument built in the City of Lowdon , as many En - glish men now living in Lowdon , can truly testify the same and hath seen it . To the tune of the Ladies fallen . R Egard my grief kind Ladies all , my heart now bleeding dies , And showers of silver pearled tears falls from my weeping eyes : I once was lovely , fair , and young , by nature sweet and kind , And had those joys that might content a gallant Ladies mind . But barren grew my wished hope's , no children I could have , Which betwixt my wedded Lord and me much cause of sorrows gave : My tender body pure and fair , and of a princely frame Could not abstain these sugared joys that came by Cupids game . Yet beggars born of low degree such blessings did possess , Which when I saw my heart grew full of woes and heaviness : Oh why should people poor ( quoth I ) those happy joys obtain When I that am a Lady brave should barren thus remain ? I feed on sweet delicious meats , and drink of purest wine , Yet are there homely bodies still as fair and clear as mine , and have more sweet faced smiling babes then Ladies of degree , And of as tender flesh and blood as can be showed by me . In grief of heart complaining thus , by chance a woman poor With two sweet children in her arms came begging to my door : Poor pretty babes they smiled sweet , whereat I needs must know If those two smiling children were the woman's own or no ? They are ( sweet Madam ) both ( said she ) and both born at one birth , The which are now my chiefest wealth and blessings on the earth : Can Beggars have what Ladies want in anger I replied , And can thy womb be fruitful made when mine is still denied ? I go attired in garments rich bedecked with burnished gold , And waited on with worldly pomp , and pleasures manifold , While thou in rags all rend and torn , for thy relief dost crave , And with two children blessed at once , when I not one can have . Thou art some Strumpt sure I know , and spendest thy days in shame , And stained sure thy marriage bed with spots of black defame : Else unto these two lovely babes thou canst no mother be , When I that live in greatest grace no such content can see . A hundreth such like taunting terms I gave this woman poor While she for pity and relief stood begging at the door : Reviling her most spitefully with harlots hateful name , Dissembling with a shameless face to cover up her shame . Her heart hereat with inward griefs did feel such mortal pain , And as it were before my face did seem to break in twaine : Her pretty babes which at her breasts did sweetly sucking lie To see their mother's bitter moan did sadly sob and cry . Whereat , half killed with woe alas , I with my wrongs ( quoth she ) That these my babes may be revenged proud Lady upon thee : And as I am both true and just unto my marriage bed so let Gods wondrous work be show on thee when I am dead . And for these children two of mine heaven send thee such a number At once , as days be in the year , to make the world to wonder . For I as true a wife have been , unto my husbands love : As any Lady on the earth , unto her Lord can prove . Hereat relenting I began , to mourn for this misdeed : And hour by hour in grief thereof , my sorrowing heart does bleed At last a heavy hand of heaven , revenged this woman's woes : And on my bodies pampered pride , a fearful Judgement shoes . My cheeks that were so lovely read , of nature's choicest die : Grew black and ugly to behold , to every weeping eye . And in my womb distempered griefs , so vexed me day and night : I swelled so bid that I appeared , a strange and monstrous wight . Remembering then the woman's words she grieving did impart , A thousand strange misdoubting fears encompassed round my heart . And then me thought I saw her come , in person unto me , With her two children in her arms , my sudden shame to see . The second part . A TO which affright my big swelled womb delivered forth in fear As many children at one time as days were in the year : In bigness all like new bred mice , yet each one shaped aright , And every male from female known , by Gods great power and might . My husband hereat grieved much , with inward cares and woe , And knew not in what place he should these pretty imps bestow : The strange report of this rare birth made people much admire , And of the truth thereof to know the neighbours did desire . Which caused my sorrows still increase being made my Countries scorn , I wished I had in childbed died before they had been born : Then had this shame unto my friends been never seen nor known , Nor I in Countries far and near a wonder thus be shown . But mark fair women of the world how Heaven did pity me , When I made sorrow for my sins , and in extremity : God took from hence my cause of shame my children , weak and small : The which poor creatures in one grave were strangely buried all . And on the grave where now they lie a monument still stands To show this wondrous hap of mine unto all Christian lands , That such as be of high degree may bear a meeker mind , lest they despising of the poor the like misfortune find . The Lord we see his blessings sends to many women poor As well as to the noble sort , that have abundant store : Therefore let none desire to have the joys of worldly things Except it be his sacred will that is the King of Kings . FINIS . Printed at London for Henry Gosson , and are to be sold at his shop on London Bridge . The Lamenting Lady , Who for the wrongs done to her by a poor woman , for having two children at one burden , was by the hand of God most strangely punished , by sending her as many children at one birth , as there are days in the year , in re - membrance whereof , there is now a monument built in the City of Lowdon , as many En - glish men now living in Lowdon , can truly testify the same and hath seen it . To the tune of the Ladies fallen . R Egard my grief kind Ladies all , my heart now bleeding dies , And showers of silver pearled tears falls from my weeping eyes : I once was lovely , fair , and young , by nature sweet and kind , And had those joys that might content a gallant Ladies mind . But barren grew my wished hope's , no children I could have , Which betwixt my wedded Lord and me much cause of sorrows gave : My tender body pure and fair , and of a princely frame Could not abstain these sugared joys that came by Cupids game . Yet beggars born of low degree such blessings did possess , Which when I saw my heart grew full of woes and heaviness : Oh why should people poor ( quoth I ) those happy joys obtain When I that am a Lady brave should barren thus remain ? I feed on sweet delicious meats , and drink of purest wine , Yet are there homely bodies still as fair and clear as mine , and have more sweet faced smiling babes then Ladies of degree , And of as tender flesh and blood as can be showed by me . In grief of heart complaining thus , by chance a woman poor With two sweet children in her arms came begging to my door : Poor pretty babes they smiled sweet , whereat I needs must know If those two smiling children were the woman's own or no ? They are ( sweet Madam ) both ( said she ) and both born at one birth , The which are now my chiefest wealth and blessings on the earth : Can Beggars have what Ladies want in anger I replied , And can thy womb be fruitful made when mine is still denied ? I go attired in garments rich bedecked with burnished gold , And waited on with worldly pomp , and pleasures manifold , While thou in rags all rend and torn , for thy relief dost crave , And with two children blessed at once , when I not one can have . Thou art some Strumpt sure I know , and spendest thy days in shame , And stained sure thy marriage bed with spots of black defame : Else unto these two lovely babes thou canst no mother be , When I that live in greatest grace no such content can see . A hundreth such like taunting terms I gave this woman poor While she for pity and relief stood begging at the door : Reviling her most spitefully with harlots hateful name , Dissembling with a shameless face to cover up her shame . Her heart hereat with inward griefs did feel such mortal pain , And as it were before my face did seem to break in twaine : Her pretty babes which at her breasts did sweetly sucking lie To see their mother's bitter moan did sadly sob and cry . Whereat , half killed with woe alas , I with my wrongs ( quoth she ) That these my babes may be revenged proud Lady upon thee : And as I am both true and just unto my marriage bed so let Gods wondrous work be show on thee when I am dead . And for these children two of mine heaven send thee such a number At once , as days be in the year , to make the world to wonder . For I as true a wife have been , unto my husbands love : As any Lady on the earth , unto her Lord can prove . Hereat relenting I began , to mourn for this misdeed : And hour by hour in grief thereof , my sorrowing heart does bleed At last a heavy hand of heaven , revenged this woman's woes : And on my bodies pampered pride , a fearful Judgement shoes . My cheeks that were so lovely read , of nature's choicest die : Grew black and ugly to behold , to every weeping eye . And in my womb distempered griefs , so vexed me day and night : I swelled so bid that I appeared , a strange and monstrous wight . Remembering then the woman's words she grieving did impart , A thousand strange misdoubting fears encompassed round my heart . And then me thought I saw her come , in person unto me , With her two children in her arms , my sudden shame to see . The second part . A TO which affright my big swelled womb delivered forth in fear As many children at one time as days were in the year : In bigness all like new bred mice , yet each one shaped aright , And every male from female known , by Gods great power and might . My husband hereat grieved much , with inward cares and woe , And knew not in what place he should these pretty imps bestow : The strange report of this rare birth made people much admire , And of the truth thereof to know the neighbours did desire . Which caused my sorrows still increase being made my Countries scorn , I wished I had in childbed died before they had been born : Then had this shame unto my friends been never seen nor known , Nor I in Countries far and near a wonder thus be shown . But mark fair women of the world how Heaven did pity me , When I made sorrow for my sins , and in extremity : God took from hence my cause of shame my children , weak and small : The which poor creatures in one grave were strangely buried all . And on the grave where now they lie a monument still stands To show this wondrous hap of mine unto all Christian lands , That such as be of high degree may bear a meeker mind , lest they despising of the poor the like misfortune find . The Lord we see his blessings sends to many women poor As well as to the noble sort , that have abundant store : Therefore let none desire to have the joys of worldly things Except it be his sacred will that is the King of Kings . FINIS . Printed at London for Henry Gosson , and are to be sold at his shop on London Bridge . 