A pleasant new Song , Of the backs complaint , for bellies wrong : Or a farewell to good fellowship . To the tune of A , B , C. G Ood fellows all to you I send , These verses which in love I pend : Desiring you will compass keep , and bid farewell good fellowship . I once did bear a good fellows name , And still am counted for the same : But now my vow in engaged deep , to bid farewell good fellowship . I have been of that set so long , Till back complains of bellies wrong : With great exclaims in every street , to make me leave good fellowship . Me thinks I oft do hear it say , Amongst drunkards thou consumed away : Thy monny memory and wit , all wasted by good fellowship . Of me thou takest but little care , Though bellies full yet back is bore : And frosty winter will thee nipe , unless thou leave good fellowship . Thou thinkest good fellows be thy friends And what thou hast on them thou spends : What thou by work gainst all the week , consumeth by good fellowship . But when that all the money is gone , And score nor credit thou hast none : These friends from thee away will slipe , and farewell all good fellowship . When being gone , at thee they'll laugh , This bad to trust a broken staff : For fear thou fallen in danger deep , give over in time good fellowship . For daily does attend the same , Too sisters , called begery , and shame : Whose hands & amp ; heart full fast are knit , and joined to good fellowship . Beside diseases that does flow , From drunkenness as many know : Who to their smart , have felt the whip that follows good fellowship . Surfetes , dropsies , and diverse pains , Ach of the head , breach of the brains : Like festered fistolles , foul and deep , attends on good fellowship . Ten thousand miseries alack , Fail's both on body and on back : As ancient witters , large have writ , to warn us from good fellowship . The second part , wherein is declared , The backs complaint , hath the belly reformed : To bid farewell good fellowship . To the same tune . TO His sad complaint when I did hear Viewing my back , I see it was bear : And chiefest cause I knew of it , was keeping of good fellowship . Being much moved at the same , A solemn oath then did I frame : This heinous wrong , for to aquite , to bid farewell good fellowship . And therefore here I bid farewell , To that which once I loved to well : Henceforth I will in compass keep , therefore farewell good fellowship . Farwell all such as take delight , To drink and gousell day and night : Their sole sick healths , & amp ; healthless whiff and causes the same good fellowship . Farwell all such that daily use , Themselves and others to abuse : Inciting all that they do meet , with them to keep good fellowship . Farwell all such that well are known , To have a charge to keep at home : As wife , and child , yet from them flit and fly out to good fellowship . Farewell good fellows more and less , No tongue is able to express , The woeful wants that daily hit , on them that keep good fellowship . Some that were famous throw all parts , For workmanship and skill in Arts : Hath beggary catch upon the hip , for keeping of good fellowship . Some that have had possessions store , Lands , goods , and cattle , few had more : But lands , & amp ; goods , ox , horse , and sheep , were wasted by good fellowship . Many examples are daily seen , Of such that have good fellows been , Bacchus brave soldiers , stout and stiff , which now lament good fellowship . And to conclude the since is such , The wise man says , none shall be rich Except he shun that bitter sweet , which drunkards call , good fellowship . Then learn this vice for to refrain , The only cause of grief and pain : lest ye like me in sorrow fit , lamenting of good fellowship . Per me Edward Culter . FINIS . Printed at London by W . I.A pleasant new Song , Of the backs complaint , for bellies wrong : Or a farewell to good fellowship . To the tune of A , B , C. G Ood fellows all to you I send , These verses which in love I pend : Desiring you will compass keep , and bid farewell good fellowship . I once did bear a good fellows name , And still am counted for the same : But now my vow in engaged deep , to bid farewell good fellowship . I have been of that set so long , Till back complains of bellies wrong : With great exclaims in every street , to make me leave good fellowship . Me thinks I oft do hear it say , Amongst drunkards thou consumed away : Thy monny memory and wit , all wasted by good fellowship . Of me thou takest but little care , Though bellies full yet back is bore : And frosty winter will thee nipe , unless thou leave good fellowship . Thou thinkest good fellows be thy friends And what thou hast on them thou spends : What thou by work gainst all the week , consumeth by good fellowship . But when that all the money is gone , And score nor credit thou hast none : These friends from thee away will slipe , and farewell all good fellowship . When being gone , at thee they'll laugh , This bad to trust a broken staff : For fear thou fallen in danger deep , give over in time good fellowship . For daily does attend the same , Too sisters , called begery , and shame : Whose hands & amp ; heart full fast are knit , and joined to good fellowship . Beside diseases that does flow , From drunkenness as many know : Who to their smart , have felt the whip that follows good fellowship . Surfetes , dropsies , and diverse pains , Ach of the head , breach of the brains : Like festered fistolles , foul and deep , attends on good fellowship . Ten thousand miseries alack , Fail's both on body and on back : As ancient witters , large have writ , to warn us from good fellowship . The second part , wherein is declared , The backs complaint , hath the belly reformed : To bid farewell good fellowship . To the same tune . TO His sad complaint when I did hear Viewing my back , I see it was bear : And chiefest cause I knew of it , was keeping of good fellowship . Being much moved at the same , A solemn oath then did I frame : This heinous wrong , for to aquite , to bid farewell good fellowship . And therefore here I bid farewell , To that which once I loved to well : Henceforth I will in compass keep , therefore farewell good fellowship . Farwell all such as take delight , To drink and gousell day and night : Their sole sick healths , & amp ; healthless whiff and causes the same good fellowship . Farwell all such that daily use , Themselves and others to abuse : Inciting all that they do meet , with them to keep good fellowship . Farwell all such that well are known , To have a charge to keep at home : As wife , and child , yet from them flit and fly out to good fellowship . Farewell good fellows more and less , No tongue is able to express , The woeful wants that daily hit , on them that keep good fellowship . Some that were famous throw all parts , For workmanship and skill in Arts : Hath beggary catch upon the hip , for keeping of good fellowship . Some that have had possessions store , Lands , goods , and cattle , few had more : But lands , & amp ; goods , ox , horse , and sheep , were wasted by good fellowship . Many examples are daily seen , Of such that have good fellows been , Bacchus brave soldiers , stout and stiff , which now lament good fellowship . And to conclude the since is such , The wise man says , none shall be rich Except he shun that bitter sweet , which drunkards call , good fellowship . Then learn this vice for to refrain , The only cause of grief and pain : lest ye like me in sorrow fit , lamenting of good fellowship . Per me Edward Culter . FINIS . Printed at London by W.I. 