A Pleasant new Ditty called the new , So Ho. To a pleasant new Tune . C Ome let our sports with our songs be renowned , unto the ample fields : Our cups in the blood of Neptune be drowned That merry Nectar yields , Graced be the Sun , as he Salutes the modest Morn , when he leaves the earth below : And the grace to the stars in chase , That with him were born , To a new so ho , so ho . Health to the Muse and the Queens of the Fountains . that our delights befriend : Fortune to pan , and the Nymph's of the Mountains , that our Flocks defend Life and blood to the Cypress wood , That was a hunter young : when he first in Groves did grow . And a shower , to the Purple Flower , That from Adonis sprung , When he sighed his last so ho , so ho . If that the Lord of Olympus had ever hunting truly known , Jove in the Bed of his Mistress had never injury done unto none , Tryton old , to the foiled mould , Would the wanton Dolphin strain , and the toil soon did forgo : And the said , ould timeless God , Recall past hours again , To a new so ho , so ho . Oft would it cost jolly Hermis a journey to run over the raze : Mars in his course would as well in a turney win Zepharies grace : Smiles of Lampse with horses hoves : Shod with a golden Pen , would amaze the earth below : And the Boy , does oft joy , To shake his nimble heals , To a new so ho , so ho , Man to himself , like a woman delighted , is to himself a foe : Gold he that loves , with the shade shall be frighted and out of wealth drink woe , He that pleasure loves with measure , Lives with a friend combined , and effects no glistering show : He drinks in the Horns Unicorns , And daily feasts his mind , To a new so ho , so ho . Slaves to the World , shall be washed with the Billows , of eternal Care : Servile to Love shall be crowned with the willows , of deceitful fear , Tunes his mones to dumpish Drones , And a jealous life consumed , in the song and sighs of woe : While away , we spend the day , With a lusty Paean tune : To a new so ho , so ho . The second part . To the same tune . HEroes beloved kind Leander , had his delight been woods , Then should his life have felt no danger , in Helespontus floods Didoes heart by Cupids dart Had not burned so with fire , as lovers use to do : Woeful Queen that still was seen Consuming with desire , To a new so ho , so ho . O then what Angels were fare women , if Angels could not buy them , Their beauty's that be both bright and golden , draws too many nigh them , Feigned cries shows in their eyes , Like Aprill springing showers , that fancy weeds might grow , Foolish then we love sick men , That have no seeing powers , To leave their new so ho , etc Youth if it was with age abuised , women wear no woes to men , The world then Divine and purely prized , would be Paradise again , Beauties book if we over look , The leaves we shall find torn . and the mergent filled with woe , Youths delight so fair and bright A moments time hath worn , To a new so ho , so ho . All our desires are fading pleasures , and but minutes of content , Resting with us like wasting treasures , no sooner gained but spent , Years of sorrow , we still borrow , But for one minets joy , returning tribble woe : Delightful bubbles , change to troubles To feed us with annoy , To a new so ho , so ho . Man by his shape is the stamp of heaven placed on the earth as King , The world unto him for a Court is given to rule each living thing : Beauties blazing is our gazing . That sweet beloved tree , where fading follies grow , A winding sheet and Coffin meet , More fitter for us be . Then the new so ho , so ho . FINIS . At London printed by R . B.A Pleasant new Ditty called the new , So Ho. To a pleasant new Tune . C Ome let our sports with our songs be renowned , unto the ample fields : Our cups in the blood of Neptune be drowned That merry Nectar yields , Graced be the Sun , as he Salutes the modest Morn , when he leaves the earth below : And the grace to the stars in chase , That with him were born , To a new so ho , so ho . Health to the Muse and the Queens of the Fountains . that our delights befriend : Fortune to pan , and the Nymph's of the Mountains , that our Flocks defend Life and blood to the Cypress wood , That was a hunter young : when he first in Groves did grow . And a shower , to the Purple Flower , That from Adonis sprung , When he sighed his last so ho , so ho . If that the Lord of Olympus had ever hunting truly known , Jove in the Bed of his Mistress had never injury done unto none , Tryton old , to the foiled mould , Would the wanton Dolphin strain , and the toil soon did forgo : And the said , ould timeless God , Recall past hours again , To a new so ho , so ho . Oft would it cost jolly Hermis a journey to run over the raze : Mars in his course would as well in a turney win Zepharies grace : Smiles of Lampse with horses hoves : Shod with a golden Pen , would amaze the earth below : And the Boy , does oft joy , To shake his nimble heals , To a new so ho , so ho , Man to himself , like a woman delighted , is to himself a foe : Gold he that loves , with the shade shall be frighted and out of wealth drink woe , He that pleasure loves with measure , Lives with a friend combined , and effects no glistering show : He drinks in the Horns Unicorns , And daily feasts his mind , To a new so ho , so ho . Slaves to the World , shall be washed with the Billows , of eternal Care : Servile to Love shall be crowned with the willows , of deceitful fear , Tunes his mones to dumpish Drones , And a jealous life consumed , in the song and sighs of woe : While away , we spend the day , With a lusty Paean tune : To a new so ho , so ho . The second part . To the same tune . HEroes beloved kind Leander , had his delight been woods , Then should his life have felt no danger , in Helespontus floods Didoes heart by Cupids dart Had not burned so with fire , as lovers use to do : Woeful Queen that still was seen Consuming with desire , To a new so ho , so ho . O then what Angels were fare women , if Angels could not buy them , Their beauty's that be both bright and golden , draws too many nigh them , Feigned cries shows in their eyes , Like Aprill springing showers , that fancy weeds might grow , Foolish then we love sick men , That have no seeing powers , To leave their new so ho , etc Youth if it was with age abuised , women wear no woes to men , The world then Divine and purely prized , would be Paradise again , Beauties book if we over look , The leaves we shall find torn . and the mergent filled with woe , Youths delight so fair and bright A moments time hath worn , To a new so ho , so ho . All our desires are fading pleasures , and but minutes of content , Resting with us like wasting treasures , no sooner gained but spent , Years of sorrow , we still borrow , But for one minets joy , returning tribble woe : Delightful bubbles , change to troubles To feed us with annoy , To a new so ho , so ho . Man by his shape is the stamp of heaven placed on the earth as King , The world unto him for a Court is given to rule each living thing : Beauties blazing is our gazing . That sweet beloved tree , where fading follies grow , A winding sheet and Coffin meet , More fitter for us be . Then the new so ho , so ho . FINIS . At London printed by R.B. 