A pleasant new Song of a jovial Tinker . To a pleasant new tune , called , Fly Brass . TO Here was a jovial Tinker dwelled in the town of Thurbie , And he could mend a Kettle well , but his humours were but scurvy . Yet still would he cry , Tincke , tincke , tincke , Tara ra ring tincke , tincke , Room for a jolly drinker : He would stop one hold , and make two , was not this a jovial Tinker . He was as good a fellow as Smugge , which made much laughter : Full little would you think that in his drink , he would beatrice both his Wife and Daughter . Yet still would he cry , Tincke , tincke , tincke , Tara ra ring tincke , tincke , Room for a lusty drinker : He would stop one hold , and make two , was not this a jovial Tinker . He walked about the Country with Pikestaff and with Budget : Full little would you wat , when he was drunk as a Rat , how trimly he would trudge it . Yet still would he cry , Tincke , tincke , tincke , ra ra ring tincke , tincke , TaRome for a lusty drinker : [ H ] e would stop one hold , and make two , was not this a jovial Tinker . There's none of his profession , was ere so skilled in Mettle : For he could mend your Frying-pan , your Skellet , and your Kettle . Yet still would he cry , Tincke , tincke , tincke , Tara ra tincke , tincke , Room for a lusty drinker : He would stop one hold and make two , was not this a jovial Tinker , Heeed toss the jolly Tankard , the Blacke-pot , and the Pitcher : No Ale or Beer for him was deer , to make his Nose the richer . Yet still would he cry Tincke , tincke-etc . He walked to Fairs and Markets , to furnish his read Nose : And when he was drunk , would beatrice his Punk and make her pawn her Clothes . Yet still would he cry , Tincke , tincke , etc Who was it durst molest him : his Brass did him environ ; Sergeants arrest , yet he was blessed , for he was bailed with Iron . Yet still would he cry , Tincke , tincke , tincke . etc FINIS . The Second Part of the jovial Tinker . To the same tune . A Nd now this jolly Tinker , the Country hath forsaken , And with his Pack upon his back , ( to see what may be taken ) In London he cries Tincke , tincke , tincke , Tara ra ring tincke , tincke : Room for a jolly drinker , He can stop one hold , and make two , is not this a jovial Tinker . But first about the City , this lusty man of Mettle , Does cry and call to stop a hold , in Skellet , Pan , or Kettle . And still would he cry Tincke , tincke , tincke , Tara ra ring . etc I'th Strand I saw him tincking ; when straight his eyes he raised , The new Exchange to him was strange , on which he stood and gazed . Then up he went , with tincke , etc One questioned why he did so : he said , to keep them waking , lest they should sleep who shops did keep , they had so little taking . And then away , with Tincke , etc And as he went down Fleet-streete , a Lawyer was offended , That he should cry so loud and high , to have old Kettles mended . Yet still would he cry , Tincke , tincke . etc To him this Tinker thus replies , I do but ply my calling : And you ( said he ) some time ( like me ) will keep as bad a bawling . And still would he cry , Tincke , tincke . etc And still this man of Thurbie , that in his trade was grounded : As he did pass from place to place , his Kettledrum he sounded . For still would he cry , Tincke , tincke . etc In Cheapside then full lightly , he beatrice upon his Kettle : Where when the Gold he did behold , he wished it had been such mettle . And nimbly he cries Tincke , tincke . etc Then meets he with the Sowgelder , that blows his Horn so finely , ( That all about does cry , Look out , ) and him he greets full kindly . Together then , with Tincke , tincke , tincke , Tara ra ring tincke , tincke , What work here , cries the Tinker : The Sowgelder looked out , looked out , who was as found a drinker . Then to and Alehouse high they , their jovial humours keeping : Where tincke , tincke , tincke , fell hard to drink , and there I left him sleeping . And when he awaked , Tincke , tincke , tincke . etc FINIS . Imprinted at London for J. Trundle . A pleasant new Song of a jovial Tinker . To a pleasant new tune , called , Fly Brass . TO Here was a jovial Tinker dwelled in the town of Thurbie , And he could mend a Kettle well , but his humours were but scurvy . Yet still would he cry , Tincke , tincke , tincke , Tara ra ring tincke , tincke , Room for a jolly drinker : He would stop one hold , and make two , was not this a jovial Tinker . He was as good a fellow as Smugge , which made much laughter : Full little would you think that in his drink , he would beatrice both his Wife and Daughter . Yet still would he cry , Tincke , tincke , tincke , Tara ra ring tincke , tincke , Room for a lusty drinker : He would stop one hold , and make two , was not this a jovial Tinker . He walked about the Country with Pikestaff and with Budget : Full little would you wat , when he was drunk as a Rat , how trimly he would trudge it . Yet still would he cry , Tincke , tincke , tincke , ra ra ring tincke , tincke , TaRome for a lusty drinker : [ H ] e would stop one hold , and make two , was not this a jovial Tinker . There's none of his profession , was ere so skilled in Mettle : For he could mend your Frying-pan , your Skellet , and your Kettle . Yet still would he cry , Tincke , tincke , tincke , Tara ra tincke , tincke , Room for a lusty drinker : He would stop one hold and make two , was not this a jovial Tinker , Heeed toss the jolly Tankard , the Blacke-pot , and the Pitcher : No Ale or Beer for him was deer , to make his Nose the richer . Yet still would he cry Tincke , tincke-etc . He walked to Fairs and Markets , to furnish his read Nose : And when he was drunk , would beatrice his Punk and make her pawn her Clothes . Yet still would he cry , Tincke , tincke , etc Who was it durst molest him : his Brass did him environ ; Sergeants arrest , yet he was blessed , for he was bailed with Iron . Yet still would he cry , Tincke , tincke , tincke . etc FINIS . The Second Part of the jovial Tinker . To the same tune . A Nd now this jolly Tinker , the Country hath forsaken , And with his Pack upon his back , ( to see what may be taken ) In London he cries Tincke , tincke , tincke , Tara ra ring tincke , tincke : Room for a jolly drinker , He can stop one hold , and make two , is not this a jovial Tinker . But first about the City , this lusty man of Mettle , Does cry and call to stop a hold , in Skellet , Pan , or Kettle . And still would he cry Tincke , tincke , tincke , Tara ra ring . etc I'th Strand I saw him tincking ; when straight his eyes he raised , The new Exchange to him was strange , on which he stood and gazed . Then up he went , with tincke , etc One questioned why he did so : he said , to keep them waking , lest they should sleep who shops did keep , they had so little taking . And then away , with Tincke , etc And as he went down Fleet-streete , a Lawyer was offended , That he should cry so loud and high , to have old Kettles mended . Yet still would he cry , Tincke , tincke . etc To him this Tinker thus replies , I do but ply my calling : And you ( said he ) some time ( like me ) will keep as bad a bawling . And still would he cry , Tincke , tincke . etc And still this man of Thurbie , that in his trade was grounded : As he did pass from place to place , his Kettledrum he sounded . For still would he cry , Tincke , tincke . etc In Cheapside then full lightly , he beatrice upon his Kettle : Where when the Gold he did behold , he wished it had been such mettle . And nimbly he cries Tincke , tincke . etc Then meets he with the Sowgelder , that blows his Horn so finely , ( That all about does cry , Look out , ) and him he greets full kindly . Together then , with Tincke , tincke , tincke , Tara ra ring tincke , tincke , What work here , cries the Tinker : The Sowgelder looked out , looked out , who was as found a drinker . Then to and Alehouse high they , their jovial humours keeping : Where tincke , tincke , tincke , fell hard to drink , and there I left him sleeping . And when he awaked , Tincke , tincke , tincke . etc FINIS . Imprinted at London for J. Trundle . 