Old Christmass Returned , Or , Hospitality REVIVED . Being a Looking-glass for rich Misers , wherein they may see ( if they be not blind ) how much they are too blame for their penurious housekeeping , and likewise and encouragement to those noble-minded Gentry , who lay out a great part of their Estates in Hospitality , relieving such persons as have need thereof . Who feasts the Poor a true reward shall find Or helps the old , the Feeble , lame and blind . Tune of The Delights of the Bottle , with Allowance , R. L'estrange . A LL you that to Feasting and mirth are inclined , Come here is good news for to pleasure your mind , Old Christmass is come for to keep open house He scorns to be guilty of starving a mouse , Then come boys and welcome , for diet the chief Plumb pudding , Goose , Capon , minced pies & amp ; Roast beef . A long time together he hath been forgotten They scarce could afford for to hang on the pot , Such miserly sneaking in England hath been As by our forefathers never used to be seen But now he's returned , you shall have in brief Plumb pudding , Goose , Capon , minced pies & amp ; Roast beef . The times were never good , since Old Christmass was fled ' And all hospitality hath been so dead , No mirth at our festivals late did appear They scarcely would part with a cup of March beer , But now you shall have for to ease you of grief Plumb pudding , etc The Butler and Baker they now may be glad The times they are mended though they have been bad , The Brewer he likewise may be of good cheer He shall have good trading for Ale and strong beer . All trades shall be jolly , and have for relief , Plumb pudding , Goose Capon , Minced pies & amp ; Roast beef . The holly and ivy , about the walls wind , And shows that we ought to our neighbours be kind , Inviting each other for pastime and sport And where we best fare , there we most do resort . We fail not of victuals , and that of the chief Plumb pudding , etc The Cooks shall be busied by day and by night In Roasting and Boiling , for taste and delight , Their senses in liquour that's nappy they'll steep Though they be afforded to have little sleep . They still are employed for to dress us in brief Plumb pudding , Goose Capon minced pies and roast beef . A Lthough the cold weather does hunger provoke It's a comfort to see how the Chimneys do smoke , Provision is making for Beer , Ale and wine , For all that are willing , or ready to dine , Then hast to the Kitchen for diet the chief Plumb pudding , Goose , Capon , minced pies & amp ; Roast beef . All travellers as they do pass on the way At Gentlemens halls are invited to stay , Themselves to refresh and their horses to rest Since that he must be old Christmass his guest Nay the poor shall not want but shall have for relief Plumb pudding etc Now Mock-begger-hall , it no more shall stand empty But all shall be furnished with freedom and plenty The hoarding old misers , who used to preserve The Gold in their Coffers , and see the poor starve , Must now spread their tables and give them in brief Plumb pudding etc The Court and the City and Country are glad Old Christmass is come for to cheer up the sad Broad pieces and Guinnyes about now shall fly And hundreds be losers by cogging a Die , Whist others are feasting with diet the chief Plumb pudding etc Those that have no coin at the cards for to play May fit by the fire , and pass time away And drink off their moisture contented and free My honest good fellow come here is to thee , And when they are a hungry fallen to their relief Plumb pudding , etc Young Gallants and Ladies , shall foot it along Each room in the house to the Music shall throng While jolly Carouses about they shall pass And each country swain trip about with his Lass , Mean time goes the Caterer to fetch in the chief Plumb pudding , Goose , Capon , Minced pies & amp ; Roast beef [ . ] The Cooks and the Scullion who toil in their frocks Their hope's do depend upon their Christmass box , There is very few that do live on the earth But enjoy at this time either profit or mirth , Yea those that are charged to find all relief Plumb pudding etc Then well may we welcome old Christmass to town Who brings us good cheer , and good liquour so brown , To pass the cold winter away with delight We feast it all day , and we frolic at night , Both hunger and cold we keep out with relief Plumb pudding etc Then let all Curmudgeons who dote on their wealth And valve their treasure much more then their health Go hang themselves up , if they will be so kind , Old Christmas with them but small welcome shall find They will not afford to themselves , without grief Plumb pudding , Goose , Capon , Minced pies & amp ; Roast beef [ . ] Printed for P. BrooksbyOld Christmass Returned , Or , Hospitality REVIVED . Being a Looking-glass for rich Misers , wherein they may see ( if they be not blind ) how much they are too blame for their penurious housekeeping , and likewise and encouragement to those noble-minded Gentry , who lay out a great part of their Estates in Hospitality , relieving such persons as have need thereof . Who feasts the Poor a true reward shall find Or helps the old , the Feeble , lame and blind . Tune of The Delights of the Bottle , with Allowance , R. L'estrange . A LL you that to Feasting and mirth are inclined , Come here is good news for to pleasure your mind , Old Christmass is come for to keep open house He scorns to be guilty of starving a mouse , Then come boys and welcome , for diet the chief Plumb pudding , Goose , Capon , minced pies & amp ; Roast beef . A long time together he hath been forgotten They scarce could afford for to hang on the pot , Such miserly sneaking in England hath been As by our forefathers never used to be seen But now he's returned , you shall have in brief Plumb pudding , Goose , Capon , minced pies & amp ; Roast beef . The times were never good , since Old Christmass was fled ' And all hospitality hath been so dead , No mirth at our festivals late did appear They scarcely would part with a cup of March beer , But now you shall have for to ease you of grief Plumb pudding , etc The Butler and Baker they now may be glad The times they are mended though they have been bad , The Brewer he likewise may be of good cheer He shall have good trading for Ale and strong beer . All trades shall be jolly , and have for relief , Plumb pudding , Goose Capon , Minced pies & amp ; Roast beef . The holly and ivy , about the walls wind , And shows that we ought to our neighbours be kind , Inviting each other for pastime and sport And where we best fare , there we most do resort . We fail not of victuals , and that of the chief Plumb pudding , etc The Cooks shall be busied by day and by night In Roasting and Boiling , for taste and delight , Their senses in liquour that's nappy they'll steep Though they be afforded to have little sleep . They still are employed for to dress us in brief Plumb pudding , Goose Capon minced pies and roast beef . A Lthough the cold weather does hunger provoke It's a comfort to see how the Chimneys do smoke , Provision is making for Beer , Ale and wine , For all that are willing , or ready to dine , Then hast to the Kitchen for diet the chief Plumb pudding , Goose , Capon , minced pies & amp ; Roast beef . All travellers as they do pass on the way At Gentlemens halls are invited to stay , Themselves to refresh and their horses to rest Since that he must be old Christmass his guest Nay the poor shall not want but shall have for relief Plumb pudding etc Now Mock-begger-hall , it no more shall stand empty But all shall be furnished with freedom and plenty The hoarding old misers , who used to preserve The Gold in their Coffers , and see the poor starve , Must now spread their tables and give them in brief Plumb pudding etc The Court and the City and Country are glad Old Christmass is come for to cheer up the sad Broad pieces and Guinnyes about now shall fly And hundreds be losers by cogging a Die , Whist others are feasting with diet the chief Plumb pudding etc Those that have no coin at the cards for to play May fit by the fire , and pass time away And drink off their moisture contented and free My honest good fellow come here is to thee , And when they are a hungry fallen to their relief Plumb pudding , etc Young Gallants and Ladies , shall foot it along Each room in the house to the Music shall throng While jolly Carouses about they shall pass And each country swain trip about with his Lass , Mean time goes the Caterer to fetch in the chief Plumb pudding , Goose , Capon , Minced pies & amp ; Roast beef [ . ] The Cooks and the Scullion who toil in their frocks Their hope's do depend upon their Christmass box , There is very few that do live on the earth But enjoy at this time either profit or mirth , Yea those that are charged to find all relief Plumb pudding etc Then well may we welcome old Christmass to town Who brings us good cheer , and good liquour so brown , To pass the cold winter away with delight We feast it all day , and we frolic at night , Both hunger and cold we keep out with relief Plumb pudding etc Then let all Curmudgeons who dote on their wealth And valve their treasure much more then their health Go hang themselves up , if they will be so kind , Old Christmas with them but small welcome shall find They will not afford to themselves , without grief Plumb pudding , Goose , Capon , Minced pies & amp ; Roast beef [ . ] Printed for P. Brooksby 