A New Sonnet showing how the Goddess Diana , transform [ worser ] Acteon into the shape of a Hart. To a New Tune . DIANA and her Darlings dear , went walking on a day , Throughout the Woods and waters clear for their disports and play , The leaves aloft were very green , and pleasant to behold , These Nymph's they walked the trees between under the shadows cold . So long at last they found a place , of Springs and waters clear , A fairer Bath there never was found out this thousand year : Wherein Diana daintily her self began to Both . And all her Virgins fair and pure , themselves did wash and lave . And as the Nymphs in water stood , Acteon passed by , As he came running through the Wood , on them he cast his eye : And eke beheld their bodies bore , then presently that tide , And as the Nymphs of him were aware , with voice aloud they cried . And closed Diana round about , to hide her body small , Yet she was highest in the rout , and seen above them all . And when Diana did perceive where Acteon he did stand , A furious look to him she gave , and took her Bow in hand ; And as she was about to shoot , Acteon began to run , To hide he thought it was no boot , his former sighed was done . And as he thought from her to escape , she brought it so to pass , Incontinently she changed his Shape , even running as he was : Each Goddess took Diana ' s part , Acteon to transform , To make of him a huge Wild Heart , there they did all determ : His skin that was so fine and fair , was made a Tawny read , His body overgrown with hair , from feet unto the head . And on his head great horns were set , most wondrous to behold , A huger heart was never met nor seen upon the Mould : His ears and eyes that was so fair , transformed were full strange , His hands his feet compelled were , throughout the Woods to range . Thus was he made a perfect Heart , and waxed fierce and grim , His former shape did quite depart from every joint and Limb : But still his memory did remain , although he might not speak , Nor yet among his friends complain , his woeful mind to break . At length he thought for to repair home to his dwelling place , Anon of him his hounds were aware and begin to run apace , Then Acteon was soon aghast his hounds would him devour , And from them then he fled full fast , with all his might and power . The Second Part to the Same Tune . H E spared neither Bush nor Brake , but ran through thick and thin , With all the swiftness he could make , in hope to save his skin : Yet were his hounds so near his tail , and followed him so fast , His running might not him avail , for all his speed and haste , For why his hounds would never lin . till they him overtook , And then they rend and tore his skin , and all his body shook ; I am your Master Acteon then cried he to his hounds , And made unto them rueful moans , with sad lamenting sounds : I have been he which gave you food , wherein I took delight , Therefore suck not your master's blood , his friendship to requite : But those Curs of a cursed kind , on him had no remorse , Although he was their dearest friend , they pulled him down by force . There was no man to take his part , the story telleth plain , Thus Acteon a huge wild heart among the Does was slave . You hunter's all that range the wood although you rise up rath , Beware you come not nigh the flood , were Virgins use to Both . For if Diana you espy , among her Darlings dear , Your former shape she will disguise , and make you horns to wear ; A and so I now conclude my Song , have nothing to allege , If Acteon had right or wrong , let all true Virgins judge . A LULLABY . COme little Babe , come silly soul , thy Father's shame and mother's grief , Born as I doubt to all our doles , and to thy self unhappy chief : S ing lullaby and keep it warm , P oor soul it thinkest no creature harm ; Thou little thinkest and least does know , the cause of this thy M others moan : Thou wantest wit to wail or woe , and I my self am left alone ; Why dost thou weep ? why dost thou wail ? And knowest not what does thee ail ? Come silly wretch , ah silly heart , my only joy , what can I more ? If there be any wrong thy smart , that may thy destiny deplore ; It's I , I say against my will , I wait the time , but be thou still ; And dost thou smile , Oh thou sweet face I would thy Dad the same might see , No doubt but it would purchase grace , I know it would for thee and me . But come to mother babe and play , P oor F ather false is fled away . Sweet babe ifed be thy fortune chance , thy Father home again to send , I f death does strike me with his Lance , yet mayest thou me to him commend ; I f any ask thy Mother's name , Tell how by love she purchesed blame . Then will his gentle heart soon yield , I know him of a Noble mind , A lthough a Lion in the field , a L amb in Town thou shalt him find : Ask blessing Lad , be not afraid , his S ugred lips hath me betrayed . Then mayest thou joy and be right glad , although in woe I seem to mourn , Thy Father is no Rascal Lad , a noble youth of blood and bone . His glancing look if he once smile , Right honest Women will beguile . Come little boy and Rock asleep , sing Lullaby and do not cry , I can do nought else but weep , and fit by thee the Lullaby . God bless the babe and Lullaby , From this thy F athers quality . FINIS . Printed for J . Clark , W. Thackeray , and . TO . Passenger . A New Sonnet showing how the Goddess Diana , transform [ worser ] Acteon into the shape of a Hart. To a New Tune . DIANA and her Darlings dear , went walking on a day , Throughout the Woods and waters clear for their disports and play , The leaves aloft were very green , and pleasant to behold , These Nymph's they walked the trees between under the shadows cold . So long at last they found a place , of Springs and waters clear , A fairer Bath there never was found out this thousand year : Wherein Diana daintily her self began to Both . And all her Virgins fair and pure , themselves did wash and lave . And as the Nymphs in water stood , Acteon passed by , As he came running through the Wood , on them he cast his eye : And eke beheld their bodies bore , then presently that tide , And as the Nymphs of him were aware , with voice aloud they cried . And closed Diana round about , to hide her body small , Yet she was highest in the rout , and seen above them all . And when Diana did perceive where Acteon he did stand , A furious look to him she gave , and took her Bow in hand ; And as she was about to shoot , Acteon began to run , To hide he thought it was no boot , his former sighed was done . And as he thought from her to escape , she brought it so to pass , Incontinently she changed his Shape , even running as he was : Each Goddess took Diana ' s part , Acteon to transform , To make of him a huge Wild Heart , there they did all determ : His skin that was so fine and fair , was made a Tawny read , His body overgrown with hair , from feet unto the head . And on his head great horns were set , most wondrous to behold , A huger heart was never met nor seen upon the Mould : His ears and eyes that was so fair , transformed were full strange , His hands his feet compelled were , throughout the Woods to range . Thus was he made a perfect Heart , and waxed fierce and grim , His former shape did quite depart from every joint and Limb : But still his memory did remain , although he might not speak , Nor yet among his friends complain , his woeful mind to break . At length he thought for to repair home to his dwelling place , Anon of him his hounds were aware and begin to run apace , Then Acteon was soon aghast his hounds would him devour , And from them then he fled full fast , with all his might and power . The Second Part to the Same Tune . H E spared neither Bush nor Brake , but ran through thick and thin , With all the swiftness he could make , in hope to save his skin : Yet were his hounds so near his tail , and followed him so fast , His running might not him avail , for all his speed and haste , For why his hounds would never lin . till they him overtook , And then they rend and tore his skin , and all his body shook ; I am your Master Acteon then cried he to his hounds , And made unto them rueful moans , with sad lamenting sounds : I have been he which gave you food , wherein I took delight , Therefore suck not your master's blood , his friendship to requite : But those Curs of a cursed kind , on him had no remorse , Although he was their dearest friend , they pulled him down by force . There was no man to take his part , the story telleth plain , Thus Acteon a huge wild heart among the Does was slave . You hunter's all that range the wood although you rise up rath , Beware you come not nigh the flood , were Virgins use to Both . For if Diana you espy , among her Darlings dear , Your former shape she will disguise , and make you horns to wear ; A and so I now conclude my Song , have nothing to allege , If Acteon had right or wrong , let all true Virgins judge . A LULLABY . COme little Babe , come silly soul , thy Father's shame and mother's grief , Born as I doubt to all our doles , and to thy self unhappy chief : S ing lullaby and keep it warm , P oor soul it thinkest no creature harm ; Thou little thinkest and least does know , the cause of this thy M others moan : Thou wantest wit to wail or woe , and I my self am left alone ; Why dost thou weep ? why dost thou wail ? And knowest not what does thee ail ? Come silly wretch , ah silly heart , my only joy , what can I more ? If there be any wrong thy smart , that may thy destiny deplore ; It's I , I say against my will , I wait the time , but be thou still ; And dost thou smile , Oh thou sweet face I would thy Dad the same might see , No doubt but it would purchase grace , I know it would for thee and me . But come to mother babe and play , P oor F ather false is fled away . Sweet babe ifed be thy fortune chance , thy Father home again to send , I f death does strike me with his Lance , yet mayest thou me to him commend ; I f any ask thy Mother's name , Tell how by love she purchesed blame . Then will his gentle heart soon yield , I know him of a Noble mind , A lthough a Lion in the field , a L amb in Town thou shalt him find : Ask blessing Lad , be not afraid , his S ugred lips hath me betrayed . Then mayest thou joy and be right glad , although in woe I seem to mourn , Thy Father is no Rascal Lad , a noble youth of blood and bone . His glancing look if he once smile , Right honest Women will beguile . Come little boy and Rock asleep , sing Lullaby and do not cry , I can do nought else but weep , and fit by thee the Lullaby . God bless the babe and Lullaby , From this thy F athers quality . FINIS . Printed for J . Clark , W. Thackeray , and . TO . Passenger . 