A True Relation of the Life and Death of Sir Andrew Barton , a Pyrate and Rover on the Seas . Tune is , Come follow my Love . W Hen Flora with her fragrant flowers bedecked the earth so trim and gay : And Neptune with his dainty showers , came to present the Month of May , King Henry would a Progress ride , over the River Thames passed he , Unto a Mountain top also , did walk some pleasure for to see . Where forty Merchans he espied , with fifty Sail come towards him , Who then no sooner were arrived but on their knees did thus complain , An't please your Grace we cannot sail , to France no voyage to be sure , But Sir Andrew Barton makes us quail and Robs us of our Merchant Ware , Vexed was the King , and turned him , said to his Lords of High degree , Have I never a Lord within my Realm , dare fetch that Traitor unto me ? To him replied Lord Charles Howard , I will my Liege with heart and hand If it please you grant me leave , he said I will perform what you command . To him then spoke King Henry , I fear my Lord you are too young ; No whit at all lmy Liege , quoth he , I hope to prove in valour strong ; The Scotish Knight I vow to seek , in what place soever he be , And bring a shore with all his might , or into Scotland he shall carry me . A hundred men the King then said , out of my Realm shall chosen be , Beside Sailors and Ship-bois to guide a great Ship on the Sea : Bowmen and Gunners of good skill , shall for this service chosen be , And they at thy command and will , in all affairs shall wait on thee . Lord Howard called a Gunner then , who was the best in all the Realm , His age was threescore years and ten , and Peter Simon was his name : My Lord called then a Bowman rare , whose active hands had gained fame , A Gentleman born in Yorkshire , and William Horsely was his name : Shortly ( quoth he ) I must to Sea , to seek a Traitor with good speed , Of a hundred Bowmen brave , quoth he , I have chosen thee to be head . If you my Lord have chosen me , of a hundred men to be the head , Upon the Main Mast i'll hanged be , of twelvescore miss one shillings breadth Lord Howard then , of courage bold , went to the Sea with pleasant cheer , Not curbed with Winter's piercing cold ; though it was stormy time of the year . Not long he had been on the Sea , no more in days then number three , But one Henry Hunt there he spied , a Merchant of New-castle was he . To him Lord Howard called out amain , and strictly charged him to stand , Demanding then from whence he came , or Where he did intend to land : The Merchant then made answer soon , with heavy heart and careful mind . My Lord , my Ship it does belong , unto Newcastle upon Tine . Canst thou show me the Lord did say , as thou didst sail by day and night , A Scotish Rover on the Sea , his name is Andrew Barton Knight . Then to him the Merchant sighed and said with grieved mind and well away , But overwell I know that wight , I was his Prisoner yesterday : As I ( my Lord ) did sail from France , a Burdeaux Voyage to take so far , I met with Sir Andrew Barton thence , who robbed me of my Merchant ware . And much depts Gods knows I owe and every man did crave his own : And I am bound to London now , of our gracious King to beg a boon . Show me him , said Howard then , let me but once the Villain see , And one Penny he hath from thee taken , i'll double the same with shillings three . Now God forbid the Merchant said , I fear your aim that you will miss , God bless you from his Tyranny , for little you know what Man he is . He is brass within , and steel without , his ship most huge and mighty strong With Eighteen pieces of Ordnance , he carrieth on each side along : With beams for his Top Castle , as also being huge and high , That neither English nor Potrugal , can sir Andrew Barton pass by . Hard news thou shewest , then said the Lord to welcome strangers to the Sea , But as I said , i'll bring him aboard , or into Scotland he shall carry me . The Merchant said , if you will do so , take counsel then I pray withal : Let no Man to his Top-castle go , nor strive to let his Beams down fallen . Lend me seven pieces of Ordnance then , of each side of my ship , quoth he : And to morrow my Lord , betwixt six & amp ; seven again I will your honour see . A Glass I'll set that may be seen , whither you sail by day or night , And to morrow be sure before seven , you shall see sir Andrew Barton Knight . The Merchant set my Lord a Glass , so well apparent in his sighed : That on the morrow as his promise was , he saw sir Andrew Barton Knight . The Lord then swore a mighty Oath , now by the Heavens that be of might , By Faith believe me , and by Troth , I think he is a Worthy Knight . Sir Andrew Barton seeing him thus scornfully to pass by : As though he cared not a pin , for him and all his Company . Then called he his men amain , fetch back yond Pedlar , now quoth he , And again this way he comes again , i'll teach him well his courtesy . Fetch me my Lion out of hand , says the Lord , with rose & amp ; streamer high Set up withal a Willow Wand , that Merchant like I pass by : Thus bravely did Lord Howard pass , and did on Anchor rise so high : No Topsail at all he cast , but as his foe he did him defy . A piece of Ordnance soon was shot by this proud Pyrate fiercely then , Into Lord Howards middle Deck , which cruel shot killed fourteen men . He called then Peter Simon he , look now thy Word to stand in stead , For thou shalt be hanged on Mainmast , if thou miss 12 score one penny breadth , Then Peter Simon gave a shot , which did sir Andrew much scare : In at his deck it came so hight , killed fifteen of his Men of War : Alas then said the Pyrate stout , I am in danger now I see , This is some Lord I greatly doubt , that is set on to conquer me . Then Henry Hunt with rigour hight , came bravely on the other side , Who likewise shot in at his Deck , and killed fifty of his men beside : Then out alas sir Andrew cried , what may a Man now think or say ? Yond Merchant-thief that pierces me , he was my Prisoner yesterday . Then did he on Gordion call , unto Top-castle for to go , And bid his beams he should let fallen , for I greatly fear and overthrow . The Lord called Horsly now in haste , look that thy word stand now in stead , For thou shalt be hanged on Mainmast , if thou miss 12 score a shilling breadth . Then up Mast-tree swerved he , this stout and mighty Gordion : But Horsly he most happily , shot him under the Collar-bone : Then called he on his Nephew then , said , Sisters Sons I have no more : Three hundred pound I will give thee , if thou wilt to Top-Castle go . Then stoutly he began to climb , from off the Mast scorned to depart : But Horsly soon prevented him , and deadly pierced him to the heart . His Men being slave , then up amain , did this proud Pyrate climb with speed : For Armour of proof he had put on , and did not dint of Arrow dread . Come hither Horsly , said the Lord , see thine Arrow aim aright : Great means to thee I will afford , and if thou speed , i'll make you a Knight . Sir Andrew did climb up the Tree , with right good will and all his main ; Then upon the Breast hit Horsly he , till the Arrow did return again . Then Horsly spied a private place , with a perfect eye in a secret part : His Arrow swiftly flew apace , and smote Sir Andrew to the heart : Fight on , fight on , my merry Men all , a little I am hurt , yet not slave , I'll but lie down and bleed a while , and come and fight with you again . And do not , said he , fear English Rogues , and of your foes stand not in awe , But stand fast by Sir Andrews Cross , until you hear my Whistle blow . They never herd his Whistle blow , which made them soar afraid : Then Horsly said , my Lord aboard , for now Sir Andrew Barton's dead . Thus boarded they this gallant Ship , with right good will and all their main : Eighteen-score Scots alive in it , beside as many more were slave . The Lord went where Sir Andrew lay , and quickly thence cut off his Head : I should forsake England many a day , if thou wertenberg alive as thou art dead . Thus from the Wars Lord Howard came , with much joy and triumphing : The Pirates Head he brought along , for to present unto the King . Who briefly then to him did say , before he knew well what was done : Where is the Knight and Pyrate gay ? that I my self my give the doom : You may thank God , then said the Lord , and four Men in the ship , quoth he , ThatA True Relation of the Life and Death of Sir Andrew Barton , a Pyrate and Rover on the Seas . Tune is , Come follow my Love . W Hen Flora with her fragrant flowers bedecked the earth so trim and gay : And Neptune with his dainty showers , came to present the Month of May , King Henry would a Progress ride , over the River Thames passed he , Unto a Mountain top also , did walk some pleasure for to see . Where forty Merchans he espied , with fifty Sail come towards him , Who then no sooner were arrived but on their knees did thus complain , An't please your Grace we cannot sail , to France no voyage to be sure , But Sir Andrew Barton makes us quail and Robs us of our Merchant Ware , Vexed was the King , and turned him , said to his Lords of High degree , Have I never a Lord within my Realm , dare fetch that Traitor unto me ? To him replied Lord Charles Howard , I will my Liege with heart and hand If it please you grant me leave , he said I will perform what you command . To him then spoke King Henry , I fear my Lord you are too young ; No whit at all lmy Liege , quoth he , I hope to prove in valour strong ; The Scotish Knight I vow to seek , in what place soever he be , And bring a shore with all his might , or into Scotland he shall carry me . A hundred men the King then said , out of my Realm shall chosen be , Beside Sailors and Ship-bois to guide a great Ship on the Sea : Bowmen and Gunners of good skill , shall for this service chosen be , And they at thy command and will , in all affairs shall wait on thee . Lord Howard called a Gunner then , who was the best in all the Realm , His age was threescore years and ten , and Peter Simon was his name : My Lord called then a Bowman rare , whose active hands had gained fame , A Gentleman born in Yorkshire , and William Horsely was his name : Shortly ( quoth he ) I must to Sea , to seek a Traitor with good speed , Of a hundred Bowmen brave , quoth he , I have chosen thee to be head . If you my Lord have chosen me , of a hundred men to be the head , Upon the Main Mast i'll hanged be , of twelvescore miss one shillings breadth Lord Howard then , of courage bold , went to the Sea with pleasant cheer , Not curbed with Winter's piercing cold ; though it was stormy time of the year . Not long he had been on the Sea , no more in days then number three , But one Henry Hunt there he spied , a Merchant of New-castle was he . To him Lord Howard called out amain , and strictly charged him to stand , Demanding then from whence he came , or Where he did intend to land : The Merchant then made answer soon , with heavy heart and careful mind . My Lord , my Ship it does belong , unto Newcastle upon Tine . Canst thou show me the Lord did say , as thou didst sail by day and night , A Scotish Rover on the Sea , his name is Andrew Barton Knight . Then to him the Merchant sighed and said with grieved mind and well away , But overwell I know that wight , I was his Prisoner yesterday : As I ( my Lord ) did sail from France , a Burdeaux Voyage to take so far , I met with Sir Andrew Barton thence , who robbed me of my Merchant ware . And much depts Gods knows I owe and every man did crave his own : And I am bound to London now , of our gracious King to beg a boon . Show me him , said Howard then , let me but once the Villain see , And one Penny he hath from thee taken , i'll double the same with shillings three . Now God forbid the Merchant said , I fear your aim that you will miss , God bless you from his Tyranny , for little you know what Man he is . He is brass within , and steel without , his ship most huge and mighty strong With Eighteen pieces of Ordnance , he carrieth on each side along : With beams for his Top Castle , as also being huge and high , That neither English nor Potrugal , can sir Andrew Barton pass by . Hard news thou shewest , then said the Lord to welcome strangers to the Sea , But as I said , i'll bring him aboard , or into Scotland he shall carry me . The Merchant said , if you will do so , take counsel then I pray withal : Let no Man to his Top-castle go , nor strive to let his Beams down fallen . Lend me seven pieces of Ordnance then , of each side of my ship , quoth he : And to morrow my Lord , betwixt six & amp ; seven again I will your honour see . A Glass I'll set that may be seen , whither you sail by day or night , And to morrow be sure before seven , you shall see sir Andrew Barton Knight . The Merchant set my Lord a Glass , so well apparent in his sighed : That on the morrow as his promise was , he saw sir Andrew Barton Knight . The Lord then swore a mighty Oath , now by the Heavens that be of might , By Faith believe me , and by Troth , I think he is a Worthy Knight . Sir Andrew Barton seeing him thus scornfully to pass by : As though he cared not a pin , for him and all his Company . Then called he his men amain , fetch back yond Pedlar , now quoth he , And again this way he comes again , i'll teach him well his courtesy . Fetch me my Lion out of hand , says the Lord , with rose & amp ; streamer high Set up withal a Willow Wand , that Merchant like I pass by : Thus bravely did Lord Howard pass , and did on Anchor rise so high : No Topsail at all he cast , but as his foe he did him defy . A piece of Ordnance soon was shot by this proud Pyrate fiercely then , Into Lord Howards middle Deck , which cruel shot killed fourteen men . He called then Peter Simon he , look now thy Word to stand in stead , For thou shalt be hanged on Mainmast , if thou miss 12 score one penny breadth , Then Peter Simon gave a shot , which did sir Andrew much scare : In at his deck it came so hight , killed fifteen of his Men of War : Alas then said the Pyrate stout , I am in danger now I see , This is some Lord I greatly doubt , that is set on to conquer me . Then Henry Hunt with rigour hight , came bravely on the other side , Who likewise shot in at his Deck , and killed fifty of his men beside : Then out alas sir Andrew cried , what may a Man now think or say ? Yond Merchant-thief that pierces me , he was my Prisoner yesterday . Then did he on Gordion call , unto Top-castle for to go , And bid his beams he should let fallen , for I greatly fear and overthrow . The Lord called Horsly now in haste , look that thy word stand now in stead , For thou shalt be hanged on Mainmast , if thou miss 12 score a shilling breadth . Then up Mast-tree swerved he , this stout and mighty Gordion : But Horsly he most happily , shot him under the Collar-bone : Then called he on his Nephew then , said , Sisters Sons I have no more : Three hundred pound I will give thee , if thou wilt to Top-Castle go . Then stoutly he began to climb , from off the Mast scorned to depart : But Horsly soon prevented him , and deadly pierced him to the heart . His Men being slave , then up amain , did this proud Pyrate climb with speed : For Armour of proof he had put on , and did not dint of Arrow dread . Come hither Horsly , said the Lord , see thine Arrow aim aright : Great means to thee I will afford , and if thou speed , i'll make you a Knight . Sir Andrew did climb up the Tree , with right good will and all his main ; Then upon the Breast hit Horsly he , till the Arrow did return again . Then Horsly spied a private place , with a perfect eye in a secret part : His Arrow swiftly flew apace , and smote Sir Andrew to the heart : Fight on , fight on , my merry Men all , a little I am hurt , yet not slave , I'll but lie down and bleed a while , and come and fight with you again . And do not , said he , fear English Rogues , and of your foes stand not in awe , But stand fast by Sir Andrews Cross , until you hear my Whistle blow . They never herd his Whistle blow , which made them soar afraid : Then Horsly said , my Lord aboard , for now Sir Andrew Barton's dead . Thus boarded they this gallant Ship , with right good will and all their main : Eighteen-score Scots alive in it , beside as many more were slave . The Lord went where Sir Andrew lay , and quickly thence cut off his Head : I should forsake England many a day , if thou wertenberg alive as thou art dead . Thus from the Wars Lord Howard came , with much joy and triumphing : The Pirates Head he brought along , for to present unto the King . Who briefly then to him did say , before he knew well what was done : Where is the Knight and Pyrate gay ? that I my self my give the doom : You may thank God , then said the Lord , and four Men in the ship , quoth he , That we are safely come ashore , sith you had never such and enemy : That is Henry Hunt , and Peter Simon , William Horsly and Peters Son : Therefore reward them for their pains , for they did service at their turn . To the Merchant then the King did say , in lieu of what he hath from thee taken , I give thee a Noble a Day , Sir Andrews Whistle , and his Chain : To Peter Simon a Crown a day , and half a Crown a day to Peters Son : And that was for a shot so gay , which bravely brought sir Andrew down Horsly I will make thee a Knight , and in Yorkshire thou shalt dwell : Lord Howard shall Earl Burn hight , for this title he deserveth well : Seven Shillings to our English men , who in this fight did stoutly stand , And 12 pence a day to the Scots , till they come to my Brother Kings high Land. Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . we are safely come ashore , sith you had never such and enemy : That is Henry Hunt , and Peter Simon , William Horsly and Peters Son : Therefore reward them for their pains , for they did service at their turn . To the Merchant then the King did say , in lieu of what he hath from thee taken , I give thee a Noble a Day , Sir Andrews Whistle , and his Chain : To Peter Simon a Crown a day , and half a Crown a day to Peters Son : And that was for a shot so gay , which bravely brought sir Andrew down Horsly I will make thee a Knight , and in Yorkshire thou shalt dwell : Lord Howard shall Earl Burn hight , for this title he deserveth well : Seven Shillings to our English men , who in this fight did stoutly stand , And 12 pence a day to the Scots , till they come to my Brother Kings high Land. Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 