The woeful Lamentation of Mistress Jane Shore , a Goldsmiths Wife of London , sometime King Edward the Fourth's Concubine who for her wanton life came to a miserable and . Set forth for the example of all wicked livers . Tune is , Live with me . I F Rosamond that was so fair , Had cause her sorrows to declare , Then let Jane Shore with sorrow sing , That was beloved of a King : Then wanton Wives in time amend , For love and beauty will have end . In Maiden years my beauty bright , Was loved dear of Lord and Knight But yet the love that they required , It Was not as my friends desired : My Parents they for thirst of gain , A husband for me did obtain , And I their pleasure to fulfil , Was forced to wed against my will : To Matthew Shore I was a wife , Till lust brought ruin to my life , And then my life so lewdly spent , Which makes my soul for to lament : In Lumbard-street I once did dwell , As London yet can witness well , Where many gallants did behold My beauty in a shop of Gold : I spread my plumes as wantons do , Some sweet and secret friend to woo , Because my love I did not find , Agreeing to my wanton mind . At last my name in Court did ring , Into the ears of Englands King , Who came and liked and love required , But I made coy what he desired : Yet Mistress Blague a neighbour near Whose friendship I esteemed dear , Did say it was a gallant thing , To be beloved of a King . By her persuasions I was led , For to defile my marriagebed , and wrong my wedded husband Shore , Whom I had loved ten years before ; In heart and mind I did rejoice , That I had made so sweet a choice , And therefore did my state resign , To be King Edwards Concubine ; From City then to Court I went , To reap the pleasures of content , And had the joys that love could bring , And knew the secrets of a King : When I was thus advanced on high , Commanding Edward with mine eye , For Mistress Blague I in short space Obtained a living of his Grece . No friend I had but in short time I made unto promotion climb : But yet for all this costly pride , My husband could not me abide : His bed though wronged by a King , His heart with grief did deadly sting . From England then he goes away , To end his life upon the Sea , He could not live to see his name Impaired by my wanton shame , Although a Prince of Peerless might , Did reap the pleasures of his right . Long time I lived in the Court , With Lords and Ladies of great sort , For when I smiled all men were glad , But when I mourned my Prince grew sad . But yet and honest mind I boar , To helpless people that were poor , I still redressed the Orphans cry , And saved their lives condemned to die I still had ruth on Widows tears , I succoured babes of tender years , And never looked for other gain , But love and thanks for all my pain . At last my Royal King did die , And then my days of woe grew nigh , When Crookback Richard god the crown King Edwards friends were soon put down I then was punished for my since , That I so long had lived in . Yea , every one that was his friend , This Tyrant brought to shameful end . Then for my rude and wanton life , That made a strumpet of a Wife , I penance did in Lumbard - street , In shameful manner in a sheet . Where many thousands did me view , Who late in Court my credit knew , Which made the tears run down my face To think upon my foul disgrace : Not thus content they took from me My Goods my livings , and my Fee , & amp ; charged that none should me relieve , Nor any succour to me give . Then unto Mistress Blauge I went , To whom my jewels I had sent , In hope thereby to ease my want , when riches failed and love grew scant : But she denied to me the same , When in my need for them I came . To recompense my former love , Out of her doors she did me shove ; So love did vanish with my state , Which now my soul repents too late ; Therefore example take by me , For friendship parts in poverty . But yet one friend among the rest , Whom I before had seen distressed , And saved his life condemned to die , Did give me food to succour me , For which by law it was decreed , That he was hanged for that deed : His death did grieve me so much more Then had I died my self therefore : Then those to whom I had done good , Durst not restore me any food ; Where by in vain I begged all day , And still in streets by night I lay . My Gowns beset with Peal and gold , Are turned to simple garments old ; My chains and jems and golden rings , To filthy rags and loathsome things , Thus was I scorned of Maid and wife For leading such a wicked life ; Both sucking babes and children small , Did make a pastime at my fallen ; I could not get one bit of bred , Whereby my hunger might be fed : Nor drink but such as channels yield , Or stinking ditches in the field : Thus weary of my life at length , I yielded up my vital strength . Within a Ditch of loathsome scent , Where carrion dogs do much frequet The which now since my dying day , Is Shoreditch called as writers say : Which is a witness of my since , For being Concubine to a King : You wanton Wives that fallen to lust , Be you assured that God is just , Whoredom shall not escape his hand , Nor Pride unpunished in this Land ; If God to me such shame should bring , That yielded only to a King : How shall they escape that daily run , To practice since with every man ? You Husbands match not but for love , Lest some disliking after prove ; Women be warned when you are wives What plagues are due to sinful lives : Then Maids & amp ; Wives in time amend For love and beauty will have end . The second part of Jane Shore , wherein her sorrowful Husband bewaileth his own estate , and Wives wantonness , the wrong of Marriage , the fallen of pride , being a warning for all women . I F she that was fair L ondons pride For beauty famed both far and wide With swanlike song in sadness told , Her deep distresses manifold . Then in the same let me also , Now bear a part of such like woe : Kind Matthew Shore men called me , A Goldsmith once of good degree , And might have lived long therein , Had not my wife been wed to since . Ah gentle Jane thy wanton raze , Hath brought me to this foul disgrace . Thou hadst all things at wish and will Thy wanton fancy to fulfil , No London dame , nor Merchant's wife Did led so sweet and pleasant Life . Then gentle Jane the truth report , Why leftest thou me to live in Court ? Thou hadst both Gold and Silver store , No wife in London then had more ; And once a week to walk in field , To see what pleasure it would yield . But woe to me that liberty , Hath brought me to this misery : I married thee while thou wertenberg young Before thou knewest what did belong , To husbands love or marriage state , Which now my soul repents too late : Thus wanton Pride made thee unjust , And so deceived was my trust . But when the King possessed my Room , And cropped my Rosy gallant bloom , Fair Londons blossom and my joy My heart was drowned in deep annoy : To think how unto public shame , Thy wicked life brought my good name And then I thought each man and wife , In jesting sort accused my life , And every one to the other said , That Shores fair wife the wanton played Thereby in mind I grew to change . My dwelling in some country strange , My Lands and Goods I sold away , And so from England went to Sea ; Opyrest with grief and woeful mind , But left my cause of grief behind . My loving Wife whom I once thought , Would never be to lewdness brought , But women now I well espy , Are subject to unconstancy ; And few there be so true of love , But by long suit will wanton prove , For flesh is frail and women weak . When Kings for love long suit do make But yet from England my depart , Was with a sad and heavy heart , Whereat when as my leave I took , I sent back many a heavy look , Desiring God if it might be , To send one sighs sweet Jane to thee . For if thou hadst but constant been , These days of woe I never had seen , But yet I mourn and grieve full soar , To think what plagues are left in store , For such as careless tread awry ; The modest paths of constancy : Ah gentle Jane if thou didst know , The uncouth paths I daily go , And woeful tears for thee I shed , For wronging thus my Marriagebed . Then sure I am thou wouldst confess , My love was sure though in distress : Both Flanders , France , and Spain I passed And came to Turky at the last : And there within that mighty Court , I lived longThe woeful Lamentation of Mistress Jane Shore , a Goldsmiths Wife of London , sometime King Edward the Fourth's Concubine who for her wanton life came to a miserable and . Set forth for the example of all wicked livers . Tune is , Live with me . I F Rosamond that was so fair , Had cause her sorrows to declare , Then let Jane Shore with sorrow sing , That was beloved of a King : Then wanton Wives in time amend , For love and beauty will have end . In Maiden years my beauty bright , Was loved dear of Lord and Knight But yet the love that they required , It Was not as my friends desired : My Parents they for thirst of gain , A husband for me did obtain , And I their pleasure to fulfil , Was forced to wed against my will : To Matthew Shore I was a wife , Till lust brought ruin to my life , And then my life so lewdly spent , Which makes my soul for to lament : In Lumbard-street I once did dwell , As London yet can witness well , Where many gallants did behold My beauty in a shop of Gold : I spread my plumes as wantons do , Some sweet and secret friend to woo , Because my love I did not find , Agreeing to my wanton mind . At last my name in Court did ring , Into the ears of Englands King , Who came and liked and love required , But I made coy what he desired : Yet Mistress Blague a neighbour near Whose friendship I esteemed dear , Did say it was a gallant thing , To be beloved of a King . By her persuasions I was led , For to defile my marriagebed , and wrong my wedded husband Shore , Whom I had loved ten years before ; In heart and mind I did rejoice , That I had made so sweet a choice , And therefore did my state resign , To be King Edwards Concubine ; From City then to Court I went , To reap the pleasures of content , And had the joys that love could bring , And knew the secrets of a King : When I was thus advanced on high , Commanding Edward with mine eye , For Mistress Blague I in short space Obtained a living of his Grece . No friend I had but in short time I made unto promotion climb : But yet for all this costly pride , My husband could not me abide : His bed though wronged by a King , His heart with grief did deadly sting . From England then he goes away , To end his life upon the Sea , He could not live to see his name Impaired by my wanton shame , Although a Prince of Peerless might , Did reap the pleasures of his right . Long time I lived in the Court , With Lords and Ladies of great sort , For when I smiled all men were glad , But when I mourned my Prince grew sad . But yet and honest mind I boar , To helpless people that were poor , I still redressed the Orphans cry , And saved their lives condemned to die I still had ruth on Widows tears , I succoured babes of tender years , And never looked for other gain , But love and thanks for all my pain . At last my Royal King did die , And then my days of woe grew nigh , When Crookback Richard god the crown King Edwards friends were soon put down I then was punished for my since , That I so long had lived in . Yea , every one that was his friend , This Tyrant brought to shameful end . Then for my rude and wanton life , That made a strumpet of a Wife , I penance did in Lumbard - street , In shameful manner in a sheet . Where many thousands did me view , Who late in Court my credit knew , Which made the tears run down my face To think upon my foul disgrace : Not thus content they took from me My Goods my livings , and my Fee , & amp ; charged that none should me relieve , Nor any succour to me give . Then unto Mistress Blauge I went , To whom my jewels I had sent , In hope thereby to ease my want , when riches failed and love grew scant : But she denied to me the same , When in my need for them I came . To recompense my former love , Out of her doors she did me shove ; So love did vanish with my state , Which now my soul repents too late ; Therefore example take by me , For friendship parts in poverty . But yet one friend among the rest , Whom I before had seen distressed , And saved his life condemned to die , Did give me food to succour me , For which by law it was decreed , That he was hanged for that deed : His death did grieve me so much more Then had I died my self therefore : Then those to whom I had done good , Durst not restore me any food ; Where by in vain I begged all day , And still in streets by night I lay . My Gowns beset with Peal and gold , Are turned to simple garments old ; My chains and jems and golden rings , To filthy rags and loathsome things , Thus was I scorned of Maid and wife For leading such a wicked life ; Both sucking babes and children small , Did make a pastime at my fallen ; I could not get one bit of bred , Whereby my hunger might be fed : Nor drink but such as channels yield , Or stinking ditches in the field : Thus weary of my life at length , I yielded up my vital strength . Within a Ditch of loathsome scent , Where carrion dogs do much frequet The which now since my dying day , Is Shoreditch called as writers say : Which is a witness of my since , For being Concubine to a King : You wanton Wives that fallen to lust , Be you assured that God is just , Whoredom shall not escape his hand , Nor Pride unpunished in this Land ; If God to me such shame should bring , That yielded only to a King : How shall they escape that daily run , To practice since with every man ? You Husbands match not but for love , Lest some disliking after prove ; Women be warned when you are wives What plagues are due to sinful lives : Then Maids & amp ; Wives in time amend For love and beauty will have end . The second part of Jane Shore , wherein her sorrowful Husband bewaileth his own estate , and Wives wantonness , the wrong of Marriage , the fallen of pride , being a warning for all women . I F she that was fair L ondons pride For beauty famed both far and wide With swanlike song in sadness told , Her deep distresses manifold . Then in the same let me also , Now bear a part of such like woe : Kind Matthew Shore men called me , A Goldsmith once of good degree , And might have lived long therein , Had not my wife been wed to since . Ah gentle Jane thy wanton raze , Hath brought me to this foul disgrace . Thou hadst all things at wish and will Thy wanton fancy to fulfil , No London dame , nor Merchant's wife Did led so sweet and pleasant Life . Then gentle Jane the truth report , Why leftest thou me to live in Court ? Thou hadst both Gold and Silver store , No wife in London then had more ; And once a week to walk in field , To see what pleasure it would yield . But woe to me that liberty , Hath brought me to this misery : I married thee while thou wertenberg young Before thou knewest what did belong , To husbands love or marriage state , Which now my soul repents too late : Thus wanton Pride made thee unjust , And so deceived was my trust . But when the King possessed my Room , And cropped my Rosy gallant bloom , Fair Londons blossom and my joy My heart was drowned in deep annoy : To think how unto public shame , Thy wicked life brought my good name And then I thought each man and wife , In jesting sort accused my life , And every one to the other said , That Shores fair wife the wanton played Thereby in mind I grew to change . My dwelling in some country strange , My Lands and Goods I sold away , And so from England went to Sea ; Opyrest with grief and woeful mind , But left my cause of grief behind . My loving Wife whom I once thought , Would never be to lewdness brought , But women now I well espy , Are subject to unconstancy ; And few there be so true of love , But by long suit will wanton prove , For flesh is frail and women weak . When Kings for love long suit do make But yet from England my depart , Was with a sad and heavy heart , Whereat when as my leave I took , I sent back many a heavy look , Desiring God if it might be , To send one sighs sweet Jane to thee . For if thou hadst but constant been , These days of woe I never had seen , But yet I mourn and grieve full soar , To think what plagues are left in store , For such as careless tread awry ; The modest paths of constancy : Ah gentle Jane if thou didst know , The uncouth paths I daily go , And woeful tears for thee I shed , For wronging thus my Marriagebed . Then sure I am thou wouldst confess , My love was sure though in distress : Both Flanders , France , and Spain I passed And came to Turky at the last : And there within that mighty Court , I lived long in honest sort ; Desiring God that sits in Heaven , That Lovers sins might be forgiven : And there advanced thy loving name , Of living wights the fairest Dame ? The praise of Englands beauty stain , All which thy Husband did maintain , And set thy Picture there in Gold , For Kings & amp ; Princes to behold , But when I thought upon thy since , Thy wanton thoughts delighted in I grieved that such a comely face , Should hold true honour in disgrace , And counted it a luckless day , When as thou first didst go astray , Desiring then some news to hear , Of her my soul did love so dear , My secrets then I did impart , To one well skilled in Magic art , Who in a Glass did truly show , Such things as I desired to know . I there did see thy Courtly state , Thy Pomp , thy Pride , thy Glory great And likewise there I did behold , My Jane in Edwards arms enfold : Thy secret love I there espied , Thy vice , thy fallen , and how thou died ; Thy naked body in the street , I saw doe penance in a sheet : Barefoot before the Beadles wand , With burning Taper in thy hand , And Babes not having use of tongue , Stood pointing as thou wentest along , Thus ended was the shame of thine , Though God gave yet no end to mine . When I supposed my name forgotten , And time had washed away my blot , And in another Princes Reign , I came to England back again : But staying there my friends decayed , My Princes laws I disobeyed , And by true Justice judged to die , For clipping Gold in secrecy . By Gold was my best living made , And so by Gold my life decayed : Thus have you herd the woeful strife That came by my unconstant Wife , Her Fallen , my Death , wherein is showed The story of a Strumpet Lewd . In hope thereby some women may take heed how they the wanton play . The Description OF Jane Shore THis woman's beauty hath been highly prai - sed by a famous Writer that lived in her time , nam Thomas Moor , who described her in this manner . Before her death she was poor and aged , her stature was mean , her hair of a dark yellow , her face round & amp ; full , her eyes grey , her Body fat , white , and smooth her countenance cheerful , like to her conditions . There is a picture of hers to be seen in London , it is such as she was when she rose out of her bed in the morning , having nothing on but a Rich Mantle cast under her arm , oh - for which her na - ked arm did lie . What her Fa - the name is , oh - where she was Born , is not cer - tainly known , but her Husband Ma - thew Shore , a Young Man of right good paren tage , wealth , and behaviour , aban - doned her bed of - ter the King had made her his con cubine . printed for J Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger in honest sort ; Desiring God that sits in Heaven , That Lovers sins might be forgiven : And there advanced thy loving name , Of living wights the fairest Dame ? The praise of Englands beauty stain , All which thy Husband did maintain , And set thy Picture there in Gold , For Kings & amp ; Princes to behold , But when I thought upon thy since , Thy wanton thoughts delighted in I grieved that such a comely face , Should hold true honour in disgrace , And counted it a luckless day , When as thou first didst go astray , Desiring then some news to hear , Of her my soul did love so dear , My secrets then I did impart , To one well skilled in Magic art , Who in a Glass did truly show , Such things as I desired to know . I there did see thy Courtly state , Thy Pomp , thy Pride , thy Glory great And likewise there I did behold , My Jane in Edwards arms enfold : Thy secret love I there espied , Thy vice , thy fallen , and how thou died ; Thy naked body in the street , I saw doe penance in a sheet : Barefoot before the Beadles wand , With burning Taper in thy hand , And Babes not having use of tongue , Stood pointing as thou wentest along , Thus ended was the shame of thine , Though God gave yet no end to mine . When I supposed my name forgotten , And time had washed away my blot , And in another Princes Reign , I came to England back again : But staying there my friends decayed , My Princes laws I disobeyed , And by true Justice judged to die , For clipping Gold in secrecy . By Gold was my best living made , And so by Gold my life decayed : Thus have you herd the woeful strife That came by my unconstant Wife , Her Fallen , my Death , wherein is showed The story of a Strumpet Lewd . In hope thereby some women may take heed how they the wanton play . The Description OF Jane Shore THis woman's beauty hath been highly prai - sed by a famous Writer that lived in her time , nam Thomas Moor , who described her in this manner . Before her death she was poor and aged , her stature was mean , her hair of a dark yellow , her face round & amp ; full , her eyes grey , her Body fat , white , and smooth her countenance cheerful , like to her conditions . There is a picture of hers to be seen in London , it is such as she was when she rose out of her bed in the morning , having nothing on but a Rich Mantle cast under her arm , oh - for which her na - ked arm did lie . What her Fa - the name is , oh - where she was Born , is not cer - tainly known , but her Husband Ma - thew Shore , a Young Man of right good paren tage , wealth , and behaviour , aban - doned her bed of - ter the King had made her his con cubine . printed for J Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger 