Good Admonition Or To all sorts of people this counsel I sing , That in each ones affair , to take heed's a fair thing . To the tune of , Magina-cree . TO O all christian people , this ditty belongs , That have the true sense , of their ears , eyes , and tongues : If well they do keep it will profit them bring , I give but this Item : take heed's a fair thing . Be sure above all things , that God thou do serve , That safely from dangers , does still thee preserve : Him laud for his mercy , and praise to him sing , And of that be not slack : take heed's a fair thing . See next that thy parents , thou love and obey , Be ruled by their counsels believe what they say : If so thou persever , in thy tender spring , Thy age will be blessed : take heed's a fair thing . To fawning lose friendship , see thou do not trust , Give good words for good words , for flattery must With truth strive to wrestle , but fly thou her sting , Beware of her lurches : take heed's a fair thing . Let not thy kind heart , make thy credit to crack , Too prodigal be not , nor whats fitting lack , To sheepskin and wax , see thy hand never cling In thriving observe this , take heed's a fair thing . Lewd Company see that , by no means thou keep , Lest shame with disgrace then upon thee do creep : And danger into her relapse will thee bring , Give care to my counsel , take heed's a fair thing . Let no tempting harlot bewitch or entice , To fell that for lust , which did cost such a price , As his that died for thee , to heaven thee to bring , If thou wilt go thither : take heed's a fair thing . The second part . To the same tune . WORSER Rinke wine but let temperance , measure thy boul , Shun dice , and lewd gaming , if thou love thy soul . Be just in thy calling , then consciences sting , Shall never oppress thee , take heed's a fair thing . Vainglory and pride , like the devil from fly , Foul theft and adultery , come thou not nigh , Wrath see thou eschew , for to murder 'twill bring , Then shameful death follows : take heed's , etc Extortion and covetousness , see that thou hate , If that the white path , thou wouldst tread that is straight , For the broad way in fury , to hell will thee bring , And too many find it , take heed's , etc If much thou possessest , be good to the poor , Let Charity never , depart from thy door , Then fame of thy bounty , and goodness shall sing , But if thou do other , take heed's , etc Take heed of repining at other men's good , Bear patiently losses , for this understood , That who so continues , his conscience will bring A peaceable ending , take heed's , etc Delight not in popular glory as vain , Like April sunshine , thats mixed with rain But keep within compass , and plenty will bring , The best of her labours . take heed's , etc Be awful over servants , but not too precise : Be friendly with friendship , and friendly him prize , But if thou in danger thy self for him bring , The beggar will catch thee , take heed's , etc Thus doing content with true peace shalt thou find , And nothing disturb thee , in body or mind : And after death brings thee , where Angels do sing , Thou shalt live for ever . take heed's a fair thing . FINIS . London , printed for E. B . Good Admonition Or To all sorts of people this counsel I sing , That in each ones affair , to take heed's a fair thing . To the tune of , Magina-cree . TO O all christian people , this ditty belongs , That have the true sense , of their ears , eyes , and tongues : If well they do keep it will profit them bring , I give but this Item : take heed's a fair thing . Be sure above all things , that God thou do serve , That safely from dangers , does still thee preserve : Him laud for his mercy , and praise to him sing , And of that be not slack : take heed's a fair thing . See next that thy parents , thou love and obey , Be ruled by their counsels believe what they say : If so thou persever , in thy tender spring , Thy age will be blessed : take heed's a fair thing . To fawning lose friendship , see thou do not trust , Give good words for good words , for flattery must With truth strive to wrestle , but fly thou her sting , Beware of her lurches : take heed's a fair thing . Let not thy kind heart , make thy credit to crack , Too prodigal be not , nor whats fitting lack , To sheepskin and wax , see thy hand never cling In thriving observe this , take heed's a fair thing . Lewd Company see that , by no means thou keep , Lest shame with disgrace then upon thee do creep : And danger into her relapse will thee bring , Give care to my counsel , take heed's a fair thing . Let no tempting harlot bewitch or entice , To fell that for lust , which did cost such a price , As his that died for thee , to heaven thee to bring , If thou wilt go thither : take heed's a fair thing . The second part . To the same tune . WORSER Rinke wine but let temperance , measure thy boul , Shun dice , and lewd gaming , if thou love thy soul . Be just in thy calling , then consciences sting , Shall never oppress thee , take heed's a fair thing . Vainglory and pride , like the devil from fly , Foul theft and adultery , come thou not nigh , Wrath see thou eschew , for to murder 'twill bring , Then shameful death follows : take heed's , etc Extortion and covetousness , see that thou hate , If that the white path , thou wouldst tread that is straight , For the broad way in fury , to hell will thee bring , And too many find it , take heed's , etc If much thou possessest , be good to the poor , Let Charity never , depart from thy door , Then fame of thy bounty , and goodness shall sing , But if thou do other , take heed's , etc Take heed of repining at other men's good , Bear patiently losses , for this understood , That who so continues , his conscience will bring A peaceable ending , take heed's , etc Delight not in popular glory as vain , Like April sunshine , thats mixed with rain But keep within compass , and plenty will bring , The best of her labours . take heed's , etc Be awful over servants , but not too precise : Be friendly with friendship , and friendly him prize , But if thou in danger thy self for him bring , The beggar will catch thee , take heed's , etc Thus doing content with true peace shalt thou find , And nothing disturb thee , in body or mind : And after death brings thee , where Angels do sing , Thou shalt live for ever . take heed's a fair thing . FINIS . London , printed for E. B. 