The Rarest Ballad that ever was seen , Of the blind Beggars Daughter of B ednal - G reen . I TO was a Blind Beggar that long lost his sighed , He had a fair daughter most pleasant and bright , And many a gallant brave Suitor had she , For none was so comely as pretty Bessee . And though she was of favour most fair , Yet seeing she was but a Beggar his heir , Of ancient housekeepers despised was she , Whose Sons came as Suitors to pretty Bessee . Wherefore in great sorrow fair Bessee did say , Good Father and Mother let me go away , To seek out my fortune where ever it be ; The suit was then granted to pretty Bessee . Thus Bessee that was of beauty most bright , They clad in grey Russet and late in the night , From Father and Mother alone parted she , Who sighed and sobbed for pretty Bessee . She went till she came at Straford at Bow , Then knew she not whither nor which way to go With tears she lamented her hard destiny , So sad and so heavy was pretty Bessee . She kept on her journey until it was day , And went unto Rumford along the highway , And at the Kings-arms entertained was she , So fair and well-favoured was pretty Bessee . She had not been there one month to and end , But Master , and Mistress and all was her friend , And every brave Gallant that once did her see [ , ] Was straightway in love with pretty Bessee . Great gifts they did send her of silver and gold , And in their Songs daily her love they extolled , Her beauty was blazed in every degree , So fair and so comely was pretty Bessee . The young men of Rumford in her had their joy , She showed her self courteous but never too coy , And at their commandment still would she be , So fair and so comely was pretty Bessee . Four Suitors at once unto her did go , They craved her favour but still she said no , I would not wish Gentlemen to marry with me . Yet ever they honoured pretty Bessee . The one of them was a gallant young Knight , And he came to her disguised in the night , The second a Gentleman of good degree , Who wooed and sued for pretty Bessee . A Merchant of London whose wealth was not small Was thus the third Suitor , and proper withal , Her Master's own Son the fourth man must be , Who swore he would die for pretty Bessee . And if thou wilt marry with me , quod the Knight , I'll make thee a Lady with joy and delight . My heart is enthralled by thy beauty , Then grant me thy favour my pretty Bessee . The Gentlemen said , come Marry with me , In silks and in Velvet my Bessee shall be , My heart lives distressed , Oh hear me , quoth he , And grant me thy love my pretty Bessee . Let me by thy Husband the Merchant did say , Thou shalt live in London most gallant and gay M [ y ] sh [ i ] psalm sha [ l ] l bring home rich jewels for thee , And I will fo [ r ] ever love pretty Bessee . Then Bessee she sighed , and thus she did say , My Father and Mother I mean to obey , First get they [ r ] good will and be faithful to me . And you shall enjoy your pretty Bessee . To every one this answer she made , [ W ] herefore unto her they joyfully said , This thing to fulfil we all do agree . But where dwells thy Father my pretty Bessee . My Father quoth she , is plein to be seen , The silly blind beggar of Bednal-green , That daily sits begging for charity , He is the good father of pretty Bessee . His marks and his tokens are known full well , He always is led with a dog and a bell , A silly old man God knoweth is he , Yet he is the father of pretty Bessee . Nay then quoth the Merchant , thou art not for me Nor quoth the Inholder my Wife shall not be , I loath ( quoth the Gentleman ) a beggars degree Therefore fare you well my pretty Bessee . Why then ( quoth the Knight ) hap better or worse , I weigh not true love by the weight of the purse , And beauty is beauty in every degree , Then welcome to me my pretty Bessee . With thee to thy Father forthwith will I go , Nay soft ( quoth his Kinsman ) it must not be so , A beggars daughter no Lady shall be , Then take thy adieu of pretty Bessee . And soon after this by break of the day , The Knight had from Rumford stole Bessee away , The young men of Rumford so sick as may be , Road after to fetch again pretty Bessee . As swift as the wind to ride they were seen , Until they came near to Bednal-green , And as the Knight lighted most courteously , They fought against him for pretty Bessee . But rescue came presently over the Plain , Or else the Knight for his love there had been slave . The fray being ended then straight he did see , His Kinsman come railing for pretty Bessee : Then spoke the blind beggar , although I be poor , Rail not against my child at mine own door , Though she be not decked with Velvet and Pearl , Yet will I drop Angels with thee for my Girl : And then if my Gold will better her birth , And equal the Gold that you lay on the earth , Then neither rail nor grudge you to see The blind beggars daughter a Lady to be : But first I will hear and have it well known , The gold that you drop shall be all your own . With that they replied contented we be , Then there's ( quoth the beggar ) for pretty Bessee , With that and Angel he cast on the ground , And dropped in A ngels full three thousand pound , And oftentimes it proved most plain , For the gentleman's one the beggar dropped twain : So as the place whereas he did fit , With gold was covered every whit The Gentleman having dropped all [ l ] his store , Said , beggar hold , for I have no more , Thou hast fulfilled thy promise aright , Then marry my Girl quoth he to the Knight A and here , quoth he , I'll throw you down , A hundred pound more to buy her a Gown ; The Gentlemen all that this treasure had seen , A dmired the beggar of Bednal-green . A and those that were her Suitors before , Their flesh for very anger they tore : Thus was their Bessee matched to a Knight , And made a Lady in others despite , A fairer Lady there never was seen , Then the beggars daughter of Bednal-green : But of her sumptuous Marriage and Feast , And what brave Lords and Knights thither was pressed The second part shall set forth to your sighed , With marvelous pleasure and wished delight . O f a blind beggars daughter most fair & amp ; bright , That late was betrothed to a young Knight , All the discourse thereof you may see , But now comes the Wedding of pretty Bessee . Within a gallant palace most brave , Adorned with all the cost they could have ; This Wedding was kept most sumptuously , And all for the love of pretty Bessee . All kind of dainties and delicates sweet , Was brought to their banquet as was thought meet , Patridge , Plover , and Venison most free , Against the brave wedding of pretty Bessee . This wedding through England was spread by report So that a great number thereto did resort , Of Nobles and Gentiles of every degree , And all for the fame of pretty Bessee . To Church then went this gallant young Knight . His bride followed after like a Lady most bright : With troops of Ladies the like was never seen , As went with sweet Bessee of Bednal-green . This Wedding being solemnized then , With Music performed by skilful men . The Nobles and Gentiles sat down at that tide Each one beholding the beautiful bride . But after their sumptuous dinner was done , To talk and to reason a number begun , Of the blind beggars daughter most bright , And what his daughter he gave to the Knight . Then spoke the Nobles much marvel have we , The jolly blind beggar we cannot here see : My Lords , quoth the Bride , my father's so base , He's loath with his presence these states to disgrace , the praise of a woman in question to bring , Before her own face were a flattering thing . We think thy father's baseness ( quoth they ) Might by thy beauty be clean put away ; They had no sooner these pleasant words spoke , But in comes the Beggar with a silken Cloak , A Velvet Cap and a Feather had he , And now a Musician forsooth he would be . And being led in from catching of harm , He had a dainty Lute under his arm ; Said , please you hear any music of me , A Song I will sing you of pretty Bessee . With that his Lute he twanged straight way , And thereon began most sweetly to play , And after a Lesson was played two or three , He strained out this song most delicately . A Beggars Daughter did dwell on the green , Who for her beauty may well be a Queen , A blithe bonny Lass and dainty was she , And many one called her pretty Bessee . Her Father hThe Rarest Ballad that ever was seen , Of the blind Beggars Daughter of B ednal - G reen . I TO was a Blind Beggar that long lost his sighed , He had a fair daughter most pleasant and bright , And many a gallant brave Suitor had she , For none was so comely as pretty Bessee . And though she was of favour most fair , Yet seeing she was but a Beggar his heir , Of ancient housekeepers despised was she , Whose Sons came as Suitors to pretty Bessee . Wherefore in great sorrow fair Bessee did say , Good Father and Mother let me go away , To seek out my fortune where ever it be ; The suit was then granted to pretty Bessee . Thus Bessee that was of beauty most bright , They clad in grey Russet and late in the night , From Father and Mother alone parted she , Who sighed and sobbed for pretty Bessee . She went till she came at Straford at Bow , Then knew she not whither nor which way to go With tears she lamented her hard destiny , So sad and so heavy was pretty Bessee . She kept on her journey until it was day , And went unto Rumford along the highway , And at the Kings-arms entertained was she , So fair and well-favoured was pretty Bessee . She had not been there one month to and end , But Master , and Mistress and all was her friend , And every brave Gallant that once did her see [ , ] Was straightway in love with pretty Bessee . Great gifts they did send her of silver and gold , And in their Songs daily her love they extolled , Her beauty was blazed in every degree , So fair and so comely was pretty Bessee . The young men of Rumford in her had their joy , She showed her self courteous but never too coy , And at their commandment still would she be , So fair and so comely was pretty Bessee . Four Suitors at once unto her did go , They craved her favour but still she said no , I would not wish Gentlemen to marry with me . Yet ever they honoured pretty Bessee . The one of them was a gallant young Knight , And he came to her disguised in the night , The second a Gentleman of good degree , Who wooed and sued for pretty Bessee . A Merchant of London whose wealth was not small Was thus the third Suitor , and proper withal , Her Master's own Son the fourth man must be , Who swore he would die for pretty Bessee . And if thou wilt marry with me , quod the Knight , I'll make thee a Lady with joy and delight . My heart is enthralled by thy beauty , Then grant me thy favour my pretty Bessee . The Gentlemen said , come Marry with me , In silks and in Velvet my Bessee shall be , My heart lives distressed , Oh hear me , quoth he , And grant me thy love my pretty Bessee . Let me by thy Husband the Merchant did say , Thou shalt live in London most gallant and gay M [ y ] sh [ i ] psalm sha [ l ] l bring home rich jewels for thee , And I will fo [ r ] ever love pretty Bessee . Then Bessee she sighed , and thus she did say , My Father and Mother I mean to obey , First get they [ r ] good will and be faithful to me . And you shall enjoy your pretty Bessee . To every one this answer she made , [ W ] herefore unto her they joyfully said , This thing to fulfil we all do agree . But where dwells thy Father my pretty Bessee . My Father quoth she , is plein to be seen , The silly blind beggar of Bednal-green , That daily sits begging for charity , He is the good father of pretty Bessee . His marks and his tokens are known full well , He always is led with a dog and a bell , A silly old man God knoweth is he , Yet he is the father of pretty Bessee . Nay then quoth the Merchant , thou art not for me Nor quoth the Inholder my Wife shall not be , I loath ( quoth the Gentleman ) a beggars degree Therefore fare you well my pretty Bessee . Why then ( quoth the Knight ) hap better or worse , I weigh not true love by the weight of the purse , And beauty is beauty in every degree , Then welcome to me my pretty Bessee . With thee to thy Father forthwith will I go , Nay soft ( quoth his Kinsman ) it must not be so , A beggars daughter no Lady shall be , Then take thy adieu of pretty Bessee . And soon after this by break of the day , The Knight had from Rumford stole Bessee away , The young men of Rumford so sick as may be , Road after to fetch again pretty Bessee . As swift as the wind to ride they were seen , Until they came near to Bednal-green , And as the Knight lighted most courteously , They fought against him for pretty Bessee . But rescue came presently over the Plain , Or else the Knight for his love there had been slave . The fray being ended then straight he did see , His Kinsman come railing for pretty Bessee : Then spoke the blind beggar , although I be poor , Rail not against my child at mine own door , Though she be not decked with Velvet and Pearl , Yet will I drop Angels with thee for my Girl : And then if my Gold will better her birth , And equal the Gold that you lay on the earth , Then neither rail nor grudge you to see The blind beggars daughter a Lady to be : But first I will hear and have it well known , The gold that you drop shall be all your own . With that they replied contented we be , Then there's ( quoth the beggar ) for pretty Bessee , With that and Angel he cast on the ground , And dropped in A ngels full three thousand pound , And oftentimes it proved most plain , For the gentleman's one the beggar dropped twain : So as the place whereas he did fit , With gold was covered every whit The Gentleman having dropped all [ l ] his store , Said , beggar hold , for I have no more , Thou hast fulfilled thy promise aright , Then marry my Girl quoth he to the Knight A and here , quoth he , I'll throw you down , A hundred pound more to buy her a Gown ; The Gentlemen all that this treasure had seen , A dmired the beggar of Bednal-green . A and those that were her Suitors before , Their flesh for very anger they tore : Thus was their Bessee matched to a Knight , And made a Lady in others despite , A fairer Lady there never was seen , Then the beggars daughter of Bednal-green : But of her sumptuous Marriage and Feast , And what brave Lords and Knights thither was pressed The second part shall set forth to your sighed , With marvelous pleasure and wished delight . O f a blind beggars daughter most fair & amp ; bright , That late was betrothed to a young Knight , All the discourse thereof you may see , But now comes the Wedding of pretty Bessee . Within a gallant palace most brave , Adorned with all the cost they could have ; This Wedding was kept most sumptuously , And all for the love of pretty Bessee . All kind of dainties and delicates sweet , Was brought to their banquet as was thought meet , Patridge , Plover , and Venison most free , Against the brave wedding of pretty Bessee . This wedding through England was spread by report So that a great number thereto did resort , Of Nobles and Gentiles of every degree , And all for the fame of pretty Bessee . To Church then went this gallant young Knight . His bride followed after like a Lady most bright : With troops of Ladies the like was never seen , As went with sweet Bessee of Bednal-green . This Wedding being solemnized then , With Music performed by skilful men . The Nobles and Gentiles sat down at that tide Each one beholding the beautiful bride . But after their sumptuous dinner was done , To talk and to reason a number begun , Of the blind beggars daughter most bright , And what his daughter he gave to the Knight . Then spoke the Nobles much marvel have we , The jolly blind beggar we cannot here see : My Lords , quoth the Bride , my father's so base , He's loath with his presence these states to disgrace , the praise of a woman in question to bring , Before her own face were a flattering thing . We think thy father's baseness ( quoth they ) Might by thy beauty be clean put away ; They had no sooner these pleasant words spoke , But in comes the Beggar with a silken Cloak , A Velvet Cap and a Feather had he , And now a Musician forsooth he would be . And being led in from catching of harm , He had a dainty Lute under his arm ; Said , please you hear any music of me , A Song I will sing you of pretty Bessee . With that his Lute he twanged straight way , And thereon began most sweetly to play , And after a Lesson was played two or three , He strained out this song most delicately . A Beggars Daughter did dwell on the green , Who for her beauty may well be a Queen , A blithe bonny Lass and dainty was she , And many one called her pretty Bessee . Her Father had no goods nor no Lands , But begged for a penny all day with his hand ; And yet for her Marriage gave thousands three Yet still hath somewhat for pretty Bessee . And if any one her birth do disdain Her Father is ready with might and with main ; To prove she is come of a Noble degree , Therefore let none flout at my pretty Bessee . With that the Lords and company round , With hearty Laughter was ready to found . At last said the Lords , full wll ewe may see , The Bride and the beggars beolding to thee . With that the Bride all blushing did rise , With the fair water all in her fair eyes : Pardon my Father , grave Nobles ( quoth she ) That through blind affection thus dotes on me : Of this be thy Father the Nobles did say , Well may he be proud of this happy day , Yet by his Countenance well we may see , His Birth with his fortune did never agree , And therefore Blind beggar we pray thee bewray [ , ] And look that the truth to us thou do say ; Thy Birth and thy Parantage what it might be Even for the Love thou bearest to pretty B essee . Then give me leave you Gentiles each one , A song more to sing and then I'll be gone ; And if that I do not win good report , Then do not give me a groat for my sport : WHen first our King his Fame did advance & amp ; fought for his title in delicate France : In many places great perils past he , B ut then was not born my pretty Bessee . And in those Wars went over to fight , Many a brave Duke , a Lord , and a Knight , And with them young Monford of courage so free But then was not born my pretty Bessee . And there did young Monford with a blow o'thee face Lose both his eyes in a very short space . His Life also had been gone with his sighed , Had not a young woman come forth i'th night , among the slave men her fancy did move , To search and to seek for her own true love : Who seeing young Monford there gasping to die She saved his life through her charity . And then all our victuals in B eggers attire , At hands of good people we then did require : At last into England as now it is seen , We came and remained at Bednal-green . And thus we have lived in fortune's despite , Though poor , yet contented with humble delight And in my old years a comfort to be , God sent me a Daughter called pretty Bessee . And thus you Nobles my Song I do end ; Hoping the same no man does offend ; Full forty long Winter's thus have I been , A silly blind B egger of Bednal-green . Now when the company every one , Did hear the strange tale in song he had shown [ ; ] They were all amazed , as well they might be , Both at the blind Beggar and pretty B essee . With that the fair Bride , they then did emb [ raze ] Saying you are come of and honourable raze , Thy Father likewise of a high degree , And thou as worthy a Lady to be : Thus was the Feast ended with joy and delight , A happy Bridegroom was made the young Knight Who lived in joy and felicity , With his fair Lady pretty B essee . Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . ad no goods nor no Lands , But begged for a penny all day with his hand ; And yet for her Marriage gave thousands three Yet still hath somewhat for pretty Bessee . And if any one her birth do disdain Her Father is ready with might and with main ; To prove she is come of a Noble degree , Therefore let none flout at my pretty Bessee . With that the Lords and company round , With hearty Laughter was ready to found . At last said the Lords , full wll ewe may see , The Bride and the beggars beolding to thee . With that the Bride all blushing did rise , With the fair water all in her fair eyes : Pardon my Father , grave Nobles ( quoth she ) That through blind affection thus dotes on me : Of this be thy Father the Nobles did say , Well may he be proud of this happy day , Yet by his Countenance well we may see , His Birth with his fortune did never agree , And therefore Blind beggar we pray thee bewray [ , ] And look that the truth to us thou do say ; Thy Birth and thy Parantage what it might be Even for the Love thou bearest to pretty B essee . Then give me leave you Gentiles each one , A song more to sing and then I'll be gone ; And if that I do not win good report , Then do not give me a groat for my sport : WHen first our King his Fame did advance & amp ; fought for his title in delicate France : In many places great perils past he , B ut then was not born my pretty Bessee . And in those Wars went over to fight , Many a brave Duke , a Lord , and a Knight , And with them young Monford of courage so free But then was not born my pretty Bessee . And there did young Monford with a blow o'thee face Lose both his eyes in a very short space . His Life also had been gone with his sighed , Had not a young woman come forth i'th night , among the slave men her fancy did move , To search and to seek for her own true love : Who seeing young Monford there gasping to die She saved his life through her charity . And then all our victuals in B eggers attire , At hands of good people we then did require : At last into England as now it is seen , We came and remained at Bednal-green . And thus we have lived in fortune's despite , Though poor , yet contented with humble delight And in my old years a comfort to be , God sent me a Daughter called pretty Bessee . And thus you Nobles my Song I do end ; Hoping the same no man does offend ; Full forty long Winter's thus have I been , A silly blind B egger of Bednal-green . Now when the company every one , Did hear the strange tale in song he had shown [ ; ] They were all amazed , as well they might be , Both at the blind Beggar and pretty B essee . With that the fair Bride , they then did emb [ raze ] Saying you are come of and honourable raze , Thy Father likewise of a high degree , And thou as worthy a Lady to be : Thus was the Feast ended with joy and delight , A happy Bridegroom was made the young Knight Who lived in joy and felicity , With his fair Lady pretty B essee . Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 