A Lamentable Ballad of Fair Rosamond , K ing Henry the Second's Concubine , Who was put to death by Queen Elinor , in Woodstock Bower near Oxford . The Tune is , Flying Fame . W Hen as King Henry ruled this Land , the second of that Name , Beside the Queen he dearly loved , a fair and comely dame : Most Peerless was her beauty found , her favour and her face , A sweeter creature in this world , did never Prince embrace . Her crisped Locks like threads of Gold , appeared to each men sighed , Her comely eyes like orient Pearls , did cast a Heavenly light : The blood within her Cristial cheeks , did such a colour drive , As though the Lily and the Rose , for mastership did strive . Yea Rosamond , fair Rosamond , her name was called so , To whom dame Elinor our Queen , was known a deadly foe , The King therefore for her defence , against the furious Queen , At Woodstock built such a Bower , the like was never seen . Most curiously that Bower was built , of Stone and Timber strong , A hundred and fifty doors , did to this Bower belong , And they so cunningly contrived , with turnings round about , That none but with a clew of thread , could enter in or out . And for his Love and Ladies sake , that was so fair and bright , The keeping of this Bower he gave , unto a valiant Knight : But Fortune that does often frown , where it before did smile , The Kings delight , the Ladies joy , full soon she did beguile . For why , the Kings ungracious Son , whom he did high advance , Against his Father raised Wars , within the Realm of France , But yet before our comely King the English Land forsook , Of Rosamond his Lady fair , his farewell thus he took . My Rosamond , my only Rose , that pleasest best mine eye , The fairest flower in all the world , to feed my fantasy : The flower of my affected heart , whose sweetness does excel , My Royal Rose a hundred times , I bid thee now farewell . For I must leave my fairest flower ; my sweetest Rose a space , And cross the Seas to famous France , proud Rebels to abase : But yet my Rose be sure thou shalt my coming shortly see , And in my heart when hence I am , I'll bear my Rose with me . When Rosamond , that Lady bright , did hear the King say so , The sorrow of her grieved heart , her outward looks did show : And from her clear and cristial eyes , the tears gushed out apace , Which like the silver pearled due , ran down her comely face . Her lips like to the corral read , did wax both wan and pale , And for the sorrow she conceived , her vital spirits did fail : And falling down all in a swoon , before King Henries face , Full oft within his Princely arms , her body did embrace . And tw [ e ] nty times with watery eyes he kissed her tender Cheek , Until he had revived again , her senses mild and meek : Why grieves my Rose , my sweetest Rose the King did often say , Because quoth she , to bloody wars , my Lord must pass away . But since your Grace in foreign coasts among your foes unkind , Must go to hazard life and limb , why should I stay behind ? Nay rather let me like a Page , thy Sword and Target bear , That on my Breast the blow may light , that should offend you there . O let me in your Royal Tent , prepare your bed at night , And with sweet baths refresh your grace , at your return from fight , So I your presence may enjoy , no toil I will refuse , But wanting you my life is death , which does true Love abuse . Content thy self my dearest Love , thy rest at home shall be , In Englands sweet and pleasant soil , for travel fits not thee : Fair Ladies brook no bloody wars , sweet peace their pleasure breed , The nourisher of hearts content , which fancy first did feed . My Rose shall rest in Woodstoock Bower , with Music sweetly dight , While I among the piercing Pikes against my foes do fight : My Rose in Robes of Pearl and Gold , with Diamonds richly dight , Shall dance the Galliards of my love , while I my foes do smite . And you Sir Thomas whom I trust , to be my Loves defence , Be careful of my gallant rose , when I am parted hence : And therewithal he fetched a sighs , as though his heart would break , And Rosamond for very grief , not one plain word could speak : And at their parting well they might , in heart be grieved soar , After that day fair Rosamond , the King did see no more : For when his Grace was passed the Seas , and into France was gone , Queen Elinor with envious heart , to Woodstock came anon . And forth she calls this trusty Knight , which kept this curious Bower , Who with his clew of twined thread , came from the famous Flower : And when that they had wounded him , the Queen his Thread did get , And went where Lady Rosamond , was like and Angel set . But when the Queen with steadfast Eye beheld her heavenly Face , She was amazed in her mind at her exceeding grace . Cast off from thee these Robes ( she said ) that rich and costly be . And drink thou up this deadly draught , which I have brought to thee . But presently upon her knees , sweet Rosamond did fallen , And pardon of the Queen she craved , for her offences all : Take pity on my youthful years ( fair Rosamond did cry ) And let me not with poison strong inforced be to die . I will renounce my sinful life , and in some Cloister bide Or else be banished if you please , to range the World so wide , And for the fault that I have done , though I was forced thereto , Preserve my life and punish me , as you think good to do . And with these words her Lily hands , she wrung full often there , And down along her comely face , proceeded many a tear : But nothing could this furious Queen , therewith appeased be , The cup of deadly poison strong , as she sat on her knee . She gave this comely Dame to drink , who took it in her hand , And from her bent knee arose , and on her feet did stand : And casting up her eyes to heaven , she did for mercy call , And drinking up the poison strong , her life she lost withal . And when that death through every limb [ b ] had done her greatest spite , Her chiefest foes did there confess , she was a glorious wight : Her body then they did entomb , when life was fled away , At Woodstock near to Oxford Town , as may be seen this day . Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . A Lamentable Ballad of Fair Rosamond , K ing Henry the Second's Concubine , Who was put to death by Queen Elinor , in Woodstock Bower near Oxford . The Tune is , Flying Fame . W Hen as King Henry ruled this Land , the second of that Name , Beside the Queen he dearly loved , a fair and comely dame : Most Peerless was her beauty found , her favour and her face , A sweeter creature in this world , did never Prince embrace . Her crisped Locks like threads of Gold , appeared to each men sighed , Her comely eyes like orient Pearls , did cast a Heavenly light : The blood within her Cristial cheeks , did such a colour drive , As though the Lily and the Rose , for mastership did strive . Yea Rosamond , fair Rosamond , her name was called so , To whom dame Elinor our Queen , was known a deadly foe , The King therefore for her defence , against the furious Queen , At Woodstock built such a Bower , the like was never seen . Most curiously that Bower was built , of Stone and Timber strong , A hundred and fifty doors , did to this Bower belong , And they so cunningly contrived , with turnings round about , That none but with a clew of thread , could enter in or out . And for his Love and Ladies sake , that was so fair and bright , The keeping of this Bower he gave , unto a valiant Knight : But Fortune that does often frown , where it before did smile , The Kings delight , the Ladies joy , full soon she did beguile . For why , the Kings ungracious Son , whom he did high advance , Against his Father raised Wars , within the Realm of France , But yet before our comely King the English Land forsook , Of Rosamond his Lady fair , his farewell thus he took . My Rosamond , my only Rose , that pleasest best mine eye , The fairest flower in all the world , to feed my fantasy : The flower of my affected heart , whose sweetness does excel , My Royal Rose a hundred times , I bid thee now farewell . For I must leave my fairest flower ; my sweetest Rose a space , And cross the Seas to famous France , proud Rebels to abase : But yet my Rose be sure thou shalt my coming shortly see , And in my heart when hence I am , I'll bear my Rose with me . When Rosamond , that Lady bright , did hear the King say so , The sorrow of her grieved heart , her outward looks did show : And from her clear and cristial eyes , the tears gushed out apace , Which like the silver pearled due , ran down her comely face . Her lips like to the corral read , did wax both wan and pale , And for the sorrow she conceived , her vital spirits did fail : And falling down all in a swoon , before King Henries face , Full oft within his Princely arms , her body did embrace . And tw [ e ] nty times with watery eyes he kissed her tender Cheek , Until he had revived again , her senses mild and meek : Why grieves my Rose , my sweetest Rose the King did often say , Because quoth she , to bloody wars , my Lord must pass away . But since your Grace in foreign coasts among your foes unkind , Must go to hazard life and limb , why should I stay behind ? Nay rather let me like a Page , thy Sword and Target bear , That on my Breast the blow may light , that should offend you there . O let me in your Royal Tent , prepare your bed at night , And with sweet baths refresh your grace , at your return from fight , So I your presence may enjoy , no toil I will refuse , But wanting you my life is death , which does true Love abuse . Content thy self my dearest Love , thy rest at home shall be , In Englands sweet and pleasant soil , for travel fits not thee : Fair Ladies brook no bloody wars , sweet peace their pleasure breed , The nourisher of hearts content , which fancy first did feed . My Rose shall rest in Woodstoock Bower , with Music sweetly dight , While I among the piercing Pikes against my foes do fight : My Rose in Robes of Pearl and Gold , with Diamonds richly dight , Shall dance the Galliards of my love , while I my foes do smite . And you Sir Thomas whom I trust , to be my Loves defence , Be careful of my gallant rose , when I am parted hence : And therewithal he fetched a sighs , as though his heart would break , And Rosamond for very grief , not one plain word could speak : And at their parting well they might , in heart be grieved soar , After that day fair Rosamond , the King did see no more : For when his Grace was passed the Seas , and into France was gone , Queen Elinor with envious heart , to Woodstock came anon . And forth she calls this trusty Knight , which kept this curious Bower , Who with his clew of twined thread , came from the famous Flower : And when that they had wounded him , the Queen his Thread did get , And went where Lady Rosamond , was like and Angel set . But when the Queen with steadfast Eye beheld her heavenly Face , She was amazed in her mind at her exceeding grace . Cast off from thee these Robes ( she said ) that rich and costly be . And drink thou up this deadly draught , which I have brought to thee . But presently upon her knees , sweet Rosamond did fallen , And pardon of the Queen she craved , for her offences all : Take pity on my youthful years ( fair Rosamond did cry ) And let me not with poison strong inforced be to die . I will renounce my sinful life , and in some Cloister bide Or else be banished if you please , to range the World so wide , And for the fault that I have done , though I was forced thereto , Preserve my life and punish me , as you think good to do . And with these words her Lily hands , she wrung full often there , And down along her comely face , proceeded many a tear : But nothing could this furious Queen , therewith appeased be , The cup of deadly poison strong , as she sat on her knee . She gave this comely Dame to drink , who took it in her hand , And from her bent knee arose , and on her feet did stand : And casting up her eyes to heaven , she did for mercy call , And drinking up the poison strong , her life she lost withal . And when that death through every limb [ b ] had done her greatest spite , Her chiefest foes did there confess , she was a glorious wight : Her body then they did entomb , when life was fled away , At Woodstock near to Oxford Town , as may be seen this day . Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 