A Pleasant new Ballad of Tobias , wherein is showed what wondered things chanced him in his youth , and how he wedded a young Damosel that had seven Husbands , never enjoyed their company , who [ we ] re all slave by and evil Spirit . To a pleasant new Tune . I N Nineve old Toby dwelled , and aged man and lined was he , And much affliction he had felt , which brought him unto misery : He had by Anna his true Wife , one only Son and eke no more , Which was the comfort of his life , and he by him did set great store . He brought him up so virtuously , in true obedience and in awe , And every day he did apply , to fear the Lord and keep his Law : Upon a time it came to pass , he called his Son to him with speed , And thus to him these words did frame , my son , quoth he , thou knowest my need . Thou must unto Gabael go , to Raguels house in Media Land : For I did lend him long ago , ten Talents on his only band : My Father dear Tobias said , at your command strait will I go , How shall I get the money paid , seeing the man I never did know . Take then the writings here with thee , which is sufficient to be seen : And get a guide to go with thee , since thou the way hast never been . A guide Tobias soon had god , and Angel in the shape of man , Which thing he did not know God wot , the Lord had so appointed then . Tobias with his blessed guide , went on his journey thus with speed , Until they came to Tigris side , at the fair flood they did abide : Tobias would go wash him there , by reason of the Summer's heat , A mighty Fish put him in fear , which leapt out of the waters deep . Cut up the fish the Angel said , and keep the Liver , Heart , and Gall , To do the same be not afraid , great cures there shall de done withal . When this was done away they went , and coming near their journeys end , We'll lodge to night the Angel said , with Raguel thy Father's friend . He hath a Daughter fair of face , and also of virtuous Life ; And when we come unto that place , I'll speak that she may be thy Wife : Why Azarias then ( quoth he ) for so they did the Angel call , I wis she is no Wife for me , swift Death does all her Lovers fallen . Seven men to her have Married been , which in her Love did take delight : When her bedchamber they had seen , they had not lived half the night . A wicked Spirit loves her so , he will not suffer any man , With her into the bed to go , but works his death do what they can . The Angel said , good courage take , for so it shall not be with thee , For such perfumes I will thee make , the wcked Spirit away shall flee . To Raguels home away they run , where Sarah met them fair and bright ; And after salutations done , she brought them to her Father's sighed . G Reat cheer there was and down they sat , and all for young Tobias sake , And after long and pleasant chat , betwixt them two a match they make ; By Moses Law they married were , the brides bedchamber prepared like wise : When young Tobias came in there , the tears fell down from Sarahs eyes . A pan of coals he brought with him , the Fish Heart and Liver there ; Within the fire he did cast in , which cast a savour every where : And by that sweet and pleasant smell , the wicked spirit was displaced : Within that room he could not dwell , whereout he went in haste . In bed they laid the beauteous Bride , the chamber door was shut therefore ; Young Toby lying by her side , whom he did think to see no more . And therefore Raguel in the night , for him before had made a Grave : And to his wife he wept and said , there is no means his Life to save . One of the Maidens send ( quoth he ) to see how all the matters stands , A and if so be that dead he be , he shall be buried by my hands . This Maiden joyful news did bring , Tobias is alive ( quoth she ) When Raguel herd of this thing , he did rejoice exceedingly . For Joy he made a solemn feast , the Bridal fourteen Days they kept , There came many a friendly Guest , in sorrow now no more they slept . Azarius went strait way , unto the feast Gabael brought : Rejoicing at his Marriage day , and paid the money that he ought . But yet old Toby and his wife , did all this while in sorrow dwell , Thy thought their Son had lost his Life and nothing could their Grief expel . His aged Mother every day , did watch the Highway side : And for his welfare oft did pray , no meat nor drink she could abide . But when the wedding ended was young Toby with his lovely Bride , To Nineve did homeward pass , with Goods and Chattels on each side . But Toby and his Angel bright , before his wife made haste to go : For to prepare all things aright , his lovely bride to welcome ho [ , ] His Mother watching in the way , full soon espied her tender Son : Rejoicing at that happy day , she told her husband he was come : Whereat old Toby tumbled out , for he was blind and could not see , Young Toby with the Fish Gall , rubbed both his eyes immediately . Whereat the whiteness of his eyes , incontient did fallen out quite : So that before he did arise , he had again his perfect sighed : Great joy there was and down they sat , young Toby told his Father all : Who went to meet his lovely Bride , with joy and mirth that was not small . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . A Pleasant new Ballad of Tobias , wherein is showed what wondered things chanced him in his youth , and how he wedded a young Damosel that had seven Husbands , never enjoyed their company , who [ we ] re all slave by and evil Spirit . To a pleasant new Tune . I N Nineve old Toby dwelled , and aged man and lined was he , And much affliction he had felt , which brought him unto misery : He had by Anna his true Wife , one only Son and eke no more , Which was the comfort of his life , and he by him did set great store . He brought him up so virtuously , in true obedience and in awe , And every day he did apply , to fear the Lord and keep his Law : Upon a time it came to pass , he called his Son to him with speed , And thus to him these words did frame , my son , quoth he , thou knowest my need . Thou must unto Gabael go , to Raguels house in Media Land : For I did lend him long ago , ten Talents on his only band : My Father dear Tobias said , at your command strait will I go , How shall I get the money paid , seeing the man I never did know . Take then the writings here with thee , which is sufficient to be seen : And get a guide to go with thee , since thou the way hast never been . A guide Tobias soon had god , and Angel in the shape of man , Which thing he did not know God wot , the Lord had so appointed then . Tobias with his blessed guide , went on his journey thus with speed , Until they came to Tigris side , at the fair flood they did abide : Tobias would go wash him there , by reason of the Summer's heat , A mighty Fish put him in fear , which leapt out of the waters deep . Cut up the fish the Angel said , and keep the Liver , Heart , and Gall , To do the same be not afraid , great cures there shall de done withal . When this was done away they went , and coming near their journeys end , We'll lodge to night the Angel said , with Raguel thy Father's friend . He hath a Daughter fair of face , and also of virtuous Life ; And when we come unto that place , I'll speak that she may be thy Wife : Why Azarias then ( quoth he ) for so they did the Angel call , I wis she is no Wife for me , swift Death does all her Lovers fallen . Seven men to her have Married been , which in her Love did take delight : When her bedchamber they had seen , they had not lived half the night . A wicked Spirit loves her so , he will not suffer any man , With her into the bed to go , but works his death do what they can . The Angel said , good courage take , for so it shall not be with thee , For such perfumes I will thee make , the wcked Spirit away shall flee . To Raguels home away they run , where Sarah met them fair and bright ; And after salutations done , she brought them to her Father's sighed . G Reat cheer there was and down they sat , and all for young Tobias sake , And after long and pleasant chat , betwixt them two a match they make ; By Moses Law they married were , the brides bedchamber prepared like wise : When young Tobias came in there , the tears fell down from Sarahs eyes . A pan of coals he brought with him , the Fish Heart and Liver there ; Within the fire he did cast in , which cast a savour every where : And by that sweet and pleasant smell , the wicked spirit was displaced : Within that room he could not dwell , whereout he went in haste . In bed they laid the beauteous Bride , the chamber door was shut therefore ; Young Toby lying by her side , whom he did think to see no more . And therefore Raguel in the night , for him before had made a Grave : And to his wife he wept and said , there is no means his Life to save . One of the Maidens send ( quoth he ) to see how all the matters stands , A and if so be that dead he be , he shall be buried by my hands . This Maiden joyful news did bring , Tobias is alive ( quoth she ) When Raguel herd of this thing , he did rejoice exceedingly . For Joy he made a solemn feast , the Bridal fourteen Days they kept , There came many a friendly Guest , in sorrow now no more they slept . Azarius went strait way , unto the feast Gabael brought : Rejoicing at his Marriage day , and paid the money that he ought . But yet old Toby and his wife , did all this while in sorrow dwell , Thy thought their Son had lost his Life and nothing could their Grief expel . His aged Mother every day , did watch the Highway side : And for his welfare oft did pray , no meat nor drink she could abide . But when the wedding ended was young Toby with his lovely Bride , To Nineve did homeward pass , with Goods and Chattels on each side . But Toby and his Angel bright , before his wife made haste to go : For to prepare all things aright , his lovely bride to welcome ho [ , ] His Mother watching in the way , full soon espied her tender Son : Rejoicing at that happy day , she told her husband he was come : Whereat old Toby tumbled out , for he was blind and could not see , Young Toby with the Fish Gall , rubbed both his eyes immediately . Whereat the whiteness of his eyes , incontient did fallen out quite : So that before he did arise , he had again his perfect sighed : Great joy there was and down they sat , young Toby told his Father all : Who went to meet his lovely Bride , with joy and mirth that was not small . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 