New Mad Tom of Bedlam OR , The Man in the Moon drinks Clarret , With Powder-beef , Turnip and Carret . The Tune is , Grays-Inn-Mask F Orth from my sad and darksome Cell , Or from the deep Abyss of Hell , Mad TO om is come to view the world again , To see if he can ease his distempered Brain : Fear and care does pierce the Soul , Hark how the angry Furies howl ; Pluto laughs and Proserpine is , glad , To see poor naked Tom of Bedlam mad : Through the world I wander night and day , to find my straggling senses , In and angry mood I found ol Time , with's Pentarchy of Tenches , When me he spies , Away he flies , For time will way for no man , In vain with cries , I rend the skies , For pity is not common . Cold and comfortless I lie , Help , Oh help , or else I die , Hark I hear Appoll's Theam , The Carman begins to Whistle , Chaste Diana Bends her Bow , The Boar begins to Bristle : Come Vulcan with Tools and with Tackle : shake off my troublesome shackle , Let Charles make ready his Wain , To bring my senses again . Last night I herd the Dog-Star bark Mars met Venus in the Dark , Leaping Vulcan het and Iron-Bar , And furiously did run at the God of War , M ars with his Weapon laid about , But Vulcans Temples had the Gout , His broad horns did so hang in his sighed , He could not see to aim his Blows aright : M ercury the Nimble Post of heaven , Laid still to see the Quarrel , Gorrel bellied Baccus Giantlike , bestried a strong Beer Barrel : To me he drank , I did him thank , But I could get no Syder , He drank whole Buts , Till he cracked his Guts , But mine were never the wider . Poor naked TO om is very dry , A little drink for Charity : Hark I hear Acteon's Hounds , The Huntsman whoops and Hollows , Ringing Royster , Bowman Jowler At the chase now follows : The man ith Moon Drinks Clarret , With Powder beef Turney and Carret , A Cup of Old Mallago Sack , Will fire the Bush at his back . The Man in the MOON Drinks Clarret . As it was lately Sung at the Curtain Holy-Well . To the same Tune . BAcchus the Father of drunken Nowles Full Mazers , Beakers Glasses , Bowls Greasy Flapdragons , Flemish Upsie freeze ; With health stabbed in arms upon naked knees Of all his Wines he makes you tasters , So you Tipple like Bumbasters : Drink till you reel , a welcome he does give , Oh how the boon Claret makes you live : Not a Painter purer Colour shows , then what's laid on by Clarret , Pearl and Ruby does set out the Nose when thin small Beer does mar it . Rich Wine is good , It heats the blood , It makes and old man lusty , The young to brawl , And Drawers up call , Before being too much musty . Whither you drink all or little , Pot it so your selves to wittle , Then though twelve A Clock it be , Yet all the way go Roaring , If the Band Of Bills cry siand , Swear that you must a Whor ------ Such Gambols , such tricks such Fegaries , We fetch though we touch no Canaries : Drink wine till the Welkin roars , And cry out out a Pox of your Scores . In Wine we calls for Bawdy Jggs , Catzoes , Rumbilloes , Whirligigs , Campo god in Huff-Cap vain , The Devil in the place you wot were reign , Brave wine it thus tickles our Heels , Mulled well in wine none sorrows feels : Our moon-man and his powder beef mad crew thus caper through the liquour sweet turnip drew Round about over Tables and joined-stools let's dance with naked Rapiers , Cut the Fiddlestrings and then like fools kick out the fum fum scrapers : There is no found That cares can wound , As lids of wine pots clinking ; Theres no such sport , When all amort , Men cry lets fallen a drinking : Oh it's Nappy Geer , Would each Belly was filled here , Herrings pickled Must be tickled ' Down to draw the Liquour : The salt Sammon , And fat Gammon , makes our Wine drink quicker . Our man in the Moon drinks Clarret , If he does so , why should not you , Drink until the sky looks blue . Hey for a turn thus above ground heigh , Oh my Noddle too heavy does weigh , Metheglin , Perry Syder , nor strong Ale , Are half so heady be they never so stale : Wine in our Guts can never rumble , Down now & amp ; then though it makes us stumble Yet scrambling up a drunkard feels no pain , But cries Sirrah Boy , tother Pottle again We can drink no more unless we have full pipes of Trinnidado , Give us the best it keeps our brains , more warm then can freezado . It makes us sing , And cry heigh ding , And laugh when Pipes lie broken , For which to pay At going away , We scorn a Mustard token , Never curse the saucy score , Outswear the Bar you'll pay no more : In these days He is no Gallant That cannot puff and swagger , Though he dare Not kill a sheep , Yet our must fly his Dagger . If then you do love my Host's Clarret , Fat powder beef , Turnip and Carret , Come again , and again , And still welcome Gentlemen . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . New Mad Tom of Bedlam OR , The Man in the Moon drinks Clarret , With Powder-beef , Turnip and Carret . The Tune is , Grays-Inn-Mask F Orth from my sad and darksome Cell , Or from the deep Abyss of Hell , Mad TO om is come to view the world again , To see if he can ease his distempered Brain : Fear and care does pierce the Soul , Hark how the angry Furies howl ; Pluto laughs and Proserpine is , glad , To see poor naked Tom of Bedlam mad : Through the world I wander night and day , to find my straggling senses , In and angry mood I found ol Time , with's Pentarchy of Tenches , When me he spies , Away he flies , For time will way for no man , In vain with cries , I rend the skies , For pity is not common . Cold and comfortless I lie , Help , Oh help , or else I die , Hark I hear Appoll's Theam , The Carman begins to Whistle , Chaste Diana Bends her Bow , The Boar begins to Bristle : Come Vulcan with Tools and with Tackle : shake off my troublesome shackle , Let Charles make ready his Wain , To bring my senses again . Last night I herd the Dog-Star bark Mars met Venus in the Dark , Leaping Vulcan het and Iron-Bar , And furiously did run at the God of War , M ars with his Weapon laid about , But Vulcans Temples had the Gout , His broad horns did so hang in his sighed , He could not see to aim his Blows aright : M ercury the Nimble Post of heaven , Laid still to see the Quarrel , Gorrel bellied Baccus Giantlike , bestried a strong Beer Barrel : To me he drank , I did him thank , But I could get no Syder , He drank whole Buts , Till he cracked his Guts , But mine were never the wider . Poor naked TO om is very dry , A little drink for Charity : Hark I hear Acteon's Hounds , The Huntsman whoops and Hollows , Ringing Royster , Bowman Jowler At the chase now follows : The man ith Moon Drinks Clarret , With Powder beef Turney and Carret , A Cup of Old Mallago Sack , Will fire the Bush at his back . The Man in the MOON Drinks Clarret . As it was lately Sung at the Curtain Holy-Well . To the same Tune . BAcchus the Father of drunken Nowles Full Mazers , Beakers Glasses , Bowls Greasy Flapdragons , Flemish Upsie freeze ; With health stabbed in arms upon naked knees Of all his Wines he makes you tasters , So you Tipple like Bumbasters : Drink till you reel , a welcome he does give , Oh how the boon Claret makes you live : Not a Painter purer Colour shows , then what's laid on by Clarret , Pearl and Ruby does set out the Nose when thin small Beer does mar it . Rich Wine is good , It heats the blood , It makes and old man lusty , The young to brawl , And Drawers up call , Before being too much musty . Whither you drink all or little , Pot it so your selves to wittle , Then though twelve A Clock it be , Yet all the way go Roaring , If the Band Of Bills cry siand , Swear that you must a Whor ------ Such Gambols , such tricks such Fegaries , We fetch though we touch no Canaries : Drink wine till the Welkin roars , And cry out out a Pox of your Scores . In Wine we calls for Bawdy Jggs , Catzoes , Rumbilloes , Whirligigs , Campo god in Huff-Cap vain , The Devil in the place you wot were reign , Brave wine it thus tickles our Heels , Mulled well in wine none sorrows feels : Our moon-man and his powder beef mad crew thus caper through the liquour sweet turnip drew Round about over Tables and joined-stools let's dance with naked Rapiers , Cut the Fiddlestrings and then like fools kick out the fum fum scrapers : There is no found That cares can wound , As lids of wine pots clinking ; Theres no such sport , When all amort , Men cry lets fallen a drinking : Oh it's Nappy Geer , Would each Belly was filled here , Herrings pickled Must be tickled ' Down to draw the Liquour : The salt Sammon , And fat Gammon , makes our Wine drink quicker . Our man in the Moon drinks Clarret , If he does so , why should not you , Drink until the sky looks blue . Hey for a turn thus above ground heigh , Oh my Noddle too heavy does weigh , Metheglin , Perry Syder , nor strong Ale , Are half so heady be they never so stale : Wine in our Guts can never rumble , Down now & amp ; then though it makes us stumble Yet scrambling up a drunkard feels no pain , But cries Sirrah Boy , tother Pottle again We can drink no more unless we have full pipes of Trinnidado , Give us the best it keeps our brains , more warm then can freezado . It makes us sing , And cry heigh ding , And laugh when Pipes lie broken , For which to pay At going away , We scorn a Mustard token , Never curse the saucy score , Outswear the Bar you'll pay no more : In these days He is no Gallant That cannot puff and swagger , Though he dare Not kill a sheep , Yet our must fly his Dagger . If then you do love my Host's Clarret , Fat powder beef , Turnip and Carret , Come again , and again , And still welcome Gentlemen . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 