A New Ballad , showing how a Prince of England , loved the Kings Daughter of France , and how the P rince was disastrously slave , and how the aforesaid P rincess was afterwards M arried to A Forester . Tune is , Crimson Velvet . I N the day of Old when fair France did flourish , Stories plainly told , Lovers felt annoy ; The King a Daughter had , beauteous , fair , and lovely , Which made her Father glad , she was his only joy : A Prince of England came , Whose deeds did merit Fame , he wooed her long , and lo at last , Look what he did require , She granted his desire , their hearts in one were linked fast . Which when her Father proved , Lord how he was moved , and tormented in his mind , He souuht for to prevent them , And to discontent them , fortune crossed overs kind . When these Princes twain , were thus bared of pleasure , Through the Kings disdain , which their joys withstood , The Lady locked up close , her jewles and her treasure , Having no remorse of state and Royal blood : In homely poor array , She went from Court away , to meet her love and hearts delight : Who in a Forest great , Had taken up his seat , to wait her coming in the night ; But lo what sudden danger , To this Princely stranger , chanced as he sat alone ; By outlaws he was robbed , And with poniard stabbed , uttering many a dying groan . The Princes armed by him , and by true desire , Wandering all that night , without dread at all : Still unknown she passed , in her strange attire , Coming at the last , within Echoes call , You fair Wood , quoth she , Honoured may you be , harbouring my hearts delight , Which does encompass here , My joy and only dear , my trusty friend and comely Knight . Sweet I come unto thee , Sweet I come to woe thee , that thou mayest not angry be , For my long delaying , And thy courteous staying , amends for all I'll make to thee . Passing thus alone , through the silent Forest , Many a grievous groan sounded in her ear , Where she herd a man to lament the forest , Chance that ever came , forced by deadly strife . Farewell , my dear , quoth he , Whom I shall never see , for why my life is at and end , For thy sweet sake I die , Through Villains cruelty , to show I am a faithful friend : Here lie I a bleeding , While my thoughts are feeding , on the rarest beauty found : Oh hard hap that may be , Little knows my Lady , my heart blood lies on the ground . With that he gave a groan , that did break asunder All the tender strings of his gentle heart : She who knew his voice , at his tale did wonder , All her former joys did to grief convert . Straight she ran to see , who this man should be , That so like her love did speak , and found when as she came , Her lovely Lord lay slave , smeared in blood , which life did break Which when that she espied , Lord how soar she cried , her sorrows could not counted be ; Her eyes like Fountains running , While she cried out my darling , would God that I had died for thee . His pale lips alas , twenty times she kissed , And his face did wash with her brinish tears . Every bleeding wound , her fair face bedewed , Wiping off the blood , with her golden hair . Speak my love ( quoth he ) Speak fair Prince [ tO ] oh me , one sweet word of Comfort give , Lift up thy fair eyes , Listen to my cries , think in what great grief I live : All in vain she sued , All in vain she wooed , the Princes life was fled and gone : There stood she still mourning , Till the Suns approaching , and bright day was coming on The Second Part , To the same Tune . I N this great distress , quoth this Royal Lady , Who can now express , what will become of me ? To my Father's Court never will I wander , But some service seek , where I may placed be , While she thus made her moan , Weeping all alone , in this deep and deadly fear : A Forester all in green , Most comely to be seen , ranging the wood did find her there , Round beset with sorrow , Maid ( quoth he ) good morrow , what hard hap hath brought you here ? Harder hap did never Chance to a Maiden ever , here lies slave my brother dear . Where might I be placed , gentle Forrester tell me : Where might I procure , a service in my need ? Pains will I not spare , but will do my duty , Ease me of my care , help my extreme need . The Forester all amazed , On her beauty gazed , till his heart was set on fire : If fair Maid ( quoth he ) You will go with me , you shall have your hearts desire . He brought her to his Mother And above all other , he set forth this Maidens praise , Long was his heart inflamed , At length her love he gained , so fortune did his glory raise . Thus unknown he matched , with the Kings fair daughter , Children seven he had , ever she to him was known . But when he understood she was a Royal Princess , By this me [ a ] ns at last he showed f [ oh ] rth her fame : He clothed his children [ tO ] h [ e ] n Not like to other men , in party colours strange to see The right side cloth of gold , The left side to behold , of woolen cloth still framed he : Men thereat did wonder Golden Fame did thunder this strange deed [ in ] every place : The King of F rance came thither , Being pleasant weather , in these Woods the Heart to Chase . The children there did stand as their Mother willed Where the Royal King must of force come by Their Mother richly clad in fair Crimson Velvet Their Father all in Grey , most comely to the Eye When this famous King , Noting every thing , did ask how he durst be so bold , To let his Wife to wear , And deck his Children there , in costly Robes of Pearl and Gold ; The Forester bold replied , And the cause descried : and to the King he thus did say : Well may they by their mother , Were rich cloa [ tO ] hs with other , being by birth a princess gay : The King upon these words more heedfully beheld them : Till a crimson blush , his conceit did cross : The more I look ( quoth he ) upon thy Wife and children , The more I call to mind , my daughter whom I lost . I am that child ( quoth she ) Falling on her knee , pardon me my Sovereign Liege : The King perceiving this , His daughter dear did kiss , till joyful tears did stop his speech : With his train he turned , And with her sojourned , straight he dubbed her husband Knight He made him Earl of Flanders , One of his chief Commanders , thus was their sorrow put to flight . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray and TO , Passenger . A New Ballad , showing how a Prince of England , loved the Kings Daughter of France , and how the P rince was disastrously slave , and how the aforesaid P rincess was afterwards M arried to A Forester . Tune is , Crimson Velvet . I N the day of Old when fair France did flourish , Stories plainly told , Lovers felt annoy ; The King a Daughter had , beauteous , fair , and lovely , Which made her Father glad , she was his only joy : A Prince of England came , Whose deeds did merit Fame , he wooed her long , and lo at last , Look what he did require , She granted his desire , their hearts in one were linked fast . Which when her Father proved , Lord how he was moved , and tormented in his mind , He souuht for to prevent them , And to discontent them , fortune crossed overs kind . When these Princes twain , were thus bared of pleasure , Through the Kings disdain , which their joys withstood , The Lady locked up close , her jewles and her treasure , Having no remorse of state and Royal blood : In homely poor array , She went from Court away , to meet her love and hearts delight : Who in a Forest great , Had taken up his seat , to wait her coming in the night ; But lo what sudden danger , To this Princely stranger , chanced as he sat alone ; By outlaws he was robbed , And with poniard stabbed , uttering many a dying groan . The Princes armed by him , and by true desire , Wandering all that night , without dread at all : Still unknown she passed , in her strange attire , Coming at the last , within Echoes call , You fair Wood , quoth she , Honoured may you be , harbouring my hearts delight , Which does encompass here , My joy and only dear , my trusty friend and comely Knight . Sweet I come unto thee , Sweet I come to woe thee , that thou mayest not angry be , For my long delaying , And thy courteous staying , amends for all I'll make to thee . Passing thus alone , through the silent Forest , Many a grievous groan sounded in her ear , Where she herd a man to lament the forest , Chance that ever came , forced by deadly strife . Farewell , my dear , quoth he , Whom I shall never see , for why my life is at and end , For thy sweet sake I die , Through Villains cruelty , to show I am a faithful friend : Here lie I a bleeding , While my thoughts are feeding , on the rarest beauty found : Oh hard hap that may be , Little knows my Lady , my heart blood lies on the ground . With that he gave a groan , that did break asunder All the tender strings of his gentle heart : She who knew his voice , at his tale did wonder , All her former joys did to grief convert . Straight she ran to see , who this man should be , That so like her love did speak , and found when as she came , Her lovely Lord lay slave , smeared in blood , which life did break Which when that she espied , Lord how soar she cried , her sorrows could not counted be ; Her eyes like Fountains running , While she cried out my darling , would God that I had died for thee . His pale lips alas , twenty times she kissed , And his face did wash with her brinish tears . Every bleeding wound , her fair face bedewed , Wiping off the blood , with her golden hair . Speak my love ( quoth he ) Speak fair Prince [ tO ] oh me , one sweet word of Comfort give , Lift up thy fair eyes , Listen to my cries , think in what great grief I live : All in vain she sued , All in vain she wooed , the Princes life was fled and gone : There stood she still mourning , Till the Suns approaching , and bright day was coming on The Second Part , To the same Tune . I N this great distress , quoth this Royal Lady , Who can now express , what will become of me ? To my Father's Court never will I wander , But some service seek , where I may placed be , While she thus made her moan , Weeping all alone , in this deep and deadly fear : A Forester all in green , Most comely to be seen , ranging the wood did find her there , Round beset with sorrow , Maid ( quoth he ) good morrow , what hard hap hath brought you here ? Harder hap did never Chance to a Maiden ever , here lies slave my brother dear . Where might I be placed , gentle Forrester tell me : Where might I procure , a service in my need ? Pains will I not spare , but will do my duty , Ease me of my care , help my extreme need . The Forester all amazed , On her beauty gazed , till his heart was set on fire : If fair Maid ( quoth he ) You will go with me , you shall have your hearts desire . He brought her to his Mother And above all other , he set forth this Maidens praise , Long was his heart inflamed , At length her love he gained , so fortune did his glory raise . Thus unknown he matched , with the Kings fair daughter , Children seven he had , ever she to him was known . But when he understood she was a Royal Princess , By this me [ a ] ns at last he showed f [ oh ] rth her fame : He clothed his children [ tO ] h [ e ] n Not like to other men , in party colours strange to see The right side cloth of gold , The left side to behold , of woolen cloth still framed he : Men thereat did wonder Golden Fame did thunder this strange deed [ in ] every place : The King of F rance came thither , Being pleasant weather , in these Woods the Heart to Chase . The children there did stand as their Mother willed Where the Royal King must of force come by Their Mother richly clad in fair Crimson Velvet Their Father all in Grey , most comely to the Eye When this famous King , Noting every thing , did ask how he durst be so bold , To let his Wife to wear , And deck his Children there , in costly Robes of Pearl and Gold ; The Forester bold replied , And the cause descried : and to the King he thus did say : Well may they by their mother , Were rich cloa [ tO ] hs with other , being by birth a princess gay : The King upon these words more heedfully beheld them : Till a crimson blush , his conceit did cross : The more I look ( quoth he ) upon thy Wife and children , The more I call to mind , my daughter whom I lost . I am that child ( quoth she ) Falling on her knee , pardon me my Sovereign Liege : The King perceiving this , His daughter dear did kiss , till joyful tears did stop his speech : With his train he turned , And with her sojourned , straight he dubbed her husband Knight He made him Earl of Flanders , One of his chief Commanders , thus was their sorrow put to flight . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray and TO , Passenger . 