And Excellent New Ballad of Patient Grissel . To the Tune of , The [ Bri ] des Good-morrow . A Noble Marquis , As he did ride a Hunting hard by a Forest side : A fair and comely Maiden As she did fit a spinning his gentle eye espied : Most fair and lovely , And of comely Grace was she , although in simple attire , She sung full sweetly : With pleasant voice melodiously , which set the Lords heart on fire , The more he looked the more he might Beauty bred his hearts delight , And to this Damosel then he went with speed : God speed ( quod he ) thou famous flower Fair Mistress of this homely Bower , Where love and virtue dwells with sweet content : With comely gesture And modest mild behaviour she bids him welcome then , She entertained him In faithful friendly manner , and all his Gentlemen : The Noble Marquis In's heart felt such a flame , which set his senses all at strife , Quoth he fair Maiden , Show me soon what is your name , I mean to make thee my Wife . Grissel is my name ( quoth she ) Far unfit for your degree , A silly Maiden and of parents poor : Nay Grissel thou art rich , he said , A virtuous fair and comely maid , Grant me thy love , and I will ask no more . At length she comsented And being both contented they married were with speed . Her country Russet Was turned to Silk and Velvet , as to her state agreed , And when that she Was trimly tired in the same , her beauty shined most bright , Far staining every other Fair and princely dame that did appear in sighed . Many envied her therefore , Because she was of Parents poor , And twirt her Lord and she great strife did raise : Some said this , and some said that , And some did call her beggars brat And to her Lord they would her oft dispraise . O noble Marquis , Quoth they , why dost thou wrong us thus basely for to wed , Who might have got And honourable Lady into your princely bed , Who will not now Your noble issue soon deride which shall hereafter be born , That are of blood so base Born by the mother's side , the which shall bring them in scorn Put her therefore quite away , And take to you a Lady gay , Whereby your Lineage may renowned be ; Thus every day they seemed to prate That maliced Grissels good estate Who all this while took it patiently . When that the Marquis Did see that they were bent against his faithful wife Whom he most dearly , Tenderly and entirely , beloved as his life : Minding in secret For to try her patient heart , thereby her foes for to disgrace Thinking to show her A hard discourteous part , that they might pity her case . Great with child the Lady was , And at the last it came to pass , Two goodly Children at one birth she had A Son and daughter God had sent which did her mother well content And which did make their father's heart full glad . Great Royal feasting Was at these Children's Christenings and Princely Triumph made , Six weeks together , All Nobles that came thither , were entertained and stayed : And when that all the Pleasant sporting quite was done , The Marquis a messenger sent For his young daughter And his pretty smiling son : declaring his full intent How that the Babes must murdered be For so the marquis did decree : Come let me have the Children , then he said With that fair Grissel wept full soar She wrong her hands and said no more , My Gracious Lord shall have his will obeyed . She took the Babes Even from the Nursing Ladies ; between her tender arms ; She often wishes With many sorrowful kisses , that she might ease their harms Farewell , farewell , A thousand times my children dear , never shall I see you again , It's long of me Your sad and woeful mother here for whose sake both must be slave Had I been born of Royal Raze , You might have lived in happy case , But you must die for my unworthiness : Come messenger of death , quoth she , Take my dearest Babes to thee , And to their Father my complaints express , He took the Children And to his Noble Master he boar them hence with speed , Who in secret sent them Unto a noble Lady to be brought up indeed : Then to fair Grissel With a heavy heart he goes , where she sat mildly all alone , A pleasant gesture , And a lovely look she shows , as if no grief she had known . Quod he , my children now are slave , What thinks fair Grissel of the same Sweet Grissel now declare thy mind to me ; Sith you my Lord are pleased with it , Poor Grissel thinks this actium fit Both I and mine at your command will be . My nobles murmur Fair Grissel at thy honour , and I no joy can have Till thou be banished Both from my Court and presence as they unjustly crave : Thou must be stripped Out of thy stately Garments all , and as thou camest to me In homely grey , Instead of Biss and purest Pall , now all thy clothing must be . My Lady thou must be no more , Nor I thy Lord , which grieves me soar , The poorest life must now content thy mind : A Groat to thee I dare not give , Thee to maintain while I do live , Against my Grissel such great foes I find : When gentle Grissel Did hear these woeful tidings , the tears stood in her eyes , Nothing she answered , No words of discontentment did from her Lips arise . Her Velvet Gown Most patiently she striped off , her of silk with the same ; Her Russet Gown Was brought again with many a scoff to bear them herself she did frame . When she was dressed in this array And ready for to pass away , God send long life unto my Lord , quoth she : Let no offence be found in this , To give my Lord a parting kiss , With watery eyes farewell my dear ; said she : From Princely Palace Unto her Father's Cottage poor Grissel she is gone ; Full fifteen Winter's She lived there contented , no wrong she thought upon ; And at this time through All the Land the speeches , went the Marquis should married be , Unto a Noble Lady & amp ; to the same all parties did agree [ e ] The Marquis sent for Grissel fair , The Bride Bed chamber to prepare That nothing therein might be found awry ; the Bride was with her Brother come which was great joy to all and some , But Grissel took all this most patiently . And in the morning When as they should be wedded her patience there was tried , Grissel was charged Herself in friendly manner for to attire the Bride : Most willingly She gave consent to do the same the Bride in bravery was dressed And presently The Noble Marquis thither came , with all his Lords at his Request Oh Grissel I will ask of thee I f to this match thou wilt agree Methinks thy looks are waxed wondrous coy With that they all began to smile : And Grissel she replied the while , God send Lord Marquis many years of joy . The Marquis was moved to see his best beloved , Thus patient in distress , He stepped unto her , And by the hand he took her , these words he did express : Thou art the Bride , And all the Brides I mean to [ have , ] these two thine own children [ us ] . The youthful Lady On her knees did blessing cra [ we ] , her Brother as well as she . And you that envy her estate Whom I have chosen to my mate Now blush for shame and honour virtuous life , The Chronicles of lasting fame , Shall evermore extol the fame , Of patient Grissel my most constant wife . FINIS . Printed for J. C. W. T. and T. P . And Excellent New Ballad of Patient Grissel . To the Tune of , The [ Bri ] des Good-morrow . A Noble Marquis , As he did ride a Hunting hard by a Forest side : A fair and comely Maiden As she did fit a spinning his gentle eye espied : Most fair and lovely , And of comely Grace was she , although in simple attire , She sung full sweetly : With pleasant voice melodiously , which set the Lords heart on fire , The more he looked the more he might Beauty bred his hearts delight , And to this Damosel then he went with speed : God speed ( quod he ) thou famous flower Fair Mistress of this homely Bower , Where love and virtue dwells with sweet content : With comely gesture And modest mild behaviour she bids him welcome then , She entertained him In faithful friendly manner , and all his Gentlemen : The Noble Marquis In's heart felt such a flame , which set his senses all at strife , Quoth he fair Maiden , Show me soon what is your name , I mean to make thee my Wife . Grissel is my name ( quoth she ) Far unfit for your degree , A silly Maiden and of parents poor : Nay Grissel thou art rich , he said , A virtuous fair and comely maid , Grant me thy love , and I will ask no more . At length she comsented And being both contented they married were with speed . Her country Russet Was turned to Silk and Velvet , as to her state agreed , And when that she Was trimly tired in the same , her beauty shined most bright , Far staining every other Fair and princely dame that did appear in sighed . Many envied her therefore , Because she was of Parents poor , And twirt her Lord and she great strife did raise : Some said this , and some said that , And some did call her beggars brat And to her Lord they would her oft dispraise . O noble Marquis , Quoth they , why dost thou wrong us thus basely for to wed , Who might have got And honourable Lady into your princely bed , Who will not now Your noble issue soon deride which shall hereafter be born , That are of blood so base Born by the mother's side , the which shall bring them in scorn Put her therefore quite away , And take to you a Lady gay , Whereby your Lineage may renowned be ; Thus every day they seemed to prate That maliced Grissels good estate Who all this while took it patiently . When that the Marquis Did see that they were bent against his faithful wife Whom he most dearly , Tenderly and entirely , beloved as his life : Minding in secret For to try her patient heart , thereby her foes for to disgrace Thinking to show her A hard discourteous part , that they might pity her case . Great with child the Lady was , And at the last it came to pass , Two goodly Children at one birth she had A Son and daughter God had sent which did her mother well content And which did make their father's heart full glad . Great Royal feasting Was at these Children's Christenings and Princely Triumph made , Six weeks together , All Nobles that came thither , were entertained and stayed : And when that all the Pleasant sporting quite was done , The Marquis a messenger sent For his young daughter And his pretty smiling son : declaring his full intent How that the Babes must murdered be For so the marquis did decree : Come let me have the Children , then he said With that fair Grissel wept full soar She wrong her hands and said no more , My Gracious Lord shall have his will obeyed . She took the Babes Even from the Nursing Ladies ; between her tender arms ; She often wishes With many sorrowful kisses , that she might ease their harms Farewell , farewell , A thousand times my children dear , never shall I see you again , It's long of me Your sad and woeful mother here for whose sake both must be slave Had I been born of Royal Raze , You might have lived in happy case , But you must die for my unworthiness : Come messenger of death , quoth she , Take my dearest Babes to thee , And to their Father my complaints express , He took the Children And to his Noble Master he boar them hence with speed , Who in secret sent them Unto a noble Lady to be brought up indeed : Then to fair Grissel With a heavy heart he goes , where she sat mildly all alone , A pleasant gesture , And a lovely look she shows , as if no grief she had known . Quod he , my children now are slave , What thinks fair Grissel of the same Sweet Grissel now declare thy mind to me ; Sith you my Lord are pleased with it , Poor Grissel thinks this actium fit Both I and mine at your command will be . My nobles murmur Fair Grissel at thy honour , and I no joy can have Till thou be banished Both from my Court and presence as they unjustly crave : Thou must be stripped Out of thy stately Garments all , and as thou camest to me In homely grey , Instead of Biss and purest Pall , now all thy clothing must be . My Lady thou must be no more , Nor I thy Lord , which grieves me soar , The poorest life must now content thy mind : A Groat to thee I dare not give , Thee to maintain while I do live , Against my Grissel such great foes I find : When gentle Grissel Did hear these woeful tidings , the tears stood in her eyes , Nothing she answered , No words of discontentment did from her Lips arise . Her Velvet Gown Most patiently she striped off , her of silk with the same ; Her Russet Gown Was brought again with many a scoff to bear them herself she did frame . When she was dressed in this array And ready for to pass away , God send long life unto my Lord , quoth she : Let no offence be found in this , To give my Lord a parting kiss , With watery eyes farewell my dear ; said she : From Princely Palace Unto her Father's Cottage poor Grissel she is gone ; Full fifteen Winter's She lived there contented , no wrong she thought upon ; And at this time through All the Land the speeches , went the Marquis should married be , Unto a Noble Lady & amp ; to the same all parties did agree [ e ] The Marquis sent for Grissel fair , The Bride Bed chamber to prepare That nothing therein might be found awry ; the Bride was with her Brother come which was great joy to all and some , But Grissel took all this most patiently . And in the morning When as they should be wedded her patience there was tried , Grissel was charged Herself in friendly manner for to attire the Bride : Most willingly She gave consent to do the same the Bride in bravery was dressed And presently The Noble Marquis thither came , with all his Lords at his Request Oh Grissel I will ask of thee I f to this match thou wilt agree Methinks thy looks are waxed wondrous coy With that they all began to smile : And Grissel she replied the while , God send Lord Marquis many years of joy . The Marquis was moved to see his best beloved , Thus patient in distress , He stepped unto her , And by the hand he took her , these words he did express : Thou art the Bride , And all the Brides I mean to [ have , ] these two thine own children [ us ] . The youthful Lady On her knees did blessing cra [ we ] , her Brother as well as she . And you that envy her estate Whom I have chosen to my mate Now blush for shame and honour virtuous life , The Chronicles of lasting fame , Shall evermore extol the fame , Of patient Grissel my most constant wife . FINIS . Printed for J. C. W. T. and T. P. 