The Wandering Jew , Oh R , the Shoemaker of Jerusalem , who lived when our Saviour Christ was Crucified , a [ and ap ] pointed by him to live until his coming again . To the Tune of , the Ladies Fallen . When as in fair Jerusalem , our Saviour Christ did live , And for the sins of all the world , his own dear life did give : The wicked Jews with Scoffs and Scorns , did daily him molest , That never till he left his life , our Saviour could not rest . when they had crowned his head with thorns and scourged him to disgrace , In scornful sort they led him forth unto his dying place , Where thousand thousands in the street , beheld him pass along , Yet not one gentle heaat was there , that pitied this his wrong . Both Old and Young reviled him as in the street he went , And nothing found but churlish Taunts by every ones consent : His own dear Cross he boar himself ; a burden far too great , Which made him in the street to faint , with blood and water sweat . Being weary thus , he sought for rest , and ease his burdened soul , Upon a stone the which a wretch , did churlishly control : And said away thou King of Jews , thou shalt not rest thee here , Pass on , thy Execution place , thou seest now draws near . And thereupon he thrust him thence , at which our Saviour said , I sure will rest , but thou shalt walk , and have no journey stayed , With that this cursed Shooe-Maker , for offering Chist this wrong , Left Wife and Children , house and all , and went from thence along . Where after he had seen the blood , of Jesus Christ thus shed , And to the Cross his body nailed , away with speed he fled , Without returning back again , unto his dwelling place , And wandering up and down the world , a Runagate most base . N Oh resting could he find at all , no ease of heart content , No house , not home , no biding place , but wandering forth he went , From town to town , in foreign Lands , with grieved conscience still , Repenting for the hanious Gilded , of his forepassed ill . Thus ofter some few ages past , in wandering up and down , He much again desired to see , Jerusalems renown : But finding it all quite destroyed , he wandered thence with woe , Our Saviours words which he had spoke , to verify and show . I'll rest said he , but thou shalt walk , so does this wandering Jew , From place to place but cannot rest , for seeing Countries new , Declaring still the power of him whereas he comes or goes , And of all things done in the East , since Christ his death he shows . The world he hath still compassed round , and seen those Nations strange , That hearing of the name of Christ , their Idol Gods do change : To whom he hath told wondrous things , of times forepast and gone , And to the Princes of the World , declares his cause of moan . Desiring still to be dissolved and yield his mortal breath , But if the Lord hath thus decreed , he shall not yet see Death : For neither looks he old or young , but as he did those times , When Christ did suffer on the Cross , for mortal sinners crimes , [ H ] e passed many a foreign place , Arabia , AEgyp , Africa , Greciae , Syria , and great Thrace , and through all Hungaria , Where Paul and Peter Preached Christ , those blessed Apostles dear , Where he had told our saviours words , in Countries far and near . And lately in Bohemia , with many a Germane Town And now in Flander , as it's thought , he wanders up and down ; Where learned men with him confer , of those his lingering days , And wondering much to hear him tell , his Journeys and his ways . If people gives this Jew and alms , the most that he will take , Is not above a Groat a time , which he for Jesus sake , Will kindly give unto the poor , and thereof make no spare , Affirming still that Jesus Christ , of him hath daily care . He never was seen to laugh or smile , but weep and make great moan , Lamenting still his misery's , and days forepast and gone : If he hear any one Blaspheme , or take Gods name in vain , He tells them that they crucify , their Saviour Christ again . If thou hadst seen grim death , says he , as these mine eyes have done , Ten thousand thousand times would you , his torments think upon : And suffer for his sake all pain , of torments and all woes , These are his words and eke his life , whereas he comes or goes . P rinted for J. Clarke , W : Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Wandering Jew , Oh R , the Shoemaker of Jerusalem , who lived when our Saviour Christ was Crucified , a [ and ap ] pointed by him to live until his coming again . To the Tune of , the Ladies Fallen . When as in fair Jerusalem , our Saviour Christ did live , And for the sins of all the world , his own dear life did give : The wicked Jews with Scoffs and Scorns , did daily him molest , That never till he left his life , our Saviour could not rest . when they had crowned his head with thorns and scourged him to disgrace , In scornful sort they led him forth unto his dying place , Where thousand thousands in the street , beheld him pass along , Yet not one gentle heaat was there , that pitied this his wrong . Both Old and Young reviled him as in the street he went , And nothing found but churlish Taunts by every ones consent : His own dear Cross he boar himself ; a burden far too great , Which made him in the street to faint , with blood and water sweat . Being weary thus , he sought for rest , and ease his burdened soul , Upon a stone the which a wretch , did churlishly control : And said away thou King of Jews , thou shalt not rest thee here , Pass on , thy Execution place , thou seest now draws near . And thereupon he thrust him thence , at which our Saviour said , I sure will rest , but thou shalt walk , and have no journey stayed , With that this cursed Shooe-Maker , for offering Chist this wrong , Left Wife and Children , house and all , and went from thence along . Where after he had seen the blood , of Jesus Christ thus shed , And to the Cross his body nailed , away with speed he fled , Without returning back again , unto his dwelling place , And wandering up and down the world , a Runagate most base . N Oh resting could he find at all , no ease of heart content , No house , not home , no biding place , but wandering forth he went , From town to town , in foreign Lands , with grieved conscience still , Repenting for the hanious Gilded , of his forepassed ill . Thus ofter some few ages past , in wandering up and down , He much again desired to see , Jerusalems renown : But finding it all quite destroyed , he wandered thence with woe , Our Saviours words which he had spoke , to verify and show . I'll rest said he , but thou shalt walk , so does this wandering Jew , From place to place but cannot rest , for seeing Countries new , Declaring still the power of him whereas he comes or goes , And of all things done in the East , since Christ his death he shows . The world he hath still compassed round , and seen those Nations strange , That hearing of the name of Christ , their Idol Gods do change : To whom he hath told wondrous things , of times forepast and gone , And to the Princes of the World , declares his cause of moan . Desiring still to be dissolved and yield his mortal breath , But if the Lord hath thus decreed , he shall not yet see Death : For neither looks he old or young , but as he did those times , When Christ did suffer on the Cross , for mortal sinners crimes , [ H ] e passed many a foreign place , Arabia , AEgyp , Africa , Greciae , Syria , and great Thrace , and through all Hungaria , Where Paul and Peter Preached Christ , those blessed Apostles dear , Where he had told our saviours words , in Countries far and near . And lately in Bohemia , with many a Germane Town And now in Flander , as it's thought , he wanders up and down ; Where learned men with him confer , of those his lingering days , And wondering much to hear him tell , his Journeys and his ways . If people gives this Jew and alms , the most that he will take , Is not above a Groat a time , which he for Jesus sake , Will kindly give unto the poor , and thereof make no spare , Affirming still that Jesus Christ , of him hath daily care . He never was seen to laugh or smile , but weep and make great moan , Lamenting still his misery's , and days forepast and gone : If he hear any one Blaspheme , or take Gods name in vain , He tells them that they crucify , their Saviour Christ again . If thou hadst seen grim death , says he , as these mine eyes have done , Ten thousand thousand times would you , his torments think upon : And suffer for his sake all pain , of torments and all woes , These are his words and eke his life , whereas he comes or goes . P rinted for J. Clarke , W : Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 