A most sweet Song of and English - Merchant Born in Chichester . To and Excellent New Tune . A Rich Merchant man there was that was both grave & amp ; wise , Did kill a man at Embden Town through quarrels that did rise , Through quarrels that did rise , the Germane being dead , And for that fact the Merchant man , was judged to lose his head . A sweet thing is love , it rules both heart and mind , There is no comfort in this world , to women that are kind . A Scaffold built was , within the market place , And all the people far and near , did thither flock apace , Did thither flock apace , this doleful sighed to see , Who all in Velvet black as jet , unto the place came he . A sweet , etc Bareheaded was he brought , his hands were bound before , A cambrick ruff about his neck , as white as milk he wore : His stockings were of silk , as fine as fine might be , Of person and of countenance , a proper man was he . A sweet , etc When he was mounted up , upon the Scaffold high , All women said great pity it was so sweet a man should die : The Merchant's of the Town , from death to set him free , Did proffer there a thousand pound but yet all would not be . A sweet thing is Love . it rules both heart and mind , There is no comfort in this world to women that are kind . The prisoner hereupon , began to speak his mind , Quoth he , I have deserved dearth , in conscience I do find , Yet soar against my will , this man I killed quoth . he , As Christ does known , which of my soul must only Saviour be . A sweet , etc With heart I do repent , this most unhappy deed , And for his wife and children small my very heart does bleed : The deed is done and passed , my hope of life is vain , And yet the loss of this my life , to them is little gain . A sweet , etc . Unto the widow poor , and to the Babes therefore , I give a hundred pound a piece , their comforts to restore , Desiring at their hands , no one request but this , They will speak well of English men though I have done amiss . A sweet thing is L ove , it rules both heart and mind , There is no comfort in this world , to Women that are kind . This was no sooner done , but that to stint the strife , Four goodly maids did proffer him for love to save his life : This is our Law quoth . they , we may your death remove , So you in lieu of our good will will grant to us your love . A sweet , etc Brave English-man quoth one , it's I will save thy life , Nay quoth the second it is I , so I may be thy wife : It's I the third did say , nay quoth the fourth this I , So each one after the other said , still waiting his reply , A sweet , etc F Air Maidens every one , I must confess and say , That each of you well worthy is to be a Lady gay : And I unworthy far , the worst of you to have , Though you have proffered wilingly my loathed life to save . A sweet thing is Love , it rules both heart and mind , There is no comfort in this world , to women that are kind . Then take a thousand thanks , of me a dying man , But speak no more of love nor life , for why my life is gone ; To Christ my soul I give , my body unto death , For none of you my heart can have , sith I must lose my breath . A sweet thing , etc Fair Maids lament no more , your Country Law is such , It takes but hold upon my life , my goods it cannot touch : Within one Chest I have in Gold a thousand pound , I give it equal to you all , for love that I have found , A sweet thing , etc And now dear friends farewell , sweet England now adieu , And Chichester where I was born , where first this breath I drew ; And now thou man of death , unto thy weapon stand , Oh nay , another Damsel said , sweet Headsman hold thy hand . A sweet thing , etc Now hear a maidens plaint , brave English-man quoth she , And grant me love for love again , that craves but love as thee : I woo and sue for love , that had been wooed ever this , Then grant me love , & amp ; therewithal she proffered him a kiss ; A sweet thing , etc I'll die within thy arms , if thou wilt die quoth she , Yet live or die sweet English man , i'll live and die with thee : But can it be ( quoth he ) that thou dost love me so , This not by long acquaintance Sir whereby true love does grow , A sweet thing , etc Then beg my life quoth he , and I will be thy own , If I should seek the world for love more love cannot be shown , The people at that word , did give a joyful cry , And said great pity it was , so sweet a man should die ; A sweet thing , etc I go my Love she said , I run , I fly for thee , & amp ; gentle Headsman spare a while , my Lovers head for me ; Unto the Duke she went , who did her grief remove , & amp ; with and hundred Maidens more , she went to fetch her Love : With music sounding sweet , the foremost of the train , The gallant maiden like a bride , did fetch him back again ; Yea hand in hand away they went , unto the Church that day , And they were married presently , in sumptuous rich array ; A sweet thing , etc To England came he then , with his fair Lady Bride , A fairer woman never lay by any Merchant's side ; Where we must leave them now , in pleasure and delight , but of their names & amp ; dwelling place I must not here recite . FINIS . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . A most sweet Song of and English - Merchant Born in Chichester . To and Excellent New Tune . A Rich Merchant man there was that was both grave & amp ; wise , Did kill a man at Embden Town through quarrels that did rise , Through quarrels that did rise , the Germane being dead , And for that fact the Merchant man , was judged to lose his head . A sweet thing is love , it rules both heart and mind , There is no comfort in this world , to women that are kind . A Scaffold built was , within the market place , And all the people far and near , did thither flock apace , Did thither flock apace , this doleful sighed to see , Who all in Velvet black as jet , unto the place came he . A sweet , etc Bareheaded was he brought , his hands were bound before , A cambrick ruff about his neck , as white as milk he wore : His stockings were of silk , as fine as fine might be , Of person and of countenance , a proper man was he . A sweet , etc When he was mounted up , upon the Scaffold high , All women said great pity it was so sweet a man should die : The Merchant's of the Town , from death to set him free , Did proffer there a thousand pound but yet all would not be . A sweet thing is Love . it rules both heart and mind , There is no comfort in this world to women that are kind . The prisoner hereupon , began to speak his mind , Quoth he , I have deserved dearth , in conscience I do find , Yet soar against my will , this man I killed quoth . he , As Christ does known , which of my soul must only Saviour be . A sweet , etc With heart I do repent , this most unhappy deed , And for his wife and children small my very heart does bleed : The deed is done and passed , my hope of life is vain , And yet the loss of this my life , to them is little gain . A sweet , etc . Unto the widow poor , and to the Babes therefore , I give a hundred pound a piece , their comforts to restore , Desiring at their hands , no one request but this , They will speak well of English men though I have done amiss . A sweet thing is L ove , it rules both heart and mind , There is no comfort in this world , to Women that are kind . This was no sooner done , but that to stint the strife , Four goodly maids did proffer him for love to save his life : This is our Law quoth . they , we may your death remove , So you in lieu of our good will will grant to us your love . A sweet , etc Brave English-man quoth one , it's I will save thy life , Nay quoth the second it is I , so I may be thy wife : It's I the third did say , nay quoth the fourth this I , So each one after the other said , still waiting his reply , A sweet , etc F Air Maidens every one , I must confess and say , That each of you well worthy is to be a Lady gay : And I unworthy far , the worst of you to have , Though you have proffered wilingly my loathed life to save . A sweet thing is Love , it rules both heart and mind , There is no comfort in this world , to women that are kind . Then take a thousand thanks , of me a dying man , But speak no more of love nor life , for why my life is gone ; To Christ my soul I give , my body unto death , For none of you my heart can have , sith I must lose my breath . A sweet thing , etc Fair Maids lament no more , your Country Law is such , It takes but hold upon my life , my goods it cannot touch : Within one Chest I have in Gold a thousand pound , I give it equal to you all , for love that I have found , A sweet thing , etc And now dear friends farewell , sweet England now adieu , And Chichester where I was born , where first this breath I drew ; And now thou man of death , unto thy weapon stand , Oh nay , another Damsel said , sweet Headsman hold thy hand . A sweet thing , etc Now hear a maidens plaint , brave English-man quoth she , And grant me love for love again , that craves but love as thee : I woo and sue for love , that had been wooed ever this , Then grant me love , & amp ; therewithal she proffered him a kiss ; A sweet thing , etc I'll die within thy arms , if thou wilt die quoth she , Yet live or die sweet English man , i'll live and die with thee : But can it be ( quoth he ) that thou dost love me so , This not by long acquaintance Sir whereby true love does grow , A sweet thing , etc Then beg my life quoth he , and I will be thy own , If I should seek the world for love more love cannot be shown , The people at that word , did give a joyful cry , And said great pity it was , so sweet a man should die ; A sweet thing , etc I go my Love she said , I run , I fly for thee , & amp ; gentle Headsman spare a while , my Lovers head for me ; Unto the Duke she went , who did her grief remove , & amp ; with and hundred Maidens more , she went to fetch her Love : With music sounding sweet , the foremost of the train , The gallant maiden like a bride , did fetch him back again ; Yea hand in hand away they went , unto the Church that day , And they were married presently , in sumptuous rich array ; A sweet thing , etc To England came he then , with his fair Lady Bride , A fairer woman never lay by any Merchant's side ; Where we must leave them now , in pleasure and delight , but of their names & amp ; dwelling place I must not here recite . FINIS . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 