And Admirable New Northern Story . Of two constant Lovers as I understand , Were born near Appleby in Westmoreland ; The Lads name Anthony , Constance the Lass. To Sea they went both , and great dangers did pass : How they suffered shipwreck on the Coast of Spain , For two years divided , and then met again , By wondered fortune , and Care accident , And now both live at home in joy and content . The Tune is , I would thou wertenberg in Shrewsbury . TO Woe Lovers in the North , Constance and Anthony , Of them I will set forth a gallant History : They loved exceeding well , as plainly does appear : But that which I shall tell the like you never did hear : Still she cries Anthony , my bonny Anthony , Gang thou by Land or Sea , I'll weened along with thee . Anthony must to Sea , his calling did him bind , My Constance dear , quoth he , I must leave thee behind , I prithee do not grieve , thy tears will not prevail ; I'll think on thee my sweet when the Ship's under sail : But Still , etc How may that be said he ? consider well the case , Quoth the sweet Anthony , il'e bide not in this place : If thou gang so will I , of the means do not doubt , A woman's policy , great matters may find out ; My bonny , etc I would be very glad , but prithee tell me how , I'll dress me like a Lad , what sayest thou to me now ; The Sea thou canst not brook , yes very well quoth she , I'll Scullion to the Cook , for thy sweet Company , My bonny , etc Anthonies leave she had , and dressed in men array She seemed the blithest Lad , seen on a Summer's day , Oh see what Love can do , at home she will not bide , With her true love she'l go , let weal or woe betide , My dearest Anthony , etc In the Ship 'twas her lot to be the under Cook , And at the fire hight , wondered pains she took ; She served every one , fitting to their degree , And now and then alone , she kissed Anthony : My bonny A nthony , my bonny A nthony , Gang thou by land or Sea , I'll weened along with thee . A Lack and well a day , by tempest on the Main , Their ship was cast away upon the Coast of Spain , To'th mercy of the Waves , they all committed were ; Constance her own self saves , then she cries for her dear , My bonny Anthony , my bonny Anthony , Gang thou by land or Sea , I'll weened along with thee . Swimming upon a Plank at Bilbo god a shore , First she did Heaven thank , then she lamented soar , Oh woe is me , said she , the saddest Lass alive My dearest A nthony , now on the Sea does drive . My bonny , etc What shall become of me , why do I strive for shore , Sith my sweet A nthony , I never shall see more ? Fair Constance do not grieve the same good providence Hath saved thy Lover sweet , but he is far from hence , Still , etc A Spanish Merchant rich , saw this fair seeming Lad , That did lament so much , and was so grievous sad He had in England been , and English understood : He having herd and seen , he in amazement stood : Still , etc The Merchant asked her , what was that Anthony Quoth she my brother Sir , who came from thence with me He did her entertain , thinking she was a Boy , Two years she did remain before she met her joy . Still , etc Anthony up was taken , by and English Runagade With whom he did remain at the Sea roving trade : I'th nature of a slave , he did i'th Galley row , Thus he his life did save , but Constance did not know ; Still she cries Anthony , my bonny Anthony , Gang thou by land or Sea , i'll weened along with thee . Now mark what came to pass see how the fates did work , A ship that her Master's was , surprised this English Turk , And into Bilbo brought , all that aboard her were , Constance full little thought , Anthony was so near : Still , etc When they were come on shore , Anthony and the rest , She who was sad before , was now with joy possessed , The Merchant much did muse , at this so sudden change , He did demand the News , which unto him was strange : Now she , etc Upon her knees she fell , unto her Master kind , And all the truth did tell , n [ oh ] thing she kept behind , At which he did admire , and in a ship of Spain , Not paying for their hire , he sent them home again Now she , etc The Spanish Merchant rich did of's own bounty give , A sum of Gold on which they now most bravely live ; And now in Westmoreland , near unto Appleby , They were joined hand in hand , Constance and Anthony , They live in mirth and glee , now she says Anthony , Good providence we see , hath guarded thee and me . FINIS . Printed for J. Clark , W. Thank - ray , and T. Passenger . And Admirable New Northern Story . Of two constant Lovers as I understand , Were born near Appleby in Westmoreland ; The Lads name Anthony , Constance the Lass. To Sea they went both , and great dangers did pass : How they suffered shipwreck on the Coast of Spain , For two years divided , and then met again , By wondered fortune , and Care accident , And now both live at home in joy and content . The Tune is , I would thou wertenberg in Shrewsbury . TO Woe Lovers in the North , Constance and Anthony , Of them I will set forth a gallant History : They loved exceeding well , as plainly does appear : But that which I shall tell the like you never did hear : Still she cries Anthony , my bonny Anthony , Gang thou by Land or Sea , I'll weened along with thee . Anthony must to Sea , his calling did him bind , My Constance dear , quoth he , I must leave thee behind , I prithee do not grieve , thy tears will not prevail ; I'll think on thee my sweet when the Ship's under sail : But Still , etc How may that be said he ? consider well the case , Quoth the sweet Anthony , il'e bide not in this place : If thou gang so will I , of the means do not doubt , A woman's policy , great matters may find out ; My bonny , etc I would be very glad , but prithee tell me how , I'll dress me like a Lad , what sayest thou to me now ; The Sea thou canst not brook , yes very well quoth she , I'll Scullion to the Cook , for thy sweet Company , My bonny , etc Anthonies leave she had , and dressed in men array She seemed the blithest Lad , seen on a Summer's day , Oh see what Love can do , at home she will not bide , With her true love she'l go , let weal or woe betide , My dearest Anthony , etc In the Ship 'twas her lot to be the under Cook , And at the fire hight , wondered pains she took ; She served every one , fitting to their degree , And now and then alone , she kissed Anthony : My bonny A nthony , my bonny A nthony , Gang thou by land or Sea , I'll weened along with thee . A Lack and well a day , by tempest on the Main , Their ship was cast away upon the Coast of Spain , To'th mercy of the Waves , they all committed were ; Constance her own self saves , then she cries for her dear , My bonny Anthony , my bonny Anthony , Gang thou by land or Sea , I'll weened along with thee . Swimming upon a Plank at Bilbo god a shore , First she did Heaven thank , then she lamented soar , Oh woe is me , said she , the saddest Lass alive My dearest A nthony , now on the Sea does drive . My bonny , etc What shall become of me , why do I strive for shore , Sith my sweet A nthony , I never shall see more ? Fair Constance do not grieve the same good providence Hath saved thy Lover sweet , but he is far from hence , Still , etc A Spanish Merchant rich , saw this fair seeming Lad , That did lament so much , and was so grievous sad He had in England been , and English understood : He having herd and seen , he in amazement stood : Still , etc The Merchant asked her , what was that Anthony Quoth she my brother Sir , who came from thence with me He did her entertain , thinking she was a Boy , Two years she did remain before she met her joy . Still , etc Anthony up was taken , by and English Runagade With whom he did remain at the Sea roving trade : I'th nature of a slave , he did i'th Galley row , Thus he his life did save , but Constance did not know ; Still she cries Anthony , my bonny Anthony , Gang thou by land or Sea , i'll weened along with thee . Now mark what came to pass see how the fates did work , A ship that her Master's was , surprised this English Turk , And into Bilbo brought , all that aboard her were , Constance full little thought , Anthony was so near : Still , etc When they were come on shore , Anthony and the rest , She who was sad before , was now with joy possessed , The Merchant much did muse , at this so sudden change , He did demand the News , which unto him was strange : Now she , etc Upon her knees she fell , unto her Master kind , And all the truth did tell , n [ oh ] thing she kept behind , At which he did admire , and in a ship of Spain , Not paying for their hire , he sent them home again Now she , etc The Spanish Merchant rich did of's own bounty give , A sum of Gold on which they now most bravely live ; And now in Westmoreland , near unto Appleby , They were joined hand in hand , Constance and Anthony , They live in mirth and glee , now she says Anthony , Good providence we see , hath guarded thee and me . FINIS . Printed for J. Clark , W. Thank - ray , and T. Passenger . 