TO : A most sorrowful Song , setting forth the miserable end of Banister , who betrayed the Duke of Buckingham , his Lord and Master . To the tune of , Live with me and be my love . I F ever wight had cause to rue a wretched deed , vild and untrue , Then Banister with shame may sing , who sold his life that loved him . The noble Duke of Buckingham , his death does make me sing this song , I unto him did them betray , that wrought his downfall and decay . I him betrayed , and none but I , for which I sorrow heavily : But sorrow now too late does come , for I alone have him undone . Whose life I ought to have preserved , for well of me he is deserved , That from the dust had lifted me , to honour and to dignity . But I these favours did forget , when thou with danger waste beset , Good Buckingham thy life I sold , in hope to have reward of gold . From Court unto my house is fled Duke Buckingham , to save his head , When Richard sought to cast thee down whose hand did help him to the crown . But thou foundest treason hid in trust , for which I have my guerdon just : King Richard caused them to proclaim a thousand pound the man should gain That Buckingham could first bring in , beside the favour of the King : This gold and favour drew my heart , to play this vile and traitorous part . But when this Duke I had betrayed [ I went to ] court for to be paid , With favour of the King and gold , cause I of Buckingham had told . But lo I found another thing , I was disdained of the King , And rated as a varlet base , that so betrayed the good Dukes grace . That me so highly had preferred , above the merits I deserved Thus shame was all I did receive , yet so the King did me not leave . When I with sorrow home was gone , the King soon sent a Gentleman , Whom he did bid take to himself , my house , my land , and all my wealth . Then by the Kings authority , he took both gold and goods from me : My self , my wife , and children three , he turned us forth without pity . Into the field succour to seek , while he my house and land did keep , Thus I for favour purchased hate , my deed with shame I rue too late . Yet thus my sorrows do not end , now God from heaven his scourge does send He to my soul sends double grief , of all my sorrows it is chief . Cease , cease all you that do lament , lest you my purpose do prevent , I can no jot of sorrow spare , for you express your woeful care . Shame , woe , and sorrow does belong to me , then all you do me wrong That make such lamentation deep , when none but I have cause to weep . ptitle : : start The second part . To the same Tune . ptitle : : end J [ ane Sh ] over , the time I knew full well , like me you climbed , like me you fell , The Duke did me to honour bring , thou wast advanced by the King . Thou love the King while he did live Fierce death the Duke did give , For making then a mournful song , I justly challenge thee of wrong . What though thou felst from high degree like me to end in misery . Yet hast thou cause still to be glad , and none but I cause to be sad . In Court when thou hadst god high place for poor men thou didst purchase grace , And wouldst not suffer them take wrong , although their foes were never so strong . Thou gavest and ear to widows cry , & amp ; wiped the tears from Orphans eye , Thou savdst their lives by law condemned and judgde unto a woeful end . Thou mourndst when thy sweet Edward died I unto death the Duke betrayed , Thee Jane why mournest thou in thy song ? I still do challenge thee of wrong . I'll give thee comfort for thy woe , so thou thy mourning wilt forgo , And leave thy sad lament to me , for it belongeth not to thee . What though King Richard with disgrace did cast thee from thy lofty place ? Thy good deeds done does spread thy fame my cursed fact claims endless shame . Cease then from mourning lovely Jane , for thousands thank thee for thy pain , Let sorrow dwell in my sad song , to whom it only does belong . Which song I sing not thee to grieve , but that thou mayest my woes believe , This when thou hearest , thou wilt judge , all mournful woe with me must lodge . When I like thee by Richard was made to the world a looking glass , All hearts with tears thy fallen did rue , but all did say I had my endue . Though law did say non should thee give some lost their lives thee to relieve , When I cried give , men with rebuke said , not to him that sold the Duke . Thus thou foundest friends thee to relieve but when I asked , none would me give : Yea God on me a plague did send , my Sons came both to timeless end . My eldest ( first through misery ) did hang himself in a pigsty , While over him we sat and mourned , my youngest in a ditch was drowned . Where we did leave our Children dead , above the ground unburied , My self , my Wife , and Daughter deer , did range the country far and near . Where ere we came to beg for need , I still was rated for my deed , Each one denying to give him bred , that sold away his master's head , Then we returned home again , at our own door to end our pain , While I sought sticks to make a fire , my daughters death brought her desire . His Servant which my land possessed , came first and found my child deceased , Mittons young Son my wife there killed , his father's heart with sorrow filled , Came forth his only son to view , whom I with his own Rapier flew , And after this my Wife and I , ended our lives in misery . All you that here my woeful song , know this though God do suffer wrong Yet treason foul he does abhor , and traitors vild he does not spare . Ye Christians deer blot not your fame with the disgrace of traitors name , Which I did carry to my grave , and to the world's end shall it have . Printed for F. Coules . FINIS . TO : A most sorrowful Song , setting forth the miserable end of Banister , who betrayed the Duke of Buckingham , his Lord and Master . To the tune of , Live with me and be my love . I F ever wight had cause to rue a wretched deed , vild and untrue , Then Banister with shame may sing , who sold his life that loved him . The noble Duke of Buckingham , his death does make me sing this song , I unto him did them betray , that wrought his downfall and decay . I him betrayed , and none but I , for which I sorrow heavily : But sorrow now too late does come , for I alone have him undone . Whose life I ought to have preserved , for well of me he is deserved , That from the dust had lifted me , to honour and to dignity . But I these favours did forget , when thou with danger waste beset , Good Buckingham thy life I sold , in hope to have reward of gold . From Court unto my house is fled Duke Buckingham , to save his head , When Richard sought to cast thee down whose hand did help him to the crown . But thou foundest treason hid in trust , for which I have my guerdon just : King Richard caused them to proclaim a thousand pound the man should gain That Buckingham could first bring in , beside the favour of the King : This gold and favour drew my heart , to play this vile and traitorous part . But when this Duke I had betrayed [ I went to ] court for to be paid , With favour of the King and gold , cause I of Buckingham had told . But lo I found another thing , I was disdained of the King , And rated as a varlet base , that so betrayed the good Dukes grace . That me so highly had preferred , above the merits I deserved Thus shame was all I did receive , yet so the King did me not leave . When I with sorrow home was gone , the King soon sent a Gentleman , Whom he did bid take to himself , my house , my land , and all my wealth . Then by the Kings authority , he took both gold and goods from me : My self , my wife , and children three , he turned us forth without pity . Into the field succour to seek , while he my house and land did keep , Thus I for favour purchased hate , my deed with shame I rue too late . Yet thus my sorrows do not end , now God from heaven his scourge does send He to my soul sends double grief , of all my sorrows it is chief . Cease , cease all you that do lament , lest you my purpose do prevent , I can no jot of sorrow spare , for you express your woeful care . Shame , woe , and sorrow does belong to me , then all you do me wrong That make such lamentation deep , when none but I have cause to weep . ptitle : : start The second part . To the same Tune . ptitle : : end J [ ane Sh ] over , the time I knew full well , like me you climbed , like me you fell , The Duke did me to honour bring , thou wast advanced by the King . Thou love the King while he did live Fierce death the Duke did give , For making then a mournful song , I justly challenge thee of wrong . What though thou felst from high degree like me to end in misery . Yet hast thou cause still to be glad , and none but I cause to be sad . In Court when thou hadst god high place for poor men thou didst purchase grace , And wouldst not suffer them take wrong , although their foes were never so strong . Thou gavest and ear to widows cry , & amp ; wiped the tears from Orphans eye , Thou savdst their lives by law condemned and judgde unto a woeful end . Thou mourndst when thy sweet Edward died I unto death the Duke betrayed , Thee Jane why mournest thou in thy song ? I still do challenge thee of wrong . I'll give thee comfort for thy woe , so thou thy mourning wilt forgo , And leave thy sad lament to me , for it belongeth not to thee . What though King Richard with disgrace did cast thee from thy lofty place ? Thy good deeds done does spread thy fame my cursed fact claims endless shame . Cease then from mourning lovely Jane , for thousands thank thee for thy pain , Let sorrow dwell in my sad song , to whom it only does belong . Which song I sing not thee to grieve , but that thou mayest my woes believe , This when thou hearest , thou wilt judge , all mournful woe with me must lodge . When I like thee by Richard was made to the world a looking glass , All hearts with tears thy fallen did rue , but all did say I had my endue . Though law did say non should thee give some lost their lives thee to relieve , When I cried give , men with rebuke said , not to him that sold the Duke . Thus thou foundest friends thee to relieve but when I asked , none would me give : Yea God on me a plague did send , my Sons came both to timeless end . My eldest ( first through misery ) did hang himself in a pigsty , While over him we sat and mourned , my youngest in a ditch was drowned . Where we did leave our Children dead , above the ground unburied , My self , my Wife , and Daughter deer , did range the country far and near . Where ere we came to beg for need , I still was rated for my deed , Each one denying to give him bred , that sold away his master's head , Then we returned home again , at our own door to end our pain , While I sought sticks to make a fire , my daughters death brought her desire . His Servant which my land possessed , came first and found my child deceased , Mittons young Son my wife there killed , his father's heart with sorrow filled , Came forth his only son to view , whom I with his own Rapier flew , And after this my Wife and I , ended our lives in misery . All you that here my woeful song , know this though God do suffer wrong Yet treason foul he does abhor , and traitors vild he does not spare . Ye Christians deer blot not your fame with the disgrace of traitors name , Which I did carry to my grave , and to the world's end shall it have . Printed for F. Coules . FINIS . 