Cheapsides Triumphs , and Chyrones Crosses Lamentation . To the tune of the Building . S Ee the guilding Of Cheapsides famous building the glorious Cross , Trimmed up most fairly , With gold most rarely , refined from dross : A pleasing prospect to all beholders , that shall but view it , and lately knew it Defaced of beauty , but now a sumptuous thing : Whose praise and wonder Fame abroad does ring . Tricked most neatly With cost completely adorned most rare , Whose shining beauty , Shows the Cities duty and tender care : To preserve their rich & amp ; sumptuous buildings , in stately manner , such cost upon her they bestow with honour , Such is the love they bear which now is seen By Cheapside glistering fair . The Cross there placed , Is now much graced , that it may be known , How well the City , With care and pity , respects her own : Brave Citizens of worthy London , such love they owe it , and now they show it , freely bestow it Upon their City fair , with Cheapside Cross There's none can make compare . Search England over , From hence to Dover , and so about , The like to Cheapside , Fair Londons chief pride , you'll not find out : Newly beautified most neat and fairly , all may admire , and still desire , to gaze up higher , To see the glorious state of this rare building , Raised up very late . O sighed most blessed , To see Cheapside dressed , in stately manner : May you persever In love for ever , this for your honour , To see your Cross excel in shining all Crosses elsewhere , to this comes not near , now trimmed most rare : And glorious to behold , whose shining bravery Glistereth all of gold . This golden splendour Makes all men wonder , to see Cheapside : In sumptuous manner , For Londons honour , and state beside : Put down fair Oxfordshires chief beauty Abingtons fair Cross was never graced thus , as is bright Cheaps Cross , Now shining fair and bright , whose excellent splendour Gives the city light . The second part , To the same tune . K Ind friends pray turn you , With grief now mourn you , to behold and see And ancient building Now downwards yielding , ah woe is me : The proverb here is verified truly , old things are worth nought , but that's a bad thought , for to forget ought Once esteemed deer , But yet alas Too true appears . In lamentation , I make my supplication to great and small , That erst have viewed me , And now perused me , then judge withal , That ancient things in these days are more is the pity that such a city , so wise and witty , Should not regard their fame , censure aright , Then tell me where's the blame . I long have stood here , Many bad and good year , pining away , Expecting ever , But I fear never to see the day Wherein my state again shall be advanced , and all things made good , of stone or else wood , where I have long stood , Expecting every day I should be once again Made neat and gay . Thou wertenberg a deer one , Old noble Chyron , that placed me here , My first supporter Of stone and mortar , was seated rare : But now you see my top is downward bending my state is reeling , none hath a feeling to my appealing , That now in sad distress to court and city My sad woes do express . Some honest Courtier Be my Supporter , I now entreat , Some Lord or Barrone , Pity old Chyrone , ere it be too late , For now now my state you see is down declining my ancient building , is downward yielding , In woeful manner I wail my wretched state , O pity soon , for fear it be too late , In time I crave it , And feign would have it , for mercies sake , Take thou some pity , Fair London City , my foundation make , Aged Pauls and I may wail together and pray in heaven all may be eaven , and gifts be given By charitable men , to beautify Our buildings fair again . FINIS . Printed for F. Coules , at the upper end of the Old Baily . Cheapsides Triumphs , and Chyrones Crosses Lamentation . To the tune of the Building . S Ee the guilding Of Cheapsides famous building the glorious Cross , Trimmed up most fairly , With gold most rarely , refined from dross : A pleasing prospect to all beholders , that shall but view it , and lately knew it Defaced of beauty , but now a sumptuous thing : Whose praise and wonder Fame abroad does ring . Tricked most neatly With cost completely adorned most rare , Whose shining beauty , Shows the Cities duty and tender care : To preserve their rich & amp ; sumptuous buildings , in stately manner , such cost upon her they bestow with honour , Such is the love they bear which now is seen By Cheapside glistering fair . The Cross there placed , Is now much graced , that it may be known , How well the City , With care and pity , respects her own : Brave Citizens of worthy London , such love they owe it , and now they show it , freely bestow it Upon their City fair , with Cheapside Cross There's none can make compare . Search England over , From hence to Dover , and so about , The like to Cheapside , Fair Londons chief pride , you'll not find out : Newly beautified most neat and fairly , all may admire , and still desire , to gaze up higher , To see the glorious state of this rare building , Raised up very late . O sighed most blessed , To see Cheapside dressed , in stately manner : May you persever In love for ever , this for your honour , To see your Cross excel in shining all Crosses elsewhere , to this comes not near , now trimmed most rare : And glorious to behold , whose shining bravery Glistereth all of gold . This golden splendour Makes all men wonder , to see Cheapside : In sumptuous manner , For Londons honour , and state beside : Put down fair Oxfordshires chief beauty Abingtons fair Cross was never graced thus , as is bright Cheaps Cross , Now shining fair and bright , whose excellent splendour Gives the city light . The second part , To the same tune . K Ind friends pray turn you , With grief now mourn you , to behold and see And ancient building Now downwards yielding , ah woe is me : The proverb here is verified truly , old things are worth nought , but that's a bad thought , for to forget ought Once esteemed deer , But yet alas Too true appears . In lamentation , I make my supplication to great and small , That erst have viewed me , And now perused me , then judge withal , That ancient things in these days are more is the pity that such a city , so wise and witty , Should not regard their fame , censure aright , Then tell me where's the blame . I long have stood here , Many bad and good year , pining away , Expecting ever , But I fear never to see the day Wherein my state again shall be advanced , and all things made good , of stone or else wood , where I have long stood , Expecting every day I should be once again Made neat and gay . Thou wertenberg a deer one , Old noble Chyron , that placed me here , My first supporter Of stone and mortar , was seated rare : But now you see my top is downward bending my state is reeling , none hath a feeling to my appealing , That now in sad distress to court and city My sad woes do express . Some honest Courtier Be my Supporter , I now entreat , Some Lord or Barrone , Pity old Chyrone , ere it be too late , For now now my state you see is down declining my ancient building , is downward yielding , In woeful manner I wail my wretched state , O pity soon , for fear it be too late , In time I crave it , And feign would have it , for mercies sake , Take thou some pity , Fair London City , my foundation make , Aged Pauls and I may wail together and pray in heaven all may be eaven , and gifts be given By charitable men , to beautify Our buildings fair again . FINIS . Printed for F. Coules , at the upper end of the Old Baily . 