The mad-merry pranks of Robbin Good-fellow . To the tune of Dulcina . F Rom Obrion in Fairy Land the King of Ghosts and shadows there , [ M ] ad Robin I at his command , am sent to view the night-sports here . What revel rout Is kept about [ In ] every corner where I go , I will over see , And merry be , And make good sport with ho ho ho . More swift then lightning can I fly , and round about this airy welkin soon , And in a minutes space descry each thing that's done beneath the Moon : There's not a Hag Nor Ghost shall wag , [ Nor ] cry Goblin where I do go , But Robin I [ That ] eir feats will spy [ And fear ] them home with ho ho ho . [ If any wan ] derers I meet [ that from tO ] heir night sports do trudge home [ With counter ] faiting voice I greet , [ and cause tO ] hem on with me to roam [ Through ] woods , through lake's , [ Through ] bogs , through brakes [ Over bush and brier ] with them I go , [ I call upon ] [ Them to come on ] [ And weened me laughing ho ] ho ho Sometime I meet them like a man , sometime and ox , sometime a hound , And to a horse I turn me can , to trip and trot about them round . But if to ride Me back they stride , More swift then wind away I go , Over hedge and lands , Through pools and ponds , I whirry laughing ho ho ho . When Lads and Lasses merry be , With possets and with junkets fine , Unseen of all the Company , I eat their cates and sip their wine : and to make sport . I fart and snort , And out the candles I do blow , The maids I kiss , They shriek who's this I answer nought but ho ho ho . Yet now and then the maids to please , I carded at midnight up their wool : And while they sleep , snort , fart , and fease , with wheel to threads their flax I pull : I grind at Mill Their Malt up still . I dress their hemp , I spin their tow If any wake , And would me take , I weened me laughing ho ho ho . The second prat . To the same tune . W Hen house or hearth does sluttish lie , I pinch the maids there black and blue And from the bed the bedclothes I pull off , and lay them naked to view : betwixt sleep , and wake I do them take And on the key cold floor them throw , If out they cry Then forth fly I , And loudly laugh ho ho ho . When any need to borrow ought , we lend them what they do require , And for the use demand we nought , our own is all we do desire : If to repay They do delay Abroad among them then I go , And night by night I them affright With pinching , dreams , and ho ho ho . When lazy queens have nought to do , but study how to cog and lie , To make debate and mischief too betwixt one another secretly : I mark their gloze And do disclose To them that they had wronged so , When I have done I get me gone And leave them scolding ho ho ho . When men do traps and engines set in loopholes where the vermin creep , That from their folds and houses set their ducks and geese , their lambs a [ and sheep ] , I spy the gin And enter in , And seems a vermin taken so : But when they there approach me near I leap out laughing ho ho ho . By Wells and Gills in meadows green we nightly dance our heyday guise , And to our fairy king and queen we chant our Moonlight harmonies When Larks gin sing Away we fling , And babes new born steal as we go And self in bed We leave in stead , And weened us laughing ho ho ho . From Hag-bred Merlins time have I thus nightly reveld to and from : And for my pranks men call me by the name of Robin Good-Fellow : Fiends , ghosts , and sprites That haunt the nights , The Hags and Goblins do me know And Beldames old My feats have told , So Vale , Vale , ho ho ho . FINIS Printed at London for H . G.The mad-merry pranks of Robbin Good-fellow . To the tune of Dulcina . F Rom Obrion in Fairy Land the King of Ghosts and shadows there , [ M ] ad Robin I at his command , am sent to view the night-sports here . What revel rout Is kept about [ In ] every corner where I go , I will over see , And merry be , And make good sport with ho ho ho . More swift then lightning can I fly , and round about this airy welkin soon , And in a minutes space descry each thing that's done beneath the Moon : There's not a Hag Nor Ghost shall wag , [ Nor ] cry Goblin where I do go , But Robin I [ That ] eir feats will spy [ And fear ] them home with ho ho ho . [ If any wan ] derers I meet [ that from tO ] heir night sports do trudge home [ With counter ] faiting voice I greet , [ and cause tO ] hem on with me to roam [ Through ] woods , through lake's , [ Through ] bogs , through brakes [ Over bush and brier ] with them I go , [ I call upon ] [ Them to come on ] [ And weened me laughing ho ] ho ho Sometime I meet them like a man , sometime and ox , sometime a hound , And to a horse I turn me can , to trip and trot about them round . But if to ride Me back they stride , More swift then wind away I go , Over hedge and lands , Through pools and ponds , I whirry laughing ho ho ho . When Lads and Lasses merry be , With possets and with junkets fine , Unseen of all the Company , I eat their cates and sip their wine : and to make sport . I fart and snort , And out the candles I do blow , The maids I kiss , They shriek who's this I answer nought but ho ho ho . Yet now and then the maids to please , I carded at midnight up their wool : And while they sleep , snort , fart , and fease , with wheel to threads their flax I pull : I grind at Mill Their Malt up still . I dress their hemp , I spin their tow If any wake , And would me take , I weened me laughing ho ho ho . The second prat . To the same tune . W Hen house or hearth does sluttish lie , I pinch the maids there black and blue And from the bed the bedclothes I pull off , and lay them naked to view : betwixt sleep , and wake I do them take And on the key cold floor them throw , If out they cry Then forth fly I , And loudly laugh ho ho ho . When any need to borrow ought , we lend them what they do require , And for the use demand we nought , our own is all we do desire : If to repay They do delay Abroad among them then I go , And night by night I them affright With pinching , dreams , and ho ho ho . When lazy queens have nought to do , but study how to cog and lie , To make debate and mischief too betwixt one another secretly : I mark their gloze And do disclose To them that they had wronged so , When I have done I get me gone And leave them scolding ho ho ho . When men do traps and engines set in loopholes where the vermin creep , That from their folds and houses set their ducks and geese , their lambs a [ and sheep ] , I spy the gin And enter in , And seems a vermin taken so : But when they there approach me near I leap out laughing ho ho ho . By Wells and Gills in meadows green we nightly dance our heyday guise , And to our fairy king and queen we chant our Moonlight harmonies When Larks gin sing Away we fling , And babes new born steal as we go And self in bed We leave in stead , And weened us laughing ho ho ho . From Hag-bred Merlins time have I thus nightly reveld to and from : And for my pranks men call me by the name of Robin Good-Fellow : Fiends , ghosts , and sprites That haunt the nights , The Hags and Goblins do me know And Beldames old My feats have told , So Vale , Vale , ho ho ho . FINIS Printed at London for H.G. 