The Shepherd and the King , and of Gillian the Shepherds Wife , with [ Her ] Churlish answers : being full of mirth and merry pastime . To the Tune of flying fane . A N Older time there was foe yore , when gybes of Churlish glee , Were used among our country Carls , though no such thing now be . The which King Alfred liking well , forsook his stately Court : And in disguise unknown went forth , to see that Jovial sport . Now Dick and Tom , in clouted shoone , and coats of russet Grey , Esteemed themselves more brave then those that went in Golden ray . In Garments fit for such a life , our good King Alfred went , All raged and torn , as from his back , the Beggar his clothes had rend . A Sword and Buckler good and strong to give Jacke sauce a rap : And on his head in stead of a Crown , he wore a Monmouth Cap ; Thus coasting thorough Somerset Shire , near Newton Court he met A Shepherd swain , of lusty limbs , that up and down did jet . He wore a Bonnet of good grey , close buttoned to his chin : And at his back a leather Scrip , with much good meat therein . God speed good Shepherd ( quod our King ) I come to be thy Guest , To taste of thy good victual here , and drink that's of the best . Thy Scrip I know hath cheese good store , What then , ( the Shepherd said ) Thou seemest to be some scurvy Thief , and makest me soar afraid . Yet if thou wilt thy dinner win , thy Sword and buckler take : And if thou canst , into my Scrip therewith and entrance make . I tell thee Roister it hath store of Beef and Bacon fat , With shives of Barley bred to make thy chops to water at . Here stands my Bottle , here my Bag , if thou canst win them , Roister . Against thy Sword and Buckler here my sheep hook is my waster . Benedicite now ( quoth our King ) it never shall be said , That Alfred of thy Shepherds hook , will stand a whit afraid . So roundly thus they both fell tooed , where giving bang for bang : At every blow the Shepherd gave , King Alfreds Sword cried twang . His Buckler proved his chiefest fence , for still the Shepherds hook Was that , the which good Alfred could in no good manner brook . At last when they had sought foure hours , and it grew just midday , And wearied both , with right good will , desired each other stay . Kings truce I cry , quoth Alfred then , good Shepherd hold thy hand : A sturdier fellow then thy self , lives not within this Land : Nor a Rustier Roister then thou art , the churlish Shepherd said : To tell thee plain , thy Thievish looks now make my heart afraid . Else sure thou art some Prodigal , that hast consumed thy store : And here comest wandering to this place , to rob and steal for more . Deem not of me , then quoth our King , good Shepherd , in such sort : A Gentleman well known I am , in good Kings Alfreds Court . The Devil thou art , the Shepherd said , that goest in rags thus torn : Thou rather seemest ( I think ) to be some Beggar basely born : But if thou wilt mend thy estate , and here a Shepherd be : At night to Gillian my old wife , thou shalt go home with me . For she's as good a toothless Dame , as mumbleth on brown Bred : Where thou shalt lie in harden sheets , upon a fresh Straw bed : Of Whig and Whay , we have great store , and keep good Peat-straw fires : And now and then good barley cakes , when better day requires . But for my Master which is chief , and Lord of Newton Court : He keeps ( I say ) us Shepherd Swains in far more braver sort : We there have Curds and clouted Cream of read Cows morning milk : And now and then fine Buttered Cakes as soft as any silk . Of Beef , and roasted Bacon store , that is most fat and greasy , We have likewise to feed our Chops , to make them glib and easy . Thus if thou wilt my man become , this usage shalt thou have : If not , adue , go hang thy self , and so farewell sir knave . King Alfred hearing of this glee , the churlish Shepherd said , Was well content to be his man , and so the bargain made : A penny round the Shepherd gave , in earnest of the match : To keep his sheep in Field and Fold as Shepherds use to watch . His wages should be full ten Groats , for service of and year : Yet was it not his use , old Lad , to hire a man so deer : For did the King himself ( quoth he ) unto my Cottage come : He should not for his twelvemonths pay , receive a greater sum . Hereat the bonny King grew blithe to hear this Clownish test : How silly Sots as Customers , do descant on the best . But not to spoil the following sports , he was content ( good King ) To fit the Shepherds humour right in every kind of thing . A Sheephook then , with Patch his Dog , and Tar box by his side : He with his Master cheek by jowl , unto old Gillian hied : Unto whose sighed no sooner [ counterfeit ] me , whom have you here ( quoth she ) A Fellow ( I doubt ) to cut [ ou ] r throats , so like a knave looks he . The second part . To the same tune . N Ot so , old Dame , quoth Alfred straight , of me you need not fear : My Master hath hired me for ten Groats , to serve you one whole year . So good Dame Gillian , grant me leave within your house to stay : For by Saint Anne doe what you can , I will not yet away . Her churlish usage pleased him still , but put him to such proof : That he that night was almost choked within that smoky roof . But as he sat with smiling cheer , the event of all to see : His Dame brought forth a piece of Dowe , which in the fire throws she . Where lying on the Hearth to bake , by chance the Cake did burn : What canst thou not , thou Lowt , quoth she , take pains the same to turn ? Thou art more quick to rake it out , and eat it up half Dow : Then thus to stay till't be enough , and so thy manners show . But serve me such another trick , I'll thwack thee on the snout : Which made the patient King good man , of her to stand in doubt . But to be brief , to bed they went , the goodman and his Wife : But never such a lodging had King Alfred in his life . For he was laid on white Sheeps wool , new pulled from tanned Fells : And over his head hung spiders webs , as if they had been Bells' : Is this the Country guise , thought he ? then here I will not stay : But hence be gone so soon as breaks the peeping of next day . The cackling Geese and Hens kept roost , and perched by his bed side : Where at the last the watchful Cocks made known the morning's tide : Then up god Alfred , with his horn , and blew so long a blast , That made Gillian and her Groom , in bed full soar aghast . Arise , quoth she , we are undone , this night we lodged have , At unawares within our house , a false dissembling Knave . Rise , husband , rise , he'll cut our throats , he calls for his Mates , Idem give ( old Will ) our good Cade-Lambe he would depart our Gates . But still King Alfred blew his horn , before them more and more : Till that a hundred Lords and Knights alighted at their door : Which cried all hail , all hail good King , long have we looked your Grace : And here you find ( my merry men all ) your Sovereign in this place . We shall be surely hanged up both , old Gillian , I much fear , The Shepherd said , for using thus our good King Alfred here : A pardon my Liege ( quoth Gillian then ) for my Husband and for me ; By these ten bones I never thought , the same that now I see . And by my hook the Shepherd said , and Oath both good and true , Before this time , Oh Noble King , I never your highness knew : Then pardon me , and my old Wife , that we may after say : When first you came into our house , it was a happy day . It shall be done , said Alfred straight , and Gillian my old Dame , For this thy churlish using me , deserveth not much blame : For this the Country guise , I see , to be thus bluntish still . And where the plainest meaning is , remains the smallest ill . And Master , so I tell thee now , for thy late manhood shown , A thousand Weathers I'll bestow upon thee for thine own : With pasture grounds , as much as will suffice to feed them all : And this thy Cottage , I will change into a stately Hall . And for the same ( as duty binds ) the Shepherd said , good King : A milk white Lamb once every Year , I'll to your Highness bring : And Gillian my old Wife likewise , of wool to make your Coats : Will give so much at Newyears tide , as shall be worth ten Groats . And in your praise , my Bagpipe shall found sweetly every year : The Shepherd and the King , and of Gillian the Shepherds Wife , with [ Her ] Churlish answers : being full of mirth and merry pastime . To the Tune of flying fane . A N Older time there was foe yore , when gybes of Churlish glee , Were used among our country Carls , though no such thing now be . The which King Alfred liking well , forsook his stately Court : And in disguise unknown went forth , to see that Jovial sport . Now Dick and Tom , in clouted shoone , and coats of russet Grey , Esteemed themselves more brave then those that went in Golden ray . In Garments fit for such a life , our good King Alfred went , All raged and torn , as from his back , the Beggar his clothes had rend . A Sword and Buckler good and strong to give Jacke sauce a rap : And on his head in stead of a Crown , he wore a Monmouth Cap ; Thus coasting thorough Somerset Shire , near Newton Court he met A Shepherd swain , of lusty limbs , that up and down did jet . He wore a Bonnet of good grey , close buttoned to his chin : And at his back a leather Scrip , with much good meat therein . God speed good Shepherd ( quod our King ) I come to be thy Guest , To taste of thy good victual here , and drink that's of the best . Thy Scrip I know hath cheese good store , What then , ( the Shepherd said ) Thou seemest to be some scurvy Thief , and makest me soar afraid . Yet if thou wilt thy dinner win , thy Sword and buckler take : And if thou canst , into my Scrip therewith and entrance make . I tell thee Roister it hath store of Beef and Bacon fat , With shives of Barley bred to make thy chops to water at . Here stands my Bottle , here my Bag , if thou canst win them , Roister . Against thy Sword and Buckler here my sheep hook is my waster . Benedicite now ( quoth our King ) it never shall be said , That Alfred of thy Shepherds hook , will stand a whit afraid . So roundly thus they both fell tooed , where giving bang for bang : At every blow the Shepherd gave , King Alfreds Sword cried twang . His Buckler proved his chiefest fence , for still the Shepherds hook Was that , the which good Alfred could in no good manner brook . At last when they had sought foure hours , and it grew just midday , And wearied both , with right good will , desired each other stay . Kings truce I cry , quoth Alfred then , good Shepherd hold thy hand : A sturdier fellow then thy self , lives not within this Land : Nor a Rustier Roister then thou art , the churlish Shepherd said : To tell thee plain , thy Thievish looks now make my heart afraid . Else sure thou art some Prodigal , that hast consumed thy store : And here comest wandering to this place , to rob and steal for more . Deem not of me , then quoth our King , good Shepherd , in such sort : A Gentleman well known I am , in good Kings Alfreds Court . The Devil thou art , the Shepherd said , that goest in rags thus torn : Thou rather seemest ( I think ) to be some Beggar basely born : But if thou wilt mend thy estate , and here a Shepherd be : At night to Gillian my old wife , thou shalt go home with me . For she's as good a toothless Dame , as mumbleth on brown Bred : Where thou shalt lie in harden sheets , upon a fresh Straw bed : Of Whig and Whay , we have great store , and keep good Peat-straw fires : And now and then good barley cakes , when better day requires . But for my Master which is chief , and Lord of Newton Court : He keeps ( I say ) us Shepherd Swains in far more braver sort : We there have Curds and clouted Cream of read Cows morning milk : And now and then fine Buttered Cakes as soft as any silk . Of Beef , and roasted Bacon store , that is most fat and greasy , We have likewise to feed our Chops , to make them glib and easy . Thus if thou wilt my man become , this usage shalt thou have : If not , adue , go hang thy self , and so farewell sir knave . King Alfred hearing of this glee , the churlish Shepherd said , Was well content to be his man , and so the bargain made : A penny round the Shepherd gave , in earnest of the match : To keep his sheep in Field and Fold as Shepherds use to watch . His wages should be full ten Groats , for service of and year : Yet was it not his use , old Lad , to hire a man so deer : For did the King himself ( quoth he ) unto my Cottage come : He should not for his twelvemonths pay , receive a greater sum . Hereat the bonny King grew blithe to hear this Clownish test : How silly Sots as Customers , do descant on the best . But not to spoil the following sports , he was content ( good King ) To fit the Shepherds humour right in every kind of thing . A Sheephook then , with Patch his Dog , and Tar box by his side : He with his Master cheek by jowl , unto old Gillian hied : Unto whose sighed no sooner [ counterfeit ] me , whom have you here ( quoth she ) A Fellow ( I doubt ) to cut [ ou ] r throats , so like a knave looks he . The second part . To the same tune . N Ot so , old Dame , quoth Alfred straight , of me you need not fear : My Master hath hired me for ten Groats , to serve you one whole year . So good Dame Gillian , grant me leave within your house to stay : For by Saint Anne doe what you can , I will not yet away . Her churlish usage pleased him still , but put him to such proof : That he that night was almost choked within that smoky roof . But as he sat with smiling cheer , the event of all to see : His Dame brought forth a piece of Dowe , which in the fire throws she . Where lying on the Hearth to bake , by chance the Cake did burn : What canst thou not , thou Lowt , quoth she , take pains the same to turn ? Thou art more quick to rake it out , and eat it up half Dow : Then thus to stay till't be enough , and so thy manners show . But serve me such another trick , I'll thwack thee on the snout : Which made the patient King good man , of her to stand in doubt . But to be brief , to bed they went , the goodman and his Wife : But never such a lodging had King Alfred in his life . For he was laid on white Sheeps wool , new pulled from tanned Fells : And over his head hung spiders webs , as if they had been Bells' : Is this the Country guise , thought he ? then here I will not stay : But hence be gone so soon as breaks the peeping of next day . The cackling Geese and Hens kept roost , and perched by his bed side : Where at the last the watchful Cocks made known the morning's tide : Then up god Alfred , with his horn , and blew so long a blast , That made Gillian and her Groom , in bed full soar aghast . Arise , quoth she , we are undone , this night we lodged have , At unawares within our house , a false dissembling Knave . Rise , husband , rise , he'll cut our throats , he calls for his Mates , Idem give ( old Will ) our good Cade-Lambe he would depart our Gates . But still King Alfred blew his horn , before them more and more : Till that a hundred Lords and Knights alighted at their door : Which cried all hail , all hail good King , long have we looked your Grace : And here you find ( my merry men all ) your Sovereign in this place . We shall be surely hanged up both , old Gillian , I much fear , The Shepherd said , for using thus our good King Alfred here : A pardon my Liege ( quoth Gillian then ) for my Husband and for me ; By these ten bones I never thought , the same that now I see . And by my hook the Shepherd said , and Oath both good and true , Before this time , Oh Noble King , I never your highness knew : Then pardon me , and my old Wife , that we may after say : When first you came into our house , it was a happy day . It shall be done , said Alfred straight , and Gillian my old Dame , For this thy churlish using me , deserveth not much blame : For this the Country guise , I see , to be thus bluntish still . And where the plainest meaning is , remains the smallest ill . And Master , so I tell thee now , for thy late manhood shown , A thousand Weathers I'll bestow upon thee for thine own : With pasture grounds , as much as will suffice to feed them all : And this thy Cottage , I will change into a stately Hall . And for the same ( as duty binds ) the Shepherd said , good King : A milk white Lamb once every Year , I'll to your Highness bring : And Gillian my old Wife likewise , of wool to make your Coats : Will give so much at Newyears tide , as shall be worth ten Groats . And in your praise , my Bagpipe shall found sweetly every year : How Alfred our renowned King , most kindly hath been here . Thanks , Shepherd , thanks , quod he again the next time I come hither , My Lords with me here in this house , will all be merry together . FIN How Alfred our renowned King , most kindly hath been here . Thanks , Shepherd , thanks , quod he again the next time I come hither , My Lords with me here in this house , will all be merry together . FIN 