A memorable song upon the unhappy hunting in Chevy Chase , beweene the Earl Pearcy of England , and Earl Dowglas of Scotland . To the tune of Flying Fame . G Odd prosper long our Noble King our lives and safeties all , A woeful hunting once there did in Chevy Chase befall To drive the deer with hound & amp ; horn , Earl Pearcy took his way , The child may rue that is unborn , the hunting of that day : The stout Earl of Northumberland , a vow to God did make , His pleasure in the Scottish woods , three Summer's days to take ; The chiefest Hearts in Chevy Chase to kill and bear away , Those tidings to Earl Dowglas came , in Scotland where he lay . Who sent Earl Piercy present word , he would prevent his sport ; Though English Earl not fearing this , did to the woods resort , With fifteene hundred bowmen bold , all chosen men of might , Who knew full weel in time of need , to aim their shafts aright . The gallant gray-hounds swiftly ran , to chase the Fallow Dear , On munday they began to hunt when daylight did appear ? And long before high noon they had a hundred fat Bucks slain : Then having dined the Drovers went to rouse the Dear again . The bowmen mustered on the hills well able to endure , Their backesides all with special care , that day were guarded sure : The hounds ran swiftly through the woods the humble Dear to take , That with their cries the hills & amp ; dales and Echo shrill did make . Lord Piercy to the Quarry went , to view the tender Dear , Quod he , Earl Dowglas promised once this day to meet me here : But if I thought he would not come , no longer would I stay With that a brave young Gentleman thus to the Earl did say . Loe yonder does Earl Dowglas come , his men in armour bright , Full twenty hundred Scottish spears all marching in our sighed : All pleasant men of Tinedale fast by the river Tweed , Then cease your sport E. Piercy said , and take your bows with speed . And now with me my Countrymen , your courage forth advance , For never was there Champion yet in Scotland or in France : That ever did on horseback come , but if my hap it were , I durst encounter man for man , with him to break a Spear , E. Dowglas on his milk white Steed , ( most like a Baron bold ) Road foremost of his company , whose armour shone like Gold : Show me , said he , whose men ye be , that hunt so boldly here , That without my consent do chase and kill my Fallow Dear . The man that first did answer make , was Noble Piercy he , Who said we list not to declare , nor show whose men we be : Yet will we spend our dearest blood , thy chiefest Hearts to slay , Then Dowglas swore a solemn oath , and thus in rage did say . Ere thus I will outbraved be , one of us two shall die , I know thee well and Earl thou art Lord Piercy so am I : But trust me Piercy pity it were : and great offence to kill , Any of these our guiltless men , for they have done none ill . Let thou and I the battle try , and let our men aside , Accursed be he , Earl Piercy said , by whom it is denied : Then stepped a gallant Squire forth , Witherington was his name , Who said I would not have it told to Henry our King for shame . That ere my Captain fought on foot , and I stand looking on , You two be Earles quod , Witherington , and I a squire alone : I'll do the best that do I may , while I have power to stand , While I have power to wield my sword I'll fight with heart and hand . Our English archers bent their bows , their hearts were good and true , At the first flight of arrows sent , full fourescore Scots they slew : To drive the Dear with hound & amp ; horn Dowglas bade on the bent , A Captain moved with much pride , the Spears to shivers went . They closed full fast on every side , no slackness there was found , And many a gallant Gentleman lay gasping on the ground : Oh Christ it was a grief to see , how each one chosen his Spear , And how the blood out of their breast did gush like water clear . At last these two stout Earls did meet like Captains of great might , Like Lyons moved they laid on load , and made a cruel fight : They fought until they both did sweat with swords of tempered steel , Until the blood like drops of rain , they trickling down worser [ id ] feele . Yield thee Lord Piercy Dowglas said , in faith I will thee bring , Where thou shalt high advanced be , with James our Scottish King : Thy ransom I will freely give and this report of thee , Thou art the most courageous Knight that ever I did see . No Dowglas , quoth Earl [ Pi ] ercy tO [ hen ] thy proffers I do scorn I will not yield to any Scot that ever yet was born : With that there came and arrow keen out of and English bow , And stroke Earl Dowglas to the heart a deep and deadly blow . Who never said more words then these fight on my merry men all , For why my life is at and end , Lord Piercy sees my fallen , Then leaving life Earl Piercy took the dead man by the hand , Who said , Earl Dowglas for thy life would I had lost my Land. O Christ my very heart does bleed , with sorrow for thy sake : For sure a more redoubted Knight mischance could never take : A Knight among the Scots there was which saw Earl Dowglas die , Who straight in wrath did vow revenge upon the Earl Piercy . The second part To the same tume S Ir Hugh Montgomery was he called , who with a Spear full bright , Well mounted on a gallant Steed , ran fiercely through the fight : And passed the English Archers all , without all dread or fear , And through Earl Piercies body then he thrust his hateful Spear . With such a vehement force and might , his body he did gore , The staff ran through the other side , a large cloth yard and more : Thus did both these two Nobles die , whose courage none could stain , And English Archer then perceived the noble Earl was slain . He had a good bow in his hand , made of a trusty tree , And arrow of a cloth yard long to the hard head haled he : Against Sir Hugh Montgomery , so right his shaft he set , The gray-goose wing that was thereon in his heart blood was wet . This fight did last from break of day , tO [ il ] l setting of the Sun , For when they rung the evening Bell , the battle scarce was done : With stout E. Piercy there was slain , Sir John of Ogerton , Sir R [ oh ] b [ e ] rt Harckliffe and Sir John , Sir James that bold Baron . And with sir George and good sir James both Knights of good account , Good sir Ralph Rebb [ y ] there was slain , whose prowess did sirmount : For Witherington needs must I wail , as one in woeful dumps . For when his legs were smitten off , he fought still upon stumps . And with E. Dowglas there was slain , Sir Hugh Montgomery , Sir Charles Morell , that from the field , one foot would never fly : Sir Robert Heuer of Harcliffe too , his sisters son was he , Sir David Lamwell well esteemed , but saved he could not be . And the Lord Markwell in like case , did with E. Dowglas die , Of twenty hundred Scottish Peers , scarce fifty five did fly . Of fifteene hundred English men , went home but fifty three , The rest in Chevy Chase were slain , under the green wood tree . Next day did many widow's come , their husbands to bewail , They washed their wounds in brinish tears , but all would not prevail : Their bodies bathed in purple blood , they boar with them away , They kissed them dead a thousand times , ere they were clad in clay . The news was brought to Edenbrogh where Scotlands King did reign , That brave Earl Dowglas suddenly was with and arrow slain : Oh heavy news King James did say , Scotland can witness be , I have not any Captain more , of such account as he . Like tidings to King Henry came , within as short a space , That Piercy of Northumberland , was slain in Chevy Chase : Now God be with him said our King , sith 'twill not better be , I trust I have within my Realms , five hundred as good as he . Yet shall not Scots nor Scotland say , but I will vengeance take , And be revenged on them all for brave Earl Piercies sake : This vow the King did well perform , after on Humble Down , In one day fiftie Knights were slain , with Lords of high renown . And of the rest of small account , did many hundreds die , Thus ended the hunting in Chevy Chase made by the Lord Piercy : God save our King and bless this Land with plenty , joy , and peace And grant henceforth that foul debate , betwixt Noblemen may ceA memorable song upon the unhappy hunting in Chevy Chase , beweene the Earl Pearcy of England , and Earl Dowglas of Scotland . To the tune of Flying Fame . G Odd prosper long our Noble King our lives and safeties all , A woeful hunting once there did in Chevy Chase befall To drive the deer with hound & amp ; horn , Earl Pearcy took his way , The child may rue that is unborn , the hunting of that day : The stout Earl of Northumberland , a vow to God did make , His pleasure in the Scottish woods , three Summer's days to take ; The chiefest Hearts in Chevy Chase to kill and bear away , Those tidings to Earl Dowglas came , in Scotland where he lay . Who sent Earl Piercy present word , he would prevent his sport ; Though English Earl not fearing this , did to the woods resort , With fifteene hundred bowmen bold , all chosen men of might , Who knew full weel in time of need , to aim their shafts aright . The gallant gray-hounds swiftly ran , to chase the Fallow Dear , On munday they began to hunt when daylight did appear ? And long before high noon they had a hundred fat Bucks slain : Then having dined the Drovers went to rouse the Dear again . The bowmen mustered on the hills well able to endure , Their backesides all with special care , that day were guarded sure : The hounds ran swiftly through the woods the humble Dear to take , That with their cries the hills & amp ; dales and Echo shrill did make . Lord Piercy to the Quarry went , to view the tender Dear , Quod he , Earl Dowglas promised once this day to meet me here : But if I thought he would not come , no longer would I stay With that a brave young Gentleman thus to the Earl did say . Loe yonder does Earl Dowglas come , his men in armour bright , Full twenty hundred Scottish spears all marching in our sighed : All pleasant men of Tinedale fast by the river Tweed , Then cease your sport E. Piercy said , and take your bows with speed . And now with me my Countrymen , your courage forth advance , For never was there Champion yet in Scotland or in France : That ever did on horseback come , but if my hap it were , I durst encounter man for man , with him to break a Spear , E. Dowglas on his milk white Steed , ( most like a Baron bold ) Road foremost of his company , whose armour shone like Gold : Show me , said he , whose men ye be , that hunt so boldly here , That without my consent do chase and kill my Fallow Dear . The man that first did answer make , was Noble Piercy he , Who said we list not to declare , nor show whose men we be : Yet will we spend our dearest blood , thy chiefest Hearts to slay , Then Dowglas swore a solemn oath , and thus in rage did say . Ere thus I will outbraved be , one of us two shall die , I know thee well and Earl thou art Lord Piercy so am I : But trust me Piercy pity it were : and great offence to kill , Any of these our guiltless men , for they have done none ill . Let thou and I the battle try , and let our men aside , Accursed be he , Earl Piercy said , by whom it is denied : Then stepped a gallant Squire forth , Witherington was his name , Who said I would not have it told to Henry our King for shame . That ere my Captain fought on foot , and I stand looking on , You two be Earles quod , Witherington , and I a squire alone : I'll do the best that do I may , while I have power to stand , While I have power to wield my sword I'll fight with heart and hand . Our English archers bent their bows , their hearts were good and true , At the first flight of arrows sent , full fourescore Scots they slew : To drive the Dear with hound & amp ; horn Dowglas bade on the bent , A Captain moved with much pride , the Spears to shivers went . They closed full fast on every side , no slackness there was found , And many a gallant Gentleman lay gasping on the ground : Oh Christ it was a grief to see , how each one chosen his Spear , And how the blood out of their breast did gush like water clear . At last these two stout Earls did meet like Captains of great might , Like Lyons moved they laid on load , and made a cruel fight : They fought until they both did sweat with swords of tempered steel , Until the blood like drops of rain , they trickling down worser [ id ] feele . Yield thee Lord Piercy Dowglas said , in faith I will thee bring , Where thou shalt high advanced be , with James our Scottish King : Thy ransom I will freely give and this report of thee , Thou art the most courageous Knight that ever I did see . No Dowglas , quoth Earl [ Pi ] ercy tO [ hen ] thy proffers I do scorn I will not yield to any Scot that ever yet was born : With that there came and arrow keen out of and English bow , And stroke Earl Dowglas to the heart a deep and deadly blow . Who never said more words then these fight on my merry men all , For why my life is at and end , Lord Piercy sees my fallen , Then leaving life Earl Piercy took the dead man by the hand , Who said , Earl Dowglas for thy life would I had lost my Land. O Christ my very heart does bleed , with sorrow for thy sake : For sure a more redoubted Knight mischance could never take : A Knight among the Scots there was which saw Earl Dowglas die , Who straight in wrath did vow revenge upon the Earl Piercy . The second part To the same tume S Ir Hugh Montgomery was he called , who with a Spear full bright , Well mounted on a gallant Steed , ran fiercely through the fight : And passed the English Archers all , without all dread or fear , And through Earl Piercies body then he thrust his hateful Spear . With such a vehement force and might , his body he did gore , The staff ran through the other side , a large cloth yard and more : Thus did both these two Nobles die , whose courage none could stain , And English Archer then perceived the noble Earl was slain . He had a good bow in his hand , made of a trusty tree , And arrow of a cloth yard long to the hard head haled he : Against Sir Hugh Montgomery , so right his shaft he set , The gray-goose wing that was thereon in his heart blood was wet . This fight did last from break of day , tO [ il ] l setting of the Sun , For when they rung the evening Bell , the battle scarce was done : With stout E. Piercy there was slain , Sir John of Ogerton , Sir R [ oh ] b [ e ] rt Harckliffe and Sir John , Sir James that bold Baron . And with sir George and good sir James both Knights of good account , Good sir Ralph Rebb [ y ] there was slain , whose prowess did sirmount : For Witherington needs must I wail , as one in woeful dumps . For when his legs were smitten off , he fought still upon stumps . And with E. Dowglas there was slain , Sir Hugh Montgomery , Sir Charles Morell , that from the field , one foot would never fly : Sir Robert Heuer of Harcliffe too , his sisters son was he , Sir David Lamwell well esteemed , but saved he could not be . And the Lord Markwell in like case , did with E. Dowglas die , Of twenty hundred Scottish Peers , scarce fifty five did fly . Of fifteene hundred English men , went home but fifty three , The rest in Chevy Chase were slain , under the green wood tree . Next day did many widow's come , their husbands to bewail , They washed their wounds in brinish tears , but all would not prevail : Their bodies bathed in purple blood , they boar with them away , They kissed them dead a thousand times , ere they were clad in clay . The news was brought to Edenbrogh where Scotlands King did reign , That brave Earl Dowglas suddenly was with and arrow slain : Oh heavy news King James did say , Scotland can witness be , I have not any Captain more , of such account as he . Like tidings to King Henry came , within as short a space , That Piercy of Northumberland , was slain in Chevy Chase : Now God be with him said our King , sith 'twill not better be , I trust I have within my Realms , five hundred as good as he . Yet shall not Scots nor Scotland say , but I will vengeance take , And be revenged on them all for brave Earl Piercies sake : This vow the King did well perform , after on Humble Down , In one day fiftie Knights were slain , with Lords of high renown . And of the rest of small account , did many hundreds die , Thus ended the hunting in Chevy Chase made by the Lord Piercy : God save our King and bless this Land with plenty , joy , and peace And grant henceforth that foul debate , betwixt Noblemen may cease . FINIS . London Printed for H . G.ase . FINIS . London Printed for H.G. 