A proper new Ballad , entitled , The Wandering Prince of Troy To the the tune of Queen Dido . W Hen Troy town for ten years wars withstood the Greeks in manful wise , Yet did their foes increase so fast , that to resist none could suffice . Wast lie those walls that were so good , And corn now grows where Troy Town stood . Eneas wandering Prince of Troy , when he for land long time had sought , At length arrived with great joy , to mighty Carthage walls was brought : Where Dido Queen with sumptuous feast Did entertain this wandering Guest . And as in hall at meat they sat , the Queen desirous news to hear , Of thy unhappy ten years wars , declare to me thou Trojan deer , The heavy hap and chance so bad That thou poor wandering Prince haste had . And then anon this comely Knight , with words demure as he could well , Of his unhappy ten years wars so true a tale began to tell , With words so sweet and sighs so deep , That oft he made them all to weep . And then a thousand sighs he fetched , and every sighs brought tears amain , That where he sat the place was wet , as he had seen those wars again : So that the Queen with ruth therefore , Said worthy Prince enough , no more . The darksome night apace grew on , and twinkling stars in Skies were spread , And he his doleful tale had told , and every one was laid in bed , Where they full sweetly took their rest Save only Didoes boiling breast . This silly woman never slept , but in her chamber all alone , As one unhappy always wept , and to the walls she made her moan , That she should still desire in vain , The thing that she could not obtain . And thus in grief she spent the night , till twinkling stars from Sky were fled , And Phoebus with his glittering beams through misty clouds appeared read , Then tidings came to her anon , That all the Trojan ships were gone . And then the Queen with bloody knife , did arm her heart as hard as stone , Yet somewhat loath to loose her life , in woeful wise she made her moan , And rolling on her careful bed With sighs and sobs these words she said : Oh wretched Dido Queen ( quoth she ) I see thy end approaching near , For he is gone away from thee whom thou didst love and held so deer , Is he then gone and passed by , Oh heart prepare thy self to die . Though reason would thou shouldst forbear and stay thy hand from bloody stroke , Yet fancy says thou shouldst not fear , whom fettereth thee in Cupids yoke : Come death ( quoth she ) resolve my smart And with these words she pierced her heart . The second part . To the same tune . W Hen death had pierced the tender heart of Dido Carthaginian Queen , And bloody knife did end the smart , which she sustained in woeful teen , Eneas being shipped and gone , Whose flattery caused all her moan . Her Funeral most costly made , and all things furnished mournfully , Her body fine in mould was laid , where it consumed speedily : Her sisters tears her tomb bestrewed , Her subject's grief their kindness showed . Then was Eneas in and I'll in Grecia , where he lived long space , Whereas her Sister in the short while writ to him to his vile disgrace , In phrase of Letters to her mind , She told him plain he was unkind . False hearted wretch ( quoth she ) thou art , and traitorously thou hast betrayed , Unto thy lure a gentle heart , which unto thee such welcome made , My sister deer , and Carthage joy , Whose folly bred her dire annoy . Yet on her deathbed when she lay she prayed for thy prosperity , Beseeching heaven that every day might breed thy great felicity : Thus by thy means I lost a friend , Heaven send thee such untimely end . When he these lines full fraught with gall , perused had and weighed them well , His lofty courage then did fail , and straight appeared in his sighed , Queen Didoes Ghost both grim and pale , Which made this gallant Soldier quail . Eneas ( quoth this grisly Ghost ) my whole delight while I did live , Thee of all men I loved most , my fancy and my will did give , For entertainment I thee gave , Unthankfully thou digst my grave . Wherefore prepare thy fliting soul to wonder with me in the air , Where deadly grief shall make it houle because of me thou tookest no care : Delay no time , the Glass run , Thy date is past , and death is come . O stay a while thou lovely sprite , be not so hasty to convey My soul into eternal night , where it shall never behold bright day , Oh do not frown , thy angry look , Hath made my breath my life forsook . But woe to me , it is in vain , and bootless is my dismal cry , Time will not be recalled again , nor thou surcease before I die , Oh let me live to make amends Unto some of thy dearest friends . But seeing thou obdurate art , and wilt not pity on me show , Because from thee I did depart , and left unpaid what I did owe , I must content my self to take What lot thou wilt with me partake . And like one being in a trance , a multitude of ugly Fiends , About this woeful Prince did dance , no help he had of any friends , His body then they took away , And no man knew his dying day . Printed at London for John Wright . FINIS . A proper new Ballad , entitled , The Wandering Prince of Troy To the the tune of Queen Dido . W Hen Troy town for ten years wars withstood the Greeks in manful wise , Yet did their foes increase so fast , that to resist none could suffice . Wast lie those walls that were so good , And corn now grows where Troy Town stood . Eneas wandering Prince of Troy , when he for land long time had sought , At length arrived with great joy , to mighty Carthage walls was brought : Where Dido Queen with sumptuous feast Did entertain this wandering Guest . And as in hall at meat they sat , the Queen desirous news to hear , Of thy unhappy ten years wars , declare to me thou Trojan deer , The heavy hap and chance so bad That thou poor wandering Prince haste had . And then anon this comely Knight , with words demure as he could well , Of his unhappy ten years wars so true a tale began to tell , With words so sweet and sighs so deep , That oft he made them all to weep . And then a thousand sighs he fetched , and every sighs brought tears amain , That where he sat the place was wet , as he had seen those wars again : So that the Queen with ruth therefore , Said worthy Prince enough , no more . The darksome night apace grew on , and twinkling stars in Skies were spread , And he his doleful tale had told , and every one was laid in bed , Where they full sweetly took their rest Save only Didoes boiling breast . This silly woman never slept , but in her chamber all alone , As one unhappy always wept , and to the walls she made her moan , That she should still desire in vain , The thing that she could not obtain . And thus in grief she spent the night , till twinkling stars from Sky were fled , And Phoebus with his glittering beams through misty clouds appeared read , Then tidings came to her anon , That all the Trojan ships were gone . And then the Queen with bloody knife , did arm her heart as hard as stone , Yet somewhat loath to loose her life , in woeful wise she made her moan , And rolling on her careful bed With sighs and sobs these words she said : Oh wretched Dido Queen ( quoth she ) I see thy end approaching near , For he is gone away from thee whom thou didst love and held so deer , Is he then gone and passed by , Oh heart prepare thy self to die . Though reason would thou shouldst forbear and stay thy hand from bloody stroke , Yet fancy says thou shouldst not fear , whom fettereth thee in Cupids yoke : Come death ( quoth she ) resolve my smart And with these words she pierced her heart . The second part . To the same tune . W Hen death had pierced the tender heart of Dido Carthaginian Queen , And bloody knife did end the smart , which she sustained in woeful teen , Eneas being shipped and gone , Whose flattery caused all her moan . Her Funeral most costly made , and all things furnished mournfully , Her body fine in mould was laid , where it consumed speedily : Her sisters tears her tomb bestrewed , Her subject's grief their kindness showed . Then was Eneas in and I'll in Grecia , where he lived long space , Whereas her Sister in the short while writ to him to his vile disgrace , In phrase of Letters to her mind , She told him plain he was unkind . False hearted wretch ( quoth she ) thou art , and traitorously thou hast betrayed , Unto thy lure a gentle heart , which unto thee such welcome made , My sister deer , and Carthage joy , Whose folly bred her dire annoy . Yet on her deathbed when she lay she prayed for thy prosperity , Beseeching heaven that every day might breed thy great felicity : Thus by thy means I lost a friend , Heaven send thee such untimely end . When he these lines full fraught with gall , perused had and weighed them well , His lofty courage then did fail , and straight appeared in his sighed , Queen Didoes Ghost both grim and pale , Which made this gallant Soldier quail . Eneas ( quoth this grisly Ghost ) my whole delight while I did live , Thee of all men I loved most , my fancy and my will did give , For entertainment I thee gave , Unthankfully thou digst my grave . Wherefore prepare thy fliting soul to wonder with me in the air , Where deadly grief shall make it houle because of me thou tookest no care : Delay no time , the Glass run , Thy date is past , and death is come . O stay a while thou lovely sprite , be not so hasty to convey My soul into eternal night , where it shall never behold bright day , Oh do not frown , thy angry look , Hath made my breath my life forsook . But woe to me , it is in vain , and bootless is my dismal cry , Time will not be recalled again , nor thou surcease before I die , Oh let me live to make amends Unto some of thy dearest friends . But seeing thou obdurate art , and wilt not pity on me show , Because from thee I did depart , and left unpaid what I did owe , I must content my self to take What lot thou wilt with me partake . And like one being in a trance , a multitude of ugly Fiends , About this woeful Prince did dance , no help he had of any friends , His body then they took away , And no man knew his dying day . Printed at London for John Wright . FINIS . 